

COMMONWEAL]H
HERE'S -TO'E El NATIONAL LIBRARY
Here's something to crow
about—it is as full of radiant
health as an egg is full of meat.
Make this 'Easter egg"
your Easter drink
j3$!GG t
i
Wt
■
;
1
'A/
pi
1
wm _
m
Vk
mx
I \
m
mm
JL
m
m
m
0
f'S
m
Vj^
4Ust^
■
1
&4S
is*
stout
>TOOHEYS
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3135.
Wednesday, March 13, 1940.
A Senator Strikes Oil
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
I ml
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 140
The Red Page
The Pine Trees.
The spires of midnight pierce the blue of
my noon,
At night I worship a stiller thing than
night,
For the pines, the winds’ cathedral, grow
in my country,
And their caverns of silence, their speech
as deep as God’s
And their dark memorial grace on the
green of the fields
Are witness to me that life is solemn as
death.
If they speak of death their stone is for
the living,
For the flesh of the old anguish has
mouldered away
And in Maori forests now shallow as
ageing rivers
The sunlight splashes in joy like a troop
of children.
The plough may still unearth a green-
stone axe
But murder will never spring among the
oats.
It may be they stand for us; that the
stranger’s axe
Or the winters’ steady furnace of frost
and moonlight
Will beat them down as the ancient
forests are down;
But now, and to the horizon, they stand
like islands
Where my people have come to rest and
built their houses
And made their farms and bred their
sons to work them.
In the years that sprang from earth like
song from a thrush
We knew the sway of the branches the
way the birds did.
The bark could warm the hollow of
childish hands
When a mother’s touch had grown as
foreign as stone.
And, older, to hold a girl was to hold
the earth
With the needles’ yellow fire in her
clothes and hair.
I shall walk no more with the breeze
among the branches,
The farmer’s son is away at a war in
Europe,
And the pine trees grow more lonely and
more tall
As the little houses drown in their tide
of shadow
And over the farmer’s head they shout
like God
In a tongue of storm and terror, no
speech of ours.
But still their midnight hallows my
country’s noon,
Their branches lift the silver weight of
the stars
With a black grace surpassing the curve
of the sky;
And the trees my people planted speak for
my people
Who made their stand against time and
tempest here
And lived with me a life as solemn as
death.
N.S.W.
Douglas Stewart.
Nicolson’s Fine Essays.
When topical essays from daily or
weekly newspapers are reprinted in book
form they always have that dingy and
dispiriting atmosphere peculiar to den-
tists’ waiting-rooms, boarding-houses and
stale news. And if they are concerned
with the period from Munich to the
outbreak of war, on which every pub-
licist under the sun has had reams tq
say, they are doubly dead. Harold Nicol-
son’s Marginal Comment (Constable;
F. W. Preece, Ltd.), reprinted from Lon-
don “Spectator,” is the exception which
proves both rules.
Last year’s warnings and prophecies
and suggestions as to the best way to
avoid war have some historical value
and a certain nostalgic charm, but these
essays have more than that to recommend
them ; an urbane wit, a gift for fascinat-
ing digression and a sonorous style keep
them alive as literature. Mr. Nicolson
writes about Stresemann, Ribbentrop,
Hitler, Ciano and Grandi; about the
national characteristics of the Dutch, the
Germans, the French and the English ;
about propaganda and the appeasement
policy familiar subjects, but still in-
teresting because he writes with know-
ledge and humor.
The essay that turns out to be on the
subject of the Dutch begins with the
statement, “When I was a boy head-
masters went on being head-
masters until they became
bishops or certifiably in-
sane” ; he ponders the
spread of education in
Africa, the agony of listening to
other people’s speeches, and winds his
way to the conclusion, “One feels that
the Dutch civilisation has been moulded
through centuries by sensible people,
enjoying sensible incomes, building sen-
sible houses, and sensibly combining in-
dividualism with order.” An essay be-
ginning “Sir Arnold Wilson adorns the
sombre loneliness of his mind with a
comradely gift for quotation” becomes
an analysis of the meaningless catch-
cries “collective security,” “Imperial-
ism,” “Fascist tendencies” which are
used as a substitute for thought.
An essay on Turkey is still topical.
He reminds his readers that the founda-
tions for the present agreement were laid
by Lord Curzon, who, in spite of his
penchant for addressing other human
beings in the manner of “the Divinity
addressing black beetles,” won the re-
spect and even the liking of Ismet Pasha
at the Lausanne conference by “regard-
ing him as a species of orthopterous in-
sect more interesting than the ordinary
Western specimen.” The agreement with
Turkey, he says, “weds the imponderable
forces of sentiment to the all too pon-
derable forces of geography.”
He is delightfully caustic on the sub-
ject of the American Sooler, pointing out
to Mr. Louis Bromfield, who had accused
Britain of hypocrisy and cowardice (what
price Bromfield today?), that it was
rather easier to be angry and brave in
Oberlin, Loraine County, Ohio, than in
London (England), E.C.4. Also, he
observes that all the neutral indignation
at Britain for not fighting other people’s
wars was at least an admission that this
wicked Empire had for many generations
maintained the moral balance of the
world.
Above all, he deplores the barrack-room
and stump-box vulgarity that replaced
the old sonorities of diplomacy. “The
currency of Nazi pronouncements,” he
writes, “has become so inflated that to
buy a tram ticket requires a note of
one thousand marks.” And again :
“Before the Great War German
diplomacy was governed by the views of
the officers’ mess. Today it is governed
by the views of the sergeants’ mess.” He
says of the German character that the
nation —incomprehensibly to the British
—has a mystic faith in heroism as an
end in itself. “For them, Kultur im-
plies no complacent enjoyment of past
tradition ; it implies an unceasing expan-
sion of future energy.” For a summing-
up of Anglo-German relations since
Hitler came to power, it would be hard
to better his “Our aim is to gain time
without losing ground ; the German aim
is to gain ground without losing time.”
Novel of the Boers,
Stuart 1 Cloete’s Watch for the Dawn
(Collins) is like a Gone with the Wind
set in South Africa, a vast, colorful
romance of pioneering. There is no
character to match Scarlett O’Hara, but
there is a compensatory virility in the
writing, and the landscape is just as
lavishly painted, the action just as dra-
matic as in the American best-seller.
It is not merely an elegy for a glamor-
ous past. Though there is an implied
lament for the old free life of the Boers,
. the more important theme is the gather-
ing of the winds, the currents of folly,
misunderstanding, anger and hatred that
blew into the storm of the Boer War.
Oom Frederik, the Wild Old Man, is
the symbol ot Boer independence and
Boer stubbornness. He is summonsed
to an English court over a dispute with
a Hottentot, and he will not go:
For a moment he thought of crossing
the river into Kaffirland and joining with
Coenraad Buys and the outlaws and rebels
who had gathered round him. But he was
tied by his age, his memories. Here lay
his wife and children, and here was his
sworn word that in death he would lie
beside Paulina as he had done in life.
The old bull did not run. He stood his
ground, and if they wanted him they must
come and take him from the home he had
made. It was his vineyard that had been
hardly planted. A solitary comer wrested
from the wilderness of the veld, and today
even his right to his land was questioned.
Rent for his land and taxes on his beasts—
and this to the English so that the English
king could live in luxury. George the
Third, they said he was called; they said,
too, that he was mad and a German, and
what could a mad German know of him,
or his life, or his work? He looked again
at his guns.
Troops are sent to take the old man.
He fights and is killed. His friends and
neighbors bury him under his threshold.
This is the conflict between English and
Boers reduced to its simplest terms. It
immediately becomes more complicated,
more dangerous, nearer to war. Frederik’s
brother works unceasingly for revenge
and others are with him. Others want
peace with the English. Old Leendert,
whenever there is trouble, goes sensibly
to bed until it is over. There are clashes
with the troops, betrayals, dissension and
indecision among the Boers, and finally
an abortive rising. The political story
ends with the terrible scene of the public
hanging of five Boers and the ominous
meeting of their friends. “God in His
Heaven was witness that their new hatred
was not stillborn; that it would live
while Boers rode; live as long as Boer
women had tongues to talk to their chil-
dren, and the milk of hate in their breasts
to suckle them. That the five had been
tried by Dutchmen, condemned by
Dutchmen according to the Roman-
Dutch law of the land, meant nothing.”
This is all too much romanticised to
be satisfying as a historical essay, but it
is powerful fiction. Threading it is the
love story of Kaspar and Aletta. It is
the usual progression of trials and dif-
ficulties with a happy ending, and Kaspar
is just fiction’s handsome young man,
but it is made interesting by the setting.
Kaspar, drawn by chance into Frederik’s
rebellion, shoots an English soldier and
has to seek refuge with the rebels in
Kaffirland. Cloete works in descriptions
of a remote native tribe, of an elephant
hunt, of the swashbuckling rebel com-
munity, and of a bloodthirsty war of ex-
termination waged by the rebels against
the Bushmen.
If this were a different type of novel
there’d be a complaint that witch doctors
and elderly farmers and Boers’ native
mistresses are unlikely to speak as if they
were Stanley Baldwin at his most
sonorous, but it doesn’t seem to matter
when you’re Watching for the Dawn.
Frankau's Autobiography.
Gilbert Frankau, whose Self-Portrait
(Hutchinson ; Moore’s Bookshop) is pre-
faced with a list of the 200-odd celebrities
strewn by his wayside, has a technique
all of his own in introducing his fellow-
immortals. It is not apparent when he
tells a frankly angry story against H. G.
Wells for saying in 1914 that he hoped
the British Empire would be smashed as
well as Germany; nor is there anything
unusual in this reproof to a colleague:
I do not feel that many pictures of its
central character as a 1914-18 soldier
are necessary for this tale. However, since
St. John Greer Irvine, the playwright,
when temporarily engaged by the “Daily
Express” as book critic, once suggested he
was never quite certain whether I or Mr.
Lloyd George won the Great War; and
since I cannot believe he meant this dis-
courteously, because he had recently
accepted lavish fees from me in my tem-
porary capacity as editor of another paper,
modesty alone compels me to contradict
the sweeping panegyric.
His favorite method consists of con-
veying a good impression of himself in
distinguished company. Then in comes
an insignificant-looking little fellow like
a trout in spectacles. “Good heavens!”
cries Frankau, donging his victim with
one fist and patting him on the back
with the other, “he turned out to be none
other than the famous critic Algernon
Loofah whose writings I admire so
much.”
His praise of Beverley Baxter as the
prince of “gate-crashers” is a fairly crude
example of the technique. Ronald Col-
man is introduced after the war as “quite
a nice chap ; but he’s got no presence
if you know what I mean.” To the un-
known Noel Coward Frankau said, “If
you only persevere and don’t fool about
so much you might make a name for
yourself.” Not much to those anec-
dotes, though they have an air of reality.
He has a good Masefield story; Austin
Harrison, editor of the “English Review,”
which first published “The Everlasting
Mercy,” told him that he had persuaded
the present Poet Laureate to remove “at
least two hundred and seventy-five
sanguinaries.” Several meetings with Kip-
ling, all interesting, are described, with
a pathetic final glimpse in which Kip-
ling says to him, “I don’t understand
England any more; only India.”
This is a book that has to be read for
its gossip, for it’s hopeless as a piece of
literature. It’s an interesting comment
on the effects of journalism and popular
novel writing on a man whose earliest
works were poetry in imitation of Byron
and prose after the manner of Oscar
Wilde that the 415 pages of Self-Portrait
don’t contain a single passage of good
prose. It is exactly the bright, factual,
disjointed sort of stuff that is syndicated
to the dailies and the women’s mags.,
redeemed from pointlessness by the anec-
dotes and by the fact that out of the slip-
shod monologue emerges a satisfying
study in character.
It fails most where it attempts the
scandalous. There are accounts of his
two divorces and hints at numerou
affairs, but it is all told in the gossip
column manner with nods and becks and
wreathed smiles. The portentous hint
help to create the self-portrait, but it’
pretty feeble to write an autobiography
saying, in effect, “What a bold, bad auto
biography this would be if only all could
be told.”
What he appears to wish the reade
to believe about his character is sutnmec
up in a friend’s dictum quoted in (he
introduction: “There always used to be
something of the predatory animal abou
his looks, but now it’s gone.” This is the
Bad Boy, rather hoping that he’s turnec
Good Boy, and rather hoping that he
hasn’t, telling us all about it. The only
thing he insists on is that you remember
that he was an Eton Boy. Great fun
tryin’ to make money sellin’ cigars, then
novel-writing and Fleet-street. Trips to
Germany, America and Australia, with
a kind word for the poems of Dorothea
Mackellar.
In his literary and journalistic career
the highlights include an account of the
founding of the magazine “Britannia’
and a most gruesome description of
hanging which he “covered” in America
for the New York “Evening Journal.’
There’s a story, too, of a man who im-
personated him in England, and used to
“autograph” copies of his novels foi
gullible young ladies. Of his writing
methods, he says that he usually writes
about 1200 words a day, but that once
he dictated a 150,000-word novel in ten
days. He doesn’t say how long the Self-
Portrait took, but, judging by the numbet
of times he uses the tag “Memory sug-
gests,” he must have been in a hurry.
Hysterical History of Australia: Eric
Curry, illustrated by Les Turnbull (New
Century Press, Ltd., Sydney). Light-
hearted review of Australian history in
the manner of Ten Sixty-Six and All
That. The wisecracks, though often
strained, are there all right; so is Mr.
Curry’s habit of calling the reader “Dear
Nitwit,” “Dear Moron” or “My De-
mented Darling” every two minutes.
Francis Howard Harris, of Lakemba
(N.S.W.), who won the first prize (£lsc)
in the Maoriland centennial novel com-
petition with “The Man Who Worked,”
has just turned 28, and was born at
Palmerston North (M.L.). He spent his
youth in Dunedin, went to the Waitaki
High School, proceeded to Otago Uni-
versity, but left before taking a degree.
During the early years of the depression
he tramped and cycled over the country,
and cockies fired him from jobs because
he burned the midnight oil writing and
reading. A couple of his poems found
their way into New Zealand Best Poems.
A short story grew out of hand, ex-
panded and finished as “The Man Who
Worked.” Written in a shed in a
Dunedin backyard during winter, it
took three months to complete. He did
a couple of years’ press work for Downie
Stewart, married, and crossed the Tasman
to try freelance journalism in Sydney.
Here he revised and polished “The Man
Who Worked,” which deals with farm
life in Middlemarch, Central Otago.
Betty Riddell, who shared third prize
in the same novel competition (a second
prize was not awarded), is another
Maorilander who has made a home in
Sydney. She was born in Napier, and
came to Australia 11 years ago and
worked on the staffs of “Smith’s Weekly,”
the “Daily Guardian,” and the “Daily
Telegraph” before slipping away to Lon-
don and toiling on the “Daily Sketch”
and “Daily Express.” Returning to Aus-
tralia, she got a job on the Sydney
“Sun,” and now edits the “Wireless
Weekly” and the “World’s News.” Ever
since she was at boarding-school she has
been writing verse. She broke into the
pages of The Bulletin at an early age,
and is represented in various anthologies.
Her prize-winning novel “Misfire” was
written in six weeks on board ship in
1937. It was a first effort.


“THE SENIOR STORE”
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —an assurance of accuracy.
OUTSTANDING VALUES FROM AUSTRALIA'S
MOST OUTSTANDING STORE
MXjjm
amm.
m
mmm
m
s'
wmmmMmmMmmmmmmmmmwMmmmmmmmm
r.
\
V
mm*
m
%
£
i j
m
PYJAMA SUITS 10/6
Made in our own workrooms from reliable British
material. Cut and finished by experts to give you
smart appearance and perfect sleeping com or.
Smart stripes in Small, Men's and OS. In medium
weight suede-finish flannelette .... ' ,« /R
In Winter-weight "Hordura”-finish flannelette, 12/6
Speedo Sports Shirts 9/11
These will give you that degree of comfort so
necessary for active sport. Made from a soft lockmt
cotton weave, half sleeves, in all the latest
Cream, Silver Grey, Beige, Blue, Bottle, Navy, and
Straw. Collar attached, button front, sizes 14 to lb*.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS', each 3/11
NEW SMARTNESS
FOR AUTUMN
Anthony Horderns’ cordially
invite you to call in and see
the newly opened Autumn
goods displayed in the Men’s
Wear Section, Ground Floor,
George Street,
52 / 6 300 Only Dressing Gowns to Clear 29 / 6
We have 300 only of these gowns, and once they are sold, the quality can be repeated only at a much higher price. Ma 9
discount enables us to offer them at such an attractive price. All wool Camelin smartly tailored, winter wei g ir d le _
Self shades of Fawn, Grey, Camel and Brown. Sizes 34 to 44 chest. ANTHONY HORDERNS' Regular Price 52/6. SPECIAL PRICE "/
r
"Jumhuk"
Athletic
Singlets 6/6
"Jumbuk" all wool Athletic
Singlets in a Cream shade.
Made of selected long staple,
pure woollen yarn, with soft
finish, they will give service-
able wear under all condi-
tions. Light weight in sizes
34 to 44 chest. No sleeves.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS',
each .... 6/6
\
y
"Hordura"
(Regd.) Half
HOSE I'W
There is no better value in
Men's Fancy Cashmere Half
Hose than "Hordura" (regd.)
brand. A durable knit, soft
finish, in Jacquard and check
designs. Latest colourings:
Navy, Grey, Blue, Brown, and
Fawn. Sizes 10 to lli inches.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS',
Men's Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwe
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
'Phone M 2041
Day or Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


DECOY
“Wait, Carl; we've come too far! This isn't the Forth Bridge."
By E. DITHMACK.
HIGH up the hillside where the undergrowth spread
like matted wire and bush trees dotted the stony
slopes, the old dingo bitch led her litter. Five
there were in all, mud-fat and playful, waddling
along on uncertain legs, their long tails dragging. Now
and again she paused, nose pointed to the wind,
and waited for the pups to straggle up behind her.
It was slow work, for the rocky slopes gave insecure
foothold and here and there deep gullies dotted the
surface.
It was the sound of man renewing work on the
long-abandoned grasslands at the foothill that had
sent the old dingo sneaking from her lair. Back in
the past there had been the sound of axe and the
scrape of plough, and she had reared her litters high
up the ridges between two rocks whose towering
heights and leaf-strewn bottom had made a safe haven.
But then man seemed to have forgotten the foothills,
and the unceasing silence matched the hills ; she had
reared her last three litters nearer the homestead, so
that it had not been so far to hunt for food or stalk
the feeding wallabies on the still green paspalum flat.
Far down the slope of the hill she caught the echo
of a voice, and fear quickened. She growled her com-
mand to the lagging pups, snapping at them savagely,
urging them to hurry. They tumbled every now and
again as they followed her, resentful of this expedi-
tion and wanting to stay and gambol each time they
came to a level piece of ground. At last, hearing no
sound of pursuit and feeling momentarily safe, the
mother lay down among some fronds of bracken
while the panting pups fastened on to her sagging
teats.
She licked the pups as they burrowed into her
side, pushing and growling at each other in their greed.
She turned them over in turn lovingly, nosing their
full little bellies, their long, muscular legs and furry
sides, but all the time her ears and eyes were alert,
that sense of alarm ever with her.
A mob of horses racing down the slope paused
abruptly for a moment, heads thrown high and nos-
trils extended as the scent of the dog was lifted to
them on the wind. Then, with wild snortings and
upflung heels they galloped away, scattering tufts of
grass and sending loose stones rattling down the slope.
The old dog rose resolutely, marshalling her litter, as
she again began the ascent. This time she hurried,
calling to the pups with short, imperative yaps, her
eyes on the towering rock ahead. She felt fresh stabs
of fear each time she heard that man-cry to the horses
turning in the furrows.
Up a steep pinch and scrambling through the
matted, star-flowered vine, she paused to look back.
Four of the pups were at her heels, but the fifth sent
up a howl of fear as he fought to extricate himself
from the trailing vines which caught and held him to
the ground. Tense with unease the mother hurried
back, followed by the four terrified pups. Her eyes
darted this way and that as she snapped and bit at
them, some dim memory in her waking to knowledge
of man-made traps. She sniffed around the vine, then
her great jaws seized the imprisoned pup, trying to
shake him free. His howls rang down the hillside,
hot with fear and protest, so that the man at the foot-
hill halted his team to listen.
The old bitch was at once aware of that tense
silence. She marshalled her four free puppies and
hurried them away, leaving the captive to howl his
fear and terror. She gave no whimper, no sign of
hearing while the lives of the other four were in
danger. Every now and again the pup’s cries rose to
a howl, a cry that rang down the slopes. The man
on the flat listened. A period of silence followed,
then again the cry came.
Reid Murray, passing the cultivation, saw the
stationary horses and hurried across the ploughed
land to Wallace. “What’s wrong?” he asked.
Wallace still kept his face turned to the hill.
“There’s a pup up there,” he said. “It’s been howling
for the last ten minutes. Listen.”
They waited, their eyes searching the slope, then
the cry came again—the short distressed yaps of a
young puppy.
It s a pup all right,” Murray said. He pushed his
hat to the back of his head and waited for the sound
again. “You lost one?”
“No. I was wondering whether it was a dingo.”
There came another short, distressed yap, then a
long-drawn howl.
That s a dingo all right! ” Murray said excitedly.
He darted over to a tree and wrenched down a long,
dead stick. “Come on,” he said. “Let’s find it.”
O ROM where she stood hidden, the old dingo
scented their approach and, slipping quietly
through the bush, endeavored to put as much space
as possible between the caught pup and the rest of her
litter. Desperate and panting she hurried forward,
checking the instinct to rush back and fight for her
offspring. Far below she could hear the slipping of
stones, the murmur of voices that meant danger.
Dully now, with tongues lolling and eyes glazed,
the pups staggered after her. The urgency in their
mother’s cries warned them of approaching danger, so
that they limped and struggled on in spite of sore feet
and dry mouths. A young cow, heavy in calf, stood
with upthrown head and eyes alert ready to turn and
fly at the first sign of approach, but the dogs passed
her heedlessly.
The old dog reached the mouth of the cavern
with a little run and stood there with soft whimpers
of invitation. She nosed them into the darkness, one
after the other, following them like a shadow. It
was cool in the cave, soft under sore, bruised feet.
The hot, furry bodies rested against the bare rock.
The mother lay down, stretching her huge body until
the swelling teats were groped for and the pups
drank until they slept.
The old dog’s eyes never left the opening. Her
ears were pricked for sound of the sharp, frightened
bark that had followed her up the rise. Suddenly she
stood up, the hackles on her back rising, every sense
alert, as she heard a quick yelp of fear, a voice borne
to her on the wind, then silence.
The captive pup lay quite still as it heard the
approaching steps. From the shelter of the vine and
bracken its sharp eyes saw the men and instinct
warned it to lie low.
“It sounded about here,” Murray said, standing on
a sharp rise. “I could’ve sworn it was about here.”
He bent down to examine a cleared patch of ground
and straightened up excitedly. “There’s a whole litter
of them,” he said pointing to the ground. “Look,
they’ve been resting here.”
“There’s the marks of their feet,” Wallace said.
“Half a dozen of the little beggars, but only one adult
dog. They’re not so far from here.”
They stood listening. For perhaps ten minutes
there was no sound save the rustle of wind over grass
and the cries of circling birds. The men moved
stealthily forward, and the pup, hearing the slow,
cautious approach, whined an appeal.
Murray was the first to see him. The raised
waddy seemed all at once superfluous. “We’d better
look for the mother first,” he advised. “She might be
about.”
“She’s cleared out with the others,” Wallace said.
“Go on, kill the little beggar.”
“Kill him yourself,” Murray told him.
Wallace laughed sheepishly. “It’d be murder,
wouldn’t it?” he said. “Come on, let’s get the poor
little blighter out.”
The pup showed no fight, made no whimper, but
under his hand the man could feel the heart’s quick
beating. The fat puppy body folded into creases, the
strong, overlarge dingo’s legs dangled. One paw was
a soft white.
“Just like any ordinary pup,” Wallace said, strok-
ing the woolly head. “Poor little chap—l wonder how
he came to get caught.”
“I’ll bet the old mother’s not far away,” Murray
said. “How about taking this fellow home and get-
ting our rifles? We might clean up the lot.”
“Wouldn’t be a bad idea. We’d better be moving,
though.”
The old dingo caught the echo of retreating steps
as the men descended the slope. She whined softly
and slunk cautiously out of the cave with raised head
and pointed nose. She slipped silently from shelter
to shelter, whimpering with an urgency that seemed to
hush all lesser sounds, but no answering call came. She
dared not set up the wild, piteous howl that would
express her grief, but her eyes were stricken and her
jaws dripped saliva as she slunk back through the
bracken like a long, yellow shadow, to the rock shelter.
'"T HE sun was getting low when the men returned.
* The bitch, nose to the wind, scented them as they
approached. She backed into a corner of the cave,
nuzzling the pups behind her.
Murray stood above the rock, peering down into
the dimness.
“I’ll bet this is' where she’s got to,” he said. “Have
your gun ready and I’ll poke about a bit with a stick.”
He lowered the dead sapling into the opening,
jabbing about until the end came into contact with
something soft, and a sharp yelp confirmed his belief.
“They’re here all right,” he shouted. “Get ready and
I’ll hunt them out.”
The bitch bit savagely at the stick, striving to keep
the pups behind her, but the slow, probing motions
went on until two of the youngsters were driven to
the opening. They waddled round the edge of the
rock, cocking inquiring heads in an attitude of listen-
ing.
Excellent targets they made, outlined against the
opening. Wallace took aim. The resounding echo
drowned the yelps of terror from the two remaining
pups, but as the men examined the bodies the old
dog lay motionless, her fear-stricken eyes fixed on
the opening.
Down came the stick again. She crouched against
the rock wall, protecting the remaining pups with her
body, uttering no sound.
“I think she’s gone,” Murray decided at last.
How about bringing the pup up and tying him
where we found him as a decoy?”
“That should fetch her,” Wallace agreed. “We’ll
come up after the moon rises. Not a bad haul, eh?
Three dingoes in one day!”
After the men had gone a motionless silence
reigned. The sun rested imperceptibly on the edge of
the hill, catching the trees in a net of luminous light,
then was gone. The old dingo herded her pups
farther up the rise. They followed her obediently,
dark figures moving among the shadows. At a pool
she paused to drink, then slunk on, slipping between
the trees and up the ridge until she reached the shelter
of another rock.
For a long time now there had been silence down
the ridge, no longer that cry of distress telling her
the pup was still alive. As though unable to bear the
silence any longer, she rose and stood at the opening.
Then again she heard it —a frightened, whimpering
cry, appealing to her for help. She went back to the
pups. They were fast asleep, grunting in satiation.
It seemed now that there was no longer need for
caution. She loped down the hill, unheeding the hares
that passed, for borne again on the night was that
urgent call for aid.
There was no hesitancy now. Her savage jaws
snapped, her eyes were red. As the wind changed
there came to her faintly that unmistakable man smell.
It did not daunt her now, only she was cautious.
Across the stillness of the night there was no sound
except the distressed cries of her young.
With the changing wind there was no longer that
scent of man. All her mind was intent now on reach-
ing the pup—the cries were nearer now, more urgent
and fraught with fresh terror. The two men waiting
behind the rocky ridge saw the dark figure slipping
from shadow to shadow. Without a word they cocked
their rifles as the old bitch hesitated, sniffing the air.
There was a loud report, a cry that seemed to fill the
night with desolation and the crash of a bulky form
rolling down the ridge.
“Got her!” The men leapt up with exultant
cries. They turned the body over, noting the strong,
deadly legs. Wallace picked up a lifeless paw and
(Continued on next page.)


dropped it again. “This must be the old girl that got
those calves last month. We’re well rid of her.”
“We’d better fasten the pup outside the cave and
get the rest of them now,” Murray said. “There must
be a couple of pups left yet.”
They left the decoy a yard from the cave and
retreated to a distance to wait. Dumbly the little
animal lay there, hiding in the shadow and remaining
motionless. Clouds were passing continually across
the face of the moon, making light and shadow, and
the trees stood motionless on the hill, but no sound
came from the cave. An owl hooted from far down
the creek. From somewhere in the ridges a dingo
called and the pup raised his head. The call came
again, and a low, whimpering cry made answer. Beside
the rock the sleeping pups awoke and began nosing
around for their mother. Again the dingo’s call came
—penetrating, long-drawn—and this time the captive
answered.
The men waited, tense hands on rifles. Above
them they heard a whimpering sound as the pups
tumbled down the ridge, eager to find their missing
mother.
“They’re up there! ” Murray called. “Come on! ”
They scrambled through the undergrowth and
bracken and presently in the clear moonlight saw the
two remaining pups.
Murray raised his gun and fired. They untied
the decoy, cradling him in their arms, and descended
the moonlit slope with the scalps.
“Hey, mister, will this drill disturb you?"
“SOLO” JIMMY
By OLAF RUHEN.
< ( p OLO” JIMMY SANDGATE saw old Peter at
the head of the street and tried to hurry
l J past with a casual nod, but Peter was made
of sterner stuff and relentlessly buttonholed
him. “Thought perhaps you might be thinking about
a mate,” he said, “and my young Don wants to be
leaving school. He’s a good lad.”
“No; no show, Peter. I’ll be carrying on solo.
Suits me a whole lot better. Not saying that Don’s not
a good lad, though. I’ve seen him Sundays when he’s
been out with you.”
“You’re looking the right way for trouble, boy,
out on your own always. You need a mate. Give
the lad a try, anyway. Take him out tomorrow and
see what he does.”
“Can’t be done. Anyway I got company
tomorrow —passenger.”
“Passengers is another mistake,” said Peter. “No
good comes of taking passengers out fishing. They’re
in the road all day, lying down an’ rolling round sea-
sick.”
“This chap will be all right, anyway. He’s from
the aerodrome; was down tonight having a look-see.
I’ve got to be going. Sorry I can’t do anything about
the lad.” He sidestepped Peter neatly and went on
up the street.
Hr HINGS would have been “all right” next day but
1 for circumstances, and circumstances mean a lot
to tiny craft. All the difference between a good cheque
and a bad one, all the difference between good pros-
pects and a week on the beach for repairs. Wind,
sea and tide can be good friends, but their temper is
uncertain.
In the early part of the day the sea was like a
lake, oilily rolling over the strong tide, and there was
no breath of wind. Waters was enthusiastic over the
day and its constant run of small adventures. If Jimmy
was anxious he kept his thoughts to himself, but he
looked often into the south-east.
Even without Waters he had company. Weaving
in and out of his buoyed lines was the big ketch Kelpie,
and half a dozen other launches were in sight. Quite
suddenly, it seemed, the Kelpie’s engine stuttered from
an easy half-speed to the full strength of its throttles,
and the men began to stow away the line they had
been intending to set. Almost simultaneously Jimmy
left the tiller to accelerate the engine of his own craft,
and Waters came aft to meet him when he reappeared.
To his inquiry Jimmy thumbed his hand over his
shoulder to the south’ard, snatching the next line from
the water as he did so, and throwing his governed
engine out of gear with the long bamboo which was
attached to the gear handle.
Mysteriously a band of clouds had formed across
the southern horizon, stretching from the end of land
to the middle distance of the wide sea. Ahead of the
clouds a thick black line marked the water, and as
they looked it seemed to advance rapidly. Behind it,
the sea was ruffled. As it neared them it disappeared,
revealing itself as the accumulation of the shadows of
the choppy waves. With its advance, the wind hit
them, heeling the boat so that Jimmy missed the next
line, cursed and swung in a wide circle to pick it up
again from the same direction.
The rest of the trip, Waters spent in the engine-
room, his head in the keen air, watching. The water
lifted higher and higher with each moment, and the
Kittiwake climbed and swung and sickeningly thudded
into the troughs, swinging in a great wide arc to pick
up each line against the tide and wind.
One foot braced against the coamings, “Solo”
Jimmy coaxed and warded her into position, swooping
down on his buoys, picking them out of a maelstrom
of water and flying spray, hauling while his engine stut-
tered in racing idleness, handling line, hooks and fish
with a deft easiness. Then the thrust as the screw took
up its work, and away they went to the next line, fish
sliding back and forth in the pond, each neat bundle
of hooks tied to its grapnel, the line lying in a seem-
ing tangle where it was hauled.
Sometimes a wall of green water seemed to rise
above the bows as they shuddered at the foot of the
drop. Jimmy was grinning now. This was his sea ;
he knew what to expect. The oily easiness had brought
him only a mistrust. This was his business, riding the
white horses, and using their strength to his own ends.
The Kittiwake was with him, every line of her. He
was her partner, not mastering her, but working with
a willing co-operation.
The last line aboard, Jimmy left the tiller and
dived into the engine-room, while the Kittiwake rolled
broadside on to the seas. The drums beneath the
decking that skirted the cockpit slid and rolled across
the floor. The fish pond half-emptied its contents
and rolled the remainder back against the lining over
the ribs, the thwack of the big groper hitting the side
sounding like a cannon-shot within the engine-room.
Somewhere forward something of metal was adrift.
Jimmy, oiling the running engine as he swayed with
the boat, crawling about it, seemed to take a hundred
chances with spinning flywheel and valve gear.
Waters watched him stagger out into the cock-
pit with a tin of petrol and a funnel, ease his way
along the foredeck and settle himself on the house
above the petrol-tank as though he were in an arm-
chair at home. Out there, his movements seemed hor-
ribly deliberate. Only his foot, braced against the
inch-high toe-rail, held him aboard. Once he lifted a
hand in greeting, and the Kelpie passed them, plug-
ging into the southerly on her way home. Waters
breathed a sigh of relief as Jimmy staggered back.
Sixteen miles to port, but Waters saw only the
start of the homeward journey. He saw Jimmy,
wedged between the coamings, acknowledging the
heavy spray with a blink, now against a straight green
background, now lifting, lifting up and up intermin-
ably, above the hill with its lighthouse, up and up till
he was outlined against a cloud, only to slew and sink
again with a startling suddenness into the trough. He
felt the engine gather power, slow and slower, as the
nose lifted and the screw pushed against half an
ocean, then race, as the Kittiwake balanced on the
crest and plunged, seeming to scream in a fiery joy
as the little petrels screamed in the air above. He did
not see the white confusion that was the harbor bar,
but he felt the surge as the Kittiwake rode a curling
breaking roller clear through the entrance to the
gentle dip and plunge of the harbor waters, Jimmy
lending the work of both hands and the weight of his
back to the tiller, guarding against a broach.
Jimmy was coiling up lines when Waters came out
into the open. They parted, quite casually, where
thev had met, at the punt where the fish were un-
loaded. Waters went to his lodgings, ate two meals
in one, and was asleep within the hour ; “Solo” Jimmy
took his wife to the pictures.
A TELEPHONE call brought Waters to his feet in
the morning. It was the aerodrome.
“Sorry to disturb you,” said the voice. “We’ve
got a small job for you this morning.”
“Yes?” Waters stifled a yawn.
“Reconnaissance trip, sort of. There’s a fisher-
man lost. He' didn’t come home yesterday. . Must
have broke down. There was a bit of a squall.”
“Bit of a Oh, right-oh. I’ll be over.”
“It might be a good idea to pick up a fisherman.
This bird was about twenty miles to the north-east of
the Heads seemingly, but with wind and tide he might
be anywhere. See if you can find an intelligent sort
of chap and take him along.”
Waters took a taxi to the wharves, but a look
told him the Kittiwake was not at her moorings.
There were no fishermen about, and after drawing a
blank in three or four places he struck the piermaster,
who agreed to accompany him.
“The tug’s away,” the piermaster told him, “and
some of the bigger boats, though it’s no weather for
fishing craft out there. The wind’s steadied, but the
lighthouse reports heavy seas. There’ll be more to
come out of this.” He was talkative. “It’s the Eileen
that’s missing. Oh sure, I’d know her anywhere.
He’s got sail, but he’d never make home with what
he’s got, and his mast is stepped aft for lifting, and
through the deck. She’ll never make headway into the
wind.”
They had quite a short trip. They passed over
the tug, steaming out. Just outside the harbor entrance
they sighted a long file of launches, five of them in a
row, homeward bound, and they guessed at the tow-
rope that separated each by twenty yards. The pier-
master, who wasn’t looking so good, motioned to him,
and Waters banked and flew back to the ’drome.
It was only courtesy to drive the piermaster back
to the wharves, but Waters wanted to go in any case.
The Kittiwake, tied alongside, was edging the Eileen
into her wharfside moorings when he arrived, and, as
a privileged spectator, he stepped aboard, and crossed
over to where “Solo” Jimmy sprawled easily in the
stern sheets.
“Found him easy enough,” said Jimmy. “He had
a pump bracket broken off and couldn’t use his
engine, that was all.”
Waters thought of the tumbled area of ocean he
had seen from the air and the man who had spent a
night on it. Then, “You missed a trip,” he said. “I
came down thinking I’d get you to give me a line on
his direction, so I could let them know on the tug.
But we can fix it up later. Like to go up sometime?”
“What, in one of those things? I’ve got too
much respect for my life.” Jimmy grinned suddenly.
“No thanks. I’d be scared stiff.”


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
jfyb'd mellcumeM andXimauet
London is proud of its hospitals.
Some of them rank among the largest
and most famous in the world. The
oldest and most illustrious of all is
St. Bartholomew’s, facing Smithfield,
another equally well-known institu-
tion, but of a different kind. The
noble charity of “Barts,” as the hos-
pital is popularly referred to, was
originally instituted by that pious
citizen Rahere, who bore the office
of King’s Minstrel so far back as
the year 1102, and formed part of
the neighboring priory of St. Bartholo-
mew, which he had likewise founded
on the east side of West Smithfield
for the Canons of St. Augustine, and
of which he himself became the first
Prior. Smithfield at this time was a
kind of “laystall for ordure and
filth,” and the place of public execu-
tions. At the dissolution of religious
houses all its possessions fell to the
Crown, but Henry VIII., in his last
year, granted it a charter of incor-
poration and presented it to the city.
All persons injured by accidents are
received at any hour, day or night.
In a niche over the arch of the chief
entrance gateway, as illustrated, re-
built in 1702, is a full-length statue
of Henry VIII. Rahere established
the hospital principally for “brethren
and sisters, sick persons and pregnant
women.” The estates he settled upon
it were valued at £305, a great sum
then. In 1334 the priory received a
gift from Henry le Hayward and
Roger de Creton of 106 acres of
arable land and four of meadow
in what is now the densely populated
and industrial areas of Islington and
Kentish Town, valued at 21s. 6d. per
annum, to pray for the soul of John
de Kentyshton, hence the name
Kentish Town. The splendid revenues
of the hospital today are employed
to the best of ends. The great hall
and staircase are well worth seeing,
with their wealth of stained glass,
full-length paintings, some of the
latter the work of Hogarth, the chief
subjects being “The Angel at the
Pool of Bethesda” and “The Good
Samaritan.”
ENTRANCE GATE-ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL.


GIVING HER “THE BIRD.”
"Mr. Sumner Welles's pilgrimage to Europe has served to make it plain that Peace has a very bad ‘press.’”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man,”
Directors:
H. fc. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia ; Gordon & Gotch 04us.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-Stale cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rales.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. Vrated Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
GERMANY'S ADVANTAGES.
So far, Germany still has a number of definite advan-
tages in this war, apart from any question of respec-
tive armed might. In the long run the sort of advan-
tages Germany has may turn into disadvantages;
even for the present it may be said with a shrug by
high-minded people that the Nazis are welcome to
them ; but this does not alter the fact that for imme-
diate war purposes they are trump cards.
War, it needs keeping in mind, is utterly ruthless
and unscrupulous, with standards entirely different
from those that hold good in peace. There Germany’s
Nazi controllers have one clear advantage. Being
morally bankrupt before the world, they need not
restrain themselves from fear of offending the world’s
moral opinion. They would not be far wrong if they
reckoned the world’s moral conscience as so blunted
by the widespread collapse into barbarism over recent
years that nothing, however foul, can now shock it.
On report sound enough to have been accepted by the
Vatican, the Nazi advance guards in Poland and
Czechoslovakia are daily committing sadistic abomina-
tions and vicious cruelties on defenceless people,
likely, it might be thought, to stir a civilised world’s
fury. There are wordy protests, but no practical sign
that world opinion is unbearably shocked.
The truth seems to be that for world opinion to
be shocked there must be, as well as unspeakable—
and unprintable—abominations, an element of sur-
prise ; and nothing the Nazi leaders of Germany have
done since their repudiation of the Munich Agreement
has really surprised. The war advantage implicit in
this is simply that nothing the Nazis may care to do
in prosecuting the war will come as a surprise to
anybody. They can —as they already have done—
bomb and machine-gun undefended lightships and
fishing-craft, machine-gun and bomb civilian pas-
sengers on liners, or sink neutral and other shipping
by indiscriminate mine-laying and submarine attacks.
They can launch wholesale bombing attacks on
civilian populations ; use gas ; fire cities with incen-
diary bombs ; slaughter women and children. None
of this would surprise anybody; Britain’s home-front
defence is based on the assumption that the bombing
and gassing of civilians is to be taken for granted.
In other words, the initiative in all such means
of prosecuting the war is with Germany’s Nazi leaders,
and must remain with them. They may be welcome
to it; but in all-in totalitarian war it must be included
in any listing of advantages. As defenders of, or
crusaders for, their conception of decent moral con-
duct in international affairs, and all that that may be
held to connote —the worth and significance of inter-
national contracts, such as the Munich Agreement,
the Anglo-German Naval Treaty, the German Non-
aggression Agreement with Poland, broken by Ger-
many’s Nazi leaders at their convenience ; the removal
of the constant threat of force, backed up by colossal
armed power, as an instrument of foreign policy ; the
safeguarding of religious and other individual rights
and liberties —while the Allies stand for such aims as
these, even though they may be only incidental to
their war aims, they obviously have nothing like the
freedom of action that the morally unhampered
German leaders possess.
Again it may be held that Germany is welcome
to all such advantages, especially as, with every use of
them, world sympathy, for what it may be worth, will
swing more and more to the Allies. The fact, how-
ever, is that, in the utterly ruthless struggle that war
is, any form of initiative is a definite advantage. In
this the Allies are tied until Germany acts ; not until
then can they move, taking reprisals. The great
difference with the advantage so far all
way—is demonstrated by the reluctance of the Allies
to take reprisals even for the machine-gunning and
bombing of liner passengers. So far the Nazis
have been allowed to get away with murder, chiefly
because they can afford to be without scruples, while,
as yet, the Allies cannot.
Similarly, Germany could invade any neutral
country if that suited its war purposes. World opinion
might profess to be shocked, but Germany's Nazi
leaders could probably count with absolute safety
on there being no practical proof of the shock.
World opinion, in any case, is so accustomed to Nazi
German ruthlessness by now that even such protests
as might be made would be mild to the outcry that
would occur if the Allies took any such step, how-
ever desperate the need.
These would seem to be considerable advantages
on Germany’s side in the practical conduct of ruth-
less war; Germany has another advantage that over-
shadows all others. It can quit.
The terms under which it can do so will no doubt
become harsher as the war goes on —if it does go on.
The kind of war it has been to date has resulted in
the feelings that were at such a feverish pitch last
September cooling down considerably, but it would
take very little to make them boil again. A few
bombs on England and the word German will be a
red rag. Then, if the war gets going, with the fright-
ful slaughter that must happen if it does, insistence on
putting the German nation down and keeping it down
will grow. The terms Germany can have now are
very different from what would be dictated if Ger-
many tries to fight this war out on ruthless lines and
is beaten.
However that may turn out, the important fact
for the present is that Germany can quit almost
whenever it wishes, and still be Germany. In a great
speech he made in January—one of the greatest on
the British side since the war started —Lord Halifax
declared:
We seek nothing for ourselves. We have said pub-
licly that if we can once again feel security that the
German Government would respect its undertakings
and honestly co-operate in trying to build instead of to
destroy European peace, upon the terms of live and let
live for all nations, we should not seek any vindictive
peace or one which would deny Germany her rightful
place among the nations. The only reason why peace
cannot be made to-morrow is that the German Govern-
ment have, as yet, given no evidence of their readiness
to repair the damage which they have inflicted upon
their weaker neighbors or of their capacity to convince
the world that any pledge which they may subscribe to
is worth more than the paper upon which it is written.
On those terms Germany could certainly get out
of this war now. The door is still open, and no doubt
it will remain so until the Welles mission to Europe
proves successful or abortive. Meanwhile, the position
is that Germany—by a change of Government; the
retirement of Hitler to grow old as the Seer of
Berchtesgaden ; by a change of policy, from the threat
of brutal force, to peaceful civilised aims—has the
advantage that it can still get out of this war. The
Allies have no such choice.
They cannot quit. If the struggle goes on they
must win, or be conquered and broken up. For them
the only prospect is war, with all that such a war as
this one may involve, fought out to the bitter end. The
alternative is defeat and domination by Germany,
and what that represents can be grasped by anybody
who has the stomach to read what is taking place in
conquered Poland.
Victoria's Rush Election.
Victorian State elections have become as exciting as
cold cabbage. Voting being compulsory, the people
have to make a show of being interested in them, but,
except for a very small minority of partisans, they have
long ceased to regard State politics as anything but a
bore. There is a plethora of parties, but competition
for the 65 Assembly seats is so languid that at the
1937 election 20 members were returned unopposed,
and this time the number is 21. Candidates are picked
by party organisations, and, except in very rare cases,
it is no use trying to buck the machine.
For five years the State has had a Country-party
Government, kept in office by a Labor party whose
leader was recently rewarded for his devotion to
the State or something with a special annual grant
from the public purse. The Country party, as the
Premier has himself pointed out, represents 2 p.c. of
the electors. The Labor party represents at least 52
p.c., but because of a wickedly undemocratic arrange-
ment of electoral boundaries, which the Labor leaders
never really try to alter —though they growl about
it occasionally—it can never gain a majority of seats.
Greater Melbourne with at least 55 p.c. of the State
population (it had 54.5 p.c. at the census of 1933) is
grossly under-represented in the Assembly and has had
no Minister during the five years. Neither has Bal-
larat, Geelong or Bendigo.
Under the present direction, “Parliament” has a
mania for passing bills of little or no importance at
the rate of 100 or so a session ; and sessions are always
short. A great deal of the actual work of government
is done by boards and commissions. The Ministry
attends to the taxes and the loans, both of which are
increasing, the taxes to meet huge losses on Govern-
ment enterprises, the railways especially, and the
loans because State Governments are like that. Because
they are like that the Auditor-General reports that
“more than three-fifths of the gross revenue is absorbed
by public-debt charges and expenditure connected
with State undertakings.”
The election has been held seven months before
the proper time because the Premier fell out with the
boss of the C.P. organisation, who is not —and never
was —in Parliament. That gentleman it was who five
years ago received Labor’s offer to put his party on
the Treasury benches provided it turned dog on the
U.A.P., and who said to the press: “We have decided
to walk out —to discontinue our association with the
Argyle Ministry.” To the vast indignation of the
Labor leader, he is now standing against the Labor
member for Allandale.
As a reward for his devotion to the State or
something, the Boss was made one of the State Savings
Bank Commissioners at £5OO a year. It transpired
very belatedly that his appointment and those of two
fellow-Commissioners had been made in violation of
the terms of the Act, and that their proceedings,
though in no other way questionable, were invalid.
The fellow-Commissioners resigned; the Boss refused
to do so, and was dragged out as it were by special
legislation. He made a piercing song about it, and
Ms.L.A. and members of the organisation gave him a
measure of support which the Government found
embarrassing, especially as the annual conference of
branch delegates was to be held in April. Sure of
Labor complaisance, the Government decided to get in
first, hoping to disarm the annual conference by pre-
senting it with the verdict of an apathetic electorate.
It showed its contempt for the apathetic electorate by
arranging that the poll should be taken only a fort-
night after nomination day.
To such a pass have local politics come in the
State that produced Graham Berry, Deakin and
Turner. And things are likely to grow worse instead
of better until the people make an end of their seedy
parody of Westminster and their imitation Bucking-
ham Palace and set up two provincial councils —one
for Melbourne and the other for the rest of Victoria
—under one national Parliament with supreme and
unchallengeable powers.
Ex-King Coal.
Except in Queensland and Westralia, where special
conditions obtain, the history of coal in Australia
since the last war has been a sad thing. The years
that followed Versailles saw an industrial-power revo-
lution, and by 1924-25 the N.S.W. coalmining industry
was beginning to feel the effects. Wages and prices
were still high, but in other. States and overseas the
demand for N.S.W. coal persistently declined. Yal-
lourn and the Sugarloaf-Rubicon group of hydro
stations made Victoria virtually independent of it;
B.H.P. bought its own mines; even shipping com-
panies with interests in N.S.W. pits went in for oil-
burners.
Strikes had always been the curse of the industry ;
they scourged it even during the war. Though exports
fell from 1,336,400 tons in 1923-24 to 311,600 tons in
1928-29, the tendency to strike became a habit.
Between 1926 and 1930, strikes cost Australian miners
5,995,000 working days and £6,737,000 in wages, and
they were nearly all coalmining strikes. And high
prices and uncertainty of supplies cost employers and
employees valuable export markets.
In February, 1929, the position had become so
bad that the N.S.W. and Commonwealth Govern-
ments decided that they would have to do something
about it. The N.S.W. Government proposed a reduc-
tion of Is. a ton in owners’ profits and the equivalent
of Is. a ton in wages, undertaking for its part to
reduce its charges by 2s. a ton, so that local consump-
tion might be increased. The Commonwealth offered
a bounty of Is. a ton to help the export trade. The
Miners’ Federation rejected the proposals, and on
March 2, after a fortnight’s notice had been given,
about 30 collieries closed down and 10,000 men were
thrown out of work. The owners called it a strike ;
the miners and their sympathisers—by no means all
Labor men —proclaimed it a lockout. Carried on in
an atmosphere that at times suggested civil war —the
fields will long remember Rothbury—the unhappy
affair continued until June, 1930, when the men, their
funds exhausted, sullenly accepted a reduction of \l\
per cent, in the hewing rate and of 6d. per ton in daily
rates.
Then came the depression and years of misery.
Whole districts had to live on the doje. Lads left
school and grew to manhood without having ever had
a job. Though the Newcastle price of coal fell from
19s. a ton in 1928-29 to 12s. 9d. in 1933-34 the export
trade refused to respond: in that year and in 1932-33
exports fell below 300,000 tons. Payment of dividends
ceased, and shares in most of the companies became
a drug in the market. They can still be bought for a
fraction of the paid-up price.
In the train of the depression Red leadership
arrived. The old leaders were denounced as “traitors
who would tie the workers to Parliament.” The cry
of the new leaders, who belonged to a so-called
Minority Movement, blessed by Mr. Losovsky, secre-
tary of the Red International, was “Forward miners
—for organisation, struggle and victory!” “Mass
pressure” and the Communist programme of a 30-hour
week and a basic wage of £5 10s. were demanded.
Though strikes and dislocations had gone out of
fashion in other branches of unionism, they continued
in the collieries. In 1938, over 800,000 working days
were lost through “disputes” in the N.S.W. coal in-
dustry ; the total for all N.S.W. industries was 864,000
days.
That year saw what was to have been a strike
on the grand scale. The Red leaders rushed into it
boasting that their Federation had £250,000 “in cash
and credits,” but at the end of a fortnight the “cash
and credits” had given out, and, certain concessions
having been offered, the strike was called off. One of
the Red leaders then saw fit to describe it as “the first
round in the fight for decent conditions.” Abolition
of the 1930 pay-cuts, the Red gentleman said, was
worth £250,000 a year to the miners ; in fact, many
members of the Federation had gained “higher pay
than ever before in history.”
“The second round” was fought in the Common-
wealth Arbitration Court. Hence the Drake-Brockman
award of a 40-hour week from face to wagon. On
appeal, the Full Arbitration Court altered it to 40
hours for underground men and 44 hours for surface
men, Judge Drake-Brockman dissenting. Mr. Drake-
Brockman said that he would have “hesitated to give
the surface men a reduction of hours if the employers
had vigorously opposed it.”
The delivery of the Full Court judgment was
followed immediately by strike talk and the collec-
tion of strike funds ; and this time the Federated
Enginedrivers and Firemen and the Amalgamated
Engineers joined in. Though many miners’ families
have never made up the leeway lost during the black
years, and though men find it hard enough to pay
their union dues, which are far greater than the aver-
age annual charge for a union ticket —in 1938 9580


northern miners, many of whom were unemployed at
least part of the year, had to find £47,178 in “contri-
butions” and £2999 in other receipts, whereas 1500
bricklayers, who rarely have strikes, paid £998 —weekly
“irritation strikes,” involving the loss of a day’s pay,
were ordered. At this there was murmuring, but the
Red gentry insisted that they knew what they were
about: they were after the 40-hour week for all
hands, and they were going to get it—that and “adjust-
ments of rates” and annual holidays without penalties
for capricious stoppages. Failure of an effete capital-
ism to concede the full programme would mean
another “all-in” strike.
The full programme was not conceded, and the
“all-in” strike began at the week-end.. It was pre-
ceded, not by a secret ballot (there are never any
secret ballots in these cases), but by so-called mass
meetings of miners, at which the Red gentry and
their friends did nearly all the talking (having pre-
viously deluged the fields with leaflets) and open
objectors had to take the chance of being subjected
to savage persecution. Even so, the strike resolution
was voted down in two N.S.W. districts, Kurri Kurri
and Adamstown, and in parts of Queensland, and in
places where it was carried a great many men listened
to the strike rant without enthusiasm, and without
raising their hands for or against. At Kurri Kurri,
where the president of the northern miners put the
case for the strike, there were bitter comments on the
claim that the union bosses had £llB,OOO in “cash and
credits,” and the strike motion was defeated by 3 to 1.
Mr. Hughes, who has unpleasant memories of
1916 and 1917, negotiated with both sides, and says
he found both “unhelpful.” This was denied by the
employers, whose secretary said: “The unions got as
much as they could from the Arbitration Court; now
they are striking for what they didn’t get, and the
proprietors won’t stand for that policy.” The general
public has no illusions about “the proprietors,” but
in this case their position is unassailable. The strike
has been entered upon in defiance of industrial arbitra-
tion, and, to the extent to which Communists are
responsible, it is a nefarious attempt to injure Aus-
tralia’s war effort. And for that reason it will fail.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Menzies, Cameron and Curtin.
The loss of Corio effected a magical change in the
attitude of the U.A.P. Prime Minister to Mr. Cameron
and his party. Negotiations which had been dropped
because the P.M. had offered too little and demanded
too much, his heart being never really in them, were
suddenly renewed, at his instance.
The two leaders had a meeting in Melbourne
Inst Thursday, and press supporters of the Prime
Minister are agreed that his exhibition of largeness
of mind and lucidity of temper was perfect.
Anyway, there was an immediate and perma-
nent abandonment of the 1939 offer of three posts in
the Ministry, Mr. Menzies to do the picking and
determine the offices and order of precedence. The
P.M. found himself “prepared to appoint” five
Country party Ministers, Mr. Cameron to be “Number
Two in the Cabinet,” and to be “consulted fully on
the question of personnel.” Mr. Cameron and his col-
leagues were opposed to the A.C.I. car-manufacture
monopoly, which had such an unhappy effect in Corio,
and Mr. Menzies had undertaken to refer the agree-
ment to Parliament. Because of these facts, Mr. Men-
zios was “willing to depart from the usual Cabinet
practice and agree that on this matter Cabinet
Ministers shall be free to vote as individuals.” For
the rest, the P.M. urged immediate acceptance of the
proposals, since “the sooner the reconstructed Cabinet
can be sworn in the better,” and proposed that “you”
(Mr. Cameron) “and I should agree to give support
at the election to those members who support the
Government, whether they are U.A.P. or C.P.”
It was expected at the week-end that an uncor-
dial understanding would be arrived at early this
week. If it is arrived at, both parties and the country
are likely to suffer. Within 18 months the U.A.P.
has lost Wakefield (S.A.), Wilmot (Tas.) and Corio
(Vic.) 1° the Labor party. Wakefield the Labor party
had never won before ; Wilmot it had held in one
Parliament only, and it can colorably claim to have
gained Corio on the issue chosen by the P.M. himself
——that of war policy. If the House of Representa-
tives were dissolved straightway Labor would win it —
there cannot be an election for the Senate till later
in the year.
Labor is committed to support the war. As the
largest of the three parties in the House it should be
obliged to assume responsibility for the conduct of
the war, and also for the settlement of the coal strike,
since it insists that it is the duty of the Government
to intervene. When it was one of three parties it took
office in April, 1904, and again in November, 1909.
Now stronger in both Chambers than it was on either
of those occasions, it should assuredly be called upon
to do what the Watson and the first Fisher Govern-
ments were not afraid to do.
In six months or so a Labor Government could
do no great harm, and the experience would enable
the electors to judge whether it was competent to
manage Australia’s share of the war and to shoulder
the many local burdens which war imposes. If Mr.
Curtin refused a commission the verdict of the people
would be that he had “squibbed it,” and they would
then rally to a Menzies-Cameron Government. In
their present temper they won’t do that until Labor
is proved craven or incapable.
War Aims and Peace.
A shrewd old British Prime Minister said to his
Cabinet It doesn’t matter a damn what we say so
long as we all say the same thing.”
Unfortunately when members of the present
British Government discuss war aims and peace they
don’t always say the same thing. Mr. Churchill is for
continuing the war until Prague, Warsaw and Vienna
are “freed.” For Mr. Eden “the war is a life-and-
death struggle with a remorseless foe: the Nazi
system and all it stands for must go.”
Mr. Malcolm MacDonald has intimated that one of
' our war aims is the liberation of the Central European
Jews. “First, the independence of the Poles and the
Czechs must be secured,” said Mr. Chamberlain in
his last speech. This expression has been variously
interpreted, but it seems to have been left deliber-
ately vague. It certainly does not mean the restora-
tion of Poland and Czechoslovakia as they existed
before Munich. That would be impossible, for in
September, 1938, Poland (and Hungary) grabbed part
of Czechoslovakia, and in September, 1939, the
U.S.S.R. grabbed a much bigger part of Poland.
There are still Englishmen who can work for
peace without being suspected of being either Mosley-
ites or Communists. One of them is Dean Inge.
Others are peers. To these peers Lord Halifax replied
memorably in the House of Lords in December,
premising that he recognised their “courage and sin-
cerity” :
I deplore the use of the phrase “a fight to a finish,”
which many people will wrongly interpret as fighting
for the sake of fighting. The Government has always
been prepared to negotiate, and we have never closed
the door by anything we have said or done since the war
began. Provided the essential conditions of anew
international order in Europe can be secured, we will
be prepared to call Germany to full conference to
build it.
This is the right attitude, and in this spirit the British
Government should deal with any proposals which
President Roosevelt may make as a result of Mr.
Sumner Welles’s visit to Europe, or with any that
may come from Rome or any other quarter. And
obviously something is going on behind the scenes.
A Difficulty with Italy.
Late in February it was intimated in London cables,
very brief and very cautiously worded, that the trade
relations between Italy and Britain had changed for
the worse. References to the subject are still guarded,
but it came out last week that the Royal Navy had
intercepted a number of Italian vessels carrying
German coal from Rotterdam to Italy and taken them
to a contraband-control base. It was revealed further
that this traffic had been exempted from the blockade
under a time limit which expired on March 1, and that
one Italian collier, which left Rotterdam before March
1 and was delayed by engine trouble, had been
released.
A strong argument for the British action was put
by London “Daily Telegraph” in the form of a
question:
When any ship laden with British coal for Italy is
liable to be sunk on sight are we to look on idly while
shiploads of German coal pass without let or hindrance?
Point was given to it by the bombing of the Italian
ship Amelia Lauro, bound for Naples with British
coal, off the north-east coast of England, while other
Italian colliers were at the contraband-control base. An
Italian seaman was killed ; the wireless operator was
injured; the rest were rescued by another Italian
steamer, and 29 had to be sent to an English hospital.
The Amelia Lauro was towed to port; the explosive
bombs dropped by the Germans contained incendiary
bombs, which set fire to the vessel but failed to
destroy her.
This characteristic example of Nazi brutality and
stupidity apparently helped to promote a settlement
in the matter of the colliers. Thirteen were released
on the understanding that no more would load German
coal in Dutch ports. The release was ordered while
Ribbentrop was on his way to Rome.
It has to be recognised that the position of the
Italians is very difficult. It is easy to say they can get
all the coal they want from Britain, but they can
never forget that Germany is their best customer —
their trade with Germany was worth 5,013,100,000
lire in 1937, and their trade with Britain only
1,200,500,000 lire. Nor can they ever forget that
there is still an Italo-German alliance (though the
Germans invaded Catholic Poland in spite of it, and
destroyed the Polish barrier to a German Mittel-
Europe), or that they and the Germans have a
common frontier from which the territory that was
Unredeemed Italy for so many generations is vulner-
able.
The negotiations with Italy call for wise states-
manship and diplomacy on both sides. It is impor-
tant that Mr. Chamberlain and Lord Halifax should
take charge of them for Britain and that Mr. Eden
and Mr. Churchill be kept well out.
A Censure Vote.
With war, drought, strikes, unemployment and deficit
demanding attention, the N.S.W. Assembly of 90
members (salary, £875 p.a., self-voted, plus rail, tram
and bus passes) met on February 28, after a four-
month spell. It sat for five minutes and adjourned for
a week to concentrate on a censure motion which
nobody took seriously.
On resumption it proceeded on the lines of a
second-rate football club committee squabbling over
a referee. The Deputy-Premier kicked up a fuss
over some asses in the west who had conducted a
mock burial of one of their aversions, in their ugly
jargon a “scab.” Two members were ordered out for
talking out of their turn, one screaming that a “bigger
lot of bushrangers never existed.” A day and a half
were wasted in useless debate of the useless censure
motion ; and then “the representatives of the people”
adjourned again.
It is no wonder that an overwhelming majority
of N.S.W. electors want the whole futile edifice
abolished and government handed over to a single
national body. The wonder is that they have put up
with it so long.
"Hands Off Russia" Once More.
Since it became evident that the “Workers’ Only
Fatherland” might have to fight—yes, fight —someone
its size, Communist propaganda has been intensified
tenfold. Communist printing works, party offices and
bookshops are hives of industry, and papers and
pamphlets damning everything British and Australian
and lauding the authors of the butchery and ruin at
Viborg and beyond are pouring from the presses of
Moscow, London and Australian capitals in a steady
stream.
The “struggle” has been carried into the Labor
party, particularly in N. S. Wales, and small chuckle-
headed A.L.P. branches are passing resolutions —at
least those who attend the meetings are passing reso-
lutions —demanding that the great fraud of Moscow be
left to its own bloody devices.
Real Australian Labor men should take a good
look at the authors and supporters of these resolu-
tions. The “first big rally against conscription,” at the
Sydney Trades Hall, attended by “Labor Council dele-
gates, trade-union executives, workshop representa-
tives and delegates from Labor party branches,”
looked like a meeting of the Communist Party Old
Boys’ Association.
To the main resolution—-opposing “conscription
and all forms of compulsory military service” —there
was added a clause “opposing the sending of an
expeditionary force overseas.” A Mr. Denford said
he could not see “how Australia was fighting for
democracy in sending troops to Palestine, where the
Arabs are fighting for independence and have been
victims of British Imperialism.” Neither could he see
the force of sending men to France, where “the cream
of the working-class movement” —meaning, of course,
the Communists —“had been exiled.”
Another gentleman opined that the Palestine
forces were to “defend the oilfields for British Im-
perialism”—oilfields from which Australia draws 21
per cent, of its supplies, and which could scarcely be
attacked by anybody but Russia.
Still another objected to overseas adventures in
which the A.I.F. might be used to “crush the Socialist
Republic of Russia.” A fourth said “the bold action
of the Soviet Union would prevent the White Guards
getting to the door of Leningrad.” And the Labor
Council “viewed with disgust the campaign of vilifica-
tion being waged against the Soviet Union.” It
“warned Imperialist Governments, including the Men-
zies Government, that such a policy will not be
tolerated by the workers of Australia, who will resist
to the utmost any attempt to develop an anti-Soviet
war out of the present international situation.”
If unionism is to continue to have leaders who
hold views of this sort the status of trade-unions may
have to be reconsidered. Unionism is, to a large
extent, compulsory. There is no restriction on the
purposes for which funds collected from unionists by
unions are used. The law allows the fining of union-
ists by unions, and arrears of dues and fines are
legally collectable, default being punishable by levy
on goods and chattels or imprisonment.
Parliament never intended that union funds
should be at the disposal of executives who may use
them in the interests of a hostile country or for the
purpose of hampering the conduct of a war in which
Australia is involved, and the carrying on of which
the great bulk of subscribing unionists support.
Hate from Hollywood.
While American exports are feeding the German
and Soviet war machines under the sacred banners of
neutrality and profit, and while Uncle’s publicists are
still certain that their place is on the sideline while
the Allies fight for democracy, Australia has been sub-
jected to another dose of Hollywood’s fightin’ talk.
“Hitler, the Beast of Berlin,” said “S.M.H.” without
a trace of irony, “is the most outspoken and scathing
indictment of the Hitler regime yet produced from the
studios of any country.”
It is really dull. Its predecessor, “Confessions of
a Nazi Spy,” was the shrillest squeal of hatred heard
in this country in the days before war broke out when
people were still hoping that moderation might avert
the disaster. Purporting to expose Nazi spying in
the U.S.A., it went so far beyond that that it could
not possibly be taken for anything but straight-out
war propaganda.
For American consumption it was justified. And
Australians aren’t going to object if “Hitler, the Beast
of Berlin” helps to inflame American opinion against
the Nazis. But the tone of these films is alien to the
spirit of this country ; even the British propaganda
film “The Lion Has Wings” struck a false note. That
splendid local product “We of the A.1.F.,” authentic,
simple, humorous and powerful in its typically Aus-
tralian understatement, is all the propaganda that is
necessary for a country that has a noble military
record and will do what has to be done this time.
It doesn’t help the case for the showing of
“Hitler, the Beast of Berlin” here that it was toned
down in its country of origin lest it should too greatly
offend “The Beast.” “It appeared in several New
York theatres,” said “S. M. Herald,” “with the word
Hitler erased from the title, the authorities taking
the view that in its original form the film was un-
neutral and libelled the head of a friendly Power.”
Other accounts had it that passages of the film were
censored in America for the same reason. Very wise
of Uncle, but hardly heroic.
“Hollywood,” “S.M.H.” proceeded, “has always
taken a keen interest in the crusade against totalitarian
theories and particularly against German militarism.”
It might be unkind to suggest that it’s purely a box-
office interest. But the plain facts are that Holly-
wood made money out of urging Australians into the
war of which America washed its hands, and is now
going to make more money out of sooling them on
with a film its own Government was afraid to exhibit
in full.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Dinner is sewed, gents!”
“D.E.”: I trust that unique critic the
editor of the “Tailor and Cutter” will
have something to say about the get-up
in which our Mr. Casey introduced him-
self to Mr. Roosevelt—“striped trousers,
short black coat, black tie, long dark
overcoat, black Homburg hat and rolled
umbrella” (carried). A palpable Cham-
berlain touch, that rolled umbrella ; the
striped pants, short black coat, black tie,
long dark overcoat and black Homburg
hat were reminiscent of Mr. Eden. But
if the Americans summed it up as a case
of conscious imitation they would be
wrong, for in appearance, politics and
forcible-feeble speech, as well as sar-
torial tastes, Mr. Casey and Mr. Eden
are very much alike. When Mr. Eden
reviewed the Second A.I.F. nurses in
Egypt a sister was heard to say, “What
a heart-throb!” and other ministering
angels repeated the rapturous words. It
is improbable that Mr. Casey has ever
had such an exciting experience. On
the other hand, he is not likely to be the
flop in America that Mr. Eden was or
to receive, as Anthony did (to do him
justice, he was amused), letters dismiss-
ing his oratory as “lousy.”
* N= * sH
“Captain Pintle”: Our chief engineer
put over a new dirty crack in the old
feud between stokehold and deck. As
he contemptuously noted the bridge’s
notion about the day’s run, a sea-beauty
of a schooner was dancing a mile to
starboard, closehauled into a fresh
northerly. “Mon,” he said, “it’s gran’ tae
see a bit o’ sail agin. There’s ben nae
real sailors since the guid auld masts an’
yairds went oot. Only a lot o’ brass-
polishin’ fairmers rinnin’ tae us when-
ever onnything carries awa’. On sailin’
ships they lairned tae mend things for
theyselves. Noo we hae tae do it a’ for
them. A saft helpless lot they are.” He
was barely out of earshot down the
ladder when the mate (steam-trained)
exploded. “Ungrateful blanky Scotch
liar,” he fumed. “Only this morning I
had to send a man down to splice the
wire on his blanky ash-hoist for the third
time this week. Useless lot of greasy
coalheavers with nothing to do but watch
a dial.” And so it goes on.
* * * *
“Reed”: The compilers of the Good
Book didn’t miss much in the way of
human experience, both the Old and
New Testaments covering the ground
pretty thoroughly. However, as aN. S.
Wales Methodist minister pointed out the
other day, they missed the black-soil
plains after rain. Anyone who has been
on them at such time knows full well
that there is little room for holy thoughts.
Declares the Rev. J. W. Henderson: “I’d
like to see Job bogged on the black soil,
dressed in a clergyman’s rigout and not
allowed to swear.” My bet is that the
old prophet would have cheerfully risked
another outbreak of boils on the chance
of getting put.
* * H= *
“Lyndo”: Just demolished in a Syd-
ney suburb, a large house that had stood
empty for years. Owners suffered a
succession of misfortunes, and the house,
by no means old, became known in the
neighborhood as the headquarters of
bad luck. A caretaker hung on and
defied the fates. But one day he was
missing, and the house was left to
vandals, wayfarers and the prospecting
small boy. People told each other that
the unfortunate caretaker had succumbed
under the strain of living in that house
of evil omen. But he hadn’t. He left
because he won first prize in “the lot’ry.”
* * *
“Colbun”: A link with Melbourne’s
earliest days will disappear with Con-
dell’s-lane, running from Post Office-place
just east of Elizabeth-street, now about
to be built over. When the Yarra Settle-
ment was promoted to be the Township
of Melbourne in 1842, Henry Condell
was elected as one of the 12 coun-
cillors, and on August 9 was chosen
as the first mayor. A liberal dis
tribution of the products of his
Lonsdale-street brewery—he had been a
brewer also in Hobart—is recorded as
having enhanced his popularity greatly
amongst the free and independent. It
had done good work in a similar capacity
shortly before when Condell beat Edward
Curr for the local seat in the N.S.W.
Legislature. Condell’s fiery speeches —
written by John Dunmore Lang—neces-
sitated the intervention of the 80th Regi-
ment to quell election rioting. He re-
turned to his native England in 1854.
A more prominent tribute to his memory
will remain in the Town Hall clock, pre-
sented in 1874 by Vallange Condell in
pious remembrance of his father.
He * * *
“Pitt-street”: Whenever some ancient
person reaches the 100 mark the news-
papers love to state that he or she has
seen a lot of history. Except in very
rare instances the statement is wrong,
for few of these old-timers ever move
from their own village or take any in-
terest in what goes on in the world with-
out. Placidly their lives go on, unmoved
by world events or local cataclysms such
as the parson being found drunk, and
they go to the evening of their days in
blissful ignorance of the very thing they
are credited with having seen a lot of.
I’ve met several of them in Australia, and
they’ve proved particularly vague when
asked to recall some outstanding event
that might have been expected to be a
milestone in thejr lives. However, your
Australian nonagenarian or older has one
thing in common: every one of him or
her knew Dan Kelly or Ben Hall and
remembers Carbine.
* * * *
“Red Cravat”: Frith, in a cartoon (B.
7/2/’4O), depicted Josef Stalin in a ballet
skirt doing a wild fandango or some-
thing above a ring of bayonets. Subse-
quent events seem to prove the old con-
tention that what we regard as humor
the Asiatic is likely to take dead seriously.
Otherwise, how explain the message,
printed in red ink in an Australian paper,
that Stalin had attended the Moscow
opera house and witnessed a perform-
ance of the ballet? In fancy I can see
the Georgian, in the secrecy of his
boudoir, posing before the Frith cartoon
and then rushing off to see how it’s done.
The “A.B.C. Weekly,” which recently
painted a picture of the Communist god
stoically enduring the knout in the bad
old days, can now be expected to pro-
duce an article showing that Joe, despite
the fact that he has called in Finland to
help him purge the Red Army of un-
desirable elements, is really an aesthetic
fellow at heart, much given to dabbling
in water-colors, the ballet and postage
stamps of the ancient Egyptians.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Melbourne medicoes are
prone to inveigh at conferences against
the public’s habit of paying the milkman
on the nail and the doctor late or never,
but nothing so violates the sense of good
form of a Collins-street specialist as
to have a patient pay him promptly. A
businessman had an operation recently,
and after the usual professional delay
he received his account from the eminent
surgeon. It was his first experience of
such expenses, and as he made it a prac-
tice to pay bills without delay, he sent
a cheque by return post. Next day the
surgeon rang him up. “I say, old man,”
he said, “are you offended with me?”
“Offended? No, why should I be?”
answered his patient. “I thought you
must be,” said the sawbones. “I sent
you my account yesterday, and you’ve
paid it.”
H= * * *
“Spokeshave”: An “Other Fellow’s
Mind” contributor flays the absurdity of
preserving Lawson’s cottage as a mem-
orial to the man who was the lifelong
embodiment of homelessness. The same
applies with reservation to the so-called
cottage of Captain Cook in the Fitzroy
Gardens, Melbourne. Cook was so bent
on exploration that he would have aban-
doned a honeymoon for a sea departure
if the wind shifted in the right direction,
and there is no evidence to show that he
ever stayed more than a week or so in
the dwelling his father built at Great
Ayton. But the desire for tangible relics
is very natural. Twenty-five years after
the foundation of S.A. my paternal grand-
mother, who must have been a bit of
a spoilsport, wrote to the Adelaide papers
saying that she distinctly remembered
seeing the Proclamation being read, and
the tree it was read under was an up-
right giant, not the decrepit old thing
under which the annual commemoration
ceremony was held. Moreover, the real
tree had been chopped up for firewood.
Her zeal for historical accuracy was evi-
dently regarded as a nuisance, and the
bent tree she protested against is still the
site of the yearly official thanksgiving.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Visitors to the Speck who
take their cars for the first time over the
Launceston-Hobart main road are apt to
receive a nasty shock just south of the
township of Perth. For some hitherto un-
explained reason entry on a section of
road in that locality is followed by a loud
roaring and grinding noise apparently
emanating from the car’s inside, and sug-
gesting the worst kind of mechanical
trouble. Strangers invariably pull up in
a hurry, and one victim was so impressed
that he sold his new car at considerable
loss lest worse things should happen in-
side it in less favorable circumstances.
Local opinion ascribes the uproar to some
peculiarity in the ground underlying the
bitumen road, possibly a subterranean
cavern in which air-vibrations and echoes
are set up as the road gives under the
car. Anyhow, warnings of the “Perth
Roar” are issued by the Tourist Bureau
to visitors who intend to take their cars
with them.
* * * *
“K. Ley”: Accoutred for bridge, one
of the most dignified of our posh suburb’s
ladies was tripping along the street the
other evening when a high-pitched voice
from the depths of a garden shrub
shouted “Pull up y’ socks, Mum! ” The
lady glared at the shrub, then hurried
on through a gauntlet of grins from low-
down males lounging on front verandahs.
Then the owner came out and took the
escaped Mexican parrot to its cage.
❖ Ij? $
“Jamwood”: The box-office failure of
“Under Your Hat” led to Marjorie
Gordon, Eileen Murphy and Paul Ver-
non suing Australian and N.Z. Theatres
for breach of contract, and claiming
salaries for six weeks or thereabouts. The
show started in Adelaide and closed
down in Sydney after £ll,OOO had gone
west, a war clause in the contracts being
enforced. The ladies gave sparkling
evidence. In Sydney an American per-
doocer was engaged “to pep up the
show,” and the perdoocer introduced
“The Beer-Barrel Polka.” “Disgusting,”
Marjorie said.
A fat girl lay on the floor and a chorus
boy rolled her along. It so offended my
artistic sense that I cried.
Eileen, for her part, was asked to go
“all Theda Bara-ish.”
I said Theda Bara was dead before I
went on the stage, but I got a picture of
her and tried to ape her make-up as a
vampire. The producer rushed round to me
and said, “Good heavens, what have you
done?” “I’ve gone all Theda Bara-ish,” I
replied.
A lot was also said about the reactions
of E. J. Tait, the chairman of directors.
When told that the show was not to go
on a member of the company asked E. J.
Tait what he was to do. E.J. took a re-
volver out of a drawer and said, “You had
better use this.”
E.J. put on a false moustache, pulled
his hair over his forehead and imitated
Hitler. It was all very funny, had it not
been so serious for us.
When Eileen asked E.J. why he had put
her out of the show, he said, “Have a
toffee,” and then “Have a cigarette.”
His closing remark was “I’d like a chicken
sandwich.”
Tait, called as a witness, admitted the
revolver and moustache incidents, but
explained that it was just his jocular
way “dealings with theatricals are
always different from ordinary business
deals.”
BUSTLES.
“The new autumn modes emphasise the hour-glass
figure and there is a growing tendency towards
bustles.”— Fashion note.
Soft curves and sleek are again “de rigger,”
The boyish contour’s a vogue displaced;
The wheel swings back to the hour-glass figger
And the lure that lies in a wasp-like waist.
Even the bustle —that quaint confection —
Is showing signs of a resurrection
That surely warrants mere man’s reflection:
There’s no accounting for female taste.
That weird conception the dress improver!
(Where did it get the title, eh?)
For fifty years ’twas a laughter-mover
In photo, albums of grandma’s day.
The ’eighties witnessed its wild beginnings
And endings, too, for it died in grinnings.
Is it really due for another innings,
This caudal ornament? Who can say?
I slept, and saw in a troubled vision
Three mythological ladies there,
Rivals for Paris’s decision
Which was the fairest of all the fair.
I was close enough to Olympian portals
To hear them slating, with pouts and chortles,
The inclination of modern mortals
For judging beauties by what they wear.
“My ample torso,” quoth queenly Hera,
“Could never suffer the corset’s strain,”
While Pallas murmured, “A mad chimera
That womankind should to wasps pertain.”
And “Highty-tighty! ” cooed Aphrodite,
“I’ve often fancied, but now I’m mighty
Sure, that the world grows worse than flighty
If hideous bustles are here again.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“C. 8.”: The Great Tenor’s accom-
panist fell ill, and the services of a
Melbourne girl were requisitioned. At
the first rehearsal with the substitute the
singer, after a few bars, let out a scream
and, rushing to the edge of the platform,
threw one hand dramatically behind him,
pointing to the piano and shouting to
the assembled row of managers and
assistants: “Der bitch is wrong, der
bitch is wrong!” Flushing to the roots
of her hair, the pianist started to walk
off. “Vot is the matter vith the voman?”
spluttered the astonished vocalist; “I
only said der bitch of der biano is
wrong.”
* * * *
“F.S.”: What was once one of the
finest crafts in Melbourne is vanishing:
the stone carver is almost as dead as the
dodo. In one of the largest masons’
yards you can find 30 men ; only one
is a skilled carver, and only one-tenth
of his time is employed on carving.
For the rest he works a machine like
the others. How this has come about
is quite simple. Not long ago a £400,000
building was projected in Collins-street.
The shareholders objected to the cost,
the directors called upon the archi-
tects to suggest some reductions, and the
architects, among other things, cut out
£250 worth of sculpture. The result was
another new concrete-box for the Queen
City and the dismissal from the stone-
mason’s yard of the finest marble worker
in Victoria. A vast new hospital in St.
Kilda-road had some pretensions to
adornment in the original plan, but
economies were demanded, and £4OOO
worth of stonework was cut out and
replaced with concrete. But Melburnians
don’t like their unadorned metropolis as
“That lion frightened twenty years' growth out of him.”
well as they did their old one, as in-
stance their desire to preserve the fafades
of the beautiful old buildings.
„„ * _ * * * ,
X.S. : Parricide was the most dread-
ful crime known to the Greeks, and Plato
wrote one of his greatest dialogues round
it. As a legal term parricide is obsolete
and it was not used in the case in Mel-
bourne in which a boy of 16 was in the
dock. He was playing cards with his
parents, and a squabble developed over a
few pennies. The boy was admonished
by his father for being rude to mother ;
he went out and got a rifle, and, return-
ing, shot his father. According to the
evidence, when he saw what he had
done he was terribly upset, and rushed
off for a doctor. For
the defence it was
suggested that the
boy suffered from
migraine, and a
violent headache
could have made
him unaware of what
he was doing. Jury
found him guilty of
manslaughter, with
a strong recommen-
dation to mercy.
* *
“Reina”: O. Henry
or Voltaire would
have made some-
thing out of an inci-
dent at Junee
(N.S.W.). A local
chemist sold some
methylated spirit to
an elderly man and
later the same day,
sitting as a J.P.,
fined his customer
ss, for drinking the
stuff. The customer
admitted his guilt,
claiming in justifi-
cation that metho. is
cheaper than beer.
* *
“Tuart”: It
thrilled me to read
that “an American
studio has had the
courage to name
Hitler as ‘The Beast
of Berlin’ in their
[sic] frank, fear-
less screen expose
of Hitlerism and all it stands for.” The
courage and the English are alike ques-
tionable ; but the sub-title awakens mem-
ories. “Beast of Berlin” is what a poli-
tician of my acquaintance used to call
Big Willie in 1915 and 1916 ; generallv
seven or eight times in a speech. He
was a Labor politician, and when he
turned conscriptionist some of his old
associates used to mutter savagely that
in less exciting days he had told, them
he was “German and proud of it” ; but
I am positive he was sincerely pro-Ally,
as so many German-Australians were.
He won a Federal seat for the National-
ists after a spectacular campaign, during
which he was more than once in danger
of getting a thick ear, for it was an old
Labor electorate, and faction feeling ran
high. He lost it after the war ; and then
his health failed. A Parliamentary sub-
scription was taken up for him, and a
generous soul—still with us, though no
longer in the House—weighed in with a
three-figure cheque,
**' * *
“S. Piel”: My old cobber, the late
Squizzy Taylor, used to say, “If you’ve
got anything dangerous, cash it quick
or drop it cold.” I am reminded of this
by the adventures of a £lOO-note. It
came out of a Wollongong (N.S.W.)
bank about 12 months ago, and accom-
panied its owner and some junior frog-
skins on a jaunt to the city. Later the
owner lost track of the century for a
while, then saw it in the hands of a
woman, who dodged him when he fol-
“Does this two-pound note seem all right to you?”
lowed her. The bereaved informed the
cops, who circulated the note’s number
to all banks. It next appeared among
some cash paid into a bank by a publi-
can, was spotted by a bank clerk after
he had issued a receipt for its deposit, and.
thence was impounded and held by a
constable. The publican declared that
he had changed it for a regular customer.
Now the bank and the original owner
are each seeking to retrieve the note from
its custodian.
* * * *
“El V.”: A cliche that fascinates the
flapper press is the one about “the old
school tie.” It is almost as good a bet as a
Hollywood divorce or the enlistment of
a movie glamor boy
for double-column
headings, because if
appeals to the
“democracy,” or is
supposed to. When
Cyril Norwood, for-
merly headmaster of
Harrow, the only
one of the English
greater public schools
which is in a really
bad way, declared
that the State would
probably have to
take over the Eng-
lish G.P.S. and run
them, and said that
“boys should black
Iheir own boots and
look after them-
selves,” one Sydney
journal burst out
with the news of
“Great Public
Schools’ Do o m.”
Another got its
funny man to turn
in a column on the
spectacle of the Eng-
lish boy aristocrat
cleaning his own
shoes. If there are
any better shoe-
cleaners than Eng-
lish public-school
boys lead me to
them. The young-
ster arriving at a
G.P.S. is soon in-
ducted into the mys-
teries of fagging, and
he spends several years doing an
efficient housemaid’s job for one of his
seniors. If he doesn’t like it he is taught
to with a foot or two of stick. As for
the “doom” involved in State control —
rats! I went to an Australian school
which in those days was run entirely by
English public school men on English
public school lines, A Labor Govern-
ment took it over. Australians mainly
bred on its own benches now run it.
But, so far from being doomed, it is
flourishing and keeping up its old tradi-
tions with increased vigor. And it is far
more conscious of its tie than it used
to be.
* * * *
“Little Ben”: As a confirmed reader
of “Uncabled Additions” ever since they
were started, I rise to ask how the corn-
piler missed the case of the Londoner
charged with assaulting a woman in a
bus. Here is his defence:
“I couldn’t help it, sir. This woman
comes in the bus, sits opposite me. She
opens her bag, takes out her purse, closes
her bag, opens her purse, takes out a
penny, closes her purse, opens her bag,
puts in her purse, and closes her bag.
“Then she notices that the conductor
has gone on the top of the bus, so she
opens her bag, takes out her purse, closes
her bag, opens her purse, puts back the
penny, closes her purse, opens her bag,
puts back the purse, and closes her bag.
“When the conductor comes down she
opens her bag, takes out her purse, closes
her bag, opens her purse, takes out a
penny, closes her purse, opens her bag,
puts in her purse, closes her bag, and gives
the conductor the penny.
“He gives her a ticket. She opens her
bag, takes out her purse, closes her bag,
opens her purse, puts- in the ticket, closes
her purse, opens the bag, puts in her purse,
and closes the bag.
“Half a minute later the ticket inspector
jumps on the bus, so the woman opens her
bag, takes out her purse”
“Stop,” said the magistrate. “I’ve heard
enough of that. You’re driving us all
craz y.” , ~
“Yes, that’s what happened to me,
said the man. “So I slapped her.”
Goebbels is certain to use this to show
what the war is doing to the nerves of
London.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The legal mind ever hates to
commit itself. To satisfy a Court judg-
ment, the art treasures of a Melbourne
citizen were put up for auction in the
quadrangle of the gloomy Law Courts
building, a sheriff’s officer being the auc-
tioneer. The gent, who catalogued the
collection wasn’t going to give himself
away, and he described a water-color
bush scene as “a work believed to be
by Harold B. Herbert.” There were suffi-
cient connoisseurs present to run the bid-
ding up to 14 guineas.
* * =t= *
“Pawang”: Dr. Charles A. Drake, of
the University of West Virginia, has an-
nounced the discovery of a new psycho-
logical factor which he calls the iota —a
mind growth entirely unrelated to intel-
ligence or scholarship, which explains
why boys who at school were mediocre
scholars may become great scientists,
business managers and even artistic
geniuses. These phenomenal individuals
have iota, and the iota grows and grows,
while the student remains apparently
quite stupid, until it flowers, often
at the age of 40. Contrariwise, a
man who did well at college may subse-
quently, owing to the absence of iota,
sink into obscurity. Dr. Drake suggests
that pupils be graded according to iota,
which should be considered in admitting
students. Why the development of such
unacademic gentry as Shakspeare, G. B.
Shaw or Henry Lawson should be due
to iota rather than to passionate interest
in subjects which the academies either
ignore or obscure is not explained.
A DISTINCTION.
“Prosecutor in Sydney police court: ‘Your em-
ployer dispensed with your services?’
••Defendant: ‘No, he sacked me.’”
He wasn’t notified his term was ended
With some industriously toiling mob,
And sympathetically recommended
To go and hunt himself a better job.
No euphemisms such as these were needed
For him to know he had to hit the track;
The only information that he heeded
Was that he'd got the sack.
His services—whoever had employed him —
Had obviously ceased to be required.
All that perplexed and possibly annoyed him
Was why they didn’t ask him “Were you
fired?”
Why half-a-dozen words when three would
pull it
Into our understandable vernac-
ular? You see, he merely got the bullet,
The push, the shunt, the sack.
The well-paid Minister of State, who’s fenced
with
Fortune until he’s landed in the wet,
May find his valued services dispensed with,
Amid expressions of profound regret.
But for the bloke who, maybe all-but stony,
Collects the same variety of smack,
There’s no such verbal hooey and boloney —
He merely cops the sack.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


CRAVENA
..aieso
mm.
m
o
for
9°
10
1/6
for
20
ElB6B
SPECIALLY
PRE VENT
POLITICAL POINTS
If nothing goes wrong with the plans,
Australia is to have a Menzies-Cameron
Government. Shinning down from his
lofty perch, the P.M. offered the C.P.
leader second place in the Ministry, with
two other portfolios and two “without-
portfolio” jobs for his friends, “names”
to be “mutually agreed upon.” More-
over, “Cabinet Ministers,” parties un-
specified, are to be “free to vote as indi-
viduals” on the A.C.I. car-manufacture
agreement. The Agrarians were discuss-
ing details of the offer (or terms of the
capitulation) when The Bulletin had
an urgent appointment with printers.
Although there is no exceptional pro-
portion of Reds at Wonthaggi (Vic.), the
Reds of the Miners’ Federation can
always depend upon the coalies there to
deliver a block vote for a strike. They
did it again last week. Wonthaggi’s in-
dustrial life is an uneasy interlude be-
tween strikes and deficits. The mine is
SHOTGUN WEDDING.
“Will, you, Robert Gordon Menzies, have this person to be your Number Two?”
“I w-w-will.”
owned—or owed for—by the State, and
the last annual deficit was £131,000.
The Labor majority in Corio was
3244. Though Corio has been an elec-
torate from the beginning (1901), it never
had a by-election before. Every time a
Labor candidate has won the seat a
Labor Government has followed, and
vice versa ; so Labor considers Ded-
man’s success a lucky omen.
Because Premier Dunstan has a private
quarrel with a former pal who isn’t
even in Parliament, he forced an elec-
tion on a State which wants to get on
with the war. No live issue has yet
emerged, though electors are expected to
listen to an ocean of platitudinous blither,
and retiring members are being chal-
lenged in only 44 of the 65 constituencies,
No party has a hope of scrambling into
office except on the shoulders of another
party, so the return of Dunstan and his
friends is a foregone conclusion. In
Hollywood, people pay £5 a night and
18s. for a steak to hear the voices of
film “stars.” Victorian electors don’t
think Dunstan is worth listening to, but
they will have to pay £ 15,000-odd for
being forced to do so.
Evidently a secret ballot of N.S.W.
coalminers would have shown a majority
against the strike on which the Reds had
set their hearts, but Reds have no use
for secret ballots. Though the mining
districts were flooded with strike leaflets
and pro-strike leaders did nearly all the
talking at the mass meetings, they en-
countered sturdy opposition in some
places. At Kurri Kurri “Bondy” Hoare,
president of the Northern Miners, stated
the case for the strike with a wealth of
bellowing and verbiage. A former mem-
ber of his committee started up and said
that the Federation had little money and
no unity, and that a couple of weeks of
strike would see it as broke as it
was after the 1938 affair, when “they
paid two dockets and then sent you back
to work on a politician’s promise be-
cause they couldn’t pay a third.” Kurri
voting against the strike was 514 to 171.
The alleged Parliament in Sydney has
had a useless no-confidence debate. It
was relieved from utter dullness by
Drummond, the Minister of Education,
who, hitting back at his foes of the
Teachers’ Federation, said there were
Communists in that concern and that
Communists had been permitted to in-
fest a Public Service meeting, of which
members of the Federation, though not
themselves Communists, were in control,
There was a running fire of interjections
f rom tbe Opposition while the Minister
was speaking. They failed to discompose
Drummond, who is hard of hearing,
The enemy claims to have sunk in six
months 30 British tankers, “8 p.c. of the
tonnage.” Though doubtless an exag-
geration, it is one of the reasons why
petrol restriction is threatened in Aus-
tralia. Yet Australia could build tankers.
N. S. Wales has a National Union of
Railwaymen with 5000 members and an
“Australian” Railways Union with
17,000. The “Australian” R.U. is under
Red direction and is backing the fettlers’
strike on the Broken Hill line, “regula-
tion” strikes in support of the fettlers’
strike —or of the invasion of Finland or
something—and the coal strike. The
N.U.R. “holds with conciliation and
arbitration”:
Even though the methods may be faulty,
they are preferable to direct action. The
A.R.U. leaders apparently feel that they
are free to use either the Courts or the
strike. Only the narrow-brained Com-
munist who is incapable of grasping the
basic facts of democracy could be guilty
of leadership such as is now offered by the
A.R.U.
When the inevitable revolt against Red
control of unionism gets going, the
N.U.R. will have 17,000 members and
the A.R.U. 5200.
There was “great diplomatic activity”
in Europe at the beginning of the week,
and the jute position may be significant.
About a fortnight ago prices fell from
17s. at N.S.W. country stations to 12s. 6d.
plus freight charges; and it was ex-
plained that Britain had asked India to
postpone delivery until August of 50 p.c.
of 500,000,000 sandbags ordered for ship-
ment before lune. Dearth of shipping
was given as the cause, but some people
now feel that it was a reaction to moves
for peace.
Bold as Argyle’s speeches have
sounded, the U.A.P. in Victoria showed
pusillanimity in not contesting Allan-
dale. It was Peacock’s seat for about
half his long life, and when he died
Allandale elected his widow. On her
retirement it was lost to Denigan (Labor),
whose majority was small. With
Denigan, Boss Hocking and a “Liberal”
C.P. man making a faction fight of it,
there was a great chance for a good
U.A.P. man. The U.A.P. didn’t even
try to get one. It is suspected of having
some arrangement with Hocking, its
arch-enemy for five years ; but this it
and Hocking deny.
Though Famous American Correspon-
dents are temporarily in eclipse, liars are
still hard at work in Europe. When
Sumner Welles set out on the journey that
was to take in the belligerent and neutral
capitals it was expressly stated that his
lips would be locked till he returned to
Washington. This did not prevent famous
or infamous correspondents from giving
full and particular accounts of what
Mussolini said to him, what Hitler said
(“Britain must give up its pirate lairs,
Malta, Gibraltar and Singapore”), what
Goring said (“I have only to press a
button and the largest air armada in
history starts for the British Isles”), what
bloodcurdling official threats to Britain
were spread on his desk at Berlin, and so
on ; and it was all made front-page stuff.
When he reached Lausanne “his entour-
age described published reports of his
conversations in Rome and Berlin as
‘inaccurate and misleading.’ ” That was
served up in a two-inch par. and shoved
at the foot of an obscure column.
Lamb, who sided with Boss Hocking
when Hocking quarrelled with Dunstan
and tried to get him replaced on the
Savings Bank Board by legislative action,
has three opponents in Lovvan —Bennett
(U.A.P.), Turnbull, an “unendorsed”
Dunstanite, and Wettenhall, a former
member. Wettenhall was Country-party
in those days, but, sick of all the
wrangling, he left the party. He stood
for the Senate in 1937, and for a lone-
hand candidate polled pretty well ; but
he has been probably absent from Lowan
too long to have much chance.
Unwarned by the Corio blunder, the
Victorian Labor heads have ordered
Laborites in Carlton to give their second
votes to a Communist and their third
to a U.A.P. candidate. It is exceedingly
stupid, for the U.A.P. man has no
chance. In Collingwood the instruction
is that a U.A.P. man should be placed
second, a Com. third and an independent
Laborite fourth. The Ind. Lab., Baker,
was president of an A.L.P. branch
(Fitzroy) when he decided to have a
go at Tunnecliffe, the Speaker, so he is
adjudged to have committed the deadliest
of party sins.
Mrs. Weber, M.L.A., is out again for
Nunawading (Vic.). She is the only
candidate of her sex in the field, which
is a pity, for at least women politicians
work. This is more than can be said for
a lot of Mrs. Weber’s fellow-members,
all of the opposite sex, according to the
lady’s very frank testimony on the
hustings:
There should be a roll-call of members
in order that business may be conducted
the way it should be. Frequently on the
last sitting day of a week the House is
without a quorum, and it is quite common
for party members to be absent when their
leader is speaking.
As a rule there are three sittings a week,
sometimes two. The last sitting day is
generally a very short day, beginning
at 11.10 a.m. and closing about 3.30
p.m., with an hour or more off for
lunch. And yet proceedings have to be
“frequently” suspended while a quorum
is rounded up!
From “Badly Left Book Club”:
There was no mention of the League in that
“A.B.C. Weakly” article which had “the heavy
guns of the Mannerheim Line in range of
Leningrad,” -40-odd miles away, and reduced
the war to an affair of dictatorships—“the
Communists are trying to set up Kuusinen,
trained in the school of the Comintern, in place
of Mannerheim, trained in the school of the
Czarist Court.” Let me remedy the omission.
Finland is an original member of the League.
The not-so-Mighty Soviet became a member in
September, 1934. Then and for five years
afterwards it undertook not to go to war with
a fellow-member. It was still bound by this
engagement when it sent its bombers across
the frontier to desolate Finnish towns and gave
its Red serfs the signal for what was to have
been a military promenade to Helsingfors,
though, after three months, the “greatest fight-
ing machine in history, the Red Army,” has
had little more success than was achieved in
Spain by the Red International Brigade, “the
greatest fighting force the world has ever seen.”
In a letter to The Bulletin Q. Dalziel
Kelly points out that the Australian Wool
Board, of which he is chairman, “has
nothing whatever to do with administer-
ing the Imperial wool-purchase scheme."
That is a Central Wool Committee job.


CHANGE OF FACE.
"The success of a. Russian scientist in attaching a new limb to a dog may have unprecedented results when the technique is applied to human beings.”


The Richardson Chain Hotel
>M
If
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
MONEY IN THE BANK—WOULD IT BE SAFER
IN SHARES OR PROPERTY?
FACTS, FIGURES AND COMMENT ON THE
MONTH’S FINANCIAL HAPPENINGS
March Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.. Ltd., 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets*
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Archbishop Kelly, 67 years a priest,
29 years prelate of the Sydney R.C.
diocese, died on Friday, aged 90.
He was the world’s oldest bishop.
A firm but tolerant administrator,
and a man of great ecclesiastical
learning (he was an eminent university
professor before he came to Sydney), Dr.
Kelly never stepped outside his own im-
portant field to cause strife, and carried
with him to the end not only the respect
but the goodwill of Sydney people of all
creeds and politics. Among the tangible
achievements of his long episcopal reign
stand the completion of St. Mary’s
Cathedral and the erection of numerous
other churches, with schools, convents
and so on, to a total value of £12,000,000.
But beyond and above this, his precept
and example made for a quickening of
ARCHBISHOP KELLY.
(Drawn by Low. He changed little in 25 years.)
Australian patriotism and for a foster-
ing of all the elements of good citizen-
ship.
Dr. Norman Thomas Gilroy succeeds
Dr. Kelly in the archbishopric—the
first Australian to reach such ecclesias-
tical rank. Born at Glebe (Sydney) 44
years ago, he was educated in Sydney
and, after he became a theological student,
in Rome. Like some other Australian
prelates, he commenced work in the
Postal Department. At the outbreak of
the 1914-18 war he joined the Naval
Wireless Transport Service, and was at
the Gallipoli landing. He returned to
Sydney in 1915, and was accepted by the
Bishop of Lismore as a student. One
of his earliest appointments after ordi-
nation was as secretary to the Apostolic
Delegate, Archbishop Cattaneo. He was
also for a while secretary to the Bishop
of Lismore and Chancellor of that
diocese. He became Bishop of Port
Augusta in 1935, and came to Sydney, as
Coadjutor with right of succession, in
July, 1937.
Air Commodore William Hopton
Anderson, who becomes Air Member for
Personnel of the reconstructed Air Board,
is a pioneer R.A.A.F. man. Born in
Kew, Victoria, he was 22 at the start of
the 1914-18 shindy and joined in as an
artilleryman. In the second year of
active service he changed over to the air
arm and won in France the Belgian
Croix de Guerre and the Distinguished
Flying Cross. After the demobilisation
he joined the Air Force in Australia, and
passed through the R.A.F. Staff College
and the Imperial Defence School in Eng-
land. He has since done good work in
various administrative positions, was
member for supply of the Air Board and
acting chief of the R.A.A.F. until the
arrival of Burnett.
George Robey, of Manly (Sydney),
known to a wide circle as the founder
and general secretary' of the Australian
Air League, has passed on at 56. He
was the son of Horace Robey, founder
of Manly’s oldest land and estate agency.
As the N.S.W. Air League grew and
flourished, George founded branches in
Victoria and, twelve months ago, in
Queensland. He then devoted all his
energies to the secretaryship of the N. S.
Wales branch. An original Anzac, he
was awarded the D.C.M. At Gallipoli
his early days in the surf (he was one of
the best known of the Manly Lifesavers)
were not forgotten. When a lighter full
of wounded broke away from its moor-
ings and caught on fire, George swam
out with a rope, made it fast, and made
salvage and rescue possible.
Dead at Clifton, Hamilton (Vic.), A. J.
Simpson, the greatest breeder of Short-
horn cattle in Australia since the death
of Robert Clarke, of Bolinda. Simpson
had learned his cattle-lore on Mt. Noorat
as an employee of Neil Black, partner
of W. E. Gladstone and other members
of the Gladstone family. He spent his
youth among the breeders of the great
Victorian Derrimut era of the ’seventies,
founded his own stud in 1897, and
burst on the show world in 1907 with
a series of wins. He it was who saw the
possibilities of the awkward-looking calf
Lindenow Duke of Derrimut 40th, whose
blood was to revolutionise the quality of
Australian stud Shorthorns just before
and during the war. The Clifton stud
has remained one of the leading ones of
Commonwealth to the present day,
and its kindly and unassuming master
has been adviser and friend to all
breeders in the first flight. His son Frank
carries on the family tradition.
Chief Justice Latham has been re-
appointed Chancellor of Melbourne Uni.
It is 36 years since he graduated from
that institution.
Dead at 97, Francis Oakes Byrnes, a
grandson of “Granny” Oakes, the first
white “free” female child born in Aus-
tralia. Byrnes was known as “the man
who snagged the Darling,” a big job.
He had a sheaf of yarns about the old
river captains. One sent him a tooth-
pick and tweezers in an abusive letter
giving the position of a log the snaggers
had missed but the writer’s ship hadn’t.
A year or so later the implements were
returned with the snag, all in one en-
velope, and a terse request to the skipper
not to make trivial complaints.
Professor S. Sunderland, who has just
taken the Chair of Anatomy at Mel-
bourne Uni. in succession to Wood
Jones, after two years of research in his
subject in Europe and America, is 28
and the youngest professor at the Uni.,
though not the youngest who has ever
been appointed. Marshall Hall was ap-
pointed Dean of the Faculty of Law at
26, and was young-looking enough to be
sometimes mistaken for a freshman.
Just-dead Thomas Curphey was
almost the first large general merchant
in Victoria. He set up in 1865 with the
Phoenix Foundry in Ballarat, after serv-
ing his apprenticeship as a boilermaker
in South America. Later he founded
Cowley’s Eureka Iron Works. In the
’nineties he had a flourishing general
business in Richmond (Melbourne). He
was born in the Isle of Man, and was
94 and still in harness two years before
the finish.
Australia’s greatest general takes over:
Brudenell White becomes head of the Com-
monwealth Military Forces. He is a Queens-
lander, 63, who began life without any advan-
tages. He got his own education, became a
bank clerk, and joined the Queensland artil-
lery. The S’African War gave him his first
chance to prove himself as a soldier. When
he came back he joined the permanent forces.
He was General Bridges’s right-hand man in
framing the Australian defence system from
1908 onwards. He had just returned from Eng-
land, where he had worked under the versatile
Henry Wilson and the bluff old ranker General
William Robertson; his superiors had en-
deavored to persuade him to remain there, as
they believed such talents to be wasted in Aus-
tralia. White became Director of Military Opera-
tions to the C.M.F. The Australian War History
declares that, though his name was seldom
heard, during the worst days on the Peninsula
everyone came to him for decisions, and there
was not an activity of the A.I.F. which he did
not control. His “work on the organisation
and reorganisation of the A.I.F. was more than
that of any other man.” When Birdwood
became commander of the sth British Army he
took White with him, and when the war ended
White’s name was being freely mentioned as that
of the next choice for Chief of the General
Staff in France. He remarked: “I would
rather be a sergeant in the Australian Army
than a field-marshal in any other.” He is not
only Australia’s greatest living soldier, but
acknowledged as one of the world’s greatest
generals. His last few years have been given
to business. He is four years younger than
Gamelin and three years younger than Foch
was when he became C.-in-C. of the Allied
armies in the last war.
Dr. lan Clunies Ross, Australian mem-
ber of the International Wool Secretariat
in London, has returned to his native
land to explain the policy of the British
Wool Control Committee. He was born
at Bathurst (N.S.W.) 41 years ago, and
IAN CLUNIES ROSS.
got his doctorate of veterinary science at
Sydney Uni. He has done a lot of re-
search into tropical diseases, and ten
years ago had a term as director of the
McMaster Animal Health Laboratory.
He made a sheep and wool survey of
n.-e. Asia four years ago. He’s married
and has a daughter.
S.A.’s new Museum Board has as its
first chairman Prof. Thomas Harvey
Johnston, who holds the Chair of Zoology
at Adelaide University. He was born
in Sydney 58 years ago, and is an M.A.
of Sydney University. He was for a
while a lecturer at Sydney Technical
College, and became prof, of biology
at Queensland University in 1911. Eight
years later he went to Adelaide Univer-
PROF. T. HARVEY JOHNSTON.
sity as professor of biology, switching
to zoology in 1932. In Queensland he
vastly assisted the Government in its
war against prickly-pear. He holds the
Polar Medal, a souvenir of two trips to
the Antarctic with Douglas Mawson.
Fifty years ago Jack Drayton was
called “the most brilliant paragraphist in
Australia.” And he wasn’t a paragraphist
only; verse, yarns and articles flowed
from his pen. “Smiler” Hales was Dray-
ton’s great pal: solid blocks of men with
common interests (pugilism was one) and
decided opinions, they were associated on
the “Referee” and the “Dead Bird” (of
which Drayton was editor), on the Cool-
gardie “Mining Review” and in sundry
Westralian prospecting ventures. The
friends parted in 1900, when Hales went
to the Boer War as freelance correspon-
dent :. Drayton remained, to become
editor of the Kalgoorlie “Sun” and the
Perth “Sunday Times.” While editor of
the “Sun” he was committed to Fre-
mantle gaol for a month, being adjudged
to have fractured the dignity of Parlia-
ment by refusing to appear as a witness
before a select committee appointed to
“investigate” his articles on a mine
called the Empress of Coolgardie. Re-
turning to Sydney, Drayton wrote for
many papers, principally “Smith’s
Weekly,” and kept going even when he
was very old and sightless. He died last
week—at 84, the dailies said ; but he was
87 at least.
Dead in Sydney at 73, Francis Bligh,
a big figure in the Australian liquor
trade. He was born in Mel-
bourne, educated in England,
toured Europe to study the
wine trade, and returned to
Australia at the age of 21.
He established the firm of
Bligh and Allsop in Mel-
bourne, then joined Harbottle, Allsop,
which later amalgamated with Brown
and Co. He founded the Wine and Spirit
Association of N. S. Wales, and at the
time of his death was on the boards of
Tooths, Harbottle, Browns, Plywood,
Alliance Assurance and Sydney Ex-
change.


r
/
/ /
x
V
%
%
**
*&?
#
Z
k
/y
.
He said:
“The horse I’ve picked
is a fine galloper!”
Th,
I
said
* whisky l
e
ve
Picked
“ a Hne WalkS,
A horse of spirit is a pleasure to watch.
A glass of spirit, when it’s Johnnie
Walker, is a treat to drink. Fragrant
in bouquet, delicate in flavour, genially
warming and invigorating, Johnnie
Walker is a sportsman’s drink that has
toasted winners and heartened losers
since 1820.
JOHNNIE
WAhKER
Born 1820—still going strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD.,
LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY.
J
n
7
fa
•v
Pllfl
JW 99 FP,


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: There was great dis-
appointment in the ranks of the hatters,
padfloggers and ’Bidgee whalers when it
became known that Botfly was about to
marry. Botfly was just over
40, and had served a long
and satisfactory apprentice-
ship with swag, dog and fish-
ing-line. He was a good
battler, too, and displayed
just the right reluctance to
share booze and tobacco that
had been hard come by. All
in all, Botfly was on the verge
of being admitted to the ranks
when this woman snapped
him, and there was a good
deal of bad feeling about it
among men whose opinion of
women will never be found in
any women’s paper, and who
regarded matrimony as the
prisoner regards the walls of
his ceil. However, when it
was learned that Botfly was
also marrying the pub at The
Boiling-down, there was a
distinct note of cheerfulness.
A few of us managed to get
up there in time for the cele-
bration, and old Barty the
Biter expressed our senti-
ments thoroughly: “Us fellers
is agin women on principle
an’ weddin’s in particular,”
said B. through the foam of
a tankard, “but thank ’eavens
Botfly’s married!”
“Plankton”: “C.V.S.” (B. 14/2/’4O)
expresses surprise that a bird with un-
webbed feet (Tasmanian native hen) can
travel under water. This bird has quite
a few cobbers capable of performing
similar feats. In Scotland writer has
watched water-ouzels, quite visible be-
neath a few feet of clear water, running
about on the gravelly bottom searching
for food, and remaining submerged for
a minute or more. Another interesting
experience was seeing an English corn-
crake (landrail) enter a narrow creek,
walk across the bottom and unconcern-
edly stroll ashore on the opposite bank.
Even wild pigs and tapirs have been
known to cross small rivers in this
manner.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Evidently the individual
traits of animals are inherited as often
as they are results of circumstance or
habit. I have owned three generations
of mares whose tendencies towards buck-
ing only under certain conditions have
coincided exactly. The dam of number
three died when the youngster was less
than an hour old, and the poddy has
been paddocked with a few harmless old
crocks. Nevertheless, now that she is
broken, she has developed all the old
characteristics of her dam and grand-
dam before her. Her dislike of a down-
hill slope, and, when forced to take it, her
violent pig-bucking from top to bottom,
is but one inherited trait. The sudden
standing leaps, the very occasional fits of
plain cantankerousness, her strange de-
voted attachment to myself and dislike
of strangers, and her shrill squeal in
moments of pleasure are all inherent
qualities which belonged to her fore-
bears. It is often possible to break a
hors? of bad habits which have been
acquired, but I find it a hopeless task to
try to cure the fruits of inheritance.
* * -|c
“5.8. P.”: Had “Flight” (B. 24/1/’4O)
carried his observations a little further
he d have had no need to deduce the
existence of body glands out of which
Willie Wagtail allegedly obtains his nest-
building material. Truth to tell, he pos-
sesses no such glands. No ersatz nest-
lining for Willie—nothing but the genuine
article satisfies him. His method of col-
lecting it is very simple ; he has only to
fly through a web to collect all he wants.
He then plucks the strands from his
breast and wings where it has lodged and
weaves them into that shapely home of
his. But as such strands might be in-
visible to the naked eye, perhaps “F.”
might be excused for his bloomer.
Jfc
“Mako”: There are more ways of get-
ting bogged than the usual calamity in
damp soil. A farmer in the north of
M.L. engaged a new hand, and sent him
off with the dray. A man of few words,
he didn’t explain why when he told the
newcomer not to get off the track when
crossing the flat paddocks, So when Bill
on his homeward way saw he could save
a mile by driving straight to the home-
stead, he left the track and rumbled
cheerfully over the bare land. It soon
became evident that the dray was due
“Are We expecting an air raid or something?”
for trouble, the wheels sinking more
deeply at every turn. Bill investigated,
and was horrified to find the earth not only
soft and crumbling, but actually hot, and
in spots sending up thin wisps of smoke.
By this time the dray was well down,
and it took Bill an hour to get out of
the hole. He went home by the track
and said nothing of his adventure, but
the boss heard of it. It was then that he
explained about the dried-up swamp im-
pregnated with the gum and oil left by
long-gone kauri forests, and still smoul-
dering underneath a thin crust as a result
of severe bushfires years before.
“Odd Pint”: According to my
tuppenny paper, it cost a Wallsend
(N.S.W.) cove £7 10s. in fines and
costs for not having provided his
horse with sufficient water to drink.
The R.S.P.C.A. officer’s evidence was
that when he took water to the nag
it drank 12 gallons. Well, maybe it was
a case of cruelty, but if I’d been on the
Bench I would have wanted better proof
than that. Any horse that’s a bit thirsty
will drink far more than is good for it,
and anybody who’s had to ride or drive
a horse on a hot day knows how much
it would drink—if you let it.
* * * *
“Ooldea”: Despite “The O.D.’s”
opinion (B. 7/2/’4O), if Lake Eyre were
to fill and remain full it would most won-
derfully change the aspect of the Centre.
Dewfall alone would do it. Though
there may be a mild drought up along
the coast of N.S.W., vegetation there is
still struggling along, for dewfall is play-
ing its part. Droughts most often are
due to wind, or lack of wind. Why the
dryness of the Centre and of that strip
which emerges on to the Indian Ocean
between Shark Bay and Broome? Be
cause the great south-east trade wind,
moisture-laden, loses most of that mois-
ture early in its passage across Victoria
and N.S.W.' By the time it reaches the
MacDonnells it is dry. And drier still
when it reaches the Murchison, Gas-
coyne and Ashburton districts of W.A.
South-west W.A., which boasts that it
never had a drought, owes most of its
rainfall to the south-west wind, rushing
up from Antarctica. But this is really
a localised wind that does not penetrate
far inland owing to inability to cope with
the greater draught of the south-east
trade. Which way has the wind been
blowing on that parched area of the
N.S.W. coast? Too much east wind
would soon cause south-west W.A. to
wilt,
* * * *
“Bootsansaddle”: Admitted that swing-
ing a stockwhip is a lost art, but this
is what’s really puzzled me. The Aus-
tralian bullock-conductor favors a whip
and a couple of “dawgs.” But the “ole
cowhand from the Rio Grande” and
elsewhere musters his charges with
nothing more than a lariat. Again, the
Argentinian brings his horned recal-
citrants to heel by means of a bolas,
three balls at the ends of three thongs.
Now why the whyness of this? Are
Aussie cows so tame that they never need
roping? Or is it that American “dogies”
are so docile that they never need a
whip? And if both are so, why does
the gaucho have to get after his beeves
with such a prehistoric implement? And
which is the more skilful, anyway?
Sfc Jfc *
“Flight”: One of the most wonderful
sights with birds is a mob of flock pigeons
coming to water. They come in a khaki
cloud, slinging the miles behind them like
shavings from a pine plank. They swing
around a waterhole, looking for possible
enemies ; satisfied there are none present
they land on the water, a veritable
blanket of feathers, as far from the banks
as possible. Less than one per cent,
might alight on the banks and hurry down
for a drink. The whole thing is done
with haste. Those which rest on the
water cup their wings, plunge their beaks
under, suck up quick gulps of water, and,
in the snap of a finger, the whole mob
has clapped the water with their wings
and whizzed away, a fading cloud in the
distance, with only ripples spreading on
the surface of the hole to show where
thousands of birds have refreshed them-
selves.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: The flash young buck
amongst Torres Strait natives is usually
of splendid physique, and it is curious to
see clamped between hirsute torso and
gnarled nether limbs a pair of daintily-
hued Milanese scanties. Such nifties are
a cause of great joy to the nig., for of
all male creatures there is none vainer
than he. Nothing but the best is good
enough for him in his purse-proud state
after he has sold his catch of shell from
the communal pearl and trochus fisheries.
For the dusky flapper plain calico is the
normal order, and the nearest she gets to
voluptuous silks is when she embroiders
them dutifully for her sable swain with
the tribal marking or his monogram.
* * * *
“Trevdee”: One of the biggest shocks
of my life was when Bill Fluter got
engaged. The next thing I heard he was
married, and then came this letter in
answer to my congratulatory telegram
(special form supplied by G.P.O. at no
extra cost):
Sunday.
Dear Ted.
I’m sorry you couldent get up for the weddin
cos I woulder made you Best Man but the
girls old man is a cow of a bloke and he picked
out a cosin of hers to do the job you woudent
liked it anyhow I never new weddins was so
much like funerals before after the busness
in church they all come around pitchin bits of
confetty in me mouth and the wimen all
muggin Hilda but takin good care not to com
near me at the feed the parson let isself go
at the lemmon squash and Hash cakes cos her
old mans a bit of a wowser we only ad lem-
monade and muck like that some ole coot who
was suposed to be her unkel says wot a happy
pare we made and that I was a lucky man to
get such a prize anyon woud think I won her
in a blarsted raffle the way he sed it so after
the feed while Hilda was changein her clothes I
told him he had a bit of a neck to talk like that
talk like wot he says as he was munchin a score
anu limn ins faice with Kola beer wot id elped to
pay for cos I put in sum of the exes You no
1 says you bloomin well inted that Id bin lucky
to get me wife well it warnt no luck at all see
I says cos I was a tryer from the start doant
be so foolish he says grinin in front of all the
mob and tryin to make me look silly I dident
waste no more time but I cracked him good
and propper in the sniffer and he kep pretty
quite after that we went up to Booneycoola
for a honymoon 1 got twelve pare er rabbits
and a fox so that wasent too bad try an come
up for yer holidays were milkin six cows now
and Im putten up some new bales.
Bill Fluter.
P.S. It cost me four quid for the parson but
it dont happen offen.
H* 4*
“Odd Pint”: I see be the papers where
that flying doctor cove was sailing over
the Northern Territory, about
2000 ft. up, when a snake
pokes its head out in the
cockpit and gives him a dirty
look. The doc. lashes out
and kicks the wriggler ouia
sight, then jumps up on his
seat and drives the ’plane
from there till he can land
an’ fix Joe up. It reminds
me of the time I’m fixin’ the
big windmill on Pretty Pine,
an’, just as the holding wire
breaks an’ the wheel swings
round into the wind an’
starts whiz z i n’ round,
.a snake unwinds from
behind the tower an’ starts
across the stagin’ towards
me. It’s 60ft. to the ground,
an’ I can’t get to the ladder
’cos the wheel’s round there,
goin’ like a threshin’ machine.
On comes that snake, an’ I
lets out a yell. Joe stops,
looks hard at me, an’ I makes
a jump an’ swings on to the
mill’s tail an’ hangs there, the
tail swingin’ me this way an’
that in the breeze. An’ there
I hangs till the boss comes
out with lunch. I was sorry
to see that snake killed, ’cos
I reckon he thoroughly enjoyed the sight
of me hangin’ on that tail.
* ~ * *
“K.1.N.”: It is well known that,
underground, the earth rumbles and
“talks’” ; a year or so ago Gavin Casey
wrote an excellent goldfields yarn about
it. It also occurs on the surface. On
some of the ironstone ridges on War-
breccan Station (W.Q.) a man riding over
the downs can clearly hear the earth
mumbling at every step his horse takes ;
at times almost it would seem he’s riding
over the dome of a big bell. In the
mountain country, towards Chaunsit and
the Devil’s Hole, there’s an area of
several thousand acres that serves to
frighten a man who isn’t used to it—the
ground seems to shake as well as thunder
when he canters over it. On top of the
tableland, in the mulga country, the same
hollow echoes respond to his horse’s
actions. That last is in dry weather. If
he’s unlucky enough to ride over it after
a wet, then those places which sounded
hollow are veritable honey-pots of soft
silt into which his horse sinks to the
belly.
* * % *
“J. Buck”: Don’t tell me blowflies
can’t think. One got into the hut the
other day and buzzed hopefully round
the meatsafe for a while, then dis-
appeared. When I opened the safe that
fly came like a shot from somewhere
and almost beat me as I slammed the
safe door. Then it buzzed angrily up
in the roof and settled. I cut off some
meat, then put the rest back, keeping a
keen watch. That night the meat in the
safe was blown, and the fly leered trium-
phantly as I opened the door and it
flew off. It had sneaked down the wall,
hidden on the underside of the meat-
plate, and so been carried into the safe.
CRADLING.
è
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


“Wang”: “Talkin’ of people livin’ in
the past,” remarked Dan, “one day
on the tramp, just on dusk, I strike a
bridge I can camp under. It’s already
occerpied be a wire-whiskered ole coot
near eighty. He’s got a fire goin’ an’
the billy on, an’ is jumpin’ about with
his sleeves rolled up punchin’ at the air.
I watch him till he’s finished, an’ then he
informs me he’s been havin’ his reg’lar
evenin’ spar with John L. Sullivan. Over
our tucker he yarns sensible enough in
a way; but his talk is only of things an’
people thirty ter sixty years ago. After
about an hour’s yap the ole coot gets
up an’ starts scrapin’ an’ bowin’ an’
twirlin’ about, hummin’ some ole tune I’d
never ’eard before. Then he gives a deep
bow, an’ squats down. Reckons it’s a
minyet he’s been darncin’ with Lily Lang-
try. I makes up me doss an’ turns in.
Later on I’m waked be sounds of scuffles
an’ smothered breathin’. I think the pore
ole josser’s in a fit, an’ unwinds his blan-
kets orf him, an’ jerks him to his feet.
He glares at me savage. ‘What the hell
did yer do that fer?’ he snarls. ‘ln
another coupla seconds I’d have won,’
‘Won what?’ I ses, astonished. ‘Me
wrestle with Hackenschmidt,’ he ses. ‘I
wus jist gettin’ his shoulders down.’ I
stayed awake the rest of the night in
case the old coot got further into the
“Squeeze the other hump, Henry—that one's gone dry."
past, an’ mistook me fer one of them
Roman gladiators, an’ he’d been given
the signal t’ finish me orf.”
* * * *
“Chamoi”: “Queerest tragedy I ever
see,” mused old Sam, “wus when young
Bluey Higgins got knocked rotten while
drivin’ Blowfly Dixie, the champeen
trotter. Farst? Cripes, y’r couldn’t see
Blowfly’s legs w’en ’e was goin’ flat out!
Smashed all records. An’ finishes up
nearly smashin’ ’imself and Bluey. I
wus down at the course the mornin’ it
’appened. Bluey was givin’ Blowfly a
tryout over a mile and a ’alf. Off ’e
went at such a pace ’e wus just a blur!
Next thing us wot’s wotchin’ knows we
’ears a smash near the three-furlong post.
Round the course we dashes ter find
Blowfly and Bluey lyin’ flat out on the
track. Yair, that
nag ’ad run so farst
’e’d come up be-
hind ’imself an’
bashed inter the
back o’ Blue’s
spider.”
* *
“B a d Austra-
lian”: “When Bob
Wilson lobs back
from ’is larst trip
to the city,” said
Bill the burr-cutter,
“1 notice ’is left
eye wot wus blue
w’en ’e left the
Downs ’as turned
dark brown. ’E
sports a glass ’un,
y’ see. W’en I
words ’im about it,
’e ses, ‘Yairs, there
is a bit o’ diffrunce,
Bill. Y’ see, there
wus a bloke frum
the Paroo campin’
at the same j’int as
me, an’ ’e ’ad a
false glim, too ; so
we cobbers up an’
knocks aroun’ ter-
gether. The day
before I’m startin’
fer ’ome we makes
a bender of it, an’
I seem to ’ave a dim reckerleckshun of
an argerment on the subject o’ glarss
eyes ; but the first thing I know about
the diffrunce in me lamps is w’en ol’
Jackson down at the sidin’ arsks me
wot I bin doin’ to ’em.’ Then Bob
gives me a queer kinda look, an’ goes
on, ‘Yairs, ’e wus a wanderin’ kinda
bloke, that joker frum the Paroo ; but
I’ll bet yer all the tea in China that
w’erever ’e is some igerant stickybeakin’
cow is askin’ ’im damfool questions about
’is eyes! ’ ”
* * * *
“Laetitia”: “Edjudina’s” par. (B.
14/2/’4O) on the mammary equipment
of the Binghi matron recalls that in me
Torres Strait islands up to even a few
years ago native offspring continued to
absorb lacteal sustenance from the
mother right up to adolescence. Mission-
ary influence has now practically eradi-
cated this, but some of the native oldsters
view with misgiving the cessation of the
practice, claiming that such prohibition
has resulted in physical deterioration
amongst the bucks. This decline is in
stature only, for the population on the
archipelago is vigorously increasing in
full-bloods. In the words of Billy
Panieulu, tribal headman on Badu
Island, “All time, Bawss, I bin take susu
till I pinish sign-on master boat.” That
signing-on would have taken place when
Billy was about 16, and looking at his
six-foot-four of splendid manhood I was
willing to concede that there must be
something in the practice.
* * * *
“Dominic”: Nature is nothing if not
contrary. If she gives to the shark only
a skeleton of gristle (B. 7/2/’4O) she goes
to the other extreme with what is pos-
sibly the most primitive of her land mam-
mals. Of all the other animals none
has so splendid a framework as the
in the camel days of W.A. one m g
have come across such a skeleton, some
toilworn beast fallen by the wayside,
Sun, rain, flies, ants—all had done their
work; but for years the frame would
lie seemingly impregnable to decay, tho
yellowing ribs throwing back the sun-
light like so many giant piano keys. In
“First I'd crush Hitler; then I'd crush Stalin; then"
“What With, Mr. Potts?”
what the cables call the Near East the
bones of the deceased ship of the desert
are not permitted to whiten ’neath the
blistering sun for long. Industrious sons
of the Prophet trade them off as a sub-
stitute ivory.
* * * *
“Cape Voltaire”: Reading an alleged
authority, I once again came upon that
timeworn theory that a pearl originates
in a grain of sand which the oyster is
unable to eject from its shell. Knew
a pearl-cleaner of W.A.’s north-west who,
always interested in pearl origins, had
throughout a lifetime sawn through
scores of misshapen pearls but never
once had found anything even faintly-
resembling a nucleus of sand. His theory
was that all oysters are bisexual, and
therefore cast spawn. Just occasionally
a single ovum will remain unfertilised
and so will not leave the mother shell
at spawning time. But though infertile
it still lives and grows, becoming finally
a source of irritation to its parent. It
is to allay this irritation that the parent
mollusc starts coating the abnormality
with nacre, ending with a pearl. In
support of this, take the pear-shaped or
drop pearl. This acquires its alluring
form because of the pedicle or connect-
ing link between the ovum and the body
of the parent. With regard to the grain-
of-sand theory, the pearl oyster favors a
sandy bottom with a strong current which
continually brings it food. With such a
current, sand constantly washes into the
gaping shell. Special organs thus have
developed to eject sand, and there is
no more chance of an odd grain remain-
ing in the living oyster than there would
be of sand remaining in a human mouth,
foment snotted a connerhead
young _ tomcat spotted a copperhead
snake m a thicket and squared off to
do battle. Being dubious of the outcome
Ix^^rgrasnef^'a^aCic
It was as if I had g rasped a galvanic
battery. Tom was a vibrating mass of
crackling fur and fury. I dispatched
Joe, but two days later, probably to show
his resentment at my interference, Tom
dragged another copperhead from under
the house and deposited it on the door-
step.
sjc H* *
“Wippegong”: Ever notice the way
trees and men are affected similarly by
environment? Crowd either together and
they grow parallel, even and conven-
tional ; remove the touch of neighbors
altogether and both trees and men branch
out in a manner never found in conges-
tion ; they work out their lives entirely to
their own satisfaction, acquiring sprawl-
ing habits and a pleasant rotundity.
Among trees and among men families
can be recognised easily wherever they
have settled. Along the Upper Murray,
their roots in snow water, are beautiful
redgums whose brothers in the Flinders
Range and beside the Finke look much
the same despite the response to the
colored cliffs around them. Among men,
as among trees, families will so alter theii
ways to suit a new setting that some
members acquire wide differences. In
Gippsland gullies, wedged between gums,
are blackwoods which in climbing for
sunlight have produced trunks 50ft. long
and straight as a gunbarrel; a mile away,
where the hills have been cleared for
grass, the blackwoods, left for shade, are
beautiful squat green balls with not
enough trunk to split a post from. Again,
some climates will grow a man or a tree
to size far beyond that of his brothers.
On some Queensland coastal river flats
the paperbark tea-trees look like Riverina
river-gums ; samples of the genus Homo
sprout longitudinally in proportion.
:jc * * *
“Nel Sylvester”: The mosquito’s nip
is a mere oscular caress compared with
the forked-lightning bite of the W.A.
jumper-ant. Camped out from Mt. Mar-
garet, we were surprised one night by
the eruption into our midst of a total
stranger in a state of unwashed nudity.
Dancing in frenzied agony, he explained
that on reaching the near-by waterho'e
after a gruelling day’s ride he had spread
his groundsheet and flung himself down,
quite unaware in the darkness of the
proximity of a jumpers’ nest. Thus quite
200 had got inside his pants before lie
awoke from his nightmare of being sud-
denly assaulted with fire, and at least
another 100 had got in their nippers
before he had discarded his flannel. All
over his pelt red lumps were up much
as though he had been taken with small-
pox. He was shuddering with the pain.
Said the kid of the party, “My Mum
always used the blue-bag on insect
bites.” A blue-bag in the Great Vic-
toria Desert! “But a blue-bag is alkali,”
he persisted; “it’s the alkali does the
trick.” Then he grabbed a bucket,
scooped up the ashes from the fireplace,
made a watery slurry and painteu the
patient all over. Five minutes and the
cure was perfect.
SINCE STESVE WENT INTO CAMP.
Since Steve enlisted Swordgrass Farm has not
been quite the same, ■ , r .
The sunshine seemed to go with him, an life
is dull and tame. , ,
We work an’ mope about the place—the day
seems twice as long.
We miss his cheery freckled face, an every-
thing goes wrong; ,
An’ when the separator s cleaned, an mother
lights the lamp, J .
We have our tea an’ go to bed, since Steve
went into camp.
To all the pleadin’s of the dad an’ mother he
was deaf;
He said, “They’re needin coves like me to
join the A.1.F.;
If us young fellers don’t enlist the blighters
might come here,
An’ if they lobbed on Swordgrass Farm—well,
we’d look rather queer;
We’ve got ter go an’ do our bit, old Hitler’s
style to cramp!”
An’ with a curt “Good-bye” to all, our Steve
went into camp.
We miss him from our cricket team —he was a
bonzer bat,
He knocked up ninety-four the day we walloped
Capeweed Flat;
At rockin’ fast ones down the pitch Steve
fairly useter shine —
An’ if he bowls with hand-grenades he’ll smash
that Siegfried Line.
An’ at the dances, as M.C., he useter be a
champ
Aw, wot’s the use? —our cake is dough since
Steve went into camp!
An’ Daisy won’t let down her milk —she hates
the sight of Jim;
He had a way with cows, had Steve —they
seemed t’ take to him.
Yes, cows an’ gals ... I mind the time his
train was due t’ leave,
The local sheilahs all were there t’ say “Good-
bye” to Steve,
An’ when the train went snortin’ out their
“hankies” all were damp
With scaldin’ tears they shed the day that
Steve went into camp.
VICTORIA.
THOS. V. TIERNEY.


ŕ
A Safeguard Against Poor Administration of Your Estate
C A «E in selecting the Executor who is to administer your Estate after you are gone is wisdom.
itany a family has suffered grievously because the dead father’s executor was lazy, or too old
wnen the responsibility fell on him, or because he was dishonest.
It is good defence against these risks to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited, It
m3 W e appointed as sole .Executor and Trustee, or jointly with a relative or friend.
Ihe Company’s health faiic Tf ~— —-• n -■»-
. . - - never fails. It has continuous existence. it cannot abscond. Its
capital and. assets are security for its integrity. Ask that a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee’’
be posted to you. It will tell you of the risks to be avoided. Ask for it to-day.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman): Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C. ; E. R. Knox;
K. de L. Cudmore; H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis.
H. Y. Douglass, Managing Director. I*. Cureton. Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under administration exceed £56,000,000
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
British Tobacco Co. (Australia), Ltd.
, Dividends ,
Pref, Re-
Oct., Profit. 6i p.c. Ordinary. serves.
£ £ £ £
1929. . 1.011.307 96,507 11 p.c. = 894,791 27,668
1930. . 1,074,672 96,507 12 „ „ 976,135 29,698
1931.. 747,927 96,507 8 „ „ 650,757 30,361
1932.. 585,299 96,507 6 „ „ 488,068 31,085
1933.. 585,611 96,507 6 „ ~ 488,068 32,121
1934.. 585,850 96,507 6 „ „ 488,068 33,396
1935.. 585,950 96,507 6 „ ~ 488,068 34,771
1936.. 667,701 96,507 7 „ ~ 569,412 36,613
Special div. subsidiaries, £307,170 . . 343,783
Cash bonus (3J p.c.), £305,042 . . 38,741
1937.. 911,386 96,507 10 p.c. = 813,446 40,174
1938.. 911.479 96,507 10 ~ „ 813,446 41,700
1939.. 910,814 96,507 10 „ ~813,446 42,561
The figures in that table show the posi-
tion as disclosed in the accounts of the
holding co., whose £9,619,186 of share
capita 1—1,484,727 6\ p.c. cum. prefs. and
8,134,459 ords.—together with reserves
and £22,927 coming to sundry creditors,
etc., was represented by shares in subsi-
diaries £7,722,192 (cost), sundry debtors
(mostly loans to subsidiaries) £2,111,584
and cash £13,588 at the end of October
last. Undistributed profits of the subsi-
diaries are not taken into the reckoning.
The whole group—it includes W. D. and
H. O. Wills, British Australian Tobacco,
the States Tobacco Co. and S. T. Leigh
and Co,—over whose figures the curtain
was kept drawn until a couple of years
ago, constitutes one of the largest and
most prosperous industrial organisations
in Australia. And the holding co.’s scrip,
through which the public is interested in
the entire undertaking, is among the
leaders in the inter-State stock-markets.
The market backed the management,
and continues to do so, because for 13
years to the close of accounts in 1927
shareholders received a steady 12 p.c.,
sweetened with £628,591 of bonus scrip.
Then a two-for-five gift-scrip issue to
the ords. (£2,324,131) lifted paid capital
to its present figure, and the ord. cfiv.
dropped to 10 p.c., which was worth
nearly 20 p.c. on capital as it stood at
the close of accounts in 1921. Slump
brought the rate down to 6 p.c. ; but in
’37 a special 3| p.c. cash bonus (£305,042)
was scattered, and the div. was lifted
•from 7 p.c. to 10 p.c., and has remained
at the higher level since.
The next table, which shows the con-
sumption of cigarettes and tobacco in
Australia, helps to explain what has hap-
pened of recent years:
Cigarettes, Tobacco, Total,
Year, Pounds. Pounds. Pounds.
1928-29' . . 6,357,779 14,116.048 20,474,427
1931-32 . . 4,084,046 13,557,325 17,641,371
1934- . . 4.770,064 14.088,502 18,838,620
1935- . . 5.190,005 14,598,251 19,788,310
1936- . . 5,733,307 14,997,391 20,770,698
1937- . . 6,204,114 15,751,695 21,955,809
1938- . . 6,891,258 15,776,449 22,067,707
The growth of smoking among women
is partly reflected in last year’s substan-
tial increase in consumption of cigar-
ettes (687,144 pounds) compared with
tobacco (24,754 pounds). Since Sep-
tember, 1938, customs and excise on
cigarettes and tobacco have been 12s. 2d.
and Bs. Bd. per pound respectively, com-
pared with 12s. 2d. and Bs. previously.
Further increases are among the apples
the Treasury has in its eye at the moment.
After visibly allowing £84,576 for de-
preciation, paying £11,250 in directors’
fees and £3523 in divs. on shares held
outside, net earnings of the whole group
were put at £915,952, or sufficient to pay
the holding co.’s pref. div. and show
10.7 p.c. on its ord. capital. Much, of
course, depends upon what was spent
on replacements, renewals, etc., and
charged to working exes.
What effect war will have upon the
business remains to be seen. Dispatch
of the suggested larger expeditionary
force overseas may affect demand a bit,
which thus far has been stimulated rather
than retarded. Also, Government con-
servation of dollar exchange may lead
to difficulties in connection with pur-
chases of Virginian leaf, and thus in-
crease demand for the Australian and
possibly Turkish and Egyptian article.
Stinging increases in taxation, direct and
indirect, can be expected, too.
The market prices the ords. —including
depreciation reserve, visibly covered by
21s. 2d. in net tangibles— at 48s. At this
figure the return is 4.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The 64 p.c. prefs. at 28s. yield
4.6 p.c. They are covered by £6 16s. 3d.
in net tangibles.
Here is a view of the very solid finan-
cial structure disclosed by consolidated
balance-sheet figures for the whole
group:—
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET.
1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital .. £9,619.186 £9,G19,186 £9,619,186
Outside shares . . 12,550 12,550 118,854
General reserve . . 597,474 604,222 606,283
P. and 1. balance 749,591 751,117 757.114
Deprec. reserve . . 1.871,198 1,925,389 1,985,489
Creditors* . . 639.317 623,570 621,631
Freeholds . . . . 1,075,062 1,109,094 1,138,241
Plant, etc. . . 1,312,121 1,412,436 1,470,620
Stock . . . . 6.205,747 6,665,186 6,625,660
Debtors . . . . 1,181,292 1,162,416 1,246,264
Investments . . 941,632 322,631 309,922
Cash . . . . 80,298 171,107 124,557
Goodwill, etc. . . 2,693,165 2,693,165 2,693,293
* Including tax provision, etc.
f Including proportion reserves.
Last term £29,147 was added to free-
hold and £58,184 to plant. Stocks were
reduced by £39,526, while debtors’
balances increased by £83,848, and in-
vestments and cash were drawn upon for
£12,709 and £46,550 respectively. When
the books closed, more or less liquids
exceeded outside liabilities by £7,684,772
(down £12,998).
Fresh Food and Ice (Syd.)
Added to Re-
Doc., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 10,134 3 p.c. = 8,463 1,671 69,733
1930.. 15,459 5i „„ 15,515 69,677
1931.. 7,910 3 „ „ 8,463 69,124
1932.. 4,052 24 „ „ 7,098 66,078
1933.. 7,017 24 „ „ 7,098 65,997
1934.. 15,662 5 „ „ 14,195 1,467 67,464
1935. . 16,141 5 „ „ 14,195 1,946 69,410
1936.. 16,400 5 „ „ 14,195 2,205 71,615
Royalty rights disclosed, £4143 .. 67,472'
1937.. 16,550 54 p.c. =15,614 936 68,408
Goodwill, £19,026 .. .. .. 49,382
Royalty rights disappear, £3033 . . 52,415
1938.. 17,049 6 p.c. = 17.034 15 52,430
Royalty rights disappear, £lllO .. 53,540
1939.. 12,837 44 p.c. =12,776 61 53,601
Shareholders can thank Government in-
terference for the contraction in last
year’s profit, the cut in the div. and,
of course, fall in the market value of
the scrip. The marked recession in net
earnings surprised the market, which
shortened its bid for the f.-p. pound
shares, covered by 235. 9d. in net tan-
gibles, from 16s. Id. shortly before
publication of the accounts to 12s. 7d.
last week-end. The return at 12s. 7d.
is 7.2 p.c. on a 44 p.c. div. basis, or
6.4 p.c. on a 4 p.c. distribution.
Under existing conditions appearances
are that better than 4 p.c. need not be
looked for. Much will depend upon the
extent to which costs continue to climb,
and upon whether a once-a-day milk-
delivery is instituted throughout the
metropolis.
The business keeps on expanding ; the
trouble is that the growth in costs has
outstripped the advance in turnover. Only
in the bread and ice sections of the busi-
ness were lower sales recorded last term.
Turnover increased in the milk and
cream, ice-cream, cold-storage and fish,
game and poultry departments. Also the
subsidiary, Byrne’s Exhibition Dairy,
formed early in the previous term, made
a profit. It owns a herd of approxi-
mately 900 head of tubercle-free cattle,
which graze on its farm at Picton ; the
milk is transported to the city in eight-
ton Diesel trucks.
But the Government Milk Board fixes
the price at which the co. buys its milk
from producers and the maximum price
at which it can sell it to consumers.
The difference between the two prices has
to cover the cost of running the milk
section of the business, including depre-
ciation, replacements, taxation, etc., and,
if possible, provide a reasonable return
on the capital invested. Since 1938 there
has been no increase in the price to the
consumer, while the price to the pro-
ducer has been raised, and costs (mainly
wages, petrol, coal, etc.) have mounted
considerably, thus lowering the margin
available for shareholders below what
appears to be a reasonable thing—the
co. doesn’t separate the figures for the
milk from the other sections of the un-
dertaking.
There was a spring of £21,133 in last
year’s gross earnings (£403,031). But
exes. (£390,194, including £10,835 for
depreciation) took all the increase and
£4212 besides, leaving the net result at
4.5 p.c. on capital as against 6, 5.8, 5.7,
5.6, 5.5, 2.4 and 1.4 p.c. back to 1932.
That leaves out of the reckoning £lllO
written off royalty rights. The div. was
lowered from 6 p.c. to 4\ p.c., making
the average over the last decade 4.4 p.c.
The chairman considers a remedy
equitable to all —supplier, consumer, in-
vestor and wage-earner would be a
once-a-day delivery, such as is already
legislated for in respect of public holi-
days (Good Friday, Easter Saturday,
Sunday and Monday, and Christmas Day
and Boxing Day) and every Saturday
and Sunday throughout the year.
During the year the £lOO,OOO of 5
p.c. first-mortgage debentures were re-
newed for another five years at the same
rate of interest:
1935. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £283.907 £283,907 £283,907 £283,907
Debentures .. 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000
Other liabilities 4G,392 69,208 151,999 163,814
Property . . 229,212 23G,010 243,760 243.885
Plant. . . 151,900 166,425 170.387 173.423
Polling' stock 35,847 38,204 39,542 38,589
Stocks . . 24,654 23,369 25,573 28,744
Cash, etc. .. .10.957 397 405 509
Book debts . . 60,292 62,485 65,224 73.278
Shares subsid. 13,149 13,156 13,156
Advances subsid. - 38,806 33,995
Including the debentures but not shares
in the subsidiary, outside liabilities ex-
ceeded more or less liquids by £127,288
(up £5297) when the books closed. The
position will look more attractive when
the margin is substantially reduced.
Hotel Sydney, Ltd.
To Re— Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 14,026 10 p.c. = 13.000 1026 14.728
1930.. 4,671 4 „ „ 5,200 14,199
Loss.
1931.. 2,150 Nil 12,049
Written off, £3OOO 9,049
Profit.
1932.. 533 Nil 533 9,582
1933.. 187 Nil 187 9,769
Renovations charged to reserves, £2191.. 7,578
1934.. 940 Nil 940 8,518
1935.. 2,854 24 p.c. = 3,250 8,122
1936.. 5,856 4 „ „ 5,200 656 8,778
1937.. 7,033 5 „ „ 6.509 533 9,311
1938.. 8.898 6 „ „ 7,800 1098 10,409
1939.. 5,858 4* „ „ 5,850 8 10,417
The figures in the table are an illus-
tration of how transport and other
developments can change the value
of an investment. The co.’s lease-
hold premises in Hay-street face
Central railway station across Belmore
Park. In the palmy 1920’5, when high
prices for primary products and the scat-
tering of loan funds, mainly from over-
seas, gave profits a lift, a run of 10 p.c.
divs. was sweetened by a one-for-one
bonus-scrip issue in 1923, and the pound
shares later hovered around 275. 6d. in
the market. Also, the premises were
remodelled and extended, and the board
went to its bankers for the money, rais-
ing the overdraft to £50,954 at the end
of 1927 —the figure had been reduced to
£7500 at the close of last accounts.
It was extension of the railway into
the city, discontinuance of suburban bus
services (most of which used to stop at
the co.’s door or thereabouts), together
with slump and its concomitants, that
changed the picture. Though there have
since been a restoration of bus services
and complete recovery of economic acti-
vity, rhe railway still carries large and
growing numbers past the co.’s premises
into the heart of the city. A four years’
drought for shareholders was broken in
1935 with a 2} p.c. div., and the average
for the five years to the close of last
accounts was 4.4 p.c.
The 1938 figure received a fillip from
Sydney’s sesquicentenary and special
Anzac and Easter celebrations. Last
term opened well, but turnover fell away
as the year advanced owing to drought
and other causes, and higher wages, taxa-
tion and other costs largely offset such
savings as the management was able to
make. Gross earnings (£37,053) were
down £3903. Including £1032 struck off
for depreciation of equipment, etc., and
£4688 (up £1231) set aside for amortisa-
tion of the lease, exes. (£31,195) were
only £865 lighter. The net result (down
£3040) was 4.5 p.c. on capital as against
6.8, 5.4, 4.5 and 2.2 p.c. for the four
preceding terms. The div. was lowered


ŗ
‘You must Federate . . or die
SIR HENRY PARKES
—the Father of Federation —
fought for years to end the
wasteful colonial system and
establish the nation of Aus-
tralia. He lived to see his
dream a reality . . . luckily
he did not live to see the mockery which
provincial parliaments have made of it.
5s
Wllij
¥
W'
l?
vs
w
ř
ENCLOSED IS MY
DONATION OF
£ : :
NAME.
ADDRESS-
PLEASE
SEND ME
LITERATURE
from 6 p.c. to p.c., the final being at
the rate of 4 p.c. p.a.
There was a slight improvement in the
finances- ~
1930. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £i30,000 £130,000 £130,000 £130,000
BSSX '• ts JjS 3S
ass* i ■ssj *s® ■ass *aia
s as as
When the books closed, outside habili-
ties exceeded stocks and debtors’
balances, etc., by £3845, which was £914
less than at the previous balance. The
lease runs out in 1960, but the board
has not yet been able to invest any of
the sinking-fund money outside the busi-
ness.
In the market the price of the pound
shares, covered by net tangibles with a
book value of 21s. 7d„ has fallen steadily
from 17s. early in 1937 to 10s. last week-
end. At the lower figure the return is
8 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis, which may
not prove beyond reach for the current
term.
N.Z. Refrigerating Co., Ltd.
ToRe _
Oct.. Loss. Dividends. serves. Reserves,
1929.. 105/342 Nil £ £ - 149/03
Allowance to debtor co., £32,500.. liG'.eos
1930.. iom3s Nil —• 12,168
1931.. 64,°402 5 p.c. = 31,815 32,587 44,755
illl:; ,„s S p.™ 31.815 tsS *»3,°21 8 8
1934.. 90,953 5$ „ „ 34,997 55,956 149,174
Written off fixed assets, £20,000.. 129,174
1935.. 75,670 6J p.c. = 34,997 1
Written off fixed assets, ■ 20,673 149,847
£20,000 .. ..J
Written off fixed assets, £18,650 .. 131,197
1936.. 68,055 5* p.c. = 34,997 33,058 164,255
Written off fixed assets, £6891 .. 157,364
1937.. 67,928 54 p.c. = 34,997 32,931 190,295
Written off fixed assets, £29,830 .. 160,465
1938.. 48,191 54 p.c. = 34,997 13,194 173,659
Written off fixed assets, £5171 . . 168,488
1939.. 50,056 54 p.c. = 34,997 15,059 183,547
This co. is one of the largest of Maori-
1 i) r -i 1 • . t 1 t
land’s freezers—they buy in the crowded
local markets and sell at Smithfield
(Eng.), the time factor thus making earn-
ings very vulnerable to price fluctuations.
Last year returns from wool, tallow and
other by-products fell away, owing to a
drop in prices. But the markets for
frozen lamb, mutton and beef, which
are the backbone of the co.’s earnings,
held fairly well. And the physical
volume of the Dominion’s exports _of
items increased, as the following
‘able (calendar years) shows
jsaa gas? ass?
Reef 553,569 880,ei5 684,982 1,150,761
Beef, chilled 352,198 671,503 312,196 610,394
After making an unspecified allowance
for repairs, renewals, taxation and sundry
contingencies, the board wrote gross
earnings £953 better at £92,087. A tight
hold was kept upon exes. (£42,031), which
were £912 lighter, despite the Govern-
merit’s public-works and social-benefits
policies, which have made costs the bug-
bear of all who have to sell outside the
country and therefore reap no beneht
from internally-controlled prices.
The net result (up £1865) was 7.8 p.c.
on capital as against 7.5, 10.6, 10.6, 11.1,
14.2 and 12.2 p.c. back to 1933. That
leaves out of the figuring an expenditure
of £Sm on renewals, etc which was
written off from reserves. This expen-
diture (it amounts to £100,542 OVer the
last six years) was in addition to the
ordinary allowance for the purpose which
was c ]j ar g e( j against the year’s earnings.
The div. was kept at 5| p.c., the policy
bein * “> strengthen the support and
assistance lOr Capital.
The financial structure is being steadily
, ~
Strengthened.
1935. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £636,310 £636,310 £636,310 £636,310
Debentures .. 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Sundry creditors,
etc- ,, .. 456,778 529,497 439,338 673,060
p r ™i. p , „ n u
.. 708,762 640,610 618,399' 593,280
gt k 318,239 396,905 313,415 507,506
Debtor's . . 118,840 173,508 214,736 287,378
Cash and „ OA , onrnn
i itvos tin Gnts 202,090 230,070 187,754 189,690
Puk Juri deben-
tures .. 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000
The movements in stocks (up £194,151)
an d sundry creditors (up £233,722) are
‘ (Continued on page 20.)


BALANCE-SHEET
OF THE
Commonwealth Bank of Eustcalla
AT 31st DECEMBER, 1939.
e
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. \V. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try 0. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders. Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
TO BE CAREFREE
ABOUT CAPITAL. .
Follow the hundreds who have
invested small and large sums in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V;V t G,p'a, SYDNEY
. TELEPHONE: B 5294
interrelated. Debtors’ balances increased
by £72,642 and cash, etc., by £1936, while
£25,119 more was written off than was
spent on fixed assets, making the net
reduction in the book value of this item
£180,904 over the last seven years, de-
spite substantial additions thereto over
the same period.
As for the current term, prospects of
better gross earnings are bright, thanks
to Britain’s purchase of Dominion meat
at prices very satisfactory to exporters
—for prime lamb and mutton 7.93 d. and
5.36 d. per pound respectively, and 5.4 d.
for hinds of beef; and that f.o.b.
Dominion ports. The dark spots in the
picture are costs, including Government
bleeding, and they threaten to become
darker still.
Since the beginning of 1939 the price
of the f.-p. pound shares has fluctuated
between 14s. 6d. and 21s. in the market.
At 19s. 6d., the current quote, the return
is 5.7 p.c. on a p.c. div. basis. The
net tangible backing is 255. 9d. per pound
of paid capital.
Taramakau Gold Dredging, Ltd.
This promising but, from an investor’s
viewpoint, long-term float is out of
the same stable as the Arahura, Kanieri
and Barrytown cos. Capitalisation is
identical with that of the two first-named
—£205,000, in 200,000 £1 ords. and
100,000 Is. deferreds. All the latter and
40,000 of the ords. were taken by Alluvial
Gold for cash. Deferreds are deferred
only as to repayment of capital, ranking
share-for-share with the ords. for divi-
dends and voting power.
The property, of 600 acres, is on the
Taramakau and Hohonu Rivers, about
a mile from Kumara —scene of some of
the largest-scale alluvial workings in the
Dominion in the old days—on the west
coast of Maoriland’s South Island. Put-
ting down 43 bores spaced at four-chain
intervals on lines 20 chains apart, J. R.
Sturkey, who was in charge of the
Arahura and Kanieri boring, selected 32i
million c.y. of gold-bearing gravels with
an estimated recoverable value of 12.8 d.
per c.y. (gold at £NZB per ounce). Percy
Penman extends the area to 40,000,000
c.y., worth an average 12.02 d. on the
same gold-price basis. Average depth is
55yft., maximum 77ft., the main gold-
bearing concentrates occurring on a
marine clay bottom.
Purchase price of the area is £31,280
cash, being actual cost, including pros-
pecting, to Gold Mines of New Zealand,
Ltd., the vendor. With preliminary
exes, estimated at £376, that will leave
£173,344 for construction of the dredge,
etc., an electric-powered unit to dig
300,000 c.y. monthly. With all-in costs
at 3d. a yard, an average working
surplus of £133,300 p.a. (Bs. lid. per
share) is looked for over 12 years. The
wash is tightly-packed, but there are few
boulders, little clay or timber, and re-
covery by amalgamation is expected to
present no difficulties. The plant, how-
ever, will need to be capable of with-
standing the heavy floods that periodi-
cally occur.
Capital for the venture, which is in
able hands, has already been subscribed.
A good road runs alongside the property
from the railway six miles away; it
should greatly facilitate and cheapen
dredge construction, while the difference
between the present price of gold and
£8 should take good care of Maoriland’s
20s. 6d.-an-ounce gold tax and leave a
satisfactory margin for contingencies.
When the dredge is likely to set in,
though, is not mentioned, nor are esti-
mated construction costs. However,
even in the ordinary course of events,
and assuming war creates no difficulties
in obtaining steel —the U.K., Australian
and Dominion Governments’ defence
requirements are a first call on B.H.P.’s
output shareholders must expect at
least a three years’ wait for dividends.
These are subject to M.L. income tax
at half rates until twice capital has been
repaid, thereafter at the full rate.
Genuine investors will therefore hesitate
about placing high premiums on the
scrip until they are justified by actual
dredge returns.
The shallower (55ft.) but richer
Hohonu section will be tackled first;
later handling of the deeper (70ft.)
Taramakau area is expected to be
effected without alteration to either the
pontoon or main structure of the plant.
The directorate comprises F. G. Pratten,
E. FI. Pratten, J. W. Hannan, G. H.
Watson and D. A. Pratten.
In 23 months under the present man-
agement, Eldorado mine, at the Tennant
(Centralia), has produced 44530 z. gold
from 8180 tons, or 10.8dwt. a ton. Since
June 30 the figures are 3882 tons, 19050 z.
and 9.Bdwt. After charging all expendi-
ture against earnings, a loss of £1827
showed up on the first 15 months’ opera-
tions, but good work, both above- and
below-ground, has been done by H. M.
Thomas since appointment as mine
manager last September, throughput has
been lifted to 500 tons per four-weekly
period, and there would be no great
surprise if monthly millings were now
stated to be showing a comfortable sur-
plus over ordinary mining outgo. Vigor-
ous development has proved the lateral
extension of the ore-bodies, and, though
geological opinion is divided as to
whether the irregular Tennant lodes
generally will prove deep-seated, there
are indications of persistence at depth in
the Eldorado (down 210 ft.), where the
sulphides are expected to come in after
another 50ft. or so of sinking. Develop-
ment reports suggest that November’s
estimate of ore reserves (a year’s mill
supply) is likely to prove well short of
the mark when the next figure is broad-
cast ; declared intention of the manage-
ment, however, is to prove fully the prop-
erty and characteristics of the ore before
adding to its 10-head battery.
* * * *
Clermont (C.Q.) dropped practically
out of production of alluvial gold for
January, but that was due to weather
conditions mainly drought first, then
floods, and the consequent stacking of
“wash.” With all dams full on Miclere,
the 10-head battery there has a year’s
work ahead to get through accumulated
tailings and wash, and returns should be
a record during the next couple of
months. A recent good strike in 200 ft.
ground has put fresh heart into the field.
* * * *
The old Eungella goldfield, at the back
of Mackay (C.Q.), supports a small
group of prospectors working on the
rich gold and zinc veins there. The
zinc, however, is a penalty and has to
be dumped. J. W. Street’s last shipment
of five tons to Chillagoe gave a gross
return of £25 a ton—evidence of the
vein richness when a shoot is struck.
* * * *
Bartle Frere, near Innisfail (N.Q.), was
hailed three years ago as a gold find
with possibilities. It has not reached the
status of appearing in the official gold
returns since then, and almost the last
of the diehards have waved it good-bye
to try their luck elsewhere. The site
of the gold discovery was accessible
only with difficulty; it was scrub-
covered and in the wettest region of
Queensland’s North Coast. The main
reason, however, was too much “buck”
quartz, and the small shoots the earlier
comers got evaporated after a few crush-
ings more or less painfully transported
from the field.
* * * *
Ingliston Consols Extended, for years
past the main auriferous prop of Meeka-
tharra (W.A.), has shut down. Six
months ago it was reported that a co.
with a working capital of £750,000 was
being floated by London backers of
Herman Mandelstam, promoter of Tin-
dais and vendor of Big Bell, to take over
the property. Later the local Inspector
of Mines said that the grade of the ore
was very low and the future doubtful.
Production to date exceeds 630,0000 z.
# * * *
Hill 50 (W.A.) reports an increase in
intrinsic weight. The board has declared
a dividend (the fourth) of 6d. and pro-
poses to increase the treatment plant in
order to get more gold and do so at a
reduced cost. Ruwolt’s, of Melbourne,
are supplying the new crushing unit, and
the scrip has lifted from 12s. 9d. to
17s. 3d. buyers over the past six weeks.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
M.W.: No. 1 should be the better proposi-
tion. The other prefs. are not strongly backed.
....A.W.M.: Try S. J. Warnock, 84-88
William-street; C. B. Norton, 440 Little Collins-
street; or A. W. Dolamore, 273 Collins-street
—all Melbourne... .J.C.W.: Prospects not en-
couraging, and definitely unwise to go there
on spec. Burma Malay Tin, 117 Pitt-street,
or Austral Malay, 4 Martin-place, Sydney,
may be able to help.


HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Every comfort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/o
Double Room, from 11 /-
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/
For rooms with Hot and Cold Water.
Single 1/- and Double 1/6 extra.
Modern a la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
‘Grancentral,” Sydney.
31 3 ■
Tir
imsm
SMOKE-OH!
“His son, who is only five years old, has
already shown amazing talent at the piano.
• —Biographical item.
There’s music in the heir!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Children ask many foolish questions.”
— Women’s mag.
Such as “Why did you marry Mum?”
•J*
“A human being perspires through millions
of sweat glands.”— Scientific magazine.
That is, unless he has a Government
job.
4» 4* "I 4
“Pillion-riding may be banned in New South
Wales.” — Melbourne “Sun.”
Then how is a man to shake off a
girl?
•I* 4* 4* 4*
“Film Stars’ Favorite Dishes.”
' —Melbourne “Argus.
Tripe?
“To Prison on Wedding Day.” — Heading.
She must have taken him straight
home.
4* 4* 4* •F
“Nine tips for happiness.” — Women’s mag.
Steer clear of brunettes, platinum
blondes, red-heads, auburn-haired, raven-
haired, brown-haired, mousy-colored-
haired, flaxen-haired and grey-haired
women.
4° 4* 4* 4*
“Where do mirages occur most frequently?”
asks correspondent.
Outside bush pubs.
4* 4* 4* 4-
“Few women ever marry their boss.”
— Weekly.
Men, on the other hand, marry theirs.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Do you know your history?”— Article.
We thought we did until we saw some
Hollywood versions of it.
*l* *l*
“The Housewives’ Association is being ridi-
culed everywhere as a gathering of hens.”
—Secretary of Randwick branch.
Still, nobody could accuse them of
being dumb clucks.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Interviewed, he said: ‘I have been a bad
egg, but I haven’t tried to conceal it.’ ”
—“S. M. Herald.”
Actually, a bad egg, once suspected,
can’t conceal it. It may be frank, but
it can never be open —at least, for long.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“American says the repeal of prohibition has
made drinking respectable.”
The Yanks may be forced to re-
introduce prohibition so that drinking
may regain its popularity.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Social Swirl.
“Unless one joins in the costly hilarity of
modern parties one is considered odd or mean.”
—Correspondent, women’s paper.
In the brightest of society there’s plenty
of variety. The flat is good, the girls
are not; the beer is cold, the jokes are
hot! The way to cause anxiety and
grab some notoriety is guzzle naught but
lemonade, shout no curses, kiss no maid ;
and when the Dawn defeats the Shade,
be guilty of sobriety. They’ll view you
apprehensively unless you spend exten-
sively—unless you strive for Posh and
Sham and spread your life with Social
Jam.
Eva.
“Even the world’s greatest songwriters get
stumped for ideas.’ —Musical mag.
So we’ve noticed for years.
“Jim Ferried*arrived too late for the Miami
championship, underestimating the time required
for the car trip.” —..
He’ll pay more attention to his driving
after this.
4* *1- v
Fibs and Falsehoods.
“With men, a lie’s a last resort. With
women, it’s a first aid,” says a writei.
Lies may be divided into two classes
and two genders ; black and white and
masculine and feminine. For instance,
when a man with an attractive typist
quite truthfully tells his wife that he
was delayed at the office on business, this
is a black lie of the deepest dye, and no
argument on earth will bleach it. On the
other hand, when his wife
flutters ten bob each way with
the butcher on a loser and
attributes its loss to a bag-
snatcher, such diplomacy is as
white as lilies. Moralists
might dispute this point, but
once a wife convinces herself
that black’s white the debate
is all over bar the nagging.
“I love you, angel,” is a
typical lie —of the masculine
gender —but, since all lovers
are liars, it’s only natural that
they beat about the bush and
resort to lip-service. “I love
you, too, dear,” is the femi-
nine counter for that hoax,
and is traditionally regarded
as the flapper’s first aid to
free board and lodging.
Cynics, of course, consider
marriage the gravest of all
living lies, but as cynics are
either (a) single and there-
fore comparatively truthful,
or ( b ) married and conse-
quently experienced prevari-
cators, their opinions aren’t
worth the ink they’re generally printed
in. I know; I’m a cynic with a wife
and twin daughters!
P. O. M. C.
4* •j*
A married woman’s crowning glory is
sometimes a saucepan.
»J« >!' *l* *r*
“Watch your legs.”—' ‘Sunday Sun.”
And when you can no longer see
your feet, watch your diet.
•Jt
A danger-zone is that part of the
safety-zone you were in when you got
hit.
Charge of the Fright Brigade.
“Fashions Join the Army.”—' “Sunday Sun.”
This’ll be frightfully heartening news
to the Allies. Imagine a division of this
season’s millinery going over the top
en masse! Why, the enemy’d be de-
moralised if not paralysed and duck
round the nearest corner (even as you
and I) till the danger had passed.
And now that style has definitely suc-
cumbed to the military influence the
Finns’ll probably enlist a battalion or
two of fitted jackets in Legionnaire red,
armed with French cartridge pleats, and
give Stalin’s mob a real dressing-down.
With so much red about Joe’s unpurged
generals (if any) won’t know whether
their troops are coming or going.
Trouble is this warlike vogue has
entered the home. My wife’s clothes are
becoming so dangerously militaristic
that I daren’t complain for fear she’ll
explode.
Percy.
■{• *t*
“A koala which has been, in a sanctuary l'or
15 years has never had a drink.”
It would be an appropriate mascot
for the Second A.I.F.
•i* 4* 4* *i*
Waterloo.
He was a good chiropodist. He made
bunions shrivel at his approach, and he
never fell down on fallen arches. He
was callous with calluses, and when he
spoke a bit sharply to ingrowing-toenails
they fell over each other in their eager-
ness to get out.
And yet he was completely stonkered
whenever his wife put her foot down.
Eva.
Reversal.
When first I fell for Constance, she
Was constant, faithful as could be.
Ensuing months have brought about
A change; her constancy l doubt.
She’s constant now, it seems to me,
In nothing but inco?:stancy.
P. S. B. C.
Sweeping Statements.
“A room should always be cleaned from the
ceiling downwards.” — Women’s paper.
He swept the ceiling with a broom,
And plaster tramped beneath his hoof.
His wife came in and saw the room,
And then she hit the roof.
ME.
Apt.
“Ever since meeting Daisy he had lived in
a kind of dream.”— Women’s magazine.
Her name was Daisy, but she had
Such pretty looks and ways
That he, with passion nearly mad,
Could call her naught but Daze.
T. W. N.
Charging for Chooks.
“Ultra-violet rays are being used in experi-
ments to speed up the production of chickens
for the table.” —Report of Electricity Supply
Engineers’ Association of N.S.W.
To the lay mind this might appear
a simple matter of pushing a pullet under
an electrical device, giving it the works
and sitting back and collecting the big
“And this time see if y’ can KEEP it alight!"
divs. from the resultant outsize birds.
The general public has little idea of the
immense amount of research work that
has gone before. As one of the first
experimenters in bringing electricity to
assist the fowl problem I can speak with
some authority.
I started my really serious electrical
research work in its relation to fowls
in a peculiar way. My birds had the
annoying habit of laying their eggs after
I had finished breakfast. As the wife
used them all for cooking I could never
enjoy any except an Egg Board goog
for my matutinal meal. This I deter-
mined to remedy by getting the fowls
up earlier.
I argued that were they to be aroused
while it was still dark they would imme-
diately pursue their natural instinct to
scratch around. Peering in the darkness
to see what they had raked up would
cause a slight eye strain. To relieve this
they would sit down and close their eyes.
Meditating thus, the position would be
propitious for the performance of the
domestic duty which was their raison
d’etre. Thus I hoped to get them into
the habit of shedding their fruit before
brC3.kf3.St
I rigged up an alarm in the fowlhouse.
I am naturally inventive of mind, and
my method of setting it going was, I
claim, ingenious. To save my getting
up and pressing a bell in the small hours,
I installed a transformer which worked
a small flywheel, the revolutions of which
I so timed that, started at a certain hour
the night before, it would cut through,
by the time set for the fowls’ awakening,
a piece of rope on the end of which was
a weight. This, suspended over the bell,
would give the reveille.
I was running a lead from the power-
point in the kitchen to the fowlhouse,
and had left the bared end of the wire,
on the ground while I arranged the trans-
former in position out of reach of the
roost, when I heard a strangled sort of
squawk and looked round to sec one
cf my prize Austraiorps lying on the
ground with one end of the wire in its
mouth and kicking convulsively.
Thinking the bird had taken an epilep-
tic fit I rushed to its rescue, intending
to take it to the house and put a cold
spoon down its back. But as I grabbed
it by the legs I felt myself spun around
and hurled violently through the fowl-
house door. As I sat up and wiped the
bran and pollard out of my moustache it
suddenly struck me—l am quick on the
uptake—that I must have left the power
point switched on.
This set me thinking. If a fowl could
be so galvanised by a charge of alter-
nating current as to kick me such a
distance —the unfortunate bird must have
overstrained itself in the effort, for it
was dead —it followed that smaller doses,
judiciously administered, must confer
great physical benefit on it.
I cut the voltage down by half and
conveyed this by wire along the roosts.
To make certain they’d get the lot I also
put a band of iron running parallel
with it so that the birds’ claws would
touch both simultaneously. When they
were all asleep I turned the juice on.
Conviction came to me next morning,
when a strange silence sent me hurrying
to the fowlyard, only to find every chook
lying stiff on the ground, that I still had
not got the correct voltage. My wife,
whom I fear lacks the true scientific bent,
went somewhat lousy and expressed
dubiety as to whether an electrocuted
fowl ate well. I settled that argument
by pointing out that fowls are cooked
in most of our best restaurants in electric
ovens. Still, I’ll admit that for a family
of four it isn’t exactly economical to kill
and eat 17 fowls at once. However, I
am not one easily to admit defeat.
Now, it has often been remarked that
our wool, fruit and butter rank amongst
the world’s best because of our country’s
abundant sunshine. I have noted the
same has never been said of our eggs.
Why? Obviously because, having a
hen’s chassis wrapped around it while
it is being formed, no sunshine can get
at the egg. But .there was no reason why
artificial sunshine should not be intro-
duced to it, through the hen, to evolve
bigger and better eggs, and therefore
ditto chickens.
Working on this theory, 1 installed
powerful violet-ray lamps, and now un-
der my expert guidance the hens have
done wonders. I have produced eggs
the same shape both ends —this not only
means standardisation of eggcups but
an end to the maddening indecision of
the eater as to which end he will open.
I have used deep therapy, too, in evolving
yokes that will not go like rubber even
if the housewife should put them on
to boil and completely forget them for
an hour or two. By giving the birds
porcelain instead of shell-grit and giving
the embryo egg 33,000 volts —I borrow
this straight from the main—l have de-
veloped a strong shell which will not
crack when drilled ; this is a real boon
to those who like to take their eggs
straight through a straw.
But lately I felt there were bigger
things I could do, and my opportunity
came the other day when a friend of
mine who has an ostrich farm sought
treatment for his sick bird. I felt its
was pulsating only six a minute
—and a bad feature was that it was
seeing spots before the eyes. Patently,
it wanted a shot of “juice” to snap it out
of its torpor.
Fastening a wire carrying 15 volts to
its great toe, I gave it a preliminary
touch. There was a flurry of wings, then
a large claw caught me in the chest
and a beak snapped right where my
water-wing ears spread out under the
brim of my hat. The nurse says they re
going to try plastic surgery. It’s all in
the life of a scientist.
BO.


e
ESTABLISHED 1834.
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £1,739,012 10 0
KESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager; C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
SENATOR ARTHUR STRIKES OIL
Out west in N. S. Wales, where wool-
growers are busy collecting their cheques
and wheat-farmers have had a fine crop
for which they hope to get 4s. a bushel
at ports, the tedium of rural life was
broken lately by the arrival of an
oratorical Senator, supported by an
American “oil-producer” and others,
Not the least of the Senator’s quali-
is that his name begins with
A, and not the least of the “oil-
producer’s” achievements is that, on
Jan. 26, 1939, he agreed to accept,
as a “vendor,” 1,250,000 shares of 2s.
each in a Melbourne-registered co. called
Producers’ Oilwell Supplies, Ltd. If the
shares were all issued singly, and were
12 inches wide, they would, laid end to
end, cover a lineal distance of nearly
24 miles.
On February 7, 1940, the people of
Orange, fair city of the west, awoke to
find an announcement occupying nearly
100 sq. inches of the front page of the
local daily, the “Leader”: —
Tonight! Tonight!
PUBLIC ADDRESS
Unlocking the Nation’s
Hidden Wealth.
Australia’s Greatest Need in National
~ t? ♦ Emergency! , T .
Starthng
Senator T. C. ARTHUR
and
Mr. Max' Steinbuchel,
American Geophysicist, Oil Producer,
A/r • M l:. John C. Mackay,
Managing Director, Producers Oilwell
Memorial Hall. Orange,
TONIGHT (Wednesday) AT 8 P.M.
In your own, your family’s and the country’s
security, hear what Senator Arthur has to say.
. , ALR , ARE rl _ WELCOME.
The Bulletin is sorry it didn't have
a reporter at the meeting, especially as
the meeting was not sponsored by the
Federal Government, nor by the Oppo-
luck? he'was'nofa’
™ e Sy cho„dS°to-
the production of oil isn't known here,
and it may have been either encourage-’
ment or despair that induced the holding
nf another meetina at f lir *w
ot anothei meeting at Forbes, further
west—two nights later. Certain citizens
of Forbes received a delicately'lavender-'
shaded invitation from the Oilwell con-
ed n to attend. At first sight the card
suggests that it is perfumed ; actually,
it has no smell at all, not even of oil,.
though there is a picture of a derrick'
" r “ 01 Purple ink.
W ther those people of Change,
Forbes and parts adjacent who answered
the call have seen a prospectus of Pro-
ducers’ Oilwell Supplies, Ltd., is some-
thing The Bulletin, out of politeness,
would like to know. In case they haven't
seen one, or have seen one but can’t
understand it, some comment may be of
interest. So, at the risk of wearying those
who have neither seen the prospectus
nor want to see or hear anything about
it, the following observations are made,
The document is dated Feb. 11, 1939.
It says the co. has a nominal capital of
£500,000 in 5,000,000 shares of 2s. each.
The public is offered 3,750,000 shares,
the vendor “to be allotted” the balance,
The vendor , vends “certain agencies” and
distribution rights of oil-drilling plants,
etc. though assumed to be worth
£125,000 in the co.’s shares, the pros-
pectus does, not regard the agencies and
rights of sufficient importance to publish
details. Directors are Senator T. C. Arthur,
Max Steinbuchel, J. C. Mackay, E. E.
Southwell and B. Ryan. “Up to 15
more can be appointed.” Though the
co. is registered under the Victorian Com-
panies Act of 1928, its registered office is
at 60 Hunter-street, Sydney, which is
also given as the address of all the direc-
tors except Mr. Ryan. Brokers are “any
authorised agent.”
Apart from statutory information and
detai | s o£ capital and personnel, there
are onl , y tw ° P a S es .,? £ matter in the
prospectus. Oil will save Australia
a bne which heads these two pages and
three others. Though written largely in
the future tense, the main theme of the
“foreword” is emphatic. “The Lakes
Entrance oilfield will lead to other and
probably larger fields” ; “this discovery
of oil in Australia must result in an
immense benefit to the country” ; “it is
certain that Australians who are finan-
cial'y hyhe development of
“ oill industry w, 11profit very
W jth n ' ~ r iW vest ttt en t: . ... . ,
Y p lcer ,, . lIS , M ! e
Sff"! 2 '.'7
r a “ and
ai * P irz,nT em r
will h^snnZd i„ A,7? r '
excefp '’ ’
-f • ! f T~
lhe 011 industr y m America is one of the
greatest commercial undertakings in the
United States. - Why? Because it is prolit-
ab,e - . There is;more capital invested in it
any other three undertakings corn-
. .This will eventually .be the case in Aus-
tralia.- Our oil industry is.yet in its in-
fancy, but without doubt it will result in
'country thC greatest enter Pnses in the
That isn ',, al|> either Come wi(h Q|d
Khayyam again:
4/
to mveT’n T a tecSSf
as a wealth-producer it is without equal.
The Oil Is Here—lt Has Actually Been
Discovered.
The last paragraph of the foreword has
its element of surprise:,—
Fortunes have been won and will still be
won by an investment in the Oil Industry,
and the possession of even a small share-
holding in an oil co. may spell fortune
for the holder.
May spell fortune? The anti-climax
might be disturbing if it were not for
the fact that the real meat of the pros-
pectus (11 lines) is still ahead of us.
The objects of the company” inform
us that it was formed
primarily to drill wells throughout the
Commonwealth on locations to be carefully
selected by Mr. Max Steinbuchel until oil
is discovered in commercial quantities.
And don’t run away with a picture in
your mind of Mr. Steinbuchel, grey and
with a long beard, his 1,250,000 shares
yellowing with age, wandering across the
continent “carefully selecting” location
after location but still looking for “com-
mercial quantities,” because:
When oil is struck it will be too late to
get in—the opportunity will be lost —now
■' is the time to secure a share interest, no
matter how small, and assure yourself one
of those chances of fortune which come
at least once to every man.
That par. is included under “objects of
the company.”
The minimum subscription on which
the co. was permitted by its articles
of association to go to allotment was
10,000 shares of 2s. each a five-
hundredth part of the proposed capital.
Brokerage of 10 p.c. is permitted on the
sale of the shares. Then there is another
little point on which the co. chooses to
be pernickety. On the back of share-
application forms is printed:
This is to certify that I became a share-
holder in Producers’ Oilwell Supplies, Ltd.,
of room 910, 9th floor, 60 Hunter St.,
Sydney, as a result of an offer that was
made to, and accepted by, me in that por-
tion of my premises used solely for the
conduct of my business; also that no other
offer was submitted to me.
The N. S. Wales Companies Act pro-
vides that, under threat of penalty, a
person shall not go from house to house
offering shares for sale except *on the
business premises of the prospect.
According to a “souvenir” issued by
the Oilwell co., Senator Arthur stated on
the floor of the House on Dec. 8, 1939,
that
of the nine wells now being drilled, seven
are being superintended by Mr. Max Stein-
buchel, whom the Government tried to
ship away from this country so that , oil
would not be found here.
There is much more in the same strain,
though “Hansard”, is not quoted fully.
But before The Bulletin would be pre-
pared to take up Mr. Arthur’s' case
against the “major oil cos.,” etc., it would
like him to explain, on the floor of the
house or elsewhere, the prospectus of
Producers’ Oilwell* Supplies. , It requires
a lot of explaining. And apparently the
only “gusher” Mr. Steinbuchel has so
far located in Australia is Mr. Arthur
himself.. .
Decline in the general level of share
prices continued throughout Australia
until late; last week, when there was a
slight rally. The “ides of March” are
always bad for the sharemarket —income-
tax assessments are due for payment
about this time —and in any case reaction
from the optimistic note touched about
the beginning of the year was almost
bound to happen. For several years past
March and April have been distressing
for the bulls. To go back no further
than 1935, in March that year there was
a sharp relapse in wool prices, then re-
covering from depression, and shares fell,
too. In the same month, 1936, there
was a temporary setback in the market
following the lifting of bank-deposit
rates after the Treasury-bills market
fiasco. In April, 1937, Roosevelt talked
of revaluing the dollar —and seemed to
start the. “recession” that went on until
the outbreak of war. In March, 1938,
there was a market depression. In
March, 1939, Hitler invaded what was
left of Czechoslovakia, and the market
had one of its numerous pre-war dizzy
spells.
That is a short sharemarket history of
the months of March and April over five
years, March, 1940, making the sixth ;
and thus precedent alone is almost
enough to make March a month for
caution among speculators —speculators'
belonging to a breed that takes a short
view, in any case. If one month or two
months were the only bad ones out of
twelve, sharemarkets would be Easy
Street in fact. But although it is often
such a superstition that sets off some-
thing bigger in the way of a rise or fall
in the market —such as the reduction of
the Bank of N. S. Wales’s div. in 1929 —
the factors most affecting the long-term
sharemarket outlook now are, of course,
those arising out of the war, plus those
which were making our way difficult for
nearly two years before Sept. 3, 1939.
During those two years or so costs were
rising within Australia, while revenue
derived for our produce sold outside the
country was falling off. State Govern-
ment accounts were mainly in bad shape,
unemployment was spreading, profits
were falling and interest rates rising. The
war brought apparent relief in the way
of higher prices for our exports and a
revival in local manufacturing activity,
and for two or three months investors
in industrial shares let their imaginations
run riot over the figures on the credit
side of the ledger without considering
the debit, which is yet .largely a blank,
but which won’t remain so much longer.
Australia is spending £6,000,000 a month
on defence, and whether the money is
raised by borrowing or taxing it repre-
sents a national contribution to security,
to be paid for as speedily and as equit-
ably as possible by everyone in the
country.
By the end of last week a good deal
of the optimistic froth of a few weeks
earlier had been blown out of share-
market prices, and the share-lists had a
more sensible look, even if still inclined
to weaken —speculation always goes to
extremes. The Sydney index of indus-
trial shares was steadier at just above
130, as against 136.54 on January 16. The
general index of shares was more stable
also at 123.9, against 129.73 on January
11. Persons buying shares last week
were thus on a much better wicket than
those who bought about the middle of
January. But turnover was very light;
the loan may have had something to
do with it.
* * * *
New Broken Hill Consolidated has
not shown up so well in recent reports.
Some doubt has been thrown on the sug-
gestion made by Dr. Gustafson that “the
entire past production of Broken Hill
may be duplicated within the limits of
N.B.H.’s property” by further geophy-
sical examination on the part of J, M.
Rayner, of the N.S.W. Mines Depart-
ment. Latest boring results also suggest
that the lode is deeper than previously
believed. The co.’s shares have slipped
back to 18s. in the market, after having
been up to over 235. The long-term out-
look of the stock is still satisfactory.


GUARANTEED
FOR TWO YEARS*
FREE SETTINC^^^
m
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. All
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
1 Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle .... 15/6
Blade size 2in,
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Razor Guards, 3/6 extra.
CRAIG &t AI THEN, 654 George St., Sydney
SEALED
AGAINST MUD,
SAND and WATER
!fPS
mm
a | | •w.v
Mi
I?*
TH E “Caterpillar” D 2, owned by the Municipality of Gunnedah, demonstrates
that “Caterpillar” revels in difficult jobs.
Shown above is the “Caterpillar” D 2 which scoops gravel right out of a riverbed,
hauls it up steep, loose gravel banks with a grade of about 1 in 6, and dumps it
into a truck through a grid, while on the move.
Although this tractor is operating in mud, sand and water, it does so without harm to
itself. “Caterpillar” bellows type seals keep sand, mud and v water out and lubrica-
tion in.
This feature of “Caterpillar” construction is only one of the many that go to make
it the most reliable, economical and versatile tractor that can be used by public
bodies, agriculturists, mining companies, timber millers, and in many other branches
of industry.
Write for illustrated literature showing how you can cut your costs with “Cater-
pillar” diesel power.
mmm
m
mm
mm
m
mmm
CATERPILLAR
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales:
Waugh & Josephson Pty. Ltd.
Unwin's Bridge Road,
St. Peters, Sydney.
Victoria & Tasmania: Queensland:
William Adams & Co. Ltd. Waugh & Josephson Pty. Ltd.
521 Collins St., Melbourne 102 Melbourne St., Brisbane
South Australia: West Australia:
The S.A. Tractor Company Wigmore's Limited
231 Flinders St., Adelaide. 613 Wellington St., Perth.
See the complete range of “Caterpillar” Tractors and Road Machinery at
151 Commemoration Avenue, Royal Agricultural Show.
r
under the official quote. Sales of British
holdings of American securities on Wall-
street is likely to be a continuing process
in order to maintain the volume of ready
sterling money in the U.S.A.
* * * *
State and “semi-Government” borrow-
ing:—
The programme of State borrowing for
works approved by the Loan Council be-
fore the war for the year 1939-40 will
not be altered, but in view of the increas-
ing war expenditure the Prime Minister, at
a Loan Council meeting held in Nov., 1939,
referred to the necessity for reducing works
expenditure in 1940-41, other than for de-
fence purposes. Expenditure by the Com-
monwealth for defence and war purposes
will place some strain upon savings and
upon available resources of man-power and
equipment. For this reason it is desirable
that borrowing by Governments or semi-
Government authorities for purposes not
connected with defence or not of an indis-
pensable character should be greatly re-
duced.
That is from the report of the Common-
wealth Bank board.
* * * #
When B.H.P. shares dropped back to
465. 3d. last week, that was the equiva-
lent of 755. lOd. for the old shares —a
fall of Bs. Bd. from the peak of 84s. 6d.
established early in the New Year. At
465. for shares on the present basis last
week’s market capitalisation of the un-
dertaking was £26,250,000. When the
scrip stood at 84s. 6d., cum rights, valua-
tion was £29,370,000. An interim div.
will be due from B.H.P. in May, de-
clared perhaps late in April. It should
provide a guide as to the probable future
level of the co.’s div. A p.c. distri-
bution on the new capital would call for
£1,462,000 —slightly more than the profit
claimed for 1938-39. A 10 p.c. distribu-
tion is more likely, and at 465. the shares
would yield £4 7s. per cent. They firmed
smartly last Friday, yielding, on the
same basis of conjecture, £4 4s. per cent,
at 475. 6d. .
* * * *
London “Economist” is suggesting
that Australia may accumulate a lot of
money in London, particularly as we
are to be credited with more sterling and
less dollars, yen, etc., during the war.
T . „it
It all depends, of course, on how much
this war is going to cost us overseas.
Britain, apparently, is not in a position
to supply us with all the goods, of a
defence and other nature, that we re-
quire now, and it would be ridiculous
simply to squander our London funds
by bidding up for the comparatively
small quantity of British commodities
available. The cost of keeping the A.I.F.
in the field will be largely a charge on
our London funds, and until the extent
of this is known trade-balance figures
won’t tell the full story. If, however,
after we have paid for everything, we
still have substantial credits in Britain,
then the “Economist’s” advice, as fol-
l°ws > might well be listened to:
Many reasons could be pleaded for using
P art of these accumulating liquid assets to
reduce the long-term debts owing by the
El " pire "° u " tne , s to Ent,sh bondholders.
It would, firstly, tend to avoid unwieldy
inflation G ’ f En £ ire assets; secondly , f t
would make resources available in Britain
for investment; and, finally, it would pro-
vide an excellent opportunity for certain
Dominions, which formerly were inclined to
overbo'rrow externally, to replace oversea
debts by domestic debts,
Also, it would raise the average Aus-
tralian’s feeling of selTrespect.


The "Freedom Station.”
W. G. J. Knop, in London “Sunday
Express”:—
Everybody must by now have heard of the
marvellous and brave exploits of the men who
run an anti-Nazi broadcasting station in Ger-
many.
Impressive stories have been, and are
being, told about the adventurous activities in
Germany of the station and the way it has
managed for years to elude the mobilised
forces of the Gestapo, the German Post Office
and the engineers of the German Army.
The simple truth is that there is no illegal
wireless station opposing the Nazi regime any-
where within the borders of Greater Germany.
There once was, before the war, and for
a very short time only, but it was soon tracked
by the Nazis and had to leave the country
as fast as it could.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
NAZI TERROR IN POLAND.
[lnformation on the appalling state of affairs in
Poland is given in these reports and comments published
over the past month or so. That the ruthlessness
described is still being practised is indicated by Sir John
Simon’s reference last week to “the brutality with which
the Nazis are treating the Poles,” and the cabled
comment of the Milan newspaper “Italia”: “Reliable
news compels the question, ‘are human feelings left in
Germany?’ The Poles have been deprived of 'every
sacred human right, their religion has been smashed,
their homes have been commandeered, their property
confiscated, their churches profaned, and human beings
transported like animals.”]
(From a Manchester “Guardian?’ leading article.)
Vatican broadcasts have pointed out that
The horrors and the inexcusable excesses committed
upon helpless and harmless people [in Poland] are not
confined to the districts under Russian occupation, heart-
rending as the news from that quarter has been. Even
more violent and persistent was the assault upon elemen-
tary justice and decency in that part of prostrate Poland
which had fallen to German administration.
Great numbers of people have been torn from
their homes for deportation, “in the depth of one of
Europe’s severest winters, by methods which can only
be described as brutal.” Stark hunger faces 70 per
cent, of the population. Germany’s conduct is
described as “one more moral affront to the conscience
of mankind, one more contemptuous insult to the law
of nations.”
This message from Rome must shake all those
who still look on struggling Europe as a quarrel over
rival interests which could be settled today by some
kind of diplomatic bargain. Germany has set out on
a task that has not been attempted in Europe for cen-
turies—the enslavement of her neighbors. If she has
her way the Polish nation and Czech nation will be
serf people.
*****
(From a report by the “Times” Rome correspondent.)
The official report which was authorised by
Cardinal Hlond, the Primate of Poland, and presented
to the Pope evidently formed the basis of the Vatican
broadcasts on German atrocities in Poland.
Describing, first, conditions in the archdiocese of
Gniezno, the report names 10 priests who were shot
by the Germans, one who was killed by blows from
rifle butts, one who died under hard labor, two who
died in prison and one who was killed by a bomb.
About 300 families were suddenly dragged from
their homes and shut up in a hides factory. All these
people, men, women, children and infants, were
jumbled together promiscuously. Later 150 more
families were shut up, and eventually all were taken
off in cattle trucks to the “General-Gouvernement
Polen” (the part of German-occupied Poland which
has not been formally annexed and is under the con-
trol of Dr. Frank, as Governor-General).
Marriages are not celebrated, since there is a
severe ban on the blessing of a marriage unless it
has been previously contracted before the civil authori-
ties, who do not allow marriages between Poles.
Similar conditions are described as existing in
the archdiocese of Poznan. The Germans regard
themselves as owners of ecclesiastical property, sack
what they will and pay nothing.
The report describes how the Germans are
“trampling underfoot all liberty of conscience and
the religious rights of the population.” There has
begun the extermination of the Polish element, which
was foreseen by Hitler in Mein Kampf, and was one
of the true reasons for the German aggression. “This
extermination is continuing without interruption and,
furthermore, is taking the forms of perverse sadism.”
One of the worst enormities is seen in the criminal
expulsion of the population. Almost all the Polish
nobility, especially the landed nobility, tens of thou-
sands of both rural and urban families, and almost
all the educated class have been exiled to the “General-
Gouvernement Polen.” These people have been robbed
of all their real and personal property and are allowed
to take only 10m. with them. Poles and Jews are com-
pelled to remain at home from 7.30 p.m. to 6 a.m.,
and during the night hours houses are suddenly visited
by the Gestapo, who carry off from 500 to 1500 people
a night. People, therefore, spend the night fully
dressed, since only a few minutes’ notice is given
before they are driven out.
Expelled persons of both sexes and all ages have
been compelled, regardless of their health, with the
temperature 15deg. below zero, to stand in the streets
for as long as four hours before being carried off to
camp. In the camp at Glowna, which is unheated,
with cement flooring, without a single mattress, there
are no hot water or sanitary arrangements. Children
born in these conditions are, for lack of warm water,
washed in tepid coffee which kindhearted people give
up to them.
The youths from 14 years of age onwards are de-
ported into Germany. Girls, too, especially the more
attractive, are deported, to the despair of their families,
as may easily be understood. The remainder, old
men, women, children, are, after varying periods of
martyrdom, transported in cattle trucks to the
“General-Gouvernement Polen.” The trucks are not
opened during the journey for any purpose whatever.
The Poles are turned out in any little town or in the
open country and abandoned to their fate.
According to the German press, the transportation
is to be completed by April 1, by which date, in the
“General-Gouvernement Polen,” there will be millions
of persons without any money or clothes, unable to
earn their living and condemned to the cruellest
privations, starvation and sickness.
*****
(From a report by a “Times” Polish correspondent.)
The German terror takes its thousands of victims
every day and night. Over 18,000 men and women
have lost their lives at the hands of the Gestapo in
the “annexed” territory, where the terror is the more
cruel; over 6000 have been executed in the “occupied”
territory. It is impossible to establish how many are
kept in prison or have been sent to concentration
camps. Their number grows from hour to hour.
The territories which were incorporated into the
Reich contained from 90 to 95 per cent, of Poles.
The homes, farms and workshops of these people have
been handed over to thousands of Germans imported
from Germany, from the Baltic countries, from Eastern
Poland, or even from so far away as the Volga dis-
trict. The Poles are being transferred in cattle-trucks
to “occupied” Poland, where destitution and famine
are beyond any description.
Gdynia, built up in 15 years from a fishing village
to a city of 130,000 people—all of them Poles —has
been depopulated. From the ancient Polish city of
Poznan 20,000 families, representing more than
100,000 people, have been expelled. The transfer of
population is not limited to the towns. Thousands
of Polish peasants have been extirpated from the soil
on which they have been settled for centuries.
*****
(From a report by a Manchester “Guardian”
correspondent.)
Nazi rule has brought for Poland not only an
intolerable political and cultural tyranny without a
parallel in the modern history of mankind, but also
complete economic ruin. The disorganisation of
private life and the destruction of the transport sys-
tem have left little of any industry or trade.
Coalmines have been destroyed or flooded by the re-
treating Polish forces ; 64.5 per cent, of the whole
Polish exports was coal. Britain and Germany used
to be the chief purchasers of Polish livestock, dairy
and agricultural products. But Britain, which took 20
per cent, of all Poland’s exports, is no longer on the
list, and Germany supplies her needs by confiscation.
Thus the result of war has been not only the
destruction of homes, loss of relatives and friends,
evictions and concentration camps but also a vast
RESETTLEMENT OF THE REICH.
unemployment, increased by mass dismissal of Polish
officials and non-payment of all pensions.
Poland is faced with real famine. Homeless
people in insanitary and half-ruined cities live under
the imminent threat of starvation.
*****
(From an article by the Manchester “Guardian’s”
diplomatic correspondent.)
The number of summary executions is certainly
not less than 10,000 and may be approaching 20,000.
Any assault on individual Germans is followed by
fearful reprisals. Men or mere boys may be rounded
up in the streets, taken into the market square, and
then killed by machine-gun or rifle fire.
At Bydgoszcz (Bromberg) hundreds of persons
were shot in the market square. At Otorow, a village
near Bydgoszcz, the Nazi flag had been removed from
the parish hall by unknown persons. Ten inhabitants
were arrested at random by the Germans. Five were
taken to Bydgoszcz and shot there ; the remaining five
were taken to the village of Szamotuly for public
execution. Close on 50 persons were publicly executed
at Koscian. At Zablocki 14 Polish workmen and the
local priest were shot.
Among the Poles shot at Bydgoszcz were 136
students, of whom some were only 12 or 13 years old.
At Wolsztyn a number of Poles were shot at night
time in the glare of searchlights. The inhabitants
were awakened to witness the execution. Sixteen
persons were shot at Kornik. The Mayor, a man of
70, who was unable to walk, was pushed into the pit
where the victims had been heaped up and was then
killed with a revolver bullet. There were similar
executions at Mosin, Srem, Sreda, Leszno, Rawicz,
Grodzisk, Nowy Tomysl, Miedzychod, Znin, Wrzesnia,
Chelmo, Chojnice, and other places.
All the Poles who were prominent in the civic
life of Gdynia have been shot. Three hundred and
fifty were arrested and taken to Wejherewo, near
Danzig, where about three hundred were shot. At
Oburzo, near Gdynia, an unknown person broke a
window in the police station. The Germans arrested
50 Polish schoolboys and ordered their parents to flog
them publicly. Ten of the boys were then shot, and
the bodies were exposed for 24 hours. At InoWroclaw
a number of German officers who had been drinking
heavily entered the prison and shot 70 Polish prisoners.
There are thousands of Polish men and women
in concentration camps, where they endure fearful
treatment —3000 at Gdynia, 5000 at Torun and 3000
at Poznan. Many have been sent to concentration
camps in Germany.
The number of those who have perished of cold
and exposure in the terrible winter is incalculable.
* * * •• *
C From a report by a “Times” Polish correspondent.)
The fate of the 165 professors of Cracow Uni-
versity arrested and sent to concentration camps in
Germany is no exception. The imprisonment of all
Polish intellectual leaders by the Gestapo has been
made a rule during the German occupation.
The attempts to destroy Poland’s intellectual life
are not limited to the persecution of intellectual
leaders. The German authorities are carrying out a
systematic robbery of all Polish scientific and research
centres, and everything valuable is being sent to Ger-
many. All the books of the greatest Polish research
centre, the Jagellon Library in Cracow, which may be
compared with the library of the British Museum,
are being transferred to Germany.
In Warsaw most of the scientific institutes have
been completely pillaged by the Germans. The pride
of Polish scientists, the Institute of Physics in War-
saw, whose costly equipment was presented to the
Institute by the Rockefeller Foundation, has been
dismantled and all the scientific instruments removed
and sent to Germany. The Zoological Museum in
Warsaw has been robbed under the supervision of a
professor of a German university. Similarly the
Polish State College for Agriculture and Forestry.
* * * * *
(From an article in the “Economist”)
It is hard to systematise the chronicle of Poland’s
wrongs, since there is not a human right that has not
been ruthlessly violated. Nor should it be thought
that the tales of persecution refer only to a period of
the first exultation of a bloody victory. The reports
suggest rather a calculated policy of repression, a
carefully-planned programme of destruction, a cold
campaign of murder. The aim is obvious enough. The
Polish nation as a racial, religious and intellectual
unit is to be ruthlessly stamped out.
The policy takes a variety of forms, each more
brutal than the last. The frontier provinces of Pos-
nania, Pomorze, and Upper Silesia have been fused
into a single Gau, the Warthegau, and this province
is now an integral part of the Reich. The fact that
the districts have for the last 20 years been inhabited
by Poles in varying majorities of 70 to 100 per cent,
has led to a wholesale transfer of population, if so
peaceful and orderly a term can be applied to the
brutal eviction of peasants from their farms and towns-
people from their businesses, the deportation of men
of working age in their thousands to forced labor
in Germany and the herding of the aged, women and
children into the already overcrowded central dis-
tricts, where they are to live in a species of Polish
reserve. Into the farms and properties which they
must leave behind are pouring German Balts and other
German immigrants; within a year or so the Germans
reckon that not a Pole will be left in the ancestral
Polish lands beyond the Vistula. Yet, not content with
creating an insoluble problem of overpopulation in
the central districts, Germany is sending to the Jewish
reserve at Lublin forced emigrants from every part of
the Reich. By December 10,000 of these poor human
cattle had already arrived. The final programme in-
cludes such fantastic figures as 180,000 from the Old
Reich and 1,500,000 from other parts of German-
occupied Poland.
Russia and Germany between them have absorbed
the principal food-producing areas of Poland. As the
Vatican transmitter insists, plain starvation faces 70
per cent, of the destitute population. Epidemics have
broken out. The bitter winter added to the misery.
There is apparently nothing in the future of this
“Remainder State,” as the Germans contemptuously
call it, save the slow agony of famine and disease.
*****
C From a “Times” leader.)
The savagery with which the Nazis are holding
down Poland is shown in messages from a trustworthy
Polish source. Polish peasants are being relegated
to the position of serfs and transported in thousands
to work for German masters. It is a crime for a
German to treat a Pole too well—a German farmer
has been sent to prison for permitting a Polish
prisoner to eat his meals with him and his family.
It is calculated that there are over 300,000 prisoners
of war in the Reich put to forced work in violation
of the rules of war.
Not a week passes but some Mayor or prominent
villager is shot for resisting Nazi requisitions, and in-
tellectual leaders, some of them of world-wide scientific


reputations, are being flung into concentration camps
and done to death. The crime of declining to become
President of a Polish Protectorate under Germany
was enough to ensure the death of the well-known
authority on European law, Professor Estreicher.
Information of these outrages, as was broadcast
from the Vatican, is established on unimpeachable
testimony. These inexcusable excesses, as the Vatican
broadcaster said, are committed upon a helpless and
homeless people. However much it may be hoped
that Germany will play a different part in a future
Europe, it would be the grossest self-deception to
suppose that men of this type could ever have part or
lot in plans for that equitable settlement which far-
sighted people know to be necessary for the upbuild-
ing of Europe. Nazism, as their acts bear witness,
is the negation of all that belongs to peace.
The New Anzacs.
[Most British press comment on the arrival of the
new Anzacs in Egypt and Palestine was on stereotyped
lines; “Scrutator,” in the article here condensed from
London “Sunday Times” (18/2/’4O), was one of the
few who said anything oil the well-beaten track]
Egypt did not detain them for more than a few
hours, and already they are encamped in Palestine in
quarters that Arab and Jewish labor joined in making.
That they crossed the Suez Canal without delay shows
how greatly the British Mandate in Palestine has
altered the military situation to our advantage.
It is one of the touches of drama in which the
military history of the Anzacs abounds that our
friendship today with Turkey is based on the most
tragic moment of the Gallipoli expedition, when the
Anzacs had reached the summit of Sari Bair, which
would have given us control of the Straits. At that
moment reinforcements brought up by Ataturk, who
was later to become our close friend, dislodged us
from the crest, and the Gallipoli expedition passed
into history as a magnificent failure. The Anzacs
crowned it with later triumphs. The infantry went to
France and helped to snatch victory from what began
as the disaster of the March offensive. Their mounted
men stayed in Palestine, and helped to win the great
cavalry victory of Megiddo.
No nation has ever achieved so great a military
reputation in so short a time. Though we have given
them whatever military advice was in our power, it is
still true that the military virtues of the Anzacs are
entirely home-grown. Perhaps their very distance has
made them more dependent on their own ideas.
In Palestine the new troops begin where their
fathers left off in the last war. Their transference
from Egypt is official recognition of the strategic
importance of Palestine. Egypt protects the Canal
against attack from the east; Palestine protects it from
the west as well. It is in touch with the oilfields of
Mosul, which are brought down to the sea at Haifa
by pipeline, and are invaluable to the British Fleet in
the Mediterranean. It has a healthy climate, and is
ideal as a training-ground. It is a better air base than
Cyprus or than Egypt, and gives access to parts of
the Middle East not easy to reach in any other way.
It invites co-operation between the Anzacs and the
strong divisions that France maintains in Syria.
It is too early yet to forecast with confidence how
these fine troops are likely to be employed. That will
depend largely on the development of the enemy’s
strategy. If Germany, with or without the active
assistance of Russia, were to attack the independence
of Rumania for the sake of her oilfields, the Anzacs
might find themselves once more near their old battle-
fields in Turkey, but this time, instead of fighting
their way up the Dardanelles, they would find the
way open. The British Fleet would escort them
through the Black Sea, and from a base on the coast
of Rumania we might make dangerous headway
against the German invasion.
If there were no Anzacs free for employment,
and Rumania could be crushed as easily as she was
in the last war, the possession of the oil wells in
Rumania might be a serious temptation to Germany.
But she would hardly risk extended or hazardous
operations for this object. She draws supplies of oil
from Rumania as it is, and the first effect of serious
war would be to stop the supplies that she is already
getting. On the whole, therefore, war on Rumania for
the sake of her oil seems unlikely. For a more prob-
able employment for the Anzacs now in Palestine we
might have to look elsewhere.
If the Finns can keep up their heroic resistance,
Russia will have very little energy to spare for other
adventures. Even if they could only last out until
the summer, the year might be too far advanced to
start another serious campaign, and active military
co-operation between the Russian and German armies
might be out of the question this year. But should
the Finnish resistance unexpectedly collapse, and, still
more unlikely, should the country settle down under
a conqueror from whom they can expect no considera-
tion, one can imagine developments which would
bring the Anzacs as far to the strategic front as ever
they were in the last war.
There is some reason to think that oil is rapidly
becoming the main factor of success or failure for
Germany. Many things are more unlikely than a
Russian attack from the Caucasus in the direction of
Mosul or Persia, stiffened, it may be, by a German
division or two with tactical troops. We are allies
of Irak, and should be obliged to go to her assistance,
and this task would naturally fall on the Anzacs in
combination with the French Army in Syria.
The arrival of the Anzacs in Palestine recalls the
old controversy in the Great War between the West-
erners, who insisted on winning the war on the Western
Front, and the Easterners, who saw in the east an
easier and less costly way of victory. And it is argu-
able that uncovering Germany’s Eastern Front was,
in fact, the principal contribution to victory. Cer-
tainly, if the Dardanelles could have been forced in
1915, the war might have been won earlier and at far
less cost than it actually was.
Possibly the Anzacs in the Near East may have a
chance of doing now what they failed to do in Galli-
poli. They might gain for us the strategic initiative
which is not yet in sight.
Hitler Falsehoods Nailed.
[After Hitler’s last speech in Berlin the “Times”
drew up and nailed a list of his “principal lies and half-
truths.” Here are the more interesting items of the list.]
Hitler: “They [the peace-makers] smashed old
States to pieces without asking their peoples whether
they agreed to what was intended to be their destiny.
Germany had tried to smash up Belgium, France,
the British Empire, Russia and Rumania. On the
other hand, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Finland and the
Baltic States all proclaimed their independence before
the Peace Conference met. The treaties of peace con-
firmed the wishes of their inhabitants, already ex-
pressed. In cases where the wishes of the inhabitants
were not clear plebiscites were held —in Silesia,
Marienwerder and Allenstein, Eupen and Malmedy,
Schleswig, Klagenfurt, and later the Saar territory.
Hitler : “They [the Allied and Associated
Powers] remained deaf to misery and unemployment”
[in Germany after the war].
The United States distributed food there in large
quantities, and she and Great Britain, France and
other States advanced money, which was largely ex-
pended on public works, and thus relieved unem-
ployment.
Hitler: “He [Mr. Churchill] publicly admitted
that it is his aim to annihilate and disintegrate the
German nation.”
Mr. Churchill has never stated this to be a British
war aim, and the Prime Minister and Lord Halifax
have both said that Great Britain has no such desire
IN THE RED ARMY—ITALIAN VIEW.
SOVIET GENERALISSIMO: "These are new recruits”
SOVIET GENERAL: “Good! Shall we send them to the
front line or shall we shoot them here?”
or intention. Mr. Churchill said in a broadcast on
November 12: “You may take it absolutely for cer-
tain that either all that Britain and France stand for
in the modern world will go down, or that Hitler, the
Nazi regime, and the recurring German or Prussian
menace to Europe will be broken and destroyed.”
Hitler: “The pious and Bible-believing Mr.
Chamberlain tried hard last year to conclude an alli-
ance with Russia, but he did not succeed... .Now I
understand very well how furious the British are that
I have done what Mr. Chamberlain tried to do.”
The British negotiations with Moscow broke
down, as Lord Halifax has made perfectly clear,
because the British Government were not prepared to
sacrifice the Baltic States and Finland, whose subordi-
nation to Soviet Russia Molotov clearly had in view.
Hitler and Ribbentrop had no such scruples, and
bartered away the freedom of these small States.
Hitler: “The British [in the South African War]
put women and children into the concentration camps
and 20,000 Boer women perished.”
The true facts are these. The burghers having
left their farms to join their commandos, their women
and children were left behind to starve. As a measure
of humanity and convenience Lord Milner ordered
their evacuation and concentration in camps. The
number quickly rose to over 100,000, and the arrange-
ments for their welfare did not at first keep pace with
their growth. Diseases broke out —particularly a
disastrous epidemic of measles among the children —
and the deathrate at one time was distressingly high.
The matter was at once taken up in England as well
as in Cape Town, and everything possible was done
to improve the situation. By the end of the war a
good average of comfort had been established ; and,
as soon as it was over, women and children who had
been left on the veld voluntarily flocked into the
camps. For fully three months after the peace many
chose to remain there, and the men of the family,
released from military service, often expressed surprise
and relief that so much care had been devoted to
their families in the camps. It is authoritatively com-
puted that 4000 (not 20,000) women died in these
camps.
In connection with this favorite piece of Nazi
propaganda, it may be noted that, while the Nazis
refuse to take responsibility for what happened in
Germany before 1933, they ransack British history for
hundreds of years for material that can be used
against this country. These industrious efforts can
only have a boomerang effect. The excuse which the
Nazis offer for their conduct today is that it is on a
level with the lowest depths touched (according to
them) by British policy in the past three centuries.
Hitler: “The year 1914 saved our German land
from a foreign invasion.”
No country planned an invasion of Germany in
1914. Germany began the war in the west by invad-
ing Belgium, just as she began the present war by
invading Poland.
Among the dreary iterations of the speech is a
statement —“it cannot be tolerated any longer that the
British nation of 44,000,000 souls should remain in
possession of 15]- million square miles of the world’s
surface”—which is wrong in its figures and implies
another falsehood. The area of the British Empire is
13,909,782 square miles. It is the Lebensraum of its
500,870,000 inhabitants and of every other nation that
trades with them. Far from being “in the possession
of” Great Britain, most of the area is occupied either
by fully self-governing peoples or is under Govern-
ments already in full control of their own fiscal and
economic policies. The whole is united in a common-
wealth of nations, working towards the goal of civili-
sation and self-government in every part of it. It is a
polity well beyond the comprehension of the vindic-
tive suppressor whose aim is the decivilisation of
fellow-Europeans.
8.8. C., and Other, Defeatists.
[Brief mention appeared in cables of a “sensational”
attack on Middleton Murry as a 8.8. C. broadcaster
made by the editor of the “Nineteenth Century.” More
of the attack, which in passing extended to others
besides Murry, is here given from the February “Nine-
teenth Century.” Praising the article, “Janus,” in his
“Spectator” notes, added: “The readiness of the public
to invest a distinguished novelist, or playwright, or
biologist, or economist, or chemist, or theologian with
authority on complex and intricate problems of foreign
affairs beyond any attributed to men who have made
a lifelong study of the problem is a rather lamentable
commentary on democracy’s estimate of values.”]
The pacifism which is a kind of semi-defeatism
permeates the 8.8. C. and has a considerable follow-
ing amongst the clergy, amongst men of letters and
in the universities. For the defeatism and pacifism that
are so widespread in some of the universities the
undergraduates are, perhaps, less to blame than their
spiritual teachers (not necessarily their professors) who
have been corrupting them with every form of poli-
tical sentimentalism for the last 20 years — 20
years have been a sort of national “silly season” as
far as politics are concerned.
Amongst men of letters today there is very little
understanding of the simplest issues in foreign affairs.
Writers with a considerable following like H. G.
Wells, Bernard Shaw, Harold Laski, Norman Angell,
Julian Huxley, Lancelot Hogben, Yeats Brown, Dean
Inge and Middleton Murry do not appear to have any
perception of what the crisis that has culminated in
the war is about or of its true nature. It is an outrage
that Mr. Middleton Murry, who was selected by the
8.8. C. to give a series of talks under the heading
of “Europe in Travail,” should address undergraduates
as follows:
This is a war of “self-preservation.” But who and
what is the self that is to be preserved? In the last
resort, nothing but our imperial power. Why is that
worth preserving? I see no reason at all.
Are Mr. Middleton Murry and the undergraduates
who read him unaware of what has happened at two
of the oldest universities in Europe? Has Oxford
no fellow-feeling for Cracow and Prague? The wrong
done at Cracow is fearful enough, but nothing that
has happened in any European seat of learning for
generations is comparable with what has just happened
at the University of Prague, where hundreds of stu-
dents, many of them mere boys and girls, were done to
death or maltreated with every beastliness and cruelty,
some of them being left to lie dazed or unconscious
from kicks and blows amid the blood and vomit that
marked the scene of previous abominations.
That there should be any indifference to such
things amongst the undergraduates of any English
university is shameful. It is also stupid to the last
degree, for even if a narrow heart rule out any sym-
pathy with fellow-creatures, even if a mean spirit
regard the greatness and the civilisation of France
and England as nothing at all, it should nevertheless
be clear that the fate of the murdered and horribly
maltreated students of Prague will be that of English
students if Germany wins the war.
Far too little is being said and written about the
terrible massacres and deportations, the hunger, ruin
and the misery that are being inflicted on Poland by
her conquerors. These things are the realities of the
war, though some people find the war “boring.” It is
to the eternal dishonor of the 8.8. C. that it has evaded
almost all mention of these realities, which will go
down into history and stamp our age as one of the
most barbarous that ever was.
The war is, unhappily, not at all “boring,” even
if its worst abominations have not visited western
Europe as yet. It is, even now, an epic of super-
human magnitude. Its hardships and its horrors tran-
scend the powers of the human imagination. The
public can stand the truth if it is presented in a sober
manner and with a due sense of proportion. The
Government did not hesitate to publish an official
account of the treatment of prisoners in German con-
centration camps (rightly or wrongly omitting the
cruder details). It should authorise the issue of a
sober, detailed record of the things that are being
done in conquered Poland and Bohemia today. The
defeatists and pacifists would be reduced to a small
remnant, many of our most distinguished men of
letters would be shamed into silence, and the “home
front” would be strengthened if these truths were
made more public.


Here’s How Ward’s HoeTrac |
Will Simplify Your Cultivating )
It’s a real commercial-grower’s tractor —does the work of three or four 1
men with hand hoes; it seeds, cultivates, weeds, hoes and discs in a l
fraction of usual time. Home-owners are enthusiastic about the Hoe-Trac,
because it furnishes a power lawnmower and does many other jobs besides.
Ward’s Hoe-Trac is designed
to help you grow crops at a
profit. Tools supplied are
DISC GANGS three 7in.
blades to gang, cultivate and
harrow, adjustable for in-throw
or out-throw, excellent for pul-
verising seed beds; WEEDING
HOES —6in., shaped to turn
earth away from row, mulch
top soil and permit close
work; HILLING BLADES—
one right and one left; DUCK-
FOOT SHOVELS —6in., popu-
lar shape for fast, close hoeing
and weeding operations; and
FURROW OPENER and
SEEDER.
CASH PRICE, complete,
£79/10/-
See the Hoe-Trac at
Nock & Kirby’s
STAND 49, R.A.S.
Ward’s Hoe-Trac has a sturdy
one-piece frame. Clearance,
lOin. Drive, enclosed alloy steel
gears, running in oil, bronze bear-
ings. Clutch, idler pulley on “V”
belt from engine to gear drive.
Control, steel tractor and control
cultivator with one hand.
r
Write for
illustrated
leaflet giving’
complete
specifications.
Engine Specifications : Single
cylinder, air-cooled petrol engine
developing 1 h.p. at 2600 r.p.m.;
2in. bore, lfin. stroke, dust-sealed
crankcase, pulley shaft fin. x
2fin. with 3-16 in. key-way; tank
capacity If quarts.
NOCKtKIRBY Ltd
417-421, also 188-194 A, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
e
Completely
in Character !
In that perfect keying of eye-wear to
appearance, so notable in the work of
Werner’s, there is no element of chance.
Each client is an individual study, for
whom Werner’s aim to evolve a style in
eye-wear becoming by virtue of correctly
chosen contour and colouring.
Comfort, too, is a major consideration, so
that the wearer of glasses from Werner’s
is conscious of their presence only by the
benefit they afford.
i
l 0
■
H
mm a
mm
HH
1
.. ■ c..
wmm
336 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
WERNER'S ARE MEMBERS OF THE
QUALIFIED OPTICIANS’ SOCIETY
For an Appointment,
Ring M 5149.


ANNUAL EASTER SALES OF BLOODSTOCK
to be held at
NEWMARKET STABLES, RANDWICK, N.S.W.
YEARLINGS: 26th, 28th and 29th MARCH, 1940.
Catalogues on application.
BROOD MARES, STALLIONS, UNTRIED STOCK AND RACEHORSES IN
TRAINING: MONDAY, Ist APRIL, 1940.
(After the conclusion of the Yearling Sales.)
Particulars have already been received of the following:—
On account of ME. G. M. CURRIE, Koa.tar.ui, Kai Iwi, Wanganui, N.Z. : HIGH-CLASS STALLION,
POSTERITY (Imp.) (2), winner of Ascot Hardwicke Stakes (£2860, 11 miles), etc., son of the great
English Sire, Son-in-law, and sire of Mosaic (winner of A.J.C. St. Leger, Sydney Cu'p, etc.), Heritage
(Eclipse Stakes, £7031, in India), Tohunga, Entail, Legatee, Elanage, etc.—Bay Horse (1926), by
SON-IN-LAW from HEMIiOCK, by SPEARMINT. , ~
On account of Various Owners: HIGHLY-BRED STALLIONS, EGMONT (12), winner of V.A.T.C
Bond Handicap, etc.—Bay Horse (1932) by LIMOND (Imp.) from IMPRUDENCE, by ROYAL LANCER
(son of Spearmint) ; and BRAIDWOOD BOY (6), a, good performer and closely related to Imp. Cyklon—
,! " y ITrJTk STATION OLD SERPENT
of the Irish Derby, etc., and son of Golden Myth, winner of the Ascot Gold Cup, Eclipse Stakes, etc., fiom
NENNETTE, by BACHELOR'S DOUBLE. ALgO
18 HIGHLY-BRED BROOD MARES', served by Constant Son (Imp.), Medieval Knight (Imp.),
Pantheon (Imp.) and Christopher Robin (Imp.) T uattttett
n „ a w rntmUPSON *■ CO PTY LTD., and Executors Estate late E. L. BAILLIEU.
(S’. S,
\eilmond. ~ -tirr'm.V-RRED BROOD MARES, served by Piccadilly (Imp.),
On account of Various Owneis. 14 HIGHLY Pr • 7 tjtjt'RlF'D TWO- AND THREE-
). 'SSL. «.„>« (D.P.). a„d
Silverado (Imp.). FURTHER ENTRIES INVITED.
WILLIAM INGLIS & SON PTY., LTD., Bloodstock Salesmen,
’Phones: 86411, 86412. 28 O’Connell Street; Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Variety may be the spice of life, but
punters who lost heavily during the
V.R.C. autumn meeting have lost all
appreciation for the unexpected. The
40-to-l Newmarket win of Mildura and
the 25-to-l Australian Cup success of
Indignity left them cold, but Amiable’s
defeat of High Caste, Ajax and Manrico
in the C. M. Lloyd Stakes at Flemington
on Saturday left them speechless.
Amiable, a five-year-old mare by Lord
Quex-Agreeable, has always been a good
galloper, and only on Tuesday of last
week she carried 8.13 to success in the
Bourke Handicap, but punters in their
wildest dreams could not visualise her
defeating Australia’s three greatest
sprinters at a mile on weight-for-age
terms. She had finished behind Ajax,
High Caste and Manrico in the Futurity
Stakes, and those horses met her from
one stone to 181 b. better on Saturday.
Amiable’s starting price of 20 to 1 in a
field of four reflected the general idea
of her chance, but there was no
semblance of a fluke in her win. Ham-
pered slightly at the start, and about four
lengths behind the pacemakers, Ajax and
Manrico, near the half-mile, she made
her run on the outside and worried High
Caste out of it after the latter had shot
through to take the lead when Ajax
veered out in the straight. The time was
there, too. Amiable shattered the Aus-
tralasian record time of by cutting
out the mile in 1.34|, and intermediate
times showed that she bettered the six-
furlongs record also. The last six were
clocked officially to be run in 1.9|, and,
as Amiable was several lengths behind
the leader at the end of the first two
furlongs, she made even faster time.
Australian record for six furlongs is
Regular Bachelor’s 1.9|.
Owner W. R. Kemball and trainer W.
Hawthorne must regret having omitted
to nominate Amiable for the All-Aged
Plate, the mile w.f.a. race to be run at
Randwick this autumn. Hilton, another
of Kemball’s horses, is engaged in that
race, but Amiable, though nominated for
the Doncaster, was not entered for any
minor race at the meeting. Big oppor-
tunities might have been lost thereby,
but Kemball, who races a large string of
horses, can console himself with this
thought that, but for a strange prank of
fortune, Amiable might not have been
carrying his colors today. Early in her
career Amiable was leased by Kemball to
a friend, “F. B. Melton,” but she went
lame just when she was ready to begin
racing. Veterinary advice was to the
effect that she would need a long spell
before she was able to race, if ever, and
“Melton” returned the filly to her owner.
The mysterious lameness, however, dis-
appeared almost as suddenly as it had
arrived, and Amiable has since won
several thousands in stakes for Kem-
ball.
Compare this with the form of the
filly leased by “Melton” in lieu of Ami-
able. Snowball by name, she did not
even run a place for him, and was sold
for 70 guineas as a stud proposition.
Tactics adopted by Harold Badger on
Ajax in playing a game of cut-throat
with Manrico were criticised by backers
who laid the odds on, but the fact was
that he could not come on without the
horse. After the Futurity Stakes Badger
proclaimed Ajax to be almost as good
as ever, but after Saturday’s defeat into
third place he altered his tune. “On
today’s run Ajax is not the horse he was,”
was his summing-up. Ajax’s chance was
not improved by Manrico going with
him from the six furlongs to the turn,
but Badger had no alternative but to let
his mount run along. Ajax was beaten
over a furlong from home, but his defeat
caused no alteration in plans made for
his Sydney trip. Maybe his form at
Randwick will determine his immediate
future. Intentions were to retire him to
the stud after the A.J.C. meeting, but
lately there has been a lot of talk con-
cerning the probability of his racing for
another season.
A glass of water and a hot, sweaty
day combined to make a minor sensa-
tion when former Sydney jockey Harold
Hanley weighed in 21b. over his declared
weight after his winning ride on Indignity
in the Australian Cup. Notified only
on the day of the race that he was defi-
nitely engaged for Indignity, he spent
the morning in the Turkish baths, and
took off 41b. or 51b. Even then Hanley
could not make Indignity’s handicap
weight of 7.5, and at scale he declared
21b. over —7.7. Between weighing-out
and weighing-in the weight of himself
and his gear increased 21b., and officials
were somewhat perturbed when the
scales showed 7.9. Semaphoring of cor-
rect weight was delayed longer than
usual, but, as jockeys are allowed a
margin of 21b. over their declared weight,
nothing was really amiss.
Had Hanley exceeded the margin, it is
unlikely that any drastic action would
have been taken. V.R.C. rules once
made it compulsory for stewards to dis-
qualify a horse whose rider exceeded
stipulated limits after a race, but now
they have discretionary powers. An in-
quiry by the stewards revealed that, in
addition to his saddle, Indignity wore two
towels and a cotton pad, which became
saturated with sweat during the race, and
that Hanley, who had been wasting
heavily, had a small drink of water
before the race. Stewards were satisfied
that these factors accounted for the in-
creased weight.
Indignity was one of the early fancies
for the Australian Cup, but, owing to
two unimpressive races after his arrival
in Melbourne, eased out of the market
until he was one of the rank outsiders of
the field on the day of the race. Owner
W. P. A. Lapthorne, who has always
regarded his gelding as a genuine stayer,
took two bets totalling £5OO, and, to-
gether with his trainer, J. M. Brett, de-
cided that Indignity’s best chance would
lie in an attempt to “steal” the race.
Hanley was instructed accordingly, and
carried out his orders to the letter. He
dashed Indignity to the front about nine
furlongs from home, had a lead of 20
lengths near the half-mile, entered the
straight with the race well won, and
wound up with eight lengths to spare
from Morvren, with Companion two and
a half lengths away in third place.
Jumpers have occasionally run well
in the Australian Cup, and Indignity
adds to their number. Lapthorne, S.A.J.C.
committeeman, is a keen supporter of
jumping races, and every horse he buys
is with a view to jumping sooner or,
later. Indignity, a five-year-old gelding
by Salatis-Dignified Girl, who cost him
205 guineas as a yearling, was tried over
hurdles, but did not impress at his first
and only attempt in a race, and was re-
turned to flat-racing. Results have
shown the wisdom of the move. Quite
apart from his wins in his home town,
the Australian Cup was worth £2250 to
the owner, plus a £lOO trophy.
Valmiki, another Adelaide horse, was
the greatest disappointment of the Cup.
He was considered unlucky to have been
beaten by Indignity in the Port Adelaide
Cup, and Neville Percival, who rode
Indignity in the latter race, did not hesi-
tate to take the Australian Cup mount
on Valmiki when it was offered him. He
had reason to regret his choice on Satur-
day, when Valmiki, starting favorite at
7 to 2, was last home. Other well-backed
runners shaped almost as badly. Pageant
finished the course, but according to rider
M. McCarten he seemed to break down
near the five furlongs; Cooranga, ac-
cording to rider Ashley Reed, was out-
stayed ; Gladstone chased Indignity into
the straight, but soon retired beaten ;
Elanage was never really dangerous, and
Sir Grey found the distance beyond him.
Pure Gold, a candidate for the Don-
caster, a race won in 1935 by his brother
Hall Mark, recorded rather an impres-
sive win in the Leonard Stakes. Hitting
the front about a furlong and a half from
home, he stalled off a strong challenge
from Zonda, who was backed from sixes
to 7 to 2, and won from that filly and
Hilton. Last-named made a sudden dive
for the rails when touched with the whip
about half a furlong from home, and
was thrown right off his balance. He
might not have won in any circumstances,
as he was not doing as well as the first
and second horses right at the finish, but
the incident did not improve his pros-
pects. In addition to the Doncaster,
Pure Gold is engaged in the St. Leger
and Sydney Cup at Randwick, but he
has been trained as a sprinter this
autumn, and his minor engagements at
Randwick are in sprint events.
Ajax’s defeat on Saturday was a bitter
disappointment to trainer Frank Mus-
grave, but latter gained some consolation
from the success later in the afternoon
of Pandect in the Gibson Carmichael
Stakes. Pandect, a Pantheon-Credit colt,
is trained by Musgrave for John Wren,
who had the added satisfaction of hav-
ing bred the youngster. Starting at 6
to 1 after eights had been laid, Pandect
ran on strongly at the end of the seven
furlongs to win from Tranquil Star and
the tiring Partoer, but he may have been
lucky to beat Tranquil Star. Latter was
slow away, and last when the field settled
down. Pandect, however, impresses as
likely to keep on improving, and, on
Saturday’s form, a trip to Sydney for
minor races is warranted. His Rand-
wick engagements include the Wentworth
and Fernhill Handicaps.
Sydney stables did well during the four
days at Flemington, winning the Sires’
Produce Stakes with Trueness, the New-
market with Mildura, the Nursery with
Session, the St. Leger with Reading and
the Autumn Handicap with Early Bird.
Big money, however, was lost on Broad-
caster, Cooranga, Air Link and J. T.
Jamieson’s pair, High Caste and Tidal
Wave. Following his third in the Hope-
ful Stakes, Tidal Wave was always
favorite for the Gibson Carmichael
Stakes, but, after an interrupted passage
over the last two furlongs, he finished
only fourth.
Norman Creighton, who was associated
with Amiable in the C. M. Lloyd Stakes,
rode El Golea brilliantly to win the
Farewell Handicap. Creighton considers
that El Golea would have gone close to
winning his second Newmarket but for
meeting with interference in that race,
and, on the strength of his fourth, El
Golea was backed from 6 to 1 down
to favoritism at 3 to 1 on Saturday.
Manoeuvring out of trouble at the top of
the straight, Creighton timed El Golea’s
run nicely, and wore down the pace-
maker, Carpentier, to win by half a neck.
El Golea’s win was his first since he was
taken in hand by Jack Fryer, and, having
struck form again, further improvement
is probable. He is engaged in the Don-
caster and other races at Randwick.
Combined ages of the 13 runners for
the Autumn Steeplechase was 118 years,
and Gold Glare, six-year-old “baby” of
the field, showed that youth will be
served. He jumped to the front at the
last fence, and won easily from Sir
Muslin (10 years) and Testudo (eight
years) in time only a second outside the
Flemington record for 2\ miles over
fences. Gold Glare raced in Maoriland
and Sydney before he was bought re-
cently by trainer Steve Murphy, and his
win was his first in Melbourne.
* * * *
Rosehill racing was interesting, and
was responsible for three surprises—the
respective failures of Bonny Loch, Valve
and Royal Chief. The last-named again
proved that the Rawson Stakes is a dan-
gerous race for backers. Two years ago
an even-money favorite in Allunga
could only get third to Sarcherie and
Cathartes, and last year Ajax, at 40 to 1
on, was beaten by Spear Chief. Winners
included promising two-year-olds in
Panchio and John, and Valve’s failure
bore out my opinion of last week that he
was unlikely to improve to any extent.
Good Morning justified her favoritism
for the Three and Four-year-old Handi-
cap. Royal Routine led at the half-mile
from Radical, Good Morning and Ras
Desta, but Good Morning had the race
won at the leger, the minor places going
to Royal Routine and Pimm’s. Bestop
ran fairly, but, of those behind the
winner, Royal Routine may prove the
only one worth following during the
next few weeks. As this was Good Morn-
ing’s sixth win, she has been profitable
even at the 800gns. she cost F. W.
Hughes. With the addition of minor
place money she has won more than her
yearling price, and presumably her owner
has had something on her each time she
won. Dollar and Radical can be im-
proved in condition. Kestrel again made
a poor showing.
The issue of the first division of the
Nursery Handicap was practically con-
fined to Lady Neith, Roxford, Panchio
and Angus from the half-mile post. Rox-
ford and Lady Neith led into the straight,
but Panchio settled them without any
trouble. Nearest the place-getters was
Wartime (Closing Time-Dowdy), who is
going to prove better than he looks.
Panchio, who adds to O. Triggs’s lucky
FOR WARWICK FARM.
(To be held at RANDWICK)
By “PILOT.”
Farm Novice Handicap: Guin-
ness, 1 ; Cryon, 2 ; Yellowstone, 3.
Fairfield Handicap (for fillies):
Dark Elegance, 1 ; Happy Bay, 2 ;
Wedding Belle, 3.
Fairfield Handicap (for colts and
geldings): Panchio, 1 ; Patrician, 2 ;
Rylstone, 3.
Chipping Norton Plate: Early
Bird, 1 ; Dashing Cavalier, 2;
Feminist, 3.
Liverpool Handicap: Denis, 1 ;
Rodborough, 2 ; Gold Salute, 3.
Warwick Farm Autumn Cup:
Yours Truly, 1; Own Folk, 2 ; The
Blizzard, 3.
Cabramatta Handicap: The
Squire, 1 ; Cigarette, 2 ; Breeze, 3.
FOR CAULFIELD.
By “SENTRY.”
Narong Hurdle: Glowing, 1 ;
Glenlonan, 2 ; Terka, 3.
Orrong Two-year-old: Tranquil
Star, 1 ; Cyden’s Son, 2 ; All
Veil, 3.
St. Kilda Handicap: Alarm, 1 ;
Companion, 2 ; Lanarus, 3.
Gordon Steeplechase: Gold
Glare, 1; Imitari, 2 ; Bully Hayes, 3,.
South Yarra Handicap: Opera-
tic, 1 ; Pamelus, 2 ; Aurie’s Star, 3.
Kooyong Welter: Courage, 1 ;
Lord Windburra, 2 ; Denis Girl, 3.


r
Ask your tailor for it!
A SERGE SUIT is more useful—for more occasions—
than any suit in your wardrobe. Whether for
business or social wear, daytime or evening, you are
always quite correct in a serge. And, when the suit is made
of GOLD MEDAL SERGE you will be wearing a cloth that
is the equal of anything in the world.
GOLD MEDAL SERGE is made from Australian Pure
Merino—the finest wool the world produces. The cloth is
the strongest weave and dyed with the famous Crusader
Fadeless Indigo Dye.
The Name, Trade Mark and Quality
are printed in gold upon every three
yards of cloth,
GOLD MEDAL SERGE is a CRUSADER CLOTH MONARCH
Quality. The name is branded in gold upon every three yards of cloth.
. . . The price for a suit of GOLD MEDAL SERGE is usually from
£7/7/- to £lO/10/-. Differences in price are determined by superior
cut, workmanship and trimmings.
CRUSADER CLOTH is available also in Grey Mixtures;
Plain and Fancy Greys; Navy, Black, Brown and Royal
Fancy Suitings; Tropical Suitings and Dress Suitings.
e
ffiraoaiter ©loth
(JDARANTEED NEVER TO FARE OR SHRINK
purchases, is a strongly-built colt by
Harinero from Rio Rita (Friar Marcus-
Glassmond), and as a yearling was sold
for 400gns. to A. E. Cooper, who raced
him without success. Angus was below
expectations, and Merry Monarch and
Indian Emperor cut up badly. Panchio
was offered at auction recently, and was
passed in. It is stated that Triggs later
gave a little over lOOOgns. for him.
Vaive, though a hot favorite for the
second division of the Nursery, was
unable to score his third successive win.
He struck a little trouble at the start,
but a clear run on the rails enabled him
to get to the front a furlong from home,
He was then headed by His Lordship
(a good-looking colt by Constant Son
from Ascalon). The latter, in turn, gave
place to John, who finished strongly, and
won nicely, though not easily. He is by
John Buchan from Mince Pie, and on
the maternal side represents a staying
family. Owned by Mrs. P. H. Osborne,
he adds to the many two-year-old win-
ners trained by B. R. Payten. Gonfala
again showed pace, but though Welcome
News was nicely placed approaching the
turn, and appeared to be going comfort-
ably, he failed badly in the run home,
He is not fulfilling the promise he gave
when he ran second to Yuletide at Rand-
wick in January, and would seem weak-
hearted. Rimveil, who finished fourth,
was doing well at the end.
* ’ * ’ • *
In the Rawson Stakes Dashing Cavalier
outstayed Feminist, who led into the
straight. St. Constant was disappointing,
After making a forward move at the three
furlongs he dropped back again, and
though just after entering the straight he
momentarily seemed as if he were going
to raise a good finishing run he was
merely plugging along at the end.
Allunga, though fourth, did not show
w.f.a. form, and it was scarcely to be ex-
pected of Fearless. The favorite, Royal
Chief, looked well, but, commencing
slowly, tailed off several lengths behind
the second-last horse in the first three
furlongs. He made up ground towards
the end, but his indifferent display mys-
tified his trainer, F. D. Jones, as much as
anybody. Dashing Cavalier will now be
a runner for the A.J.C. St. Leger, and,
as a stayer, he has a third in the Victoria
Derby to his credit. Something better
than that will be necessary to give him
much chance of beating Reading.
Unlucky Pen continues to score minor
places, and invariably rdns well enough
to add a little extra to his weight. He
led in the Railway Handicap until almost
the last stride, and was then beaten by
Cigarette, who was his nearest follower
in the early part. Rounding the turn
Bel Oiseau and Sign On were slightly
ahead of her, but, helped by her 71b.
allowance, Cigarette got her nose in
hTrlhirfsuccessWet™’ 1 ’ 8 P ° S '' “ WaS
r successive win.
Bel Oiseau missed a place, but did well
until within half a furlong of home, and
in finishing fourth Aristocrat must now
enter into ‘backers’ calculations, though
at a longer distance than six furlongs,
Bonny Loch was going well in third place
until near the three furlongs, when he
suddenly dropped back, and finished
nearly last. He was a hot favorite, and,
as usual in such circumstances, some of
the spectators invited the stewards to
“Rub him out” on his return to the
weighing-yard. There was an inquiry,
and trainer Papworth was able to satisfy
the stewards that everything was in order.
An interesting runner was 11-year-old
Dermid, who was sold at a very low
price a little while back. He finished
last, but did not do badly for five fur-
longs.
I n the Rosehill Autumn Handicap
Gold Spark again demonstrated her
gameness. She made all the running,
and, though it seemed certain that The
Buzzard or Lord Valentine would beat
her when they got almost level with her
half a furlong from home, she stalled
them off in the same fashion that she
beat Mildura in the Anniversary Handi-
cap. She had a 71b. allowance for
apprentice Andrews, and he again
handled her as well as when he scored
on her on a previous occasion at this
track. Fountain, who was outpaced in
the first half of the race, was going nicely
in fourth position at the finish,
......
Baveon, who has been one of A. G.
Papworth’s team for some time, won the
Parramatta Mile in good style, despite
a good finishing run on the part of
Überous. It is said that Baveon may now
start in the Doncaster, and as on Satur-
day he ran the mile in 1.39—0n1y a
second outside the present record for
Rosehill—he may not be out of place,
Valhalla’s weight found him out at the
end, and the distance was short for
Tusculum. The latter’s stable-com-
panion Mischief never quite looked a
winner, but ran well enough to suggest
that he is coming on. Neither Curiosity
nor Cherry Bar did as well as expected,
and Asnazu did not gallop nearly as
freely for Cook as for his usual rider,
Thompson. He was much too far back
after going five furlongs to have a win-
ning chance subsequently, though he
made up leeway from the turn.
* * * *
It is indisputable now that Reading is
a better stayer than High Caste. At one
stage in thfe straight it seemed as if High
Caste would beat Reading in the A.J.C.
Derby; in the Victoria Derby the latter
always had his measure; and in the
V.R.C. St. Leger Reading took him off
his legs in the record time for the race
of 2.56|. The previous best was Middle
Watch’s 2.59, and the Australian record
for a mile and three-quarters is Gay
Crusader’s 2.55 at Randwick. The Flem-
ington record is First Acre’s 2.56|.
The idea obtained last autumn that
High Caste was too heavily topped to
make a real stayer. His form this season
has confirmed that idea. A mile and a
half is seemingly the full length of his
tether, and as, with age, he is bound to
become heavier, it seems little use look-
ing to him to improve over a distance.
Despite his Derby and St. Leger failures
he has given H. E. Tancred a satisfactory
return for the £7OOO he paid for him, and
as the increased weight he will have to
carry in w.f.a. races next season is un-
likely to affect him seriously he may
considerably add to his earnings in races
up to a mile and a quarter.
* * * *
It was only the other day we were told
Ajax was as good as ever he was, and
now there is a different story. Anyhow,
Ajax is to be given an opportunity at
Randwick of showing exactly where he
stands. On the opening day he is in the
Doncaster Handicap and Autumn Plate.
Writing before there is any declaration
on that score it is difficult to say which
will be chosen for him. The mile and
a half may not suit him quite as well as
the shorter distance, but, though the Don-
caster Handicap is framed on flattering
lines, 9.13 is a tidy load. It is a pity
Amiable is not in the All-Aged Plate,
as a meeting between her, Ajax, Beau-
livre, High Caste and one or two others
in that race would have added to the
attractions of the A.J.C. autumn meet-
ing.
* * * *
Indignity’s sudden dash to the front
in the Australian Cup was unexpected,
but it could scarcely be claimed it was
a fluke win, as his followers were unable
to make much impression before reach-
ing the turn, and, unless he almost
walked, a win for him was certain from
the time he entered the straight. The
pace was slow in the early part, but when
Indignity took up the running he made
it solid enough. The time, 3.5 H, was
a long way behind Marauder’s 3.471,
but was three-quarters of a second faster
than when Pageant won last year. On
only four occasions has 3.5 H been
beaten. Indignity is by Salatis (son of
Shepherd King), winner of a Caulfield
Futurity Stakes.
* * * *
When Defaulter showed lameness on
pulling up after winning the Haslett Gold
Cup at the Dunedin meeting it was not
thought the trouble would prove serious.
After cooling off, he became so bad
that he was unable to use the leg the
following day, and had to be left at
Wingatui instead of being sent back to
Riccarton with his stablemates. The
breakdown was in the joint that settled
him in Sydney, and was not altogether
unexpected, notwithstanding he had
pulled up satisfactorily in his gallops, ft
is now regarded as doubtful whether he
will ever race again, which, in the case
of such a great galloper, is unfortunate
for H. D. Greenwood and F. Roberts.
It rarely falls to the lot of any owner
or trainer to get more than one horse
of the calibre of Defaulter.
* * * *
Rosehill is becoming a non-proprietary
club. Presumably this means a better
return for shareholders as debenture-
holders than under present conditions.
Well, that will not be begrudged them
if, as anticipated, the change tends
to increased prize-money. At the same
time, the club is likely to have trouble
in securing the additional racing dates
it anticipates. If it were possible, owners
and trainers would not object to some
metropolitan and provincial clubs being
sacrificed to some extent in the interests
of a good track like Rosehill, but that
may be difficult of accomplishment.
* * * *
For the information of a Queensland
subscriber, the Doncaster Handicap, St.
Leger and A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
are run on March 23 ; Sydney Cup on
March 25, Champagne Stakes and All-
aged Plate on March 27, and A.J.C. Plate
and Cropper Plate on March 30.
The A.J.C. handicapper does not, as
a rule, commence his weights for im-
portant races on a comparatively low
scale, but he has done so in the Don-
caster. It was generally anticipated that
Ajax would get over 10st., but it is prob-
able the result of the C. M. Lloyd Stakes
made a difference. Ajax is not over-
burdened with 9.13, but, as he is meet-
ing Amiable 31b. and High Caste 41b.
worse than last Saturday, the Autumn
Plate may be chosen for him.
Delmestor is fairly treated with 9st.,
but of those with that weight or more
High Caste may be best. Between 9st.
and Bst. Mildura, Beaulivre and Gee-
bung are among those sure to meet with
support, as will Pure Gold and Chats-
bury if they come over. Geebung has
71b. more than he successfully carried
in the Epsom, and has won since. Beau-
livre has shaken off the soreness that
affected him shortly after his arrival in
Sydney, and is looking well. While form
is against him as a stayer, he is a great
miler. Gold Salute ran well in the New-
market with 8.5, and improvement in
him is certain.
From Bst. to 7st. there are several
horses with good prospects. Bonny
Loch will have to improve considerably
on his last two efforts to carry off the
first leg of his owner’s double, but Rod-
borough, with 21b. less than when he
won the Villiers, is favorably treated. He
meets Mildura, who was third in that
race, 71b. better, but of course the latter
has since won the Newmarket. His-
torian is not overdone with 7.12, nor is
Bramol with that weight. Improving
Leeds may be a possibility, and others
that cannot be overlooked are Curiosity,
Baveon and Breeze. The last-named, in
receipt of 1 lib., did not give Dashing
Cavalier a look-in for the Brighton Han-
dicap at Moorefield last month. Now
there is 91b. between them, and Dashing
Cavalier won at w.f.a. at Rosehill on
Saturday.
Katanga enters into calculations, but
though he won at a mile at Rosehill less
than a fortnight ago he may be better
suited by a longer distance. When


</Gwnz f
Remember
that Radiol and “ Bone Radiol ”
cure without Blistering, Pain, or
Removal of the Hair,
Radiol for soft swellings. Bone-
Radiol for fibrous, hard, or bony
enlargements.
A cure for lameness is guaranteed
with Bone>Radiol. Simply paint on
with a brush.
Write now for our Blue and Red
Booklets, 40 pages illustrated, free
on request, which will tell you all
about them.
Apply; Wept. T.l„ P.O. Box 3961 V,
G.P.0., Sydney.
THE RADIO!, CO., ENGLAND.
r
01
I
Six-20 Kodak Special with
f/4.5 lens and the new
Supermatic Shutter, pictures
2} x 31 inches. Newest
achievement in precision
apparatus. Price, £l2/2/6
Six - 20 Kodak Seniors,
from . . . . £5/2/6
Six - 20 Kodak Juniors,
from 70/-.
BANTAM KODAKS
from Jj ■
Now, while the
holiday spirit is in the
air —see the new
Kodaks and Brownies
•
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS
AND
KODAK
(Abasia) Pty.Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, P ertb,
Hobart, Launceston,
Toowoomba, Townsville,
Rockhampton, Cairns,
Newcastle, Ballarat.
e
Jiffy Kodaks, featur-
ing the famous "But-
ton - control" action
front for speed in
picture-taking CO/ft
from ““
Folding-style Kodak
Bullet, from . . 12/6
Baby Brownie . . 6/-
POPULAR
BROWNIE
B'3
Katanga scored on the occasion referred
lo Tel Asur 121 b. The handi-
capper must expect the latter to improve
most as there is now only 71b. between
them’. Not long ago Petruchio would
have been regarded as particularly well
in at 7.5, but he has been disappointing
in his recent races.
Of those weighted at less than 7st. The
Squire, Bachelor King, Pen Name, In-
spector Scott and Good Morning make
a useful collection, but it seems little use
looking among the lightweights for a
Doncaster win, though Jacko scored with
6.10 in 1932. Since then Hamurah won
with 7.9, and Silver Rose’s 7.5 is the
lowest weight carried into a minor place.
So many horses appear to have reason-
able prospects that it seems a case of
waiting to see what is well on the day.
The next couple of meetings may cause
me to alter my opinions, but at present
High Caste, Geebung, Rodborough,
Breeze, Beaulivre, Pure Gold and Gold
Salute impress me most.
The Sydney Cup has not been a really
good race for heavyweights, and I do
not expect this year’s winner to
come from anything with over 9st.,
though, as Mosaic won with weight-
for-age, he is not harshly treated
with a pound over the scale. Read-
ing’s 8.10 is 101 b. more than weight-
for-age, but when Sylvandale, at the
same age, was the closest of thirds, he
carried 8.12. Still, a win with 8.10 is
a severe task for any three-year-old.
Feminist is nicely in with 51b. more
than when she won the Metropolitan, and,
notwithstanding Cooranga was a failure
in the Australian Cup with 8.5, it is advis-
able to give her a chance in this with
41b. less. Yours Truly, a proved two-
miler, is going to play a prominent part.
He has done well since winning at Rose-
hill, and, if he is worth what he cost, a
win for him with 7.12 might not be too
much to expect. Pantler’s owner thinks
he could have been treated more
leniently, but, while he may be correct in
that contention, the son of Pantheon has
shown he can get two miles. Pantler
galloped with Santa between races at
Rosehill on Saturday, and is well for-
ward in condtion. Old Rowley is com-
ing on again, and at 8.4 is favorably
treated.
Valmiki ran too badly in the Austra-
lian Cup to be recommended. Gold
Spark can be relied on to give her
backers a good run. In 7.6 she has a
weight that thoroughly suits her. Santa
is another Rosehill-trained representative
that may run well, though a slightly
shorter distance would probably be more
to his liking. Own Folk must be included
among the possibilities, as must The
Blizzard, who is improving with racing.
Backed on two occasions recently
Fountain has fallen short of expecta-
tions, but as I think staying is his forte
it will not greatly surprise if he does
much better at Randwick than at recent
suburban meetings.
The Blizzard may stay, and as Bringa
has won at a mile and five furlongs, and
ran fifth in an Australian Cup, two miles
might not prove too far for him. The
next fortnight will tell us a lot more
than is known at present, but Yours
Truly, Feminist, Pantler, Fountain, Own
Folk, Cooranga and Gold Spark are
among those worth considering for the
second leg of a double.
* * *
Trueness and Session paid their way
in Melbourne, but the former’s failure
in the Ascot Vale Stakes slightly less-
ened the high opinion formed of her
because of her Sires’ Produce Stakes win.
Her penalty naturally made a difference,
but she seemingly falls short of the stand-
ard of some other winners of the V.R.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes. Nevertheless, her
chance in the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
is still excellent. Her opponents will
probably include some stablemates, one
being Rylstone, now owned by R. Moses.
Rylstone was easily beaten by Dark
Elegance in the December Stakes, but
the additional quarter-mile may help
him.
In Melbourne Broadcaster was a lot
below his spring form, but there is the
possibility of his being benefited by his
southern trip and showing to greater
advantage here. Although he died away
at the finish of the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes there was no lack of pace in his
effort. Fearless Fox, who is not in the
Sires’ Produce Stakes, was another of
Sydney’s failures in Melbourne; and
Tidal Wave, greatly boomed by southern
track watchers, proved a “false alarm,”
though he is credited with finishing
fast in fourth position in the Gibson Car-
michael Stakes. However, as he carried
only 7.9 he still has a long way to go
before he proves worth the 1400gns. he
cost as a yearling. The Victorian colt
Halifax is expected to improve consider-
ably, as is Pandect, but on form it would
be difficult to say of any of the two-
year-olds that have raced “There is a
Derby winner.”
« * * .*
Racing is full of surprises, and W. R.
Kemball must now be inclined to regret
he did not run Amiable in the New-
market Handicap instead of Hilton. Still,
as winner of the Bourke Handicap and
C. M. Lloyd Stakes, Amiable has given
him a great meeting and must be a very
different mare from when she ran no-
where in the last Doncaster with 8.9.
With the luck of the start against her she
beat Ajax and High Caste on worse terms
than in the Futurity Stakes, and made an
Australian record of 1.34 i for the mile,
the previous best being 1.35^.
* * * *
Queenslander Assegai was heavily
backed for last week’s Kensington
Handicap. At one time it was accepted
that no horse could win at Kensington
“first up,” but that idea has been re-
peatedly disproved. It is probable,
though, that a track like Victoria Park
or Rosebery would have given Assegai a
better chance than Kensington. He re-
peatedly got into trouble, and the fact
that he did not gain a place could
scarcely be counted against him. Unless
he belies his looks, Assegai will at least
pay his way in Sydney in suburban com-
pany. Two winners at Kensington that
are sure to score again before long are
Postman and Samurai. The latter looks
stronger now than at any previous time.
* * * *
Melbourne yearling sales did not give
as good a return as those of last season,
when 197 youngsters averaged 215gns.
This year 188 were sold at an average of
181-2-gns., and only one reached the four-
figures mark, that being the Lothario-
Beneficiary colt from Raymond and
Ranken’s St. Albans Stud. T. H. McKay,
of South Australia, gave lOOOgns. for
him. The St. Albans Stud proprietors
had more reason than most to be satis-
fied, 17 from their stud realising 8925gns.
Last year their highest-priced colt was
the one by Gay Lothario from Donna
Celesta. He was sold for 1150gns., but
last week his full brother made only
300gns.
Some breeders must have been un-
pleasantly surprised by the light demand
for their yearlings. There were few pur-
chases for Sydney, and the idea obtained
that many buyers were “saving up for
the Randwick sales.” N.S.W. breeders
are not pessimistic because of the falling-
off in Melbourne, and it is safe to
prophesy that, as usual, youngsters that
look like furnishing into real racehorses
will bring their full value.
* * * *
It was unfortunate for Maikai’s
owner that he ran so well in the King’s
Plate. Without his defeat of Ajax being
probable at any stage, he had a lot to
do with making that horse run his
last half-mile in 46isec. Without his
good run against Ajax, Maikai was cer-
tain of his full share in the Sydney Cup,
and possibly Thursday’s effort earned
him an additional couple of pounds.
That does not sound much, but, when a
horse is heavily weighted it may be suf-
ficient to make the difference between
winning and losing. Maikai’s last run in
Sydney was in April, when he was un-
placed with 7.12 in the Dangar Handi-
cap. His owner would like the oppor-
tunity of racing him again with that
weight. Maikai has shown how much it
is possible for a gelding to improve even
after he has turned five.
* * * *
David won the 1923 Sydney Cup with
9.7, and Lilypond with 9.0 in 1925.
Rogilla’s 8.10 is the most successfully
carried since then, and of the last 14
winners nine have carried less than 8.0.
Of the minor place-getters Veilmond did
best of recent years. He carried 9.11
when third to Johnnie Jason (8.4) and
Admiral Drake (8.9). Sylvandale was
third with 8.12, and Oro with 9.0. The
former put up a great performance for
a three-year-old, finishing within half a
neck of the winner, Akuna, who had 7.0.
Last year’s place-getters were Mosaic
(8.2), L’Aiglon (8.7)) and Malagigi (7.11)
in that order. Mosaic may again be a
runner this year, but L’Aiglon and Mala-
gigi are not engaged.
When L’Aiglon won in 1938 he had
6.8, and less than three weeks earlier
was beaten by Spearbine (8.0) in a Pro-
gressive Handicap, li mile, at Kensing-
ton. The latter gave 111 b. to L’Aiglon,
whose trainer expected him to win. It
would be difficult to calculate how much
L’Aiglon improved between the two races,
and it is remembrance of occurrences of
this kind that makes you smile when you
hear denunciations of the stewards for
not taking action when horses run better
or worse at an earlier outing. Growls
by casual racegoers are forgivable, but
those making most fuss are often men
supposed to know racing thoroughly.
* * * *
William Inglis and Son are in for a
busy time at the end of this month and
the beginning of next. Yearling sales
take place on March 26, 28 and 29,
609 being catalogued ; and on April 1
stallions, brood mares, untried stock and
racehorses in training will be offered.
The stallions will include Posterity
(from Maoriland), Egmont, Old Serpent
(imported) and Braidwood Boy, Mosaic,
Elanage and Heritage are among Pos-
terity’s many good performers. The
Kia-Ora contribution of brood mares will
include several served by Constant Son,
Medieval Knight, Pantheon and Chris-
topher Robin, and, jointly on account of
A. W. Thompson and Co. Ptd. and
executors of the estate of the late E. L.
Baillieu, 12 mares will be offered, some


nAUUC'Modmi
llltß Ktf
FOR EVERY TYPE OF FLAT C. DWELLING !
IHi
:
HERE ARE FITTINGS
SUPPLIED TO
87 MACLEAY REGIS
MODERN FLATS,
POTTS POINT, SYDNEY,
and many similar blocks
of flats.
'iWWWMwi
H o t Water
Supply
throughout
by “White
Rose” C.l.
Sectional
Boiler at ap-
proximate
cost of two
hot baths for
one penny.
i -
■
11
;
V’ r
Rebated In-
terior plated
door furniture
(above).
Antique Bronze
knocker com-
bination with
Etas Mortice
Eight Latch
(left).
“Neo-Clitrome” streamlined
Kitchen Cocks for hot and
cold water.
“Eazifold” window openers
on large windows.
. . -
' 31
a
HB
ARCHITECTS:
Mr. E. C. Pitt (deceased)
and Mr. C. C. Phillips.
BUILDERS:
Messrs. Alex. Speers and
Sons Pty., Ltd.
;
I
Crane {Eng.) “Pall Mall” Radiators
provide central heating with circulating
hot water jrom “White Rose’’ Boiler.
An average size room is heated for 24
hours for abmit twopence.
“Acme” Window Spring Sash
balances dispense with box
frames, weights and reduce cost.
r
For Entrance Doors Brass
Chromium Plated, Crash
Bars and heact. / o/ass v.P.
Door Kicks.
e
“Hush,” Silent Chrome
Plated Pedestal Pan
Flush ers and “Neo-
Chrome” Bath Sets,
showing compactness
and absence of un-
necessary fittings.
Call and inspect or write for catalogue of “Modern Home Fittings.”
JOHN DANKS »»■> SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED t IKICORPORATSD IN VICTORIA)
524-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
THONE: M 6505.
THONE: M 2381.
Notice to Next-of-kin.
WILLIAM CHANDLER, late of Torrens
Creek, Carrier.
NOTICE is hereby given to CAROLINE (or
Carrie) CHARTERS, nee Chandler, daughter
of Henry Chandler and Fanny (Frances)
Chandler, nee Wilde, born at Bourke, New
South Wales, in 1872; to MARY MAY
FOSTER, daughter of Dennis Frederick Foster
and Frances Foster (previously Chandler), nee
Wilde, born at Bourke aforesaid on 16th
October, 1891; and to NETA FOSTER (some-
times called Hettie Foster), daughter of the said
Dennis Frederick Foster and Frances Foster,
born at Bourke in 1889, the sister and half-
sisters respectively of the abovenamed de-
ceased, that they must send in particulars of
their claims to the undermentioned on or
before the Thirtieth day of September, 1940,
otherwise the assets of the said deceased will be
distributed amongst those of his next-of-kin
whose whereabouts are known disregarding the
claims of the aforesaid sister and half-sisters
and all persons claiming by, through or under
them, or any of them, by derivative title or
otherwise howsoever.
DATED at Townsville this Eighth day of
March, 1940.
JOHN O’DUFFY,
Local Deputy Public Curator,
Flinders Street, Townsville, Queensland.
with foals by Brueghel and The Buzzard,
and served by Marconigram, Brueghel,
Plymouth Sound and Veilmond. Com-
petition should be keen in every section.
* H= * *
In a reference to the breeding of
Response in last week’s issue omission
of the words “dam of Wedding Day”
after the name of Wedding Present made
it read that the latter was the winner
of several important races at Randwick.
Wedding Day was the winner of the
races mentioned, and not her dam, Wed-
ding Present. That fact is so well known
that a correction is almost superfluous,
but it is as well to make it.
* * * *
In these days of progressive sporting
journalism it is only to be expected that
one paper will go as far as possible in
beating another. One thing, however,
with which I have never held is the
publication, before the weights have been
issued, of the alleged order of favoritism
for important handicaps. Actual busi-
ness transactions are not reflected. In
the main the lists are bookmakers’
opinions, and, whether by accident or
design, unlikely runners occasionally
occupy prominent positions in early lists.
Another thing is that something placed
near the top of the quotations may get a
little more weight from some impres-
sionable handicapper than is actually
warranted by form. Not that I think
there is much likelihood of the A.J.C.
handicapper ever being affected in that
fashion. He forms his own opinions,
and is stubborn where they are con-
cerned.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
Most golfers are “fair - weather”
players. Only a few know how to battle
their way against the elements. It takes
both confidence and ability to be able to
score close to one’s usual figure under
adverse weather conditions.
Many a great golfer has lost much of
his touch when called on to play in wind
and rain, while the ordinary run of
players are beaten before they go out.
Golf in rough weather needs a lot of
commonsense, plus care in play. There
was a time, back in 1932, when I hated
the wet and windy days just as much as
the other fellow, but I soon realised that
if I was to play consistently I would have
to learn how to deal with weather con-
ditions.
• * • • * ♦
The usual idea among players on a
windy day is to try to keep the ball as
low as possible. While correct to a cer-
tain extent, it is surprising how little a
well-hit ball is really affected by the
wind unless a gale is blowing. A strong
side-wind would not make more than
four yards difference to a truly-struck
shot, but if any semblance of cut or
hook is on the ball it is immediately
blown well off its course.
I have always found it best never to
attempt to force one’s shots in windy
weather. Balance is essential at all times,
but is all-important when playing in the
breezes. Overhitting spoils one’s bal-
ance, causing inaccurate hitting and con-
sequently loss of direction. Keeping
balance is the real secret of successful
shot-making in the wind. By slowing up
one’s backswing, it is helpful to keep
more securely on balance, while the ball
should be taken a little more towards
the right foot, an inch or two being all
that is needed in aiding the player to
keep the ball lower in trajectory.
Golfers who normally play their shots
on the low side are naturally more at
home in the wind, but today is the era
of the versatile golfer, who should be
able to overcome such obstacles. Cotton
is an outstanding bad-weather golfer
Possessing a compact swing with a mini-
mum of movement, he is equally at home
in fine or windy conditions.
In heavy wind a shorter backswing is
helpful. Sacrificing length for accuracy
is a golden rule in the wind. Take a No.
2 iron for a No. 3 iron shot, and so on ;
never try to get there with a shorter
club. I once spent a month in Scotland
at Carnoustie learning to combat strong
winds from every direction, but can sin-
cerely say that it blows just as hard on
some of our Sydney and Melbourne
courses as over amongst the heather. It
is a common sight in England to see the
best players practising hitting into the
wind. Very few of them practise with
the wind, as a head-on or side wind
shows up any tiny faults quicker than a
down-wind.
Rain is another golfer’s enemy. Diffi-
culty in gripping the club and a feeling
of general misery make it most trying to
score on wet days. Some players are
able to use cotton or cloth gloves, but I
find they take all sense of touch from
my fingers. When playing in rain I
usually take two small towels to dry my
hands and wrists, and also to keep the
grips of the clubs dry. This, in addition
to the half-glove with its fingers cut off
which I wear on my left hand, gives me
a secure grip.
One’s play has also to be altered to
cope with the wet course. For instance,
explosion shots in bunkers become nearly
impossible unless played with a sharp-
edged dynamiter. Less sand must be
taken, nearly forcing the player to chip
the ball out cleanly from the wet and
hard bottom of the bunker. On the
greens casual water makes it necessary
to use a lofted club to get the ball near
the hole. Frequently I have used a No.
7 iron to putt out with, as there have
been no dry spots to putt over into the
hole. If one can keep the grips of the
clubs fairly dry and rub them down with
a towel much of the trouble is done
away with. A bag with a cover is very
helpful, while an occasional rub over the
grips with a rag dipped in glycerine and
allowed to soak in gives the leather a
tackv feel.
* < • 4 4 4
Dodges are very often discovered by
the player himself, who finds out little
things that suit his own particular re-
quirements under different conditions.
Wind and rain are both trying elements,
but by trying to play within oneself the
trial of skill and temper becomes much
easier for the player.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT.”
(Formerly of the “Referee.”)
The cricket was keen-edged and in-
teresting for the patriotic match New
South Wales v. The Rest at Sydney
Cricket Ground. There were bright
patches of attacking batting, 781
runs were made on Friday and Satur-
day, and the finish was exciting.
Hassett was the bright, shining star.
He handled O’Reilly like a champion.
In the first innings the big bowler was
right on top when Hassett began to lift
him into the outfield. Bill was obstinate
in not placing a man out, and the little
chap just as obstinate in smiting the ball
into the country. Twice it sailed over the
fence into the members’ reserve. The
Victorian knocked O’Reilly out of the
firing line, and then smote Cohen, who
relieved him, for two more sixes. In his
four Sydney bouts with O’Reilly this
season Hassett has rarely been troubled ;
122, 122, 136 and 75 are his figures.
Bradman (25 and 2) was twice out
early —to O’Reilly and Cheetham
caught behind the wicket on each
occasion. But it was a joy to watch him
and Waite in the field. Waite’s celerity
and certainty in the pick-up and return
stamp him a champion. Bradman’s
off-side fielding was glorious.
Don Tallon seems to have grown a
little in height since last season. He
was agile and alert as ’keeper for The
Rest, though the chances did not swing
his way. With the bat his luck was awry.
First innings the first ball from Pepper
outed him. A straight one on the off
stump, it skidded in very fast. A similar
ball on the leg stump had bowled colt
Johnson immediately before.
Colin McCool, the Paddington colt
who replaced Chipperfield for N.S.W.,
picked up the sharp-shooters high and low
in slips—four in a row. All through the
first innings McCool waited in vain for
the glimmer of a chance, or even a ball
to field. Then early in the second
innings he missed the first chance, a low
one from Brown. After that he was
never in doubt.
Grimmett had a good match. A part-
nership of 100 runs in half an hour
with Hassett and a full bag of cheap
wickets (five for 65). He held three
caught and bowled. Ring turned the ball
well either way, shaped breezily with the
bat and fielded with spirit and accuracy.
A little more nip from the pitch and he
would have been among the wickets. An
athletic youth, he may well train into one
of those all-rounders needed in Aus-
tralian Test teams.
New South Wales has developed a
spry set of fielders. Pepper picks them
up either hand as a juggler might;
Mudge snares catches at silly short-leg
or in the long field; Solomon has a
humming return, fair and full on to the
’keeper; Barnes, too, is always alive.
Brown, run out at 97 in the second
innings, was a victim to Barnes’s accu-
racy.
McCabe showed courage. The blow
on the chest he received in clutching a
catch in the slips off Lush’s fast bowling,
though a fortnight old, was still severely
felt, but he batted staunchly for his
first innings 72. McCabe tops the scores
in first-class and club premiership games
in N. S. Wales with over 1300 runs.
Barnes has also run into the thousand.
This robust batsman gave Clarrie Grim-
mett the most surprising gift of c. and b.
for years.
Balmain’s six-footer Albert Cheetham,
after bowling swingers with the new ball
all over the shop for the best part of the
season, struck the right spots in length
and direction in the closing match. Here
he looked the bowler most people had
expected him to become two or three
years ago—three for 41 and three for
43. His 58 with the bat showed him
giving the real Cheetham club touches
to his driving, until Grimmett fooled him
into a skied ball over mid-off with
Bradman backing for a neat one-hand
catch.
Barry Scott, the Victorian six-footer,
is the only fast bowler who has stood up
to the task this season, and for this reason
mainly stands the best chance of winning
Test honors when next they are dis-
tributed. He keeps up his speed better
than most of the others: two for 57
was his bag on Saturday.
N.S.W. won by two wickets: 219 and
eight for 323 to 289 and 252. McCabe
began brightly on Monday, knocking up
96 before lunch. Cohen (67), Barnes
(46), Saggers (32) and Pepper (24 n. 0.)
helped the skipper notably. But Grimmett
very nearly saved the day for the Rest.
The veteran took five more wickets—
for 130 runs—and was bowling as well
at the finish as when he began.
N.S.W. Rugby League, which is never
happy unless it is wrangling with some-
one, has about 14 quarrels on its hands
—with the Country League, the Sydney
juniors, the City Houses organisation,
and so on. Its grievance against the
Country League is that the countrymen
want the League to be N.S.W. in reality,
and not merely a Sydney show which
had its origin in pony racing, now dead,
and in the purchase of amateur foot-
ballers on the hoof. The youngest and
brainest man on the League executive
was Benning, who played for the Univer-
sity club, was one of its administrators
and remained faithful to the code when
the club was struck off the strength.
Benning espoused the cause of the
Country League, and, presumably on
that account, failed of election as vice-
president. Any other brand of foot-
ball or sport would be glad to have a
man of his stamp, but ability and enthu-
siasm don’t seem to be wanted in the
Rugby League. The Country League is
seceding from the Sydney concern.
* * * *
Tom O’Halloran, K.C., retires from
the chairmanship of S.A. Football League
(Australian Rules) after holding it for
14 years, during most of which time he
was also the sole adjudicator on pro-
tests and disputes. His legal training
came in, too, when the Australian Code
revised its rules in 1927, for he prepared
the original draft to be submitted to the
Australian Football Council. (He is now
a life member of it.) S.A. has always
liked to have a lawyer as its football
chief, and O’Halloran’s successor in the
chair is Eric Millhouse, who has already
been his deputy on various occasions.


New Variety Revue, “LUCKY STARS,’’
featuring: MARIE BURKE ami
New Oversea Variety Acts.
“SPICE OF LIFE” Variety Revue,
by New Company Oversea Stars,
LEA SONIA, EDWIN STYLES,
FIVE CLEVERES, GEORGE WALLACE
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“Yiddle with His Fiddle”
This first Yiddish film to be shown in
Melbourne turned up at the Comedy
with English captions that were scarcely
needed considering the composition of
the audience. Made in Warsaw before
the German occupation, it shows that
the Chosen People have much the same
opinion of themselves and their racial
peculiarities as the Gentiles, and that
Poland is an incredibly poverty-stricken
country which yet seems to get a lot of
enjoyment out of a standard,of life that
would be called starvation in Australia.
Best part is the description of a Yiddish
wedding. The rich old moneylender has
bought a young bride who doesn’t want
to marry him. The whole town ate till
it was sick at his last two weddings,
and he’ll feel insulted if it doesn’t eat
itself sick at this one. While the bride
weeps behind her veil the ceremony
is gone through, with the camera taking
in every detail. Finally the bride walks
three times round her sombre spouse
with a candle and the junketing begins.
It gets merrier and merrier, and there is
a masterly sequence where the whole
company of youths and maidens,
grandmas and grandpas get the dance
itch while the gourmets gorge them-
selves at the banquet table. In the middle
af the orgy the bride bolts with a band
of strolling musicians.
Types are magnificent, nothing looks
posed, and the actors don’t seem to be
acting. But, for the rest, it’s conventional
musical comedy, and the heroine, Molly
Picon, a Yiddish star of peace-time War-
saw, shows in her every gesture that the
vaudeville stage has an international lan-
guage ; and her voice is nothing to marvel
at. Nevertheless, the richness of the
human setting compensates for much
boring sentimeU.
* * *
“Remember?”
There’s a tophole idea in this comedy,
at Sydney Liberty, whereby a couple
whose marriage is heading for
the rocks are given a potion
which makes the past six
months a void and takes them
back to where they first met.
That device, however, is not
introduced until about halfway
through the film, after busi-
nessman Lew Ayres, having
had his wench lifted by partner
Robert Taylor, seen them elope
and their marriage disintegrate,
resorts to the potion to give
them another chance. Most of
the film is a light, conventional
version of the ancient triangle; it has
some comedy content which livens up
considerably when Doctor Ayres comes
to light with his potion. Greer Garson,
as the wench, is easy on the eyes without
being called upon for any of the ability
she displayed in “Good-bye, Mr. Chips.”
* * * *
“Hitler—Beast of Berlin”
Two or three brutal floggings to give
it “kick” and a long dull exposure of
the hardships of Nazi concentration
camps are all that this over-publicised
Sydney Lyceum item has to offer. It is
poorly acted, and Roland Drew, Steffi
Duna, Allan Ladd and the rest mutter
away in a broken English that is often
impossible to follow. The story of a
young democrat (with wife about to have
a child) imprisoned by the Nazis is
credible enough, but the plot hangs on
two wholly unacceptable absurdities —
one the drunken betrayal that lands the
democrats in trouble ; the other the hero’s
escape in a hay wagon. It’s miles below
the standard of that other Hollywood
war-chant “Confessions of a Nazi Spy,”
and as Hitler appears only in a momen-
tary news-flash the title is misleading.
$ v v
“The Flying Deuces”
The half of Sydney Plaza’s bill which
contains this item, along with a slice of
Donald Duck, is the heartiest stretch of
bellow within coo-ee of the harbor.
Donald sets the audience in the right
frame of mind domesticating a wild
baby penguin which takes a liking to
the house goldfish —an excellent bit of
Disney nonsense. Enter then the world’s
prize galoots as a couple of United States
fish-dealers on vacation in Paris, where
Hardy falls heavily for the innkeeper’s
daughter, and, she being already spliced,
it’s Laurel and Hardy fastened by a rope
to a block of granite trying to throw
themselves into the Seine and winding
up in the Foreign Legion, laundering the
Legion’s duds and barbering its spuds,
and eventually snatching their time and
doing a break in a ’plane they can’t fly.
Most striking thing about it, to present
confirmed L. and H. addict’s way of
thinking, is the big cove’s performance
—maybe as fine a job as Hardy has ever
done. Jointly they kept a big audience
bellowing from go to whoa. And no
Laurel and Hardy has ever had a richer
whoa.
# * *
In “Adventure in Diamonds,” at Syd-
ney Prince Edward, bewchus diamond
thief is slung into S’African clink and
released on trust to assist George Brent
capture a ring of diamond snafflers. Mr.
Brent makes a very natural fist of his
part of the business, but Miss Isa Mir-
anda, as the goil, acts and poses with
all the life and skill of a dressmaker’s
dummy. A stretch of the film is given
over to an inspection of a diamond mine,
and provokes the thought that Australian
filmsmiths could find material galore in
places like Kalgoorlie, Broken Hill and
Mount Isa.
* ,* * *
Prof. Moriarty is here again; ditto
Holmes. This time the prof, is at Syd-
ney’s Mayfair with a great idea. By dis-
guising himself and a couple of hench-
men, he joins the guard for the receipt of
the fabulous emerald, Star of Delhi,
“Would either of you care to make up a four at bridge?”
which is about to join the Crown jewels.
To tell how he’s foiled would be spoiling
a tiptop piece of entertainment with the
incisive Basil Rathbone as Holmes, Nigel
Bruce as Dr. Watson, George Zucco as
the murderous Moriarty and Ida Lupino
as the girl in the shadow of death.
* * * *
Adventure at Sydney State. A party
of explorers find ancient temples and-
treasures in a South American jungle,
infested with fever and headhunters. The
party—-Douglas Fairbanks, Jun., Alan
Hale, George Sanders, John Howard,
George Bancroft and Vincent Price —
are vigorous and colorful and enjoy play-
ing at explorers as much as would a
crowd of small boys. The film moves
at a smart pace and there’s plenty of
action, including a couple of deaths from
arrows—about the most expressive form
of execution the screen can portray. Joan
Bennett is an encumbrance, but there’s
capital entertainment in the piece as a
whole.
* * * *
“This Man in Paris,” a light comedy-
thriller at Sydney Prince Edward, has
Barry K. Barnes as crack London re-
porter sent over to Paris to unravel a
mystery of forgeries and sundry moiders.
There’s a good deal of artifice in the
narrative, and there’s no explaining why
the combined forces of the Surete and
Scotland Yard have to let a reporter do
their job for them, but the film runs
along nicely on what’s-going-to-happen-
next lines and Alastair Sim, as a harassed
editor, proves one of the best comedians
on show at the moment.
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Housemaster’ ’
When “Housemaster” was running in
London a couple of years ago people
went to it not so much for the pleasure
of chuckling and sighing over a dear old
boy like Mr. Chips, but for the fun of
seeing wicked schoolboys smokin’ and
apin’ the man about town. Such very
English fish might feel out of their
element in the dry air of Sydney at any
time, but there are wicked schoolboys
here, and the Minerva version of the
play might have succeeded if the wicked
schoolboys had been (a) wicked and ( b )
schoolboys.
They were neither. Instead of being
the small boy trying to look big, John
Wood was a big boy trying with great
embarrassment to look small. The scene
in which the housemaster’s bold, good
nieces give the wicked boys a midnight
supper—one of the highlights of the
London interpretation—was a flop.
Ripples of laughter from the audience
showed that Frank Bradley, as the house-
master, was chalking up his points, but
far too much was asked of him. Lloyd
Lamble was good as the cold headmaster,
and Bill Marshall and Barbara Gibb, as
the funny little boy and the funny little
girl (though the parts needn’t have been
made farcical), were genuinely funny.
* * * *
Melbourne Tivolians were stunned
into silence by the apparition at the
microphone of Marie Burke last week.
She is a beautiful woman, which is one
up in her favor. But there isn’t enough
reeling and writhing in her deportment
for modern requirements. She hasn’t
much of a voice, but that wouldn't
matter if her notes had the broken back-
bone which is fashionable at the moment.
As she sings and comports herself as
they sang and comported themselves 15
years ago in musical comedy she seems
completely out of fashion, but, much to
present critic’s relief, she captured her
audience in the end the other evening
with the old familiar business. The bill
as a whole makes capital entertainment.
*c Jj: sfc ♦
Harold Davies, prof, of music at
Adelaide University, and consequently
director of the Conservatorium, is re-
forming its string quartette, once famous.
Lloyd Davies, the new arrival, leads on
the violin, with Sylvia Whitington,
Kathleen Megan and Harold Parsons
(’cello). Clive Carey, back from England,
is to be used (when not examining for
the Associated Universities Board) in
opera production, along with the ex-
perienced Harry Wottom.
* * * *
Tommy Hudson, Harry Rickards,
Irving Sayles and others who built up
vaudeville in Adelaide would be sur-
prised at the new “turn” in the big
Tivoli in Grote-street. (The old, and
smaller, Tivoli in King William-street
has become the Majestic, and a picture-
house.) The Repertory, with some 1400
members, has now taken the big house
for a term of years; and it sublets. Its
latest patron is the Methodist Conference,
which holds meetings there, softening the
shock to itself a little by advertising it as
“the Repertory Theatre, formerly the
Tivoli.”
* * * *
Sydney Conservatorium opened its
1940 series of orchestral concerts with
a programme that soared to the heights
and plumbed the depths.
Best performance was that of the
“Leonora Overture No. 3” of Beethoven,
which was tinged with some real feeling.
The Delius C Minor pianoforte concerto,
with J. D. Todd as soloist, was vague,
obscure and uncertain both as to piano-
forte and associated sounds. Mozart’s
G Minor Symphony (K 550) had its
moments of vivacity in introduction and
finale, but there was a jangle in the
menuetto, and the andante lacked grace.
A new work, Turina’s “Procession del
Rocio,” opened with some rich orches-
tration but wound up in hysteria. The
procession must have bolted. Ravel’s
“Pavane pour une Infante defunte,”
which is more of a lament for the de-
parted Infanta than a reminiscence of
her dancing, was quite well done.
* * *
Ballet is having its final flutter at
Sydney Royal with a string of oft-
reviewed items ; its place is to be taken
this week by an outbreak of Gilsullivan.
Artbursts.
Anthony Horderns’ records of Lister
Lister’s annual exhibitions go back to
1912. This year’s show is full of charac-
teristic and capable work in oils. Biggest
canvas, “Road by the Sea,” shows rather
more interest than usual in nuances of
color, and in the landscapes “Jamberoo”
and “Nattai River” also the mood is
quietly analystic. “Coast near Narra-
been” is in the familiar jovial style.
Lister Lister is a very fine painter of
the Australian landscape. He has better
captured the spirit of the coastal country-
side of N. S. Wales than any other artist.
* * *
G. K. Townshend has 30 water-colors
at the Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney.
Townshend’s taste is unfailing, he has
the pictorial sense, and his treatment of
color is always interesting. His favorite
hunting ground of late seems to have
been the coast, with preference for quiet,
happy moods. “Breakers” expresses
exactly that lazy sort of sea that laps
Sydney beaches on a calm, bright morn-
ing when the tiny combers have just
enough energy to fall over. “Sandspit,
Middle Harbor,” “Old Fence, Windsor,”
“Lighthouse, Wollongong,” and “Sandy
Road” are Townshend at his best.
H* 5 1' •I* 4*
Nancy Goldfinch, whose oils and
water-colors bedeck the Macquarie Gal-
leries, Sydney, is one of those “advanced”
painters. Her aim appears to be to
reduce landscapes and other scenes to
angular elements. When she forgets her
principles and her formulae for a moment,
as in the water-color “Rose Bay,” she
paints very lucidly and gracefully.
* * * *
Miss Annie Gates and Mrs. Glover-
Fleay have a show at the Melbourne
Athenaeum. In this wild and woolly age
of modernistic painting, Miss Gates’s
flower studies look remarkably old-
fashioned, and in any age the most that
could be, said about them is that they
are painstaking. Her fellow-conspirator
has got a bit of natural sparkle into one
or two water-color landscapes, and in
her oils has made a careful study of
opossums, flying squirrels, koalas, and
other Australians.
:fc itc % %
. Vassilief, the Russian painter who has
made a specialty of Collingwood, its
picket fences, its backyards, its dustbins,
its decay and its children who make the
streets their playground, is once more
up for inspection at the Riddell Gal-
leries, Melbourne. He is obviously not
a critic of society. He has none of the
fierce humor of a Daumier or the bitter
satire of a Dyson. For some reason or
other, he likes his unusual subject-matter
—possibly for the color and the variety
there is in it. His skill as a painter is
inconsiderable, and his children, for the
main part, are mere blobs of color, but
he gets some agreeable patterns into his
pictures.


e
Legal Notice.
Estate of Thomas Gilbert, Deceased.
TO GEORGE WALKER and NIELS NIEL-
SEN (commonly known as Frank Nielsen)
both at one time of Isis Downs Isisford
Station Elands and to all persons claiming
by or through them or either of them.
THE PUBLIC CURATOR OF QUEENS-
LAND as administrator of the estate of
THOMAS GILBERT late of San Remo near
Cairns in the State of Queensland Farmer (at
one time a member of the Australian Military
Forces) deceased HEREBY REQUIRES you
to prove on or before the Thirty-first day of
May One thousand nine hundred and forty
(1940) your claim to share in the distribution
of the estate of the said THOMAS GILBERT
deceased After that date the PUBLIC
CURATOR will proceed to distribute the estate
having regard only to those claims of which
he shall have received notice. Claims must be
proved by affidavit fully supported by relative
certificates etc. and forwarded to the under-
signed.
J. L. O’BRIEN,
Local Deputy Public Curator,
Cairns, North Queensland.
IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
*—Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble is
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of 3
pounds of waste matter. When the kidney
tubes become tired, bladder passages are
often scanty and difficult. In /tead of being
Altered out, wastes and afids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the >/eginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up night'/, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffin'/ss under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
up. Ask your chemist or store for DOAN’?
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get th«
same quick relief they have been giving mil-
lions for many yea’ s. If backache is bother-
ing you due to tired kidneys, trv DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
A WOMANS
LETTER
“When I was a small boy,” Archbishop
Kelly told his listeners at his ninetieth
birthday reception, “I longed to be a
sailor.” But Providence had marked him
out to be a fisher of men. For 39 years
Sydney has known his kindly presence,
his tolerance, his innate belief in the
goodness of human nature. Under his
enthusiastic guidance Catholic school
and college and church were built. That
St. Mary’s Cathedral in its complete
beauty enriches the city he loved can be
credited to the zeal of “Michael the
Builder.” If any man held even the
scales between Capital and Labor it
was the Archbishop. Always he preached
“Servants, be faithful to your masters.
Masters, be just to your servants.” He
died at St. Patrick’s College, Manly, his
last words being “My work is done!”
But surely (we like to think) one who
loved Sydney so well will loiter occasion-
ally about its ways. He will pause some-
times on the steps of St. Mary’s and look
across Hyde Park when the twilight
smoke of an autumn day streams from
the westering sun ; or gaze down from
St. Patrick’s at Manly watching the
Pacific as it rushes in bringing its gift of
health to our shores.
This morning a solemn Requiem Mass
attended by prelates from every State
will be celebrated at St. Mary’s for the
Archbishop. Immediately after the
Mass, a short procession through the
streets near by will precede the burial
in the Cathedral.
By this time next week half the homes
of suburbia will be littered with sample
bags from the Show, and by the end of
the week there’ll be enough empties to
paper the town with them. The Show!
To know the magic pull it has you need
to be a hundred miles or so from Sydney
a week or two before Easter. This Letter
will never forget the shining radiance
on the face of the small maid at a South
Coast guesthouse when she announced
she was having Good Friday “off” so she
could go to Sydney for “the Show.” It
meant leaving home somewhere about
the crack of dawn and getting back prob-
ably with the next dawn, but the Show
was worth all the trouble. Another girl
whose home was a small farm beyond
the Blue Mountains said one early March
day as holiday-makers stopped for a
yarn: “I’ve never been to Sydney, but
this year Uncle Joe’s goin’ to drive us to
the Show. Guess we won’t have time to
look at the township ; they say there’s
that much to see at the Show.” It is
always “The Show.”
Well, come to think of it, the Show is
really a pastoral play put on by the Out-
back. We of the city are the audience,
sensing something of the drama behind
the splendid show of wheat, the opulence
of wool, the spirited hooves of the
pasture lands. The curtain goes up this
year on March 16. As usual there will
be many exhibitors from other States.
From Victoria will come Mrs. I. Mc-
Laren, Shirley Kinnear, Mrs. Bartram
and her school-daughter Mary. The
Luxton lady, who may not put in a
personal appearance, intends to send a
brace of dachshunds. Sydney exhibitors
of horses will include Mrs. Harry Meeks
and Mrs. Tom Kelly.
It will be heartening for conductor
Georg Schneevoigt to know that the first
symphony orchestral concert directed by
his baton will be for his native Finland.
This is going to be quite an occasion.
The Town Hall will fly the Finnish colors,
and Finland’s flag, a blue cross on a
white ground, will be featured in the
decorations. Rosettes of the national
colors and tiny Finnish flags will be
sold as favors. Mrs. C. P. Johnson,
Mrs. Reg Bettington and Mrs. John
Fairfax are active in the preparations.
The date is March 20.
The Minerva is a great draw for actors
and actresses. Every opening sees a com-
pany of them gather in the Potts Point
theatre. At the first night of “The House-
master” Katie Towers was seen, her
printed silks all greens and reds.
Nan Taylor was in black and was with
Hilda Scurr. Willow-wand-slim Sylvia
Parrish, too, was there. Her green
crepes had for accompaniment a waratah-
red fitting jacket. Of drama lovers who
are not in the profession, a good-looker
was Mrs. Salenger; her frocking was
mulberry in tone. Mrs. A. E. Grace
had flowers blooming on her sky-after-
rain blue silks. Lesley Pope came with
mother and aunt Nelle Grant Cooper.
Moira Pope was also in the group, black
taffetas her choice. Princess Radziwill
was glimpsed ; and Iris Brodziak’s shell-
pink organdie was admired.
Rosemary Heron is designing and
Ethel Gabriel’s wizard needle is stitching
the costumes in “Amphitryon 38,” which
the Independents will present next Satur-
day. This is a modern comedy on the
old Greek theme, and is adapted from
the French of Jean Giradoux. The robes
to be worn by Alcmene, Leda and serv-
ing maids get their classic line from
being high-waisted, and crossover above
that. Then, of course, there are flowing
drapes. A striking outfit to be worn by
Doris Fitton, who plays lead, is of palest-
cream chiffon with a drape of Du
Maurier red. Leda will swish around in
yellow and Tyrian red. Jupiter is not let-
ting the girls have all the bright plumage.
His cloak is silver with purple borders.
His tunic is gold. A background mostly
white lonic pillars and black velvet has
been designed by Lesbia Thorpe.
Tonight at the Independent Theatre
Mrs. Linda Robinson, the gifted lady of
this photograph, will, with Mary Hosking
and Hilda Jacoby, put on half an hour
of music to help the North of the Harbor
playhouse. These three, in association
with the art-loving Mrs. W. Buckle, are
constantly putting their talents to the
cause of charity. Tonight drama will
be helped by their smooth teamwork.
Photograph by Dorothy Welding.
After a spate of pre-wedding parties
that raged from Darling Point to the
upper reaches of the North Shore line,
popular Margaret Cary became Mrs. lan
McLaurin in St. Mark’s, Darling Point.
The bride having been an Ascham girl,
that school was well represented in the
guest-list, Ascham’s headmistress, Miss
Bailey, being a notable. Margaret is a
daughter of Mrs. H. Cary, of Elizabeth
Bay. Younger sister Barbara was among
the company of white Chantilly-lace
bridesmaids. The white hand-loomed
satin in the wedding-dress owned France
as its country of origin. It had a sweep
of ciicular train and a slimly-fitting
waistline outlined in seed pearls. Mrs.
Cary later welcomed nearly 200 guests
at the Australia. Her Crocking was blue
and silver. Mrs. John McLaurin, the
’groom’s mother, wore black sheers.
Home address of the lan McLaurins will
be Mornington, Tamworth.
There was a blithe air about the open-
ing of the Townshend show in the Gros-
venor Gallery. Mrs. Rodney Dangar
was the opener, and from the small pink
posy in her hand (presentation) to the
pink posy in the front of her straight-
brimmed black hat there was a glad
touch over all. Up at the top of the
room Oswald Cheeke sat with Mrs.
Moreing. Palm goes to her for smoothly-
waved hair and a hat that suggested the
glens of Ireland. Green, too, was the
jacket, snug to the waist, worn by Mrs.
Buckle above her off-white linen skirt.
She had with her an equally good-look-
ing companion, Mrs. Robinson. Sheila
Graham brought blush-rose pinks to the
party, and young artist Betty Carrick was
with her mother. Mrs. Townshend
looked with shy pride on her clever hus-
band, and was smart in navy and white
stripes. Frank Medworth, of the Tech-
nical College, was there. Many women
agreed on the lure of “Flood Waters,”
preferring it to the loveliest bits of blue
sky and sun-kissed tree.
It is almost impossible to write ration-
ally of Thornton Wilder’s “Our Town.”
It depends entirely on the spoken word;
There is no scenery, and the dressing is
of the plainest. But its truth and beauty
are so intense they hurt. Strictly speak-
ing, it is not a play at all. It is. a story
whose characters now and again spring
into life. If you haven’t had the luck
to see it played, then buy the play in
printed form. “Our Town” has just
ended a good run at the Independent
Theatre in North Sydney. Howard
Craven was the stage manager, the char-
acter who carries on the narrative, and
he owns up that he has, banked up in
his memory, a never-failing account of
loveliness to draw on.
This Letter’s friend of long standing,
Dattilo Rubbo, popped around to the
Macquarie Galleries to open Nancy
Goldfinch’s show. Nancy was Dattilo’s
pupil before she went to Europe to study
at the Chelsea Art School. In the show
Fiji and Sydney rub shoulders in the
most Pacific Islandish way—sunny and
friendly, and looking like the places
where dreams come true. The cruise
companies should give this artist a com-
mission, since lots of visitors to the Show
aren’t going to be happy till they take
a ticket for Fiji. Nancy, surrounded
by members of her family, stood a trig
little figure in black, a Peter Pannish
collar of white lace at the neckline, a
small white hat tilted over her right eye-
brow, while her first instructor made his
opening speech. George Duncan re-
newed acquaintance with the artist. Dora
Jarret and Alison Rehfisch were among
the flock of younger artists uttering ad-
miration. This is a John Lee photo-
graph.
Lister Lister told this story at the open-
ing of his show the other day. When Lister
and Henry Fullwood were both young,
Lister went out to do some painting in
a rural spot particularly beloved by his
circle. He was busy painting away when
a neighborhood lad came and stood be-
side him staring. “How much do you
want for that when it’s finished?” “Oh,
£5,” replied the artist. “S’pose you just
paint for a hobby like?” “What makes
you think so?” “Oh, well, I saw a fellow
last week painting that paddock. He
said he’d charge two hundred guineas for
it when it was finished. Reckon he must
be the greatest painter in the world, that
Mr. Fullwood!”
The veteran painter’s paintings, oil and
water-color, hang about Anthony Hor-
derns’ gallery and fill it with sunlit
stretches of South Coast, of river reaches
—“Cox’s River After the Rain” has a
sort of silvery coolness. If you want
to see how lovely Balmoral Beach was
in 1910, Number 18 in this show is your
quest. National Gallery Director Will
Ashton was at the show ; so was Howard
Hinton. The wife of Albert Sherman,
too, was an admirer. Will Ashton was
full of the plans for the Gruner Mem-
orial Exhibition, soon to be held in the
National Gallery. This, of course, will
be a loan exhibition, and cannot really
get under way till the lenders send their
treasures in. Mr. Lister’s daughter was
there, and helped him entertain at a tea
party in the Tudor room. Sir Hugh
Poynter, who was accompanied by his
wife, did the opening.
A cocktail party, to be held at the
Journalists’ Club at Federation House,
Phillip-street, on Friday, March 15, has
been arranged by the Journalists’ Bail
Committee. Tickets of admission are
Is. 6d. each. The ball will be held at
Grace Brothers’ Auditorium on Satur-
day, April 13.
A rather spiritless week got a little
hop into it with the beer-garden party
given by Mrs. Hector Clayton, of Wool-
lahra. The party was for the Finnish
Relief Fund, and three girls stood at the
foot of the garden steps and firmly held
out collection bags for offerings. There
was quite a slice of society with a sausage
in the hand about the garden ways. There
were beer and a beer barrel; so the atmo-
spherics were right. Mrs. Clayton’s
cosmos-pink ensemble, plus pearls and a
small white beflowered toque, was an
attractive sight. Daughter Kathleen’s
silks were brightly patterned. The Hon.
Henrietta Loder, Captain K. O’B. Hard-
ing and Morna McKenzie represented
G.H. interest in the cause.
Mayoress Crick, who was the guest of
honor, brought daughter Shirley to the
fashion parade at the Trocadero last
week. This featured autumn styles from
Anthony Horderns’, and will benefit the
T.B. Soldiers and Sailors’ Association.
Wives, sisters and sweethearts of Every-
man and his brothers crowded the big
ballroom, for, even after the tidal wave
of fashion shows that has swept the
city, fashion is all to the female mind.
Pamela Boyes, who is said to be known
in London as “Miss Australia of the
Fashion World,” proved an effective
mannequin. This onlooker liked her
particularly in her hooded, sweeping
black velvet coat. The velvet in this is
of the crease-resisting family. Pamela
also made a suit in raspberry wool and
its fur-felt hat to tone a subject for song.
If you are expecting the man from
Ingleburn or Puckapunyal to drop in
at any moment your heart went out to
the little “don’t-dress-for-dinner” frock.
It’s in red and black striped lame, and
it has tiny red buttons down its back.
The beaded evening frock is trying to be
with us again. A black heavyweight silk
was beaded in black from neck to hem.
The beaded design formed squares. Presi-
dent Mrs. H. D. Cary sported a bunch
of cornflowers on her small black hat,
and these toned with the blue of her
frock. Mrs. Leonard Dare was there,
and Mrs. H. Lascelles brought a number
of friends. Doris Lascelles was the
organising secretary.
With autumn on our doorstep we can
perhaps feel an extra rush of sympathy
for the refugees, driven from their own
land and depending for very existence
upon the kindness of strangers. In a
particular sense all women the world
over must feel how sad is the lot of the
orphaned refugee baby. The Women’s
International Zionist Organisation in
Sydney is setting out to raise funds to
help these helpless folk overseas by
running a Queen competition. A pro-
duction of Noel Coward’s “Hay Fever”
will also benefit the cause. Time and
place: Maccabean Hall on April 9.
Don’t forget that Friday will be Red
Cross Day. Thousands of girls will sell
buttons, and trade all kinds of goods
from well-equipped stalls. There will be
a sanctuary for children in the Prudential
Building, Martin-place. Here mothers
can leave small ones while they do the
sights. Students from the Kindergarten
Union Training College will be in charge.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 276 of 1940.
BETWEEN MARY AMELIA PITKIN Peti-
tioner
And ERNEST ALBERT PITKIN Respon-
dent.
TO ERNEST ALBERT PITKIN of Collarene-
bri.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
AMELIA PITKIN has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion during three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Court on or before the Twenty-seventh
day of May One thousand nine hundred and
forty and in the event of your not so doing
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of February,
1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. K. DIXON, Solicitor for the Petitioner
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TO ROY KASTERTON HODGES formerly of
Little Ryrie Street Geelong in the State
of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that IVIE NICHOLSON
HODGES has instituted proceedings in the
Supreme Court of the State of Victoria against
you for divorce on the ground of desertion
Should you desire to defend this suit you must
enter an appearance in the office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court of Victoria
at the Law Courts William Street Melbourne
not later than the Fifteenth day of May 1940
and also file an answer in the said office not
later than the Twenty-fifth day of May 1940
otherwise the case may be heard in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs.
DATED the Twenty-ninth day of February,
1940.
W. E. C. TREYVAUD, of Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne, in the State of
Victoria, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 262 of 1940.
BETWEEN SARAH MAUD PATTERSON
formerly SARAH MAUD LIDDLE Peti-
tioner
And HENRY WYNDHAM PATTERSON
Respondent.
TO HENRY WYNDHAM PATTERSON late
of Petersham in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said SARAH
MAUD PATTERSON has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to this suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Thirty-first day of May 1940 and in the event
of your not so doing within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit will be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be obtained
on application to the undersigned Solicitor
free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of March, 1940.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
G. B. MORRIS, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
39-49 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 98 of 1939.
BETWEEN FLORENCE ANN RUDGLEY
Petitioner
And WILLIAM RUDGLEY Respondent.
TO the said WILLIAM RUDGLEY.
TAKE NOTICE that the said FLORENCE
ANN RUDGLEY has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse. AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Fourth day of June One thousand nine
hundred and forty and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit will be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Seventh day of March, 1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ALLEN, CLEMENS & LAURENCE,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 39 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Women had but a single thought on
the last day of the March meeting, to
wear their flimsiest clothes and, if they
were cannier still, their dark glasses.
Mrs. John McCahon’s were rimmed with
blue of the same soft delphinium shade
as her frock, bag and gloves. Feathers
to fly with in another color were intro-
duced with pink plumes in her hat.
White was a well-backed favorite, and,
unlike the equine fancies of the day, it
didn’t play its followers false, for there
was no late-afternoon cold wind or
sudden change to rain as has befallen on
other important race days.
Mrs. Andy Chirnside gave herself a
generous helping of green hat to wear
with her white frock. Mrs. C. J. Officer
Brown added a soup?on of navy head-
piece to her white sports linen frock.
Mrs. Mervyn Brewer, also in white, had
touches of navy upon her pockets and
handbag. Navy also were Mrs. Sidney
Myer’s ornamental shoes worn with a
white frock. Nancy Hewlett backed
as many horses in each race as there were
colors in her painter’s palette frock, but
though the frock was a success the punt-
ing failed badly. With her ensemble in
two shades of grey, Mrs. Noel Puckle
allowed a little bit of levity in the form
of lime-green belt and a corner of hand-
kerchief in miniature pocket. Generals
Blarney and Phillips were there, out of
khaki, and no doubt feeling off the chain
for a few hours. Mrs. Phillips was all in
white. Mrs. Stanley Mills, of Perth,
wore black. For a previous mid-week
meeting her successful choice was a
tartan skirt and black jacket buttoned in
blue.
The biggest surprise of the week —
apart from Whatever happened at
Flemington—was the National Theatre’s
Red Cross and Comforts Fund gala show
at the Apollo. To begin with, the Lord
Mayor and Gertrude Johnson had to
battle through a human barrage down-
stairs to reach the G.-H. people and
escort them safely to their box. Those
who expected one of the usual placid
and uneventful charity evenings dis-
covered big stuff under way in the foyer,
so much so that for some time after the
interval there was competition with the
voices on the stage. All the usual things
were for sale, but the most tactful pur-
veyors of trays of chocolates hovered
on the outskirts only of the seething mass
around the “refreshments” for what
man when he’s passing glasses over other
men’s heads wants to have his mind taken
off his thirst?
During let-ups in the traffic jam
glimpses were caught of the Keith Mc-
Kays, Keith trying his luck on the
champagne wheel (with some success,
though the bottle went back to the
charity eventually) and wife Thelma
selling lucky-dip tickets in ivory gauze
and silver belt. Mrs. Joe Ziegler was
all for a spot of allure in the form of a
black “widow’s weed” headdress. Myra
Marsh was secretary for the evening and
J. Kaufman was an extra handyman who
worked a corkscrew with speed.
A woman-trap that never fails is a
dress show. It panders to her funda-
mental instinct and she’s powerless to
resist its lure. George’s finished up the
town’s round of autumn shows with two
sessions for the Comforts Fund, for
which their showroom sprouted plat-
forms, special decorations and a posy
apiece for official guests. Among these
were Mrs. Coles, Mrs. Menzies and the
Angliss lady, her hat an upturned sea-
side bucket heavy with red flowers. The
Knox lady blew in on a wave of pink,
tulle aloft and a shoulder bouquet
moved upwards to make room for the
official frangipanni. The Blarney lady,
in autumn-leaf brown, exchanged views
on the modes with Joy Armitage, while
a few chairs distant were Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell, Mrs. John George and Mrs.
John Williams.
Beverley Slaney, delighted to be given
the chance to be sophisticated instead of
always ingenue, and Jayne Harper, try-
ing hard to hide her nervousness behind
her smile, led the pageant. A hundred
per cent, glamor vision was Olwyn
Porgiz, ex-gown-purveyor of Norman
Hartnell’s salon. Impossible as it may
seem, she does do ordinary things like
eating: she even has a husband and a
baby. But in a dress parade she’s just
a goldfish living on perfume and bubbles.
Coats carried the day with their flags
flying high; their wearers owned the
earth for the moment at least. Among
the evening dresses was a work of art in
white crepe with some elaboration upon
sleeves and high-necked corsage and skil-
ful fullness at the front of the skirt. It’s
called Ambassadress, and it may be yet
—empires have been tested for lesser
things. Among the day frocks cash-
and-carry pockets looked like getting
themselves popular, but the harem hip-
line won’t stand for liberties. Put
derriere upholstery in the wrong place
or on the wrong shape, and the Sultan’s
favorite becomes the other wives’ tweeny.
Hats ran to snoods, occasionally of gold
fishnet. Just for fun there was a bed-
time diversion. A girl in white flannel-
ette with bonnet and candle (such nighties,
they say, are worn by American college
girls) was followed by a brunette in
green-tea pyjamas. All she needed was
Aladdin’s lamp to match her glittery
girdle.
Cynthia Officer, whose photograph is
by Broothorn, played leading lady at a
Western District wedding on Saturday
afternoon. The ’groom was John Raw-
don, younger son of the late F. P. Fether-
stonhaugh and Mrs. Fetherstonhaugh, of
Adelaide; the trysting-place the little
Anglican church at Balmoral, and the
scene of ceremonial rejoicing Mount
Talbot, Toolando, the home of the bride’s
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Officer.
Grandmother’s veil flowed over the ivory
satin wedding gown. Three ’maids, the
bride’s sisters, Pamela and Diana, and
Joan Ramsay, of Melbourne, wore
frocks of white organza over pale-pink
taffeta. John Chomley (of S.A.) was
best man, and Robert Gardner and
Andrew Molesworth groomsmen. The
home of the newly-wedded pair will be
Kassingbrook, Coleraine.
Talked about, and worthy of it, is the
Eclarte fabric display at the Australia.
It’s not arty-crafty and it’s something
new to Melbourne. Edith Grove, who
has to be deft-footed as she is -fingered,
weaves the fabrics on her own large and
complicated loom. Catherine Hardess is
the designer and is responsible for the
display. With the help of two “unem-
ployed” carpenters she built all the
“props,” including the platforms of
butterboxes and plaster and rejuvenated
some roughcast plaster figures which she
discovered in a storage basement. Her
final achievement of display in the
Venetian Court is so clever that it’s un-
canny. A rough gate of saplings, and
one already sees the fabrics near by as
suits out walking in the chilly autumn
air. The suggestion of an open door
and log walls and sports, materials fits
into an imagined picture of snow slope
and ice rink. A coil of red rope lassos
thoughts towards sea and sunshine, where
colors are gay, for shirts and shorts are
bright-hued and twisted scarves are worn
around the hair.
Miss Grove and Miss Hardess knew
one another in Melbourne before they
left here some six years ago. In London
each discovered that the other was the
only person she could rub along with
well enough to share a flat and a studio.
Thence came the co-operation in work
which has been so successful. Miss
Grove, who is considered to have a flaw-
less technique, studied at the London
School of Weaving, later worked a
year with a German refugee master-
weaver, and had a further period study-
ing the art of dyeing with an analytical
chemist in Kent. Miss Hardess’s experi-
ences include art study at the Slade (on
an earlier trip abroad), a period of
apprenticeship in decoration and cos-
tuming to Osborne Robinson at the
Northampton Repertory Theatre, and a
position as controller of decor, scenery,
costumes, etc., at the New Tunbridge
Repertory Theatre.
A happy omen for Prue Timmins on
her wedding morn was the lucky timing
of her overseas mail, for the postman
that day brought letters, a cable and
presents from her sisters, Mrs. John
Woodward, in Karachi, and Mrs. Alan
McNicoll, in Glasgow. The marriage at
St. Stephen’s, Brighton, was followed by
late-afternoon felicitations a few blocks
away at the home of the bride’s parents,
Mr. and Mrs. W. N. Timmins, where
each room overflowed with the vivid
colors of Macedon hydrangeas. The
’groom was Dick Sheil, a pilot instructor
in the R.A.A.F. and the only son of the
Thomas Sheils, of Stanhope Grove, Cam-
berwell, The honeymoon shines at Mace-
don, where already autumn flowers are
blooming and crackling fires are lit every
evening. Until the lease runs out the
first home of the bride and ’groom will
be Prue’s flat in Elizabeth Bay, Sydney.
A beautiful bride and a handsome
’groom were Dargie Kaaten and Lieut.
Desmond Cox, who walked the aisle of
Christ Church, and afterwards cut a Nor-
wegian wedding-cake with the ’groom’s
sword at Grosvenor. The tall cake was
made from rings of almond meal, gradu-
ally diminishing in size, and was deco-
rated with icing-sugar icicles and with
miniature hand-sewn flags of Britain and
of Norway, replicas of the larger flags
behind the bridal table. Helen Griffith
was the ’maid, in hydrangea-blue, and
Lieut. Peter Thomas was the best man,
who made an excellent speech, and who
with a cheery smile coped with telegrams
in two languages (with some assistance
now and then from E. A. Alstergren).
The trainbearer was a cavalier aged
five years, the bride’s cousin, Rolf Lie,
who matched the bridesmaid’s frock with
his silk blouse and velvet trousers. Rolf
enjoyed the wedding just moderately, for
what young man can appreciate the
qualities of pale-blue velvet
which must not be sat upon in case it
squashes? Rolf received scant sympathy
from his brothers Harvey and Laurie,
who told him what a grand time they
had when they were trainbearers a few
years ago in Norway for Dargie’s sister
at her wedding.
After a motoring honeymoon to Bris-
bane the Harvey Gunnersens will on
their return to Melbourne become the
third generation to live in the old Gun-
nersen family home in Trafalgar-road,
Camberwell, a wedding gift to them from
the ’groom’s father. The bride, whose
photograph comes from Broothorn, was
Joy Wittman, eldest daughter of the
Ronald Wittman couple, The engage-
ment was a round-the-world romance.
Last year, when the Thorold Gunnersens
and their three daughters left for abroad
they asked Joy to accompany them as
far as the U.S.A. Son Harvey, who had
left Australia earlier on a business trip
to Canada, joined the family party when
it reached the U.S. Thence eventuated
the engagement, and Joy’s parents hadn’t
the heart to cable “come home” along
with their good wishes, so thenceforward
it was a party of seven which proceeded
towards Europe. As well as counting
one another the seven travellers had to
do more intricate arithmetic over their
luggage. Sixty-four pieces was their
quota when they returned last December.
The Littlejohn Memorial Chapel saw
the wedding of Margaret Cox and Sam
McKay, and No. 9 the after-rejoicings.
Margaret, who is the only daughter of
Mrs. G. M. A. Cox, measures the last
six months as the most exciting span in
her young life. When war broke out she
was abroad in the midst of blackouts,
and her mother had a worrying few
weeks waiting for news. Soon after
Margaret’s return to Melbourne she be-
came engaged. The ’groom, who is Sam
to his own generation but Colin to his
mother, is the youngest son of the late
Samuel McKay and Mrs. McKay, of
Avoca-street, South Yarra. He made an
excellent speech at his own wedding.
Phil Hudson was best man, and the
bride was attended by Jacqueline
Robertson, Betty Tompkins and Bessie
Byrne. Margaret has an affection for
gold plate, and received several lovely
pieces among her presents,
Nights QUt for the children _f o r young
| ove to see t jj e j r own generation in
histrionics—will take place on March 28,
29 and 3Q at the National Theatre. On
(be p ro g ramme are juvenile operettas,
“play Day in Happy Holland” and
“ Little Gipsy Day » words by Leila
pj ran j and mus i c by Edith Harrhy, who
have disguised themselves for the
nioment as Molly Waters and Evelyn
Wales> « Little G ipsy” has just been
published, and is more advanced in style
t h an jyjj ss Harrhy’s previous operettas,
, _
There s to be another Flag Day on
Ma rch 29, this time for the Red Cross,
With the experience of the previous Flag
Day a few weeks ago in aid of the Com-
forts Fund, on which collections exceeded
expectations by several thousands, the
committee is planning its campaign with
skill.


BE YOUNG
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
doctor* soy your virility ond vig-
our depend greufiy on your Hor-
mone Glands. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness.
Price 10/6, Write TO-DAY.
i.JONES E CO
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM—APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It —Automatic Overflow—Does Not
Require Emptying—Over 1100 Sold—Shell Co., 66 Repeat Orders; Bank of N.S.W.. 15.
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE'HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Plus 5% increased cost of production.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write Desk B for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
e
r
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .. . 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
THE FLYING COLUMN
Command System in R.A.A.F.
“Caudron”: The changes in the
R.A.A.F. command foreshadowed when
Air Chief Marshal Charles Burnett was
appointed Chief of Staff will bring the
R.A.A.F. into line with military organi-
sation and with the system of the R.A.F.
The Air Board personnel has been
increased from four to five. Acting Air
Marshal Williams, formerly Chief of
Staff and recently returned from Eng-
land, where he was administrative head
of the Coastal Command, will be mem-
ber for organisation and equipment. Sir
Charles Burnett will concentrate on
policy, inspection and general direction.
A Director-General of Production and
Supply will be brought in from outside
the R.A.A.F.
The Commonwealth will be split into
commands which will allow of local co-
ordination with military commandants.
There will be four areas:
Southern, comprising Victoria, Tas-
mania, S.A. and southern Riverina.
Central, taking in all units in N. S.
Wales outside southern Riverina and
northern N.S.W.
Northern, all units from northern
N.S.W. to Papua.
Western, all W.A. units.
The northern will be one of the most
expansive district commands in the world
—it is a couple of thousand miles long.
But that is nothing in the air.
Self-sealing Petrol Tanks.
“D.8.K.”: Reports of air actions have
referred to German aircraft using special
petrol tanks of a self-sealing type. Despite
the fact that bullets have visibly gone
home in the petrol tanks, as revealed by
the trail of white vapor when petrol has
reached the air, bombers have often been
able to carry on and possibly get back
to their base.
On October 28 a Heinkel 11 IK was
shot down practically intact near Edin-
burgh. The machine was carefully dis-
sected by. R.A.F. experts and engineers,
and the secret of the self-sealing tank was
revealed, as was also the fact that Ger-
many is far from using “ersatz” materials
in the construction of her aircraft.
There is no metal in the make-up of
the self-sealing tank. The inner con-
tainer is made in the manner of a fibre
suitcase of about one-sixteenth fibre,
secured at the joints by a casein glue.
There are cross-bracing members of fibre
channels and tubes. Rivets used in the
construction are of normal suitcase type.
The inner container is enclosed in an
overcoat of grey buckskin of very fine
quality, £in. thick ; reason for this is that
the fibre is brittle and might disintegrate
in a crash and spread petrol everywhere.
The leather covering holds it together.
Outside the leather coat is a £in. layer
of natural raw rubber. The raw rubber
swells up on contact with petrol from
a bullet hole and effectively stops any
leak, although it would not be of much
use against a shell from a shell-gun. The
layer is kept in position by a covering
of lightly-vulcanised rubber, the whole
being finally enclosed in a
case of vulcanised rubber which has a
detachable lid. This case is slung in the
wing by webbing straps.
Weight is approximately per
gallon.
“Aldis”: Keen R.A.A.F. recruits have
been turned down because of physical
disabilities.. In most cases, no doubt,
rejection is justified, but cases crop up
in which a point or two might be
stretched and a valuable man acquired.
R.A.F. M.Os. can’t be too fussy. Wit-
ness the case of a flying officer who lost
both legs in a flying accident eight years
ago. Equipped with two artificial legs,
he was again passed as a first-class pilot.
He applied to be taken back into the
service, and was refused at first. Applied
again on the outbreak of war, asking
to be allowed to fly single-seaters. He
was accepted, and is now back in the
air.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The Air Force is once
niore looking for accommodation in Mel-
“ What's biting you? The rule says you can take your ball two club-
lengths away from an ornamental shrub.”
bourne, and its eyes are turning to the
Royal Showground. In the halls where
the giant mangelwurzel once gloried
already stand Beaufort and Avro Anson
bombers, and more of these halls are
needed. Over 1000 Air Force personnel
are also in occupation at the Showground.
The Defence authorities fear that if they
have to wait for buildings to be erected
the Empire air scheme will be retarded.
If they commandeer the Showground
completely the annual frenzy of beef and
brawn and the display of the State’s agri-
cultural resources will have to be omitted.
It might be better to take Flemington
racecourse, but possibly that would be
considered the unforgivable Australian
blasphemy.
* * * *
“Brasso”: R.A.F. air-gunners now
have a distinguishing badge, reminiscent
of the one-winged observer’s badge of
the old R.F.C. It consists of the letters
A.G. on drab silk, with a single out-
spread wing mounted on dark blue cloth,
worn on the service dress jacket above
the left breast pocket. The new badge
is authorised when an officer has com-
pleted his course of instruction and been
posted to a unit for duty as an air-
gunner, or when an airman has been
remustered to air-gunner and employed
as such on full-time duty since the out-
break of war.
* * * *
“Arenas”: The transparent nose of
the Heinkel 11 IK bombers used for raids
along the east coast of Britain is not
ordinary glass. It is constructed of a
material known as “Plexiglass,” 3-16th
inch thick, a plastic of the synthetic resin
type and particularly clear. It is light
in weight and does not splinter like glass
when smashed.
jfi
“Querex”: A Tiger Moth got out of
control and charged a hangar at Mascot
(Sydney); and that reminds me. One
sunny afternoon on the squadron aero-
drome at Mudros in 1918, the A.O. and
myself were talking at the entrance to
a Bessonneau hangar. Out of the corner
of the eye could be seen a Sopwith
Camel, taxi-ing across the ’drome for a
take-off. Half-way on the run into wind
its tail swung violently, and the next
thing was a vision of a rapidly-increasing
prop, and the roar of the Clerget rotary.
We just had time to dive for it as the
Camel roared furiously into the hangar,
reducing itself, two other Camels and
a DH9 into a battered mess. Luckily
there was no fire, and the pilot escaped
unscathed, but he had some explaining to
do to the C.O. A sudden cross wind had
caused the veer in course, added to which
the sleeve of his coat had accidentaliy
pulled the throttle lever wide open.
* * * *
“Brasso”: A good choice for the
R.A.F. among the American types of
’planes would be the Douglas DB7.
France recently placed an order for 270
of these bombers at a cost of £7,000,000
and a British order for 380 is contem-
plated. The DB7 is a high-wing mono-
plane with tricycle undercarriage ; with
new and powerful motors, such as the
Rolls Royce Merlin, top speed is said to
be near 400 m.p.h. The Douglas DB7
seems a good answer to high-speed, high-
flying Dorniers.
* * * *
“Gungear”: “The deadly rattle of
machine-guns,” that phrase beloved of
aviation writers, has been outmoded by
Britain’s two eight-gun monoplane
fighters, the Hurricane and Spitfire. The
belt-fed Brownings, of .303 bore, all con-
verge their fire at a specified point in
front of the ’plane. If the ammunition
is spent in bursts of one second duration,
a really accurate pilot might put 160
bullets into his target with each burst,
which explains why that Heinkel brought
down in Scotland, and widely photo-
graphed, looked like a colander. The
eight Brownings fired together sound
nothing like a “rattle” of fire. The effect
is a continuous ear-splitting explosion.
* * * *
Among the 30 trainees who graduated
and had their wings ceremoniously pre-
sented to them at Laverton (Vic.) recently
were Pilot-Officers W. L. Wackett,
son of Wing-Commander Wackett, now
manager of the Commonwealth Aircraft
Corporation, and Desmond Lyons, son
of the late Priminister.
* * * *
A Maorilander who has won a Dis-
tinguished Flying Cross is Pilot-Officer
Carey, an old boy of Christ’s College,
Christchurch. Carey and his air-gunner
encountered two enemy ’planes over the
North Sea while carrying out patrol work
with two other ’planes. Pilot-Officer Carey
opened fire at one at close range and
tumbled it into the sea. He then tackled
the second and severely damaged it be-
fore ammunition ran out. Carey is 23,
acquired his training at Wigram aero-
drome, Christchurch, and a year ago went
to England.
The Air War Day by Day.
March 3. British steamer Domala,
bound from Antwerp for a British
port, attacked with bombs and
machine-guns by Nazi bomber. She
reached port, but the savagery caused
heavy loss of life among British and
British Indians —members of crews of
German ships who had been interned
and released ; 108 missing.
March 4. Dutch steamer Elziena
bombed and machine-gunned by Nazi
’plane off British coast. Only three
survivors.
March 5. —Two Nazi ’planes down be-
hind German lines after chase by
French fighters. Another shot down
by R.A.F. fighters. Much activity
over Western Front by Messerschmitts
and Heinkels.
March 6. R.A.F. raids over German
towns and naval bases at Cuxhaven
and Wilhelmshaven. All ’planes re-
turned safe. German night raid on
lightship off Norfolk coast. Three
bombs failed to hit. Welsh tanker
Shellbrit attacked with bombs and
machine-guns off Scottish coast.
Second officer injured. Ship returned
to port.
March 7. —R.A.F. fighters shoot down a
German ’plane east of Aberdeen ; sur-
vivor picked up. Reconnaissance flight
by R.A.F. ’planes from England to
Poland. Leaflets dropped on Posen.
No losses.
March 8. —A second Heinkel shot down
into sea off north-east coast of Scot-
land by a Hurricane. Italian ship
Amelia Lauro bombed in North Sea
and fired by German ’planes.
“Colonel Bungstarter”: A curious—
perhaps significant—contrast between this
war and its predecessor is found in the
skull-shapes beneath the highest British
brasshats. Kitchener, Haig and prac-
tically all of Britain’s principal com-
manders of 1914-18 were narrow-
headed—dolicephalic, as the anthropolo-
gists call it. Gort, Ironside, Wavell and
their lot are mostly pronouncedly brachy-
cephalic—short-headed, with much more
skull space between the temples and less
from back to front. Of Australian
leaders, John Monash was brachy-
cephalic, and so is Blarney. For classical
good looks the 1914-18 high command
had it all their own way, but when it
comes to real fighting dials any of the
1940 vintage could change places with
the toughest of condottiere leaders of
the Middle Ages or the most bucko of
mates who ever drove a mutinous crew
to duty in a Black Ball windjammer.
I’d hate to tackle any of them in a bare-
knuckle argument, least of all Gort.


Imperial
Typewriters
QUIET STANDARD PORTABLE
• England’s Best
• Better Value . . . Lower Prices
• No Restriction on
Importations
• Your Logical Choice
WE INVITE YOUR INQUIRY
BRISBANE L. Dobell & Co. Pty., Ltd., 43 Creek Street
SYDNEY Dobell Pty., Limited, 107 Pitt Street
MELBOURNE Geo. Raitt‘ & Co., Ltd., 467 Collins Street
ADELAIDE Holdsworth & Co., 51 Grenfell Street
PERTH Burridge & Warren, Ltd., 69 King Street
HOBART J. C. McPhee Pty., Ltd., 99 Collins Street
Buy the typewriter made in ENGLAND
Give a Turn to the Wheels
of AUSTRALIAN Industry
Australia can make a most import-
ant contribution to the successful
conduct of the Empire’s war by
keeping the wheels of industry
turning. Encourage the use of
Australian products. By buying
Olympic Tyres you get the finest
tyre value obtainable and you do
a real service to Australia. Olympic
Tyres are made by
an all-Australian
Co mpa n y, em-
ploying Australian
men and Aus-
tralian money.
OLYMPIC Tyres ore
made by Australians
in Australia, and not
one penny of wages
or dividends goes
overseas
Choose
OLYMPIC
TYRES
At all leading garages and tyre
dealers.
Olympic Tyre Distributors
PTY., LTD.,
Cnr. Crown & Stanley Sts., Sydney
THE SERVICE MAN
The New War Programme.
Between the defeat of the Government
candidate for Corio and his consultations
with Mr. Cameron on the question of
forming a coalition Ministry, Mr.
Menzies sprang a surprise on the country
in the form of a revised military pro-
gramme involving the (expenditure of
£180,000,000 on the Commonwealth’s
war effort in two years—if the war lasts
so long.
The expeditionary force will be in-
creased to a fuff army corps, consisting
of the Sixth Division, a Seventh Division
and corps troops approximating to an-
other division. Front-line and head-
quarters strength will be about 48,000,
and reinforcements will call for the
enlistment of another 42,000 men.
The 75,000 militia will go through their
three months’ training ; afterwards short
refresher courses will be instituted. Two
fresh classes of compulsory trainees will
be called up, and the Prime Minister
anticipates that 28,500 men will be re-
quired for the Air Scheme by June next
year. Meanwhile the Permanent Military
Force numbers 12,000, the strength of
the R.A.A.F. stands at 5400, and the
R.A.N. personnel has been increased
from 5440 before the outbreak of war
to 11,600.
On the industrial side, the Supply De-
partment by June, 1942, should be em-
ploying 17,000 men, and tens of thou-
sands more will be engaged “in air con-
struction and defence works, and in the
production of munitions.” If the scheme
is fully implemented, the middle of
1942 should see half a million per-
sons at least employed on civil and naval,
military and air effort.
An ambitious —but not too ambitious
—programme, and it calls for greater
energy and efficiency than have yet been
shown. And it will need careful financ-
ing. The possibilities of extravagance
in mushroom departments are boundless.
Truce in Finland?
“Ek Dum”: Save for a German raid
in which a few British soldiers, manning
a post, were killed and wounded and a
few others captured, the only aggressive
war activity in the past few days has
been on the Finnish front. The battle
for Viborg has continued to rage between
vast Russian forces and the defenders
of the ancient town. Reds pushing up
over the ice of Viborg Bay from Bjdrko
were swept back again and again by
Finnish machine-guns, while heavy artil-
lery thundered on the land side, and
Finnish battalions hurled back concerted
tank attacks on the suburbs.
Further north in the Lake Ladoga
sector, there have been fierce Russian
thrusts at the Finnish Arctic highway,
synchronising with efforts to get a foot-
hold to the west of Viborg, to cut the
coastal highway, and to gain control of the
important Kouvala junction, from which
the railways run east and west and south
to north into the heart of Finland.
Meanwhile, peace negotiations were
reported to be taking place on the initia-
tive of Sweden, acting under pressure
from Germany. Dr. Sven Hedin, the ex-
plorer went to Berlin, supposedly on a
peace mission, and there was a signi-
ficant gathering in Rome. Though
Sweden has been under censorship, a
newspaper was allowed to report that the
Finnish Foreign Minister, Mr. Tanner,
had said over the telephone that his Gov-
ernment had established contact with a
“go-between” for the Soviet, and that this
contact was being maintained. But the
Finnish Minister in Stockholm said:
The only real fact which I would like
the people to realise just now is that the
war in Finland is still going on, and that
there has been no armistice.
The Soviet Union will find it very diffi-
cult to make any peace without giving
its devoted adherents throughout the
world more and greater shocks.
The Moscow Government’s stand
throughout has been that it is not at
war with the Finnish people ; it is assist-
ing a Finnish “People’s Government,”
headed by Comrade Kuusinen, to clean
out the “Fascist White Guard banditry”
which holds the Finns in thrall by force,
and which has been acting for the “Im-
perialist” Powers, Britain and France, to
provide them with a jumping-off place
from which to attack a peaceful Russia.
On December 2 Comrades Molotov
and Kuusinen signed in Moscow a “treaty
“Yer know, Blue, sometimes I sit back and wishes I Was ’ ome .”
of mutual assistance and friendship be-
tween the Soviet Union and the Demo-
cratic Republic of Finland.” Kuusinen
was described as “Chairman of the
People’s Government and Minister of
Foreign Affairs of Finland.” “Territorial
adjustments” were provided for.
Kuusinen agreed to shift the fron-
tiers of Karelia, giving the Soviet Union
3970 sq. kilometres of new territory,
from the present border to the shores of
Viborg Bay, to lease the peninsula of
Hango, at the mouth of the Gulf of
Finland, giving Russia control of all in-
gress by sea from the Baltic to that coun-
try, to sell every island from which
southern ports of Finland could be domi-
nated, and to cede parts of the Ribachi
Peninsula in the north, giving Russia
possession of the entrances to Petsamo
and of the northern nickel mines.
And Article 4 provided:
The contracting parties undertake not to
conclude any alliance nor to participate in
any coalition directed against one of the
contracting parties.
Without throwing overboard Mr.
Kuusinen and admitting that his is not
the de facto Government of Finland,
there can be no truce.
As heartening in its way as a victori-
ous sea fight was the safe passage of the
85,000-ton liner Queen Elizabeth from
the Clyde to New York. Her sailing
date was announced before the war, and
she kept to it, thus proving that com-
mand of the seas is still intact, and that
the submarine menace is well under con-
trol. Thousands watched her go down
the Clyde, and if there is anything in the
idea that Britain is full of spies the
enemy must have known she was on the
way. She is to keep the Queen Mary
and Normandie company until after the
war, and her room on the Clyde is in-
finitely preferable to her company lor a
country feverishly building warships and
merchant ships.
Around the Army.
XVIII.
THE TUNNELLER.
He’s on the strength of something, but
he couldn’t tell you what.
No divvy seems to own him, but he
doesn’t care a jot.
Flat country is his bugbear; but a
mountain or a mound
Inspires him with a frantic urge to
burrow underground.
He loves to see the enemy go flying
through the air.
He’ll blow a hill or colonel up and never
turn a hair.
Nobody bothers about tunnellers in
the peace-time establishment. Among
the bigger sections of the army they are
loosely grouped among insignificant and
queer mobs like armorers, base record
wallahs, R.T.Os. and the corps bakery.
But when a war gets going in earnest
they blossom out into a full company
of their own, sporting their own device:
pit-props rampant in a field of detona-
tors. Their motto is “Hie, hack, hock—
anything.”
It is only just that one should here
scotch the belief, widely held among other
units, that the tunnellers work in with
the detonator and dynamite manufac-
turers to see how much they can set
off at once, and that they have a carte
blanche commission to raze all hills that
in their opinion are marring the land-
scape. Actually, they blow up only those
hills to which they take a strong dislike
or in which other troops have got com-
fortable dugouts.
Occasionally a d.r. will lob at a hill
where some tunnellers are operating. As
he gets off his bike some scraps of con-
versation will float across to him from
the hairy-chested, tin-hatted figures
lolling around: “An’ Ah ses to t’ cor-
poral ‘Y’ knaw nowt abart it yerself if
it cooms t’ thart’....”; “Do ’ee ’mem-
ber the time, Willum, when the Cap’n
sez to Jabez Trevithick as ’e corned off
shift ” ; “Bah goom, laad, if thar’d
ha’ been a plaatman on the 2000 ft. level
o’ the awld Cadenza like Ah wuz ”
The d.r. will naturally check in his
stride, and he will approach one of them.
“Hey, Dig, could you tell us where the
Aussie tunnellers are? They’re supposed
to be somewhere around Hill 33.”
“Ye’re talkin’ to Aussies neow, laad.
What t’ ’ell do ’ee think we are —bleedin’
Tawmies?”
Very carefully the iriver of an army
lorry will back in to a tunnellers’ dump
with his vehicle piled with cases. As he
sits at the wheel a fatigue party will come
out. The m.t. driver’s leather cap will
nearly leap off his head and his hair will
come straight up as the tailboard drops
with a crash. Then the tunnellers will
get in and sling cases of detonators and
dynamite around as if they were jam.
The driver, with studied casualness, will
get down from his seat and, giving the
toilers a rather greenish-hued smile, will
stroll across to a point about half a mile
away to admire the scenery. When
everything is stacked he will return and
beat it, thankful to be away from “that
mad mob.”
The driving of a tunnel into a hillside
so as to burrow under and blow up the
enemy lines is an operation that the
tunnellers approach phlegmatically. To
all inquiries from surrounding units the}'
give the reply that “it won’t be long
now,” and that they’ll give everyone the
office when it’s going off. The fact that
they can hear the enemy burrowing
towards them doesn’t shake them out of
their wonted calm.
Then one morning, while those troops
who have pestered the tunnellers for
months about progress are playing cards,
snoring off, draining trenches, etc., a
terrific subterranean upheaval will nearly
bowl them over. Everyone will rush
up out of dugouts or scramble out of
trenches, but the spectacle they will see
will be limited to a pall of smoke and
dust. Later, to the complaint that they
might have let a mob know when it was
going up, the tunnellers will express sur-
prise that they didn’t know —“we thought
everyone knew.”
But if they are phlegmatic during the
actual tunnelling, the great moment finds
the whole co. eagerly awaiting it on
vantage points. Then, as about 100,000
tons of earth go skywards, you’ll hear :
“Blime! Pipe that Fritzer, Geordie.
’E’s still goin’ up. Wouldn’t mind bettin’
’e lobs back in ’is own lines.”
“No! He’s cornin’ this way. I betcha
half a nicker he lobs in our lines.”
“You’re on!”
A tunneller will sometimes be chanced
upon back in the rest areas who, though
he’s well on the sherbet, isn’t looking
for stoush. He will be too happy for
that. The probability is that he’s a non-
com., and judicious pumping will bring
the information that his former mine
manager is a private in his section.
S. W. K.


e
NOT only does Cane-ite resist
summer's heat and winter's
cold ... it also transforms disturb-
ing sounds into distant murmurs. It
makes every room a refuge. The
secret lies in the millions of tiny
dead-air cells which occur in this
extraordinarily durable, white-ant-
proofed insulation. With Cane-ite,
too, decoration and insulation can
be carried out simultaneously.
The boards can be finished in
most attractive designs. Made in
three thicknesses and two finishes,
in boards up to 12 feet long.
Cane-ite is the perfect, inexpen-
sive insulation for new or existing
buildings.
OR DO YOU
LIVE IN AN
UN-INSULATED
HOUSE?
£
Ca^J^TE
STRUCTURAL INSULATION
NOW PRODUCED IN AUSTRALIA
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Sydney . Melbourne . Adelaide . Brisbane . Perth
r
CA3-4
The Australian Army is using
MASONITE extensively. It can
help you, too.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Power Alcohol
“Titre”: Projectors are busy with
plans for the production of power
alcohol. C.S.R. is establishing another
factory to turn out 1,000,000 gallons p.a.
in Melbourne, and the Queensland
Canegrowers have a plan before them
for a £350,000 plant to handle the
cane equivalent of 40,000 tons of sugar
and produce 6,000,000 gallons of abso-
lute alcohol a year.
Estimates of cost have been worked
out to total 14.4 d. a gallon, of which
lOd. is represented by working expenses.
Yield should run about 140 gallons to
the cane equivalent of a ton of sugar,
for which the factory can afford to pay
£5 15s.
Alcohol could be used straight in most
modern high-compression engines, but
it is not likely to give anything near the
same mileage as petrol its British
thermal unit rating is only 92,000, as
against 138,000 in first-grade petrol. As
a mixture with petrol—say 15 p.c. to
85 p.c. of mineral spirit—it makes an
efficient fuel.
And the cost of plant is a trifle beside
the millions needed to establish shale-oil
distilleries.
“Scat”: In 1938, when the McEwen
Ministerial party toured the N.T., it
found a smooth “all-weather” road pre-
pared for it between Alice Springs and
Tennant Creek. The party voiced its
collective approval and the Territory’s
Works Department purred ; but people
who knew the country mailmen and
haulage contractors who punch heavy
trucks over the road twice a week
throughout the year—thought differently,
and they were right:
A motor-truck with perishables for
Tennant Creek is hopelessly bogged....
The mail truck which left on Sunday has
not been heard of.... The Public Works
concreted stony and sandy creeks where
bogs did not occur, but did nothing to
creeks which get boggy... . Transport of
ore to the mills is impossible owing to
the boggy nature of the roads.
Presumably it’s all part of “the policy
of direct assistance to mining” promised
in December, 1938.
“Number thirty's next door —’bout thirty miles further on."
“S.T.S.”: A special order for frogs
has caused some surprise at Darwin,
but there is no difficulty in filling it, and
the “price is right.” They are shipped
by ’plane to Adelaide University, where
Prof. Stanton Hicks, in conjunction with
Lipsham, president of the Pharmacy
Board, is going to use them in testing
the strength of the drug digitalis. This
is mainly a foxglove extract, useful for
heart trouble, and the war is giving Aus-
tralian manufacturers of it their chance.
It is proposed to dose a large batch of
frogs with the local product, and another
with the European standardised line,
and thus get an idea of the relative
power.
* * * *
“Dip”: Clyde Fenton, the N.T. flying
doctor, is still having adventures. His
fourth crash came a week ago when tak-
ing off from Hodgson Downs with a
patient and a sister from Katherine Hos-
pital. The ’plane was badly damaged,
but no one was injured. Fenton ihen
rode 20 miles to Roper Valley station
and wirelessed Darwin for another ’plane,
in which he took his patient to hospital.
He made another trip to pick up the
sister, and was on his way back to
Katherine when four feet of brown snake
made its presence felt in the cockpit.
The doctor kicked the snake out of sight
along the rudder pedals, and practically
stood on his seat until he could make a
landing at Maranboy and dispose of Joe
Biake with a hammer. He and the sister
had to cut a 200-yard runway through
long grass before they could take off
again.
* * * *
“Mundi”: There has been another
demonstration of the dangers of fire in
Queensland country pubs—the second
since the frightful affair which cost nine
lives in Goomeri just before Christmas.
This time it was at Sarina, a thriving sugar
town. A boarder at the pub was awakened
by smoke just in time to save the lives
of the rest of the occupants. A few got
away by the stairway, but that exit was
soon blocked, and the licensee, his wife
and several boarders made a perilous
exit by sliding down a rope. It might
have been much worse —especially as
there was a drill hall holding large quan-
tities of ammunition across the street.
* * * *
“E.V.”: One group of N.Q. fishermen
operating in a small flattie a few miles
from Ingham (N.Q.), off Taylor’s Beach,
needed a good stiff reviver after they
came ashore the other night. Their first
catch was a large stingray, which they
knifed and tethered to the boat. A few
minutes afterwards there reared up along-
side the dorsal fin of a shark. The boat
rocked as if it had been struck by a
tornado, the three-sixteenth-inch rope
holding the stingray snapped like twine,
a mountain of back rose under the
anchor rope and lifted the boat out of
the water, and, with a mouth full of
stingray, the shark left for home. So
did the fishermen.
H* *l*
“X.T.”: Resourceful fellows, these
westerners. A call came for an ambu-
lance to Longreach (C.Q.) from Rock-
wood, away out in the Corfield district.
The countryside was a sea of mud.
Qantas, as usual, came to the rescue,
and a doctor went out in a ’plane. It
was possible to take off again with the
original load, but not with the patient
added. While testing the countryside to
find a new ground, the ’plane bogged.
Enter the manager with 500 sheep. He
padded them up and down the paddock
until he had tamped down a serviceable
runway. The patient was brought out
from the homestead on a stretcher, cross-
ing a flooded creek on the way. After
an hour above cloud level, he was safely
tucked in bed in Longreach Hospital,
125 miles away.
* * * *
Major-General Tom Glasgow, who in
a few weeks’ time will be setting up his
household gods in Ottawa as Australia’s
High Commissioner to Canada, was born
in Queensland 63 years ago. He served
in the S. African War with the Queens-
land Mounted Infantry, winning the
D.S.O. The 1914-1918 war, in which
he was one of the great A.I.F. com-
manders, added C.M.G., C.B. and K.C.B.
to his honors, together with the highest
dieeorations France can bestow. He
went into politics in 1920, representing
Queensland in the Senate, and was in
the Federal Cabinet from 1923 to 1929,
for the last two years of that period as
Minister for Defence. He’s a sheep-
farmer, with a station at Dingo (Q.),
when not on public service.
* * * *
“P.S.”: I nominate for the Novel-
Excuse Stakes a Queenslander who was
charged with parking a car over the time
limit. “I went to drive away,” he said,
“but saw a man waiting near the car who
I knew was going to bite me for ten bob.
So I waited till he was gone.”
* * * *
“Pawang”: A Brisbane mother was
concerned about the health of her son,
aged six. A medico was consulted, and
he diagnosed ton-
silitis and adenoids
•and advised an
operation. The
mother was anxious
not to alarm the in-
fant, and during
three weeks of wait-
ing she enlarged on
the magnificence of
the hospital, the
charm of the nurses,
the delightful man-
ners of the surgeon
and the extraordi-
nary attention paid to the feelings
of patients. The approaching cere-
mony became a major topic of
conversation in the household, and
the other members of the family
almost became envious. Gradually the
mother became infected by her own
eloquence, and one day when the child
was a bit obstreperous she was heard
to say: “If you’re not a good boy you
shan’t have your operation!”
“Lao-dah”: The strangest form of
conscientious objector has bobbed up in
French Indo-China. When war was de-
clared the natives were mobilised, and
when some of them were examined for
military service it was found that they
were wearing a peculiarly-shaped wooden
bracelet. Inquiry elicited that a local
witchdoctor was doing a thriving busi-
ness selling recruits these bracelets as a
charm which granted immunity from
military service. The ingenious seer was
arrested but released with a caution.
Thereupon he made a slight alteration to
the amulets and started selling them to
soldiers as talismans which made the
wearer invulnerable to bullets, gas and
all the modern threats to human exist-
ence.
* * * * .
“256”: An American who went to a
court to bail out a friend found the place
empty, and walked off with a clock and a
calendar. Arrested and charged with theft,
he explained that he took the objects so
as to be able to prove later both the time
and the date on which he had called.
That might seem absurd, but the Judge
believed him. In the same way, I sup-
pose, the nation to which these worthies
belong believes, with the magazine
“Click,” that the President has the
Toughest Job in the World Keeping
America out of War. I should call it
the easiest.
* * * *
“Reefer”: An aspect of this puzzling
war that has me slightly bewildered is
that so far there has been no apparent
migration of the beachcombing fraternity
to the coasts of Britain. The tides that
wash those coasts must be carrying all
sorts of things in just now, from tor-
pedoed, mined and otherwise wrecked
ships to sunken subs, and shot-down air
raiders. A really efficient comber should
be able to make a jolly good living, even
though the lav/ compels him to surrender
his finds and allows him only one-third
of their value. Of course, I know that
your experienced beach-hunter dis-
likes fogs and snow ; still a few months
in Britain ought to enable anyone game
enough to take on the job to come back
to the Pacific and live like a king for
the rest of his days.


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
Sat,
J?e£ccuru4.
MEALS OF QUALITY
ARE UNEQUALLED
THESE WORLD-FAMED
DISHES
ABE SEBVED IN THE
FRENCH RESTAURANT
at the
HOTEL PLAZA
(Wynyard)
Under the direction of Monsieur Albert,
well-known Bestaurateur,
assisted by Monsieur Chatenay,
Chef de Cuisine.
The following popular dishes are always
available:—
HUNGABIAN GOUEASH 1/9
WIENEB SCHNITZEE 3/-
FIEET MIGNON GABNI 3/-
Pilet of Sole Tout Paris .... 37-
Chicken Maryland 3/9
Apple Strudel 6d.
Cream Venitianne 6d.
Patrons will please note liquor is served
with Two Course Meal until 8.45 p.m.
HOTEL PLAZA
For Meals of Quality ,
WYNYARD.
■
BULLETIN OF COM MOW WEALTH ROLLING (g(4V)g) MILLS PTY. LTD., PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
i / ■
5 *' _ £O4
fc
fr/-uw
v-*) \'
M\
■
i, /
: «|lll i
W,
<y
\n
n .
J Ml
mi
;
4?
s
■
SVf.
i j *
ill’iVlt
■*T
i
U>:
?<*
vmm
mm
X
\Uh
f yw&Q
’ 4.J
HI
L
4)|l jIL
CANT
GO IN
ME OUT
A sheet leaving a hot-mill furnace at the
C.R.M. plant. Sheets are heated in the
most modern producer-gas furnaces to the
temperature required for hot rolling to gauge.
Manufacturers who use or
propose to use Steel Sheets
are invited to submit their
problems to our technicians
for helpful advice.
can't get 20 gallons of milk out of a 10 gallon can. But
* you can get added years of service out of a can made from
high-grade steel sheets. If your customers don't know this
already, they're going to find it out particularly when they
discover that there are manufacturers sufficiently keen on cus-
tomer goodwill to use high-grade steel sheets instead of sheets
which are merely "good enough". We'll be glad to discuss
this point with you helpfullyno matter what your product
may be.
(THE ARMCO-LYSAGHT ORGANISATION)
PT Y. LTD.
KEMBLA
ROAD, PORT KEMBLA
CR2I-9
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“N.McA.”: Dominions Secretary
Anthony Eden is linked by name
at least to Maoriland. He is directly
descended from that Sir Robert Eden
who was father to the first Lord
Auckland. The second Lord Auck-
land was First Lord of the Admiralty
in 1834, and it was he who gave Captain
Hobson command of the Rattlesnake.
When Captain Hobson later became the
first Governor of Enzed, he founded and
christened Auckland in memory of his
friend and patron. Furthermore, he
named the whole district Eden, and the
name still clings to a populous electorate
in the Auckland suburban area.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Reported that Wang
Ching-wei has his mansion in Shanghai’s
foreign settlement ringed around by
pillboxes with Japanese sentries in them.
Wang has often been indebted to
Japanese protection. When his master
Sun Yat-sen was director of railways
under the first or pseudo-republic and
elected to do his directing from the
foreign pale so that he could organise a
fresh revolution outside the reach of
Chinese bayonets, Wang’s mansion was
the meeting place of the conspirators
and was famed for its magnificent din-
ners. When the rebellion collapsed in
a welter of bloodshed Sun and Wang
fled to Nippon. After Sun’s death,
allegedly by poison, Wang was rudder-
less. Today the witty, scholarly and
natty little Celestial aspires to the Presi-
dency.
* * >5 *
“F.S.”: The French carry their national
thriftiness into their film production. Yet
they are not skimpy. The American pro-
ducer builds a replica of a European
palace at enormous expense, complete
down to the last detail; but the result
then looks gimcrack. The French con-
fectors have allowed the Gothic architects
of the Middle Ages to do the job for
them and they have done it five times
better. Usually a French film travels
along to a stately background of old
French buildings, antique furniture and
beautiful street vistas, and all the settings
have a dignity about them which matches
the mellow French acting.
“8.0’E.”: No matter how grim the
outlook France always manages to evolve
amusing novelties. Street vendors in Paris
are doing a thriving business by selling
caricatures of an old general of the
Napoleonic era. This little squat figure,
with toes turned in, wearing a frock coat
and top-hat and flourishing a walking-
stick, always comes to light when there
is a war on.
* $ * *
“El V.” on a distinguished acquain-
tance :
A glow of pride would suffuse the open
countenance of my acquaintance Hastings Wil-
liam Sackville Russell, Marquess of Tavistock,
if he could see how seriously a great journal
like “S. M. Herald” took his intervention
in European affairs in the cause of peace. Lord
Halifax appears to have listened to the 52-
year-old visionary; but then everybody in Eng-
land is apt to listen to one who is heir to the
dukedom of Bedford and to Woburn Abbey,
especially since the Duke is 82 and is so
buried in the past that he still describes him-
self as a “Unionist” in politics. When Tavis-
tock does succeed to the title he should be
the Admirable Crichton among dukes. There
have been dukes who have acted as bottle-
washers and ship’s-stewards, but it is doubtful
if there has ever before been a duke who has
been New Thoughter, International Peace pro-
moter and member of the National Council of
the Y.M.C.A. “Tacky”—such is his friendly
nickname among the cognoscenti—is also an
author, but his only work which is taken
seriously is called Parrots and Parrot-like Birds
in Aviculture. Otherwise, he is chiefly inter-
esting as the heir of a line which gave a
Lord Privy Seal to Bloody Mary—he brought
Philip 11. over to marry her —and which lost
its most promising duke when the fat Lord
William Russell was beheaded with six strokes
of a very blunt axe in Lincoln’s Inn Fields
in 1683 for alleged complicity in the Rye
House plot. The only modem glory of the
Bedfords was the tiny Lord John Russell, pride
of the Whigs.
* * * *
“Tinopai”: Talking of useful results
from hobbies (B. 17/1/’4O), what about
Elsdon Best, of M.L.? After much
roving he settled in the Urewera country,
even today about as wild a spot as
is to be found anywhere in M.L., and
remained there long years. He made
friends with the Maoris and spent every
spare moment recording their customs,
myths and language. A great stack of
notebooks accumulated, and it was not
till after some 30 years of this patient
work that its value became recognised.
Now, with the original sources dying
out, Best’s works provide a great store-
house of Maori lore. He had achieved
world-wide renown at the time of his
death.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor , not to members of the staff personally.
H.G.S.: Suburban parodies of Omar Khay-
yam 30 years out of date; what’s more, we
never did have any time for them... .F.M.:
It’s marching on P.S.: “Oh! Come tiptoe
through the mountains with me!” No, thanks.
. ...E.A.S.: No, but they’re worth trying else-
where. .. .W.C.E.: What’s all that about? ....
H.C.P.: There’s something faintly humorous
about describing the Empire Air Scheme as
“Earth’s most amazing sky migration”
H.C.8.: “Outside” just is... .A. 1.: Can’t pluck
“Brands from the Burning” N.L.W.: Nice
enough, but vague 8.C.: An idea worth
working on P.K.: Love seems to be grand.
C.L.D.: “Knights in Armor” are a little
rusty C.D.G.: Faithful hounds and the rain
always afflict us about this time of the year.
J.R.W.: “Please Knock.” But don’t enter.
... .H.T.: Cut by half and come again....
F.C.R.: “Twilight” off our beat; no record of
the others D.G.L.: “Summer” went quickly.
S.J.T.: “The Origin of Mickey Mouse”
went to the office cat... .T.P.W.: The idea’s
not bad, but there’s no scene behind it, and
the people don’t come to life.... M.W.S.:
e


PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess —no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SILK —only one price,
6d. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New Soutli Males, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, t.ns
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
I o avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady (19), Sydney, filing clerk and
telephonist, seeks position.—6496.
Stenographer, Australian and overseas exp.
in advertising, sales organising, publicity, inter-
viewing, control of staff and secretarial duties,
seeks position.—643s.
Refrigeration serviceman, Q’land, full up-to-
date kit. wants to hear of a good country town
in which to open business or form a partner-
ship with radio- or garageman.—64B7.
Competent oxy-acetylene and arc welder de-
sires position anywhere in Queensland, mining
or sugar industry preferred. Refs. —6375.
Financial partner for invention (internal-com-
bustion turbine engine for motor-cars, etc.). —
6371.
Will exchange 18 paper-covered novels,
mostly large size, for others by modern authors.
Please send list. —6456.
To get .in touch with experienced writer able
to discuss short stories and give a constructive
criticism, by correspondence, 'for fee. No com-
mercial courses required.—6339.
To buy Australian novel The Ashes of
Achievement. —6426.
To buy Plotto, by William Wallace Cook. —
6445. ;
To buy Frank R. Cana’s History of the Great
War, all volumes; also Peoples of All Nations,
edited by J. A. Hammerton, all volumes, and
his other books on the 1914-18 war.—636B.
To' buy Narrative Technique, by Thomas H.
Uzzell, and Trial and Error, by Jack Wood-
ford.—64BB.
Words of verse “Murphy’s Brindle Cow.” —
6434.
Words of war-time poem “Claude,” com-
mencing “When we first began to mix it and
our blokes were boggin’ in.” —6360.
Words of poem “The Squire’s Brother.” —
—6361.
Words of poem “The Man from Maoriland.”
—6494.
Words of recitation “Lasca.” —6493.
Information Sought.
Titles of stories written by Henry Lawson
for The Bulletin from 1888, the year of his
first story, to 1893 ?— 6381.
1888, “His Father’s Mate” (Dec. 22); 1889,
“The t Story of Malachi” (June 22); 1892,
“Arvie Aspinall’s Alarm Clock” (June 11),
“A Day on a Selection” (May 28), “Ihe
Drover’s Wife” (July 23), “In a Dry Season”
(Nov. 5), “A Visit of Condolence” (April 23) ;
1893, “Another of Mitchell’s Plans for the
Future” (July 1), “His Colonial Oath” (Aug.
5), “Hungerford” (Dec. 16), “In a Wet Season”
(Dec. 2), “A Love Story” (Nov. 25), “Mitchell”
(April 15), “Mitchell Doesn’t Believe in the
Sack” (May 13), “On the Edge of a Plain”
(May 6), “Rats” (June 3), “Stragglers” (May
27), “Tom’s Selection” (Sept. 9), ■“A Typical
Bush Yarn” (Nov. 11).
* * * *
Did any of the early voyagers to Australia
describe in their journals, etc., the flight of the
boomerang? Sources of early descriptions of
the boomerang ? —6424.
No description of the boomerang’s flight is
to be found among the accounts left by the
early voyagers. Peron, in his Atlas, figures a
W.A. boomerang as a “sabre a ricochet,” a
term just as appropriate to the war or non-
return form. White in his Journal of a
Voyage to N.S.W. (1788) gives a quite recog-
nisable colored drawing of a true return
boomerang, but evidently mistakes it for a
weapon used like a sword, for he calls it “an
humble form of scymitar.” In the Sydney
“Gazette” of 1803 the description of the flight
of this weapon first appears in print; and it
is called “a bent waddy like a scimitar.” The
name “boomerang” seems to have been first
given to it by Capt. Philip Arthur King in a
paper entitled “On the Maritime Geography of
Australia,” read on October 2, 1822, before the
Philosophical Society of Australia, which
appeared in a volume of collected papers edited
by Barron Field.
* * * *
What is Ferrel’s Law ? —6430.
Ferrel’s Law is that everything moving on
the earth’s surface is subject to a deflecting
force owing to the rotation of the earth —in
the Northern Hemisphere the force deflects to
the right, and in the Southern Hemisphere to
the left. This is specially applicable to the air
when in motion, the winds of the Northern
Hemisphere being deflected to the right and
those of the southern to the left.
* * * *
Is vaccination compulsory in England? —
6400.
In. England and Wales vaccination is com-
pulsory within six months from birth, the
obligation to comply with the law being im-
posed on the parent or other person having
custody of the child. The local Public Vac-
cinator (a medico appointed by the local
authority) vaccinates free of charge. Penalties
are incurred for non-compliance with the law.
Exemption may be obtained if a parent, within
four months from the birth, makes a declara-
tion that he conscientiously believes that vac-
cination would be prejudicial to the health of
ihe child.
What is meant by a “tacit contract” ? —6402.
A contract where conduct may take the place
of written or spoken words, as where A allows
X to work for him in such circumstances
that no reasonable man would suppose X meant
to do the work for nothing.
* * * *
What is the “age of . consent” in each of the
six Slates of the Commonwealth ? —6226.
N.S.W., 16; Vic., 16 (subject to Sec. 46 of
the Crimes Act); Q., 14 (subject to Criminal'
Code); S.A., 16; W.A., 16; Tas., varies from
12-16 (see Sec. 124 Criminal Code).
* * * *
(1) With what gas besides hydrogen can a
toy balloon be inflated? (2) Where is hydrogen
gas obtainable ? (3) Does a balloon remain
aloft as long as it retains gas? (4) Has the
gas to be released eventually or does it escape
by some other means, such as evaporation ?
(5) What is the cause of toy balloons bursting
so easily when blown, up ? (6) Would a large
bcdloon . keep aloft indefinitely if hot air were
supplied continuously ? —6218.
(1) With helium, coal gas or hot air. (2)
From Commonwealth Industrial Gases, Ltd.,
Wortley-street, Balmain, Sydney. (3) No; it
commences to sink when its weight, together
with the weight of the contained gases, becomes
more than the weight of the displaced air. (4)
It does not evaporate. The usual means of
escape is by diffusion of the gas through the
rubber membrane. . (5) Bursting occurs when
the balloon reaches the limit of its elasticity.
(6) It would.
* * *
(I), Which is the heavier, salt (sea) water
or ordinary fresh water? (2) If salt water is
the heavier, will it float above the fresh water
in rivers in dry times, and, if so, why ? —6309.
(1) Sea water. (2) Theoretically, the more
saline layers of water should be found at the .
bottom of the stream; actually, owing to the
action of currents, tides and winds, the fresh
and salt water soon become mixed, and samples
at all depths are of about the same degree of
density. But where enormous bodies of fresh
water are suddenly projected into the ocean,
as at the mouth of at least one great South
American river, the surface water at some dis-
tance from land is found to be fresh.
* * * *
If a man leaves a ’plane at a height of
15,000//“., would he be travelling faster after
falling 200 ft. on account of thinner air than
he would if he commenced to drop at 10,000//. ?
—6066.
The greater the rarefaction of the atmo-
sphere, which increases with increasing distance
from the earth’s surface, the greater the
acceleration of a falling body initially. But this
effect operates only lor a short time, after
which frictional resistance comes into play and
the acceleration becomes zero. It may be said
that a man falling from some tremendous
height, measurable in many thousands of feet,
is travelling at the moment of impact with the
earth with an approximate velocity of 110 miles
per hour, or about 161 ft. per second. Whether
the man falls from 15,000 ft. or from 25,000 ft.
his velocity at the end of the journey is the
same in both cases.
* * * *
(1) What does the job of cadet reporter on
a daily newspaper consist of ? (2) Average
age ? (3) Salary ? (4) Term of cadetship ?
6363.
(1) Usually his duties amount to keeping in
touch with police stations and fire brigade
stations, reporting minor meetings and taking
messages over the telephone from other re-
porters. When a cadet reporter obtains tidings
of a major news item the work is usually
handed over to a senior member of the staff.
(2) Average age in Sydney is 19. Most of them
commence at 17. (3) Cadets on metropolitan
dailies receive: First year, £2 ss. a week;
second year, £3 55.; third year, £4 55.; fourth
year, £5 ss. (4) Awards prescribe four years,
but there are many instances in which cadets
who have shown marked proficiency have been
promoted to the graded staff before the expira-
tion of that period.
* * * *
(1) What is glycol used for? (2) What is it
manufactured from ? (3) What is its price in
Australia? (4) What quantity does Australia
use annually ? (5) If imported, where from ?
—5774.
(1) Used as an antifreezing solution in car
radiators, as an ingredient of flavoring ex-
tracts and in the manufacture of dynamite. (2)
There are three methods of manufacture; (a)
by heating ethylene chloride with a solution of
an alkali (carbonate or bicarbonate) under pres-
sure, ( b ) by heating ethylene chlorohydrin with
one of these solutions, and (c) by heating
ethylene chloride with sodium formate in methyl
alcohol solution. (3) and (5) Write to Robert
Corbett and Co., 379 Kent-street, or to Robert
Bryce and Co., 188 Kent-street, both Sydney,
for this information. (4) Question can only be
answered by Commonwealth Statistician. No
figures in latest Commonwealth Year-Book.
* * * *
I am interested in the good electrical re-
production of gramophone music and do not
want to buy a radio set for this purpose. Does
a circuit designed for musical reproduction
differ greatly from the amplification side of the
average radio receiver ? If so, where can the
circuit and specifications for such electrical
gramophones be obtained? —6483.
For high-fidelity reproduction of records,
something better than the audio channel of the
average receiver is needed, and the audio ampli-
fier portion of a high-fidelity broadcast re-
ceiver can be used. Several receivers of the
higher-price class are designed for good record
reproduction through a pickup, but the straight
high-fidelity which invariably uses a
tuned R.F. arrangement for local stations only
on the radio side is only to be found as de-
scribed for home construction in the magazines
catering for the man who likes to make his
own equipment. Many such circuits and indi-
vidual amplifiers for good-quality reproduction
will be found in back issues of ’’Australasian
Radio World,” published at 117 Reservoir-
street, Sydney.
*'■ * * *
Particulars of poster competition being con-
ducted by the Australian■ Apple ■ and Pear
Board ? —6497.
A prize of 20 guineas is being offered for the
best poster sketch design submitted in connec-
tion with the current national apple and pear
publicity campaign. Sketches should be suit-
able for conversion into multicolor posters and
display panels of about 30in. by 15in., and
should express novel and striking methods of
treatment. ..The,prize-winning, entry and others
which may be deemed suitable for use in the
campaign will be purchased at fair prices, and
judging will be effected by a committee of
artists and publicity experts. If no entry is
considered to be of a standard sufficiently high
to merit reproduction, the board reserves the
right to make no award. All‘entries will close
at the offices of the Apple and Pear Board,
from which further particulars may be obtained,
. 528 Collins-street, Melbourne,' C.l, on March
30, 1940.
H* H»
Officials and address of the Abolition of
State Parliaments League ?— 6395.
President, A. D. Swadling; vice-presidents,
A. N. Campbell, P. Underwood and C. H.
Archer; hon. treasurer, F. H. Holland; organ-
ising manager, R. Richardson; secretary, R. J.
Fitzgerald. Address; Second Floor, Ocean
House,: 34 Martin-place, Sydney.
* * .* . *
Some, details concerning the “Edinburgh Re-
view” ? —6427.
It was founded as a Whig quarterly in 1802
by Francis Jeffrey, Sydney. Smith, „F. Horner
and Lord Brougham. It was the earliest of
the great reviews and had a far-reaching in-
fluence on literature and politics. Sydney Smith
was the first editor, and he was . followed, by
Jeffrey (1803-29), Macvey Napier, (1829-47),
Professor Empson (1847-52), Sir George Corne-
wall Lewis (1852-55) and Henry. .Reeve (1855-
95). Its early literary criticisms were. amazingly
savage, notably in the.case of Wordsworth and
Southey, and gave rise to Byron’s satire “Eng-
lish Bards, and Scotch Reviewers.” It ceased
publication in 1929.
* * * *
Where are the West Indies, to whom do they
belong and what is the size of the whole archi-
pelago ? —6416.
The West Indies, so named in 1492 by
Columbus, who believed the islands to form the
western limits of India, are a number of islands
and islets, some of them mere rocks, situated
between lOdeg. to 27deg. north and 59deg. to
85deg. west. The whole archipelago extends in
a curve from the Florida Channel (North
America) to within seven miles of the coast of
Venezuela (South America), and is divided into
three main groups: (1) Greater Antilles, which
contain the largest islands, Cuba (44,000 square
miles), Hispaniola (Haiti and the Dominican Re-
public—3o,ooo square miles), Jamaica and
Puerto Rico; (2) Bahamas, which are entirely
British; and (3) the Lesser Antilles, which are
divided among the United Kingdom, France,
Netherlands, the United States and Venezuela.
The total area of the archipelago is nearly
100,000 square miles, of which 72,000 square
miles are independent, 12,300 British, 3890
United States, 1350 French, 430 Netherlands
and 90 Venezuelan.
* * * *
Biographical details concerning Neville Cham-
berlain, Prime Minister of England? —6376.
Born March 18, 1869, second son of Joseph
Chamberlain. Educated Rugby and Mason Col-
lege, Birmingham. Resided ini the Bahamas,
West Indies, 1890-7. Entered Birmingham City
Council and became chairman of its Town
Planning Committee, 1911; alderman, 1914;
Lord Mayor of Birmingham, 1915-16. Member
of Central Control Board (Liquor Traffic), 1915 ;
Director-General of National Services, 1916-
17; Postmaster-General, 1922-23 ; Paymaster-
General, 1923 ; Minister of Health, 1923, 1924-
29 and Aug.-Nov., 1931; Chancellor of the
Exchequer, 1923-24 and 1931-37. Chairman of
the Unionist party, 1930-31; M.P., Lady wood
division of Birmingham, Dec., 1918-May, 1929;
Edgbaston division, since 1929. Prime Minister
and First Lord of the Treasury since 1937.
Married; one son, one daughter. Has written
The Struggle for Peace (1939).
* . * * *
Some particulars concerning a Maoriland
painter named Charles Heaphy ? —6420.
Charles Heaphy was born about 1820 in Eng-
land, and arrived in M.L. in the Tory in 1839.
He joined a surveying party which went to
Taranaki and thence to the Bay of Islands,
where he sketched constantly. After several
exploratory trips, he settled in Auckland, and
in 1942 returned to England, where he published
his Narrative of a Residence in Various Parts of
New Zealand. Returning to Maoriland, he did
a considerable amount of exploration, and in
1864 was awarded the Victoria Cross for ser-
vice in the Maori Wars. His paintings and
sketches of various parts of Maoriland form
an extremely valuable record of early life there.
jf* H*
How to clean paintbrushes? —629s.
A brush which has been used in paste
water paint can be cleansed with water. If
used in a flat paint it can be cleansed with tur-
pentine, and if used in an oil paint, with lacquer
thinners. Brushes used in water paint can be
allowed to dry under atmospheric conditions,
but those used in paint should be suspended
in linseed oil.
Information Supplied.
How to make a self-setting wire parrot trap?
—6460.
Brief Answers.
J.C.S.: You would require legal assistance.
It is not possible to state the cost, which
would depend on the circumstances of the appli-
cation. Poverty in itself would not be sufficient.
... .D.J.M.M.: Chronically-affected pigs are
carriers, and are frequently responsible for the
spread of contagious pneumonia of swine. Such
pigs are not uncommon and are usually under-
sized, unthrifty and have a tucked-up appear-
ance. Frequently they exhibit a rapid abdomi-
nal type of respiration, known amongst pig-
raisers as “thumps.” Such pigs should be
destroyed. Under the N.S.W. Stock Diseases
Act, 1923-34, swine pneumonia is a notifiable
disease. If you have any reason to suspect
that your pigs are affected with the disease
you should bring the matter under the notice
of the local Inspector of Stock. .. .R. 8.: On
the statement submitted the ownership of the
property is vested, apparently, in A and B
jointly, and should have been registered in their
names....L.G.: F.R.G.S. stands for Fellow
of the Royal Geographical Society... .V.L.C.:
Write Council for Scientific and Industrial Re-
search, 314 Albert-street, East Melbourne, \ ic.
H.T.: Write Will Andrade, 173 Pitt-street,
Sydney... .F.M.W.: No, it was another con-
tributor... .A. W. A.: From book department,
Anthony Hordern and Sons, George-street, Syd-
ney P.J.M.M.: Oliver Hogue (“Billy Blue-
gum”) was on the staff of the “S. M. Herald
and a frequent contributor to The Bulletin.
He was captain (later major) in charge of a
company in the Camel Corps. Among his
publications were The Cameliers and Love
Letters of an Anzac. .. .E.H.D.: The freelance
market in Australia these days is more restricted
than ever it was owing to the reduced size ol
many newspapers, other war-time economies
and competition from overseas in the shape of
syndicated material. Many good men who
made fair livings before the war are finding
it increasingly difficult to sell their writings.
... .T.C.: Norman Lindsay did the drawing,
and it appeared in The Bulletin of July 19,
1906, as an illustration of two lines by James
Edmond entitled “Trio” and which ran “We
' walk along the gaslit street in a dreadful row,
we three; The woman I.was and the woman I
am and the woman I’ll one day be ’
N.J.: (1) E. Morris' Miller’s Australian Litera-
ture, described as a “bibliographical and de-
scriptive survey of books, published by Aus-
tralian authors from 1795 to 1935, in the class-
divisions of poetry, fiction, drama, essays, criti-
cism and anthology, and including biographical
and literary sketches; together with additional
. works issued during 1936 and 1937.” (2) From
Melb. Uni. Press, Carlton, N. 3, Vic.; two vols.;
price about 42s G.M.C.: Letter was re-
turned with translation several months ag0....
A. : Submit to Angus and Robertson, 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .K.T.: Write Miss
Josephine Marks, president Music Advancement
t Society of N.S.W., care Hotel Wentworth,
. Sydney.... .C.W.: C. J. Dennis’s poem begin-
ning “Fellers of Australier, blokes an’ coves
and coots,” appeared on the “Red Page” of
The Bulletin of December 12, 1912... .G. 8.:
- Write Tractors and Machinery, Ltd., 131
Palmer-street, Sydney.... R.J.S.: Address un-
known. A letter care of the British Medical
. Association, 135 Macquarie-street, Sydney,
should reach him C.G.: It is mandatory
that the person seeking divorce in N. S. Wales
should at the time of the institution of the suit
have been domiciled in ' that State for three
years or upwards. You must prove domicile
for the whole period. It is further provided
that the person seeking divorce must not have
resorted to the State for the purpose of its
institution W.G.: You might write to the
Public Trustee, State Bank Building, Pirie-street,
Adelaide, and ask his assistance if you cannot
■ get satisfaction from your local solicitor, though
it is doubtful if he will intervene. . . .C.C.M.:
Assuming the guarantors to be jointly and
' severally bound, the death of one or more
of the number will not relieve the survivors
of their liability H.M.: Before claiming it
you should state in the sales note that interest
will be charged in the account if overdue for
a stated period L.D.: You could lodge an
objection with the department responsible
stating the ground set out,; but there is not
much hope of its being received favorably
B. The payment of alimony in both cases
is not due until the decree has been made
absolute. The husband could subsequently, in
the event of the misconduct of the. wife, apply
to the Court to cancel the order... .W.C.:
The directors should be elected at a general
meeting of the co. by ordinary ballot. It is
usually provided that a director must possess
a qualification as the holder of a certain
number of shares. The directors act collectively
as a board and are agents of the co. It is
wiser to adhere to the ordinary system of
ballot than to introduce any variation
N.A.W.: Inquiries might be made of the shire
clerk, Blue Mountains Shire, Katoomba
(N.5.W.)... .R.S.L.: Transfer systems are
messy and unreliable. Best plan is to photo-
graph the diagrams H.G.W.: No. Kept a
trade secret. Attempts made with vegetable
black and various liquids have proved unsatis-
factory, and the cost exceeds that of price of
manufactured Indian ink W.H.D.S.: The
letter of Clementson to Balmain has this:
“1 am at this moment returned from over the
water, having been to Newington to see his
(Moore’s) little fellow.” The letter is dated
from London, and Newington may be either
the name of the school or the place where the
school was J.H.E.F.: Write Maritime Ser-
vices Board of N.S.W., Circular Quay, Sydney.
R.C.: Get in touch with a stamp dealer....
A.J.L.: You probabliy refer to W. T. Goodge's
“The Great Australian Adjective,” which will
be found in The Bulletin Reciter, obtainable
from the N.S.W. Bookstall Co., price 2s. 6d.
M.M.F.: It has no value... .J.S.S.: It has
no effect... .E.D.: (1) The Dental Hospital of
Sydney is situated at the corner of Chalmers
and Elizabeth streets, opposite the Central rail-
way station. (2) Invalid pensioners are eligible
for treatment at this hospital. .. .G.C.: “The
Watchman” does not announce on the air, the
only times he is heard being when he gives the
“News at Home and Abroad” and his Tuesday
night talk... .V.S.P.: (1) London price of man-
ganese is approximately Is. 4d. per pound. (2)
Presumably you refer to price of manganese ore.
Approximately 50 p.c. Mn grade is worth about
£4 per ton delivered Sydney. (3) Present demand
approximately 17,000 tons p.a. (4) Try 0. T.
Lempriere and Co., and Frank Hambridge, both
ore-buyers, of Sydney.


Improve your winter production with
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os provides those minerals which are needed
by all stock to make the best of winter fodders. It
contains over 70% tricalcic phosphate, having a
guaranteed minimum of 32.5% phosphoric acid and
40% of lime. Being the mineral matter of bone,
Tri-cal-os is pure, wholesome and palatable.
Write for folders giving details of feeding Tri-cal-os
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney.
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
&
sf
m
o
£
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus oils and
their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or coal tar
derivative. Neither washes nor dries out. Does not stain fleece.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ONT HE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Brice Henry’s Monument.
“Mookau”: Brice Henry is dead, but
riot before he had a chance to see the
full results of his pioneer work in beef-
fattening on the Queensland north coast.
Brice Henry was the pioneer of the
Tully sugar district. The country has
a rainfall of over 130 in. even in drought
years, and up to 200 in about
165 in. The soil is rich and suitable
for intensive cultivation, about 17 degrees
from the Equator, in a similar latitude to
the Philippines, Guatemala and the Malay
Peninsula.
No thought had ever been given to
intensive cattle fattening in such a lati-
tude—though cattle were “run” further
north on the inland plateau and in Cape
York—before Brice Henry sold his sugar
farms. He concentrated on the develop-
ment of 8000 acres of freehold —Rivers-
dale. He bought the latest and largest
pasture improvement plant, and laid
down an alluvial plain of 4000 acres in
artificial grasses —molasses grass, para
muticum and guinea grass. At the time
of his death he was experimenting with
Brazilian lucerne.
One section of his land was eventually
turned into a 300-acre pasture experi-
mental farm worked in conjunction with
the Government. From this section
specially selected cattle were sent to Lon-
don each year. The last two years’ con-
signments have topped the Smithfield
market. Twenty steers recently were
sent to the meatworks for test killing
and local sale. They were a revelation
in what can be done in the tropics in
baby beef.
There has been steady improvement in
results as the farm has been developed.
At least 80 p.c. of consignments sent for
export grades over 80 p.c. first-quality
chilled. And there are no fancy ideas
about zebus at Riversdale —Herefords,
grade Shorthorns, Red Poll-Shorthorns
and Devon-Shorthorn crosses are its
staple. All are dehorned on arrival.
There is rigid tick-control.
It takes nine to eleven months to fatten
a beast on the test area. One paddock
in a rotational scheme has an average
stocking rate of one beast to 1.22 acres;
tne average over 170 experimental acres
is one beast to 2.15 acres. Animals are
moved round according to a paddock
rotational scheme every three weeks, and
put over the weighbridge on the way.
In 1938 tests the average gain in weight
in steers in 362 days was 4201 b
per day.
The Government now co-operates
fully. The stock used comes from the
Gulf or from the Cape or from the
country behind the range near Charters
Towers. Check tests have been made
on a property near the Towers to judge
the difference in results which can be
obtained there on natural grasses beside
those obtained at Tully. The difference
in weight increase over a year with iden-
tical runs of youngsters was 100 p.c. in
favor of the Tully property.
Brice Henry’s sons and his wife will
carry on his work. He died all too young
at 62, but not before he had the satis-
faction of knowing that he was the first
man in the world to fatten baby beef
equal to the world’s best in the tropics—
the first breeder from the tropics to top
the Smithfield market with his stock.
When he began he was laughed at.
Before he had finished, his property at
Tully was a Mecca for every distinguished
scientist from overseas. John Hammond,
of Cambridge, made a special trip to
the North and remarked afterwards that
he found it difficult to believe in the results
until he saw them. There is no doubt
that what has been done there has opened
up a new industry which will revolu-
tionise the beef cattle business not only
of the North but of coastal Australia,
for the job has been proved to be pay-
able even on the highly-expensive land
on which it is carried out. The conditions
“We broke our long ladder !”
created are nearest to the intensive British
and Continental system of beef farming
yet seen in Australia.
Stock in S.A.
“Tryana”: Fewer sheep, cattle, pigs
and calves were killed at the Metropoli-
tan Abattoirs (S.A.) last year, but the
output of export lambs was a record.
Mutton brought low prices throughout
ihe year, but pigs sold exceptionally well.
The principal sources of cattle supply
were far north and Central Australia.
Queensland and N.S.W. forwarded more
cattle than in 1938, but Victorian sup-
plies were negligible. Because of the out-
break of war the margin between handy-
weight and heavyweight prices was
lessened through the export demand for
frozen beef. From the outbreak of hos-
tilities to the end of the year values gen-
erally ranged from 28s. to 335. per 1001 b.
for handyweights, and from 255. to 30s.
for heavyweights.
A feature of the sheep sales was a
strong inquiry for young store wethers
towards the close of the year. Sheep
prices were slightly lower than in 1938.
Best returns were during April and May,
when prices occasionally reached 4d. a
pound for lightweight wethers. There
were some attractive, well-grown prime
drafts from around the Broken Hill
(N.S.W.) district.
Lamb killings totalled 680,775, of
which nearly 50 p.c. were first-grade;
in 1938 the first-grade percentage of the
576,415 lambs slaughtered was 43. Over
200,000 lambs were trucked from the
south-east to the Portland works in Vic-
toria. Spring lamb never realised more
than 7d. a pound.
Victorian Wheats.
“A.A.D.”: Ninety per cent, of Vic-
toria’s wheat is in the weak-flour class.
Dundee, the N.S.W. medium-strong type,
alone contributes appreciably to good
baking quality of the general sample.
Ghurka, grown this year on 1,417,862
acres (47.33 p.c. of the total area), heads
the list. A late-maturer, it has the merit of
short, strong straw, resistant to flag smut
and having some resistance to stem rust.
The early-maturing Ranee, a good yielder
but susceptible to the two major diseases,
ranks second with 672,830 acres (22.46
p.c.). Then follow Dundee, 280,773 acres
(9.37 p.c.); Free Gallipoli, 214,102 acres
(7.15); Bencubbin, 111,094 acres (3.21);
Sepoy, 51,023 acres ; Bobin, 46,205 acres ;
Nabawa, 18,803 acres; and Nizam,
12,901 acres.
Compared with 1938, Ranee and Ben-
cubbin increased in area, but Ghurka,
Dundee and Free Gallipoli dropped
back. Some 3,000,000 bushels of N. S.
Wales’s last harvest went to Victoria,
mainly to supply the usual demand of
millers for higher-quality wheats.
£500,000 for “Marginal” Areas.
“Ben C.”: The Commonwealth has
made half a million available to the four
wheat States to help finance the moving
of wheatgrowers from “marginal” areas,
and three more grants are promised in
the next three years. The first £500,000
was actually passed for payment during
the last financial year, but was diverted
to drought relief.
Nobody seems quite clear as to what is
to become of the compensated farmers.
At meetings in the N.S.W. “marginal”
country last year there was frequent
mention of men being given the sum of
£3OO to walk off their blocks, the blocks
then to be added to existing non-aban-
doned holdings and the remaining farmer
thus to extricate himself from his finan-
cial mess through being given more acres
of doubtful country upon which to run
more sheep, or rabbits, or kangaroos or
something. There were complaints that
£3OO is a poor return for years of labor,
apart altogether from any capital which
the farmer might have invested at the
outset.
Most of the men on “marginal” areas
were lured on to them under some closer-
settlement scheme or other, the Govern-
ment declaring the land fit for a king.
It might have been, at that, if some rain
would fall on it now and then, or there
was irrigation, or even if the plough had
been kept off it. As it is, what has not
been blown away needs a lot of care and
restoration work before it can be brought
back to whatever grazing qualities it
possessed before the “experts” decided it
would grow wheat.
The Commonwealth’s half-million is a
fine gesture, perhaps, but neither it nor
the grants to follow can in themselves
compensate the nation for the lost
farmers and the ruined land. Oklahoma
and the other “dust-bowl” States of
U.S.A. are re-establishing their farming
lands with Federal aid, and what the
Americans can do can surely be done
here. The only trouble is that such
matters as this seem to be nobody’s busi-
ness.
Silage and Grain.
“R. Ney”: Silage is a great stand-by
in a dry spell, but it should be helped
out by some form of concentrate, the
best and cheapest being grain. Oats can
be grown on most inland farms, and
there should always be a supply of oaten
grain to supplement the silage.
Little space is needed for storage of
oats, and they are easily carted to the
feeders. Galvanised-iron silos make the
best storehouses, and provided the grain
goes into them dry it will keep indefinitely
free from vermin and safe from the
weather. If the grain should be a little
moist weevils may appear, but they can
be got rid of quickly by fumigation with
carbon bisulphide.
If possible, stock being fed on grain
and silage should still be supplied with


m
■
3248.
L A-v ;
We don’t wish to brag about our Footwear, but this Boot is really worth
mentioning. Double Soles, Water-resisting Ooze Calf Uppers, reinforced
Elastic in sides and Leather lining throughout.
Stocked in full and half sizes and in wide and extra-wide fittings.
Price 49/6 in Brown.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, 53 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations ~ 15
Sheep bought ~ 20
Wire netting „ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1940 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY.. LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
TTuT&vllef&rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A SINGLE WIRE STOPS ELEPHANTS!
And no Pigs, Horses, Cattle, or Sheep ever attempt to break through.
The amazing efficiency of a single wire controlled by a “Big Six” Electric
Charger is proven by the fact that many are now being used in Indian jungles
for herding wild elephants. All animals are scared of the sting they get, yet
it is absolutely harmless. Waste no more money on expensive gates and fences
round your paddocks—run a single wire on light stakes, connect it to a “Big
Six,” and know that your most vicious stock are being safely held. Saves
18/- in the £on fencing costs. Thousands of Australian farmers have
proved this.
TEST THE “BIG SIX” AT OUR EXPENSE.
We will send you one of these famous machines on a full 21 -days’ trial, and
if you are not ABSOLUTELY SATISFIED with its performance we will refund
your MONEY IN FULL.
Let us send you illustrated folder and full particulars without obligation.
NAME SINGLE WIRE FENCE CO.,
FULL ADDRESS 189 CLARENCE STREET,
(In Block Letters) SYDNEY.
(OVER 43,000 "BIG SIX” CHARGERS IN USE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD)
See it at John Danks and Son Pty., Ltd. stand at the Royal Sydney Show.
ML jSSL I&LSa, iSSh .
a little roughage if the ground be bare
of old grass, thistles, etc. After the oats
are stripped, stack or bale the stubble ;
it’ll come in mighty handy later on.
“Maranoa”: Wanted, someone who
will produce a decent flail for removing
leaves from timber for stock-feeding.
The usual way in scrub-feeding is to
chop down the trees or lop limbs off
them till they are cripples and the pad-
docks are littered with decaying boughs
which constitute an added danger of
bushfires. By flailing leaves boughs are
saved, and the tree remains in good
health. Often it will grow a second
crop of leaves in a few weeks after the
first stripping.
“Marsh”: It might be all right for
cow cockies to take a stove down to the
yards for brand-heating purposes (B.
14/2/’4O), but the hollow stump or open
fire will do cattlemen where hundreds of
cleanskins are put through on the open
camp in a day. And “Mullengah” needn’t
go to the trouble of clipping a patch of
hair off the calf to prevent scorched hair
forming a coating on the face of the
brand. Let him get his brands at the
correct heat and he’ll have no trouble
with blotching.
“Beefo”: Why do cattlemen still per-
sist in fire-branding on the most valuable
portions of the hide? At least 90 p.c.
of brands are on the rump, where the
hide is invariably the stoutest. It’s high
time it was made compulsory to use the
less valuable hide portions such as the
neck, the cheek or low down on the
thigh for brands. Australia is about the
only country where fire-branding causes
such wilful waste of leather.
“Mookau”: The C.S. and I.R. is out
with a paper on the principles of breed-
ing polled animals by R. V. Kelley,
D.V.Sc. Unfortunately the greater part of
it is only intelligible to other Ds.V.Sc.
One section that is clear is the champion-
ing of polls for Australia by Dr. John
Hammond, one of the Empire’s greatest
breeding experts and animal physiolo-
gists. The doctor says that it is easy to
eliminate horns from any type of carcass
—polled type is governed by Mendel’s
law in inheritance ; carcass type is pro-
duced by a multiplicity of factors. “All
that is needed is a few hornless bulls and
a planned system of breeding on the
stations which carry them. This is
reasonable; virtually every stud Short-
horn in Australia is descended from one
bull, Favorite (252) —died 1809.
“Newcrop”: Two Sydney firms have
offered to contract for the purchase of
600 tons of sunflower seed suitable for
manufacturing purposes if farmers can
be found to grow the crop next season.
The seed is required for lacquer oils now
supplies from China are cut off. Spas-
modic experimental plantings have been
made in N.S.W. over many years without
encouraging results. Now farmers in
various parts of the State offer to give
the crop a trial. The nearest outside
source of seed is S. Africa.
“N.E.”: A factor yet to be determined
in connection with the inclusion of red
clover for grazing in the maize and oat
crop rotation at Glen Innes (N.S.W.)
State Farm (B. 21/2/’4O) is the effect of
the legume on soil fertility. So far,
while boosting maize and oaten-hay
yields, nine rotations of clover in 20
years have reduced the experimental area
33 p.c. in humus and 30 p.c. in nitrates,
compared with adjoining uncultivated
land. The result is contrary to all beliefs
of the benefits of grazed clover, and
the seeming anomaly is being made the
subject of a five-year investigation by a
soil chemist.
Outback Occupations.
No. IX.
Growing Sultanas.
Sultanas infest particular spots along
the Murray and its tributaries, and, de-
spite border fences, the Rabbit Acts and
railway-gauge breaks, have got into
Westralia. This fact is probably
responsible in part for the tendency of
Westralian writers to adopt futility as
the theme of their short stories. It is
possible, too, that Westralian dentists
heard of the professional advantage of
having sultana vines about the place, and
smuggled cuttings across the Trans-
continental.
One of the chief uses of the sultana
vine is to arrest erosion. As mentioned
before, every blockholder in an irriga-
tion district must from time to time “take
the water.” This means that water is
thrust into a ditch along the high end
of his block and released over the land
through a series of outlets in the ditch.
The blockholder runs furrows down the
block, and down these the water runs.
Obviously, this practice would in time
wash the whole block away, so sultana
vines are planted every few feet in rows
about 12ft. apart, and their roots hold
the soil together, thus defeating the
erosion.
During spring and summer the vines
make heavy growth, and when the leaves
fall in winter the block is a jungle of
canes. The grower must now take his
axe, crosscut saw and pocket knife and
carefully hack away as much of the
canes as he can.
Then, to make a job of it, he goes
along twisting what canes are left around
the wires of the trellis, and tying their
ends down with strong string. This
work is always done on bitter, frosty
mornings ; first, so that the canes, whip-
ping back and striking the grower smartly
across the face, keep him from falling
into the fatal sleep of freezing latitudes ;
second, to provide the vineyard laborers
with cause for merriment—it being well
known that if the Australian worker
can have a good laugh at the boss’s dis-
comfort now and again he is less likely
to become a victim of Communism,
atavism and other refuges of the down-
trodden.
Though the frosts generally cease by
late spring, there is always the chance
of one just when the fruit is forming on
the bunches. On that morning the
grower finds all the vines blasted as
though with fire, and he realises that
now he won’t have to pick any fruit,
employ pickers, worry about rain or the
ultimate price of the crop, and that his
work is finished for the year. As a
rule the effect renders him speechless,
though some give way to shocking pro-
fanity.
However, should no late frost occur,
as has happened on rare occasions, the
grower can still hope for rain. Rain on
ripe grapes has the effect of icy drops
of water on a hot lamp globe. Con-
tinuous rain seems to produce the same
effect of boredom on grapes as on
humans, with the result that they (the
grapes) develop the itch and grow
whiskers. Some of the more tempera-
mental get the blues, and are said to
have blue mould, while still others get
into such a state as to produce odium.
When these things happen it is neces-
sary to disinfect the whole vineyard, so
the grower takes a sort of bellows
arrangement and blows sulphur every-
where. He also blows it into his own
eyes, and if you don’t know what sulphur
does to the eyes you’ve never shed a
tear. Another effect of being covered
with clouds of sulphur is that the pores
of the skin open, the grower catches
cold, is put to bed, and so enjoys a
small vacation with the rum bottle.
Which shows that rain hath its uses, after
all.
If, by some strange freak of fate, there
is no frost and no rain, the sultanas come
to the harvest. There is no grander sight
than the great bunches of white, waxy-
looking grapes hanging in their green
bowers. That is, at first glance. But
the beauty seems to fade a trifle after
you’ve been stooping and bending and
plucking up and down those rows of
green bowers for endless hours in the
broiling sun, and you feel, somehow,
that a dark cellar and a five-gallon keg
would “do you.”
Now the picked grapes must be
dipped. This isn’t because Australians,
being a sheep-minded nation, feel that
everything should be dipped. Nor is it
because the grapes have lice, tick, ring-
worm or bots. Many people imagine
that dipping is necessary because the
sultana has a tough skin, which must be
cracked to hasten drying ; thus they are
dipped in a caustic lye. This, too, is
mere supposition. The reason is that
dentists must live.
After being dipped in the caustic lye,
the sultanas are spread on racks to dry.
When half dry they are very tasty,
especially in the cool of the morning.
They are also tasty in the heat of the
day, as can be seen by the swarms of
bees which settle on them, suck out all
their flesh, and leave the grower the
shrivelled skins. Still, as bees have no
teeth, this doesn’t interest dentists. Their
interest is concentrated on the human
workers who nibble at the half-dry
grapes on the rack. It must be conceded
that the grower is quite fair about it.
He warns the worker that the caustic on
the half-dry grapes will rot his teeth,
but everyone knows that the worker will
promptly think, “You old cow, too tight
to let a man eat a grape,” and will eat
more as soon as the boss’s back is turned.
A short time after that the caustic
does its work. The worker, sitting in
a picture-show chewing toffee, suddenly
looks thoughtful, withdraws the toffee
and gazes at the three teeth stuck in it
with great astonishment. Not long after
that the dentist cashes in on the dried-
fruits industry. There is, therefore, some
ground for believing that dentists know
something about the introduction of the
sultana to W.A. There was certainly
nothing in it for them while people ate
only the properly-dried sultanas sold in
shops.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4%d. per line; all others at
2£d. per line.
Many people smile and others rage at the antics of cocktailing flappers and
knuts. For lifting the veil from their home life an Adelaide man gets double rates.
“When You Come Home, Dear”
There is much truth in the homily on
“nerves” by “Karenina” (B. 28/2/’4O),
but it is wrong to assume that suburbia
is more prone to the condition than any
other environment.
The theory that “repression” is “bad”
has been hailed with joy by the younger
set, who contend that “license” must
therefore be “good,” and condemn de-
cently controlled behavior as being “too-
too suburban.” The youngsters don’t
exhibit neurosis in public for the same
reason that they don’t show wrinkles or
grey hairs. They haven’t had time to
acquire them. But they are earning them
all right, and will possess them in due
season and in large measure.
Thousands of “suburban” mothers are
neurotic through the constant worry of
trying to save their “sophisticated” off-
spring from the results of unrepressed
folly. During the day they drudge and
ruin their hands that the younger hands
may remain flawlessly white. In the
evening they suffer snubs when they
vainly advise against “another late night.”
Half the night they lie awake waiting
for the return of the jaded prodigals.
If they dare to complain they get a first-
class private exhibition of “neurosis” or
“nerves” or “bad temper” which shuts
them up like a book.
The truth of this vexed question may
sometimes be hidden at the bottom of
a cocktail glass. But it is naked and
unashamed at the breakfast table.— A.
Shovel (S.A.).
“A. Shovel” is John Wilson, Angas-
street, Adelaide (S.A.).
Miss Modem
“P.O.M.C.’s” attack (B. 21/2/ ’4O) on
the “average” modern young woman
and cocktail-drinking is scarcely fair.
There are girls who drink unwisely, but
they belong to a minority and to the
one class —the “social” set of every city
and most towns.
For the “average” modem young
woman it’s a case of getting up, bathing,
dressing, breakfasting, catching a tram
or bus, working, lunch, home again, tea
and the pictures or a quiet evening at
home ironing and mending. That’s the
life of the average Australian girl. She’s
too busy and too poor to drink.— Jade
(Q.).
“Sustenance”
While newspapers are constantly re-
minding us of the millions of pounds
being spent on defence, a recent item in
a Melbourne daily notes that sustenance
payments in Victoria alone are costing
the Government £19,000 weekly and that
of the 17,825 persons receiving sus-
tenance only 4000 are engaged in relief
work.
Can’t the great majority of these per-
sons be recruited voluntarily for national
service, if not in the fighting forces then
as an adjunct to them? There must be
a tremendous amount of work available
—strategic roads, railways and the like,
which would be of incalculable value
to Australia.
Some time in the future the workers
will have to foot the bill for Australia's
war effort, and the thought that they
will still be subscribing hard-earned
money for sustenance as well will surely
give them great satisfaction. When one
considers that a man on the basic wage
has to support a family as well as pay
for sustenance, one marvels how basic-
wage workers manage at all. —F. W. C.
(Vic.).
Tuppence a Copy
The reasons given for the simultaneous
rise in price of Sydney’s daily news-
papers are swelling costs of paper and
expense involved in granting extra cover-
age to war news.
Nevertheless, I have noticed no diminu-
tion of the space allotted to describing
the daily doings of society people in
whom the majority of the public are not
even mildly interested. Strangely enough
lengthy fashion and society supplements
or pages are still included.
The deletion of most of this hocus-
pocus and corresponding reduction of the
price to its former level are obviously
called for. Melbourne papers are still
three-ha’pence.— Peter Piper (N.S.W.).
Scare Headlines
In the absence of real war news there
is a distressing tendency for evening
papers to play up comparatively mild
incidents in order to splash their front
page with heavy type. These “sensa-
tions” usually smack us in the eye from
street-corner placards around 5 p.m., and
are raucously chanted by various news-
vendors very much in the manner of the
showman outside the tent where the lady
intends to dance the seven veils.
We are told “Rumania on the March! ”
“Turkey on the March!” “Holland in
Peril! ” “Allies Threaten Russia! ” “Russia
Threatens Allies!” —and we usually fork
out a hard-earned twopence to wallow
in these world-shaking sensations.
Our satisfaction is a short one. By
morning the story has fizzled out. It is
treated rather austerely by the midday
editions. By 5 p.m. it may possibly make
half a column as a fill-in. By that time
it has been replaced by “Ominous moves
in the Far East! Big sensation! Read
all abart it!” And another twopence
goes west.
This business of crying “Wolf! ” is both
distressing and foolish. As our politi-
cians have been warning us for months,
we have more than a good measure of
first-class sensations coming our way
early in the spring. Couldn’t we have
just a little peace and quiet until they
do arrive? — Esquire (N.S.W.).
Stunt Journalism and the War
Congratulations to The Bulletin on
the wholesome truths offered the stunt
press of Sydney on the censorship (B.
21/2/’4O).
What has the stunt press done to win
this or any other war that it should be
considered before the safety or even the
comfort of the soldiers of the Second
A.1.F.? The Empire owes its first loyalty
to the fighting men and its second to
those they are fighting for, and none at
all to the stunt press.
The freedom of the press is not at
stake in this instance, and, with every
consideration for the rights and privi-
leges of Democracy, my vote goes to
the brasshats, Mumbling Minnie, the
Majah, or whoever it was that helped
to secure safe passage for the Second
A.I.F. by concealing the facts from the
enemy.
This is my idea of a censorship. About
12.30 a.m. my editor came to me with
a military item of glorious news value,
and probably a scoop from one end of
the State to the other. The question was,
would we use it? There was nothing to
stop us —nothing. . “What’s a scoop
compared with loyalty to the lads who
are fighting for us?” I asked him. He
agreed, so the scoop went into the w.p.b.
But, then, we’re ordinary Australians, not
the stunt press. — Plain Bill (N.S.W.).
Refugees
The costly possessions, objets d'art,
etc., brought here by German and Aus-
trian Jewish refugees (B. 28/2/’4O) are
a confirmation rather than a refutation
of the tales of Nazi spoliation.
Families which possessed great wealth
and status were faced on expulsion with
the problem of bringing out goods of
some sort equal to the margin of their
former wealth permitted them. Both
foreign currency and gems were out of
the question, and the only alternative
was valuable furniture, etc. How
tragically this has worked out for some
of the refugees may be realised when
one considers the bulk, unwieldiness and
nature of some of the goods. Palace
treasures of another age are hardly sale-
able in Australian suburbia. One un-
fortunate family’s worldly wealth was
concentrated in a Gargantuan crystal
chandelier, its value to the embarrassed
owner probably computed on its original
purchase price in Franz Josef’s early
days.— Peter Penguin (S.A.).
Victorian Elections
The Governor, in dissolving the Vic-
torian Parliament, refused to give his
reasons, and Mr. Dunstan was equally
reticent. I have gathered that Mr. Dun-
stan has declared he will not stand any-
one dictating to him, and that some
others have declared they will not stand
being dictated to by Mr. Dunstan. There
was also some haggling as to who will
or who will not act as Commissioners of
the State Savings Bank.
The whole thing is futile and com-
pletely out of touch with reality. It
reveals either shocking ignorance of or
appalling indifference to the progress and
conduct of the war. That, at a time
when we are fighting for our lives, the
Victorian Parliamentary leaders should
be allowed to waste time and money over
a paltry party quarrel is another argu-
ment that State Governments have long
outlived their usefulness.
The time is ripe for the Commonwealth
Government, by means of a War Pre-
cautions Act or similar decree, to reserve
all powers and functions to itself and to
prorogue State Parliaments for the dura-
tion of the war, with the option of ex-
tending the prorogation in perpetuity at
the first opportunity.
Unless Australia, in common with other
democracies, subordinates everything to
the winning of the war, it is unpleasantly
possible that we shall wake up from this
tiddly-winking arguing of our so-called
leaders to find that victory has gone the
wrong way. In that event, Mr. Dunstan
and his loquacious compeers would know
quickly enough what being dictated to
means. — Kingsman (Vic.).
Stud Stock
Breeders of stud stock in N. S. Wales
would welcome legislation enforcing the
registration of sires—rams, bulls, stal-
lions, boars —to ensure that no “scrub-
bers” were used. Other States have legis-
lation enforcing the registration of
stallions, which must conform to a certain
standard, and N. S. Wales gets many of
the rejects.
Victoria has introduced an Act of Par-
liament enforcing the registration of bulls.
Only those which reach a certain stand-
ard in regard to breeding, type and per-
formance of their ancestors can be used
as sires—rejected animals must be cas-
trated or destroyed. It is conceivable
that many of the rejects will find their
way across the border, where they will
be sold to buyers who are “not fussy.”
Unless N. S. Wales takes similar action
to that of Victoria, it will not be able
to boast that it is the premier stud stock
State of the Commonwealth. It is
common knowledge among stockmen that
legislation to enforce the registration of
sires was drafted many years ago, but
no Minister for Agriculture has been
sufficiently interested to bring it before
Parliament.—Cow Time (N.S.W.).
More Acid
Here’s “the oil,” straight from the pages
of Domestic Hygiene, by J. Lane Notter
and R. H. Firth. This is the officially
recommended textbook for those taking
physiology and domestic hygiene in the
Intermediate and Leaving Certificates.
After discussing the general make-up of
various wines, the authors say: “The
nutritive value of the wines is small, and
in the main subsidiary to the stimulating
properties of their contained alcohol.
The presence of some albuminous prin-
ciple in wine may give it a slight nourish-
ing value, but in favor of such a view
the evidence is small.”
Boys from 14 years upwards taking
this subject in the Intermediate are ex-
pected to know those elementary facts,
and yet we have adults writing on this
page all sorts of nonsense about the
alleged health-giving properties of wine.
—Fiat Justicia (N.S.W.).
The Value of History
All right, Arthur Falk (B. 28/2/’4O),
let’s get down to history as a guide to
the present and a warning for the future.
But, I imagine, after we have ploughed
through history just a little deeper than
the vainglorious skimmings of the old
schoolbooks, we shall not be consumed
by the fervor of some blind patriotism,
as you suggest, nor shall we want to per-
petuate the status quo.
We shall find many strange things.
We shall find enough to make us just a
little shamefaced. We shall realise that
the stuff we got at school —that seemed
to suggest that we have been, ever since
just after Caesar stubbed his toe on
British soil, the focus of world history
—is far different from the unbiased
study of history. We shall find some-
times that our record has been pretty
tainted. Of course, we shall find, also,
that one or two others sport a kind of
national bar sinister in the world of in-
ternational dealings. We shall find other
people are our equals, not our inferiors,
as our overweeningly patriotic school
histories told us.
We shall learn that throughout history
there has been change. We shall see
that system passed into system and we
shall cease to be afraid of change, as
many today seem to be. We shall
not hesitate if change seems necessary
to us. We shall be far from wanting
to cling to a status quo, because history
will be saying to us always, “I am
eternal change.”
History, in that a chain of causation
can be traced through it, is a good and
clear guide to courses of human conduct.
But history as it applies to differing sets
of conditions must be regarded askance
before it is invested with the authority
of a vade mecum to a trouble-free world.
—H. I. Story (Q.).
Temples
Mention of the Temple of Mammon
(B. 21/2/ ’4O) should serve to remind us
of a number of other temples to false
gods with which our cities are bestrewn.
On every street corner there is a temple
to Bacchus. There is a temple to For-
tune on every racecourse and dog-track ;
and in Sydney the State maintains a
temple where votaries make public
sacrifice of a large slice of their weekly
salaries. In every school there is a
temple to Fame, where the examination
god is worshipped with appropriate
ritual; and every cinema is a temple
to the great god Boloney, where devout
devotees fall into a state of tense emo-
tionalism while the Oracles speak.'
Meanwhile the super-god Blah speaks to
his followers through the press.— Batty
(N.S.W.).
“Experts”
Of the many changes that will come
out of this war a welcome one would
be a new slant on “experts” and “special-
ists.” It cannot be too often repeated
what C. Hartley Grattan said: “Some
of the least educated people I know are
graduates of old and distinguished uni-
versities.” Education is hidebound with
tradition, which is for ever stifling pro-
gress, and that is why an educated person
is not necessarily intelligent. That is
why, to quote Grattan again, “We live
forwards, but we think backwards,
usually to some remote point in the
past that antedates our own birth.”
Ex-Premier Stevens had the wonderful
idea of surrounding himself at the N. S.
Wales Treasury with a “Budget Section”
—a “brain trust of smart young accoun-
tants who would supervise income and
expenditure throughout the various de-
partments.” But a State cannot be run by
accountants, whom Marriot describes as
“pursuing a study eminently suited to
machine-like minds incapable of creative
thought” ; and at the end of January the
State’s deficit was around five and a half
million pounds.
“Experts” could not find a solution to
prevent this war or the recent world-
wide depression. They cannot solve the
housing problem or give us a decent
water service. There are hundreds of
tasks at which they have made a few
feeble passes and then shrugged their
shoulders hopelessly.
We have provided ourselves with col-
leges and universities ter produce “ex-
perts” by the dozen on every subject
under the sun. What we really need are
men who, instead of or as well as
academic education, have gathered wis-
dom through experience and from their
ability to see beyond the covers of a text-
book or a set of regulations.— Cynic
(N.S.W.).
Cure for Idle Youths
Some months ago I proposed the
establishment of a system whereby city
lads could be boarded, free of expense
to their parents, for a year or so with
farmers willing to exchange their keep
for the slight but innumerable services
which they could render. (Sweating, of
course, would be guarded against, and
educational facilities provided.) Among
the advantages which I saw in the scheme
were (1) the lads would live for a year
in a healthy atmosphere and be engaged
in healthy tasks, which might engender
a desire to return later; (2) a better
understanding might arise between
“town” and “country”; (3) the boys
might acquire a healthier attitude towards
work, and might realise that it can have
an object, and not always be something
to avoid.
Something of the same idea, but on an
immeasurably larger scale, and arising
out of stark necessity, has now been
tried out in England. The evacuation of
London’s children has produced some
illuminating results, one of the chief of


which is the children’s expressed prefer-
ence for the country life. It’s a healthy
attitude for them, and I’ll bet this war
will be the making of some of those
kids.
I’m not suggesting that there’s a very
close parallel between English and Aus-
tralian conditions, but an enforced ex-
periment that has proved successful
there mightn’t be altogether a failure
here— Gravelsnatcher (W.A.).
The Independent Life
Visiting a friend with a city busi-
ness, I was struck by the fierceness of
competition in the city and the toughness
and constant application necessary for
an independent man of limited means to
survive. Everywhere the small man
is in constant fear of being swallowed up
by his big competitors, and the fortu-
nate men appeared to be those with good
position in companies, banks or the
public service.
The man who wishes to be indepen-
dent has a much better chance on the
land or in country towns. The farmer
has plenty of troubles, but his neighbors
are his allies against a common enemy,
and will always help him. The country-
town businessman can make firm friends
with most of his clients, and has little
fear of losing their support. The offices
of some well-established firms have the
atmosphere of a club, and old customers
are sent accounts only at six-monthly
intervals.
If a young man intends to work for
others he should stay in the city; if he
wishes to be independent go to the coun-
try.—Granova (N.S.W.).
Winning the War
I’m keeping some of the newspapers
I read now for future perusal. They’ll
make interesting reading in post-war days
as a record of how this country went
about wiinning the war in the early
stages of the conflict.
Some things are going to be hard to
explain the heavy advertising of
luxuries, including many costly imported
goods, the continuance of Government
aid to the film industry and others similar,
and the ridiculous tolerance of anti-war
propaganda, Communist meetings, pacifist
stickers on pillar-boxes, radio talks and
press articles against the Win-the-War
policy.— Wusslean (Vic.).
Churchill
The Bulletin is not suffering from a
Churchill phobia (B. 28/2/’40); it has
merely pointed out how unreliable
Churchill is, and has brought forward
convincing evidence to that effect.
How can Churchill be classed as “one
of the few realists of the days before
Munich”? It is true that ever since the
advent of Hitler to power he had been
issuing warnings of Germany’s aggres-
sive intentions, but the measures he pro-
posed to curb that country were, to say
the least, peculiar. Instead of working
to bring the other first-class European
Power, Italy, into close association with
England and France, and seeking to
further friendship between these coun-
tries and Japan, he gave his support to
those elements in England which favored
the British Government adopting a pro-
vocative attitude to Japan and were
violently hostile to Fascist Italy and to
the Spanish Nationalists.
In other words, Churchill showed
enmity to those in control of three coun-
tries capable of doing great harm to
England if they entered into war against
her in alliance with Germany. Each of
the three dominates a vital British trade
route, Italy and Japan have powerful
fleets, and the ports of Spain would be
readily accessible to German and Italian
warships. As a result of the attacks of
Churchill and Churchill sympathisers,
Italy, Spain and Japan entered into close
relationship with Germany, serving as
shields for her and strengthening her
position immensely.
While spurning the collaboration of
strong States, Churchill favored alliances
with gimcrack States that could not last
a fortnight against German attack and
could not be succored by Britain and
France. He also demanded an alliance
with the Russians, though such an alli-
ance would have driven most of Europe
into the German camp, including all the
countries marked down as allies by
Churchill, except Czechoslovakia. It
would also have alienated those good cus-
tomers of England the South American
Republics.
Churchill’s appointment to the
Admiralty on the outbreak of war was
due to press clamor and the pressure of
certain political influences that Cham-
berlain had hitherto kept at arm’s length.
If it was merit that won him the post,
why did Chamberlain ignore his claims
for so long?— Tom (N.S.W.).
He’ll Enjoy It
A lad who sent in an application for
service as R.A.A.F. craftsman got no
reply. He tried the military, and is now
overseas. Since he left his mother has
received for him a notice to present him-
self for examination at the R.A.A.F. office.
After warning him that all expenses of
travel, board, etc., must be borne by him,
it ends with “Please bring your own
lunch the day you present yourself for
examination.” — Scullose (N.S.W.).
Not in Vain
Noble as are its tenets, it cannot be
denied that in practice democracy has
failed in recent years to provide the
unifying force that welds a people to-
gether. The responsibility of citizenship
has lost emphasis, and the business of
government has fallen from its exalted
status to a burlesque of office-seeking and
tax-gathering. It may be said that it is
no part of a political system to infuse
ethical values into national life, but it
certainly is its task to preserve those
values, and they are not preserved by
examples of widespread irresponsibility
and lawlessness. A continuance of the
recent drift to chaos must have led
eventually to national disintegration as
surely as defeat in war.
Through the war the process has been
reversed, but there must be no slipping
back into the old habit of drifting when
it is over. The dangers of peace, though
of less appeal to the imagination than
those of war, are none the less real, and
some part of the national effort whipped
up to win the war must be held and
diverted to solve the problems of peace.
Perhaps, too, under the acid test of war
some new conception of democracy at
work will be born—a closer reconciliation
of the high ideals on the one hand and
the system in practice on the other.
With such an outcome the war will
not be in vain.—T. E. P. (N.S.W.).
Opera in English
Now that the A.B.C. has decided to
give us radio opera—we have already
had “Madame Butterfly” and “Faust” —
why not let us have it in our own
language?
Australian baritone Harold Williams
says it is not necessary for so much opera
to be sung in foreign languages in British
countries. If French, Italian and German
singers can use their own language, why
not we?
Surely the English language is not so
completely lacking in beauty that it can-
not be used to tell us a story in song.
Ordinary listeners would understand and
appreciate opera much better if they
knew what the singer was singing about.
—F. B. (N.S.W.).
Poetry
W. Lynch (B. 21/2/’4O) is wrong.
Poetry is in no danger of dying out,
though, if it were, the method he suggests
of “effecting a renaissance” would be of
little use. The A.B.C. has been present-
ing a session of Australian poetry once
each month for some time, but I doubt if
these broadcasts have assisted the sales
of Australian poets.
Poetry is more effective in print. A
good poem is something of a miracle, and
its many qualities could not be appre-
ciated by listening to some affected in-
dividual releasing it over the air. At
present the poet is not reaching his or her
public because the poet is not producing
good work. The creation of a market
would not affect the quality of the pro-
duct, because good poetry is written
whether a market exists or not, and good
work will always find a market.
On the other hand publishers of books
have always been shy of poetry because it
is nearly always a gamble. I wonder
how many copies were purchased of
Mithraic Emblems, by Roy Campbell,
and how many copies of Moonlight Acre,
by Robert D. Fitz Gerald, were sold in
Australia? Probably about 1500 of the
former and 100 of the latter, yet both
were beautiful book productions and
the outstanding volumes of English verse
for years.
There is no doubt that “poetry, es-
pecially of the ballad type, would appeal
to a large listening public,” but I fail to
see how this would effect the renaissance
desired by W. Lynch, as most work
of this kind is merely rhyme and jingle.
The plain fact is that the larger public
has no appreciation of what is best in
poetry, and never will have, for the same
reason that a silk purse cannot be made
from a sow’s ear. The taste for what is
good in poetry cannot be given to any-
one.
As the average person in this country
would regard Henry Lawson as a far
superior poet to Hugh McCrae, the con-
stant broadcasting of “poetry of the
ballad type” would not be “an effort to
redeem the dying art,” but a step in the
opposite direction. Not that it would
matter. Seekers for the best in poetry
will always find it. Charles C.
(N.S.W.).
Fire Precautions
Noticed where a Mr. Cramsie severely
criticised N. S. Wales Premier Mair’s
suggestion that motorists should carry a
bag in the car to assist at fires or put
small fires out.
I have fought fires with Mair himself,
and he knows the job thoroughly. Many
a fire has been stopped by bushmeri
armed with bags and bushes so greatly
despised by Mr. Cramsie. These are
far superior to beaters in rough, stony
country. A wet bag rolled up takes up
little room in a car, while beaters are so
awkward to carry that I doubt if tour-
ists could be blamed for not carrying
them. And beaters would spread more
fire in the hand of a novice than a wet
bag.— Bushwhacker (N.S.W.).
The C.S. and I.R.
As “Hopper” has the temerity to criti-
cise the C.S. and I.R.’s carefully planned
and executed attempt to infect rabbits
with a virus (B. 28/2/’4O), I suppose he
has forgotten what the Cactoblastis did
to the prickly pear. Or does he imagine
that it was just good luck that the para-
site has attacked nothing else but the
pear, though it is about 16 years since it
was first turned loose in Queensland? At
that time there were thirty million acres,
all good country, under pear, which was
increasing at the rate of a million acres
a year. In more recent years there have
been large-scale attacks on various pests
in America, notable among them being
one on a pest attacking citrus fruit, which
was scotched with an Australian para-
site.
Of course, there is great danger in
uncontrolled dissemination of foreign
insects or bacteria, but may I remind
“Hopper” that the second letter in C.S.
and I.R. stands for “Scientific”? — Saw-
bones (N.S.W.).
Australian Writers
While admitting the truth of a com-
plaint often raised in these pages—that
most Australian editors display very little
courtesy to outside contributors—there is
another side to the picture, and one
which most hardworked sub-editors will
no doubt corroborate.
Inefficiency in the dispatch of MS. is
a charge which can be laid against a
surprising number of contributors. I
learn that it is by no means unusual to
receive an acrid letter regarding an over-
due MS. and then for the harassed sub.
to dig up the contribution in question
only to find that it is minus both name
and address.
Carelessness in affixing return postage
is another bugbear. Stamps which are
only half stuck on inevitably peel off
in transit, or are lost in MS. sorting in
the newspaper office. Result is another
insulting letter and another frantic search
by the sub. for the MS. in question.
Until he digs it up how can he say who
is at fault? — Scrutator (N.S.W.).
Alcohol and V.D.
“Dinkum Demo” asks me (B. 28/2/’4O)
what the Finns are doing their fighting
on, suggesting that the stand the Finns
are making against the Russians is due
to the fact that alcohol is forbidden in
the front line.
That is a mere assertion, and I made
no assertions in the article he objects to.
I didn’t say that I knew that troops fight
better with alcohol than without it. All
I did was to ask why such passionate
interest is displayed in the welfare of
the troops as regards the imbibing of in-
toxicating liquors no interest what-
ever as regard their contracting the
venereal diseases. That is not an asser-
tion like “Dinkum Demo’s,” but a fact
that anybody can verify.
I asked whether this was the same old
conspiracy of silence which produced
the dire results depicted in Brieux’s
“Damaged Goods” or whether drink was
a menace and the other wasn’t. I
answered that question by pointing out
that a lot of people disagree as to
whether drink is a menace, but every-
body agrees that venereal disease is a
menace. Plenty of people disagree as to
whether the troops were damaged by
drink during the last war, but if any-
body disagreed with the statement that
venereal disease did a great deal of
damage he would be either stupid or
simply ignorant. So why is one dis-
cussed and the other not, and why are
the authorities reticent on the one sub-
ject and not on the other? — Pawang
(Vic.).
Equal Pay
The 1914-18 war brought women into
men’s jobs and, as a result, young men
have been unable to get work. Many
firms which would not think of em-
ploying women prior to 1914 had, within
four years, large numbers of females on
their staffs, and the women are still there.
At a time when depression forced re-
turned soldiers out of work, even the
Repatriation Department employed many
women.
Unless the sexes receive equal pay
for the same work, women will filch more
jobs during Hitler’s war, making the
outlook during the next peace very
gloomy for young men.
As there are comparatively few jobs
that can be regarded as the sole province
of women, equal pay would remove the
only reason for preference to females.
If the Returned Soldiers’ League wants
to do something really worth while for
potential members, it will fight to ensure
jobs for them after the war —not only by
preference clauses, but by equal pay for
men and women. — James Mahoney
(N.S.W.).
It’s a Queer Age
Historians, looking back at this age,
may well wonder that, despite the fact
that it produced more than its share
of the great men of history, it was so
plagued with war in the same time.
There was Masaryk, the Czech, pro-
claimed by Emil Ludwig “the greatest
intellect of the last hundred years.” There
is Gandhi, credited by Romain Rolland
and others with having “created the
greatest religious revival in the last 2000
years.” There are Smuts, Madariaga,
Roosevelt and all the modern giants of
science.
Yet in 40 years we have had the Boer
War, the Russo-Japanese War, the wars
in the Balkans, the Great War, the
Chaco War, the wars in China, in
Abyssinia, in Spain. Collectively, they
have cost astronomical sums of wealth,
treasure and life. The Great War
alone accounted for (according to
Per Swensen, the Swedish authority)
almost as many people as inhabit
England today. He fixed the cost in life
at 13,000,000 directly and 28,000,000 in-
directly. On top of that, 1000 record
Australian woolclips would not meet the
cost in wealth.
The balance between our great men
and these stupendous losses of life and
property it seems impossible to strike.
Yet we know on the clearest evidence
that men make war and that whatever
men make they can unmake or leave
unmade. War is not something that
comes out of the air. It proves nothing,
and it leaves us poor indeed. It solves
no problem but creates more problems.
A careful student of history could trace
back from one war to another and find
always a chain of causation springing
from one war to produce the next.
And our present war will solve no
problems. It will not deal with the
myriad unborn Hitlers or the Hitlers that
never came to power.—2s (Q.).
This Fertile Land
I may be wrong in my idea that W.A.
jarrah land is fertile, but viewing the
verdant towering forest I wonder where
such marvellous growth has come from.
I have seen jarrah land reduced to
stumps and within a year it was a foresi
of suckers, springing thick from the
butchered parent stem. Twenty years,
and those suckers were as big almost as
had been the original trees. I wonder if
it is fertility that promotes such prolific
growth.
It isn’t always necessary to measure
fertility in terms of wheatgrowing.
Where forests grew other trees, food
trees, also may grow. Nuts, wine, oil.
And don’t smile —nuts and oil are the
most costly foods on our continent and
well beyond the reach of the man on
the basic wage.
Fruit! Would these forest lands pro-
duce fruit? No market, you say. But
the world is wide; we ship away a
million cases of apples. Other countries
also ship their million, and process an-
other million. Jam? We can’t export
jam. Not in 28oz. tins, anyway. But
let our jam men get back to the dinkum
21b. tin and there’ll be no lack of over-
seas markets.
There are millions of acres of un-
touched fertile land in Australia. But
no free land. Even the Governments
monopolise land and only part with it
at an excessive price. That’s why so
many poor devils are driven out on to
cheap inferior land, where they fail —and
then damn the whole continent for its
infertility.— Billy See (W.A.)*


e
HOW ARE
YOU TO-DAY?
Do you feel sufficiently fit to grapple with the
problems of the day? Do you possess that keen yet
cheerful nature which helps you through?
When feeling well you can face the position with much
more equanimity than the one who is handicapped by
indifferent health.
Remember the condition of the liver largely influences one s
outlook on life. Therefore, the first essential is to keep the
liver and other organs of digestion in a regular condition, thus
ensuring the clear, balanced vision and active brain that are
so necessary to cope with the difficulties which are constantly
arising.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills enjoy an unrivalled reputation
as an everyday remedy. They stir the liver, act on the stomach,
and promote regular action of the bowels in a gentle yet
thorough manner.
S3SHO
Id
>1
ill
sa
They Make
Feel Brighter
r
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windburn and Sunburn.— When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies. —Mirpn
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity,,
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss ol weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
e
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
“Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster. cP /
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers. qf.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS,” by Brian
SbX AG IP*
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500 <t .
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra). ,\)
4#L
*
/
A
,’SV
ty
.-i>. ’ky > ri»


100,000 People have Read
THIS AMAZING BOOK
r
ALFRED J. BRITON
Australia's Leading Physical Director,
Founder of “Health and Physical
Culture” Magazine.
PASSED the 100,000 mark—and still going strong! If you would
read something that would stir your very vitals —if you would
learn something the like of which you had never even dreamed, then
send for this book and read how YOU can charge your body full of
vitality, add five inches to your chest, acquire the pow£r of batter-
ing rams in your arms, and develop a neck and legs like pillars! It s
all here in this very book explained in detail, and youll agree, like
thousands of others have, that it’s the most you have
ever seen. ■
Watch Them Turn
Around
IVj OTICE how every woman pre-
fers the fellow who carries him-
self with head up. Notice how the
broad-shouldered man always gets
their eye. They want a dependable
he-man when they make their
choice —one who can protect them.
AND YOU CAN BE THAT
MAN! Remember, Ido not only
promise it, / GUARANTEE IT.
Now, don’t put it off a minute.
Get going to new happiness, and
real manhood, to-day 1
I Build Strong, Hand-
some, Healthy Bodies
p EOPLE call me the Muscle-maker.
* I make men’s bodies strong
and healthy. My list of over 30,000
wonderful, successes includes farmers
and lawyers, bookkeepers and
clerks, and grandsons,,
fat men and skinny men, weaklings
and nervous wrecks. By a method
of scientific body-building, I go
all over your body, strengthening
your internal organs, broadening
your shoulders, cutting off fat, and
generally turning you inside out
until you’re a healthy, handsome,
fighting he-man any woman will be
prdud of in just thirty days.
WHAT I CAN DO
FOR YOU!
T will add one whole inch of live,
* flexible, steely muscle to each of
your arms, and five full inches of
rippling muscular strength across
your chest. Your legs will become
straight and strong, your head snap
back erect, and large lumps of red-
blooded cmiscip *\tfill begin to stand
out on' your broadening shoulders.
What a split going to make
with that girl, of yours! Ho\y
proud and happy she will be!
GENUINE PROOF!
“Your course is the finest I have
ever seen to so quickly build up
strength and muscle, and I thank
you again and again for what it has
done for me.” —J. McGOVERN,
T.A., N.Z.
“1 have now a 42in. chest, 6in.
increase since taking your course,
and I have grown all over.” -J
KIRKWOOD, C., N.S.W.
“I am writing to express my
deepest appreciation to you for the
benefit I have derived from your
course of physical culture. When
1 measured myself recently I was
astonished to see such improvement
in so short a time.” —J. W.
STRINGER, P , VIC.
TEAR COUPON - - POST NOW!
e
A. J. BRITON,
Dept. L, 24 Clarence Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me abso-
lutely FREE a copy of your latest
book, “The Secrets of Muscular
Strength."
NAME
FULL ADDRESS
1 3/3/’4O.
T
This month, to every reader of this paper who is interested—here's my
offer. To prove to you what I have said about the “Secrets of
Muscular Strength and How to Acquire It,” I am going to give
you ONE FREE ISSUE, providing you make application at once!
This book has been the cause of changing the lives of thousands
of men. I have received countless thousands of wonderful letters
and photographs of actual transformation of men who never
thought they could acquire strength and development. Make me PROVE
these assertions to’ you by sending for your copy this minute. Not to-morrow,
you may be too late, but to-day—NOW. Are you ready? Let's go!
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept. L, 24 Clarence St., Sydney,
YOURS if you
send now
I
X 1
f
mm:
YOU Can Increase
Your HEIGHT!
IT CAN BE DONE
Or It Costs You NOTHING!
YOU can now add several inches to
your height! With this remarkable
scientific method, it is now possible to
increase your height, at the same time
improve your health and appearance.
Without the use of drugs or unnatural
methods this system will add inches to
you. You can be taller!
6SEET
SFIET
4 FEET
3FEET
2 FEET
I FOOT
TSAR COUPON—POST NOW!
) Send this Coupon Now for absolute I
• proof and Free Literature on “How
*To Increase My Height.” This
| obligates you in no way whatsoever.
| Name
j Full Address •
’ SYDNEY PHYSICAL INSTITUTE,
• Dept. 94, Wayne House, Clarence St.,
| Sydney, N.S.W.
1500
#, c ' 'W4v
BOOK
NOW you can test this wonderful
course on dancing- yourself-—try this
famous system in your own home, and
if, after 30 days, you have not become
an expert dancer, popular and sought
after, it COSTS YOU NOTHING—not
one penny! But you must hurry; this
offer may never again be repeated. It
places you under no obligation what-
soever; all you have to do is to post the
coupon NOW.
SIMPLE AS A B C
IT does not matter if you have never
danced a step in your life before —or
if you have been trying for years to
dance—the famous BOL.OT system, the
system that has stood the test of ~S
years, guarantees to make you an
accomplished dancer in just 30 days—
OB IT COSTS YOU NOT ONE I’KNNY
—it will teach you all the latest dances
—Slow Foxtrot, Quick Step, Waltz,
Tango, Btimba, etc. —together with
Modern Old Time. The Bolot System
never fails —you have Professor Bolot’s
personal guarantee.
Become Popular!
MAGNETIC Personality—Popularity
--confidence can be obtained with
Professor Bolot’s wonderful course—yon
will find yourself sought after—admired
by the opposite sex—invited out to all
" social functions in
short, you will
become a “social lion.’
Dancing is the short
cut to good times—
non-dancers and had
dancers miss all the
fun in life—now is the
time to start and talc
advantage of Professor
Bolot’s wonderful offer
, NOW —but hurry, this
offer is limited.
n
END NO MONEY
r
U
PROFESSOR J. BOLOT, F.A.R.j
French Dancing: Academy,
Studio 47,.62-64-6<i Oxford St., Sydney
Dear Sir, —Please send me by
return post your FREE Book,
“DANCING AS A FINE ART."
Enclose stamp for postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
m
r%
m.
‘I
WHAT This FREE
Book Will Show You!
o HOW TO HEARN AT HOME.
• HOW TO DANCE THE EOX-TROT.
• HOW .TO DANCE AEE DANCES.
• HOW TO BE POPULAR.
• HOW TO IMPROVE CONVERSA-
TION.
HOW TO BE A PERFECT DANCER.
1500 Copies of this Famous Book will
be sent FREE. Send at once for
your copy.
YOU CAN UARN
1
Make Money in Your Spare
Time
MACK has made it pos-
sible by means of this remark-
able Course for you to earn money
in your spare hours. He shows you
how to “cash in’* on his experience.
He teaches you how to rapidly
develop your latent ability so that
you are able to produce striking
illustrations and art work. The
fact of you reading this announce-
ment' points to you having a desire
to be an artist then send for this
amazing book and let us prove that
we can make you a skilled artist.
HOW TO BE AN ARTIST
—IS FREE !
NEVER before has a book of this nature
been offered free. That is why you
should send for your copy now. It shows
you how to draw—develop your talent —how
to cartoon, the secret
of illustrating, etc.
Fill in the coupon
and send me at
FREE
once, NOW 1
y
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art
School, Desk 43, Box 3573R.R.,
G.P.0., George Street, Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS •••■
Enclose stamp for postage.
