

The Spirit of Economy
“That’s the Spirit”
ft
&
The Sigfn of
the Approved
PURR-PULL
RESELLER
MORE POWER...
MORE MILES...
LOWER UPKEEP
Purr-Pull’s continued success as an
Independent Company demands that
it shall produce and market a Motor
Spirit that is superior to any other.
THERE’S NO SUBSTITUTE FOR PURR-PULL
Always DRIVE ON to the PURR-PULL PUMP
v ' / 1 ’ r
V
"ALWAYS INDEPENDENT''
INDEPENDENT OIL INDUSTRIES. FEDERAL ROAD, GLEBE
THe Bulletin
**The Bulletin/’ VoL 6L—No. 3151.
Wednesday, July 3J 1940.
Alliances and Other Illusions
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Trammis cion by Post as a NcwsyaytTr


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
fetaceJowygl*
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
, CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, urithout obligation, your A’ewj Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for l rofit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
THe Red Page
ERNEST RHYS REMEMBERS.
Out of the swarm of literary anecdotes
in Ernest Rhys’s autobiography Wales
England Wed (Dent) the brightest is prob-
ably the glimpse of Ezra Pound as the
Wicked Undergraduate at Pennsylvania
University. Ezra marched into the class-
room one day wearing knickerbockers
and one red, one yellow stocking and, to
show his contempt for the lecturer, strode
over to the window and drummed a
tattoo on the pane. After the lecture, the
story goes, the students showed their
appreciation of the poet’s witty behavior
by wittily putting him under the pump.
When Pound joined Rhys’s circle in
London people were still afraid of his
penchant for the astonishing. He used to
haunt the British Museum’s famous read-
ing-room, where Rhys once saw him
“sprawled diagonally over two desks lit-
tered with books and papers” writing the
most celebrated poem of recent years
about the Founder of Christianity—his
“Ballad of the Goodly Fere.” Rhys’s
summing up:
Extravagant, adventurous, a rebel against
the English literary tradition, full of poet’s
phantasy, he was one of the most stimu-
lating among the American pilgrims who
attacked London. One of his favorite
amusements was “killing dead poets.”
Not that he was averse to attacking live
ones, or publishers either, for he has a
fierce' pen, and has never forgiven London
for not receiving him as a master singer.
Years before he met Pound, Rhys had
met the bete noire of Pound’s youth,
Walt Whitman. That is the extraordinary
sweep of this autobiography—from Whit-
man and Browning, through the ’nineties
and the days of the Georgians to a young
poet of tomorrow, Ursula Wood, “who
will be heard of.” Though he describes
the old poet, paralysed—“the superb
head and shoulders, the massive hand
clenched on either arm of the chair” —
Rhys’s account of Whitman lacks the
punch of his Pound anecdotes. There is
more piquance in his meeting in Eng-
land with Whitman’s biographer, Dr.
Bucke. “Old Walt has the most marvel-
lous ear ever set on the head of a man,”
the doctor told him. “It is worth going
all the way to America simply to see
Walt Whitman’s ear.”
The Browning meeting, again, is no
more than a statement that he saw
Browning once, looking like a prosperous
banker. But a story of Shelley, told at
second-hand, was worth retelling. Rhys,
who had taken a cottage at Hampstead
once owned by Leigh Hunt, discovered
that a typically Shelleyan drama had oc-
curred at his door. Going to visit Hunt
one night, Shelley found a poor woman
lying by the wayside, apparently dying.
He carried her on his back to a neigh-
boring house and appealed to its owner
to give her shelter. “But,” says Rhys,
“he must have presented a wild and sus-
picious aspect, for the man shut the door
in their faces.” Shelley cursed him, and
carried the woman on to Hunt’s.
Himself a poet of some quality, though
his editorship of Everyman’s Library has
overshadowed his personal work, Rhys
has met just about every poet of import-
ance since Browning. He saw Oscar
Wilde as “portentously and lavishly
fashionable, a trifle gross,” and quotes
George Moore’s melodramatic comment
on his fellow-countryman: “ ‘That man,’
he said in his muffled, most telling tone,
‘that man will be eaten by worms.’ ”
Moore himself, says Rhys, looked as if
he had known “all mortal indulgences.”
Dora Sigerson told Rhys’s wife that she
couldn’t bear Moore because his nose
looked like the big white slugs in the
back garden. Rhys managed to offend
Moore and afterwards, unwittingly,
wrote to ask him if he might use one of
his essays for an anthology. Moore’s
reply was, as Rhys says, cavalier:
My dear Sir, I do not know why you
should think you are entitled to reprint
one of my works. I have my own way of
publishing my writings, and do not care
that other people should meddle with them.
Nothing could be more typical of the
dim days of the Decadents than the
letter Rhys quotes from Arthur Symons:
I open this again to tell you of a
strange girl I met at the Frankaus’ last
night—an extraordinary-looking young
Jewess, about 20, with a long, lithe body
like a snake, a great red, dangerous mouth
and enormous dark amber eyes that half-
shut and then expand like great poisonous
flowers. “Nulling amuses me,” she said
with her curious childish lisp, “everyfing
bores me. Nuffing ever did amuse me. I
have nuffing to amuse me, no-
body to be amused with. I
don’t care for men. Women’s
talk always bores me. What
am I to do? I don’t know
what to do with myself. All
I care for is to sleep. Tell me, what is
there that will give me a new sensation?”
And she lay back and gazed at me through
her half-shut lids. I bent down and
whispered “Opium.” Her eyes opened with
almost a flash of joy. “Yes, there is opium.
Where can I get it? Am I too old to
begin?”
From Symons to Yeats, and Maud
Gonne’s legendary beauty. Yeats telling
him, “I use all my great willpower to
keep me from reading the newspapers
and spoiling my own way of writing and
saying things.” Rhys and Yeats went to-
gether to Madame Blavatsky’s, and Rhys
found that a mystic could be surprisingly
human. Madame and her young men
were playing cards, and when one of the
players shrilly accused her of cheating
she roared with laughter and admitted
that she had been cheating throughout
the game. The next incident was the
arrival of a Portuguese count, whom
Madame Blavatsky addressed as “Whistle-
breeches” .
Tagore and Masefield make brief
appearances on Rhys’s stage. Chester-
ton explains that he has to go round
“maturing” chairs before he can fit into
them. Edward Thomas is seen at work
in his hut that was divided into two
parts, one occupied by his bees and their
hives, the other by himself and his desk.
In a second journey to America there
are more celebrities, Bohemian Edna St.
Vincent Millay among them.
Wales England Wed is a personal
record as well as a parade of giants, and
its greatest charm, indeed, lies in the
early chapters on the author’s youth
when he worked as a coal-viewer. His
first sight of a coalmine, “like a dark
cartoon of my own destiny,” is vividly
described ; his miners are living figures;
and his story of a pit pony’s fight for sun-
light, ending in suicide, is a fine piece of
writing. And, when Rhys is in London,
there is the beautiful story of the retired
ostler, his landlord, who hungered for
his horses and, doing the best he could,
kept ducks in the cellar and carefully
groomed them under the tap each morn-
ing. It all makes a good, sound auto-
biography, rarely dramatic, but always
readable.
Prison from the Inside.
Bill Mitchison, a long-time convict*
trained a jackdaw to retrieve tiny cylin-
drical scraps of suet. Then, tempting
it with suitable rewards, he taught it to
fetch him similar objects. When it was
fully trained it would fly from Maidstone
prison to the town a dozen or twenty
times a day, bringing back each time the
treasure of a cigarette-end from the
street. The story —the rest of the book
is so convincing that there’s no reason
to doubt its authenticity—is almost the
only one in Jim Phelan’s Jail Journey
(Seeker and Warburg) with a touch of
charm.
Phelan, who served 13 years of a life
sentence for shooting a man (he gives
no details here), says that his purpose
is to record facts for penologists ; nobody
but a convict can really know the truth
about a prison. Most of his ground
has been covered by Wilfrid Macartney’s
Walls Have Mouths. The story they have
to tell is one that no one would want —or
need —to read twice, but from the
sociological point of view it is certainly
worth reading once.
Phelan advocates no reforms, but he
says that the public, which acquiesces
in the prison system, should at least
know all it entails. Does the public, he
asks, intend that the peculating bank
clerk should be thrown into the company
of professional thieves or of perverts?
Does it intend that the chief punishment
of long-sentence men should be not so
much the ordinary rigors of prison but
the loss of all normal sex-life? Does
it make sure that reforms are ever put
into practice by the lower orders of the
conservative prison bureaucracy? He
says and he describes his struggle
graphically that he could retain his
sanity and his integrity in prison only by
breaking all the regulations.
Much of what he says has been made
out of date by reforms ; much applies
only to English prisons; much is special
pleading. What remains is still worth
reading as a grim human drama, a
penological casebook, and as a most
effective deterrent from bumping off the
neighbors, even if they won’t turn down
the wireless.
Murder or Romance.
Murder and romance don’t easily mix.
Many a good detective novel has been
ruined, and many a good detective retired
into oblivion, through trying to combine
the two. If it’s the detective who dallies
with thoughts of love, his attention is
distracted from the business in hand ; if
it’s any of the other characters, the mere
fact rules out two perfectly good sus-
pects so as to allow for the happy end-
ing; in any event somebody wastes a
devil of a lot of time whispering sweet
nothings in a dark comer. In nine cases
out of ten romance when it intrudes on
crime is merely an annoyance.
Yet three of this present batch of
mysterymongers take time off to trace
the course of true love, and all with a
fair measure of success. Adelaide’s Paul
McGuire makes romance the core of The
Spanish Steps (Heinemann); another
Australian, Peers Elliott, has it as a back-
ground to The Pay-Out (Robert Hale)
and it’s introduced as a side issue into
Charles Vivian’s The Impossible Crime
(Ward, Lock ; Moore’s Bookshop). Mc-
Guire doesn’t let it interfere with his
choice of suspects. All of the week-end
guests at Marie Beuil’s villa outside Rome
—lzinir, the gun-runner; Bergante, the
Spanish storywriter, who is in Italy on a
Greek passport; Alice or Frances, the
beautiful and strongminded heroine;
Grant, the newspaper-correspondent
hero, and all the others —have a hand in
the mysterious goings-on. There’s mystery
even about the identity of the corpse.
McGuire’s story moves briskly and well
earns its Book Society recommendation.
In The Impossible Crime things are
held up for a while till the young man
makes sure of his bride. It means that
the identity of the villain is known long
before his villainies can be sheeted home.
But it was an intriguing crime—a burglar
found the corpse hanged in the drive of
a house he intended to burgle—so that
the little hitch doesn’t really matter. The
Pay-Out throws the focus on the crimes
(illicit whisky making and smuggling of
Chinese and opium on Queensland’s
north coast), and leaves the romance to
look after itself. That works out all right
till near the finish, when there’s need
for wholesale homicide (20-odd deaths
in all) to straighten things out satisfac-
torily. Elliott knows his setting, knows
about fishing boats and canegrowers, and
writes of them quietly and easily. His
first novel M.S., Smoked Mackerel, was
commended by the S. H. Prior Memorial
Prize judges in 1935; last year he pub-
lished Trust the Police, and Smoked
Mackerel is being held up till a couple
more thrillers come off the stocks. •
Though engaged couples are mentioned
in Suicide Excepted, by Cyril Hare (Faber
and Faber; Moore’s Bookshop) and in
E. R. Punshon’s Murder Abroad (Gol-
lancz), they’ve scarcely anything to do
with the real problems. Suicide Excepted
gets to its neat and cleverly-concealed
conclusion all the more briskly for that,
but Punshon rambles slowly on through
a mass of tangled and irrelevant detail.
He’s been over-lavish with suspects and
“queer” people and the creating of
almost insoluble difficulties. It’s another
of the mostly-good Detective-Sergeant
Bobby Owen stories, but it lacks Bobby’s
usual verve and the sustained interest a
good mystery novel needs.
All of which, no matter how much it
may appear to do so, doesn’t dispose of
the argument that crime is better tasted
without a sugar-coating of romance to
spoil its flavor.
A Useful Traitor.
“Smart” writers who try to make their
copy “snappy” by the introduction of
new words will have to pay serious atten-
tion to the Norwegian major, Quisling,
who is likely to be remembered by
posterity not for his treachery, but be-
cause his surname gives the evil thing
a much more appropriate title.
The word treachery has often seemed
to me to have a rather impressive, if not
noble, sound, as anyone will agree who
has heard it used by the old-time beller-
drammer hero. Indeed, I have thought
so much of the word —as a word —that
I’ve known some pain to find it in the
O.E.D. next above treacle, an oleaginous
title for a sticky substance and perhaps
the most apt of English nouns.
But to say that one has been guilty
of quisling or is a quisler —ah, there is a
perfection of descriptive sound for the
deed and the doer. Imagine the fierce
joy of a party politician screaming it at
an (absent) opponent, or the fear of
having it roared at him felt by a strong-
armed jockey. Treachery has far too
long been distinguished by its impressive-
sounding title ; quisling—think of quaking,
quackery, quivering, quarrel and queasi-
ness to realise how goodly a company of
nastiness it joins—gives the act a much
more contemptible appearance.
In this Quisling has outdone others
whose names have been given to common
things—sandwich, macadam, hansom,
boycott—for the deed and the new word
for it are both shuddersome things, and
poets now have their rhyme for
“chiseller,” an equally odious title which
comes to us from the American language.
The O.D.
“Historical Studies: Australia and
New Zealand”: Melbourne University
Press. No. 1, Vol. I of a magazine that’s
to come out twice a year. Designed for
the general reader as well as the student.
Edith Sitwell’s Anthology ; (Gollancz ;
Angus and Robertson). Edith’s introduc-
tion, all about “dark” and “bright”
vowels, is pretty futile. The anthology
—from Chaucer to Hardy—is excellent.
A few French poems are included, and
there’s a fine section of ballads and
nursery rhymes.
Venus in Scorpio: Murray Constan-
tine and Margaret Goldsmith (Lane).
Novel about Marie Antoinette, differing
from dozens of French Revolution
novels only in that the authors deal with
Marie from the age of 13 onwards and
write about the queen, her husband and
her lovers as if they were all children.
Secret and Urgent: Fletcher Pratt
(Robert Hale). History and handbook of
codes and ciphers; interesting for a
limited field of readers. It combines a
history of the development of codes and
ciphers and their use on historic occa-
sions with detailed accounts of the solv-
ing: of various types of cryptograms.
The Exploration of New Zealand:
W. G. McClymont (Department of In-
ternal Affairs, Wellington, M.L.). An-
other of Maoriland’s excellent centennial
surveys. Detailed and thorough rather
than: dramatic, it makes a useful com-
panion to James Cowan’s Settlers and
Pioneers and J. C. Beaglehole’s The
Discovery of New Zealand.
Surveyor’s Trek: David Anderson
(Faber and Faber). Engaging account
of the author’s work as a surveyor in
Nigeria, written with humor, and with-
out the common too prolonged dwelling
on the discomforts necessarily experi-
enced by a lone whiteman trekking in
semi-civif|sed tropics. A thoroughly en-
tertaining tome.
Everynfan’s Library now includes “the
complete,: ‘word - for - word’ Gulliver’s
Travels- Adventure, satire, romance, vul-
garity, contemporary maps, and all.” Also
freshly? included a new Dictionary of
Dates—i tbfose of real importance in world
history from earliest known times to the
end of |939, embracing science, art,
music and literature, along with wars,
political history and the like.
Atlas of First Aid: David Farrell
(Angus add Robertson). “I have set out
to show bictorially what other books
describe ifi the text, hoping that this
atlas will cove useful in helping begin-
ners to solVe some of the many problems
that must confront them in the class-
room.” Not only to beginners and not
only to those who study in classrooms
should this vol., with its 145 illustrations,
prove valuable. Text and illustrations
simple and clear, covering the field of
first aid from broken bones to snakebite.
Centau r of God, by Jean de la Varende
(Methuer), |is one of those translations
that help, by foreign example, to explain
why this or that good Australian novel
might fai to win attention from overseas
readers; lit is a book that has little
meaning for a reader unaware of the
general literary context in which it
appears. That the author is a winner of
the Academie fran?aise Grand Prix
doesn’t w|igb. against the book having a
background with historical and social
implicatiobs unguessed by the average
foreign reader, or against character and
action being presented with a formality
that may be well understood at home,
but strikes coldly on a reader grounded
—perhaps too strongly grounded—in
current Anglo-American naturalism. The
leading chi racter bears the name Centaur
of God ori account of his superb horse-
manship, lut even that seems to mean
different dings in France and Australia.
In the reading the hero is scarcely ever
more than an immaculate equestrian
statue; bift perhaps De la Varende’s
French readers would feel that there was
something rather phony about The Ride
from the Wreck or The Man from
Snowy River. It’s a matter of idiom,
tacit understanding between writer and
reader. j


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’ ’ —consistency from day to day.
“THE SENIOR STORE’
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
*v\S 1
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
f
N
‘
1 ' !
i§':
0^
f
8/11 Overalls
Excellent for hard
wear, and these bib
and brace style over-
711
alls will wash marvellously,
drills, double sewn, full cut.
Khaki, in 30" to 48" waists.
English
Navy or
WORK TROUSERS
REDUCED!
Trousers
Australian Cotton
Tweed Trousers,
made unshrinkable
8/9
by the latest "Sanforized” process.
Neat dark patterns. Side or cross
pockets, plain or cuffed bottoms. 30”
to 48” waists.
m
£B/8/-English Gab.
RAINCOATS
147 7 -
Raincoats
tailored
by "RO-
DEX" of London. Eng-
lish Raglans. Buttoned
to neck. Smart check
linings.
90/- Leather Coats
Very serviceable
Real hide
will not
crack or
84 / -
peel. D. 8., deep collar.
All round belt. Raglan
sleeves. Strong linings.
>c
1
liiJ
I
m
...
m
4
i
vr
I
a
■
55/- D.B. O'COATS
It is up to every man to look
his best . . . and you will
ensure this by wearing one of
49/6
these overcoats. Expertly tailored and smartly
styled, form fitting. Lined throughout with rich art.
silk. A splendid overcoat for any occasion.
17/9 Lumber Jackets
You can say good-bye to colds
if you work in one of these
Lumber Jackets, because they
166
keep you warm without making you feel over-
clothed. All wool tweed, with turn-down collar, 2
patch pockets, elastic waist. In smart checks of
Greys and Fawns.
• Men’s Clothing—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid
to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports
in the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LIMITED
'Phone M 2401, Day or Night. Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.0.. Sydney.


SAILORMAN'S FANCY
By STEVE BENNETT.
CAPTAIN TOM EVANS was a particular feller.
He kept his little barque sound an’ shipshape
aloft an’ alow, an’ everythin’ about his cabin
spick-an’-span. He was better spoken, better
lookin’ an’ smarter rigged at sea or in port than me ;
so I wasn’t much surprised when he told me he
intended marryin’.
“Good luck to you, sir,” says I. “An’ good luck
to the new missus o’ the Volant!”
He laughed. “She hates the sea, mister,” he says.
“The only way I could get her was by promising to
give it up.”
That amused me. “You’ll never give up the sea,”
I assured him. “But all’s fair in love, o’ course. Ive
made that same promise so often that I reckon it s
just a habit o’ speech.”
“I’m keeping it,” he said, very serious. “And
I’d give up the world for a little woman so trim and
dainty! ”
I faced for’ard, watchin’ the shapely head o’ the
Volant risin’ an’ dippin’ to the settim’ sun, an’ I asked
pretty cool “When is the operation?”
“A month from today,” he answers, smilin’ again.
“By then, you’ll be taking the ship back to Auckland
—Captain Brough! ”
But I didn’t jump for joy ; I was tryin’ to picture
the miracle woman an’ wishin’ I was close enough to
screw her damn’ neck.
The skipper might have read my thoughts. “You’ll
meet her this trip,” he says ; “and any time you’re in
Sydney and fail to call on us there’ll be trouble!”
“In any case there’ll be trouble enough,” I growls.
“Better see all your halyards are taut, mister,”
he snaps ; an’ I was glad to get away to do my cursin’
quietly.
WELL, I did meet her, an’ she was trim an’ dainty
enough to suit any sailorman ; but, havjn’ already
decided that a woman who hated the sea an’ loved a
seaman must be full o’ faults, I kept my eyes an
ears well open. I noticed a coquettish way she had of
tossin’ her pretty head, which seemed to please Tom
but annoyed me. Also, she rolled her eyes too much
to be genuine, an’ her shaller prattle, strainin’ to talk
like a duchess, reminded me of a ten-year-old kid
showin’ off. We spent the evenin’ at a theatre, an
after supper Tom took her home. I went back aboard
pretty moody, convinced that a seaman’s greatest risks
are ashore an’ wonderin’ how in hell I could get that
feller back where he belonged.
We met several times at her home before I sailed,
an’ every time she said how pleased she d be to see
me again I knew she was lyin’. You see, I always
kidded Tom into talkin’ about ships an’ sailors he had
known ; an’ when he’d finish one yarn I’d hop in
with another, amusin’ the old people with our noisy
enthusiasm while Sarah would be yawnin’ an’ frownin’,
shiftin’ her feet, turnin’ up her nose an’ wishin’ me
to blazes!
The day I sailed Tom came aboard to say good-
bye, an’ as I was full o’ ginger, with a drop o’ grog
to boot, I could speak more cheerful than I felt. “I’ll
be as proud o’ my ship, old man, says I as we shook
hands, “as you will be with your pretty bride. An’
if the bride behaves as well as the ship you’ll have no
cause to complain.”
He stood on the wharf as the tug took us out,
an’ you never saw a happy bridegroom smile so
hideous. I could feel, as we drew away, that we were
tearin’ the heart out o’ him. “He seems to be just
wakin’ up,” I told the mate. “That girl o’ his will
need to lash him down with somethin’ stronger than
ordinary loveknots! ”
Back in Sydney on my next trip, I found Tom
settled down in a carryin’ business, with a second-hand
van an’ a bony horse, workin’ like a slave. Sarah was
kind enough to invite me to tea when I had stayed
till it was ready, an’ although I didn’t stay late, get-
tin’ plenty hints not to, when I was leavin’ the house
was so full °’ tobaccer smoke we had to grope for the
front door. A few days later I went for a run in the
van. It was a change for me, but the whole afternoon
I was wonderin’ how the devil this man had given up
the wide, ever-changin’ sea-tracks for the narrer roads
of city an’ suburbs ; an’ the rattle o’ runnin tackle,
the babble o’ plashin’ seas, the croonin’ o’ the wind
in the shrouds an’ the lift an’ roll of a ship s deck tor
the jog-jog of a horse with the melancholy rumblin
an rockin o wheels.
But Tom was keen on his work, keen on his home
an’ wife, an’ had so much to tell about what he was
doin’ an’ intended doin’ that I got no chance to yarn
about the sea. At five o’clock he set me down in
George-street near a restful old pub an refused to
come in. I refused to go home with him because I
couldn’t have faced his dolly-headed missus without
accusin’ her of robbin’ me of a good friend an the
merchant service of a fine skipper.
I dropped him an’ my luck with the Volant
dropped with him! I fell out with both my officers,,
lost a man overboard, broke all records for slow pas-
sages to Auckland an then ran down an old scow
in the gulf an’ had my certificate suspended for twelve
months. After hangin’ round the port till 1 was broke
I shipped before the mast in a Bluenose for Van-
couver.
D EFORE I set eyes on Tom Evans again ten years
D h a( j drifted by. I was mate o’ the Scottish King,
loadin’ wool in Sydney for home, an the last bale had
just gone into the hold when I spotted him climbin
down from a lorry-load o cases. It was lunchtime
an’ he was givrn’ his horses their nosebags when 1
reached him. Good day, Captain Evans , says .
He turned at'me the sourest face I had seen in
years. He was a minute recogmsin me an gettin his
bearin’s, then he grips my paw as though I was here
to save his life. “Good God, Scotty!” he gasps. And
I was just this moment dreaming of the old Volant.
She was sold last week for a hulk
“Well,” says . P ol^ l * back wm „? e n v
windbags are dym hard, Tom, an there s still plenty
good ones afloat. . ,
He ran his eye over the lofty four-master, starin
hard at her beamy hull. Too bulky! he says, pre-
tendin’to be very decided. Then we had some counter-
lunch, swappin’ yarns between drinks, an by the time
we got back to the wharf Tom was pleasant enough
to admit that me an’ my ffiip both looked fit to p ug
our way through hell. And with a breeze on the
quarter and royals set, Scotty, he laughs with his old
enthusiasm, “what a sight!”
“A sight indeed, Tom,” I agreed, cockin an eye
again at his ugly turnout. ‘ A sight for a sailorman s
eyes!”
Of course, he came down to the ship that evenin
an’ drove me home to tea an N st T °needed if too*
took along a bottle o whisky. I felt I needed it, too,
when Sarah twigged me strollin in behind Tom.
“ ’Ullo,” she says in a voice like a split halyard-block,
“You ’ere again?” . ,
“Gettin’ pretty constant, eh says I, doin my
damnedest to be cheery. Pleased to see you lookm
so well after all these years, Mrs. Evans,
But well wasn’t the word, for trim an
dainty little craft had grown fat, sluggish an slovenly.
“Poor dears —they must feel the cold this weather."
Her dress was greasy an’ burst under the arms, her
head was frowsy an’ she rolled her shoulders like a
deep-waterman just ashore. I was wonderin if the
sight o’ the Volant as a coal hulk could give me a
worse heartache.
“Sit yerself down, Mr. Brough,” she says. I
suppose y’ll be thankful fer a decent feed!”
Tom struggled quick to help her out. “I used
to bring home a hard-up old shipmate occasional >
when I met one about the city,” he smiled ; an
Sarah thinks you must also be on the beach. Mr.
Brough,” he says to her, “is chief one of the
finest ships that ever entered this port!”
' She showed her interest by a healthy sniff, so I
started in to question Tom about the headway he was
makin’. He told me he was earnin’ a good livin’ an’
buildin’ a solid bank balance, but he said it as though
it didn’t matter much, an’ he seemed more pleased
to hear me relatin’ my own doin’s. We were still at
it while Sarah was clearin’ the table, clatterin the
crockery an’ poundin’ the floor with her feet, an
when she at last left us alone we brightened up the
talk by openin’ the bottle.
In about half an hour Tom was changin the
subject an’ growin’ very confidential. “I’d like you to
see our daughter Evelyn,” he says, with a softness in
his eyes.
“It ain’t enough,” I says loud an’ firm as I spotted
Sarah waddlin’ in with a sideways squint at the grog.
“What you want, old man, is a son! A son would
be a good pal for you.”
“ ’Ave one yerself!” croaks Sarah. “I’ve told
’im often enough I’m havin’ no more bloomin kids!
Out she goes again, an’ as Tom looked too
ashamed to speak I poured him another drink out o
sympathy. Presently he leans toward me whisperin :
“Sarah expected me to make more money and I ex-
pected her to mother a family, so we both have a
grudge. You know, Scotty,” he confesses, watchin
the door very close, “you’re right about the son ; the
only mooring-line that’s holding me is young Evelyn.
“Keep on livin’ for her, old shippy,” says I, feelin’
sentimental as I poured a couple more. “Life always
has its compensations.” Then I started in to comfort
him by moanin’ about all I had missed by stickin to
the sea an’ remainin’ single. I don’t know how long
I harped on this string, but I was describin’ a lovely
girl I had met in Palermo, after mentionin’ a few in
other places, when in thuds Sarah again with a dial
like a black typhoon.
“ ’Ow much longer are you goin’ to sit ’ere?”
demands, glarin’ hard at the empty bottle. “Smokin’
an’ drinkin’ yerself stupid! Fer Gord’s sake open up
the ’ouse an’ let out the stink! ” She threw open the
door leadin’ to the back verandah, shoved a window
up with a squeak an’ bang, grabbed an alarm clock
from the mantelshelf an’ put enough energy into the
windin’ of it to lift a cruiser’s anchor!
I got to my feet, grinnin’ as affably as I could,
shook hands with Tom, who was smilin’ like a hero
goin’ down with his ship, an’ started for the door.
“Yes, matey,” says I between my teeth, “life has its
compensations. The trouble is to find ’em! ”
“Good-bye, Mr. Brough,” rasps Sarah, tailin’ us
up. “I do ’ope yer ’ave a pleasant voyage!”
NATURALLY, I didn’t. We ran into head winds
an’ calms an’ ran out o’ grub ; the fresh water
turned foul, most o’ the hands for’ard took some sort
o’ fever an’ I went down with it myself. When at last
I crawled on deck the old skipper caught it. A week
later he died, an’ while I was drawlin’ the religious
stuff at the burial I was gettin’ a bit o’ compensation
by quietly pilin’ curses back on Sarah!
I swore off windjammers after that jaunt, but
when I was offered the command of a barque tradin’
to the Argentine I jumped at it, an’ had fair luck, one
way an’ another, for quite a few years. Then I de-
generated from sail to steam, from wool an’ wheat
to coal, an’ gettin’ sick o’ that I swallered the anchor
an’ settled in a cheap boardin’-house in Sydney. Bein’
cashed up just enough to make me lazy, I had got the
idea into my nut that I was too old for the sea.
, For six months I suffered dominoes, draughts,
libraries, seamen’s missions an’ pubs ; but a lot o’ my
time was spent prowlin’ round the wharves at all
hours like a starved cat with the sea naggin’ in my
heart. I read the shippin’ news, talked ships to cronies
I met an’ dreamed ships in my sleep. So when the
schooner Letty Jackson was put up for sale I had to
toddle down to inspect her.
I inspected her every day till she was sold, then
took a grudge against the bloke who had bought her.
I wanted to keep on walkin’ down, steppin’ aboard
very important an’ showin’ off her good points to
loafers like myself. They reckoned she would go
into the Island trade if the new owner could find a
skipper to take her, an’ the mornin’ they handed me
his advertisement in the paper I had to take four o’
them to the nearest pub to ease the thumpin’ in my
chest! The name was T. Evans, and, although the
address was a city office, I was willin’ to lay odds there
was only one T. Evans in the world who would buy
that schooner. I marched home, shaved clean, dressed
(Continued on next page)


in my best, steadied up on a couple o’ nobblers an’
sailed into that office.
An’ sure enough I found Tom, lookin’ very old
an’ grumpy, but ready to stand on his head at sight
o’ me. “Lord Almighty!” he shouts. “Don’t say
you’ll take the Letty Jackson!”
“That’s what I’m here for,” says I. “I’ll sign on
at once if you’ll leave me one unbroken finger!”
His story was short an’ I asked no questions. His
moorin’ line had parted three months ago, he told me,
when Evelyn had married the big noise in an oil
company. He was buyin’ the schooner very reason-
able an’ his small fleet o’ motor-lorries was bein’ sold
for a good price. We talked business, an’ business
only, for two hours, an’ I came out feelin’ as though
the street wasn’t wide enough to hold my swingin’
arms.
It needed a week or two to get everythin’ settled,
an’ then we got away one sunny afternoon in a light
nor’-easter, bound for the Gilberts, Tom sailin’ as
mate an’ me as skipper an’ part-owner. We were well
offshore at sunset, an’ I was at the wheel tryin’ out the
little ship in a heavy swell. The fresh breeze was
blowin’ the creases from about my eyes an’ my heart
was like a schoolboy’s. Tom was gazin’ shorewards,
thinkin’, I suppose, of traffic jams in the city an’ of
petty businessmen in poky offices makin’ money for
foolish dames to spend. Turnin’ inboard, he looked
aloft proud an’ contented, an’ ch.uckl.ed to himself as
the pretty schooner tossed her head coquettishly at
the caressiri’ breeze.
I watched the hard lines around his mouth
softenin’ as he smiled like the Tom Evans I had
known twenty-odd years before. “Well, mister mate ”
says I, “what do you think of her?” An’ I went again
dancin’ back through the years as he answered very
dreamy: “I’m in love with her, Scotty, and I’m glad
I’ve given up everything for her—she’s so trim and
dainty!”
FULL
SETTLEMENT
By HAROLD MERCER.
HUBBARD was a man full of trouble. Not
that he really owed so much, but he owed
what he could. A man who did his best in a
small way. And the manner in which he could
borrow two bob after almost weeping tears over his
failure to repay the last had a touch of the artistic.
There was always someone looking for’him; some-
one who would accost you apologetically and, explain-
ing that he had seen you with Hubbard, ask you if
you knew his present address.
One day I came upon Hubbard in a sort of
climax of the agony which his debts brought upon
him. Before him were sheets of paper upon which
figures were scrawled, and all about him was a litter
of documents that looked like bills, with the blue
paper of court summonses scattered among them.
“Just take a seat while I finish this, old man,” he
said, and swept away the papers that had spilled on to
a chair. “What did you say that furniture account
was, Mabel?”
“They took the furniture,” objected Mrs. Hub-
bard. “They claimed we still owed them thirty-seven
pounds odd.”
“We’ll give them forty,” said Hubbard, and put
the figures down.
“Yqu haven’t forgotten eighteenpence for the
man who cleaned up the garden at that place we had
at Arncliffe?” inquired Mrs. Hubbard anxiously.
“You remember he wanted ten shillings and all you
had”
“I’m putting down two and sixpence,” said Hub-
bard largely. “Arncliffe? Wasn’t it at Arncliffe we
had an account with a poultry farm? How much
did we”——
“Not Arncliffe. That was at Enfield,” said Mrs.
Hubbard. “The amount was thirty-six and fourpence,
I remember”
“I’ll put it down at two pounds ; that should cover
it, said Hubbard. “It’s a good job we remembered
it; we overlooked it in doing Enfield. I say, old
chap, I’ve put you down for £5. Will that cover it,
do you think? Oh, well, perhaps it’s on the liberal
side, but we’re not going to argue about trifles ; let
it go at £5. Do you mind running up that column to
see if it’s correct, whilst I add up these?”
“What’s the idea?” I inquired. “Going bank-
rupt?”
He looked up with surprise and some hurt. “The
name of Hubbard has never been associated with a
disgrace like that!” he said.
“Two hundred and seven-three pounds fifteen
shillings,” exclaimed Hubbard when, having checked
it, I handed the last sheet of assembled figures back
to him. “Say three hundred, to include items I may
have omitted. How is a man in my circumstances to
meet an amount like that? Yet it must be done—it
shall be done!”
“Why worry?” I asked. “Pretty old, some of
these bills, aren’t they? The people you owe them
to have probably forgotten all about them.”
“But / cannot forget! I will be a miserable man
until I can face the world and say ‘There is not a
single person on this earth to whom I owe a farthing.’ ”
His anguish perturbed me, the more so as it con-
tinued in spite of efforts to pacify him ; but his mood
changed suddenly. He crossed quickly to the table and
tore the lists that had caused him so much trouble into
fragments.
“Well, that’s settled!” he said decisively. “I
can’t pay, so there’s no use worrying any more about
it. Do you think, Mabel, we’ve got enough for a
couple of bottles of beer?”
As it happened, / had, and was glad to wash
out the memory of recent anguish.
“Mind you,” he said as we sat over the liquor,
“when I say that these debts of mine are settled, I
mean only for the time being—a sort of moratorium.”
And then Edmund Hubbard won the first prize in
a lottery!
]\l OT being specially interested in the lotteries, I
1 N missed the notice ; but Hubbard avalanched upon
me in Pitt-street and told me all about it. I was glad.
I liked the Hubbards. Their loyalty to and affection
for each other stood out refreshingly. So I congratu-
lated Hubbard in the usual manner.
As a matter of fact, the elated prize-winner, hav-
ing yet to collect his prize, had very little but the
ticket he flashed exultantly, his enthusiasm, and a
slip of paper with what proved to be an advertise-
ment clipped from the morning paper pasted on it.
“This was the first thing I did when I heard of
our win—put in this ad. That’s what I intend to do! ”
he said boisterously, thumping the paper as he passed
it to me. I read:
Edmund Hubbard is anxious to hear immediately
tioni all persons to whom he may be indebted in any
sum, small or large”
An address, of course, finished the appeal.
“Well?” I asked.
Hubbard flushed. “I’m going to pay them all up
double whatever it is I owe them. People will be
able to say of me at last ‘He owes not any man!’ ”
His enthusiasm swept me along with him ; and
I found myself in the office of a catering establish-
ment, listening to him tell an impressed manager that
he was Edmund Hubbard, winner of the umpteenth
lottery.
“The fact is, Mr.
Bakebun,” he said confi-
dentially, “in the course of
recent years, owing to ill
fortune, which we all suf-
fered during the —ah —de-
pression, I have incurred
some debts which I have
not been able to pay. The
first thing I want to do
is to repay every penny I
owe —not only pay it, but
pay double, as' an act of
thankfulness. What I pro-
pose to do is to invite all
my creditors to a dinner
—at which I will carry out
this idea of repayment.
“It’s a fine gesture,
Mr. Hubbard,” said the
manager, greatly im-
pressed.
There was a feeling
of alarm within me as we
walked out. I could see
poor Hubbard, who all his
life had so badly needed
money, dissipating the
fortune that had come to
him in magnificent ges-
tures, and being as poor
as ever again.
“There’s no need for
you to be foolish, Ned,”
I said. “Entertain your
creditors if you like, but
you needn’t make the en-
tertainment too lavish.
And there is no earthly
reason why you should
double the amounts you
repay.”
“I tell you I’m going to do the thing properly,”
retorted Hubbard enthusiastically. “There is not a
man in all Sydney will be able to say I did not treat
him well. I’ll make the beggars who said harsh things
ashamed of themselves.”
1T was a remarkable crowd that attended the
Gloriana for the great occasion—a crowd in which
obviously hired dinner suits predominated ; but it was
a very glad crowd. Over it Hubbard beamed, bestow-
ing buoyant greetings on men he had dodged for
years.
The envelopes I had expected were not at our
allotted places at the table, but when we were seated
and the waiters had commenced their service Hubbard
himself passed quietly round, handing envelopes out
to the guests. Before he reached me there arose a
murmur of delight, rippling around the room ; some-
body commenced to thump out applause, and others
joined in; and hardly had Hubbard finished and
reached his own place than the whole assembly broke
into cheers.
“Took your advice ; look the whole world in the
face,” Hubbard had said cryptically and hurriedly in
passing me. “Not double —ten per cent, interest.”
The cheque I discovered was for £5 10s. ;
although the few shillings I had given Hubbard were
too many to be remembered, I did not believe that the
total would add to a fiver. Still that was a matter I
could argue with him later on.
It was a hectic night. Hubbard had done the
thing properly as far as food was concerned ; his effort
rose to magnificence in the drink department. It
seemed, shortly, that there was always someone on
his feet expressing the general public opinion of
Hubbard as a dashed fine fellow.
It must have been some hours before the party
at length broke up into groups. I found myself en-
joying, with a parcel of assorted tradesmen who had
obviously never been there before, the midnight drink
service of a palatial hostelry, hearing over again of
the wonderful esteem in which Hubbard was held. In
the morning I met another section of the gathering in
a hotel in Darlinghurst; and for the next two days
fragments, still celebrating, were liable to be met un-
expectedly in various bars.
And then came the shock.
A MOS’S laugh boomed out as we discussed it. Amos
S' is one of the most tolerant men I know ; he can
afford tolerance.
“But why did the little beggar want to go to all
the trouble,” I asked, “if he didn’t mean”
“He did mean, probably,” laughed Amos. “It’s
the power of habit, my boy! In Sydney the poor
devil has been borrowing and owing all his life. In
theory he always wanted to pay everybody in full,
but not badly enough to make a big effort to do it.
The old theory was in his mind when his fortune
came. But see how his resolution faded! First he
was going to double the amount he owed everybody.
“Pull it back, Smith, and let him have another go at it.”
Then he shied, as he thought over it, and came down
to the debt and ten per cent, interest.
“And then,” chuckled Amos, “when he con-
sidered the big amount he was throwing away on the
debts he had never been in the habit of paying, revul-
sion came. Habit asserted itself. He rushed to the
bank and drew out all his money before the cheques
could be presented. Somewhere else—in Brisbane or
Melbourne, or wherever else he and his wife and
family have gone—he will probably start afresh and
never owe a penny to anyone ; but habit in Sydney
was too strong for him.”
Ruefully I fingered in my pocket the cheque that
had proved itself waste paper.
“Do you know what?T cried Amos.
His roaring laugh, rising as I asked him, shook
the bottles on the shelves.
“This morning I had a visit from a gentleman
named Bakebun, who saw me at the feast. He wanted
to know if I knew where Hubbard had gone. “Hub-
bard hadn’t even paid the caterer!” guffawed Amos,
and nearly choked over his whisky.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
tfcfd lime
RAMSGATE.
When the voyageur from Australia or New Zealand has sailed up the English Channel and passed through the Downs, his
Tilbury-bound vessel rapidly approaches the estuary of the Thames, and on passing Ramsgate the feeling is engendered that
“the beginning of London has at last been reached.” On this abutment of North-east Kent are, at least, two towns
Ramsgate and Margate—which have been likened, not without reason, “outer suburbs of London by the sea. Both are
London’s holiday “suburbs” in a popular sense at least. Take the first. Here, though not perhaps in so pronounced a form
as at Margate, one sees the London world at.its ease; the rough conundrum of life, so to speak, in its undress laughing,
singing, dancing and sun-bathing. During the summer months, at every step, the motto bursts forth Live life and be
merry, for tomorrow we go back to work.” From a mere fishing village at the close of the eighteenth century, Ramsgate
has grown to be a resort, one might say, created by London’s growth and increasing necessities. Backed by and partly built
on fine cliffs, with unrivalled sands, two fine stone piers enclosing an excellent though small harbour, a salubrious climate
and a unique sea outlook over the North Sea and across to Ostend are among its attributes. Close off the shore lie the
Goodwin Sands of evil nautical fame. A walk along the front of the cliffs is a recognised adventure, but to mount the
West Cliff is to arrive at the Roman Catholic Cathedral of St. Augustine, built by the illustrious reviver of
Gothic architecture,” Pugin, the only ecclesiastical edifice in the construction of which, he declared, he found real satisfaction.
He built it himself and “footed the bill.” There is an air of quiet restfulness about this edifice, externally and internally,
curiously appealing to men and women on whom the strain of the constant anxiety of recent years has produced a sense of
deep weariness.


The Bulletin
Vol. 61.—N0. 3151.
July 3, 1940.
THE ARMISTICE FISH.
“It’s what the French I licked call a hors-d’oeuvre”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan*s Buildings ( opp . Cr.r.C/.;#
Wellington .
London: / Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, Us. 6a.;
3 months, 7s. ( Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .) ,
Posted Free to any address Overseas (.British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates. .
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign).
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months. £1 25.;
3 months, Us.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Flit, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
ALLIANCES AND OTHER ILLUSIONS.
Alliances are loaded —with dynamite, as we say now.
Castlereagh and Wellington, though unacquainted
with dynamite, knew this when they got out of Europe
in 1815, refusing to permit the dismemberment of
France and to join the Holy Alliance; and this
generation has had to learn the lesson in bitter days.
In modern times, John Bull has had only one ally
who did not leave him in the lurch Japan. The
Anglo-Japanese alliance covered two wars to which
the Japanese were parties; in the first against
Russia—Britain did not have and was not asked
to take part, and in the second the Japanese came in
against Germany. Though they could not be expected
to send soldiers to Europe, they did useful service in
policing the Pacific, convoying Australian and Maori-
land troops and —with the assistance of a British con-
tingent —blasting the Germans out of Kiau-Chau.
They also took possession of the Marshall, Caroline
and Marianne Islands, which the Germans had
colonised or bought from Spain.
Kiau-Chau and the Marshalls and the Carolines
should be remembered when present-day Japanese
policy is considered. That the Japanese are uneasy
about German plans for East Asia, the Dutch East
Indies and the South Seas may be judged from M.
Arita’s statement—amplifying previous declarations—
that “the destiny of those regions and any develop-
ment in them or any disposal of them is a matter of
grave concern to Japan.” In respect of East Asia,
“Japan,” the Foreign Minister said, “naturally expects
that the Western Powers will do nothing to exert any
undesirable influence on the stability” of that part of
the world. He insisted that “the countries of East
Asia and the South Seas are geographically, histori-
cally, racially and economically very closely related to
one another, and are destined to co-operate and
minister to one another’s n§eds, common well-being
and prosperity, and to promote the peace and progress
of their regions.”
The idea of establishing first a righteous peace in
each of the various regions and then collectively a just
peace for the whole world has long existed also in
Europe and America. This system presupposes a stabilis-
ing force in each region, with which the peoples within
the region may secure co-existence and co-prosperity as
well as stability in their sphere. It also presupposes that
the groups respect one another’s individual character-
istics—political, cultural and economic—and that they
co-operate to fulfil one another’s needs for the common
good.
This has been construed to mean that Japan pro-
poses to be the “stabilising force,” though it doesn’t
necessarily mean that. Meanwhile, the Japanese are
taking unusual measures to stop the passage of arms
to Chiang Kai-shek through Burma and Indo-China—
they can’t possibly be French or British arms—and
women and children are being shipped from Hong
Kong to Australia, with Manila as a first stop. Not
a favorable sign, however considered; but the only
thing that can be done about it is to await develop-
ments.
In 1921 Britain abandoned the alliance with
Japan to please the Americans. It had great hopes
of United States policy, particularly on the naval side,
hopes which were shared by Australians (Australians
had found the Japanese arrangement useful for other
reasons), as witness the sinking of Australia’s one
battle-cruiser. They have not been fulfilled.
The Americans have no use for alliances. When
they fought alongside Britain and France in 1917-18
and sat among the peacemakers in 1918-19, it was as an
“associated” Power. Politicians, editors and radio pro-
fessors, British and Australian, were positive that an-
other war with Germany would see the Americans in
from the beginning with bells on, but they have kept
out; and, though present appearances may be decep-
tive, they intend to remain out.
It is no use denying that the news from the U.S.A.
has taken a turn for the worse. With the collapse and
humiliation of France, the old sentimental interest in
that country ceased to influence articles and speeches,
and anti-British elements began to assert themselves
again.
A doubtless unwilling President was obliged to
veto an arranged sale of submarine chasers to Britain,
somebody having discovered that it would violate a
law passed in 1917. Mr. Edsel Ford agreed to manu-
facture 6000 Rolls-Royce aeroplane engines for the
Government;' Mr. Henry Ford cancelled the verbal
contract when he found that some of the engines were
intended for “a foreign Government.” The Fords
draw a large part of their income from British coun-
tries, but they are all “foreign” to Henry. The Repub-
licans, for their part, declared at their national
convention that they are “firmly opposed to involving
this nation in a foreign war.” And Mr. Pittman, the
Chairman of the Senate’s Foreign Relations Com-
mittee, was heard maundering again to the effect that
he thoroughly approved of Mr. Churchill’s declaration
that if parts of the British Isles were subjugated the
British Navy would carry on the struggle from the
New World, and hoped that the Churchill plan “will
not be too long delayed by futile encouragement to
fight on,” since “it is conclusively evident that Con-
gress will not authorise intervention in the war.”
Other remarks of the good Pittman were that “nothing
the United States has to give can do more than delay
events in Europe,” and that Britain is “totally unpre-
pared for defence.”
In effect, one disappointment followed another.
Yet the President is an honest man, and evidently he
is doing his best to honor his promise that “we” would
“extend to the opponents of force the material re-
sources of this nation,” and that “every week that goes
by will see additional material (aeroplanes, artillery
and munitions) on the way”; at all events, Lord
Beaverbrook, the Minister of Aircraft Production, has
testified that “imports from the United States are con-
tinuous and improving.” And it must always be borne
in mind that this is a Presidential-election year and
that it would scarcely be possible for Mr. Roosevelt
to win on a war policy. The parties are now choosing
their candidates and the candidates have been
manoeuvring for position. Events may strengthen Mr.
Roosevelt’s hands or force action favorable to the
British Commonwealth on even a reluctant successor,
if any. Meantime, there are reports of mysterious
movements of the U.S. fleet in the Pacific.
Russia is another country of which the poli-
ticians, editors and radio professors were sure ; and
though Stalin signed the treaty with Hitler which let
the Horror loose, even while pretending to negotiate
with the representatives of Britain and France in
Moscow, and followed up his perfidy by invading two
fellow-members of the League, their hopes recently re-
vived. They were silent about Stalin’s seizure of
Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, their pious concern
for the Little Peoples having disappeared, but they
believe that his fear of the Germans will drive him to
fight them. Certainly his feet were cold when he
came to terms with “the Nazi butcher,” and no doubt
they are colder than ever now that the Nazis’ swift
conquests have endangered his calculations he
reckoned on a long war which would leave victors as
well as vanquished exhausted, and thus an easy prey
for Communism. But of his own volition he won’t
fight anyone unless the odds are 20 to 1 in his favor
and the field is clear.
Left-wingers still have the face to assert that if
it hadn’t been for Chamberlain and Daladier Russia
would have gone to war for the Czechs in 1938 or
become an*ally of France and Britain in 1939. On the
Reds’ showing against the Finns, if the utterly incred-
ible had happened in either year they would have been
whipped in a fortnight, and then Stalin’s successor
(Stalin would, of course, have been “liquidated”)
would have been swifter than Lenin and Trotsky in
making a separate peace. Communists never mention
Brest-Litovsk now, but the veterans of the 1918 cam-
paigns can never forget what Trotsky and Zinoviev
did there, nor can they ever forget that vast numbers
of their comrades died because a pack of cowardly
ruffians abandoned the Eastern front.
At Brest-Litovsk the Reds were ordered to “cede
Poland and Courland to the Central Powers, to recog-
nise Finland, Estonia and Latvia as separate States,
to give up the Ukraine on both sides of the Dnieper
and to pay a contribution of 300,000,000 roubles.” At
first they made a show of resistance. Then, the record
says; —
General Hoffman ordered some divisions to advance.
The Red Army was at once on the run, and the delegates
had to come back and sign a second and more dis-
honorable edition of the Treaty.
From the dismemberment thus accepted, which
would have led to German “protectorates” over other
selected parts of the Russian dominions, the Musco-
vites were saved by the valor and sacrifices of the
nations they had betrayed. So far from being grate-
ful, they straightway began to white-ant France and
the British Commonwealth, and the corruption they
spread in France was one of the main causes of its
decline and crashing fall.
There is no faith in Moscow. On March 31
Molotov assured Rumania and the world that
Rumanians had no cause to fear Moscow policy: “the
U.S.S.R. does not intend to take Bessarabia from
Rumania by war.” Last week the same Molotov sent
an ultimatum demanding the cession of Bessarabia
and Northern Bukovina —Austrian for 141 years.
Before the Rumanian Government had had time to
answer, Red troops were marching into Bessarabia and
Red ’planes were over the doomed provinces.. The
Rumanians gave in without a fight. More carving-up
of their country will be done presently, and no doubt
Italy will be permitted to grab the Dalmatian coast
from Yugoslavia. Germany will take what it pleases.
Like the Greeks, who have rushed into “a com-
mercial agreement” with Germany, the Rumanians
were guaranteed by Britain and France and
subsidised by Britain. They pocketed the subsidies
and made themselves the docile instruments of
German policy, giving the Germans all the oil
they demanded, and seizing French ships and rail-
way tank wagons leased to Britain. The Turks also
received guarantees and subsidies from Britain. They
were to have entered the struggle on Britain’s side if
the Italians launched an aggressive war—as the Italians
did. Turkey has now become a non-belligerent, hav-
ing “invoked the section of the Anglo-Turkish and
Franco-Turkish agreements stipulating that Turkey is
not required to take any action which might bring
it into conflict with Russia.” The Turkish Premier
hopes that “our watchfulness and avoidance of provo-
cation will preserve peace for our country and our
neighbors” ; and in the meantime “our country” will
“preserve” the subsidies.
A month ago it was unimaginable that a Govern-
ment headed by an old marshal of France could
descend to the level of Trotsky and Zinoviev. Short
of accepting a cut-and-dried plan for the cession of
huge parts of metropolitan France and the French
Empire, it has done everything the Bolshevists did at
Brest-Litovsk and more ; and that without a show of
resistance, and with the French Navy and all the
colonies, dependencies and protectorates intact.
The Petain Government yielded up all the French
troops who had not escaped to Switzerland ; “all
artillery, tanks, anti-tank weapons, service aircraft,
infantry armament, tractors and munitions in territory
not to be occupied” ; all “land and coast defences,
with armaments, in occupied territory ; all plans of
fortifications and particulars of mine barrages ; all
information about naval mines and defences; all
aerodromes and aircraft” (British included); “all
military establishments, tools and stocks and all wire-
less transmitting stations.” And “with grief and amaze-
ment” Mr. Churchill learned that “the French fleet,
except a part left free for the safeguarding of French
interests in the colonial empire,” was to be “collected
in specified ports, demobilised and disarmed under
German and Italian control,” which meant that “the
French war vessels passed into German and Italian
control fully armed.” As for merchant shipping,
none was to “leave harbor; merchant ships outside
France to be recalled or, if not possible, to go to
neutral ports.”
Along with provision for the occupation of huge
parts of metropolitan France until the conclusion of
hostilities with Britain, such were the German
terms. To Italy the Petain Government gave up
Jibuti and the French section of the Jibuti-Addis
Ababa railway, and agreed to demilitarise French
Somaliland, Ajaccio, Oran, Bizerta and frontier
zones in Tunis and Algeria, and to call off the war in
other colonies and in territories held under mandate,
“also in the air and on the sea.” A clause added to
an article of the Italian armistice reads: “On the con-
clusion of peace Italy does not intend to claim the
French fleet.” The German Government was not
quite so “magnanimous,” but it “solemnly” declared
that “it has no intention of using for its own pur-
poses during the war the French fleet stationed in ports
under German control, except those units necessary
for coast surveillance and mine-sweeping.” These
undertakings have as much value as the enemy chooses
to set on them.
Why did Petain and Lebrun accept arrangements
so perfidious and injurious to Britain, so crushing to
Poles and Czechs and still-loyal Belgians, so fatal to
the prestige of France in every continent? Not because
they are Fascists. That is the crude invention of a
Leftist press which has all along misled the public
about the feeling in foreign countries. There was
rottenness on the Right in France, and there was —and
is—rottenness on the Left; but on the Right there
were also (as in Britain and in Australia) honest doubts
about the stability of the so-called succession States and
about the wisdom of the popular policy of encircling
Germany and throwing Mussolini into Hitler’s arms.
And when their nation was beaten to its knees, these
Rightists came into the picture—with their tails down.
Not a single Communist has suggested continuing
the war. General de Gaulle, who formed a national
committee in London and called upon all Frenchmen
to fight it out, has been called a Royalist. True or
not, this accusation must have weakened his campaign
among all moderate Republicans, whether still free or
in chains. It obviously influenced the capitulation of
the French commander in Syria, who was so bold a
few days before.
No, the men who surrendered so ignominiously
are not Fascists. They gave in because the defeats
their armies suffered and the horrors they witnessed
appalled them; because they were old, weary, de-
moralised men without imagination enough to see that,
if metropolitan France was defeated, overseas France
was not; because they feared another and more
hideous Commune (a guarantee against this crowning
horror has probably been included in a secret article
of the armistice terms); above all, because they had
arrived at a state of mind in which they could think
only of their people and their country.
Such is the fatal weakness of alliances. They
work when things go well; they weaken when things
go ill; they crash when catastrophe comes, for then
the victim of the catastrophe, concentrating on its
own affairs, will think nothing of betraying its part-
ner. This has happened over and over again in the
history of Europe. Though these Dominions will
take all that is coming to them and stand by Britain
to the end, it will never happen again as far as they
are concerned. And their Governments must no
longer be content to leave everything to Mr. Churchill,
Mr. Eden and Mr. Duff Cooper. They must demand
the resuscitation of the War Cabinet and their fair share
of representation on the War Council—“ Supreme”
no longer. There may be nothing in American reports
of peace manoeuvres, but the Dominions must have a
hand in the shaping of peace when it comes. Mean-
while the defection of France has left an army of
which Australian and Maoriland soldiers form part
in a situation which is at least doubtful, and its future
must not be decided without reference to their
Governments.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Needed in London.
Sydney “Sun” has arrived at the conclusion that “the
voices of the Dominions should be heard in an
Imperial War Council.” Sydney “Telegraph” has dis-
covered that “the Dominions still lack immediate con-
tact with Britain’s leaders,” and that “we will be fall-
ing down in our responsibility” if this contact is not
established. Interesting, but late, though better late
than never.
On April 17, 23 days before Blitzkrieg broke out,
it was here written that “there is an urgent need for
the resuscitation of the Imperial War Cabinet,” and
that “the Dominions should be represented on the
Supreme War Council by at least one Prime Minister”
—Mr. Mackenzie King was suggested. The gist of the
article was reproduced in British papers and such
comment as accompanied it was favorable, but in Aus-
tralia only returned soldiers weighed in with support.
The Bulletin returned to the subject on May 1,
quoting from a press cable: “New decisions designed
to guarantee effective co-operation in all circumstances
by Britain, France, Norway and Poland were made
at a meeting of the Supreme War Council, held at
Paris on April 22 and 23”:
For three of the Dominions the situation in the
Pacific, of no direct consequence to Poland and Norway,
is all-important. For Australia and Maoriland extension
of the war to the Mediterranean, a possibility which
some British politicians seem to contemplate quite
blithely, would mean at the very least the loss of one
important trade route, possibly two. Dominions repre-
sentation in the Imperial War- Cabinet and on the
Supreme War Council would keep these essential facts
before them and provide safeguards against another
Gallipoli, more battles like Fleurbaix and First Bulle*
court and repetitions of campaigns like Passchendaele.
No notice having been taken, The Bulletin went at
it again on May 8:
The Australian Government cannot allow the fate
of its fighting men, and perhaps the fate of its nation,
to be decided by persons from whose councils it is
excluded. The Dominions have a ' right to demand
representation on the Supreme War Council by at least
two voting members, together with representation of
each Dominion in the Imperial War Cabinet.
The matter was reverted to on May 15:
The invasion of the Low Countries is a call to
Australians and Maorilanders to increase and accelerate
their war measures and let nothing—and nobody—stand
in the way. But the Australian Government should
first intimate that it is sending Mr. Cameron to London
to represent Australia in the Imperial War Cabinet and
on the Supreme War Council, and that it will expect
the necessary arrangements to be made before he
arrives.
There followed quotations from a speech (May
9, 1939), in which Mr. Cameron criticised the guaran-
tees to Poland and Rumania and the overtures to
Moscow, and in which he showed that he was quite
free from the wishful thinking and strategical miscon-
ceptions which misled British politicians and caused
them to mislead others. He was The Bulletin’s
nomination for Prime Minister. Unfortunately one
of the Labor parties, Right Wing as well as Left Wing,
can’t stand him, though he seems to get on well enough
with the Labor people in his own electorate. At a
time when Australia has an expeditionary force in
England, and another in Palestine whose Syrian flank
has been left in the air, perhaps even Mr. Curtin
would now admit that it is necessary that Mr.
Cameron, with his clear head and force of character,
should be sent to London to speak for Australia, and
that without any more delay. He might arrive in
time to prevent Mr. Churchill offering an “indis-
soluble union” to China.
Malaria and the A.I.F.
In 1918 Australian and other occupying forces in
Palestine suffered from malaria to an extent which,
at one stage, looked like holding up the whole scheme
of operations.
It is no new military problem—the Crusaders of
six centuries ago had to meet it and it was Saladin’s
best defence. The Jordan Valley type of malaria still
is a powerful ally of any opponent to forces which
traverse or occupy its area of infec-
tion in the season when its winged carriers flourish
best; and the season has now commenced.
Effective anti-malarial measures are no mere
matter of a quinine issue. Medical officers of the
A.I.F. get a brief refresher course in tropical medi-
cine before leaving Australia, but only a small frac-
tion of them at most can have had any practical ex-
perience in the difficult and complex work of protect-
ing a fighting force against large-scale disablement
from malaria in an intensely malarious country.
Some of the most competent malariologists in the
world are Italians, notably Aldo Castellani, who got
away from London with the Italian Embassy. There
are definite possibilities that malaria can be used to
military advantage. Apart from this he and his
highly-skilled colleagues will be able to advise mili-
tary leaders concerning probable losses in fighting
strength at any period in the season of malarial
incidence.
A first-rate expert should be attached to A.I.F.
headquarters in the Middle East with adequate rank
and authority to ensure that measures advised by him
shall be carried out without brasshat delay or obstruc-
tion. He must necessarily possess not only the fullest
knowledge of his subject but military medical experi-
ence as well as proven administrative ability.
Australia has produced just the right man for
tt Cilento, now Director-General
of Health and Medical Services in Queensland, for-
merly Director of Tropical Hygiene and Director of
the Institute of Tropical Medicine in the Common-
wealth Health Service.
The Commonwealth Government will be wise if
it puts him on to it at the earliest possible moment.
Politicians and War.
“0.T.”: A strange and remarkable effusion appeared
in the Sydney “Morning Herald” from a gentleman
described as the chairman of the Croydon State
Electoral Conference. Its object was to awaken the
public mind to the necessity for calling upon the Com-
monwealth Government to invite a certain B. S. B.
Stevens to come and save the nation, or civilisation
or something; said Stevens having at one time been
Premier of N.S.W.
The letter is not so noteworthy for its absurdity
as for its revelation of a state of mind which still exists
in this Commonwealth. A state of mind that believes
the right people to win this war are politicians of the
type thrown up by our party system and its seven
Parliaments.
Even in Britain there is a growing doubt whether
the war can be won by politicians and Government
departments. People in that beleaguered country are
asking themselves gloomily whether it wouldn’t be
better to dispense with politicians for the time being
and hand the conduct of the war over to some group
or individual with absolute power, the politicians and
the departments meanwhile to concern themselves
with the conduct of minor affairs.
This is a question urgently demanding an answer
in Australia. The kind of war now being waged
sweeps right over the heads of the politicians. It
won’t wait for Cabinet meetings and Parliamentary
discussions. Nor will it wait while somebody or
other calls a conference to discuss this, that or the
other, the favorite method of dealing with pressing
problems since the last war.
In the careless days of Peace, when men go to
work and play and don’t want to be bothered with
parochial or national affairs, the politician has his
uses. That he turns also to abuses is all part of the
game, perhaps, while Peace reigns. But when War
comes, and men’s lives and homes and existence are
threatened by a fast-moving, merciless, all-destroying
force the politician is, unless something of a miracle-
worker, nothing more than a burden and a danger.
Government in war-time is as different from Gov-
ernment in peace-time as two things possibly could
be. The German army in the field answers the will of
a single authority ; our army could conceivably be
bossed by a multitude of authorities.
Further, the politician, by his very nature and
training, is unfitted to conduct a nation’s war effort.
He has for too long relied on departmental heads and
party orders, and he cannot free himself of the ham-
pering toils these elements put upon him.
We are repeatedly being told that modern war
isn’t an affair of armies and navies, but one of nations.
That being undeniable, it becomes obvious that a war-
ring nation must get as near to single leadership as
possible, and under the present Australian system
divided and multiple leadership is increasing rather
than diminishing. Treasurer Spender has pointed out
that it will be necessary to do without many things
to which we have become accustomed. That
includes our seven Parliaments and hordes of public
servants as well as things to eat and wear.
Generally speaking, neither politicians nor Gov-
ernment departments are cut out for the sort of work
entailed in conducting a modern war, and, though some
people might see in this an argument for dictatorship,
it remains a truth. We can appoint as many directors
of various war efforts as we like, but none of them
can hope to achieve results with the speed urgently
required while the politician and the Government
department, both destined for civil life, are in control.
There will have to be a division so that control
of the war effort is vested in a single and unchallenge-
able authority responsible only to the national Parlia-
ment, while the politicians and civil servants confine
themselves to keeping the taxes gathered and the
drunks off the streets.
And the less heard from State politicians,
especially exploded Premiers, the better.
Children from Britain.
“Pawang”: Victoria laid up trouble for itself when
British officers were induced by specious promises to
resign their commissions and start farming in the
Mallee. Trouble in larger quantities will come if
unreasoning philanthropists are allowed to make hash
of the laudable and necessary plan for bringing chil-
dren from Britain.
Private applications are pouring in. Committees
run by kind-hearted ladies are starting up everywhere.
A politician has suggested that the children should be
put into institutions. Another’s idea is that they
should be billetted in the vast draughty repellent
Exhibition Building. Still another wanted the Zoo
emptied of its population and turned into a reception
house for the small strangers.
None of these things should be permitted. No
private family should be allowed to have anything to
do with the children. Existing institutions should be
vetoed.
There is a simple way out in Victoria if the
authorities have the courage to admit that they lack
the ability to deal with it.
The children should be put under the control of
an individual who likes children and because of his
liking has tried to understand them. Such a one exists
in Neild, of Warrandyte. He was a pupil of the
Scotchman A. S. Neil, who is world-famous for his •
school for problem children in England. It may be
said that these children are not problem children, but
problems will arise in their lives in Australia which
can only be dealt with by an understanding person.
Neild started his school with his own money. He
gathered the best teachers he could find and at first
had more teachers on his staff than pupils. Visitors
to his place have come away impressed with the fine
character and development of his charges. They build
their own houses, have learnt all sorts of crafts, write
plays and perform them in their own theatre.
But the thing that most impresses is the way they
have been taught to live in a community without fight-
ing one another. Considering the state of the con-
tinent they come from, this is the best lesson Australia
could teach its little guests-to-be.
Britons and Australians in China.
“Feng-Shui” : The situation of Britons and Austra-
lians in places like the Shanghai Foreign Settlement
is not so parlous as Australian dailies eager to scent
trouble would like to make it. The settlement is not
British but international, and by sundry deeds and
acts the Chinese have gradually been given more and
more share of the jurisdiction. Chinese law is adminis-
tered in the Mixed Courts, where Chinese Judges try
disputes between foreigners and natives with the assist-
ance of European assessors. Without the Chinese
Shanghai would cease to function within 24 hours.
When the Chinese took over the concession at
Hankow Shanghailanders thought that would be the
end of “everything” ; but “everything” went on as
before and the innate commercial integrity of the
Chinese triumphed over their political prejudices. Thou-
sands of white men live outside the concessions, and
if they get into trouble, with the natives it is their own
fault. But there is a residue of congenital Shanghai-
landers who regard the Chinese as their hereditary
enemies, and think if they go outside they will be eaten.
I once told an English lady that I meditated visiting
the Chinese native city, a four cent ride in a tram-
car. “What on earth do you want to go there for?”
she ejaculated in astonishment. “I’ve never been
there and I’ve lived in Shanghai 30 years.”
After Petain quit, the French handed over
the Siccawei sector of their concession to the Chinese
“puppet” Government. Howls of dismay have gone
up from Shanghailanders at this surrender of a suburb
which they consider essential to the defence of the
foreign areas. The foreign areas can no more be
defended by their inhabitants than South Melbourne
could be defended against the Australian navy and
army. But a sensible arrangement could easily be come
to with the Chinese, who are pre-eminently sensible
people.
In Justice to Chamberlain.
Even when France was about to fall some British
Ms.P. and the usual press followers demanded the dis-
missal of Mr. Chamberlain. The “Daily Herald”
declared that his position had become a political issue,
and another set of papers referred bitterly to old men
hampering the victory-drive of Mr. Attlee and Mr.
Alexander —Mr. Attlee, who was for intervention in
China and Spain when Britain was incapable of sup-
porting either, and Mr. Alexander, who was First
Lord of the Admiralty from 1929 to 1931, when the
Navy was at its lowest ebb, that being the deliberate
policy of his Government.
It is a disgusting exhibition of ingratitude and
impudence, disgusting inasmuch as it comes from the
very quarter in which the Chamberlain Government
encountered bitter hostility when it entered upon its
task of reorganising the three arms of the service.
Mr. Chamberlain himself gave the Allies the
most valuable gift which could have come from any
statesman in September, 1938—time. Nobody can
now doubt that France would have been battered to
pieces in a fortnight had war come when all the
world’s urgers were eager that Britain and France
should fight.
In the year of grace gained by Munich, Britain
substantially increased its output and purchases of
’planes and there was at least some advance in French
production. The Chamberlain Government began
re-creating the R.A.F. towards the end of 1937. It
has proved itself man for man, and machine for
machine, superior to the enemy.
When Mr. Chamberlain took office on May 28,
1937, the Army command consisted of the usual peace-
time collection of old generals. Within six months,
the Government had made Viscount Gort Commander-
in-Chief, and supported him with a group of like-
minded officers, some of them promoted over men
with greater reputations. They have since proved
themselves in battle. The part played by the B.E.F.
in Belgium, under Gort’s personal leadership, will live
as one of Ihe greatest military feats in history. Had
there been a million men in the B.E.F. instead of
350,000, there might have been no German over-
running of Belgium.
The million men were not forthcoming because of
long years of bigoted Lib.-Lab. opposition to con-
scription. It was overcome at last —by Mr. Chamber-
lain. Too late to admit of Britain entering the war
with a trained conscript army on the Continental scale ;
but only “the appeasement-monger” could have over-
come it at all, even in April, 1939.
A modest programme of naval expansion had
been begun before Mr. Chamberlain entered office.
It was speeded up immediately. Eighty-five ships
were laid down in the 1937 programme; plans were
made to build 140 by 1940. Had the even tenor of
the Baldwin-Eden age continued at the Admiralty,
the Allied naval margin over Germany and Italy
would be perilously small. But the active part of the
war began with five new 35,000-ton battleships com-
pleted and two 42,000-tonners on the way. By the
beginning of 1939 there were five modern aircraft-
carriers under construction, another completed.
Cruisers and the new Tribal destroyers were laid down
in dozens. At present 1,000,000 naval tons are on the
stocks, nearly all put under way during the Chamber-
lain regime.
Pity those who demand Mr. Chamberlain’s head
and who were so ready to lean on France and Russia’
rather than on Britain, didn’t show a bit of the fore-
sight and energy exhibited by the Government of
“old men” at Westminster.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“T.”: I am beginning to think our
daily papers don’t really like Mussolini.
To Sydney “Telegraph” he is “a cowardly
gangster,” “a sawdust Caesar,” “the
jackal,” a leader of “Blackshirt bullies,”
an exponent of “the bombast that is safer
than bombs,” and an impersonation of
“pinchbeck valor” whose Italy will “reek
in the nostrils of the world for the life-
time of this generation.” Perhaps because
it is now owned by the “Telegraph” con-
cern, the “Daily News” also calls the
fellow a “sawdust Caesar” —twice in one
article. “S. M. Herald” sees him as
“the Italian camp-follower,” “the assassin
who waited to make quite certain that
his prey was helpless before he struck,”
“the enemy who feared to enter the fight
till the battle was won,” and the object
of “the world’s scorn, whose rapacity is
in inverse ratio to his courage.” Utterly
relentless, Granny went searching for
a “precedent sufficiently cowardly to
parallel” his “pusillanimous valor,” and
found one in “October, 1918,” when “the
body politic of Austro-Hungary was
writhing in its death-throes.” The “Age”
is content with “jackal” ; and that seems
to be first favorite. None of these editors
seems.to have the slightest regard for the
feelings of jackals.
* * * *
“Derwent J.”: Launceston (Tas.), which
had a policewoman and lost her, is to
be given another, a fact which the
local “Examiner” thought worthy of a
leading article. After pointing out how
the little city had missed its woman in
blue, and that the one coming was even
then being trained for her duties, it
finished with the conviction that she “will
find plenty to do.” Progress bodies are
asking themselves if there is a double
meaning in the words.
* * * *
“Simple Simon”: The Chamber of
Commerce at Newcastle (N.S.W.) has
various “monuments” to its persistence
in the form of port improvements. It
has a real monument as well. A tall
stone obelisk on Shepherd’s Hill over-
looks the city. It occupies the site of the
first Crown mill, built about Macquarie’s
time. As farmers began building their
own mills the Government concern fell
into disuse ; but it stood for years after-
wards, and mariners formed the habit of
using it as a navigation mark. Then the
Government of the day sold the de-
molition rights. A Scot who had bought
them for a bagatelle heard the rumblings
of the shipping agents, hired a team of
men and pulled the mill down overnight
before the Government could change its
mind. Shipping men squealed, and kept
it up for two years, until the Govern-
ment built the obelisk to pacify them.
* # * *
“K.P.”: It is curious how little we really
know about what makes teeth decay and
how to prevent it. One school ascribes
it to deficiency in vitamin D while the
teeth are being formed. Another re-
gards it as a result of acid-formation by
soft carbohydrate foods and absence of
rough constituents to keep the tooth sur-
faces clear of them. A third blames an
organism which digests the protein
material in the enamel. Recent observa-
tions on Indian children seem to favor
the acid hypothesis. The association of
tooth troubles with rheumatism and
dyspepsia, once so widely believed, is not
standing up to investigation. Of 126
patients who had their teeth removed
for dental reasons 19 developed rheuma-
tism, and only five out of 13 whose
teeth were removed to benefit existing
rheumatism experienced any relief.
Amongst 76 whose teeth were extracted
for dyspepsia only six benefited.
**- * *
“Spokeshave”: Melbourne police
organised a raid on Communists and
confiscated books and documents. The
raid was well planned, and went off
quietly except at one address. Four
policemen entered a room and found a
stout lady standing over a cot in a
corner. “I’m the landlady,” she whis-
pered. “This is my tenants’ baby. If
you wake the baby you’ll have to nurse
it!” The men in blue for the rest of
their visit tiptoed around the house like
burglars.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A girl of Dutch parentage was
arrested in Geelong for “having offered
for sale or gratuitously distributed to per-
sons printed matter upon which the name
and address of the printer was not
stated.” It was also alleged that she had
dressed up as a little girl when her real
age was much older, and the Court sat
up at the prospects of Fifth-Column acti-
“But I only Want a rasher .”
v ities under our very noses. But it turned
ou t that she was well known throughout
Victoria as “the little poet from Hol-
iand.” She didn’t know she was breaking
the law, and had chosen this method of
selling her poetical effusions to receptive
b us i nessmen an d the wives of cockies.
And one of her custom ers had been Mr.
jy uncan) the Commissioner of Police,
ma gistrate wiped his brow, then
convicted and discharged her.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Two Wagga citizens
provided a concrete demonstration of the
value of gas-producer units. They drove
a utility truck the 300 miles to Melbourne
at a cost, for petrol, of 355. They got
their gadget fitted and then drove back
at from 38 to 58 m.p.h. at a cost, for
charcoal, of 6s. 9d,
* „ * tt . *. _ *
“Ganger : The Australian Explorers
article about G. W. Evans (B. 19/5/ 40)
reminds me of the almost incredible jo
work carried out by Captain Wil lam
Cox, ate Bum Corps, w^j n e
made ™ ad ove r the r ßlue Moun :
j_ ain s N.S.W. along the line surveye
by Evans six months after Gregory Blax-
land and his party had pioneered the way.
Cox volunteered to build the road, and
was allowed to pick his team from among
the convicts, getting the best that was
in them by obtaining from the Govern-
ment a promise of emancipation. Start-
ing from the Nepean River on July 7,
1814, he constructed a highway 10 H
miles long that was practicable for
wheeled traffic, finishing up at Bathurst
on January 14, 1815. For almost the
whole length of it Cox and his men had
to hack a passage through the densest
timber and scrub, blast immense rocks
out of their way, throw substantial
bridges across deep gullies and fill in
huge chasms with earth and rubble. It
is quite safe to say that the finishing of
such a piece of work in just over five
months established a record in roadbuild-
ing that has never been beaten since in
Australia—or possibly anywhere else.
* * * *
“Runa”: The Moscovitch method of
rebuking an unruly audience (B.
26/6/’4O) was clumsy in comparison
with that employed by a visiting prima
donna in a Maoriland theatre. She also
was performing before an audience com-
posed largely of culture-seeking youth,
on whom the first strains of the air of
“Pulaski’s Banner” fell without causing
any diminution in their chatter. The
diva had no extensive knowledge of Eng-
lish, but what she did know was effective,
and the aria went off in this wise:
Take thy banner (“Shut up!”), let it wave,
(“Shut up, I said!”)
Proudly o’er the free and brave. (“SHUT
UP!”)
A cowed assemblage listened to the rest
in awed silence.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Considering their num-
bers, the Victorian aboriginals have
rallied to the call better than white
brother. A few years ago when Percy
Leason, now in New York, set out to
paint the fullbloods remaining, he con-
sidered he had covered the lot after he
had painted 28 portraits —one was an in-
mate of Pentridge. (Incidentally, the col-
lection will go to the U.S.A. unless some
Australian body acquires it.) The largest
number were at Lake Tyers, the abo.
home on the coast past Lakes Entrance.
The other day 17 of them, including half-
castes, were passed for enlistment, and
three more were rejected. They com-
prised 25 p.c. of the male adult popula-
tion of the settlement and 50 p.c. of the
eligibles.
* * * *
“F.S.”: One of the few good things
that may come out of the French debacle
is the extinction of that worthless excres-
cence on France the principality of
Monaco, against which Mussolini
solemnly declared war. It has no arts
or industries except gambling and hotel-
waiting, and it is the rendezvous of half
the idle rich of Europe and the parasites
who prey on them. Successive French
Governnlents have endeavored to sup-
press it with about as much success
as Australian Governments had when
they went after Tasmanian “consulta-
tions.” It is comic opera of the lowest
order, and one of its most comic achieve-
ments occurred over its first murder. A
Monacan killed his wife for no apparent
reason. He was condemned to death;
but there was no guillotine nor any
scaffold. Sentence was reduced to a
“lifer” ; but there was no prison. A
hut was made available and a gaoler
appointed, but the cost of his salary
upset the prince, so the prisoner was
made his own gaoler. The scandal of
a convicted murderer sitting about
the cafes spending the State’s money
and then going home to his cell
and locking himself in shocked the
D eople and the Court ordered his release,
He pointed out that he had been sen-
tenced to imprisonment for life, and the
Court could hardly object if he insisted
on carrying out its sentence. So he was
given a pension and told to go and live
in France. But the fascination of Monte
Carlo for its sons being irresistible, he
settled just over the border and paid a
trip to the tables daily until he died 40
years later.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Odd how German names
cropped up among the French in the
last act of their tragedy. A General
Huntzinger led the delegation that
“accepted the armistice terms” at Com-
piegne and again at Rome. From General
Mittelhauser came an intimation that the
army in Syria would fight on. “Fight
on! ” was also the cry of Jules Sauer-
wein, ths journalist. No mention of
Andre Siegfried, but if that pro-English
writer is still alive and kicking it is very
unlikely that he belongs to the cave-in
party. If my memory doesn’t betray me,
Siegfried was in Australia in November,
1918, as a member of the party led by old
General Pau, who ingratiated himself
with the womenfolk by kissing every
feminine hand within kissing distance.
Anyway, the man after whom the Line
wasn’t named visited Australia and wrote
in a friendly spirit about people and
country.
* * * *
“Miss McNark”: My dear, it was
simply terrific. When Jean and I heard
of the Women’s Win the War Rally at
Sydney Town Hall we decided that it was
definitely a call, if you know what I
mean. All the dear boys in the trenches,
facing shot and shell for the Empire, I
mean, and those poor French and that
terrible Italian
man, well, some-
thing just had to
be done. Oodles
of girls were
there, and some
wore the weird-
est frocks and
then they said
the hall was full
and a big creature
in front of us
waved her ticket
and said she’d just
have to get in.
And everybody
laughed because
just then a Girl
Guide or some-
thing wanted to
get out, and when
they opened the
door we all rushed
forward. Women
began to call out
things, and they
said those in front
were being
crushed, and some
fainted and I was
squeezed against
the most hand-
some policeman
you ever saw. Of
course, I put on
my most ravish-
ing look, but he
calmly pushed
me back. The brute, why he isn’t
in khaki is what I’d like to know! So
we just panted there for hours and hours,
and I lost Jean and a nasty-looking
creature with C-H-E-A-P-N-E-S-S writ-
ten all over her stood on my foot. And
the menials shut the doors but everybody
hammered and squealed on them and the
loudspeakers started and two girls
climbed over a gate into the basement.
And there we were, outside, with police-
men pushing us about and no chance of
having even a peep at the uniform. We
are all to be called W.A.N.S. and when I
looked in the glass I was wan, if you
know what I mean. But the men ought
to see by this how terribly earnest we
are about everything.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Jokes can be danger-
ous. The rumor swept round Camber-
well, one of Melbourne’s most peace-
loving suburbs, that a shopman had put
up a notice in his window: “We Wish
to Trade Only with Germans and
Italians!” Outraged suburbanites hast-
ened to find the news was true. But the
shop was an undertaker’s parlor.
* * * *
“M. A. Lee”: A newspaper correspon-
dent with the A.1.F., describing some
desert exercises, tells how “the buildings
of a town showed through the dust ahead.
Clumps of Australian gums drooped here
and there. At a casual glance it might
have been a Mallee town on a north-wind
day. It was Beersheba.” Drowsing in
their clearings in the scrub, Cowangie,
Underbool, Tempe, Sea Lake and the
rest of the collections of galvanised-iron
and weatherboard might have been com-
pared with almost anything. But
Beersheba is too much!
THE DOGS.
From far and wide one hears the call
In such precarious times as these
For putting in the peg on all
Unnecessary luxuries.
And, once concede that urgent need,
We surely might begin
On the long dogs, the strong dogs,
That chase the hares of tin.
They have no compensating power,
No claim to rank as trusty pals
Or useful friends, like other of our
Domesticated animals.
In fine, their sole and sordid role
Is that of gambling snares,
The fleet hounds, the meat hounds,
That hunt synthetic hares.
Yet week by week, to keep the bloom
Of fitness on the tracks they take,
The unproductive brutes consume
Whole tons (no less) of juicy steak.
No worn-out screw that suits the Zoo
Will do to fill the skin
Of the fool tykes, the mule tykes,
That chase the hares of tint
When days grow dark and cash gets short
Except for pressing needs, no doubt
There’s quite a lot of forms of sport
That we’ll contrive to do without.
And who would rue a long adieu
(Save him the odds who blares)
To the dull dogs, the gulled dogs,
That hunt synthetic hares.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Ike Hardupp”: A voice full of
righteous indignation bellowed through
the corridor of the office building. The
sound held me, and I saw a stout, angry
gent, shaking a blue paper in the face
of a young man who had apparently just
delivered it. “Why are you not at the
war?” he thundered. He rose to heights
as he demonstrated why every young
man should be in uniform. “And you—
you who should be with the heroes of
our country —you come to me with a
paltry bill. Tell your employers that aS
a matter of patriotic principle I refuse
to pay. That is what I think of them
employing a man who should be in the
army for their pitiful debt-collecting!”
‘That” was a gesture that tore the docu-
ment into fragments and threw them over
the unhappy emissary. I have never seen
a debt repudiated more magnificently.
* . * * *
“Poet Laur”: How many know of the
existence of a book of war poetry entitled
The Anzac Pilgrim’s Progress' ? Accord-
ing to the title page the author was Lance-
Corporal Cobber. It is the story in ballad
form of Cobber’s war life, from the
moment “the hoarse wind stirred the
mulga shouting WAR” until we take
leave of him in hospital (after Gallipoli
and France), broken in body but not in
spirit. When this volume first appeared
in London in 1916 it was hailed by the
critics as “typically colonial.... as
colonial as anything by Adam Lindsay
Gordon.” One critic said he showed the
book to many Australians and they all
agreed it was as unmistakably and
genuinely Australian as the kangaroo.
The secret of Cobber’s identity was not
revealed until 1930, when St. John
Adcock, himself a poet, and for many
years editor of the “Bookman,” died.
Adcock was Cobber, and the strange fact
is that Adcock was never in Australia,
had never heard a shot fired in anger,
and was a long way towards being a
pacifist. Yet—read this book, and you’d
swear that Cobber was a dinkum Aussie.
* * * if
“Hamfat”: Maurice Moscovitch may
have been no great shakes as an actor,
but he had to his credit one remarkable
performance. He had arrived in London to
play at a Yiddish theatre, and an entrepre-
neur offered him terms to play Shylock
in “The Merchant of Venice.” Mosco
could not speak English, but he memor-
ised the words, and in little over a week
gave a performance
that made a hit. He
knew the purport of the
words, for he had
played Shylock often in
Yiddish—Jews have a
strange liking for “The
Merchant.”
* *
“The Nark”: A
flapper journal in
Sydney is responsible
for the publication of as
sickening a piece of
work as has ever fallen
to the lot of a reporter.
It concerned the re-
action of a child of 16
who had married a
youth of the same age
found guilty of a capi-
tal offence on a younger
girl. At the first trial
the youth was let loose
in the care of his wife’s
parents for a probation
of four years, but the
Crown appealed suc-
cessfully and he went in for life. Out
came the paper with a long story of the
girl-wife s visit to the prisoner, line after
fine of sob-stuff liberally interlarded with
broken hearts, and such stuff as “He told
her he prays day and night, and knows
God will help him.” And the wife’s
father was permitted to say, “Our neigh-
bors all know and love the boy. They
have expressed their willingness to sign
a petition for his release.” Apparently
nobody prays for the ruffian’s victim, nor
is it likely that her parents will be asked
to sign the petition.
“Wonder what she does to the gallon?”
“C.Q.”: A member of Melbourne’s
intelligentsia was discussing Germany’s
propaganda with a writer. “Who is this
Lord Haw Haw?” he asked. “Don’t you
know?” said the other. “That’s James
Joyce.” “Oh, is it?” remarked the
author. “I’m not surprised at that. A
man who could write Ulysses would do
anything.”
* * * *
“Kingsman”: The present system of
classifying recruits for military purposes
reminds me of a yarn told by my old man,
a Boer War veteran. When the argument
with Kruger broke out he presented him-
self at Victoria Barracks, and, with many
other volunteers, was put through the
medical test. Then the recruits were
taken out into the yard and divided into
three groups, A, B and C. The As were
jubilant, the Bs hopeful and the Cs. de-
spondent. A sarn-major appeared and"
with a volley of commands marched the
As out into St. Kilda-road. Off for their
uniforms, they thought. With the S.M.
bellowing at their heels they marched like
Guardsmen, not game to move their eyes
a degree off straightahead. Approaching
Prince’s Bridge, it dawned on the platoon
that the S.M. was strangely silent. Some
courageous soul peeped around cautiously
and made the alarming discovery that the
S.M. had vanished! They stopped in
the middle of the bridge to discuss the
mystery. “What the devil are we going
to do now?” asked one perplexed volun-
teer. “Aw, chuck yerselves in the Yarra!”
came a voice from the crowd which had
quickly gathered. They didn’t take the
advice, but, realising that their services
had been tactfully refused, they slowly
dispersed to their several homes. Pa was
placed among the Cs, and before long
was on a ship bound for S. Africa. What
happened to the Bs he never found out.
“El V.”: One thing which these
Germans will have to reckon with if
they enjoy their promised landing in Eng-
land is the curious faculty of the people
for discipline. I was there in the 1926
strike, and if any other country has any-
thing to match the way in which orders
were then obeyed I have yet to see it.
“Business as usual” meant business as
usual. Car-owners were ordered to halt for
pedestrians going their way —next morn-
ing every car had a destination sign, and
the grubbiest laborer stopped Rolls-
Royces as if he owned them. Even Com
munists fell into line. They organised
a procession near Paddington station,
with a band and a banner which said:
“The Revolution is here.” It was —till
they met a traffic sergeant. He held them
up with one hand and kept them held up
while he let the Edgware-road traffic
through as fast as it liked to travel. It
was enough to make even the Revolution
laugh, but the Revolution never laughs.
Did anyone ever hear a Com. crack a
joke?
* * * *
“V.C.”: Many a house in Australia
has been called after some racehorse or
other. I envy the win that must have be-
fallen the man who not only has named
a house in the Sydney suburb of Waver-
ley Redleap but has put beneath the
name a bas-relief of a steeplechaser going
over the battens.
“ Mafekin's bin relieved , sir!”
“S.W.K.”: For centuries the muddle-
headed English looked upon Shakspeare
as a plain Englishman who just wrote
matchless comedies and tragedies in
blank verse. An Italian professor showed
them what he really was —a dangerous
doctrinaire and possibly a Fifth Columnist
—when last year he disclosed to the Ger-
man Shakspearean Society that William
was the “original Fascist, with Machi-
avelli as a favorite source of information.”
Juliet did not take poison but was given
a quart of castor-oil for failing to shout
“Viva!” to the then
dictator when he
passed her balcony,
and the creation of
Shylock showed the
forthright anti-Semitic
trend of the Bard. This
year, at the same body’s
meeting at Weimar,
Prof. Wolfgang Keller
slammed Adolf’s wop
friends in the eye by
giving the glad tidings
that William was “the
first Nazi,” a product
of “the authoritatively-
governed England off
the Germanic Tudors.”
Unquestionably it was
not “hell!” but “heil!”
that the poet uttered as
he raised his hand de-
spairingly when one of
his own productions at
the Globe wasn’t going
to his liking; and that
he wrote “Othello” to
demonstrate the racial
inferiority of the Moors
proved what a good
Teutonic Aryan he was.
I now confidently await
a claim from Gahd’s
Own Country that Bill was the first
glamor star, and that he prophetically
had the future fillum cahlony in mind
when he touched on King Harry’s matri-
monial pluralities.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: lam sure that Ted Scor-
field would be the last man willingly
to involve a nice-looking hospital nurse
in trouble with the matron. If it really
was the girl’s own mistake he ought to
tell her at the first opportunity that pulses
are taken with the first three fingers, not
with the thumb as she was doing in B.
17/6/’4O for the shattered gentleman who
wanted to know what time she made him.
Also, in their relative positions she would
find it better to use her left hand, steady-
ing her thumb against the back of his
wrist, thus enabling pulse-volume and
artery-tension to be judged as well as
frequency. There seems to be trouble
ahead for the lass, anyhow, as she has
forgotten to put up a new temperature
chart.
* * * #
“The Nark”: I had been wondering
whether La Tabouis had been captured or
had sold out and gone up the bush, but I
might have known better. Disguising
herself as a pretzel or something she got
through the enemy lines and was under
the Fiihrer’s table when “on June 4 he told
his closest diplomatic friends that attacks
against Russia would -begin early in
August, and he forecast that the Baltic
States and the Ukraine would fall by
August 15 after attacks by France’s divi-
sions, marching behind German tanks.”
She also learnt that Hitler sees a “Deutsch
Europa” by the end of 1940, after which
he expects a great struggle for existence
against vast attacks by America.
Evidently, from Madame but little is
hid, and that little not for long.
% % * %
“J.H.M.A.”: Before anyone else explains
how ignorant I am, I’d like to allude
to a story (B. 19/6/’4O) in which I made
a disgusting mistake. The yarn was
called “The Overseer,” and mentions that
“between the prison farm down on the
flat beside the right bank of the Nepean
River and the big stockade near the foot
of the pass Mr. Costello was Lord High
Slavedriver ” Although there is a
prison farm to-day on the right bank of
the river, the original one referred to
was on the left side of the stream, its
stockade standing where the little stone
Anglican church at Emu Plains is sur-
rounded by its churchyard on a small hill
close to the foot of the Blue Mountains.
(David McKee Wright, the poet, is
buried here.) The mistake occurred
through a constitutional inability on the
writer’s part to set down on paper any
but the opposite points of the compass
to those he seeks to indicate —just as he
nearly always writes “port” when he
means “starboard.” Much anxious
searching of copy for such errors is
always his lot when he finishes a yarn,
but sometimes the obsession beats him.
Do other people suffer from similar
sillinesses?
TWO REQUISITES.
“Retired farmer desires to meet jovial, slim lady.”
—Sydney view mat. ad.
He doesn’t stipulate for those potential
Charms that conduce to matrimonial thralls
So frequently regarded as essential
By blokes who frame these plaintive mating-
calls.
He isn’t “choosy” touching her complexion
Or age, or whether she be dark or blonde
On whom he’d lavish conjugal affection;
His preferences don’t extend beyond
Lightness of heart and slenderness of limb.
She only heed be jovial and slim.
Dulce ridentem Lalagen amabit —
It’s sound Horatian philosophy,
Though one might hesitate to bet a trey-bit
This swain has ever heard of Lalage.
But incontestably the wife he’s after
And, for his simple brevity, deserves
Should have a fine capacity for laughter
And none too generous a whack of curves.
Over her other points he’ll lightly skim
Provided she’s jovial and slim.
I somehow picture him as stout and jolly,
This tiller of the soil who can’t abide
The thought of even gentle melancholy
Or lack of boist’rous humor in a bride.
Sitting in married blessedness together
I seem to hear their ringing peals of mirth
At either’s jests, although it’s doubtful whether
They’ll be as adequately matched in girth.
But there it is. No better half for him
Excepting one who’s jovial and slim.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


m
10 for 9d...20 for I'6
E 1869
CRAVENA
tfoull apfVteciuU tAm.
00
m
wn
-
’MADE
SPECIALLY TO P R EVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Out of the war picture for ten months,
Ireland has suddenly swung into it, being
now under the shadow of a German in-
vasion. It is forcing the South to realise
that the Royal Navy is its one shield
against invasion, and the North to see in
partition a grave military weakness. It
will be strange if German action brings
about Irish unity; stranger still if it
makes the Irish-Americans pro-British.
There is a clumsy streak in the German,
and it will be a miracle if he gets through
the war without stumbling into some vast
blunder.
Possibly feeling that it was about time
somebody noticed him, Michael Bruxner,
one of the provincial Deputy-Premiers,
rushed into print to bait Menzies about
uninterned enemy aliens. Menzies and
Hughes replied at considerable length,
whereupon Michael came again, and
several of his colleagues with him. Then
it came out that one of said colleagues
had been authorised to nominate candi-
dates for internment, and that every
alien he had named is “inside”; and
the nuisance ceased —for the moment.
So many Westralian miners have
enlisted and so many Italians from the
mines and the woodlines have been in-
terned that the goldmining interest had
to tell Menzies that if these movements
were not checked there would be a stun-
ning fall in production of the gold that
Australia needs so much. They did this
while Mair, Bruxner, Manning and other
members of the Sydney Government were
bellowing “Intern all enemy aliens! ” The
Westralian position shows how necessary
it is that internment should be decided
by the national Government with refer-
ence to national interests. Mair and the
other superfluities never look beyond
their own bailiwick.
In a fraction of the space devoted to
Mair’s fulminations about enemy aliens,
N.S.W. taxpayers, who were bled for
another £4,000,000 last year, were in-
formed that the twelvemonth had closed
with another whopping 1055—£2,213,000.
They were told also in a headline that
“Mr. Mair” was “Pleased.” Pleased!
Mr. Lawson leased a horse and Mr.
Lawson lost his job. Now bounty-fed
manufacture of cars is not to begin till
after the war.
While South African airmen are bomb-
ing military objectives in the Italian colo-
nies from a base in Kenya, Hertzog and
Malan are emulating the hands-uppers
whom they denounced so bitterly 38
years ago. Hertzog’s cry is that Smuts
is “prepared to make our country a heap
of ruins on which the nations of Europe
may fight out quarrels with which we
have nothing to do.” So he and his
friends must be “prepared” to give south-
west Africa back to the Germans and
to do without the protection of the
Biitish Navy! Without that protection
the Union wouldn’t last long.
At a meeting in Sydney the Federated
Taxpayers adopted resolutions demand-
ing that the State Governments, as their
contribution to the war effort, should cut
their “prodigal expenditure,” recast their
“swollen budgets” and exempt soldiers’
pay and the estates of dead soldiers from
taxation, the last injunction being ad-
dressed to the N.S.W. excrescence. Good
on the Federated Taxpayers! But while
they were thus engaged the “Parliament”
at Sydney was in the full enjoyment of
another long loaf, and several members of
the encumbrance were thinking out an-
other heap of advice —on the subject of
“enemy aliens” this time —for the Gov-
ernment prosecuting the war.
The Federated Taxpayers are out for
the “no profit, no tax” principle in im-
posing Federal land tax. What maddens
most landowners is that they have to
suffer two valuers, State and Federal, and
that the Federal valuation is mostly
higher than the State.
Cameron, opposing the A.L.P. sugges-
tion for a National War Council:
The present Federal system, which gives
complete powers in regard to war measures
to the Commonwealth Government, and
leaves that open to the daily advice of
six State Governments, is jridiculous
enough.
There are times when the ridiculous
borders on tragedy, and this is one of
them.
Mr. R. W. G. Mackay’s flying trip
to Australia from the England which he
has made his home, and which contrived
to spare him when “the position had be-
come very grave” (“invasion is certain”),
has not been altogether successful. As
“This is a help-yourself joint, I take it, comrades. Anyway, I take that.”
a lawyer who dabbles in Labor politics
A.B.C. naturally presented him as an
authority on the military situation. He
breezed along harmlessly for a few
minutes ; then, with dramatic emphasis,
he said “England will never defeat Ger-
many.” At the finish of his turn he
had to come back to the microphone
and explain that he meant to say Ger-
many would never defeat England. A
night or two later he spoke in a Sydney
hall on the crying necessity for a Federal
union of Britain, France and Germany.
A report says he was heckled most of
the time.
Foghorn Smith, of Queensland, is
nothing if not forthright. Commenting
on a proposed Centre party, with him-
self as leader, he charged the Menzies
Government with having no intention of
forming a national Government.
The Theodore incident first attracted
public attention to this. The putting for-
ward of Mr. Theodore’s name was either a
political trick or a gratuitous insult to
every Premier in Australia.
Most of the Premiers appeared to be in-
sulted because Australia wouldn’t have
Theodore at any price. F. Smith himself
wasn’t as vigorous as he might have been
in disowning the proposal.
One of the three “As” who opposed
the Emergency Powers Bill in the Senate,
Senator Amour, was called upon to ex-
plain his absence from another elective
body when a vitally important matter
was being discussed. The body: Banks-
town (Sydney) Council. The matter: Its
sanitary service. Before the Senator could
finish his reply the Mayor ruled the ques-
tions out of order. Presumably the Sena-
tor may now go when Canberra calls,
though Bankstown Council be sitting.
Sydney “Telegraph” looks
scenes of French politics” and finds “the
reason for the surrender.”
Politically France has been disunited for
a decade. A facade of political unity was
erected by Daladier, but Nazi sympathisers
like Flandin and appeasers like Laval were
always in the background These men
helped to destroy Reynaud; and they have
—for the time being—destroyed France.
No mention of the rabble of Com-
munists who white-anted the prepared-
ness programme, issued treasonable
propaganda against the war and had their
cells in aircraft factories all along. “We
were one to six in the air,” moaned
Petain ; and that was Communism’s foul
work. But the “new” “Telegraph” has
always been indulgent to Corns.
Though Australia had elections as
usual during the Great War, many poli-
ticians are keen on abandoning them for
the duration of the present struggle. In
the case of Commonwealth politicians it
would mean asking the Parliament at
Westminster to sanction an amendment
of the Constitution Act, and, with Britain
otherwise engaged, that would look un-
utterably cheap. Still some of the gentle-
men at Canberra set so high a value on
their services to the nation that they con-
sider it no objection.
An advertisement “kept standing” in
London papers:
Come to Jersey! The Safest Place in
the World!
The safety vanished for an indefinite
period when the enemy reached Cher-
bourg. From that port any of the
Channel Islands can be reached in a
small dinghy, and a few minutes sufficed
for the Germans who barbarously
bombed the islands, Rich men, Aus-
tralians among them, used to go to Jersey
to escape the income-tax gentry. The for-
tunes of war have grimly avenged those
inquisitors.
Three Labor men got in at the Vic-
torian Legislative Council elections.
Two, Paul Jones (Doutta Galla) and
Kennelly (Melbourne West), were re-
elected, and in Melbourne North Fraser
ousted Kiernan, who used to be Labor
but stood as an Independent. All three
professed to be unificationists. State
Labor members never do anything to
promote unification, but they are apt to
be very eloquent on the subject when
elections are safely past.
The Workers’ Paradise is to abolish
the Sunday holiday and increase hours.
This, says the All-Union Central Council
of Trade Unions,
will give the country hundreds of thou-
sands of tons more oil, coal, ore, metal,
new tools, guns, ’planes, tanks and other
machines.
And “speeding-up” was thought to be a
capitalistic device!
Manchester “Guardian” examines the
position:
Our kinsfolk from the Dominions fight
with us. Mr. Churchill might well consider
whether the Dominions, as in the last war,
should not be invited into the Govern-
ment.
“Might well consider,” indeed! No time
should be lost in forming an Empire
Cabinet, seeing that it’s now the Empire
versus The Rest.
From Tennyson, the poet who nearly
a hundred years ago had a vision of
“the nations’ airy navies grappling in the
central blue”:
God bless the narrow sea which keeps her
off,
And keeps our Britain, whole within herself,
A nation yet, the rulers and the ruled.
God bless the narrow seas!
I wish they were a whole Atlantic broad.
“Her” was France —France, where, when
“comes a sudden heat, the gravest citi-
zen seems to lose his head.... the
soldier will not fight.” Now with
France once more in that condi-
tion, and a deadlier enemy looking
across the narrow seas, millions of
honest people are prayerfully re-
peating the old lines.
Perhaps because they are all
hanging round Hitler these days,
Famous American Correspondents
who did so much sooling before
September, 1939, and piled up such
mountains of misinformation have
not been heard from on the subject
of the French collapse and humilia-
tion, but a new breed, not yet
Famous, has shot up. Its tale is
that France was undone and signed
into perfidy by Fascists. Nothing
about the Popular Front, which was
Hitler’s best bet in France, or the
Communists who bolted from the
army and dry-rotted it with de-
featist propaganda, after white-
anting the production of machines
and munitions. And nothing about
the separate-peace precedent set for
the “Fascists” by Lenin and Trot-
sky at Brest-Litovsk. That betrayal,
as infamous as the Petain-Lebrun copy,
led to the slaughter or permanent maim-
ing of at least half a million French,
British, Australian, Maoriland and
Dominion soldiers.
“Copy Boy,” his version:
It looks as though the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment will have to compensate the 40-odd
journalists engaged by the stillborn “Daily
Mirror” in Sydney, which was promised and
then refused a newsprint import license. The
promise should never have been made, but
it was revoked in circumstances which showed
the Government in a very clumsy light.
Acquisition of the “Daily News” by the
Packer-Theodore group has put another 30-odd
journalists out of work, apart from mechanical-
staff men. The “D.N.” had had a hard enough
struggle amongst N. S. Wales’s mixed Labor
politics; then Communism patronised it, and
it suffered the fate of all organisations which
become infected with that blight.
Returning to the subject of Gandhi:
The Marquis of Linlithgow summoned
Gandhi to the Viceroy’s house to discuss with
him his policy of non-violence towards Ger-
many. Gandhi’s views on the subject have
appeared in his own books, in dozens of books
that have been written about him, in the thou-
sands of articles and letters he has written and
are exemplified in his own life as an individual.
Every English newspaper editor in India, when
he sets out to criticise Gandhi’s latest political
pronouncement, has to start off from Gandhi’s
own premise, for all his arguments hinge on
the belief that violence can only be defeated
by non-violence, that force begets force and
that, if your own house is burnt down and you
burn the house of your aggressor, all you have
done is to make the world the poorer by two
houses. Now he has to prove how it will
work out in the case of Hitler. There should
be a few vice-regal headaches.


SC R AP.
Win the War with Waste’ is the slogan of a committee to be formed by N.S.W. Premier Mair.”


Midget Scoop.
BAKER’S MIDGET SCOOP
for Calves up to six
months old, 15/-
Postage 1/ -
‘>o'J —Compound Note and
Slit,, 47/-
,INO. BAKER'S HAVK
THE LARGEST VARIETY
OF EARMABKEHS IN
AUSTRALIA!
We specialise in COM-
POUND EARMARKERS
(two Marks on the one
handle). Your old Ear-
inarker can be reforged
and sharpened. Prices:
Sheep from 9/3 (postage
9d.)j Cattle from 16/-
(postage 1/- extra).
STATION STEELWARE
AT
THE HOUSE
OF STEEL
©
305-
Centre
Small
Round
Hole,
23/9.
A
20—
Quarter-
penny,
17/6.
201 —Double Fork, 51/-
W. JNO. BAKER
te.'JNOt BAKER
iwiOTE»»«:*!!!!S
lliijlmJwlmlhl'
BAKER’S TRIPLE CRUSH EMASCU-
LATOR. A well made,, first-class, mckel-
pla ted instrument, combining the blunt
cut and the crushing block._ Its sim-
plicity and thorough effectiveness in
operating commend it to both the
novice and expert. Price, 55/-
PTY., 3 HUNTER ST.,
LTD., SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Queensland Government has raised
Neal Macrossan, younger brother of the
late Chief Justice, to the Supreme Court
Bench, and named Justice Webb C.J.
Both are native-born Queenslanders.
William Flood Webb is 53. He was
Crown Solicitor at 30 and President of
the Arbitration Court at 38 ; and he must
be the first industrial Judge to become
C.J.
Wendell Willkie, Republican candidate
for the Presidency, is head of a big
utilities holding concern with assets said
to reach £76,000,000. Willkie was com-
paratively unknown until he “bucked”
New Deal legislation in the public-
utilities field with trenchant words and
plenty of them. He is 48. In the ballots,
Robert Taft, son of a former President,
was eliminated early, and at the final
ballots Willkie easily defeated Thomas E.
Dewey, the New York Attorney-General
famed for “racket-busting,” but a very
much overboomed person according to
Australians who have met him.
A Melbourne man reported missing
in France is Capt. Jim Styles, of the
Royal Field Artillery. A Melbourne
Grammar boy, he worked his passage to
England and got a factory managership.
On. a visit to Melbourne late last year,
he flew back to London and went to
France with the B.E.F. in January.
Justice Francis Stewart Boyce, dead in
Sydney at 68, had been a Judge of the
N. S. Wales Supreme Court, in Divorce,
for eight years, and was a very human,
sometimes humorous, Judge. Born at
Pepper’s Creek (N.S.W.) and educated at
The King’s School, Parramatta, Sydney
Grammar and Rugby (Eng.), he was a
law graduate of Sydney Uni. In 1923 he
was named M.L.C. He took silk in 1924,
and in the same year became an honorary
Minister in the Carruthers Government.
JUSTICE BOYCE.
From 1927 to 1930 he was Attorney-
General to T. R. Bavin, who afterwards
joined him on the Bench. A son of the
vicarage—his father was Archdeacon
Boyce —he was prominent in Anglican
affairs ; Chancellor of the Diocese of
Grafton and Advocate to the Diocese of
Sydney. He had held Grand Lodge
offices as a Freemason, and was chair-
man for a while of Barker College,
Hornsby, founded largely through his
efforts. In his youth he
represented Sydney Uni.
at football; in later
life found recreation in
golf and bowls.
Charles Ruwolt,
member of the Vic.
board of the new cen-
tral munitions control,
owns the acres of rooms
at Richmond which
grew from tiny begin-
nings to be the engi-
neering firm of Ruwolts,
Ltd. The co. makes a
lot of the important
mining and other
machinery of Australia,
and has bridged with
steel many Australian
rivers. Born 66 years
ago at Mount Gambier,
S.A., Charles Ruwolt
learnt engineering with
Martin, of Gawler,
S.A., where the first
locomotives were made
in Australia. He has
literary interests and
was a friend of Edmund
Fisher, for 35 years
The Bulletin’s critic
in Melbourne.
James Cornell, the
Westralian Leg. Coun-
cil’s Chairman of Corn-
mittees, was in Sydney last week with a
new partner, long a sister in Perth Hos-
pital. Like “Jimmy,” Mrs. Cornell went
to the West from N.S.W.—she was born
at Campbelltown, a biscuit-throw from
where Fisher’s Ghost is alleged to have
walked. Her lord looks young enough to
go to another war, and go he would if the
quacks would let him. But they have
ways of finding out the real ages of
legislators like the friend of Haig and
Hughes.
“Pigge”: Reference (B. 12/6/’4O) to
W. H. D. Stewart, retiring B.H.P. acr
countant, will remind Adelaide folk that
their city also has a W. H. D. Stewart,
prominent in business but no relation of
the one at the Hill. The Adelaide
Stewart is a director of John Martin’s
store and can claim that his grand-
father, father, self and son have all
served in the same battalion. This is
the 10th Battalion (formerly Adelaide
Rifles), which had its genesis in 1860.
The son is with the colors now ; and the
father, who was in the 1914-18 war, is
deputy-director of quartering under the
State civil defence scheme,
Herbert Royse Lysaght, of Sydney,
dead at 79, was head of the Lysaght iron
and steel manufacturing enterprises in
Australia and played a notable part in
the development of steel manufacture in
this country. He was born in Ireland and
educated in England. During the 1914-18
war he did valuable service as a member
of the executive of the Australian Com-
forts Fund. In addition to his Lysaght
interests he was on the board of B.H.P.
and Australian Iron and Steel, and was
also a director of Anthony Hordern and
of Royal Insurance. He was married and
had one son.
A bit of Paris not under German con-
trol got into Australian hands the other
day when Archbishop Mannix bought
Max Meldrum’s landscape, “Pont a’
Archeveche,” from that painter’s exhibi-
tion at the new Velasquez Galleries in
Melbourne. One of Meldrum’s finest
portraits is that of Dr. Mannix; it hangs
in the episcopal palace.
The tall, lean, athletic figure of Lieut.-
General Vernon Sturdee, D. 5.0., will
shortly be missing from H.Q. of the
Eastern Command, when he leaves to
take over the Bth Division, A.1.F., with
the rank of Major-General. He has a
tradition of service in the family for at
least three generations —his grandfather
MAJOR-GENERAL STURDEE.
(Modelled by Frith.)
was an R.N. captain, and he and his
father, Colonel A. H. Sturdee, a medico
and a S. African veteran, served in the
Great War. The father was mentioned in
dispatches three times in the last scrap
and won the D.S.O. The younger Sturdee
was commissioned in the Engineers in
1908, served on Gallipoli and in Egypt,
France and Germany, went to the
Quetta Staff College, passed through
the Imperial Defence College, was for a
time military representative of the Com-
monwealth in the High Commissioner’s
Office and later Director of Military
Operations and Intelligence. He is 50,
a keen organiser, and his record in the
last war proved him to be a fighting
soldier of more than ordinary tonnage.
Adelaide-born Leighton Irwin, who
has the architectural side of the job of
building a £630,000 military hospital at
Heidelberg, eight miles from Melbourne,
was a lieutenant in the A.I.F. in the last
war. After the Armistice he worked in
architects’ offices in London, and the
Government sent him on an investigation
of slum re-housing prospects in Scotland
and England. He came back to a private
practice in Melbourne. Aided by the
Rockefeller Foundation and the Vic. Nat.
Gallery, he went to America and Europe
to study advanced hospital and gallery
construction in 1930. He is a past presi-
dent of the Vic. Institute of Architects
and vice-president of the Working Men’s
College.
Dead in Perth, at 72, Norman Thomas
Mortimer Wilsmore, former professor of
chemistry at Perth Uni. Born at Williams-
town (Vic.), he was educated at the
Melbourne Uni., where he collected his
D.Sc., and at Gottingen and University
College, London. For a time he was first
assistant at the Department of Electro-
Chemistry at the Federal Polytechnic,
Zurich, passing from there to the position
of assistant professor at University Col-
lege, London. He received his appoint-
ment at Perth in 1913, retiring in 1937.
Wilsmore published many papers. His
discovery of Ketene —then a new type of
organic compound—was of special inter-
est to chemists. During the 1914-18 war
he was attached to the Explosives Supply
Department in London. He was president
of the Australian Chemical Institute in
1937-38.
The Miles family, of Hobart (Tas.),
must be amongst Australia’s longest
livers. The maternal head of the clan
died at just three years over the hundred.
One of her sons is Alfred Miles, of Syd-
ney, who is nearing the 102nd milestone.
His brother, Captain Edward Miles, at
91, is Australia’s oldest shipmaster. He
got his master’s ticket at 24, and after
giving up the sea started a shipping co.
in Hobart with his father-in-law, the
Mayor, as partner. Captain Miles was
for some time a member of the Speck’s
House of Assembly and Minister for
Lands, Works and Railways. He lives
now at Ringwood (Vic.).
One of Bendigo’s best-liked mining-
men, Alfred Moore, passed over last week
in Melbourne. The son of a pioneer
Bendigonian, he went through Melbourne
Uni. to a job with B.H.P. Then
Edward Dyason took him over as sur-
veyor for the Bendigo Amalgamated
O.M. Co. But it was as a private prac-
titioner that he is best remembered. It was
he who sank a 600 ft. shaft on Central
Nell Gwynne, which stopped for lack of
funds 200 ft. short of its objective. The
people who took his advice and main-
tained their faith in the mine had no
cause to regret it a quarter of a century
later. He gave to the mining world the
idea of the “square-set” system of
timbering.
Robert Christian Wilson, the new
President of the N. S. Wales Employers’
Federation, steers the destinies of Grazcos
(Graziers’ Co-op. Shearing Co.) in Syd-
ney. He was born in Mudgee in 1896,
and knows all about life on the farm.
He did his bit with the first A.1.F., and
then took up a soldier’s block at Merriwa,
but after two years joined Grazcos. He
R. C. WILSON.
married a Boston girl and has two chil-
dren. Gardening and tennis are his re-
laxations.
H. A. Alderson, just dead in Adelaide,
was a vet. widely known, treating Sol
Green’s racehorses in Melbourne as weh
as local ones. Showing friends in his
laboratory a humane killer for animals,
he explained that “It works this way,”
pressed the lever while it was against his
own head—and fell dead at their feet.
A son is studying veterinary science in
Queensland.


Here’s
Winter Health
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
contains medicinal
properties found in
no other spirit
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the ideal winter health
drink! As a preventative of colds and ’flu,
and as a diuretic to tone, cleanse and
strengthen the system, it has no equal...
while, at the same time, it is a pleasing
beverage, distinctive in flavour and aroma.
Always keep a bottle of Wolfe’s Schnapps
in the home. As well as a general tonic, it
is a safe, pure stimulant for emergencies.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
is obtainable
in large , half
and quarter
size bottles
at all hotels.
OLFE
HOLLAND
DUCT
ALCOHOLIC
I «i*ur»djty
v3m*r*a
~ —=-v_ Roma
sfii»l««wy »t l»M»
s^WitMftn.l
\Ws
m
m
E
*
ii l
r
S
ma
i v
/
£ .■■!
2u.
Pi 1 .
*E£P OUT
IS® 3 «*
AJVD c MLLS !
HRINK
WOLFE’S
Sc hnapps I
WOL
SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
MAKE YOUR MONEY FIGHT-BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES I


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: Dad, working with the new
hand down near the road, saw Hungry
Murphy, in a jinker with a horse behind,
top the rise half a mile away. Dad
cursed heartily, to the hand’s surprise.
“It’s that damned pest cornin’ down the
hill,” Dad explained, indicating Murphy ;
“he’s the biggest cadger f’r miles around.
He’s cornin’ here f’r something, I’ll bet.
Well, he won’t get it this time. I wanter
go to the township, so I’ll hook it now.
If he wants to borrer anything just tell
him y’ can’t let him have it without
seein’ me first. An’ jest watch yer step
with him; he’s a smoogy coot and tries
ter talk yer over.” The hand expressed
his ability to deal with the situation, and
Dad dodged off stealthily. A couple of
hours later he was back. “Well,” he said
to the hand, “how did yer get on with
Murphy? Talk yer inter lendin’ him
something?” The hand grinned. “No,”
he said, “he didn’t try. I showed him at
once I was on to him. Instead of gettin’
something outer me, I got something
outer him.” Dad’s whiskers bristled.
“Go on,” he said ominously, “did yer?
What?” “Well,” said the hand, “after
what yer tole me I got in first. I tole him
there wasn’t anything f’r him here to
take away. He grinned an’ sed he didn’t
wanter take anything away, he was givin’
yer something of his to have f’r a while
—that horse he was leadin’. It’s sick, an’
he knew yer wouldn’t mind him leavin’
it in yer clover paddock for a- week or
two. It’s there now!”
* * * *
“Swanlo”: Those fish off the Speck’s
n.-w. coast feasting on flour and currants
from a wreck (B. 5/6/’4O) are merely
displaying a catholic taste in provender
common to most of the finny tribe.
Around Fremantle Harbor during the
wheat season one often hooks trumpeter
chock-full of swollen grain spilled from
loading operations on the wharves ; and
a pellet of sweetened dough will often
tempt members of the bream family.
Nor does boiled mutton and pollard
often fail with skipjack —otherwise
trevally. And, of course, pollard is the
commonest of burley. But the oddest
thing I ever struck along this line was
a crustacean taste for grapes. Lunch-
ing one day on a western breakwater I
kept throwing skins and stems down on
to a flat rock just above water level.
Before long a dozen or so red rock crabs
were out whacking into what must have
been absolutely alien food with the
greatest gusto.
* * * *
“Terrinjal”: That elephant routed by
a fox terrier (B. 12/6/ ’4O) only displayed
the fear all elephants have of small
animals which run about their feet. This
is engendered by a hereditary fear of
wild pigs. Big tuskers in the wilds will
never face a boar or sow, and squeakers
running amongst them will stampede a
whole herd.
“She’s barmy about animals .”
“L.J.M.”: Mechanical aids to simple
rural jobs aren’t always an unqualified
success. One man in our Victorian dis-
trict was taking the family cow to a pad-
dock about half a mile from his home,
and to save his legs he rode his push-
bike. The day was hot and steamy and
Pansy was flicking her tail about to keep
the flies off. She was closely followed by
the cyclist, until in one of the swishings the
bushy tuft of her tail became entangled in
the spokes. The grid-pusher immediately
performed an ungraceful parabola, and
saved his hands from injury by landing
on his moosh in the road. The cow and
bike departed at the double, and when
the cow conductor overtook his charge
there were fully three spokes left.
sK * * *
“Colbun”: Every Australian country-
dweller knows what a good tennis court
can be made from ant-bed, but that
doesn’t cover all the value to man of
the palatial castles of industrious ter-
mites. For shed floors, fireplaces, pug
walls, garden paths and similar uses it
cannot be bettered by any concrete when
properly broken, wetted and rammed or
rolled. In ruts and boggy patches in
roads it sets like stone, and, unlike gravel
or crushed stone, is not thrown out by
motor wheels.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Lanky Somers was an
alert sort of bird, who sometimes made
himself a bit of a pest. He’d overhear
strangers arguing and butt in with his
version, tell you that wasn’t the right
way to saddle a horse and so forth. Wan-
dering into a N.S.W. North Coast town,
he encountered a signwriter announcing
a local event thus: “A WOOD-CHOP-
ING CONTEST WILL BE HELD”
“Hey,” called Lank, “that ain’t the way
t’ spell wood-chopping.” “No?” sneered
the painter. “It’s got two pees,” said
Lank, assertively. The painter came
down his ladder, cleaned his hands, lit
his pipe and said, “Bet y’ two drinks it
ain’t.” “Gripes,” marvelled Lanky,
“That’ll do me.” They adjourned to the
bar of the publican who was promoting
the wood-chop, and the painter asked for
the right manner to spell the word. The
publican seemed a little doubtful, but
got out “w-o-o-d-c-h-o-p-i-n-g.” “There
y’ are,” said the painter triumphantly.
“Well, strike me fat! ” said the astonished
Lanky, “an’ here’s me bin spellin’ it with
two pees for years.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: It was obviously an
affair of honor. The punches thudded
home like battering-rams, but neither
man gave or expected mercy. Suddenly
a bystander slipped between the com-
batants, stopped a couple of punches in
the process but succeeded in parting
them. Separated, the bloodstained con-
testants glared at each other like a pair
of bulls. “Well,” grated one, “you got
’er in it; are yer goin’ to do the decent
thing and get ’er out?” “I’ll see you in
’ell first!” flung back the other; and the
fight was on again. For 20 minutes the
battle raged before a battered figure
reeled out of a clinch and collapsed to
his knees. Nearly as battered, the victor
stood panting for breath. “Well, will
yer now?” he demanded, when he could
speak. “Orright,” capitulated the fallen
gladiator ; then, with sudden vehemence:
“But next time yer blasted cow gets into
our lucerne paddock I won’t pound her
at all—l’ll just shoot her and feed the
pigs on her!”
* * * #
“Lespy”: “I’m puttin’ slates on the
roof of a shed up in the mountains one
time,” said old Ben the handyman,
“when down comes one o’ them moun-
tain mists. It’s that thick I can’t see the
ground. Any’ow, I keeps workin’, an’
when I get down I find I’ve put the slates
five feet over the end o’ the shed. Yair,
I’d nailed it onter the fog. Yer could
see the nails stickin’ through!”
* * * *
“Dungeness”: One good result of the
collection of firearms from alien resi-
dents of N.Q. will be that the local fauna
will get a chance to restore its natural
balance. For a generation past any bird
which has been so careless or reckless as
to come within sight or earshot of an
Italian farm has found its way to the
cooking-pot. From weebills to butcher-
birds, thrushes to our old friend Jacky
the Ha-ha Pigeon, nothing came amiss.
Even cormorants, skinned, buried for a
day and parboiled, were converted into
chookie. Curiously, the really flavor-
some and delicate flesh of the flying-fox
when properly skinned and prepared
never came into favor, although it tastes
better than that of any bird. Which is
not to be wondered at, seeing that the
satanic-looking marauder lives on the best
of fruit, flowers and honey.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Having read a lot of
South Sea fiction the city sport was look-
ing forward eagerly to a feed of turtle
eggs, so the cook boiled half a dozen.
“Ugh! ” the c.s. snorted as he sawed
through the parchmentlike shell; “you
haven’t boiled them enough ; the white
isn’t set.” So the bab gave them a full
quarter of an hour. But though the
yolks had taken on the solidity of
rubber the whites were still fluid.
“Wouldn’t get hard if you boiled them
for a week,” said the cook. “Try them
fried.” Hot fat does crisp-up the white
and make it more appetising. But the
abo. scorns such frills and likes to take
his turtle fruit straight, cracking the shell
with his teeth. Spherical and about an
inch and a half in diameter, the eggs fit
easily into the abo. mouth. And the
supply invariably is good. Lady turtle
is a great layer once she gets down to the
job—l2o to 150 is the average batch, and
she drops them at the rate of three and
four per minute. Thirty minutes thus
covers the laying. But she doesn’t hurry
matters; in fact, she makes a social
occasion of it. Along with hundreds of
her sex she noses around the beach,
examining the sand, scratching trial holes
and frequently moving on, only placing
her precious batch when completely satis-
fied. She thus spends hours ashore,
seeking the briny again only towards
dawn. An advanced female, for hubby
never gets ashore. You’ll find him out
beyond the breakers, waiting, and know
him by his foot-long tail.
$
“Vet Sci”: The assertion that a
mongrel might be as good as a pure-
bred dog (B. 19/6/’4O), even when it
comes to working sheep, has something
to be said for it. Heritability of mental
attributes follows a course different from
that forming bodily characteristics. In-
breeding contributes no-
thing new to a strain,
but tends to accentua-
tion of physical char-
acters, also mental de-
fec t s. Out-breeding
(such as occurs in the
production of mongrel
types) would fail obvi-
ously to produce ap-
proved physical types,
but the mental make-up
of a mongrel litter
should be all right,
unless, of course, both
sire and dam were
mental recessives. As
a fact, the mongrel is
usually forward in both
intelligence and pluck,
and, though many
doubtful crossings have
made the average Eng-
lish sheep-farmer’s dog
a distressing object
from the show point of
view, there is nothing
to beat this crossbred
sheep dog in dealing
with a flock of sheep.
“Colonel Bungstarter”: “Pick” (B.
19/6/’4O) is a poor naturalist if he
imagines that only squads of eagles and
companies of crows follow a wander-
ing echidna in its perilous travels from
home. Up here in the Da-mnli-ah coun-
try the poor little brutes can’t stick a
nose out of a burrow without getting it
donged by a watching cassowary. /Eons
of experience have taught them to exca-
vate a tunnel to the rear of the huge
bird while the cassowary is picking the
spikes out of its feet. As the echidna
makes off to safety it will probably be
spotted by the great flocks of birds of
paradise. They try to trip it up with their
plumes until the whistling eagles, which
always join them in the chase, can whistle
up reinforcements. When these are on
the way the pelicans join in. They have
twice the holding capacity of the ordi-
nary southern “all-its-belly-can” sort, and
are specially lined with bone to prevent
the spikes from giving them dyspepsia.
Parrots join the pelicans, warning all
stations that here is an unnatural wing-
less creature which must be exterminated
in the best bird interest, because it lays
eggs and cannot show even a vestigial
wing. Whenever I see a string of birds
more than 10 miles long I know at once
that some poor little lOin. porcupine is
in peril. But why in blazes does all that
lot of birds risk a real meal for what
means nothing to them collectively?
Class-consciousness is the reason, as with
“P.’s” crows and eagles, and what else
does one expect amongst the lower
animals?
* * * *
“Beta”: Away with those theorists
who aver that the mutton-bird needs a
cliff from which to “take off.” Lady
Musgrave Island, off the eastern sea-
board and the home of countless thou-
sands of the oily fliers, is nowhere more
than a few feet above high-water level.
The ground, beneath the dense pisonia-
trees is literally riddled with their burrows.
With the first pale light of dawn the
birds appear, running and pausing, until
they reach the narrow stretch of sand
near the water’s edge. Then they rise
obliquely and disappear oyer the sea like
a cloud that has melted into the atmo-
sphere.
RETIRED.
This city home is full o’ things t’ make y
live at ease;
Me daughters call it “ultra” an’ me son says it’s
“the cheese.”
It’s high above the crowded street —ten flamin’
storeys high—
In what they call a “block of flats” that reaches
to the sky.
It has these here electric things t’ keep y’
warm or cool;
They’ll cook y’ scran or wash y’ clothes an’
never need a tool.
They’ll sing y’ songs an’ tell the news an’ fill
the place with light,
But I miss the ol’ red backlog in the fireplace
at night.
Me family’s took t’ city life —they think it
mighty grand —
Y’d never think / reared ’em up, out west
there, on the land.
It’s even hard to talk to them, such foreign talk
they use,
Picked up from prancin’ niggers an’ a lot of
Yankee Jews.
Young Dave don’t answer t’ his name, it must
be “Dairvid,” see!
Says “Blow me down” f’r “Spare me days” an’
sometimes “Hully Gee!”
Me daughters ape the picture stars, they’re full
o’ blatherskite,
An’ they don’t miss the backlog in the fireplace
at night.
Y’ see, this thing that warms the room, it has
no friendly air.
It’s clean an’ bright an’ silent, with its hard,
metallic glare.
It’s got no smell of burnin’ sap, no tang of
box or gum,
Y’ can’t see castles in its coals or hear its
hollow hum.
There’s no long poker on the hob, no kettle
on the hook,
An’ if y’ tried t’ spit in it y’d get a dirty look.
The missus says it saves her work an’ makes
the place so bright,
But I miss the ol’ red backlog in the fireplace
at night.
The homestead, it was long an’ low an’ ringed
round with belars.
An’ now we’re up a hundred feet, but further
from the stars.
Perhaps me ways are set an’ old; the kids all
think I’m done.
They tell me that I’ve earned the right t’ have
a bit of fun.
Perhaps they’re right, but still, it seems a funny
life t’ me,
Ridin’ in a lift t’ bunk an’ switchin’ on y’
tea.
No wood t’ cut, no mud t’ scrape, no smoky
fire t’ fight,
An’ I miss the ol’ red backlog in the fireplace
at night.
The wireless says there’s rain out west, the
lambin’s goin’ well.
Me girls have gone out dancin’, said the party
would be “swell.”
I wonder if that fox still yaps along the stony
ridge—
I’ll bet they’re yappin’ where me wife is sittin’
down t’ bridge.
An’ “Dairvid” —well, I wouldn’t bet where that
smart youngster is,
An’ if 1 asked him I’d be told t’ try the wireless
“quiz.”
I’ve got me share of this world’s goods, I’m
sittin’ pretty right,
But I miss the ol’ red backlog in the fireplace
tonight.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Hell! It Was me last bit of canvas , too .”
“The 0.D.”: I’d seen him make camp
in the bend near me the night before and
watched him go up into the town that
morning. He came back about midday,
rolling slightly and carrying several
bottles. All but one he left by a stump,
then went and rolled his swag, which he
placed carefully against another stump.
Then he came to me and, offering the
bottle (ale), said, “Look ’ere, mate, would
y’ mind ’idin’ me swag where I can’t see
it? I’m on me way t’ a bender, an’ when
I get real bad I’m likely to reckon me
swag is me old woman. I chucked her
inter the river years ago, but she got out
an’ put the police onter me an’ I had t’
clear. Now whenever I get goin’ the
whole thing comes back. I’ve done three
good swags like that in me time, an’ it’s
gettin’ a bit ’ot. Do me a favor, mate.”
I promised, sealed the compact with the
bottle and took charge of the swag.
*
“R. Bend”: Some years ago, in a bat-
tered old utility truck containing himself,
two small boys and sundry gear, my old
trapping mate dropped into my suburban
home from the back country. His was
a sad story. His missus had died, leav-
ing him with the two kids and, though
he’d tried to care for them, it was getting
beyond him. So he’d decided to have
them put in an orphanage, and here he
was. We fed the outfit and insisted on
them staying the night. Yarning after
tea, my mate said, “What became of that
old blue dog o’ yours?” “Oh,” I said,
“I gave him t’ a bloke Moulamein way.
Y’ couldn’t bring a bush-bred dog t’ the
city, y’ know.” “That’s right,” he said.
Next morning my astonished missus in-
formed me that mate, kids and outfit had
vanished. A week later came a note
which read, in part, “And if a man
couldn’t take a bush dog to the citty I
reckon it would a dam’ sight worser be
for bush kids, so we are going back.
Reckon we’ll get along somehow.” One
of the kids turned up the other day—
in uniform.
* * * *
“Triumvir”: Wang Li camps near
mosquito-infested mangroves a few miles
from Port Hedland (W.A.). Where an
ordinary man would be drained dry he
thrives. He ascribes his immunity to
a regular and moderate use of opium.
Many other opium-smokers appear also
to be immune, I’ve noticed. The poppy
product has millions of degraded lives
on the debit side ; it may yet show a
handsome credit.
* * * *
“Swanlo”: Is it instinct or the sense
of sight? On the wide estuary where I
sometimes fish dwell many seagulls. How
they live most of the time is a mystery,
since fish, the major part of the year, is
far from plentiful. But occasionally a
school of tailer will happen along. These
voracious hunters, in chopping-up a
school of small fry, never fail to provide
the gulls with a feed. There may not
be a gull in sight within miles, but some-
how they get to know that the tailer have
arrived, and within a few minutes dozens
will be streaming to the scene of
slaughter. Are their eyes so keen that
they can detect the light flash of a tailer
breaking surface miles away? To the
troller fisherman who goes after the tailer
with a trailing bait or lure, it is an almost
certain sign of the whereabouts of a
school when gulls are circling low and
occasionally dipping to the water. At
times, though, I have been fooled into
rowing a mile or more only to discover
that the slaty-white scavengers have
merely been circling over shags which
were busy chopping up a school of
whitebait. Shags, too, display an un-
canny instinct in the same direction. I
have often seen a flock of hundreds leave
their roost on a sandbank and fly quite
three miles to where a big school of
whitebait or silversides had suddenly risen
from the deeper water.
* * * *
“Atrax”: Australia is well equipped
with a fine range of mythical animals
ranging from our old friend the bunyip
to the toothless tree-dwelling dwarfs who
reached down to grab abo. youngsters in
their suckered hands and drained them
dry of blood. Reptiles, too, from the
evil-smelling giant Mindi snake which
haunted the Murray River forests to the
Angourie crocodile, which has given such
a fillip to the tourist trade at Yamba
(N.S.W.), have provided excellent ma-
terial for home-grown Ananiases. The
only mythical fish of any repute was the
Ompax, said to live in a single water-
hole of the Burnett River (Q.), of which
the type and only specimen was eaten
for breakfast at Gayndah station during
the visit of a naturalist in the 1870’s.
Years later a Bulletin contributor con-
fessed that the Ompax had been specially
constructed for the visitor’s benefit from
the body of a mullet and the head of a
platypus, but it took in Count Castelnau,
a famous French ichthyologist, then
Consul at Sydney. Apparently our in-
digenous prevaricators have never in-
vented a mythical bird, although the
Kusa Kap, of Torres Strait, 22ft. across
the wings, sounding like a steam engine
when in flight, and carrying dugongs
aloft in its claws to dizzy heights, was a
stout effort of the guileless islanders
which attracted the attention of both
D’Albertis and Prof. Haddon.
* * * *
‘E.S.”: The diviner in our Westralian
district has worked right through the
wheatbelt, and farmers swear by him.
His powers extend to other fields
—the location of minerals, chicken-sexing
and, more difficult still, the forecasting
of the sex of embryo animals. Firmly
of opinion that dowsers are born and
not made, he has passed on his powers
to his children. Said children clamored
for a puppy. The dowser refused my
offer of a foxie because it was a female,
and he had enough to worry him, he
said, as it was. So he went to the Dogs’
Home and selected a black-and-tan affair
with a doubtful pedigree but affectionate
disposition, and named it Tim. “It’s just
what I want,” he said, “and we won't
have any bother or fuss.” Then he went
about his business. So did Tim, who last
week produced a well-developed litter of
five.
* * * *
“Cape Voltaire”: Few things stir a
ship’s company so much as the cat over-
board. Big Toby, bloated fat with
bachelorhood and an abundant diet of
fish, had the habit of snoozing on the
butt of the bowsprit. One day a sudden
lurch of the schooner caught him in his
dreams, and next moment he was in the
briny. Shouts of alarm and orders from
the skipper to put-about; action on the
part of the mate to get the dinghy
lowered. But the cook was quicker and
possessed of more presence of mind.
Dashing out of the galley he grabbed
the ship’s only lifebuoy and a long
schnapper line from a pile that lay handy.
A couple of turns of line around and
the big hook driven into the cork and
the float was overside. Now 50 yards
astern Toby was swimming valiantly, no
doubt assisted by the knowledge that
sharks were plentiful and cat an un-
doubted luxury. Quickly the cook paid
out the line, reached the end, grabbed
another and tied that on. When the buoy
reached somewhere about level with him
Toby, with human intelligence, swam to
it and climbed on board. As the cook
wound in, an oar was passed over the
side, and up came Toby. An hour
in a warm blanket restored him to dry-
ness. But never again did he climb on
to the bowsprit; about the only time he
showed temper was when anybody pre-
tended to want to put him there.
* * * *
“Pick”: Most of our bush birds have
camouflage down to a fine art. Gill-
birds only alight in the tallest gums;
the color of their gills synchronises
with the blossom. Blue jays and grey
shrikes defy the keenest eye when
perched on the day hummocks beside
the gravelly blue clay bank of a wash-
away. Black jays forage in mobs ; when
they scatter they seek the densest shadows
that the wattle clumps or fern gullies
provide. To reach there or to return to
the open they steal alongside black burnt
logs. The curlews’ dark speckled bodies
stretched in their customary attitude flat
on the ground are the exact imitation of
a strip of wattle bark, and their long
white legs, which they extend behind
them, represent a broken branch. On
windswept river banks and by lake
shores, tufts of reeds become shredded
and frayed till they have a feathery
appearance, then when bent over and
rounded they assume the exact resem-
blance of plovers or teals, as many a
fox or tiger cat which has grasped a
mouthful of it instead of the expected
plump fowl can testify.
* * * *
“Cape Voltaire”: Pearling skippers
have different ideas, but our old man
was great on casting the lead in search of
likely shell bottom. The base of the
sinker was hollow and filled with soap
or stiff tallow. Dropped plumb on to the
seabed the filling never failed to bring
up a sample. Coral-sand was the stuff we
searched for, though a hundred times the
plummet might bring up only mud ; for
there are vast areas of mud under the
sea —mud into which a diver might sink
waist deep, or even be engulfed. Tedious
work but exciting, for it was always the
next , cast that would bring the promised
ground. With likely bottom located, a
marker buoy went overside. After that
the anchor, so that it just touched bottom
and dragged. This to slow up the lugger
while the diver went down to verify the
plummet’s promise, though the diver
often had to walk quite a distance before
finding shell. Some pearlers gave their
diver a ride on the anchor, keeping the
pick a few feet off the bottom. But our
old man jibbed at that. He had once
had an experience of diver and anchor
caught in an undersea whirlpool. And
it had taken him hours, clad in a doubtful
suit, to unwind the tangle of anchor
cable, lifeline and air hose —with all the
time the prospect of his own lines get-
ting caught in the tangle.
* * * #
“James W.”: That bungarra acquain-
tance of “Triumvir’s” (B. 15/5/ ’4O) had
a bullheaded idea of stoush, but perhaps
he knew his antagonist was not
venomous. Six-footers are common
among the goannas up here in far N.Q.,
but none of them is game to come to
grips with a big snake. Paradoxically,
that puts the go. in the box seat when
a row with a wriggler is the job in hand.
In the only go. versus Joe dust-up I
ever saw the snake, a taipan—a venomous
constrictor found only in this part of
the world—was coiled in the middle
of the stadium. As the go., of the huge
black tree variety, scuttered round and
round him the snake turned continuously
to watch. Came the time when the
snake had to shift his coils to keep
turning, and in flashed the go. across
the circle, landing a haymaker with his
tail as he passed. Then the performance
started all over again. After five rounds
1 lost my grip on my tyke’s dial. He
gave one yip and the go. took to his
scrapers.
•** * *
“Bull-ant-Bill”: “There ain’t the life
round ’ere like there used ter be,” com-
plained Old Joe. “Them motors an’
wireless an’ ’lectricity’s makin’ ’em soft.
Got yarnin’ with Bill ’Obson yestiddy
w’en we wus drorin’ our pensions ’bout
the time wot he wrestled the Irish bloke
up at the old pub near the crossin’ on
Brady’s Crick. Some uv us wus ’avin’
a few in the bar, an’ the bloke —terrible
big immingrant ’e wus —reckons ’e’d
wrestle any bloke there, so Bill takes ’im
on. There’s a bit uv grass in front uv
the pub, an’ they goes to it. The bloke’s
strong, but Bill ’as more science, an’ they
wus just a match. After they bin at it
an hour or so they knocks orf, ’as a few
drinks, an’ starts agin. We got tired o’
watchin’ ’em, but on they goes, cornin’
in fer drinks w’en they got thirsty and
startin’ agin. We forgot about the silly
cows until it’s dark an’ the publican goes
out ter light the lamp an’ sings out to
us ter come out. There’s the Irish bloke
out ter it an’ Bill dancin’ round too shik-
kered ter see ’im. Jest then a ’orse comes
along, an’ Bill lets out a yell, grabs its
tail, thinkin’ it’s the Irish bloke’s whis-
kers, an’ tries ter give it a crossbuttock.
The ’orse lets go with both ’eels an’ ’oists
Bill about ten feet on top uv the Irish
bloke w’ere ’e’s stretched out dead ter
the world. ‘Got yer beat, yer blankard! ’
Bill sings out. ‘Cripes, yer tough. Come
an’ ’ave a drink.’ Young blokes don’t
get no fun like that nowadays,” the old
chap said pityingly.
"I just couldn’t leave it at home, sir!”


IN SYDNEY—STAY AT THE WENTWORTH
The Wentworth Hotel, noted for kindly hospitality, combines a
full measure of courteous service with modern appointments that
make for your comfort. Bedrooms with telephones, private bathrooms
and toilets.
TARIFF: Room and Breakfast from 13/6, inclusive from 20/-. Our
tariff remains constant the year round; we do NOT follow the
policy of increasing tariff during Christmas, Easter or any other
season.
\
CT3
C. D. MACLURCAN: Managing Director
SYDNEY
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Mutual Life
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Written Added to
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. 017. Funds.
£,£££> £
1900.. 406,428 218,526 77,735 67,969 42,198
1930.. 1.903.314 951,986 314,949 3,870 1
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..j ,0
1931.. 860.2561.145.843 338,960 50,909 ) 323544
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. j ’
1932.. 911.243 1,225,812 367,822 5,169 ) 011 440
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..f
1933.-2,284,6191,159,531 406,192 3,358 !
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ’
From Accident Dept., £lO,OOO 1
Profit reval. securities, £495,357 [ . i«7
1934.. 394.3201.264.671 468,116 3,703 ( *
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. J
From Accident Dept., £12,000
1935.. 2.728.0181.242.504 519,316 10,954 1 961 059
Staff bonus, £5185 .. .. f
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .-I
Profit on sale securities, £62,3351
From Accident Dept., £60,000 l 121 802
1936.. 146.251 1,559,795 581,827 4162 \ ’ ’
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. 1
From Accident Dept., £20,000 1
1937.. 3.565.539 1,559,405 573,936 48,371 ) 1,402,827
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..J
Unexplained addition res., £8624 ]
From Accident Dept., £20,000 [ j ggo 91 g
1938.. 652.463 1,413,983 521,285 83,903 f
Superannuation fund, £lOOO J
From Accident Dept., £20,000 ..1
1939.. 769.186 1,530,963 523,061 79,658 [ 1,654,504
Superannuation fund, £lOOO J
Industrial, Department.
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.*
£ £ £ £
1933 .. 642,329 171,479 178,767]
Written off, £556 .. .. 12,876,923
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. |
Profit reval. securities, £116,779 ]
1934 . . 715,779 178,463 203,517 I 3 32 g 163
Written off, £438 .. .. f ’ ’
Superannuation Fund, £9OO ..]
1935 .. 768,006 178,868 215,378]
Written off, £431 .. .. I 3 <?qg gTs
Staff bonus, £l9lB .. 3,696,673
Superannuation Fund, £9OO ..]
1936 •. . 837,036 187,022 230,434 ]
Written off, £702.. .. .. 14,114,651
Superannuation Fund, £9OO ..J
1937 . . 916,293 254,552 246,612 ]
Written off, £1261.. . . 4,527,619
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. J
Added Guarantee Fund, £B5O ]
1938 . . 981,657 351,217 252,852 [ , q o o 02 g
Written off, £2131 .. .. f 4,9Ud ’
Superannuation Fund, £9OO ..j
Added Guarantee Fund, £l9B .. ]
1939 . . 1,026,215 447,864 263,059 ! 5,213,854
Written off, £3762 .. .. f
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. J
* Includes contingency funds, etc.
This one of Australia’s five big mutual
life offices was formed in Melbourne a
little over three-quarters of a century ago.
The business —it comprises Ordinary, In-
dustrial and Accident and Sickness con-
tracts —is well spread throughout the
Commonwealth, U.K., S. Africa and
Maoriland. Group assurance (a line
which the society pioneered) and house-
purchase policies (introduced in 1934,
and £1,857,969 had been advanced under
this head in loans averaging £7OO at the
end of Dec.) are features of the co.’s
prospectus. Also, the nursing welfare
service in the Industrial section helps to
widen and cement the society’s goodwill
—more than 19,500 visits were made by
the office’s nurses during 1939.
Outstanding features of the latest
accounts are (1) substantial progress of
the business, despite* war and other
obstacles, and (2) the heavy provision
made for contingencies a precaution
with which prudent policy-holders will
find no quarrel, though it means a sub-
stantial cut in bonus rates. The amount
of new business put on the books was
£10,581,547 (up £20,131) in the Ordinary
and £2,046,096 (down £158,487) in the
Industrial section. In the three depart-
ments combined £3,865,349 (up £75,162)
was gathered in net premiums and
£1,062,373 (up £89,333) in interest, rents,
etc., making total income £4,927,722 (up
£164,495). After paying all legitimate
claims and exes., striking £83,627 off
the book value of assets, sending
£49,571 to contingencies, £l9OO to the
superannuation fund and £291 to the
guarantee reserves and meeting the de-
mands of the taxgatherer (£76,535, up
£27,183), £1,654,504 was added to the
life fund in the Ordinary department
(£19,515,775), £261,059 to the fund in the
Industrial section (£5,100,764) and £14,228
to the Accident reserve (£164,098). That
makes a total of £24,780,636 (up
£1,929,790) specifically reserved against
liabilities under policies.
That these reserves have been more
than adequate to meet the needs for
which they were created is illustrated in
the next table, which shows the surplus
available for division among policy-
holders in each section:
1937. 1938 1939'.
Ordinary .. £539,648 £628,630 £702,885+ £74,255
Industrial .. 122,270 146,783 114,329 —32,454
Accident .. 41,873 35,848 42,634 +6,786
Total . . £703,791 £811,261 £859,848+ £48,587
The surplus was a record for the society,
and bonuses in the Industrial section
continued at the same rate as for the
previous year. In the Ordinary depart-
ment the amount to be distributed is
£290,527 (down £227,618), which means
a cut in bonus rates, though they still
remain at a very satisfactory level. Of
the other £412,358, £140,000 was added
to the contingency reserves (now
£750,000), £168,929 was carried forward
unappropriated, £lOOO was" sent to the
staff fund, and £102,431 has been ear-
marked for future distribution among
U.K. policy-holders (they will receive no
immediate bonus in respect of last term)
should the death-strain due to war permit.
The actual loss to an office in this
connection must be measured not by
the amount paid in claims alone but by
the difference between the actual strain
(which is the difference between the sum
assured and reserves held in respect
thereof) and the expected strain. Speak-
ing generally, the effect of war upon
mortality experience is to concentrate
deaths at the younger ages. In common
with all the other big Australian offices,
the society has removed the war and
aviation restriction on policies in force at
Sept. 25 last in the case of those who
volunteer for active service. The actual
mortality experience last year was only
42 p.c. of expectation.
A heartening feature is the continued
reduction in the expense rate, which in
the Ordinary department was 22.7 p.c.
of net premiums in ’35, 17.0 p.c. 1938,
and 16.1 p.c. 1939. Corresponding figures
for the Industrial section were 33.4 p.c.,
31.6 p.c. and 31.1 p.c. That was after
allowing 3 p.c. for consideration for
annuities, and excluding taxes and the
amount written off assets. The heavier
tax bill reduced the net rate of interest
from £4 4s. lid. on mean funds (all
departments combined) in 1938 to
£4 3s. 7d. last term, and further shrink-
age can be expected. The co., however,
assumes that its life funds alone will turn
in only 3 p.c. net, and these funds have
the support and assistance of £625,000
of other reserves, etc. It all looks very
comforting from the policy-holder’s point
of view.
Here are details of the co.’s investment
portfolio:
Public securities 1938. p.c. 1939. p.c.
and debentures. £12,211,008 51.3 £12,584,733 48. S
Mortgages .. 5,912,512 24.9 7,460,790 28.9
Freeholds, etc. . . 2,826,081 11.9 2,925,662 11.4
Loans on policies 1,706,034 7.2 1,788,539 6.9
Premiums and in-
terest outstanding 290,842 1.2 293,070 1.1
Cash and deposits 622,642 2.6 527,931 2.1
Other assets .. 211,898 0.9 202,437 0.8
Outstanding feature last year was the
growth of £1,548,278 in mortgages,
mainly advances in connection with the
co.’s own house-purchase policies and to
co-operative building societies under
Government guarantee. Government
securities, etc., were up £373,725, and
account for 48.8 p.c. of the balance-sheet
total. It is thus plain that purchase of
a life policy indirectly helps the Govern-
ment in its war effort as well as benefit-
ing the individual.
Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends N
5 p.c. To Re- Re-
Apr., Profit. Prefs. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930 65,111 4325 10 p.c. = 60,423 363 269,406
1931 39.172 4325 5 \ „ „ 34,743 103 269,509
1932 39,393 4325 5f „ „ 34,743 325 269,834
1933 29,204 6 „ „ 29,003 201 270,035
1934 29,214 6| „ „ 22,155 7,059 277,094
1935 30,880 8 „ „ 25,780 5,100 282,194
1936 31,295 8f „ „ 27,795 3,500 285,694
Share premiums, £9751 .. •• 295,445
1937 33,005 9J p.c. = 29,406 3,599 299,044
Share premiums, £17,103 .. .. 316,147
1938 37,091 9f p.c. = 34,911 2,180 318,327
1939 39,681 10 „ „ 37,596 2.085 320,412
Contingency reserve disclosed, £23,000.. 343,412
1940 42,020 10 p.c. = 37,596 4,424 347,836
This co.’s scrip has always enjoyed a
high reputation in the market, and
rightly so. For 15 years after the public
became interested in 1915 the ords. re-
ceived a steady 15 p.c., sweetened with
£50,000 of bonus scrip and new issues at
par—paid capital more than doubled
during this, period. Slump brought the
div. down to 5| p.c. for two years to the
close of accounts in 1932, since when
the rate advanced by easy annual steps to
10 p.c. again for the two years to the
close of last accounts.
The co. trades as a vendor of paper,
printers’ requisites and fancy-goods, and
has been, and is, a stout prop for many
in the printing trade. A large amount of
credit has been extended to customers ;
still, the co. has given a very good ac-
count of itself during difficult times.
Further, no account is taken in the
books of a very extensive goodwill, and
at the end of April the £375,965 of
capital visibly had the support and
assistance of £347,836 of reserves. The
two combined, therefore, need turn in
only 5.2 p.c. to cover 10 p.c. on capital
alone. Moreover, the management,
which has grown up in the business, is
both able and cautious.
Last term there was a substantial in-
crease in turnover, owing largely to an
increased demand for paper at rising
prices, stimulated by expanding trade
and later by anticipated shortages follow-
ing the outbreak of war. Rising costs, too,
had their effect both ways. After writing
off £10,715 (up £5923) spent on fixtures,
plant, etc., during the year, and making
an unspecified provision for contingen-
cies and for taxation —the tax and con-
tingency reserves appear separately for
the first time at £40,546 and £23,000 re-
spectively—the net result was £2339 better
at £42,020, or 11.1 p.c. on capital as
against 10.5, 10.2, 10.2, 9.7, 9.5 and 9 p.c.
back to 1934.
With rising costs, the cutting-off of sup-
plies of newsprint from Norway, Fin-
land, Holland and Belgium, and the im-
port license restrictions imposed by the
Government, which has taken extraordi-
nary powers in connection with the taxa-
tion of profits and the control of busi-
ness generally, there are doubts as to
how long the 10 p.c. div. can be expected
to continue.
Mindful of all this, and with one eye
on the co.’s history and the other on the
comfortable state of the finances, the
market prices the f.-p. pound shares at
395. as against 50s. a year ago. At the
lower figure the return is 5.1 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis, or 4.6 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
distribution. Visibly the net tangible
cover is 38s. 6d. per share.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1930. 1936. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £090,740 £322,256 £375,965 £375,965
Liabilities . . 106,094* 77,923* 109,65-0* 186,384
Tax provision 40,547
Freeholds . . 110,319 120,565 120,565 120,565
Stocks.. .. 216,163 149,427 137,258 222,042
Sundry debtors 456,252 335,909 445,781 571,223
Cash and in-
vestments . . 308,471 87,223 118,822 46,300
* Including tax provision, etc.
The extent to which the co. has come to
the assistance of clients in order to help
them over the bumpy ground immedi-
ately ahead is reflected in the year’s
growth of £125,442 in debtors’ balances.
These are claimed to be adequately pro-
tected by securities and /or reserves ;
much depends upon this, considering the
asset accounts for more than half the
balance-sheet total. To finance the out-
lay and add £84,784 to stocks, invest-
ments, etc., were drawn upon for
£72,522 and the board went outside for
the balance, liabilities exceeding the
previous year’s figure, which included
the tax and contingency reserves, by
£76,734. Apparent growth in the more
or less liquid surplus (£653,181) was
£60,970.
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends ~
A B Nominal
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. 10 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.*
£ ‘ £ £ £ £
1930.. 48,841 10,500 24,000 1800 12,541 291,348
8 p.c.
1931.. 39,717 10,500 19,200 2100 7,917 299,265
1932.. 39,711 10,500 19,200 2400 7,611 306,876
1933.. 34,167 10,500 19,200 2400 2,067 308,943
1934.. 36,366 10,500 19,200 2400 4,266 313,209
1935.. 42,324 10,500 19,200 2400 10,224 323,433
1936.. 37,267 10,500 19,200 2400 5,167 328,600
1937.. 40,835 10,500 19,200 2400 8,735 337,335
1938.. 39,841 10,500 19,200 2400 7,741 345,076
From contingencies reserve, £51,037 .. 396.113
1939.. 37,876 10,500 19,200 2400 5,776 401,889
1940.. 41,453 10,500 19,200 2400 9,353 411,242
* Subject to goodwill, £BO,OOO.
Harpers stands like the Rock of Gibraltar
in the Australian drygoods field. The
co. had a skilful politician for founder,
and has provided the country with two
able bankers ; one of them, Alex. Bell,
chairman and managing director, is also
chairman of the Central Wool Com-
mittee, having relinquished the post of
deputy-chairman of the Commonwealth
Bank to undertake the work of organis-
ing and controlling Australia’s biggest
war-time commercial venture.
From the start the policy of the co.
has been to fill all executive positions
from those trained in the business. Also,
the co. trades on short terms, both as
buyer and seller, and the management
is, and always has been, opposed to
“supported accounts,” preferring to have
thousands of customers on its books
rather than be a silent partner in a
more limited number of retail establish-
ments.
The £430,000 of capital is in 150,000
7 p.c. cum. prefs., 240,000 ords. and
40,000 B (employees’) shares. The last
are entitled to three-fourths of the ord.
div., with a maximum of 6 p.c., but do
not share in surplus assets. Also, when
the books last closed, there was £411,242
of reserves visibly supporting and assist-
ing capital, the whole of which and
£6226 besides was invested outside the
business in Government securities
(£267,302) and cash, etc. (£168,924).
The market, noting the steadiness
of the div. (8 p.c. for the last 23 years,
sweetened with a 2 p.c. bonus in ’29
and ’3O), the strong cash and trad-
ing position and the quality of the con-
trol, has always had a high opinion of
the scrip. Moreover, drygoods, though
difficult lines carrying small profit-
margins, usually hold well during hard
times. Still, these are uncertain days
and nobody can be sure what the future
holds. All that can be said definitely is
that the co. is very well equipped to win
whatever profits are to be earned in the
trade. Costs can be expected to con-
tinue on the up-grade, and so can the
tax burden. With these things in mind
the market, which lacks buying support
at the moment, prices the f.-p. pound


ords. at 365. as against 38s. a year ago.
The return at 365. is 4.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The prefs. at 295. yield 5.8 p.c.
The net tangible cover is £5 Is. 6d. prefs.
and 475. 7d. ords.
Here is the position so far as the pub-
lished accounts show it:
1932. 1934. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £430,000 £430,000 £430,000 £430,000
Sundry creditors 41,778 47,297 34,243 35,735
Freeholds .. 145,665 146,188 144,264 143,949
Plant, etc. .. 48,926 42,251 38,574 33,702
Stock .. .. 146,840 163,432 126,616 132,500
Sundry debtors 111,026 95,905 92,241 101,652
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc. 262,246 278,780 420,487 436,226
The year’s increase in stocks (up
£5884) and debtors’ balances (up £9411)
reflects continued expansion of the busi-
ness. Most of the year’s surplus earn-
ings went into cash and Government
securities (up £15,739). The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£634,643) was £29,542.
After making a bigger but unspecified
allowance for taxation and providing for
other contingencies, net earnings were
£3577 better at £41,453. That was enough
to pay the pref. and B share divs. and
show 11.9 p.c. on ord. capital, compared
with 10.4, 11.2, 11.6, 10.1, 12.2, 9.7 and
8.8 p.c. back to 1933. And shareholders
can count on there being a little more
wheat in the ear than the eye can see,
as suggested by the disclosure of £51,037
of inner reserves in the 1939 term.
Moreton Central Sugar (Q.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 876 Nil 876 8,145
Loss. *
1930.. 7,677 Nil 468
Profit.
1931.. 480 Nil 480 948
1932.. 1,276 Nil 1,276 2,224
1933.. 11,115 Nil 11,115 13,339
Loss.
1934.. 5,701 Nil 7,638
Profit.
1935.. 8,589 4 p.c. = 4724 3,865 11,503
1936.. 8,584 5 „ „ 5905 2,679 14,182
1937.. 6,026 5 „ „ 5905 117 14,299
1938.. 8,023 6 „ „ 7094 929 15,228
1939.. 9,066 6 „ „ 7110 1,956 17,184
It was a bumper harvest. That this co.’s
earnings show no more improvement
than they do is due to increased cane
charges, amounting to £1 per ton of sugar
produced, and the louder call of the tax-
collector.
Not only was a record tonnage put
through the rollers, but mill sugar peak,
which goes into No. 1 pool and fetches
top price (£l6 19s. 6d., up sd. last
season), was lifted from 11,586 to 14,000
tons: —
Cane Sugar Manu- S'ug-ar and Cost
Crushed, faetured, By-product per Ton
Tons. Tons. Sales. of Sugar.
1927.. 46,355 5,917 £130,266 £22 110
1929.. 48,074 6,510 133,087 20 11 8
1931.. 50,932 6,772 110,206 16 3 7
1933.. 82,362 10,908 194,647 15 7 7
1934.. 44,849 6,066 105,356 l 8 4 8
1935.. 80,086 11,115 189,693 16 0 2
1936.. 68,303 9,924 172,518 16 4 7
1937.. 66,113 8,695 155,379 17 1 9
1938.. 110,414 15,325 230,428 14 7 3
1939.. 119,312 16,118 263,565 15 9 1
Excess production of 2118 tons went into
No. 2 pool to be paid for at export
parity—£lo 7s. 6d., up £2 3s. 3d. After
writing £lO,OlO off fixed assets, spending
£19,090 on maintenance and doubling
the tax allocation (£6000), the net result
benefited by £1043, reaching £9066, or
7.6 p.c. on capital, as against 6.7, 5,
7.2 and 7.2 p.c. back to 1935. The
6 p.c. div. was repeated, leaving £1956
to put by.
The balance sheet is a much more
shipshape document these days:
1927 1934. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £118,056 £118,086 £118,443 £118,524
Overdraft .. 124,058 73,649 59,277 44,353
Creditors .. 3,654 12,871 38,722 59,186
Land .. .. 3,145 3,055 2,980 2,980
Mills, plant, etc. 229,964 181,700 154,186 148,866
Stocks .. 6,760 2,890 2,817 2,668
Book debts .. 20,714 29,431 83,628 101,354
Cash, etc. .. 79 368 784 751
Plant, off which £82,000 has been written
over the last eight years, is steadily
gaining in efficiency. A net drop of
£5320 in the item last year was accom-
panied by an expansion of £5540 in the
debt in order to carry £17,726 more
debtors. More or less liquids show a sur-
plus over liabilities of £1234 —an im-
provement on 1938 of £l2,oo4—for the
first time since the mid-’twenties.
Assisted by an increase in the volume
of cane coming forward, a better price
for the export surplus and more virile
management, recent trend of the figures
has been encouraging, and market for the
pound shares has advanced from to
17s. sellers over the past five years. But
there are difficulties ahead in the way
of overproduction and shrinking world
markets.
At 17s. the immediate return is 7 p.c.
The cover is 225. lid., all in plant of
one kind and another, written down to
45 p.c. of cost.
Automobile Fire and General
Bonus,. Di v i dends N
to Prefs. Nominal
Sur~ Policy- 10 To Re- Re-
April, plus, holders, p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1930.. 5,986 4381 250 10 p.c. =2250 41,i01
12 p.c.
1931.. 9,996 3745 300 12 „ „ 2700 3,251 44,352
1932.. 8,764 2796 300 12 „ „ 2700 2,968 47,320
1933.. 14.073 3163 300 12 „ „ 2700 7,910 55,230
1934.. 3,144 1726 300 12 „ „ 2700 53,648
17i p.c.
1935.. 18.984 2423 437 17*,, „ 3938 12,186 65,834
20 p.c.
1936.. 20.649 2617 500 20 „ „ 4500 13,032 78,866
1937.. 18.937 2777 500 20 „ „ 4500 11,160 90,026
1938.. 32.463 2913 500 20 „ „ 4500 24,550114,576
1939.. 12.016 3043 500 20 „ ~ 7625 848 115,424
1940.. 18.331 3389 500 20 „„ 9500 4,942120,366
The manner in which profits bob Up
and down exemplifies the lottery car-
insurance is. Still, where other under-
writers have burnt their fingers, this Mel-
bourne co. has been able to grow fat
on a handful of capital—until a one-for-
one par issue a couple of years back, only
£25,000.
Connections have widened rapidly over
the last three years ; but so have the risks
and the cost of conducting the larger
business:
Net Pre- Loss Expense
April, miums. Claims. Exes. Rate. Rate.
1927.. £83,028 £29,206 £38,370 35.2 p.c. 46.2 p.c.
1928.. 63,711 41,501 16,065 65.1 „ 25.2 „
1930.. 51,344 29,469 18,801 57.3 „ 36.6 „
1932.. 38,989 16,182 16,394 41.5 „ 42.0 „
1934.. 44,173 23,053 20,749 52.1 „ 46.9 „
1935.. 54,898 21,569 17,155 39.2 „ 31.2 „
1937.. 88,049 40,203 32,315 45.7 „ 36.7 „
1938.. 134,750 59,618 48,441 44.2 „ 35.9 „
1939.. 127,579 72,502 51,059 56.8 „ 40.0 „
1940.. 135,889 71,359 56,366 52.5 „ 41.5 „
The way the “Wild Cat” figures things,
the underwriting surplus last term was
£4146 stronger at £8164, thanks to expan-
sion of £B3lO in retained premiums and
a more favorable claims experience. The
lift in the expense rate probably reflects
increased tax commitments, although the
visible provision has declined from £3267
to £2700.
Of the £8164, £3389 is to be rebated
to policy-holders. The balance, with
£10,167 (sharply up £2169) in interest,
etc., left the amount available for share-
holders £5969 higher at £14,942 —29.9
p.c. on capital, as against 22 p.c.
The 20 p.c. div. was again covered by
investment income alone ; it has oblig-
ingly doubled almost since the last share-
issue. The div. rate may thus possibly be
maintained, though a sharp fall in
premium revenue as a result of petrol-
rationing is imminent. Still, lighter traffic
should mean an improved loss rate, and
it may be possible to push the fire and
general side of things ; but fixed over-
head may prove a snag.
When the books closed net tangibles
of fine quality equal to 125 p.c. of the
year’s net premiums were on view:
1930. 1934. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £25,000 £25,000 £50,000 £50,000
Liabilities .. 10,905 21,436 38,252 33,182
Freehold, etc. 42,576 43,034 53,328 53,012
Debtors .. 10,637 6,122 14,269 15,179
Investments and
cash .. 41,268 58,429 147,533 146,556
Though that is 25 p.c. below the pro-
portion conservatively looked for, the
highly-liquid nature of finances leaves
no ground for uneasiness on that score,
while there is £50,000 of capital at call,
if required.
Of the 100,000 pound shares paid to
10s., 5000 are prefs., cumulative as to
8 p.c. and participating fully with the
ords. beyond that rate. From the ords.
the market, anticipating a drop in the
div. rate, buys a yield of 6.6 p.c. at 30s.
The cover is 355. 6d. in net tangibles.
Raub Australian G.M. Co.
Transition from a high- to medium-
grade proposition—a policy forced on the
management by depletion of rich shoots
used to keep up the grade of mill-feed —
is being smoothly accomplished. It has
been assisted by a saving of some 12s. a
ton in unit costs since 1936, a rising gold
price and installation of a re-treatment
plant to handle accumulated and current
tailings previously run to waste.
Brisbane-controlled, the co. has been
working a long line of parallel lodes at
Pahang (Malaya) since 1892. The lode
material occurs as a replacement in a
shear zone, and the irregular and much-
faulted nature of the ore-bodies makes
mining difficult and uncertain and de-
velopment costly. Last term, although
£30,859, making a total of £146,000 in
five years, went out for development,
reserve ore is figured 7200 tons lower at
103,800 tons —63,100 “reasonably cer-
tain,” the balance labelled “prospective.”
Values aren’t stated, but the tendency
has been for the sulphides to become
poorer with depth and more difficult to
treat. The co. also possesses some tin
deposits, exploitation of which has been
abandoned, for the present at least.
Last term the co. received 12s. 4d. an
ounce more for its gold, and, despite the
lowering of mill heads, profits went
further ahead. Latest figures include 57
weeks’ crushings, however, in order to
bring the operating year into line with
closing of the financial year in March:
, —Surplus — N , Divs.—— >
Mar., Revenue, Exes.* Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
£Stg. £Stg. £Stg. £Stg.
1938.. 144,755 101,174 43,581 1/1 1/1 43,334
1939.. 193,929 125,347 68,582 1/8 i 1/7 63,333
1940.. 215,626 138,724 76,902 1/11 1/10 73,333
* Including depreciation: 1937, £7500 ;
1938, £3000; 1939, £13,000; 1940, £14,500.^
Quarterly distributions totalled Is. 10a.
(up 3d.) a share, calling for £3569 less
than the profit shown.
Crushing performances compare this
way-—percentage recoveries are the man-
agement’s own:
—Battery ( Sands •,
1939. 1940.* 1939. 1940.*
Treated, tons .. 63,985 71,646 81,134 121,446
Head value, dwt. 7.73 6.2 2.89 2.02
Gold yield, 0z... 18,953 17,9'48 7,439 9,146
Dwt., ton . . 5.92 5.01 1.84 1.51
Extraction, p.c. 77.5 77.2 64.1 69.5
Realisation, oz. £7/4/8 £7/17/- £7/4/8 £7/17/-
Cosits, ton .. 28/4* 27/lli 4/2 3/1
* 57 weeks.
Further reduction in costs is an encour-
aging feature, the ore figure being made
up of mining 9s. 9d., development
Bs. 7fd., treatment 2s. 6d. and realisation
and general 7s. Reconditioning of
the mill, lifting capacify to 78,000 tons
p.a., which may be still slightly improved
upon, should produce further savings in
unit exes, in the current term —with the
£8 6s. an ounce the management is now
receiving for its product, bringing still
more ore within the scope of profitable
milling.
Though the re-treatment plant has failed
to achieve the 80 p.c. recovery antici-
pated, it is running well in excess of rated
capacity of 8400 tons per four-weekly
(“The Wild Cat Column” continued on
next page)
GOLDSBROUGH MORT & COY., LTD.
THE WOOL POSITION.
The Annual Meeting of Goldsbrough
Mort and Coy., Ltd., was held at the
Head Office of the Company, Bourke
Street, Melbourne, on Friday, 28th ult.
The Chairman, Mr. K. M. Niall,
moved the adoption of the Report and
Balance Sheet, and in the course of his
address said:
We are all, I am sure, pleased to wel-
come to-day Sir Frederick Tout, who has
been appointed to a seat on the Head
Office Board. Sir Frederick has been a
member of our Sydney Advisory Board
since 1938 and we are glad to have the
benefit at our counsels of his very wide
experience in New South Wales.
It is with regret that I have to an-
nounce the retirement of my father, Mr.
J. M. Niall. He first joined the Company
in Queensland in 1896, and since that
year has been continuously associated
with its management. In the 90’s, the
affairs of the Company were at a very
low ebb and his main interest in life
was to contribute towards placing its
affairs upon solid and enduring founda-
tions.
WOOLCLIP OF 1939-40.
After dealing with the Accounts and
the Seasonal outlook, Mr. Niall briefly
described the terms of the Wool Pur-
chase Contract with the British Govern-
ment. He then went on to say that
Appraisements commenced on the 9th
October, 1939, and up to 30th June it is
estimated that, including skin wools,
approximately 3,600,000 bales will have
been appraised at an average price of
about 12)d. per lb. Of this all time
record quantity of wool produced in
Australia, 2,565,000 bales have either
been shipped or allocated for shipment,
and 300,000 bales taken by local con-
sumers.
The value of the 1939-40 clip in Aus-
tralian currency is expected, to realise
approximately £60,000,000.
In face of the very serious difficulties
which have confronted us, it must be
admitted, he said, that this is a very fine
achievement for which we must heartily
congratulate the Chairman of the Cen-
tral Wool Committee, Mr. A. F. Bell, and
his confreres, and with them the men of
the Mercantile Marine and the Navy
who made possible the safe transport of
this huge quantity of wool, so sorely
needed by the Empire, to its ultimate
destination, with infinitesimal loss.
I think I have covered in my remarks
the chief features of the Wool Pur-
chase Contract, but, in case any of you
wish further particulars, I can strongly
recommend you to read the statement
issued by the Executive Committee of
the Graziers’ Association of New South
Wales. This contains a very lucid exposi-
tion and also some thoughtful remarks
in answer to hasty criticisms made in the
early stages of the scheme.
The reason for the substantially better
results this year over last can be largely
attributed to the good season which was
experienced generally throughout most of
the pastoral areas of the various States,
and the resultant increased turnover in
our Agency business. The price of wool,
too, as applied to the Company’s own
properties, has been sufficient to cover
working costs and leave a moderate
margin of profit. Altogether, our net
earnings represent something rather more
than 4i per cent, on Shareholders’ Funds.
DIFFICULTIES TO-DAY.
When contemplating the difficulties
surrounding us to-day, one can only feel
how fortunate we in Australia have been
in possessing, as our main primary pro-
duct, a commodity which was of such
vital importance to the Empire that it
was purchased in its entirety, after
declaration of war, thus saving us the
uncertainties and anxieties in respect of
shipment and marketing during a most
critical period.
It would be useless for me to attempt
to say what is likely to be the effect of
the latest International happenings on
the working of the Wool Purchase
Scheme. Our earnings depend very
largely on its continued smooth working,
and the need for conserving our resources
at this juncture is obvious. As an instance
of exceptional outlay due to war con-
ditions, I may mention the building of a
bulk store at Tottenham to accommodate
20,000 bales. This work was put in hand
in May and we hope it will be completed
in good time to give the much needed
extra storage space for the coming season.
Under ordinary marketing conditions
such expenditure would not have been
immediately necessary.
I cannot but deplore the proposals in
other States to decentralise the marketing
of our clip, entailing as it does heavy
capital expenditure and increased staffs,
when existing organisations can be relied
upon, with certain local extensions, to
handle the clip.
ADVANCES TO CLIENTS.
The Capital Issues Regulations, as
originally issued, were severe as applied
to Pastoral Houses, but they have since
been modified to permit of Companies
such as our own advancing freely to
clients who borrow from us for ordinary
carry-on purposes, the consent of the
Treasury now being only necessary in
respect to borrowings for purchase of
land. As regards this restriction, it is
hoped that the Treasurer will deal with
such applications liberally—otherwise it
will adversely affect the liquidity of
securities and thus react against clients
dependent upon fixed term finance. The
number of lenders interested in mort-
gages gets scarcer, year by year, and, if
they are restricted rather than encour-
aged, the shortage of funds for such
purposes may soon become serious. The
Financial authorities advising the
Treasury will, no doubt, keep the possi-
bility of these repercussions well in view.
STAFF.
Like other business houses, we are
feeling the effects of the National call for
enlistments for Active War Service, and
the staff position is likely to become
increasingly difficult as time goes on —
calling for longer hours, perhaps, and
increased effort on the part of those
Officers who remain. We have confidence
that all will do their part. As regards
those of our people who have enlisted,
or who may enlist, your Directors are
duly mindful of their responsibility to
see that their posts are preserved, and,
so far as lies in their power, that the
dependents suffer no undue hardship
during their period of Military Service.
Mr. Niall then moved that the Report
and Balance Sheet be adopted, which was
seconded by Mr. L. Evans and carried.
Sir James Elder and Sir Frederick Tout
were re-elected Directors.
Messrs. S. J. and S. R. Warnock were
reappointed as Auditors to the Company.
The several suggested alterations to the
Articles of Association were approved.
Sir Frank Clarke, in referring to the
long and valued service rendered by Mr.
J. M. Niall to the Company, moved:
“The shareholders and clients of
Goldsbrough Mort and Company,
Limited, thank Mr. J. M. Niall for
his great and long service to the
Company.”
This was seconded by Sir James Elder,
and supported by Mr. L. Evans.
Mr. K. M. Niall responded on behalf
of his father and thanked Sir Frank
Clarke, Sir James Elder, Mr. Evans, and
the shareholders present for their very
kindly remarks.


A Safeguard Against Poor Administration of Your Estate
CARE in selecting the Executor who is to administer your Estate after you are gone is wisdom.
Many a family has suffered grievously because the dead father’s executor was lazy, or .too old
when the responsibility fell on him, or because he was dishonest.
It is good defence against these risks to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. It
may be appointed as sole Executor and Trustee, or jointly with a relative or friend.
The Company’s health never fails. It has continuous existence. It cannot abscond. Its
capital and assets are security for its integrity. Ask that a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee”
be posted to you. It will tell you of the risks to be avoided. Ask for it to-day.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman) ; Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; J. P. Abbott.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others,
Administrator, etc.
The financial security the company offers comprises its own assets and uncalled capital exceeding
£1,250,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman).
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman).
Owen E. Friend.
Robert J. A. Massie. Geoffrey F. Hughes.
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay s
Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices Throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patent?.— Advt.
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.—Anvr.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt,
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
Take one minute now to sign
an application for life assur-
ance with the Equitable Pro-
bate and General Insurance
Co., Ltd. You will save your
wife and family many years
of hardship should you be
taken from them.
BE PROTECTED
EQUITABLE
PROBATE .n»
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office— 37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane.
Vingello House. Angel Place, Sydney,
tolllns House. Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, Geseral Manager.
period, actual rate at the moment being
9750 tons.
For the first quarter of the current
term recoveries, for an unexplained
reason, have fallen sharply, and mine
profit (£9900) has cut in half, and that
just when the outlook all round looked
to be more satisfactory than for a lon£
time.
At 12s. per ss. share the market is
placing a value of £480,000 Aust. on the
mine and other assets. At March 31
these included £84,689 stg. in more or less
liquid form, while indebtedness amounted
to £26,833.
There was little change in the share-
market as a whole last week, the Sydney
index of representative shares being at
much the same level, but there were
isolated instances of more pronounced
movements. G. J. Coles shares and those
of Woolworths were particularly weak,
and W. R. Carpenter scrip, by reason of
its New Guinea interests and the difficult
copra position, was down to, 30s. on
July 1. Here are comparative prices over
a testing period:
Jan. June June June June
n, 6, 15, 22, 29,
ly4o. 1940. 1940. 1940. 1940.
Bank of N.S/VV... £29.0 £25.5 £24.5 £24.5 £24.9
National (£5) .. £6.1 £5.5 £5.0 £5.1 £5.1
Carlton Brewery. . 68/ 59/- 56/- 56/6 55/
C.-Perkins . . 22/- 17/6 17/6 17/6 17/9
Tooth .. • • 52/3 44/- 43/6 44/6 43/9
Metropolitan Gas. . £13.5 £12.9 £13.0 £12.8
Q'land Insurance. . 58/ 52/- 50/ — 50/ 49/
Assoc. News .. 16/6 11/4 11/6 11/2 10/6
Melb. “Herald” . . 57/- 44/6 44/- 44/6 43/-
Adelaide Steam, .. 36/- 28/6 28/6 27/ 27/6
Huddart Parker .. 59/9 48/6 48/6 48/6 48/6
A’asian Paper .. 34/3 23/6* 23/
A. 38/3 30/6 30/- 31/3 30/9
Bradford Cotton .. 37/6 32/- 30/- 29/6 28/-
B. Prop. .. 49/6* 39/9 39/3 40/6 39/9
Burns Philp .. 54/- 49/- 48/3 49/- 49/6
Colonial Sugar .. £50.6 £45.3 £45.5 £46.3 £46.2
David Jones .. 33/6 29/- 26/- 24/6 23/6
Drug Houses .. 26/6 22/3 22/6 23/6 23/
Electro. Zinc . . 58/9 41/- 41/3 41/6 40/0
Fairymead Sugar.. 37/- 33/- 32/- 31/6 31/6
Felt and Textiles. . 38/9 32/- 29/- 30/6 29/6
G. J. Coles . . 74/3 58/- 55/- 54/3 52/6
Henry Jones .. 56/6 45/- 44/6 45/6 48/
Howard Smith . . 24/3 18/9 18/6 19/6 19/-
lvandos Cement . . 29/9 24/6 24/6 24/9 24/-
Meggit't .. . . 29/- 26/- 27/- 27/- 24/6
Winehcombe,
Carson .. .. 28/- 25/- 24/- 23/- 23/6
Woolworths . . 22/9 14/6 15/ 14/7 13/4
W. R. Carpenter.. 45/6 35/6 36/- 35/- 32/6
Yarra Falls . . 42/- 39/- 38/6 38/- 37/6
North B.H. .. 47/6 30/9 30/9 31/3 30/6
B.H. South . . 29/9 20/9 21/- 21/- 20/3
New B.H. .. .. 20/- 11/- 11/- 11/- 10/-
Mt. Lyelt.. .. 32/- 22/6 22/6 22/3 22/6
* Ex issue.
Australasian Paper old ords. were obtain-
able at 235. at the week-end, compared
with 365. cum rights earlier this year.
Associated News and Melbourne
“Herald” continued weak, and David
Jones ords. were the lowest for years
at 235. 6d. Farmer ords. were priced at
225. In Melbourne Myer ords., at 245.,
were higher than David Jones ords. —a
state of market support that hasn’t existed
for a long time. There was a good re-
covery in Henry Jones scrip, and B.H.P.
kept mostly around 405., at which figure
British Tobacco was also dealt in. The
merger with Carreras has been formally
approved by shareholders, though the
market response following the announce-
ment was not exactly an expression of
delight. Carreras on Monday announced
a 52} p.c. div.
He * * • *
Sinking in the Wallis Day Dawn under-
lie shaft at Charters Towers (N.Q.)
stopped at 1190 ft., as there was no ma-
terial improvement in the reef section,
some 12 inches of pyritic granite and
quartz. Actually it doesn’t appear as if
the expected intersection has come in at
the right place, and W. H. Clark has
advised a crosscut into the footwall for-
mation, which is now being made. If a
reef is cut, the location of footwall and
main reef intersections could probably
be worked out to a foot.
* * * *
It looks as if the Tuckett family has
settled in on the Rose of Allendale for
a long term. The show is at Sala, on the
Towers line (N.Q.), and from a lOin.
reef the last crushing averaged £2O a ton.
The shoot of gold-bearing quartz appears
to be pitching south-west, and a 100 ft.
drive in that direction has located nice
specimen stone, so much so that W.
Franke, who pegged out an extended
claim on the western end, has also had a
crushing of 11 tons worth nearly £25 a
ton.
He * * *
Burketown, Gulf Country (N.Q.), was
fluttered recently by a party headed by
Keast, of the 8.H.P., who went on over
the Territory border to size up the Red-
bank coppermine area. It appears that the
possibilities of the district as a copper-
producer have been considered by the
N.A. Geophysical experts. Besides the
main show, worked for years by W. R.
Masterton, there is a number of other
outcrops from which rich ore has been
gouged. Redbank has been worked only
in a small way, mainly because of isola-
tion—the ore has to be shipped by Gulf
steamer through Burketown. The ore-
type is considered impressive, but it will
need a little intensive investigation.
* * * *
Mining Trust, Ltd., shows a surplus for
1939 of £74,713, which has been applied
to reducing the debit balance. Cash at
£375,000 is up £55,657. Principal assets
are some 18 p.c. of the issued capital
of New Guinea Goldfields, a 5 p.c. in-
terest in Big Bell (W.A.), from which
£6720 was received, wads of shares in
an Arabian gold concession and a British
lead refinery, and roughly £1,000,000
worth of first B debentures and 80 p.c.
of the ordinary capital of Mt. Isa (Q.),
which has yet to declare a div. Advances
include £75,162 to Isa, £95,000 to the
refining co., and £18,865 to the Arabian
venture.
* * * *
Blue Bird, Norseman (W.A.), hatcher
of golden eggs, was credited the other
day with an assay of 530 z. a ton. The
“Wild Cat” has recollections of an early-
day Coolgardie mine manager who re-
ported nothing under 50oz. a ton. When
asked by the directors to send a crush-
ing to the local State battery, he replied:
“Certainly, but it’ll be hell to get the
ton.”
* * * *
Paringa (W.A.) is distributing a 1\ p.c.
div. on its 3,853,428 shilling shares. It
represents under a penny a share, less
English income tax of 7s. 6d. in the £l.
The southern extension of the old Eclipse
lode, worked in the early days in Paringa
ground, has been located in the adjoining
North Kalgurli Central block acquired
last year, and this mine is tipped to fur-
nish the mill with 1500 tons a month
within six months. “With an eye to
expansion,” Paringa has purchased two
additional blocks, increasing its area to
130 acres,
* * * *
Values in Moonlight Wiluna, like those
in its stricken neighbor Wiluna (W.A.),
have deteriorated at depth. According to
W. H. Geikie, mining engineer and chair-
man of Gold Fields Aust. Development,
whose chief asset is Moonlight Wiluna,
development below 1030 ft. has been dis-
appointing, the ore-body having proved
shallow. There is some years’ profitable
work ahead which may possibly be ex-
tended by a discovery in the south-west
part of the mine, but, with the cutting-
out of values at depth in the main lode,
Moonlight Wiluna, like Wiluna, really
becomes a salvage proposition. A search
for other properties is being made, and
some likely ones are being prospected ;
the most promising is said to be Mt. Ida
mine, on the North Coolgardie field.
Financially, the co. is well off; after pay-
ment of a recent div. it has over £190,000
stg. in hand.
* * * *
Latest ore-reserve estimate of North
Kalgurli (W.A.) is 835,243 tons positive,
averaging 7.3ldwt. a ton, and 246,500
tons probable, averaging 7.B4dwt. A year
ago the figures were positive, 780,701
tons, 7.Bdwt.; probable, 201,770 tons,
6.6dwt. The increases mainly reflect
opening-up of additional mill-feed in the
Croesus block. The new 7000-tons-a-
-month plant to treat this ore is almost
complete. South Kalgurli worked Croesus
Prop, from 1926 to 1936 on a profit-
sharing basis, and then gave up owing,
it was stated, to impoverishment of
values.
* * * *
London-controlled Mt. Magnet G.M.,
which operates the low-grade Hill 60 and
St. George blocks at Mt. Magnet (W.A.),
is to restrict underground operations by
one shift. In March the local inspector
of mines said the outlook seemed un-
certain.
* * * *
Princess Royal (W.A.) has taken a
ticket on a show adjoining Sterling Gold
Mines (formerly Ora Banda Mines) at
Marie’s Find, on the North Yilgarn field.
Princess Royal operated successfully at
Westonia for some years. Later it re-
constructed, and, after failing to back
winners on other fields, got a turn-up
at Ora Banda, receiving £15,000 cash
and 40,000 shares for its interest in a
group of leases which Ora Banda Amal-
gamated has found profitable. Since
then Princess Royal’s luck has been bad.
* * * *
Barytes, a mineral produced
in much larger quantities from South
Aus. than from the rest of Aus-
tralia, will be one of the chief raw
materials for Electrolytic Zinc’s new
lithopone plant at Port Pirie. Lithopone
is a white pigment of which chemically-
precipitated barium sulphate is an essen-
tial ingredient. It is used in the manu-
facture of paint, printer’s ink, enamels,
lacquer, cellulose, rubber goods and lino-
leum. S.A. Premier Playford announced
that he had made successful represen-
tations to Colin Fraser for establishment
of the industry in S.A., the company
switching from an earlier feeling that
“another State” would be preferable.
Present imports are about 4000 tons a
year, valued at £92,000 (pre-war prices),
or £120,000 at the present price of £4O
a ton. Raw materials are 61 p.c. barytes,
28 p.c. sulphuric acid, 11 p.c. zinc.
* * * *
“Fossicker” on the Australian cost of
tin-smelting:
Tin-producers are bucking against the high
cost at which they are compelled to have
their ore smelted in Australia, the smelter’s
margin being fixed at £3l per ton of tin metal.
Taking 74 p.c. oxide as a base, and tin at
the sterling equivalent of £A3O6, local charges
are something like three times current in-
creased Penang rates, after allowing for the
-Straits smelter’s assay deduction of one unit
per ton for losses. Cheap Chinese labor can
account for only a fraction of the difference.
Even allowing for war-time freights and insur-
ance costs, the margin in favor of realising
overseas is near £lO per ton, and that means
a lot, particularly to the small man dependent
of profits for the development of his holding,
and when every reduction in costs means the
lower the grade of ore that can economically
be handled.
Customs Minister McLeay’s explanation is
(1) that the local smelting charge has been
fixed by the Prices Commissioner, (2) that the
rates are actually lower than the pre-war
equivalent, and (3) that it is desired to build
up an efficient smelting industry within the
Commonwealth. (A more obvious reason is
probably the uncertainty of shipping space.) But
there are grave doubts whether present Aus-
tralian production of 3300 tons or so of tin
p.a. is large enough to permit of the eco-
nomic establishment of an “efficient” smelter,
considering the intermittent nature of operations
at present, particularly with two smelters, both
at Sydney. Certainly £lOO,OOO p.a. is a heavy
slug on a baby industry for the doubtful possi-
bilities of eventually getting the rate down to
near Straits parity.
With tin at anything above £245 stg., local
producers are already substantial losers because
of the Australian maximum price of £306 a ton.
It is unfair to force a double burden upon
them. Perhaps were tin to be under- instead
of overproduced within the Commonwealth,
which normally consumes only 60 p.c. of its
own output, more encouragement to the in-
dustry might be officially forthcoming.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
C«vf •
SikEi
i»5
/r'
$
ft
is j
8
a>
cu
(C 2
CD
CD
CD
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
SMOKE-OH!
“Love, for instance, is largely self-hypnosis.”
—“Sunday Sun."
Marriage is what brings you out of
your trance.
4* 4. q.
“Some men at the electricity powerhouse
have to handle heavy weights of coal.”
—“Daily News."
But they make light of it.
4- 4« 4' 4*
“Experienced female twisters required.”
— “S.M.H.” advt.
Many women could do this job with
their little fingers.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Marriage should be run on business lines.”
— Women’s mag.
With the husband as a silent partner?
4* 4* "S’ v
“Ismahan Shehata, 25-year-old wife of an
Egyptian baker, has given birth to quadruplets.
She has already had triplets.”— “World’s News."
A good start towards the baker’s dozen.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Kalgoorlie (W.A.) men found rich gold
where their old truck stalled.”
This should create a boom in old
trucks.
4« 4* 4* 4*
“How should I treat acquaintances who are
decent people but rough diamonds?”
—lnquirer in weekly paper.
Cut them.
4* 4* *l* *l*
Women’s motto: If the shoe pinches,
wear it.
•5* 4* 4* 4*
Gratitude.
“Man bequeaths £750 to friend for ‘having
introduced me to.my wife.’”
I’ve always known a certain regret
that I couldn’t mark my gratitude to old
Benson in some similar way, for un-
doubtedly, though he was completely
unaware of it at the time, he did me the
best turn one friend ever did another.
I often think of old Benson, and there
comes a vision of my wife’s face and I
realise what he did for me.
I lost touch with him years ago, but
I’ve often wished I knew where he was
so that I could express my gratitude in
some practical way. He little knows
what happiness he brought me that day
he ran away with my wife.
Emmster P.
4* 4* 4* 4*
They say that I’m the picture of my dad;
In fact, I’m often taken for his brother.
And while discussing doubles let me add
My wife’s a faithful talkie of her
mother !
P. O. M. C.
4* 4* 4« 4*
No Bother At All.
“ ‘I told him I couldn’t be bothered arguing
with him,’ said petitioner.”— Divorce report.
The inexperienced husband may say
“Lucky bloke!” but there may be a
catch in it. Maria sometimes voices the
same thought.
“I couldn’t be bothered arguing with
you,” she says disdainfully.
I might, of course, respond with a
fervent “Thank heaven for that, then,”
but it would be sheer waste of words.
I make no sign at all, but go on reading
the paper. At least, until the natural
follow-up comes.
“But don’t you dare take that insulting
attitude with me, Aitchem,” pursues
Maria. “I won’t stand it from you or
any other man.”
“But I never said”
“Yes ; / know very well you never said
anything. Not out loud. That’s just
your low cunning. Trying to hide your
thoughts, because you know you’re
hopelessly in the wrong, and you’re not
man enough to admit it. Why, if you
were innocent you would be the first to
resent such a charge against you. But
do you? No ; because you can’t. All
you can do is sit there sneering behind
your paper. But you’re badly mistaken
if you think you are going to get away
with that, Aitchem! I’ve made up my
mind to have it out with you . . .”
Which of course she does, and that’s
only the start of the argument.
If you can call it argument. There is
this much truth in her statement, how-
ever: An argument is no bother to her
at all. She likes it.
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Another drastic economy drive in Holly-
wood.” —Film guff.
Yes, we’ve noticed that they are send-
ing out films now without any story in
them.
4*
“Fade-out.”
“Ordered a complete rest, Darryl F. Zanuck
is spending a month in Snowy Sun Valley,
Idaho. Half a carload of movie apparatus
went with him. During his vacation Zanuck
will cut two feature pictures, revise four rough
scripts, interview visiting directors and make
daily decisions over the telephone.”—
—Film blurb.
Silas P. Guffblower, the celluloid Czar,
lay at death’s door. Around him were
“Better hurry, Dig—cookhouse sounded five minutes ago”
mutely gathered five hundred of his
favorite “yes” men. So weak was he
that he could scarcely cope with the
battery of six telephones that stood at
the bedside. Testily he flung aside the
six scripts he had just O.K.’d and with
a shaky hand signed the contract that
gave his leading male star 250,000 dollars
for two pictures.
He raised a critical ear as from the
amplifier over his bed came a torrent
of sound, the studio orchestra rehearsing
the musical score of his latest and great-
est extravaganza, “Guffblower’s Follies
of 1940.” Projected on the far wall, the
day’s “rushes” from his new opus, “Borne
on the Breeze,” became a meaningless
blur and the talkie Titan sensed the end
was near.
“Hiram!” he croaked shakily. His
assistant director bent over him, “Get
this straight. Here’s the order of the
funeral. I want four elephants with
howdahs to lead and one hundred slaves
to pull the hearse by hand. Behind the
mourning-coaches there will be a score
of ‘lovelies’ on white horses doing the
Lady Godiva act. Round off the pro-
cession with a parade of pumas, lions,
tigers and half a dozen camels.
“Remember, I want seven cameras
shooting. The crowd scenes you can
‘dub’ in ‘Connors Go to Congress,’ and
the cortege will do for ‘The Death of
the Sheik.’ ” A spasm of coughing shook
the hierarch of Hollywood, and as he
died he hiccoughed “Sound! Camera!
Action! ”
Melton.
Causation.
My temples ache, my brow is chill,
My nerves are crawling on the ceiling.
In fact, I feel extremely ill;
But what has caused this dreadful
feeling ?
Last night I must have caught a touch
Of something terribly severe . . .
I wonder did I drink too much
Cold water after all that beer?
T.W.N.
Face Revalue.
“Charm counts, but most men marry their
wives for their looks.” — Women’s paper.
In life, as in the magic realm of books,
A comely face will court a man’s
advances.
By prettiness, the minx some booby
hooks;
By loveliness, the jade a sage entrances.
But while I, too, fell for my lady’s looks
I didn’t bargain for her scathing
glances !
P.O.M.C.
Women and War.
The Drill Committee of the Women’s
Auxiliary Social Patriotic Services was
in session. Mrs. Maud Persimmon, the
buxom president, resplendent in her
officer’s uniform, was making the best
use of her strong baritone voice to make
herself heard.
“Well, ladies,” she was saying, “as you
know, we have decided on the uniform —
I am wearing mine to give you an idea
of what it looks like. It is off-khaki, with
skirt five inches above the ankle, double-
breasted tunic with nigger-brown facings
over a Magyar blouse in Elephant’s
Breath with gussets just above the cor-
sage line, and matching forage-cap with
accessories. We have arranged with
Mark Jones’s to have them tailored for
members, from s.w. to x. 0.5., at six
guineas. I”
Here Mrs. Euphemia Splosh, the glint
of battle in her eye and her toque
threatening to bob off its precarious
perch on the side of her head, leaped up.
“I think it’s ridiculous having a Magyar
blouse. A shirt-blouse would be far
better —one that did right up to the neck
to take a tie to match the facings. And
Elephant’s Breath is a silly color. I
think, we shall have a buttercup shade
with six contrasting buttons.”
Amid rival remarks, such as “Who is
she to air her views about colors? Look
at the frumpish-looking frock she’s wear-
ing!” and “I think she’s right, Millie.
Elephant’s Breath wouldn’t suit my eyes
or complexion, I’m sure,” hubbub broke
out.
. “Now, ladies,” boomed Mrs. Persim-
mon.
“Another thing, why can’t we have a
more distinctive Sam Browne belt? The
S.W.A.C.S. and the W.E.M.S. have the
ordinary sorts, and we ought to go one
better” “I favor a simple band of
dark tan Petersham belting and an accor-
dion-pleated skirt” “Well, I think
Mrs. Persimmon should have the final
say. She may be a dud as an 0.C., Amy,
and not know ‘left-wheel’ from ‘about-
turn,’ but you must admit she gives a
marvellous afternoon tea”
“Order, please, ladies”
“If this Mrs. Splosh doesn’t like it let
her get out. Nobody asked her for her
opinion, anyway” “Yes, she’s caused
enough trouble already” “I won’t
shut up! I’m just as much entitled to
a say as you or anybody else.”
“Ladies, please”
That night, after Henry Splosh had
cleaned up the things from the tea he
had prepared for himself, he sank with
a sigh into the armchair. Henry was
fat and fiftyish. He had just opened
his paper when Euphemia bounced in.
Even before she had got her hat off she
started in about “that Mrs. Persimmon.”
“Her, with her airs and graces! As if
she knew anything about soldiering! No
wonder she made herself the Comman-
dant! With her bust, if she had to form
fours and number-off like the rest of us
she’d have to step back a couple of feet
behind everyone else so that she’d be in
line.”
“But I thought your O.C. was Mrs.
Parsons?”
“Don’t be such a fool, Henry. You
know she had charge of the W. 0.8.5.,
and a proper messer she was, too. They
were a bad enough crowd. But the
W.A.S.P.S. are worse. I’ve never met
such a lot of harebrained, catty women.
Just because this Mrs. Persimmon has
a big home at Pymble the rest of them
simply crawl to her. It’s sickening.”
“So you’re in the W.A.S.P.S. now,
eh?” said Henry mildly. “What do they
do? Not driving any more lorries, I
hope. I don’t want to part out another
fiver as I did when you backed your lorry
against that lim”
“That’s right, put your measly money
before my patriotic work! That’s all the
thanks a woman gets for helping her
country in time of need. Anyway, we’re
not driving lorries. We’re drilling to fit
ourselves to protect Australia in case of
invasion. We could do better than some
of the men —especially the ones who are
getting too fat to bend,” she added
pointedly.
“And did they make you O.C. as you
said they should?”
“No. And after seeing what stupids
most of them were I wouldn’t have taken
it on if they’d begged me. I’ve
decided to resign. They don’t
care anything at all about their
drill—all they think of is pulling
each other to pieces. Even the
title of the organisation—
W.A.S.P.S. —is silly.”
“W.A.S.P.S., eh?” mused
Henry, half to himself; “it
seems appropriate enough.”
“What’s that?” demanded
Euphemia sharply.
“Nothing, my dear, just think-
ing that I’m sorry you had to leave. I’m
sure you’d have had a company of well-
disciplined ladies under your command,”
said Henry diplomatically. He was glad
that he’d get a hot feed again at night.
A week or so later Henry came home
one night to see a note stuck under a
tin of baked beans. He had just settled
into his armchair after washing-up when
Euphemia rushed in, her eyes popping
excitedly, triumph unmistakably written
on her flushed face.
“What do you think!” she said gaily.
“I’ve been made 0.C.!”
Henry looked up. “But I thought
you said you were going to resign from
the W.A.S.P.S.?” he said.
“Whose talking about the W.A.S.P.S.?
Mrs. Stanwell and I started the Sydney
Citizens’ Reserve Auxiliary of the
Women’s National Independent Emer-
gency Services. It sounds much more
important than that other crowd. We
got a committee together, and they ap-
pointed me Commandant, with Mary as
my deputy. Our uniform is to be mid-
night-blue tunic and skirt, with fully-
rucked magenta blouse gathered at the
waist. We’re going to have epaulettes,
and mine will have crossed batons and
a crown! We’re going to wear a ducky
little turned-up hat with a matching
feather and navy accessories, a suede
Sam Browne and gunmetal stockings. We
will be”
“I know,” broke in Henry gloomily,
“known as the 5.C.R.A.W.N.1.E.5.!”
Bo.


LIMITED
Stock and Station Agents
Buyers and Sellers are advised to consult our
Special Stock and Property Department, or
our Branches.
BRANCHES:
NEW SOUTH WALES: ALBURY, LOCKHART, Rand, Walla
Walla, Griffith, Leeton, WAGGA
WAGGA, DENILIQUIN.
VICTORIA: ECHUCA, Kyabram, CASTERTON,
MILDURA.
Chief Representatives and Attorneys in Victoria for
THE
STATE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Cover issued for all Classes of Fire, Accident and Marine
Insurances at lowest current rates.
YOUNGHUSBAND
LIMITED
Registered Office:
94-96 KING STREET
MELBOURNE
Business,Rollery,Etc.
“Gingering-Up” the Effort
In view of the extraordinary nature
of the times not a few people feel that
extraordinary measures are required to
meet them. Especially is this so in re-
lation to money matters. Money has a
big job to do in war-time, and on this
particular occasion it has a bigger job
than usual. Soldier isn’t clashing with
soldier on the same scale as in 1914-18 ;
this time machines fight machines to a
greater extent, and the production of
mechanical war equipment costs a lot
of money. Therefore some people feel
that a special stimulation of the monetary
system is wanted to bring about quick
parity with the enemy in regard to aero-
planes, tanks, guns, etc. In Australia
there has been a loud outcry against
“deflationary” tactics by those respon-
sible for the national monetary policy.
It is all deeply interesting and full of
snares, as well as being a particularly
vital matter.
A great deal of action is required to
win a war. That is elementary. Slowness
of behavior, slow thinking and reluctance
to do one’s part are fatal when an
aggressive, organised enemy is on the
doorstep. Diplomacy and politics are
no good without the backing of armed
counter-activity. How, then, may we
reach the desired position of armament
most quickly?
There are many people who think with
the mind of a certain type of suburban
real-estate agent. When prices of land
are rising and there is “plenty of money
around” the agent does a good business,
especially if there is someone in the
district to “talk-up” the possibilities of
the place. Spec, building goes on, every-
one wants to buy, high prices are paid,
and those in the real-estate and building
business do well for the time being.
On the surface, there seems to be a great
deal of production and activity. But
it is much ado about nothing. Usually
a short time afterwards it is found
that the district was overboomed,
prices paid were too high, values drop,
mortgages become onerous, and the estate
agent sits in his office and sighs for the
“good old days.”
And others beside the agent sigh. The
builder, the speculator, the furnisher, etc.,
all may have something of the same out-
look. The laborer, too, found money
“easy” in boom times.
The good time that was had by all —
or nearly all—was had at someone else’s
expense. People who bought the homes
paid too much, and now they are dissatis-
fied. The builder is out of a job because
nothing scares people off new investments
like a boom and a bust. Even people
who want to build themselves a home
become afraid. The result of the boom
is that actual production of homes is
lessened. The real way to increase a
sustained demand for a thing is to
cheapen it, not to make it dear, as hap-
pens in a boom.
Boom-and-bust methods are no way to
carry on a war. Something a good
deal more intelligent is necessary. A
war creates a large-scale demand for
munitions as well as for many things
used in civilian life in peace-time. The
demand is definite and urgent. Under
these conditions the nation is usually in
a mood for sacrifice or contribution.
Given clear-headed and energetic leader-
ship, as well as a fair distribution of the
burdens of war, there should be no need
whatever for special monetary stimula-
tion of a kind that is known to be,
at best, of only a , passing advantage, and
which is also known to increase the cost
of the job it is intended to help perform
at least twofold.
Stimulation of “activity” by monetary
manipulation usually creates only para-
sitic activity—activity by speculators and
the like. Ignoring the question of a
boom’s aftermath, during a boom there
is rarely a great increase in the produc-
tion of things that are wanted. A boom
is usually like a boil on the neck; it
may be very prominent, but is of no real
value.
We don’t want any disastrous extrava-
gances of the boom nature now. The first
essential towards creating the necessary
munitions production is to find out what
is necessary. Then the question of
whether production is an actual technical
possibility in this country has to be in-
vestigated, the time factor being taken
“Excuse me, fireman, but is there a Mrs. Higginbotham living in these
flats?”
into account. With the conviction that
we know what we want, and that the
men and materials are available, the only
limit to our productive capacity then
becomes the extent to which the nation
as a whole is prepared to contribute in
labor, living-standards and property
towards the war effort. Money comes
into the question only as an abstract
quantity if it is properly handled. If it
is tampered with it comes into the picture
as a highly disorganising factor.
There should be no thought of boom-
ing materials or wages up and charging
them to the Government.” That is what
some had visions of doing when war
broke out. Profiteering, by Labor as well
as Capital, is one of the vicious internal
enemies in war-time. It is a Fifth
Columnist. Remarkably effective steps
have been taken to stop that sort ot
thing in the Commonwealth since war
broke out. Excessive profits also are
being taxed, and they will be taxed more
heavily still later on.
It is probable that methods of finan-
cing a war that don’t involve spectacular
expenditure of money are puzzling to
some people. During the Great War
many companies, especially those engaged
in manufacturing and shipping, made
record profits, largely at the expense of
an increase in the national debt and the
cost of living, an increase in the taxation
rate, and a charge being placed on the
general future prosperity of the Common-
wealth. In 1920 we had a slump, ana
in 1930 we made full payment for the
evasive means adopted 12 or 15 years
earlier for meeting war costs.
The inflationary methods followed in
financing the 1914-18 war served no
useful purpose. The state of armament
attained could have been achieved much
more cheaply and just as efficiently had
we dealt with the problem in a more
realistic manner. Money is of no physical
value at any time ; it merely represents
an elastic form of bookkeeping. And
money doesn’t think or plan or organise
or do things of its own accord. All
that has to be done by human organisers
and workers, from Essington Lewises and
Treasury officials downwards. Money
merely keeps a record of who pays and
who receives.
, r
Results of the childish attempts of
some depositors to evade what they
imagine is coming in the shape of wealth
conscription showed up in a large m-
crease in the note issue between June 1/
and June 24. There was a jump of
£4,000,000 in the issue increasing it to
£60,875,215, and all but about £500,000
left the Commonwealth Bank and went
into the hands of the public and the
trading banks. Apparently hoarding of
notes is going on. Apart from the pos-
sibility of ravages by white ants, burglars
and fire, the whole idea is futility itself.
To begin with, interest is lost on with-
drawn deposits. Secondly, it doesnt
seem practicable to conscript wealth ex-
cept by taxation. Thirdly, if conscription
of wealth were practicable, bank records
would show that the money had been
withdrawn, and the drawer would be
asked to account for it. But nothing so
primitive and unreasonable as confisca-
tion of savings as savings is likely to be
considered by the authorities. Finance
for this war will be found through in-
creasing taxation charges. Anyone with
income, anyone who eats food or uses
things that may be taxed, will be asked
for more and more. That is the position.
* * * *
The No. 2 dredge of Tableland Tin,
operating at Return Creek (N.Q.), is
being made by Evans Deakin, of Bris-
bane, and all the steel has been already
ordered from 8.H.P., so that there should
be no question of increased cost of
materials as a result of the war. Steel
supplies are coming to hand with little
delay, and deliveries of parts of the
dredge are expected during the next few
months. Malcolm Newman reports that
the reconditioned No. 1 dredge is now
capable of digging any ground on the
property, and that its capacity is increas-
ing. The monthly returns published
include an allowance of £5OO to cover
office exes., contingencies and other
items, so that the profit claimed is ap-
proximately on a net basis. Newman
believes that the co. s financial arrange-
ments will see the construction pio-
oramme through. After an excellent
month in. May the No 1 dredge is
momentarily turning back through tail-
ings etc., but independent authorities
agree that the ground is good. The con-
centrate goes 75 P-c. metallic tin, and
is worth a bit more than £-00 a ton on
the property. When No. 2 dredge gets
going Tableland should be the biggest
tin-producer in the Commonwealth. It
has been a sharemarket disappointment
to date, partly because of haphazard
placing of the scrip, but the long-term
view is not unpiomising. »


O.S.K. LINE
OSAKA SYOSEN KAISYA
BUSINESS MEN AND TOURISTS
should travel by
NEW, FAST MOTOR VESSELS
to
JAPAN, SOUTH AMERICA and AFRICA
Also Special Round the World Trip
European Cuisine and Accommodation
For Particulars, Fares, etc., apply
BIRT AND COMPANY (PTY.) LIMITED
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
8W1421.
TAKE IT ■ Try it on your Job!
Step into the driving seat yourself . . . keep your own figures on its operating
costs . . . doing work on your own job and you will find, as thousands of
other pastoralists and agriculturalists have found . . . that “Caterpillar” does
your work at the lowest possible fuel and upkeep cost.
There isn’t a job on the land where dependable, mobile, low-cost power is
essential that “Caterpillar” will not tackle more efficiently.
Ask for a demonstration on your place at any time to suit your convenience.
CATERPILLAR
REG. US. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE
TRACTORS
DISTRIBUTORS
New South Wales: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON
PTY. LTD., Unwin’s Bridge Rd., St. Peters,
Sydney.
Queensland: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY.
LTD., 102 Melbourne Street, Brisbane.
Victoria and Tasmania: WM. ADAMS &
CO., LTD., 521 Collins Street, Melbourne.
West Australia: WIGMORES,
61 3 Wellington Street, Perth.
LIMITED,
South Australia: THE S.A. TRACTOR COMPANY,
231 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
810.30.40
At long last something worth while
appears to be doing in regard to fish-
canning on the Australian coast. In
southern N. S. Wales, Bass Strait islands,
Tasmania and South Australia particu-
larly canneries are already active putting
salmon, tuna, snapper, lobsters, scollops,
garfish, mullet and tommy-ruff into tins
and marketing their products throughout
the Commonwealth. Other canneries are
being planned, including one enterprise
by Cam and Sons, of Sydney, and another
by a group of well-known businessmen
in the same city. Particular attention is
being given to the possibility of obtain-
ing commercial quantities of pilchards
(sardines) off the eastern coast, and barra-
coota is also attracting the attention of
the C.S. and I.R.
* * * *
In Britain the use of flax products, of
which linen is the commonest example,
for domestic purposes is forbidden. The
demand for war uses is so great that
the British Government is offering a grant
of £2 an acre for grassland ploughed
and sown with flax. Extension of culti-
vation is proceeding in Northern Ireland
and Scotland, and the Dominions are
being looked to ; in Australia a grant
of £4 an acre is being made for flax
cultivation, plus free seed. More than
20,000 acres is expected to be under
cultivation next year. Formerly the prin-
cipal sources of Britain’s supply were the
U.S.S.R., Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania and
Poland—now all closed to Britain; In
Maoriland some really remarkable re-
sults have been obtained in the South
Island, where world’s-record harvests of
fibre were won from a small acreage. It
is aimed to harvest 800 tons of fibre
during 1940.
* * * *
W. R. Carpenter shares had fallen to
325. 6d. last week-end —a drop from a
“highest” of 465. this year. In the same
time Burns Philp ords. have fallen from
565. to 495. 6d. Both are in the same sort
of business —Island trading and general
merchandising—though B.P. has more
outside investments than Carpenter’s,
Queensland Insurance and Penney’s (a
chain-store concern) representing a fairly
substantial capital outlay. The main
reason for the fall in Carpenter’s shares
in comparison with B.P. scrip is that a
particularly large portion of Carpenter’s
business is done in Mandated Territory.
Hence the yield of 6 p.c. obtainable from
Carpenter scrip compared with 4 p.c.
from B.P. It seems that Carpenter shares
would be good buying if Germany
doesn’t get back its old portion of New
Guinea. And there are plenty of people
ready to give Germany just about Buck-
ley’s hope. In any case, if Hitler is able
to put himself in a position where Man-
dated N.G. goes back to him, is he likely
to stop at that? Won’t other shares and
property be affected too? But the market
chose t.o be nervous on this matter last
week and accepted low prices for all
Edie Creek and Bulolo gold scrip as well.
* * * *
As suggested here a couple of weeks
ago, as the “deadline” approached for
the taking-up of Australasian Paper and
Cumberland new ords. there was a
further weakening in the market, some
speculative traffic in the rights having
been conducted by people who didn’t
intend to find ss. a share for application
and allotment on June 28. Going back
to early in May, A.P. and P. rights came
on the market at 7s. each, dropping during
the month to 4s. sd. Later they sagged
to 2s. 10s., recovered to 3s. Bd., slackened
again, and last week drifted to Is. lid.
Fully-paid A.P. and P. new ords. sold
as low as 21s. 6d. when they first
came on, then firmed to 225. At
this stage Cumberland rights were
selling at Bd. At 225. fully-paid A.P. and
P. ords. would return £7 ss. per cent,
on an 8 p.c. div. basis —an excellent yield
from such a well-established industry.
The Australian paper and pulp industry
is still unable to cope with the demand
for its products, and so far as can be
seen it has a bright future. Liberal
depreciation allowance has been part of
A.P.M.’s policy in the past.
* * * *
“Pigge”: Cellulose Australia, Ltd.,
which is building a mill at Millicent
(S.A.) for the pulping of thinnings from
the State Government’s pine forests,
hopes to start production of cardboards,
leatherboards, strawboards and some
classes of paper early next year.
Machinery is on the way from America.
This show has entered into a healthy
rivalry with Australian Paper Manufac-
turers, Ltd., for Adelaide’s supplies of
waste-paper. Businesshouses used to give
their waste-paper to A.P.M. mainly for
the pleasure of being rid of it, but then
the Cellulose Co. came into the market
and there’s been some competition in
prices. Patriotic societies canvass every
metropolitan home now for used news-
papers, etc., which are worth from 15s.
to 21s. a ton, while kraft paper brings
up to £4 a ton. A.P.M.’s Maryvale (Vic.)
pulp mill, drawing on short-fibred
eucalyptus hardwood for its basic pulp-
ing supplies, needs the waste-paper col-
lections and as much soft pinewood as it
can get to provide a longer-fibred blend-
ing for pulping.
* * * *
It is not widely known that War
Saving Certificates are free of both State
and Federal income tax. They are also
free of all stamp duty, and are bearer
securities —that is, the title passes merely
by handing them over.
* * * *
There was a market for Holeproof
ords. in Melbourne last , week at par. It
is a 10 p.c. stock, an interim div. being
due in September next. Support for the
shares hasn’t been buoyant for a con-
siderable time, though, following the
presentation of the last accounts (very
satisfactory ones) there was a temporary
firming to 255. The co. has a strong
organisation and a big market for both
silk and woollen hosiery.
* * * *
An interesting investment stock that
fell early during the process of H tier’s
overrunning of Western Europe is
Adelaide Steam. Not so long ago these
shares were selling at 365.; they fell to
28s. 6d. on fairly substantial turnover,
and then for a week or two dealings
were rare. There were some sales around
275. last week, but buyers eventually be-
came more prominent than sellers. On
a 7 p.c. div. basis the yield at 275. 6d. is
£5 10s. per cent. In the 1938-39 term
the co. paid p.c.—interim p.c. and
final 4 p.c. This term an interim of 3 p.c.
went out —in March. A final is due in
September. Both the co.’s inter-State pas-
senger vessels have been chartered by the
Government, but compensation is reason-
able, though some of the payment may
be deferred until the end of the war.
The co. has substantial investments out-
side the shipping business, and its fleet
is far more valuable than the figure at
which it appears in the books.
* * * *
Gordon and Gotch ords. again sold
at the low figure of 345. 6d. last week.
The co.’s half-yearly div. was at the rate
of 12 p.c. p.a., against 14 p.c. p.a. over
the preceding 24 months; the old rate
could have been maintained, but, because
of the difficulty of the international situa-
tion and the uncertainty of the taxation
position in Maoriland, the 2 p.c. bonus
was discontinued. The last lot of bulk-
imported American magazines passed
through the co.’s hands last month. How-
ever, full supplies of English periodicals
are coming to hand, and most Australian
papers are maintaining their sales. If the
12 p.c. d.'v. can be kept going the yield
at 345. 6d. is 7 p.c. If the div. drops to
10 p.c. the return would be 5.8 p.c. At
last wee Vs market price very little was
being paid for goodwill, and as a holding
proposition the shares possessed special
attractions.
* * * *
Few classes of investment shares have
suffered more market depreciation than
chain-store issues. Woolworths crd. scrip
has fallen from 20s. 3d. this year to
13s. 6d., while G. J. Coles ords. have
slumped from 765. 3d. to 525. 6d. It
was . feared to begin with that Wool-
worths, which pays a \l\ p.c. div., would
have an exceptionally heavy rate of
excess-profits tax to bear, but as the law
stands at the moment E.-P.T. should not
of itself result in any spectacular cut in
the div. rate. On a 15 p.c. div. the ss.
scrip at 13s. 6d. would still yield more
than 5 p.c. It is possible that with restric-
tions being placed on the issue of new
capital the co. will have to finance ex-
pansion in its chain more out of profits
than hitherto, and that may have some
effect on div. policy. Nevertheless the
scrip is interesting at the present low
level.
G. J. Coles’s ord. div. has been either
17| p.c. or 18f p.c. p.a. over the past
three complete financial years 15 p.c.
div. and 3| p.c. bonus in 1938-39. The
interim paid in January was of 15 p.c.
p.a. The shares now obtainable at
525. 6d. would return £5 13s. 6d. per cent,
if only 15 p.c. were paid for the term
which closed at the week-end. A final
div. is due this month.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
BRITAIN FACES INVASION.
[Even with France still an ally Britain was preparing,
or being warned to prepare, against invasion, as shown
in these (condensed) articles and reports. The first,
written by historian Professor F. J. C. Hearnshaw, is
from London “Times,” 4/6/’4o.]
Hitler has told Great Britain plainly what he
intends to do. In Mein Kampf, it is true, he concen-
trates his fury on France, under whose yoke Germany
was groaning at the time when, languishing in a
Bavarian prison, the future Fiihrer penned his raging
manifesto. More recently he has diverted the main tor-
rent of his hate to Britain, and has clearly indicated
the fate in store for the British if once he gets them
under his heel.
His faithful henchman, Professor Ewald Banse,
in his Germany, Prepare for War, gives full particulars
of the projected conquest. In view of the fact that a
German attempt at invasion is probable, it may be
worth while to summarise Banse’s ideas.
First, he examines the causes of Germany’s defeat
in the last war. They include failure to occupy Hol-
land as well as Belgium at the outbreak of the
struggle ; neglect to seize the French Channel ports
when they lay undefended at her mercy ; ill-use of
the then formidable German fleet, and consequent
postponement of the essential invasion of England
until the formation of Kitchener’s Army made it too
risky to attempt. “It is a great pity,” he says, “that
our Higher Command left the English the time and
the peace necessary to raise such an army.”
Secondly, Banse shows how in the “next war” —
that is, the war now raging—the German mistakes in
the last must be obviated:
(1) Holland, Belgium and the French coast must
be occupied. Then “to get an army across the Channel
to the Kent coast should prove relatively simple, parti-
cularly if the attacker holds the French Channel ports
of Dunkirk, Calais and Boulogne, from which he can
clear the Channel of English ships with artillery.”
(2) A second and even more important region to
be occupied is East Anglia, for “the Great Ouse, which
flows into the Wash, and a number of streams flowing
into the Blackwater Estuary which are separated from
the sources of the Ouse by a few miles only make the
peninsula into a regular island which provides an in-
vading army with safe and roomy quarters, from
which it can threaten London (which is quite close,
and without natural defences on that side) and also
the industrial Midlands not far away.”
(3) The conquest of the Midland region—whose
industries make it even more vitally important than
London itself —can be rendered sure by a supplemen-
tary invasion from Ireland, and “if this, the most
densely-populated and highly-industrialised part of
England, were once gripped as with a forceps from
the west and from the south-east England would be
pretty well finished.”
The prospect of finishing England fills Pro-
fessor Banse with delight: “We confess that it gives
us pleasure to meditate on the destruction that must
sooner or later overtake this proud and seemingly
invincible nation, and to think that this country, which
was last conquered in 1066, will once more obey a
foreign master.”
* $ # * *
(From an article by Major-General J. F. C. Fuller,
in London “Sunday Express.)
On September 27, 1066, William, Duke of Nor-
mandy—to become known as “The Conqueror”—at
midnight set sail from the Somme in 696 open boats
and landed his armored host at Pevensey at nine
o’clock the following morning. Harold was then at
York. On hearing of the landing, he marched south,
to be defeated at Hastings on October 14.
Can that happen again? In 1805 Napoleon
thought so. Then, because of Nelson’s victory at
Trafalgar, he changed his mind. Nevertheless, the
question remains.
Whatever nur enemy is, he is no fool, and any-
one who has followed his unceasing broadcast attacks
on Britain’s economic and financial systems must
realise that he is fully aware that direct invasion of
Britain is not possible unless it is preceded by economic
collapse.
Britain’s weakest link is that, instead of growing,
it imports the bulk of its food —in peace-time
£400,000,000 worth a year. If this food can be stopped
entering Britain’s ports Britain is blockaded. If
Britain’s exports, which pay for this food, can be
prevented leaving its ports Britain is also blockaded,
because the pound sterling will lose purchasing power,
and in consequence the cost of food will rise. This
cost today must be well over £500,000,000, and it is
steadily rising.
Not only is the maintenance of import trade vital
to Britain but also the maintenance of export trade,
and it is against this that the Germans will strike:
(1) At Britain’s ports ; (2) at Britain’s manufacturing
centres, not only those engaged on munition produc-
tion but also those producing marketable commodi-
ties ; and (3) as these blows will be dealt by their air-
power, their first objective will be airfields and air-
craft factories.
As (3) reduces Britain’s defensive power, more and
more will (1) and (2) come into operation, until a
time may arrive when Britain is reduced to the verge
of starvation. Then a fourth objective will enter the
field, the direct air attack on the civil will in order
to cap starvation with panic. Then, and then only, in
my view, will direct invasion become possible, not
alone by troop-carrying aircraft and parachutists but
also by sea: when, in my opinion, it is more likely to
take on the form successfully adopted by William the
Conqueror than the one abortively prepared for by
Napoleon. Instead of the open boats depicted on the
Bayeux tapestry, as Admiral von Liitzow has all but
told us in his broadcasts, speedboats are likely to
replace them.
Should each of these boats carry one amphibious
tank and, say, 50 armed men, and should their cross-
ing of the Channel be protected by barrages of mines
and powerful escorts of ’planes, then 696 of these
vessels might in upwards of an hour land on Pevensey
Beach 696 tanks and 34,800 soldiers.
Such is the worst that could happen. Not so
much because in the past 20 years we neglected to
strengthen and modernise our navy, army and air
force, but because during the last hundred we let our
farms and fields go to rack and ruin.
*****
(New York “Times” London correspondent.)
It would be madness to suggest that the Ger-
mans could land enough troops in Britain to attempt
anything like a military conquest. The British Army
is certainly not large, but neither is the German Navy,
and when it is considered that it would take 30 large
troop ’planes to land a single battalion the prospect
of such an accomplishment is not great.
It is reasoned by experts, however, that the object
of such a German invasion would not be military con-
quest but would merely be to create diversion, pro-
duce a psychological shock among the people and
carry out certain large jobs of sabotage. Even so,
such a German attempt would likely amount to little
more than a unique new form of mass suicide.
Look, for example, at the precautions the British
have taken against such attack. Any ship approach-
ing by night has to escape notice of the watchful eye
of the coastal command. Then there are listening-
posts and men who stand on guard at almost every
available landing spot surveying the coastline through
Bravery, Endurance , Fortitude!
(“Zee,” in London “Daily Mirror,” on the B.E.F. in Belgium.)
powerful telescopes. These men are in contact with
fighter command centres farther inland, and at sight
or sound of enemy ’planes they can call out fighters.
Again assuming success in getting past the first
two lines of defence, the Germans would have their
troubles. Britain is a comparatively small country.
Despite its population of 48,000,000, there are vast
lonely stretches of moor in the North and- West Riding
districts of Yorkshire and there are many deep, deso-
late valleys in the highlands of Scotland, but all over
the moors the Ministry of Home Security has placed
lookouts who do nothing except watch through instru-
ments for any stray ’planes. In addition it is impos-
sible to travel more than 25 miles anywhere in Britain
without running into troops.
There are of course many places where it is con-
ceivable small forces could land in ships, and cer-
tainly there is a fringe of the world’s finest golf
courses all around the island where ’planes could
easily land (one seaside course has urged its members
to carry rifles in their golf bags), but every impor-
tant naval base and all the main shipbuilding and
munitions plants are located in specially protected
areas, each with its own force.
What is feared, however, is swift unrestricted air
warfare. The little fellow may not understand it yet,
but officials do.
*****
(Lord Strabolgi’s views—some of them just as applicable
to Australia.)
We have been preparing for the air blitzkrieg
for two years, and have spent vast sums of money
on A.R.P. We can face what may be coming to us by
direct bombing attack with stout hearts. Hitler and
his confederates, however, control the coasts of
Europe. We can, therefore, expect all sorts of surprises.
Landings on the coast, under cover of darkness,
by heavily-armed bodies of men are not impossible.
More probable still are raids and landings by air-borne
forces. There is certainly an underestimate in some
quarters of how strong those forces can be.
At least 5000 soldiers were dropped by parachute
in Holland and Belgium. Three years ago the Russians
transported a division of 10,000 men by air during
manoeuvres. The advance guard was composed of
parachute troops, then came the aerial troop-carriers
with 30 armed soldiers in each ’plane, and even mobile
artillery and light tanks were carried by air. The
Germans could send a division by air to Britain with-
out a doubt. This army would come without the poS"
sibility of actual conquest, but in order to do as much
damage as possible and as part of the Nazi terror
tactics. Our own air force would dispute their pars-
sage, but a good many might land. The raids would
synchronise with heavy bombing attacks,
To meet this threat a more elaborate organisation
than anything yet attempted is required. The respon-
sibility for home defence rests with a number or
authorities—the War Office, Admiralty, Air Ministry,
Home Office, Local Authorities under the Ministry of
Health are all concerned. Each fighting service has
its Chief of Staff and his committees. Their duties
overlap, and decisions are bound to be held up under
the present system, or rather lack of system. Far too
many "authorities” have to be consulted at present
before any important action can he taken,
th j s . Vlta * matter to well-meaning co . .
asking for trouble. The people are willing, their
hearts are stout, and we have immense latent resources
hm we now need supreme direction from the top to
ward off the dangers which threaten our land and oui
homes. • nnr „ nt
not * et U i! pUt u y - ) ril Mi cpr i 8 a it.
people because shotguns are being mobi * "
bore shotgun firing slugs is a most formidable weapon
at close range as every big-game hunter knows. As
s ° o “ as P°® slb l e the trained soldiers, of w
thousands are available, should h ,
guns which have been replaced by Brens, grenades
a 9 d hght mortars. But we need armed ,
kind everywhere ; so that every village is a
nest tor me invaders.
*** , *
(From a article by
When you land in a town along
England’s south-east coast you instinc-
tively expect an atmosphere of drama,
haste and fear. But you do not find it.
You have to pull yourself up and re-
member that the war is only 20 miles
away. Everything is calm and quiet and
unworried —on the surface. You might
be walking on the streets of any seaside
town in those weeks before the main tide
of summer visitors begins its flow. Then
you notice the uniforms.
There is every sort of uniform —-
army, navy, air force and all the women’s
forces. There are steel helmets and gas-
masks. There are naval and military
cars.
Uniforms, aeroplanes, warships,
these are the obvious outward signs of
the war that is edging nearer and nearer.
In spite of the apparent calmness and the
quietness the war thrusts its way through
in a hundred different ways.
At night recently you could see and
hear the real war across there, over that
terribly narrow strip of water. With
glasses you could bring the battle’s flame
and smoke right under your eye. One
night the Channel horizon was lit by the
reflection of the flames of devastation
wrought by the Nazi bombers. People
stood and watched it, soberly, quietly.
You could feel the thump and thud of gunfire. The
muffled sounds rose to a crescendo of vibration, doors
and windows rattled and the earth seemed to shake.
Almost any time of the day or night you felt that
muffled thud in the distance and realised that death
and destruction from the skies were pouring down on
our boys 20 miles away. At night you could glimpse
flashes of light on the horizon, and remember that
just over there were Calais, Dunkirk, Boulogne—and
the most critical battles of Britain’s history.
The war moves nearer. There is the whine of
the air-raid sirens, the roaring cacophony of anti-
aircraft guns, the high-pitched drone of aeroplanes,
the hard clatter of machine-guns.
* * * * JS
C From Manchester “Guardian.”)
One hundred trains took children from east and
south-east towns and areas within 10 miles of the
coast. This was the second evacuation of these chil-
dren, for they had previously been evacuated. Parents
and children took leave of each other at schools,
whence the children were shepherded to trains by
teachers. Arrangements allowed that the children in
a family, though they might not be attending the
same school, would travel together under the care of
the eldest child.
The children had gas-masks and haversacks con-
taining their identity cards, ration books, food for the
day and a change of clothing.
*****
(From the “Times.”)
Signposts and milestones have now been
obliterated or removed from nearly every road in the
country by local highway authorities on instructions
from the Ministry of Transport; route numbers have
been taken down, and in some places street' names
have been painted out. Some idea of the numbers
affected may be gained from the fact that the Auto-
mobile Association has supplied at least 100,000 road
signs.
*****
(From London “Observer”)
The Ministry of Food has divided the country
into 17 divisional areas and 800 local areas, each
with its depot and buffer depot for the purposes of
food distribution in an emergency. The 800 “little
islets,” said Lord Woolton, would have enough food


HOW AND WHEN
TO SERVE WINE
Full details as to the service
of Wine—the dish, glass and
temperature—are all contained
in pamphlet “How and When
to Serve Wine,” which is
obtainable on application to
Messrs. G. Gramp & Sons,
Ltd., “Orlando” Wines, 24
Jamieson Street, Sydney.
Head Office: South Australia.
Branches: Sydney, Melbourne,
Perth and Brisbane.
ESSENTIAL SERVICE
a
u
□
n
WINE
ON EVERY TABLE
in them for people in the area to live on for a few
weeks without help coming from outside.
No unauthorised person can now obtain any uni-
form, badge or emblem. The Defence Regulation
reads: “No person shall supply to or make for any
unauthorised person any naval, military, air force,
police, fire brigade, auxiliary fire service or other
official uniform, whether the uniform is British or
foreign, or any badge or emblem supplied or
authorised by any Government department or local or
public authority, or any uniform, badge or emblem so
nearly resembling any such uniform, badge or emblem
as aforesaid as to be calculated to deceive.”
The police and members of the forces are per-
mitted to enter premises believed to contain “apparatus
capable of transmitting signals which is or which has
been so used, whether intentionally or unintentionally,
that assistance might thereby be afforded to the
enemy.”
People are forbidden to possess wireless sets in
cars. Even if the apparatus is not fixed in position,
it will come under the Regulation “if it is in the
vehicle in circumstances in which it can be used or
readily adapted for use.”
Milkmen in towns with a population of more
than 250,000 will not deliver milk to householders
before 6.30 a.m.
*****
{From London “Observer.”)
The Home Defence volunteer force of over half
a million gives freedom to regular troops as the real
repellers of invasion, and as an auxiliary it is being
given an elastic organisation suitable to spare-time
men. There are platoons in factories, cricket clubs
and at bowling greens. They watch the lonely places,
protect works, form static guards, man observation
posts and guard points.
*****
{Field-Marshal Lord Milne.)
The whole country is a fortress today. It is a
new experience for us, but it should fill us with con-
fidence rather than alarm, still less pessimism.
{Arthur Greenwood, M.P. {Lab.), in a broadcast address.)
Every step forward Hitler makes toughens the
spirit and intensifies the determination of our people.
Hitler’s success only strengthens our resistance.
Hitler is biting on granite.
*****
{From an article by Paul Bewsher, “Daily Mail”
correspondent with the 8.E.F., back in England.)
Even the incredible rearguard fight of the B.E.F.
against an overwhelming German force did not make
people in Britain realise the truth. Wherever I went
in London and in the country I found a great deal
of courage, a great deal of doggedness but no sense
of reality, everybody still living in a dream.
I found it necessary to explain again and again
that they must choose between one of two things—
either that Britain becomes a vassal State of Germany
or that it has five or more very difficult years of short
commons and complete self-sacrifice to win against
a very formidable enemy.
There is no question of the ordinary man in
London, or Cardiff, or Bristol, or Birmingham, or
Manchester being protected by the Navy or Royal
Air Force or the Army. He himself is involved, and
he himself must be prepared to accept as much danger
and to suffer as many sacrifices as any soldier in battle
dress or a steel helmet. The German menace is such
that not only has the Channel ceased to exist as a
practical barrier but also that towns in the middle
of Britain are as liable to be the centre of battle
as the sea coast.
We are bound to win through if the spirit of
the people is right. So long as every man and woman
is determined to defend our country England as we
know it will eventually remain ours. Should the
enemy invade Britain, by one way or another, it is
only by an inspired spirit that we can meet them,
hold them, conquer them.
In the hearts of Britain’s people that spirit lies
today. Into the minds of many it has not yet mounted.
* * * * *
(/. A. Spender; London “Sunday Times .”)
If they measured British temperament with their
usual cunning, the Nazis showed a subtle wisdom
in refraining from bombing Britain at the beginning
of the war. A few bombs in those earlier days would
have ended all political quarrels, stopped all grumbling
at the very mild discipline which the Government
was imposing, induced labor to provide just that extra
drive over normal hard work which would have been
invaluable now. It took the invasion of Norway,
Denmark and the Low Countries to impart this
stimulus, but the whole country is now aware that
it has to meet the blindest and cruellest tyranny that
has threatened the world since the days of Attila.
The British Character.
{Condensed from a New York “Times” magazine article
by J. B. Reston.)
Hitting an Englishman on top of the head is
like driving a spike into the ground. The harder you
hit him the firmer he stands.
Character shows up at a time like this. In
the last war the British people proved they could
withstand an incredible battering and come back for
more. They showed the world that they could rebound
when the Germans were on the edge of the Channel
and even when the British people were on the verge
of starvation. With interminable patience they lived
in bad trenches and fought courageously and cheer-
fully ; they still have all the physical courage they
had then.
At the start of the Norwegian campaign Winston
Churchill told the British people that Hitler’s invasion
of Scandinavia Was the greatest strategic blunder since
Napoleon’s invasion of Spain. Three weeks later the
Germans had driven the Allies beyond the Arctic
Circle, yet these people were not and still are not
“ Times-Union,” Rochester, U.S.A.
THE LION NAILS UP.
downhearted. This refusal to worry is a source of
great strength and great weakness. It is strength
because by refusing to worry the British people can
probably stand nervous strain and reverses better than
any people in the world, but it is also a weakness
because they sometimes confuse complacency with
confidence and, being complacent, misjudge the danger
of their position '
Once this is’said, however, it is only fair to note
that they can turn and turn fast if the country’s in-
terest or safety is at stake. Behind their calm exterior
and quiet speech they conceal the quality of anger,
From their earliest days they are drilled in the art
of self-control, and this quality of anger seldom comes
out; when it does, it is something to be feared.
No matter where you go in Britain you seldom
hear a single reference to the possibility of Allied
defeat. The British are shocked when they see
American papers discussing what would happen to
the world if the Germans won. Some are even amused.
They repeat that “the British lose every battle but
the last.” They seem to rejoice in this as if it were
some new formula for success.
TU „ r. A . j. ~ i i • , ~ . .
The first aspect of the Englishmans character is
his capacity for co-operation. The Englishman s first
impulse is to co-operate. When you talk to him,
instinctively his head nods up and down in agreement
TfTu s V w ro n i! 16 d V gr r tho rh with
what you say Corollary to th,s instinct for co-
operation is the Englishman s innate honesty and
therefore his trust in his fellow men. .
Such confidence, co-operation and trust are in
many ways a source of great strength in time of
war. It could be argued that a little less of all three
during the past seven years would have prevented
, ° * j ■ ,
the war or enabled the Allies to fight it on much more
favorable terms ; but, now that the war is here, some
advant are ’ bvio ' us
Reversals might deflnitely have shaken the con-
fidence and hampered the war effort of any other
people. But not in Britain. Of course they exercise
their public-house prerogative and sit around com-
Pining about things in general; but. because of a
cerlain intellectual indolence, because, as they say,
tbcy “hate a fuss," and because of their incredible
confldence in u ,timate vict and their instinct to
co-operate with whatever Government is in power,
th don>t often do anything drastic about it.
K British newspaper men published all the facts
they know about the development of the war with
complete objectivity perhaps the average man would
not F be so pathet ic But here again the habit of
co-operation is so deeply ingrained among publishers
and editors the-; they often short-circuit the whole
truth. Newspapers at the start of the war agreed
t o accept voluntary censorship. They now submit to
the censors whatever they think is
doubtful and publish the rest at their
peril. The Government in no way
forces them to submit their copy, yet
on the whole there is a tendency to
play up optimistic news and play
down the pessimistic.
The British people are tough and
do not need to be handled with kid
gloves. For one thing, they have in-
herited an almost incomparable sense
of duty. The average man in this
country does think of Britain as the
protector of small nations. Being
idealistic, he has about him a great
deal of the crusader. He doesn’t like
to do anything he doesn’t considet
absolutely necessary. He is &n indi-
vidualist and he is unused to having
the State interfere with his private
life ; but, just the same, in time of
crisis all his Government has to do
is to make an urgent appeal and he
will answer it without examining too
much into the reasons why it was
made.
This patriotism somehow is in his
bones. He has a deep sense of his-
tory and almost blind confidence in
the supreme destiny of the British
Empire. He may not know where
Southern Rhodesia is and he may not
be very much excited about the theory
of the white man’s burden ; but he is
proud of his connection and he will
die for his country as readily as any-
body.
Democracy v . Totalitarianism.
C From an article by J. A. Spender in London “Sunday
Times.’’)
The weakness of the democracies as instruments
of war has been sadly illustrated in the last few years.
While their totalitarian enemy was arming they were
arguing, debating, quarrelling, prolonging their
quarrels even after the twelfth hour had struck. The
democratic process is even now running the same
course in the United States, where the struggle of
parties in view of the coming Presidential election cuts
across an all but universal sympathy with the cause of
the Allies and a desire to give it practical expression.
The world of democracy is, in fact, the world of
peace, and its methods and ways of thought can only
with great difficulty be adjusted to a world laid out
for war. In the great reckoning of history this may
be accounted to it for virtue, for otherwise the life
of man would be a perpetual tyranny in intervals
between wars. To prevent this from becoming the
normal way of life for the whole world has been one
of the great aims of the Allies in this war.
Fortunately, another question arises about democ-
racy. Granted that its peace-time virtues—its reliance
on argument and reason, its disbelief in force, its
optimism, its tolerance and good nature —are out of
place on the battlefield, has it not other qualities,
moral and spiritual, which will carry it through adver-
sity, recover the lost ground and win the victory? I
believe it has ; I believe that we shall now see it dis-
playing in the test of war a strength and a staying


power which will surprise those who have relied on
its weakness.
Sometimes one wonders whether in the watches
of the night, when they are free to think their own
thoughts, humane and intelligent Germans are not
asking, What is it all for? What purpose can be
served by this trampling on innocent peoples who
have never offered them any offence, by the destruc-
tion of their towns and villages, the ravaging of their
country, the massacre of the fugitives? Is it merely
that the life which the German tyrant has imposed on
his own people, the servile life of terrorism, shall be
substituted for their free and peaceful existence, with
its roots in history and experience, and adapted
through generations to their nature and character?
Is this an object which can appeal to any intelligent
man or justify the slaughter of German youth?
We may plough through the dreary wastes of
Nazi literature and fail to find in it one humane or
civilising thought. Its theme is power for the sake of
power, submission for the sake of submission, aggran-
disement of one nation without a thought of other
nations, the reduction of all to the condition to which
her dictators have reduced their own country, ruth-
less persecution everywhere of .Tews and all other
races supposed to be inferior.
For a time the intoxicating sense of winning vic-
tories may reconcile the German people to the hideous
cost in life and suffering which they entail, but this is
a transient emotion against which we must match our
faith that the world never will be, as it never has been,
conquered in this way. The one certainty at the end
of it all is that this tyranny will pass. Great as their
capacity may be for organising force, the idea of gov-
erning by terrorism, which is the beginning and the
end of their philosophy, is a vain and sterile ambi-
tion which sooner or later will bring its own nemesis.
Ireland’s Position.
(Condensed from a London “Daily Sketch” article by
“Candidas.”)
Ireland is a neutral, and Britain respects her
neutrality. No British troops are there, no British
aeroplanes, no British
ships of war. The de-
fence of the Irish Free
State is the responsi-
bility of her Govern-
ment and her Govern-
ment alone.
Britain has no
share in it. In a uni-
verse entirely com-
posed of civilised
people with regard for
the rights of others —
that is to say, in a uni-
verse so fortunate as
not to include a Ger-
many —Britain would
contemplate that con-
dition of things with
nothing but approval,
coupled with profound and genuine remorse for the
wrongs and tribulations that Ireland suffered at our
hands for eight centuries, and for which no Briton is
an apologist now. The rise of Nazi Germany,
however, and its ruthless resolve to reduce all Europe
to slavery necessarily engenders acute anxiety
about the military use which might be made of Eire
as a base of operations against Britain. The Nazis,
both in deed and word, have shown their contempt
for the rights of small nations, and it is hardly worth
stating—it is such an obvious platitude—that, when
Germany decides that it would advantage her to invade
the Isle of Saints and scholars, Ireland’s neutrality
will go the same way as the others.
The seizure of' Ireland would fit neatly and
profitably into Germany’s strategic plan. If the
Germans were to occupy Ireland, Britain would be
ringed about by the enemy and open to simultaneous
attack from all points of the compass by sea and
from the air. The configuration of the Irish coast
is such that landing troops by submarines would be
easy, and it also provides excellent bases for sub-
marine action against Allied shipping. What could
Ireland do to stop either? And if the Germans
launched a parachute invasion against Ireland, what
would be her chances of offering an effective resist-
ance? None at all, especially if, as is probable,
Germany has a Fifth Column there.
Only the handful of irreconcilables in Irish
Free State politics—who hate the De Valera Govern-
ment as fiercely as they hate Britain —will retort that
Ireland’s preparedness, or lack of it, is no business
of ours. Any chink in our armor must be our busi-
ness and everybody’s business, Ireland’s included, since
we are not fighting only for ourselves but for man-
kind.
It would be impolitic, as it would certainly pro-
voke strong resentment, if in ordinary circumstances
we were even to comment on Ireland’s defences. But,
again to be platitudinous, the circumstances are the
opposite of ordinary. Our enemy is Ireland’s enemy,
the enemy of every Christian community, large or
small, under the sun. Germany is bent on destroying
the Catholic Church, national independence and
democratic institutions wherever they flourish. There
cannot be an intelligent Irishman —which means that
there cah scarcely be any Irishmen at all —who is
not just as alive to that as the Pope is. So even if
Britain were not involved in the issue Ireland would
have pressing reason to gaze fearfully towards her
eastern horizon. As it is, let Britain be conquered
and Ireland’s number is up.
Few Irishmen will construe it as idle or imper-
tinent if it is suggested that it would be an elementary
measure of self-preservation for Ireland to range her-
self with Britain —secretly, if not openly —forgetting
the unhappy past in face of the terrible menace of the
present.
It is for Ireland to choose. The most unmis-
takable sign that Ireland could give of her loyalty
to the last and the greatest crusade would be to allow
Britain to make good the military deficiences which
exist because, rich though Ireland is in courage, it
is quite beyond the resources of any small nation
to supply itself with real protection against such
mighty hosts as those which murder and destroy at
the bidding of the Attilas of the Third Reich.
Britain Soft Towards Communists.
(“Candidas,” in London “Daily Sketch.”)
If one were to offer adverse criticism, it would
not be on the ground that the Home Office has gone
too far [in arresting Mosley and other Fascists], but
that it has not gone far enough. If the security of the
State requires the detention of the Mosleyites, does it
not equally require that the Communists and Peace
Pledge Unionists shall be put under lock and key?
As everybody knows, the P.P.U. coaches con-
scientious objectors in the best methods of avoiding
military service. They make no secret about it. The
indictment against the Communist party is, of course,
infinitely stronger. Following the Moscow-inspired
volte-face in its policy at the outbreak of war, it has
availed itself of every means, fair or foul —usually
foul—to belittle the Allied cause and to sabotage the
Allies’ war effort.
The “Daily Worker” has been crammed with
treasonable outpourings. For example, an article on
“The Empire and the War” ends thus: “The colonial
peoples see in this crisis of imperialism at war the
downfall of the British Empire. They do not see it
with alarm and panic, like the Labor Imperialists who
rush to the rescue of their masters’ domination. They
HUMPTY-DUMPTY?
— “Times,” Los Angeles, U.S.A.
see it with joy and confidence of liberation by their
own unity and mass strength.”
Since the beginning of the war the Communist
party has boasted that it has been active in originating
and fomenting disaffection among workers, and it has
given its enthusiastic backing to any strike. In every
possible way it has mined and plotted against the
Allies’ fight for civilisation: it has stopped short only
of offences that would have exposed its members’ skins
to danger.
Communists and all their works are, pre-eminently,
the most insidious and most poisonous of all the Fifth
Columnists in our midst.
*****
(From London “Sunday Pictorial.”)
While every man in Britain is in the life-and-
death struggle against Germany, Communists are plot-
ting against the State. They are urging workers in
arms factories to resist the Government’s new emer-
gency measures for harnessing industry and labor.
To every trade-unionist in the country, the Com-
munist party is trying to circulate a “statement” that
declares the new Act to be an attempt “to impose
Hitlerism on the people.” The “statement” adds:
“You are presented with a series of emergency
measures in the present war crisis that are alleged to
be necessary for the victory of British imperialism.
The Government’s sole desire is to sweep away every
hardly-won gain of past generations of working-class
struggle against capitalism.”
Do these fanatics realise that Hitler and his ruth-
less army are only 25 miles from the coast of Kent?
The Communist plot is clear. They are out to
smash the Government and to undermine the confi-
dence of the workers. Every decent man and woman
will wonder how much longer this country, faced with
the gravest crisis in its history, is going to tolerate a
minority of avowed revolutionaries.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
As purchases in the United States increase, pres-
sure on export trades to meet demands for foreign
currency will also increase. The heavy calls on trans-
port facilities make it advantageous to export goods
of small bulk and high value and, apart from the pre-
cious metals and gems, works of art are the most
obvious example of such goods. Would it not be pos-
sible for patriotic citizens who possess objects of art
or of historical interest to pledge them to private col-
lectors and museums in the United States, exactly as
the private individual pledges his watch to tide over
a period of temporary need? A very considerable
sum might be raised in this way — A. Clutton-Brock;
“Times” letter.
*****
Thousands of British people are now refugees in
their own country, and many of them cannot speak
English. Over 5000 of them hurried home from
Germany on the outbreak of war, and they have since
been joined by 5000 more from Holland and Bel-
gium. So serious is their plight that a special fund
has been formed to help them. Many of them held
responsible positions with high incomes in Belgium,
Holland and Germany. Now they are reduced to
accepting public assistance in their own country. They
include business and commercial people, university
professors, doctors, lawyers, teachers and a large
number of scientists. One man owned a chemical
factory in Berlin and was earning nearly £lOOO a
year. He is now destitute. One of the tasks the fund
has undertaken is to teach these Englishmen how to
speak English.— “ Times”
*****
A bit of recrimination does a power of good
because it arouses our fighting spirit, and no one ever
won a war yet without getting up a good hate or a
sense of indignation. Turn back to the speeches of
our Ministers of the Crown at the beginning of this
war. We were just fighting the nasty Nazis, and
nobody, of course, wanted to do the slightest harm to
the dear German people. Tripe! The German people
elected the Nazis by some 99 per cent, consistently,
and only politicians were ever stupid enough to sup-
pose that it was necessary for the Nazis to fake the
elections. — Marquess of Donegal; London “Sunday
Dispatch.”
*****
An Australian who has just flown in from Syd-
ney tells me there are 8000 Germans in Athens and
that the Grand Bretagne Hotel is the official one used
both by Imperial Airways and Lufthansa. But
whereas the hotel won’t accept the Imperial Airways
currency coupons it accepts the German equivalent.
What’s more, there are various German newspapers
printed locally, headed by the “Athener Zeitung,” but
nothing is printed in English.— Charles Graves; Lon-
don “Daily Mail.”
%
Blue Books, patriotic posters, A.R.P. handbooks,
service handbooks, White Papers, “Hansard,” the
London “Gazette,”
forms by the million
for filling in, ration
cards, 50,000,000
National Registration
cards, gardening hints
and official reports —
all come from H.M.
Stationery Office. So
do bulletins on
botany, handbooks on
anything from West-
minster Abbey to the
full scientific know-
ledge of diphtheria,
State papers, de luxe
works on every
branch of art, books
about rats and books
about rabbits. Any
morning, except Sunday, you can walk into this Gov-
ernment bookshop in Kingsway and find people eight
deep at the counter. The Stationery Office smashes
best-seller records. The Blue Book on the causes of
the war topped 600,000 sales —and is still selling. The
White Paper on Nazi barbarities reached 400,000 in a
matter of days. So did a lesser known but very useful
work, Food from the Garden. We are becoming a
nation of Blue Book readers. The outside world, too,
is taking to them. The Ministry of Information has
discovered a market for thousands of copies.— London
“Star.”
* * * * *
Last winter brought the biggest food panic to
Moscow that I’d seen in 10 years. The utter dis-
appearance of bread in early January, during the cold
wave that touched 45deg. below zero, threw people into
a turmoil. Food queues grew to fantastic proportions.
There was a general rise of from 30 p.c. to 35 p.c. in
prices in the State food shops. People were resentful,
sometimes openly angry. Women occasionally slumped
to the sidewalk with frozen feet. Ambulances carried
them off. Newspapers always announced such cases
as due to “drunkenness.” Rice was obtainable only
on a doctor’s prescription for children with diarrhoea.
One thing, however, in which production never seems
to fail in Russia is papier mache hams, bacon and
cheese. They were back in the shop windows during
the winter in place of the real articles. The windows
also displayed milk bottles filled with chalk, and real
milk was hard to get for children. The rule is that
the greater the shortage of any commodity the more
dummies of it are shown in the window displays.—
From a New York “Life” article by Spencer Williams,
for ten years representative of the American-Russian
Chamber of Commerce in Moscow.
*****
In parts of East Anglia, now un-signposted, it
would be particularly hard for an invader to find his
way without good maps (which, alas, he would prob-
ably have); even in flat country the roads twist and
wind often at incomprehensible right angles, like the
corridors of a maze. Various explanations of this are
offered. There is Chesterton’s picturesque “the roll-
ing English drunkard made the rolling English road.”
I have also been told locally that the roads date from
the time of the Danish invasions ; were so planned
because it is easier to ambush invaders at a corner
than on the straight. Another local account is that
the roadmakers always kept their backs to the fre-
quently veering North Sea winds. Probably truer is
the commonplace explanation that holdings of land
came first, the roads simply following their boun-
daries. — William Hickey ; London Daily Express.


SPORTING
NOTION
SPRUSO
GIVE TOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Our Boy’s success in the Port Phillip
Hurdle Race at Moonee Valley on Satur-
day was the most impressive Grand
National trial seen this season —over
jurhps. Cheery Jack, of course, has been
favorite since the declaration of weights,
but it was only to be expected that Our
Boy, after his brilliant defeat of Dark
David and North Cape, would join him
.at the top of the quotes. Our Boy’s win
dispelled all doubts about his contesting
the big race on the grounds of inexperi-
ence, but later reports were not so re-
assuring. He did not pull up well,
and backers who tumbled over them-
selves to take him in doubles with fan-
cied G.N. Steeple candidates were non-
plussed when they heard the news.
Our Boy favored one of his hind legs,
but, at the time of writing, it was not
anticipated that the trouble would seri-
ously prejudice his National chance.
A. B. Lord, lessee of the gelding, in-
formed The Bulletin representative that
Our Boy has a habit of hitting the hurdles
with his coronets, with resultant sore-
ness. He had been affected somewhat
similarly after his winning run at Moonee
Valley a week earlier, and Lord added
that hot fomentations had to be applied
to his hind legs all last week. W. John-
son, who will ride him in the National,
rode him quietly in the early stages of the
Port Phillip Hurdle, but did not let him
drop too far behind, and had the “drop”
on the leaders half a mile from home.
Our Boy and Dark David made their
runs together, but Our Boy finished much
the better of the two, and his winning
margin of three lengths and a half could
have been increased had Johnson desired.
Our Boy carried 10.2, or 51b. more
than his original G.N. weight, but his
performance was so impressive that the
V.R.C. handicapper had no option but
to rehandicap him. He has increased his
National weight from 9.11 to 10.5, but,
even so, Our Boy should again defeat
all that finished behind him on Satur-
day. In addition to Dark David, these
include Glowing, First Brigade and
Harley. It can be said for Glowing that
he is a better horse at Flemington than
elsewhere, but, at the moment, some
keen judges are more enamored of Glow-
ing’s chance in the G.N. Steeple than in
the Hurdle. The Steeple field is compara-
tively weaker than the Hurdle, and
although Glowing has never been over
fences in a race, he is a natural jumper.
Further, he will probably be ridden in
the Steeple by Alec Fullarton.
Cheery Jack, who will tackle the G.N.
Hurdle without a prior race over jumps
for about eight months, has done every-
thing right since his last outing, and
Bureaucrat did not lose any admirers as
a result of his failure to finish closer
than sixth to Ellison in the Point Cook
Handicap, principal flat race run on
Saturday. But for striking trouble near
the half-mile, he would have been closer.
Bureaucrat has raced over hurdles only
twice, but he is one of the most promis-
ing jumpers in training, and his connec-
tions believe that he will beat Cheery
Jack at a difference of 331 b. These two
and Our Boy should include the winner,
and in the event of Our Boy succeeding
he will repeat the performance of Win-
garara, who was also trained by Lou
Robertson. Wingarara won the Port
Phillip and Grand National Hurdles 28
years ago.
Following the fortunes of Our Boy with
vital interest is the gelding’s owner, Mrs.
A. Mann. Latter leased him to Lord,
who tells a story of hardships endured
by Mrs. Mann after her husband died
two or three years ago. Mrs. Mann was
left with a large family and a farm at
Walwa to manage, but the going was not
easy, and eventually she lost her prop-
erty. She retained her interest in Our
Boy, however, and her hopes that the
gelding would be the means of earning
her enough money with which to carry
on are being realised.
Form in the Williamstown Steeple-
chase, run at the Valley, caused no altera-
tions in the G.N. Steeplechase market.
None of the fancied National candi-
dates was among the runners, Sacftem,
who was not entered for the big race,
winning from Man of Ayr and Rhymster.
The minor place-getters are engaged, and
Rhymster, who is improving as a stayer,
shaped fairly with 121 b. more than his
G.N. weight. He might have won but for
hitting hard at one fence, and losing
several lengths. Sachem, a five-year-old
by Perinthus from Mouchet, was not of
much account over hurdles, but evidently
’chasing is his forte. He was backed
from tens down to sevens, and, running
past Reef coming to the second-last
fence, was not in danger of defeat sub-
sequently. Although Sachem is not en-
gaged in the National, his lessee-trainer,
Don Zealley, has a big interest in that
race. Zealley owns the well-fancied Mar-
text, who, however, is out on lease.
In all his races Counsel has given the
impression that he would appreciate a
bit of distance, and he made the most of
his opportunity in the Juvenile Handi-
cap, first mile two-year-old race of the
season in Melbourne. Slow to get going,
he made up his ground in remarkable
style to share the lead with Partoer at
the half-mile, and thereafter the result
was not in doubt. Counsel won comfort-
ably from Portico and Exactly, and,
although he carried only 7.7 against the
9.0 of Portico, further improvement
seems certain. A gelding by Lawmaker
from Open Mind, he is raced on lease by
trainer G. A. Alessio from P. Grant
Hay, another of whose horses, Lord
Tolgus, ran a promising second to Pal-
june in the Maiden Hurdle earlier in the
afternoon. Counsel’s win on Saturday
was his first, but earlier in the season he
had the distinction of having won a pro-
vincial race, only to lose it because of a
substantial weight-shortage.
Some successful apprentices drop out
of the game after they become fully-
fledged jockeys, but Vic Hartney will
not lack opportunities when his inden-
tures to Steve Murphy expire at the end
of this month. Hartney himself experi-
enced a comparative slump about a
year ago, but he is again riding right at
the top of his form, and his win on Elli-
son in the Point Cook Handicap was his
23rd from his last 42 mounts. Almost
needless to add, the latest system slogan
is “follow Hartney.” It may be rather
late to start following him now.
Ellison’s win was his fourth from his
last seven races,'and his third in succes-
sion at the Valley. As has been men-
tioned previously, he is one of the most-
improved middle-distance horses in train-
ing, but quick thinking by Hartney was
responsible for his half-head defeat of
Temple Coyn on Saturday. He was
rather awkwardly placed entering the
straight, but Hartney, seeing the oppor-
tunity for a run between the two leaders,
Temple Coyn and Bankshaw, made a
dive for the opening. He got it, and the
move won him the race. Temple Coyn,
who had attempted to lead throughout,
battled on gamely, but nothing was doing
better than Barametric at the finish.
Barametric came from a long way back
to run third, only a neck behind Temple
Coyn, and he will not be a 33-to-l chance
at his next start in similar company.
Prince Ariel, a close fourth at the finish,
may have gone closer towards justifying
his favoritism had he experienced more
luck in running. Ellison, Barametric and
Prince Ariel are engaged in both Cups,
Ellison with 7.3 in the Caulfield Cup and
7.4 in the Melbourne Cup, as against the
8.4 he carried in comparatively weak
company on Saturday.
Followers of country trainer E. H.
Nichols took bookmakers by surprise
by supporting Mooramong from 12 to 1
down to sixes for the Esplanade Welter.
Nor was their judgment astray, as
Mooramong, whose previous five races
at country meetings had yielded two wins
and three seconds, came on the scene
when Dannevirke appeared to have the
race won, and eventually beat that gelding
decisively. Incidentally, he upset another
plunge on Dannevirke, who is proving
very costly. Mooramong at one time
was trained by Jack Holt, and although
getting on in years—he is rising eight—
he keeps his form remarkably well. On
Saturday he was ridden by his trainer’s
son, George Nichols, who has done well
since his recent decision to settle in the
city. Another of the trainer’s jockey
sons, R. Nichols, was seriously injured
in a fall in a hurdle race at Moonee
Valley in May, and is still in hospital.
Citadel, backed to favoritism despite the
heavy support for Dannevirke and
Mooramong, failed in his attempt on the
hat-trick. He did not jump away as
well on this- occasion, and, although
sharing the lead with Burbang rounding
the turn, weakened into third place.
Having his second race after a spell,
Paljune comfortably won the Maiden
Hurdle from the outsiders Lord Tolgus
and International. Always favorite, he
made a fast forward move from the five
furlongs, and hit the front before the
second last jump. A six-year-old gelding
by Crowdennis from Lombardia, Paljune
should win in better company before he
is much older. He is raced in partner-
ship by the Hoysted brothers, H. F. and
F. W., successful Northeastern and city
trainers respectively. International’s form
wqs an improvement on his previous
efforts over jumps, and if he settles down
to his new job he might compensate for
many disappointments oh the flat.
* * * *
Canterbury had another successful
meeting. Always popular, it has further
advanced in favor since the alterations
to the track, paddock and tote. Two
favorites won, but thanks to Celebrity
and Flying Knight the afternoon was
profitable for most of the books.
Capaneus acted up to expectations in
the Jumpers’ Flat Race, for which he was
a sound favorite. Ridden a quiet race
by A. R. Ellis, he was a long way from
the pacemaker, Bridegroom, as well as
some of the others along the back. Trek-
ster turned for home ahead of Bride-
groom, Capaneus and Lasting, but was
worn down by Capaneus, though only
a head separated them at the winning-
post. Now that Capaneus has returned
to form on the flat, it should not be long
before he adds to his winning account
over hurdles.
Lasting’s third was not impressive, and
Festoon has evidently reached a mark
from which it will be difficult for him
to win. Recently his owner was alleged
to have rated him highly enough to be
a possibility for one of the big spring
handicaps, but he is much nearer the
mid-week handicap mark. A protest
against Capaneus for hampering Trek-
ster in the straight was dismissed. The
books would have liked it to be
upheld, as Trekster was an outsider ; but
they were not hopeful, offering 3 to 1
against him immediately the protest flag
was hoisted.
Martheus made a game attempt to win
the Nursery Handicap all the way, but
though a furlong from home it seemed
probable he would succeed Celebrity ran
him down, beating him a half-length. In
getting third Shem was nearer the front
at the finish than at any other part,
being well back at one stage, and it was
the same with Tunic, who headed the un-
placed runners. The equal favorites, Air
Link and Hydra, jumped away well, but
could not raise a decent gallop. Neither
had a chance at any part of the last three
furlongs, their poor form surprising their
respective trainers and riders as much as
anyone else.
Glamour Star, a Rionscup gelding
from Newcastle, showed pace, but
stopped in the straight, as did Duke
Cullen, who seemed a certainty for a
place commencing the last furlong. Mark
Twain, who was having his first run since
February, has furnished into a nice colt,
though he looks more likely to be a
good sprinter than stayer. Celebrity is
by Harinero from Marcana, by Marconi-
gram from Mary Betty, a half-sister to
Just Gold, dam of Gold Spark. Bred at
the Sledmere Stud, Celebrity was sold
for 200gns. as a yearling.
The result of the Flying Handicap
further demonstrated that a two-year-old
of class is always worth backing for an
open sprint handicap towards the end of
the season. Early in the Flying Handi-
cap Samurai and Flying Knight were
well clear of the other runners, and the
former looked like pulling his backers
through when he got away from the
three-year-old at the straight entrance.
However, Flying Knight kept coming,
and after he had Samurai beaten half a
furlong from home, hung on well to win
by a head from the dead-heaters, Mohican
and Tuhitarata. As he should be all the
better for the run Tuhitarata may have
a winning turn at his next appearance.
He was last shortly after barrier-rise.
Samurai got very tired at the end, and
is better suited by mid-week than Satur-
day company.. Opportunist put in good
work from the turn, and will shortly
return to the winning list. The same can
safely be written of Desert King, but
neither Grand Boy nor Pen showed
improvement.
Highborn finished strongly to win the
Canterbury Handicap. When Mabson
took charge three furlongs from home he
appeared to be going comfortably.
Buzzal, however, closed on him entering
the straight, and these two were having a
good tussle when Bonny Loch, with a
sharp run on the outside, headed both
and looked to have the race won. How-
ever, he then started to hang out, and
Highborn beat him a head, with Mabson
a neck further back.
Buzzal was fourth, and last home was
Lord Valentine, who got into so much
trouble from the commencement of the
back stretch to the home turn that his in-
different showing could scarcely be
counted against him. The fact of get-
ting to the front so early may have told
against Mabson, and though Hilarious
was prominent at the turn she went right
out of it at the finish. Her etfort was not
one that said a great deal for her Doom-
ben Cup chance. As Highborn never
looked better than at present, further suc-
cess for him is probable even with a few
additional pounds.
Irish Sea did not show up in Last
Chance’s race at Rosehill a week earlier,
but the higher scale of weights and the
assistance of Munro made a difference in
the Highweight Handicap, for which he
was well backed, and scored a narrow
win. June, who finished a long way
ahead of Irish Sea at Rosehill, was also
strongly supported. She was meeting
Irish Sea 111 b. worse, but also gained by
change of riders, McMenamin being on
her. After disposing of the early pace-
maker, Dagmar, at the top of the
straight, June and Irish Sea were together
to the winning-post. Half a furlong
from home June looked a winner, but
Irish Sea’s pull in weight told at the end.
Fourth turning for home Bestop made
a dash half-way down the straight, but
never really threatened the two leaders.
Royal Routine ran fairly, but of the un-
placed lot Brazen Lad and Excursion are
the two most worth keeping in mind. The
last-named is an excellent type of welter
horse. Dagmar, on the other hand, re-
tains all her earlier pace, but is not a
weight-carrier.
In the Campsie Handicap Osculum
gave Munro another winning mount, and
it is with good reason owners avail them-
selves of his services. Jan Baz and
Aren’t We All led most of the way, with
Glenora Boy and All Set nearest them,
and Osculum bowling along in his usual
fashion near the rear. Aren’t We All
was first into the straight, but quickly
gave place to All Set. The latter’s stay
at the front was short, as Osculum
gathered him up in good style when his
rider asked him for an effort.
Gold Pan’s third was a moderate per-
formance, as he never looked like doing
better than getting that position, and it
was by a narrow margin he beat Glenora
Boy, who is slow in returning tc his best.
Sidcup appears to be getting worse.
* * * *
“Good things” do get beaten, but
should Beaulivre go down in the Doom-
ben Newmarket it will be a shock for
backers in Sydney and Brisbane. If re-
ports as to the amount Beaulivre and
Gilltown have been backed for the New-
market and Doomben Gup are correct,
bookmaking must be in a flourishing
condition in Brisbane. Gilltown will be
at an impossible price for the Cup if
Beaulivre wins the first leg of the double,
and it does not seem necessary to go
beyond Creditor, Vergure, Penthides,
Godfrey M. and Expressman in looking
for the minor placegetters. Reducing it
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(By "SENTRY.")
Maiden Hurdle: Atticus, 1 ; Cant-
land, 2 ; Lord Tolgus 3.
Myross Handicap: Sun Valley,
1 ; Juma, 2 ; Prairie Prince, 3.
Grand National Hurdle: Cheery
Jack, 1 ; Our Boy, 2 ; Bureaucrat, 3.
Kensington Steeplechase: Mar-
text, 1 ; Blackford, 2; National
Debt, 3.
Winter Handicap: Temple Coyn,
1 ; Marcius, 2 ; Prince Ariel, 3.
Iramoo Handicap: El Golea, 1 ;
Rex Felt, 2 ; Scarlet Toi, 3.


further, Beaulivre may have most to fear
from Creditor and Godfrey M.
# * * *
Our Boy’s win at Moonee Valley
earned him a penalty, but many followers
of the game are of opinion it will be in-
sufficient to stop him in the G.N.
Hurdles. My early preference was Dark
David, but, as on Saturday he was with
Our Boy to the turn and then could not
stay with him, he does not read like turn-
ing the tables over the longer distance.
Glowing was one of the Moonee Valley
failures, and though Harley made up
ground towards the end to finish fourth
considerable improvement will be neces-
sary to make him a winner on Saturday
next.
Cheery Jack has been showing form
that puts him well ahead of all his prob-
able opponents, so far as flat-racing is
concerned, but the fact that he will
tackle a severe three miles without hav-
ing raced over hurdles for some time may
tell against him. He cannot afford to
make any mistakes with 11.7, and though
he has done well in his schooling lessons
that possibility is greater than if he had
been given a recent run in a jumping
race. For that reason I shall let him
run against me, and put my trust in the
lightly-weighted division. The last winner
with as much as Cheery Jack was Obi,
who in 1913 also had 11.7. Kerry Bay
has gone south, looking well, and the
betting market indicates that Bureaucrat
is pleasing his trainer. The Riff has been
showing form in Adelaide, and Paul Lois
is a recent winner. In trying for place-
getters I shall go for Our Boy 1, Paul
Lois 3, Bureaucrat or Mamillius 3. Last
year the Port Phillip Hurdle was won by
Restford, who then ran second in the
National.
Blackford is favorite for the G.N.
Steeplechase, and is unlikely to lose his
position unless something shows excep-
tionally good form in the Kensington
Steeplechase. Mustella won that race last
year with 9.11, but was not a runner for
the National. As Mustella has also won
at two and a half miles (J. A. Macleod
Steeplechase) in a fair field at Fleming-
ton the extra distance may not be be-
yond him, though in 10.12 he has a lot
more weight than in the two races men-
tioned. Turf Boy has gone out of favor,
and it is reported Fullarton is getting off
him to ride Glowing. If so, the latter
must have shown first-class form when
schooled, but the race is a tough one
for a novice at the business.
* * * *
The call of the war was too strong
for Col. W. P. Farr, assistant secretary
of the A.J.C. He has resigned from
that position to take up military duties.
Col. Farr went through the last Great
War.
* * * $
From August 1 backers who wish to
bet on the “two Cups” double at Flem-
ington will be denied that opportunity.
The V.R.C. committee has decided not
to permit betting on doubles at Fleming-
ton on races other than those run on
that course on the same day. Those
“off the course” layers who are not in
a very big way of business will approve
of this decision, as a lot of small money
that might have been wagered in the
minor rings at Flemington will now come
to them. No reason for the move has
been vouchsafed by the committee.
* * * *
Breeder-owner P. Miller is presenting a
Pantheon colt to the Randwick Patriotic
and War Fund Movement. It will be
one of the prizes in the art union, and
if the winner does not wish to race the
colt the donor will buy it back for £5OO.
The owner of Kia-Ora Stud has set an
example that should and probably will
be followed by ethers,
* * * *
Reading js reported to be progressing
as satisfactorily as his trainer could wish.
As a four-year-old he will have 9st. in
all w.f.a. races in which there are no
penalties, and considerable interest will
attach to whether he is a better
distance horse than suggested by his
efforts against the older division at
Randwick in the autumn. In the
Derbies and Legers he stayed too
well for his opponents, but as many of
those races have been won by horses
that could not quite get a mile and a
half in first-class handicap company they
can scarcely be accepted as true staying
tests. At the same time, it is doubtful
whether Reading was quite at his best
when he raced at Randwick in the
autumn. He took too long in beating
Gay Cavalier in the A.J.C. St. Leger to
uphold the belief that he was quite in
the same trim as in the spring. He will
need to be at the top of his form to win
w.f.a. races in the coming spring, as the
opposition will be at least as strong as
last autumn.
* * * *
There is supposed to be no “off-the-
course” betting in Sydney, and the police
say it is practically non-existent. In
face of that Saturday papers publish
overnight betting on the various races.
This can scarcely be mythical, and re-
ports as to various thousands won at
starting price—though possibly exagger-
ated —do not uphold the idea that the
volume of betting transacted away from
racecourses is really small.
* * * sH
It was announced that every book-
maker operating at the Williamstown
meeting at Moonee Valley meeting last
Saturday intended making a donation
to a fund for the Blarney House. The
Williamstown Club was giving the profits
of the meeting to the fund. The book-
makers deserved some winning outsiders
for their generosity, but most winners
were well in the market, 7 to 1 being
the longest price of any.
* * * *
It was last July that Rivette showed
form pointing to her as a Caulfield Cup
possibility, and in consequence backers
are likely to pay more attention to winter
form this year than is customary. Ellison,
winner of the Point Cook Trial Handi-
cap at Moonee Valley, and whose recent
form has been so consistent, is now
entitled to consideration for the Caul-
field Cup, in which he has 7.3 against
the 8.4 he carried on Saturday. He has
finished strongly in his races, and if the
Caulfield Cup should be run at Fleming-
ton that track will not come amiss to
him. He recently won there at a mile
and a quarter, and the extra quarter
should not trouble him. Bred at Kia-
Ora, he is a four-year-old gelding by
Constant Son from imported Farfadet
(Hurry On-Woodsprite), dam of Garry
On, an Australian Cup winner, so breed-
ing is not against him as a stayer. He
has lately done a fair amount of racing,
but with the Caulfield Cup over three
months off there will be time to ease
him before startjpg to wind him up for
that race.
* * * *
Flying Knight cost E. Hunter Bowman
600gns. as a yearling, but he has proved
one of the bargains of last year’s sales.
He has started eight times for four wins
and a third, and earned £1960. One of
his poor efforts was in the Sires’ Produce
Stakes, but he' subsequently ran third
with 9.3 in the Champagne Stakes, being
beaten by John (8.10) and Lucrative (9.6).
On the maternal side his breeding favors
sprinting more than staying, his dam
being the brilliant Brazen mare Air
Queen, but his sire, Medieval Knight, is
a son of Gay Crusader, and won at a
mile and a half.
A fair idea as to whether Flying Knight
is a potential stayer may be formed
before the Derby. In any case he will
have the opportunity of proving himself
as a sprinter against the best of his age
early in the spring. He is in the Hobart-
ville Stakes, 7 furlongs, in August, and
possible opponents in that include
Lucrative, John, Halifax and Trueness,
though it may be a trifle early for Lucra-
tive and Halifax to put in an appearance.
Then follow the Canterbury Guineas
and Rosehill Guineas —I assume he is
in both—and after those a definite idea
will be possible as to his chance of get-
ting a mile and a half.
* * * *
Valmiki is among the four-year-olds
that may have to be considered for the
two Cups. He has 7.6 at Caulfield and
7.4 at Flemington. In Melbourne in the
autumn he ran well at a mile and a half,
and though he disappointed in the Aus-
tralian Cup he may have been getting a
little tired. Freshened by a spell, the
spring may see him a better horse. As
he is by Harinero (a son of Blandford)
he is likely to improve with age.
* * » * *
It is not unusual to hear owners and
trainers taking objection to what sport-
ing writers say in the papers to which
they contribute. Occasionally they are
justified, but on the whole they should
be thankful for what pressmen do not say
or infer. They possibly see and hear a
lot more than some owners and trainers
think, and without incurring any risk
from libel laws could be nasty. “What’s
the use of stirring up mud? It doesn’t
help the game” is the attitude often
adopted by pressmen,
* * *
It would be interesting to know what
Maoriland handicappers think of Glady-
nev’s Caulfield Cup weight of 6.7. This
season Gladynev has won four races in
eight starts, and has only once been out
of a place. His last win was with 7.11
in the Nathans Memorial Handicap, of
£lOOO, at the Auckland R.C. meeting in
January. At his next start he was third
with 7.11 to Old Bill (8.0) and Beau Vite
(8.7) in the Wellington Centennial Cup,
1y miles. He ran again at the same meet-
ing, but after being prominent most of
the way in the Wellington R.C. Handi-
cap, 1 mile 3 furlongs, with 8.0, dropped
out at the end. Beau Repaire (7.9) won
the race by a head from Royal Chief
(9.5), the unplaced runners including
Willie Win (8.2).
Beau Vite and Gladynev are of the
same age, and allowing as much as 81b.
—a liberal concession—for the two
lengths by which the former beat the
latter in the Wellington race, that would
make the difference between them only
181 b., against 351 b. in the Caulfield Cup.
Beau Vite won a race subsequent to the
Cup, but even penalising him another 51b.
for that he would still meet Gladynev
only 131 b. worse than when he beat him.
Therefore Gladynev, with 6.7, would, at
worst, represent Beau Vite with 8.3 in
the Caulfield Cup, and, with that weight,
the latter would spoil the betting on the
race. In Maoriland Gladynev was one
of F. Smith’s team, but at present J. T.
Jamieson is training him at Randwick
for W. C. Anderson.
In such cases figures do not always
work out correctly, but it is probable
Jamieson was pleasantly surprised when
he saw Gladynev’s Caulfield Cup
weight of 6.7, and the reverse when he
noted he had 8.4 in the Epsom, 8.0 in
the Metropolitan and 8.4 in the Mel-
bourne Cup. According to the V.R.C.
handicapper’s Melbourne Cup computa-
tion Beau Vite, if he had only 7.4 in
the Caulfield Cup, would have no better
chance than Gladynev with 6.7. That
idea does not seem correct. The ques-
tion arises whether Gladynev will be able
to take full advantage of his very light
weight in the Caulfield Cup. It will be
difficult to get hold of a boy who can
ride capably at 6.7, but a few pounds
overweight should not be a serious
matter.
With Gladynev and High Caste, Jamie-
son appears to hold a strong hand in the
Caulfield Cup. As they are in different
ownership, both horses may start. It is
possible the Caulfield Cup will be run at
Flemington this year, but though High
Caste has won a mile and a half w.f.a.
race—C. B. Fisher Plate—on that track,
a hard-run handicap of that distance is
a different matter. He is favorably
weighted, but it cannot be overlooked
that in his tussles with Reading he was
lacking at the finish, and the opposition
in the C. B. Fisher Plate was not of the
strongest. Two factors in High Caste’s
favor are that 8.11 is a weight that will
not hamper him, and that, with the pace
he possesses, he will not have to be un-
duly used to gain a good position in the
early part of the race. The trouble for
him may be the pinch of the last fur-
long, but if, when the race comes round,
his trainer fancies him, it might be advis-
able to overlook his failures against
Reading. At this stage, however, figures
make Gladynev preferable.
Four-year-olds have won four of the
last 20 Caulfield Cups, and, though that
is not a specially high percentage, three
came from the heavyweights, Manfred
carrying 9.6, Gaine Carrington 8.13 and
Eudorus 8.9. Going further back Posei-
don had 9.3 when he won, and Aborigine
8.9 when he dead-heated Blue Book.
* * * *
When Black Toney, sire of this
season’s crack American three-year-old
Bimelech, first started at the stud his fee
was $5O, little more than a “tenner” at
that time. Even his owner, Col. Bradley,
did not give him opportunities, and
Black Toney’s total of foals for his first
three years at the stud was 13. In his
first lot was Miss Jemima, winner of
$42,057. Then, when his second crop
of three foals included Black Servant,
breeders wanted him. In 21 years Black
Toney sired 226 foals, and up to the
end of last year they had earned
$2,024,077. Bimelech has greatly in-
creased that amount. Black Toney was
25 when he sired him, and, in addition,
to being his last colt, Bimelech is his best.
Bimelech’s dam, Troienne, was 11 when
she threw him.
* * * *
Short-distance 14.2 pony handicaps,
with comparatively small fields, appear
to give the starter more trouble than any
of the other races at Sydney’s mid-week
meetings. Some jockeys invariably in-
dulge in manoeuvring in the hope of beat-
ing the barrier, and perhaps it would be
as well if, by an occasional fine or two,
the starter reminded them he was doing
the starting and not they. It is possible
to be a little too lenient.
The same 14.2 ponies have been con-
testing those races at mid-week meetings
in Sydney for some time. An entry of
only four at Ascot today will make the
clubs wish they could drop them alto-
gether.
* * * *
The belief that horses drawn wide out
in races at Victoria Park have indifferent
chances was upheld last week. Vergure
was No. 12 in his race, but of the other
five winners on the flat none was wider
out than No. 4. Lithgow, however, was
No. 22 in the Welter Handicap, in which
the winner, Taroo, had the rails.
H:
Place-getters in the last Epsom Han-
dicap were Geebung 7.10, Tuhitarata
7.8 and Delmestor 8.7. Geebung is up
61b. and Delmestor 31b., while Tuhi-
tarata is down 21b. Figures would appear
to favor the last-named, but subsequent
to the Bpsom Geebung won the Final
Handicap, \\ mile, at Flemington with
8.8, the minimum being 6.7. At the
A.J.C. Autumn meeting Geebung’s form
was poor. He was unplaced in the Don-
caster with 8.3, and did no better in two
other races. He ran like a tired horse, but,
benefited by his spell, he has resumed
work looking much improved, and it is
fairly safe to anticipate further success
for him in the spring, even if it should not
be in the Epsom.
* * * *
Beau Pere’s progeny have done well
on the flat and later some may make
their mark as hurdlers. Bogskar, winner
of the last Liverpool Grand National,
is by Werwolf (sire of many good
jumpers), a half-brother, by Hurry On,
to Cinna, dam of Beau Pere. Touching
on the breeding of Bogskar, an English
writer says Irish Spring was 15 when she
threw Bogskar, who was her sixth succes-
sive foal by Werwolf. On his dam’s
side Bogskar runs back to Sister Ann,
whose son, Polygamist, after winning a
couple of races, was sent to Australia,
and out here he won the 1917 Austra-
lian Hurdle Race.
* * * *
Beaupartir has 81b. less in the Epsom
arid 71b. in the fyletropolitan than was
allotted him in those races last year,
but again has 8.11 in the Melbourne
Cup. Beaupartir’s drop in the Sydney
races was warranted. Last season his
form was high-class, but this season' he
has won only one race, and that in an
indifferent field. In his last seven races
he was unplaced. He ran in the Wel-
lington Centennial Cup with 8.11, but was
among the last lot throughout. His last
run was in the Hawke’s Bay Cup, li mile,
in April. He had 8.12, and in a field of 11
was unable to get near the front at any
part. As a three-year-old he won the
Auckland R.C. Easter Handicap with 8.8,
in 1.36 for the mile, and, if he returns
to that form, he should pay his way over
here even if he does not win one of the
big handicaps.
# * * *
The Metropolitan is not a race that
finds favor with owners of three-year-
olds. Of recent years starters of that
age have been unusual, and, though a
few have been nominated again this time,
the odds are against more than one or
two starting. A winner at a mile at
Rand wick in the autumn Roxford may
stay, and as he is also in the two Cups
his owner must have an idea he will.
In the Metropolitan he has 7.1, a pound
less than in the Melbourne Cup, but,
though several three-year-olds have won
the latter, the former has not been won
by one since the distance was reduced
from two miles in 1892. Poseidon won
the A.J.C. Derby of 1906, but, though
beaten into second place with 7.9 in the
Metropolitan, went on to win the two
Cups, the Caulfield Cup with 7.7 and the
Melbourne Cup with a pound less. The
last three-year-old place-getter in the
Metropolitan was Syce Knight, with 6.12,
in 1920.
As Mosaic won the Sydney Cup with
a pound over weight-for-age he could
not well have received less in the Mel-
bourne Cup, but it might be as well to
remind backers that in the 79 years that
race has been run results have not greatly
favored horses similarly handicapped.
Archer had more than w.f.a. when he
won the first two Melbourne Cups, and
those subsequently successful when so
weighted were: Glencoe 9.1, Malua
9.9, Carbine 10.5, Patron 9.3, Auraria
7.4, Newhaven 7.13, Prince Foote 7.8,
Poitrel 10.0, Windbag 9.2, Nightmarch
9.2, Phar Lap 9.12, Hall Mark 7.8 and
Peter Pan 9.10. The Grafter, Merriwee,
Poseidon, Patrobas, Artilleryman, Tri-
valve and Peter Pan (his first Cup) car-
ried exactly weight-for-age. The Victory
and Spearfelt each had 21b. less than
weight-for-age.
* * * *
Royal Chief, who was spelled after his
return from Sydney to Christchurch
in the autumn, has resumed work at
Riccarton, and is reported as looking
particularly well. He is not to visit Aus-
tralia in the spring, and will probably
race at Trentham in October and at the
New Zealand Cup the following month.
All going well, he may again be in Syd-
ney next autumn. Brilliant Amigo, who
was not a success when previously in
Australia, was mentioned as a probable
visitor in the spring, but his 9.1 in the


Caulfield Cup may decide his owner upon
keeping him at home.
* H= * *
Figures pointed so definitely to Ver-
gure as the probable winner of the Flying
Handicap at Victoria Park, that, notwith-
standing he had 14 opponents, he was
always at odds on. The manner of his
win was in keeping with the price at
which he started. Nothing had a chance
against him. Some doubt attached to
whether all those behind him were on
their best behavior, but they could not
have troubled the sturdy brown even if
their riders had asked it of them. At
a difference of 51b. in his favor Vergure
may be unable to beat Beaulivre in the
Doomben Newmarket, but he will at
least give his backers a good run.
* * 3. *
With the reduction of dog-racing one
wonders what will become of many of
the dogs now being trained. Apart from
racing comparatively few are of value,
and it looks as if a large number will
have to forage for themselves within the
next few months instead of being luxuri-
ously fed. Dog-racing cannot be re-
garded as a useful sport. It certainly
provides excitement, as well as something
to bet on for a large number of people,
but beyond those facts little can be said
for it. A played-out trotter can be turned
to some use, but not a greyhound, though
a possible shortage of petrol and utility
horses may tempt some enterprising in-
dividual to see what can be done with
them in the way of drawing light and
small carts.
* * * *
The A.J.C. has returned to where it
Was some time ago in respect of the
definitions of restricted races. From
August 1, the words “or races” and the
word “total” will be dropped from the
conditions of Novice, Encourage and
Trial races, and the definition of a
“Progressive” horse has been struck out
of the rule. “Novice” horses will be those
which have not won a flat race (Maiden
race excepted) of over £5O; “Encour-
age” races will be restricted to horses
that have not won over £75, except in
a Maiden or Novice race; and a “Trial”
race is open to those which have not won
over £lOO in a flat race apart from a
Maiden, Novice or Encourage. The new
order of things will do away with the
necessity for owners and trainers work-
ing out “totals,” which, judging by the
number of recent ineligible entrants, has
been beyond many. In addition, races
must not be called Novice, Encourage or
Trial unless the conditions are in agree-
ment with those set forth by the A.J.C.
w * * *
The Aga Khan continues to reduce his
racing and breeding interests. All the
colts —totalling 26 —bred by him in Ire-
land, France and England last year are
to be sold without reserve at Newmarket
today, July 3. Of these 12 were bred in
Ireland, 10 in France and four in Eng-
land, the sires represented being Fair-
way, Bahram, Mahmoud, Felicitation,
Solario, Umidwar, Mieuxce, Taj Akbar,
Cameronian, Sandwich, Sind, Epinard
and Rhodes Scholar. Owing to the
abandonment of racing there may be
difficulty in selling them.
* * * *
The stallion Tour billon, sire of the
English Two Thousand winner, Djebel,
was to have been sent to America this
year, but it is probable the war has dis-
posed of that arrangement. His fee was
to have been approximately £250. Owing
to the American strains in his pedigree,
Tourbillon’s get are barred from the
English Stud Book. In 1938 and 1939
Tourbillon was third in the list of win-
ning sires in France.
M.Q. and Rafferty
The Henneberry-Moore Affair
The latest Australian interpretation of
the American “no-foul” rule concluded
proceedings in the Henneberry-Moore
encounter at Rushcutter Bay. Patrons of
the Bay have witnessed some strange pro-
ceedings, but none stranger than this.
For six rounds it was a keen, if some-
what careful, scrap. Fred had evidently
decided that the way to win was to get
in close at once and stay there. Thus —
as he usually does—he made the fight.
Moore smothered against this boring-in
attack, and whenever Fred stood off
scored prettily with his fast left. Even
so, Fred was the aggressor. His solid
body-punching was hurting Moore. At
the close of the sixth he was wading
strongly in with a heavy body attack.
As this witness saw it, Moore up to
this stage had won two rounds —third
and fifth. Fred always improves as a
fight goes on (he’s a natural 20-round
fighter), and the odds offered against him
had dropped.
The seventh round was over in about
half a minute. In the first close-up
punching a weighty left rip a foot south
of the Marquess of Queensberry’s idea
of a fair thing doubled Henneberry up
on the canvas. If there’s one thing ref.
Joe Wallis dislikes it’s foul fighting;
there’s no doubt about what his personal
decision would have been. Evidently he
had to be guided by the “no-foul” rule.
It was announced that Fred had won the
round, and would have the time left, as
well as the spell interval, in which to
recover. Fred being then unable to carry
on, it was further announced that now
there would be a doctor’s examination.
As a concession to the ladies present a
sheet of canvas as square as the ring
was spread out and gathered up round
Fred, doctor, bottle-holders and others
in Fred’s corner. About five minutes
of this —what time the bleachers, fearing
the worst, drained off what was left. Then
it was announced that Fred would be
allowed five more minutes.
What the Stadium doctor thought of
Fred’s condition was not announced,
though apparently it was on this that the
decision was made.
The decision was —Henneberry unable
to continue; therefore Moore the winner
under the “no-foul” rule. Fred declared
afterwards that the punch had driven
the edge of his guard into his groin,
paralysing his right leg.
What the doctor thought of Fred’s
condition should have been stated at
once. Whether he would have been right
is another matter —doctors have dis-
“You should think yourself lucky you're not in Europe .”
agreed before this. In any case, a low
punch has a moral as well as a physical
effect, and this is a matter on which no
doctor could give a conclusive verdict.
After a good one down there, even though
the damage might not be vital, you go
out half-expecting another, drop your
guard to cover anything aimed round-
about the breadline, and therefore you’re
an easy mark for a fast punch to the jaw.
When you wake up, the fact that you
won the round in which you were fouled
is a poor consolation.
Whatever his physical condition,
Henneberry was right not to continue.
He had put up a good fight, was ahead
on points and was then fouled. He
should have had the decision.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
{Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
Turf on the fairways of the majority
of American courses is much more
luxuriant than the couch grass seen on
Australian courses. Similar in texture
and appearance to our winter grass, ex-
cept that it doesn’t merely grow in little
patches, the turf, because of heavy water-
ing, is soft and clingy. The grass itself
is of a “hothouse” kind, for were it not
heavily soaked during the summer it
would die away and have to be re-sown.
Totally unlike our couch grass, which
is sturdier and more wearing, these
grasses on the American fairways in the
Eastern States, where every leading
course is built on clay soil, made iron
play off them a new experience. The
difference can be described by saying
that playing off American grass is more
like hitting off a clover-covered fairway.
One has often played from a lie on
clover and seen his ball swing in the air
quickly after leaving the club, owing to
the clover juices taking any grip off the
ball. That is similar to the position one
gets into on these luscious American
grasses.
So thickly does this soft grass grip
the club-face after a couple of hits that
I carry around a piece of rag to remove,
with the aid of sand and water, the
crushed grass from the club-head. If this
is not done the ball is struck with an
uneven and slippery face, which takes
away a good deal of control from the
ball. Just another difference between
play in the two countries.
Even among players accustomed to it
this turf has caused players to make a
more direct hit down upon the ball with
their iron shots. This year the firm I
am associated with has endeavored to
assist players by grinding the front edge
of the Nos. 7, 8 and 9 irons slightly
down for about an eighth of an inch
right along the sole; this has the effect
of stopping the club-head from digging
into and under these soft fairways as
much as with an ordinary flat sole.
In examining records here of Ameri-
can tournament and championship play
over the last 20 years I read with inter-
est that Walter Hagen, “greatest of them
all,” has won 102 major championships
and tournaments in his career. This re-
markable record contains over 50 cham-
pionships, including the British and
American titles and every big event of
these two countries. Next to the “Hage”
is Tommy Armour, former British and
American open champion, with 53 titles.
Bobby Jones has won 18 cham-
pionships. Although all three—Hagen,
Armour and Jones—competed together
during their prime in the leading events,
Hagen stands out as the greatest of all
by his remarkable winning record.
Now, with all three old masters retired
from active competitive play, I saw them
going through their old battles again at
Augusta recently when, partnered by
Bud Ward, 1939 U.S.A. amateur cham-
pion, they gave an exhibition match.
Official opening day in United States
clubs is May 1, when the summer weather
is well on its way after the winter snow
and rain. This year, however, in
Chicago those who brought their clubs
out of the storeroom and dusted them
over were forced to put them back, as
four inches of snow fell that day—the
first time in over 50 years.
This year greenkeepers around Chicago
are having a series of nightmares as the
uncertain weather has put the growth
back a month. Snowfalls late in April
and on May 1 have done much damage
to the local courses. Greens normally
good are still very brown-looking from
the snow and frosts, while the winter
rules of teeing the ball up on the fair-
ways will be in force for quite a few
more weeks. A greenkeeper’s life is one
full of problems all over the world. Take
last summer in Sydney, for instance!
Although exhibition golf is not the
strong drawing card it was a few years
ago, Sam Snead and Ralph Guldahl are
just completing a tour of the western and
mid-western States, where they have
averaged 300 dollars a day for week
days, 400 on Saturdays and 500 on Sun-
days. Playing five days a week these
boys have been raking in the shekels for
the past couple of months and travelling
over 1000 miles a week in doing so.
National Golf Week is celebrated each
year all over the country at the end of
April. This year Kansas City put on a
week’s tournament and exhibition play,
inviting over a dozen leading amateurs
and pros, to take part. At other cities
local golf associations held events where
prize-money was offered to the good
players. The return to play after the
long spell enforced by winter is some-
thing that the Australian climate, by its
kindliness, doesn’t emphasise.
* * * *
“S.S.”: How about Bradman as Fer-
rier’s next rival? At Mt. Osmond, the
hilltop links with the glorious view, just
behind Adelaide, he recently went round
in 72. Don has enlisted in the R.A.A.F.
Footbrawl
Melbourne, Richmond, Footscray,
Essendon and Geelong now head the
V.F. League competition with seven
wins each, Melbourne having been
brought back from the lead by Geelong
at M.C.G. in a game that was a splendid
exhibition of the Australian code. Mel-
bourne, superior in the air, got an early
lead, but Geelong’s ground play and fast
sorties on the wings were great. Goals
came fast —Glenister got three in two
minutes for Geelong—and there was only
a point between them half-way through
the last quarter; then Geelong kicked
the winning goal to win. It was 24-10 to
22-19 —a League scoring record.
At home to South Melbourne, Foots-
cray never gave the visitors a chance
after the first quarter, kicking 15-15 to
6-10.
A lot of hard thinking is being done
on each side of Smith-street, which
divides Collingwood from Fitzroy.
’Wood started the season reasonably well,
but has wilted, and on Saturday had to
accept defeat from Fitzroy, one of the
lowest on the list. Pace and strong back
play gave the Maroons the game, 15-13
to 12-17.
Richmond’s Tigers went out to North
as though to a practice match, but the
Northmen were out for big game and
had the Tigers’ skins half-off before the
beasts woke up. Whereupon there was
much running and leaping and roaring,
and the Northerners retreated, leaving
the Tigers with 17-16 to 13-11.
Essendon and its camp-followers went
down to the sea and St. Kilda. The Saints
suddenly became stubborn, and started to
knock the ’Dons about in a manner not
at all gentlemanly. There followed a
fine old how-de-do of action on the oval
and hysteria in the stands. When the
argument was finally sorted out Essen-
don had victory by two points, 15-14 to
14-
Carlton, possibly made drowsy from
long proximity to breweries, went down
among the Hawthorn rose gardens and
promptly fell asleep. It woke up in the
third interval to find itself with this
year’s record of being first to attain a
scoreless quarter, and set out after Haw-
thorn, but was too late. Hawthorn,
13-18; Carlton, 13-11.
* * * *
At Rugby Union on Saturday Rand-
wick scored four tries to St. George’s
three, but was nevertheless beaten, 28-16.
Clifford, at full-back for Saints, was re-
sponsible for the difference and more ;
he kicked goals from all angles, two
from the field, three penalties and a
conversion. ’Wick wondered what had
struck it.
The Greens still head the premiership
table, for even more surprising than their
own defeat was University’s 29-17 con-
quest of Drummoyne. Though the
Students had to draw on reserves to
make up a team, they played like cham-
pions, and got six tries to Drummoyne’s
two. Last season ’Varsity came from
last place half-way through to win the
competition.
Manly and St. George now share
second place with Drummoyne, two points
below ’Wick. Against Parramatta Manly
won a ragged game, 14-5. Gordon v.
East was hotly contested, but lacked
sparkle. Gordon just got there, 13-11.
North and West, both weakened by
enlistments, found it difficult to field two
teams. West had to call on Cornforth
and Rus Kelly, who’d come along in
uniform to see the game. North won
15-


SOVEREIGN HAT
IMPROVES
YOUR APPEARANCE
AD WeD Dressed Men
Wear a
SOVEREIGN
PROCURABLE AT ALL
SMART HATTERS AND MERCERS


ill
There is nothing
in the food line
quite so good as
ROAST
TURKEY
but it must be
a selected bird,
of goodly
weight and
plump withal,
freshly killed, then hung the requisite
time, filled with a real savoury
stuffing that only our Chefs hold the
secret of, then slowly cooked under
expert guidance, cooked slowly so
that every drop of juicy goodness is
saved, then served with a slice of
Pickled Pork and the necessary
vegetables.
WHAT A MEAL
Or would you prefer Roast Chicken
and Seasoning with Bacon, or Boiled
Chicken and Parsley Sauce, also
served with Pickled Pork?
Truly these • meals are the answer
to a hungry man’s prayer!
All obtainable at the
HOTEL
fc} w
4091
PLAZA
The Friendly Hotel at Wynyard.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
An Arresting Newsreel
“P.D.”: It has sometimes been fairly
said that Hollywood, with all the
material, skill and clever illusionary
photography at its command, can create
a far more convincing impression of
reality than a filmed recording of actual
events. Currently showing at Sydney
Regent, Plaza, Century, Embassy and
Mayfair is a most forceful contradiction
—a Fox-Movietone newsreel of the
B.E.F. evacuation from Dunkirk.
Two great pillars of black smoke lean
up over the city and spread out into a
dark, heavy ceiling, hanging overhead
like a pall; men wading out from the
beaches clamber into boats of every size,
shape and description destroyers,
launches, ferries, lifeboats and wherries,
manned by as heterogeneous a collection
of humans as ever came together. Aerial
bombs throw up bursts of water around
the boats and multi-barrelled machine-
guns bite back at the ’planes. The boats
taking the troops back to England have
every available space packed with men.
Once ashore, the British troops, though
tired and dirty, appear to be in un-
believably high spirits; the Frenchmen
are grim and downcast; but all of them
seem willing to tear into as much tucker
as they can get.
Because all this is concentrated into a
newsreel, because there is neither need
nor attempt to give it any artificial
emphasis, and because it is often spread
out in broad panoramas and always teem-
ing with unacted life it makes an
authentic and absorbing drama.
Struck into the newsreel are a few
strips of film taken from one of the movie
cameras which are now mounted in some
’planes and synchronised with the
machine-guns when the gunner sights
up his gun and fires he automatically
fires the camera at the same time, thus
making a filmed record of whatever is
in front of his gunsights. From this
comes the most gripping drama that this
commentator has ever seen —on or off
the screen. The incredible speed with
which it is played is first gathered from
the silhouette of a ’plane flashing across
the screen ; then there sweep into view
the thin, graceful lines of another ’plane,
evidently directly in frtmt of the camera
—and the guns with which it is syn-
chronised. Under the concentrated and
disintegrating fire from the eight guns
which the ’plane (a Hurricane) carries, a
wheel falls from the ’plane in view ; then
another and then more parts fall away ;
then the body of the ’plane bursts into
a cloud of smoke and drops out of the
picture.
Two or three times that happens, and
on each occasion all that is visible is
the ’plane that is being shot to pieces ;
the impression is a vivid and definite one
of sitting in the ’plane which is taking the
pictures and shooting the other down. Few
things could bring home more starkly
the speed and destruction of modern war
than these pictures of evil, slender, black
shapes hurtling down the sky and tearing
each other to pieces ; and fewer could
give a more lucid comment on contem-
porary youth than the pictures of the
laughing slips of youngsters stepping out
of the ’planes.
* * * *
“Broadway Melody of 1940”
This annual outburst of frothy comedy
and songandance at Sydney St. James
has Fred Astaire and Eleanor Powell
indulging in sufficient hoof-tapping to
satiate the most omnivorous addicts of
such fare, and the agile Eleanor doing
such things with her shapely pins that
it’s a miracle of sorts that she manages
to stay on ’em.
There’s a thread of a yarn about Fred
being the meek and mild partner of a
dancing team, the other half of which
gains a partnership with Eleanor, relying
meanwhile on Fred to keep him provided
with all the latest steps and knick-knacks
which make for successful hoof-tapping.
He develops a swelled nut, whereupon
Fred walks, leaving the other to get well
and truly sozzled, Fred then returning
just in time to partner the bewchus
Eleanor and carry off the evening’s per-
formance to the satisfaction of all.
None of it matters very much, but
there’s yards of lavish stage set-ups and
light tunefulness with odd items of vaude-
ville thrown in, including a young miss
who juggles balls and plates and things
as skilfully and as amusingly as any
hot and bothered waiter in a hash-house.
Frank Morgan, as a theatrical producer,
hurries through the piece, all the time
searching for verbal expression and most
of the time trying to recover his stock-in-
trade —an ermine cape which he lends
out to whatever wench he happens to be
toting out, and takes back to the amaze-
ment and consternation of the multitude,
including the wench.
Chico and Harpo pondering on the
whereabouts of Groucho in “The Marx
Bros, at the Circus,” at Sydney Capitol.
“The Marx Brothers at the Circus”
The brightest stretch of clowning and
tomfoolery seen for some time. Every
scene in which these three prize goats
appear is a gem of their particular brand
of clowning. The high-pressure goat-
acting is relieved by brief splashes of
Harpo’s incredible work on a harp,
and Chico’s equally amazing ivory-
tickling. Kenny Baker and Florence Rice
provide a faint lurv interest, and make
pleasant enough yawping of a couple of
numbers by the “Wizard of Oz” com-
poser.
* * * *
“Till We Meet Again”
This Sydney Plaza offering, which did
the rounds a few years ago with William
Powell and Kay Francis in the main
roles, now has George Brent as the con-
victed murderer being taken back from
China to America for execution, and
Merle Oberon as the young woman
travelling around the world to try to
forget that she’s likely to die at any time
from heart disease. Neither finds out the
other’s trouble for some time, Mr. Brent
being first to discover Miss Oberon’s
complaint and sacrificing his chances of
escape to avoid causing her any shock
which might be responsible for her death.
A note of melodrama permeates the
film, and some of the dialogue is too
ethereal, but it’s a generally well-made
offering with suspense sustained right
through it, and with Brent and Miss
Oberon turning in good performances.
Pat O’Brien, as the detective taking Brent
back to America, shows some of his
old form ; Binnie Barnes is a smart crook
who tries to take his mind off his job;
and Geraldine Fitzgerald makes a nice
fist of a small incidental role.
* * * *
“My Son, My Son”
Madeleine Carroll, Brian Aherne and
Louis Hayward in a picture that goes
very well until half-way through and
then falls to pieces. Brian Aherne is
struggling author who eventually achieves
fame, wealth and a spoilt son ; Madeleine
the woman who comes into author’s life
while flirting with son (Louis Hayward).
Early scenes of poverty and father-
mother disputes over much-fathered son
are good, so are scenes of rise to fame
up to climax of author’s successful first
play. After that it becomes sheer tripe,
with the awful banality of son redeeming
himself by getting killed in 1914-18 war
and winning V.C. This, after a news
gazette showing the Dunkirk evacuation!
At Sydney Century, the film is retrieved
somewhat by the competent “bit”
players, especially Aherne’s Irish friend.
* * * *
“The Secret of Dr. Kildare,” at Sydney
Lyceum, is another of those film-series
which Hollywood seems to be turning out
by the score. Properly handled, they’re
a good idea —casting the same actors in
the same parts for a series of several
films creates for audiences a sense of
reality and familiarity with the charac-
ters. The present show hasn’t much to
it, but familiar faces in familiar parts
make it thoroughly entertaining. Sup-
port is an English rib-tickler with patriotic
interest.
* * * *
“Safari,” at Sydney Mayfair, has
Douglas Fairbanks junior as big-game
hunter leading moneyed baron (Tullio
Carminati) and bewchus lady - love
(Madeleine Carroll) into darkest Africa
on hunting expedition. Miss Carroll
suddenly decides she prefers Mr. Fair-
banks’s hairy chest to Carminati’s oof,
so there’s some mild excitement leading
up to a fight between a lion and Mr.
Fairbanks, which takes place out of sight
behind a clump of bushes. Mr. Fairbanks
wins.
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Oscar Wilde”
It would need a great effort to re-
member a better play or a better per-
formance in any Melbourne theatre
than Brett Randall’s production by the
Melbourne Little Theatre of Leslie and
Sewell Stock’s “Oscar Wilde” at the tiny
St. Chad’s in South Yarra. The play is
obviously a bit of biography and it looks
as if the authors went to official sources
for their material. They even got the
real Lord Alfred Douglas to consent to
his counterfeit portrayal in the drama.
The part of the young man whose life
got so inextricably intermingled with that
of the poet was taken by Wilfred Blun-
den and it could hardly have been done
better.
The other youths whose company the
poet affected with such tragic results for
himself and them were equally well
cast, especially the lowly groom,
Charlie Parker (Henry Allan). Frederick
French as the journalist who was always
after copy but was terrified of being too
involved with the man who was being
hunted down by society, was also well
chosen. William Clarkson, Lewis Tegart
(Carson, Q.C., of Irish notability) and
Syd Benjamin were the legal panel, and
all these historical figures were intensely
human.
But the outstanding performance was
Frederick McMahon’s of the poet.
Whether he was showing the critic of
society on the upgrade, full of self-
confidence, inconsequential fun and bitter
wit; or self-confident in the box under
cross-examination, then gradually crumb-
ling as he realises that the Court no
more understood him than if he was
talking Chocktaw ; or the fat, bedraggled,
white-faced individualist beaten and
shunned by good English people in a
Paris cafe and taking to absinthe and
self-pity, he was always convincing.
* * * *
Tennyson at the Royal
As Alfred, Lord Tennyson, put it:
“Are you that Psyche,” Florian asked, “to
whom
In gentler days your arrow-wounded fawn
Came flying while you sat beside the well?
The creature laid his muzzle on your lap,
And sobb’d, and you sobb’d with it, and the
blood
Was sprinkled on your Rirtle, and you wept.”
And as the irreverent Gilbert continued
this research into Psyche’s psyche:
“Are you that learned little Psyche, who
At school alarmed her mates because she called
A buttercup ‘ranunculus bulbosus’?”
Like all good parodies, “Princess Ida”
can stand on its o\yn feet and, as per-
formed by the Gilsullivan company at
Sydney Royal, it makes quite a neat
satire on feminism. But it’s a bit vague,
somehow. To re-read Tennyson before-
hand gives it a great deal more point, but
even then it can never have the bite it
must have had when first presented.
Once it was sacrilege to laugh at Tenny-
son’s lapses into gentility, but who cares
today? Perhaps it was that that made
the chorus rather wooden, their singing
more dutiful than sparkling.
Nevertheless, it’s a good enough feast
of foolery, color and song to fill an
evening very pleasantly. Ivan Menzies
creaks and croaks and totters humorously
in the role of King Gama, Viola Wilson
is the Amazonian princess, Evelyn Gar-
diner amusing as a matronly man-hater.
There are two fine songs: Prince Hilarion
(John Fullard) complaining that the
world is but a “bro kentoy,” and Cyril
(Maxwell Oldaker) explaining what sort
of maid can set his heart aflame-a.
* * * *
“Quiet Wedding”
The subject of this English domestic
comedy, introduced to Melbourne King’s
on Saturday, is the dreads of a girl
(Patricia MacDonald) on the eve of her
marriage to a young man (John Wood)
and the complete obliviousness of her
family to her feelings. She calls her
dreads her horror and distaste of
ceremony and the young man deals with
her objections by spiriting her away the
night before the marriage to the flat that
has been prepared for the wedded couple.
They return next morning to a horrified
family which duly saves its amour propre
by proceeding with the wedding as if
nothing has happened.
If Esther McCracken had been a better
writer she would have made of this
theme a telling drama. It has its
occasional moments when the emotions
of the girl dominate the proceedings.
But the author is intent on her happy
ending and in getting the requisite supply
of laughs on the journey. The Australian
cast helped her nobly in this endeavor
on Saturday night, and there was much
applause at the final curtain. Yvonne
Banvard received a good deal for play-
ing the distracted mother, Frank Bradley
was the bored and cynical father, Lloyd
Lamble was lost in the part of an ex-
traordinarily cantankerous brother, and
Barbara Smith was a married sister who
has misgivings about telling her hus-
band that she is going to have a baby
because she is bored by his affection.
# * * *
At the second Beecham concert at
Melbourne Town Hall, the local
orchestra, assisted by a string quartette
from Sydney, made magnificent jobs of
the “Jupiter” symphony of Mozart, a
Bizet suite and the Introduction and
Allegro for Strings of Elgar. But the
Cesar Franck symphony, with the extra-
ordinarily lovely air running through it,
was the highlight of the evening. The
orchestra so excelled itself that the con-
ductor shared the enthusiasm of the audi-
ence and joined in the clapping.
* * * *
“Switzerland” is off the menu at His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, “Ice Follies of
1940” having taken its place. The same
principals perform the same breath-
taking antics before frequent changes of
scene, including a Dutch one in which
the skateros and skaterinas appear as
living tulips and another in which the
moon looks down on the proceedings.
Good houses are the rule. Gilsullivan
opera is to follow.


HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Many of those gnawing', nagging, painful
backaches people blaiiie on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can be
relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
in the blood. These poisons may cause fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting ana
burning, nagging backaches, rheumatic pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting tip nights,
swelling, puffiness under the eyes, headaches
and dizziness. .. , . . - _
Don’t waitl Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 yc ai j 3 -
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush cut P o *?°u?u s
Waste from the blood. Get DOAIn S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
that will make you well fl nd keep you weL.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
As the early winter darkness fell, great
arc lights lit the grounds of the Town
Hall, next to St. Andrew’s Cathedral. In
their brightness were alert ranks of girls
in the uniform of signallers, St. John
Ambulance, transport, air services and
even in that of the new W.A.N.S. They
assembled orderly as soldiers, ready for
entry to the Town Hall. Ticket-holders
were drafted to Druitt-street and
cathedral-side entrances. jostled
women you knew, said “Hello!” breath-
lessly and never glimpsed them again the
entire evening. The hall itself, the gal-
leries, the corridors were all jammed
tight before half-past seven. The Union
Jack flowed out on one side of the stage,
Australia’s flag on the other.
Women knitted and wound wool while
they waited. At eight o’clock Lady
Gowrie, Lady Wakehurst, Mayor Crick,
Dame Enid Lyons (just out of the plane
in which she had flown from Melbourne),
Mrs. Godhard, Mrs. Stanley Vaughan,
Mrs. Mair, the Chief Justice’s lady,
Colonel Bruxner, Minister for Education
Drummond, C. A. Kelly, M.L.A., and
other importants seated themselves in the
foreground of the stage. Its background
was massed girls in uniform.
Like the Heavy Dragoons in “Patience”
the A.B.C. band, surrounded by tiers of
good-looking girls, might have sung
“I didn’t anticipate this when I put
this uniform on.” However, they
didn’t sing, but played with great fervor
patriotic airs. Splendid moments were
the sound of Enzed’s National Anthem,
and Walter Kingsley’s singing of “There’ll
Always Be An England.” Through the
heart of every Maorilander in the house
must have rung Bracken’s inspired
words:
Guide her in the nations’ van,
Teaching love and truth to man,
Working out Thy glorious plan.
God defend New Zealand!
With fire and spirit the W.A.N.S.
(Women’s Australian National Service)
was launched. Dame Enid Lyons even
flashed a gleam of laughter into her
address. She was talking of the need for
preserving and storing foodstuffs. Being
from Tasmania, of course, the apple
served her as illustration. She said: “At
the end of this war there will be starving
people the world over, let us be able to
send this stored food as a benediction.”
She paused: “If there’s a surplus even
then I’ll guarantee to put all the Lyonses
on a dried-apple diet.” There was such a
demand for enrolment cards that the
supply ran out. An anonymous giver
handed up £2O to Lady Wakehurst. The
W.A.N.S. were launched —the W.A.N.S.
who not only want to see the wheels of
civil and industrial life go round but
who are going to keep them going round
if necessity arises.
Friends all over Australia will sorrow
over the death of Mrs. Lance Fallaw.
As Florence Nightingale was known as
the Lady of the Lamp, Mrs. Fallaw
might have been known as the Lady with
the Smile. It was one of the brightest
in Sydney. Her husband, who was for
long on the editorial staff of the “S. M.
Herald,” is a pillar of the Rotary move-
ment. Mrs. Fallaw, who was a native
of Queensland, was for some time before
her marriage active in the newspaper life
of Geelong.
A meeting of friends of the Sydney
Missions to Seamen was held to in-
augurate a special effort to raise funds
for the Rawson Institute for Seamen,
which was used by 53,000 sailors last
year. The Alexander Gordon lady, who
presided at the meeting, stressed the
special need to help the men of the mer-
cantile marine in these times. She sug-
gested a “Treasure. Shop,” in which not
only discarded clothes but also gifts of
value might be sold for the benefit of the
Mission’s work. This venture will run
for about one week from July 5. Gifts
should be sent to the Rawson Institute,
100 George-street North, or can be picked
up on telephoning the Institute, 83158.
The chaplain, F. J. Evans, referred to the
cheerful way the seamen go about their
work in these black days, when they do
not know how long they will be away
from home or what new difficulties they
may encounter on return. He also sends
out an SOS for gramophone records and
reading matter. The demand for these
is increasing daily.
Former Governor-General Lord For-
ster’s son-in-law, Captain Pitt Rivers, has
got into print again. This time he figures
in the news from London as one of those
detained under the National Defence
Regulations. While in Australia he acted
as secretary and A.D.C. His wife was a
pretty creature who adored theatricals. She
acted in many amateur performances, and
just before she left Australia she took
up stage work professionally under the
name of Mary Hinton. Her husband and
she were divorced in 1929. Captain Pitt
Rivers, who served as an officer of the
Royal Dragoons in the last war, was a
keen polo-player. He was also an anthro-
pologist, and has written several books
on this and other subjects, among them
Weeds in the Garden of Marriage and
The Czech Conspiracy (1938).
If you know Mary Small, of the Baby
Health Centre, you’ve seen her fingers
busy fashioning toys or bits of dazzle.
These were for the Christmas-tree or
party for children whose parents are
among the not-so-well-olf. Mary was
stationed at Narromine not long ago,
and she met Falkner Harvey, of Rane-
lagh, Dubbo. The two decided on matri-
mony, and last week-end they were mar-
ried in St. Philip’s on Church Hill. Her
nattier-blue hat and frock were the right
foil for Mary’s red-gold hair. Bride’s
brother Barton came from Queensland to
give her away; cousin Marjorie Bridle
’maided.
Wendy Burge, of Neutral Bay, is the
secretary of the younger group of the
A.I.F. Signals Comforts Association of
this State. With a group of helpers
Wendy, every Saturday, runs a canteen
for the sports girls and their barrackers
at Rushcutters Bay. Friends of the asso-
ciation send along the eatables, so all
taken is clear profit. This helps to pro-
vide comforts for A.I.F. Signals, and to
attend to the welfare of their dependents.
Dorothy Welding photograph.
The dazzling show of the week was,
of course, the Ice Matinee at the Glaci-
arium. This was a tonic for the funds of
the Industrial Blind Institute, and had
behind it one of the most hard-working,
women’s committees in the city. An in-
jection of £lOO into the bloodstream of
the William-street fastness is expected
from last Thursday’s girly-twirly. From
the little red chalet perched at one end
of the rink Lady Wakehurst, the David-
son lady, who is the auxiliary’s president,
secretary Bea Meeks, Mrs. Dudley
Hardy, Mrs. Bill Dawson and other im-
portants watched the animated scene. A
presentation muff of violets was Lady
Wakehurst’s loot from the committee.
Well in the picture was the Snowflake
Ballet, a highlight of the floor show
arranged by Mrs. Herbert Douglass and
Mrs. L. E. Croll. Furs from the aris-
tocracy of the ermine and fox kingdoms
were displayed with the right touch of
hauteur by pretty girls, directed by Mrs.
Lennox Bode. As white as a snowdrift
on the summit of Everest, and as un-
attainable by most of us, was a wrap of
white Arctic fox.
That soldiers don’t forget was proved
again by the success of the Legacy Ball
last week. The work of legacy among
the children of the first A.I.F. is well
known. Each youngster under its care
is in the position of being the favorite
of a rich uncle. Now the torch, which
is its symbol, is burning with added
fervor, for the children of men now on
active service have become beneficiaries.
The Trocadero was a scene of almost
military precision and activity as im-
portant guests were met and greeted.
Legacy’s blue and white were every-
where worked into the scheme of deco-
ration. On the official table, where
president of the executive committee Z.
Lazarus and Mrs. Lazarus entertained,
were tall candles, blue and white. A
great torch wreathed in laurel was a
striking background. There were 22
debs., each squired by a member of the
A.I.F. from Ingleburn. Mrs. C. A.
Burnet, her graceful frock of white
marquisette scrolled in gold, presented
them to General Sturdee and his wife.
The Victoria League’s yearly meeting
raised quite a hymn of praise to Mrs.
Walter Swinson, who has organised the
concert to be held in Government House
on July 31. The League’s Club in Lon-
don for overseas soldiers will benefit by
the boodle, which already, with sale of
tickets and donations, touches the £BOO
mark. If this Letter knows her Mrs.
Swinson there’ll probably be £lOOO in
the kitty at the final count. Lord and
Lady Wakehurst are lending Government
House, and there will be coffee and
sandwiches on the terrace to finish up.
The report of the League’s labors dur-
ing the just-ended year tells of piles of
woollies knitted and sent to men over-
seas. Here’s a story of a young Aus-
tralian soldier among the forces evacu-
ated from Dunkirk. On the journey back
to England on a small trawler he got into
conversation with one of the crew. The
man of the trawler said: “So you come
from Australia! Well, I’ve a very warm
tie with that country,” and, smiling, he
lifted up the end of the knitted woollen
scarf he was wearing. On it was a small
tag, “From the Victoria League, N.S.W.”
A band of eager young helpers, known
as the “Young Contingent” (thank good-
ness we’re getting away from the over-
done “younger set”), with the Hon. Hen-
rietta Loder for president, is expected
to do great things, and strengthen the
ranks of the members, many of whom
during the last war were a young con-
tingent, too, though not officially given
that title. Lady Wakehurst came to the
meeting, at which Miss Macarthur Onslow
presided. Miss Milner Stephen lived up
to the reputation for oratory of her
family. Perhaps such an upwelling
from the heart had too sincere and per-
sonal a quality to be termed oratory. It
was both moving and soul-searching.
In “Giving the Bride Away” the
authors have written a sparkling, laugh-
ing gas-impregnated entertainment. It’s
an escape avenue from realism, than
which nothing could be better these days.
The writers are Margot Goyder and Ann
Neville, known as Margot Neville. Here
is a charming half of the dual author per-
sonality, Ann Neville. John Lee made
the picture.
Remembering that sorrows known, and
unknown, are pressing about us in tram
and train and ferry, every woman worthy
of the name must resolve these days to
handle with gentleness all with whom she
has dealings. This is no time for the
dash of lemon in the witticism, the sar-
donic twist of the tongue. To speak
gently, tread softly and sow a laugh or
two into each day is a good rule of life.
Acting-Minister for Health Primrose
opened the new Dame Eadith Walker
Sub-Acute Hospital at Concord last
Saturday. This is on the site of Eadith
Walker’s old home, Yaralla, and its
grounds and surroundings are a tonic in
themselves. Yaralla will have its own
dairy herd, cabbage patch and barnyard.
Tennis courts and a swimming pool will
help build up both patients and members
of the staff. The new hospital is the first
colony of the Royal Prince Alfred
Empire of healing, and nearly 50 R.P.A.
patients are now in residence.
The ready reckoner said that there were
500 present at the opening, Dame Eadith’s
twin nephews among them. There is little
of the usual hospital atmosphere about
the handsome old place. Its walls are
white, its shutters green. The drawing-
room is now a ward, the dining-room will
still serve its original purpose, though,
just pdssibly, the menus will not be up
to those served to former royal visitors
to Yaralla. The late King George V.
was entertained there, so was the Duke
of Windsor. R.P.A. importants at the
hospital opening were Dr. Bertie Schlink,
Dr. Lilley and Matron Dun. The Marcus
Clarks were others of the tea-drinkers on
the lawns.
The big find of the Gilsullivan season
is tenor John Fullard. As the weeks go
by his voice is opening out into star
dimensions. The voice has true lyric
quality, and no wonder Evelyn Gardiner
said, as repeated to this writer, that one
of the great pleasures of this season to her
has been watching the development of
this appealing voice. As Prince Hilarion
in “Princess Ida” the young man got off
on the right note, and put the nightin-
gale and red rose touch into the whole.
Gilsullivan enthusiasts the H. J. Bradys
beamed throughout the performance.
Diggers abroad serving with the B.E.F.
will find a few luxuries in their mail as
a result of the dance held in Paris House
last week. This was organised by the
just-returned-from-England Mrs. Jessica
Lee and Bertha Brownlow, whose sister,
now Mrs. F. R. Thompson, was Olive
Brownlow, one of the youngest army
sisters of the first A.I.F. Many of these
Diggers abroad are men who settled down
in France and England after the 1914-18
strafe. Some of them are married to
French wives. All of them have a burn-
ing love of Australia, though many have
not seen their homeland in twenty-odd
years. It is to let them know that Aus-
tralia still remembers them that Mrs. Lee,
who met many of them at the unveiling
of the Villers-Bret. memorial two years
ago, arranged the dance, which was the
first of a series of three. Mrs. F, R.
Thompson has undertaken to be the
London distributor of the funds.
The Railway Institute Metropolitan
Choir is raising its voice in earnest prac-
tice for the choral concert at the Con.
on Saturday, July 6. The Sydney Folk-
Song Choir is polishing up its top notes
and brushing off its costumes in prepara-
tion for the same date. J. L. Walter’s
vocal octet is also on its toes. There will
be impressive numbers in which 150
voices will take part. Lord Mayor's
Patriotic Fund benefits. Marie Ryan,
Heather Kinnaird, Marjorie Hambridge,
Raymond Beatty and Alexander Svef-
jensky are among the soloists,
Flutterings from an air-mail letter from
London: —
Flora’s maid arrived this morning furious be-
cause she had had her night’s rest disturbed
by hearing two bombs explode a few miles off.
“That damned Hitler,” she said. “He is put-
ting me off my stroke. I must have my night’s
rest. How does he think I’ll be fit to fight
in the ditches if I am disturbed every night?*
An anti-aircraft detachment in Hyde Park has
made a garden and is growing all sorts of vege-
tables. Saw a hen strolling about there the
other day with lots of little yellow chickens
running about. And my bus passes this sign:
“Luxurious offices will be erected on this site
when the war is over! ” There’s still a curl in
the lion’s tail.
Fashions are no longer created with
that nostalgic longing for the lady of the
miniature that has kept so many of us
bobbing and swishing about in spreading
taffetas. But even the exigencies of war
permit of no relaxing of guard on the
waistline. That, if possible, is to be more
tapering than ever. Every woman must
keep a vigilant watch on her home front.
For those of us who have the time,
and certainly the wives, mothers and
sweethearts of lads of the A.I.F, about
to go overseas should make the time,
fashion is going to be a gay pursuit come
spring and summer. Probably we’ll get
our styles by way of America, but up to
May the French houses were designing
the fashions for the world. Paris held
the usual displays about six or seven
weeks ago. There is something inde-
structible about a people whose fashion
creators carry on with such nonchalant
disregard of horrors, building up for the
braver and brighter world around the
corner.
Shirtwaist dresses (which this Letter
personally dislikes) are to be to the fore
both at afternoon and evening parties.
Some of the shirtwaist evening frocks
have narrow skirts, reminiscent of the
hobble. Pinafore dresses will be once
more with us. Stripes and plaids will
again brighten every scene. Straight,
long lines are back into favor for after-
nightfall dos. Grey and brown, grey and
black, grey and violet are recurring
color notes.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 822 of 1940.
BETWEEN RITA EDITH LANE Petitioner
And FRANK HENRY LANE Respondent.
TO FRANK HENRY LANE late of Thomp-
son’s Corner, West Pennant Hills.
TAKE NOTICE that the said RITA EDITH
LANE has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-
fifth day of September next and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
Petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fifth day of June, 1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
CHURCH & DEY, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 64 of 1939.
BETWEEN DORRIS EVELYN JEWELL Peti-
tioner
And GEORGE HENRY JEWELL Re-
spondent.
TO GEORGE HENRY JEWELL.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DORRIS
EVELYN JEWELL has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground that you have without just cause or
excuse wilfully deserted her and without any
such cause or excuse left her continuously so
deserted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twentieth day of September One
thousand nine hundred and forty and in the
event of your not so doing within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit will be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-seventh day of June,
1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
F. W. EWART, Solicitor for Petitioner, 137
Church Street, Parramatta; Town Agents,
MESSRS. BLAND & GARNOCK, Solicitors,
350 George Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN
WOMANS MIRROR
A “ Bulletin” production
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Special Garden Advice and Hints by Readers.
Piccaninnies’ Pages—the Children’s Storyette Realm.
The Phantom—Serial in Pictures.
Knitting, Needlework and Craftwork Features.
Review of the Latest Books.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
Melbourne
Chatter
There’s Blarney House for the Army,
and Air Force House is to be opened
today at 53 Market-street for the
R.A.A.F., but the Navy and the Mer-
chant Fleet are dependent on the Mission
to Seamen, which has been operating in
an excellent and unobtrusive way for
many years. The women who belong to
the Harbor Lights Guild, which works
for the Mission, are no seekers after lime-
light, but in a most dexterous manner
help with supper at dances and supply
girls as dancing partners —girls who man-
age a smile if a sailor’s outsize foot
squashes their toes, and who blame the
calamity on the fact that the floor is still
and not bucking in a heavy sea. The
Mission runs two institutions, one at Port
Melbourne, the other in Flinders-street.
Anyone who feels like stretching out a
friendly hand to the seamen in their
present dangerous tasks can buy a couple
of tickets for the Merchant Navy Ball
on July 6 at the Australia. Mrs. Hum-
phrey Clegg is president of the com-
mittee. Admiral Colvin and his lady will
shed naval glamor on the proceedings.
In spite of various disabilities such as
sound machinery not quite in working
order and a heating system which worked
in sudden blasts, the premiere at the new
Century Theatre opposite the Town Hall
was a success. The film was “Irene,”
preluded by two Donald Ducks. The
Red Cross benefited from the evening and
its augmented takings in the foyer, also
the Dutch auctioning of a fine and hand-
some hamper. This was given by Mrs.
A. E. Kimpton, Mrs. E. Cornfoot and
Mrs. Karl Kumm and fetched the tidy
sum of £70 under the hammer of Hector
McKenzie. Mrs. Kimpton’s was the voice
at the back which persevered in bid after
bid. Mrs. J. J. Daly, Mrs. J. B. Bellair
and Mrs. Len Buxton ran a sweets stall
with the assistance of an emergency unit
in uniform of fawn overalls and caps
and little red jackets.
Babies’ homes and orphanages agree
that while little boys hang fire it’s the
little girls, especially those with blue eyes
and curly hair, who are much sought
after for adoption. The same looks like
applying to the children to be sent from
England. Though it isn’t certain that
“choosing” will be possible, it’s the girls
who are already in the minds of the appli-
cants. An enthusiastic number of in-
quiries has been received about these
children. Grown-up sons and daughters
are saying to their parents “Adopt a little
nipper ; it will keep you young and we ll
help to mind it.” Young couples too are
rising to the occasion ; even our bright
young bachelors are feeling a paternal
urge, though it’s unlikely they will be
approved of by the inspectors, who might
be difficult about cigarette smoke and
putting the baby to sleep in the bath.
Departmental Secretary E. J. Pittard
says that inspections of homes will be
made by officers of the Children’s Wel-
fare Department and by volunteers,
which decision is questioned, particularly
by trained social workers, who can do
such jobs more quickly, economically
and tactfully than untrained laymen. The
Federation of Mothers’ Clubs has already
raised its voice in favor of qualified in-
spectors —it also approves a suggestion
that the children should remain in groups
for some time after their arrival in this
country.
Sild salad, which when mixed by Mrs.
H. Andersen is of succulent taste and
vitamin value, was the piece de resist-
ance at the Norwegian fete, open for one
day at the International Club. Nor-
wegians and even those without a drop
of Nordic in their bloodstreams fell for
cartons of this salad, all to the good for
that evening’s supper or as a before-
dinner pep-up for husbands who return
home tired and temperamental business-
men. Jams and pickles and Norwegian
cakes made by Mrs. Schreuder, Mrs. L.
Bowley and other light-handed cooks,
and an assortment of hand-made acces-
sories were sought after throughout the
day so that the organisers had little upon
their hands when they were ready to tidy
up and go home. Among other recent
successful efforts for King Haakon’s
Fund were a bridge party at Darling-
street and a dance at the Palais, where
12-year-old Marjorie Alstergren surprised
all present, including her fond parents,
by executing a Norwegian dance. She
had been coached secretly by Jennie
Brenan.
A golf gymkhana up at Emerald also
helped the cause. Emerald’s president,
vice-president and captain, Mrs. E. K.
Bottomley, Mrs. T. W. Gunnersen and
Mrs. E. A. Doyle respectively, encouraged
associates from far and near to come
along even if it rained and even if the
bunkers beckoned them. Both happened,
but the bunkers for one day in their lives
didn’t peeve the players, who paid up
penny fines every time they fell into
such traps. The fines considerably helped
the gymkhana fund.
Three women (at least) knitted socks
right through last week’s Beecham con-
cert. What would have happened if the
keen ear of the mighty little baronet had
detected their needles clicking is interest-
ing conjecture—but he didn’t. Maybe
he’s a leg-puller, but he certainly gazes
at the audience as if it were a collection
of worms —or the relatives hearing the
will of the deceased from the lips of the
family lawyer; he being the lawyer, in
jocular mood only a moment ago with
his friends, the musicians. After the
Elgar number for strings and orchestra,
Beecham casually sat himself down for
a rest in one of the cellist’s chairs. He
hasn’t yet received a laurel, wreath in
Melbourne, but perhaps he doesn’t
approve of such frills and has let it be
known that he won’t accept one even
if it’s held up under his nose.
In the audience were Dr. and John
Williams, she in mist-grey net and long
gloves (these days a rarity). Valerie
Purves wore black velvet and little pale-
blue bows here and there and in her
hair. Mrs. Lindsay Biggins clasped
Parma violets to her dregs-of-wine
woollen coat. The Neville Frasers were
present, also the Jack Mortons, Mrs.
Morton in black with an ice-blue segment
as a front panel to a flared skirt.
Flinthill, Woodend, is witnessing an-
other wedding after another short en-
gagement. Mr. and Mrs. Harold
Brookes’s elder daughter Margaret mar-
ried the A.A.M.C.’s John Colquhoun last
February, and now younger daughter
Liberty (Broothorn photograph) will be
married at the end of July to Rod Sin-
clair, younger son of the late Mr. and
Mrs. Russell Sinclair, formerly of Syd-
ney. It will be a quiet ceremony, but
Liberty will wear conventional bridal
gown and veil.
Sleek, slim products of a modern
(civilised) age invite closer inspection
upon the walls of the Athenaeum for
the Advertising and Industrial Arts Ex-
hibition. There’s a car with cream up-
holstery, a crime to touch it and shatter
the dream that it’s smooth satin. There
are eggs and bacon, all present but the
aroma—Douglas Horman brought them
to life in paint. Ray Wenban’s well-
known sketches of army men are there,
and a corner is given over to Nutter
Buzzacott’s black-and-whites and color
blocks, no less meritorious for their
monetary mission. Robert Clayton Skate,
“Strom” Gould, Colin Fink, Douglas
Annand, Gert Sellheim and Ralph War-
ner are among others who used their
sense of design psychologically. Barbara
Cole and Joyce Shannon have their way
with plaques and in some decorative
dolls suspended in mid-air.
Lady Dugan opened the show, where-
upon she received red roses from Betty
Barnett, who was attired in black with
a snappy snippet of silver fox upon her
head. A Red Cross collection box caught
everybody’s eye at the door. The object
of the show is to promote a high stand-
ard of advertising art. All expenses were
defrayed by the commercial artists who
belong to the association. Work was
contributed from three States. Of 1500
submissions, 260 were selected for the
display.
Well-cast, acted and received was
“French Without Tears,” a Tin Alley
Players job at the Union Theatre. The
French Red Cross benefits from Satur-
day night and the University Women’s
War Fund and another good cause from
succeeding evenings. On Saturday there
were neither speeches nor bouquets, but
something more valuable, a full house.
Helen McCulloch was a great success as
Diana, and she got away with some devas-
tating clothes including white slacks and
Toreador blouse, yellow surf-siren suit
with flamboyant wrap and a purple tea-
time frock pop-eyed with white buttons.
Young Helen has had some dramatic
experience with her old school, Marengo,
Geelong, and with the Trinity College
players, but this was her first crack at a
gold-digging role. She looks the healthy,
happy outdoor type, but must have a
parcel of brains as well, for she’s finished
a commerce course. Equally well cast
in the Terence Rattigan comedy was
Stanley Lowe, looking typically English
and naval as Lieut.-Commander Rogers.
Melbourne is fortunate in its Little
Theatre and in Brett Randall, who pro-
duces there plays that are not to be seen
anywhere else. In spite of its unhealthy
theme, “Oscar Wilde,” by Leslie and
Sewell Stokes, absorbed the interest of
audiences who almost forgot the permeat-
ing chilliness of their knees and toes.
Mr. Randall had difficulty in collecting
his all male cast, for as fast as he made
a decision the candidate was in khaki,
but finally perseverance was rewarded.
The unusual powers of Frederick Mc-
Mahon, who played Oscar Wilde, poeti-
cal, witty, decadent and colossally con-
ceited, were responsible for much of the
success of the production. Starting off
in a monstrosity of a black-and-white-
striped suit and a boater hat, Wilfred
Blunden played Lord Alfred Douglas.
Frederick French provided a contrast with
his .bald-headed plain-man job of Frank
Harris, and Henry Allen was the ’groom,
Charlie Parker, a commonplace youth
but welcome for his normality.
Recently engaged is Lydia Drexler,
whose photograph comes from Antoine.
Lydia is the only daughter of Mrs. L.
Drexler, of South Yarra. Her fiance is
Paymaster-Sub-Lieut. C. M. Branstone
Crabb, R.A.N.R., who is the eldest son
of the late Commander S. G. Crabb,
R.N., and of Mrs. Crabb, of Rockley-
road, South Yarra. The young couple,
who have known each other for a year,
are making no wedding plans for the
present. Miss Drexler, who is a specialist
in beauty treatment for dogs, is now add-
ing a commercial course to her other
accomplishments.
“The Corn Is Green” presented the
problem of the Welsh language which
Gregan McMahon investigated and
abandoned after one demonstration by
Incley’s Welshman, Edward Kelly. “Twist
your tongue into the roof of your mouth
and hiss like a snake,” said Mr. Kelly,
“and you’ll have ‘ff.’ ” This Emlyn Wil-
liams comedy, which made its debut on
Saturday at the Comedy Theatre, gave a
Sybil Thorndyke role to Carrie Haase,
who wears a bicycling outfit, though she
didn’t have to learn to ride her bicycle
as the young women of this town are
doing—Mrs. Stewart Hancock and Pen
Stead among them. They do their shop-
ping a-wheel. It is said that many a
buster is being survived in backyards,
but what’s a bruise or two to the girl
who can snap her fingers at the last train
when petrol rationing commences?
Dr. Kate Mackay has returned home
after twelve months’ knowledge-seeking
plus a little holidaying in the U.S. The
outbreak of war prevented her getting
to England. She left Melbourne as ship’s
surgeon in a Swedish freighter, she saw
Yosemite without a drop of water to
wet the falls and felt a blizzard in
Boston when at least one well-known
street was turned into a ski-slide. In
Boston she found a full cultural life of
art and music as well as admirable facili-
ties for doing post-graduate work which
she also undertook in several other cities.
Dr. Mackay found, in fact, that the doors
of clinics right through the States are
opened wide to visiting medicos.
She can’t speak too highly of the effi-
ciency of Mayo Clinic, for many patients
a Mecca of last hopes. As well as service
therein she sensed also an idealism,
heritage of the original Mayo founders.
It is said that everybody in Rochester,
N.Y., either wears a bandage, studies a
science or sells food. Dr. Mackay adds
another impression: that of general
friendliness and good manners, and far
fewer hands than usual outstretched for
tips. Throughout her American journey
she was impressed by the number of
medical women who marry and continue
their careers. An instance is Evelyn
Anderson, who is Assistant Professor of
Medicine at the University of San Fran-
cisco, has a practice as a physician, does
research, is the wife of a neurologist
and the mother of two children.


The IkieliurilMiin Chain Hotel
fW
CJ
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
Doctors soy your virility and vig-
our depend greatly on your Hor-
mone Glands. B21 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract. Will deOnitely rejgve-
note you and . banish weakness.
Price 10/6. Write TO-DAY.
MEN!
B 21
G LAN 0
T 0"M:l C
T. JONES E CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
THE SERVICE MAN
Britain Waits.
“Ek D.”: The German armistice terms
signed by the French delegates at Com-
piegne in themselves fully carried out
the German threat to “annihilate”
France. Stripped of the greater part of
her material resources, divorced from the
control of all means whereby she was
defended, compelled even to pay for the
upkeep of the German army of occupa-
tion, France ceased to exist as an in-
dependent nation.
But, bad as the terms were, the loop-
hole was provided whereby they could
be made worse. Under Article 24:
The present armistice is to be valid until
the conclusion of a peace treaty. It can
be denounced at any moment if the French
Government does not fulfil its obligations.
Thus, if one Frenchman were to fight
for Britain, if one French warship were
to take sides against Germaif one
small colony were to refuse to disarm,
further pressure could be app’ici.
The Italian Dictiit —it co id not be
called an agreement and the French
signed it without demur completed
the reduction of France to impo-
tence and placed its Government, as
Mr. Churchill said, “behind prison bars.”
It was no wonder old Marshal Petain’s
voice trend icd as he described the agree-
ments as “r:vere.”
At 9.35 a.m., on June 25, Sydney time,
the cease-fire signal sounded and the
Petain Government set about its task of
implementing its arrangement with the
enemy.
With millions of starved, half-crazed
refugees on its hands ; with its country
strewn with unburied corpses, historic
cities blackened ruins, its armies broken,
thousands of its wounded scarcely cared
for, it bore such a responsibility as never
has been known by any Administration
since the fall of Rome.
The French fleet was ordered home,
with what result is still uncertain, though
some units lay at Alexandria with the
British Fleet, their flags half-mast.
General Nogues, Resident-General in
the French African possessions, was also
ordered home. Instead of obeying, he
issued a fierce appeal to the French and
native populations to carry on, saying
that not an inch of French territory in
Africa would be given up without a
struggle. It was said that General Mittel-
hauser in the Syrian mandate had taken
a similar stand, and that an agreement
had been reached between Britain, Turkey
and Irak for the defence of Syria. But
Mittelhauser soon changed his mind —if
he did change it —and the Turks hastily
announced that they were “non-belliger-
ent.”
In London General De Gaulle’s
National Committee called on all French-
men to continue to resist and appealed
to the French Navy at sea to take ships
to British territory. The general wound
up a bitter attack on the Petain Govern-
ment with the words:
Yes, France will rise again, but by the
efforts of Frenchmen outside France.
Then Berlin Radio was heard to the effect
that Frenchmen who continued to fight
would be treated as traitors.
With the collapse of France the war
entered a new phase one in which
Britain alone, save for the sympathy and
help of the Empire and Roosevelt’s
U.S.A., found itself arrayed against
enemies bent on extending to it the
measures of annihilation used against
France.
Dire possibilities at every point of the
compass, however, failed to shake the
morale of the British people. Britain was
faced with a new naval challenge. The
submarine and air campaign had taken a
toll of 56,000 tons of shipping during
the week. There were nightly air raids
on the civil population. Britain had huge
enemy armies within sight of its shores
in France. There was new opposition on
the main trade route to India and the
Pacific Dominions. Perhaps because of
enemy submarine, possibly even surface-
boat action, the port of Bombay was
closed.
There were threats of direct invasion;
of an encircling invasion achieved
through attack on a scarcely-defended
Eire, divided by faction. The Mediter-
ranean possessions and protectorates
were daily and nightly menaced from
the air. There was the chance that Spain
would be coerced into the German con-
spiracy ; that Gibraltar would be attacked
by land and the straits closed or made
untenable in the melee ; that Iran and/or
India would be assaulted by Russia, on
the north; that Japanese troops, already
close to Hong Kong, would go into
French Indo-China, from which a great
military road runs into Burma.
But Britain was undismayed. The story
of how a brigade of British light troops
held up the advance of the overwhelming
force of German mechanised divisions,
dying almost to the last man, to keep
Dunkirk open for the B.E.F. evacuation,
revealed the toughness of the British
spirit.
Forces were landed for reconnaissance
at two points on the French coast and
returned with German prisoners. The
victory bells of western Germany were
silenced by the day and night raids by
the R.A.F. From Bergen to the Red Sea
there was continued, if sporadic, activity
against the enemy aerodromes and
armament and works, oil tanks and
railway junctions under continual fire,
Italian submarines hunted, posts attacked.
The week-end brought the news that
two more Italian submarines had been
sunk in the Red Sea and an Italian
destroyer in the Mediterranean. An old
British sub., the Grampus, was reported
lost. So was a Canadian destroyer, with
45 men.
In Britain itself preparations went on
ceaselessly. Here the attackers will find
no thin lines of defence. They will meet
with a United Kingdom which has been
turned into a maze of defences, every
town with its trenches and entanglements
and anti-aircraft defence, every road with
its barricades, every Englishman and
Englishwoman with a set task. They will
have to circumvent the world’s greatest
and most efficient navy. They will meet
with armies of which the nucleus are
250,000 fighting men who snatched them-
selves from under the noses of five-to-
one forces to bring home a knowledge
of German technique and a horror of
German ruthlessness. And there is the
smoke haze across the Channel as a warn-
ing of the price of defeat.
With all the desultory fighting and the
feverish preparation, the only large mili-
tary moves of the week were made by
Russia —the Russia which ravaged Fin-
land, bullied the small Baltic countries
into cowed submission and made a friend
and ally of the Germany which it had
professed to loathe. The Russia, wor-
shipped by Communists who have done
everything possible to hamper war effort
in the Commonwealth.
As usual, Russia had an easy prey-
Rumania —and the booty was Bessarabia
and North Bukovina. When Molotov
delivered an ultimatum to the Rumanians
and King Carol submitted without firing
a shot, Sydney “Telegraph” persuaded it-
self that “Russia wants Bessarabia back
to form a buffer on her south-western
frontiers against the Axis Powers.” A
few hours proved that the whole thing
had been done, as usual, in full concert
with Berlin.
Bessarabia has always been shown on
the Russian maps as “claimed by the
U.S.S.R.” since it was taken over on
April 9, 1918. Bukovina was joined to
Rumania six months later. The Soviet
Union is taking the northern part of it
—its total captures cover nearly 20,000
square miles of territory, but more than
mere territory is involved. With it goes
domination of the Danube mouth and
its vast river traffic to the interior of
Europe.
The Turks at once invoked the saving
clause in their agreements with Britain
which prevents their being involved in a
war in which Russia may be concerned.
Contemporaneously, Hitler announced
that Hungarian claims to Transylvanian
territory ceded to Rumania under the
Treaty of St. Germain in 1919 would be
satisfied. This will take another 25,000
square miles of Rumania —country which
includes substantial Magyar and German
populations. It needs merely a demand
from Bulgaria for its old territory of
Dobrudja and Rumania will be reduced
by half and the whole of the Balkans
brought into close linkage with the
German-Italian alliance. King Boris of
Bulgaria is married to an Italian princess.
The German occupation of Cherbourg
made the Channel Islands, last of the
ducal possessions of William the Con-
queror, untenable. While they were being
abandoned Germans rained bombs on
the harmless and peace-loving people.
Meanwhile the U.S. fleet returned to
Honolulu after a mysterious absence of
several days. Its movements coincided
with an increase of Japanese pressure for
the closing of the Indo-China-Burma
road, and a Japanese move towards a
blockade of the coast of which Hong
Kong forms part. Japanese troops
advanced to the mainland borders of the
settlement. British troops were placed
in reserve posts along the borders. Hong
Kong, ever gay, had a sadly festive air
as the women and children gathered for
evacuation to Manila and Australia.
There are a couple of hundred Austra-
lians in Hong Kong.
Syria Caves In.
“Ek D.: After saying he would fight
to the last, General Mittelhauser, in com-
mand of the French forces in the Middle
East, announced the cessation of “hos-
tilities” there, though he added that the
French flag would continue to be flown
in Syria.
Syria and Lebanon are not in the same
position as the other overseas territorial
connections of France.
After the Great War the Turkish pos-
sessions below the Anti-Taurus and the
Kurdish ranges were divided up and put
under mandate to Britain and France.
The Arabian section was placed under
Arab Governments. Britain took a man-
date over Palestine and Trans-Jordania,
though the latter is Arab-ruled and is
excluded from the provisions under which
Palestine was declared to be a national
home for the Jews. Palestine proper con-
sists of a narrow 10,000 sq. mile strip,
much of it relatively fertile coastal land,
which extends eastward to the middle of
the Dead Sea, northward to Mt. Hermon
and just south of Es Sur —the ancient
Tyre—and southward to the Gulf of
Akaba.
Syria and Lebanon run northwards
to the ranges of Asia Minor, and north-
eastward to the French military post of
Abu Kemal, on the Euphrates; thence
across the desert to the point where the
Tigris enters the ranges, just north of
Mosul.
Until 1936 these areas were true Man-
dates under French control, but in that
year Syria and Labanon became inde-
pendent Federated Republics, with their
own Presidents and Legislatures, and the
Sanjak of Alexandretta became an auto-
nomous district within the framework of
the other two republics, part of it under
lease to Turkey. The new nations estab-
lished a treaty of perpetual friendship
and alliance with France, and French
troops continued to provide defence.
The French political hold on the coun-
try has never been very strong. Relations
with Turkey up till 1937 were bitter.
Strong military posts were maintained
both by France and Turkey along the
border near Islahiye, and there were con-
tinual internal disturbances General
Gamelin was sent out to clean up the
Druses in 1927.
The debacle in France was followed by
the moving down of large Turkish forces,
including mechanised divisions to the
rough country of the Amanus, almost
every inch of which has in the past been
soaked with blood.
The decision of the little republics to
stand aside, and of the French command
to assent, followed the announcement
that Turkey had decided to remain non-
belligerent, invoking the clauses of her
treaties with Britain and France which
gave her the right to refrain from action
which might bring her into conflict with
Russia.
The result is to place British interests
in a very uneasy position. What force
has been lost by the change of French
front is not known, but it consists of
at least 250,000 men. These with the
British Commonwealth armies in Pales-
tine were, until his recall to France, under
the command of General Weygand.
The British Commonwealth forces are
now left isolated in Palestine under
General Wavell. On their east is the
Trans-Jordan desert; beyond that is Irak,
which reaches to the Russian border
on the north, and which contains the
greatest sources from which oil comes in
the Tigris region. Irak is an independent
kingdom, but defended under supervision
of a British military commission. On
the south-west are the borders of an
Egypt which cannot make up its mind,
and which is hemmed in between two
Italian territories, but guarded by British
troops as well as its own and by large
British naval forces at Alexandria. West
of the southern point is the kingdom of
Hejaz and Nejd.
However, the direct loss of Syrian sup-
port must have other reactions. The
great pipe-line which brings oil from the
Mosul district to the Mediterranean runs
through Syria to the port of Beirut.
Beirut lies opposite Cyprus and is the
nearest major point of communication
between that British island and the Asian
mainland. All hope of the usage of
Beirut for British military purposes is
gone; the same applies to Alexandretta
and Latikiya.
Railway communication from Pales-
tine to Turkey and the Balkans is now
cut off for military purposes. The normal
military route from the Mediterranean
to Bagdad—Beirut-Damascus—is severed.
Its ordinary passenger services in peace-
time are provided by two Maori-
landers, the Nairn brothers. Pales-
tine becomes a militarised island
—Trans-Jordania scarcely counts —sur-
rounded by dominated peoples or
peoples who depend for their continued
existence on British protection. Irak
and Iran alone would be normally help-
less against Russian invasion from the
north, but, with huge allied armies in
Syria and Palestine and a resistant
Turkey, the Russian way to the coast
would not have been easy.
The position has been completely
altered. The ability of the British to
maintain their hold on the Middle East
now depends entirely on their own
strength.
Italy’s activity in the eastern Medi-
terranean have been curiously limited.
Perhaps her forces are being kept in
reserve for a great onslaught in the
western Mediterranean, aimed to close
the straits of Gibraltar and isolate the
Middle East from British help, save from
India and the Pacific Dominions, before
driving eastward.
Again Italy may be waiting till Ger-
many’s promised attack on Britain
materialises and reduces the chances of
British help being sent to a minimum.
In any case, the newest move has a
vital interest to Australia and Maoriland.
The flower of the trained A.I.F. is in
the Middle Eastern war area. A fifth of
our oil fuel normally comes from that
region. Our main trade routes are threat-
ened. Our need of a maximum defence
effort, implemented with the greatest pos-
sible speed, becomes every moment
greater.
“Colonel B’st’r”: As one who has suf-
fered, permit me to suggest a much-
needed spot of specialisation in those ad-
mirable associations of ladies who knit
socks for soldiers and sailors. The only
two details which need real skill are the
turning of the heel and the closing of
the toe. Failure in the first means a
sore heel or two ; in the second, sore toes
from an unnecessary ridge on top. Why
cannot these parts be handed over to
the really expert minority of knitters in
any given association as their special job,
the less-expert majority keeping on with
the straightforward leg and foot jobs?
It would need some extra needles, but
they are cheap. Also it would need some
simple clearing-house system to ensure
similar wool throughout—and to prevent
possible risk of Mrs. X being asked to
do the foot for that Y woman’s work.
That, too, should give no real difficulty,
and output would improve materially
both in quantity and comfort.


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur short-
wave and experimental radio.
The Annual Subscription is £l/6/8
(2 years, £2/5/8), payable at “The
Bulletin” Office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
YOUR OLD GOLD
IS WORTH
£5O AN OUNCE
to the Red + Cross Race Meeting Art Union
For presentation as major prizes in the forthcoming Red
Cross Race Meeting Art Union, £l,OOO-worth of solid gold
must be secured by July 15th.... YOUR help is needed !...
Old rings and bracelets, watches and brooches, necklets and
chains—gold trinkets of all kinds, no matter how small, are
urgently required. . . . Give YOUR Old Gold! Give it
all, and give it NOW!
Your chance to make a really valuable contribution
Art Union regulations permit the sale
of tickets up to six times the value
of prizes offered. A prize valued at
£l,OOO therefore brings £6,000 to
Art Union funds.... That is why
the gold YOU give, though norm-
ally valued at about £8.8.0 per ounce
will be worth at least £5O an ounce
to the Red Cross.... Look out ALL
your old gold now! Bring it at once
to one of the Authorised Receiving
Depots listed below.
Authorised Receiving Depots:
SAUNDERS
(THREE
BRANCHES)
RAILWAY SQUARE
PITT STREET (OPP. SNOWS)
CNR. KING & PITT STREETS
HARDY
BROS.
LTD.
60 CASTLEREAGH
STREET, NEXT
DOOR TO USHERS
ANGUS & COOTE PTY. LTD . 500 eorge St., Sydney
%
'A
%
41000
WORTH OF
SOLID COLD
Needed be
JULY I 5! h
For
Further
Details
’Phone
B 3580
THE FLYING COLUMN
Canada's Effort.
“Aileron”: For Canada’s part of the
air-training scheme, Canadians have enor-
mous advantages in the possession of an
established motor industry and proximity
to supplies of aeroplanes and machine
tools.
For the 1622 Avro Ansons to be used
for training Britain was to supply engines
and fuselages, and Canada undertook to
make all wings and tail units.
Early in May the Canadian Govern-
ment issued certificates for £A50,000,000-
odd for training equipment, and the
range of manufacture which is being
undertaken is vastly wider than is con-
templated by Australia. Canadian Asso-
ciated Aircraft will make Hampdens and
Stirlings. National Steel has a big order
for the useful all-purpose Lysander;
Canadian Car and Foundry are even
building Hurricanes. The Fleet Aircraft
concern will manufacture its own
trainers ; De Havillands, Tiger Moths ;
Norduyn Aviation, the U.S.A. Harvards.
Then a large contract has been let to a
special company for parachutes, and
£6,000,000 has been allocated for mis-
cellaneous flying equipment.
Four headquarters have been estab-
lished at Toronto, Winnipeg, Montreal
and Regina. Each command will be self-
contained as to training facilities and
equipment. At one unnamed head-
quarters a large school of aeronautical
engineering is being established.
For elementary training the nucleus is
22 flying clubs, but there will be 67
schools in all. The idea is that prelimi-
nary training will be done by private
enterprise. Most of the existing civil
training clubs and schools are incor-
porated. Companies were asked to bid
for training rights. They will be given
’planes, equipment, buildings, will supply
instructors and mechanics, and will
each turn out 48 pilots per month after
50 hours’ primary instruction. Air Force
discipline will be enforced throughout
training. Each company will be under
heavy bond.
At the advanced stage the R.C.A.F.
will take over. There will be no com-
missioned entry —all men will enter
through the ranks.
All applicants will be enlisted as air-
craftsmen 11, and those who have been
selected for pilots, on qualifying, will
become sergeants, while air-gunners, etc.,
will be aircraftsmen I or 11. Those not
found suitable for air work will be re-
mustered for special duties.
In the intermediate courses, after leav-
ing the private schools, the course will
be 50 hours as in the primary division.
The pupil will learn instrument flying,
navigation and night flying. His pilot’s
wings will come when he has done 100
hours from his first lesson.
His advanced training will be carried
out in the same squadrons as those used
for intermediate training—gunnery, ad-
vanced courses in the subjects he already
has taken, photography. When he has
completed 150 hours from the ground
up, having covered every section and
phase of the job, he will pass to the
Group Pool and receive further instruc-
tion abroad in methods and technique
developed in actual recent warfare before
being sent to a fighting squadron. This
will bring his flying to 200 hours. He
will be a different man from the pilot
of the last war.
W. A. Bishop, V.C., the greatest ace
of all armies in 1914-18, is director of
training. He has mentioned that he was
night-flying after 15 hours. Specialist
training will differ after the first 50 hours
—observers will do a 12 weeks’ course.
Trade men will be handled differently
again.
The scheme is planned to produce 7000
pilots and 12,000 air observers, gunners
and other trained air personnel per year.
In addition, provision has been made for
a home establishment of 33,000 men,
outside pupils.
The whole thing is working smoothly.
Already the first advanced men are out
of the Group Pool, ready for war-zone
training and service.
“Aileron”: The enemy lost two out-
standing men last week. General Loeb,
the general at the head of the French
and Dutch coastal command, was shot
down by the R.A.F. General Balbo,
Governor-General of Libya, met his death
in that province. As Italian Air Minister
Balbo made the first formation flight
with 12 ’planes across the Atlantic to
Brazil in 1929, and later flew 24 machines
to the U.S.A. For three years in the last
war he served as a lieutenant of Alpini.
At 26 he was one of the Big Four in
Mussolini’s march on Rome. At 30 he
was Secretary-General for Air, and did all
the initial work of building up the Italian
Air Force. In 1933 he became Gover-
nor-General of Libya. His death was a
mysterious affair. The Italians, possibly
through want of information, announced
that his machine was shot down in an
area in which there have been several
raids. The R.A.F. has no record of hav-
ing brought down a transport machine
or large bomber, though a ’plane not
accounted for was noticed on the ground
in flames.
* * * H=
“Norelai”: Work is going ahead
fast with the machining of the R.A.A.F.
considering the difficulties. The first
Fairey Battles are due for tests this week.
Tiger Moths will be turned out at the
rate of one a day from July onwards.
Stocks are already in hand for 200
machines, and by October the factory
will have enough material for the manu-
facture of 350. Gipsy engines will be
coming off the lines at General Motors-
Holden’s, Melbourne, at the rate of 40
per month by August. An order for 500
has been placed.
* * * *
“Aileron”: A lot of the success of the
parachute jumpers is due to the type of
’chute they have been using. England saw
a demonstration of the mother-design in
1938. The new jobs are quick-opening—
so quick that the man on the end is on
the ground before anybody has a chance
to train a fowlingpiece on him. There is
no pilot ’chute on the umbrella, and
its opening is not dependent on the pilot.
It opens the moment it is clear of the
’plane. Germans have been bailing out
with as little as 150 ft. drop. In the Dutch
campaign this sometimes resulted in
broken legs, but the technique, allied with
slow-flying ’planes, of which the Germans
had been developing types for no
apparent reason, was effective.
* * * *
“Caudron”: The Bristol Beaufort,
which is to be built in Australia, is earn-
ing a fine reputation. It had its baptism
of fire in the Norwegian campaign, and
later earned real laurels at the bombing
of Waalhaven aerodrome. It is related
to the Blenheim, but does not follow its
lines—wing span is 58ft. and length 44ft.,
and it can carry either torpedo or bomb
load. With a much higher speed than
the Blenheims —it has two sleeve-valve
Bristol Tauruses—the Beaufort is speci-
ally suitable for attacks on cruisers and
for coastal operations in general. Its
defence is in a mid-fuselage turret, and
it can look after itself in any company,
as results so far have proved.
The Air War Day by Day.
June 24: Raid on England covering
most of the north, the south-west and
Wales. Raiders over London for the
second time during the war —last time was
in September—but are driven off without
casualty. Three killed and six wounded
in a s.-w. town. Official report says most
of the bombs fell in open country. One
raider badly damaged.
R.A.F. raids north-western Germany,
Netherlands and Rhineland. The attacks
include daylight raids on railway junc-
tions, munition factories and marshalling
yards. Mr. Churchill congratulates Malta
on defence against air raids —there were
60 machines in the one on June 23.
R.A.F. makes new onslaughts on African
Italian aerodromes.
June 25: German bombers raid Britain
—Scotland, the Midlands and Wales.
Four persons killed, 13 injured; little
material damage; five raiders brought
down; Germans claim to have scored
hits on aerodromes and aircraft factories.
Two Blenheims down in raids on Stavan-
ger, Norway.
Germany raided again by R.A.F.—
there have been raids for a fortnight,
extended to daylight hours. Berlin radio
admits that raids were so sudden that
there was no time for warnings. Forty
fires started by an attack on Waalhaven
near Rotterdam. Heavy attacks made on
aerodromes at Arnhem (Holland) and
Borkum. Fires in the Ruhr; hits on
aircraft factory at Bremen, chemical
works at Cologne and ammunition dump
at Heligoland. Great damage reported at
Bergen, Norway. Germans assert that
attacks on Western Germany have been
on civilian populations, not on military
objectives, which raiders failed to reach.
The announcement says only insignificant
damage done. Nine Spitfire fighters shot
down three of 17 Messerschmitts; three
more believed to have been destroyed
and others damaged. No R.A.F. casual-
ties.
General Loeb killed on reconnaissance
flight. An Avro-Anson fights three
Messerschmitts off Channel coast and
accounts for one.
R.A.F. reports that more than 50
Italian ’planes have been destroyed since
June 10. R.A.F. raids Asmara (Eritrea),
Diredawa and Jiga Jiga (Abyssinia); two
enemy ’planes shot dow.n and further
damage done to runways, at cost of one
Blenheim. Raid takes an Italian encamp-
ment at Bir el Boggi by surprise.
Italians declare that Abyssinian raids
were unsuccessful and that two R.A.F.
machines were shot down. R.A.F. co-
operates in two-point landing on Channel
coast held by Germany.
June 26: Heavy attacks by R.A.F. on
Ruhr, objectives including a large oil
plant. Neutral correspondents say that
raids on western Germany are having
palpable moral effect among civilians,
who are unable to get a night’s sleep.
Raids over south-eastern England.
Germans operate at a great height from
behind clouds with high explosive and
incendiary bombs. No casualties ; damage
insignificant.
Inside 24 hours Italians in groups of
seven fly over Malta five times, dropping
70 bombs ; 12 persons killed and several
wounded. Italian bomber jettisons load
over Valetta; 23 killed. Italians claim
heavy damage on Malta and report raids
on British and French bases along North
African coast.
June 27: More R.A.F. day and night
raids over Germany. All British machines
returned from a daylight raid which
started fires at an oil refinery near Han-
over, and attacked objectives at Bremen
and Salsbergen. Germans, using an in-
creased number of machines, bomb south-
eastern Scotland and several English
counties, but are driven off by heavy
anti-aircraft fire.
June 28: Raids over England and Ger-
many. Germans claim to have success-
fully raided British armament factories
and to have observed large fires after
raids in southern England. They also
claim to have shot down six R.A.F.
machines which crossed Dutch and
French coasts, and report that British
bombs killed many German civilians.
R.A.F. brings down two ’planes over
France.
June 29-30: Marshal Balbo, Italy’s
best-known flying man and Governor-
General of Libya, killed in ’plane near
Tobruk, with an official party, mostly
civilians. Italians say the machine was
brought down. R.A.F. says no machine
of the type used by the party was shot
down, but reports having seen an un-
identifiable machine on the ground in
flames.
Channel Islands declared demilitarised
territory. While the civil population is
in course of removal Germans make a
savage raid, killing 38 and injuring 40,
bringing total casualties in 10 raids on
British territory in 12 days to 70 dead and
183 wounded. Southern Scottish town
and villages in south of England raided,
with little damage. German report says
fires started and explosions heard in in-
dustrial and munitions areas, especially
Cardiff and Bristol, while “successful” raids
made on air bases at Nottingham and
York. British accused of machine-gun-
ning workmen employed in putting out
burning house in German town. Ger-
mans give their casualty lists as one
machine against four British. R.A.F.
report is that 20 German machines
brought down in raids.
More ’planes shot down by the R.A.F.
on the Mediterranean and African areas,
including a three-engined bomber at Port
Sudan. Further raids on Libyan and
Italian Somaliland bases ; Italians claim
to have shot down four British ’planes
against the loss of two of their own. They
claim also the destruction of three
machines at Tobruk and Massawa.
The tempo of the air war is quicken-
ing, and forces in use by both sides are
increasing daily.


YOUR SAVINGS
MAY BE SMALL ...
But even with approx. £2O you can
have a stake to-day in 20 leading
Australian industries.
Custodian Trustees for Investors,
Union Insurance Society of Canton,
Ltd.
Informative Free Booklet No. I is
yours on request to the Managers of
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.Q., Sydney.
Telephone: 85294.
o?
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
“CONSCRIPTION
OF WEALTH”
HOW IT WILL OPERATE.
July Issue on Sale Next Saturday.
PRICE 2J- PER COPY, or £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers*
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Balander”: Expectations ran high in
the breasts of correspondents in the cane
country when Italy entered the war, and
they were up bright and early with
sharpened eyes, ears and pencils ready
to record what promised them the first
real reporting in years. But it was not
to be, and the regretful reports came in
one by one, all tinged with that sadness
the good newspaperman feels when
a story that should break doesn’t. Some
examples:
Ingham.'—As a result of Italy’s stab in
the back at France, the town at 8.30 this
morning was very quiet. But there will be
some heavy work for the local police.
Bowen. —Now that Musso. seems to have
done his block, we know where we are.
It will take fewer men to fight him than it
did to watch him.
Proserpine.—Since the advent of Italy, the
local police have been very busy patrol-
ling various districts. Things are very
quiet in town.
Home Hill. —There has been nothing un-
toward. From an early hour the police
were seen collecting aliens, and the day
passed without fuss, trouble or noise.
Dammit, some confounded alien or other
might have put up a bit of a fight. Life
is tough enough on a country correspon-
dent without these spineless fellows
making it worse.
* * * *
“Pio-pio”: About the only Queensland
alien to offer any resistance when the
authorities demanded the handing over
of all firearms was an elderly Spaniard.
His small-bore rifle passed into the
official net to the plaint: “How will I
get on when the carpet-snake eat the
chookies?” Officialdom had no alter-
native to offer. Its job was to collect
firearms, and beyond that it would not
go.
* * * *
“Private Spudpeeler”: A bloke ought
to be tarred an’ feathered for not joining
up with them troops that went up to
Darwin a while ago. Here lam barber-
ing spuds for the army in N. S. Wales,
an’ I read in the paper that the Darwin
troops have just had new barracks built
for them. Air-conditioning, indirect
lighting, fans in the dining-room and
refrigeration, if you please; an’ when
the joint is finished they’ll have a library,
writing-rooms, billiard-rooms, bar an’
even a mechanical dish-washer. Cost
£162,000 the buildings did, and, as if
that ain’t enough, they’re going on build-
ing until they’ve spent £325,000 alto-
gether. If this sort of thing goes on
Australians’ll become a race of soldiers
instead of a race of politicians.
* * * *
“Lid”: Out in the N.T. they’re travel-
ling anything up to a thousand miles to
enlist, so it’s a big disappointment for
those who are turned down. At Tennant
Creek “Rasberry,” a bearded youngster,
with 13 companions, made the 600-mile
trip to the Darwin recruiting depot. The
whole crowd became pretty close cobbers
before the journey was over, so when
“Rasberry” was rejected his 13 mates —
all accepted—pleaded with the comman-
dant. Though he said “no,” they’re still
hoping that he’ll relent and allow them
to take their mascot —a goat—into camp
with them:
* * * *
“E. Stone”: A note in my N.Q. paper
tells me that the gang building the new
lighthouse on White Rock, off the n.-e.
point of Great Palm Island, intends to
use sea water to mix the concrete, fresh
water being so scarce that it has to be
carried from the mainland for drinking
purposes. What’s going to happen in the
wet season, when the salt in the con-
crete attracts moisture from the air, I
can’t foresee, but if an experience with
sea sand is any guide there’s likely to
be trouble.
* * * *
“Con. Blinker”: Finding himself out
on Jarra Creek with a high-powered
. rifle and nothing else in sight, a bright
individual amused himself by pot-shoot-
ing a steel ship’s tank, property of the
Government. It cost him a quid and
£3 16s. 3d. damages, and the Beak drily
remarked: “There are plenty of tanks
elsewhere to be shot at —but not in this
country.”
* * * *
“Windar”: In Darwin we manage to
keep amused in these troublous times. A
baby show attracted a couple of dozen
entrants, all of high standard, and there
was an amateur theatrical night in which
some of the contestants enlivened the
proceedings by getting stagefright.
Meantime about 30 attended a meeting
to form a literary and debating society.
To belong you must have been born in
“Eat them greens or you get no puddin' !”
the Territory before 1/1/1911, on
which date South Australia passed its
“White Elephant” over to the Common-
wealth, which, as one Croweater recently
remarked, “seems to be just as slow to
learn that a white elephant is just as
good as a black one if you know what
to do with it.”
* * * *
“Norther”: When Major-General Glas-
gow was appointed High Commissioner
to Canada, he was president of the
Queensland U.A.P., and his position was
filled in an acting capacity by L.
Lawrence, president of Windsor branch.
Lawrence is now president. A private in
the old A.1.F., he rose to be a captain,
and saw four years’ service. He has been
a supporter of the U.A.P. brand of
politics for 20 years, has never stood for
election and swears he never will.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: Brisbane City Council,
Labor no longer, is facing a tough
struggle with its finances. Departmental
estimates called for an all-round rate of
Is. 6d. in the £, and loan charges showed
an increase of £59,000 over the present
year—a result of Alf Jones’s fareweil
burst of borrowing. A Labor alderman
said that the hopeless confusion of coun-
cil finance was revealed when the Lord
Mayor had to admit that £1,500,000 out
of a total revenue of £4,000,000 was
needed to meet loan charges. Adminis-
trative costs have increased 40 per cent, in
five years and other expenses in propor-
tion, and unless Shylock comes good
again “big cuts will have to be made
in the City Hall, affecting staff.”
Added to this, estimates for the
twelvemonth have turned out to be
unhappily optimistic. There are heavy
revenue shortages £54,000 in the
rate estimate-—and a Bumble gloomily
remaiked that streets and paths in some
districts were “unsafe for a billygoat.”
It was decided to stick to the present
year’s rate —Is. 14d., less 3|d. per cent,
for prompt payment. Somebody com-
mented that it should be enough, since
it was four times the Melbourne rating
and three times that of Sydney.
* * * *
“Gain”: After five years’ solid work
Papua’s first Anglican Cathedral —at
Dogura—will be open for business on
October 29, consecrated to St. Peter and
St. Paul. An ambitious effort, built on
early Norman lines adapted to the cli-
mate, with two square central towers, it
will seat 1000 people.
“Motuan”: In its small way Papua is
all-in in the war. Moresby put on a
dinner to farewell the first 10 A.I.F. men
to go away, and the nucleus of a war
fund has been started with a gift of
£2OOO from the Government and built
up with private subscriptions. Even
natives in Government offices are weigh-
ing in with a bob a head.
* * # *
“X.T.”: The democratic Northern Ter-
ritory suddenly discovered that it had
aristocratic connections when seal of
probate of the will of the Earl of Rose-
bery was advertised. His father, the
Prime Minister and owner of Derby win-
ners, held large slices of Darwin and the
outback. Most of the Darwin land is
vacant. A good many of the old nobility
own or have owned bits of Australia.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Brisbane’s watchhouse
has entertained a cheery guest in the
person of an elderly mariner who had
been collected on account of making
things a little too gay in his latest port of
call. Bail was only five bob, but he in-
sisted on a medical examination for
clearing the aspersion cast upon his stow-
age capacity. It didn’t, but he cheer-
fully shelled out a guinea, plus ss. taxi
fare, and suggested that the doc. ought
to go back to school. To an appeal by
two incarcerated ladies he responded
first with cigarettes, then by paying their
bail of a dollar each, handing them an-
other four bob apiece and speeding them
on their way with sailorly benedictions.
After shaking hands with the sergeant he
expressed the opinion that if the gaols in
goorole Londing wash ’arf ash goo’ash
thish one s’elp his Jimmy Johnson
they’d never be —— well empty, and
navigated on a dead-reckoning course
for his ship.
55 * * *
“Mataranka”: Latest M.P. to get into
khaki is Blain, the irrepressible member
for the N.T. He has been in the House
since 1934, and before that was a Gov-
ernment surveyor, mainly engaged on
rough outback jobs in Arnhem Land. He
served in the ranks in the last war and is
content to go to this one as a full private.
* * * #
“Spero da Dook”: Say what you like
about Italians, but many Australians
could profitably adopt one of their vir-
tues, as shown in the death notices of a
married woman who, at 46, left Aus-
tralia a round dozen citizens. Only one
has an exclusively Italian name —his
father’s; the rest are Joseph, Catherine,
Robert, Grace, Joyce, Nance, Irene,
Samuel, Victor, Vincent and Linda.
* * * *
“Hicks”: Admitted that a human may
survive even 50 days without food (B.
29/5/’4O), how long can he or she sur-
vive without water? Here’s my entry.
A few years ago in a small W.A. mining
town a deaf-and-dumb inhabitant went
astray. Last seen at night leaving the
camp’s only store. There were literally
hundreds of fairly deep shafts down any
one of which he might have fallen. Search
was made even more difficult by the fact
that he couldn’t shout for help. So it
was towards the end of the fifth day
before he was discovered at the bottom
of 60 feet. Though badly bruised he was
practically all right after a drink and a
feed. Conditions, of course, had been
highly favorable down at the bottom of
the cool shaft. Still, five days and nights
were a fair perish. Out on the sun-
blasted plains of the Centre few men
survive more than two days without
water.


“This book of photographs. . . .should be on the
shelves of all Australian golfers, both for its in-
structional value and as a very faithful record of
the methods of our greatest player —From Eric
Apperly’s introduction to the book.
JIM FERRIER’S "GOLF SHOTS”
contains 118 photographs of the champion in action,
selected by Ferrier from a special slow-motion
film made of him before his departure for America.
The essential points of each shot are illustrated
and explained in a way that puts 80 off the stick
within the reach of everyone.
The size of the page is 10 x 12 inches.
'PITCH WITH STOP
sd
wm
mm
„
m
PITCH WITH STOP
gum
ďsf
-0
s
m
m
(postage 3d. extra).
Price 3 -
From the publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOX 252188.
■BUNKER PLAY
m
mm
w%
■
. S ««
mL ns
m
crz
mm
■ x.
r
aii.mi i.»i •.. MUll - 1-,..
t»« l—«*> l... I,..—i mOH» M.....I lb »M
BUNKER PLAY
■
1 1
ill
dsf
ilk tha head Hill do»
SEND FOR YOUR COPY NOW
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
F.R.: Verse too slight, but try again
Me: What’s all that about, if anything?
P.G.: “Come Wander” went swiftly
E.M.8.: If you’re going to write ballads about
abo. battles—and it’s an idea —don’t ruin them
with lines such as “Both sides became un-
governable” and don’t be so anatomical....
C.8.K.: Pleasant enough... .WJ.: Say it in
four lines for “Smoke-0h”... .E.F.: Twaddle.
L.G.H.: Applaud the sentiments; deplore
the verse C.S.T.: “Dingo Town” would
make a dog h0w1... .R.S.F., M.S., E.M., S.H.,
M.M., W.F., H.W., G.G. and 1.G.H.: I.G.H.
has the floor:
The war goes on
And the world doth know
That Britain will vanquish the strongest foe,
Coming out clean as the whitest snow.
She will have a hard and strenuous time,
The mountains are steep that she has to climb ;
The seas are deep and full of loads
That would shatter the nerve of a nation’s soul.
On Britain will march, for she knows her task
Is to clean the world' and leave her parked,
Each nation to be governed
As each nation’s people ask.
L.R.V.: Can’t promise to return para-
graphs H.T.N.: Not funny, and it’s too long.
L.S.: Even football fans would draw the
line at “Murder on the 0va1”... .A.F.D.:
That joke went out of date about the time of
Bannockburn... .C.M.: So that’s the result of
“trying to fit certain musical rhythms into
prose” G.S.: More story and less tennis
would help it....A.G.: Sorry for “The Man
Who Died for Douglas Credit”... .P.L.8.:
The Sporting Editor is studying “A Sure
System”... .G.F.: But he won’t have any-
thing to do with “Stable Secrets” R. 0.:
You’re skating on thin ice K.R.C.:
That old-timer has been trying to sneak
into print for 20 years V.E.S.: Not very
taken with “The Wiles of Mexican Flappers.”
P.R.C.: You might place it at half that
length... .G.R.P.: “When We Were Young”
we weren’t like that F.D.G.: “Sorrow” is
right... .K.P.R.: No, but it’s an improvement
on your last 1.P.: It has no Australian in-
terest, it’s badly written, and the plot’s stale.
G.H.P.: The w.p.b. made a good cage for
“McHavish’s Parrot” R.H.D.: That “new
angle on the drought” originated about the
same time as the first issue of The Bulletin.
. ...H.D.P. You’ve been reading penny-dread-
fuls TJ.D.: It was too much to hope that
we’d never again meet that prospector with
his fortune in gold, but without water....
K.D.: Missed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.McC.: If you can’t get a better likeness
of Hitler it’s useless trying further... .J.F.:
No illustrated proverbs, thanks M.M.: A
well-known autograph-album wheeze... .E.H.:
You’re improving, but you’ve still a long way
to go before you see print... .R.K.: That
vacuum-cleaner salesman has already been
seen in every conceivable situation G.F.-S.:
Same old barber, same old farmer, same old
joke... .E.P.: Look at some of Scorfield’s
animals E.W.: Gags are good, but you’re
no artist M.G.: Keep trying M.W.J.:
That freakish style won’t take you far....
J.A.: The Dove of Peace resting on the Eiffel
Tower! Gosh!... .8.R., T.L., M. 8., and H. 1.:
Parachute jokes were all in the first batch re-
ceived a month ago J.8.C.: Wait till the
weather gets warmer before sending us bathing
beauties D.S.A.: Jokes about life in the
trenches hardly fit in with this present war....
C.S.: Humor would delight a young ladies’
seminary... .M.K.H.: No place here for “a
series of water-color portraits of pre-eminent
film-stars”... .T.J.8.: A London cartoonist
first thought of that Fifth Column idea....
F.H.: A little early for “illustrated sayings of
the 2nd A.1.F.”... .8.D.: A scratchy jumble
of misplaced lines F.McI.: The wash covers
the drawing with gloom, and the “humor”
doesn’t relieve it.
MEN TALKING
By K. LEY
I’M hangin’ the washin’ out on the
fence when Ben Thompson comes
a-gallopin’ up on his push-bike.
“What’s the matter?” he says.
I says, “Look at all these ’ere wars
an’ things goin’ on—blokes flyin’ about
in the air an’ torpedoin’ ships an’ all that
—an’ here’s us.”
“Well,” he says, “cheer up,” he says,
“ ’cos the blanky thing’U catch up with
you yet.”
“That’s just what I’m scared of,” I
says.
“How?” says he.
“Because I’m forty now,” I says, “an’
that ain’t the same as twenty-five.”
“Well, what’re y’ growlin’ about?”
“ ’Cos I am forty, that’s why.”
I’m not much good at puttin’ things
in words, but Ben can talk, an’ he’s pretty
good at grabbin’ y’ thoughts an’ puttin’
’em into words for y\
“Yair,” he says, “I see. Y’ want t’
go t’ the flamin’ war but y’ frightened
about goin’, not about bein’ there. Y’
got a nice easy job here, an’ y’ can't
stomach havin’ t’ turn out every mornin’
at five, wet or fine, duckin’ under a cold
shower and shavin’ y’ dial, an’ then racin’
round a parade-ground an’ not bein’
able t’ knock off when y’ feel like it an’
go an’ have a smoke under some handy
tree. An’ y’ feel that way because y’re
forty.”
“Yair,” says I, downhearted.
“If y’ was twenty-five y’d like it.”
“Yair.”
“They tell me young Roberts has
gone.”
“Aw,” I says; “I s’pose I’ll go before
long.” >t
“Straight?”
“Yair.”
“But what d’ you want t’ go for?”
He’s a inquisitive bloke, Ben.
“I told y’,” I says. “I never had no
real adventures, like goin’ to some foreign
country with a dinkum mob an’ havin’
a rorty time on leave an’ all that. It’s
all readied up for y\ see.”
“Yair,” he says, “I see. I bin thinkin’
about it meself.”
“You!” I says. “But you got a missus
and half a dozen nippers!”
“Yairs,” says Ben, an’ he sits down on
the hut doorstep, still holdin’ his bike,
‘Y’ know, Barney, I used t’ knock about
a good bit before I got married. An’
lately I sorter felt like havin’ a roam
again. But y’ can’t go off when y’ got
a family t’ feed. But this war business,
well, y’ can have y’ roam around an’
get paid f’r doin’ it.”
An’ stop one of them bombs.”
He points t’ his old bike. “Well,” he
says, “I could ride this ol’ grid out the
gate an down the road an’ fall off
it in a rut or somethin’ an’ break me
neck dead easy, couldn t I? An’ I
h& . anythin’ out of it.”
Thats right.”
T f?y^ ow » 5 says, sort of as
though Id been tellin him off or some-
hin, I reckon if we re goin’ t’ hold
mT try against them Nazzies, some-
body 11 have t go an do a bit of fightin’.”
Just then Sam Truford and his seven
dogs heaves in sight. Nobody knows
what he sees in the mongs, but they live
with him in his ganger’s hut along the
60ft. channel, and wherever he goes they
go. He used t’ take ’em inter the town
on Saturday afternoons, but they fought
all the other dogs and went into back-
yards and ate the chooks, and the copper
tells him next time they come he’ll meet
’em with a charge of number six shot.
Sam calls the copper a blasted mirmideon
of capitalism, or somethin’, but he don’t
take them dogs to town no more.
Now he comes down over the foot-
bridge with the hounds and sings out,
“How y’ doin’, slaves?”
“Dip y’r eye,” says Ben, gettin’ up off
the step and puttin’ the bike between
him an’ the dogs, because he don’t like
them sniffin’ round his boots.
“Look, Barney,” says Sam, “I come
down t’ see if y’ll do me a favor.”
“Do you a favor!’* sneers Ben. Him
and Sam ain’t been good cobbers since
the day Sam said, right out loud in the
bar at the Boiling-down, that what Aus-
tralia needed was a Russian President
and Ben chucked a pint of beer over him.
“Who’s talkin’ t’ you?” Sam wants t’
know, and then he says, “Barney, will
y’ take me dogs? I’m enlistin’ in the
blanky. army.”
Ben let go his bike, an’ it falls on two
of the dogs, an’ they all starts fightin’.
We sorts ’em out an’ Ben says, “Well,
strike me up a gum-tree!”
I says, “I don’t want y’ flamin’ dogs,
Sam. Besides, I’m thinkin’ about goin’
meself.”
Ben says, cold and sharp, “We don’t
want any bloomin’ Commos in the
A.I.F. That’s a democratic army fight-
in’ f’r a democratic country. You an’
y’ flamin’ Russian cobbers”-
Sam goes over to one of the fence
posts an’ hangs his coat on it. Then he
comes back and shapes up to Ben an’
says, “I bin hearin’ altogether too blanky
much from you, y’ old sooner. Now”
“Hold on,” I says, “he’s goin’ too.”
Sam puts his hands on his hips and
looks hard at Ben. Then he spits on the
ground, looks up in the sky, comes back
t’ Ben and says, “Y’ silly ol’ coot, y’ got
a missus an’ kids. All I got is them
blanky dogs, an’ they”
“I got as much right t’ fight f’r the
flamin’ place as you have,” says Ben, “an’
what’s more I”
Just then the dogs start rushin’ up the
track to the footbridge, an’ we see old
Hicks’s car pullin’ up. So we go up and
he says, “It’s just come over the wireless.
Them French have tossed the towel in.
They’ve turned it up!”
We don’t say anything for awhile, then
Sam looks away out along the channel
bank towards the west an’ says in a funny
sort of way, “Well, I hope we strike one
another over there somewhere. Y’ know,
Barney, it’d be just the thing if you an’
me an’ old Ben here could get in the
same lot an’ stick together.”
“Yair,” I said, thinkin’ it musta bin
pretty tough f’r them French.


PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
n< trouble—no mess—no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SlLK—only one price,
6d. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W; H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London. Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the’ World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Sevice Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin tp hand.
To avoid confus'on in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined te one subject.
The right of s flection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To buy textbooks and periodicals on mining.
—7452.
To buy Holey Dollar, £6 mark piece (gold)
and Kruger sovereign.—74B2.
Copy of Fenner’s Bunyips and Billabongs.
7448.
Information Sought.
How did Fort Denison receive the name
“Pinchgut” ? —7486. ,
This name dates from the very earliest days
of the N. S. Wales colony, under Captain
Phillip. In 1789 the scanty and vitally necessary
stores of the settlement were plundered.
Phillip summoned a court, hanged the ringleader,
and committed the rest of the robbers to im-
prisonment on bread and water on a little
island in Port Jackson, which thus earned the
name “Pinchgut.” The island was afterwards
used for defence purposes, and is now known
as Fort Denison.
* * * *
Any record of gemstones, other the. ■: diamonds
and opals, being found in Australia ? —7487.
The most important gemstones, other than
diamonds and opals, found in Australia are
sapphires. They were found near Burrandong
(N.S.W.) in 1851; the present yield is derived
chiefly from the Inverell district, v/ith a few
coming from Tingha. In Queensland the
principal centre is on the Anakie mineral-
field. Inferior quality sapphires are also
found at Woodbine (Q.) and Diamond Hills
(Q.), and in the tin drifts of the Ringarooma
districts in Tasmania. Emeralds were found
near Emmaville (N.S.W.) in 1890, and tur-
quoises near Bodalla (N.S.W.) in 1894; thin
veins have also been found in Victoria. Dis-
coveries have also been recorded of tourmalines,
topazes, agates, rubies, beryls, amethysts,
chiastoiite, garnets, olivines and moonstones,
but none of them in large quantity.
* * * *
(1) What is the average distance between
lighthouses along the Australian coast? (2)
Power of lights used? (3) Where and when
was first light erected? —7484.
(1) Figures vary considerably for different
States, and the distances apart vary with the
amount of shipping affected. On the N. S.
Wales coast the average distance is 32| miles,
and, in many instances, one light is not lost
until the next becomes visible. On the Vic-
torian coast average distance is 62 miles. For
Queensland the distance is 107 miles, but this
includes the long unlit stretches of the Gulf;
on the east coast the distance is only about
64 miles. In S.A. the average distance is 90
miles; in W.A. and the N.T., 218 miles and
1040 miles respectively. The Tasmanian coast
is well lighted, with an average distance of 60
miles between lights. (2) Vary from 500,000
to 1500 candle-power. (3) Macquarie erected
the first Australian lighthouse on the outer
South Head of Port Jackson, close to the
present lighthouse. He laid the foundation-
stone on June 4, 1816, but did not report its
completion until May 16, 1818.
* * * *
(1) Are there any restrictions to prevent me
from travelling to England ? Where to apply
for a passport ? (2) Any prospect of working
a passage? —7377.
(1) Apply to the Collector of Customs, Syd-
ney, stating whether married or single, and
you will be provided with the necessary forms
for completion and return to the collector.
There is a fee of £l, and this should accompany
the application. If the application is in order
the matter will be referred to the military
authorities (under the National Security Regu-
lations all passport applications have to be sub-
mitted to the military authorities for considera-
tion). (2) Get in touch with some of the ship-
ping cos.
Is bismuth produced in any quantity in Aus-
tralia ? Chief , uses ?—' 7488.
Australia was once the second-largest pro-
ducer of bismuth in the world; in 1937 it
produced 174 cwt., worth £3673. Bismuth is
used chiefly to form alloys with other metals —
tin, lead, copper and antimony. Small quantities
are added to lead to make it tough—an alloy
of two parts of bismuth with three parts of
lead is 10 times as hard and 20 times as
tenacious as the pure lead. Bismuth and tin
form a very sonorous alloy used in bell-making.
Mercury absorbs a large quantity of bismuth,
and the amalgam thus formed is used for silver-
ing mirrors. Safety plugs for automatic fire-
sprinklers are made of a bismuth alloy, as also
are some electric fuses. Bismuth compounds
are also used widely in medicine and surgery.
* * * *
(1) Does the N. S. Wales Taxation Depart-
ment send officers to country districts ? (2)
Why? —749l.
(1) Yes, at the moment 12 senior officers of
the department have visited, are visiting or
will visit various country centres on the South
Coast, the South West Slopes, the North
Western Plains, the Central Western Plains, the
Northern Tablelands and Newcastle., (2) To
give people the opportunity of meeting depart-
mental officers and discussing any problems or
difficulties they may have in regard to taxation
matters. Officials will explain departmental
methods of assessing, discuss the effect of taxa-
tion legislation, and, in particular, advise tax-
payers what is required of them and to what
they are entitled under the provisions of the
various Income Tax Acts administered by the
N. S. Wales Taxation Department.
* * * *
Exports from Australia of twist tobacco to
(1) Papua, (2) New Guinea and (3) Solomon
Islands? Please give weight and value? —7289.
There are no records kept of exports of twist
tobacco; they are included with other kinds
of manufactured tobacco under the same head-
ing. Exports of all tobacco are (1) 1936-37,
150,7001 b., worth £A27,017; 1937-38, 142,1461 b.,
£A26,497; 1938-39, 182,5971 b., £A34,812. (2)
1936- 255,2631 b., £A45,966; 1937-38,
256,6701 b., £A45,269; 1938-39, 302,9661 b.,
£A51,524. (3) 1936-37, 69,7741 b., £A12,627;
1937- 72,0461 b., £A13,404; 1938-39, 69,1021 b.,
£A 12,669.
* * * *
Some particulars regarding the establishment
of golf in Australia? —7490.
The game was played in Victoria as far
back as 1847. The earliest games recorded in
Sydney were played on links laid out between
Homebush and Concord, somewhere near the
existing Concord links. A Sydney solicitor,
John Dunsmore, brought clubs and gutty balls
from St. Andrews to introduce the game in
N. S. Wales. Nothing came of this enterprise,
and the game was forgotten in Australia until
1882, when C. E. Riddell formed a club at
Moore Park, Sydney. This Australian Golf
Club flourished until Riddell went to England
in 1889, holding contests for a trophy, the
Cardogan Cup. In 1895 J. W. Fletcher and
G. S. Yuill resuscitated the club and renewed
the cup/contests. Since then the Australian
Club’s links have been at Moore Park (1882-89),
Queen’s Park (1895-99), Botany (1899-1905) and
at Kensington. In 1893 a second club, now the
Royal Sydney Golf Club, was formed by
Gerald Campbell and Irving Kent; its links
have been at Yaralla, near Concord (1893-94),
at North Bondi (1894-97) and at Rose Bay.
In Melbourne the first club formed was the
Melbourne Golf Club (now Royal) in 1891,
with links at Albert Park and Caulfield (1891-97),
Fisherman's Bend (1897-98) and Sandring-
ham. In S.A. a club was formed in 1870,
playing on the East Park lands, but died in
1876. In 1892 a new club, the Adelaide Golf
Club, was founded, with links at Peterhead,
near Largs Bay (since abandoned) and on the
North Adelaide Park lands.
* * * *
Grades and numbers of employers and em-
ployees engaged in (1) wool-growing, (2) dairy-
farming and (3) fruit-growing in Australia ?
7381.
(1) Employers, 12,031 males and 1251
female: ; working on own account, 11,522 and
695; wage-earners, 36,264 and 174; part-time
wage-earners, 2575 and four; unemployed, 7722
males; helpers not receiving wages, 1995 and
four. (2) Employers, 18,379 males and 1990
females; working on own account, 30,146 and
2632; wage-earners, 27,507 and 1618; part-time
wage-earners, 984 and 25; unemployed, 1840
and 20; helpers not receiving wages, 9452 and
1092. (3) Employers, 6635 males and 418
females; working on own account, 10,855 and
290; wage-earners, 8811 and 207; part-time
wage-earners, 1380 and 92; unemployed, 1427
and 48; helpers not receiving wages, 1659 and
20. Figures are latest available —1933 census.
tft
Recipe for a marine glue for boatbuilding?
—7327.
Put into a large stoppered jar one part of
shredded indiarubber and 12 parts coal-tar
naphtha and shake occasionally till rubber
is dissolved, then add 20 parts powdered shellac
arid shake till mass becomes a paste. Pour on
to solid surface and when solid break into
small pieces. These can be melted and applied
thinly while warm. This cercmt is highly in-
flammable.
* * * *
How to put a shine on semi-stiff white
collars?—mi. ,
Cream together one tablespoon starch, half-
teaSpoon borax and two tablespoons cold water;
pour on boiling water, stirring the whole,
adding at. the same time a small piece of
paraffin wax. For semi-stiff collars, dilute this
starch by allowing four parts cold water to
one part of starch.
*** ' *
I have a pair of French prism binoculars,
power allegedly ZB. Is it possible to increase
magnification by ■ substitution of new eyepiece
and objective glasses, or either of them, without
extensive alteration to rest of instrument? If
so, what would be the power required, and
what cost? —7ll4.
By fitting longer focaT length object glasses
the magnification can be increased; this necessi-
tates longer tubes to accommodate the in-
crease in focal length. Price for an average-
quality pair of object glasses is approximately
£3. Alternatively the focal length of your
present lenses can be- increased, but definition
somewhat reduced by adding a pair of negative
glasses to them. The cost of these per pair
unmounted is 7s 6d. This arrangement also
requires longer tubes.
* h= * *
What amounts have been received by Joe
Louis for world’s heavyweight championship
contests since he beat James J. Braddock?—
7207.
The net amount Louis received from cham-
pionship contests is not available. He was paid
40 p.c. of the 265,753 dollars (about £55,365
at par) gate receipts, which amounted to
£22,146, when he outpointed Tommy Farr in
15 rounds at New York on August 30, 1937.
Louis also got 40 p.c. of the 111,698 dollars
(£23,270 6s. Bd.) gate, which came to £9308
3s. 4d., for knocking out Nathan Mann in
three rounds at New York on February 23;
40 p.c. of 46,500 dollars (£9500) for knocking
out Harry Thomas in five rounds at Chicago
on April 1 ; and a flat guarantee of 80,000 dollars
for knocking out Max Schmeling inside one round
at New York on June 22, 1938. Louis’s next
contest, with John Henry Lewis, took place in
New York on January 25, 1939, and he re-
ceived 40 p.c. of the 102,000 dollars (£21,250)
gate for knocking Lewis out in less than one
minute. Louis then knocked out Jack Roper
inside a round at Los Angeles on April 17,
and his 40 p.c. of the £18,270 receipts amounted
to £7308. The champion had two more contests
in 1939, and he was paid 40 p.c. of the 283,303
dollars (£59,021) gate receipts for stopping Tony
Galento in four rounds at New York on June
28, and 40 p.c. of 187,660 dollars (£39,095) for
knocking out Bob Pastor in 11 rounds at
Detroit on September 20. Lbuis and Arturo
Godoy drew only an 88,523 dollars (£18,442)
gate to their championship in New York on
February 9 last, and Louis’s share of that was
approximately £7376. When the champion
fought Johnny Paychek in New York on March
29, he received 40 p.c. of the 101,616 dollars
(£21,170) receipts for knocking out Paychek
in two rounds.
* * * *
(1) Disregarding war conditions, would it be
possible to book a passage on a tramp steamer
from Sydney to New Orleans via Panama Canal
and return? (2) What is the procedure for
getting passport? Where would bond have to
be lodged ? (3) Are there regulations pertain-
ing to the crossing of State border lines in
U.S.A. ? (4) How long does it take to negoti-
ate the Panama Canal? —7103.
(1) There is no regular service by American
vessels between Sydney and New Orleans.
Tramp steamers do not have regular scheduled
runs, but operate in a more or less free fashion
to take advantage of freight movements. It
is suggested that you get in touch with some
of the Sydney shipping agents. (2) If you are
a British subject you should make application
for a passport to the Passport Office, Customs
House, Circular Quay, Sydney. After a pass-
port has been obtained, it should be presented
at the time of personal application at the
U.S.A. Consulate-General for a visitor’s visa to
enter the United States. In order to establish
that the applicant intends to enter the United
States for a temporary period only, it is sug-
gested that you present a letter or other evi-
dence from a steamship company or travel
agency showing that you have paid for trans-
portation from Australia to the United States
and return to Australia. Evidence of a fixed
domicile in Australia which you have no in-
tention of abandoning should also be presented.
The matter of bond is one dealt with by the
immigration authorities at the American port
of arrival. (3) There are no regulations per-
taining to the crossing of State boundaries in
the United States. (4) Usual transit time is
about six hours.
* * * *
What is the best way to get “bed bugs” out
of a house? —7299.
Cyaniding is the best method, but it is dan-
gerous and must be done by a licensed expert.
Thorough spraying with a reliable vermin
spray once a week for three weeks should clear
them out —the three sprayings are necessary to
deal with any eggs which may hatch out after
the first spraying. If the bugs are in the walls,
all chair rails, skirting boards, picture rails,
mouldings, etc., should be loosened and well
sprayed between the fitting and the wall and
the spaces cleaned where possible. Holes and
openings should be similarly treated. Beds
should be dismantled and carefully examined;
spray all joints. The boards of the wire mat-
tress should be taken off, especially where the
wire is fixed, sprayed and thoroughly cleaned.
Also have a look at the top of mosquito nets
and the supports for them. Fibre or kapok
mattresses should be carefully inspected, especi-
ally along seams and around buttons, lightly
sprayed and put out in the sun.
* * * *
What are the qualifications necessary to obtain
the position of health inspector in a N. S.
Wales shire or. municipality? —72s6.
Ordinance 2, Clause 10, of the N. S. Wales
Local Government Act, 1916, requires that “a
person shall not be appointed as a health in-
spector of & municipality or shire unless he law-
fully holds (l) f a sanitary inspector’s certificate
issued by the Royal Sanitary Institute of
London, or (2) a full health inspector’s certificate
issued by the Sydney Tech. Call, or (3)
. a sanitary inspector’s certificate, issued by the
Royal Sanitary Association of Scotland, or (4)
a certificate issued by the Sanitary Inspector’s
Examination Joint Board, • London.” Exami-
nations for qualifying certificates are held by
the Sydney Tech. Coll, and by the N. S.
Wales Examination Board of the Royal Sanitary
Institute. Examinations are held about the
second week in December at the East Sydney
Tech. Coll, in Sanitary Science, Meat and
Other Foods, and Health (Sanitary) Inspection.
Candidates for the Health (Santiary) Inspectors’
examination must show evidence of suitable
training in practical sanitation, sanitary law
and meat inspection, and a knowledge of the
general duties of a health inspector to a muni-
cipal or shire council. Training can be
obtained from the Sydney Tech. Coll, or
the Nangle Institute of Technology, Australia
House, Carrington-street, Sydney. Either place
will supply details upon application. Candidates
for the Health Inspectors’ examination must
be over 21; candidates for the Meat and Other
Foods examination must fulfil special conditions
in regard to practical experience. Other par-
ticulars and lists of textbooks may be had from
the Royal Sanitary Institute, 93 Macquarie-
street, Sydney.
* * * *
Particulars of the basking shark ? Has it
any commercial value? —7489.
One of the largest of existing sharks —some-
times attaining a length of 35ft.—the basking
shark derives it's name from the habit of float-
ing motionless just below the surface of the
sea. It feeds upon minute floating animals,
which it strains from the water by means of
peculiar comblike structures on the gill-arches.
Teeth are small, weak and very numerous
(about 200 in each row). A characteristic
feature is the great size of the gill openings.
The basking shark is normally quite harmless
to man, but, when being captured, can give
a blow with its tail sufficient to stave in the
side of a whaleboat. Commercially it is
sometimes sought for its liver-oil, of which a
large quantity is obtained from each shark.
Brief Answers.
G.K.: On the facts presented it isn’t worth
fighting. You are bound by the agreement
you signed. See the manager, place the facts
before him and ask for some concession....
W.H.: You may sell the property or deal with
it as you wish. The conveyance vested the
property in you absolutely... .W.D.: You can
compel him to put the fence on his correct
boundary. If he refuses to do so, place the
matter in the hands of a solicitor. He cannot
call on you to contribute to the cost of the
wall. If the rain water is following the natural
level of the land and the flow is not brought
about by any alteration to natural levels by
your neighbor, you can do nothing... .J.A.L.:
(1) Write to Moore, Malcolm, Ltd., Port Mel-
bourne, or Purcell Engineering Co., Park-road,
Auburn, N.S.W., regarding the engines. (2)
Try the following for the piano wire: Max
Wurcker, 99 York-street; William Adams, 175
Clarence-street; Thomas McPherson, 493 Kent-
street —all Sydney... .P.R.C.: The verse is
from Gray’s “Elegy Written in a Country
Churchyard”... .L.F.T.: It takes about 2001 b.
of roses to produce one ounce of attar
M.R.S.: Yes, “Beau Nash.” His proper name
was Richard Nash, and he was master of
ceremonies and social dictator at Bath for some
years. Died 1762... .L.P.W.: Major Attlee
has been leader of the British Parliamentary
Labor party since 1935. He has been the Labor
M.P. for Limehouse since 1922. He served
in the 1914-18 war G. 8.: The “Morning
Post” was amalgamated with the London “Daily
Telegraph”... .R.F.C.: H. F. Broadbent flew
from Australia to England in 6 days, 8 hours,
and 25 minutes in May, 1937. His ’plane was
a De Havilland Leopard Moth with a 130-h.p.
Gipsy-Major engine... .J.T.G.: There are uni-
versities at Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Brisbane,
Adelaide and Tasmania. In 1937 there were
786 students attending lectures at the Perth
University; Prof. Murdoch retired a few months
ago.. ..K.R.: At the 1933 census, 3,107,414
Australians were living in metropolitan areas,
1,124,704 in provincial areas and 3,381,017 in
rural districts... .P.T.L.: Write to the Dept, of
Agriculture, Sydney 8.R.J.: You could buy
a special cleaner from the manufacturers, but
ordinary carpet soap is often quite effective.
. ...K.P.R.: The Tasmanian “Devil” and the
Tasmanian “Tiger” were once found in Aus-
tralia, but they are now confined to Tasmania.
L.P.: John Joseph Clasby was elected
M. for East Sydney at the general election
of 1931, but died on January 15, 1932, before
Parliament met. At the subsequent by-election
E. J. Ward was elected. Ward had been elected
for East Sydney at a by-election on March
7, 1931, after the death of J. E. West, but
lost to Clasby... .J.R.N.: In 1938 Great Britain
and Northern Ireland imported 108,884 cwt. of
margarine, home-production of which is about
3,750,000 cwt. a year L.R.V.: There were
2,453,507 foreigners resident in France in
1936... .8.R.G.: Consult a solicitor....
N. : On the facts mentioned you have in-
sufficient grounds to make a claim... .L.T.R.:
There was no Nobel Prize award for peace in
1918, nor in 1923, 1924, 1928, 1932 or in 1939.
Anatole France won the award for literature
in 1921, W. B. Yeats in 1923, G. B. Shaw in
1925, Sigrid Undset in 1928, Sinclair Lewis in
1930, John Galsworthy in 1932, Eugene O’Neill
in 1936 and Pearl Buck in 1938 N.T.: Mer-
cury is the planet nearest the sun; next comes
Venus, then the Earth and then Mars...-
L. : Eugene Goossens is conductor of the
Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra. He was born
in London on May 26, 1893, and went to the
U.S.A. in 1923 as conductor of the Rochester
(New York) Philharmonic Orchestra... .J.T.:
Peak Hill (N.S.W.) has a population of 1224;
Peak Hill (W.A.) is near Meekatharra, and has
a population of 65... .N.J.R.: Latest news
from' Tennant Greek (N.T.) indicates that there
is not enough work for the men already there.
Write to the mining warden or to the Admini-
strator at Darwin... .C.D.E.: It’s a job for
a professional gunsmith... .8.R.5.: Write to the
Mines Department, Perth... .G.L.S.: Refrac-
tory ores are those which require a more com-
plex system of treatment to extract the gold
from them... .N.T.R.: Hendrik Ibsen died on
May 23, 1906; he was 78. Sarah Bernhardt
died on March 26, 1923 ; she was 78... . R.8.P.:
Wash the photograph with a weak solution of
ammonia before applying the color.. . .P.R.:
There are several books on French-polishing in
the N. S. Wales Public Library. Methods are
too lengthy to describe here... .L.P.R.: Wil-
liam Hatfield is the pen-name of Ernest Chap-
man ; he was born at Nottingham on March
18, 1892, and educated at Huntingdon-street
High School, Nottingham, and at Nottingham
University. He was articled to a solicitor,
but tossed in his law studies in 1911 and worked
his passage to Australia, where he worked at
most phases of bush life in most parts of Aus-
tralia for 10 years. He has written Sheepmates,
Ginger Murdoch, Desert Saga, River Crossing,
Black Waterlily, Big Timber, Australia Through
the Windscreen and I Discover Australia
G. : (1) Any large bookseller should be
able to provide you with a rhyming dictionary.
(2) Roget’s Thesaurus of English Words and
Phrases is probably the book you are after
M. : Gordon Brown was elected to the
Senate for Queensland at the general electi<?n
of 1931 K.T.8.: Brokerage is the commis-
sion, percentage or fees paid to a broker for
his work in connection with any business carried
through by him H.T.C.: Fowler’s Dictionary
of Modern English Usage says, “Display of
superior knowledge is as great a vulgarity as
display of superior wealth—greater, indeed,
inasmuch as knowledge should tend more defi-
nitely than wealth towards discretion and good
manners. That is the guiding principle alike
in the using and in the pronouncing of French
words in English writing and talk... .it is all a
matter of the audience and the occasion”
H. The first sitting of the Federal Parlia-
ment in Canberra was opened by the Duke ot
York on May 9, 1927 8.R.H.: The Military
Cross is worn after the Distinguished Service
Cross.


WHILE FEED IS DRY . . .
Help your stock to make the most of it
by feeding a Tri-cal-os Bone Flour and
salt mixture —all the minerals necessary
to enable the animals to make good use
of the poor coarse fodders and main-
tain condition. Tri-cal-os contains a
guaranteed minimum of 33% phosphoric
acid and 40% lime, and is the best source
of phosphorus and calcium for all stock
feeding.
Obtain particulars about Tri-cal-os from
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Syd-
ney, or G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne.
/m*7\
f
3352 U
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
mm
o
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus oils and
their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or coal tar
derivative. Neither washes nor dries out. Does not stain fleece.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W) PTY
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sydney Sheep Show.
“Murrawong”: Though entries were
slightly lower this year the general
quality was well up to standard.
In the merino section Egelabra stud
had a splendid team skilfully pre-
pared and deserved its long list
of awards, including the Stonehaven
Cup for the best team of three rams and
two ewes bred by exhibitor, judged for
type and uniformity. This was Egelabra’s
third successive win, and another team
from the same stud filled second place.
Both grand championships, one reserve
grand championship, champion and re-
serve medium ram awards, champion and
reserve strong-wool ram and champion
strong-wool ewe prizes also went its way.
A further swing towards plain bodies
was noticeable. There was little develop-
ment on body and breech, yet the stand-
ard of fleece density was never higher.
In some cases plainness had been over-
done, and several superfine type sheep
were lacking in frontal development.
A special section for extra-strong
merinos of under 60’s spinning quality
was open, apparently to attract entries
from S. Australia, but brought little re-
sponse. There was only a handful of
entries, all local ; most of them could
have fitted easily into the strong wools.
The strong-wool section was particu-
larly good, in spite of a tail. The cham-
pion ram, which went on to win the re-
serve grand championship for Egelabra.
was compact, with a dense fleece of
bright, typical strong wool, thougn in-
clined to run coarse on the folds. Cham-
pion strong-wool ewe, a finely pro-
portioned and large-framed animal, also
came from Egelabra, and later won the
grand championship.
Competition in the medium class was
keen and close. Egelabra won most of
the ram awards, but Buckinbah, Bunde-
mar, Mumblebone, Merryville and Win-
bri were close. There was a great
line-up of rams in the over two and
under three years class. It was the Egela-
bra ram from this class that won the
medium and grand championships—a
majestic ram with great front de-
velopment, plain-bodied with plenty of
scale and a rugged constitution. He has
a good topline, full thigh and a dense,
lustrous fleece of characteristic soft hand-
ling wool. The champion Merryville ewe
carries a soft-handling fleece of well-
grown, long-stapled wool. Nevertheless,
the fleece was on the fine side, and,
strictly speaking, is not a typical medium
wool.
Fine wools were very good. Awards
were shared by Winbri, Merryville and
Eshcol. There were several outstanding
animals in the superfine section, but some
of the ewes were too plain about the
neck. Evenness in quality combined with
character and soft-handling wool were a
credit to several breeders.
Competition was lacking in the novice
classes, though some very good sheep
came forward. Tuwinga made its first
appearance in Sydney with a strong
team, its fine wools in particular attract-
ing favorable comment. Ulah collected
the main ram awards.
The small graziers’ section was poorly
supported, though many of the entries
could have held their own in the open
classes. The Eshcol sheep opened up
very well, and a ewe from this stud won
the open superfine championship for a
remarkably even super-quality and soft-
handling fleece. The section calls for
much stronger competition in future.
Other Breeds
“Bungaree”: Corriedales were high in
quality. There was less tail than usual,
fewer “outsorts” and les,s variation in type.
J. M. Phelan continued the successes
gained at his first appearance last year.
Fie won many class ribbons, one cham-
pionship and both reserves. His cham-
pion ram carries a dense, long-stapled
fleece, particularly good on the back but
somewhat on the fine side. M. Carroll
and Sons’ champion ewe was of the
stronger-woolled type, but she is big-
"Let me get back! I'll teach him to chuck me out of the ring!”
framed, good in conformation and con-
stitution. Gundowringa sheep were well
shown, ewes collecting many ribbons.
The quality of the younger sheep was
outstanding.
Polwarth breeders combined to make
a good exhibit. There was fair variation
in type in both poll and horned rams.
T. E. Kendall, of Holbrook, entered a
successful ram team, but ewe awards
were more widely spread.
Romneys were poor in numbers. All
championships and most of the ribbons
went to Gamboola sheep. Chatsbury was
the only serious competitor.
Border Leicesters attracted keen com-
petition. Taking them all through B.Ls.
are settling down to a more even type,
and although they have sacrificed nothing
to scale extreme legginess is disappearing
and a general improvement is shown.
S.A. Dorset Horns drew favorable
comment, and the rams were well re-
warded. The champion ewe, imported
by Alleyn and Sons, is perhaps the best
D.H. ewe seen in Sydney.
Southdown entries were much smaller
than usual, but the quality of the tops
was never better. Inglewood repeated
past successes, winning all champion
and reserve ribbons. The champion ram
looks even better than his imported sire,
and was in perfect show condition.
Classes were evener than usual, and,
although there were a few undersized
sheep, tail was less obvious this year.
Ryelands were well represented. Ewes
were very good, and the young ewe
which took premier honors is an excellent
example of the Downs breed. Practically
all the sheep shown were typical of the
shapely, good-sized animal so much in
demand.
“Scabby Back” Sheep.
“Bogan”: Mycotic dermatitis, com-
monly known as “scabby back” or
“lumpy wool,” is highly infectious.
Several outbreaks have occurred recently
in the inner western districts of N.S.W.,
the number of sheep affected running to
serious proportions.
The condition is due to a fungus in-
vading the wool follicles, which gives
rise to the heaping up of thick scabby
material which may cement the wool
fibres into a hard mass. Usually appear-
ing over the loins or along the back, it
may involve the whole of the fleece.
Even very young sheep may be affected.
Scabby sheep are difficult to shear, and
any seriously affected are best got rid of.
Where only one or two are attacked the
wise thing is to kill them and burn the
carcass. In any case, the infected sheep
should be isolated.
Affected sheep should be shorn after
the healthy ones —in some place away
from the shed. Lumpy wool should be
burnt. Should a number of sheep be
affected segregate and fatten them off
for killing. The flesh is quite wholesome
for consumption. Science has not yet
found any effective treatment for the
disease.
Pastures and the Future.
“J.W.”: With Europe war.stricken, Aus-
tralian production will shortly play a much
greater part in the feeding of the world.
Peace may also bring a huge influx of
population. Australia should be pre-
pared, apart from keeping ample sur-
pluses in production for war needs.
Pasture provides the cheapest form of
improvement. Its products, too, are the
cheapest per pound to move to market
whether in the form of wool or of stock.
And when need for grain arises it has
brought the land to the condition best
suited to cultivation.
Town improvements can now well be
done without; whatever money and suit-
able labor is available should be applied
to increase rural production. There are
three essentials —good seed, skill and suf-
ficient farm labor, stock and machinery.
Co-operative effort might put a different
complexion on whole districts if machine
and working power were mobilised, the
big man helping the small with his plant
and the small man repaying with his
labor.
The first preliminary is production of
large quantities of certified seed. Fer-
tiliser supplies must be available at a
reasonable price. The first few months
of development must be carefully imple-
mented so that the grass will be thor-
oughly established before it is heavily
stocked. Finally, stock which will pro-
duce most heavily from the feed are
necessary. A good beast, well fed
throughout life, often needs less upkeep
than a bad one.
N.S.W. Bananas.
“Yarrunga”: N. S.
Wales’s 17,211 acres
of banana planta-
tions is again close
up to the peak of
1934 (17,438 acres)
when action was
taken to reduce pro-
duction to an econo-
mic basis. A cam-
paign against
bunchy-top and plan-
tations on unsuitable
country —to elimi-
nate the too-great
proportion of in-
ferior fruit —cut the
area to 13,030 acres
by 1936.
Systematic effort
has been made since
to discourage plant-
ing, except on the
best class of land.
But the restoration
went on, and last
season, while 2063
acres of worn-out
and diseased planta-
tions were destroyed,
fresh plantings
amounted to 3420
acres, and the net
increase was 1317
acies. The expansion was mainly in the
Tweed, Brunswick and Richmond River
areas, where 12,775 acres are now grown.
The quality of the bananas has im-
proved markedly in recent years of con-
trolled planting. Meantime, the Banana
Marketing Board was voted out, and
growers have since had better cash re-
turns, mainly through their co-operative
organisations.
The view of the Department of Agri-
culture is that there is now no reason to
fear overproduction, especially as Queens-
land has not been increasing* acreage,
having encouraged instead the greater
production of pineapples, for which there
is an export trade in tins.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mullengah”: A simple method of
determining what a pig will weigh when
diessed. Multiply the live weight by
seven and take off the last figure. For
example, if the pig weighs 1001b.—100 x
7OO, thus 701 b. will be the approxi-
mate dressed weight.
“Mt. Boppy”: Boil skim-milk and
buttermilk before feeding it to pigs to
avoid danger of t.b. Roughly 1001 b of
either skim, or buttermilk equal half as
much as a bushel of maize. Feed one


FOLLOW
LINE OF
REASON
ft* o*o
*7? )
A*
lit*
K
1
M
-*>
'<4
fo
tf
a
LONDON
?*AN
OMMiHIV"'
t»*r
Qc*r
'*U
•Hu
«rr T
Btt
Ur
-S&i
o**
/iV
€*@4s2
s**
fiftl
-9°°o
GENUINE
LONDON
GIN CAN
ONLY
COME FROM
LONDON
ENGLAND
where
Gordon’s
Gin IS DISTILLED
If maij cost a
little more but
its WELL worth it!
Sta*w>
SutMfi*
THE HEART OF A GOOD COCKTAIL
TANQUE RAY, GORDON & CO
LTD, LONDON, ENGLAND.
C7 he latye&t qln cIiHLUeJiA in the ivotid
1
-
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/'
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—AH Meals a
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines).
la Carte.
Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
gallon of either to each pig per day to
balance the maize ration from weaning
age to market weight.
“Mullengah”: Bad housing often
causes losses of young pigs between
birth and weaning. Provide good drain-
age in houses and yards and keep every-
thing clean. Cracks in the walls mean
draughts, which cause chills. Provide
ventilation by leaving a space between
the top of the wall and the roof so that
the air passes over the pigs and not on
them. A movable wooden platform will
keep the pigs off cold or damp floors.
Line the inside of the roof with bark or
timber to insulate it against cold in
winter and heat in summer.
“Yeno Ham”: A pasture mixture
which has given good results on the
south-west slopes and eastern Riverina
(N.S.W.) is 21b. of lucerne, lib. of sub.
clover, 21b. of Rhodes grass and 21b. of
Wimmera rye per acre.
“A.A.D.”: “Dressing fleeces for the
judges” was more conspicuous at Syd-
ney’s sheep show this year than ever
before. Judges and most breeders were
against the practice; some considered
there should be regulations to secure
conformity. Coloring of the sheep’s
covering has long been a practice in
England, and some exhibitors here of
British breeds “doll up” their sheep in
this way. Nearly every Southdown
penned in Sydney had been treated. That
may be all right, but there should be
no disfigurement of Australian “wool”
sheep such as the Corriedale. Their
fleeces should be seen to the best advan-
tage in natural condition.
“Bundalinga”: Turanville Shorthorn
stud, owned by Taylor Bros.—J.C. and
Dr. H.C. —has been moved from Scone
(N.S.W.) to Harrow, a 4000-acres
property at Cambooya (Q.) on the
Darling Downs. Turanville was founded
by the late H. C. Taylor, and his sons
now own the stud. About seven years
ago the bull Basildon Rosicrucian was
imported from England at a landed cost
of 4000gns. Ninety-one bulls by him
have been sold to Queensland breeders
at an average of 91gns. each. One of
his sons, Pendley Viceroy, sire of three
Brisbane champions in the past four
years, was in the transfer. Included is
another imported bull, Calrossie Master-
piece, which cost the Taylors 3400gns.
“Mullengah”: A bunch of Mons Marie
bananas grown at Caboolture (Q.) was
said by fruit merchants to be the largest
yet sold at Brisbane markets. The bunch
was 4ft. 3in. high, and contained 15
dozen bananas which averaged Jllb. each.
They sold at Is. 6d. a dozen.
“Bago”: Intensive subdivision of sheep
paddocks, combined with pasture im-
provement, has given G. W. Evans, Tum-
barumba (N.S.W.), outstanding results in
wool yield and carrying capacity. Com-
mencing with two paddocks comprising
170 acres, he now has 68 paddocks of
2\ acres each. On these areas he grazes
500 sheep for three days in rotation.
Throughout last drought he carried five
sheep to the acre. In eight years wool
production increased from 111 b. to 541 b.
an acre. Subdivision costs amounted to
£1 per acre. N
“B. Cub.”: N.S.W. will have nearly
as much land under wheat this year as
it did in 1939-40. Generally good rains
in March and April put the seed-bed
in nice condition, and the early and mid-
season sown crops got a good start. May
was dry and early June no better, and
good falls are required to saturate the
subsoil. In parts, crops that germinated
well were feeling the pinch early this
month, and there was even some spindling
around Mudgee.
“Ayr”: The long dry spell on the
northern parts of the N.S.W. South Coast,
which made hand-feeding continuous
from last January, has eaten into fodder
supplies. Usually this area musters up-
wards of 20 districts to compete for the
R.A.S. fodder prize ; this year there were
only six. Green maize silage, lucerne
hay and maize grain make up the main
reserves, and, though fodder is getting low
and crops have not been sufficient to
replace the inroads, all farmers are thank-
ful that they did make provision in the
past. T. H. Maples, Bega, won the R.A.S.
championship.
“Raven”: Around Gloucester (N.S.W.)
crows have attacked late maize crops,
spoiling every cob opened. Farmers de-
clare the crow more destructive in this
field than cockatoos and parrots and
more difficult to shoot. Some growers
have adopted the wire-netting crow
traps that are so effective on sheep runs.
“Ringtail”: The possum loves young
mistletoe shoots, and acts as a “natural
check” to the pest. In the Flinders Range
(S.A.) district possums were almost wiped
out in a couple of years by the spreading
of poisoned bran. I have gone for miles
recently and seen hardly a tree that was
free of mistletoe.
“Jennyroo”: The women’s land army
is a feature of English organisation for
the war. A similar body is being formed
in Tasmania. The idea is to send girls
to farms in pairs for training for six
weeks or three months and then to allot
them to particular jobs. They will learn
to milk and feed farm stock, to manage
poultry, drive tractors, carry on the
mechanical jobs of pasture improvement
and maintenance, small-farm sowing,
veterinary work and anything else in which
they can be useful. They will be given a
sensible khaki outfit in line with that in
use in England, and will get no wages as
learners, but will be paid afterwards
according to usefulness. Organisation
seems to be a good job for some of the
existing women’s bodies —the Country
Women’s Association has a wide spread
over rural districts and could do it well.
Outback Occupations.
No. XXIV.
BABY BEEF.
Good baby beef always finds a good
market. The exact meaning of the term
has never been properly defined, but it
means to the cattleman what the export
lamb means to the sheepman. That is
to say, the baby beef must either be pure-
bred or of some recognised cross, and
must be fed well from birth to dispatch,
no check in growth being allowed.
There are various stages at which baby
beef should be marketed. Some say
2001 b., others 2401 b., others go to 3001 b.
and even to 4001 b. For our part, we
consider the best stage is when the pro-
ducer is likely to get the best returns ;
obviously, if you can sell the baby beef
at £lO a head it is much better than to try
to sell at £1 2s. We’ve never got
anything like £lO a head for our baby
beef, but that doesn’t alter the force of
the argument.
One of the first things to consider is
breed. In Australia beef breeds are con-
fined to Shorthorns and Herefords and
their polled counterparts, Red Polls,
Aberdeen-Angus and Devons. This isn’t
their order of value or popularity, both
of which are purely relative and depen-
dent on environment and circumstances.
For instance, Herefords would have little
or no value in such places as Kiama
(N.S.W.) or Panmure (Vic.), not for any
fault of the cattle themselves but be-
cause inhabitants of those and similar
districts are so backward that thev fail
to appreciate any animal whose value
cannot be assessed in buttermilk. On the
question of popularity, a herd uf Aber-
deen-Angus would meet with utter detes-
tation if turned out to graze on the
beautiful pastures of Royal Sydney golf
course. It’s all in the point of view.
As a further example, it could be easily
imagined with what joy the people of
Australia would hail the news that, in-
stead of the present herds that graze
there, a few thousand head of good beef
cattle were installed on the area of Can-
berra. There’d still be snobbishness, of
course, among the herd leaders, but the
return to the countiy would more than
offset any discomfort that might cause.
Before selecting the particular breed
from which you intend to produce baby
beef, it were well to know a little about
each. The information that follows is
based on a careful reading of the vari-
ous claims put forward by breed societies
and a study of the cattle themselves from
various angles, chief of them being a
position outside the fence or up the
nearest tree.
Thus the Shorthorn is described as the
“world’s premier beef breed,” and is seen
as a rather sluggish animal much given
to chewing grass and blowing hard when
knee-deep in water-couch on a summer
afternoon. Its color might be anything
from a bright red to that of a liver ex-
posed to the weather for three days. The
breed is not common on the coalfields,
largely owing to the presence of grey-
hounds in those areas, but quite a num-
ber can be found in the Sydney suburb
of Flemington or round about New-
market, in Melbourne.
Herefords are large, inquisitive animals
with red bodies, long horns and white
faces. They have a mild appearance,
except at close quarters, when the
visitor notes a sinister redness about the
eyes and an expression somewhat akin
to that of a bomb about to explode.
Interest should not be lost, however, for
the breed is described as the “world’s
supreme beef breed,” and so long as
there is a fence handy or a well-limbed
tree there is little danger of injury. Here-
fords are born explorers, and have no
peers at the good old game of hide-and-
seek. They are fairly easy to get on
with, and their habit of throwing dirt
about and bawling when they see you is
merely an expression of their innate
curiosity. They are bursting to find out
if you can run. They generally do.
Polled Shorthorns and Herefords are
the same things, only different because
they have no horns. This appears to be
a great grief, making them rather sad
and causing them to stand for hours
brooding in a corner. Still, it doesn’t
alter the claim that each is the “world’s
best beef breed.”
No man contemplating baby-beef pro-
duction can afford to ignore the Aber-
deen-Angus, said to be the “world’s pre-
eminent beef breed.” These animals are
the same color as a dark night, and are
naturally hornless. This last feature is,
of course, directly attributable to the
fact that they come from Scotland, where
it was speedily recognised that as no-
body ate the horns it was a waste of
effort to grow them. It seems, too, that
the aspect of the horned black cattle
affected the nerves of the domestic haggis,
thus the Gaels had to decide between the
cattle and their haggis herds, and com-
promised by taking the horns from the
cattle.
Red Polls are hornless, too, and it has
never been decided whether they do best
served in the morning milk-jug or when
the wife toddles round to the butcher’s
for the matutinal sausage. Hence the
claim, which seems to have something
on all others, of being the “world’s great-
est dual-purpose breed.”
Then there is the Devon. A red animal
with wide, pointed horns, it is, as any
Devon breeder can tell, “the world’s
finest beef breed.” The Devon’s main
object in life, obviously, is to maintain
the supply of Devon sausage to small-
goods shops, but it, too, has a part to
play in baby-beef production.
It will thus be seen that there is no
lack of variety of cattle from which to
produce baby beef. And this without
touching on the dairy herds, though
plenty of men succeed in crossbreeding
from one to the other. A glance at any
dairy herd will show this to be true,
though the dairyfarmer, strangely
enough, doesn’t like having it mentioned.
As there will probably be 11,234 letters
asking for more information on baby-
beef production readers are reminded that
no questions can be answered unless
accompanied by the usual coupon.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate or 4£d. per line; all others at
2 |d. per line.
Names—though required as a guarantee of good faith—are not now published
unless it is clear that the writers don’t object.
For touching delicately, though arrestingly, a delicate subject, a Sydney writer
(a woman) gets double rates.
Making “Fun” of Degeneracy
Isn’t it about time the stage and screen
stopped offering for our “amusement”
caricatures of degenerate men? The
latest is in a film ; and very rarely is any
vaudeville show without its cissy-boy act.
There are female degenerates, as a
recent murder-and-suicide case in Perth
painfully illustrated. If two actresses
put on the counterpart of a cissy-boy
act the audience would be physi-
cally sickened. So why should the mascu-
line side of the question be considered
amusing? The problem of the genuine
third sex is a scientific responsibility.
Every city is honeycombed with the
unfortunate groups and something more
should be done than merely carrying out
a few police raids.
Medical brains should be able to think
up some kind of compulsory glandular
test or examination to which every adult
should be subjected, say, every 15 years.
Diseases which were once only men-
tioned in whispers are being given sane
and helpful publicity; why should this
other social sickness be allowed to con-
tinue comparatively unchecked?
At least, let the providers of “enter-
tainment” cease presenting studies of
what (viewed in the very lightest sense)
is a worn-thin joke, and (viewed in the
scientific sense) is no funnier than lunacy
or cancer. —M. (N.S.W.).
Same Old Thing
When are we going to get Australian
films that make Australians look like
normal, modern people? Dad and Dave
are loose again, and their keepers
evidently have no intention of perma-
nently chaining ’em up.
Although the film is technically better
than earlier Dad-and-Daves, it’s still the
same old kids’ show, bespattered with
crudities.
And why did we get that long patriotic
speech from Dad which concludes the
film? It may stir patriotic ardor, but
it’s got no place in a movie. It should
have gone on to a newsreel. It throws
the film out of balance —but maybe it’s
repayment to the Government for the
precious Government dough which
backed the show. Front Stalls
(N.S.W.).
Screen Psychology
Being able to afford the talkies only
once in a while, I have time to browse
over one show before the next shoves it
out of my mind. What interests me
particularly is the philosophy of married
love as taught on the screen. It would
appear that cave-man stuff attracts the
ladies, and keeps them attracted to
the end. “Catch ’em young, treat ’em
rough, tell ’em nothing,” is the Holly-
wood formula for a love philtre. A
couple of recent plots are f.a.q. samples.
(1) The two-fisted, gun-totin’ hero gets
drunk, makes a wager to marry the first
girl he meets, grabs a strange beauteous
maiden, forces the ring and the vow on
her at pistol point, then goes on a proper
bender that lands him nearly dead in a
pigsty. From the depths of his de-
gradation he is dragged by the fair hands
of his doting victim.
(2) A man married to an ideal wife
has an intrigue with a gold-digger.
Divorce follows, but absence and neglect,
far from quenching love, make it burn
more fiercely. Result is reunion and
remarriage.
If the scenario writers are right, the
tame, domesticated male is fit only to
be henpecked into baldheaded servility,
washing the dishes and walking the floor
with baby at the midnight hour. If he
drops cigarette ash on the carpet, sings
in his bath or criticises the scones he
is for it. The real hero is he who breaks
some of the crockery and all of the
conventions. For him no sacrifice of
feminine love and pride is too great.
The influence of such teaching on. the
minds and morals of our impressionable
young men cannot be wholesome, and
it may even stir some of the older
Benedicts to rebellion. I have tried to
get the opinions of other married men
on the subject, but they will discuss the
matter only with bated breath as if the
walls of the pub have ears. The only
way to find out if the screen psychology
is correct is by experiment—but even
this par. is written over a false name. —
Tamed by the Shrew (S.A.).
Churchill
In not falling for the Trondhjem ven-
ture Churchill proved that he has learnt
something from his previous mistakes (B.
17/6/’4O). He did not rise to the bait of
smashing Britain’s fleet bn land fortifi-
cations in such death-holes as the Nor-
wegian fiords.
The consequences of such a disaster
are now apparent, and such foolhardiness
was what the enemy desired of us. Don’t
let us Churchill critics be as one-eyed as
the Chamberlain strafers; give credit
where it is due.—W. E. C. (N.S.W.).
Home Defence
Most of us are wondering why the
Government’s decision to train and equip
250,000 men for Australia’s defence
wasn’t made months ago. Every town,
every village and every district in the
bush, and every suburb in the cities can
produce men, leaders to train them and
grounds to train them on.
The authorities should appoint a band
of Diggers in each district to be military
leaders of that district, empowered to
recruit and organise its military force. A
universal scheme of training should be
begun immediately: physical training,
marching movements and formations,
route marches, blackboard lectures and the
like. Then when the call came for these
men to enter camp they would be half-
way towards being soldiers instead of raw
recruits. They would be mobilised, phy-
sically fit and thoroughly conversant with
all the marching moves.
Surely the saving would be worth
while. — Nigel (N.S.W.).
Valuable members of the home-defence
army to be raised in Australia would be
experienced bushmen. Many Australians
—even country men —get lost in rough
country far from familiar scenes, but
there are bushmen in whom a sense of
country and direction is ingrained. They
include stockmen, drovers, boundary-
riders, surveyors’ linesmen, even swag-
men and others whose jobs take them into
strange country. Their ability to find
their way, despite the roughness and
strangeness of the country, means their
livelihood and often their very lives.
One or more of such men in every
battalion of the home-defence force
would be of the utmost value. They
would add much to the mobility of any
body of defending troops, especially if
guerilla warfare was in progress, and
they would be able to save valuable time.
And the bushman would not be slow to
answer any call for his services.— Bunda-
LINGA (N.S.W.).
Leaflets
If B. S. Driver (B. 19/6/’4O) hopes at
this stage of the conflict that leaflets over
Germany would bring results he slips
badly. Supposing we were to pick up
leaflets here, worded in clumsy English,
telling us we were on the wrong side in
this war, that gentle Adolf was fighting
Churchill and not us, and that we ought
to accept the kind protection of the
Reich, does. “8.5. D.” imagine that such
crudities would receive serious notice?
For all we know of conditions in Ger-
many, the population may be regimented,
depressed or even half-starved, but every
man, woman and child is taught to wor-
ship Hitler and hate England. Raining
propaganda upon such a national-spirited
people is a waste of time and a senseless
imperilling of the R.A.F. The disillu-
sionment of Germany will come from
experience and not from leaflets.
Arthur Falk (Vic.).
The R.A.A.F.
Apparently “A.G.” (B. 19/6/’4O) is
unaware that well-equipped technical col-
leges exist at country towns, a classifi-
cation in which Adelaide, Melbourne,
Canberra and Sydney would not be in-
cluded. Wideawake committees in Goul-
burn and Lismore (N.S.W.) realised the
importance of the technical colleges in
those centres, and, immediately the short-
age of fitters was announced, suggested
that the colleges should be used. They
were turned down flat, however, although
the Department of Supply is now show-
ing an interest in the Goulbum college.
It seems a waste of good facilities to
neglect the country technical colleges, as
more first-class recruits than could be
handled would be available in the coun-
try. Provision of barracks would set no
problem, as there are sufficient public
and other buildings in the towns to house
all the trainees the technical colleges could
accommodate. There is no reason why
such training should be centred in the
capital cities.— James Mahoney (N.S.W.).
Aluminium
When the dictators wanted more gold
they appealed to the women of their
countries for wedding - rings, and the
women responded willingly. Australia,
we are told, needs aluminium. The
women of Australia would respond to
an appeal from the Government for
aluminium utensils, which could be
melted down and used for vital defence
work.
In almost every home there are
aluminium utensils that are no longer
useful, and I think the Department of
Supply would be surprised at the response
to its appeal.— Paul Pilgrim (N.S.W.).
Arms or Architecture?
I took a walk through two of the
flashest thoroughfares in one of our
urban ant-heaps. The streets were com-
posed mostly of theatres and of magnifi-
cent emporiums filled, for the most part,
with expensive luxuries that the majority
of us can do without —fur coats, sports
goods, cameras, brass Buddhas and a
thousand and one gadgets which are no
more necessary to national welfare and
happiness than so much fairy floss.
The shattering of such a Vanity Fair
would be a blow to shop-assistants, but
would not move the general public to
tears. Man really wants but little here
below, and the swaggie and the soldier
soon learn to laugh under picnic or war
conditions.
Several handsome premises have re-
cently been demolished (peacefully) in
these streets and are being laboriously
replaced by bigger and better toyshops
of iron and concrete.
While the British are at death grips
with the aggressors, hundreds of clever
workmen and thousands of tons of metal
are being employed on jobs that have
nothing to do with the war. And the
same game is being played all over Aus-
tralia.
Could not this total of skill, energy,
wealth and iron be directed to make im-
plements that will batter into scrap the
ships, tanks and bombers of the dictators?
I’m only the man in the street, but I
wouldn’t waste time and water sprink-
ling my roses while my house was on
fire. — Tinfoil Collector (S.A.).
No More Alliances
When we finally win this war it is to
be hoped that Britain will abandon her
centuries’ old policy of maintaining the
balance of power in Europe in favor of
consolidating the Empire to resist any
future attack.
As a general rule alliances are only
effective while they serve the interests
of both signatories. France built up a
chain of alliances with Poland, Czecho-
slovakia and the Little Entente. These
alliances did not prove of the slightest
use to her in her travail, and as for the
use of the French alliance to Britain....
Had Britain concentrated on defence
against any attack on the Empire she
would not have had to dissipate portion
of her forces and materials in Norway
and at Dunkirk. Unity may be strength,
but a chain is only as strong as its
weakest link, and a country which sends
forces to help an ally repel an invader
only weakens its own defences. — Pierrot
(N.S.W.).
Women’s Organisations
All potential labor should be con-
sidered in this emergency, but, unless
women’s organisations curb their ambi-
tions and wait until the authorities call
on them for their services, they will do
far more harm than good.
The National Council of Women in
Adelaide waited on the Premier and asked
for opportunities to train and take men’s
jobs, thus releasing more men for mili-
tary service.
There are sufficient men outside the
military age to carry out the men’s work.
Women should go all out on the jobs for
which the female of the species is
specially suited, so that when the war is
over there will still be plenty of work
for the men who fought it. —W. H. W.
(N.S.W.).
The Jury
To aid Democracy’s cause, some of
our democratic institutions have had to
accept necessary eclipse. What about
disposing of the costly, clumsy and
dubious jury system for the duration?
I recently observed this old favorite
of the Mutual Improvement Societies at
close quarters. Thirty-six good men and
tru§ forsook workshop, office and con-
sulting-room, and spent the entire first
day of the Sessions at the public expense,
attending the long-winded processes of
the courtroom. Their services were en-
listed for one solitary case out of the
calendar, whose points anyone could have
decided. Thirty-six days’ work lost to
industry in war-time, thirty-six days’ pay
milked from the public funds while we
are campaigning for “sinews of war,” and
all in order to decide whether Bill Muggs
really did pinch a few bob from Jack
Bloggs!
It seems an expensive and unnecessary
way of paying lip-service to an abstract
ideal. If we scrapped it we could buy
and build a battleship with the money,
and time saved. — Tinmuth (S.A.).
Waste
Another item of waste that requires
looking into is the amount of unneces-
sary buzzing-about at the expense of the
public. In these days of instantaneous
communication there is no need for any
public man to move from the one spot.
But one minute we hear of Mr. Menzies
being in Sydney, the next minute he is in
Melbourne, and in between he’s in Can-
berra.
I see politicians careering about in
motor-cars about the size of small omni-
buses that must take oodles of petrol to
run. They are usually driven by a hefty-
looking male who might well be filling
shells or else driving tanks.
If our politicians really mean what
they say, why don’t they stay put in the
one spot? If public men really wish to
set an example let them give up their
cars and take to a bicycle. This moving-
about business is being overdone. —Z.
(N.S.W.).
Australian Journalists
All Australian papers and journals
have been compelled to reduce their use
of newsprint, and the promised new
papers for Melbourne and Sydney have
both had to go by the board. So there
will be less call than ever for the work
of Australian journalists and illustrators.
The least that can be done in the cir-
cumstances is to preserve the reduced
space for local men. Syndicated material
from abroad should be banned com-
pletely. America did not shirk drastic
action when the depression made it diffi-
cult to find work for its people. Sending
material from Australia, I had hardly
congratulated myself upon opening up
a new market before batches were re-
turned with a very polite apology—it was
difficult enough to keep local writers
going, and no more matter could be
taken from abroad for an unspecified
time.
That was during a mere civil depres-
sion; war conditions are surely a better
excuse for such action in Australia. —
H. M. (N.S.W.).
Paper Rationing
Daily and Sunday newspapers publish
pages of illustrations of eligible young
men enjoying themselves at dance halls
and cocktail parties. Pages of valuable
paper are given over to racing news that
is not of general interest. Headlines take
up space quite unnecessarily.
Isn’t it time these daily and Sunday
newspapers were compelled to cease this


lounge-lizard publicity? Men employed
in the newspaper industry must be kept
in work, but this can best be done by
cutting down on those matters that in-
terest the least number of people and by
cutting down on matter that is not en-
tirely of Australian origin. There should
be no space in Australian papers these
days for any imported syndicated tripe.
I bought an evening paper which con-
sisted of 48 pages, and I read everything
of interest in it in about half an hour.
Is that sort of thing to go on? — Eureka
(N.S.W.).
Decentralise
One of the lessons of this war is the
vulnerability of coastal towns. When, as
in Australia, these coastal towns are
centres of all the industries on which the
prosecution of a war depends, the posi-
tion is doubly dangerous.
Long before the war England began to
decentralise these key industries, and now
factories are dotted all over the land.
There should be immediate steps in this
country to decentralise as much of the
manufacture of war material as possible.
—Toxites (W.A.).
Secondary Industries
Australian trade and life and stand-
ards of living are being more than neces-
sarily upset because, following the
Ottawa dreams of various thinkers, there
has never been any serious attempt to
develop Australian secondary industries
to a point where, in war or in any other
crisis that dislocated international trade,
we could be —save for rubber and (per-
haps) petrol—self-sufficing.
Had Australian Governments during
the last 20 years done all possible to
foster secondary industries, we would
now be in a position where such an upset
of our economic life would be unneces-
sary. We would not have to begin fever-
ishly to build up our secondary indus-
tries to fulfil immediate needs. We could,
quickly and efficiently, have armed Aus-
tralia for defence, and we would have
been able to produce many things, from
aeroplanes down, of which England now
stands in desperate need.
When the war is over we must develop
our secondary industries in order to make
Australia economically impregnable.—
Develop (S.A.).
Fruit Juices
Every year fruitgrowers waste large
quantities of good fruit because there is
no market for it or because the price is
too low. All this surplus could be used
for its juice alone and, were the public
educated to acquiring a taste for it,
orchardists would need to grow even
more fruit to meet the demand. I see
no reason why the regular morning bottle
of fruit juice could not be delivered just
as the morning milk is delivered, and at
the same price.
Australians are natural fruit-eaters,
and there is no reason why they should
not become great fruit-juice drinkers. —
Thorn (N.S.W.).
Surplus Wheat
It is planned to export thousands of
cases of eggs overseas in the coming
season. These could be supplied at a
much cheaper rate, without causing a loss
to the producers, if our surplus wheat
were sold at a reasonable figure to
poultry farmers. At present it is bought
mostly from their local storekeepers, the
ruling price being 4s. Id. to 4s. Bd. a
bushel. Two women with about three
acres of land can easily look after 700
laying hens. Many would be glad to do
so if they thought they were performing
a national service as well as earning an
adequate living.
Bacon is another commodity which
could be supplied in larger quantities if
more pigs were raised, but these are not
profitable unless they can be fed cheaply.
Our surplus wheat should solve that prob-
lem, too— Wanderer (N.S.W.).
Birth Control
Economic reasons for birth control
bear little weight when statistics reveal
that it is among the wealthier classes
that the birthrate is lowest. Luxuries
are preferred to the expense of rearing
children.
As for “Anither’s” argument (B.
19 /6 / ’4O) that parents are resolved
that they will not bring babies into this
turbulent world until it is a better place
to live in—if our ancestors had taken
this view we wouldn’t be here.—Peter-
mac (N.S.W.).
Self-education
It is through commonsense, discipline,
persistent application and books that
many have achieved success without the
assistance of a college education, and it
is the ignoring of such facts that pre-
vents many college-bred people from
forging ahead when they are thrown on
their own resources.
Parents who cannot afford expensive
education for their offspring should
ponder more over the value and influence
of books, which, like many other worth-
while treasures, are easy to obtain.
Romance, excitement, pleasure, travel
and the companionship of distinguished
minds are available to the poorest person
through books.
Parents and teachers both fail in their
duty towards those under their care by
not instilling into them that education
does not end when schooldays are over ;
it only begins then. More self-education
would be indulged in if this point were
stressed more frequently. And it would
help many disgruntled yet ambitious souls
to understand that, provided they seek
with a humble and teachable mind, there
is no need to develop a grouch or an
inferiority-complex just because they
have not been to college.—P. Radwon
(Vic.). _
Rural Workers
Office workers aren’t the only ones who
get a raw deal (B. 12/6/’4O). Thousands
of men are working in rural industries
for a mere pittance and living under poor
conditions, yet can secure no redress
simply because they are not covered by
any award. The only solution of the
problem of exploitation of labor appears
to be some form of compulsory unionism,
and until this is brought about there
can be no hope of relief for the bulk of
rural workers.— Pierrot (N.S.W.).
Not Too Grim
The excuse that it was too sombre for
present-day enjoyment, given for the dis-
continuance of “The Stars Look Down,”
seems to indicate that we are afraid to
face the realities of life.
To some it may be cheering to see the
hero strut around in a camel-hair coat
and drive off in his luxurious car, but it’s
rather a let-down when you struggle into
your thirty-bob “pay-as-you-wear” and
stand in the biting wind to wait for the
tram home.
I saw “The Stars Look Down” and,
secure in the knowledge that there were
others with a harder row to hoe, left the
theatre not dissatisfied with my own lot.
—Arthur Peters (N.S.W.).
Charity
Charity covers a multitude of gins
judging by the innumerable cocktail par-
ties for all sorts of worthy causes re-
ported in the daily papers. Then there
are the crazy whist parties, bridge par-
ties, fancy-dress balls, cocktail at-homes,
afternoon-tea parties, dinner and theatre
parties—all for sweet charity’s sake.
Usual press reports, after giving de-
lightful and intimate details of the
fashions worn, finish up by labelling them
“charity workers.” You are then given
the privilege of inspecting press photo-
graphs of these staunch unselfish workers
hard at work toying with caviare, lap-
ping up cocktails, doing the jitterbug and
making general whoopee.
And, as one surveys their smiling faces
oozing unctuousness and contentment,
one realises with an envious sigh that it
is indeed more blessed to give than
receive.—L. D. (Vic.).
Not So Bad
We should remember that, even though
a fellow may sink so low as to get into
Parliament, he is still a man and a
brother. His faults are bound to show
up more plainly than our own, for his
every word and action are subjected to
a fierce glare of publicity, a glare to
which not even the humblest of us would
care to expose his own sayings and
doings. Other reasons for the abuse
of politicians are not hard to find.
Every attack on the pockets of
the community quickly releases a
flood of vituperation from its vic-
tims. Every bill which is presented
to Parliament doesn’t become law, and
the supporters of those bills thrown out
form, in the course of a session, quite a
large army of disgruntled critics who are
only too ready to ascribe all kinds of
folly and stupidity to their representatives.
I agree with A. Daly (B. 5/6/’4O) that
we won’t have better men in Parliament
until we have better men outside it. An
electorate which, with few exceptions,
limits the use of its reasoning powers to
making decisions as to which racehorse
to back, what talkie to see and which
costume to wear must find distinguish-
ing between genuine statesmanship and
mere plausibility well above its level
of effort. The gift of the gab wins every
time with an undiscriminating public,
and the frothy politician takes the seat
which should go to the statesman —and
we’ll never keep him out of it until we
can produce the type of elector who can
see through him at a glance.—Anither
(Q-).
Genius and the Garret
“Wusslean” (B. 12/6/’4O) is a little
astray in at least one of his garret
geniuses. Goldsmith did do hack-work,
plenty of it, from trite essays for maga-
zines to the awful “Animated Nature.”
Much of his work was “written at high
pressure for the means of existence or
to satisfy the urgency of duns.”
Most poets who have achieved great-
ness have done so partly because they
had the leisure to devote to their craft
that private incomes or generous patrons
allowed them. Shelley, another of “Wuss-
lean’s” examples, must have had a decent
enough income to be able to wander over
Europe as he did.
Shakspeare (like almost every Eliza-
bethan dramatist) was an exception ; the
English stage was calling for the type of
plays he had to offer. Even so, “when
he’d finished the play [“Hamlet”] and
left all the cast gory and bleeding on the
stage he thumped the table and said
‘There, that’ll bring in the bobs.’ ”
Grub Street (S.A.).
Bumbles Again
A Melbourne outer suburban council
is demanding approximately £63 p.a. for
five years from me for a suburban road
it is constructing. There are four houses
to be served, and only one owner wants
the expensive highway—and he is a new-
comer. The others have done without a
road for 15 years and liked it, because
they selected the locality for its peace
and quietness and thp presence of magni-
ficent 70-year-old trees which the road-
makers will demolish. No protest on
our part can check this invasion. I
understand that if the council didn’t build
its road there would be unemployment
in its parish. But are we supposed to be
engaged on creating more suburbia or a
war effort? —C. Q. (Vic.).
Industrial Breaches
While breaches of industrial laws must
be discouraged by salutary fines, the law
certainly never intended that this class
of offence should be more seriously re-
garded in country districts than in the
city area. Yet that is virtually the case
at present, owing to the unfair and un-
equal manner in which costs operate
against the country offender. The further
he resides from the metropolitan area,
the worse he is affected.
As at present constituted, the Act
permits only the Minister, an employee
or the secretary of a union registered
under the Act to launch a prosecution
for a breach. Thus, when a country
butcher is proceeded against by the
union for non-payment of overtime, it is
necessary for the union rep. to appear
and state his facts, even though the de-
fendant has previously intimated his in-
tention of pleading guilty.
In some instances the services of a
local solicitor are retained by the union
to assist in the prosecution, but in many
cases the union official is accompanied
by the union’s own legal man from New-
castle or Sydney. In addition to the
fine imposed, the hapless defendant then
finds himself facing an outsize costs bill,
including first-class return fares for the
union rep. and solicitor, sleeping berths
on the train, wages of both for the day
computed at £1 each, meals and sundry
incidentals. The city offender would
merely pay the fine and the usual costs,
amounting to less than one-fifth of the
average country man’s bill for exactly the
same offence.
The unfair working of the Act could
be remedied by delegating the police to
state the facts where the defendant in-
tends to plead guilty, thus removing the
necessity of the union official’s presence.
The lavish scale on which costs are
based might well be overhauled at the
same time. — Ricardo (N.S.W.).
Tourist Trade
Those who are for ever crying that we
should develop our tourist industry
should now awaken to the danger that
resides in such a trade. In 1935 the
Duke of Windsor (then the Prince of
Wales) declared that, during the jubilee
celebrations, tourist trade increased
British revenue by £35,000,000. This, he
said, showed it to be England’s third
largest industry. What must have become
of that industry and revenue today, and
how much must it have cost England to
turn the means of catering for tourists
to profitable employment? And, if Aus-
tralia become a “tourists’ paradise,” how
much less of a paradise would it become
for Australians during any time when
that trade dried up?— Australl (S.A.).
Astrology
More than 2000 years ago astrologers
told their clients what they wanted to be
told and were handsomely paid for doing
so. Now that the public is being served
with a weekly magazine devoted entirely
to star-shine, the occult science is still
kept on a business footing by strict atten-
tion to the wishes of its subscribers.
Charts of the dictators are given, and
the stars in their courses are evidently
pro-Ally, or their “influence” is promptly
neutralised by other sympathetic planets.
There’s not an orb which thou beholdst
but in its motion sings the National
Anthem. It would be interesting to
compare German or Italian publications
dealing with the same dates and con-
stellations. Doubtless their “orientation”
would be different.
It is blasphemy to say that Mars is
always on the side of the biggest bat-
talions, but it is only to be expected that
he should favor the side espoused by the
greatest number of constant readers.—
Moonshine (S.A.).
Dodging the Censor
Some weeks ago a well-dressed, charm-
ing young lady called at my door armed
with a gramophone and a satchel of
tracts. First, she invited me to listen to
a record of a speech by a well-known
preacher, and then tried to sell me a pam-
phlet written by the same man. It was
carefully explained that both the spoken
and printed words had been banned by
the authorities. I sent her on her way.
Yesterday I received by post an adver-
tisement for the literature of the same
crowd, containing, in highly concentrated
form, the banned doctrines.
The argument, briefly stated, is that
all war effort is useless, as the present
“tribulations” are the working out of a
divine plan which can be altered only
by prayer and humiliation. The
“Church” is fiercely attacked as the cause
of the punishment. The dictators are
merely the instruments of Providence.
Armed resistance is sinful. Passive
acceptance is a virtue.
Not everyone who shouts “Thus saith
the Lord” while stirring up sectarian
strife and preaching the laying-down of
arms is worthy of “religious liberty.”
Every patriot of every denomination
should be fighting the common enemy
battering at the gate. —How Long (S.A.j.
Sectionalism
We are for ever ready to blame aliens
for practising sectionalism, and, in the
present war situation, we are realising the
danger that their sectionalism entails.
Yet we ourselves are not free from blame
in such matters. There are too few of us
ready to look on ourselves as Australians.
Instead, we become members of Cale-
donian Societies, Cornish Societies,
Hibernian Associations or look on our-
selves as firstly “primary producers,”
housewives, prohibitionists, trade-union-
ists, returned soldiers, employees,
workers, civil servants or members of
Parliament.
In the face of all this sectionalism
(which the totalitarians, seeing its
dangers, long ago abolished) we cannot
very well blame aliens for practising sec-
tionalism. Especially when we set them
the example of six sections warring
against each other (with the smaller also
combining against the larger) and all,
with yells of “States’ Rights,” warring
against the whole of the people as repre-
sented in the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. — Australian First (S.A.).
Tobacco Packets
Tobacco manufacturers are helping the
conservation of metal by selling their
various brands in paper packages.
Our paper shortage will become more
serious as the war progresses, so why
not start selling tobacco in bulk form?
The respective brands could be kept in
sealed containers and retailed by weight.
An immense saving in otherwise wasted
paper would result. — Noham (N.S.W.).


nous
Biliousness! Oh, what an awful feeling!
Troubled sleep, dizziness when arising from a sitting
or stooping position, bitter taste in mouth, and a
furred tongue. Bowels may be loose one day, but
constipated the next. This is brought about by the
natural sewers of the body becoming clogged-up, and
the bile, being denied its rightful channel, is turned
into the blood. All or any of these symptoms may
accompany the bilious condition, and while they exist
the patient’s life is scarcely worth living.
As a remedy for Biliousness, Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills enjoy a world-wide reputation. They open
the clogged-up System, stir the Liver, cleanse the
Stomach, and regulate the Bowels.
Dr. Morsel
9
i
9
Q) rtkLwer
PI ILLS
wm Hm3
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed bn the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Parish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 11/6), post
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ds
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week, for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage -
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster. *
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS,’ by Brian
Penton.
he author faithfully depicts
the building up of the „ C
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
0°
e
»>
,
t \\ e ••••"
.*' A S^\C e n\^''
.** .-•*<s vo
t-’


GILBEY’S, piping hot with
sugar and lemon—just around
bedtime —is the final word
in cosy comfort. A fortifying
safeguard, too, against the
ills and chills of winter ...
"GILBEY’S the National
Nightcap.”
w®,
OTT LEI
mm
k-A.ml
w
Sis gs»ig
■Em
A ;'.
m
mmm
*><
WBgr': •& *
g»£?? •••
WM : £**■
■
IV
5. <-j~.~
: ■:,,,
?*■«» ■> «’i * • * . ' |
*** *<wu "
*W «■£ ■/& I
tmi* ?** *
«** :; ...„■»:** i
mi Bfggf,';
111111 »
>■ •■.•
?: $3
*
.... =
: V. : ’ "
A ' : .tsißiSSi 1 ’
} A,.. ''v
■
7
...AY.
■.. :•:; -Wm
fg , '• <m
i • >, <f V - • • v ‘ .>i
mm
aJf 'f »
1®
P
SBHHS
♦
,M * ViK (tthms * in :
f BVvV: ' B V<; " Y » : - ,v |
i ! ,; v-B ; ■ ■ V:v‘ : .v|v>.; x . |v; Bv:- V
r - a-a ay --•■•■:y v-vw^vv.'
:
m
,>"" T
:
w*"" I
' ' "«< j J I Y’Bvv < * Vv; '■'% > >
« «*
iiillil
'
* . >
s?
■V
ii
