

"The White Swan”
Bibury—Gloucestershire
A picturesque Georg-
ian inn in the
Cotswolds.
With a lovely wooded
hill for background
it has at its door
the beautiful mean-
dering River Coin.
Host Holbrook says;
"Whether folk live in
cities or remote places
my Worcestershire Sauce
is known to them and
appreciated for its
piquancy and flavour.”
f}6?/c/s
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
7U
CUBRItS,ORAVIC
tOLSKOOK&jI
WORCE STEF^JJi,.
Tt wimp **•<s&
>g
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61. —No. 3142.
Wednesday, May 1, 1940.
Was Stalin Trapped ?
s rice 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Learn
freelance
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Projit, a»
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
The Red Page
Tschiffely About Patagonia.
Numerous wild '’(lacks jMteheji sfe with-in-
quisitive beady eyes. In the distance, on the
far side of the lake, a mighty glacier comes
down steeply tw9 ,naqf.unt|ins,
colossal white [ catari|(£,?§ifs<" JN? dr, to%#*in|^
jagged wall of flittering ice, projecting into the'
water. A few horses and sheep grazed in open
patches among the wood.edhills,,.. WJjjle I
waited to hear from 'ffiy friend, cold winds
blew down from the mountains and icy rains
drummed on the tin roof of the small ranch-
house in which we sat in a semicircle, almost
hugging a stove, cleverly made out of an old
sheep-dip barrel.
This is A. F Tschiffely in the wilds of
Patagonia, a quotation from his truly
magnificent This Way Southward (Heine-
mann ; Moore’s Bookshop). Travelling
by car instead of on horseback this time,
Tschiffely covers seven thousand miles,
going south from Buenos Aires to the
tip of South America, crossing the Strait
of Magellan by ’plane to Tierra del Fuego
and then back to Buenos Aires. The bare
record of the journey, the hazards of
rough tracks along the ridges of the
Andes and across the desolate plains of
the pampas, is exciting reading ; but what
gives the book its outstanding interest
is that both the territory’s dramatic his-
tory and the shape of modern life there
are practically unknown. As the un-
spellable Chiffly says, nobody quite be-
lieves there is such a place as Patagonia.
Its name, he says, means “big-footed
people,” and is supposed to have origi-
nated in the ejaculation of one of Magel-
lan’s Spaniards in 1520 after he had seen
enormous footprints in the sand. Magel-
lan’s chronicler, Pigafetta, brought back
a story of Patagonian giants, so tall that
the Spaniards reached only to their waists.
The adventurer's, intending to take a
couple of giants home, filled their arms
with gifts, and pretended that the shackles
they were putting round their legs were
additional presents. Finding they had
been deceived, the giants “rored lyke
bulls and cryed uppon theyr greate devyll
Setebos to helpe them” ; Setebos failing,
they died on the way to Spain.
That is Ptschiffely’s first bit of history,
a good introduction to the story of the
pious Welshmen who formed a settlement
there in 1865. Left alone by the Indians
when there was war against the rest of
the whites, the Joneses, the Evanses and
the Davieses made a success of pioneering
the Argentine, and in the valley where
they first settled there are today 14 Welsh
chapels. Further south, at the tip of the
continent, Pffitschely visits the sheepmen
of Scottish and English extraction, drinks
with them at “the worst pub in the
world,” to which they come for relaxation
from “the lonely lives they lead out in
the man- and God-forsaken plains, where
only sheep and guanacos can lead natural
lives.” The pub has a cuckoo clock which
can only say “cuk,” having lost half its
voice through a local tradition of bom-
barding it with eggs at midnight.
Tchiphphely says that before special
assemblies the pubkeeper gets in a store
of eggs and makes a handsome profit on
selling them, and also on repairs to the
clock.
In Tierra del Fuego the traveller keeps
company with sheepmen again, with seals,
penguins, Fuegian aborigines and two
policemen who were both ex-murderers,
released after long terms of imprison-
ment. He tells the fabulous history of
a Rumanian gentleman mercifully named
Popper who was the first man to develop
goldmining in Tierra del Fuego, and who
set up his own army and “navy,” issued
his own coinage and waged a skilful cam-
paign against gangs of Chileans who
sought to steal his mines. Also from
Tierra del Fuego’s past are conjured up
the evil sisters Halpen and Tanu;
Haichai, who lived in the rocks and who
looked like a cow, though the Indians had
no cattle ; Hashi, the chocolate-colored
terror ; Mehn, who had neither voice nor
shape, and could permeate any living
being; the mysterious Shorts, who terri-
fied women; and the two giants Gwon-
yipe and Chashkilchesh, who roam
through the forests with their heads
towering over the tops of the tallest trees.
The Fuegian moon legend easily beats
the Buddhist fable of the hare: Once
when the sun and moon lived on earth
as man and wife, all the Fuegians killed
their wives because the women had too
much power over them ; the sun’s wife
got away into the sky, and
he »s spending eternity try-
ing to catch her and knock
her head off. Sometimes
(in an eclipse) he catches
her, and that accounts for the moon’s
.scarrecj r face. Against such a back-
ground Of fable, there is a certain
appropriateness in Tchkilcheshly’s ac-
cougts of his night with the murderer-
policemen in a lonely hut in the moun-
tains, of the man who ate 17 chops for
breakfast and of the sheep station that
us&tL4so dogs for mustering.
There is, no flagging in this narrative.
When he is back on the mainland again,
Tschee-fee-lee-—as the gauchos wisely
called him —sits on the skull of a horse
in the tent of shy Indians ; sees men who
have never fought with their fists per-
suaded by a wise innkeeper to try boxing
gloves instead of knives to settle a
quarrel ; hears the grim simplicity of a
mountain tragedy that occurred when a
man who had fallen from his horse and
broken his leg threw his bolectdora at the
animal to capture it and fractured its leg
too, so that he was forced to shoot first
the horse and then himself to avoid a
miserable death from the beaks and
talons of the condors.
In the story of the pioneering of the
Rio Baker —five thousand cattle driven
for a year and a half across the southern
Andes to the remote settlement, a com-
munity rotting with scurvy, one white
man defying an enraged mob of Indians
—he has the most vivid of adventure
stories; and in the history of King Orllie
of the Araucanians—a French law
student who made himself leader of the
fiercest of the Indians and proclaimed
himself king of Patagonia—he has a
first-class romantic comedy.
He tells of a man who tricked his enemy
in a gunfight and died laughing with
delight; of a foolish gaucho who burst
on the guests at a newly-furnished ranch-
house with his horse loaded to capacity
with extremely embarrassing utensils;
and he explores the myth of El Dorado.
Add an easy, humorous style to his other
excellences, and This Way Southward
seems to have everything required for
the best of travel books. It is copiously
illustrated.
Masefield and Others.
Twenty-four neat quatrains in a neat
little booklet, Some Verses to Some Ger-
mans (Heinemann; Angus and Robert-
son), embody John Masefield’s thoughts
about the war. It is very much a Poet
Laureate’s poem, written from a sense
of responsibility rather than out of any
burning need for speech; a plain state-
ment pointing out that the English have
loved Beethoven and Goethe, the Ger-
mans have loved Shakspeare, and that,
although “We are as darkness to each
other now,”
Upon another morrow, if we strive,
Our links of Life, now broken, may unite.
The general impression is that of a
quiet, pleasant essay, marred by passages
of drawn-out obviousness, redeemed by
an occasional verse of some emotional
depth:
And knew that under Earth’s revolving rim
A morning, unlike any yet, had stirred;
The Sun was living; the bright thought of
Him
Had startled exultation in the bird.
Louis MacNeice’s Selected Poems
(Faber) also contain an essay on the war,
passages from his Autumn Journal, re-
viewed here some months ago:
And must, we suppose, become uncritical,
vindictive,
And must, in order to beat
The enemy, model ourselves upon the enemy,
A howling radio for our paraclete.
The night continues wet, the axe keeps falling,
The hill grows bald and bleak,
No longer one of the sights of London but
maybe
We shall have fireworks here by this day
week.
Selected Poems is one of a series of
“Sesame Books” intended by Faber to
introduce contemporary poets to readers
who haven’t tackled them in fuller and
more expensive editions. MacNeice is
worth anyone’s while. He is free from
Bloomsbury artiness, and his only out-
standing fault as a poet is the venial
fault of Wordsworth —that his attempt to
convey living speech rhythms in the living
language leads him into occasional prosi-
ness :
That people are lovable is a strange discovery
And there are many conflicting allegiances;
The pedals of a chance bicycle
Make a gold shower turning in the sun,
Trains leave in all directions on wild rails
And for every act determined on and won
There is a possible world denied and lost.
But there is nothing prosy in this de-
scription of a contemporary scene:
Our street is up, red lights suddenly mark
The long trench of pipes, iron guts in the dark,
And not till the Goths again come swarming
down the hill
Will cease the clangor of the pneumatic drill.
But yet there is beauty, narcotic and deciduous,
In this vast organism grown out of us:
On all the traffic islands stand white globes like
moons,
The city’s haze is clouded amber that purrs
and croons,
And, tilting by the noble curve, bus after tall
bus comes
With an osculation of yellow light, with a
glory like chrysanthemums.
After Louis MacNeice, Daniele Var 6,
celebrated for The Maker of Heavenly
Trousers and other charming books
about nothing at all, is pretty light read-
ing. His Princess in Tartary (Murray;
Moore’s Bookshop) is a play partly in
verse, partly in prose, for marionettes or
for actors disguised as marionettes. It
was originally written to amuse a child,
and, like all Vare’s books, it wavers be-
tween childishness and exquisite comedy
and fantasy.
Most of the humor comes from the
absent-mindedness of the Great Khan of
Tartary, who is so busy making war or
going nomad that he forgets he has
married the Emperor of China’s daugh-
ter. The nomads have a way of moving
camp in the middle of the night, and the
princess is continually waking up alone
in her bed in the desert to find that the
capital of Tartary has shifted to parts
unknown. Marco Polo eventually buys
her from the Khan for some Bologna
sausage, some Chianti and a slice of plum
cake.
It’s a gay little item, reminiscent of
Hugh McCrae’s Mimshi Maiden. Bui
Vare’s verse hasn’t the sparkle of Mc-
Crae’s, and the heavy-handed songs
(though they’d be all right to music) are
a blemish in the reading of the play.
Leacock on Latin.
Serious this time, or as nearly serious
as he can ever be, Stephen Leacock calls
on his 20 years of school and university
life, his ten years’ schoolteaching and
his 36 years as professor of economics
at McGill University to provide the facts
for his mild attack on the present educa-
tion system in Too Much College (Bodley
Head). He believes that education, pro-
longed to the late teens or early twenties,
is “eating up life,” and he is looking for
the way out.
The remedy, he says, is to eliminate
the waste matter in the curriculum: to
cut psychology, which is “three-quarters
bunkum,” to the minimum; to spend
less time among the abstractions of
economics, for most of them are mean-
ingless, and the “science” is bankrupt
anyhow; in Latin and French to stop
worrying about the maddening lists of
“exceptions” and, with a Working voca-
bulary learned, to go ahead reading the
languages, learning the irregularities as
they crop up ; in English, to learn to love
good literature by reading and discussion,
not to flounder among dull, stultifying
examinations on dates, periods and “the
six excellences of Shakspeare or the six
major lunacies of Milton”; in mathe-
matics, to concentrate on straight calcu-
lation, not to sink the student in a bog
of puzzles deliberately contrived to baffle
him. Banking and the practicalities of
journalism, he says, should not be taught
at all.
Much of this sounds eminently sen-
sible. Leacock’s remarks on the success
of many teachers of “English” in instil-
ling a lasting hatred of literature are
notoriously true; and as for his obser-
vations on the harmfulness of the exami-
nation system, the present commentator
knows of one disgusting university
,student who passed B.A. in English on
the Johnson-Cowper-Swift-Fielding period
simply by mugging up the textbooks
without reading a single book of the
period, not even Boswell’s Life.
Leacock makes his points with such
brilliance that Too Much College is
worth reading just as a piece of writing.
“For Greek,” he said, “I hold no brief.
It is only for philologists and apostles.”
In mathematics, if that subject is the
dragon in education, puzzles are the
dragon’s teeth: “Take them out, and
the dragon is as easy to handle as a
cow.” Discussing French, he tells the
student to read ahead, trying to get
the gist of a story, not balking at every
minor point: “After all, English people
go on reading sea stories all their lives
without knowing what the ‘lee-scuppers'
are except that people fall into them, or
whether the ‘binnacle’ is what the captain
sits in or where the men sleep.” His
attack on psychology is a fine piece of
irony, and, as a professor of economics,
he speaks with authority when he de-
bunks economics.
The last third of Too Much College
is made up of humorous essays of the
usual Leacock quality on a variety of
subjects. One, “Bass Fishing on Lake
Simcoe with Jake Gaudaur,” ts a frag-
ment of autobiography with much cnarm
as well as humor.
There's Too Much Rosemary.
There’s the cook who was such a
scream that they nicknamed her “Odd” ;
and “the dotty old gardener and his tooth-
less wife disporting themselves on tin
trays” who were so funny that they in-
spired humorous articles. There’s George
V “laughing heartily” to show that he
didn’t mind a mistake in etiquette ; and
Queen Alexandra and Princess Victoria
“chuckling deliciously” when they caught
their hosts untidy in the garden. There
were “Eve’s” daring articles in the
“Tatler” at which “the more staid of the
military may have been slightly shocked.”
All of which, to most Australians, will
constitute the “rue” in Winifred Fortes-
cue’s autobiography, There’s Rosemary
. . . There’s Rue (Blackwood; Angus
and Robertson).
On the other hand, there’s the genuine
dignity and charm of life in an English
rectory, in distinguished royal or artistic
company in Windsor and, London, in the
idyllic south of France, to which John
Fortescue retired when he had finished
his mammoth history of the British
Army. It amounts to an admirable pic-
ture of a life, a class and a period so
scented with rosemary that only a strictly
limited audience will find it readable.
Illustrated articles o.n “Australia in the
Air” are the leading feature of the
autumn number of “Australia” (Ure
Smith,. Pty., Ltd., Sydney). Wool and
fishing are covered in the industrial
section, and among the general articles
Marjorie Barnard writes “The Life and
Death of Conrad Martens” and Olga
Philippoff talks about the ballet.
Gardening Simplified: S. H. Hunt
(Horticultural Press, Ltd., Sydney). This
is the second edition of the well-known
useful little manual. The author has
written garden notes for a number of
leading newspapers.
Man of the House: Muriel Hine
(Hodder and Stoughton). A nice girl
and a nasty girl and a weak young man
and a Greek god and names such as
Averil and Valerie and Lady Stanraer.
Gertie will love this novel.
“Whateffer Next”: Once upon a time
there was a Scottish separatist move-
ment in letters and politics, led by
the humorist Eric Linklater and the
poet Hugh Mac Diarmid (whose real
name is Smith or Hicks or something).
The tartan terrors seem to have faded
these days, and their place has been taken
by a number of wild Welshmen who
have invaded the London magazines
under the wing of the interestingly in-
comprehensible poet Dylan Thomas.
London “Life and Letters,” that quaint
little successor to the noble “Mercury,”
had an all-Welsh number in March, using
all-Welsh contributors, and heading its
editorial “Golygyddol” and its book re-
views “Adolygiadau.” One of the most
fascinating items, an essay on Taliesin
and others, ended with the statement:
Poets in civilised epochs can only be-
come so by the exercise of pure imagina-
tion: words must be used in their original
and primitive sense, unweakened: the
chaotic, non-logical fancies must be let
loose.
The mind is an unfolding document.
Then there was the stark, primitive
poem by Peter Hellings:
They walk like an earthquake through the
azoic
ranks dumb in a dead athanasy,
and worldwards my face recalls the blood-
less mask and stoic
unsinging, unweeping, unbowing, needlessly.
Much as I admired the cunning use of
commas in that last line, I award the
sacred leek to H. D. Lewis, who proves
in “Culture and the National Life” that
the real intention of Britain and Ger-
many in waging war is the suppression of
Welsh culture:
Perhaps, granted the war, a temporary
eclipse of some nations is inevitable.
But when no provision is made against
the menace at home to Welsh cultural life
the suspicion is deepened that the war is
being continued at the expense of its aims.


m
\
\
mmi
am
mmmm
mmmm®
.......
%qoss^
w
MO
SPO
n
' is&fe
«£**■
»'w.
tm
• . *.
*3Clu iriSw»
WSMfci
mum
-
I “* -*
M***
K 3M Vi I 4 <
: v - ■4 > w < t . .. i>: . ■> v : ~' ' -
lll vS
♦**
ffV^ir™
:>:: .
* **■
*****
If ,
* A*
° *3»
X *
*• ..
,,-5
\ a I &
•VS;
s#s<*
Ho^
f ?<i
<<?4<<3
SfiPR
»
>J3
£:*
fesC
xxfsvimmMMg
m
alii
mm
HANDKERCHIEFS in all white, with lace
corner or with pastel colour embroidery in
corner. Half-dozen in white box for presen-
tation. At Anthony Horderns’,
Price, box
4/11
Also all white with lace comers only
(as illustrated in centre). Box of 6
4/6
• Ladies’ Handkerchiefs —Ground Floor,
Pitt Street. Post free within the Com-
monwealth.
LINEN HANDKERCHIEFS will delight
Mother. These are best quality made
and embroidered in Northern Ireland.
In an attractive box contain-
ing six. Anthony Horderns’
12/6
Other qualities from 5/11 to 2i/-
FELT SLIPPERS ... so cosy and comfortable.
A choice of Saxe, Royal or Black, with stitched
Satin Moccasin front. At Anthony Horderns’,
Price, pair
4/6
• Ladies’ Slippers — No. z Floor, Pitt Street. Freight
paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports
in the Commonwealth.
EAU DE COLOGNE by Bardeau. In
attractive coloured glass decanters. Just
the gift Mother would like.
At Anthony Horderns’, Price:
31/6
Others: 12/3, 13/11, 14/11, 22/6, 25/6,
27/6, 35/-, 37/6, 49/11.
YARDLEY’S OLD ENGLISH LAVEN-
DER WATER ... a gift of elegance.
Delightfully fragrant and refreshing.
Packed in attractive gift box. At 5/-
Others: 3/-, 3/6, 8/-, 10/-, 10/6, 15/-
16/-, 21/-, 23/-.
TALCUM POWDER by Dubarry. In
frosted glass jars with sifter top. Delight-
fully perfumed in Eau de Cologne,
Lavender Bouquet, Garden of Kama,
Blue Lagoon, Golden Morn, Shalimar,
Bouquet and Rapture. Each in /I /£J
gift box. At Anthony Horderns’ O
LADIES’ ROTHERHAM WATCHES. 15
jewelled Swiss Lever Wrist Watches in many
smart designs. Some have shaped glasses.
Regulated and guaranteed. Chrome nickel,
with steel backs. Anthony Horderns’
Regular Price, 90/-. SPECIAL
70/-
9 carat 9 carat
Also in Yellow Gold White Gold
Regular Prices £6 £7
Special Prices ...... £5 £6
® Ladies’ Watches—Ground Floor, Pitt St.
Post free within the Commonwealth.
GLOVES make an acceptable gift.
These are Fownes’ English Gloves.
Chamois, Grey, Beige, White, Black,
Nigger Brown, and Navy Blue. At
Anthony Horderns’, Price,
pair
4/11
sms?
••••• ••••••S.-m
mm
as?
■> :
tilil
Jf . '
i' v /
SS>
i®
.••..?:' : ®
' S' •: ''• '• ■• .
m
X,
#
*
HANDBAGS never fail to please. Here is one
in a triple frame chromium plate. Black, Brown
or Navy grained Calf, with mirror and centre
division. At Anthony Horderns’,
Price
15/11
BREAD BOARD with KNIFE attached
is a practical gift that Mother is bound
to appreciate. Coloured borders in Green
or Blue. At Anthony Horderns’,
Price
4/6
CASHMERE STOCKINGS made by I. R. Morley. Fully fashioned and in a
cosy winter weight. Suntan, Beige, Fawn, Grey, Gun
metal, and Black. All sizes. Anthony Horderns’, pair
8/11 & 10/6
PURE SILK STOCKINGS. Golden Ray super quality fully
stockings in a dependable service weight. Panel heels and
fashioned
lisle welt.
Popular tonings, also Grey and Black. All sizes. At Anthony
Horderns’, Price, pair
5/11
PURE SILK STOCKINGS. Kayser 5X fully fashioned service weight hosiery.
Smart and dependable in wear. New tonings include Frisco, Variety, Vision,
Tableau, and Inspire. All sizes. In gift box. At Anthony
Horderns’, Price, pair
4/11
• Perfumery, Handbags, Hosiery, Gloves —Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Freight paid to all
railway stations in- N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
IBS?
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Phone M2401-—Box 2712 C, GdP®o., Sydney


RETURN OF THE HUNTER
By FRANK DALBY DAVISON.
TUG TRELOAR was skinning the big half-breed
dingo he had just shot. The knife glinted brightly
in the moonlight as he lifted it after the first
opening slit along the belly and turned the limp,
warm carcass to get at the inside slit up the hind leg.
He screwed round on his heel once to pat Topsy, the
little black kelpie bitch straining at the end of the
length of greenhide by which she was tethered to the
butt of a scrubby sandalwood. She had been tied
there alone for three hours while Tug lay about forty
paces off in the deep shadow of a solitary brigalow,
waiting for a shot at the wild dog. Now she was
straining toward him, whining her delight at his
return, almost squealing her ecstasy.
A brief grin cracked Tug’s features as he leaned
back to pat her ; then, with lips closed, he turned
again to getting the pelt off the dog. He pulled the
first hind leg free, taking care to retain the paw, for
besides the bounty money the skin was a trophy worth
having, then slewed the body round to get at the
other hind leg. A lot of Tug’s life centred round this
moment. Tug lying in the night, waiting to pick off
a calf-murdering dog ; Tug Treloar’s name attached
to the pelt, on view in Linklater’s store ; Tug using
the bounty money to buy his wife the pony and sulky
she had been wanting ; and, nearer and more imme-
diately poignant than, any of these, Tug arriving back
at the camp in a very short while to exhibit the scalp
to Bonny in triumph.
There was an image of Tug that was temporarily
forgotten in the excitement of the moment. This was
the Tug who was irked by the plodding sameness of
a settler’s life, who would have liked to be away
buffalo-shooting in the Northern Territory, or, better
still, gold-seeking in the mountains of Papua. This
image of Tug had faded from mind when the dog
hunt began. Tug craftily studying the habits of a
wild dog that half a dozen men were after, Tug set-
ting a lure, Tug lying in wait, all linked up to the
Tug worming his way out alone into no-man’s-land
to establish a sniping post. This Tug was a compen-
sation for Tug grubbing trees and digging postholes
on the selection.
T YING in the shade of the brigalow, his eyes on
—' Topsy, he had been aware, of course, that the wild
dog mightn’t answer the lure, even that his reading
of tracks may have been faulty, and that he might be
waiting on the wrong dog. The first doubt was set at
rest when he saw Topsy prick her ears and, looking
where she was looking, saw a shadow stir among the
shadows in the scrub beyond the moonlit stretch of
open ground. Both doubts were set at rest when
the dog, evidently suspicious, came slowly into the
open and stood looking at Topsy where she was
crouched, whining softly. With curbed excitement
Tug tasted again the climax of craft and patience,
the planned kill. His forefinger closed slowly and
steadily on the trigger, and the report of his rifle
shattered the quiet of the night, echoing and re-
echoing. The wild dog raised his head as if he didn’t
know what had happened. He walked a pace or two
toward Topsy, then his legs crumpled under him
and he lay quite still.
Tug hurried forward, rifle in hand, oblivious at
first of Topsy’s joyful barking at his return, his haste
to get the hide off conditioned only by the need of
making a clean and careful job. He even forgot the
pipe which had been waiting in his pocket, ready
filled with tobacco, this last two hours.
In mind he was doing half a dozen other
things besides skinning the dingo; he was
being nonchalantly in evidence near Linklater’s
store the day the skin was put on exhibition ;
he was modestly receiving the bounty money
from the hands of the secretary of the Farmers
and Settlers’ Association ; he was handing the
money over to Charlie Munro in return for that
pony and sulky Charlie had for sale ; he was
presenting the pony and sulky to Bonny, who
was appropriately melting with gratitude ; but
most of all, because it was nearest in point of
time, a first instalment of the rewards of suc-
cess, he was stumping back to the camp to cast
the pelt at Bonny’s feet with a triumphant
flourish.
That fifteen pounds should be offered for
the dingo’s pelt fitted in with the details of
Tug Treloar’s life as no other happening within
the bounds of likelihood could have. In the
first place it gave him fair cause to abandon
temporarily the humdrum of selection life ; not
that Tug was averse to exertion —on the con-
trary, he was capable of great and sustained
effort —but he liked it with a sporting content.
Then again, because of his reputation as a
sharpshooter, the reward offered was something
of a personal challenge. A number of men
would be after the dog. Tug valued his repu-
tation, the legend that had gathered about his name
since his return from the war.
As well, there was the matter of the pony and
sulky that Bonny wanted. Once Bonny got an idea
into her head nothing on earth could shift it. She had
taken a notion that she wanted a sulky to drive about
in and visit her friends. She had made up her mind
that the Treloars weren’t well enough regarded by
the right sort of people, and she felt that this could
be remedied if she could drive into the township in an
appropriate vehicle, if she could take the baby of an
afternoon and drive off to pay calls. There was only
the buckboard on the selection, and Tug had pretty
well brought that to ruin in the early months of settle-
ment, hauling heavy loads of fence posts, fence wire,
timber and galvanised iron. She wanted a pony and
sulky.
Bonny had a way of harping about things she
wanted, as if, like the woman in Scripture, she would
be heard from much speaking. She didn’t directly
complain to Tug, but if she decided that there was an
unreasonable lack in her life she let her needs be
known frequently. Bonny had her funny ways. She
had a way of dramatising ideas with herself in the
leading role. Sometimes she would make a flying
attack on the perpetual household disorder in which
the Treloars lived. She would wash up directly after
meals, have a vigorous sweep out, pushing rubbish out
.of sight as she went, scrub the kid’s face red with a
damp cloth and then establish herself on the verandah
with a woman’s journal. She was Good Housekeep-
ing. At another time, on an inspiration picked up
from some other woman, she would subject the child
to a daily dose of some blood-purifying beverage —
for three or four days. That was Maternal Solicitude.
In the matter of driving about in a sulky she was
desirous of dramatising herself as Gentility.
Tug was in a difficult position in respect of
Bonny’s passion for a pony and sulky. As he said
himself, he’d give her his hide for a bedside mat if
she wanted it, but he couldn’t raise the price of a
pony and sulky. It was only their second year on the
selection. The season was winter—dry. They had
only eight cows milking, and being milked only once
a day at that. The bill at the Wilgatown store was
creeping up; they were still living partly on tick.
Bonny ought to understand that.
Temporarily Bonny was quietened, and for a
while consoled herself with the image of herself as
the Heroic Wife of the Struggling Pioneer —the
Woman of the West. That concept had entertained
and sustained her during the first year or so on the
selection, but it was now rather worn with use. It
was time to be making progress, so presently she
resumed talk of the pony and sulky.
Experience had taught Tug that patience paid in
dealing with Bonny, and he generally kept the fact in
mind, but occasionally the natural man took control
of his behavior and he would begin a protest in plead-
ing vein, “Now look, Bonny. For Gawd’s sake can’t
you see” This invariably worked up to a scene
in which Tug would be swearing at the top of his
voice, while Bonny threw things at him and the a y
yowled with fright at the noise. Cessation of os 11
ties would be marked by Bonny addressing him as
“Tug, darling,” in a voice like cream and with a snu e
like a dewy morning. During the currency of the
trouble Bonny would give an effective dramatisation
of Offended Delicacy, Protective Motherhood, Love
Withdrawn and the Rights of Woman,
On all counts the fifteen pounds bounty looked
like a way out for Tug, so after a word with Bonny
he arranged with a neighbor to take over his milking
cows for a week or so while he went after the dog.
In broaching the matter to Bonny, in calculating the
prospects of success, he had been as careful of his
words as in the days when he had discussed with his
superiors the prospects of a proposed sniping post. He
was eager for the attempt, but the result of unpro-
pitious circumstances was not going to be laid at his
door in case of failure. “A man might fluke it, you
know.” He was thinking of the range of country the
wild dog had to hunt and hide in, as well as of the
other men who would be on his track,
Bonny seized on the idea and evidently regarded
the dingo as good as dead. Her Tug was going to
g et him! One of Tug’s charms for her at the time of
their courtship had been that he was a local hero,
w nh something about him in almost every issue of the
Wilgatown papers. It was going to be that way again,
depredations—as the “Bugle” and the “Argus
called them—of the Black Dingo had become some-
thing of a local sensation. When Tug shot him there
would be a piece about it in the paper. The name
Treloar would once again be in men s mouths. Bonny
was a p f or that,
HTUG had intended to go hunting the Black Dingo
1 by himself; a single man, unhampered, getting
meals on the strength of the sporting sympathy of
the settlers, would have a much better chance than a
man encumbered with a full camp,, but Bonny assumed
that she would be going with him. She had seized
upon the idea of the enterprise with such eagerness,
and been so confident of his success, that he hadn t
the heart to mention that his idea had been for her
to wait at home. So the buckboard, loaded with
camp gear, left the Treloar selection with Tug, Bonny,
l he baby and Topsy on the driving seat.
The half-breed, possibly the result of someone's
misguided experiments in dog-breeding, had appeared
on the new settlement a few months previously. He
caused a public stir. It began when Bert Gifford
came across a mangkd ca ,f in his paddock with out-
size dog tracks near by. For a dingo to tackle a stray
calf was nothing strange ; it happened fairly often in
time of drought when the wild dogs were driven in
from the back country, but this had happened in a
good season. No one noticed that until another
settler, and* then another, reported similar loss. It
was evident then that the newcomer was something
out of the ordinary. He was daring, too ; he killed a
calf on Paddy O’Shaugnessy’s place within a hundred
yards of the house, and when the two homestead dogs
“This is the last time I'll drink at THIS joint. The beer's WARM!”


went for him he fought them off, sending one howling
back to the house with a piece torn out of his
shoulder.
Then people began to report having seen the dog
by daylight, sneaking across the paddocks, lurking on
the edge of the scrubs ; a dark dog and as big as a
mastiff, some of them said. It is doubtful if so many
really saw him —imagination can do a lot with charred
tree-stumps in a half-light—but when old Dan Crewe,
who was snaring on Back Creek, reported seeing him
it was taken as authentic. “Dark brown, with yellow
underparts,” said Dan, “and a fair bit bigger than
an ordinary dingo.”
The upshot was that the newly-formed Farmers
and Settlers’ Association decided that its first official
act would be a spacious one; it would offer ten
pounds reward for the dark dog’s scalp. To this the
president, Harry Griffiths, who had his eye on a seat
in the Wilgatown Council, representing the new settle-
ment district, added the sum of five pounds from his
own pocket.
It took Tug five days to get on to the tracks
of the Black Dingo. He studied the record of his
kills, the condition of the waterholes and dams in the
district, and the distribution of cover, the lie of the
big scrubs. When he heard that a kill had been made
the night before on Christmas Creek he drove imme-
diately to the adjoining watershed, Tommy’s Creek,
and made camp there. He picked up the tracks of
a large dog in the belar scrub on the ridge dividing
the two creeks, found identical tracks in the mud of
the two waterholes on Tommy’s Creek, and reckoned
he was getting close to success. After he had set up
camp he drove home for some old wire-netting with
which he closed off one of the holes. There was a
chance that this would scare the dog away from the
area, but the two holes were four miles apart, so the
chance was worth taking. Next day he found fresh
tracks at the unfenced waterhole, and after some
trouble picked up the direction from which the dog
came by night from his shelter in the scrub.
That the moon was close to full —a day or two
past full by this time —had entered into Tug’s calcu-
lations from the start. It had also entered into his
calculations that Topsy could be trusted to draw atten-
tion to herself. He had kept her tied up during most
of the time since they had left home, so that she was
beside herself with delight when he —carrying his rifle
—took her for a walk one evening after tea, and she
was beside herself with disappointment when he left
her tied to a little dead tree at a lonely spot and walked
on without her. She was shrilly vocal about her dis-
appointment, yapping, whining and straining after
his retreating back, at the end of her tether.
Topsy was so incredulous at Tug’s treachery that
when her first excitement died down she didn’t know
what had become of him. Creeping back to lie at full
length in the shadow of the brigalow, Tug realised this.
Topsy was looking in all directions. She couldn’t see
him, even at the short distance that separated them,
because of the hummocky ground behind him. Gradu-
ally she settled down, crouched in uneasy, watchful
quiet, emitting just a whine or two at intervals.
Tug raised his rifle to his shoulder and sighted on
a stump about forty yards away. He had taken the
precaution of whitening the tip of his foresight, but
found that even so it was impossible to take satisfac-
tory aim from within the shadows. He wriggled for-
ward until the muzzle of his rifle, when raised for
firing, protruded a few inches into the moonlight. That
was better. He lowered the rifle and looked about
him. He had a fine clear range of vision between
where he was lying and the edge of the scrub from
which the Black Dingo would appear. He memorised
the position of a couple of cotton bushes and a small
charred stump, black in the moonlight. It might
happen that his first sight of the warrigal would be
after he had emerged from cover and was standing
still in the open. There must be no confusion about
what was which at that moment.
Lying in wait, asprawl, his weight on his elbows,
his hands loosely supporting his rifle, his eyes on the
gleam of Topsy’s coat, his ears pricked, Tug was con-
tent. He thought of the lead he had on other men
who were after the quarry, of the fresh signs he had
seen near by on the side of the hill. The prospects
for success were fairly good. He took out his pipe,
then remembered himself, and put it away again. He
did so without regret, rather with pleasure. Lying like
this, with a mild craving for a smoke gnawing at
him, brought back old times. Watchful waiting re-
minded him of the Tug he had been happiest with,
sniper Tug, the Tug he liked most to recall. For a
few seconds his thoughts dwelt on his life as a selector,
then flitted to the mountains of Papua, where Mick
Brannigan and Tom Hollis, old war-time mates, were
gold-seeking, then came back to himself. In his present
enterprise he felt temporarily compensated for not
being with Mick and Tom.
A BOARD ship, returning to Australia, Tug had
fixed up with Mick and Tom to go buffalo-shoot-
ing in the Northern Territory. The price of hides was
high. Tug knew nothing about the game, but from
Mick’s description it sounded fine; excitement, a
gambling chance, some notoriety, a season of work
and daring, and then a bit of a spree? It looked like
retaining in peace the better part of war; an orange
without the bitter rind of curtailed liberty or the pips
of monotony. Before the
war Tug had swung a pick
in the ranks of municipal
employees, and he had no
desire to return to that un-
exciting and undistinguished
pursuit. Buffalo - shooting
looked like a way out, but
in the interval of a visit to
his native Wilgatown before
rejoining his mates for fur-
ther adventure he met
Bonny Meadows, and the
first thing he knew he was
a simple, hard-working
selector, with a wife and
baby.
Bonny in place of a
buffalo-hunter’s life had
seemed far more than a
fair exchange until, one day
after about a year of mar-
ried life, he happened to see
in the papers a short news
item to the effect that
Messrs. Brannigan and
Hollis had struck it rich on
a new field they had dis-
covered in the interior of
Papua. So that was what
they were up to! They
hadn’t gone just buffalo-
hunting but had gone
further afield. Tug felt
chagrined. He didn’t care
about their striking it rich;
it was the life he was think-
ing about. He couldn’t
imagine it, but he reckoned
that tropic forests, savages
and strange rivers stood for
something that would have
suited him fine.
Tug had had a fairly
spectacular career in the
army. In imagination he
saw himself going over the
top, just before dawn, to his
day of secret deadly work
between the lines. He heard
again the muttered “So-
long” and “Good luck, Tug,” of less enterprising
men. He tasted again the little drama of his return
after nightfall. His night of undisturbed rest was
sacrosanct. No irritating, trifling night watches in his
life. He recalled with satisfaction the way other men
looked at his rifle and at the two decorations on his
breast, the way his superiors treated him practically
as an equal when questioning him and discussing his
plans with him, the way he was pointed out by his
officers to visiting officers from brigade and divisional
headquarters.
Lying out in front it had been his habit to go
over these things ruminatively, chewing a quiet cud
of satisfaction. He had never been able quite to make
out how the obscure Tug he remembered in civil life
had come to be a famous chap. He hadn’t the ner-
vous mechanism to be moved by anything he hadn’t
actually experienced. Some fellows got wounded or
killed. Tough luck! Getting knocked was something
you avoided if you could, but otherwise it was just
being knocked! His thoughts couldn’t encompass the
idea of his own non-existence.
His rewards for skill and daring were garnered not
only in the firing line. Back in billets he was granted
small indulgences, such as being excused fatigue duties.
Then he had the fun of showing himself at the dif-
ferent estaminets, where he was treated by other men
with a touch of deference, like a successful boxer or
a prominent roughrider. Tug had a lot of good things
to chew over while lying in watch for the enemy to
betray himself.
It happened that Tug was the first returned sol-
dier to reach Wilgatown. He immediately received
an official call from the Mayor at his home, accom-
“Yes, but I was only the hunter's assistant ."
panied by compositor-reporters from the rival papers,
the “Bugle” and the “Argus.” For a couple of weeks
he was feted and feasted, made free of the pubs,
stared at in the street, engaged in conversation by
people who would not ordinarily have noticed his
existence, and written up in the press.
It was the first time Tug had seen himself re-
ferred to in print, and it surprised him to discover
what an interesting life he had lived. What a different
light fell on his schooldays when an old teacher at
whom he had once thrown his slate recalled him as a
“high-spirited lad.” Even the job his father had
forced him into in his teens, driving a cart for old
Pentwhistle the butcher, looked different when the
“Bugle” put it that he had “accepted a position with
Pentwhistle and Sons.” Best of all Tug liked the way
the press ended up by reporting his intention to
“engage in buffalo-hunting in the Northern Territory,
a hazardous but lucrative career for which his prowess
with a rifle and taste for daring exploits mark him
out as eminently fitted.” This was an earnest for all
men to see that Tug, who was now a conspicuous figure
in the streets of the town, who had found himself in
war, was not going to lose himself in dullness and
drab anonymity, but was going on from glory to glory,
to a life of freedom and adventure.
While yet awaiting word from Mick, appointing
a rendezvous from which the three mates would set
forth, while yet he supped on fame, Tug suddenly
became aware of a vision of surpassing feminine love-
liness beaming at him invitationally from among the
encircling throng of admirers —Bonny Meadows.
Bonny was eighteen, blooming and more than
ordinarily buxom. Despite that many turned their
noses up at her she was the belle of the town. Tug
had seen Bonny once on the street and once at the
home of a friend before becoming a caller at her
home. They were married just as soon as Tug had
made the necessary arrangements to become a selector
instead of a buffalo-hunter.
'T' HE skinning of the Black Dingo was finished, and
* Tug, his pipe alight, was well on the way home.
He was stumping along in high spirits, living over
again the moment when his finger had closed on the
trigger. He stopped and stooped to pat Topsy, frisk-
ing round and round him in her delight at his return,
her release, and their homeward progress. He resumed
his way, his face beaming with self-approval. It had
been a great wheeze, tying Topsy out like that as a
lure. Trust Tug! He knew a thing or two!
He would be in sight of the camp from the top
of the next ridge. When they got within fifty yards
or so, Topsy, as she always did, would rush on ahead,
to announce her return with ecstatic whining, pawing
and tail-wagging. Bonny would most likely be in
bed, dozing, with the hurricane-lamp still burning.
Topsy’s tempestuous entry would rouse her. Then
would follow Tug. He would hold the Black Dingo’s
scalp up at arm’s length and exclaim “There you
are!” He could imagine fine look of pleasure and
approval on Bonny’s face.
NIGHT PIECE.
In the eternal witch-bowl dusky hands
Persuade a flickering image to be still.
Exhalations from the secret wells
Dim the distorting mirrors of the will.
Now all our heavens intimately flower:
l feel the gracious pollen vaguely swoon
On a remembered stream —where gently rock
The silver lightnings of the cradled moon.
Ti-trees give their musk into the air;
And gums their balm about my will’s release,
And ripples choir me to the couch of flowers,
Lapping me in the ageless dream of peace.
Ah, yet within my heart here something burns.
Eyes of a thousand fearful, restless things
Devour the easy languor of my dream:
Melt in their lust the wax along its wings.
N.S.W.
A. LESTER MCINTYRE.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
jQtfbltlime ofWie mellcwneMamUmiq/uet;
The noble Botanic Gardens at Kew,
a memorial to Aiton, Banks, John
Smith and Hooker, constitute one of
London’s greatest treasures. These
gardens belong rather to the arboreal
and horticultural world than to ths
city on the “inner outskirts ’ of which
they are located. Their history is soon
told. They came into the possession
of the Royal family through the
Prince of Wales, father of George
111, by whose Princess both the
pleasure grounds and exotic depart-
ment were principally formed. In
George Ill’s reign they were greatly
improved, the collection of exotics
and the number of plant-houses being
largely added to, and the gardens
acquiring great celebrity. Then a
period of stagnation, more or less, fol-
lowed, but in 1840, as the result of
public agitation, a Commission of
Inquiry, under the famous Dr. Lind-
ley, reported on their state, which led
to their being placed under the Com-
missioners of Woods and Forests, and
these gentlemen made the great
botanist, Sir W. J. Hooker, director,
and Mr. John Smith, a careful and
intelligent cultivator, long associated
with Kew, curator. Under the new
management, and by the aid of liberal
Parliamentary grants, the gardens
underwent a complete transformation
and enlargement. Today they are per-
haps at the head of the world’s botanic
gardens. The service they have ren-
dered to Great Britain and the Empire
in many ways is, literally, incalculable.
The Pagoda gives to the gardens an-
other kind of fame. Erected in 1761
by Sir William Chambers, architect
of Somerset House, in the Strand, it
is an imitation of the Chinese Taa.
The base is a regular octagon, 49 feet
in diameter, the superstructure is like-
wise a regular octagon, and its eleva-
tion is composed of ten prisms, form-
ing the different stories of the build-
ing. Its height is 165 feet. Possibly
few edifices in England have received
more attention, chiefly of a satirical
character, than this Pagoda, the slates
and brickwork of which are decidedly
not reminiscent of Cathay. Today
it is merely a curiosity.
CHINESE PAGODA IN KEW GARDENS.


The Bulletin
Vol. 61.—N0. 3142.
May 1, 1940.
DEPUTATION FROM AUSTRALIA.
“Comrades, you have done well. Your strikes are in the true Moscow tradition, and you have—what you call it?—boxed the compass about the League and the wars. But
leave those banners behind when you go out. The Ogpu might misunderstand the position and have you shot.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon <& Gotch (Aus), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
WHAT ABOUT THE DOMINIONS?
“New decisions, designed to guarantee effective
co-operation in all circumstances by Britain, France,
Norway and Poland, were made at a meeting of the
Supreme Allied War Council held in Paris on April
22 and 23.” So the people of the Dominions were
informed last week. “There was a general exchange
of views on all political and military problems requir-
ing the first attention of the Allied Governments,”
the report proceeded, and an assurance came from
“the Polish Premier” —unnamed, but presumably not
Colonel Beck or Marshal Smigly-Rydz—that “the
Polish Government, army and people would continue
the struggle with all their resources,” whereupon the
other delegates expressed “great appreciation of the
effective contribution Poland is making to the common
cause.” There were also well-deserved compliments
for Norway, and the Norwegian Minister, also un-
named, thanked the Allied Governments for “the
speed and effectiveness” of the help they have sent
to his country.
No mention of any of the Dominions, though
the smallest Dominion is making a more “effective
contribution to the common cause” than Poland. The
Dominions are not represented on the Supreme Allied
War Council. They have not even been asked to send
representatives to an Imperial War Cabinet, though
they were in the last war, when even Newfoundland
(population, 250,000) received this measure of con-
sideration.
In his War Memoirs, Mr. Lloyd George devoted a
chapter to the work of the Imperial War Cabinet.
He testifies that “in its personal composition” it was
“the most remarkable Council of War in the whole
vast battlefield,” and that it “played a very consider-
able part in the direction of the war and afterwards
in the shaping of the terms of peace. Between March
21, 1917, and December 31, 1918, it held 48 meetings.
In addition, Dominion representatives were placed on
every important committee and discharged important
functions in helping the War Cabinet to investigate
special subjects.” Though the present struggle has
lasted eight months, and though the Dominions since
1918 have grown considerably in population and
potential strength, they have not been invited to play
“a considerable part in the direction of the war” —a
war in which Russia, Italy, Japan, Belgium, Serbia,
the U.S.A., Portugal, Brazil, China and Siam are not
allies.
In his first speech to the Imperial War Cabinet
Mr. Lloyd George stated Britain’s war aims (“In the
first place, the Germans must be driven out of the
territories which they have invaded ; the second aim
is the democratisation of Europe; the third is the
disruption of the Turkish empire as an empire”). This
has not been done in the present conflict, though “the
reconstitution of Poland and Czechoslovakia” has
been mentioned by Mr. Chamberlain, and the libera-
tion of “Warsaw, Prague and Vienna” by Mr.
Churchill. War aims are a matter for the Dominions
as well as Britain, France, Poland and Norway; and
the Dominions might fairly ask how the Viennese are
to be liberated and the Russians turned out of Western
Poland, and whether it is proposed to employ their
forces in such operations. But as far as their peoples
know their Governments have not been let into these
secrets.
Looking back on the events of 1918-19, Mr.
Lloyd George acknowledged that he had received
very sound advice from the representatives of the
Dominions, particularly the South Africans. “Botha
and Smuts.” he wrote in The Truth About the Peace
Treaties, “stood for a peace out of which every
punitive element should be purged. In Paris, Milner
joined with his former antagonists in resistance to
that spirit of relentlessness which would humiliate
the vanquished foe and heap them down in the dust.”
That was at “a meeting of British Ministers and
Dominion Premiers to consider the reply we should
make to the German Note on the peace terms.” “It
is exactly seventeen years today,” Botha said, “since
peace was signed in South Africa. On that occasion
it was moderation that saved South Africa for the
British Empire, and on this occasion I hope that it
will be moderation that will save the world.”
Smuts, for his part, pronounced “a severe
criticism” of the peace terms. In their original form
they provided that Upper Silesia, “which had not
been Polish for 800 years,” should be hacked out of
Germany and handed to the Poles without even a
plebiscite.
The Poles were by way of being President Wilson's
proteges. He liked them as much as he detested the
Italians, and among his advisers he had a somewhat
fanatical pro-Polish expert, Mr. Lord.
Unlike the gentlemen from Washington, Smuts
had no illusions about Poland. “It is an historic
failure,” he said, “and always will be a failure, and
in this treaty we are trying to reverse the verdict of
history.” Thanks largely to his representations the
Polish clauses of the treaty were modified to the extent
that a plebiscite was ordered in Upper Silesia, and
it resulted in the Poles getting only a small portion
of the province; but the wise Boer had no more use
for other parts of the treaty. He protested that “the
military occupation of Germany for fifteen years is
indefensible from every point of view,” and that “Ger-
many should be invited to become a member of the
League as soon as the treaty is signed—it is essential
to carry her with us and remove the possibility of
another combination through Germany and Russia
joining hands.” Events have justified him on both
points. The military occupation had to be abandoned
long before the fifteen years were up, and we have
lived to see the “combination” he dreaded.
The British and French war leaders have need
of such counsellors from the young nations.
Dominions participation in their discussions would
arrest a rather obvious tendency to over-concentration
on the affairs of Europe, particularly central and
eastern Europe. Whether organising for war or
preparing for peace, they can’t do a thorough job
unless they agree that the Dominions have their own
interests and points of view and —by virtue of their
contribution to the united effort, which, relatively
at least, will be far greater than in 1914-18—are
entitled to join in their deliberations and in the shaping
of decisions.
For three of the Dominions the situation in the
Pacific, of no direct consequence to Poland and!
Norway, is all-important. For Australia and Maori-
land extension of the war to the Mediterranean, a
possibility which some British politicians seem to
contemplate quite blithely, would mean at the very
least the loss of one important trade route, perhaps
two. Dominions representation in the Imperial War
Cabinet and on the Supreme Allied War Council would
keep these essential facts before them and might lead
to the decent reticence which the Governments of the
Dominions have practised throughout the war being
imposed on British Ministers and ex-Ministers who
make challenging and provocative statements about
neutrals. And assuredly it would provide safeguards
against another Gallipoli, more battles like Fleurbaix
and First Bullecourt and repetitions of campaigns like
Passchendaele, and against the overburdening of the
Royal Navy, in which the R.A.N. and the Maoriland
squadron are serving, and which is our shield as
well as the Motherland’s.
All the Dominions should be admitted to the
Imperial War Cabinet, and North America and Aus-
tralasia at least should have voting members on the
Supreme Allied War Council. And there is no time
to be lost.
Labor's Defence Record.
Mr. Curtin (12/2/’40): “The first obligation of any
statesman is the safety of his own people and of his
own territory. Has that obligation been fulfilled?”
Answer: No, not yet. It never would be if Mr.
Curtin and his party were in power and stuck to the
defence programme implicit in Mr. Curtin’s pro-
nouncements since this war started, supported on
one important plank by speakers on behalf of prac-
tically every shade of Labor. But it can be said to
the credit of the Menzies Government that it is
making an effort to fulfil that obligation, as far as
fulfilling it is possible with a comparative handful of
people to draw on for man-power, a vast country
to protect, shortness of time and other limitations.
Primarily the Labor party itself is responsible
for shortness of time being a major problem. In
1929 Federal Labor under Mr. Scullin suspended
compulsory national training, cut the defence vote,
and in every way threw the whole defence establish-
ment and programme out of gear. It requires no
political nous and only a short memory to know that
for some years thereafter —in fact, until the war drum
actually sounded—it would have been instant political
suicide for any party to attempt to fulfil Mr. Curtin’s
“first obligation.” To that extent the Australian
democracy must shoulder its share of the blame for
the position in which the war caught it. A party
appealing to it during those years on a statesmanlike
defence programme which, to be statesmanlike,
would have had to include national service—would
have suffered a record defeat. Those were the grand,
airy days when the Covenant of the League of Nations
was the “cornerstone of our foreign policy,” when
“economic sanctions,” “collective security” and other
panaceas were being hawked by fools and swallowed
by simpletons, when the cranks of the world were
united as never before.
During that time The Bulletin steadily advocated
national training and service and a sounder defence
programme before it was too late. Nevertheless, this
paper does not hold the statesmen of those romantic
days any worse or more culpable than usual, This
is a democracy—now necessarily somewhat disguised
by the compulsions of war, but still as clearly a
democracy as any on earth —and it is in the nature
of a democracy that it has to have its mind made
up for it on unpalatable matters by the urgency of
events. It is all very well and idealistic to imagine
democratic statesmen leading the nation in advance
of dangers not yet discernible by the people, but it
has to be admitted that in practice this is as often
as not impossible. Therefore, to be frank, the states-
manship under which Australia’s defences fell away
to nothing—after the Scullin Government, by one of
the worst blunders recorded in “Hansard,” started the
rot —was to a very large extent deserved.
Letting those bygones pass, it is to the credit of
the Menzies Government that as soon as the state
of mind of the democracy permitted it acted. Before
the war was much more than a month old it re-
introduced national training, though of a limited
variety and with precautionary political safeguards,
such as the promise not to introduce conscription for
overseas service. It also settled down to the huge
job of recovering Australia’s defences generally from
the rust, the moths and the borers to which the
Scullin Government and the following national inertia
had consigned them. It is not a bad performance
that by the end of June some 75,000 men will have
undergone the specified period of training and have
been “moulded into a large and substantially trained
defence force.” As well, one division is already
abroad ; another will be raised, with further troops
necessary to make up an Army Corps, making a
total for the Corps and reinforcements of 90,000
troops by June next year.
Then there is the great contribution, along with
those of Maoriland and Canada, to the Empire Air
Scheme. The given Australian figure for this, 57,473
men by March, 1943, 28,500 of them needed by June
of next year, with some 8000 to 10,000 employed
here on the manufacture of aircraft by 1941, and
£25,000,000 earmarked for aircraft construction and
maintenance over the next couple of years. The
number of service aircraft in Australia is being in-
creased by 1242, making a total of 1454 enough,
when the work is completed, to render Australia fairly
secure. The figure given by Mr. Menzies for the total
cost to Australia in the first two years of this war,
if it lasts so long, is £180,000,000.
An example of what is being done in other re-
spects was the recent statement that an order for
£3,000,000 for shells and other munitions for Britain
had almost been completed. The answer to Mr.
Curtin’s question as to the safety of Australia must
still be, a few months after he asked it, No, not yet;
but the general effort that is being made to that end
is remarkably good. It should not be overlooked that
it is still effort only ; its fulfilment requires time, and
it may require a lot more time if it is to be hampered
by industrial troubles like the N. S. Wales coal strike
and Communist activities. The danger period is
between now and next year, by when Australia’s
defence position will have been largely rectified, and
by when, too, Britain should be better able to fulfil
the standing undertaking to have a battle squadron
at Singapore if needed.
Mr. Curtin lately expressed himself much con-
cerned about that locality. He said rightly that “we
lull ourselves into a false sense of security if we
assume that all the struggle in this great conflict is
going to be restricted to Europe” ; “with the forces
of Britain and France occupied elsewhere, some
country might be disposed to take some action so as
to bring the war close to our shores, or possibly to
our shores.” Mr. Curtin therefore called for the
“redisposition of certain of our defence forces to
enable them to be much closer than at present, in
case they were required.”
Notwithstanding this rush of reality to the head,
Mr. Curtin and the Labor he represents are still
“irrevocably and unequivocally opposed to any de-
parture from the voluntary system of training the
men of Australia.” That is, they are irrevocably, etc.,
opposed to national service, the very backbone of the
success achieved by the Menzies Government in
making this country’s defences solid. Mr. Curtin
and party, while insisting on compulsion in unionism
and not quite so cloudy-headed as to have voluntary
taxpaying a plank of their platform, and while at
the same time demanding the sending of troops to
the northern' parts of Australia, remain committed
to oppose national service, and ready to accept such
votes as may be the reward of that national desertion.
Are Mr. Curtin and party unaware that “some
country”—which, like Mr. Curtin’s “some country,”
may or may not be Papua—has compulsory national
service which gives it a trained reserve already of
upwards of 3,000,000 men, and that this before long
will have risen to a reserve of 6,000,000 fully trained
men? That is to say nothing of its naval and other
strength. Yet Mr. Curtin and party remain irre-
vocably, etc., opposed to national service here.
Pathetically they cling to the belief —allowing that
they are sincere and in their senses —that fighting a
war forced on a democracy must not be a common
duty but the privilege of a section, most of whom
would not be trained for the job. The plain truth
is that the volunteer system is already as dead as any
nation will certainly become that adheres to it. It
has no part, by any twisting of words, in a democracy
faced with the prospect of being called on to fight
for its existence; it has no part any longer in a
democracy whose leaders are alive to Mr. Curtin’s
definition of the first obligation of statesmanship. It
is outmoded, out of date; by adhering to it Mr.
Curtin and party admit that they are living in a for-
gotten age. A pretty age that was, but it was a long
time ago. It is over, and it is about time they woke
up to the fact.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Red Bosses in Trouble.
With funds disappearing because bitterly resentful
unionists refused to finance a war-time coal strike, even
where levies were struck, the Red leaders of that dis-
turbance began looking for the easiest way out at the
beginning of last week. Anticipating the Prime
Minister’s ultimatum, which gave the miners till
Monday to return to reason and work, the Red
leaders instructed the A.C.T.U. to apply to the Arbi-
tration Court for a compulsory conference. Chief
Judge Beeby flatly refused to order one.
His Honor took the opportunity to give a short
history of the case. He recalled that the Full Arbi-
tration Court, which “had the ultimate settlement of
the real issues involved,” had made “an award re-
ducing the hours of employment of all underground
workers and coalminers, and of surface hands whose
work brings them frequently into direct contact with
coaldust, to 40 hours a week, to be worked in shifts
of eight hours a day, including meal hours and time
occupied in getting to and from working places.”
The hours of other surface hands in N.S.W. are 86
a fortnight, with eight hours’ pay for six hours on
Saturday. The strike was called ostensibly to enforce
the granting of the same hours of employment—37£
hours’ actual work —for surface hands who do not
suffer the health risks which led to the reduction to
40 hours. At a later date the Court was asked to fix
the wages of those whose hours had been reduced.
The unions concerned offered no evidence or argument,
and an increase was granted on evidence submitted by
employers only. The Court announced that it would
give the unions another opportunity to submit evidence
and argument. No such application was made.
These remarks knocked the stuffing out of the
Red leaders’ brazen contention that “the strike was
caused by the Court,” and some observations of the
Chief Judge on an application for de-registration of
the Red-led A.R.U. had a further chastening effect.
The A.R.U. has been supporting the coal strike with
funds and propaganda, and was relied upon to refuse
to transport “black” coal on the Government rail-
ways. Its Moscowmaniac “Railroad” has been black-
guarding Judge Drake-Brockman on the score of an
award, though the coal strikers have been praising
him to the skies. Mr. Beeby put the fear of God into
the hearts of the A.R.U.’s Red bosses by declaring
that their newspaper attacks on Mr. Drake-Brockman
would be referred to the Attorney-General, adding
significantly that “this Court has very wide powers
to punish contempt.” He went on to say that “rail
workers in N.S.W.” had been “grossly misled by their
leaders,” particularly with regard to the strike of
Broken Hill railway men, and that their regulation-
strike tactics were “sneaking, underhand and con-
temptible.” Then the Red bosses of the A.R.U. looked
as if a thunderbolt had struck them.
At the week-end the Red bosses of the coal-
miners, with Mr. Curtin’s benevolent assistance, were
trying to arrive at a formula which might possibly
disguise the fact that their war-time strike has been an
ignominious failure.
Anzac Parade, 1940.
“Ek D.” attends it:
You have to live in an industrial suburb of Sydney to
know how early the day begins. Usually it wakes with a
clatter of vans. On Anzac Day the early sounds are
different. You wake while the lights are still on to the sound
of boots. Outside, somebody passes the window. It is the
man who drives the baker’s cart and who lives behind Com-
munist headquarters. He has a row of medals up. His M.C.
tells you that he was an officer. You have known him a
year without ever hearing that he was “over there.”
He is walking down to the Dawn Service at the Ceno-
taph. In the streets, there are hundreds going the same way.
That service is an intimate affair in which an outsider
feels an intruder. The staple are men who saw comrades fall
beside them at Lone Pine, old ladies wearing the medals of
their dead sons.
When it is over, the city is beginning to stir under a grey
mist. It is only properly daylight before the first of the
crowds are in their places. The bustle is in strange contrast
to the sealed shop doorways. All the drift is to the heights
of Macquarie-street, round the point where the first Light
Horse barracks in the country stood nearly 140 years ago.
Here there is the shouted greeting as old comrades meet,
often for the first time for years. The standards at the
assembling points sway as the units mass.
The street fills with cars with fluttering yellow pennons.
Inside them there are glimpses of pale, sometimes agonised,
faces —the men who have not walked since the last war.
Battered old fellows with ribbons up sell rosemary.
The splendid bays of the mounted police champ at their bits
under the sprinkling rain. Bands arrive, playing the tunes
which saw Wellington’s armies home and some new ones —
“Waltzing Matilda,” “Gundagai.”
Uniforms appear—naval detachments on service, a hard-
bitten Digger detail from the Garrison. The Old Diggers
swing down the street with a smart step, are stood at ease.
In the second back file is a stocky figure with two long rows of
ribbons on his 40in. chest. Nobody less than a field officer got
that issue, but he is in the ranks. Their lieutenant says: “Come
along, you chaps,” and they rise smartly to attention and come.
The march begins. The police horses prance ahead of
Snowy Howell, V.C., with a banner of the A.I.F. The Navy
follows, the mercantile marine, the Maorilanders—Maoris
in the van. Their ranks contain the first woman to go by.
She gets a cheer. The divisional men, the Light Horse regi-
ments follow. It is something to see the centaurs of Beersheba
rolling by under their umbrellas behind a Salvation Army band.
The infantry are greeted with a roar. They march in the
same formation of twelves so beloved of Moscow’s Red
Army on May Day, but without the steel helmets or the
bayonets at guard of the Soviets’ unconquerable warriors.
Almost any couple of files in this lot have seen as much
fighting as the whole of the Red Armies before Finland.
The First Pioneers—they who surveyed the forward
positions at Pozieres and laid down the front line jumping-
off trenches there—are greeted by an enthusiastic comrade
with: “Here come the blanky old non-combatants”; and a
line of uniformed youngsters from the descendant forces sit
up on the wall of Parliament House and enjoin their seniors
to “pick it up, pick it up.” That was one cry which died
when a battalion went by led by an officer on crutches who
asked no moderation of the general pace.
In Martin-place there was no joking. There brass and
bagpipes were silent. The ranks divided with precision into
columns of six. They went by the Cenotaph in the rain,
some silently, some to the muted tap of drum.
There was one point at which there was some noise,
however. The provocation, standing inside the railing before
the Commonwealth Bank, was a very small man in a grey
hat, a new blue overcoat and well-creased trousers.
A sprig of rosemary lay between his feet. When not
otherwise occupied he stood with his fingers intertwined, as
old hands remembered that he used to stand when surveying
a hostile audience. Somebody in the crowd behind held
a gamp over him. A small boy lounged at his side. The
marching battalions, which had hushed themselves into silence
before passing the Cenotaph, woke up as they spied him.
Hand after hand grasped his as they passed and half-dragged
him from his perch. The more distant greeted him with a
familiar ribaldry which Caesar would have understood: “How
are y’, Billy? Good on y’, boy!” A few broke rank to pat
him on the shoulder.
It was an exhibition which would not have been liked
in Berchtesgaden. And it was certainly not an endorsement
of the view held in certain quarters that this is a Fascist
country. Some of the most demonstrative saluters of the
Little Digger were uniformed trammies, whom one Com-
munist speaker described a few days before as “with us.”
Berlin-Moscow Strategy.
The March memorandum of the Imperial Policy
Group throws light on a mystery which has baffled most
people, and reveals developments which have eluded
much-advertised correspondents and commentators.
A few extracts, with due acknowledgments to the well-
informed editor and his staff:
It cannot too often be emphasised that Germany’s
lack of action in the west of Europe is an important
part, almost a vital one, of her strategy. When Herr
Hitler decided upon this policy he had to take account
of the fact that the Allies would use the time gained
through a period of stalemate for vastly increasing
their fighting forces and tightening the blockade. Ger-
many could not afford to employ this strategy of stale-
mate unless behind her defensive screen in the West
she was sure of a very wide playground. This in-
volved a close alliance with Russia. Without it Ger-
many would have been trapped and driven into
some military action with very little prospect of success.
For several months of 1939 all the British parties
and almost the entire British and Australian press
(though not The Bulletin) and the noble band of
radio commentators were clamoring for a Russian
alliance. Even now, when Moscow’s hands are drip-
ping with the blood and plunder of Eastern Poland and
Finland, some of those who were so badly sold are
welcoming its proposals for a trade agreement, which
the Foreign Secretary has surprisingly promised to con-
sider. The Imperial Policy Group insists that “the
signature of the Russo-German non-aggression pact
marked the conclusion of a full and complete
alliance,” covering not only “territorial ambitions”
but propaganda:
Germany is using the Comintern organisation and
the whole Communist movement as instruments of sub-
versive propaganda throughout the world... .One of the
most significant events has been the transfer to
Vienna erf the European headquarters of the Comintern.
It is not only used for undermining morale (especially
in France) but also for espionage.
Communist parties throughout the world receive
their money and directions from Russian missions
abroad. Germany is deriving a very great deal of
accurate information through these sources.... In Herr
Hitler’s latest speech he used the very jargon of the
Leftists in condemning the bourgeois capitalists of the
West.
One of our observers recently visited a great
armament factory in Austria and was struck by the
fact that the men were perfectly satisfied that socialism
had at last been introduced, and that they were sup-
porting a Government which is fighting Conservatism.
When the March memorandum was written the in-
vasion of Finland was reaching its last stage. This
foul crime prompted the reflection that “Germany
and Russia are employing the strategy which
we now know so well, of isolating each victim before
the attack.” It was followed by the equally
foul crimes of the seizure of Denmark and the in-
vasion of Norway. The I.P.G. considered the possi-
bility of “a German attack on Sweden,” and came
to the conclusion that if Scandinavia “became a major
battlefield, involving all the great belligerent Powers,
this would no doubt prove a very great obstacle to
Russo-German plans elsewhere.”
The most important part of the enemy plan
has been and remains the isolation of each victim. If
this technique should break down, then the whole
situation would wear an entirely different complexion,
and the open flank, which very important quarters
have always regarded as essential to victory, would come
into being.
In the last fortnight the technique has broken down
and the Allies have their open flank in Norway.
An Asparagus Plan.
Mr. Mair, who became a stopgap after Mr. Stevens
was eased out of the N.S.W. Premiership, is fond of
echoing his predecessor’s blitherings about the need
for “plans” and “long-range policies.” Suddenly dis-
covering that the German occupation of Denmark
would cut off an enormous volume of pig meats, eggs
and butter from Great Britain, Mr. Mair urges N.S.W.
to hop in and fill the vacancy.
The adaptability which we must apply in our eco-
nomic policy must be applied to individual farms.
Expansion must be made by the adoption of more
diversified farming on specialised establishments con-
centrating on single lines.
It sounds portentous, but means simply that Mr.
Mair wants more mixed farms to produce more pigs,
butter and eggs.
Production of these and many other products, such
as pecans, almonds, milk products, cheese and aspara-
gus, could be increased.
In N.S.W. southern highlands, at the junction of
the Abercrombie and Lachlan rivers, is a great dam
that cost £1,215,000 and was finished five years ago.
It was to provide water for 1,357,000 acres, make
the subsidiary Hillston-Roto railway (cost £650,000)
an outlet for a vast closer-settlement scheme, supply
hydro-electric power and turn small towns into cities.
If Mr. Mair cares to visit the dam he may find
a stray crow perched on the wall. Should the crow
rise and fly direct to Condobolin it will cover 120
miles and its roving red eyes will gaze down over a
valley whose soil and climate could not be bettered
anywhere in Australia for production of even aspara-
gus. Heaven knows how many pig, dairy, poultry and
asparagus farms that valley could carry if the big
dam, now lying useless and almost forgotten, were
put to work. Everything is there except the men and
the subdivision fences.
If Mr. Mair really wants to put N.S.W. in the way
of benefiting from the Danish collapse he should
forget vague “plans” and “long-range policies.” Let
him open up the Lachlan valley from Wyangala to
Condobolin and within a couple of years —before the
war is over —he will have earned a place in the Ma
State’s history.
This is no task of great difficulty. The valley has
its dam, roads, railways, established towns and the
river. All it needs is action —and asparagus seed.
Half-measures Against Communists.
“El V.”: If Mr. Gullett thinks that “strict censor-
ship” of Communist journals will do any good, he has
very little knowledge of the methods of Communism.
Staffs of these publications are all trained men. Dis-
banded, they could function privately.
The basic Communist method of growth is that
of the cancer. Communists form a cell of selected men,
all trained according to the party manual, in a large
union. The cell forms other cells. Each is self-
contained in action. In a union of 5000 men, twenty
cells of five or seven, always active, all given special
training, can keep the whole structure in a ferment,
especially since four-fifths of Australian workers take
little or no interest in the affairs of their unions.
Then there are special organisations designed to
white-ant the “enemy” classes. They form “freedom
of speech” and “peace” organisations and unemployed
committees, and gather in recruits in unexpected
places. Sympathisers also. Thus Canon Garnsey, of
Goulburn, feels “apprehension at the tone and impli-
cations” of Mr. Gullett’s speech, and protests that
Soviet Russia is a neutral and that the study of
theoretic Communism “must go on.”
If the Canon knew anything about Communism
he would know that the Communist party declares
itself a party of action ; that its teachers are inces-
santly urging that there must be no instruction in
Communist theory which is not designed to lead
immediately towards action —to the destruction of
existing systems by force, the turning of national wars
into civil wars. The destruction is to include canonries
of the Church of England.
And nobody apparently has told the Canon that
the Comintern, which directs the policy of the Aus-
tralian Communist party, has moved its European
headquarters from Moscow to Vienna.
Messrs. Menzies and Gullett will have to go a
long way further than they propose to go. Anybody
who really knows the Communist “party” will devise
a plan for them —if they are game to carry it out.
Petrol and Rationing.
A trade conference held in Canberra last week
favored voluntary co-operation with the Government
to achieve petrol saving.
The Government is concerned from several view-
points, more immediately regarding exchange. It aims
at a 25 p.c. reduction in foreign purchases. About 80
p.c. of all petrol and fuel oil used in Australia comes
from foreign countries, mainly the Dutch East Indies
and U.S.A.; the remainder is Anglo-Iranian.
The Prime Minister warned the conference that
pressure on non-sterling exchange funds may compel
the Government at a later stage to ration, and he
submitted six plans: rationing under Commonwealth
control, an increase in tax —this year it is proposed
in any case to take more than £10,000,000 in petrol
tax at an average rate of about 7id. per gallon—
restriction of hours of sale, speed restriction, in-
creased purchases from sterling countries and the
“retention in Australia for an indefinite period of part
of the Australian petrol bill.”
Next day the secretary of the Economic Cabinet
announced that rationing would be adopted only as a
last resource, and Mr. Spender declared that if volun-
tary reduction failed rationing or increased taxation
would have to be resorted to.
The whole problem is complex. In the last war
motor haulage was only in its infancy; the present
war is a petrol war. Navies have abandoned the use
of coal. Transport of infantry has been almost com-
pletely mechanised. The vast air forces use more
petrol than probably was used by all arms in the
last war. Heavy guns, anti-tank guns, mobile anti-
aircraft guns, light machine-guns, field artillery are
all petrol- or oil-hauled. Agriculture has largely dis-
carded the horse for the tractor, commercial aviation
is an immense user, and private demands for pleasure
are twenty times what they were in 1918.
Petrol storage has become a huge problem, petrol
carriage an even greater one. The number of tankers
in the world is limited ; so is the dockage suitable for
the comparatively dangerous job of oil discharge.
As the war intensifies and expands, the Governments
are not going to supply tankers or fuel so that car
owners may go on pleasure tours.
Imports should be rationed, with first considera-
tion for war needs and industry, and a strong reserve
created. There is a reserve, but it would prove very
limited against necessities if war were to reach this
side of the world.
And obviously there will have to be increased
production of fuel suitable for motors. Existing
schemes of production from shale and sugar can
supply at most only 30,000,000 gallons p.a.
Alcohol from sugar is sold commercially for
industrial use at 2s. per gallon in the tin. For trans-
port use it will give only about two-thirds the mileage
of super-petrol, but mixed with high-thermal-unit oils
it can give mileage comparative with petrol. It can
be produced in comparatively small factories. Sweet
potatoes, maize and other products are important
power sources. The Government would do well to
approach the matter from the point of view of making
Australia self-sufficient in oil fuels.
And charcoal-gas units should be encouraged for
all commercial purposes. They are simple to build
and run, call for no fuel factories, and their source
of power is surplus Australian timber.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“K. Ley”: Four years ago I attended
Sydney’s Dawn Service on Anzac Day,
and was deeply stirred. In dead silence
the crowd stood about the Cenotaph,
the only sound the tramping feet of re-
turned men marching to their places.
Then came the hymns and the simple
service, short, sincere and touching. The
dawn touched the crowd as reveille
sounded, and I felt certain a shadowy
company of long-dead Diggers marched
down the sky. Last week I went again.
The thing has degenerated into a show.
For days newspapers had whipped up
public interest, and thousands turned out
expecting to see something. As the Old
Diggers marched down, hand-clapping
and whistling came from the G.P.O.
Trams clattered and roared, and a
brilliant red and blue neon sign
flashed out of Challis House. Instead
of being still, people moved back
and forth in a constant stream, their
tongues clacking ; there were laughter and
some jostling. All the solemnity and
stillness, all the sense of memory and
pride, had gone. Doubtless there were
thousands there who stood in all rever-
ence, but the Dawn Service had turned
into a public spectacle and there was no
sign of that shadowy company I had ex-
pected to meet again.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The new “Golgotha” film
reminds me. Just after the last war I
dropped into a little Italian cinema in
Rome. The film was a silent presentation
of the New Testament story, and it was
so good that I became completely
absorbed and lost to a sense of reality
until I felt myself to be back in the dawn
of Christianity. The film concluded and
the lights went up. Looking round at my
next-door neighbor I received a shock to
find Him sitting next to me. A few
minutes later I saw the same figure stand-
ing outside on the pavement smoking a
cigarette and reading the evening paper.
“Who is that?” I asked an usher. “Oh,”
he said, “that’s Antonio, the fishmonger.
He was the Saviour in the picture.”
* * * *
“R. Volt”: I am interested in the re-
marks of H. V. Prior, president of the
Victorian Radio Association, anent the
menace of the radio tinkerer. According
to Mr. Prior youths who take radio
sets to pieces and put them together again
oughtn’t to be allowed to do it, and
there should be legislation to prohibit
any but fully-qualified technicians from
interfering with wireless sets. Faraday
didn’t belong to a concern with a re-
sounding title when he started tinkering
with electricity, nor did Hertz, Marconi
or any of the other innovators who made
wireless what it is and the Victorian Radio
Association possible. Forty years ago I
assisted a boy of 14 to establish radio
communication between his house and
mine by means of a coherer he had in-
vented. We needed equipment, and he
had no money, so we used to obtain the
necessary apparatus by means which
would hardly be approved of by respec-
table society. He became one of the
leading inventors and mathematicians of
his day.
* * * *
“Pigge”: A recent Adelaide judicial
separation case hurdled all the law's
delays in what must have been record
time for Australia. In the Supreme
Court a procedure which lawyers know
as a summons for immediate relief was
applied to a matrimonial plaint—no one
seemed to have thought of trying it in
this jurisdiction before —and Judge
Parsons gave his decision not 15 minutes
after the papers had been laid before
him in chambers. Plaintiff was an Adel-
aide medico in the A.I.F.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Even Canberra might have
foreseen that an Apple and Pear Board
was bound to start trouble. I don’t know
anj/thing against pears, but apples have
been man’s curse through history. They
got Adam and Eve chucked out of Para-
dise, and a bit of one still sticks in the
throttles of all their descendants. One
started the Trojan War by making Juno
and Minerva consider Venus a nasty cat
when she bribed Paris into awarding it
to her as the best-looking girl of the
“Sit down, men, and make yourselves comfortable while I read the orders for the day.”
bunch. Another cramped the style of
that crack female sprinter Atalanta and
led her into an unhappy marriage. They
were golden apples—probably Cox’s
Orange Pippins. But for an apple Isaac
Newton wouldn’t have got stickybeaking
into the laws of gravity and starting a
surge of scientific progress that has ended
up with bombing ’planes and all sorts of
other unpleasantnesses. Health pundits
implore us to see our doctor oftener so
that he can nip impending diseases in
the bud, but an apple a day keeps the
doctor away. They ought to be abolished
in the interests of public safety. Hurrah
for the codlin moth!
* * * *
“M. Urray”: W.A.’s Historical Society
has invited Canberra to issue a special
stamp to commemorate Eyre’s journey
from Adelaide to Albany in 1841. Eyre,
a Yorkshireman who came to Australia
when he was 17, did a bit of cattle drov-
ing and then turned to exploring, set out
in February of ’4l with Baxter and three
blacks. Two of the blacks killed Baxter,
and Eyre and another native struggled
on, reaching K.G.’s Sound in July. Eyre
was later R.M. and Protector of Abo-
rigines on the Murray, returned to Eng-
land, became Lieut.-Governor of Maori-
land, and in turn Governor of St. Vin-
cent and of Jamaica. Although it is
just on 100 years since he crossed the
head of the Bight, the country there is
almost as uninhabited and unknown as
when he saw it.
* * * *
“M. 0.”: Despite that finding (B.
17/4 /’4O) that information passed
on to a newspaper is not privi-
leged I’m trusting The Bulletin not
to let on that the death of my missus was
murder. She was a dear little thing
and I regret the necessity for her removal.
Still, there are things that must be done,
for I am making steady progress in the
particular branch of sport I follow, and
it won’t be long before I’m a headliner
and thousands will pay good money to
see me in action. I had expected to
share the coming triumph with my wife,
but on picking up my afternoon paper
on the day after the Moore-Richards fight
at Sydney Stadium I realised that it could
not be. The paper carried pictures show-
ing the facial reactions of the defeated
pug’s missus in the best Hollywood style,
and it is a far, far better thing that my
own dear wife should be but a memory
than that her features should be
used to whip up the synthetic emotions
of sport fans. I go now to my destiny.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Contemplating the ballet
at his Majesty’s, Melbourne, in company
with a small boy, I found my companion
was completely absorbed in the proceed-
ings from start to finish. Love dramas
on the screen and the stage bore children.
They don’t understand the eternal and
infernal triangle and they can’t identify
themselves with situations they have never
experienced. But in ballet the story is
easy to follow, the symbols can be
grasped by the unscholastic mind and the
gestures of the actors, being confined to
conveying the most obvious emotions, are
perfectly intelligible. Ballet, in short, is
superlative panto., with good taste in-
stead of bad conditioning its presentation.
I respectfully propose to Col. de Basil
that he give a season of ballet for the
kids.
* * * He
“Kerys”: The boss went unexpectedly
into the junior typists’ room and found
one damsel struggling to keep papers
balanced on a much-too-small table. He
came outside and loudly expressed his
disapproval. “I want good work,” he
boomed, “and I don’t begrudge the tools
to do it with. There seem to be quite
a few things wanting in this office. Now
all of you write down what you want,
and put the slips on my desk. I’ll attend
to them personally.” We noticed Oswald
looking thoughtful, and we understood
why when the boss appeared that
afternoon, wanting to know what
the devil the office-boy meant by
requisitioning a tin of cigarettes. Oswald
was invited into the inner office,
and we feared the worst. But the
boss came forth in great amusement.
“That youngster has the makings of a
good salesman,” he informed the
accountant. “He tells me he doesn’t
smoke —I’d sack him if he did. But he
says he gets less snootiness from junior
clerks and such if he has a cigarette to
offer. Buy him a 50 tin.”
“Tuart”: Every year hundreds of
young women “mysteriously” disappear
to look for jobs or join the boy friend,
and, except in rare cases, the papers say
nothing about them. But when a Sydney
doctor’s daughter failed to return home
from her job in the city a dreadful fuss
was made. She was a “missing society
girl,” and “society girls” are different
from the common herd of wandering
flappers. A college boy who knows her
well saw her in a King’s Cross tram
with a young man distinguished by a
pale face, a scrubbing-brush moustache
and a light grey suit.” He heard the
young man ask for “two ones” and saw
the pair “get off at King’s Cross and
start to walk towards Darlinghurst-road
holding hands.” This would be accepted
as convincing evidence in any court, but
“Society” rejected it; the young woman
couldn’t possibly associate with young
man “unknown to her social set.” Half
the detectives in the country and all the
women police were mobilised to conduct
a search. Clairvoyants, astrologers,
oneiromancists and “many elderly ladies”
volunteered their services, and dozens of
worthy citizens weighed in with the infor-
mation that they had seen girls just like
her in different places. And when these
trails were followed up it was found that
many of them had. Modern fashions and
the flapper press have a lot to answer for.
“S. Piel”: Sydney police trying to run
down the vanished daughter of a medico
were plagued by elderly female busy-
bodies whose imagination —or desire for
revenge—sent the officers to entirely in-
nocent persons in their quest for infor-
mation. I once had an experience
through the same cause. Touting Toorak
(Melb.) for a cleaning firm I paused out-
side a house trying to remember the
right number. A youthful cop pounced
and carted me off to the station. There
he asked, and got, my life history, my
reasons for being in the street, and my
opinion of the force. He decided to hold
me till the sergeant arrived. He proved
to be a fairly shrewd old hand who
heard the cop’s explanation, looked me
up and down and barked “Show me
your hands!” They were calloused and
corned from axe-work. The sergeant
then invited the cop to look at them, re-
marking “No thief ever had hands like
them.” Said the cop, “The next old girl
that rings me up about suspicious charac-
ters is going to get a shock.”
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A surprised hotelkeeper
at Port Adelaide has been convicted of
the offence of “refusing to supply a bona
fide traveller with food.” The guest re-
ported that the housekeeper had put him
off with, “We have not been serving
lunches for a year; you can get a nice
grill round the corner.” The hotel and
its manager both having a high reputa-
tion, the S.M. suggested that this be
taken just as a warning to all licensees
that food is their business, as well as
drink. “Conviction without penalty;
court costs remitted.”
A LABOR RECREATION.
“Most men in Sydney would envy the judges of
the ‘Daily News’ quest for Sydney’s Most Beautiful
Blonde.”
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy,
And Labor’s most prominent champs.
Can’t fairly be asked all their time to employ
In slating the opposite camps.
When their sneers and their jeers at debased
profiteers
Have been penned and contentedly conned,
With infinite zest
They may turn to the quest
For Sydney’s Most Beautiful Blonde.
They can hit, high and low, for the man with
the hoe
And the axe and the pick and the maul,
But it needn’t impair the enjoyment they share
For feminine charms with us all.
When they’ve savagely stressed all the things
they detest
In the Menzies-cnm-Cameron bond,
How pleasant to rest
And engage in the quest
For Sydney’s Most Beautiful Blonde.
They wouldn’t promote a plebiscite vote
For their party’s most noteworthy rat —
In their view, I assume, there could never be
room
For more than one choice about that.
But how cheerful to turn from the wages chaps
earn
’Tween here and the back of beyond,
And appraise who is best
In a glittering test
For Sydney’s Most Beautiful Blonde.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy,
As I fancy I’ve mentioned before;
Henry George, now and then, must assuredly
cloy
And even Karl Marx be a bore.
Of hammering spikes into all one dislikes
You can’t be consistently fond.
When you find propaganda a bit of a pest,
A change how entrancing, a respite how blest,
To throw out your chest
And embark on the quest
For Sydney’s Most Beautiful Blonde!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


"Cold, me foot, madam — it's just right."
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Why does the
average man consider blue the most
attractive color for feminine wear? Tall
or short, slim or rounded, dark or fair,
demure or saucy, it is still the darlings
in blue whose dear memories stand out
most vividly against the drab background
of the ’nineties. Whatever the realities
under it, blue bestows on them an aura
of intelligent but unsophisticated attrac-
tiveness. Present-day lads seem to fall
for it, too, although they have pot yet
expressed themselves in song on the sub-
ject as my generation did in “Two Little
Girls in Blue” or my father’s in “The
Girl with the Blue Velvet Band.”
Women don’t seem to show any particular
preference for it, at least in their own
wardrobes. But the fatal attraction exer-
cised by a blue uniform on the female
heart at all ages seems to suggest a color-
preference for blue on their part, too,
provided it is worn by the right sex.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Professional actors are super-
stitious folk, so it is perhaps fortunate
that amateurs are performing Gregan
McMahon’s new production, “On Bor-
rowed Time,” at the King’s, Melbourne.
In the play Death takes a holiday, the
only casualty being a pomeranian dog,
lent for the occasion. After “dying”
nightly for three nights it actually
dropped dead.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The S.A. tourist traffic up
the Murray has taken a new turn. The
traditional time for it was spring, when
the river is fed by the melting of the
mountain snows at the head of it. But
the locking has altered all that, and now
a tentative autumn trip arranged in Adel-
aide has seen every berth booked. There
will probably be two steamers running
again by July on the middle stretch of
the river, from Morgan to Mildura (or
higher) and back. And, believe me, you
don’t really know Australia till for a
whole lazy week you have lived on
Murray cod and oranges and tea on the
great inland waterway.
* * * *
“All Ago”: That much-criticised body
the N.S.W. Police Force had a lowly
origin. When Governor Phillip found
himself up against a sort of strike in the
marine garrison of Sydney, whose mem-
bers reckoned they hadn’t been sent to
Australia to become policemen, his only
resource was to raise a constabulary from
the ranks of the convicts. So, in August,
1789, he appointed a nightwatch selected
from amongst the best-behaved prisoners.
By this time, 18 months after the landing
in Sydney Cove, settlements had been
formed at Parramatta and on the Hawkes-
bury, so that police had to be provided
for those places too. As might have been
expected, the force was not very efficient
nor distinguished for its integrity, and
Phillip’s successor, Captain Hunter, had
to shake it up a bit. So he substituted
a system under which the town of Sydney
and the outlying settlements were divided
into districts whose inhabitants had to
select three “decent and respectable”
fellow-citizens as constables. There was
not a wide choice, however, and the force
was not greatly improved. It was not
until Macquarie arrived and made its
foundation one of his earliest considera-
tions that a body of police was recruited
with any real pretensions to an effective
control of the peace.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: In one respect Australian
coalminers are very like their British
ancestors. In his novel Sybil, pub-
lished in 1845, Disraeli mentioned that
“when miners and colliers strike they
term it ‘going to play.’ ” He makes one of
his characters say: “I have been at play,
sir, several times in forty year, and have
seen as great stick-outs as ever happened
in this country.” But, as Disraeli shows,
they had good reason for “playing” and
“sticking out” ; they were supposed to get
a pound a week in “current coin of the
realm,” but payday was every four or
five weeks, and in the meantime they
had been charged so much in the truck
shop that they rarely saw “the young
Queen’s picture.” And it was no use
appealing to “the masters,” for “the sight
of a pitman was pison to a gentleman.”
When we went to play in ’2B, and the
masters said they would meet us, what did
they do but walk about the ground and
speak to the butties [middlemen]. The
butties have their ear.
Those were the dreadful days of girl-
truckers who worked “12, sometimes 16,
hours a day,” and of infant “trappers” of
“four and five years of age, many of
them girls, who were the earliest to
enter the mine and the latest to leave it.”
Their duties were to “open the air doors
of the galleries for the passage of coal
wagons: on keeping these doors con-
stantly closed, except at this moment of
passage, the safety of the mine and the
lives of the persons employed in it en-
tirely depended.” Those conditions have
immeasurably improved since then, but
N.S.W. coalies still “go to play” when
they feel like it and it is now the men
who refuse to meet “the masters.”
* * *
“Ek Dum”: These daily flapper papers
send you almost dizzy with admiration
for their cosmopolitan knowledge as you
watch them interpret the war from day
to day and tell what is in the minds of
Hitler, Mussolini and Chamberlain,
but only occasionally is a glimpse of
their basic knowledge vouchsafed to show
how much their erudition and clairvoy-
ance are worth. Sydney “D.T.” provided
one a few days ago in ornamenting an
interview with a lady from Abadan:
In Iran, a neutral city, the population
is mixed. Germans, Americans, French,
British and men and women of all nation-
alities live together in comparative har-
mony. A month before Miss Blank left
for Australia, the Shah of Persia visited
Iran.
Too right, he did. Shahs and other
monarchs have been paying lifelong
visits to Iran since ages before the days
of Herodotus, but I’ll give the “D.T.” a
fiver if it can find a city of that name on
the map.
“Come up to the crow's-nest, Prendergast. You get a MARVELLOUS view!"
“IT IS REPORTED.”
In certain papers of a bygone day
I can recall a column called “They Say”
Where solid fact put up a poor display
While fiction sported.
The caption’s gone, but now the world is rent
By war they’ve hit on an equivalent,
That phrase by which the very same is meant,
“It Is Reported.”
Whenever you’re in search of news you may
Be sure there’s little someone will not say,
Not sheer invention, p’raps, but in the way
Of truth distorted.
How frequently it presupposes naught
Except the wish being father to the thought,
That prefix overworked and overwrought,
“It Is Reported.”
“It is reported”! Certes, what is not
When mighty nations into holts have got?
But surely we could do without a lot
Of this assorted
Mixture of idle talk and rumors spread
Concerning anything from A to Z,
Dished regularly up beneath the head
“It Is Reported.”
You worthy souls who make the cables blare
With odds and ends you glean from here and
there
Which every sign and mark of bias bear,
You’re here exhorted
To give us more of what you know’s 0.K.,
And less of what this crowd or that may say.
One’s apt to tire of this persistent bray
“It Is Reported.”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


-
T;
More and more people are smoking
CRAVENA
every day
quality always tells!
10 for 9d
20 for 1/6
3014
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
The thoughts of Menzies and Cameron
have turned to a July or August elec-
tion. and Curtin is dreading it. Not
only is N.S.W. Labor hopelessly split,
but an avalanche hit the Queensland
party at the Brisbane municipal elec-
tions. It swept away Lord Mayor Jones
and several other Labor aldermen, whose
group had run the city for six years ;
when 182,857 votes for the mayoralty had
been counted, Chandler, the Citizens’
Municipal Organisation man, had 105,341
and Jones only 59,414. And the voters
are all Federal electors.
Premier F. Smith returned from his
travels in time to witness the Labor land-
slide in Brisbane. He protested that it
had “no political significance.” Wouldn’t
the Queensland Federal Labor members
like to believe it?
Menzies, on his lone pilgrimage to
Kurri Kurri (N.S.W.), was interesting:
The 4000 men I addressed are decent
men and good Australians, but they are
led by the most extraordinary collection
of people I have ever clapped eyes upon.
I waited for 70 minutes while their leaders
discussed whether I should be heard.
There were four speakers before me and
four afterwards. Except for Mr. Baddeley,
the State member, I heard a constant
stream of abuse—by one speaker couched
in the most filthy language—of myself, the
Government and the Arbitration Court,
with a particular place of dishonor for
Chief Judge Beeby, together with a lot
about the Union Jack and trampling on it,
and an intolerable lot about the Red Flag.
But surely he didn’t have to go through
all that to learn what other people knew
years ago.
Incredible as it may seem, the A.C.T.U.
Congress, nearly 50 p.c. of which con-
demned the war against Germany for
which it had been yelling for years, de-
manded Australian intervention on the
losing side in China. At least the “Daily
News” says so in an article which reads
as though it had been written in Callan
Park:
Even at this late stage the position may
be retrieved. The A.C.T.U. Congress has
given a lead. China still fights our battles
—will we force Australian Governments
to lend its courageous people that helping
hand that might yet prove decisive?
And Isaac Isaacs is cited as authority for
the statement that “the Menzies Govern-
ment betrayed its country and intimi-
dated workers into fulfilling the orders
of the Japanese militarists.”
In an unfortunate book Isaac Isaacs
likened the Port Kembla pig-iron-boy-
cotters to the men of Eureka. It must
have startled him to read in an Arbitra-
tion Court report last week that four
ships had been “forced to leave Port
Kembla either empty or with their
cargoes unloaded” because his heroes had
practised job-control, and that Chief
Judge Beeby had said “I know enough
about the industrial world to understand
what is behind all this.”
It was expected that Spender would
announce his new war taxes last week.
He evidently waited to see what his oppo-
site number in London intended doing.
In Britain beer is up a penny a pint,
whisky 15s. a gallon (Is. 9d. the half-
bottle), tobacco 3d. an ounce, matches
id. a box, telegrams 3d., telephone
charges 15 p.c., and postage Id. (it was
l£d.), Imperial excepted. There is also
to be a sales tax, though its application
will be limited compared with the Aus-
tralian impost. Standard rate of income
tax remains at 7s. 6d. in the £, but leave
is to be taken to clap surtax on incomes
of £l5OO p.a., “if necessary”—there was
a £2OOO p.a. limit. Presumably Spender
will follow Simon as far as he can, but
his opportunities are limited by the fact
that his income tax, beer, spirits and
tobacco duties and post-office charges
are already high.
The Great Thought of the week came
from Mrs. Weber, M.L.A., who, speak-
ing at a Co-operative League meeting in
Melbourne, “suggested that of all indus-
tries in which the worker should have a
share in the profits it is the coalmining
industry.” There is a Government coal-
mine at Wonthaggi, and every year the
lady politician is advised of and invited
to make tax-provision for the annual
loss. There are frequent and long periods
of idleness because of strikes, and if
the Wonthaggi miners were paid on a
profit-sharing basis they wouldn’t work
at all.
Victoria dropped £130,000 last year
on the Government “enterprise” at
Wonthaggi. This year the loss is expected
to be £154,000, and Ministers are begin-
“Though Brisbane’s Labor Lord Mayor polled less than a third of the votes cast, the
Labor Premier protested that the result had no bearing on politics.”
“One of thae little accidents that well happen, ye ken. And absolutely without
poleetical signeeficance.”
ning to remark that the troubles that
might follow the abandonment of Won-
thaggi would be nothing compared with
those connected with its dismal story.
Agonised yelp from a lost —and almost
forgotten—legion:
The Agents-General in London were not
advised of the arrival of a R.A.A.F. con-
tingent. Said one, “We were kept com-
pletely in the dark.”
Australia could well make a start on a
long-overdue national clean-up by abol-
ishing Agents-General, who serve no
other purpose than to move the taxpayer
to curses when at long intervals he is
reminded of their existence.
“Public-spirited people have lent the
Government £400,000 free of interest,”
said the Chancellor of the Exchequer in
his Budget speech. Six days before he
said it, interest-free loans to the Maori-
land Government and gifts to its War
Expenses Account had reached £1,615,911
—a truly astonishing performance, con-
sidering the population. No small pro-
portion has been contributed by football
clubs and associations. Unlike certain
wrangling leather- (and lucre-) chasing
outfits in Melbourne and Sydney, Maori-
land football administrators obviously
don’t need to be reminded that there is
a war on.
Senator Codings explained, very neatly,
why his party wouldn’t accept office in
a National Government:
We refused because we doubt the effi-
ciency of a Government consisting of two
incompatibles, and we therefore doubt the
wisdom of increasing its incompatibility by
adding another incompatible to the mix-
ture.
And now another “incompatible” (the
Beasley group) has arrived, though the
roaring lions of the Curtin-Collings party
don’t call it that.
The Sydney Government is collecting
wages tax from employers who make up
the difference between military and ordi-
nary pay of men on active service. It
professes to have scruples, but its precious
scruples haven’t moved it to amend the
law which permits this shabby extortion,
though the thing could be done in a few
hours. The Commonwealth Government
should veto this unsavory business by
national-emergency regulation.
Victoria is having a milk-price inquiry,
too, and Packer, the Milk Board chair-
man, got into verbal holts with Ash-
kanasy, of the Milk Distributors’ Asso-
ciation, the latter having let fly at the
Housewives’ Association:
This is not the proper place for an
attack on an organisation. I suggest you
refrain from turning this solemn economic
inquiry into a farce.
Ashkanasy would be a real wizard if he
could turn these farces into solemn
economic inquiries.
Note by the Sydney correspondent of
an Adelaide paper:
Depth charges are exploding around
Labor Parliamentary forces in this State,
and, as a result, Labor is once again split
in twain.
We’d become familiar with underground
tactics in N.S.W. politics; these under-
water moves suggest that somebody or
other may be torpedoed without warning.
Repatriation plans are already buzzing
in S.A. Premier Playford’s head. He
points out that his State is using only
a small fraction of the acre-feet of water
allotted to it under the Murray agree-
ment, and visualises the growing of
flax and cotton in the Murray val y,
also increased production of tresn
dried fruits, wine, barley, wheat an
dairy produce —partly in that district ana
partly in others. He is also keen on t e
production of wood-fibre in
south-east. And that isn’t all.
Another large project that will come up
for consideration is the erection or
ernment offices to cost £254,000. It mig
be undertaken to find employment tor re-
turned soldiers.
Trust Big City politicians to think of
something more for the Big City.
Mair, the N.S.W. Premier, after pro-
found thought:
The ever-widening disturbance zone in
Europe and the disruption of the internal
economies of many countries wi create
problems for Australia. They will also
present opportunities.
To settle some of the problems he in-
tends to urge the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment to take a referendum on
abolition of State Parliaments, to balance
his Budget, to stop granting thousands
to film companies, to abolish useless
boards and commissions, to recall the
N.S.W. Agent-General and do away with
the office —sorry, we were dreaming. His
“solution” is the appointment of a
“Primary Industries Council.”
Millions of honest people
are asking, and agitators will
keep on asking, how it is that
Governments can find hun-
dreds of millions for defence
when they boggle at providing
a tithe of the amounts for
social services. The answer is
to be found in the British
Budget speech, though it won’t
be accepted. In 12 months,
seven of which were war
months, the Government spent
£ 1,817,000,000, of which
£1,049,000,000 came from
revenue and £768,000,000 was
borrowed. War expenditure to
March 31, 1941, is reckoned at
£2,000,000,000 and, with export
markets cut off, more than half
will have to be borrowed. In
other words, to save the coun-
try in the desperate emergency
of war, you have to mortgage
the future heavily. You can’t
do this for social services,
which, unlike war, are con-
tinuous, though no doubt the
changes that the war will bring
will necessitate increased ex-
penditure from annual income
on things like motherhood en-
dowment and provision of free
milk in schools.
Politics and pubs seem to be as
favorite a combination in Westralia as
pugilism and pubs were in the old days
of the prize ring. Senator Bertie John-
son has strewn pubs over the wheatbelt
and other parts. When Deputy-Premier
McCallum died, it came out that he
owned a pub. Now Collier, who was
McCallum’s chief, is suing for a one-
fourth interest in one of the Johnson
taverns.
“C.R.”: According to a Melbourne
parson, many Victorian clergymen are
Communists. If so, how do they square
that with their Master’s injunction that
he who preaches the gospel shall live by
the gospel? If a Victorian clergyman
preached Communism from his pulpit it
is doubtful whether there would be a
very large collection. Perhaps the gentle-
men preach early-Christian Communism.
But the early-Christian Communists lived
in catacombs, were all non-resisters and
were thrown to the lions on occasion by
the Roman emperors. The modern Com-
munist believes that everything Soviet
Russia does is holy, even the invasion
of Finland. The present rulers of Russia
don’t look much like early-Christian
martyrs. They look more like late Roman
emperors.


BLISS.
“ Be Kind to Animals Week’ opens tomorrow.”


QUALITY CUTLERY
m
m
633 —THREE-PAIR SCISSOR CASE.
Case made of best Morocco Leather.
Zip fastened, with Pocket for Sewing.
Fitted with 3 Scissors. 2G/6 complete.
1104 —BAKE IPS PRESENTATION CASE.
Size, about 154 x 5 inches, Silk and
Velvet Lined, containing Stainless Steel
Meat Carver. Nickel-plated Fork and
Sharpening Steel, Round Handle, 39/6
complete,
POST FREE FOR CASH.
W. Jno. BAKER
PTY.,
LTD.
3 HUNTER ST.
SYDNEY.
dsdf
STR O N G
NAIE
KIPPER,
Nickel-plated,
4iin. overall,
7/6 each.
1016— “CHATSWORTH” CABINET. Oak Case, fitted
with Baker’s Stainless Steel Knives and Silver-plated
Spoons and Forks. Contents: 0 each Table and
Dessert Knives; 0 each Table and Dessert Forks;
6 each Table, Dessert and Tea Spoons. In A 1
Quality Knives and Silverware £B/19/6
In B Quality, complete £6/11/6
PERSONAL ITEMS
The most surprising first appearance
of an original Anzac in the Melbourne
march last week was that of Lieut.-
Colonel D. S. Wanliss, of New Guinea.
A barrister in London, and later at the
Vic. Bar, he joined up in 1914 and served
at Gallipoli and in Egypt and France.
From 1916 to 1921 he commanded the
6th military district in Tasmania, and
in 1924 he went to his tropical Judgeship.
He got loud cheers from the members of
the sth—his old battalion.
J. G. Medley, Melbourne University’s
active new vice-chancellor, is not a pro-
fessor, although he is of professorial
parentage. He was born at Oxford, Eng-
land, and educated at Winchester College
and New College, Oxford. He went
through the war with a commission in a
Welsh regiment, was A.D.C. to Sir Tom
VICE-CHANCELLOR MEDLEY.
Bridges (later Governor of South Aus.),
and also served on the personal staff of
Sir Eric Geddes. After the Armistice he
was liaison officer between the Northern
Railway and British G.H.Q. The war
over, he entered his family’s firm of
Anthony Gibbs and Son in London,
which started his connection with Aus-
tralia. He was sent out to the Aus-
tralian branch of Gibbs, Bright and Co.,
and after 10 years with it landed the
job of headmaster at Tudor House
School, Moss Vale, N.S.W. He went from
that to the Uni. vice-chancellorship. His
hobbies are literature, fishing and open-
ing art shows.
Died suddenly in Melbourne, Angus
McKenzie, whose name is a household
word to the Australian dairy industry.
He owned Glentarn, a large dairy prop-
erty near Camperdown (Vic.), and 12
years ago helped to form the Victorian
Dairymen’s Association, of which he was
president from the inception. He was a
member of the Australian Dairy Produce
Board and Dairy Produce Control Com-
mittee, chairman of the Victorian Daily
Products Board and a director of various
cos. He was 57 at the end.
James Alexander Smith, just dead at
76 in Melbourne, used often to drop in
at The Bulletin’s Melbourne office to
talk about his dreams for the southern
city, which were vast enough for most
individuals to class him as a visionary.
But he had a world-wide reputation for his
researches in engineering, and when the
world competition for a design for the
Federal Capital was projected he was,
though in private practice, the first man
the Government thought of to be one
of the judges. In his later years he be-
came obsessed with the idea of remodel-
ling Melbourne; at least one of his
schemes —the roofing over of the Joli-
mont Yards, which would give the city
an immense new territory—has plenty of
supporters. Fellow-engineers consider
that it is bound to come eventually. A
bachelor, J. A. Smith lived in the same
cottage in Collins-place, in the heart of
the city, for the major part of his life-
time. He was a familiar figure standing
on the sidewalk contemplating the sil-
houette of the city. He made himself
into an engineer, never having had a uni-
versity education.
Colonel Harold Cohen, M.L.A., who
will be honorary commissioner for
the Australian Red Cross in the
Middle East, commanded the 6th
Artillery Brigade in the last war, returned
with a C.M.G. and a D. 5.0., and got
several mentions in dispatches. A lawyer
who turned company director and poli-
tician, he was born in Melbourne and
educated at Xavier College.
Drum-Major Darwin, of the Legion
of Anzacs Band, marched in two Anzac
Day marches that had 500 miles between
them. He marched in Sydney in the
morning and then flew to Melbourne,
where he conducted the Legion band and
a band composed entirely of returned
men.
Williamstown, the Melbourne bay-
side suburb just now yelling itself hoarse
over the acquisition of a star footballer,
produced Wilfred O. White, inventor of
the spherical compass and recognised
in U.S.A. as the best compass and navi-
gation expert on the Atlantic coast. His
spherical compass is standard equipment
on U.S. coastguard ships, and is used in
merchant vessels and private yachts. At
present he is aboard the new U.S. air-
craft carrier Wasp on her trials. His
father was William White, Victoria’s first
shipbuilder, and the son worked his pas-
sage to America as a youth, thence went
to Scotland and the Kelvin Laboratory,
and returned to the U.S. to set up the
firm of Kelvin and White, designers and
manufacturers of nautical instruments, of
New York and Boston. Expeditions such
as that of Peary in 1908 and Byrd’s first
South Pole outfit were supplied with
White’s navigation instruments.
There has been a reshuffle in Vic. Rail-
ways appointments since Harold Clapp
was requisitioned by Canberra for war
purposes. N. C. Harris moved up one
on the commission into the chairmanship,
and now R. G. Wishart has been shifted
from the transportation department to
the third commissionership. Wishart was
born at Ballarat. He had a trip abroad
with Clapp when Clapp toured Europe
and America in search of the latest
gadgets.
Adelaide Uni.’s coming anthropologi-
cal expedition to Centralia will explore
the totemic sites in the Mann, Musgrave
and Petermann ranges, and will be led
by Charles Pearcy Mountford. A mem-
ber of the Uni.’s Anthropological Re-
search Board, Mountford was born 49
years ago, joined the P.O. staff in 1913
and has made the abo. his hobby. Was
ethnologist at the S.A. Museum for a
while ; has written dozens of papers on
abo. paintings and carvings, and has
visited the Flinders Range on several
occasions investigating the art, legends
and customs of the remaining natives in
that locality.
Bernard Corser, who succeeds H. K.
Nock as Whip to the Federal Country
party, is a Queenslander who in 1912
won the Burnett seat from Alf Jones,
the just-defeated Lord Mayor of Bris-
bane, and joined his father in the
Assembly. In 1928 he moved to Wide
Bay, made vacant by the death of his
father, who had held it since 1915. A
farmer since his teens, Bernie Corser told
his first Parliamentary audience that he
had “come from the land and not from
the stump.” He has been three times
unopposed in Wide Bay. His personal
popularity saved the seat at the last elec-
tions, when the Alberta bug and sec-
tarianism gave him a run for his money.
S.A. has been honoring the meqiory
of Dr. Ulrich Hubbe, who came from
Hamburg a century back, and who cer-
tainly helped Torrens in drawing up the
invaluable Land Act which bears the
latter’s name. As with so many of S.A.’s
German-descended families, a son died
fighting in S’Africa, and a grandson in
France.
Lieut.-Commander Peter Mayor Mc-
Intosh, who died suddenly in Brisbane at
51, was a South Australian by adoption.
During the 1914-18 strafe he was occu-
pied in minesweeping in the North Sea.
In 1924 joined the pilot staff of S.A.’s
Harbors Board. On one occasion when
boarding an incoming tanker in a high
sea he fractured his leg, but he insisted
on bringing the ship into port. On the
outbreak of the present war he was called
up for special naval duties. He had been
honorary naval A.D.C. to Governors
Dugan and Barclay-Harvey.
Major-General Iven Mackay, com-
mander of the 6th Division, Second
A.1.F., is the best type of civilian soldier.
He came from his native town, Grafton
(N.S.W.), to Newington College, took a
MAJ.-GEN. MACK AY.
degree at Sydney Uni. and became a
demonstrator in physics. Before long he
was doing his demonstrating to the Turks
in an advanced traverse trench on Galli-
poli, whither he had gone as a captain
and adjutant of the 4th Battalion. All
the A.I.F. soon knew him for his personal
courage and leadership. His list of
battles covers most of the major opera-
tions of the Dardanelles and the Western
Front. He rose to be a brigadier—lst
Infantry— during the war, returne
job as lecturer in physics at Sydney ~
was student adviser for many y ears ’
then took the headmastership of V ran '
brook School (Sydney), which he resigned
only a few weeks before his la
appointment.
Albert E. Barton has for a long time
been an interesting but unobtrusive figure
in Sydney. A Victorian by birth, ne and
his brother, J. S. Barton, ,^ sta b llS A?u
business college in Maoriland, Aloert
later coming back to Australia tor heal n
A.E. BARTON.
reasons. Comparatively early in life he
wrote a book on accountancy from an
Australasian viewpoint when such works
were rare ; the book has run to several
editions. Barton had a spectacular rise
as a consulting accountant and adviser
to Governments during and after the
1914-18 affair. He has a great faculty
for marshalling facts and expressing them
on paper. But he is chiefly known
among a circle of old and close friends
for his tennis court at Killara, which has
become almost an institution. Among
the younger people on the North Shore
he is of importance in that he has four
daughters.
“Califern”: It’s unlikely that Maori-
land could have found a better man for
its official war correspondent than J. H.
Hall. His first qualification is that in
24 years of journalism the ink has never
turned sour in his veins ; when I met
him as editor of Wellington “Dominion”
in 1936, he was one of the pleasantest
personalities in M.L. journalism. A
South Islander, he has done Parliamentary
reporting for Christchurch “Sun” ; subbed
cables for Christchurch “Press” and
edited in quick succession Hawera “Star,”
Christchurch “Sun” and the “Dorn.”
Since 1937, when he went to London,
M.L.’s publicity people have been making
use of him at Glasgow, Geneva and back
in Wellington. It adds up to about 10
different newspaper and publicity jobs,
and somewhere among them all he’s
found time to collect ? literary prizes and
a diploma of journalism at Otago Uni.
and an M.A. with honors in economics
and a prize in political science at Canter-
bury College. In his spare time he has
risked his neck on M.L.’s Rugby fields,
annexing a double Blue in Rugby and
athletics at Otago and a N.Z. Um. Blue
in athletics.
Mike Joseph, known all over Austral-
asia as a theatrical manager and advance
agent, has died at Townsville (Q.) in his
sixty-third year. Mike served a footlight
apprenticeship in drama, but forsook the
boards for the front of the house. Six
years ago he became manager of Towns-
ville’s municipal Theatre Royal.


N^S:
w
(V'f^
7^
H.
7/i<„
■ yy
Ox
v""!
y.
\y
■ '- r,
m
yry
, v -
y
V-
W
l
&
$
XN*\ n
/>
7s
ms&SV
- SS
u
m,
W&
A
[M,
u
/
w
The Waning Season
Sounds a Warning Note
'T'HE falling leaves of Autumn ...
*■ the birds leaving for warmer
climes. In these, and in a thousand
other ways, Nature is providing
against seasonal changes. To man-
kind the warning is clear —the system
must be on guard against any ills
and ailments that the change of
seasons may provoke. “Have
Wolfe’s Schnapps every day for
your health’s sake,” is a cardinal
rule at any time of the year, which
assumes a still greater significance
at the change of seasons.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a
potent diuretic that aids the system
to function freely by cleansing the
blood-stream of impurities. Just
now, at the fall of the year, when
a general toning up is necessary,
you will find Wolfe’s Schnapps in
moderation an unquestionable
benefit. With hot water and lemon
it is the greatest “night-cap”
of all.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is obtainable in
Quarter Bottles as well as in the
familiar Half and Large Sizes.
OLFE
EPRODUCT OF HOLLAND
: —THIS £
Baasmc alcoholic g
tt-mnoiilacturcd Exclusively In ft
EE&it'pwibk qua!it*y-F**'** *.b
gJTittCii to
26 4« Vp?
1 PHIT6
FL. OZ
WOLFE'S
<zz/hcmdtic<zjzkiulcm
SCHNAPPS
As Good for Women as for Men


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Doolan was always right
there when there was any betting going
on as to the ability of other people to
perform certain tricks that Doolan had
practised until he had reached near-per-
fection. He pooled most of the boys w'ith
his stunt of taking an axe by the extreme
end of the handle, laying it along the floor
and turning it up and over with a flick
of the wrist. He also won money by
placing a tin dish on the middle prong
of a pitchfork and balancing the fork
on his chin. But when he bet the crowd
he could crawl into a bottle and they
took him up, only to see Doolan place
a bottle on the floor, then go out of the
room and crawl in to it, they felt it had
gone far enough. After a short confer-
ence a couple of the boys borrowed a
funnel, stuck it in Doolan’s belt, then
bet him he couldn’t hold two coppers on
his forehead for 30 seconds and then
drop them into the funnel. Doolan
rushed it. With his head well back, he
kept the pennies on his brow. He would
have dropped them into the funnel, too,
only somebody poured a pint of cold
water into it, which cured Doolan of his
tricks.
* * * *
“Lunar”: Will someone tell me in
simple language how this common trick
of the moon is worked? Get a mirror,
hold it on a level with the eyebrows,
tilt it till the reflection of the new moon
shows in it. As many moons will show
in that mirror as the days it is old. It
isn’t any hypnotic suggestion. I’ve tried
it repeatedly to find out how old the
moon was; subsequent reference to a
calendar has confirmed the evidence of
the mirror. The only time there is any
doubt about it is when the actual time
of the birth of the moon isn’t clear: then
a half-smudged nucleus shows which
might or might not be counted as one.
Nine days is the limit. After that time
the moon gets a bit coy about her age
and refuses to reveal it even to a mirror.
$ H*
“Jayem”: As Long Harry was telling
the stock agent that he wanted someone
to help look after his sheep he was over-
heard by a girl. When Harry left the
office the girl followed him and stopped
him. “I heard you say you wanted some-
one to look after your sheep,” she said.
“I’ll take the job.”' The long ’un pointed
out that he wanted a man, not a girl,
but she persisted and asked if there was
any reason why a woman could not do
the job just as well. “A woman tried
it once and made a mess of it,” Harry
said. “Who was that?” asked the appli-
cant. “80-Peep,” replied Harry.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: A visitor to an English private
zoo was bitten by a camel and brought
an action for damages against the pro-
prietor. The trial Judge decided that a
camel is a domestic animal and that there-
fore there was no case to go to the jury.
The case was taken before the English
Court of Appeal and the decision upheld.
Lord Justice Scott said that camels had
ceased to be wild animals, had been
trained to associate with man and thus
could not be assumed to be dangerous to
human beings, or to be kept only at the
owners’ peril. During a non-legal phase
of my career I had the misfortune to be
associated with camels in large numbers,
and, whilst not questioning his Lord-
ship’s knowledge of English law, I dis-
sent in the strongest possible manner
from his views on camel character, innate
or acquired. A camel’s owner is about
the only person who does not go in peril
from it, and that only because the brute
knows what will happen to it if it gets
up to any of its games with him.
•i 5
“Mat’s Mate”: Big Mat was spreading
metal on a Gippsland road job. One
day the boss rushed up to him and said,
“Here, this is the way to do it.” He took
“When you've finished your fretwork, Tarzan, how about being a little
more practical ?”
Mafs fork and pus h e d metal over the
j. oac j f or about ten minutes, working like
a machine gone mad. Then he dropped
the said to Mat “That’s the way,”
and was about to hop into his car when
said, “Hey, listen, tomorrow I’ll
§how you somethin’.” Next morning
Mat didn > t appea r, and, being short-
handedj the boss had to grab a fork and
spread b ut he didn’t work like a machine
gone mad . About 11 o’clock, while the
boss was still cursing him, Mat rushed
up, grabbed the fork, and with a “Here,
W£dcb me ” sailed into that metal. After
about ten minutes Mat droppe d the fork,
sajd < Thafs the way - an d put on his
CQat The bos§ looked ]ike explod ing,
bu j. j ben a s i ow g rin came. “You’re fore-
m at a bob a day extra »he said,
*. f ,
Th e 0- D - : jackeroo was fond
°f 3°kes, and when the old brown en
went broody he stuck a couple of china
e SB s er - / ew f a 7 s l ater ie s
astonished to see her ladys ip prou >
escorting a couple of chicks. From van-
ous vantage points the boss and the hands
watched the jacky sneak to the nest, saw
him pick up and examine the bits of
broken china and nearly choked at the
expression on his face as he came away,
He never said a word about it, but ever
afterwards he was likely to hear imita-
tion cackles emanating from hidden spots
about the station, and to be stopped by
perfect strangers on the district roads
and asked if he knew where they could
buy a broody hen.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: I thought I knew all
of Australian farmers’ enemies, from
Irish blight to tax-collectors, but a mid-
night uproar from the fowlhouse has in-
troduced me to a new one. When Dil-
linger and I arrived on the scene my
torch showed five dead hens and our
best rooster staggering about bleeding
from head and legs. A greyish animal
like a big rat bolted past. Dillinger
grabbed it, dropped it with a surprised
yelp of pain, and an instant later was
tearing into it in grim earnest. Against
his powerful bull-strain jaws it had no
hope, but before it took the count it had
bitten clean through his lip and torn a
2in. flap of flesh loose on one cheek. Its
heavily-built grey-and-white furred body
was only about lOin. from nose to stern,
with a thick black-tufted tail of almost
equal length. The strong jaws bristling
with sharp teeth explained the dead fowls
and Dillinger’s ravaged dial. Old Joe
says that it is a brush-tail rat, and that
they will tackle a man if cornered—glad
I didn’t try! Also that the females are
pouched ; this streak of fury was a male,
and, I hope, a bachelor.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Joe the rouseabout’s
ancient wireless set suddenly conked out,
and a post-mortem revealed a defective
battery. Not to be done out of our even-
ing entertainment, we ran a couple of
long leads through the window to the
shed, and connected up with the battery
in the boss’s car. The result was mar-
vellous: we were able to cruise all over
the dial, finally stopping on a real thriller
of a play. We’d just got to a hair-raising
part where the ghost was haunting the
ancestral hall, when the old set suddenly
spluttered, stopped, started again, then
slid off the table, bumped over the floor,
climbed up the wall, and after hesitating
on the window-sill flopped back into the
room. It was three badly-scared men who
suddenly remembered it was council
night, and the boss never missed a council
meeting!
* * * *
“Coral”: Not only will a lubra breast-
feed her adolescent offspring (B.
10/4/’4O), but she has broad ideas as to
who or what can draw sustenance from
her lacteal bowsers. When I was trepang-
ing on the N.T. coasts some years back a
bitch belonging to one of my boys died
and left a little puppy too young to feed
on the ordinary food. To save its life
his wife, who at the time was suckling a
baby, also fed the pup at the
Towser was served first, the infant x =>
the next whack from the same breast,
nipple washing being dispensed wi.
And, though 1 hate to confound the
theories of those who run our baoy
clinics, I have to record that three years
later that nipper was a picture ol rude
sturdy health.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: “Tat new hand te
proper dunderhead,” growled Horn. He
go an’ try to mend up a fence with my
best town staples.” “And what aTe ii^9 wn
staples?” I asked. Honi sighed.
with te points filed off, what I use to
jingle-shake in my high-toff pants so as
to put te pocket-pickers on a wrong-
scent chase when I have city stroll
walks,” he replied.
* * * *
“G. Off”: The farrier-sarge was right
(B. 17/4/’40)). The frog of a horse’s
foot would press on the toe of a reversed
shoe, prising it loose. Front shoes would
be quickly torn off, though the hind ones
might stay long enough for a Ben Hall
escapade. But would the reversed tracks
deceive anyone? A hard-ridden horse
makes semicircular impressions with the
toes of his shoes, throwing loosened earth
between the heels. With shoes reversed
the imprint of the heels would be most
distinct, and the earth pushed towards
the toe of the shoes.
* * * *
“Wang”: “That bloke yer had workin’
fer yer fer the last six munce was in
here yest’day,” remarked Tim Foley over
the bar counter to Dad Wattlebark. Dad
grunted and buried the pot further in
amongst his whiskers. “What did he
leave yer fer?” continued Foley. “I
thought yer reckoned him a good sort’ve
bloke.” “So I did,” replied Dad, “but
he got too blanky greedy ; that’s why he
left.” “How too greedy?” asked Foley.
“Well,” said Dad, “I told him if he liked
t’ work fer me fer another six munce
fer his tucker he could marry me
daughter Milly.” “Cripes!” ejaculated
Foley in astonishment. “An’ he wouldn’t
take it on?” “No,” said Dad, “the
hungry cow wasn’t satisfied with me
offer.” “’Struth!” said Foley. “Why,
what did he want?” “Lord knows,” re-
plied Dad. “All he said was the indooce-
ment wasn’t big ernough. Not big
ernough! Strike me! What did the cow
want? Milly goes five-ten in her bare
feet an’ weighs nearly fifteen stone!”
* * * *
“Bufo”: Australians transplanted to
England usually adopt the habits and
customs of their new neighbors, but one
lot of dinkum Aussies simply won't
knuckle down to British ways. The emus
in the London Zoo refuse to recognise
the English seasons and persist in begin-
ning their laying season in December, just
as their ancestors have done from time
immemorial. Not only that, but they
transmit the custom to their descendants
even after generations of English
domicile. It has its drawbacks. Most
of the eggs laid last December got
frozen before they could be taken to
an incubator, but that did not deter the
parents from keeping on. Black swans
are less bigotedly patriotic migrants and
follow local opinion in favor of the
English spring as the best time for start-
ing a family.
* * * *
“Izaak W.”: Homely though he ap-
pears in his native waters, the Murray
cod, when transferred elsewhere, soon
becomes a “bad man” of the finny
world. Decades ago batches of M.-c.
fry were dumped into several s.-w.
Westralian rivers. For a time all went
well; the little strangers thrived amaz-
ingly. Years passed, and it became no
uncommon thing for Bridgetown farmers,
exploring their fields after one of the
periodical floodings of the Blackwood,
to find huge mature cod stranded among
the potatoes. Then, quite suddenly, the
acclimatised cod ceased to exist. Ex-
planation—taken from waters w ? here ages
of struggle for food had just nicely ad-
justed the balance to accommodate him,
the cod in fresh fields speedily developed
into a fresh-water shark, indiscrimi-
nately devouring the aquatic life of his
new home. Said aquatic life, of course,
was unprepared for his predatory nature
and therefore lacking in alertness for
transferring itself elsewhere when the
hungry cod came along. Result: the new
inhabitants before very long had de-
voured practically everything in sight,
themselves growing to an enormous size
on such plenitude. The next stage was
when they started on each other, the big
devouring the small. This done, the big
devoured the less big, until only a few
giants were left —these probably died of
starvation. What the acclimatisation ex-
perts omitted was to bring along the
yabbie and the frog that form the staple
cod diet in his home waters.
THE MEN ARE MARCHING AGAIN.
The wide brown paddocks lie strangely still.
The plough teams browse on the sloping lull
And sunshine glows like a daffodil
Down the tree-enchanted glen.
The old farm homestead is left to ponder,
For the folk have gone to the city yonder:
And many a heart will be growing fonder
Now the men are marching again.
There is not one cloud in the dreaming sky,
In rippling umber the furrows lie
While the wind drifts over them with a sigh;
And the lads who ploughed and sowed.
Will they home again like the swallows winging,
When the little brown larks are madly singing
Over the fields where the corn is swinging
Its lustrous yellow load?
The geese are white along the green ways
Where the sorrowful willow weeps and sways;
And the twittering river skirls and plays
In haunts of the native hen.
But back at the farm the dogs are lying
And watching the road, and dumbly trying
To understand, while their hearts are crying,
Why the men are marching again!
The fans of the windmill burn and spin
In a gilded circle of shining tin
Where clustering cattle slumber in
The shadows of river gums;
But up in the city like dragons crawling
The men are marching through wild crowds
calling,
While bugle music is rising, falling,
Sweet through the bass of drums.
And under laughing Australian skies,
Grey in the harbor, the troopship lies;
There are gallant partings and gay good-byes
And a cooee now and then;
The six stars float on the warm wind sweeping;
Mouth clings to mouth in a last tryst keeping;
A mother smiles, while a bride is weeping,
For the men are marching again!
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


“Bad Australian”: I’m out splittin’
posts fer me bound’ry fence,” said old
Speargrass, “w’en I spots a tjlack snake
erbout seven-foot long, an’ when I takes
arfter ’im ’e slides inter a ’ollow log. I
blocks the en’s up an’ starts choppin’
’im out. W’en I breaks inter w’ere ’e
is ’e pokes ’is ’ead out an’ makes a
savidge swing at me. ’E jest misses me
right ’and, an’ I feels ’is fangs rappin’
on the axe-’andle—a noo mount’in-ash
it wus. I makes a swipe at ’im with the
axe, an’ gets ’im erbout a coupla foot
frum ’is ’ead. I’m gettin’ back ter me
splittin’ w’en the axe-’andle starts swellin’,
an' arfter a bit it’s swole up so much
that it busts the eye outa the axe. The
damn’ thing keeps on swellin’, so I chucks
it on the ground an’ leaves it. Next
day I goes out ter get the axe-’end ter
make a coupla wedges out of it, an’—
yer see Them shingles on that ’ayshed?
Well. I split them an’ 600 palin’s outa
that axe-’andle. That wus erbout 30
year ago, an’ them shingles is as good
as noo. Y’see, the pizen acks as a kinda
perservertive, an’ keeps the w’ite-ants an’
borers outa me roof as well.”
* * * *
“Pick”: The trapdoor spiders which
Abo. Councillors have recently found to
prefer horizontal tunnels to their cus-
tomary vertical pits were simply a de-
pendent clan that owed their home-plan-
ning and comfort to the engineering
abilities and toil of diminutive scrub-
dwellers. Mice and toads, lizards and
caterpillars, grubs, crickets and beetles,
pushing their way through tufts of
tussock-grass or bunches of reeds under
fallen timber or candle-bark, leave
tunnels. These the wily spiders line with
successive myers of cobweb. Rent-free
self-contained flats with all mod. cons,
are the result.
* * * *
“Atrax”: From accurate measure-
ments a snail’s pace is just over 12ft. an
hour on a clear even track. A tortoise is
nearly 200 times faster. The hare which
it is alleged to have once beaten in a
race was only 71 times speedier than its
armored opponent. A charging lion
could give the hare 50 yards start in
a hundred and beat it by several lion-
lengths if it didn’t care for raw hare at
the moment. A cheetah would cause the
lion’s backers to reproach the King of
Beasts for running stiff. A horse’s best
over a straight mile works out rather
better than 38 m.p.h., but a 42-mile aver-
age has been clocked on quarter-mile
runs. Man’s top sprint pace is about
21 m.p.h. for 100 yards, for a mile about
14{. Yet over a six-day race at the
Crystal Palace in 1924 a man beat a
ridden horse by seven miles 1022 yards,
and the horse was too distressed to con-
tinue.
* a * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: For hours the long
chap and his diminutive cobber had
occupied the two seats and a table that
Murphy provided for special customers,
and had consumed a quite respectable
quantity of good Westralian beer. All
the rules at Murphy’s were Rafferty’s,
bar one—no tick —yet here he was, cold
sober, repeatedly serving drinks to two
chaps who at each sip earnestly raised
the jug, glanced at Murph and gravely
enunciated “Chalk ’er up,” to which
Murph smilingly responded with a
friendly nod of the head. It had the
regulars guessing, and one or two who
seemed to sense a weakening of a firm
resolve and tried to cash in on it before
Murphy recovered his senses departed
muttering about favoritism and prefer-
ence to strangers. Nor was the mystery
clarified when Murphy announced,
simply and businesslike, “This is the last
drink, boys. Yer cut out.” After the
two had gone a regular habitue re-
marked, “Another cheque busted,
Murph?” “Yairs,” drawled Murphy ;
“a coupla good chaps, them.” “Wot was
their idee of askin’ yer ter chalk ’em
up?” the other demanded. “Chalk ’em
up?” Murphy was mystified. “They
didn’t” Then, “Oh!” as realisation
dawned on him, “they weren’t askin’ fer
tick. They was just toastin’ Chorkerup,
the sou’-west town they come from.”
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: Plains are eroded moun-
tains and prairies incipient deserts. The
latter originate in the centres of land
masses, encroach upon their surround-
ings and grow. Witness the Sahara, the
Gobi and our own “dead heart.” One
of Nature’s preventives of erosion—and
the last to take the field —is prickly pear,
evolved to encircle wastes and steppes.
But so far as this continent is concerned
(thanks to Cactoblastis ) the star of that
ill-fated cactus has set. It entered the
arena a thousand years too late.
* * * *
“No. 1 Bench”: Baltic pine grows well
in Australia, even in the sub-tropics;
but it needs to be planted scientifically.
Of the scores of well-grown logs that I
have seen pass across the saws none has
turned out anything better than fruit-case
shooks and boards for wheelbarrows.
Too many big knots, with accompany-
ing coarse cross-grained whorls; said
knots being due to the growth of lower
branches which, under a proper sys-
tem of forestry, would have been nearly
all eliminated. In Scandinavia, pine seed-
lings are set out in groups of nine, the
various groups being arranged
close together, draughtboard
fashion. The initial idea is to
force the young trees upwards,
at the same time choking out
lower branches by sheer over-
crowding. This in the final saw-
ing gives a main trunk almost
free from knots. After five to
seven years, according to growth,
three of each group are cut out.
Parted down the centre these
young pines make excellent
ladder-sides, used by the thou-
sand in British and Continen-
tal mines. Left whole they serve
as scaffold poles. At 14 years
another three are culled. These,
now sturdy logs, supply the de-
mand for pit props. The sur-
viving trio are then allowed to
attain their majority, 21 to 25
years. From these full-grown
trees are sawn the deal boards
(weather- and floor-), which de-
light the builder the world
over. Baltic pine also has the
virtue of growing again and again on the
same land without any rotation of crop
or fallowing.
“Thom”: Young Dave got the job of
pasting up the posters for the travelling
picture show. Ht was given a free pass
by the advance agent, but the stamp
across it “Not Transferable” had him
puzzled. Appealed to for elucidation,
Dad confidently replied: “It simply
means that if yer don’t go yerself yer
can’t get in.”
* * * *
“Kriz”: Hashimoto was on poor
shell ground, and presently the shell-bag
came to the surface containing a young
turtle. At the finish of the day’s opera-
tions, after he’d removed his diving dress
and puffed a fag, he went to the galley
and cut off the turtle’s head. Placing it
on the deck near where he enters the
water daily in his search for pearlshell,
he next returned to the galley, dipped
his fingers in the rice pot, took a finger-
ful, placed it in the turtle’s mouth, bowed
three times, said a short prayer, and
threw the head overboard. I’m still won-
dering whether our strike of a good
patch of shell next day had anything
to do with the theory of averages or the
good luck that the Jap’s incantations
were supposed to invoke.
* * * *
“Linguis”: Away back in 1824 Dr.
John Dunmore Lang let himself go in
appreciation of aboriginal place-names:
I like the native names, as Parramatta,
And Iliawarra, and Woolloomooloo;
Nandowra, Woogarora, Bulkomatta,
Tomah, Toongabbie, Mittagong, Meroo;
Buckobble, Cumleroy, and Coolingatta,
The Warragumby, Bargo, Burradoo;
Cookbundoon, Carrabaiga, Wingecarribbee,
The Wollondilly, Yurrumbon, Bungarribbee....
And here are a few of the meanings of
the titles that so tickled the old Scot’s
fancy. Parramatta is “plenty of eels” ;
Iliawarra, “a high place near the sea” ;
Woolloomooloo, “a young kangaroo”;
Toongabbie, “near the water” ; Mitta-
gong, “a little mountain” ; Coolingatta
(Coolangatta), “a splendid view” ; Bur-
radoo, “many brigalow trees.” Every
name, of course, has its meaning, and
for sheer euphonic beauty they’d be
hard to beat.
“S.T.S.”: As to birds walking under
r water (B. 20/3 / ’4O), what is the human
j experience in that direction? I used
, to be able to do most things that can
, be done in water, either salt or fresh.
Have spent a lot of time at the bottom
collecting shells; have walked there,
carrying a heavy rock (until I leaned too
far forward and my feet shot up behind);
but I was genuinely surprised lately to
see a man able to walk without any
ballast, and in sea water, too. Are there
many who can keep down and do it?
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: Binghi has a way with
dogs, and friendship between them is
usually instantaneous; but I know one
hound that always bared its teeth at sight
of an abo. Its owner, tired of having
his camp ratted by predatory coons, lured
one of them in one day. Then he kidded
him to put the dog into a chaffbag. After
the puzzled abo. obliged the owner
whaled into it with his bare feet, after
which it was released in such a strategic
position that the first object to meet its
vision was Binghi. The tyke associated
coons in general with its ill usage, and
thenceforth friendliness with them
vanished.
* * * *
“Aratta”: The hand, digging post-
holes, was relieving the tedium of his
job by singing a monotonous and mourn-
ful dirge. Dad was working close by,
and the doleful repetition began to get
on his nerves. After the tenth verse he
sang out: “What the devil is that thing
you’re wailin’?” “It’s called ‘The Con-
vict’s Lament,’ ” replied the hand ; “it’s
a very sad song about a man sayin’ good-
bye to his wife after ’e got five years.”
“Humph!” grunted Dad. “Well, judgin’
be what I’ve had to listen to, it’s a
good job fer me the Judge didn’t give
him twenty years!”
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: “I never ’ad much eddi-
cation,” said Old Joe, “but my young
brother Bill wus a ’oly terror for it.
Readin’ books an’ writin’ near every
night, ’e wus. Useter spend a small for-
chun in kerosene. Ter show yer ’ow
set ’e wus on eddication, w’en ’e drew
a selection in the ballot fer the noo dairy
settlement out at Skinner’s Creek, first
thing ’e does is ter start rousin’ on all
the blokes wot’d got kids an’ tell in’ ’em
they orter get a school started. There
wus only about eight kids fit fer school-
brandin’, but Bill writes down ter the
boss eddication bloke in Brisbane an’
ses wot about a school. Bloke writes
back an’ ses they gotter ’ave a dozen
’fore ’e can give ’em one. Bill ses ’e’ll
fix the cow, and my oath ’e did. Know
wot ’e done? Gets writin’ ter them
matterimonial agencies an’ ses ’e’s want-
in’ a wife an’ not less than five school
kids uv ’er own. Next cream cheque
’e’s orf ter Brisbane in ’is Sunday clobber,
an’, stone the crows, if ’e don’t come
back with a wife about twice ’is size an’
seven kids! Wot’s more, ’e’d took the
flamin’ lot inter see the boss eddication
bloke, an’ the bloke tells ’im ’e never knoo
no one ter sacrifice ’imself in the cause
uv eddication like Bill’d done, an’ they d
get the flamin’ school if ’e bust ’is
flamin’ boiler. Cripes, they got it, too ;
an’, wot’s more, Bill an’ ’is missus
’ad seven more kids ter show the bloke
’ow they could keep the flamin’ school
stocked up single-’anded! ”
“That new 'and from Broken 'III, Cap'n; ’e DO swear."
THE HOUND OF THE HILLS.
He roams the hills, a price on his head,
The fierce black hound that the settlers dread;
He takes grim toll of their herds and flocks;
Cunning is he as the sly red fox.
The dingo trap and the poison bait
And the loaded guns that nightly wait
Are useless alike as he maims and kills,
This outlaw dog—the hound of the hills.
A few declare they have seen the dog,
Poised for a moment on rock or log,
A silhouette ’gainst the setting sun,
Just out of range of the hunter’s gun;
But at night it is that he leaves his lair,
And house-dogs cower with bristling hair;
For deadly terror his voice instils—
No dog will face the hound of the hills.
Gather the weaners into the yard
And see that the cowhouse doors are barred,
For calf and lamb are alike to him,
This fierce marauder, this killer grim,
Whose fangs drip red in the dead of night
When the startled ewes are put to flight.
With nightly fear all the range he fills,
The big black hound of the Gippsland hills.
VICTORIA.
THOS. V. TIERNEY.


; dmt
G/umfiaimtic and (bffi
SERVICE
The Service that The Trustees Executors
& Agency Company Ltd. affords in the cap-
acity of Executor and Trustee is not only
sympathetic and personal, hut also prompt
and efficient.
The Company has had over 61 years’ exper-
ience in estate administration, and offers expert
advice on all matters pertaining to trusts.
Charges are fixed and moderate.
Continuity in the administration of a Trust
is assured hy the fact that the Company is
a corporate hody. It cannot die or leave the
country. It “Goes on for Ever.”
Full information will he afforded if you will
kindly write or call.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £961,115
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Gen Sir Brudenell White. K.C.8., K.C.M.G.,
K.C.V.0., D.S.O.
R. O. Blackwood D. Stuart Murray. John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman)
W. D. Stewart R. T. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
City Mutual Life
Writ- Added to
ten Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
£ £ £ £ £
1900 . . 55.713 24,450 16,265 1,950 13,048
1910 . . 121,588 39,352 28,9'61 7,388 45,887
1915 . . 230,727 107,188 33,740 9,029 80,770
1920 .. 464,079 158.487 70,134 665 234,793
1927 ..1,094,045 441,648 116,964 11,488 523,945
1929 ..1,362,027 588,700 153,978 2,580 616,769
1930 .. 1,419,440 696,604 141,922 31,080 549,834
1931 . . 1,303,300 780,703 155,069 13,401 ) 234 12y
Reserved for contingencies, £120,000 j ’
1932 .. 1,316,891 767,756 163,556 762 t 2g4 gl7
Reserved for contingencies, £lOO,OOO J ’
1933 ..1,236,329 755,195 149,766 2,700 \ 99R
Reserved for contingencies, £lOO,OOO ) * ’
1934 . . 1,039,535 512,522 111,306 8,356 407,351
1935 . . 1,152,200 509,602 134,961 25,700 481,937
1936 .. 1,240,053 519,098 150,892 20,596]
From bonus equalisation account, 1 579,467
£30,000 J
1937 .. 1,290,641 543,115 165,354 11,289 \ , ftP; Rfi o
To staff fund, £5OOO J 6Cj ’ 8^
1938 . . 1,355,548 600,753 160,031 19,208 )
To bonus equalisation account, £30,000 f 540,496
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. j
1939 . . 1,368,133 732,398 172,415 21,755 441,563
The City Mutual was one of the few
life offices to maintain bonuses —one
of the chief points of interest to policy-
holders—for last year at the same rates
as for the preceding 12 months. Heavy
provision for anticipated war even-
tualities was the reason for the cut in
most cases. The City Mutual, which
had invested largely in mortgages on
real estate, made very substantial pro-
vision against contingencies which arose
at the beginning of the slump. How-
ever, as conditions improved the gap
which for a while appeared between
market and book value of some of the
co.’s assets either wholly or sub-
stantially disappeared, leaving the pro-
vision greatly in excess of requirements
for the purpose at the moment. The
management, therefore, was able to
avoid earmarking a large block of last
year’s takings as a reserve against war
contingencies without weakening com-
parative bonus prospects for policy-
holders.
At the end of December the reserve
for contingencies stood at £452,950
(same as at the previous balance), equal
to a shade over 13 p.c. on the book
value of mortgages, etc., or 4.7 p.c. on
funds, which is a better ratio than most
other life offices show.
The actuary figured the year’s surplus
at £381,454 (up £23,089), of which
£337,391 (leaving £44,063 to carry for-
ward) was distributed among policy-
holders in reversionary bonuses com-
mencing at £2 10s. p.c. and rising to
£4 ss. p.c. after 45 years under table A,
and beginning at £1 17s. 6d. p.c. and
reaching £3 12s. 6d. p.c. after 45 years
under table E.
They are handsome rates, though sub-
stantially lower than the co. used to pay
before the slump. Meanwhile, however,
there have been big changes in the invest-
ment portfolio, which at the last two
balancing dates was made up as follows:
1938. p.c. 1939. p.c.
Govt, securities. . £2,278,602 27.7 £2,444,640 23.2
Mortgages, etc... 3.402,139 33.9 3,436,149 32.5
Loans on policies 1.193,670 11.9 1,248,890 11.8
Properties.. .. 2,116,504 21.1 2,354,979 22.3
S h ares and
debentures, etc. 855,350 8.6 878,007 8.3
Cash and sundries 180,884 1.8 204,502 1.9
In 1931 the proportion of total assets
represented by Government securities
was 16.5 p.c., mortgages 52.4 p.c., loans
on policies 14.8 p.c. and properties 8.4
p.c. Compare these figures with the
corresponding ratios at last balance, as
shown in the table, and the trend of
the board’s investment policy is obvious.
Meanwhile, the co. had built itself fine
new headquarters premises, with plenty
of letting space, at the corner of Hunter
and Bligh streets, Sydney, and the build-
ing was recently turning in about 5 p.c.
net. The money that became available
for investment last term was well dis-
tributed throughout the portfolio. It is
not clear from the accounts whether the
addition of £238,475 to properties was
due to foreclosures or extension of the
co.’s own premises in other States.
Last term the co. shared in the general
experience. Drought in many parts of
Australia —no business is written out-
side the Commonwealth —low prices for
wool and wheat, and international ten-
sion, followed by war with Germany,
are reflected in a reduction of £265,578
in the amount of new business written:
1934. 1938. 1939.
Policies .. .. 4,737 6,501 6,056
Assuring: . . . . £1,657,050 £2,541,19'1 £2,275,61 o
First premiums . . 54,387 89,504 78,509
Renewal premiums 636,701 777.099 812, t>7-
Annuities .. .. 24,895 22,758 6,355
Interest etc. . . 323,552 466,188 470,587
The spring in the year’s net premium
income (£891,181) was £24,578. Con-
sideration for annuities was down
£16,393, while an extra £4399 was re-
ceived in interest and rents. The im-
provement in total income (£1,368,133)
was thus £12,585. Owing to a heavier
crop of claims (up £131,645), the amount
added to the assurance funds was £98,931
down at £441,565, making them
£9,771,592. In addition there are the
contingency provision already referred
to and a bonus-equalisation reserve of
£lOO,OOO.
Excluding taxes (£25,915, up £8998)
and the allowance for depreciation,
shown as written off in the introductory
table, and allowing 3 p.c. for annuities,
exes, took 16.4 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums, or the same as for the previ-
ous term.
After deducting taxes, etc., interest
and rents turned in approximately 4.76
p.c. on funds as against 5.08 p.c. for
1938. Since the co. assumes that its
funds will earn only 3} p.c. p.a., there
is a satisfactory margin for bonuses
there.
Owing to the drop in interest rates,
growth of taxation, upward trend of
costs generally, and the possible effect
of war upon mortality experience,
appearances are that bonus rates of life
offices generally are likely to recede
from their present levels.
In common with other Australian life
offices, the City Mutual has cancelled
restrictive war conditions in connection
with policies issued prior to Sept., 1939.
It has also made a commendable pat-
riotic gesture by offering to buy Gov-
ernment securities for policy-holders up
to the full amount of their policies
"without charge, provided that, should a
claim arise before the advance is liqui-
dated, the sum assured would be satis-
fied by transfer of stock or bonds to
the policy-holder or the administrator of
his estate.
Australian Gas Light Co. (Sydney)
Dividends To Re— Re-
June, Profit. (All Shares). serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929'. . 278,182 8 p.c. = 324,204 35,294
1930.. 310,573 8„ „ 328,800 17,067
1931.. 297,938 7 „ „ 287,700 10,238 27,305
1932.. 254,647 6},, „ 256,875 25,077
1933.. 284,448 6 „ „ 246,600 37,848 62,925
1934.. 270,625 6 „ „ 246,600 24,025 86,950
1935.. 247,024 6 „ „ 246,600 424 87,374
Dec.,
1935*. 235,464 6 „ „ 246,600 77,499
1936.. 209,740 6„ „ 249,320 37,919
1937.. 265,825 6 „ „ 258,371 7,454 45,373
1938.. 281.553 6 ~ ~ 269,846 11,707 57,080
1939.. 232,325 6 „ „ 287,629 1,776
* Balance date changed; twelve months’ figures,
including six months of previous term.
From the investor’s point of view, the
“Wild Cat” has repeatedly drawn atten-
tion to the possible dangers of Govern-
ment interference in public-utility ven-
tures ; and none has been more subject
to this interference than the gas cos. In
N. S. Wales they were first harassed by
statute in 1912, when Carmichael’s Act
sought to regulate quality, price and divs.
The experiment broke down, having
failed, among other things, to provide
for increased costs. Instead of 10 p.c. on
old and 7 p.c. on new capital, the Act
of 1918 aimed at standardising the div.
at 8 p.c., and made the question of allow-
ances for depreciation, etc., more specific.
Then, when hard times came in 1932,
another Act was passed, lowering the
standard rate of div. from 8 p.c. to 6 p.c.,
and placing the industry under control of
a commission—one member representing
the Government, one the cos. and an-
other the employees. The idea was to
allow the cos. to distribute 6 p.c. after
paying exes., including interest on loan
funds, and setting aside not more than
3 p.c. (3i p.c. under the previous Act) of
the capital outlay on buildings and plant
for special purposes and depreciation.
Since the outbreak of war with Ger-
many in September last, conditions have
changed again. The keynote of the
national fiscal policy is cheap money
combined with an effort to prevent the
cost of living from rising too rapidly.
So, although rising costs reduced t c
net earnings last term by £49,228, §
the profit at only 4.8 p.c. on
capital—the share-register now totals
£4,B6o,ooo—the Government has reruseu
the co.’s application to increase the p i
of gas sufficiently to enable a 6 p.c. •
to be paid ; and this after the P osltl
had been investigated and the increase
recommended by the commission
Further reference appears on page Z 5.
One effect of the Government s deci-
sion has been a sharp drop m the price
of the scrip in the market. The t.-p.
A shares, which fetched £7 4s. 6d. a ±e \
weeks ago, are now priced at £6 145., ai
which figure the yield would be 4.5 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. div. basis. This is only a . tr J“ e
over 1 p.c. more than the yield obtainable
from long-dated Government stock—m
Queensland 2 p.c. is considered a tair
margin from electric-supply undertaK-
ings—and approx, quarter of 1 p.c. above
what the co.’s debenture capital is costing
it. Considering the security in all three
cases the return in favor of shareholders
at the current price is too small. To most
shareholders, however, the return from a
5 p.c. div. is less than the average cost ot
the debenture capital and less than 1 p.c.
above the yield from long-dated Govern-
ment stock. Since the present Act came
into force, the co. has sold 125,000 shares,
which brought with them £125,500 of
share premiums, making the average
return 4.2 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
The following tabulated analysis of the
co.’s revenue and expenditure shows what
has happened:
r- 1938 x/ 1939 \
Per Per
1000 e.f. 1000 c -j.
ftales • s. d. s *
Gas’.. .. £2,010,550 5 9 £2,092,300 5 9
Residuals . . 191,123 51 1’
Meter rents, etc. 33,965 11 32,7/0 1
Total ..£2,295,638 641 £2,304,763 6 4
Manufac. and „
distrib. exes. 1,343,468 3 81 1,388,905 3 9i
Other charges 300,625 91 327,379 10|
Interest . . 115,754 4 117,003 3f
Depreciation, etc. 254,239 8J 239,150 8
Total outgo. £2,014,086 5 7 £2,072,438 5 81
Gas sales (7276-odd million e.f.) increased
by over 80.6 million e.f., and there was a
substantial increase in sale of appliances,
too. But less was received from residuals,
leaving total income only £9125 better.
The net growth in exes, was £58,352,
mainly on account of heavier coal, wages
and tax bills. The allowance for depre-
ciation, etc., was £15,089 lower at
£239,150. It doesn’t appear to be
adequate to enable the co. to keep abreast
of modern technical improvements and
inventions, and that is a policy which
will benefit neither shareholders nor con-
sumers in the long run. To pay the
6 p.c. div., free reserves had to be tapped
for £55,304, reducing them to £1776.
During the year £210,000 of fresh share
capital was gathered ; it brought with it
£29,206 of share premiums—all shares are
sold at auction, which means that there
are no pickings for those on the register
by way of new issues.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 60,489 71 p.c. = 56,250 4,239 86,410
Jan.,
1932*. 56,695 6} ~ „ 46,875 9,820 96,230
1933.. 52,188 61 „ „ 46,875 5,313 101,543
1934.. 38,058 5 „ „ 37,500 558 102,101
1935.. 37,158 5 „ ~ 37,500 .101,759
1936 . 42,754 5 „ „ 37,500 5,254 107,013
1937.. 58,088 5.8 „ „ 43,750 14,338 121,351
19,38 65,145 61 ~ „ 46,875 7 13 270 134 6 21
To staff fund, £oooo . . )
1939.. 51,233 6l p.c. = 46,875 4,358 138,979
1940.. 49,352 61 ~ „ 46,875 2,477 141,400
*l3 months.
This South Sea offshoot of B.P. and Co.
took over the Island section of the
parent’s organisation in 1920 for £500,000
in scrip, and B.P.’s shareholders put up
a further £250,000 (cash), making paid
capital £750,000, at which the figure has
remained steady since. The policy has
been to pay regular but moderate divs.
(the average over the last 20 years being
6.1 p.c.), and extend and strengthen the
business out of earnings, visible and
otherwise. It is this policy which enhances
the investment possibilities of the scrip,
especially as a holding proposition.
The board, however, has sounded a
note of caution which suggests that those
who are looking for an early lift in the
div. rate might be disappointed. “Control


toeAustralian^^GasLightCommy/
“1952” REGISTERED DEBENTURE LOAN OF
ISSUED
AT PAR
£250,000
441
CURRENCY
12 YEARS
Interest payable half-yearly on Ist May and Ist November. Principal repayable Ist May, 1952.
TRUSTEE FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS: PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED), SYDNEY
Minimum
Subscription,
£lOO.
Principal and Interest of this and existing Debenture Loans are secured by a floating
charge over the whole of the undertaking, property and assets of the Company, both
present and future (including the reserve liability of £6 per share on the 739,167
“A” shares already issued) amounting to no less than £13,000,000.
No dividend can be declared, or profits divided, until provision has been made for
payment of ALL debenture interest.
LOAN NOW OPEN
CLOSING NOT LATER THAN WEDNESDAY, 15th MAY, 1940.
| EARLY APPLICATION ESSENTIAL AS ALLOTMENTS WILL BE MADE DAILY.
APPLY TO ANY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA OF
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
(The Company’s Banker)
or through Head Office of The Australian Gas Light Company, Haymarket, Sydney, or through members of recognised
Stock Exchanges. LOAN UNDERWRITTEN BY J. B. WERE & SON
Subscriptions
Payable i n
Full or by
Instalments.
by Island Governments of imports, com-
modity prices and exchange has the effect
of limiting the earning capacity of the
co., and it is expected that these condi-
tions will prevail during the period of
the war,” the chairman says. Also, ship-
ping freights and insurance costs are up,
and Britain appears to be well stocked
with copra. Supplies are already accumu-
lating at wharves and jetties, and might
go on doing so until more urgently-
needed products are reaching Britain in
satisfactory quantities. The Mexican
market, the only other one available at
the moment, is restricted and uncertain.
Much of the gain to growers from the
higher war price of copra might, there-
fore, prove more apparent than real be-
fore long. At Sept. 30 the British Govern-
ment fixed the price of South Seas copra
at £l2 (stg.) per ton —the stuff was fetch-
ing £9 7s. 6d. a ton at the outbreak of
war —but reduced the figure by 7s. 6d. on
Oct. 13.
The market, however, believes that
most of what the co. misses one way it
picks up in others, and prices the pound
ords. at 265. 6d. as against 255. a year
ago and 275. 12 months before that. The
return at 265. 6d. is 4.7 p.c. on a 6* p.c.
div. basis. Visibly the backing is 235. 9d.
in net tangibles.
Despite the low price of copra, the
co.’s gross earnings from all sources—it
does a large merchandise, shipping and
finance (advances to planters and others
connected with Island enterprise) as well
as copra, cocoa, trochus shell, timber,
ivory nut, beche-de-mer, etc., business —
sprang £7414: —
Gross Exes. p.c.
Dee., Profit. Exes. of Gross.
1927 .. .. 161,785 97,681 60.4
1929 .. .. 192,137 129,142 67.2
1930 .. .. 185,060 124,571 67.0
Jan.,
1932 .. .. 169,182 112,487 66.4
1934 .. .. 147,700 109,642 74.2
1935 .. . . 137,507 100,349 72.9
1936 .. .. 153,393 110,639 72.1
1937 .. .. 180,189 122,101 67.8
1938 ~ .. 203,465 138,320 68.1
1939 .. .. 184,269 133,036 72.2
1940 ... . . 191,683 142,331 74.3
Including allowances of £23,568 (up
£519) for depreciation and £21,896 (up
£7645) for bad debts, exes, took all the
gain and £lBBl besides, leaving the net
result at 6.5 p.c. on capital as against
6.8, 8.7, 7.7, 5.7, 4.9, 5, 6.9, 7.5 and 8 p.c.
back to 1930. The div. was kept at 6| p.c.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the
financial structure:
1936. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £750,000 £ 750,000 £760,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 30,724 46,089 48,348 55,708
Properties, "j f
wharves, etc. ) 554,179 1 274,872 314,226 384,546
Investments J I 266,356 264,564 258,096
Stocks, etc. .. 158,898 178.562 127,830 98,803
Book debts . . 175,498 190,202 163,221
Cash . . . . 36,662 61,132 65,504 67,498
Although the Tulagi, a motor vessel built
for trade between the Islands and Pacific
Coast ports of N. America, was trans-
ferred to the parent (B.P. and Co.) on
completion, shipping and other properties
were up £70,320 last term. Only £7360
was added to the amount coming to out-
siders ; stocks were reduced by £29,027,
book debts by £26,981 and investments
by £6468. The year’s contraction in the
more or less liquid surplus (£531,910) was
£67,842. But the money apparently went
into assets which might be expected to
show a better net return in the long run.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
, —Dividends—\Writ-
Pref. Ord. ten To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. 124 p.c. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1930.. 47,445 9000 25,000 782 12,663 103,876
1931.. 3,406 9000 Nil 731 97,551
5 p.c.
1932.. 11,168 9000 10,000 683 89,036
1933.. 19,774 9000 10,000 710 64 89,100
3J p.c.
1934.. 17.311 9000 7,500 769 42 89,142
5 p.c.
1935.. 20,807 9000 10,000 1015 792 89,934
74 p.c.
1936.. 29,912 9000 15,000 987 4.925 94,859
10 p.c.
1937.. 31,012 9000 20,000 968 1,044 95,903
1938.. 33,962 9000 20,000 1001 3,961 99.864
1939.. 30,022 9000 20,000 911 111 99,975
1940.. 30,230 9000 20,000 816 414 100,389
The narrow margin between earnings
and distributions suggests that the 10 p.c.
div. is likely to be very sensitive to
fluctuations in trading conditions. .Sub-
ject to industrial developments, the im-
mediate outlook favors maintenance of
trade turnovers around their present high
levels —for a while, at any rate —thanks
to better prices for our most important
exports under the Imperial purchase
scheme, defence expenditure, higher
wage-rajtes and increased employment.
Melbourne softgoods retailers, especially
those who cater largely for working-
class trade, report sales up to 20 p.c.
above the level of a year ago. Most
textile manufacturers are working over-
time, too —not only are defence orders
heavy and urgent, but the check to im-
ports has strengthened the demand from
local retailers, who are keeping substan-
tial stocks on their shelves to guard
against rising prices and other contin-
gencies. But rising costs, including taxa-
tion, direct and indirect, are likely to
keep net earnings in check. Neither taxa-
tion nor Government borrowing has yet
absorbed much of the surplus cash
available. Trading results for retailers
will largely depend upon shrewd buying
and the management’s ability to keep a
tight hold upon outgoings.
This co., which buys and sells mostly
on a cash basis, specialises largely in
men’s wear, and its big and attractive
store is at the corner of Bourke and
Elizabeth streets, opposite the G.P.0.,
around which a large section of the
shopping public flows. During the 12
months covered by the latest accounts,
turnover showed a “satisfactory increase.”
After providing for taxation and other
including £Bl6 for depre-
ciation (shown as written off in the table),
the board figured net earnings at £29,414
(up £303), or sufficient to pay the prefs.
their 9 p.c. (£9000) and show 10.2 p.c.
on the £200,000 of ord. capital, com-
pared with 10, 11.9 and 11 p.c. for the
three preceding terms. The £414 that
remained lifted the tangible support and
assistance for capital to £100,389 —good-
will (£16,659) is not treated as an asset
herein.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1920. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £70,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. 36,100 105,052 105,222 106,232
Property, etc. 40,199 412,253 412,253 414,888
Plant, etc. .. 4,714 7,036 7,077 6,360
Shares in other
cos 5,804 5,804 5,804
Stocks . . 98,819 79,278 85,493 88,140
Book debts .. 5,054 5,492 5,724 6,127
Cash, etc. .. 20,465 16,091 13,847 10,348
Chief movements last term were the net
addition of £2635 to property and £2653
to stocks. Cash, etc., was drawn upon
for £3499 and £lO6O was added to the
outside debt, of which £99,000 was mort-
gages on the freehold. The floating debt
is well covered.
The subsidiary, London Stores Cafe,
Ltd. (paid capital £13,860), made a small
loss (£B6), but it helped to bring people
to the shop, and assisted spending in
other directions.
The market, doubtful of the future,
prices the pound ords. at 255. 9d. as
against 28s. 3d. a year ago, and 30s. 12
months before that. The return at 255.
9d. is 7.7 p.c. so long as the 10 p.c. div.
continues. The prefs., which are tightly
held, seldom come on to the market.
The net tangible cover is £4 prefs. and
30s. ords.
Australian Gas Light Co.
Australian Gas, Sydney, has received
Treasury sanction to raise a further
quarter-million at par in 12-year deben-
tures. The money is wanted for works
extension. Underwritten by J. B. Were
and Son, the issue carries interest at the
attractive rate of £4 2s. 6d. p.c., and is
secured on the whole of the assets of the
co., including the reserve liability of £6
on each of the 739,167 issued A shares,
total value of the cover exceeding
£13,000,000.
Debenture capital will thus be raised
to £2f millions, on which the annual
service charge—it ranks, of course, be-
fore divs. to shareholders —will call for
£llB,llO on the basis of last term’s
figures. There was then £330,123
available to meet the bill after providing
for all other outgoings.
The rate offered is approximately in
line with that obtainable from existing
A.G. debentures on the open market —
they are not easy to buy—is slightly more
favorable than the return on Sydney
Water Board’s issues, is almost £1 p.c.
higher than the average bond yield, and
compares with £3 15s. p.c. being offered
by the Vic. Grain Elevators Board and
the Credit Though the down-
ward trend of bond yields has been tem-
porarily arrested, a continuance of cheap-
money conditions can be looked for so
far as lies in officialdom’s and the bank-
ing system’s powers.
Market for Ngahere Gold Dredging,
whose property lies near the Arahura
area at Grey River (M.L.), has had a
fainting spell, and with a big parcel of
scrip on offer “unofficial” quotations for
the pound shares dropped from 255. to
165., then recovered to 19s. At the cur-
rent figure the shares would be cheap if
prospectus estimates can be realised. The
unsettling feature of the situation is that,
after four months’ digging, recoveries have
not yet come near expectations, while a
broken tumbler is at present a temporary
addition to the management’s worries.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O’CONNELL S TREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwr.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Chairman) ; J. Beresford Grant (Vice-Chairman) ;
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; Colin A. Sinclair; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET
l ; '«w
m
C.ORO
MzMiwgMr* ••* >
A/
0
Wffit
‘.nur-iiv /• i
1*
p. ?Sdi
i
>v n!* 1 I ONDON. %
?Mn
* COMP ANY
Isii
SC
f '*r
'*rs
"’*r
•'tv,
f* --Hi:
g f ; ;
■* ‘!J:‘;I;;jj r ;}y.ißijil..
*fr r
m
{s r
m
P/ty
ton
fff&ni
«Sg®
s a)
Gordon’s
m// //#& mote
but iti WELL wottkit!
TANQUERAY, GORDON & CO
LTD. LONDON. ENGLAND
Jhe lahgett gin diStilleM in the woild
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
sdf
sd
Who pays
them
after
youre
gone*?
Should you die suddenly,
would your wife and family
be able to settle the numerous
monthly bills and balance the-
budget?
YOU CAN SECURE THEIR
FUTURE
. . . , whatever happen*
Assure your life with the
EQUITABLE
PROBATE am.
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane.
Wingello House. Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, CoUins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
The bore plan showed a remarkably even
distribution of values, the average recover-
able grade being estimated at 3gr. gold,
Though the dredge—designed by Alluvial
Mining Equipment, which was respon-
sible for the efficient Arahura and Kanieri
plants, it should be capable of much
better yardage than so far achieved—
has been in wash a bit below this aver-
age, recoveries to date have been around
fgr’ only, which isn’t covering operating
exes. The “Wild Cat” understands that
the plant is now to be turned into what
should be better-grade wash, so share-
holders should shortly be able to see
more clearly where they stand. Mean-
time, some checkboring in the dredge
path appears called for. There is a fairly
substantial load of debt in the way of
returns to shareholders, but this would,
of course, be a matter of comparatively
small moment if the returns early looked
for commence to filter through.
* * *• *
The Victoria was a famous line of lode
on Charters Towers (N.Q.) 40 years ago,
coming only after the Day Dawn and
the Brilliant. A small opening in the
No. 2 East Victoria lately, a mine not
yet employing a dozen men, has resulted
in the location of a modest shoot on the
old Victoria line. The present location
was one of the richest on the Towers,
and the striking of a 2oz. reef in these
workings may mean much. At present
it is only 6in. wide, but has been followed
for 20ft. In another part of the work-
ings a foot of 18dwt. ore has been
located. The party’s crushing of 18 tons
gave 240 z. gold. They can keep in mind
that Dick Craven just 50 years ago
chased 4in. of quartz (cut in the Brilliant
P.C. shaft) on to victory and fortune.
Mt. Miller manganese mine, near
Gladstone (Q.), recently taken up on
behalf of the B.H. Prop., has been the
chief producer of the State in the past.
It was held by Mt. Morgan, Ltd., when
it used the chlorination process, but
has been idle for many years. Yet
it is close to deep water on the Calliope
estuary, and output, though on the small
side (1000 tons annually), was remark-
able for the purity of some shipments,
These touched 76 p.c. of dioxide at times,
Workings appear to be no deeper than
200 ft., and the widest section of ore at
any one level was 30ft. Summing up,
B.H.P. appears to have the chance of
developing a high-grade and possibly ex-
tensive manganese deposit in Mt. Miller,
It lies eight miles s.-w. of Gladstone port,
* * * *
Wallis Day Dawn, Charters Towers, is
actively pursuing the Day Dawn inter-
sections well below the 100 ft. level in
its leasehold. It is now below the No. 9
pi a t on a reasonably wide forma-
tion anc i sinking on 4in. to lOin. of
lightly mineralised quartz, hugging the
walls. The splitting of the reef like this
does a ppear inimical to the proximity
G f a branch reef junctioning with the
ma j n Day Dawn lode. The intersec-
tionists are increasing in C.T. since Clark’s
theory worked so well at the Black Jack,
an d some solid sidewagers have been
i a id on the results of the present sinking
of the Wallis underlie,
* * * *
Triton earnings (£116,167 net in the
’39 term) may show some reduction for
the year that closed on March 31. The
plant has handled over 10,000 tons
monthly, but for the latest 12-monthly
period millings were 105,691 (down 5717)
tons, and the gold yield 30570 z. lighter
at 32,6550 z recovery of 6.2dwt., as
against 6.4dwt. In the last three months
of the term the average yield was little
above s.Bdwt., and the market is now
paying Bs. 9d. for the 10s. shares, which
went to a trifle above par in 1939. Divs.
have been maintained at Is. a share
( = £48,000), but substantially better should
be possible when the call for develop-
ment, both on the Mararoa and the near-
by Rand leases, becomes lighter.
* * * *
The time for issuing the annual report,
declaration of a final dividend and an-
nouncement of date of annual meeting
by North Kalgurli (W.A.) is approaching.
Management’s estimate of ore reserves is
expected to exceed a million tons, and
that of average grade to be a little down
on the previous year’s figure. A shilling
distribution, making 2s. for the year, is
tipped. New 6000-ton-a-month plant is
expected to start shortly. When it does
the monthly gold return from the co.’s
property should show a substantial rise.
At present 11,000 tons a month is
treated by the Perseverance plant. Co.’s
holding is opening up exceptionally well
at depth, especially the Kalgurli section.
* * * *
South Kalgurli, on the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile, showed a drop of £lO,OOO
in working surplus for the year to March
and about £14,500 on the figure of two
years ago. These results reflect the
gradual impoverishment of the gold-
carriers at depth. Payable ore in the
main mine is slowly but surely becoming
exhausted, and it is to the Hainault
section that the co. looks to help it along
in the future. More than half the present
market value of shares is represented
by cash and sound investments.
* * * *
Cox’s Find mine (W.A.), operated by
Western Mining Corporation (holding a
75 p.c. interest) and Central Gold, N.L.
(25 p.c. interest), yielded 11,362 fine
ounces of gold last year, compared with
16,915 fine ounces for the previous 12
months. Depth, it is stated, has brought
its worries and disappointments. Apart
from difficulties in locating payable ore,
the ground has proved troublesome.
* * * *
Adelaide Mines Development, one of
a number of small goldmining ventures
which have more assurance than cash, has
sold 100,000 forfeited shares at 6d. and
taken an option over the Bell Chambers
mine near Sandstone (W.A.). Co. is
advised that a satisfactory grade of ore
has been mined in sections of the prop-
erty and that the ore-body is widening
and going strongly underfoot. It will be
interesting to see how this turns out.
* * * *
Adelaide-controlled Kangaroo has
hopped to Norseman (W.A.) and taken
an option over the Venture block there.
Several small gold returns have been got
by the prospectors. Kangaroo was
floated during the Patricia boomlet
several years ago. Later it moved from
Patricia to Kanowna, where it struck a
dud in the Last Chance mine.
* * * *
The question is asked in the West,
How much ore has to be treated to get
an ounce of gold? One reply is that,
on an average, between three and four
tons is necessary, but there are some
big variations. Mt. Magnet Gold Mines,
a record-low-grade ore-treater, has to
put through nearly 8i tons to get an
ounce of fine gold. Big Bell treats nearly
1\ tons and Wiluna 6i tons for the same
return. Of the mines on the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile, Lake View and South Kal-
gurli get on ounce out of about tons,
Gt. Boulder from 3| tons, Boulder Per-
severance and Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie
from about three tons, Paringa from a
little under 4\ tons and North Kalgurli
from a little over 2\ tons. Outside the
Golden Mile, Sons of Gwalia secures an
ounce from every 2.9 tons, Norseman
from about four tons, Triton from
approximately 3i tons, Youanmi from
3.7 tons, Moonlight Wiluna (Gold Fields
Australian Development Co.) about 2>\
tons, Lancefield four tons and Ora Banda
Amalgamated 2.4 tons.
* * * *
“Throgmorton”: Britain is still a
buyer of aluminium in big lots. Its
recent purchase of the entire outputs
of British and Canadian Aluminium cos.
involves some 104,000 tons on known
production figures, valued at about
£10,400,000. In addition, the British
Government has arranged for substantial
increases in output by both cos., suffi-
cient in the case of the Canadian con-
cern alone to bring its capacity almost
to Germany’s 130,000 to 140,000 tons
a year. Basic prices approximately
equal to those current in the United
Kingdom and Canada before the war
have been agreed to. Output of alu-
minium in Britain in 1939 was about
24,000 tons. There has since been a
rapid increase in production, with the
objective of 48,000 tons p.a. The
Canadian co. produced about 56,000
tons in 1939, but big extensions in plant
were made at a cost of £1,400,000.
* ♦ ♦
Details of the briefly cabled con-
cessions to the South African gold-
mining industry, announced in the
Budget, show that the mines subject
to a new tax are to be allowed, from
January 1, 1940, the full market
price of gold, less realisation charges
at present borne by the Union
Treasury. The value of gold in S. African
currency at the time the Budget was
delivered was 168 s. an ounce, an all-
time record. After the outbreak of the
war the mines had received 150 s. an
ounce, the balance going to the Gov-
ernment. In return for this concession,
a special contribution of £3,500,000
is to be imposed on the industry, to
be derived from a 9 p.c. levy on
taxable income, before deduction of
redemption allowance and loss brought
forward. According to Finance Minister
Hofmeyr it had been stated that the gold-
mining industry had spent £78,000,000
on capital account since December, 1932.
But it was a very considerable over-
statement to say that, owing to the policy
of the Government and the resultant
shock to the confidence of the investing
public, the stream of capital would dry
up. There were the limiting factors of
native labor, of war and the system of
Treasury control. A further overstate-
ment was that the Government’s policy
militated against the working of lower-
grade ore ; but there were four large
mines on the Rand field in danger of
closing down in the next 15 months
unless the mining of lower-grade ore was
stimulated. Such stimulation would
also mean extending the general life of
the industry. He was satisfied that modi-
fication of the Government’s policy
could achieve this. The loss to the
State must be made up in another way.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
C.R.W.: See page 23, this issue, for full
explanation G.K.A.-P.: Better leave the
proposition alone W.N.J.: Suggest a parcel
of shares comprising Adelaide Steam, Castle-
maine Perkins brewery, Cumberland Paper
ord., B.H. Proprietary (possibly obtainable
at a lower figure later) and Kandos Cement,
with a hundred Arthur Cocks at 21s. 6d. (this
co. is somewhat affected by import restrictions,
but the shares are good holding) and the
same number of shares in New Broken Hill
Consolidated. All shares quoted on Sydney
’Change. New B:H. Consolidated doesn’t
pay divs. at present, but its future is encourag-
ing W.H.B.B.: The £100 sterling legacy you
collected was worth £125 in Australia. There-
fore the £125 Australian was worth only £100
sterling. That is why it costs £125 today to
send £100 sterling to London. The bank ex-
change isn’t 25 p.c. The 25 p.c. represents
the extent to which our money has inflated (or
depreciated) in comparison with sterling. The
banks get about 10s. out of the £125 Australian.
... .N.H.C.: “If Germany were victorious in
this war” the position of Australian invest-
ments in the U.S.A. would depend on whether
the U.S.A. recognised German conquest. If
conquest were recognised, then the rest would
depend on the attitude of the invaders, a point
on which one guess is permitted.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
*3
m
w*
tr
m
n
u
m
i
HIBH
'*«e-
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
Manager W. G. Bulfin
SMOKE-OH!
You can’t put an old head on young
shoulders unless you’re a sugar-daddy.
*i* b b
“New American stratoliners, forerunners of
100-passenger ’planes which will streak across
the Atlantic without a stop.”
So next time some dictator starts a
war, Yanks can be home in bed before
the guns roar.
b b
“Every time the police went looking for him
he seemed to melt away.”
Must have made it too hot for him.
b b
“Copra is piling up in N.G.” — “Sun.”
That’s N.B.G.
b b b b
“Rural Germans are permitted to shoot
one game-bird only per fortnight.”
—News item.
One Reich. One Fiihrer. One Bustard.
b b b
“To hell with Russia and the Communists!”
—Voice at W.A. meeting of A.W.U.
Old Nick will resent this.
b b b
“Throttle Control Plan.”
What will these Prohibitionists think
of next!
b b -I- *l*
“When firmness is required the father is
the better parent.”— Women’s paper.
One word from the children and he
does as they like.
•P •b b
“He said he was going down to the hotel
for a ‘taste.’ He stayed three hours and was
angry when she asked how many drinks he
had had.” — Divorce evidence.
Well, there’s no accounting for tastes.
b b b b
“Some men behave in their own homes like
mad dogs.”— Women’s paper.
Especially those nights when they bark
their shins on the rearranged furniture.
b b b b
“Skim milk is used in the manufacture of
buttons.”— “World’s News.”
The trouble with skim-milk buttons is
that they too easily become separated
from a suit.
b b b b
In other days daughters told their
mothers where they were going ; nowa-
days they tell them where to go to.
Murder in a Yankee Magazine.
It says “Continued page sixty-seven.”
It looks as though Lulu’s in for a bit
of trouble. They’ve proved that the
fingerprints on the dagger are hers;
but I’ll bet it’s Carteret. I’d like to
know where he was when the shot was
fired. Sixty-seven. What’s this?—page
ninety-three. I must have passed it. I’d
say that Mrs. Kane had something to
do with it too. Page fifty-four—dammit,
I’ve come back too far. After all, she
stood to gain more out of it than any-
one. Page eighty-two. I’ve gone past it
again. Another thing is the power she
seems to hold over Geoffrey Bantling.
Page thirty-nine. What page am I look-
ing for, anyway? Yes, sixty-seven. What
I’d like to know is why the Judge was
killed, anyway. Page eighty-nine. It
must have been something to do with
his first wife. Page fifty. Where the
hell is page sixty-seven, anyway!
Hooray! Here it is: “The great de-
tective drew himself to full height and
gazed about the room. His movements
were slow and deliberate. A deathly
silence had settled over the room. Slowly
he turned to the assembled guests. His
face showed no emotion.
“ ‘The murderer is,’ he said”
(“Continued next month.”)
But it won’t be now the blighted
Government’s gone and banned it.
Dollar Tote.
“The new boarder looked a little drawn.”
— Extract, short story.
When he saw how he was quartered?
-I- b
“The authoress has travelled extensively from
one end of Australia to the other.”
—Literary gossip.
Just like a woman to beat about the
bush.
b b b b
“Miss Hazel Hicks, of London, has col-
lected 250 specimens of bells.”
— “World’s News.”
In fact, all except the type rung at
weddings.
“Cook charged with bigamy.”— News item.
In a bit of a stew.
“How can I prevent my shoes from creak-
ing?” asks correspondent.
Take them off before you tiptoe past
the bedroom door.
“IF we keep sinking ’em at this rate We'll be doing ourselves out of a
bloomin' job."
Tragedy.
“Wedding, then Jail.” — “D.T.”
No sweet domestic bliss for him,
As Hymen’s lamp went quickly dim ;
His Muse was stark Melpomene.
And so his plans were rearranged.
For overnight his orbit changed
From harmony to hominy.
P.S.C.
Fatty Degeneration.
Counsel: “You’re an even-tempered man?”
Witness: “Yes —I'm stout, and fat men have
got to be pleasant.”— Court report.
If you are lean it’s quite all right
(If you can run ) to buy a fight.
But, if you’re buxom like a barrel,
It’s suicide, old boy, to quarrel.
No, only midgets safely speak
Their piece and give a ton of cheek!
P.O.M.C.
Bluntly Speaking.
I’ve achieved my big ambition,
Now contentment crowns my life;
I’ve had dinner at a cafe
And I used a sharpetted knife !
E.
Termites for Profit.
“Borers and White Ant Cream, Bs. gallon
delivered.” — Advt. in “S.M.H.”
The city-dweller who sips his tumbler
of borer and white-ant milk (the two are
usually blended), or pours the thick,
luscious cream over his stewed apricots,
knows little or nothing of the fascinating
means employed in obtaining this highly
nutritious food.
As it is manifestly impossible to milk
the tiny creatures by hand, pioneers in
this pastoral activity were hard put to
it to evolve an efficient method of ex-
tracting the lacteal fluid by other means.
Early experimenters grappled with the
problem of training ants, aphis or even
sandflies to do the work, but found the
intractability of these insects too hard
on their trainers. Then Ivor Scrooloose,
a N.S.W. north coast dairyman, got an
unemployed circus hand to train suffi-
cient fleas (who have no union, and who
are impervious to white-anting) to place
the milking of his herd on a profitable
basis. Since then the industry has never
looked back.
Today it is a common sight to see a
well-stocked termite dairyman marshal-
ling some 8,000,000 head of prime milk-
ing borers and anything up to 16,000,000
head of sleek white-ants into the milk-
ing-yard. After the wonderful spectacle
of the milking by thousands of trained
fleas, the herd are turned out to graze
on slats of succulent deal.
P.S.C.
Sympathy.
Day by day and year by year,
My love for you grows bigger.
For, after all, it has to, dear,
To keep pace with your figger.
PATON.
Dumb Friends.
“Do you know what it is this week?”
asked Euphemia suddenly as she put
down the paper she had been scanning
for the rag advts.
“How do you mean?” I asked, sparring
for time. It wasn’t the wedding anniver-
sary—at least, I didn’t think it was —nor
her own or her mother’s birthday. I was
still thinking furiously when she broke
in. “It’s Kindness to Animals Week.
I’ve just been thinking it’s up to you to
take more interest in it and show more
consideration for the animals in your own
household. You might refrain from kick-
ing the cat, and by exercising special re-
straint drop the brick you are aiming at
Pongo when the little darling is getting
some much-needed exercise —you never
give him any—by burying a bone some-
where in the garden. And I don’t think
you’ve even spoken to the canary once
since I bought it. How would you like
to be ignored or ill-treated if you were
a dumb animal?”
I could have pointed out that by no
stretch of imagination could a canary
be classified as an animal; and that in
any case, if it was dumb, then the shrill,
monotonous whistling that disturbed my
slumbers at an unearthly hour every
morning must have been imitated by a
ventriloquial butcher-bird. Instead, I
merely asked by what means did she
propose that I celebrate this particular
Week.
“Well,” Euphemia replied, “for the
rest of the year it is left for me to see
that the animals have sufficient to eat
and drink, are kept cleaned and have a
comfortable place to sleep. It might
give you a better understanding of the
faithfulness of our dumb friends if you
were to attend to their wants.”
The upshot was that I decided to do
something about it right away as the
alternative to entering into a long argu-
ment about it, the culmination of which
would have been that I’d be doing it
just the same. So when Euphemia went
up the road to do a bit of shopping I
made a start.
Now, I like a dog about the place who,
after you’ve rolled him about and pulled
his ears till he yelps, leaps up on you in
a surge of playfulness and gives you an ex-
cuse to have a wrestle with him on the
carpet. Also, I like him to be funny
looking—all hair and whiskers and a grin.
But Pongo is a miniature Pom. who
wears a perpetual sneer, and who, I
fancy, haughtily looks upon me as an in-
truder. Anyway, Pongo looked overdue
for a bath, so I dragged out the baby’s
bath on to the dining-room floor, filled
it with cold water, put some lysol into
it and got out a bar of washing-soap.
But some sixth sense seemed to warn
the imitation tyke when it saw the tub,
for he tore into the bedroom and dived
under the wardrobe.
You’d have thought that the prospect
of having all the fleas on him knocked
cold by the lysol would have appealed
to him, but by the way he cowered
under the furniture he didn’t appreciate
kindness. However, he came out with
the aid of the crooked handle of an
umbrella, and in he went. The fuss he
kicked up would have been disheartening
to anyone less enthusiastic than I was
becoming. He particularly objected to
my holding his four feet and immersing
him, so that when he got upright again
he violently shook the suds off him. It was
when I let him go to wipe them out of
my eyes that he leaped out and made a
dash for the open back door.
Vowing to get him later, I grabbed the
cat, who was sitting licking from his
whiskers the last of the half pint of
cream I had found for him in
the refrigerator. He, too pro-
tested at the bath and slipped
out of my hands. As I
reached over to recover him
1 trod on the edge of the
bath, and as I hopped up to
grab my shin I fell against
the open door of the refrig-
erator, which slammed shut
on the cat’s whiskers, im-
prisoning them.
It was at that moment that
Pongo, hearing the key being
put in the front door by his
returning mistress, tore back
in again through the lounge-room into
the hall, the mud from his still-dripping
rat-tails of hair dropping on the carpet.
To say that Euphemia’s eyes stuck out
like hatpegs when she beheld the trans-
formation of her pampered darling, the
soggy cat standing in a pool of water
trying to free his whiskers from the
refrigerator, the upturned bath nearly
afloat and the canary lying on its side —
I had poured some whisky in its drink-
ing water, thinking that a bit of whoopee
would be in keeping with the spirit of the
week—is to understate her expression.
The hour following my initiation into
the real meaning of Kindness to Animals
Week was somewhat torrid, but I con-
tend it was worth it. I shouldn’t be
troubled when the next celebration comes
around.
BO.


GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters.
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Mi 1t
1
i
■
AUSTRALIA-ITALIA
S&WPDNK& ©§>»MO^i!m
249 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman).
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman).
Owen E. Friend.
Robert J. A. Massie. Geoffrey F. Hughes.
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices Throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Investment Control
The Australian defence operation, plus
the effect of the war on the rest of the
world, shows up from day to day in new
developments in our economic life.
More rigid control of finance is very
apparent, interest rates and new capital
issues being particularly subject to man-
agement. Imports from non-sterling
countries are being further restricted in
order to save unnecessary calls on our
reserves of foreign exchange, and price
control is in wide operation. There is no
wage control beyond that of the Arbitra-
tion Courts. Prices which we are receiv-
ing for many of our export products are
fixed for long periods, in some cases for
the duration of the war.
The other day the Commonwealth
Treasurer, P. C. Spender, said that
war-time investment regulations were
to be applied with “increasing severity”
in order to assist the Government in its
mobilisation of resources. The authori-
ties were already finding a shortage of
certain types of labor (boilermakers are
an instance) and materials, growing more
acute as time went on. Measures are
being taken to make the best use of
the skill and materials available; hence
the stricter control of new business ven-
tures now being enforced. There is still
a good deal of official waste and bun-
gling of course ; though part of this is
perhaps inevitable, it should grow less
with time.
In order to conserve available money
for the development of essential indus-
tries, Treasurer Spender explains that he
has refused permission for capital issues
to finance new retail businesses, chain
stores, cash-order cos., hire-purchase
concerns and some amusement under-
takings. The National Security (Capital
Issues) Regulations were primarily de-
signed “to avoid the dissipation in non-
essential enterprises of resources required
for the furtherance of Australia’s war
effort,” especially where certain resources
are insufficient for the general require-
ments of defence and civil industry.
Mr. Spender has expanded the reasons
for the Government’s action in the fol-
lowing words:
If unrestricted competition is allowed
for resources, supply costs and prices will
rise, and while neither the Government
nor anyone else will get all the labor or
materials they require the economy will be
dislocated and the community in general will
be worse off. With the rapid growth or
our war undertaking, which extends and
makes more urgent the Government’s need
for all kinds of resources, the regulations
will have to be applied with increasing
severity. Already it has been found neces-
sary to reject proposals which would not
have expanded any essential industry,
assisted the exchange position, or done any-
thing more than duplicate existing facili-
ties which are already adequate.
Apparently Mr. Spender’s keen legal
mind is backed up with the more mature
and experienced financial advice of the
Commonwealth Bank. No Australian
will be prepared to believe that the
Federal Government is doing a 100 p.c.
efficient job in anything remotely con-
nected with money, but it can be fairly
said that the utterances of the Treasurer
indicate that someone within or near to
the Government understands the diffi-
culties of the present situation and is at
least doing something about it. Remark-
able success, for the time being at any
rate, has been achieved in regard to
interest rates and prices:
The Stock Exchanges are also being
watched. Mr. Spender mentions bonus
issues:
Issues of bonus shares based upon a re-
valuation of assets or capitalisation of
goodwill could not, unless there were
special circumstances to warrant it, be
permitted at a time like the present. Such
transactions serve no major national pur-
pose and have the effect of needlessly
widening the investment market. Other
proposals have had to be rejected because
they would have led to the unnecessary
importation of materials or equipment
from non-sterling countries.
Any undue boom on ’Change will mean
that inflation is creeping into the finan-
cial system from Pitt and Collins streets.
It will also, mean a mushroom-like com-
petition in the money market with Gov-
ernment war loans. A rise of 10 p.c. in
share values on ’Change wouldn’t give
one extra job to anyone, but the extra
money changing hands in turnover of
investments might, if put into approved
new industries instead, create work for
thousands and be of real national ser-
vice.
The Federal Government, in deciding
who shall be allowed to raise new capi-
tal, is looking well ahead. Mr. Spender
again:
It is vital also that we should keep post-
war necessities in view. The curtailment of
defence works and the release of men from
the fighting services will create a major
problem of re-employment. Secondary
industries, whether producing for the home
market or for export, will be experiencing
competitive pressure at a time when inter-
national considerations may limit the extent
to which tariff protection can be given to
them. Under such conditions, some indus-
tries which had sprung up or expanded
under war conditions might fare very badly.
All very sound advice, too. With excess-
profits tax well on the way, investors
should pay only a small premium for
war-profits prospects.
The wool clip is nearly all appraised
now, though not all of it has been
shipped. The money has been coming in
steadily, with beneficial results to the
banking system. Terms of payment pro-
vided for 90 p.c. of the proceeds to be
paid to the grower within 14 days of
appraisement, with 10 p.c. to be
paid after the close of the season. Thus
approximately a month’s revenue will
be due to come in after appraisement
ceases. So far the higher prices for our
exported products haven’t resulted in a
noticeably improved balance of trade ;
but it is difficult to say how much wool,
etc., sold under contract has left these
shores, so that there may be a lag in the
crediting of exports, whereas the debit of
imports has been accelerated owing to
merchants’ anxiety to get in ahead of
the restrictions. Users of dollar credits
find their importing facilities dwindling
from month to month.
sic * * *
Adelaide Steam shares (B. 17/4/’4O)
have shown a recovery in the market
from the 325. 6d. at which they stood
when attention was drawn to them. Last
week they sold at 345. 3d. in Adelaide,
and there was a general inquiry for the
scrip in other States. The co. is in a
very snug position despite the upsetting
effects of war and the coal strike. Its
fleet is worth considerably more than
book value, especially when the war’s
effect on prices for merchant tonnage is
taken into account.
* * * *
North Coast Steam shares have been
outstandingly strong of late. At 475. 6d.
last week they notched the record price
of post-depression years. The div. at
present is 9 p.c., and the yield 3| p.c. on
the market price. Next div., a final, is
payable in July. The N. S. Wales North
Coast is benefiting from war-time prices
for export butter just now, and the
drought has broken.
Huddart Parker shares, for some time
particularly buoyant—they reached 60s.
3d. at one time this year— havedropped
back. Last week they sold at 565., yiei
ing 5 p.c.
* * *
On the Sydney unlisted investment
section the scrip of Narooma Canneries
has been quoted at 255. buyer, 60s. seller
no sales recorded. Interesting, especially
in view of the increasing attention being
given to fish-oil, fish-meal and
fish production on the N. S. Wales coast,
but by itself not very informative.
* * * *
Swan Brewery (W.A.) shares have ha a
a smart rise in Melbourne. At the e-
ginning of the year they were below 3Us ,
last week there was turnover at 345. me
market apparently looks for a div. in-
crease (a final is payable in June), since
bonus issues are frowned on for the dura-
tion under the National Emergency regu-
lations. A 25 p.c. div. has been paid
on the ss. ords. for the past three years
in distributions of 10 p.c. (interim) and
15 p.c. (final). At 345., yield on a 25 p.c.
div. basis is 4 p.c.
* * * *
In N. S. Wales during 1938 an average
of 30 p.c. of the first-mortgage business
transacted carried interest of 4\ p.c. oi
less. In 1935 46 p.c. of the business done
had been in this category, a gradual rise
in interest rates occurring in the inter-
vening years. In 1939 only 18 p.c. of
the mortgages carried 4\ p.c. or less;
between 5 p.c. and 6 p.c. became the pre-
dominant category. Since the outbreak
of war the 4\ p.c. class of business has
shrunk still further, while more 5-6 p.c.
business has been done. Even in March,
when the Treasury had the bond market
well under control, with the average yield
from Consols down to about £3 7s. per
cent., there was little or no tendency for
mortgage yields to shorten, though a
steadying in the rise of rates did occur.
Mortgage interest rates are to be given
more attention by the Treasury, and some
reduction may become evident later.
* * * *
Felt and Textiles ords. notched 40s. 9d.
last week, highest price since 1937. Apart
from Feltex the co. and its subsidiaries
turn out wool-tops, yarn, woollen textiles,
slippers, etc., and it is the largest maker
of carpets in Australia, approaching that
position in Maoriland also.
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop, shares recovered,
from 445. to 465. 9d. after announcement
of a 74 p.c. div., then turnover became
noticeably light at the higher figure. On
a 1\ p.c. div. basis the yield at last
week’s price is 3.2 p.c.
* * * *
Last week the general manager of the
State Savings Bank of Victoria an-
nounced that the majority of holders of
the maturing Credit Foncier loan would
be converting into the £3 15s. per cent,
loan, and what they didn’t take would be
subscribed for by the Savings Bank itself.
The maturing loan carried interest at
p.c., subject to statutory deduction.


A
LET
ATLAS,
CARRY THE
L BURDEN }
R
HjjkSS fj*
Established 1808.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or. Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queenslaid Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South A'js. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and .Now Zealand,
*7## lAj&ifA'
to cut the Cost
of Country Rudio
m
mm
Here's two ways to cut the
cost of country radio. One
is to buy one of the new
1.4-volt country sets. Uses
only two "B" Batteries in-
stead of three, and an im-
proved Eveready "A" Bat-
tery that eliminates the
need for the inconvenient
accumulator with its fre-
quent recharging costs...
• • •
Another way is to insist on
Eveready Radio Batteries
every time you buy a new
set or make replacements.
Long recognised as "Aus-
tralia's Best Batteries," they
give a smoother flow of
power and a longer period
of serviceable life.
For details of latest'l.4 volt country radios write to Dept. B.
EVEREADY (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
eVEREADy
Around 5 p.c. Annual Yield
with Safety
Your investment —even as little as £2s—in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
gives you an interest in 20 leading Companies yielding, at present
prices, around 5 % per annum. Moreover, your investment is
definitely safeguarded by Custodian Trustees: Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd.
Now is your opportunity to share in the increasing activity of Industrial
undertakings. Write for Booklet No. 1, post free, on request to the
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
■: 8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Australian Price of Gold
Hal Colebatch, of Westralia, and
others have lately been questioning the
fairness of the Australian gold price,
which is £lO 13s. 3d. per fine ounce, less
the tax of about 16s. an ounce. The
English price of gold is £8 Bs. an ounce,
which works out at £lO 10s. in Australian
money; but the Bank of England’s price
doesn’t tally with the official exchange
rate on New York of 4.035 dollars to
the £. With gold at 34.9125 dollars per
ounce in America, at 4.035 dollars to the
£ gold becomes worth approximately
£8 13s. 6d. in sterling or £lO 16s. 4d. in
Australian money. As mentioned pre-
viously, the Commonwealth Bank’s price
is £lO 13s. 3d., a difference of 3s. Id. an
ounce.
Last week Mr. Spender, the Federal
Treasurer, replied to criticism of the
Australian gold price. In his answer he
said:
At present the London price for gold is
£8 Bs. sterling a fine ounce. After deduct-
ing realisation costs in connection with
shipment of gold from Australia to Lon-
don, this is at present equivalent to an
Australian price of £lO 3s. 6d. a fine ounce.
In practice the gold is not sold in Lon-
don, but in America, where a higher price
is obtained, and the price received by the
bank for such gold, less realisation ex-
penses, is paid to the producer. Payment
in America is received at the rate of
34.9125 dollars a fine ounce. These dollars
are sold at the official rate of 4.035 dollars
to £1 sterling, which gives a gross price of
£8 13s. sterling a fine ounce. The Aus-
tralian equivalent of this is £lO 16s. 4d. a
fine ounce, and the price of £lO 13s. 3d.
at present being paid to the gold-producer
represents this gross price, less realisation
expenses.
Viewed from this angle, the only ques-
tion the goldminer has to argue about
is the deduction of 3s. Id. per ounce for
realisation exes. Before war broke out
the London price of gold was £7 Bs. 6d.
an ounce for several months, and during
most of this period the mint price in
Australia was approximately £9 ss. an
ounce in our currency. The London
price of £7 Bs. 6d. sterling an ounce, con-
verted to Australian currency, became
roughly £9 ss. Bd. Thus there was less
than a shilling an ounce deducted during
this period for realisation exes., etc.
At the present time realisation costs
may be higher than pre-war—insurance
charges are very likely greater —but, if
so, Mr. Spender wouldn’t have been out
of order in explaining the increases in
some detail. As it is, a difference of
over 2s. an ounce has to be taken for
granted.
There is another aspect of the price
of gold in New York —what the metal
would fetch if exchanged for sterling in
the unofficial market. A short time ago
sterling sold as low as 3.23 dollars to the
£ in the unofficial market, and on this
basis gold was worth £l3 10s. Australian
in New York. At last week’s quote of
3.50 dollars the price was approximately
£l2 10s. in Australian money.
Speaking with regard to this “free
market price for gold, Mr. Spender says,
with complete justice:
The free market arises from transactions
by persons outside the Empire control who
desire to exchange sterling for other cur-
rencies, and, being unable to do so through
the official channels, accept for their
sterling a lower price than would be avail-
able if the Empire authorities were pre-
pared to sell them dollars.
The free market is very narrow, and if
the dollars accruing from the sale of gold
from all Empire sources were diverted
from the official market to the free market,
it is almost certain that the increased
demand for free sterling would result in a
rise of the free market rate to the level of
the official rate.
Were Australia to utilise the outside
market for the purpose of obtaining a
higher sterling price for its dollars, such
higher price could only be obtained by
facilitating transactions that the authori-
ties desire to prevent, and the dollars sold
by us would be lost to Australia and the
Empire, instead of being available for war
and other essential purposes.
The last paragraph is intended to em-
phasise that, if we sell our gold for
sterling held by foreigners at however
attractive a rate, we lose the dollars so
necessary for pursuing this war. Gold
is in much the same category as wool in
this respect; it must be sold, as far as
possible, through official channels for
as much foreign exchange as can be got
in return.
In spite of the fact that the bonus
issue made recently by Broken Hill Pro-
prietary came entirely from the capitali-
sation of share premiums, Maoriland
holders of the scrip are to be socked for
income tax. The Commissioner of
Taxes has made the following ruling:
For income-tax purposes the value of
the bonus shares allotted is deemed to be
a dividend, and should be included in
page four, Part A, of the income-tax return
form relating to income from dividends,
etc.
For Social Security contribution pur-
poses, the “paid-up” value of the bonus
shares is deemed to be a dividend, and
should be included in line (vi) of the Social
Security declaration of income other than
salary or wages.
The attitude taken by the Commissioner
is entirely unfair. The bonus shares have
already been paid for in share premiums
by shareholders. They are in no sense
profits. Perhaps the Commissioner will
see the light when the nature of the
bonus issue has been explained to him.
Otherwise litigation seems a certainty.
* * * *
The poor old Sydney gas cos. are
caught in the toils of war, the coal strike
and politics. Ordinarily they are entitled
to apply for an increase in the price of
gas when their 6 p.c. div. is in danger.
This time the biggest of them, the
A.G.L., has been told, in effect, by the
State Cabinet that there’s no harm in
applying, but it won’t be granted per-
mission to raise the price. A special
board of inquiry had recommended a lift
in the price, but the Government appar-
ently was “politically” afraid to sanc-
tion a rise in existing circumstances, or
else it was advised against an increase
by those who believe that a stable cost
of living would be a great advantage to
us during this war. This paper has for
a long while been advocating measures
to stabilise the cost of living, but it
doesn’t believe in making fish of one and
flesh of another. Perhaps by economis-
ing here and there the gas cos. will be
able to maintain their 6 p.c. div., or
cause any reduction to be a small one ;
that is something they themselves are
best able to speak about. But if in-
creased manufacturing costs are not to
be taken into account in this case, then
they shouldn’t be considered when fix-
ing the price of electricity, rail fares,
bread or milk. It was the present leader
of the N. S. Wales Government who
made that intellectual contribution to our
war effort: “Companies should try to
keep their dividends at existing levels
during the war or else reduce them.”
He didn’t seem to realise that profits
came before dividends, and that prices
and costs came before profits. Also, he
didn’t mention that politicians’ salaries,
etc., were an item of cost in taxation
account. If the refusal of the Govern-
ment to sanction an increase in the price
of gas is part of a well-considered plan
to stop rising living costs on all sides, in-
cluding perhaps part of the rise in the
basic wage, then it deserves the greatest
consideration before condemnation. But
if it is just political fright, then it be-
comes quite another matter. The question
deserves wide attention because of the
principle involved.
Last time the gas cos. had their div.
cut (from 8 p.c. to 6 p.c.) there was an
almost universal drop of 4s. 6d. in the £
in interest rates, rents, wages, etc. At
the moment Government loans are yield-
ing little more than when the Premiers’
Plan was operating most effectively
* * * *
David lones ord. shares revived quickly
last week. They sold at 31s. 3d. at the
end of March, but the latest market is
in the vicinity of 345. Farmer’s scrip has
risen from 245. 3d. to 265. 9d. in the
same period. Apparently the improved
trading results of McDowells and Finney
Isles (Brisbane) have given fresh heart
to supporters of retailer stocks. In
Melbourne Myer shares have been
rather dull, after a well-sustained rise,
and G. J. Coles ords. have reacted from
a recent recovery. Woolworths ords.
have been a trifle firmer lately.
***!>•
Income from war savings certificates
is to be made free of 'Federal income tax.
* * * *
Yarra Falls scrip was perhaps the
only stock to touch a new war-time
“high - ' lately. There was turnover
in Melbourne and Sydney at 435. 9d., and
buyers were still unsatisfied at that price.
An interim div. of a shilling a share was
paid on April 4. The co. is a big and
successful manufacturer of woollen yarns,
worsteds and other suitings, and it con-
trols the Globe Worsted Mills in Sydney.
It has participated in defence orders.
Divs. of 10 p.c. are customary.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
STALIN TRAPPED IN FINLAND.
[According to the argument that may be drawn
from the article by Demaree Bess here condensed from
the “Saturday Evening Post,” the Allies were wise not
to be drawn into the war in Finland, a Nazi trap which
failed to catch them, but into which Stalin fell.]
I have endeavored to trace through half a dozen
European capitals the chain of events which led to
the Russian invasion of Finland. The story gradually
unravelled is a revelation of Nazi intrigue and Bol-
shevik credulity.
Nazi Germany encouraged Stalin’s assault upon
Finland. Nazi leaders conceived the idea that Finland
could be used as a trap to ensnare some, if not all,
of their principal antagonists. But of their intended
victims, only one swallowed the bait. That one was
Stalin.
When Stalin closed the deal with Hitler upon
which he had been working ever since Litvinov’s
dismissal, the world recognised that Stalin had decided
to play world politics according to the ancient axiom,
might makes right. The only question was how well
he could play this brutal game. We know the answer
to that question now. We know that Stalin, when he
emerged from his seclusion in Moscow’s Kremlin to
participate personally in the European game, proved
to be a tremendous flop. He let himself be beguiled
into a trap which ordinary animal cunning should
have detected.
If there is one country in the world today which
cannot afford to get into a major war, that country
is Russia, with her half-baked industrial system and
soggy army. From Russia’s viewpoint, Stalin might
have justified his cold-blooded deal with Hitler if he
had thereby purchased for Russia immunity from war
and at the same time provoked the great Powers into
flying at one another’s throats.
In the first months after August he seemed to
be doing just that. He improved his own position in
relation to the rest of Europe, including Germany,
by setting up strategic defences in Poland and in the
three Baltic States. Nothing appeared likely to prevent
him from gradually extending his defensive outposts
into Finland and Rumania and the Transcaucasus.
Until last November Stalin, more than any other ruler
in Europe, was independent of the outcome of the
Allied-German war. Then he launched his attempted
lightning war against Finland. No despotic ruler has
ever thrown away more advantages as the result of
one false step. By this single move the Bolshevik
dictator sacrificed in large part his ascendancy over
Hitler. He completely upset his own timetable for
establishing further defensive positions in the Balkans.
He glaringly exposed the military and economic
rottenness of his regime. Above all, he forfeited the
Russian isolation from the Allied-German war which
he had purchased with the Soviet-German Pact. In-
stead, he himself dragged that war right on to his
northern doorstep.
How could Stalin possibly make such a blunder?
From behind the censorship in Moscow the infor-
mation has reached me that Stalin was tricked. He
was lured into his Finnish adventure by German
advisers who had gained his confidence, and by some
of his own intimates, who concealed vast ignorance
beneath an appearance of self-confidence. He was
also misled, no doubt, by his own swelling conceit,
fed by a decade of absolute power.
Stalin intended at first to strangle Finland
economically, and thus extort from the Finns the
strategic bases which he desired. For this purpose
he required only time and patience. He knew that
Germany would not interfere with an economic
blockade of Finland, and his experts assured him that
Finland could not hold out against this form of pres-
sure for more than a few months. Stalin is cautious
by nature, and this method of wearing down Finnish
resistance would have appealed to him normally. But
since last August every cartoonist and commentator
in Western Europe and America has pictured him as
the smartest of all the smart power politicians. The
outside world has joined with his own sycophantic
press in paying tribute to his unequalled cunning. It
is not surprising that Stalin himself may have been
taken in and that he threw off his habitual caution.
I have been given access to unpublished diplo-
matic reports of events in Moscow which immediately
preceded the Finnish invasion. Hitler’s emissaries
were then in constant touch with Stalin. Could the
Germans have believed that Stalin would quickly
overrun Finland? All the evidence points in the
opposite direction. After their own experiences with
the Red army in Poland, German officers had openly
expressed their contempt for its organisation. And
Germans knew, better than anyone else, the difficulty
of the Finnish terrain and the wonderful staying
qualities of Finnish soldiers.
If the Soviet army chiefs had private doubts
about the advisability of a winter campaign in Finland
they were in no position to express them. The shadow
of the Red army purges still hangs heavy over the
Russian staff, whose officers have seen what happens
to men who venture to contradict Stalin and his
intimates.
The scheme worked out by Stalin and his adviser
Zhdanov proposed, after overrunning Finland in a
week, to issue immediate ultimatums to Rumania and
Turkey. The Kremlin leaders were so confident of
easy victory in Finland that, at the very moment the
Red army began its invasion, Stalin’s agents in Moscow
informed Balkan diplomats stationed there just what
was going to happen to their countries. The leaders
of Rumania and Turkey were to be told: “You see
what happened to the rulers of the Baltic States who
capitulated to our demands. They are still in power.
And you see what happened to the rulers of Finland
who dared to resist our demands. You can make
your choice. Which shall it be?”
It is difficult now to recall how thoroughly
Russia’s prestige has been undermined by the Finnish
war. It is hard to remember that only a few months
ago Stalin was believed to hold the whip hand over
Hitler in Eastern Europe and to be the shrewdest and
most cunning of all the dictators. Not even the
German General Staff could be absolutely certain
last November about the real striking power of Stalin’s
armies, and Hitler himself was not sure about how
tightly he could harness Russia as a strong partner,
but a docile colony. And Russia is a lot closer to
being a German colony now than it was last
November.
For the purpose of putting Stalin in his place,
Finland, from the Nazi viewpoint, was the perfect
trap. Germany is so situated geographically that it
dominates the shores of the Baltic. If things went as
Germans expected they could keep the Finnish war
going indefinitely by tolerating and supplementing
help from other countries while Stalin’s prestige fell
and his military strength was drained. If any hitches
occurred in this German scheme, then safeguards had
been arranged. It has, in fact, been definitely estab-
lished that Hitler himself sent aid to Finland in the
early weeks of the Russian invasion, and he continued
this help until the British radio stations advertised
"Haagsche Postthe Hogue,
NAZI SEA WARFARE-DUTCH VIEW.
"Let fly — it's a small neutral!"
what he was doing, thus embarrassing the Nazis in
their dealings with Stalin, and forcing them to put
an end to their peculiar philanthropy. The Finns
themselves, and all those who helped them, realised
from the outset that Germany, because of her geo-
graphical position, might intervene decisively in
Finland at any moment the Nazi leaders chose.
This factor had to be taken into consideration by
Britain and France when the Finnish war broke out.
The Allies recognised that if they permitted themselves
to become too deeply involved in the Finnish war they
would fall into the same Nazi trap which had snared
Stalin.
Division of the Polish Loot.
[lt was strongly represented at the time that Soviet
Russia had the better of the deal in dividing the Polish
loot, and this was represented as a surprising blow to the
Nazis. Clever men, like Mr. Bernard Shaw, chuckled
hugely over the Nazis’ supposed discomfiture. J. Cang,
in the article here condensed from London “Nineteenth
Century,” shows who really had the better of it.]
Russia, although she received most of the Polish
territories, obtained fewer inhabitants and the poorer
part of them. The rich, creative elements as well as
the main Polish industries and big towns are under
Germany. Of the ten big Polish cities, Germany
received eight, Russia only two —Lwow, with 318,000
inhabitants, and Vilno, 210,000. Warsaw, with
1,200,000 people; Lodz, with 700,000; Poznan,
270,000 ; Cracow, 255,000, and the others, including
Lublin, 120,000, and Gdynia, with 130,000, are all
under Germany. It is in the German part that the
most densely populated areas in Poland are found.
And it is here, too, that Poland’s best cultivated farms,
leading industries, iron, steel and textile, as well as
coalmines, are placed. About 60 per cent, of the
large, highly modernised and productive estates in
the country fell into German hands.
Whilst Russia shared in the division of Polish
soil, farms, forests, horses and cattle, she was almost
completely excluded from most of the other spoils.
Germany’s biggest gains were the Polish coalmines
and Polish industries, of which Russia was given
only a fraction. As a coal-producing country Poland
ranked seventh on the list. She had 70 working mines
in three districts, the Silesian, the Cracow and the
Dombrowa district, with some 65,000 miners, producing
over 30,000,000 tons of coal annually. In September,
1938, Teschen returned to Poland, adding new rich
coalmines to those already possessed. All of them
went to Germany.
The Polish saltmines near Cracow, amongst the
largest in the world, also fell into German hands. The
flooding of these mines would have been an easy
matter, for a lake of considerable extent actually
flows just by the side of the saltmines underground
in Wieliczka. They were left undestroyed, and tne
Nazis are now exploiting them for their own us •
Southern Poland, producing some 500,01 K tons
of crude oil annually, is under Russia but, witn tne
exception of a few cement, paper, leather and ruDoer
factories, almost 90 per cent, of Poland s indust
fell into German hands. Thus the complete Fohsn
steel and iron industry, situated chiefly in Silesia
Western Poland, is now under Germany. One or
largest steel and iron concerns in the world, tne
Wspolnota Interesow, with the finest, most modern
smelting works in Europe, is in Katowice, Polisn
Silesia, occupied by German troops almost on the
first day of the war. Before the war over 20,000
workers were employed by that concern, wnicn in
recent years was controlled by the Polish State, as
well as several hundred engineers, inventors and some
5000 officials. Polish tin, zinc, lead, pig-iron and
rolled-iron plants and works all came under German
domination. Poland was fifth among the producers
of zinc in the world, and came before Britain.
Russia got a good part of Poland’s alcohol, sugar
and tobacco industries, as well as a fair share of her
timber industry, but more than two-thirds of Poland s
textile industry fell into German hands. Of some
10,000 textile establishments in Poland, employing
normally some 200,000 men, Germany obtained well
near 7000. .
The Polish electrotechnical and chemical industries
largely fell into German hands, having been situated
chiefly in Central and Western Poland. Three-quarters
of Poland’s 5000 chemical establishments went to
Germany. The Polish leather industry was divided
in half. Russia obtained the most up-to-date Polish
rubber factories, but only a fraction of the Polish
paper works, some of them the most modern in
existence. Most of the Polish armament industry and
armament factories went to the Germans.
Altogether Germany obtained 180,000 Polish
industrial establishments, factories, plants, etc., and
Russia only 72,000. If the booty could be converted
into pounds and shillings it would be safe to say that
Germany obtained more than two-thirds of the wealth
and wealth-producing establishments in Poland.
Soviet War Policy.
(From a London “National Review” article by Sir
Francis Lindley.)
In estimating Soviet policy it is necessary to
remember that the Communist, or Bolshevik, party
is not a Russian party and does not pretend to be
one. It is an international party.
Being an international party the Bolsheviks
naturally follow an international and not a Russian
foreign policy. Whilst Russia is their citadel and the
base of operations they are ready to defend, they
have never concealed that their aim is world revo-
lution, which, according to their creed, can only be
brought about by massacring all those suspected of
being opposed to it. Their goal is not money or
territory, but naked power over men.
Once this cardinal fact is mastered, their foreign
policy is easily understood and foreseen. It is to
foster unrest and discontent in every country and get
the leadership of the discontented into their hands.
Parties differ according to circumstances. In China
and India full support is given to nationalisms —
though nationalism is, in fact, the antithesis of
Bolshevism. Elsewhere strikes are fomented and such
slogans as the “United Front” or the “Peace Front”
are shouted. It is only when what they call in their
jargon a “revolutionary situation” has arisen that they
come into the open. Then, as happened in Spain,
they take the lead, openly supply arms and men to
the revolutionaries and carry out mass murders accord-
ing to a technique carefully worked out in detail
beforehand.
Being an international body it is natural that
they should be adepts at propaganda, of which they
have made a profound study. Their constant praise
of peace and denunciation of aggression lose none
of their weight elsewhere merely because the Russians
had robbed China of the whole of Outer Mongolia
and Chinese Turkestan ruining thousands of
struggling Indian traders in the process. Even when
they stabbed Poland in the back a British Cabinet
Minister found it quite natural that they should wish
for a better frontier against aggressive Germany.
None the less, there is a grain of truth in the
Soviet love of peace. It takes the form of fear of
war for themselves. They know better than Britain’s
intellectuals and Left-Wing prelates the feet of clay
on which their Colossus stands. Whilst striving by
every means to produce a great war and thus a
“revolutionary situation” somewhere, the last thing
they want is to become involved themselves. Outer
Mongolia, Chinese Turkestan, Estonia, Latvia, a
Poland beaten to her knees by Germany were all
tasty morsels swallowed without need of mastication.
Finland would never have been touched had the
Bolsheviks had a suspicion of her quality.
It is in the light of the foregoing that one must
judge of the probable action of the Soviets in this
war. Finland’s blow to their prestige was a serious
matter for them. They live on prestige, make-believe
and the popular delusion that quantity is of more
account than quality.
After their experience in Finland it is most
unlikely that the Soviets will attack any other country
save as jackals of the Germans. If the latter lay
Rumania low, the Bolsheviks will no doubt claim their
slice. They may even get it; for the Germans have
their measure and are confident that, when they have
won the war as they expect, they will have no trouble
with the Soviets.
Nor will the Bolsheviks put themselves out to
supply the Germans. So long as the latter are in a


FOR HOME DEFENCE
□
i
n
r
PURE GRAPE
BRANDY
good position they will get little from Moscow. It
is only when they are being worsted that the Soviets
will try to keep the Germans going. Some eighteen
months ago a highly-placed and exuberant Soviet
official cried exultantly to his British opposite num-
ber: “Now we have got the war going.” He was
wrong then; but the Soviet-German agreement made
him right only about a year later. Now they have
got their war going the Soviets will do all they can
to keep it going. They may even develop a wish
to help the Great Democracies if the latter get into
a tight place.
A word about the neutrals. Much as the neutrals
as a whole detest and fear the Germans, they have,
at any rate till quite recently, hated and feared the
Soviets more. The reason is simple. Conquest by
Germany meant the extinction of political and national
freedom. Conquest by the Soviets meant all this
and loss of religion, life and property as well.
Whether German methods as practised in Poland
and Czechoslovakia have caused the neutrals to revise
their views I do not know.
For us Germany must be Enemy No. 1 in this
war. The combination of immense military strength
and gangster mentality is a danger to the existence
both of the Empire and of Christian civilisation. But
make no mistake that for the Bolsheviks the British
Empire is Enemy No. 1. Anyone who thinks that
any good can conceivably come from Moscow is living
in a fool’s paradise.
Union of Democracies.
[The notions for a new regulated world put for-
ward in Clarence K. Streit’s Union Now are stirring
the same heady enthusiasms that were formerly raised by
the Teague of Nations. In England, for instance, the
“World Review,” which was once an excellent review
of world affairs, has become almost wholly an organ
of Union propaganda. Union Now proposed a federa-
tion of democracies; what its devotees assume is that all
the required democracies, including the U.S.A., would
be willing to join. The following comment on the
book and the idea from an American point of view
is from a “Saturday Evening Post” leader.]
Union Now, by Clarence K. Streit, an American
journalist, has had a sudden career. There is an
organised campaign behind it, with committees,
bureaus, speakers, funds, and, in Europe, a distin-
guished British sponsorship. A militant cult appears
to have formed about it in a spontaneous manner,
treating it as the political Koran of a new world.
We have read the book. What it proposes is a
federation of 15 democracies —namely, the United
States, Great Britain, Canada, Australia, New Zealand,
Union of South Africa, Ireland, France, Belgium, Hol-
land, Switzerland, Denmark, Norway, Sweden and
Finland —in the form of a supreme world Government,
with a Constitution, an executive, a Legislature, a judi-
ciary, and a common citizenship ; with the ultimate
power to make war and peace, to make treaties, to
issue money and to regulate trade.
The military strength of this federation would be
such that it could be reduced one half and still stand
as two to one against all the rest of the world. Its
economic strength would be even more formidable,
since, to begin with, it would own half the earth,
control two-thirds of all trade and possess a practical
monopoly of raw materials. What could survive
against it? Other nations would be permitted to join
only provided the people in them overthrew their dic-
tators and embraced democracy.
Do you think of democracy as a principle of
human freedom? Most people would say they do.
Yet among those who would say they do are these
now proposing to impose democracy upon the whole
world by force. Is the democracy they think of as a
principle of human freedom the same as the democ-
racy they would make universal by supreme power of
armament and economic monopoly? Any nation
that had not the good fortune to be one of the 15
founding democracies would still be free. But free
to do what? Free to embrace democracy as the new
world Government should define it or perish in the
margins of the earth. It might be good for them
whether they knew it or not; it might make them hap-
pier though they believed it not. But is this the voice
of democracy?
If it is, then we can imagine even a stranger
thing than a tyranny of freedom. We can imagine
that democracy might conquer the world and lose itself.
How the French View Federation
(From a London “Nineteenth Century” article by
Odette Keun.)
In itself, the idea of a European Federation
awakens a keen interest in France. It is in con-
formity with the rationalistic faith in the intelligence
and progress of mankind ; it appeals to the very deep
sentiment of European solidarity with which the
French are impregnated; and it admittedly repre-
sents the ultimate form of European order, liberty
and prosperity.
But French opinion reacts strongly against the
extravagant ardor for immediate Federation which
one finds in England. Clarence Streit’s Union Now,
which set the ball rolling, struck the French intelli-
gentsia as peculiarly naive, and shocked them by a
sort of prophetic dogmatism which betrayed both a
preposterous over-simplification of thought and an
enormous ignorance of the concrete realities of
Europe. The recent literary outpourings on the same
topic by English Left Wing writers seem quite as
incongruous, quite as devoid of any perception of the
true nature of European problems.
Most of the Anglo-Saxon Federal Unionists float
on clouds of futile words far above the intricate web
of European actualities ; they make of Federation a
cult, a fetish, a panacea which they apply without
any discrimination to all the European tangles simul-
taneously, recognising neither the complications and
ramifications of these subjects nor the different con-
ceptions of human freedom that prevail in various
countries. They appear to attribute to Federation
the miraculous power to transform, not only the
solutions of problems, but the very terms of the
problems themselves, and, arguing from these sense-
less postulates, they reject the need for “guarantees,”
for “security,” for the “protection” of any nation
and the lessons of experience.
The conclusion to be drawn from their astounding
political sentimentality is that you have but to decree
Federation and human nature will automatically
exercise all the qualities specific to the angels. Nothing
“Daily Mirror,” London.
BRITAIN’S NON-SECRET WAR WEAPON.
“Money tight, Adolf?”
can be further from French realism than the dream-
stuff so interminably exuded by H. G. Wells, for
example, and his fellow-Utopians, leading from
nowhere to nowhere, a fabric spun for a moment by
irresponsible blowers-of-bubbles and romantic trailers-
of-mists.
The French know the past of Europe too well
to suppose that Federation will not upset —perhaps
tragically upset traditional mentalities, emotions,
habits of living ; or that it will not provoke resistance
—perhaps desperate resistance, dangerous for the
whole project. Partly an intellectual, partly a peasant
people, they feel instinctively what care is required
to bring to maturity a cornfield, a vineyard, a
cathedral, a nation: in the same way they feel that
a long phase of adaptation and acclimatisation is
required before a new idea grows such deep roots
in the realities as will render it stronger than events,
or strong enough to influence and direct events.
France will make up its mind about a European
Union after it sees how the Anglo-French partnership
works during the war. The hope, entertained with an
unprecedented intensity, is that England will not pull
out of Europe as she did after the last peace ; will not
crazily preach Collective Pacifism instead of erecting
Collective Security ; will not compel France to resort
again, in a dreadful search for self-preservation, to
Continental expedients and wobbly treaties, or to a
drastic smashing of Germany in the post-war era: one
of which two things must take place unless England
puts her men and her wealth into the sustained policing
of Europe, and turns at long last into a Good Euro-
pean relying not on international machinery to co-
ordinate the affairs of the distracted Old World, but
on active, concrete and responsible leadership in them.
Above all things, the French trust that the two
great Western democracies will form a consortium, a
“Grand Alliance,” moral, military, economic and
political—the core, in fact, of a subsequent European
Federation, which congenial States will be invited to
join as associates, and from which they will reap
material benefits of many kinds, as well as the cer-
tainty that their national existence will never
jeopardised in the future. More than the institution
of an order that will allow every country of goodwill
to evolve normally and traditionally, yet in a larger
unity, with far greater economic advantages at its dis-
posal, and a stabler assurance of peace than ever
before, the French are not prepared to envisage at
present. The monomaniacal American visions of
gigantic business (for which, presumably, the Allies
alone are to clear the ground), the impracticable Eng-
lish visions of an international government —not to
mention the insane fantasy of a planet-wide fusion —
are not the design of the new world on which is set
the heart of this reasonable and adult people.
Wiping Out German Jewry.
o Condensed from a Berlin correspondent’s article in
London “Spectator.”)
At the end of this war German Jewry will have
ceased to exist.
In Germany, including the Sudeten territory but
not Austria, there are living today some 185,000 Jews.
At the time of the Nazi Revolution in 1933 the
number was 550,000. Out of the present 185,000 not
more than 16 per cent, can follow an occupation. To
the overwhelming majority, both their
former trades and any others are closed for
ever. They have no longer any income or
any property, and must henceforward de-
pend on public or private relief.
In Austria there were living in 1933
about 180,000 Jews. Today the number
is 66,000.
The situation of the Jews in Poland
is the worst of all. The whole Jewish popu-
lation of the Protectorate is deprived of
rights, is subject to forced labor, and the
regulations which prevail in Himmler’s con-
centration camps in the Reich, in Austria
and the Protectorate are for them regarded
as normal. From the first day of the Ger-
man invasion, the Jews were immediately
subjected to forced labor, their businesses
were closed, their properties sequestrated.
They could no longer exercise their pro-
fessions. Thousands were arrested, hun-
dreds shot. Since December, 1939, all
Jews in the Polish territories must wear a
visible emblem which marks them out as
Jews.
So far about 60,000 Jews from the oid
Reich, Austria, Bohemia, Moravia and West
Poland have been dispatched to the Lublin
“special reserve.” This year all Jews who
have not been able to emigrate will be trans-
ported from the old Reich and Austria,
150,000 from Bohemia and Moravia, 200,000 from
the West Polish provinces, and in addition the Jews
from Warsaw and the rest of the German-Polish
territories. The Third Reich, with the Protectorate
and the new Polish provinces, will then be completely
“Jew-free,” and Judaism will be completely wiped
out.
Reynaud, France’s Premier.
(Condensed from a “Time and Tide” article by
Ellen Wilkinson, M.P.)
Below average height, Paul Reynaud does not
seem a small man. Slim and athletic, he has none
of the reserve of a Leon Blum. He is eager to meet
all kinds of people. Enemies have called him a social
climber. But if there is any person at a party known
to have a different point of view, an unusual angle
on things, that is the one Paul Reynaud talks to.
Reynaud is personally the best-known French
politician among English politicians, partly because
he speaks English so well, quickly and idiomatically.
His English is characteristic of him. He has always
felt that the closest touch with England was essential
to French security.
He started well to the Right—was known as a
“bankers’ man” well into the nineteen-thirties. Now
he is being denounced for bringing back too much
Left influence into French government. This at least
is a change from the Briands, Millerands, Clemenceaus
who were the reddest revolutionaries in their youth,
and each of whom before he died used the whole
forces of the State to suppress the most legitimate of


social discontent. From Left to Right has been the
one-way traffic of French politicians. Reynaud in-
troduces a new direction, and for the same reason
that the others always gave for their reaction —his
love for France.
France is cursed with a small but powerful group
(loosely called les deux cent families, though that
strictly is a technical term) who are the heirs of the
emigre traditions of 1789. They make no secret of
the fact that, even in time of war, their first pre-
occupation is to down the French working class and
that they are willing to do so at practically any price.
Flandin has become the leader in the Chamber of
these Right tendencies, and Reynaud began with
Flandin. The gulf between Reynaud and Flandin
has grown because of this issue. Reynaud is no
Socialist. But he senses the impossibility of running
France at any time with a hostile and suspicious work-
ing class. He knows that to attempt this in time of
war is to court disaster.
Since he left the Flandin crowd, Reynaud has had
no real party. He has been steadily independent.
Against the malignity of some of the biggest names
in French politics he had to make his own way. He
is greatly dependent on the magnanimity of L6on
Blum, whose Cabinet he himself brought to ruin be-
cause he would not join it in the day of greatest stress
of the Front Populaire. Blum has sent lesser Socialists
into the Cabinet, and stayed outside, not wanting to
bring on the new Government the fierce hatred that
his inclusion would ensure. Reynaud has also his
own reputation. He has been involved in no financial
scandals. The name “Stavisky” can be mentioned
in his presence. He is not hated by the workmen,
though he called for the sacrifice of much they had
won.
These are big advantages but they carry with
them the wrath of the Right. On whether patriotic
appeals will be as successful when made to les deux
cent families as when they are made to the millions
of workers and peasants of France depends certainly
the fate of the Reynaud Government, and perhaps
even the fate of France in this war.
Peace with Justice.
[Herbert Charleson, writer of the article here con-
densed from London “Daily Telegraph,” attacks the
tendency, very common in discussion of peace aims
in Britain, to be much concerned about justice in the
long run for Germany, and not so much concerned
about justice for others.]
Much British thought on war and peace aims is
based on the acceptance of assumptions widely re-
garded as axiomatic. “We are fighting Hitlerism, and
not the German people”; “The peace treaty must
leave the German people with no Cause for com-
plaint”; “The errors committed at Versailles are at
the root of our troubles.”
Frenchmen would reply that something more con-
crete than the equitable treatment of the German
people is required if Europe is to be ensured against
the menace of German aggressiveness. They would
point out that the demand for “justice to the German
people” can in no circumstances be allowed to take
precedence over the demands for “justice” to the
Polish, Czech and French peoples. And they would
perhaps inquire whether the Treaty of Versailles,
which is blamed for German aggressiveness in 1939,
was equally responsible for German policy in 1870
and 1914.
In their concern for “the German people” many
Englishmen overlook that the “justice” which is de-
manded may be obtainable only by sacrificing the
claims to justice advanced by Germany’s neighbors.
Is it possible to inflict defeat upon Germany with-
out leaving, by that very fact, a sense of resentment
against the victors? Germany has always regarded
the creation of the “Polish Corridor” and the sepa-
ration of East Prussia from the rest of the Reich as
the principal “injustice” of Versailles —though Presi-
dent Wilson’s “Fourteen Points” specifically provided
for Polish access to the sea.
One of the “injustices” of which Germany com-
plained most bitterly during the years 1920-1935 was
her unilateral disarmament. But “equality of status”
in armaments meant for Germany, with her greater
population and industrial resources, a considerable
margin of armed superiority over each of her neigh-
bors. Technical “equality of status” for Germany
meant insecurity for her neighbors.
On March 7, 1936, Germany—again claiming
“equality of rights”—dispatched troops into the de-
militarised zone along her western frontier. It has
since become clear that the granting to Germany of
what at the time seemed no more than her due had,
as its logical consequence, the loss by the Polish
and Czech peoples of their liberty and independence.
It may be assumed that the Poles and the Czechs
will not be satisfied by arrangements which would
make it possible for Germany at any time to re-
establish her domination over them.
It is well to remember that France and the other
countries of Continental Europe were not alone in
imposing, with a view to safeguarding their security,
clauses which seemed unjust to Germany. Germans
resent quite as keenly the confiscation of their High
Seas Fleet and of many of their merchant ships and
the handing over of colonies to be administered by
various members of the British Commonwealth. It is
doubtful whether any Englishman could be found to
support the granting to Germany of equality with
Great Britain in the matter of naval armaments ; and
when the unconditional return of the former German
colonies is demanded voices are immediately raised
in protest, whether for reasons of security or on the
ground of Britain’s responsibility to the native races.
It would be as well if people in this country who
urge others to make sacrifices in the name of “justice
to the German people” would first ask themselves
whether they would recommend corresponding sacri-
fices on the part of their own country.
There is one further assumption, accepted almost
without question by many advocates of the appease-
ment of “the German people.” Because the Germany
of William II was succeeded by the democratic
Weimar Republic it is widely assumed that, given
generous peace terms, a democratic Germany would
follow the collapse of the Hitler regime. It is further
assumed that this democracy would not again fall a
prey to dictatorship.
There are, it is true, many indications that the
German people, having experienced seven years of
Hitler’s rule, would welcome a return to a civilised
form of government. But it should not be forgotten
that for seven years National Socialism has been train-
ing the youth of Germany in accordance with its
creed —training them to despise all those values which
contribute to the democratic outlook. French opinion
will be chary of assuming the permanence of a post-
war democratic regime in Germany, and will, in conse-
quence, be reluctant to accept any settlement which
would leave in the hands of the German people the
means wherewith to challenge once more the peace
and security of their neighbors.
The considerations advanced here are not
prompted by hostility to “the German people.” It is
merely suggested that the British public should be as
conscious of its obligations toward the French, Polish
and Czech peoples as it is of the claims advanced on
behalf of the Germans.
Keeping the War Clean.
{Condensed from an article in London '‘Aeroplane.’’)
Those who revile the older school of British
soldiers for their disposition to treat war as a football
match may pause to consider how like, their grand-
fathers the present military people have become.
The sinking of ships had not been attempted on
the grand scale. The biggest formation the Nazis
ever sent on these excursions was one of 14 bombers.
More often the raiders worked in twos or threes.
The R.A.F., likewise, has never been allowed to reply
in force. Both sides have enough aeroplanes to
"Kladderadatsch,” Berlin.
GERMAN VERSION OF RED RIDING HOOD.
“Come along, Red Riding Hood, and I will see that
you take the right path.”
multiply the strength of such raids at least by ten.
Neither side is anxious to open the floodgates.
The reasons for this reluctance are complicated.
Political, social and military considerations are all
involved, and fear of an untried form of warfare adds
weight to the problems of those who have to take
the decision to resort to it. Up to the recent Nazi
raid on Scapa Flow, the most powerful of the un-
written laws was the one which forbade the bombing
of civilians. Some amazing stories of the opportunities
foregone by Great Britain in observance of this law
will be told some day. Pilots, confronted with perfect
targets, have had to keep the law, grind their teeth
in chagrin, and hope for a change in the temper of
the war. The breach of the law by the Nazis in the
dusk at Scapa Flow seemed to mark the end of the
period of humane restraints. The reprisal by the
R.A.F. at Sylt looked like acceptance of the challenge.
More mature reflections show that what Britain
was saying over Sylt was: “Play the game, boys. Let’s
keep the match clean.” What that means is that so
long as the Nazis keep their ships in port and their
fleet tied up, the R.A.F. will do nothing to them, even
though they bomb our fishing smacks and lightships.
It means still more. Until the Luftwaffe attacks
an air base, the R.A.F., presumably, cannot attack a
German air station. Though the Allies declared war
the enemy is still to be left with his forces intact to
deliver the first blow. Having declared war, we ex-
pected the lightning war. Having been disappointed
of that, we persist in leaving the enemy in a position
to make it. The hope that, by refusing to evoke it,
we may ultimately escape it represents the basis of
neutral and enemy doubts of our sincerity.
In less enlightened days there was a saying that
“nothing succeeds like success.” The misfortune of
the Allies in this war has been that they were unready
at the start to attempt a crushing success and un-
willing to believe that no alternative to a crushing
success was possible. Now they are better prepared.
They see prospects of being still better prepared, and
the French appear to be moving towards a condition
in which the attempt to secure a crushing success will
have to be made. The French attitude is expressed
in the phrase which announces stoically that a war
cannot be won without shedding blood. A large body
of opinion in Great Britain shares that view.
Pressure of opinion in France may tend to
support that which is growing up in Great Britain.
This advocates an attempt to shorten the long war.
The British and French can wait and endure as long
as may be necessary. Up to the present the waiting
has been to their advantage. But the peace strings
have already been pulled, and, though the bells failed
to ring, the strings will be pulled again and again with
all the cunning devices of totalitarian twis „: ve
untwisting. The nations fear the peace ottensive,
which would rob them of a real solution, rpore tnan
they fear the war, which should give them baC
security. If the politicians insist on keeping
match clean” they must give absolute assurance
they will make no peace until the job is done.
Given that assurance, we can be content i
while to go on scoring points. In the final encou
we must assuredly take the initiative.
Dragnet Digest.
(Brief items of information and comment from various
acknowledged sources .)
In Britain at the present moment the young men
excused from war service because of the sensitiven
of their souls amounts to more than an army
It the war should last two years the strength of
non-combatants and non-co-operators may reach e
magnificent total of 50,000. — Beverley Baxter, M. •
(Con.); London “Sunday Graphic.”
-jc sk * # *
In the Russo-Finnish war no fewer than 1155
’planes were destroyed: 794 Russian and 361 Finnish.
In terms of cash, aviation losses in the 104-day wai
totalled more than all aircraft sales in the U.S.A.
for the entire year 1938. One conclusion drawn is
the ineffectiveness of bombers unless coupled witn
unusually good marksmanship. The Russians bombed
Finnish cities and towns without mercy, and yet their
’plane losses often exceeded the number of Finnish
civilians fatally injured. In one week alone, 6667
bombs were dropped on Finland, but less than 50
civilians were killed. — La Rue Applegate ; New York
“Times.”
* * * * *
When the Kremlin publishes Mein Kampf and Russia’s
hugged by Rome
Von Ribbentrop. the cosmic slop, may see his ship
come home.
— A. P. Herbert; London “Sunday Graphic.”
* * * * *
In a typical French village of 900 inhabitants,
which during the last war kept 70 able-bodied men,
to-day only 30 are capable of hard work —of whom
12 are war invalids! Monsieur Lamoureux claimed
that the autumn sowing of wheat had been carried
out in all France only to the extent of 30 per cent,
and that half of this had been ruined by the unusually
severe winter. France’s army has long been glorious.
Now, as never before, an entire population is fighting
for civilisation. — Edward Hulton ; London “Picture
Post.”
* * * * *
We have heard much of Anglo-French-German
reactionary plots to transform this war into a joint
crusade against Bolshevism. I have looked into these
rumors carefully, and have traced most of them to
German sources. British and French Conservative
leaders seem to be more insistent than anybody else
that nothing must be permitted to divert attention
from their war with Germany. — Demaree Bess;
“Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * * *
The war in Europe is making refugees of 200,000
families in the United States. This is the result of a
casual, almost a routine, decision by the British Board
of Trade to buy tobacco in Turkey instead of in
America. Also the Board of Trade in London has
decided not to buy American apples, and the British
Admiralty’s blockade has shut off our Central Euro-
pean market. Thus, 91 per cent, of our apple exports
(and 71 per cent, of our pear exports, to complete
the picture) is shut off. Gentlemen, this is war. Where
are our tanks and battleships, and why are they so
feeble against this manufacture of refugees within
our securely guarded coasts? — Samuel Grafton; New
York “Post.”
* * * * *
The following table shows the additional imports
of cotton received from the United States by some of
Germany’s immediate neighbors during the first three
months of the war, compared with the corresponding
period in the previous year:
Sept, to Sept, to
Nov., 1938. Nov., 1939.
lb. lb.
Switzerland .. .. 78,933 11,047,349
Hungary .. .. 240,808 4,201,789
Netherlands .. .. 15,804,987 48,144,812
Sweden 20,579,284 73,756,956
Belgium .. .. 21,050,041 39,073,177
Italy 53,164,393 72,888,271
The total increase in the shipments to European
neutrals is no less than 200,000,0001 b. This is double
the decrease in direct American shipments of cotton
to Germany and Czechoslovakia. — G. R. Strauss,
M.P. {Lab.); London “Daily Herald.”
* * * * *
The existence of so large a German-speaking
community in Britain [70,000-odd] makes the task of
any German spies disastrously easy. If some of them
at least are not capable of passing muster as respect-
able refugees they are certainly not worth the pay
their Government gives them.” — London “Spectator.”
* * * * *
Bottles of whisky will soon be very difficult to get
—even at 14s. 3d. a bottle. Already many London
retailers have banned the sale of larger quantities than
half-bottles. — London “Sunday Express.”
* * * * *
The national income is round about, but less than,
£6,000,000,000 ; the war will probably cost not less than
£3,000,000,000 a year, or half the nation’s income;
the amount of British capital invested abroad capable
of realisation is considerably less than the total value
of British investments abroad, which at par has been
estimated at £3,753,000,000. If the peace expenditure
is kept in view it will be seen how enormous is the
total sum that must be raised in this country during
the progress of the war. The figures of the imports
and exports reveal that after all invisible items had
been taken into account the balance of payments has
recently been against this country, and as tfie war pro-
ceeds the margin will increase. London “Times”
Trade and Engineering supplement.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Rain played havoc with Saturday’s
racing at Randwick. Even horses that
had previously shown form on a soft
track found the going too much for
them, and naturally there will be rever-
sals. Towards the close of the afternoon
there were some heavy showers, with
the result that the times for the April
and Sunnybrook Welter Handicaps were
several seconds slower than in ordinary
circumstances. The track, however,
proved quite safe. An attendance of only
13,000 made the meeting a disappoint-
ing one for the club, but it was surpris-
ing that even that number put in an
appearance. The tote turnover was
£20,295 10s., a good average per head
for the attendance.
There was a numerically strong field
for the Trial Hurdle Race, but over the
last half-mile there were only three in
it—Bogan Boy, Blackie Miller and Phil.
Bogan Boy and Padale were the leaders
along the back from King Otho and
Blackie Miller, but the last-named led
round the turn from Phil and Bogan
Boy, and from that onwards was always
a winner, notwithstanding he blundered
slightly at the last hurdle. Of the un-
placed lot Sir Leighton was the only one
reasonably close to the placegetters.
The first division of the Encourage
Handicap proved soft for Gallop, who
got such a lucky run on the rails at the
three furlongs that he practically had
the race in his keeping from the time the
straight was entered. Pennywise, in
second place, ran well, while luck in
running was somewhat against Discipline,
who was third. Interrogation was
prominent throughout, and, while Tyran-
nus also shaped fairly, he will do better
on a firm track. Harinesta showed pace,
and she and Macduff are worth keeping
in mind for a race of this class.
In the second division of the Encour-
age Handicap All Dark finished strongly,
and won from Reunion, who was the
leader halfway down the straight. The
winner is a Dunnottar mare, and is
trained by her owner, Dr. E. G. Carroll.
El Camarilla was always well up, but
though Bramana was one of the leaders
at the turn she weakened in the straight.
Good Earth is coming on again, while
Peekmond showed his dislike for the
going by being one of the rear division
for a long way.
In the Farm Novice Liege Maid dis-
played sufficient pace to give her shortly
a chance of success, but the winner
turned up in Peter Pan’s sister Tinker
Bell, who finished determinedly, and re-
turned P. Miller £2lO of the 375gns. he
gave for her recently. The Winger,
though supposed to be a stayer, failed
in the straight after being one of the
leaders at the turn. Cryon again filled
a place, beating Diamante for second
money, but he now has enough weight
to make a win for him somewhat dif-
ficult. Spearama was another who
shaped fairly.
Black Banter’s win in the Juvenile
Handicap was accomplished in easy
fashion. He led from the half-mile, and
though Victorine finished gamely she did
not have the slightest chance of over-
hauling him. Trade Mark, a Hall Mark
colt, gave promise in running third, but
Black Banter won so decisively that the
form of those behind him did not count
to any extent. Evergreen, a Chatham
colt, was credited with winning prospects.
He was slow to commence, and was not
with the leading division in the early
part. As he ran fourth he may be seen
to greater advantage on a firm track.
War Trophy, who could not act in the
going, was one of the last home, his
form being all wrong. Black Banter is
by Silverburn from Alabama (Bardolph-
La Mosca), sister to Prince Bardolph, a
Sydney Cup winner. Passed in at
200gns. at the yearling sales, Black
Banter is raced in partnership by the
Reynolds—father and son.
Brazandt’s Flying Handicap win fur-
ther demonstrated that in a short race
a fast beginner is always deserving of
consideration on a very soft track. He
was quickly in front from Vergure, and
over the final half-mile gave none of his
opponents a look-in. The minor places
went to Denis and Benburb, with Radi-
cal next, while the heavily-backed Ver-
gure ran so indifferently as to suggest
that either the state of the track was
completely against him or else he is
not nearly so good as previously sup-
posed. June commenced slowly, and
then could not raise a decent gallop in
the mud.
Backers rarely allow W. Cook’s mounts
to go out at 15 to 1, but that was Lock-
ray’s price for the April Handicap.
Sleight of Hand did the pacemaking to
the turn, but Lockray, second at the
half-mile, settled him shortly after enter-
ing the straight, and went on to win
easily from Mischief. Bonnie L. was
third, but, though it was her best effort
for some time, it scarcely put her in
line for an early win. Plutus, who was
expected to be suited by the going, and
for whose rider a 71b. apprentice allow-
ance was claimed, was never a possi-
bility, nor was Fearless, and though Tel
Asur was well placed to the turn he
could not see it out. Herarde and
Korimako were so weary that they merely
cantered past the winning-post. Lock-
ray proved himself exceptionally good
in the mud, and is also better than race-
goers previously supposed.
Sethia took charge when the field
settled down in the Sunnybrook Welter,
and from the first furlong Opportunist
was the only one to threaten her. Sethia
was a winner all down the straight, and
Überous put in good work to get third,
beating Salazar for that position. Asnazu
and Bonny Loch were fairly prominent
turning for home, but, apart from Sethia
and Opportunist, nothing had a winning
chance over the final quarter-mile.
Sethia might have won in any case, but,
with conditions different, it is certain
some of the beaten runners would have
shown to greater advantage.
* * * *
W. Cook and E. McMenamin have
decided not to leave Sydney for the Bris-
bane Cup meeting. Evidently neither
could see success probable in any of the
big races, and each is anxious to head
the winning jockeys’ list in Sydney this
season. After last Saturday’s racing at
Randwick Cook led by 80 wins and two
dead-heats to McMenamin’s 76 wins and
one dead-heat. Cook is at the advantage
of being able to go to scale a few pounds
lighter than McMenamin.
* * * *
Starter Gaxieu has announced he is
going to take a very firm stand with
jockeys in future. Just as well, as race-
goers were getting it into their heads
that two or three jockeys were too nippy
for him at the barrier. Still, it must not
be overlooked that some jockeys are
much more alert than others, and, no
matter what the starter may do to pre-
vent their getting any advantage, it
would be safe to bet that in short races
they will continue to be among the
early leaders.
* * * *
St. Fervent’s metropolitan comeback
in the Plymouth Welter Handicap at
Ascot (Vic.) on Saturday coincided with
the reappearance as a bookmaker of his
new owner, Eddie O’Brien. Latter was
one of the leaders of the Melbourne Ring
for several years, but announced his re-
tirement less than a year ago. Evidently
he is of opinion that there is more money
in laying than in backing horses, even
though he resumed business on a day
when punters were well on the mark.
The seven races were won by three
favorites, an equal favorite, and three
second favorites, but St. Fervent probably
swung the balance in favor of O’Brien,
in whose colors he was racing for the
first time.
St. Fervent, a seven-year-old gelding
by Curialis from Devotee, has a rather
remarkable history. Classic and Cup
hopes were entertained for him as a three-
year-old, at which age he won races at
Williamstown and Caulfield, and ran
Cuddle to three-quarters of a length in
the V.A.T.C. St. George Stakes, w.f.a.
He broke down badly after the last-
named race, however, was considered
useless for further racing, and used at
the stud. In the spring of 1937 owner C.
Ruwolt sold him at auction for 37|
guineas to E. J. Colliver, who conceived
the idea that, as a gelding, St. Fervent
might stand another preparation. Pros-
pects did not seem over-bright when St.
Fervent was beaten in a couple of
country races last season, but Colliver’s
perseverance was rewarded when St.
Fervent, after another long spell, won
successive races in recent weeks at Wan-
garatta, Rochester and Woodend.
O’Brien bought him after the Woodend
win, and St. Fervent’s race on Saturday
was his first in the metropolitan area for
over four years. Always favorite,
though a better price was available at
the close than at the opening of bet-
ting, he held a good position from the
start, and won narrowly from Silver
Reign, with French Gem third.
Steve Murphy, who has been having
a good innings lately, landed a double
with St. Fervent and Earl Marshal. Earl
Marshal’s win in the Torrington Handi-
cap was his third in succession, and the
same night he began his winter spell at
Werribee. He will not return until it is
time to begin his preparation for spring
engagements, and Murphy is hopeful
that he will do well enough to warrant
a start in the classics. Earl Marshal has
beaten useful, if not first-class, fields in
his three races since his return from
Sydney this autumn, and he impresses
as sure to improve. Whether or not he
is up to Derby standard, the Lord Para-
mount-Alike colt is already a bargain
at the 325 guineas Miss P. Belsom paid
for him as a yearling. His 8.13 on Satur-
day demonstrated his ability as a weight-
carrier, and, even allowing that he was
fortunate in receiving an inside run when
Billie Burke veered away from the rails
at the turn, he battled on gamely after
Cyden’s Son momentarily appeared
likely to beat him.
* • • • • *
Cyden’s Son, who cost Andy Morrow
700 guineas as a yearling, seemed
destined for bigger things after his defeat
of a field of maiden juveniles at Moonee
Valley in February. He might yet fulfil
expectations, but his owner and the
betting public are finding him expensive.
Favorite or equal favorite in four of
his last five starts, he has cost punters
a fortune, and even though he had to
go round the long way when Earl Mar-
shal got the rails-run on Saturday, the
last-named was doing slightly better than
he at the finish. Probably the unlucky
horse of the race was Balkan Chief, who
got away slowly, was one of the rear
division when the field had gone a fur-
long, was forced to go wide in the
straight, and, in third place, ran the
winner to less than a length.
Most owners look for quick returns
on money invested, and W. Filer and
Mrs. J. H. Ralph have no complaints in
this respect. Aladdin’s Lamp, winner of
the first division of the Murchison Trial,
has won each of his two races in Mrs.
Ralph’s colors, and All Talk, winner of
the second division, has raced three
times for Filer for two firsts and a
third. Each horse changed hands in
recent weeks.
• •••••
All Talk (Heroic-Gabblegash) ran
right away from the pacemaker, Nomin,
towards the finish, and his time for the
seven furlongs was a second faster than
that recorded by Aladdin’s Lamp. Latter,
an aged gelding by Prestongrange from
Ella Simon, has struck top form rather
late in life, but he might go on im-
proving. He was one of three horses
owned by J. J. O’Mara —Glengold and
Sarcenrat being the others but less
than two weeks ago the trio was pur-
chased at short notice for 600 guineas
by Caulfield trainer Peter Muschialli.
Negotiations were begun and finalised
at Woodend racecourse, and about three
hours after the sale Aladdin’s Lamp
won the Woodend Trial in the owner-
ship of Mrs. Ralph. He was always a,
short-priced favorite on Saturday, when,
confidently ridden by Norman Creighton,
he moved up second approaching the
turn, and won running away from
Bookaar and Double Loch.
Aladdin’s Lamp was the first leg of
a winning double for Muschialli, a
former jockey who has been winning his
share of races at recent meetings. Other
leg was Barametric, who took his win-
ning sequence to three when he defeated
Denis Girl and Bell Buoy in the £5OO
Aylesford Handicap. Barametric, a five-
year-old gelding by Baralong from
Mimic, gave first-class promise as a
juvenile, but later he became somewhat
unreliable, and two trainers had charge
of him before he passed into Muschialli’s
care. Latter recently decided to give
Barametric a few schooling lessons over
jumps—a procedure that has benefited
many flat horses—and the treatment has
had the desired effect.
Successive wins at Mentone and
Moonee Valley preceded Barametric’s
success on Saturday, when, penalised
31b., he started equal favorite with
Denis Girl. Latter hit the front
near the seven furlongs and made
a game attempt to lead the rest of the
way, but Barametric, moving up third
at the turn, outstayed her to win by half
a neck. Barametric is one of the most
improved stayers in training, but his per-
formance was no more impressive than
that of Bell Buoy, who finished third.
Bell Buoy suffered a setback when he
resumed work after his spring campaign,
and his race on Saturday was his first
for several months. He finished brilli-
antly from last at the half-mile, and
perhaps at his next start will reproduce
the form that enabled him to win the
last Bendigo Cup.
Kanuri recorded a well-earned and
meritorious win in the £5OO Wokingham
Handicap. His backers would have sold
out cheaply when he was last with Comic
March near the half-mile, and was
forced to go right round the field when
making his run, but he was within strik-
ing distance of the leaders at the turn,
and finished too strongly for Con Naru
and the pacemaker, Miss Burn, to win
by a neck. It was one of the best per-
formances of Kanuri’s career, and com-
pensated for the bad luck experienced
by him in his two previous races.
Heavily-backed Kaolin weakened after
being second to the turn, and seemingly
is not quite as good as he looks, while
big money was left with bookmakers
when Pamelus missed a place. Backed
from sixes to favoritism at 3 to 1,
Pamelus probably would have finished
closer than fourth had he received a
clear run in the straight, but he is rising
nine years old, and age evidently is be-
ginning to tell on him.
Ringford started second favorite for
the Strafford Trial Hurdle, but he had
failed so often that trainer Steve Mas-
ters let him run unbacked. Always in
the firing line, Ringford headed the hot
favorite, Highland March, soon after
entering the straight, and went on to a
comfortable win from Paul Lois, who
beat Highland March for second money.
Highland March was disappointing, but
inexperience contributed to his defeat.
He was having only his second race over
hurdles, jumped much too high on several
occasions, and clouted other jumps. It
would be unwise to condemn him for
this failure, as he is only a four-year-
old, and probably will improve.
* * * *
After the Canterbury Park Cup the
owner of Feminist was dubious as
to whether he would send her to
Brisbane, but when he saw the
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(By “PILOT.")
Brush Hurdle Race: Phil, 1 ;
Blackie Miller, 2 ; Conundrum, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Tyran-
nus, 1 ; Consonance, 2 ; Gallop, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Contestor, 1 ;
Loyal Lad, 2 ; Gold Rim, 3.
Brighton Handicap: Bonny Loch,
1 ; Tuhitarata, 2 ; Stalin, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: The Kite,
1 ; Baveon, 2 ; Tel Asur, 3.
Flying Welter Handicap: Sam-
urai, 1 ; Nebraska, 2 ; Moaveil, 3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(By “SENTRY.”)
Bolinda Trial Hurdle : Mamillius,
1 ; Fighting Cock, 2 ; Nawabzada,
3.
Warroona Handicap: Balkan
Chief, 1 ; Cyden’s Son, 2 ; Much To
Say, 3.
Moreland Steeplechase: Tifone,
1 ; Brightello, 2 ; Restford, 3.
Glen Elgin Handicap: Diaphane,
1 ; Denis Girl, 2 ; Barametric, 3.
Bulla Trial Handicap: Parilla, 1 ;
Judy Burn, 2 ; Winabet, 3.
Magdala Welter: Diaphane, 1 ;
St. Fervent, 2 ; Ngapuna, 3.


weights for the northern meeting he
decided she had a better chance oi
winning a good race there than would
be likely at the winter meetings in Syd-
ney. She will consequently be a Brisbane
Cup runner, and, as 8.7 is only 41b. more
than she carried when she was supposed
to have bright prospects in the last Mel-
bourne Cup, she is well treated. She
had 7.12 when she won the Metropolitan.
Her stable-companion Katanga is
nicely in with 7.12, though if he wins
the St. Leger he will go up to 8.3. It
is reported he may not run in the Cup,
but if he should easily win the St. Leger
his. owner may be inclined to reconsider
the position. Queensland’s crack three-
year-old Spear Vale has 8.3. He may
stay as well as his brother Spear Chief,
who won the Brisbane Cup at the same
age with 8.3. Direct Lady promises + o
be a tough proposition. She has only
7.7, and her mile and a quarter victory
in 2A\ at Doomben on Saturday indi-
cated a return to the form she showed
when she won the 1937 Queensland Cup
with 7.10 in 3.215. Three-year-old Pan-
tius, who ran second to Direct Lady last
week, is also in the Cup, and will meet
her 51b. better. As he is by Pantheon
from Joy Bells (Comedy King-Joyeuse)
he is a half-brother to Korimako and
Celebrate. He should be a staying pos-
sibility, but as Direct Lady has shown
she can get two miles the difference in
weight may not enable him to turn the
tables over the longer distance.
* * * *
Earl Marshal must have greatly im-
proved since he ran twice at Randwick,
or else he struck rather ordinary oppo-
sition in his recent three successive wins
in Melbourne. Now he is mentioned as
a Derby possibility, notwithstanding, on
what we saw of him in Sydney, consider-
able improvement would be necessary to
take him up to Lucrative, John and Pan-
dect. Others he will have to beat in-
clude Halifax and Broadcaster, but this
season’s two-year-old form does not make
■anything stand right out for the A.J.C.
or Victoria Derby, and, as in a few
previous years, one or the other may be
won by something that is not at present
highly rated. It was so with Phar Lap
and Peter Pan, the former winning a
small two-year-old race, and the latter
having one unsuccessful start in his first
season. Earl Marshal is owned by Miss
P. Belsom, and a woman owner has yet
to be successful in the A.J.C. Derby.
They have fared better in the Victoria
Derby, the lady who raced as “M. Gor-
don” winning with Alawa and Mrs. E.
A. Widdis with Patrobas.
* * * *
Classic winners are expected to im-
prove our bloodstock, but it cannot be
claimed that in the last 30 years they
have done a great deal in that direction.
A run through the list of Victoria Derby
winners for that period shows that from
1909 to 1929 only Spearfelt and Man-
fred have been responsible for anything
approaching their own standard. Ram-
pion had many winners, but nothing
equalling himself. The 1932 Derby
winner, Liberal, has sired some useful
horses, and it is on the cards that Hall
Mark, Talking, Hua and Nuffield will
also do so, but the Victoria Derby has
not been outstanding in achieving one of
the main objects aimed at by classic
races.
Heroic, as a sire, easily leads
among the last 30 A.J.C. Derby
winners, two of his sons, Hall Mark,
and Nuffield, having won that race;
Hall Mark, Hua and Nuffield the
Victoria Derby; Hall Mark the Mel-
bourne Cup ; and Australia’s best w.f.a.
horse of to-day up to a mile and a half
is his son Ajax. Manfred and Rampion
were A.J.C. Derby winners, as was Peter
Pan, for whose stock great hopes are
entertained. Hall Mark, Theo, Talking,
Avenger and Nuffield may give us some-
thing good, but it is possible to quote
many A.J.C. Derby winners who were
the reverse of stud successes.
•i* H*
A record was equalled at Newcastle
last week, Enderby winning the four and
a half furlongs Two-year-old Handicap
in 53. It was also at Newcastle that
Spear Gold did that time in August,
1937. The best for five and a half fur-
longs at Newcastle last week was 1.7,
which suggests the possibility of the four
and a half furlongs being favorably
measured. If that idea is incorrect,
Enderby, who is by Salmagundi, must
be a galloper a little out of the ordinary.
However, he beat the second horse,
Chrisman, only a neck, and the latter
was giving him 91b.
* * * *
Recently I saw a horse get into such
a bad position early in a race that ; t
did not after have the slightest chance
of winning. Subsequently I remarked
to the owner: “Don’t suppose you ever
got a worse sight for your money with
a horse with which you expected to
win?” “Oh, yes, I did,” he replied. “On
one occasion I had a runner which I
didn’t think could get beaten. My wife
had saved £5O to buy a piano, and I
persuaded her to put it on my ‘certainty.’
She unwillingly did so. It was then I
had my worst ‘sight.’ It was left at the
post, taking no part in the race. You
can bet I did not feel happy going home
that afternoon, but as the horse won at
each of its next four starts the piano
materialised, and all was well.”
* * - *
It is to be hoped owners and trainers
of jumpers will show their appreciation
of the way the A.J.C. is catering for
them, but the chances are the response
will be much the same as in the past.
In order to “encourage the jumpers” the
ruling body substituted brush hurdles for
battens, permitted of races being run at
a mile and a half, and caused clubs in
the metropolitan area to give the hurdlers
greater opportunities over the jumps and
on the flat. Now it has been discovered
that the horses are asked to negotiate
too many jumps, and if some owners
and trainers had their way they would
probably favor one hurdle each quarter-
mile. If hurdle races are considered
necessary, let us continue to have the
genuine thing and not something that
would be little more than a jumpers’ flat
race, and would give the faster horses
a decided advantage.
* * * *
In Australia racing is a business in
which no trainer or jockey can afford to
be out of the limelight for any length
of time. In my experience I have heard
trainers acclaimed “wizards” and, when
things went against them at a later
period, have heard doubt thrown upon
their ability. When attention is drawn
to their prominence over a fairly long
period that is countered with “Must have
been lucky.” It is the same with jockeys.
Several who have been proclaimed “the
greatest ever” have experienced some
difficulty in obtaining worth-while mounts
at a later period. Owners, as well as
racegoers, have, as a rule, little time for
those who are not getting more than
their share of success.
* * * *
Rosehill Racing Club purposes making
a big effort on behalf of the Red Cross
Fund. A transfer of the September 21
(Guineas Day) meeting to Randwick is
sought, and it is certain the A.J.C. com-
mittee will not stand in the way. Messrs.
Theo Marks and F. J. Smith expect the
meeting to start free of expense in prize-
money, and are invoking the aid of
owners, trainers and everyone else con-
nected with racing to make the fixture a
pronounced success. An independent
committee will control the meeting, and
the “free list” will be entirely suspended,
which is only right. The total receipts
will go to the Red Cross Fund. As the
racing will give a line as to possibilities
for the A.J.C. Derby and Epsom Handi-
cap a fortnight later it will be specially
attractive, and it is safe to prophesy
attendance nearly as great as on an
Epsom or Metropolitan Day.
* * * *
Women owners had interest in five
runners at Randwick on Saturday, and
two, Pennywise and Überous, were place-
getters. Of the 459 entrants for the next
A.J.C. Derby women have owners’ in-
terest in 55. Some are raced in part-
nership, but much the greater represent
straightout ownership.
* * * *
Few of the higher-priced yearlings of
last season have done anything of
account as two-year-olds. Some, of
course, were not seriously trained, but
others that were have not shown the
galloping powers their breeding led their
buyers to expect. They are already low
in the weights. One of these is Balkan
Chief (Gay Lothario-Balkan Rose), who
was sold for llOOgns. At Ascot (Mel-
bourne) on Saturday he ran third in the
Torrington Handicap, but as he had
only 7.2 to the 8.13 of the winner,
Earl Marshal, it was not a perform-
ance that could cause his owner to look
hopefully to the future. Lucrative, who
will probably head the three-year-olds in
the weights for the next Melbourne Cup,
was sold the same day as Balkan Chief
for 450gns. .
* * * #
Things cannot be so bad in Newcastle
if, as reported, starting-price bookmakers
could afford to lay £3OOO against Sethia
for the Sunnybrook Welter at Randwick.
Evidently the strike has not entirely de-
prived the miners of the wherewithal
to back their fancies, and the police
apparently find it as difficult to suppress
“off-the-course” betting in Newcastle as
they do in Sydney. Perhaps, however,
there may be as much exaggeration in the
amount to be won as there is in Sydney.
If all this starting-price betting is going
on it seems strange that the police cannot
get on to the track of it anywhere.
Bahwing’s six furlongs in l.lOf at
Doomben on Saturday was a course
record, and proved him to be in quite
as good trim as when he won last year’s
Stradbroke Handicap. Two days after
winning the Stradbroke he finished first
with 8.8 in the New Handicap, seven
furlongs, but was disqualified, the race
going to First Prize. Hamurah, who
was a 6-to-4-on favorite with 9.5,
was third. On the concluding day of
the same meeting Bahwing won the
Epsom Handicap, one mile, with 9.3,
but started at 12 to 1, backers evi-
dently reckoning the distance too far
for him. Subsequently he started in the
Doomben Newmarket, but did not main-
tain his form, running only seventh
with 8.8.
What a pity it is that so many*would-
be Turf-reformers and others do not show
the same active interest in racing as mem-
bers of the A.J.C. committee. The latter
are all concerned in the ownership of
horses some on a laree scale whereas
verv I fw nrZinentlvassociatedwith
other clubs can lav claim to ownership
As for some of he wouTd-be reformers'
ffiev L a™ule are content to baUen on
owners and ’trainers for information
where the placing of their investments is
concerned. They occasionally have to
pay for it, but presumably they find that
,/ i c u „„„
cheaper than the upkeep of a horse or
two of fiieir own. # #
Australia is not without its imaginative
writers, but they are among the “also-
rans by comparison with some who con-
tribute racing to American papers. In
a San Francisco daily last month some
remarkable statements were made con-
cermng Australian and Maonland
horses and racing. It could be inferred
f a L the 7c We A re u- attri . bU , tab ? - t0 W> i L
Smith, of St. Aubins stud It is scarcely
necessary to write that they were not,
apart from his intention of sending some
horses to America. The team was to
consist of four high-class handicap
horses, with one of the owners of Ajax
as manager.
T ‘ ", * . * ,*
e * WaS sur P nsing IVfw *
'S™* had the most Powerful stable in
Australia that Beau Vite and Beaulivre
were bred at St. Aubins, that Ajax re-
tired last autumn, that his place in the
racing firmament was taken by Beaulivre,
and that Beau Vite is a possible candi-
date for the Hollywood Gold Cup.
The San Francisco writer’s best effort
was however, as follows: While owner
Smith makes no pretentions of owning
a Phar Lap, his colors of yellow and
white have frequently been crowned in
classical events. His Hua put Peter Pan
to a drive in that immortals hardest
race. „ Barely squeezed out, explained
Smith. Well, as the latter bought llua
°atyt° r s f ud purposes at the conclusion
S^-^ S i' aC u 11 f care sT’ and etei |^ an bad
finished before Hua appeared as a
two-year-old, the Sydney man will
probably be highly amused at such a
statement being attributed to him, but
that reporter had better keep out of the
way when next “W.J.” visits San Fran-
cisco.
„ * *, u *
Seabiscuit has definitely retired, but
despite his Santa Anita Handicap win
all handicappers did not agree that he
was America’s best horse of this year. In
that race he gave his stable-companion
Kayak II a pound, but when subsequently
weighted for the Dixie Handicap, of
£ASOOO, 9} furlongs, at Pimlico (Balti-
more, Maryland), Kayak II was allotted
9.8, Seabiscuit 9.6 and Challedon 9.4.
Evidently the Pimlico handicapper was
among those who believed that, if C. S.
Howard had not declared to win with
Seabiscuit, Kayak II could have beaten
him. The trainer, T. Smith, ridiculed
that idea. Howard’s luck was right in
at Santa Anita, as, subsequent to Sea-
biscuit’s success, he won the San Juan
Capistrano Handicap, of £A2560, with
Mioland.
* * * *
Brisbane horses are always hard to
beat on their own ground, but Sydney
has been given a fair chance of success
• .1. cu ju 1 tr .•
in the Stradbroke Handicap. Mohican is
not overweighted With 9.5, but he has
yet to show that he is back to his old
form or,rl Anne and Wjiirpks are nrefer-
torm, ana Anne ana waireka are Preier
able. At her last start Anne won, and
was 91b. from the minimum. She is only
21b. worse off in that respect in the Bris-
bane race, and was probably never better
than at present. Waireka is also in ex-
cellent trim, but at her last start she did
not shine. That was in the Rous Handi-
cap at the A.J.C. meeting, when Anne
and Denis dead-heated for third. She
was giving Anne 71b., against the 31b.
now separating them. She showed slight
lameness after her arrival in Brisbane,
but the trouble was not regarded
as serious. Bahwing, who won the
Stradbroke Handicap last year with
7.10, has 8.9 this time, an worse
Waireka (a close third) only *
but the w.f.a. scale allows tban
greater improvement in the
in + *
* racine under
Brazandt has d °»e "lore
b| S. weights than an V months and
during the past eighte won derfully
trainer Booshand has done wonderntlly
to r,!i ave u im more weight,
f°™- Others have c: im d more wi«gn ,
but not neariy so often as ] Br ?f n “' e *
season he has starte ." , , „ et a
ei & bt months, and whe ,- t
real holiday he will earned it^How
ever ’ te [ the way e n i: ke i v to be
on Saturday, Brazandt is unlikely to
spelled*f or some time. #
Suellen, who ran second in third
division of the Novice ‘
Ascot last week, lacks n S ~
score of breeding She is five-year old
slstcr to Seven an The" last
closely related to Early Bird. ine la sr
named is also by The Buzzard, and her
dam ’ Earl y Girl > 1S b V Seremond from
Stable Girl (dam of Seven Fifty and Six
Fifty). Suellen is of the same ty P e aS ? a - rly
Bird > b “* ° wi "S to H °" e umfi
»*er badly tu njd Jgg
tbls ye ; , , ¥ f missine
at * e , su ’ a P g T then decided
on each occasion. It was tnen aeciueu
{o t w hether she would stand a
preparation, and M. Poison trains and
races her. *
Nominations for some G f the jumping
meeti in England in March were
treme / dous . A t Shirley on March 11
gntries fof thg six races _ th ree hurdle
rac£S and thre£ steeple chases totalled
235 and there wa§ nQ ize of over £lOO .
A selli hurdle race attr acted 47 entries
and a selling steeplechase 40. The prize-
m for the latter was only £7O. At
Cheltenham there were 54 entries for
a novice steeplechase, but there the
pr j ze _ n - one y was £3OO.
* * * *
Bogskar’s price of 25 to 1 for the
Liverpool Grand National Steeplechase
was surprising, seeing that he won the
National Trial ’Chase, 3± miles, at Gat-
wick earl in March . Carrying i 0.12,
Bogskar started at 8 to 1 in a good field,
But though he demonstrated that the
National distance W as unlikely to
trousle him backer s were of opinion
tbat tbe d ifi ere nce in fences would. Gat-
wick is very much easier than Aintree.
Th£ advertised * stud fee for any
stallion £ America this year is, reckon-
. four dollars to £1 Australian, Blen-
at £b 2s. Next to him come Blue
Lark Bull D og, Discovery, Gallant
p ox pharamond 11, Sickle and Sir Galla-
had mat £A3 75 each. Of that lot only
Blue Larkspur, Discovery and Gallant
p ox are American-bred, which must be
gaß j ng those breeding experts who are
always holding forth on the alleged
super j or ity of American blood. As a
wbo j e? leading stallions in America are
cornrnand i ng higher fees than those in
E land this yeai ,
* * *
“What do you think will win?” is a
common query on a racecourse. If you
are wise, “Don’t fancy anything” is the
sa f est answer. If your selection fails
you are h ke ] y to hear it inferred by a
d j sa ppointed backer that he would have
suppo rted the winner if he had not
ado wed himself to be swayed by your
op i n j on> jf it wins he is unlikely to give
you any cred jt 5 putting success down to
own good judgment. It is not sur-
prjsing that some trainers dislike giving
dpSi jf they are wrong in their selec-
tions they are likely to have it sug-
gested to them that they are losing their
gr j p 0 f the game, and, except to those
wbo are “looking for it,” a winning tip
does no t mean reward of any kind,
* * * *
In America large fields are unusual,
and when the totalisator is installed on
New York tracks they are to be kept on
the small side. The following from an
exchange points to 14 being the limit:
phe pari-mutuels will create a few new
problems at the New York tracks, one of
which is the size of the fields. Particularly
in two-year-old races there are often more
tkan j n the fields, and since the totali-
sator will not handle more than 12 betting
units next year’s fields at Belmont Park
will be limited to 14, with thiee horses in
par i-mutuel field when there are no
stable entries.
p or tbe “field” horses believed to have
Btde chance are selected and bunched,
* * * *
The National stud was established at
Tully, Co. Kildare, in January, 1916. Its
trading profits up to the beginning of
last year totalled £91,826. The profit in
1938 was only £1942. An independent
valuer on Jan. 1, 1939, valued the blood
stock at £92,925 for 45 animals,
* * * *
C. Smirke, who was retained by the
Aga Khan for several seasons, has ar-
ranged to ride in Ireland this year for


For Sale.
Water Frontage to the Sea.
A HOME to retire to, and one that is also
close enough to Sydney for a businessman’s
daily work.
Furnished Cottage. Caretaker’s Cottage.
Garage, etc. Council Water and Electric Light
and Power. Refrigeration. Sewer. Garden,
Lawns, etc.
Twelve miles North of Manly. Total frontage
276 reel.
A. J. DADSON,
Hotel Manly, Manly,
New South Wales.
SADDLER
MADE
HORSE
RUGS |
WITH
“STAYS-ON”
FITTINGS.
(Illus. Right.)
m
No. A Thompson’s All
Flax Fleecy Check-lined.
sft. 6in. . . 48/6
sft. 9in. . . 50/-
6ft 51/3
dsf
WITH HIND-LEG
STRAP FITTINGS
(Illus. Left.)
No. CA—Thomp-
son’s All Flax
Canvas, Fleecy
Check-lined.
sft. 6in.
5 ft. 9in,
6ft. . . .
46/3
47/6
48/6
WALTHER * STEVEHSOH ETJ;
■ 395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
three owners. He will also ride occa-
sionally in England when required by
the Aga Khan. The latter has reduced
his racing operations to such an extent
that he did not deem a permanent jockey
necessary.
* * * *
The following interesting opinions on
breeding were expressed many years ago
t>y the Duke of Beaufort, who bred some
notable winners: —•
I have watched the produce of slow,
staying mares, and never saw a good race-
horse bred from them; whereas very
speedy half-mile mares have bred many
good horses....
You must have speed on the dam’s
side—never mind for how short a distance,
even three or four furlongs, and staying
power and qualities on the side of the
sire.
In Australia two great stayers in Poitrel
and Peter Pan were the progeny of
squibby mares.
* * * He
Aintree racecourse (Liverpool, Eng-
land) is not being used for steeplechasing
alone. All the available land within the
boundaries of the course is being used
for agricultural purposes in what is
termed the “Dig for Victory” campaign.
Fifty acres were sown for wheat, 40
for oats and 20 for potatoes. Sheep and
cattle were grazing on the course early
in March, and were to return after the
Grand National meeting.
* * * *
Cheltenham is one of England’s most
important jumping meetings, and at that
course on March 13 Miss D. Paget won
the Champion Hurdle Cup, a little over
two miles, of £5OO, with Solford, who
carried 12.0 and was a 5-to-7 favorite.
As the same owner took the next race,
the Cheltenham Grand Annual Steeple-
chase, of £5OO, 3 miles, with Kilstar (8
to 1) she had an unusually good day.
Miss Paget races jumpers, flat-racers and
ponies, and her yearly expenditure must
be very heavy. She wins a fair amount of
prize-money each year, but insufficient to
go far towards covering her outlay.
* * * *
Pollard and Haas, the respective riders
of the stablemates Seabiscuit and Kayak
II in the Santa Anita Handicap, agreed
to share the winning fee. As the cus-
tomary fee for a win in a big race in
America is 10 per cent, they divided
£A2142. A nice day’s work for each.
As Kayak ll’s second carried £ASOOO,
that also meant considerably more than
an ordinary losing fee for division.
* *
Last year more horses ran in Ireland
than in any previous season, the total
being 1602, against the previous record
of 1590 in 1923. The number of races
last year was 773, flat and jumping, and
the prize-money £96,973. That amount,
though the most for many years, was a
long way behind the 1921 total of
£145,151, which was a record for Ire-
land. Last year’s prize-money included
a Government subsidy of £lO,OOO.
* * * *
In an interesting table in the “Blood-
Horse” J. A. Estes gives a list of what
he terms America’s “millionaire sires”—
those whose progeny have won over a
million dollars in North America. Some
of the sires mentioned have had winners
in France and England, but the earn-
ings of their stock in those countries are
not included. The list is as follows:
Fair Play $2,780,820
Man o’ War 2,674,713
* Wrack 2,652,887
Broomstick 2,648,215
Sweep 2,538,883
*Sun Briar 2,140,408
Pennant 2,069,472
*Star Shoot 2,029,195
High Time 1,997,365
*Sir Galahad 111 .. .. 1,937,341
The Porter 1,715,541
*Chicle 1,607,295
John P. Grier 1,500,320
Stimulus 1,206,524
Pompey 1,108,717
*St. Germans .. .. .. 1,103,351
*Sickle 1,095,768
The asterisks indicate imported sires.
As Fair Play has not had any winners
for three years, it is possible his total
of approximately £668,680 will be beaten
by Man o’ War, whose stock are still
racing and winning.
*
Among mares of note mated with
Windsor Lad in England this season was
Athasi, dam of Trigo and Harinero.
Windsor Lad, who made a remarkable
recovery from a brain operation, stood
at £l9B this year, and the 25 nomina-
tions available to him were quickly
snapped up. Reverting to Athasi, she
is a very old mare, being foaled in 1917.
Although she is being mated with a
young stallion it will be a surprise if she
throws another as good as Trigo.
* * * *
There are said to be over 20,000 racing
greyhounds in N. S. Wales. It is un-
likely to occur, but one cannot help won-
dering what would happen if there was
a sudden end to dog-racing. The secre-
tary of the N. S. Wales National Cours-
ing Association said the greyhounds had
sentimental value to the people who
owned them. Perhaps, but if there were
no monetary possibilities associated with
their ownership, it is possible that a large
proportion of that 20,000 would be left
to look after themselves. Dog-racing is
a useless sport. It is cheap, certainly, sup-
plies a certain amount of excitement, and
is something to bet on, that being its main
attraction. After that, what have you?
A mediocre or worn-out greyhound is
good for nothing, while a played-out
trotter can at least draw a cart or be
made useful in some other fashion. Night
trotting, with betting, is not a necessity
in N. S. Wales, but it is equally certain
there is no reason for the extension of
dog-racing.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Tod Morgan (9.12) surprised even his
barrackers by beating American cullud
import Johnny Hutchinson (9.8 L) at West
Melbourne Stadium. Tod won by taking
the fight in to Hutchinson right through
a pretty torrid 12 rounds, and being will-
ing to mix it whenever Hutchinson tried
to make some sort of showing. Johnny’s
exhibition was a good deal short of his
best; nevertheless Tod’s was a capital
performance. Despite the years on him,
he has fought magnificently since his
return from the West. He was giving
Hutchinson 16 years.
* * * *
At Leichhardt the youngest of the
three Branders, Jack (10.6), beat Ren
McLaughlin (10.5 J) on points in a gruel-
ling 12-rounder. It was a hard two-fisted
mill all the way. In the eighth both were
down for nine. All there was in it be-
tween them was that Brander lasted a
shade better.
* * * *
The Alabama Kid and Sabatino being
due to clash at Adelaide, it was given
out that if the Kid won he’d meet Archie
Moore in Melbourne, and if Sab. won
he’d be Moore’s opponent in Sydney.
The Kid won, opening a cut over Sab.’s
left eye in the ninth, and from then on
fighting as he can fight when he feels that
way inclined. Therefore, by the logic
peculiar to fight promoting, Sab. will
meet Moore in Sydney.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
{Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
Since arriving in Los Angeles I have
had a good taste of the various types of
American golf courses. After a week in
California we began on our 2800-mile
motor journey across the continent to
catch up with the tournaments, and on
the way over visited the main courses
in the various centres. Golf generally
in the United States differs greatly from
the game as Australians know it.
It is more than just a sport to the
players here, especially the better golfers.
The tremendous keenness has been re-
sponsible for many changes in the playing
and conduct of the game. Courses have
forced the standard of golf up owing to
their layout; they either make good
golfers better or soon show them where
their weaknesses lie. The average course
is harder for the long hitter than for the
man who does his 90 regularly; it is
so bunkered and trapped that the player
who drives 250 yards is penalised for
any inaccuracies.
This, in my opinion, is the ideal golf
course, for the general run of club
golfers play mainly for fun, and fun
can’t be had if they spend most of their
round digging out of bunkers and dis-
figuring the landscape. The good player
is the one to aim at when hazards are
being put in, and with this point in
mind American golf architects all over
the country have built most of the
courses on these lines. They have
plenty of money to play with, as a rule.
With golf at private clubs a well-to-do
man’s game, and with entrance fees up
as high as £5OO and yearly subscriptions
round the £9O figure, one can see how
good courses can be constructed.
Public courses are just as testing as
the others, and owing to the great volume
of players who patronise these clubs
they, too, can afford to spend freely on
the courses, making them the equal of
the best Australian clubs. Without
money to spend no course can be
properly built.
American golf architecture is based on
the correct placing of one’s shots. A high
premium is put upon the ball being hit
to a spot from where the second shot
can find its way to the green. On
every hole on the recognised courses
there is a portion of the fairway where,
if one’s drive finishes there, the shot to
the flag has a clear passage, not having
to carry over any hazards or rough. If
this position is not found, the second
shot is made harder, while the further
the player strays from the correct spot
the more difficult his shot becomes. This,
after all, is the best way to play golf,
for it teaches the players to develop
accuracy rather than wild hitting. Con-
centration upon this is one of the main
reasons why American golf is at such a
high standard.
If one is to succeed in the United
States as a prominent golfer he first of
all needs accuracy ; when this is obtained
he may look toward getting greater dis-
tance. While the shot to the green is
regarded as the most important in the
game, accurate tee play is really as
essential. If you are out of position on
an American hole you will have to battle
hard for the par. The courses in Aus-
tralia are out of date as tests of golf
compared with the American links.
While they are difficult, they are not
bunkered or trapped for the good golfer.
The old-fashioned bunkers on Australian
courses are placed too near the tee for
the long-hitting, modern golfers and are
terrors only for the handicap players.
This is the only difference between our
courses and the best U.S.A. clubs. They
are similar in length, layout and green-
side bunkering, but through the fairway
the American courses are much better
trapped.
Australian courses allow the not-so-
good golfer to keep too close to the
better players. A pulled or sliced tee shot
should be penalised. Where we favor
a circular green, the greens in the U.S.A.
are longer and narrower. It doesn’t
matter much how “strong” or how short
one is within reason, he must be on
the line to the flag. This also favors
the straight player. These differences
between the two countries’ courses are
not very great, but they do make quite
a change in playing conditions. Aus-
tralian clubs have very little to do to
bring their courses into line with the best
in U.S.A., and in doing so they would
not only give better playing facilities
but also take a big step forward in
raising the standard of play. There is
nothing better for promising players than
stiff courses to learn their golf on.,
* * * *
“Sturt”: Seaton, Adelaide’s original
golf club, has announced its retirement
from public activities “for the duration.”
It will not stop playing, but has scratched
for inter-club matches, and its members
will neither hold a championship of their
own nor compete in that of the State.
Kooyonga looks at the matter differently.
Its best man, Rymill, champion of S.A.,
is in the A.1.F., but the club will try to
carry on as usual.
Footbrawl
V.F.L. and V.F.A. officials and sup-
porters stopped calling each other names
on Saturday, when the League season
opened. Though there was a big counter-
attraction in the G.P.S. Head-of-the-
River, more than 100,000 attended the
six League games.
There were several surprises. At
Essendon the locals, playing like the
“Same Old,” downed Melbourne (1939
premiers) by 18-17 to 16-12 ; and Rich-
mond was stoushed on its own ground
by a fast Footscray side, 17-13 to 14-19.
Collingwood duly came home against
“Sowth,” 13-14 to 11-14, but “Sowth’s”
showing was impressive. Against Fitz-
roy (13-13) St. Kilda (10-20) was never
in the hunt. At Hawthorn the “Haw-
haws” put North Melbourne through by
25-11 to 13-11. Carlton went to Geelong
and, in a contest to see who could kick
the most behinds, won, 12-27 to 9-18.
The presence of Todd, who had been
bought or kidnapped or something from
the League, drew a crowd of 10,000 to
the Williamstown-Brighton Association
match at ’Town. Brighton shocked the
home side by leading till half-time, after
which ’Town ran away to win by 20-19
to 8-15.
“Cum Awn Bloos”: Carlton and Gee-
long are the two oldest League teams.
R. C. Thear, the mayor, told the Geelong
lads he’d shout ’em a dinner if they
won. Geelong club was formed in ’59
and Carlton in ’64. They have had 89
matches ; Carlton has won 47 and one
has been drawn. Thear won’t have to
buy that dinner.
*'■=**
“Bumpk”: The football war in Mel-
bourne has moved several correspondents
in the dailies to demand, as a war-time
measure, that professional football be
interdicted and all profits from amateur
performances be compulsorily presented
to the Australian Comforts Fund. It
might be done in Russia, where organised
football is an important ingredient of
the Communist millennium, but it has no
chance in Melbourne. Professional
footballers are the most reverenced class
in the community and are accorded far
more consideration than artists or writers.
Footscray, Carlton and Collingwood
would not miss a heart beat if every
artist or writer in the country were con-
scripted, but any interference with a star
forward would cause a sort of revolution
* * * *
With three matches played, Randwick
is the only unbeaten team in Sydney’s
Rugby Union competition. Against
Western Suburbs on Anzac Day, the
Greens piled up nine tries, ending with
42 points to 6, and in Saturday’s mud
they played too intelligently for Manly—
-12-6. Randwick’s points came from very
good goals kicked by Rankin, and Hodg-
son scored all of Manly’s (a try and a
penalty goal). He had collected 18
against North (the Villagers won 24-14)
and 15 against Parramatta.
Drummoyne followed its defeat of
University with a 16-5 victory over East,
and was then walloped by West 14-4,’
lour tries to none. The Reds got the
ball from the scrums, but that was all.
Against Parramatta ’Varsity looked a real
team, getting 30 to 6 (five tries to one);
but two days later it was beaten again—
by East; 25-19, four tries each. Parra-
matta had its first win at the expense
of St. George (8-6, one try each), and
North its first—against Gordon (12-nil —
four tries), which has suffered three
defeats.
Miscellaneous
G.R.U. Crawford played himself to
a standstill against Quist in the Queens-
land tennis championship at Brisbane,
but the younger man was a grim embodi-
ment of dour purpose and ran out with
the title, 6-4, 8-6, 7-5. The second set
almost reached world championship
standard in brilliance of play, and the
effort took much out of Crawford.
It was Quist’s only success. Crawford
and Hancock accounted for the men’s
doubles, their opponents in the final being
Quist and Whillans, and Crawford and
Mrs. Westacott took the mixed title from
Quist and Miss Hardcastle. In the
women’s singles, Miss Hardcastle beat
Mrs. Westacott 4-6, 6-2, 6-2.
v * * *
R. O. Lock”: Melbourne Grammar
easily won the Head-of-the-River race on
the Yarra. Its crew led all the way
covering the mile in smin. 4 l-ssec., and
sitting back at the finish. Scotch and
Geelong Grammar filled the places. Old
Yarrovians who believe in hoodoos gave
the winners no chance as they had drawn
the southern bank, long regarded with
suspicion by the superstitious. But
hoodoos have no chance against solid
work, and Grammar’s stroke progres-
sively lengthened and their striking rate
lowered and all that was left was a battle
for second between the others. It was
Grammar’s third successive win
* * * *
S. Boater”: It seems to be a banner
year for Grammar schools in rowing.
Sydney Grammar led with a “head
of the Nepean,” Melbourne Gram-
mar collared the “head of the
Yarra, and at Ballarat the local Gram-
mar School easily won the “head of the
Lake.”


NICE
to Take
IHST Iff
SAVES
«aw*
MONEY
Sir HARRY LAUDER writes:
“I tried Heenzo and found it
Good.”
Over 15,000 citizens have
written letters of gratitude
for the good HEENZO
has done them.
.
HEENZO
is good and safe for
ADULTS
and
CHILDREN
is what users say about HEENZO.
Save lots of money by simply, in your own
home, adding a two-shilling bottle of
concentrated HEENZO to sweetened water,
thus making ONE PINT of the world’s best
instant-relief, nice-to-take family remedy,
equally good and safe for children and
adults, as a speedy and pleasant cure for
chest, nose and throat ailments.
By taking made-up HEENZO internally
you quickly soothe and banish COUGHS,
COLDS, CROUP, BRONCHITIS and
INFLUENZA. Experiments have proved
that the most effective and economical
treatment for CATARRH and COLDS IN
THE HEAD is placing a few drops of
made-up HEENZO up each nostril, night and
morning. To gain instant relief from SORE
and SMOKERS’ THROATS, gargle with
made-up HEENZO whenever the irritation
is felt. HEENZO being pure, and free from
poisons or harsh drugs, cannot upset the
digestion of even the youngest baby. You
can also rely on HEENZO as a safeguard
against catching the ills of winter chills by
taking a dose before venturing out into
crowds, or cold, wet and windy weather.
HOW BEST TO USE HEENZO.
COUGHS,
Take HEENZO every few
hours until cured. Relief
comes with first dose.
BRONCHITIS
Take night and morning
and when cough b
distressing.
INFLUENZA
Go straight to bed. Take
half teaspoonful of con-
centrated HEENZO in
wineglass of hot water
every four hours. Ease
cough with made-up
HEENZO. Keep bowels
open.
COLDS
Same treatment as coughs.
If taken at first sign, cold
will quickly vanish.
CROUP
Four doses of HEENZO
daily; also take when
cough is distressing.
WHOOPING
COUGH
Call doctor immediately
for injections. Ease the
cough with made-up
HEENZO.
YOU WILL BE GLAD YOU USED
#
the instant-relief, nice-to-take, money-
saving family remedy for
COUGHS,
COLDS, CATARRH
BRONCHITIS,
SORE 'pi IT
THROATS, 1
m
made up
IN VOOR
O WN HOM 6
CHEST AILMENTS
Take HEENZO internally.
NICE TO TAKE.
m
m
uAOi
''Ova
GARGLE for
SORE THROATS
and
SMOKER’S THROAT.
Pleasant and Effective.
MADE UP
IN YOUR
OWN HOMf
also
COLDS in HEAD.
A few drops up each nostril
night and morning gives the
greatest relief at amazing
low cost.


14m
The memory
of a pleasant,
well - cooked
meal lingers.
Diners at the
HOIEL PLAZA
WYNYARD
are served with a smile . . . pleasant
waitresses, expert service, and your
Grill, or Chicken, or Fish cooked
to a turn.
And speaking of Fisli, we recommend
this week: —
Whole Bream 1
Whole Whitingr !
Fillets of Flathead f
Large Garfish |
Boiled or Fried.
Served with our
daily Business
Bunch for .... 1/3
3 Courses, Etc.
Delicious freshly-caught Fish is
served with every meal at the
leading House for FISH MEALS.
HOTEL
- b w :
4091
PLAZA
WYNYARD,
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“Three Cheers for the Irish”
Sure an’ faith an’ it’s a bright bit of
comedy they have showin’ at Sydney
Plaza they have. All about a good
Oirish copper in New York it is. It’s
poundin’ the beat he’s been for five-an’-
twenty years, an’ on the mornin’ he’s
rightfully expectin’ promotion for his
long and faithful service it’s retirin’
him from the force with a pension they
are. Nearly broke his heart it did. But
at home he’d be havin’ three of the
swatest colleens ye ever saw now, an’
it’s willin’ to look after him for the rest
of his life they are.
Then what should happen but his beat
be taken over by a young upstart of a
Scotsman, as pigheaded and stupid as
any good Oirishman knows a Scotsman
is. An’ sure enough it’s chasin’ after the
swatest of the three colleens he is, and
then, shame of shame, it’s failin’ for
him she is. O the shame of it! A
darlin’ Oirish colleen failin’ for an up-
start Scotsman. An’ then, shame an’
shame agin, it’s marryin’ him she is
wit’out telling her good father, an’ him
findin’ out an’ all before long an’ sendin’
his swatest daughter away from under
his roof, though it’s breakin’ his heart it
was for him to do it.
An’ there he was wit’ the weight of
the world on his shoulders —runnin’ for
alderman an’ all he was, an’ another of
his colleens shamin’ herself by takin’
about with a dirty political grafter—an’
all the time it’s grievin’ for the swatest
colleen of them all he was, and she
grievin’ for him, an’ the dirty, upstart
Scotsman keepin’ them apart. Oh, it’s a
weary load the Oirish have to bear.
An’ then it’s Christmas cornin’ round
agin’ an’ the old man had been elected
alderman an’ all he had, an’ his strayed
colleen had left the dirty grafter an’ all
the house was as happy as Erin. All
except for the missin’ colleen who’d had
her mind twisted by the dirty, upstart
Scotsman. An’ then what should happen
but she be taken away to hospital for to
have a baby. O the glory of it, an’ the
old man a grandfather an’ all. An’
there’s the pair of them, an Oirishman
an’ a Scotsman, worried to death they
are an’ waitin’ outside the delivery
ward. An’ then it’s the nurse cornin’
out with the swatest little twins ye ever
saw an’, wonder of wonders, an Oirish-
men an’ a Scotsman shakin’ hands over
it all.
An’ though it’s a doubtful moral it is
to be havin’ an Oirishman shakin’ the
hand of a Scotsman, it’s a braw laddie
an’ a father he is, an’ it’s a no bad film
for a’ that, mon.
* # * *
“Dr. Ehrlich’s Magic Bullet”
It is doubtful if any film ever carried
a more cumbersome or inappropriate
title. Dr. Paul Ehrlich was a German
doctor and scientist whose investigations
in aniline dyes and serum preparations
were invaluable. His greatest contribu-
tion to medicine, however, was the pre-
paration of “606,” the first effective cure
for syphilis.
Warner Brothers have made a broad,
general depiction of Ehrlich’s life and
work, romanticised it and filled it in with
incident and color. The character of
Ehrlich was handed over to Ed. G.
Robinson, and with it he has surpassed
any of Paul Muni’s various characterisa-
tions.
The film serves a good purpose in deal-
ing with syphilis.
* * * *
“French Without Tears”
It is almost an axiom now that when
an American film concern goes to Eng-
land to make a film it makes a good
one. “Goodbye, Mr. Chips” and “Stolen
Life” were a couple of examples, and
this current offering at Sydney Prince
Edward —a Paramount production made in
England—carries on the good tradition.
A filmed version of a very successful
play, the film is an uncommonly good
comedy. Setting is a school run by an
explosive professor to teach French to
uppah-stratah Englishmen; story con-
cerns a seductive wench who invades
the institution.
Cast includes Ray Milland, who turns
in the best comedy performance of his
career, Guy Middleton, Ronald Culver
and David Tree, three English stage-
players of considerable ability, any of
whom could make a piece of string
seem funny. Jim Gerald —not the Aus-
tralian vaudevillain, but a French
comedian of considerable dimensions —
has a similar flair for comedy and uses
it well as the professor. Ellen Drew is
a stationary sort of actress, being more
adept at posing than in acting. On this
showing, however, she could give points
to Mae West in emphasising certain
aspects of femininity, and that is mainly
what the part demands of her.
* * * *
“Katia”
Drama is the particular meat of most
of the French films witnessed in Sydney,
and in building up a detailed and realistic
series of dramatic events they are un-
surpassed. One thing is always certain
—characters, even the most subsidiary,
and settings are exact, and therein lies
Ed G. Robinson (the bloke with the beard ) fires a spot of ammunition in “Dr.
Ehrlich’s Magic Bullet,” at Century, Sydney.
their chief appeal. But “Katia,” the
latest offering at Sydney Savoy, is
romance —the love story of Alexander II
of Russia and Catherine Dolgorusky—
and with such material the method is
not nearly so satisfactory.
Yet this film has charm. Descriptive
bits are excellent and beautifully photo-
graphed—a sleigh ride through snow-
covered countryside, silver in a pale sun-
light ; an interlude on the top-deck of
a Parisian bus. And all the minor char-
acters are there, strikingly real and true
to life. They make even more authentic
the principals—Danielle Darrieux, Katia,
and John Loder, the Czar.
Fine acting, and worth while, but as
film entertainment a good way behind
the version Hollywood would turn out
so neatly.
* * * *
“Raffles”
Main offering at Sydney Regent, this
follows the Hollywood tradition of
having the crook reformed. Raffles, the
famous amateur cracksman and cricketer,
lifts a gallery masterpiece so that an old
girl can get the reward for returning it.
Then he does another nice job at a
jeweller’s, but meets a young girl and
decides for the straight and narrow.
Therefore he posts the latest lifting to
Scotland Yard in a cigarette packet which
has an impression of a vital telephone
number on it, and the action shifts to the
country house of Lud Whosit, with
Raffles under necessity to do another job
there, a slim burglar after the same bit
of loot, and the detectives on the track
of both.
Nothing particularly striking about it,
but neatly constructed and entertaining,
with David Niven quite a fair Raffles,
Olivia de Havilland effective as the girl,
and support tiptop. The whole Regent
bill adds up to a nice stretch of light
entertainment, the main support, “Mexi-
can Spitfire,” being a genuine rib-buster.
* * * *
“The Lie of Nina Petrovna”
A beautiful Russian courtesan (Isa
Miranda) meets in Czarist St. Petersburg
an Austrian baron who carries her off
to Vienna, where he sets her up in posh
apartments. To avoid scandal he asks
a young lieutenant (Aime Clariond) to
take her about and appear as her cavalier
in public. She falls in love with the
lieutenant and pursues him to his hunt-
ing and fishing lodge in the country.
When the baron hears about it he is in
honor bound to shoot his rival, and the
lieutenant is equally in honor bound to
shoot in the air, but Miss Miranda inter-
cepts the baron on his way to the duel-
ling ground and promises that she will
return to him if he spares the lieutenant.
When the lieutenant returns unscathed
she tells him that she does not and never
did love him and then commits suicide.
The French are adepts at telling this
kind of story, and in this Continental
film at Melbourne Savoy it is presented
with the usual austere economy of detail
and acted with the customary ease and
polish.
Clumsy censoring has spoiled some of
the emotional passages. The English
translations have been blotted out, and,
for some reason or other, the blots pal-
pitate like jellyfish with the indigestion,
fetching loud titters from the audience.
What good the censors hope to do by
their interference it is difficult to imagine,
as the French are expert pantomimists
and the film could carry its message
equally well if it were completely silent.
STAGE AND CONCERT
Open-air concerts in the Melbourne
Botanic Gardens were abandoned years
ago owing to the southern city’s cele-
brated weather. There was a revival last
week, when a Sunday crowd of 15,000
listened to an excellent performance of
the Schubert “Unfinished,” Handel’s
“Water Music” and other works in aid
of the Red Cross. An amateur body of
musicians under the young conductor
Hector Crawford fiddled and blew while
the sky shone overhead, the poplars mir-
rored themselves in the lake and the
ducks squawked less than usual. From
the popular point of view, the concert
was an outstanding success. The music
suffered surprisingly little from exposure.
* * * *
Prof. Bernard Heinze, of Melbourne,
had control of the A.B.C. Symphony
Orchestra at Sydney Town Hall on
Saturday night. Programme was headed
by Brahms’s First Symphony. Six weeks
of steady rehearsal (of course, under one
conductor) would not be too much to
require for an adequate presentation of
this complete work. Mr. Heinze, not
having the advantage of such prepara-
tion, contented himself, as Harty, Sargent,
Schneevoigt and other conductors have
had to do, with a sort of sketch plan
of the symphony. This evolved the usual
tempest of applause.
Straightforward stylised music such as
the Siloti arrangement of Vivaldi’s D
Minor Concerto (concerto in the old
Italian sense) was played excellently. A
reading of Gustav Holst’s “Somerset
Rhapsody” contained some beautifully
mellifluous passages, and the performance
of Wagner’s gorgeously orchestrated
“Rienzi” overture was full of vigor and
fire.
Maria Markan, a soprano from Ice-
land, sang with orchestra a couple of
operatic excerpts, “Porgi Amor” from
“Figaro” and Weber’s aria “Leise,
Leise.” She has a voice of cold, clear
quality, and, as demonstrated in the
Weber number, plenty of dramatic fire.
As to whether it was worth while to
bring such a singer all the way from Ice-
land to a land where sopranos with nice
clear voices and plenty of vim are two
a penny is a matter for the A.B.C. s
conscience.
Artbursts.
The name of Roy Parkinson, the Bris-
bane artist who exhibited in Melbourne
in the Sedon Galleries in August, 1939,
was incorrectly applied in an “Art-
bursts” comment (B. 17/4/’4O) to
Russian-ballet drawing by Roy Hodgkin-
son. The Bulletin’s Melbourne man
explains:
If I wrote Roy Parkinson, then I’m
afraid the mistake is mine. 1 had no cata-
logue, but afterwards went to the Sedon
Galleries, where I happened to talk to a
man who happened to know Parkinson.
When I went to the office I must have
written my notice with Parkinson’s name
in my mind.
* * H= *
Adelaide National Gallery is featuring
some historical pictures lent by the Com-
monwealth.
Two of them show
May 9, 1927. Mc-
Innes did the actual
inauguration of Par-
liament at Canberra,
with the present
King and Queen and
hundreds of careful
portraits ; yet he has
not much sacrificed
fact, and the key
engraving names
many notables who
go down to posterity
with only their backs
showing.
Septimus Power’s
painting dates a few
minutes earlier, the
arrival in state at
Parliament’s front
door. It is a blaze
of color: lots of
horses, of course,
and perhaps a thou-
sand figures, the
royal pair being por-
traits, but all the
rest with faces just
indicated; a real
impression.
With these is a
Lister Lister of the
Canberra capital-site
in 1912, a great
greenish - pink ex-
panse, seen from
somewhere below Duntroon.
Ivor Hele shows a powerful study of
travel-worn men horses on a lonely
far-north hilltop, “Sturt’s Reluctant De-
cision to Return” (not the famous Mur-
ray voyage, of course, but a much later
Centralian expedition when he was Sur-
veyor-General in S.A.). By Tom Roberts
is an odd bit of Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne, just before the tramlines came.
Rather lost among these, though itself
a fine work, is a large imported winter
scene, sheep in snow, outside an abbey,
by Alex Jamieson.
Only six pictures, yet an exhibition in
themselves.


KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of 3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 miles
of kidney tubes and filters become clogged
with poisonous waste and the danger of acid
poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition is a danger signal and
may be the beginning of nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles, puf-
flness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Frequent or scanty passages, with
smarting and burning, show there is some-
thing wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and filters.
Don’t delay 1 Ask your chemist or store
for DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS ...
used successfully the world over by
of people. They give quick relief and will
heln to flush out the 15 MILES of kidney
tubes. GET DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY!
PILLS at your chemist or store.
Legal Notice.
EIRE CIRCUIT COURT OF JUSTICE
Circuit No. 7. County of Clare.
Lands Kilmore, Estate Pockleton, Folio 1986,
R.O. No. 78/338.
Lands Glendree, Estate Keane, Folio 2187,
R.O. No. 78/571.
IN THE MATTER of the Courts of Justice
Acts 1924-1936 and IN THE MATTER of
the Local Registration of Title (Ireland)
Act 1891 and IN THE MATTER of the
application of KATE COONEY of
Glendree Scariff in the County of Clare
Widow.
Registered Owner: MARGARET COONEY.
TO ALL IT MAY CONCERN.
TAKE NOTICE that KATE COONEY (nee
Grogan) of Glendree Scariff in the County of
Clare Widow of MICHAEL COONEY de-
ceased who was a lawful son of MARGARET
COONEY deceased the abovenamed Registered
Owner has applied to the above Court under
Section 52 of the .Local Registration of Title
(Ireland) Act 1891 for a declaration that she
is now entitled to the fee simple interest in said
lands by possession and that she be registered
as full owner of the abovementioned lands of
Kilmore and Glendree situate in the Barony of
Tulla Upper and County of Clare being
the lands comprised in folios 2187 and 1986
of the Land Register of said County AND
this is further to give notice to the next-of-kin
or otherwise of the said Margaret Cooney or
to any person claiming an interest on the
lands that unless within three months from
date of publication of this notice objection be
lodged against the registration of the said Kate
Cooney as owner of said lands an order will be
made in the terms of her said application and
she will pursuant to said order be registered as
Full Owner of said lands All persons having
any objection to the registration of the said
Kate Cooney or claiming any interest or estate
on said lands are hereby required to file said
objection and claim with full particulars thereot
and with verifying affidavit and documents to
vouch claim with the County Registrar for
Clare at his office Court House Ennis Co.
Clare Eire within the time above limited, viz.,
three months from publication hereof.
DATED this 30th day of March, 1940.
ANDREW J. O’FLYNN, LL.B., Solicitor
for said Kate Cooney, Gort, County Galway.
MICHAEL KILLEEN, County Registrar,
Clare Court House, Ennis, County Clare.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The red lines of the police barriers,
the white snoods of the Junior Red-
Crossers, the color of ribbons, the glint
of medals and over all the sharp, sting-
ing scent of rosemary held the city in
thrall last Thursday. Nineteen hundred
and forty was observing its Anzac Day.
Year by year this day takes on added
spiritual significance. This year it was
a dedication to the youth that had died
so long ago. It was assurance that their
cause was still our cause, that Australia’s
sword was as sharp to strike for justice
and liberty and peace as it had been a
quarter of a century ago.
The hundreds of watchers who keep
vigil by the Cenotaph throughout the
night of Anzac Eve never fail to stir the
emotions. Speeding home from a con-
cert or some revelry, you will see them,
dim and huddled shapes in that ravine of
silence that is Martin-place, some of them
sitting on the Post Office steps, a prayer
and bitter-sweet memories in the heart.
Rosemary is not needed here. They say
fifty thousand people came to Martin-
place for the dawn service. Soldiers -jf
yesterday, of today and tomorrow were
there, and with them their womenfolk.
Here and there a woman stood alone, her
coat heavy with medals. At 4.30 Lord
Wakenurst pronounced the Anzac dedi-
cation. There was rain in the air, and
the flowers already massed on the Ceno-
taph sent out waves of fragrance.
Through the dawn chill the bugles
sounded the “Last Post,” and the dedi-
cation “We will remember them” swelled
out, a tidal-wave of sound. Who can
doubt that it travelled to the fiords of
the far north?
You couldn’t help being uplifted by
the Anzacs’ march through the city. It
was a grand day for the boys of the
Dardanelles and of Flanders. They
marched well, with “a laugh in the heel
of them,” as an old Irishman used to say.
The waistline might have got out of
hand, but the old daredevil spirit was
still there. Here was a company of
Maorilanders, and behind them a High-
land band skirling “The Campbells Are
Coming.” If that wouldn’t frighten the
enemy, what would? Standing beside this
Letter was a whole family of Enzedders.
The small boys wore tartan trousers, the
small girls wore tartan skirts. Their
little faces, round and shining as moons,
were lifted in joy as uncle and daddy
passed. Light Horse, Air Force, Signal-
lers —cheers for them all. They were
Anzacs.
In spite of the rain the crowds at the
service in the Domain seemed more dense
than ever. When the last note of the last
hymn had died, mothers and fathers
gathered their young and streamed into
the Gardens. They had a picnic lunch
in the suitcase, and, Australia-like, wanted
to eat it in the open. Who cared about
the rain? The rain brought the promise
of green grass springing in a cleansed
world.
Tea-drinkers at the fair at Govern-
ment House, Canberra, are still talking
of the splendid organisation. The praise
goes to the Queanbeyan branch of the
C.W.A., whose president is Mrs. Caragh
Gorman. With the help of a committee
of twelve, she made the arrangements
S£ S “n TabTe?and? e gX Ch «e°e
!~es.‘° 0 ’ Wlth donatlons of money
th The h Frank t? a c b h ri i d f s fIC
their home, the Chalet, at Wahroonga,
and have taken a flat at the Astor. Mrs
Hambridge is one of the few people in
Sydney who have lived in Vladivostok.
She spent almost 12 months there, a few
y ea rs prior to the 1914-18 outbreak. She
stayed with a Russian family who were
friends of her parents. When she talks
°f this garrison town with its strong log
buildingSj the rime of ice around its
shor£Sj the waters of the gu if, there rises
t 0 tbe m j n( j a ll the components of a pen-
p j c ture by Tolstoy.
All the family called the parents mamma
and pap&j an d f am ily a ffection was a
warm an d palpable quality. The break-
ast ta hi ej se t with coffee and cocoa
a j rea dy made and the steaming samo-
var wa ffing for those who wished to
make te a , in the spring would be decked
wd h masses of lily-of-the-valley plucked
j n the near-by forests of cedar and oak
and birch and aspen, of wild cherry and
pear. Every naan was in uniform, fitting,
befrogged, often gold-splashed. ine
Members of the Women’s Emergency
Signalling Corps are all proud of Ena
ste Warb w ho can send and receive up to
2 0 words a minute (Morse). This is com-
merc j a j s t an dard. Ena is not only pro-
ficent jn dot and dash and o th er methods
o£ message-giving and -taking; she can
send and receive with flags and lamps.
She has a talent for mechanics, can adjust
instruments and install two-way com-
munications. Norton Trevaire photo-
graph.
Warwick Farm (which is really Rand-
wick) in the rain, and green and red and
blue umbrellas bursting into life all over
it like so many carnival mushrooms, was
Saturday’s offering to the god of chance.
By strange irony the first race day cold
enough for the wearing of winter styles
was so wet that women had to cover
them with oilskin or rubber coats. Some
women, remembering that rain doesn’t
hurt furs, wore their squirrel, silver fox
and even sable coats and neck pieces.
Sleekest of all was a hip-length cape of
seal. Grey was more worn than
black —unusual for Sydney. Mrs. H. D.
O’Connell had the hem of her cruiser-
grey frock bordered with flat bows of
the material. Her matching coat had
lamb’s-wool budding on its lapels.
Florence Brownlow brought an air of
distinction and black furs with her black
suit.
Silvery-grey like the rim of some of
the day’s clouds were Mrs. J. L. Davis’s
suit and jaunty sailor. Admired were
the concertina pleats that formed the
brim of Mrs. Lionel Dare’s black satin
hat. Mrs. de Baun, with her Judge,
showed red-gold hair between hat and
coat of brown. Mrs. John Gore and
Mrs. Roger Forrest Hughes were to-
gether in the great open spaces of the
official stand.
Mrs. Strath Playfair’s attractive hat
looked rather like a large shell stood
on its side, slate-blue its color. Gay as
waltz-time Vienna was the pink-and-blue
scarf out of Austria worn by Robin
Curtis. Phillipa Stephen’s tweeds were
greeny-blue and faintly checked with
brown. Its hyacinth pink shade and its
box pleats made Amber Jacobs’s short
coat notable. The Harry Budge lady and
daughter Sadie had a happy if damp
afternoon. Mrs. Joe Coen was smart in
brown. Daughter Marie was all Quaker-
grey smartness. Joan McDermott, Mrs.
Owen Friend, Mrs. C. H. K. Miller, Mrs.
Parsons, Bessie Watt and Miss Maher
were among the many who spent a grand
afternoon watching the gees and walking
in the rain.
Last Saturday Patricia Salenger be-
came Mrs. Kenneth Anderson with bless-
ing of St. Philip’s on Church Hill. Her
frock of thick corded silk was ivory in
tone; her veil was of Brussels lace.
Sisters Barbara and Pat ’maided in pink,
a Victorian suggestion about their oft-
the-shoulder frocks of pink velvet and
taffeta. Bride’s parents held a reception
at the Forum Club.
Back in Sydney after some years
Signora Bessie Faggioli (’cellist Bessie
Griffiths) accompanied sister Mrs. Walter
Swinson to Saturday’s symphony con-
cert. Soprano from Iceland Maria
Markan was the soloist, and the fullness
of her notes stirred her listeners to great
applause. Her white frock and her gold
filigree earrings were equally admired,
though in a minor key. Lady Wakehurst s
almond-green and silver lames were a
nice gleam in the official party. Here
were Mr. and Mrs. Cleary, Peter Lub-
bock and Lord Lurgan.
The Wahroonga Music Club started
off this year with 120 members, and
hopes to make the number 150 before the
season is much older. Each member pays
one guinea. Last year the club supplied
ten concerts, star musicians only engaged
for the programmes. Last week’s con-
cert was by Trix Tange, Sydney de
Vries and Cynthia Garner. Shower the
confetti of praise on Lawrence Godfrey
Smith, who has been the club’s ardent
musical director for several years. This
year there is a new president. He is Sir
Hugh Poynter.
Tom Wilson, for two and a half years
popular Consul-General for Uncle Sam
in Australia, has gone back to U.S.A.
after a round of parties that is still mak-
ing male America in Sydney smile as at
a pleasant memory. He took with him
an Australian travelling-rug and a little
black dog, a Scottie. He put his house
in order before he left, and saw that his
two Chinese houseboys were on their
way home to their own land. The Ameri-
can Society gave him a late-afternoon
party at Elizabeth Bay House last week,
and arrived in great numbers to say
farewell. Immediately you crossed the
doorstep there was a Stars and Stripes
and a Declaration of Independence atmo-
sphere. President of the society A. C.
Aubry at the psychological interlude
between drinks presented the rug afore-
said. A band of cherry-red velvet gave
the party touch to Mrs. Albert Doyle’s
black hat. Mrs. Clay Von Hake, who
was one of the hostesses, had one of
those heavy gold necklets, rivals to Mala-
chi’s collar of gold, brightening her black
frock.
On Tuesday next at three o’clock in
the Australia Charles Benson will give a
recital. The tenor will raise his voice in
what his programme terms “Songs You
Love.” At the piano will be Evelyn
Blanche, product of the Royal Academy
of Music, London, and our own Con-
servatorium. Evelyn is on the staff of
the M.L.C., Burwood. Her programme
numbers will include Chopin and Pit-
field.
Mrs. Salenger had the right idea when
she issued cards for an at-home that
started at eleven in the morning and
went on till midnight. This was a pre-
wedding party in honor of daughter
Patricia’s marriage to Kenneth Ander-
son. It came about as the result of the
first list of guests to be invited to the
wedding. When the 600th name had
been written down (the Salengers have
a circle of friends girdling the city and
suburbs) something had to be done.
Finally the list for the church and the
reception was pruned to something like
140. The all-day party was somehow
reminiscent of a play of Chekhov —people
drifting in and out all the time, and cups
of tea being poured and presented. By
two in the afternoon over a hundred
callers to the Killara home had come
and gone. By half-past three quite an-
other 60 had arrived and over 1 d
accepted for the evening.
Viewing the trousseau and the presents
was the chief delight of every woman. The
trousseau, all hand-made, was the work
of local craftswomen. It was comparable
to anything out of Paris or Brussels, its
stitchery a marvel of fineness. The wed-
ding presents included everything from a
canteen of cutlery big enough to serve
the Queen Elizabeth to a suitcase and rug
for the honeymoon. In between were
precious silver candlesticks, a family heir-
loom, cedar coffee tables, a a
brother, and an occasional table from
sisters Barbara and Margaret. A lovely
Hans Heysen glowed blue and green
above fine china services. There were
Chinese wall embroideries and household
linen. Most uncommon of all was the
show of gardening implements. Here
was everything to make a bride thank
God for a garden,” even to gloves. Some
special plants helped to crowd out the
tables in the sunroom.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite will not,
after all, see her colors riding to win
this year’s Melbourne Cup. Having
staked her all on a ticket in the Red
Cross art union, first prize of which was
a racehorse, she has had her hopes
dashed. The two-year-old filly Medlar
was won by W. Busby, of Shirley-road,
Wollstonecraft. Other prizes were won
by Clarice Pinner, of Myall View, Gil-
gandra, W. Booth, of Rosehill, and
Phillip Lloyd Jones, of Point Piper.
Harry Tighe, who has published many
novels and has had his plays presented
in London, has produced two thin
booklets, one on playwriting, the other
on the art of acting. Each is filled with
plain and easily understandable hints on
its particular bit of the theatre. It would
be unfair to quote much from these
works because they cover only a few
pages, and each costs but threepence,
and all the threepenny bits go to the
Phillip Park Children’s Library, of which
Mr. Tighe is a sort of godfather. Here
are two lines from Play writing that the
word kleptomaniac must annex: “Victor
Hugo said of play writing: ‘There are
three essentials. The first is construction;
the second is construction ; the third is
construction.’ ”
Barbara Salenger, fair as though born
in some land of the midnight sun, and
a great contrast to her sisters, who, with
their dark hair and large dark eyes, might
be straight from Spain, was smiling last
week oVer her own brand-new engage-
ment to Lieutenant-Paymaster Maxwell
Munro, R.A.N.R. Margaret, too, just
enrolled at the Women’s College within
the University, had her own bit of excite-
ment. She had received word that she
had won the Ada Mcllrath prize from
her old school. This is given to the
pupil gaining the highest marks in the
Leaving Certificate exam.


Divorce Notices.
TO WALTER AUSTIN REEDY formerly of
Bathurst.
TAKE NOTICE that GLADYS LINDA
MAY REEDY has filed petition for divorce
No. 582 of 1940 on the ground of desertion
without reasonable cause or excuse for three
years and upwards. You may enter appearance
before 16th July 1940 and obtain copy of
petition from M. B. BYLES AND CO., Solici-
tors, 3 Castlereagh Street, Sydnev
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
New South Wales.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 519 of 1940.
BETWEEN MARI GRIMALDI Petitioner
And JOSEPH GRIMALDI Respondent.
TO JOSEPH GRIMALDI of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARI GRIM-
ALDI has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is praying for a
dissolution of marriage on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Ninth day
of August One thousand nine hundred and
forty and in the event of your not so doing
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of April One
thousand nine hundred and forty.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
S. G. SOMMERS & STEWART, Solicitors,
197 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 540 of 1940.
BETWEEN ALBERTA CALLAGHAN Peti-
tioner
And WILLIAM ASHTON CALLAGHAN
Respondent.
TO the said WILLIAM ASHTON CALLA-
GHAN.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALBERTA
CALLAGHAN has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Third day
of July One thousand nine hundred and forty
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit will be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had an application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of April, a.d. 1940.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ALLEN, CLEMENS & LAURENCE, Solici-
tors for the Petitioner, 39 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 310 of 1940.
BETWEEN DOUGALD WAKEFIELD Peti-
tioner.
Apd CLARA EILEEN WAKEFIELD Re-
spondent.
TO CLARA EILEEN WAKEFIELD late of
Gladstone Street Balmain.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DOUGALD
WAKEFIELD has- commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the ground of desertion for
three years without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Ninth
day of July One thousand nine hundred and
forty and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Eighteenth day of April, 1940.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
REX REYNOLDS, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, St. James Building, 109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 432 of 1940.
BETWEEN EDITH GERTRUDE BOXHALL
Petitioner
And OLIVER BOXHALL Respondent.
TO OLIVER BOXHALL late of Islington.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDITH
GERTRUDE BOXHALL has commenced a
suit against you in this Court and has applied
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Court on or before the Eighteenth day
of July next and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fourth day of April,
1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
S. S. MITCHELL, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle; by his
Agents, JOHN CORCORAN AND CO., Solici-
tors, Assembly Hall, 2 York Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Twenty-one thousand Diggers, over
1000 more than last year, took part in
the Anzac Day march, thus proving that
their spirit is as binding as it was in past
years. While their sons are ready to fight
in this war, the veterans of the last war
have as much in common as ever they
had. By their attendance they showed
that, although the trials of another war
are upon their country, they will cling
as long as they are able to their ideals
and their memories, and they’ll do their
job again if it’s necessary.
Long before the march the crowds
drifted to St. Kilda-road and over the
lawns of the Shrine. When the brief,
simple service commenced with the
solemn notes of “Lead, Kindly Light,”
there was scarcely a glint of green grass
visible. In Swanston-street, too, the
people lined the barriers as thickly as
they have in years gone by. The weather
conditions were good, and there was
neither rain nor fierce wind to make the
hours in the open unpleasant.
Once again the Anzacs were present
at the dawn service, each with his
own memory of another dawn 25
years ago. Many of the men arrived
at the Shrine as early at 4 a.m.,
and it was 6.30 before the last
Digger filed through the Shrine at the
conclusion of the ceremony. It was then
that the men were grateful for the hot
coffee served outside the Barracks by the
Anzac Fellowship of Women.
But after their coffee a lot of the men
were at a loose end. They had to fill
in time till the march commenced at
1.30 p.m. Again after the march the
streets were filled with people, and hun-
dreds of them had nowhere to go. Many
had come from distant country places
for the march, and they found themselves
killing time in a city of righteousness with
the gardens and the couple of picture
shows allowed to remain open as the only
diversions. Like the three monkeys, the
powers that compel hotels to bar their
front doors on Anzac Day refuse to see
that hostelries have other entrances.
After all, an Anzac, though he might be
a hero, is only human. He wants a drink
with the boys and a meal in cheery com-
pany and an audience for his reminis-
cences. He considers that after the ser-
vice at the Shrine the solemnity of the
anniversary is over and he’d like some-
where pleasant to dig himself in for a
smoke and yarn with old pals before
going bush again for another year.
At the Cafe Chatant for Melbourne
Hospital at the Australia there were
drawn blinds and dim lights and a pro-
gramme of music that proceeded from
song to song and solo to solo with scarcely
a moment in between for the audience to
take breath for a few low-toned remarks.
The musicians garnered from the Albert-
street Conservatorium were polished in
their work and all talented artists, but it
isn’t everybody who can stand up to
draughts of music on each side of tea
and remain paragons of politeness with
no fidgeting or whispering or puffing of
smoke in one another’s eyes. Notwith-
standing, this audience managed the
job. All it had to do if it wanted to
wriggle was to follow Paul Petroff’s
example. Ballet-star Petroff was brought
to the party, and without a word of pro-
test found himself swallowed up by a
tableful of women. He really does
enjoy music, and followed the pro-
gramme with interest.
Lady Dugan was received by Mrs,
Russell Clarke and other members of
the entertainments committee of the
Royal Melbourne Hospital. She also
met Aimee Elvins and Harold Elvins,
who organised the musical programme.
Mrs. Byram Gowan and Mrs. A. R.
Bruhn spent most of the afternoon doing
tally-clerking outside the door. Mrs.
Wesley Ince, a plate of pink roses upon
her flat black hat, hovered behind the
counters laden with cigarettes and party
wares. In the same domain was Mrs.
C H. Mollison, whose small daughter
Elizabeth went forth peddling fare for
a sweet tooth, her comrade-at-arms being
Julie Grover, of the Alice-in-Wonderland
hair.
One of the parties at which young
Melbourne celebrated boat race night
was at the Manhattan, for which a
young committee (with Mr. and Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell keeping an eye on off-
stage organisation) worked successfully
to the tune of 250 people and a plump
cheque for the Orthopaedic Craft Hostel.
Three Cheers for Melbourne Grammar”
hung over the orchestra, printed by
Betty Wallace Mitchell as soon as the
race was over. Up under the moon of
the roof garden there were decorations
of trees, all of a tender age, to fit into
the picture of the party. Inside the hall
were Yarra banks of grass, where the
day’s barrackers rested themselves and
their voices. Eight-oars, with crews of
kewpies, rowed a Walt Disneyish race
over the supper tables.
Pauline McNamara was there in
mauve satin, and sister Ena in black
lace ; also Red. Smith, who hands around
quail, the product of his own gun, to
his friends as easily as other people do
bunches of zinnias. Carl Jess and
Gordon Austin (of Frankston) barracked
for white coats. Charles Butler came
up from Mt. Martha, and Sandy Mair
was another military lad with a night off.
An Athol Shmith camera made this
picture of Mrs. Geoffrey Cohen, who
with Harold Herbert and a small com-
mittee will see that no one goes thirsty
at the Bohemian Studio party in the
Lower Town Hall on May 10. This
party sounds so enticing that all the girls
will go if they have to get gigolos to take
them, and the lads will be there even if
their second-best pals only are available.
It’s part of the Academy Artists’ effort
for war charities, and will run from six
p.m. till midnight. Dress is optional, and
in between the time of beer and onions
and beer and hamburgers there will be
One Hectic Hour run by two bright lads,
Alan and Wilfrid McCulloch, with a shirt
ballet as a star turn and Beth Thwaites
as a ballerina.
Artists will be on tap for sketches, and
Harold Herbert will do caricatures for
the highest bidders. Two noted astrolo-
gers, the Wizard and the Wizardess of
Oz, will also be available for interviews.
Decorations will be vivid; they won’t
hurt the shock troops, but they may
flatten out Madame Grundy. Admission
is by ticket only. Tickets are ss. each,
and they include supper and two free
drinks from the wide field of beverages
available.
Lynette Walkley and John Lowry cut
all formalities from their wedding festivi-
ties. The marriage was very quiet in the
Angel Chapel of St. John’s. The bride,
showing no penchant for wedding tulle
and orange-blossom, wore instead an en-
semble of powder-blue Angora with a
light-hearted little hat of feathers and
veiling. The reception which followed
at No. 9 was just like a cocktail party ;
there was plenty of frolic and frivol for
the 250 guests but no ceremonial at all,
with nary a speech nor even a toast for
the important young couple. John and
Lynette enjoyed their own party, and
showed their appreciation of the swing
music which kept everyone dancing till
the moon and the stars were up.
Just as surely as the seasons come and
go so do the Victorian Artists burst forth
with two exhibitions a year. This year’s
autumn show has outdistanced the
seasons; it has covered the walls of the
Albert-street Gallery before all our trees
are sprayed with gold. The long dry
season has delayed the turning-point
much longer than usual.
Government House was well repre-
sented at the Vic.’s first evening. Sir
Winston Dugan made a special point of
saying “Yes” to an invitation to open
the show. His speech was a brief word
of praise for the artists’ noble war effort
and an apt quotation: “As the sun adds
color to the flowers, so does art add color
to life.” Then, duty done, he made his
round of inspection with interest. Lady
Dugan was there, having just concluded
a strenuous tour of the Western District,
where so many speeches were requested
of her that a sore throat was an unwel-
come result. Lady Armitage and daugh-
ter Joy were also attached to the group
officially welcomed.
Among others who called in and stayed
for a cup of coffee served in the gallery
of water-colors were Mrs. Wallace
Turner, Mrs. E. C. McLeod, with gar-
denias aloft, escorted by Alex. Hillhousc,
Jock Frater, with his bushy yellow-brown
hair and Edinburgh accent, the Kingsley
Hendersons, who, although winter is
a-coming, will not be missing any week-
end at their Portsea house, Mr. and Mrs.
F. W. Spry, John Longstaff, James Quinn
and Nuttar Buzzacott, who didn’t have
to strain his neck to get a view over any-
body’s shoulders.
Pat Heffernan’s varied little show at
Riddell’s Galleries was opened by Mrs.
T. J. Ryan, who in her speech sheered
off the pitfalls of art, choosing a safer
domain whereby she figuratively patted
on the head Pat’s inspiration, his wile
Diane. Diane looks out of canvases on
each wall. She was present in person,
colorful as always in black, a tricky hat
with snood and a taffeta scarf gay in
hue and cleverly adjusted with a tiepin
or two. The artist’s mother (Dr. Hilda
Greenshields in medical circles) was
there. His father, Dr. E. B. Heffernan,
was absent fighting a melancholy per-
sonal battle with an influenza bug. Other
relatives included Diane’s mother, Mrs,
R. Fakry, and aunt, Mrs. D. Callil, who
exercised her prerogative of kinsmanship
by kissing the various family twigs on
her arrival at the top of the stairs. Young
Joan Finn came in at a hand gallop as
soon as school was out, for her portrait
was exhibited. The Keith Mackays
called, Mrs, Mackay in a summery floral
frock suitable for such a warm day, fbr
our weather was up to all sorts of
peculiar tricks last week.
In Eve Ray’s photograph is Hanny
Kolm, a young Viennese trained as a
dancer in the method known as the
Central European school. Miss Kolm
and her confrere, Daisy Pirnitzer, who
is a Hungarian, gave their first perform-
ance in the Union Theatre last week.
The girls have been pals for 15 years,
since they were at school together in
Vienna. Together also in the same city
they graduated at the State Academy of
Music and Dramatic Art, where the cur-
riculum they followed included ballet,
history of music and dancing, gymnas-
tics, harmony, study of costumes, etc.
Hanny said farewell to Vienna in June,
1938. She was in England for a while,
and friend Daisy was down at South-
ampton to wave her good-bye when she
sailed for the great unknown, the Repub-
lic of Colombia. Hanny found it a
“savage place,” The inhabitants, drows-
ing in the muggy heat, were not par-
ticularly excited over the arrival of a young
dancer ready to show them how to be
more graceful, to be thinner and healthier
and how to appreciate dancing for its
artistic attributes. Hanny stayed a year
in Colombia, and arrived in Australia
just as war was declared.
Among new graduates at the last Uni-
versity Commencement was Terry
Duigan, a very tall young man with an
orange-lined hood over his shoulders,
who assumed that garb as a Bachelor of
Architecture. He is also something of
a caricaturist, and his pungent draw-
ings of dominies called down some
wrath upon his head during school-
days at Geelong College. He has been
doing freelancing lately. Another in-
terest is flying, which is not surprising,
for his father and uncle, Reg and Jack
Duigin, built a ’plane now in the Mel-
bourne Museum. Terry expects to be
called up for the R.A.A.F. at any
moment. His elder brother Brian was
accepted by the R.A.F. a few days before
war broke out.
Since he left Australia five years ago
Brian had done an interesting amount of
travelling. For three years he was mining
engineering in Johannesburg, and later
he had experience at the Antelope copper-
mines of Northern Rhodesia. From that
district he rode a motor-cycle alone to
Mombasa, staying en route for four
months in the Belgian Congo with settlers
of varied nationalities and professions,
and coming safely through encounters
with wild animals and still wilder natives.
He found that bluff plus a revolver
worked wonders. On one occasion his
machine broke completely in half, but
being a Duigan he’s a resourceful
mechanic. He sold his bike in Mom-
basa, and after the hardships of the trip
was particularly appreciative of a lazy
cruise up and down the Adriatic.


“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting the
Australian equivalent of 3 American dollars
through “The Bulletin” Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM
6AM
6KG
Perth .. .
Northam. .
Kalgoorlie
500 watts
2000 watts
500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Pertbf
THE FLYING COLUMN
Operations in the North.
The invasion of Denmark and Nor-
way brought a sudden intensification of
the war in the air. From Britain, instead
of the familiar news of the unopposed
and bloodless dropping of leaflets on
German towns, there came reports of
persistent bombing of warships, air bases
and aerodromes. German accounts dealt
copiously with attacks on British naval
craft from Narvik Fiord to the Kattegat,
on points at which British troops landed
in Norway, on railways, bridges, towns
and troops on the march.
Possession of Norwegian air stations
has given the enemy a decided advantage
which will not be neutralised until the
Allies drive him out of at least some of
them. British troops, moving towards
Trondhjem from the direction of Namsos,
north of that port, and advancing beyond
Stenkjaer, were harassed by aircraft and
naval gunfire, and, encountering superior
land forces, had to retire beyond Stenk-
jaer. The enemy bombers had no oppo-
sition from anti-aircraft guns and no
effective reply could be made in the
air, Allied bombers being otherwise
engaged.
And although the initial landing at
Namsos was carried out successfully
Namsos Harbor was made untenable for
the British warships there. They had to
take up positions in the fiord from which
it was impossible for them to assist the
land forces.
Obviously the German airmen operat-
ing over Norway have been heavily rein-
forced, and at all points the invading
army has been strengthened by means of
troop-carriers. Although the enemy’s
claims must be discounted (it is alleged
that “a destroyer was seriously damaged
at Namsos,” that “a destroyer and a
transport were set on fire at Andalsnes”
and that “a transport and a cargo ship
were put out of action in Molde Fiord”),
it would be idle to deny that his aircraft
have a great nuisance value.
The British, for their part, have been
busy attacking all the air stations used
by the enemy in Norway, especially at
Stavanger, Kristiansand and Fornebu,
the Oslo airport, also Aalborg in Den-
mark and Westerland in Sylt. The
Westerland raid was very daring, the
aerodrome being “bombed almost con-
tinuously for an hour and forty minutes.”
A hangar was hit and fires were started,
though the German account alleges that
only ten bombs were dropped and did
no damage.
Twice the Germans have charged the
British with dropping bombs in Schleswig-
Holstein where there were no military
objectives, and have threatened reprisals.
If they are serious, there will be a speedy
end to the queer unofficial truce which
has prevented each side from bombing
civilians, though the Nazis haven’t ex-
tended it to Poles or Norwegians. They
could not reply, but bombing of non-
military objectives is a game which the
Allies can play if they have to.
There is no mention of French air-
men being employed in the defence of
Norway, nor was there any reference to
French naval forces being used till last
week, when French destroyers were re-
ported in the Skagerrak. The German
account of that action is that “patrol
vessels attacked a number of heavy
French destroyers at the entrance to the
Skagerrak, the French withdrawing to
the west after a short battle.” Paris re-
plied that the French had sunk “two
torpedo-boats, a torpedo motor-launch
and a U-boat” without damage to them-
selves, despite “a fierce bombardment” by
enemy aircraft. For at least a year after
the Great War began, the French com-
plained that they were doing a dispro-
portionate share of the work. They can’t
say that this time ; on the contrary, they
pay handsome tributes to the achieve-
ments of the Royal Navy, the Fleet Air
Arm and the R.A.F.
The Air Scheme Moves.
“Cirrus”: R.A.A.F. recruiting is mov-
ing along quietly but quickly.
Already over 60,000 men between the
ages of 18 and 35 have offered, and 2400
recruits are in training. New offers are
coming in at a rate which assures that
“peak arrangements under the scheme
will soon be reached.”
Railway Departments have been asked
to co-operate by giving training to tech-
nical recruits, and a scheme of appren-
ticeship may be introduced. This would
be a good move, giving the trainees a
civic standard in training which would
be of use to them in civil life afterwards.
The first embryo pilots, air-gunners
and observers have been mustered at
Sydney to go to the schools at Ballarat,
Cootamundra and Somers. A batch of
cadets have been cleared from the school
at Mascot (N.S.W.), and a further batch
take their place. These will be allotted
as usual to individual companies for pre-
liminary instruction.
In Canada, where the first overseas
fliers booked for advance training are
arriving, ground crews and instructors
have been trained for 115 establishments.
Signals.
“Amatol”: One of the most important
sections in any R.A.F. command is
Signals.
Signals officers are all regulars with
plenty of flying experience. Messages are
conveyed by telephone, teleprinter, radio,
dispatch rider or carrier pigeon, and each
of the methods entails a separate organi-
sation. All Britain is covered by a net-
work of communication using these
means. So skilfully is it pieced together
that communication can never be inter-
rupted at a point of importance. Signal
lines enable the forces of the Fighter
Command, charged with air defence of
the country, to come into action in-
stantaneously when danger looms.
Certain land-lines are “untappable,”
technical considerations producing only
a confused humming sound if an un-
authorised connection should be made.
Radio is used in every possible way
between ground bases and ’planes, and
the methods of using it provide also for
an ample measure of secrecy. Tele-
printer machines are employed for the
rapid transmission of written messages
or reports, the machines being typewriters
which print the messages at the end of
a telephone line as the words are typed
at the transmitting end. Only certain
communications may be sent by hand,
and for such work dispatch riders are
used. Every R.A.F. station has a number
always on duty with their motor-cycles
handy.
The pigeon is a far from unimportant
messenger. Large numbers of birds have
been recruited for service aboard recon-
naisance ’planes, and they are often
needed on long flights over the sea. The
pigeon is invaluable in getting messages
to shore where for tactical reasons it is
not advisable to use radio.
“Ole Luk Oie”: With the skies clear-
ing, the blizzard season nearly over and
the Germans issuing threats, there may
be attacks on English towns, in line with
some of those on Norwegian towns. This
long-range business, however, is chancy.
British and German bombers alike meet
with the same difficulties in distant
attack. Desultory raids, with an element
of surprise, are manageable ; but raids
on the scale needed if serious damage
is to be done to civilian centres call for
large forces and continuous operations
over a number of hours. And the big
aeroplanes that must be employed present
fine targets, are easily caught by fighter
machines with their blasting batteries of
eight guns or so, and cannot themselves
go under fighter guard because the range
of the fighter is too short to allow it to
cross the North Sea both ways with any
mileage to spare. Apart from which,
military fighters are too precious to be
spared from purely military purposes.
In naval warfare the bomber has so far
done serious damage only to smaller
ships. The modern battleship with its
huge coverage and heavy protection is
nearly impregnable except under special
conditions of weather.
* * * *
The names of two Australians and
three Maorilanders figured in last week’s
list of R.A.F. casualties. Pilot-Officer
Merewether (Wanganui), Sergeant Calli-
nan (Auckland) and Flying-Officer
Tulloch (Mosman, Sydney) are missing ;
P.-O. Wright (Patea), previously reported
missing, is “now presumed killed” ; and
P.-O. Wawn (Waverley, Sydney) is
wounded. Wawn was mentioned in B.
17/4/’4O.
* * * *
The Tasman air service was to have
opened yesterday with a flight from
Auckland to Sydney. ’Planes normally
will leave Sydney on Thursdays and
Auckland on Mondays. Portal rates are
3d. for postcards, sd. per half-ounce or
under for letters.
“ ’E never thinks of us wol's got
ter mend it.”
“Zedo”: Following the plan of Britain,
both Australia and Canada have adopted
the command system of Air Force con-
trol. Canada has four commands, with
headquarters at Toronto, Montreal, Win-
nipeg and Regina. In Australia, the
group commands are being fully organ-
ised and staffed. Wing-Commanders A.
M. Charlesworth —formerly squadron
commander at Laverton —and Lachal—
recently in command of Sunderlands
overseas —become Senior Air Staff Offi-
cers, and the new senior administrative
staff officer is Wing-Commander D. E.
L. Wilson. Group-Captain Bostock is
Deputy Chief of Staff, and the Director
of Operations and Intelligence is Wing-
Commander F. M. Bladin.
Two Group Commands have been
handed out. Air-Commodore A. T.
(“King”) Cole, who enlisted at 19 in the
last war from Melbourne Grammar and
whose fighting record is history, takes
over the Central Area with headquarters
in Sydney, and Air-Commodore H. N.
Wrigley has the Southern Command.
Wrigley is 48 —four years older than his
southern colleague. He was, like Blarney,
Brand and others, a schoolteacher before
the last war, in which he won the D.F.C.
and A.F.C. Both are sound organisers
and tireless workers.
* * *
“Aileron”: New records were set up
in R.A.A.F. tests between Sydney and
the eastern capitals, the best by a con-
verted civil Douglas DC3 flown by the
veteran civil pilot Keith Virtue, who re-
signed his highly-paid job at the out-
break of war to serve as a flight-lieuten-
ant. He has 10,000 flying hours to his
credit. He left Perth at midnight and
dropped in at Goondiwindi, 2100 miles
away, 10f hours later, despite head
winds. Another machine did the 1700
miles to Sydney, and another the
2000 miles to Melbourne, in under
12 hours, including a stop in the
second case. Even if the performances
are nothing out of the way, they empha-
sise the point that a flight of compara-
tively slow bombers could reach Aus-
tralia from the Asiatic mainland during
the hours of darkness, in flying con-
ditions which are any way decent.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: The Lockheed Hudsons de-
livered and ordered seem eminently
suitable for Australian conditions and an
immense advance on anything we pos
sessed before they arrived. Before long
there will be an effective force of more
than 200 modern machines available to
the R.A.A.F. British demands increase
with the expansion of war areas. Charles
Craven, the head of Vickers Armstrong
and one of the highest-paid men in
Britain, has been appointed to the British
Air Council to help control what is de-
scribed as a “gigantic production scheme,
perhaps the most complicated industrial
organisation in history.” New factories
are going up every month as machinery
becomes available. And output of pilots
per month to man the increasing pro-
duction of machines has been doubled
since the outbreak of war, and soon will
be trebled.
* * * *
“Guard in Tenebris”: I applied on
February 6 for enlistment in the
R.A.A.F. as a guard, and, after mak-
ing two trips of 200 miles to Sydney and
spending £3 13s. 6d. on my teeth in order
to qualify, I was accepted and passed
on March 8. I am now supposed to be a
member of the R.A.A.F. reserve, although
I have nothing to show as proof of it
except the hole in my pocket made by
the £lO expenses. On
the notice to attend
examination, the
applicant is informed
that, should he be
successful, he will
receive an official
number, a reserve
badge and an approxi-
mate date as to when
he will be called up.
I have received none,
and all my inquiries
on the subject have
been fruitless. When
men are willing and
eager to serve their
country, why should
such doubts and
obstacles be put in
their way? They can
scarcely be blamed if
they lose their opti-
mism and enthusiasm.
The Air War Day by Day.
April 23-25: R.A.F. bombers deliver
attack after attack on Norwegian air
bases in the hands of the enemy, and
raid Aalborg (Denmark) and Wester-
land (Sylt), doing considerable damage.
German air forces attack British land-
ing-places in Norway, particularly
Namsos and Molde, and bomb a
British detachment marching to the
relief of the Norwegians between
Namsos and Trondhjem ; they also
bomb and machine-gun Norwegian
villages. They claim to have
brought down four British ’planes
in the North Sea and another in
Heligoland Bight, and admit the
loss of two machines and damage to
a third. British sink two patrol vessels
north of Sylt. Raid on Scapa Flow
driven off by anti-aircraft fire and
R.A.F. fighters ; no British casualties.
Cloud of Messerschmitts, many twin-
engined and firing cannon, fly over
Maginot Line ; one winged. British
’plane catches fire; pilot escapes by
parachute. Another, wounded, makes
a forced landing near Metz.
April 26-28: More attacks on enemy-
held air bases and ports in Scandinavia.
Urgently needed British fighters arrive
in Norway, and, aided by anti-aircraft
guns, shoot down six enemy aircraft
and damage eight others. Air Min-
istry reports “some of our fighters
damaged by bombing attacks” —on im-
provised bases, according to other
accounts. Germans claim to have de-
structively bombed and machine-
gunned “four marching columns, rail-
ways and two transport trains.” Enemy
flying-boat and bomber shot down and
flying-boat damaged over North Sea;
five British aircraft missing.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 805 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
OPPOSING INFLUENCES OF INTEREST RATES
AND TAXATION ON SHARE PRICES.
CHANGES AND DEVELOPMENTS IN THE
FINANCIAL OUTLOOK.
May Issue on Sale Saturday.
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, or £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published hv The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.. Ltd.. 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
THE SERVICE MAN
The Campaign in Norway.
It is not going to be a military
promenade for the Allies, though Stunt
Press reports fostered that impression.
On the contrary, it will call for very
strong forces and able leadership, for the
difficulties are great. All the initial ad-
vantages were with the enemy, and last
week he exploited them energetically,
strengthening his hold on southern Nor-
way and thrusting hard towards Trond-
hjem from the south. “We have had to
withdraw several times in the last two
weeks,” said the Norwegian commander
in a proclamation to his troops, and
small Allied forces have also had to
withdraw at some points.
The main fight will be for Trondhjem.
It lies on the southern side of and more
than halfway up the fiord of the same
name, the largest in Norway: a huge
body of water which runs in through a
narrow neck and forms a lake sur-
rounded by a small fringe of low country
backed by snow-covered mountains.
Round the fiord runs the only railway
connecting north and south Norway, and
a line branches off which goes straight
through Sweden to the Baltic. A vital
strategic point is Stenkjaer, between the
head of the fiord and Namsos.
If the Allies can get and retain
possession of Trondhjem they will
be in a strong position. They will
have a good aerodrome and well-
sheltered harbors outside the range of
anything but very-long-distance guns, and
will be in a position to cut off German
forces in the north. Moreover, they will
be capable of helping Sweden from the
best vantage point if it becomes neces-
sary. But at the beginning of the week
it looked as if the Germans based on Oslo
might get there first, though they suffered
a check in the region of Dombas, a rail-
way junction about 100 miles miles south
of Trondhjem.
According to an American reporter,
two British battalions from Namsos were
“cut to pieces and repulsed in disorder
at Stenkjaer.” He asserts that they were
“without anti-aircraft guns, ’planes or
field artillery,” and, themselves mostly
young troops, had to face “crack Ger-
man regulars.” The War Office pro-
nounced the report a distortion of the
facts, though it admitted “some loss.”
The official version is that “an advanced
detachment of a larger force pushed for-
ward towards Trondhjem from the direc-
tion of Namsos. The Germans, moving
reinforcements by water inside Trond-
hjem Fiord, threatened to cut off the
advanced troops from their main body.
They therefore withdrew, but were not
followed up by the enemy.” It seems un-
likely that any attempt would have been
made to take one of the most vital
strategic points in Norway without thor-
ough preparation; but the incident is
unpleasantly reminiscent of Antwerp and
Gallipoli.
The Germans have been reinforced by
sea as well as by air, for, although the
Skagerrak was mined, surface craft can’t
be kept there to stop minesweeping. A
week-end Italian report was to the effect
that the enemy then had “more than
80,000 troops in Norway.” The Allies
can’t have nearly that many, and last
week they could not effectively reply to
the enemy’s ruthless employment of the
air arm. Moreover, the Norwegians,
taken by surprise as they were, could not
rally behind a strong line, as did the
Finns.
In the course of the campaign there
will be “regrettable incidents,” reverses,
defeats. In such a country and at such
a stage no spectacular victories can be
expected. Sufficient for the present if
the Allies establish themselves and main-
tain an unceasing pressure on the enemy.
The New Navy.
“Nobby II”: The news that five
35,000-ton battleships—King George V,
Prince of Wales, Duke of York, Jellicoe
and Beatty—are on their trials is not
surprising in the face of last war’s record.
Then many capital ships were pro-
duced within a two-year limit, including
Repulse and Renown, which, originally
intended as battleships, were cut in
halves, lengthened by going on for 200
feet and turned into battle-cruisers to
match a dream of Jacky Fisher.
The present batch is the first lot over
30,000 tons completed in the new arma-
ment race, though France and Germany
have modern 26,000-tonners at sea. Per-
haps it is better to say “had” in the case
of Germany’s Scharnhorst and the
Gneisenau, whose predecessors in name
were kept out of Australian waters in
1914 by the presence of H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia.
The last of comparable size to the
new ones were Nelson and Rodney,
queer-looking, heavily-armored affairs,
with their triple turrets all forward,
which were finished in 1927. Their
strange arrangement is attributable to
limitations under the Washington Treaty,
which temporarily wrecked the British
Navy and scattered tens of thousands of
trained men to the four winds.
Rodney and Nelson remain the only
16in.-gun ships in Europe. The other
older capital ships all carry 15-inchers —
six on battle-cruisers other than the
Hood, which carries eight.
The new ships were answers to the
35,000-ton ships of Italy and Germany.
Germany launched one not long before
war broke out. Italy has been struggling
to complete a couple for nearly six years.
What guns the foreigners will mount is
not definitely known, but Britain’s big
five were planned for new-type Min.
weapons of exceptional range, their size
limited by the London Naval Treaty.
At the beginning of the war Britain
had 15 capital ships. All except Nelson
and Rodney were of the Great War
period, but several of them were prac-
tically rebuilt. Royal Oak, 32,000 tons,
a sister-ship to Ramillies, Royal
Sovereign and Resolution, was sunk in
Scapa Flow. With the five added, the
capital navy will total 19. It is easily
the strongest naval force in the world.
Then four battleships of the new Lion
class —42,000 tons and probably 16in.
guns—are on the stocks and should be
on the water next year.
In addition, a mere million tons of
naval shipping is being put together.
Within a year or two Britain should be
back in her old sea position of 1919
able to take on the navies of the world
single-handed.
History might have been far different
had that position been maintained after
the last war.
The Threat to Sweden.
“Ek Dum”: Sweden is the latest coun-
try to be threatened with German in-
vasion. It is not to be thought for a
moment that if the Germans in Norway
were driven back across the narrow corri-
dor which forms the kingdom, they would
hesitate to move into Sweden if the
exigencies of the situation called for it;
or that their army leaders would hesitate
to support them through Sweden if they
felt that it could be done. Successful-
invasion of Sweden would mean a tre-
mendous access to Germany of techni-
cal machinery, the great Bofors gun
works, great reserves of food and timber
and particularly high-grade steel.
Looking across the strait from Kron-
borg, near Elsinore, in Denmark to Hel-
singborg in Sweden is like standing on
Darling Point, Sydney, and looking at
Manly. And the great Swedish port of
Malmo is only 16 miles from Copen-
hagen, of which the Germans are in full
control; one Danish island is much
nearer.
Invading Sweden from Denmark is,
therefore, a very different problem from
invading Norway. The nearest point in
Denmark is over 200 miles from the
nearest practicable invasion point in
Norway.
The land, too, nearest Sweden is low-
lying and difficult to defend. Sweden is
an all-enclosed land. Its only access to
the outer world is through the Sound
(between Elsinore and Helsingborg), the
whole width of which is within range of
even moderately long-range German artil-
lery at Copenhagen—Malmo could be
reached from the Danish island of Salt-
holm even by heavy howitzer fire. In
those circumstances the landing of a
large German force in Sweden is not so
difficult, even allowing for Swedish de-
fences, as landing one in Norway.
Though British mines have been laid,
mines can be swept up.
A war against Sweden would, how-
ever, be a different matter from war
against Norway. In Scandinavia the
Swedes are called “the efficients of the
North.” Their population almost equals
that of Australia. They have been pre-
paring for defence ever since Finland
was attacked. They have a fairly good
air force and splendid armament. It
has been suggested that their navy is now
equal to the reduced German one, but
this is ridiculous. It consist of three
7000-ton cruisers of the last-war vintage,
with four 11 in. guns, one comparable
with our Adelaide, built in 1933 (6in.
guns), and six 3000- and 4000-tonners of
the Boer War era. The fastest is seven
knots slower than our cruisers, the older
ones from 15 to 10 knots slower.
A compulsory-training law has been
passed by the Swedish Parliament em-
bracing all citizens between 16 and 60.
A defence loan of £30,000,000 is being
floated. The Swedish attitude is non-
provocative, but it has been made plain
that the Swedes will fight. And history
has shown that they can fight when
roused.
“J.”: Sydney “Sun” headlines, April
17:
CANADA FIGHTS TO FREE NORWAY.
Picked Men in Arctic Snows.
Same paper, April 24:
The Germans claim to have taken
prisoner a number pf Canadians, but it is
authoritatively stated in London that no
Canadian units are serving in Norway.
Judging by the radio, Berlin and Moscow
get a lot of news from Sydney, thanks
no doubt to Corns., but their faith in
“Sun” war reports must have been sorely
shaken.
* * * *
For Young Diggers, an Old Digger
has compiled an “Easy Conversational
Arabic and French” booklet (Popular
Publications; sixpence). It is crammed
with sensible everyday phrases, set out
lucidly. The wide range covers such
inquiries as “Is dinner ready?” and “Give
me a kiss.”
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.”: The first warship built in
Australia, officially known as her
Majesty’s Colonial Ship Spitfire, must
have been a quaint craft. She was
launched from a private yard in Port
Jackson in 1855, and was a 60-ton ketch
with a draught of s|ft. and a length
overall of 61ft. To come into action she
had to turn her back on the enemy, for
her armament consisted of one 32-
pounder gun mounted right aft on a
traversing carriage. But her career was
peaceful. The Russian enemy of the day
evinced no disposition to raid the Aus-
tralian coastline, and her first employ-
ment was as a lighthouse tender. Eventu-
ally she became a coastal trader.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Great as the work of the
Royal Navy has been in this war, it is
a mistake to suppose, as many evidently
do, that it has ventured farther towards
the haunts of the Hun than it did in the
last war. In October, 1915, three subs,
meandered into the Baltic and made a
thrilling attempt to block the passage
of iron-ore ships from Sweden to
Germany. They sank two cruisers, a
U-boat and 14 ships. Further enterprises
of the kind were blocked by minefields
patrolled by surface craft, one of them a
battleship. And in April, 1918, the
Kattegat was mined by the British. The
truth is that in all ages the Navy has
been ready to go anywhere and do any-
thing.
“A.I.F. Farewell” was written by an
officer in the A.I.F., and it’s typical of
verses that have been coming into this
office in a steadily-increasing stream since
the war broke out The mail from Pales-
tine brought in a cheerful item from
“R.E.”:
The last war produced a crop of poets
of pretty considerable merit, and The
Bulletin is opening the Serviceman
page to any member of the forces —
army, navy or air—who can write some-
thing that will be read and remembered.
Even the roughest of the verses that
have been sent in so far have had the
merit of sincerity; and sincerity, rather
than flag-wagging, is what will make
contributions acceptable. Verses used
will be paid for at Bulletin rates.
A.I.F. FAREWELL.
The city sleeps, unscarred by shot and shell,
The transport moves, and sad we wave fare-
well, .
And quietly as wind along the bay
We sail into the dark uncertain grey.
Sleep on, beloved, till with autumn morn
You wake to find deserted quays forlorn.
Then shed no tear, but with a joyful pride
Remember only how our fathers died.
Recall again how once the nation’s sons
Went steadfastly despite the thundering guns;
Then bow before your God, and humbly pray
That we might do such deeds as once dared
they.
Perhaps those Anzacs sleeping over there
Shall rise again unseen, and proudly stare
At Diggers marching, as they marched before,
To pay again the deadly price of war.
Those gallant shades may at our shoulders
stand,
And make us worthy of our sunny land;
Yea, stand with us when under the same stars
Our sacrifice, their sons’, is made to Mars.
All that we love within our hearts enshrined,
Our land, our people, all we leave behind;
If you may wake each morn to peaceful day,
The price is ours, and we shall gladly pay.
SKIPPER.
Well! Here we are on board a ship
Bound for an unknown shore,
Taking it easy during the trip,
But fully prepared for war.
We know for a fact ’tis good-bye for ever—
At least for a few of us.
But we’ve tied a tie that none can sever,
So we don’t care a tinker’s cuss.


FORTY-FIFTH
ANNUAL SHEEP SHOW
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST STUD SHEEP EXHIBITION.
Conducted by THE N.S.W. SHEEPBREEDERS’ ASSOCIATION
To be held on the SYDNEY SHOWGROUND
19th, 20th, 21st, and 22nd JUNE, 1910.
SEE THE PICK OF AUSTRALIA’S FLOCKS.
PRIZE-MONEY AND TROPHIES EXCEED £lOOO.
ENTRIES CLOSE
Sheep Saturday, 18tli May
Fleece Classes Saturday, 18th May
Junior and Senior Judging- Competitions .... Saturday, 18th May
Sheep Dog Trials Wednesday, 22nd May
SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
STUD SHEEP SALES, Sydney Showground, viz.: .
British and Down Breeds 1-nday, 21st June
Merinos, Corriedales, and Polwarths, commencing Monday, 24th June
Endeavour House, H. C. SOMERIILLE,
Macnuarie Place. Sydney. Secretary.
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM— APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required—Any Hand} man Can Instal It —Automatic Overflow—Hoes Not
Require Emptying—Over 1150 Sold —Shell Co., 66 Repeat Orders; Bank of N.S.W., 15.
II mu nui it
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/16/- f.o.b. Sydney.
Plus 10/- crating when necessary.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write Desk B for Illustrated Pamphlet.
7 years’ guarantee against corrosion while in use.
i wm
4H
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
A Colony for the Kimberleys
“D”: Dr. Steinberg’s plan, for settling
100,000 Jewish refugees in the Kimber-
leys is supported by “S. M. Herald,” the
A.C.T.U., the Labor Councils of N. S.
Wales, Victoria, S.A. and the Speck, and
a number of philanthropic ladies and
gentlemen who have signed an appeal to
the Commonwealth Government. Among
them are professors (Roberts and Bland),
a bishop (Dr. Burgmann) and an ex-
Premier (Stevens). Another professor, A.
P. Elkin, refused to sign. He knows some-
thing about the Kimberleys, having
“lived there for 12 months, and kept in
close touch with the region for over 12
years.”
It is asserted that “Jewish pioneers
transformed the barren sands of Palestine
into flourishing gardens and orchards;
their brothers and sisters would do similar
work in the Kimberleys.” The central
fact of Jewish settlement in Palestine is
that nearly two-thirds of the Jewish popu-
lation (400,000) live in three cities —
140,000 in Tel-Aviv, 77,000 in Jerusalem,
58,000 in Haifa —and about 100,000 are
on Jewish agricultural settlements.
These settlements “barren sands,”
Dr. Steinberg calls them—are on the
Maritime Plain and the Plain of Esdrae-
lon, “a strip of land of remarkable fer-
tility” (Encyc. Brit.), in Upper Galilee
(“fruitful”) and Lower Galilee (“very
fertile”). The mean annual temperature
is 70deg. Extremes range between 50
and 90 deg. The climate is a warm, tem-
perate one, with hot dry summers and
cool wet winters ; summer days are re-
lieved by cool sea breezes. Produce of
the land is mainly fruit, wines and
vegetables.
And because Jews have made a success
of farming that sort of country Dr. Stein-
berg and his followers are sure Jews can
achieve similar success in the Kimberleys.
Palestine is between 32 and 34 deg. north
of the Equator, the Kimberleys are be-
tween 15 and 20 deg. south of the Equa-
tor and well within the tropical zone.
They have eight or nine months of
droughty weather and then a short, wet,
enervating summer. The district is
“unsuitable for cereals or wool,” though
“suitable for large stock (cattle) and, in
parts, for tropical products and (small
areas) for gardening or vegetables.”
There are other objections—among
them transport, markets, water for irri-
gation—which Dr. Steinberg brushes
aside. The main one is, of course, that
acceptance of the plan would mean hand-
ing over North Westralia to aliens.
“The final and most important step,”
Dr. Steinberg says, “is to obtain the con-
sent of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment.” Precisely, and the reply of the
Commonwealth Government should be
—as it was when it was proposed to settle
Jews on Melville Island (N.T.) —a firm,
though polite, negative.
Aliens in New Guinea
“Kaloa”: New Guinea residents,
especially on the mainland, are asking
when the Commonwealth Government
intends to do something substantial about
German residents in the Territory.
One mission controls, for all practical
purposes, 100,000 natives. Its white staff
consists not only of missionaries but of
mechanics, airmen and others who could
form a very awkward nucleus for a “fifth
column.”
Even if it were not used to interfere
with the Australian war effort, German
influence might easily breed wholesale
discontent with Australian rule by up-
setting labor recruiting and in other ways.
And for espionage the foreigner is in an
ideal position. There is more than a
little evidence that subversive activities
already have been operating. And a
mission ’plane got away to Dutch New
Guinea the moment war broke out.
A lot of the older Germans in civil
occupations have seen their plantations
taken away under expropriation. Though
they profess to be loyal, it is against
human nature that they should remain
so if the slightest chance appears of their
regaining their old-time property.
New Guinea is the borderland of Aus-
tralia—a most vital spot in defence be-
cause of its harbors, timbers, oils and
labor resources. It is the one part of
“ Cripes, Ma, I Wouldn't like to be with them boys in Palestine. The climate's terrible, they tell me."
the North in which an invading army
could feed itself when once landed.
Exit Alf Jones as Lord Mayor of Bris-
bane. J. B. Chandler (C.M.0.) beat him
by 106,000 to 60,000, and several Labor
aldermen suffered as severely. No
Protestant candidate got in, and the
Corns, lost their deposits.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: For tense, rhythmic
literary expression combined with high-
pressure informativeness, I beg to enter
the following extract from the Annual
Report of the Chief Inspector of Bris-
bane’s City Health Department:
During the year 1934 the first flea census
was carried out in the city area.... The
classification of species of rodents proves
that the R. norvegicus predominates. Of
the climbing species the R. r. alexandrinus
is more frequently encountered than is that
of the remaining species, Rattus r. rattus.
Except for rather better grammar, it
might well be a poem by Edith Sitwell
on the Inwardness of Extroversion. Or
what? Think of the poetic possibilities
of a flea census, you poets!
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: The season is now open-
ing in coastal S.Q. for the amateur sea-
adventurer nuisance. It generally con-
sists of a couple of sun-sore, soft-handed,
city-bred lads in some totally unsuitable
small craft which they have only the
haziest notions of handling. They expect
free meals and other public expressions
of admiration for their heroism in thus
setting out for New Guinea. It is always
New Guinea—possibly from hearing of
Errol Flynn’s account of his intrepid
voyagings to that romantic land, but not
of Frank Clune’s stony-hearted debunk-
ing of the bold adventurer. Occasionally
the would-be successor of Bill Bligh is
accompanied by a long-haired mate, a
notable asset in the food-scrounging line,
Check-ups on 10 years of such infesta-
tions show that all but one lied about
where they had started from, and none
ever got within 1300 miles of New
Guinea.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: It is a rare happening
for Qantas Empire pilots to decline to
face any of the varied responsibilities
which they are asked to assume in
Queensland’s Great Outback, but there
are limits. One was reached when a Far
Western mother arrived with a five-
months-old baby and a request that Capt.
Eric Donaldson should take it, un-
accompanied, for a trip of some hundreds
of miles to a relative in another far-back
centre. The mother was astonished
when the embarrassed airman explained
that he could not be expected to pilot
the machine and watch a baby in a box
at the same time. Moreover, it mightn’t
choose to stay in its box, and a healthy
infant crawling about among the controls
would be too great a responsibility. As
the lady departed with her rejected pas-
senger it was abundantly evident that her
ideas of the resourcefulness and courage
of aviators had undergone a complete
change.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: A queer feature of
N.Q.’s fishing industry from January to
March this year has been the unprece-
dented scarcity of "bas
~n" 0 h though
wea ? her _ becaU se good supplies of
mixed fish have come from most of
ugual outside grounds—in Halifax
waters barramundi were taken in the
usua j seasonal quantity. Prawns, too,
bave been unusually scarce and so have
mullet, on which local dealers rely during
shortages of usual supplies. However,
things have improved and the Nort.i s
fish-famine seems about over,
* * * *
“Colbun”: A visiting Methodist par-
son bas provided Brisbane with a new
goo( j s tory. Over dinner in a London
restaurant be was considering the rela-
t-ye wor bi n g hours of employees in dif-
ferent businesses and recollected that he
bad not obtained figures for eating
houses. When the waitress brought his
bill he asked what time she began work.
She told him. “And what time do you
knock off?” he went on - With a toss
of the head she snapped the iep y oo
late for you, old bloke.
**_ * A
“Bad Australian”: For 10 or 12 years
the first squatters on the Darling Downs
(Q.) hauled their supplies from the South
and dispatched their wool by the same
route, as “The Gap” in the Dividing
Range discovered by Alan Cunning-
ham was not practicable for wheeled
transport. When Lt. Owen Gorman,
of her Majesty’s 88th Regiment, the
newly-appointed commandant of the
Moreton Bay penal settlement, was ad-
vised of the facts, he said, “You say that
it is impossible to get over Cunningham’s
Gap with a wheeled vehicle! Then why
in blazes is it called a gap? I’ll try if
I can’t find a ‘Gorman’s Gap’ fit for
wheels to get over.” Then he set his
“canaries” to work and built an excep-
tionally strong vehicle on the lines of
an Irish jaunting car, fit to carry half
a dozen people. With a big bullock in
the shafts he set out, accompanied by an
escort of police and a convict named
Baker as guide. After many tribulations
the commandant and his queer outfit
reached the summit of the pass and
crossed over to the Downs. The opening
of this route reduced the land carriage
of supplies to about 70 miles.


BRANDAIJER’S
m
PENS
at
guarante
do not experiment with imitations.
a BBANDA0KB * CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM, ENO
6<T.V
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS' con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
NOW READY
m
m
m
m
m
m
aiS
m
H
mmm
“This book of photographs. . . .should be on the
shelves of all Australian golfers, both for its in-
structional value and as a very. faithful record of
the methods of our greatest player —From Eric
Apperly’s introduction to the book.
JIM FERRIER’S “GOLF SHOTS”
contains 118 photographs of the champion in action,
selected by Ferrier from a special slow-motion
film made of him before his departure for America.
The essential points of each shot are illustrated
and explained in a way that puts 80 off the stick
within the reach of everyone.
The size of the page is 10 x 12 inches.
PITCH WITH STOP
m
liil
m
m
""■ V
11
ill
1 ' *
m 1
■
■V<:
■
J I
SV
I
: m
I
PITCH WITH STOP
11Mf
> s ■*
v'-'t
llitlllll
* - /
jdf
(postage 3d. extra).
Price 3 -
From the publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOX 252188.
•BUNKER' PLAY
Lv*
mi
. , 5
■:■/
BUNKER PLAY
JTI2
ds
SEND FOR YOUR COPY NOW
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor xiot to members of the stag personally.
L.P.R.: Our thoughts were blacker than
“Blackout”... .C.H.S.: Run a stronger thread
of narrative through it and it might stand a
chance N.G.N.: Good setting, but charac-
ters are only dummies... .H.N.R.: “Beef
Steak” only tripe... .N.8.F.: There’s a plot
there, but you haven’t done anything with it.
. ...L.R.: No, we’re not the paper “that is
looking for Wild West stories”... .8.5.8.: “A
serious attempt at being funny” is too serious,
F.L.W.: A bright finish would be an im-
provement C.H.P.: Have you ever seen a
goldmine? N.S.: Even though “illustrations
would make a tremendous improvement,” it
still wouldn’t be good enough J.G.8.,
R. L.T., K.R.C. and D. 8.: Try them
elsewhere D.V.1.: “The Stayer” stayed out.
N.R.N.: Try it on Hitler... . G.S.P.:
Mysterious Orientals and sinister Latin were
summarily deported... .M.T.: “Just Idle
Dreams.” Just idle dreams... .N.D.A.: Future
visitors with the story of the prospector who
murdered his mate and then died of thirst will
be asked to contribute to the price of a new
w.p.b C.V.G.: Everybody wept when little
Mary passed away N.F.: It might be “the
truth of the matter,” but it doesn’t get any-
where L.F.N.: A good idea, but you don’t
carry it off N.G.F.: One more murder
would, have made the dozen L.F.8.: Not
for u 5, but almost certain to find a home,
G.B.T.: Read it to yourself every night
for a week as punishment N.T.D.: It’s not
finished H.8.R.: That’s not a “surprise
ending” A.P.: One thing you can’t say of
the Boche is that he rhymes with “moth”
S. : No place here for poet like “maimed
and ravished lambkin” P.S.: The droving
song has its moments of realism, but none of
originality C.F.R.: A jerky jingle
I. : Labored; but it’s a good idea
D.C.: “All hail to thee, Australia fair!”
followed by mountains, rivers, wheatfields,
rabbits and magpies, is a frequent visitor....
V.J.G.: No sign of color in “Hidden Eldorado
of the West” T.M.: Fiendish indeed....
J. The last couplet ruins the sonnet
F.H.G.: Both flat H.C.8.: Might make a
par M. 0.: There are roughly 237 bards
trying to find accommodation in that “home out
west”... .J.H.: It’s a long, long way to a
pretty feeble joke C.H.: Short stories would
need to be better than that bit of tub-thump-
ing....C.K.: They’re lightweights, but that
doesn’t mean they’re “sentimental rubbish”
E.J.8.: Heavy sarcasm... .E.A.C.: “Add up
the birds and the trees and the flowers.” Hence
the w.p.b. for “Hence Happiness”... .G.C.H.:
“Possibly enclosed would be improved by the
liberal use of shears.” Or a good bushfire....
L.H.N.: Admirable sentiments J.McK.: It
lacks the element of surprise that might make
it funny M. 8.: Try a women’s paper
C.C.: Found the exclamation marks interest-
ing C.T.: Prosy.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRFSPONDFNTS
LUMuaruNucma.
L.P.: If caricature is supposed to be of
Menzies you must have seen him in disguise.. . .
M.A.H.: No camping space for Jacky and his
gin G.M.: Put more action into the draw-
ings P.C.: Buttoned our pockets when we
sighted your light-fingered friend C.S.:
Your patriotism is beyond reproach but not
your picture V.R.: “Munich Crisis” draw-
ing a trifle out of date IC.S.: Try some-
thing more cheerful A.L.: Fairy book
illustrations hardly in our line... ,M,S.: Untidy
drawings and dreary jests A.T.: Looks like
a half-completed jigsaw puzzle H. 8.:
Shearer-breakfast-food gag was served up to
us recently in another form N.C.: No
handout for swagman dressed in the left-off
clothing of Uncle Sam LB.: “All Red
Route” is going back by train and mailcar....
S. and C.: Surely it didn’t require two artists
to produce that dud? S.W.: Didn’t raise a
grin... .W.V.: You should have forwarded
a magnifying glass with the drawings E.M.:
Digger gag had wide circulation during the
1914-18 Donnybrook J.D.: Send him to a
good art school.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Uramao”: Maoriland claims a record
of golden weddings in one family. The
earliest settlers on Waimea Plains, South-
land, were John Bently and his wife
Rachael. They had six sons and five
daughters. The daughters all married,
and each lived to celebrate her golden
wedding.
* * * *
Artists have their troubles. Ola Cohn,
the Melbourne sculptress who carved the
fairy tree in the Fitzroy Gardens, was
commissioned by Adelaide to execute a
figure for a memorial. It was to be
carved out of a single block of
stone many tons in weight, and the
sculptress thought she was giving herself
a good margin when she calculated she
would have it finished in eight months.
. ~ , ? , . •
Eighteen months have passed, and she is
Still chipping at the colossus.
* * ,
Australia s Nor -West has probably the
world s first radio baby health centre.
Dr. Keith Sweetman, the Melbourne
medico who runs the Flying Doctor ser-
vice from Wyndham, has brought so
many prospective mothers in and returned
them safe that there are now half a
dozen with young babies scattered over
the Kimberleys up to distances of 300
miles from the base. In order to relieve
the mother's of anxiety, Dr. Sweetman
has established a weekly session at which
each talks to him per pedal wireless about
their infants while all the others listen
in tn thn nrtvinp hn mvp* W Thorp k
in to the advice he gives her. lhere is
a daily medical session for urgent cases,
and even a personai visit from the doctor
if baby is not progressing.
* * * *
X.S. : In refusing to hear the case
of a soldier in Melbourne because his
being in uniform embarrassed three of
the jurymen, Judge Foster may have
been wrong (higher authority decided
that he was), but the principle on which
he acted deserves consideration. A man
who has often served on Juries told me
he has a violent reacnon if he sees a
medico in the dock, having no use
for doctors. Another old jury hand
confesses to a strong feeling against
editors sued for libel. It is only
reasonable to suppose that a worker who
believes that the capitalist is the cause
of all the world’s troubles will have
different feelings about a well-dressed
man and a ragged tramp, and that his
prejudice won’t automatically leave him
when he enters a law court. Even if
defendants and witnesses were all com-
pelled to wear sackcloth, prejudice could
never be wholly eliminated from a jury’s
feelings.
* * * *
“Cook’s Mate” delves into Australian
history:
It was little more than a chance that James
Cook had the naming of N.S.W. Alexander
Dalrymple, an East Indies Company’s official
who had traded much in eastern seas, was con-
v,need that a huge continent exßted between the
f d he Antarctic and when the Brit,sh
Royal Society petitioned George 111 in 1768 to
send a ship to Tahiti with astronomers and
instruments for the observation of the transit
of Venus it recommended him for the com-
mand of the expedition as “a proper person
t o be sent to the South Seas, having a par-
ticular turn for discovery and being a navigator,
as well as skilled in observation.” But the
Admiralty queered his pitch. If a ship of the
Navy was to be used, it said, she must be
commanded by a naval officer, which Dalrymple
wasn’t. So the command was given to Cook,
Dalrymple never forgave Cook. He had acquired
exclusive knowledge he had no chance of using,
having got hold of a long-forgotten Spanish
bo ° k of J 690, told Torres had
sout h °f New Guinea. He published in
a * mall v ° lume ° fbis f ow f whlcb ex '
P lamed how easily might be found a rich con-
tinent of the south and contained a map
whjch for the first time showed the track
Xorres running through the strait that has
ever s j nce carried his name.
****
“Scriver”: When I was very young I
o ft en used to ponder upon the meaning
of the “ we ” that used to crop up so
o ft en j n newspapers—in great city dailies
you ’ d find it only in leading art icles;
j n coun try rags, all over the shop. I
never found out exactly what it meant,
and as d j s ra pj d i y going out of fashion
j probably never shall. But I picked up
a sma u c i ue j n a Sydney weekly. In an
article “ By the Ed itor,” full of “we’s,”
there was the phrase “We thought there
was a mora j j n that—the managing direc-
tor and I ”


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Coins have worried you—now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’CORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain or
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
SILK at 6d. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GRIMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Lcxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.,. C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. 10RBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and !44 Branches
nnonnciariri nnrl Northern Rivers, evv South '* ales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the. World,, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Over £20.000.000 spent yearly on advertising 'n
tralia. Opportunitl.es for interesting worUn ™
branches for trained men and women. A big he'P
any business career. (You need no* be *° le
draw)> Successful students from. 16 to over 50 Y®
include many leading advertising eiecut.ves, Uu
Y standing success in public examinations. Compiee.
<*&*%***. interesting, practical training. (Evening class*■
individual postal tuition). Classes start Feb.. Ju" e *
this ad°?tiseme?t en for‘ o b;g 56-page book, free to tho^
SCHOOL d Or APPLIED /fTSSS
* 36 Orosvenor St., Sydney l9^
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, Sydney, seeks position as receptionist,
or will mind small office. Able to type 6955.
Gentleman, Sydney, invalid, good typist, own
machine, seeks typing work; used to handling
manuscripts; fees moderate. 6949.
To buy cheap copy of The Red Pagan, by
A. G. Stephens, and The Golden Shanty, pub-
lished by The Bulletin.— 69so.
To buy volume of Schubert’s songs, medium
key, Peters or Augener edition. —6896.
Address of Helene Barclay, author of Mainly
Pen-sword Poems. —6888.
Information Sought.
What were the 14 points made by President
Wilson in his speech in January, 1918 ? —6956.
The 14 points were in brief: (1) Open
covenants of peace, openly arrived at; no more
private international understandings. (2) Free-
dom of the seas. (3) Removal so far as pos-
sible of all economic barriers. (4) Adequate
guarantees given and taken that national arma-
ments will be reduced to the lowest possible
point consistent with domestic safety. (5) Im-
partial adjustment of all colonial claims. (6)
Evacuation of all Russian territory; Russia
independently to determine her political de-
velopment. (7) Evacuation and restoration of
Belgium. (8) Evacuation and restoration of
occupied French territory; return of Alsace-
Lorraine to France. (9) Readjustment of
Italian frontiers along clearly recognisable lines*
of nationality. (10) The freest opportunity of
autonomous development- for the peoples of
Austria-Hungary. (11) Evacuation of Rumania,
Serbia, Montenegro; free access to the sea for
Serbia; mutual relations of the Balkan States
to be determined by friendly counsel along his-
torically established lines of allegiance dnd
nationality; international guarantees for them.
(12) Autonomous development of non-Turkish
parts of Turkey; free passage through the Dar-
danelles. (13) Erection of an independent
Polish State, including the territories inhabited
by indisputable Polish populations, with a free
and secure access to the sea, and guaranteed
by international covenant. (14) A general
association of nations affording mutual guaran-
tees to great and small States alike.
$ * * ■ ♦
(1) Duties of (a) clerks and (b) radio
mechanics in the R.A.A.F.? (2) Rates of pay?
(3) Physical qualifications ? (4) Prospects of
permanent positions? (5) Any other details.?
—6704.
(1) (a) General knowledge of office pro-
cedure, typing essential, preference given to
candidates with shorthand qualifications, (b)
Should have a good general education, with a
knowledge of English, arithmetic, trigonometry
and physics or electricity and magnetism. They
must be right-handed and good writers. (2)
General clerk on enlistment in the rank of
A.C.I. 7s. 6d. a day. Trainee wireless
operator on enlistment in the rank of A.C.I.
ss. a day. On graduation after completing
a training course of approximately eight months
operators get Bs. 6d. a day. Minimum height of
sft. 4in., minimum chest measurement of: 32in.,
minimum chest expansion of 2ih., normal
hearing, normal eyesight, though the use of
spectacles in certain circumstances is not a cause
for rejection, sound condition of lungs, heart
and kidneys, freedom from physical deformities,
freedom from the after-effects of serious ill-
nesses or operations, and a family history
showing no inherited diseases. In addition, can-
didates must be dentally fit. Artificial dentures
may be allowed. Candidates must be between
the ages of 18 and 35 years. (4) For the dura-
tion of the war no enlistments are being made
to the Permanent Air Force. (5) In addition
to the prescribed rates of pay already set out,
a married man is paid a separation allowance
of 3s. a day, plus an additional Is. a
day in respect of each child under 16 years
of age, conditional upon his making an allot-
ment of not less than 3s. a day to his wife.
The recruitment of clerks and wireless
operators has been temporarily suspended,
but it is anticipated that it will recommence
in approximately three months’ time.
* * * *
What is the compulsory retiring age (if any)
of the Judges in the higher Australian law
courts? —6662.
In the Supreme Courts of N. S. Wales, W.A.
and Q. the retiring age for Judges is 70; in
the Supreme Court of Vic. 72. In the High
Court of Australia and the Supreme Courts
of S.A. and Tas. appointments are for life.
* * * *
(1) Do the big Sydney athletic clubs run
junior clubs also ? (2) If so, what is the
nearest one to St. Peters (Sydney)? (3) How
should one apply for membership? (4) Costs
to be borne? (5) Is enough of the season
remaining to make it worth while to join ?
—-6224.
(1) Most of the metropolitan amateur clubs
have a section for juniors (under 18 years) and
also one for juveniles (under 14 years). (2) The
most convenient clubs for a St. Peters resident
are the St. George A.A.C. (hon. sec., W.
Ahern, 18 Reading-street, Brighton le Sands)
and the Canterbury-Bankstown A.A.C. (hon.
sec., G. E. Gosling, 9 Leamington-avenue,
Newtown). (3) Write for particulars of mem-
bership, etc., to the secretaries. (4) The
membership and other dues are usually small.
(5) The track season is now ended, but it
would be well worth while, with a view to
next season, to get into touch with either of
the clubs mentioned.
* * * *
What are the boundaries of N. S. Wales ?
—6726.
On the east the South Pacific Ocean from
Point Danger to Cape Howe; on the west,
the 141st meridian of east longitude; on the
north, the 29th parallel of south latitude, pro-
ceeding east to the Barwon River, and there-
after along the Macintyre and Dumaresq
Rivers to the junction with Tenterfield Creek;
thence along the crest of a spur of the Great
Dividing Range, the crest of that range north
to the Macpherson Range, and along the crest
of the Macpherson Range east to the sea; on
the -south, the southern bank of the Murray
River to its source at the head of the River
Indi, thence by a direct marked line to Cape
Howe.
* * * *
Names of N.S.W. Premiers between the years
1880 and 1900, and the periods they held
office ?— 6964.
Henry Parkes (Dec. 21, 1878, to Jan. 4, 1883 ;
Jan. 20, 1887, to Jan. 16, 1889; Mar. 8, 1889,
to Oct. 22, 1891). Alexander Stuart (Jan. 5,
1883, to Oct. 6, 1885)'. George’Dibbs (Oct. 7,
1885, to Dec. 21, 1885; Jan. 17, 1889, to Mar.
7, 1889; Oct. 23, 1891, to Aug. 2, 1894). John
Robertson (Dec. 22, 1885, to Feb. 25, 1886).
Patrick Jennings (Feb. 26, 1886, to Jan. 19,
1887). George Reid (Aug. 3,* 1894, to Sept. 13,
1899). William Lyne (Sept. 14, 1899, to Mar.
27, 1901).
■ * * * *
I belong to an organisation which owns some
property. Our by-laws provide that this
property (in scrip)-shall be in the name of a
trustee, but no term of office is mentioned.
The present trustee is under the impression
that he cannot be removed from that office
unless he dies or resigns. Some of the members
think they would be better represented if a
change were made. What procedure should
be adopted to effect the change? —6B97.
The mere wish to change a trustee is not
.sufficient. Trustees may, however, be removed
by the Court for misconduct in administering
the trust. Misconduct includes gross negli-
gence, disregard of the provisions of the trust
and any form of fraud on the beneficiaries.
Action against the trustee would have to be
taken by the beneficiaries, or one of them.
Otherwise the trustee, , if. not appointed for a
fixed term of years, holds office during his life-
time.
* * * *
On returning a formal call, what Js the
accepted procedure with regard to the use of
visiting cards ? —6879.
Leaving cards is not now generally practised,
but when observed it should be done correctly.
The visiting lady leaves three cards, one of
her own and two of her husband’s (her card
is for the lady called on, her husband’s are
for the lady and her husband). Return visits
are paid in like manner, a card for a card, a
call for a call. After that, should the acquaint-
ance develop, there is of course no further use
of'cards except in'case of illness, when anyone
calling to inquire how Mr. or Mrs. X is pro-
gressing may leave' a card.
$ * * *
(1) Date of last appearance of Halley’s
Comet? (2) What year was the first appear-
ance recorded ? (3) Have any world-important
events occurred in recorded years of appear-'
ances? —6867.
.(1) March and April of 1910. Its next,
appearance is expected in 1985. (2) 11 b.c.
(3) Can trace no correlation between world
events and appearances of the comet.
sp * * *
(1) Would 24 gauge galvanised iron do to
cover the bottom of a launch as a substitute
for- copper, or is there any other material I
could, use? (2) Any prepared paint or mix-
tures of tar or bitumen to make the covering
rustproof, inside and out, in salt water? —6811.
(1) Galvanised iron can be used as a substi-
tute for copper for sheathing the bottom of a
launch, but copper will last considerably longer
than galvanised iron for this work. (2) Sug-
gest that the back be coated with two coats
of any good bitumen paint, free from acid,
and, after fixing, the edges should be
thoroughly caulked. The outside should then'
be treated with two coats of anti-corrosive paint
for ships’ bottoms and one coat of anti-foul-
ing.
* * * *
(1) Freight from England to Australia on a
motor-cycle? (2) Import duty, etc., on hew
and second-hand machines? (3) What other
charges, if any, would there be, and would
they vary for traders and private persons? (4)
Would it be compulsory to insure the goods in
transit ? —6608.
(1) Freight would be at the rate of 82s. 6d.
per ton —“ton” meaning 40 cub. ft. Approxi-’
mate packing of a motor-cycle would be one
ton. (2) Import duty is the same whether new
or second-hand —“free” for the cycle, but 9d.
per pound for tyres and tubes, and about
10s. on other accessories; 20 p.c. on the
packing-case, 10 p.c. primage duty, 6 p.c. sales
tax. (3) There are numbers of small charges
according to method of purchase, including,
of course, exchange at p.c. (4) Insurance
is not compulsory, but highly advisable. Rates
are 50s. per cent, (war risk) and Bs. 6d. per
cent, to 10s. per cent, (marine).
* * * *
Are lectures given at the Australian Museum,
Sydney, to which the public is admitted ?
If so, how often are they held, price of
admission, and list of forthcoming lectures ?
—6852.
Lectures are given twice a month on Thurs-
days,. from. the middle of. April to the end
of October at the Museum at 8 p.m. Admis-
sion is free. One lecture, “To the Red Heart
of Australia,” by A. Musgrave, has already
been given this year. Coming lectures in the
series are: May 9, Miss J. Allan on “Coral
Reef Shells”; May 23, H. O. Fletcher on
“Recent Explorations in Antarctica”; June 13,
K. C. McKeown on “Insect Curiosities”;
June 27, Miss E. Bramell on “Primitive Dress
and Ornament”; July 11, E. L. Troughton on
“Wonder Mammals in Film”; July 25, F. A.
McNeill on “The Isles and Story of the Whit-
sunday Group”; August 8, J. R. Kinghorn
on “Birds in Relation to Mankind”; August
29, G. P. Whiteley on a “Naturalist in Western
Australia”; Sept. 12, R. O. Chalmers on “The
Building Stones of Sydney”; Sept. 26,; F. D.
McCarthy on “The Aboriginal Relics of
N.S.W.”; October 10, T. Hodge-Smith on
“Nature, the Master Sculptor”; and October
24, T. Iredale on “Nature in Queensland.”
* * * *
Some hints on planting and growing Bruns-
vigia ? —6733.
They require a good, rich, heavy soil and
plenty of manure, the plants being very strong
growers and gross feeders. Plant the' bulbs
from March to May, about Bin. deep and 24in.
apart. Brunsvigias are slow bloomers and will
not always flower the first year after planting.
The period of bloom is' during November and
December.' The foliage appears during the
late autumn and early winter. Syringing, twice
a day during dry weather with lukewarm water
will keep it free from- disease and dirt, and
freshen it up. Do not- lift or disturb . the
bulbs, otherwise they are liable not to flower
for two of more years, but, after flowering,
rest the bulbs for a couple of months by with-
holding manure and not watering. Just when
the plants are about to bloom, a regular appli-
cation of liquid cow manure every five or six
days will materially assist in increasing the
quantity and quality of the flowers. '
;jj 'A'.
How to treat and prepare asparagus before
packing in metal containers? Method of
obtaining the delightful flavor ? —6482.
Until recently only white asparagus was
canned, but now a moderate quantity of
canned all-green asparagus has appeared on the
American market. White asparagus is cut
beneath the soil. In order to prevent staining
stalks by the drying on of adhering soil, the
stalks "are rinsed thoroughly in water. After
drying they are cut to a uniform length of
7in. to Bin. After preliminary inspection and
grading, the stalks are blanched to remove
mucus-like material which is slightly bitter, and
at the same time to,soften the stalks so that
they may be packed more tightly in the cans,
and to. permit. straightening crooked stalks.
The blanching operation is accomplished by
placing the cut stalks in large wicker baskets
which are transported through a tank of boil-
ing water or by carrying stalks through boil-
ing water by a conveyor. The' blanching
usually lasts for three or four minutes. The
blanched asparagus is taken immediately to
filling tables, where it is placed in enamel-
lined' or stainlessTSteel sinks, and packed - into
cans. ■
* * * *
Process by which ordinary drawing paper is
converted for blue-printing ?—6s66..
Make up solutions'as follows Solution A
Ferric ammonium citrate (red) 250 gr. (40z.),
water 1000 c.c. (160 z.). Filter. Solution B-
Potassium'ferricyanide 200 gr: (3 l-50z.),, water,
1000 c.c. (160 z.). Filter. r The ferricyanide
must be in perfectly clear ruby-fed crystals,
free from any adherent yellow powdqr;
it is - advisable ; to allow a little more .in
weighing out, and, place the crystals -in a
flask;' pour .in some distilled' water,' shake,
pour off' the water‘and repeat this operation;
then add'the water for the solution, and heat-
until dissolved. . Mix the two solutions in;
equal volumes and filter. 1 Either -float the
paper' on trie solution for three minutes or,
paint the solution on freely with a broad, flat -
brusri, and dry as - quickly as- possible, prefer-
ably by heat. It is important, that the, paper
base, should be free - .from wood pulp, prefer-
ably sized with starch, and with a hard, surface.
The paper, should be exposed preferably to
. sunlight until the ground, corresponding to the
whites of- the- negative- or plan, ’appears-a dark
olive-green; fit. should then be Thoroughly
washed with running, water and the lines should
appear white on a deep-blue background.
A, through ' the District Court, garnisheed
the bank account of B with bank C. B-liad
no money in bank C beyond a few shillings.
How ‘long does this garnishee remain in force,
does it apply to money paid into bank’C; say,-
in three 'months’ time? —6839. , ,
If the money were accruing,'due;to the.gar-
nishee > at the date of - : the Court’s - order it;
would come within the provisions of that order.
Does Anybody Know?
Details of a sport called- balloon jumping?—
6944." : ~ , .. •
Biographical details concerning -Louis Frank,
a Maoriland ; -
Information Supplied. ■
6527. —A formula for casein .glue suitable
for woodwork is as follows: Borax 5 parts,
water 95 parts. - borax*in water »and'
add casein in sufficient quantity to produce
! a mass of required consistency. . The casein
is made feebly alkaline, by means of'; soda or
potash lye and then subjected for about 24
hours to a temperature of 140 deg. F. Next
follow the customary admixture, >such as lime
and water glass, and finally,. to accomplish a
quicker resinification, substances containing
tannin are added. For tannic admixtures to
the partially disintegrated c » sem ’ t
ties—about 1 p.c.-of gallic acid, cutcn or
quercitannic acid are employed.—o. o. x.
Brief Answers.
A. 0.: Write Wilshire, Ltd., Wilshire-street,
Richmond, Vic C.A.S.: It is very pt n
to restore suede to its original finish. V at on
the gloves and wash them in hot b an ™
bing well and changing bran as it gets «>ded
Brush well and bring up nap with a suede wire
brush, very cheap at any store, or coarse sand
naner 1.A.M.: Mix one pint of pure tur
penfine (not synthetic), U pint raw lmseed oil,
7oz -litharge and loz. acetate of lead (sugar
of lead). Blend thoroughly, strain
apply to silk with a soft brush. Dry in the
sun or in a warm shed or ver ? n dah - • • ' YfYc'
Write Under-Secretary, Dept
quarie-street, Sydney, for leaflet Cockroaches.
M IPR ■ Write No. 2 Recruiting Centre,
Royal Australian Air Force, corner Palmer and
Plunkett streets, Wooloomooloo, Syane>--..
R.H.C.: India, Ceylon, Straits Set !
British North Borneo and Hong
Empire series, price 2s. 6d r, Egypt, Burma and
British Malaysia, by W. E. Curtis, price 2s 6d
Java and the Dutch East J" d ‘e s ’ by A.
Cabaton, price 12s. 6d.. . - .R-S.M.C Fm-
cent Van Gogh, by J. B dela Faille (325)
Vincent Van Gogh in Modern Ait series
(205.), Vincent Van Gogh in Great Lives series
(3s 9d.), and Earp’s Vincent Van Gogh
(4s. 9d.) ... .L.M.C.: Write Under-Secretary,
Dept, of Defence, Melbourne R.A.C.. ine
only means of making paper prints from
Dufaycolor transparencies in this country is by
a method adopted by process engravers. This
process necessitates the making of three color
separation negatives and color prints by a
method of the Eastman wash-off relief type....
A.H.L.: Write Technological Museum, .Sydney,
for circular on Hydroponics A.G.W.: write
Under-Secretary, Dept, of Health,Macquarie-
street, Sydney.... R. 8.: No provision is made
in the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act for
the examination and treatment of old-age or
invalid pensioners, or in respect of charges tor
these services.... K.C.:. There is no teachers
agency in Adelaide Irom which teachers are
appointed to private schools in S.A. Applica-
tions must be sent direct to the schools or in
answer to - advertisements in inter-State papers.
W.B.: It is opposed to existing Govern-
ment policy to naturalise enemy aliens of
military age, and an application by a German
21 years of age would not therefore be
approved... .R.R.: The individual view enters
so much into the description or rough sketch-
ing of skeletal remains that it would not only
be impossible, but unwise, to attempt definite
specific identification of the remains. The loca-
tion, body size and width of. the ribs would
appear to eliminate the possibility of their re P"
resenting a seal or small whale, while the un-
fossilised state excludes ancient fauna. It
appears most , likely that the remains are
those of .an ox from which the most
characteristic features have been separated.
The width of the: ribs and presence of high
vertebral : spines suggest this conclusion.
The only certain method of identification,
however, would be examination of a
clear photograph of the remains, specially any
part of the skull, while one tooth of the
animal would settle the identification....
P.S.W.: (1) You will find a very full account
of James Mudie’s career in vol. II of The
Australian Encyclopedia. (2) In an article by
W Bethel in the Sydney “Sun” on September 11,
1934, it is stated that the Castle Forbes estate
was cut up some-years ago and the homestead
has", vanished.... .M. 8,: The story, if it was
printed, was not based on fact W.G.G.: I
don’t want nothing” signifies, literally, that
something, not nothing, is. wan ted. The double
negative,, as. used by the illiterate, is intended
to intensify the negative meaning, but, like two
minuses- in arithmetic, they make a positive or
a plus . .H.S.: Write Fellowship of Australian
Writers, Box 3448 R, G.P.0., Sydney....
A.E,F!: Goondah means “rainstorm”; Gullal-
lie,- “a ravine”; Jerrara, “water falling ;
Kundabung, “wild apples”; Leumeah, “place
of rest”;" Meem’ar, “star”; Mooki, “stony ;
Myambat, - “native huts”; Nowra, “black
cockatoo”Orana, “welcome”; Para, “a river
or-creek”; Pothana, “smoke”; and Tarana,
“a large waterhole” ... .D.H.E.: None in Aus-
tralia’. ...P.H.: No syndicates of that nature
handling local'work... .R.M.8.: Apply to any
of' .the ■ Australian steamship companies with
offices in Brisbane.... .E.H.J.: (1) Crockfords
Clerical ! Directory reaches its 69th issue this
year. (2) Henry Phillpots was appointed Bishop
of Exeter in. 1831 and was succeeded by Frede-
rich'Temple in 1869... .E.F.G.: Write Curator,
Technological Museum, Harris-street, Sydney.
. ,;.D.C.A.: “Radio .World-Time Indicator
Gadget,” by E.. Lyford and A. A. Ghirardi,
showing the principal short-wave broadcasting
stations of the world, their call letters, trans-
mission, frequencies' and the cities and time
zones in which they are located, price 3s. 6d.,
from .Angus and Robertson, Sydney N.J.:
Dictionary of- Australian. Biography, by Philip
Mennell, ■' published by Hutchinson and Co.,
London, in 1892 A. 8.: Charles Harpur, the
poet, married Mary, eldest daughter of E.
Doyle, of. Jerry’s Plains (N.S.W.) A.G.H.:
The matter has been referred to the Under-
secretary-of Justice ... .J.G.L.: Some postal
boxing courses are helpful, though, of course,
they cannot replace good personal tuition. “Jack
Dunleavy’s- Diagram” is a good self-instructor
of boxing, and is an aid to those who cannot
obtain tuition in a gymnasium. For particu-
lars,-write Jack Dunleavy, Box 1791 K, G.P.0.,
Sydney .. . F. 8.: A Whip is a member of Par-
liament- charged by his party with the organi-
sation of voting. When a division is on, the
Whip is responsible for the presence of a suffi-
cient number of members to carry the vote
through and' has to instruct them as to the
party’s desire in respect of the result 0.C.:
The “Knapp” system of • water-bath develop-
ment in photography is that of partially de-
veloping the negative material in the normal
developer and transferring the partially-de-
developed negatives, to a water bath for com-
pletion of the development process, which is
proportionately lengthened. This water-bath
system of development is said to produce nega-
tives of extreme gradation.


LYSAGHTS
Sk
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
-i, Mf
t HI
t.-. a
V,
n
t«ns
m
■x:.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants. Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
" LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT OT
GRAZCOS."
Acute Fluke Disease.
“Bungaree”: Although drenched with
carbon, tet. there have been recent and
serious losses among sheep in N.S.W.
fluke country. The drench apparently
is effective only on immature fluke.
Until the recent rains sheep were often
on the short green feed in marshy snots
and along the banks of creeks—often
five or six sheep to the acre. On coun-
try not bluestoned to kill the fluke snails
sheep were picking up an incredible
number of fluke larvae.
It takes about three weeks for fluke
lame to mature, and during this time
the young fluke do much damage to the
liver. Large numbers of sheep have
been dying, the general symptoms a dis-
tended abdomen, usually known as
“water belly,” and sluggish movements.
Inside the carcass much bloodstained
fluid is found.
There is no cure for the disease. Pre-
vention lies in getting rid of fluke snails
and thus preventing the fluke from breed-
ing. Wet, swampy country and the low-
lying banks of creeks should be drained.
These areas should be broadcast with
bluestone snow at the rate of 251 b. blue-
stone per acre. The most suitable way
is to mix four parts fine sand to one
part bluestone. Running streams should
be treated by hanging a bag of blue-
stone crystals near the surface of the
water as far up the stream as possible.
There is no danger of poisoning stock.
Gilgais and stagnant pools may be treated
by hanging a bag of bluestone crystals
from the end of a pole and dragging this
through the water until it shows a light-
blue tinge. The most suitable time to use
bluestone is between June and December
as fluke start breeding with the-advent of
warm weather.
Sheep bred in fluky country develop
a resistance to the parasite, and are able
to withstand an infestation that might
be fatal to western-bred sheep.
Bogged Sheep.
“Splodger”: If a man isn’t careful with
long-bogged sheep, and if he has the
strength, he will pull their legs out and
leave the hooves behind.
The way to do the job is to put a
stirrup-leather round the body, under the
brisket, stand astride the mutton, puli
and lift tenderly.
It’s well, first, to ease matters “down
under.” Usually both legs are bogged
in one hole. Moisture has run down
the hole, acted as a poultice, softened
the hoof and put it in a position to slip
from the leg as easily as a silk stocking.
Pour water down the hole, give it time
to take effect on the glazed walls sur-
rounding the legs ; work the legs about
so as to enlarge the hole. When the lift
is made try to clear one leg at a time.
Once out, clean the legs of mud, and
work them back and forth till the animal
can walk.
Fat Cattle at Shows.
“A.A.D.”: If supplementary feed de-
tails were supplied with entries of fat
cattle at shows they would serve an edu-
cational purpose.
Some exhibitors of steers at Sydney
R.A.S. gave full details, others were
vague, and the Department of Agriculture
was among those who ignored the re-
quirement. Some exhibits were stall-fed
for six months in process of fattening.
Variety of fodder and concentrates in-
cluded cereal, lucerne and pasture hay
and chaff; bran ; crushed oats, barley
and maize ; boiled wheat and linseed and
cottonseed meal.
As an instance of uneconomic feeding
it was admitted that at least one 2i-year
steer had been on foster-mothers until
it was dispatched to the Show. Milk,
of course, is commonly fed to studs —
up to 15 gallons a day has been re-
corded. One two-year-old Guernsey bull
at Sydney Show had been conditioned
with 10 gallons a day.
Bacon Needed.
“Stor”: Poor little Denmark’s misfor-
tunes may have the effect of increasing
Australian trade with Britain and
strengthening the buy-within-the-Empire
“I'm glad you got the brute. 'E might've bit me dawg."
movement. In normal times Danish ex-
ports to Britain include butter worth
about £12*000,000 stg., eggs worth
£4,000,000 and bacon worth £ 15,000,000-
odd.
Bacon is a new export industry to us,
and breeders have a lot to learn. The
first thing is the value of standardisation.
This is not possible throughout so great
a range of climate as this continent pre-
sents, with a single breed or cross. For
instance, the white breeds which find
favor in British markets and from which
the Danes have bred up their standard
cross on the local Landrace do not do
well around the peanut country of the
Kingaroy plateau (old Saddleback crosses
excel there). In the south, however, the
whites can be used with success. The
Meat Board might well repeat with pigs
the valuable work it did for the lamb
trade in the production of the Colman
report outlining the breeds suitable for
varying districts.
Farmers in inland wheat areas should
be taught that a pig is one of the most
profitable receptacles in which to carry
wheat to market. Marketed as pork,
wheat gives a quick turnover, and has
a permanent and stable market.
The right type of breeding stock
already is here, and with scientific breed-
ing the pig population could be multi-
plied a dozen times over during the next
five years while maintaining wide expan-
sion of export bacon production after
the first year.
Small Grains for Pigs.
“Berk”: Now is the time to use the small
grains, wheat and barley in particular,
to increase production of pig meats for
export. The diversion of Denmark’s farm
export from U.K. to Germany should
give Australian producers an opportunity
to supply the deficiency. Tests on the
N.S.W. North Coast, which carries half
the baconers turned off in the State,
have shown highly satisfactory results
from feeding wheat in place of maize ;
a better carcass with firm flesh and fat
was produced. Similar results were
obtained with barley as part of the
ration. This is more applicable, how-
ever, to South Australia and Victoria,
where the Barley Board has a surplus of
5,000,000 to 6,000,000 bushels for which
it despairs of securing shipping to export
to U.K.
All grains for pig feed should be
coarsely ground or crushed and given
uncooked.
Clover in Wheat Districts.
“Granova”: The extra-favorable sea-
son in southern N.S.W. wheat districts
has advertised clover in the 18-20 in.
rainfall belt. Native clovers and trefoils
have grown so luxuriantly that, in
paddocks that have been given liberal
dressings of super, with cereal crops,
huge heaps of burrs can be gathered
with a hay rake. The labor of gathering
this seed and distributing it where clover
is scarce should be well worth while.
Paddocks that had been sown to early-
strain sub. clover several years ago this
season gave results similar to those
obtained in heavy rainfall districts.
Sowing of sub. clover with a cover
crop of wheat is good practice. The
wheat is sown on fallow at the usual
depth; the clover immediately drilled
in about lin. deep. The stand must be
topdressed at least every second year.
There is great need in the drier wheat
districts for pasture legumes which will
give returns from grazing comparable
with cropping returns and will restore
the fertility of worn-out wheat land. It
is worth trying early-strain sub. clover.
Superior New Oat.
“A 1 Gerian”: Expansion of oat culti-
vation in N.S.W. marginal areas is being
made possible by new types evolved by
plant-breeder J. T. Pridham (one-time
assistant to Farrer).
Kurrajong (Fulghum x Laggan) stands
out as a superior early oat for grazing
for western districts and outer Riverina,
and may supersede Fulghum, regarded as
without a rival for sheep grazing in the
drier areas.
Kurrajong, smut resistant and more
productive, is strong-strawed and not
liable to lodging. As a grain yielder it is
better than Mulga, the present standard
early-maturing variety.
In field trials over three seasons the
new type has established itself as of
definite value to mixed farmers.
Water Conservation.
“Granova”: The long, dry spell has
shown the weak points ‘in inland farm
water supplies.
Many old dams were put down in
watercourses where the flow of water
was once small and steady. Now,
through timber cutting and slope culti-
vation, the courses carry fast, silt-laden
streams. Thus dams silt up very quickly
unless steps are taken to divert the big
flow of water by levee construction. In
some cases a bank must be placed right


For all External Livestock Diseases
"CARBOX
A Wonderful Healer .... A Super Cleanser
A Powerful Antiseptic.
the hiithest quality, but . .up.rU.lv. .I—.
and has well earned its place as the farmers friend.
Note these few uses for “CARBOX”:
HORSES. —For sore shoulders, itch, cracked and greasy heels, strangles, douche
after foaling, sprains, swellings, cuts and abrasions, etc.
CATTLE. —For contagious abortion, douche after calving, mammitis, mi ever,
sore teats, foot rot, etc.
SHEEP.—For maggot and fly, shearing cuts, foot rot, crow peck, tailing, and
marking, etc,
PIGS. —For lice and scale, sore mouth, body wash, etc.
DOGS.—For distemper, mange, douche after pupping, grass seed abscesses, cracked
pads, fleas and dog lice, etc.
“CARBOX” is an essential on the farm.
“CARBOX” is not Good for Parasites —It Kills Them!
Packed in 3-gallon drums, 1-gallon, and 2-gallon tins
Full particulars obtainable from: —
HENRY BERRY & CO. (Australasia) LTD.
Australasian Distributers:
Houses in All States.
515 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
When writing mention “The Bulletin. 1
YOUNGHUSBAND
LIMITED
e
Stock and Station Agents
Buyers and Sellers are advised to consult our
Special Stock and Property Department, or
our Branches.
BRANCHES:
NEW SOUTH WALES: ALBURY, LOCKHART, Rand, Walla
Walla, Griffith, Leeton, WAGGA
WAGGA, DENILIQUIN.
VICTORIA: ECHUCA, Kyabram, CASTERTON,
MILDURA.
Chief Representatives and Attorneys in Victoria for
THE
STATE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Cover issued for all Classes of Fire, Accident and Marine
Insurances at lowest current rates.
YOUNGHUSBAND
LIMITED
Registered Office:
94-96 KING STREET - -
MELBOURNE
.»»*
Combination
RIDING WORKING
Boot!
■
IN WATERPROOF
OOZE CALF
Here’s another famous Abbey
bargain. A Combination
boot with heavy DOUBLE sole that is
ideal for working in the yards or for
riding. Hundreds sold throughout Aus-
tralia. Leather lined throughout and sole
STAPLED as well as stitched, it will
WEAR AND WEAR AND WEAR.
Elastic sides are reinforced, giving double
strength and length of life. Ankle straps
keep the boot firm and neat. Available
in a full range of sizes and half-sizes in
wide and extra wide fittings—in brown
waterproof Ooze calf. Order TODAY.
Use the coupon.
NOTE: Abbey Shoes are sent by mail to 'ill
varls of Australia and the British Empire, f<>
order with confidence. Always state size, ami.
if possible, send a tracing of your stockinged
foot Satisfaction guaranteed.
ABBEY
316 George St., CUfIITC
324 Pitt St., ff V/ btf
Sydney.
! f Sir' :
fion
\ enc
,-Vose
po ;
,sta@ e -
\>lE •
'y.ettets
• ...••• ~,»•**
THIS COUPON NOW
Al5-IC2O.
across the watercourse and the dam
filled through a pipe or hollow log.
Rather than clean out an old dam
it often pays to sink a new one. The
water from the old dam can be drained
or pumped into the new one and the
old one then scooped out.
Place new dams where they can be
filled from a gentle grassy slope. Con-
tour banks increase the catch. Soil con-
servation such as contour 1 arming, sow-
ing to pasture of steep slopes and tiee
planting will eventually solve most
problems of water conservation .f the
rainlall is right.
o: nf _ for Hip Farm
„ cl -
Bundalinga : Skim milk gives t
greatest return per gallon when it forms
only a small part of the pig d.et
Greater use of grains, pastures, forage
and root crops enables more use to be
made of available milk, which should
be just sufficient to balance the diet,
Grains and mill offals alone are not a
satisfactory diet, but they can constitute
up to 90 per cent, of the ration, skim
milk, meatmeal, peanut, coconut or
linseed meals forming the balance.
“Jayem”: Make it a routine. Scrape
all dried milk from bail push rods, gates,
stools and other surfaces touched by the
hands of milkers. Boil leg-ropes regu-
larly. Wash udders and teats of cows
with Condy’s solution. Remove all drop-
pings from yards, and avoid dust near
the bails.
“Yarrunga”: The Mallee Research
a fl on (Vic.) specially commends to
f armers j n mallee country two oats
evolved in N . S .W.—Guyra and Mulga-
which are bracketed with Dawn, a home
bred variety. Wherever tried in those
districts for the mid-season sowing they
have given satisfactory results. For early-
maturing crops the sowing of at least one
Q £ t j iree on t fl e ] ar g er area s is recom-
mended especially as they can provide
early P sheep 4 razing /
'
Porcine”: The largest co-operative
bacon factory in N.S.W., with the State's
greatest unit output, has increased the
acceptable weight for baconers to 1351 b.,
with the intimation that it does not want
farmers to market them at that weight,
The best quality pigs that would produce
the best sides of bacon weighing 381 b.
to 401 b. are the standard aimed at for
ocal consumption. The demand for
heavy baconers such as required for the
British purchaser is limited.
■Yarrunga”: To meet the scarcity of
bran and pollard for drought feeding,
dairymen in N.S.W. city milk supply
zones are substituting wheat. At
A.W B. prices stock-feed wheat costs
4s. Hd. a bushel at ports. This runs
out at more than the rate for mill offal,
but the extra food value compensates
for the difference. The grain is gristed
into meal, which in extensive use has
given good results.
“Agricola”: Fisher Webster, Govern-
ment tobacco adviser, is experimenting
with tobacco under irrigation at Lucin-
dale (S.A.). This is the last hope for
tobacco-growing in South Aus., as two
fierce summers have driven nearly all
commercial growers out of the industry,
Webster took over a year ago from
C. Giles, who went to help a promising
development of tobacco-growing in
south-west Westralia.
“Missabotti”: The Nambucca Co-
operative Meat Co. is erecting abattoirs
to cost £40,000 a few miles from Macks-
ville (N.S.W.). The plant is planned to
handle 300 head of large stock, 300
calves and 300 pigs a day. Stock will be
taken from railway trucks in front of the
building and driven less than 100 yards
before slaughtering. The Nambucca dis-
trict alone can supply the factory with
approx. 30,000 calves, 30,000 cull cows
and 15,000 pigs per annum—these figures
outside Bellingen and Dorrigo. There is
a much better chance of success than
with some other country killing schemes.
Outback Occupations.
No. XVI.
Lambing Ewes.
Probably because.sheep are the most
cussed of all domestic animals, ewies
always try to bear their young in the
early hours of the morning, always in
some distant part of the paddock ; and
always they pick cold weather for it.
This wouldn’t be so bad if every fox,
crow, blowfly and stray mongrel dog in
the district didn’t get to hear of it and
flock to the place, each and every one
of them having a peculiar appetite tor
new-born lamb in the raw. Though the
ewes are game enough, they can’t fight
for sour apples, which means that if the
owner of the sheep wants to keep his
lambing average up he must get out
there and fend the lamb-hungry pests off
with one hand, help the difficult births
with the other, and have a third hand
to cope with unexpected developments,
such as floods, landslides and skittish
ewes.
About an hour before dawn the sheep-
man is thus found floundering round the
kitchen looking for the matches to light
the fire and get a cup of tea. Of course,
he doesn’t find the matches, or if he does
the wood is camp and takes too long to
burn. As Jim Crow is one fellow that
won’t wait, the sheepman climbs aboard
his indignant mount (awakened at this
ungodly hour from a snooze behind the
haystack) and sets forth to the place of
obstetrics, not, let it be pointedly empha -
sised, accompanied by his faithful
kelpies.
It is light enough to see the stars when
he arrives on the slope, and he. realises
he is among the sheep when his horse
stumbles over one. As the sheepman will
be already off the horse by this, there
is no need for him to get off, so he slips
the bridle over a stump (which he finds
by the hit-or-miss collision method) and
leans against it to rub his shin and wait.
The cold, which always is worst jusi
before dawn, forces him to stamp about
and rub his hands. Fumblingly he fills
the pipe and fumblingly feels for
matches. Cursefully he remembers that
he couldn’t find any, and debates whether
there’s anything in this tobacco-chewing.
It grows ever so slightly lighter, and
by peering intently he can see what must
be the forms of sheep lying here and
there along the slope. Somewhere off
to the right a crow gives out the break-
fast call and the sheepman mutters, “You
wait, you blankard.” Farther off, he
hears the sharp yap of a fox, and hopes
none of the ewes have wandered over
that way.
There is a sound of movement above
on the slope, and sheep race out of the
gloom and vanish into the other gloom.
The sheepman makes for where they
came from. He goes on until he walks
into the fence, staggers back holding his
torn shirt and the bleeding place where
the barbed wire caressed his chest, and
thinks running sheep is a hell of a game,
anyhow.
More by good luck than management
he finds his horse again and puts his
hands between the nag’s front legs to
warm them. Then he sits down with
his back to the stump and wishes people
would leave matches where he put them.
He thinks how good it would be to lie
in bed on a raw morning like this and
have someone bring in hot tea and toast
—and matches.
Of a sudden he starts awake. The sun
is shining in his eyes. Before him on the
slope are the sheep, all beginning to move
off for the day’s forage. Strangely,
though, there isn’t a lamb among them.
This isn’t as astonishing as it may seem,
because all the sheep are wethers. He
moved the ewes to the river paddock last
night because someone had told him
they liked the timber for shelter when
lambing.
He makes a Wild West leap into the
saddle, and kicks the old horse into aston-
ished movement. It is nearly a mile to
the river, and he hears a chorus of crow
caws rising from the timber down there
as he sends the nag at full rip. As he goes
flying past the house the kelpies, which
have been hanging round the kitchen
door, stare at him in amazement, then
vociferously announce their pleasure to
see him, and come at full gallop to join
in this lovely game of racing round the
place at sunrise. He pulls the horse up,
turns on the dogs and calls them every-
thing. They race round in circles, pre-
tending they can’t hear him, and when
he heaves a stone they give him a pained
look and withdraw to their kennels.
The chorus of the crows is now full
and strong, and the sheepman opens the
gate into the river paddock with a vision
in his eyes of dead lambs and ewes. At
last he can see the flock, as the leading
ewes come stringing out of the gum
suckers to graze. He ignores their scat-
tering and pushes into the river bank.
More ewes are there, several lying down.
These get up as he approaches. There
isn’t a lamb to be seen. He realises fret-
fully that they haven’t started to drop
their lambs yet, and that he is in for this
sort of thing for the next few weeks.
Slowly he goes home, calls in a loud
voice for his breakfast, and wants to
know who the blazes took the matches. His
wife remarks mildly that they are still
on the ledge over the bed where he put
them last night, because he wanted to
have everything ready for an early start
round the ewes.
He blasts the ewes.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2id. per line. ... ,
In future names—though required as a guarantee of good faith—'willno* be
published unless it is clear that the writers don t object. Many do,
reasons— domestic, industrial, departmental, mditary—for preferring anonymity.
Double rates to an Adelaide man, who maintains that modern war demand
sobriety in the man behind the machines,” and argues his case well.
Drink and the Soldier
What “D.A.” (B. 10/4/’4O) says about
the fighting men of the past is true. They
drank hard and fought hard. The British
sailors were often shanghai’d into float-
ing hells where they were fed like pigs and
flogged like dogs, and where they fought
like devils. Those who survived scurvy
and other enemies were tough. Then
one relaxation was rum, and their only
reward was glory.
The soldiers were expected to go any-
where and do anything by strength of
brawn and muscle. They died like flies
from disease and bad food. Only the
toughest got through. They werent
teetotallers. Any oldest inhabitant of a
garrison town will tell you that.
The weapons of those days required
very little brain-power or education for
their handling. Strength and ferocity
were the chief requisites, and rum some-
times supplied the latter.
But the scene has changed since then.
Weapons of precision, delicate instru-
ments, hairspring explosives, split-second
decisions demand a new military men-
tality for the brasshat and the foot-
slogger.
The good old bullockies were tough,
and they drank hard ; but would “D.A. ’
give them modem passenger buses to
drive while under the influence? I have
seen the “whip” of an old try-again mail-
coach asleep on his perch with the horses
at full trot. He would have been out of
place in a tank or a ’plane.
The present war is one of wits. It is
mechanised and demands sobriety in the
men behind the machines. The days of
Dutch courage are gone with the days
of cartnon-fodder and red coats and
pipeclay. Modern fighters have other
means of recreation than getting drunk.
The decent boys we are sending to the
front are fired with a spirit that doesn’i
come from bottles. When they come
back they are going to be good citizens
with clear brains and steady hands to
work in a mechanised peace. — Teetotali-
TARIAN (S.A.).
Corporal Punishment
“Pawang’s” article (B. 3/4/’4O) about
the teacher in Victoria who controls his
class by kindness, logical teaching and
a knack of pointing out the other fel-
low’s side of the question reminded me
of some beautiful words which form
part of the English coronation service.
During this service their Majesties re-
move their crowns while the archbishop
quotes the words “I will not wear a
crown of gold where my Saviour wore a
crown of thorns.”
If all those in authority or opulent
position would put the aforesaid words
into practice, would not that be the first
step towards settling the problem of
social unrest? Our present King and
Queen, faithful to their coronation
pledge, carry out this doctrine admirably,
and therein lies the secret of their popu-
larity. Lord Nuffield admits that his
business success is due to the goodwill
that exists between him and his workers.
Why cannot all holders of rank and
employers of labor adopt a similar atti-
tude? — Josephine Scollan (S.A.).
There is another aspect to the effects
of corporal punishment.
Doing away with the stick at home and
at school may have psychological bene-
fits with many, but will psychologists and
others realise that there are some for
whom the stick is their only chance of
control?
Mum and Dad and the schoolteacher
can always come back to the stick if
things get too bad, but we voluntary
workers among boys are not allowed to
administer even a cuffing, and really have
no desire to. But we do find that the
troublesome boy is almost always the
boy who never gets a hiding from his
dad.
All the theorising in the world won’t
alter fact. We can nearly pick them
when they join up, a few weeks give em-
phasis to our views, and if a visit to the
home to get co-operation follows we
know what to expect —“Oh, I don’t want
to punish him” or “Oh, I never give my
children a hiding” or “I will speak to
him.” . ...
Despite psychologists, you can still
spare the rod and spoil the child.
Volunteer (N.S.W.).
Rankers and Strikers
So far I have not noticed a par. >n
this column by a man in khaki on the
strike question. Minus a few rather
forcible adjectives, here is the opinion
of an unknown soldier who was “called
to the bar.” ,
“This is how I see it, mate. Heres
our push of the militia an’ the A.I.F.
all dressed up an’ nowhere to go. Now,
supposin’ we re holdin’ a big review an
a few agitators comes along in civvies.
They goes down the ranks chuckin’ off
at the King an’ the flag, just for a start.
Then they begins messin’ about with our
equipment, cuttin’ straps, bluntin
bayonets an’ bendin’ rifle-barrels. One
bloke gets on a soapbox an’ tells us that
the tucker an’ beer transport has been
stopped, an’ the ammunition factories
soon will be, for want of coal.
“While all this is goin’ on, we stand
at attention, eyes front, not sayin’ a
word.
“What’s really happenin’ is just as bad.
We can’t do nothin’ but we think a lot.”
—Same Again (S.A.).
Another Angle
Bushmen are easygoing mostly, but
when coalminers pull out of a better-paid
and shorter-houred job and head into the
bush to muscle in on our jobs it’s time
to squeal.
They can be seen everywhere on the
Turon River, grabbing the gold away
from the diggers who live on the game;
chasing the bunnies that are —or were
to carry many a hard-pressed trapper
through the winter; rushing to Glen
Davis and other surrounding towns to
snap up jobs from under the noses of
men who have waited months for a start.
On top of this they blithely draw strike
pay.
If this is a fair sample of what the
Miners’ Federation calls its “fighting
fund,” then all I can say is the quicker
that body gets over to Stalinland the
better for decent Australians. If we
chucked our traps in a heap, downed our
axes, digging tools, etc., and descended
on Lithgow strike-breaking, we’d be
named “scabs,” so why should the miners
go bush and scab on us? — Nap (N.S.W.).
Anti-British Propaganda
There appear to be at least three dis-
tinct types of anti-British propaganda
emanating from the world’s short-wave
stations at the present time—from Berlin,
from pro-Nazi neutral capitals and from
the U.S.A. Of these, the least effective is
the Berlin variety. Harrowing tales from
Berlin depicting German sailors swim-
ming about, hands up, while sneering
British naval officers, fishermen and civi-
lians, congregated for some mysterious
purpose on the same trawler, pick
them off with machine-guns and rifles, are
too clumsy to inspire anything but amuse-
ment among folk of normal intelligence.
Hair-raising accounts of heroic Arabs
dying in defence of their womenfolk at
the hands of bestial Australian soldiers
likewise merely raise a laugh.
The second type achieves slightly
better results. News items are repeated
as received from their various sources,
but Berlin is quoted with far greater fre-
quency than London. This partiality at
once proclaims itself, and the effective-
ness of the propaganda is thus reduced.
The third type is by far the most potent.
Commentators seek ever to belittle Brit-
ish claims, and in some cases British
chances, of ultimate victory. In the eyes
of the world America should be pro-
British in sympathy at least, since Presi-
dent Roosevelt has blasted the Nazi
regime from the earth with a barrage
of hot air on more than one occasion.
The average listener would place far
more credence in a report of British
losses coming from American sources
than from sources of professed pro-Nazi
origin. The fact that many Americans
are neither pro-Nazi nor pro-British, but
anti-both, is not yet fully realised, and
until it is American broadcasts will con-
tinue to be the most damaging anti-
British propaganda on the air.— Nigel
(N.S.W.).
Divorce
C. G. Salis and sundry others (B.
17/4/’4O) combine to weave all kinds of
complicated entanglements round the
simple business of allowing two unhappy
people to make a fresh start in life.
“C.G.5.,” for instance, says that
couples want divorce merely for the
purpose of obtaining legal sanction to
their adultery; and afterwards back-
pedals to assert that adultery is not a
crime. If it’s not a crime, why is legal
sanction necessary? In New York,
where adultery is the only legal ground
for absolute divorce, the National
Divorce Reform League privately
questioned some 500 recently-divorced
people and found that adultery was not
the real cause of the broken marriage in
at least 95 p.c. of cases. In less rigid
States cruelty and desertion are similarly
used as ostensible, lying cloaks for the
actual innocent fact, that two people
couldn’t make a go of it and are sick of
tearing themselves to pieces trying.
“Father’s Voice” maintains that un-
happily-married couples should make the
best of a bad bargain. But they were
married on “mutual consent,” and it’s a
bad rule that won’t work both ways.
It is certainly not true that the rising
divorce rate in America means an orgy
of mate-swapping. Figures prove that
divorced people remarry little more fre-
quently than widows and widowers of the
same age.
The present Australian divorce system
is chock-full of anomalies, not the least
of which is the economic discrimination.
The wealthy man can easily afford this
luxury, legal fees, court costs and occa-
sional perjury, whereas the poor man
must resort to the “poor man’s divorce”
—C. G. Salis’s kind shamefaced
desertion, leaving his wife uncertain
whether he is ever coming back, and
guilty of bigamy if she decides to marry
again, or, as is more usual, he must stay
on in a relationship that becomes more
hateful every day. An unhappy marriage
is just as unhappy to the navvy as it is
to the financier.
As I see it, opponents of mutual-con-
sent divorces are alarmed at the possi-
bility of introducing those startling novel-
ties decency, honesty and fairness into
people’s attempts to make good their
mistakes. —W. L. (N.S.W.).
Fifty years ago divorce was far too
difficult for the majority to think about
it, and, for a woman, desertion mostly
meant sponging on a relative. Cooling-
down thoughts of matrimonial disputants
were turned, not to divorce, but to ways
and means of effecting a reconciliation.
Easier divorce has led to a growing
intolerance. A clash of tempers, as must
be expected by any married couple of
spirit, and the divorce court looms on
their mental horizon as a haven of
release. So the fight grows deeper. A
pair of my acquaintance recently parted
for the paltry reason that the husband
accused the wife (who was innocent) of
encouraging other admirers.
To say that either must commit a
cardinal sin to obtain sufficient grounds
(B. 17/4/’4O) is nonsense. If the next
partner in view is not worth the three
years of waiting necessary to gain release
by desertion, he or she is not worth
bothering about. What proof is there,
anyway, that the new match will not
prove worse than the last?
Easy divorce in the Soviet was so
abused that even the Kremlin crowd were
obliged to impose more stringent decrees.
Finally, we should not treat the vows
made before God to “take for better or
for worse” with such disregard.—
Middle Age (N.S.W.).
Unmarried Mothers
The Siegfried and Maginot Lines have
displaced many old landmarks and sign-
posts in the path of modern youth, and
the girl who takes the wrong turning is
now held less blameworthy for her “tres-
passes.” Military authorities grant her
a subsidy, and even the Church recog-
nises her economic status “on the
strength.”
During the last war a certain mother
had two daughters. One of them wan-
dered from the straight and narrow. She
worked hard to support her child, and
helped her mother with the household
work and expenses, being in every respecl
a model mother and daughter. But she
remained a social and religious outcast.
The other girl kept off the grass. She
also kept herself unspotted from the
broom, the washtub and the rolling-pin,
spending all her earnings on fine raiment,
beauty aids, cigarettes, parties and other
“innocent” frivolities. She looked well,
married well and snobbishly deserted her
poverty-stricken mother, her “unfortu-
nate” sister and her “wild olive” nephew.
She was well received in all social and
church circles, although a paragon of
domestic selfishness.
That instance is not unique. It is just
one example of the popular estimate of
what is called “virtue.” But is that valua-
tion fair? Both military and church
opinion seem now to agree that the
weaker sistern should not be penalised
financially during the war. Should they
then be penalised in every way in time
of peace? Should their “virtue” be
judged by their obedience to only one
of the ten commandments? Mark
Query (S.A.).
Deteriorating ?
Judging by his actions and manner
of living, the mentality of the worker is
fast deteriorating. Education Depart-
ments are partly responsible for it. In-
stead of giving the youngster a practical
basis for life, teachers drum in lessons
that are of no earthly use save for pass-
ing into a secondary school, with per-
haps the university in view. So the young-
sters start working with no knowledge
except a few scraps of book learning
and what they have picked up in the
gutter.
The greater number graduate into
casual labor with no opportunity of pro
motion. If by some chance a boy be-
comes a skilled artisan, what is left of
his individuality is so fused with the soul
of the machine he attends that he be-
comes little better than a machine him-
self.
Is it any wonder that the working
man’s literary idols are the turf prophets
and other good-luck prognosticators? Or
that when the worker organises and
forms trade-unions, men who don’t care
two hoots for him are elected to execu-
tive positions because of vocal ability
to stir up emotions?— Retep (Vic.).
Practical Education
Our Education Departments would be
wiser to revise the subject matter for
child education, and direct learning into
more useful channels. Children are
obliged to spend about eight years cram-
ming their brains with a lot of facts
which, being of no use to them, they
promptly forget after leaving school.
Ancient history and the memorising of
numerous dates of bygone battles, etc.,
are of little use to the majority in modern
life, while those hours of laboring over
geometry and algebra are often just
wasted effort.
It would prove of more practical
benefit were children taught to make up
income-tax returns, and given a
knowledge of simple account-keeping.
Furthermore, they should have politics
introduced more solidly. If a thorough
grounding were given in early years it
would render more understandable the
problems which confront adulthood. The
average person of today does not under-
stand the subject. He has never been
taught. He picks up a little here and
there, and, rather than admit his ignor-
ance, pretends that he knows all about
it.
In a country such as this, when we
are striving for an improved world order,
it would surely be wiser to introduce
the subject more thoroughly into our
schools instead of allowing children to
grow to manhood and learn scantily
from other, and possibly biased, sources.
—E. Carol (Vic.).
What, Again?
I notice that N. S. Wales Treasurer
Richardson has stated that the progres-
sive deficit in the State’s finances on
March 31 was £4,365,000 and that, but
for the serious effect of industrial dis-
turbance, “there was ample justification
for expecting that the State deficit at the
end of the year would not have exceeded
£1,500,000, on which the Budget had been
prepared.”
I take such statements with a large
helping of salt, but if this one’s true then
we must be employing a pretty bunch
of bunglers when a strike in one in-
dustry knocks Budget estimates endways.
We are told “larger income and other
taxation collections will come to hand
during the remaining three months of
this year than was the case last year,”


but must taxation always go up to keep
State expenditure over receipts within
reasonable bounds of millions?
Anyway, why are State Budgets re-
peatedly planned to show a dead loss?
A housewife habitually planning such a
budget would soon ruin her husband and
family. Playing with public money is
apparently the politician’s privilege, and
I suppose that, while the taxpayer con-
tinues to pay without question, the credit
side of the Governmental ledger will re-
main as virgin-white as Mr. Richardson s
boiled shirt-front. P. O. MacCabe
(N.S.W.).
One Parliament
The idea of seven Governments cater-
ing for the needs of seven million people
is farcical enough to become the sub-
ject of a very comic opera —with a chorus
of boards and commissions. To follow
the thing to its logical conclusion, we
must expect to be ruled by twenty Gov-
ernments when our population increases,
as it should eventually, to the twenty-
million mark. Or is it that government
is a matter of area rather than popula-
tion? If that is the case, then England,
with fifty thousand square miles against
our three million, doesn’t need a Parlia-
ment at all.
However the question be approached
we must find ourselves in a ridiculous
position which would be vastly entertain-
ing if it were not so tragic. Perhaps it
is that our attitude to democracy is more
enlightened than that of other nations ;
we are trying to govern the people by
as many of the people as possible. That
isn’t my idea of democracy, and it isn’t
the people’s—it’s only the members’ idea.
It seems more logical to have each
member representing a certain propor-
tion of the population rather than a slice
of the landscape, but the question is:
How many people should be represented
by each member? If we allow only
three members for every million of popu-
lation, we have a governing body of 21,
which should be ample for our needs.
Twenty-one honest, competent men could
run this country without the fuss, con-
fusion and expense occasioned by the
current horde of windbags. Such a body,
prepared to sacrifice personal aggrandise-
ment, gold passes and gluttonous salaries
in order to co-operate for the welfare of
the common people, could wipe the slate
clean of party squabbles and squander-
mania, and do much to make the ideal
of democracy an accomplished fact.—
Nairb (Vic.).
Inland Exchange
In reply to “Jesmond” (B. 27/3/’4O),
I was not confusing the issue when I
brought in the note issue and the fact
that gold is now out of circulation. In
the days before a Commonwealth issue
was in use, gold was the generally
accepted medium, especially as bank-
notes were liable to exchange if nego-
tiated out of the State of issue. In any
case, gold could be demanded, and in
point of fact frequently was. Country
banks had therefore to keep a supply in
their till, and the cost of remitting it was
considerable, especially if it were being
sent to a remote town.
Now, the cost of keeping up a supply
of till money is the bare postage, plus
an insurance rate of round about 6d.
per cent. With regard to clearing houses,
it actually costs the collecting bank no
more to get the proceeds of*a cheque
from one side of the Murray to the
other than it does to collect the proceeds
of one domiciled within the State.
Also, a bank can collect £lOO,OOO
worth of cheques lodged in N. S. Wales
and drawn on Perth, and transfer the
proceeds back to Sydney by simply
lodging the £lOO,OOO at the note issue
department of the Commonwealth Bank,
Perth, and getting an order on the Syd-
ney branch for the same amount. Cost
to the bank one shilling and fourpence,
with exchange, collected from a long-
suffering public, £5OO.
But now, if a Barham storekeeper pays
in 20 cheques on Kerang, 16 miles away,
to a total value of £2O, he pays the bank
10s. in exchange as against 6d. last year.
Recently I paid in eight cheques on a
town across the Murray, and not 50
miles away. Charge for exchange was
45., while the total value came to less
than £7. Inter-state rates generally have
been reduced by 2s. 6d. per cent., but
what the banks have lost on the swings
they have made up on the roundabouts.
—Sandpatch (N.S.W.).
Retort Courteous
Touching a par. to the effect that
“S.A.’s superfluous Public Works Com-
mittee has recommended the spending of
£830,000 (and the rest) on broadening the
line to the south-east to bring it in touch
with the inter-State line” (B. 10/ 4/ ’4O).
Owing to improved farming knowledge
and pasture-improvement methods, the
area referred to as the south-east has
increased its production over the past
five to six years by as much as 400 per
cent. The greatest part of inward and
outward freight to the s.-e. is carried on
the sneered-at railway, which, through
age, must be re-laid before long with
either the present 3ft. 6in. or the broad
gauge. It won’t cost very much more to
convert the present 3ft. 6in. to sft. 3in.
than to re-lay it at 3ft. 6in. And the
south-east will benefit by faster pas-
senger, freight and livestock services.
The Bulletin knows no more about
railways anywhere than I do about news-
papers.—V. H. L. (S.A.).
Australian Literature
Let us stop deluding ourselves. Duties
on imported comics and bounties to Aus-
tralian writers can do something for the
writer, but only in a material sense. They
can make him better off financially. They
can help him fill more columns in the
daily papers. But they can never help
him to write one whit better.
Great Australian writers will produce
great Australian literature—they may be
producing it now —irrespective of the
immediate or future financial returns.
They will write great verse or prose be-
cause there is something great within
them, and because they have trained
themselves in self-expression; and they
will write it whether they are living in
affluence like Dickens or starving like
Goldsmith.
There is only one way in which the
literary societies and the writers’ leagues
and would-be patrons can Help Australia
to produce great literature. That is by
fostering a national appreciation of good
literature, a healthy critical spirit and
a hearty contempt for all that is cheap
and shoddy.— Wusslean (Vic.).
An Australian Film
I have just returned from seeing Aus-
tralia’s film triumph “Ants in His Pants.”
In cold blood I murdered two bob.
I completely exonerate the photo-
graphers. Photography, as in most Cine-
sound productions, was up to par. Sound
was not. Continuity was conspicuous by
its absence. Production was poor, and act-
ing, if any, was absolutely unnecessary,
for the ancient story was beyond hope
of salvation. I’m in favor of the Gov-
ernment helping to build up a solid film
industry, but there should be a guarantee
that the money spent will bring us a
higher standard of production than any
that has so far come out of Australian
studios.
Isn’t it time our producers presented a
typical, down-to-earth Australian picture?
(I don’t mean more Dad and Dave.) No
expensive settings would be needed, and
for dialogue—well, average Australian wit
is good entertainment anywhere. Why
not in Australian pictures? Let us see
the kind of people that we rub shoulders
with in the street; the kind of homes
that we are accustomed to entering ; the
pleasures that we know and the troubles
that we ourselves have to face. Give
us a story of real Australian people faith-
fully portrayed by some of the numer-
ous talented artists available in this coum
try. No matter how simple the whole
production is, Australians will welcome
it with open arms if it is real.
Perhaps I expect too much ; but until
they arrive nearer the standard I require
I shall send my young brother to pre-
view all Australian pictures for me. He
still gets in for half-price.—G. H. A. (Q.).
Bounties
Glancing over the O.F.M. page (B.
17/4/’4O), I notice the same pathetic
plea for bounties. Someone wants the
Government to start a soup kitchen,,
someone else wants a cotton bounty,
and over and over again the plea for
bounties comes up.
I cannot understand why Australians
have never tried co-operative movements.
The Swedish Co-operative Society,
founded in 1889, was a purely protective
consumers’ wholesale association. Later
it took a more ambitious shape, and set
itself to break the power of certain big
trusts. This led it on from distribution
to production, and, during the last war,
to the formation of a wholesale co-opera-
tive movement for the whole of Scandi-
navia. In one instance a factory was
built and run co-operatively (by con-
sumers), and it destroyed the monopoly
of one particularly big concern. The price
of that commodity went down by a third
in Scandinavia, and, incidentally, caused
a reduction in England as well.
Later, the Swedish Co-operative move-
ment bought one of the biggest depart-
mental stores in Stockholm. All this was
done without any assistance from the
State. The Co-operatives were even
taxed at the same rate as private ven-
tures. Co-operative enterprise in Sweden
was extended even to “apartment”
houses.
It appears to me that Australians are
singularly lacking in that one asset which
we are popularly supposed to possess—
initiative and enterprise, at least in
regard to domestic affairs. The blame
lies with the average Australian, who is
far too much taken up with alleged sport.
Co-op. (N.S.W.).
Sales Talk
I rather enjoy having my photo, taken
as I rip along the city streets. The
photographers don’t know how funny
they look as they abruptly sag at the
knees, toss their bodies recklessly back-
wards, clap the box urgently to an eye,
and then work so intensely that their
mouths hang open.
But I do object to every photographer
beaming as he hands me the card and
saying confidentially, “That’ll be a lovely
one! ”
Obviously they’re liars, because com-
mon logic says that at least half the
times I must be looking surly, pop-eyed,
tired or ferocious. Therefore, as sales
talk it wears thin after the tenth time
in an hour.— Eva (N.S.W.).
Scope for Tin-openers
Voices are being raised in the land
preaching the horrible example of thrift.
People are urged to cut down expendi-
ture.
Until the depression Australians were
royal spenders. Business thrived, and
there was plenty of work. The bush-
worker and the farmer went to town on
Saturday and threw money about with
abandon. City workers threw it about
all the week. Australians were the best-
dressed and best-fed people in the world.
They earned their cash and they spent
their cash, and the flow of the money
kept the wheels of industry well oiled.
Then came the first chill of suspicion
and dread. Immediately people buttoned
up, the worst offenders being those in
constant jobs who had nothing to fear
financially while the country retained a
shred of credit. These people sat in
cheaper show seats, bought fewer lollies,
drank less beer, started making their own
dresses or using last year’s hat, reduced
holiday exes., cut the Sunday sixpence to
threepence—in a hundred and one ways
cut down their spending.
Just at a time when it was most needed
their money went out of circulation and
into the moneybox. Many of them saved
for the first time in their lives, and
emerged from the depression with savings
accounts. But instead of easing it their
“thrift” deepened it. Governments found
taxation revenue falling, and promptly
devised new forms of obtaining it, for it
is an axiom of Australian politics to
preach thrift to the public but never to
practise it in Government.
Let us hear no more of this saving
talk. We believe we shall be victorious
in this war, and the only way to keep
the place going is to spend. Every shil-
ling salted down in cold storage means
something less bought, less work for a
salesman, less work for a factory hand,
less work all round. Every shilling spent
means another bubble on the stream of
finance that will keep things afloat. If
we are defeated in the war our savings
won’t be worth the paper their amount
is written on, and a poverty-stricken
country has less chance of surviving de-
feat than a prosperous one.
Let’s spend our hard-earned money
so that Australia can munch the bread
of work and enjoyment.
We have six spendthrift State Gov-
ernments and a Federal Government not
noted for its thriftiness. Let’s follow
their example, after duly providing
against accident, sickness and other dan-
gers and necessities. The rationing of
imports gives Australia a magnificent
chance to develop more industries, and
the best way to do that is by keeping the
money in circulation. A lot has been
said about the failure of our monetary
system by various cranks, but the system
is all right if we use it right.—O. T.
(N.S.W.).
Euthanasia
Why is a doctor deemed a murderer
if he releases from suffering some un-
fortunate being who would otherwise be
compelled to spend the rest of his days
suffering from an incurable disease or
illness? Any ordinary man is compelled
to destroy a suffering horse or dog on
pain of imprisonment, while his own
fellow-beings are denied such relief.
Thinking men and women have at-
tempted, both in England and America,
to secure legalisation of euthanasia, but
their efforts met with such determined
opposition from certain sections that they
failed. Opponents of the proposal argue
that it would be abused by unscrupulous
doctors who would commit murder for
money, but adequate safeguards could
be provided. The patient s consent
could be made essential, and a board
of specialists with constantly changing
membership could review all cases.
Under the present system parents and
relations have to watch the agony of ones
dear to them when they know that swift
and painless relief would be possible if
ignorant prejudice could be overcome.
Pierrot (N.S.W.).
Be a Sport
Whenever I am invited to ‘ be a sport”
I invariably refuse. I have found that
I am a sport if I lend money without
security to persons of dubious character,
if I drink more than I can carry, if I
gamble more heavily than I can afford,
if I drive my car at a dangerous speed,
if I contribute towards the well-being of
light women, and if I buy shares in
rotten companies.
A sport used to be a man who gave
everyone a fair deal. Now it is a flat-
terer’s term for a “mug.” E. O. S.
(N.S.W.).
This Cheerful Idea
“A sense of humor is important —most
people take life too seriously,” says
“Daly” (B. 17/4/’4O). Good in broad
view, but unconvincing when applied to
most of the people who have got the
name of being surly.
It’s always the well-fed, warm and
contented puppy that tears up the slip-
pers, frolics about and gets praised for
his “good humor.” And it’s the poor
mangy mutt that howls around the lanes
that soon gets any sign of a grin wiped
off his teeth and is called a sour mongrel.
No matter how cheerful he might have
been by nature, he’s going to grow into
a bad-tempered old dog if there aren’t
enough bones to go round, or if the
other dogs he meets never fight him
fairly.
There are very few really sour dogs
in the world. Most of them are soured.
—Elm (N.S.W.).
Tree-killer
One seldom hears of the mistletoe-
bird, which is causing considerable dam-
age to trees in the outback regions of
N. S. Wales, particularly in the north-
west. There is a danger that it will get
an unbreakable grip before anything is
done towards its eradication.
The mistletoe-bird’s particular crime is
that it deposits the undigested mistletoe
seed on the branches of trees, and in an
alarmingly short time the parasite grows
and completely strangles the tree. The
bird, besides never coming to the ground,
is so small that it is hard to detect, still
harder to destroy. It’s a job for the
Forestry Department. —N. L. (N.S.W.).
National Health
We have Government Health Depart-
ments, but they touch only the outer rim
of real national health ; the whole busi-
ness of medical and surgical attention
should be a national matter. All doctors
should be Government medical officers,
paid a salary in accordance with their
qualifications and service just as any
other public servant is paid. This would
mean that there would be no private
practices, nor would there be any fees
to pay to consult a doctor.
It is a strange thing that we consider
it necessary to have compulsory educa-
tion, compulsory voting and many other
compulsory services, but do not con-
sider it necessary to have a compulsory
health service. Surely the health of the
people is of far greater importance than
even education.
Nowadays a man or woman will suffer
agony and possibly neglect a serious com-
plaint because of lack of the necessary
money to consult a doctor. This means
ultimate hospital attention and a burden
to the State. If that person had seen a
doctor in the early stages the disease
might have been checked.
Of course there are public hospitals,
outpatients’ departments and the like, but
they do not meet the situation. Doctors
still get rich at the expense of public ill-
health, and hospitals get patients to treat
only when they have neglected them-
selves for some time. With every doctor
a Government servant the whole body
would be working for the better health
of the community.
We have a Government service to re-
move the garbage and to keep the streets
clean and healthy, we have a Govern-
ment service for water and sewerage;
then surely we should have a real Gov-
ernment health service to keep the people
clean and healthy.— Thorn (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
I READY FOR ACTION
Shockproof.
Waterproof,
Rustproof. _
This Cyprus De Luxe 13 Jewel Precision Watch
in Stainless Steel, £5/10/- (Fully Guaranteed).
Send for Diamond Ring and Watch. Catalogue.
DIAMOND
8, WATCH
SPECIALISTS
dsfd
112 MARKETS!
i SYDNEY. !
OPR OAVIDJONES
THE POCKET SAW
can be used as a Wood Saw, Meat Saw, Fret
Saw, Scroll Saw, Coping Saw, Jig Saw, Oross-cut
ď
8a w. Cuts in any direction, cuts
in any position, cuts at any angle.
It cuts so easily that sawing is
a 'pleasure. The
powerful spring-
does most of the
work; you
merely pull the
handle. No: skill
needed. It is
just like having a strong man
at the other end of the saw. It’s
a 'positive joy for a man or a boy. You never
saw a saw saw like this saw saws. Only 3/6
posted to any address. Packs into a small box
6lin. by 3-Jin. by fin. Obtainable only from
THE UNION COMPANY,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
1940 RADIOS
40 per cent, off retail prices and Free Home
Trial in districts where we have no agents.
To make you as confident as we are that
“Century” Radios have no superior in per-
formance or appearance, we make this
astounding offer. Your money returned with-
out question after leisurely trial if not satis-
fied. “Century” battery or plug-in sets
bring direct to your home the great cities
of the world, at all hours of the day or
night. Be first with the war-news and latest
entertainment. Write now for our new
catalogue of 19'40 Century modern models.
CENTURY RADIO MFC. CO.
15 DIXON STREET, SYDNEY.
Musical Instruments
đ
for 59/6
We will send yon a beautiful
BANJO-MANDOLIN Complete
Outfit with Case, Correspon-
dence Course and Extra Strings
for 59/6.
We guarantee you will be able
to play tunes within 7 days,
otherwise your full money will
be returned. Goods can be
sent C. 0.1).
Send for Catalogue of
Musical Instruments.
THE TALKERIES
161 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
IHE BEST” RAT TRAP
Made in Australia.
(Pat. Applied, for No. 2427/1939.)
BAIT
Press bait into hole, set as above. Test
showed 100 per cent, kills of rats up to 18
inches long. BAIT CANNOT BE TAKEN.
A touch up or down on trigger releases spring.
1/- each (plus postage 6d.).
10/- per dozen (plus postage 2/-).
A. M. CAMERON, Macdonell House
321 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SUPER DUAL WAVE
RADIOS! From £l2/12/-
Every set guaranteed by RELIANCE.
SPECIAL FEATURES include Neo-
scopic Station Tuning, Automatic
Volume Control (A.V.C.), Latest
Triode-type Valves, Low and High
Frequency Tone Control, Ball-
hearing Dial Operation for Smooth,
Accurate Tuning, Magnavox Speaker.
iTerms as low as 2/9 weekly.
(j Verms allowed metropolitan area only.)
RELIANCE RADIO PTY., LTD.,
14 Barrack Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 86981.
First window on right from George St. (nr. G.P.0.).
fr
.
sy
Oswald Pr;
“Can you find room for another?'
“/s there time?"
deaf:
New Invention —The MATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDL, 8.1.8.5. T.,
The Block, 438 George St., Sydney,
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
"WINCHESTER
SKATES
15/ — 20/-
WITH STEEL ROLLS
COWLES
and DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY
GOODS SENT
C.O.D.
17 77 :: ;
m
T
This COLOURING
CLAY PIPE, Hon-
est value at 3/6.
For “Bulletin”
Readers at 1/0.
Three Pipes tor
4/9.
In 5 different figure-
heads —“Rabbie Burns,”
“Lord Kitchener,” “Sir
Walter Scot t,”
“Thistle” and “Shake-
speare.”
Send 6d. stamps for liberal sample of
“Levysown” Quality Tobacco at 7/- per lb.
Worth 10/- per lb.; for cigarette or pipe.
Zig-Zag Papers, 60 leaves packet, 2/4 do/..
LEVY
Est. 39 Yrs.
713 George St., Sydney.
“GOLF SHOTS”
by JIM FERRIER
Australian Open and Amateur Champion,
IS NOW ON SALE.
Over 100 photographs of the
champion in action reproduced
from a slow-motion film.
Every shot fully explained.
Price only 3/- per copy from
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.
Box 252 188, G.P.0., Sydney, most
Newsagents or your Club Pro.
THE IMPROVED
TREASURE COT
permits you to
keep your baby
in the fresh air,
always free from
mosquitoes, flies,
etc. Pays for it-
self in peace of
mind every week.
Constructed of
steel tubing and
is everlasting.
dsf
TREASURE COTS,
3 Jabez Street, Marrickville, N.S.W.
’Phone: LM4794.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
ds
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4Jin. knee pads. 3in. thigh
pads. 4'Jin. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
_ Catalogue.
■ n Till TV Manufacturing Saddler,
J. r. I ALIY 6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
SAVE £2
ON BATTERIES
New batteries at half usual cost . . . Buy your
batteries direct from the manufacturers and
save approximately half. All types of wet
batteries for cars, trucks, radios, motor
cycles, theatres and house lighting. “Marshall”
batteries carry the full guarantee of this
leading factory. There is no better battery
made. Write for wholesale catalogue to
The Marshall Battery
Mfg. Co.
42 HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY.
IT'S HERE-WORLD'S SMALLEST 1940
RE-NU POCKET RADIO
fds
NO
TUBES OK
BATTERIES
FITS YOUR POCKET,
WEIGHS ONLY 30ZS. Long
distance over 100 miles clear,
natural tone; superior performance.
No crystal to adjust: no upkeep.
Anyone can use in Hotels, Boats,
Beds, etc. ; takes few seconds to
connect. Guaranteed 5 years. Pay
postman 42/-. or Wire, Write, Call.
RE-NU, LTD. (Est. 1932), opp. Richmond Stn.,
Melb. 75 other lines. Agents required. Employ-
ment offers. For full particulars and free
samples send lOd. in stamps, refundable with
first order.
Wireless Statics Aerial Eliminator, connects to
any Wireless. Price 15/6. Weighs 3oz. Midge
Broadcaster, operates thru your own radio.
Do your own Broadcasting. Price. £l/1/—.
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
f
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. - Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE RODS SEE APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Yimnmi
ANYWHERE
ANYT I JV\ E
MP-LI
HOMF POWER UNITS
By BRIGGS l STRATTON
k small, compact
Petrol Electric
Generator, with
everything a car
engine has.
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
PRICE, £39/15/-
Write for comprehen-
sive Bulletin No. 79.
AMPLION Ptg.Ud.
df
• For Home Lighting.
• Battery Charging.
• Will operate twelve
25-watt lamps.
• Runs 12 hours on
lgal. of petrol.
382 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
«s*
m
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
’made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
LAMBS SAVED
ds
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient —
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback —fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection —No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
JTrom all Agents or—
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
RUPTURE
RCTS
LIKE THE HRIID
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27E), 35 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
THE
WOMAN S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
tor one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
1/5/’4O (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your "Wants” to the Service Department, "The Bulletin"
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


■
11l
mm
■u
HI
&
■ ■ ', t>* -frJzS:: wAaaß
'///771
;P:&;- & * * A >* ys u
. ii
3m
--■■■■
.■■■■::.■ :■
mm m
■
ws&jm
< $K
m
;**O.7T.
A., ■: ■
: -
5 » *~W,
. ■ ;...-■; * • .
mm
r *mwZ££b
w
•''Sr.
<2e.
5 K
V M
,JS^:
Kii
V. ■ pte-mau
**<m 'i *></ hivhlv r~tl
hieW rectk
HHI "* **
£T W/77
Don’t say Gm, say
■r^v
£
*-=
U
Qq
-A
• 'OcA
rh
jjj <*><
■ JBBL
■ f
•*.•<%& #i-
fe,\-
imi
£/Z
; - :
ppetite responds gratefully to the stimulating
impulse of a Gilbey’s before meals. .Whether
in cocktail form or simply “straight with a
dash of bitters, diluted to taste, the delicate
aromatic flavour of this famous gin sharpens the
palate for a keener appreciation of the good
things to come ... At any time or in any form,
Gilbey’s is a safe, wholesome and enjoyable drink.
★
After dinner a Gilbey’s Liqueur is the natural choice of the
Connoisseur. Scientifically distilled from the choicest fruits and
other ingredients, there is no finer aid to digestion. Creme de Menthe,
Cherry Brandy, Creme de Cacao, Curacao, Advocaat.
