

sadf
m
,
I
mM
B
ti i
5Si
fb
or all
born
SHORN
0 ¥ E
AND WORN
I N
AUSTRALIA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61. —No. 3166.
Wednesday, October 16, 1940.
From Dakar to Chungking
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


fiatas Jwri”
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russel! Street, Melbourne.
-CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the' Sydney ‘‘Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 240
The Red Page
MODERN MAORILANDER.
Published anywhere in Ihe world Frank
Sargeson’s short stories would challenge
serious attention. Collected under the
title A Man and His Wife, they have
been published by the Caxton Press,
Christchurch, New Zealand. As well as to
The Bulletin and New Zealand papers,
Sargeson’s acknowledgments are made to
“New Writing” (England) and “New
Directions in Prose and Poetry
(America).
Like a good many writers on this sid
of the world whose work—because o
the difficulty of finding a publisher fo
books of short stories—is aimed primaril
at the newspapers or magazines, Sar
geson repeats himself. He doesn’t fal
into the trap of writing essentially the
same story over and over again witl
slight variations, but he hasn’t nearly
enough variation in method to make
book fully satisfying. Having learnt the
trick of first-person narrative, he sticks
to it.
That works all right when the stories
are scattered among the magazines, bn
it becomes absurd when they're galherec
together.
On page 3 the “I” of A Man and His
Wife is a small boy getting a hiding ; on
page 14 the same “I” is a farm laborer
sitting on a hillside and talking like
Ernest Hemingway to a Dalmatian who’s
having difficulty in adjusting himself to
the life of New Zealand ; on page 22
lie's a swaggie, watching with disapprova
the Maoris lap up the pake'Ha’s booze
on page 25 he’s a wharfle, taking notice
of factory girls; on page 29 he says his
father was a cow-cocky, but on page 108
he says he is having his last holiday at
the beach before going into his father’s
office; on page 102 he says that the
earliest thing he can remember is living
with his (apparently widowed) mother in
some New Zealand town. This same
adventurous and contradictory “I” has
also been a shearer, a friend of prosti-
tutes in Genoa, a strapper for a horse-
trainer, a grocer’s assistant “trotting a
sheilah,” a convicted murderer and a
young girl at the races.
Obviously the “I” isn’t Sargeson. On
his or her own each “I” might be con-
vincing ; collectively they’re nobody, and
that nobody is a liar.
Although Sargeson must be presumed
not to have been a murderer or a flapper
even in previous incarnations, so that
the “I” isn’t the author, the effect of so
many first-persons, coupled with a cer-
tain consistence of speech and outlook,
inevitably sets up some mythical per-
sonality who is the “I” behind all the
stories, and this “I” is a fake-personality,
not only because of the comparatively
unimportant inconsistence of his incar-
nations, but because of the consistence
of his mannerisms. Dalmatians, shearers,
cow-cockies, flappers, small boys and old
men all talk the same way in these stories
—which is false; and they all talk like
godamnyou Mr. Hemingway : —which is
also false, because nobody ever talked
like that except Hemingway himself, and
probably the only reason he does it is to
get back on the godfathers and god-
mothers who burdened him with the
Christian name of Ernest.
In style, therefore, these stories—after
Sargeson has been given due credit for
his delightful command of New Zealand
slang—are good exercises in the contem-
porary manner, rather than a true ex-
pression of the New Zealand idiom.
In spirit, similarly, they are not “New
Zealand as it is” (if any writer can
present that), not even Sargeson’s New
Zealand, one suspects, but New Zealand
as seen by an initiate into the vision of
Hemingway and Steinbeck. Proletarian
New Zealand. Lefty New Zealand.
Hairy New Zealand,
When Lawson painted Australia, he
didn’t perhaps paint actuality, but he did
paint Lawson’s actuality, Lawson’s Aus-
tralia. Lawson’s “I” was Lawson. Sar-
geson’s New Zealand is arty-magazine
New Zealand, Sargeson’s
“I” is Hemingway. It is the
unreal “I” that can write a
story of “The Last War” to
show that —as was true —it
meant nothing but an occasional pleasur-
able excitement to the children, and to
show as was also true —that it was a
good thing for the profiteers, but which
is false because the children knew nothing
ol profiteering ; and if the author claims
the license to mention that ugly side of
the war, then he should also let his
children catch a glimpse of war’s heart-
break and war’s heroism.
Obvious signs of striving after an “up-
to-dateness” which is going to be just as
dated” as every fashion from euphuism
to imagism are the leaving out of quota-
tion marks in dialogue (which is merely
confusing) and the use of the staccato
sentence and the short, abrupt paragraph.
Fashion is the genesis of the two stories
whose “kick” arises from an image of
sadism—one of a homosexual who
strangles a dog, one of a man who burns
a cat alive. If the man had just kicked
the cat as in life he would have—this
would have been a good story. As it is, it’s
an exercise in the .Steinbeck manner; it’s
not realistic, because it’s not based in
life but in that curious bloodlust of
recent American fiction—which may be
one of the unexpected consequences of
isolationism, and which is utterly foreign
to the spirit of New Zealand.
Sargeson has fallen for the cult of art
as no-art. Instead of trying to write good
prose, like Chekhov, one makes a virtue
of writing like a navvy. Instead of
elaborately building up a story like De
Maupassant, one triumphs in sketchiness.
But, if in those two aspects his virtues
are vicious, he is still a good story-writer,
because he has in full measure the
greatest virtue of all, the ability to tell
a story. He gives the bare girders in-
stead of the finished building, but the
girders stand firm. When he writes about
an old man who once, seeing a farm-
hand and a girl embracing in a moonlit
garden, had a vision of supreme beauty,
he fails to present the vision, but he
does make it clear that there was a
vision. His bewildered Dalmatian is an
excellent study ; his Maoris are real; his
yarn of the fellow who went fishing with
his rival in love and marooned him on
a reef is intensely dramatic under its
quiet surface; the one about the man
who loved a canary and went back to his
wife when it died (meaning that he
secretly hungered for children) is highly
ingenious.
Once or twice he misses. Because of
his first-person method, his young mur-
derer reflecting that “he never wanted to
be a good boy” is faintly ridiculous. His
young girl who wouldn't let a bloke she’d
picked up at the races put his arm round
her “because I’m a lady” never sat in
the back seat of a New Zealand motor-
car. Bandy, who’d had girls all over the
world and wore a wicked grin, wouldn’t
have hanged himself because the boss
sent his truelove away from the farm ;
he’d have chased after her.
Nothing that can be argued against
A Man and His Wife alters the fact that
it’s good entertainment. Sargeson’s
impulse is genuine, and his achievement
—all falsities allowed for —is considerable.
After the drivel of Tales by New Zea-
landers, published by British Authors’
Press, and after Sydney New Century
Press’s recent dip into history with Some
Stories, it’s good to see a book so well
worth criticising.
S.H. Prior Memorial Prize
Because the appointed judges had recommended that no award
should be made for two previous years (1937 and 1938) and
that only £lOO of the accumulated £3OO should be awarded last
year (1939), the Prize was still £3OO for the competition which
closed on June 6 last. The Trustees have now received the
following report from the judges for this 1940 competition:
We are of the opinion that any of the following three books,
The Pea Pickers, ‘The Brown Van” and ‘‘Macquarie,” might
have been awarded the Prior Memorial Prize. We therefore
recommend that, without placing them in any order of merit,
the sum of £lOO be awarded to each.
Beatrice Davis,
Frank Dalby Davison,
H. M. Green.
The Trustees therefore make the awards, as recommended
to: ’
EVE LANGLEY, Queen-street, Chelsea, Auckland, New
Zealand, who submitted the MS. of her novel ‘‘The Pea Pickers”
under the pen-name “Gippsland Overlander”
TENNANT, Craig Athol, 11 Patterson-street,
Double Bay, Sydney, who submitted the MS. of her novel “The
Brown Van” under the pen-name “Antiene.”
MALCOLM HENRY ELLIS, Kingsgate, Taylor-square,
Sydney, who submitted the MS. of his biography “Lachlan
Macquarie” under the pen-name “Kyabra.”
The next competition for the Prize, which is an annual
award of £lOO, will be restricted to novels, and will close on
June 6, 1941. The Trustees have decided to restrict the 1942
competition also to novels. No new conditions have been
introduced for the 1941 competition, rules governing which will
appear shortly in The Bulletin.
"Brumby Innes."
Katharine Prichard’s three-act play
Brwnby Junes, which won an Australian
competition in 1927 and was highly
praised by Gregan McMahon, has been
printed by Paterson’s Press, Ltd., Perth.
Set on “a wild and lonely cattle station
of the Nor’-west,” it’s a portrait of the
he-man Brumby who carries and uses a
revolver, drinks whisky like water and
is a great lover of gins.
In Act I, drunk, he bursts into a
corroboree and, in spite of all protests,
carries off the young girl Wylba. In
Act II he shoots a black, grins and blus-
ters his way out of an accusation of
cattle-stealing by a neighboring station-
owner, exchanges civilities with black
Polly his housekeeper and former mis-
tress —and makes violent love to the
station-owner’s wishy-washy niece. In
Act 111 he survives a court case over
Wylba’s youthfulness, knocks out the
station-owner, and tells the niece—whom
he has been forced to marry, and who
says she detests him—that in spite of her
tantrums she really worships him for his
virility.
It isn’t a very good play to read, partly
because there’s no struggle of any in-
tense interest, partly because Brumby is
unconvincing. He is more easily recog-
nisable as the ne’er-do-well of early
“colonial” fiction than as a living Aus-
tralian, and his he-man talk is literary.
Surely nobody except a D. H Lawrence
character ever talked like this to his
wife:
I’ll never let you go back to Nydee.
What you’ve got to understand is, you’re
one of Brumby’s mares. You gallop with
the mob You’ll get feed and water—the
best. A brumby leads his mares to good
grass. I won’t bother you when y’re with
foal. .Like you are now. You can go
south, in a couple of months, mooch otf,
and choose your own place to lay down.
There'll be money to do what you like till
it’s a fair thing to come back.
A further disadvantage is that stage
directions bulk about twice as large as
the dialogue. The blacks say little but
scraps of mumbo-jumbo, the cattlemen
are men of few words. This may be
accurate, but its value is more documen-
tary than dramatic.
Wylba and Polly emerge as By far
the most satisfactory characters, both
charming and convincing. Polly is a
realist with a touch of humor ; Wylba,
mutinous throughout, shows at the end
that she’s flattered at the attentions of
the white man, and the play finishes with
her on the way to becoming another
Polly: “Brumby’s laughter and Wylba’s
shrill giggling mingle with the gay, harsh
music of the gramophone.”
Various Verse
Communion.
Listening, I lie and hear the rain come on,
Steadily falling through the dark and cold:
it seemed far in a forest 1 had gone,
I made no sound upon the thick leaf-mould.
I stood and listened in that forest deep,
Hearing the rain, the drip, drip of the trees.
From this dark room communion now I keep:
There are no comrades as such, thoughts as
these.
N.s.w.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.
Sunset from Mt. Eden.
Now blank-eyed warehouses and wharves and
spires, •
And chimneys huddling in a close embrace.
Catch from the fleeting light an elfin grade;
The very tramways, tracks and poles and wires,
Kindle, as when some sudden vision fires
The quick imagination, then a face
That in repose is dull and commonplace
Depth and a warm humanity acquires.
f
Now the broad havens and the isles and bays.
The idle hulks, the ships that crowd the
■stream, ' . .
Shine, all transfigured in a lucent haze,
While from some other world a nacreous
gleam
Softly upon the wayward inlets lays"
The evanescent splendor of a dream.
MAORILAND.
Arnold W[?]
Snow Call.
I heard the Winter blowing his shining trumpet
High on the mountain. 1 heard its shrill, cold
calling.
And the gipsy within me knew that the snow
was falling.
I knew I should have to answer that far-off
snow-cry, _ • £
Follow the call that the mountain sent to
find me.
With shadows of silver before and the world
behind me,
I walked through a frozen fantasy in the
silence.
Passing through archways leading to crystal
places
Where a million ferns lay Stilled in their icy
laces,
I looked for the turquoise-berries deep in the
snowdrifts,
And found them —showers of sea-blue drops
were breaking
Free from the smother of white, their frail
stems shaking.
Under a sheltered cliff where no snow had
fallen,
Rosy heart-berries lay on a green moss-
paving ... ,
Now fvith the dazzling pennants of Winter
waving
Over the mountain-miles in a crystal chaos,
Only he who has heard the call could find me —
Lost in the silver shadows, the World
behind me.
TASMANIA.
PHYLLIS GURNEY WRIGHT.
Carnival.
The day like a respectable woman went
Through the western gate, and the candid eye
removed
Let in the tribes of folly; and desire
Reddened the streets, and even wisdom put by
The tripping cloak, and the watcher in the
tower
Rejected the stars when song came reaching up.
And the children leaving their cold and sterile
sleep
At the hungry windows were stained with
carnival:
Confetti sprayed them like seed whose burning
bloom
Should war upon the white integrities.
Music no longer monkish paced the heart,
Hooded with admonition; but now, in the antic
And shameless motley, yellowed the aloof temple
With reckless cymbals and gauds of holiday:
Nor did the drums, revive the shining battle,
But dashed their proud raptures upon the
clowning stage.
The lips frozen by vow were loosed ; the women
Preferring not love, where, isled in a surge of
lovers,
Her teasing beauty knew its appointed hour:
How should she walk the black and whispering
lane,
Chosen of light, swung in the pampered car?
Pleasure was rotten-ripe, whose juice restored
Old men to the sappy dream; and young men
staggered
Beneath the mounting fevers; and the comely
cobbles
Of the frugal market-going feet were fired
With the dancing fame, and houses that
received
Austere, weathered, each day a sunset glance,
Knew on their face a guilty blandishment.
And the night dragged its long red length until
The torches flickered, and returning shadows
On the scattered laughs, and coldly the season
Sat on spreadeagled flesh while death the rag-
nicker
Fingered the frolic bones beneath the clock.
MAORILAND.
J. R. VERVEY.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and nothing but the truth. “THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
SALE
■
m
.. _ ■
%: :W ''3B
5? — M
§P | ...:>*
<
fl:
11
3% M %7ttrrr-Tf^^rmWf^^
<\'K Wj/*, *:■?- - > J
" -
’. j 4
, *
■
...
y,y,<<<m£2&
m
wm
23 Gns. 5 Valve Dual Wave Radio
Fitted with press button control on local
stations, full automatic volume control and a
12-inch auditorium speaker. Capable of giv-
ing excellent long-distance Australian or over-
seas reception. Fitted with beam power output
SN9 6 L
valve, ensuring fine quality of tone. The cabinet is an attractive maple
veneered, highly polished piece of furniture which would be an acquisi-
tion to any home. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, 23 gns. Sale, 19 gns.
EASY. TERMS. DEPOSIT 40/-. CONVENIENT MONTHLY PAYMENTS.
These sets are Serviced Free and
Guaranteed for Twelve Months
within the Metropolitan Area.
All These Radios are Electric Models
BATTERY MODELS Price List
AND INFORMATION AVAILABLE ON REQUEST
19 Gns. 5 Valve Dual Wave Radio
This receiver has 'B-inch electro-dynamic speaker and
multi-coloured, large, attractive, square dial. Built on
standard chassis, manufactured from highest quality
component parts. Splendid overseas reception assured.
New extended wave band. Broadcast 1600-550 k.c.
16 GNS
Short Wave, 13 to 42 metres. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price , 19 gns.
Sale Price 16 gns.
EASY TERMS. DEPOSIT 34/-. CONVENIENT MONTHLY PAYMENTS.
*
m
mm
; tW;
mm
IT'S EASIER ON OUR
EASY TERMS SYSTEM
sdf
18 Gns. 5 VALVE DUAL WAVE RADIO
5-valve dual-wave Electric Receiver with ultra-modern straight line tuning.
New extended wave band, giving extraordinary results on short wave.
Built on extra large chassis. Automatic volume control adds to the fidelity
of this fine receiver. Housed in attractive, highly polished console cabinet.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, 18 gns. Sale Price 16 gns.
] £ gks.
EASY TERMS. DEPOSIT 34/-. CONVENIENT MONTHLY PAYMENTS.
Radios—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
Anthony Horderns' & Sons Ltd.
PHONE M 2401 DAY OR NIGHT
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


LEBENSRAUM
"Didn't I tell you, Bert, it'd be just as good listening to the fight as paying to see it?”
By FREEMAN SANDOM.
THE situation is this: me and Handsome had just
started the Matrimonial and Universal Advisory
and Detection Bureau in Cairns when a big
battleaxe of a man with a voice like a rasp
barges into the office and presently claps down a
cheque for a fiver as a lien on our services. He’s a big-
gun cane cocky from Little River, where forty-tons-
an-acre crops are sneezed at, and it appears that one
of his canecutters has had the immortal hide to cut,
load and cart to the crushing mill of Cupid his only
daughter, who is a peach, a poem, a pippin and the
apple of his eye combined.
At the end of his tale of woe I lean back in my
chair, put my feet on the desk and my fingertips to-
gether and reflect on the advice which will direct the
freest flow of mazuma into the firm’s coffers, while
Handsome, who is the ornamental fa?ade of the com-
bination, tries to look intelligent.
“The situation is this, then,” I began presently.
“You can’t use any rough stuff because when you tried
it by hiring a coupla tough lads to beat up the cane-
cutting bloke aforesaid with the laudable object of
chasing him off the landscape he turned the table on
you by putting your Gestapo under it, and further
efforts in the strong-arm line were blocked by your
daughter, who threatened to run away —and would!
with aforesaid canecutter should either or both of his
nut-brown eyes turn black overnight. Furthermore,
he can’t be presented with the sack without a water-
tight excuse, because the A.W.U. would soon spill the
beans and land you in the soup. Ain’t that correct?
“Now, the situation is this. You can’t send your
daughter away to make her forget her bloke and re-
member her duty, because all attempts to persuade
her to go, such as an invitation to spend a ski-ing
holiday in New Zealand with Aunt Maria, failed.
You can’t weld a ball-and-chain on her pretty ankles
and lock her up in the dog kennel, because of your
soft and paternal heart. Ain’t I right so far?
. “And lastly,” I continued, swallowing a gulp of
water to ease the vocal cords, “the situation is this.
Your daughter has roughly one month to go before
she becomes a full-fledged citizeness of this great and
glorious Australia of ours, able without let and hin-
drance in one fell swoop, if she wishes, to buy a ticket
in the matrimonial sweepstakes.
“Furthermore, Mr. Flegler, you want this repu-
table firm of capable advisers and detectionists to
barge into the arena during this month of grace to
block and check and hinder and stop, by any means
short of blackjack, sandbag and machine-gun, undue
tendencies to plot and dawdle at lovers’ meetings and
preferably to prevent the latter altogether, and by
blarney and reason and logic and commonsense argu-
ments to persuade the girl that the canecutter is a dirty
dog who’ll hang like a millstone around her neck, while
just around the corner wait regiments of Prince
Charmings with money and social decorations to burn
for your foolish Cinderella of the canefields. Ain’t
that so?
“Now the situation is this, Mr. Battle —Mr.
Flegler. This case calls for cold and naked and un-
adorned brains. You keep a fair table, Mr. Flegler?
Then tomorrow you’ll hear the exhaust from my
motor-bike in ample time for lunch.”
When the man from Little River got his second
chance to empty himself of bottled-up, scalding and
hissing vapors he took it and then departed.
“It works!” shrieked Handsome.
“Why shouldn’t it work?” I asked. “You don’t
want to talk defeatism at the beginning of our war for
lebensraum.”
“Oh, I knew it’d work out in practice,” he said,
“but to see it work out in figures is another matter.
Give us another squint at that cheque, Charlie.”
“Keep it for exes.,” I told him. “You’ll take over
that widow from the back-country while I’m gone—
Mrs. Jacobsohn. She wants tuition in the polite and
civilised foolishnesses of the city, so you better take
her to the pictures, political meetings, church bazaars
and other educational functions. She’s got five hun-
dred capital and wants us to hunt her up at least an-
other five hundred attached to a refined, steady, gentle-
manly gent, when she’s polished enough to get away
with it. Use your judgment to prolong the educa-
tional agony until a sizable bill’s in sight.”
NT OW, the situation is this. Mr. Battleaxe Flegler,
* ' I found, was quite a big potato on Little River,
and his sugar-baronial estate was a sizable affair with
broad acres of cane and numerous buildings surrounded
by trees and shrubbery for Romeo and Juliet to play
hide aqd seek with the watchdog of paternal inter-
ference. Nevertheless, my chaperonal task could have
been a lot Worse, for the ancestral keep stood on a
small hill and had all the pleasant trappings of tropi-
cal furniture, such as wide verandahs with easy chairs,
shady mangoes and poincianas. I established an ob-
servation and reflection post in an easy chair in a
corner of the south verandah from which I could see
in the distant cutting field little moving black dots,
one of which represented my singleted Don Juan of
the caneknife, and as long as those dots were in sight
1 had little else to do but work out schemes and scrap
them, and provide the battleaxe, who was an enthu-
siastic poker-player, with opportunities for dropping
a surplus quid or two.
But the second day of my stay was a Saturday.
At noon the Flegler toilers with hoe, plough and cane-
knife rested on their oars, free to restore dissipated
energies by sleeping, reading, public-spirited efforts to
keep brewers, two-up schools and cardsharpers going,
and, as in my Romeo’s case, by succumbing to the
female of the species. So when I saw a corn-colored
blob of hair and a flutter of white along the bamboo-
bordered creek which meandered at the foot of, the
castle hill I heaved myself reluctantly out of my fine
chair and got busy.
It wasn’t long before I flushed the yellow head
again. It was now partly .hidden by a mop of curly
brown, and the white dress was disfigured by a pair
of brawny, sunburnt arms which obscured its central
region. I blew my nose with sufficient violence, and
when I came abreast of the trysting-place the girl was
alone, gazing pensively, well to the right of footprints
leading down the steep bank, to where the little creek
made ripples and pleasant noises.
“Hallo, Miss Flegler,” I called cheerily, walking
close to the brink to ascertain that battling Romeo
had beat it up the creek, well out of earshot and range
of assault. “Seems a good place for fishing.”
“In six inches of water? No, Mr. Summer-
green”—
“Wintergreen,” I corrected. “Charles Winter-
green.”
“Of cpurse! So stupid of me. But I’ll call you
Charlie, if I may—you have such a rugged, kind face.
And you may call me Margaret, or
Margy. All my friends call me Margy.”
“That’s real nice of you, Miss
Margy”
“Margy! ” she said emphatically.
“Come over here, Charlie.” She sat
down on the grassy slope and patted a
spot by her side invitingly.
For a while she gazed fixedly into
the creek bed. Her full, red lips trembled
slightly apart, and when she spoke her
voice was low and melancholy sweet.
I’ve got a fair bit of sympathy in me for
love’s young dream, and I wasn’t feeling
comfortable.
“I like this spot, don’t you, Charlie?
It’s so peaceful and far away from all
the stupid, noisy things of the world.
Nothing seems to matter here —only the
real —and true —and beautiful.” There
was a catch in her voice which made me
think hard things of her blustering
battleaxe of a father who had the neck
to drop his ton of vulgar prejudices on
the maidenly hopes and dreams of this
sweet and unspoiled maiden. What’s
social position anyway? And money?
Suddenly a soft hand caught and held
mine while another equally soft began
to stroke it gently. “Charlie,” she said
almost in a whisper, “why do you spy
on us?”
It was like the big scene of a play,
and I was the villain. I squirmed un-
comfortably. “Duty, Miss Margy, duty,
duty, you know.”
“Duty!” she cried scornfully. Then her large
blue eyes filled with tears. “What is duty compared
with Right, Justice and —and Love!”
Her hand had stopped stroking mine, so I began
to stroke hers. “There, there,” I murmured consol-
ingly, “you must believe your daddy knows best. He
only wants to splice you on to a fine, upstanding bank
manager or commission agent who can give you all
you want”
“Except love!” She pulled my arm around her
waist, leaned over and began to sob, as if her heart
was breaking. I thought hard things of the battleaxe
again, but what could I do? The hand that signs the
cheque rocks the foundations of the Matrimonial and
Universal Advisory Bureau if it doesn’t.
“Margy,” I said, patting her head like a father,
“it’ll come right in the end, sure. There, there now,
I’d help you if I could, but you know how it is—l’ve
got to live like everybody else.”
She sat up with a jerk, smiling tremulously through
her tears. “You would help us, Charlie! You would
help Frank and me if you didn’t lose money by it?
Then it’s all right! ” She began to dab her eyes and
complexion with a silk postage stamp and pat her
riotous hair into order. And between these minis-
trations she unburdened herself of a scheme the
beautiful simplicity and wickedness of which I couldn’t
have bettered myself, and which, coming from this
sweet, innocent girl, left me gaping unbelievingly.
‘AX/ELL, Handsome,” I said, entering the office a
“ “ week later, “the first phase of our war for
lebensraum has been brought to a successful finish.”
“Yeh,” said Handsome. “That’s fine. What’s
lebensraum, anyways?”
“Invented by a gentleman of Berlin,” I explained,
“it’s a figure of speech for help yourself and God’ll
help you—something like that anyway. Count this,” I
said, throwing him my wallet, “and credit it to account
James Flegler—advisory and detection fee.”
“Holy Moses!” cried Handsome, flicking through
the wad with slick fingers and bulging eyes. “Five
hundred and fourteen quid! And these,” he added,
holding up two aces of diamonds which had some-
how got tangled up in the legal tender.
“Old friends and aids to profit,” I said, “but they
weren’t needed. Tear ’em up!”
“I thought you said fee,” said Handsome, staring
hard.
“So it was of a sort,” I explained, “and earned
in the happiest way possible to all parties. You see,
old man Battleaxe is gambling mad and he enjoyed
himself”
“What! Shedding these?” said Handsome.
“Just a little less income tax to pay, that’s all.
And Margy stood behind the old man’s chair night
after night, and she enjoyed herself, and every time .she
laughed and oh’d and winked her right eye and
winked her left luck came my way, and / enjoyed
myself. She was a sort of a mascot to me, so in the
end we divvied, and Frank the canecutter put down
a sizable deposit on a fine farm, and being no longer
a vulgar working man the old man let up on him, and
you and I are promised two big slices of wedding cake,
so in the end there was happiness all round.”
“That’s fine!” said Handsome, his eyes lingering
on the bundle of banknotes as he prepared to lock
them into the small safe.. “And this lebensraum busi-
ness —this here a sample of it?”
“The word’s been used to account for worse, I
replied.
'T' HE next morning I was up bright and early, eager
' to get to the office, to plan for the strengthening
and extension of our web, made possible by our fres i
capital. Handsome, who is a late riser, was not in


sight when I reached the dining-room, so I wrapped
myself around ham and eggs and toast and hurried off.
And this is the situation which confronted me
when I arrived at my destination, and 111 put it short
and sweet, for it is still a painful subject.
Hit a man where he feels it most, people say,
and then they laugh, but to me it never was a laughing
matter. You might say it was tit for tat, but Battleaxe
was like that feller David in the Bible, who had plenty
of wives and concubines to lose, while Uriah had only
one, and I only the one five hundred.
I read Handsome’s note in a sort of daze. Then
I pinched myself to make sure I wasn’t dreaming and
read it again.
“Dear Charlie,” wrote Handsome, “I’m sorry
to give you this nasty bit of shock, but I know
you got a stout heart, Charlie, and might get
over it, otherwise l wouldn’t done it, Charlie.
It was that lebensraum talk of yours that done
it. That and the widow Jacobsohn with the
five hundred she wanted to double with a re-
fined, steady gent, thrown in. Well, she got
sort of sweet on me, Charlie, while I was cart-
ing her about refining her, but she wouldn’t let
up on the five hundred holdup, Charlie, so what
was I to do ? And just at the microscopical
minute you lob in with that five hundred, and
then you start jabbering about lebensraum, and
that set me off. I was going to leave you the
fourteen, Charlie, and only take the five hun-
dred, but then we’re going south for the honey-
moon and that means a lot of expense, so I
know you’ll understand, and so long, old man.
—1 am, sincerely yours, Handsome.”
I went out and had a double whisky, then came
back and sort of took stock of the situation. On
the way back to the boarding-house for lunch I had
another double to wash off the last grief-mark that
might linger to spoil my appetite.
Mrs. Summerside gave a funny little squeak when
she saw me in the doorway.
“Good lord, Mr. Wintergreen, but you give me a
shock,” she piped, her hand fumbling among the rolls
of fat above her heart. “Your partner, Mr. Perdue,
said you’d left for Europe! ”
“He did, did he?” I said, sitting down and being
served with the usual issue of clear soup. “Pass the
salt, Mrs. Summerside, please. What time did Hand-
some go?”
“Why, Mr. Wintergreen,” said Mrs. Summerside
in a surprised voice, “Mr. Perdue called back just after
you left this morning, sir. He said you would send
for your trunk and things in a week or two, but in
the meantime you wanted some important papers”
I jumped up and rushed upstairs. I wanted to see
with my own eyes, but I knew very well it wasn’t
necessary. I knew that my private little nest-egg
under the false bottom of my largest trunk had gone
to make more lebensraum for Mr. and Mrs. Clarence
Perdue.
“That Was a had two shillings.”
“ Well , it Was a crook sermon, Wasn't it?”
“YOU THOUGHT YOU KNEW"
By F. RYLANDS.
VOU thought you knew such a lot about every-
thing, and because you’d knocked around a bit
outback you included women in that “every-
thing.” You knew that getting married was a
mug’s game, and anyway you’d found that if you
worked hard and stayed in the bush women didn’t
worry you much. So that when you joined the army
you didn’t have many good-byes to say.
You took the horses out to a patch of fresh grass
at the back of the common and let them go. • The
river had run last week, and there would be enough
water for them until Christmas —after that you’d get
old Baldy to shift them if there hadn’t been any storms.
You were sorry to leave the old brown horse Slippery,
but he kicked up his heels and galloped away when
you took off the saddle and bridle. You had a few
drinks at the pub and sat on the verandah and yarned.
It was a dry time, and all the grass around the town-
ship had been chopped off and trampled down to a
few black tufts. As the town cattle came in to water
at the bore, they sent up a little cloud of black dust
with every step.
After a while old MacGregor, the chairman of
the Shire Council, came along. The shire engineer was
with Mac, and he was going back to the railway at the
creek, so Baldy fixed it up for you to get a ride in with
him. Then Baldy shouted and you had a round of
drinks and said good-bye to Baldy, Mac and the old
storekeeper. They all wished you luck, and hoped
you’d come back all right.
The country was dry all the way down to the
creek. The station paddocks had no stock in them
now, and here and there along the roadside were the
carcasses of sheep —so you weren’t sorry to leave the
west, and the beer was making you feel good.
They messed you about a lot in the army, but
you got used to that and before long forgot you’d ever
had any other sort of life. After a while they sent
you down to a camp near the city, and gave you a
couple of stripes which meant that the pay was a
lot better. You had never had many friends because
you’d always believed in playing your hand yourself,
so that you were able to handle the extra authority
without much trouble. You were quite popular with
the men, but stuck to your idea about the lone hand,
and during week-end leaves you’d poke off into the
city without any set plan. Sometimes it would be
beer, and sometimes women, but whatever it was
you’d take it in a detached sort of way. After all
you knew everything, and anyway you’d be going over-
seas sooner or later, so you didn’t want to get tangled
up with any women, or anything like that.
You’d see some of the other chaps gazing at
photos, of girls and writing letters about ten pages
long. One or two poor silly devils even went so far
as to get married, and what the hell was the use of
that? So Saturday afternoons when you didn’t have
any week-end duty, you’d jam into a crowded train,
go into the city and just knock around ready for any-
thing that turned up. On Sunday night, you’d get
into the train back to camp feeling you’d had a bit
of fun anyway, and that you might as well have a
good time while you could.
ONE Sunday afternoon, because there was nothing
better to do, you took a tram-ride out to the
suburbs —everything was quiet and dead because it
was Sunday. When you reached the tram terminus,
you got out for a stroll round. After a bit of a walk,
you went into a soft-drink place (the pubs were all
shut and they didn’t do
much Sunday trade like
they did in the bush),
and while you were hav-
ing your squash you
somehow got talking to
her.
You didn’t say much
—mostly about the hot
weather and the thick
uniform you were wear-
ing, and so on —and after
a while you turned on
the lonely-soldier line,
which was generally
good for a free meal and
perhaps a bit of enter-
tainment. Then she
asked if you’d care to
come home for a drink
of tea, and you went.
She made you comfort-
' able and let you take off
the heavy tunic and big
boots. You had a glass
of cool beer, then tea.
There were other men in
the house, and you fell
to wondering whether
they were her husband,
brother or what, so you
didn’t say anything per-
sonal — just talked of
racehorses and various
places you’d been to.
Before long you felt
quite at home, and,
though you couldn’t explain why, you began to like
her quite a lot.
Later you had tea, and she came back to the city
with you and went into a park to listen to the band.
It was warm that night, and you lay comfortably on
the short grass and somehow you held hands. She
told you she had a couple of kids and that she had
divorced her husband several years ago. You didn’t
worry much about the kids or the divorce either, but
you knew that you rather liked her because her life,
too, had been a bit of a battle and, being one your-
self, you always had a soft spot for battlers. So you
were rather pleased when she asked you to come and
stay the next week-end.
During the week, you rang her up at the office
where she worked and told her you’d be down on
Saturday. You looked forward to that Saturday
quite a bit, and somehow you felt as if you were
going home, though you hadn’t had a home for longer
than you could remember. During that week-end
you met the kids and rather liked them. She told you
her position rather more fully—she had had a home
for herself and the kids with her mother until the
mother had died recently—and now she was sharing
the rent of a house with another woman, but it was
not satisfactory in a lot of ways. It was the best she
could do with the money she was earning at the office,
and you could see she was certainly looking after the
kids, but that it was a pretty hard job for her.
On Sunday, before you got the train back to
camp, you took her and the boy out to supper at a
cafe. Somehow, you got the idea that if she married
you there would be two quid a week for her from
your soldier’s pay and that that would give the kids a
decent chance. You thought you wouldn’t miss the
money because you were only chucking it away booz-
ing and gambling. You knew being married wouldn’t
matter much because you’d soon be going away and
you’d forget all about it after a day or two. But you
knew that your money would be spent on the kids, so
you might as well see someone get something out of
the war! In rather an incoherent way you put the
proposition to her. At first she wouldn’t have any-
thing to do with the idea, said that you’d regret it
later on, that you might meet someone else.
You left her to think it over, and then later in the
week —well, you both agreed, for various reasons, to
be married during your final leave.
You were a bit panicky at the last moment be-
cause you realised then you’d taken on a pretty big
responsibility, but then you knew you’d be sailing
soon, and once away you wouldn’t have to worry much
about that. You took a flat, high up in the city. It
was quiet in the flat —strangely quiet—and you could
look out of the windows at the miles of streets and
houses beneath, and yet not seem to be a part of
them. It wasn’t quite the same as a home in the bush
would have been, but still it was your first home and
you were proud of it. You didn’t exactly have a
honeymoon, because she couldn’t get time off from
the office, but you used to go down to the city and
meet her for lunch. Once or twice you went to a big
pub and had lunch with some of her friends, but best
of all you liked to get two lunches done up in little
cartons and take thdlm down to the gardens by the
harbor. Later, you’d go home, peel the potatoes for
dinner, and the kids would come home from school
and you’d start them into their homework. And when
your leave was over you thought you’d had a nice
experience that you would often remember, but in lots
of ways you were more excited by the hope that you’d
soon be leaving to go abroad.
YOU didn’t leave for overseas at once, and gradu-
ally you almost forgot that some day you’d have
to go. You got into an easy habit of coming down
to the flat every week-end, and sometimes through the
week if you could sneak out of camp for a few hours.
You used to enjoy a hot bath, the beer that always
seemed to be in the refrigerator and the complete
comfort that was heaven after the dusty camp. And
through the night you’d feel her there beside you, and
somehow you were happier and more content than
you’d ever been.
The weeks slipped by—it was getting colder when
you used to walk down to the park by the bay before
you left for camp each Sunday night, and you’d wrap
your greatcoat around her as you sat there and looked
out across the water, and while you held her close in
your coat you knew she was crying, but you didn’t
quite know why.
At last, out of all the rumors about embarkation,
you sifted out one and knew it was true, though for
some reason you feared to believe it. The weeks
became days and the days hours. You slipped out
of camp on the last night and went to the flat. Some-
-how you just couldn’t realise it was the last time,
and you made jokes about it most of the evening.
But just before you left she made you coffee, and as
you sipped it, because it seemed too hot to drink, she
leant out of a window watching the city lights. She
kept her back to you, but you could see her shoulders
heaving—so you just put on your greatcoat and left.
And as you went down the harbor in the troopship
through the wet, grey dawn, you knew that there was
a hell of a lot of things you just didn’t know!


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
/J ff’clt litfm oftote mellcume^dmull'mqmt
ST. MILDRED’S BAY, WESTGATE-ON-SEA.
Of Ihe numerous resorts fringing the Kentish coast of the estuary of the Thames, and all of which are to a distinct degree dependent
on the Great World and Empire Capital seated “higher up on the river,” none enjoys a distinctiveness more peculiarly its own than
Westgate. Though within a stone’s-throw almost of Margate, its characteristics are totally different. Whereas Margate welcomes the
boisterous crowds from the East End and industrial sections of the metropolis, Westgate looks to middle-class suburbia, and severely
frowns on that noisy form of entertainment or amusement which the masses, who flock to Margate—and in Australia the same sort of
thing is noticeable at Manly, St. Kilda and Glenelg—regard as the acme of human enjoyment. Westgate already enjoys considerable
popularity with visitors from the Antipodes. Its situation is most desirable. Firm, dry sands, free of shingle or pebbles, chalk cliffs
protecting them from strong currents, are regarded with favor. Then tennis, golf, boating and so forth are to be had for the asking.
Those noisy abominations which rejoice the hearts of ’Arry and ’Arriet are absent. They are all very well for Margate, but for
Westgate decidedly not. Westgate is young. Fifty years ago it was described as “this comparatively novel seaside' resort... .Few places
have risen more rapidly in general esteem. It has the bracing air for which Margate is famed, without its noisy vulgarity.” All being
well, Westgate has a future, and will socially continue to provide a distinct offset to its neighbor, Margate.


A SHORT-FELT WANT.
“Read it out, nurse.”
“Yes, Mr. Chamberlain. It says ‘Come back at once. We must have a scapegoat. The Press.'”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : Lincoln’s Inn Chambers, 40-43 Chancery
Lane, London, W.C.2.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, Us.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
FROM DAKAR TO CHUNGKING.
Already Mr. Chamberlain is sadly missed by the
newspapers. His retirement has deprived them of
what the New Journalism hates to be without —a
scapegoat. While “the Man of Munich” was about
the place he could always be blamed when things went
wrong, and if anything went right all the credit could
be given to Mr. Churchill.
Thus Mr. Chamberlain’s part in the Altmark
affair was ignored by the pro-Churchill press, though
he had personally issued the order for the attack on
the prison-ship. And when the campaign in Norway
collapsed he was savagely attacked on the score of a
few optimistic expressions, while Mr. Churchill’s much
more exuberant pronouncements and prophecies
(“Hitler has committed a grave strategic blunder
We shall take what we want of this Norwegian coast
.... all German ships in the Skagerrak and the Katte-
gat will be sunk”) were conveniently forgotten. When
Spain came into the picture it could be asserted, with
a wealth of invective, that, by not intervening on the
side espoused by the French (Communists chiefly) and
the Russians whom Stalin repaid with mass “liquida-
tion,” Mr. Chamberlain had contributed to the vic-
tory of another enemy. And in respect of Russia it
could always be demonstrated, to the satisfaction of
editors and their public, that Mr. Chamberlain’s pres-
ence in the Cabinet was the sole obstacle to the con-
clusion of the dear and wished-for alliance —though
since his departure it seems farther off than ever.
Had Mr. Chamberlain been available, he would
certainly have been blamed for the Dakar fizzle. His
unfortunate illness, plus the bland admission of his
successor that the fizzle was the result of “a series of
accidents and some errors,” and a Churchillian pro-
test against “vicious or malignant criticism,” reduced
the English newspapers struck at to the painful neces-
sity of criticising that gentleman. They did it with
obvious reluctance, and in one case with flowery com-
pliments to the “great Premier” and “great war
leader” ; but in the circumstances they had to say
something, and it couldn’t be laudatory altogether. In
one quarter, however, there is still absolute idolatry.
The Sydney “Telegraph’s” comment on the speech in
which the Dakar affair was dealt with began with a
puff for Mr. Churchill’s “plain speaking” (“not once
since he took office in May has he let the people of
the Empire down”), omitted all reference to the Dakar
flop and closed with a tribute to his “great leadership.”
The truth is that there was precious little plain
speaking in Mr. Churchill’s account of Dakar, as re-
ported in Australian papers. He was much less explicit
than the Vichy Government in the communiques it
issued while the luckless venture was in progress and
immediately afterwards. Vichy asserted that the expedi-
tion consisted of six troopships carrying 7000 troops,
two battleships, four cruisers, six destroyers and an air-
craft carrier ; that six unsuccessful attempts were made
to land troops; that in the bombardment of Dakar,
claimed to be an open town, over 600 casualties were
suffered by soldiers and civilians and considerable
damage was done ; that four British ’planes and one
French ’plane were destroyed; and that a British
cruiser was hit by a bomb, the battleship Barham by
Min. shells from the battleship Richelieu, and the
battleship Resolution by a torpedo—“she withdrew list-
ing, without firing.” All Mr. Churchill chose to say
of “the actual fighting,” described as “pretty stiff,” was
that two French submarines were sunk, two destroyers
set on fire, a cruiser heavily hit and the Richelieu
badly knocked about again, and that, on our side,
“one capital ship and one large cruiser suffered dam-
age which will require considerable attention.” He
did not mention ’plane losses, nor give the number of
casualties to naval personnel, though it was officially
admitted in London on September 26 that there had
been casualties on both sides.
Of General de Gaulle, the Prime Minister said
that, although he had been “forestalled by his oppo-
nents at Dakar,” his judgment had been “found ex-
tremely sure-footed, and our opinion of him has been
enhanced by everything we have seen of his conduct in
circumstances peculiarly and perplexingly difficult.”
The general was “forestalled” and the expedition
dished “by a series of accidents and some errors”
which had been “made the subject of disciplinary
action or were now the subject of formal inquiry.”
Last month the public was told that, “while the expedi-
tion was on its way, the Pdtain Government sent three
cruisers from Toulon,” which “passed through the
Straits of Gibraltar, because it is no part of British
policy to interfere with the movements of French
warships so long as they are not destined for ports
under German control.” It now appears that “neither
the First Sea Lord nor the Cabinet was informed of
the approach of these ships to the Straits until it was
too late to prevent them passing through,” and that
they arrived at Dakar with “Vichy partisans of the
most bitter type, transforming the situation there in
the most unfavorable manner.” This in part because
“we were no more anxious than General de Gaulle to
get involved in a lengthy or sanguinary contest with
the Vichy French.”
As it happened, “we” were “involved in a san-
guinary contest” in which precious British lives were
lost and precious British warships were put out of
action. It must have been known in London that the
Free French would not fight their fellow-countrymen
if their landing were challenged. Why then was a
formidable squadron sent to protect them? Surely an
armed merchantman or two and perhaps a destroyer
or two would have been sufficient. And how came
it that the Vichy French got wind of the expedi-
tion in time to “forestall” it? And if, as it would
seem, officers of the silent service—which, with
the German and Italian navies and aircraft to
fight and thousands of merchant ships to con-
voy, surely has enough to do without being un-
necessarily hurled against another foe —are to be pun-
ished for their part in the sorry affair, why should
politicians and their yes-men escape? On the face
of it the expedition was no R.N. or R.A.F. misconcep-
tion. It must have been conceived, planned and
authorised by politicians. In other words, it was the
latest and, in some respects, the worst of a long litter
of political adventures in war which have done incal-
culable harm.
One fact that emerges sharp and clear is that the
British intelligence service has been found wanting
again. Once the best in the world, it must now be
about the worst; and the New Journalism, with its
immense circulations and its habit of presenting con-
jecture as fact and views as news, has been a baneful
auxiliary. Their most recent failure is Rumania. Mr.
Churchill himself, right as he was about the German
military preparations, was utterly misinformed about
that country. He cast it for an important part in his
tragi-comedy of Continental alliances and wrote with
a glowing pen of Carol the Cad, whom he described
as the hope of the democratic side in the Balkans ;
an earnest, efficient, modern potentate with true quali-
ties of leadership; a most admirable young man.
Thus fed with flattering tales, the British Government
took Carol under its protection, and deluged Rumania
with loans and subsidies, even sending aeroplanes when
it was short of them itself. Now Carol has bolted with
his buxom paramour, and doubtless with stacks of Bank
of England notes to sustain the pair in their place of
exile; and in what is left of his corrupt kingdom
British subjects are brutally assaulted and German
soldiers and airmen are in control. And at any
moment “our gallant ally” may be on the official list
of enemies.
Judging by what some people are saying and
writing, Chiang Kai-shek’s China will be the next
applicant for a British guarantee. If the Australian
Government has any reason to suppose that this is
contemplated, it should strongly object. According to
the Chungking correspondent of the “Times,” a paper
which maintains the old standards of honest reporting,
the Chiang Kai-shek Government “has now reached
the darkest period of the war” ; the last few months
have been months of “almost unbroken adversity” and
“the possibility of a collapse cannot be entirely ruled
out.” This strengthens the opinion which every intel-
ligent Australian must hold that, as an ally, Chiang
Kai-shek’s China would be a serious liability ; and in
any case Australians, sympathetic as they may be,,
have not the slightest desire to become parties to an
Oriental war, even if they should be involved in war
in the Pacific. That grim prospect has sensibly
receded. The Japanese are evidently resigned to the
inevitable reopening of the Burma Road, and they
have obviously been impressed by the resolute measures
taken by Washington since the new Axis alliance was
signed. Their Foreign Minister insists that the alli-
ance is “a peace pact,” and has repudiated the author-
ship of an alleged challenge to the United States in
which that country was threatened with war if it per-
sisted in standing for “the status quo in the Pacific.”
In the House of Lords last week Viscount Elibank
put it to the Government that representatives of the
Dominions should be invited to join the War Cabinet.
The reply, delivered by Lord Snell, an old Labor peer,
was that “the present time” was “inopportune,” though
his Government “would welcome if occa-
sion offered.” This attitude might have been tolerated
in the first month of the war. After the disasters that
have befallen all Britain’s allies, and after Dakar and
the Berlin-Rome-Tokyo alliance, it is not to be
endured.
There are 22,000,000 white people in the
Dominions —more than the number of males, all ages,
in the U.K. —and they have armies in the field, warships
on the seas and warplanes in the skies, with many more
coming. Out of loyalty to Crown and Commonwealth,
they have staked their whole existence in this quarrel.
They will accept no longer their relegation to a position
in which they have no more say in the direction of the
war and no more power to prevent other Narviks
and Dakars —in which their own men might be sacri-
ficed —or to call those responsible to account than the
ratepayers of Little Puddleton.
Beeeham's Pills.
Last heard from at Auckland (M.L.), Australia’s lately
departed guest Sir Thomas Beecham was still serving
out critical pills to this ailing continent. In view of his
reported experiences here, Sir Thomas no doubt regards
himself as returning good for evil. Despite appear-
ances to the contrary, pretty well all critics are
similarly inspired: they feel that the object of their
attention—be it an attempt at art, a garbage-tip or a
country —is evil or offensive, and, being fundamentally
both egoistic and willing souls, they are inspired to do
good by way of satisfying their conscience and doing a
service to the community at large. So they gird up
their loins and attack.
Admittedly, this is a more charitable notion of
critics and their efforts than that commonly held. So
far from being inspired by an authentic urge to do
good, they are freely regarded as mere snarling narks;
embittered beings recruited from life’s failures and
misfits (material, mental or physical) ; subjects for
Freudian analyses; parasites battening on the real
effort of the makers and doers ; in inspiration and
activities alike, the spawn of Malice.
Admittedly, also, critics themselves often con-
tribute to the perpetuation of suchlike uncharitable
designations. Often they are, by the dispensation of
nature, peppery and explosive individuals, irascible
and hot-tempered, in their tantrums not above mis-
using the boon of critical expression as a personal
safety valve to ward off apoplexy. Patience is not
one of their virtues, and “Blessed are the meek” is
not one of the texts they paste in their hats. Theit
mission as critics is inclined to induce personal in-
tolerance, and, should they reach any eminence, their
egoism is liable to turn to egotism and their courage
to conceit. Then they can become as temperamental
as prima donnas, as stuck-up as pet poodles, as puffed
as /Esop’s frog.
Sir Thomas Beecham, according to published
report, has gone away from these usually friendly and
hospitable shores bent on revenge. One published
report —for what it may be worth ; Sir Thomas is
reported to have declared that he was always incorrectly
reported—had it that he intends to write a book setting
forth his wretched experiences in this benighted con-
tinent, his opinions of the place and all the scurrilous
anonymous letters he received. Perhaps Sir Thomas
will think better of what, on that synopsis of contents,
might get itself classified in the boomerang order of
autobiography; but it will be a pity if he doesn’t find
time, between rushing about to appointments and stew-
ing mediocre musicians, to produce a easeful of the sort
of critical pills he here scattered somewhat at random,
all properly packed and suitably labelled “To be taken
before breakfast” or “Swallow, with a little salt, on
going to bed.”
For Sir Thomas, patently right in some things, is
wrong in accepting that Australians are altogether
unappreciative of curative doses such as he handed so
freely around. Actually, they are as well aware as Sir
Thomas himself of the truth of some of his strictures.
For example, they see as clearly as Sir Thomas that
here
In a continent nearly the size of Europe are a stag-
nant population of hardly seven million people, a growing
concentration of city life to the disadvantage of the
country, and a more or less chronic condition of un-
employment.
Australians might feel justified in throwing the
unemployment criticism back in Sir Thomas’s teeth as
neither peculiar to this country nor unfamiliar to his
own, but the criticism as a whole they would endorse
as audited and found correct. They are well aware of
that particular rottenness in their country’s affairs, and
a great many of them wish, and a few of them work,
to have it corrected. The reason why nothing has so
far been done about it is probably not that Australians
are, in Sir Thomas’s pungent phrase, “sublimely self-
satisfied and complacent,” but rather that they are by
nature casual and easygoing. It is due to that inherent
casualness that Sir Thomas found another of his marks
for criticism.
“Just think of it,” he said, “a town like Sydney,
with not one theatre where a play, either serious or
trivial, can be seen from one end of the year to the
other.” That is not strictly accurate, but near enough,
and the explanation is that, owing to law enacted as
war-effort emergency legislation in the last war, Syd-
ney has progressively over the years lost its once
fairly brilliant night-life. The city has nothing to keep
people abroad or attract them to it after nightfall;
consequently the night-life habit has been lost, and
the theatre has been one of the main sufferers. But it
would be a mistake to confuse the natural casualness
which suffers the continuation of this restrictive and
bad law with self-satisfaction.
One of these days, no doubt, something will
happen to shake that casualness from its foundations:
hitherto it has rested on the conditions of luxury and
indolence possible in a sea-girt paradise protected by
geographical position and the power of the British
Navy; the fighting record of Australians is evidence
enough that the trait can be readily shaken off. In
the meantime, Sir Thomas, or any other visitor, can
be excused for confusing it with self-satisfaction and
complacency. If Sir Thomas had stayed on only a few
weeks longer he would have seen these casual people
going about their affairs while, with the war threaten-
ing to spread out and reach their shores, their elected
leaders haggled and bargained among themselves on
party political issues, putting off from week to week
decisions in the public interest that should have been
arrived at immediately.
That miserable spectacle would have given Sir
Thomas something real to get hot and bothered
about. Where and while such spectacles remain pos-
sible there is sound justification for the brand of critical
pills Sir Thomas has been handing out. His mistake
has chiefly been in drawing up a diagnosis on the
majority. It should be drawn up on the few.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Bombing of Nowhere.
Critics who complain of Australia’s unrealistic out-
look on the war should pin the blame where it lies.
The censorship at the British end bears the greater
part of the responsibility. The war news, which
should be a continual reminder of the terrible realities
of the situation and a continual spur to action, has
been allowed to become boring.
That Australians could be bored by daily ac-
counts of the murder of women and children and of
the wanton destruction of a great city that has taken
centuries to build was unimaginable. To a full and
detailed description of what is happening to London
their reaction would be just that steady, relentless
anger that is necessary to win the war. The story of
the City of Benares horror —and the loss of those
children’s lives was only a drop in the ocean of
slaughter—probably aroused more feeling here than
anything since the war began.
The story of London is not being told. “A
famous thoroughfare was damaged.” “Casualties
occurred when a hospital was bombed.” “Bombs
narrowly missed an historic building.” This sort of
vagueness, day after day, is making the news unread-
able.
The retort of the censorship, of course, would be
that it doesn’t want to give away information to the
enemy, and in cases where that answer is valid—par-
ticularly where factories, docks or other military ob-
jectives are attacked—there can be no argument. But
it is extremely probable that the censorship is fol-
lowing the “say-nothing” policy in scores of instances
where no harm could be done by telling the truth, and
where the truth would be of the greatest propaganda
value. Thousands of Australians have visited Lon-
don, know it intimately and remember it with deep
affection ; those who haven’t seen it know and love
it from books, pictures and tradition. Details of the
bombings would arouse indignation, but the present
generalities are meaningless.
Similarly with the casualties. The appalling
result of the censorship is that one of the greatest
horrors of history is reduced to a few stock phrases
or to occasional statistics that hardly catch the eye,
let alone stir the imagination. It’s not merely absurd
—it is outrageous—that Americans, who are out of
the war, should know by stories and photographs more
of what’s going on than Australians who are in it.
Australians don’t want the news for its entertain-
ment value. They’re not sitting on the sideline watch-
ing the greatest show on earth. They’re in the struggle
to the end, and they’re entitled to know the facts of it.
Now more than ever the realities should be brought
home to them. But the spirit of the people will never
be fully aroused while the bland jargon of the censor-
ship makes so much of the war news so much waste
space.
Breaks in the Tempo.
“We have called upon you to work long hours, to
increase production, to submit to regulations, and in a variety
of ways to contribute to the tremendous war effort; and when
the full story can be told it will represent a complete vindica-
tion of Democracy. But this does not mean that we can for
a moment let up in our effort to bring this terrific struggle
to a successful end. In fact, the time has now come when, in
the most cold-blooded and determined manner, we must
intensify our efforts.” —Ernest Bevin, Minister of Labor, to
the workers of Britain.
With a persistence like a chronic toothache little
strikes keep niggling away at the national structure.
Of recent weeks hardly a day has passed without
reports of work stoppages, most of them directly
associated with the war effort; stoppages among tex-
tile workers, munition workers, wharf workers, coal-
miners and marine engineers, all of whom may refer
their grievances to industrial arbitration.
Australians believe in a fair go, but they’re ask-
ing themselves angrily whether the work-stoppers are
giving the country a fair go. It needs little imagina-
tion to visualise the position in Britain, its lesson to
Australia and the implications of the deterioration in
Pacific relationships. Labor leaders assured the
country in pre-election speeches that Labor had no
illusions about the war and stood for an “all-in war
effort.” Industrial Labor as well as Political Labor
is expected to honor that undertaking.
Right up to the outbreak of the war, France suf-
fered “sit-down” strikes. Few Australians realised the
internal rot they created in France. It is possible that
not many Frenchmen realised it. But when the test
came and the enemy burst over the frontiers and
France collapsed like a pricked balloon, the full effects
appeared with a terrible clarity.
There is no enemy able, at the moment, to plunge
over our frontiers, but no one can say how long this
immunity will last. Australia must put itself in a
condition that would discourage attempts at invasion,
and it must support to the limit of its capacity its
seamen, soldiers and airmen in the Mediterranean
region and in other parts. It can’t perform either
duty fully while its industries and war services are
checked and delayed by strikes.
In France it is the worker who is suffering most
rom the collapse of that country. White-ants always
destroy the thing they feed on.
The Lesson for Labor.
The Bulletin has believed for many years that pre-
selection, whether by ballot of A.L.P. members or by
vote of “the executive,” has been a handicap to the
Labor party in the mainland States. Veteran Labor
men like W. G. Higgs, original Senator, M.H.R.
(1910-22) and Great War Treasurer (1915-16), have
long been of the same opinion. They can now point
to the election results in N. S. Wales as justifying
them.
It was in N. S. Wales, though three Labor groups
were in the field, that the party made far and away its
best showing. Without a single loss, it gained five
seats in the House and is practically certain to win
three in the Senate. In the other States, taken together,
it gained two seats in the House and lost three seats,
and it doesn’t look like electing one Senator.
Mr. Menzies holds that the Ministerial parties
were undone in N. S. Wales by the Sydney morning
papers. Certainly those odd allies, with their flings
at the Government’s war effort, their attacks on par-
ticular Ministers and ex-Ministers, their campaign for
“outstanding candidates” and their one-sided report-
ing, did his cause a great deal of harm, and so did the
U.A.P. organisation, with its eleventh-hour surrender
to the “outstanding candidate” stunt and its childish
advertising. Together these clumsy concerns divided,
confused and alienated people who in other circum-
stances would have supported the Government. Other
influences operated against Ministerial candidates —in
country electorates, members like Mr. Thorby and
Mr. Nock found farmers, brooding over the bad
season, all too ready to listen to gentlemen who
promised them better prices and Commonwealth Bank
credits, as well as more pay for soldiers and bigger
pensions.
The advent of Dr. Evatt as candidate was also
of material assistance to Labor. This welcome rein-
forcement of brains not only attracted to it many
primary votes but helped to allay the feeling that
divided the groups, and thus contributed to a steady
exchange of preferences which the Ministerial parties
have had cause to regard with astonishment and envy.
Actually the division of the Opposition into three
proved a blessing in disguise. At the Easter Confer-
ence, N.S.W. Labor came under the control of the
Hands Off Russia crowd. Left in supreme control,
the Hands Off Russia crowd would have lost the elec-
tion for Labor, for the people would not —and in the
event did not —vote for Hands Off Russia candidates.
The party was saved from a severe defeat, first by the
secession of the Beasley group, then by the interven-
tion of the Federal A.L.P. executive, which reduced
the Hands Off Russia crowd —while still maintaining
nominal control of the N.S.W. organisation— to the
weakest of three sections, and lastly by the crazy
government-by-newspaper diversion and the imbecili-
ties of the U.A.P. organisation.
The Hands Off Russia crowd ran 19 candidates for
the House and three for the Senate (they were not all
H.O.R. chaps) and failed to win a seat, 10 of its
nominees losing their deposits. The Beasley group lost
a seat to Curtin Labor, but four of its members were
returned with large majorities. Thus the five gains
were all made by Curtin Labor, and in four of the
five electorates each of the other groups was repre-
sented ; in the fifth —Macquarie—theie was a Beasley-
ite but not a Hands Off Russia man.
Indications are that there will be a truce to fac-
tion fighting in the immediate future ; but seeing that
it has raged intermittently for 24 years, and that Dr.
Evatt himself had an unfortunate experience of it 13
years ago, it is sure to break out again. Time after
time, loyal supporters of Labor have seen their party
dashed to pieces by the rancor and tomfoolery of a
handful of tinpot tyrants. They are now in a position
to demand a real democratic check on Trades Hall
despotism and an adequate safeguard against Mos-
cowism and Tammanyism—“the open go.”
Is Wheat Indigestion Chronic?
To baffle the enemy or the wheatgrowers or the mice
in Riverina or something, “publication of the table
showing the exportable surplus of wheat and flour in
Australia” has been “withheld.”
The Statistician’s view isn’t available, but it should
be interesting in view of the fact that nobody restrains
him from publishing the exportable surpluses of
U.S.A. and Canada, which together amount to a thou-
sand million bushels, seven-tenths of it Canadian.
This knowledge, added to the knowledge that the
American surplus is within a few days’ voyage of
Europe, shows pretty clearly that, whether the Austra-
lian surplus is known to the enemy or not, it doesn’t
make any difference except to Australia, which has
been suffering from wheat indigestion for years.
A while ago sundry State Ministers for Agricul-
ture conferred with the Commonwealth Minister for
Commerce, and it has been arranged to lend the State
Governments £1,000,000 to “tide farmers over their
difficulties and ensure their being able to purchase
seed for the next crop.” This, of course, is an evasion,
not a solution.
Europe is closed, except for Britain, whose
granaries are full. Even if Europe’s gates swung
open, North America waits with a positive deluge of
wheat to pour through them.
Meantime, though the Australian crop into which
the headers will be turning in a month’s time is much
below normal it is still well above home-consumption
needs. The surplus will have to be stacked and stored
along with that existing surplus about which the
Statistician must be silent.
The position is steadily approaching the impos-
sible stage. Palliatives such as subsidies, bounties and
loans to “tide the grower over difficulties” will no
longer serve. The “difficulties” have come to stay, and
the sooner that fact is recognised and the whole ques-
tion viewed from that aspect the better.
No Government can hope to cure this form of
national indigestion by administering frequent doses
of financial painkiller. As soon as the dose is ab-
sorbed the pain springs up again. Wheatgrowing, ex-
cept for home consumption, looks like being a hopeless
business for the next few years. Home consumption
can be increased, but not sufficiently to restore wheat to
its old place. There must be a national attempt to
reorganise the whole thing, even to the extent of
forcing paddocks out of wheat altogether and into
some other form of production, or just forcing them
out.
Whatever kind of Government comes out of the
mysterious goings-on now prevalent at Canberra, it
begins to look as though wheat will be second only to
defence in the problems it will have to deal with as
urgent.
Failing that, the Commonwealth will at last find
the answer to the old poser as to what happens when
an irresistible force meets an immovable object.
Trifling with Transport.
Victoria’s strange political bedfellows Mr. Dunstan
and Mr. Cain got into holts over a bill to compensate
road hauliers who voluntarily surrender their licenses
—aptly described by Mr. Macfarlan as “the last
mourning coach in the funeral of the great motor
transport industry.”
Mr. Cain’s view of it was that certain hauliers,
whose business wasn’t too good anyhow, had been
tipped off by Government members to hang on and
benefit by the bill. He couldn’t stomach what he
claimed to be the fact that hauliers had agreed to
accept total compensation of £llO,OOO for business the
Minister had estimated at £500,000, and the Railway
Commissioners, in their last annual report, at
£1,500,000.
Mr. Dunstan, in a “vigorous” reply, declared that
the bill provided only for voluntary retirement by the
hauliers and compensation for those who voluntarily
retired.
The thing looks queer. The Transport Board,
trying hard to wipe out road competition with the rail-
ways, has repeatedly tried to cancel the hauliers’
licenses and has been repeatedly knocked back by the
Governor-in-Council. It looks as if the bill is designed
to offer a money bait to hauliers to do voluntarily
what the Transport Board has been unable to compel
them to do.
It’s about time Australia woke up to these piffling
State Governments and their Transport Boards. Motor
traction is a modern development in transport which
cannot, and will not, be halted or abolished by State
Acts designed to protect State railways. More parti-
cularly in war-time is it necessary to keep heavy road
vehicles in service. Though at present improbable,
it is far from impossible that a couple of well-placed
enemy bombs might dislocate a whole railway section.
Motor-trucks are not confined to fixed tracks and can
dodge bomb craters; trains can’t.
Transport should be taken away from the States
and administered by the Commonwealth. In all its
forms it is a vital part of the Commonwealth’s life,
and the Commonwealth can no longer afford its being
the plaything of State Parliaments, themselves
unnecessary.
Exit (?) Ye Old School Tie.
“El V.” watches by a supposed deathbed:
What advocates of the destruction of the old rag
really want is not the abolition of school ties as a whole,
but merely of that kind of school tie which is supposed to
endow the Halifaxes and the Chamberlains with special
privileges, and the substitution of a new class of school ties
as worn by the Herbert Morrisons.
Mr. Morrison is the latest exponent of the new cult. He
proclaimed to a trade-union conference that “the day of the
old school tie has gone for good in Britain.” To which I
answer, in the language of the East End, “Crikey!”
Mr. Morrison, who is the new Minister for Public Security,
isn’t a tie-wearer, but in the realm in which he has abolished
the hated emblem of the aristocracy he must be for ever
clutching at his neck in embarrassment. His own Labor
leader, Mr. Attlee, comes from Haileybury. Headmaster of
Haileybury in other years was a Lyttelton, who graduated to the
headship of Eton; and by the most curious turn of events one
of the new Ministers is a son of that old Lyttelton’s brother
and a nephew of Mrs. W. E. Gladstone. This new Lyttelton
is Eton and Trinity College, Cambridge.
Mr. Winston Churchill is, of course, a grandson of a
Duke of Marlborough on one side and an Earl of Airlie
on the other, and ex-Harrow and ex-Sandhurst.
Some of the new Ministers are Lord Cranborne, heir to
the Marquis of Salisbury—Eton and aristocratic Christ Church,
Oxford ; Lt.-Col. Moore-Brabazon, Harrow and Trinity College,
Cambridge; Sir John Reith, once of Gresham’s School; and
Sir John Anderson, of George Watson’s, one of the greatest
public schools of Scotland.
It seems to me that for a lost cause the Old School Tie—
Wellington would have worn the blue-and-white stripes of
Eton if ties had been invented in his day—is doing pretty
well, and Mr. Morrison is a cheerful optimist if he thinks he
can get rid of it. He can’t even drive it out of the
Labor party. The Labor party is infested by people like Lord
Ponsonby, who qualified by going to Eton and Balliol, and
Hugh Dalton, who went to Eton and King’s, Cambridge, and
whose father was the tutor who came out with George V
when he visited Australia as a midshipman.
Neville Chamberlain, supposedly the die-hard of old-school-
tieism, by the way, though he went to Rugby for a little while,
had most of his education at the plebeian Mason’s College in
Birmingham and the even more pltbeian Birmingham Uni-
versity.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Taurus”: No candidate who stood for
the Federal elections was quite as un-
usual as Thomas Henry Laing, who was
nominated for the Students’ Represen-
tative Council, Melbourne University.
According to regs., candidates may
write life histories for the University
newspaper and deliver a policy
speech. A life history of Laing was
forthcoming, but it was explained that, as
he was a “part-time” commerce student,
he was unable to deliver his speech. The
returning - officer became suspicious
shortly before the poll closed, and a
perusal of the ’Varsity rolls showed that,
whatever he was, Laing was not a student.
It leaked out afterwards that he wasn’t
anything else either. The dozen or so
who voted for him, apart from the con-
spirators who created him, must have
felt somewhat mortified.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Coopla”: Field-Marshal Milne’s
advice to the English that “Australian
soldiers don’t want to be entertained by
the richer classes in that delightfully cold,
haughty British manner” reminds me of
a Digger in the 1914-18 affair who struck
up a cobbership with an English
lieutenant in France and was invited by
the latter to call at his home in England.
In due time the Digger turned up at a
large house in Mayfair and rang the
bell. An elderly butler arrived, surveyed
the Digger in a somewhat horrified
manner, and asked if he had a card.
“Card be jiggered,” came the reply;
“tell ’im Curly’s come! ”
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Nakh”: Centenarians in Victoria give
various reasons to account for the extra-
ordinary tenacity with which they cling
to this vale of tears, and each usually
contradicts the other. A ascribes his
longevity to the fact that he never smokes,
drinks hard liquor or goes to a movie
picture, and B proudly attributes it
to his having had two bottles of beer
daily, smoked like a chimney and lived
a life which makes the modern young set
look like sissies. But C asked why
he looked so hale and hearty, though
100, said “Well, you might say as it
was an accident. You see, 50 years ago
I ’ad me teeth drawn and I’d had enough
of dentists, so I’ve chewed with me gums
ever since. If you use yer gums prop-
erly they get harder than teeth and they
don’t cost no money.”
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Cauboy”: Over against Sir Thomas
Beecham’s hard words about the Aus-
tralian people ought to be put the fact
that all the orchestras and choirs he con-
ducted liked and admired him in-
tensely ; and after all he was invited here
to deal with music. Unfortunately, there
is a section of society, not peculiar to
Australia, which, with supreme compla-
cency, pesters distinguished people. This
section is less interested in art or music
than in its own ambitions. Sir Thomas
had no means of taking a spiritual census
of the Australian nation before he passed
his judgment, so he must have been get-
ting back at the social pests. I had the
privilege of seeing them at work in Mel-
bourne after he had conducted a tremen-
dous concert. With his collar in ruins
he lay in a chair obviously exhausted.
All he wanted to do was to release his
mental tension by friendly chatter with
some of his musical cobbers. Would
the pests let him? They poured in a
continuous stream into the room, tried
to catch his eye and, failing, grabbed his
hand and shook it and tried to interest
him in their banal comments on his con-
ducting.
* * * *
“Goring’s Aunt”: The toasted bun for
cable inanities is hereby awarded to a
Great Daily run by the Director-General
of Information in his spare moments:
London, October I.—The Vicar of Maple
(Durham), the Rev. E. L. Macassey, re-
veals in his parish magazine that a son of
one of Hitler’s most eminent air advisers
is a prisoner of war in Britain. The vicar
adds: “This young man, when captured,
ripped off a special Nazi decoration, and
said: ‘l’ll not want this ever again.’”
The news is too good to need any com-
ment save to say that there is no town of
Maple in Durham and therefore no vicar
of Maple. There is, however, a sleepy
little Oxfordshire village of Maple-
durham which shelters perhaps 500 in-
habitants and which brews very good
beer. It sounds as if the village guest
had been sampling it.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“54-40 or Quit”: If there is one quality
that Yarrasiders cherish above all others
it is their determination to be cultured,
Sydney’s cosmopolitan sneers notwith-
standing. Latest manifestation was the
third art exhibition at Heidelberg, a
pretty suburb in the Dandenong foothills.
It was made up of all forms, examples
coming from most Victorian schools and
from a t.b. hospital. Photographers were
not overlooked, and the main section con-
sisted of 140-odd oils, water-colors and
etchings bearing such well-known signa-
tures as McCubbin, Mclnnes, Streeton
and Colquhoun. There were specimens
of abo. art, and even the Victorian Rail-
ways and Department of Information
contributed. Has any Sydney suburb
ever flown that high?
* ¥ * ¥
“D.E.”: If your knowledge of events
were wholly derived from the financial,
social and sporting columns of Sydney
dailies, you would scarcely think there
was a war on. I read that two fashion-
able ragshops have amassed the fattest
profits they have returned for many years,
and that the dress parade at Randwick,
complete with orchids at 7s. 6d. a spray,
surpassed all expectations, if not all
pre-war records of expenditure on finery.
The volume of betting, likewise, was
comparable to anything in the most
riotous boom year. At an inquiry
into the collapse of a beaten favorite,
the owner produced betting tickets
showing that he had put on £2500
in cash; and that was only portion
of his bets on the fiddle-faced
brute. Nor was this gentleman the only
Big Punter who “invested” in this free-
handed fashion ; other Big Punters “in-
vested” even more lavishly, and the
chronicles of wagers to three figures (all
admiringly recorded for the benefit of
the Young Digger and the bloke on the
basic wage) were marvellous to behold.
Moreover, private entertaining during
race-week reached the gayest and cost-
liest standards of the past, and the bird-
wine-and-jazz joints did a roaring trade.
As for the photographers who hang
round those haunts of free spenders, they
fairly excelled themselves. In the most
memorable specimen of their art the
characters were a 6ft. bookmaker, aged
about 25, a young woman who was play-
ing at being a chef and an approving,
though properly obsequious, “Tony.”
The place is run by a naturalised gentle-
man of Italian extraction who was
heavily fined eleven months ago for in-
come-tax cheating on an expansive scale.
* * * ¥
“Old A.W.U.”: A shadow of its former
sblf, Sydney’s Eight-Hour Day procession
meandered pathetically through silent and
comparatively empty streets behind a
small group of Labor politicians. About
its only bright spot was the display of
the liquor trades, in itself significant to
those with eyes to see. There were the
usual banners, some the worse for wear.
There were no sports, the complaint being
that the organisers couldn’t compete with
Randwick races —and that’s another sig-
nificant omen. Another thing the move-
ment can’t compete against is the refusal
of dinkum Australians to take seriously
anybody humorless enough to cart
through the streets of an Australian city
a banner with the words “Defence of the
Soviet Union, a land of Peace and Social-
ism.”
* • * ¥ *
“Feng-Shui”: Wehhai-wei, over which
there is a dispute at present as to who is
the landlord, was leased to Britain at the
end of the last century at the time when
Germany got Tsingtao, Russia the tip of
the Liaotung Peninsula, France Kwang-
chow Bay and Italy a sharp rebuff.
The territory is mainly distinguished for
having had R. F. Johnstone as British
District Officer. Johnstone was a devoted
student of the Buddhist religion. You
might see him one evening at the Eng-
lish Club in the costume of a British
official. Next morning a Chinese coolie
would slip out of the back door of his
residence and vanish into the blue-coated
mass of native China. Six months later
the official would quietly reappear in Wei-
hai, having walked to Tibet or spent a
few months in contemplation of the mys-
teries of Buddhism in a monastery on
the sacred mountain of Tai-shan. When
Pu Yi, the present puppet-Emperor of
Manchuria, was kicked off the dragon
throne by the revolution, Johnstone be-
came his tutor and taught him bicycling,
typewriting and tennis, along with a
scholarly understanding of the country
of which he had been the ruler.
* * ¥ *
“Nauticus”: A landmark of Sydney
Harbor, the huge floating sheer-legs at
Garden Island, has gone. Titan, the float-
ing crane from Cockatoo Dock, laid it on
its side on a pontoon and took it away.
This sheer was a monument to red-tape.
In the dim and distant past some sheer-
legs were wanted, and a demand for
one capable of lifting 20 tons was
submitted (doubtless in triplicate at least).
In its passage through the multitudinous
service channels the interpretation of one
20-ton sheer-legs was somehow altered
to a 120-ton ditto. After the proper
amount of delay this huge contraption
was delivered, and, since it had been
approved by the Very High-ups, was
erected. It remained as a white elephant
until recently.
* * * *
“Pawang”: The president of the Vic-
torian National Safety Council has lately
attributed the increase in road accidents
to war’s unsettling influence. It would
be difficult to reconcile this with the fact
that the last six months have been a
bumper one for marriages, there having
been 10,431 splicings, up 2452, a phenome-
non which Government Statist Gawler also
blames on Armageddon. It could hardly
be claimed that Mars was the go--between
in both cases. A much more likely ex-
planation has been given by a Collins-
street specialist, who says that pre-
occupation is undoubtedly a factor in
accidents. Drivers with domestic
troubles get involved in smashes much
more frequently than drivers who
are happy at home. They are the vic-
tims of a conflict which unfocuses them
in relation to their driving. So it looks
as if the National Safety Council will
have to go in for conciliating unhappy
wives and husbands.
¥ * * *
“Hamer”: It would have been a pity if
the Sydney R.A.S. had had to abandon
its 1941 show, for next year it has a
jubilee to celebrate. It was in 1891 that
the prefix “Royal” was granted. In the
same year a group of citizens gained an
injunction to restrain the society from
charging admission fees, Judge Owen
holding that the City Council (joined as
defendant) had no right to lease public
land to the society. The long processes
of litigation took the matter to the Privy
Council in 1895 ; there a full recognition
of the society’s rights was secured and its
old insecurity of tenure vanished.
* ¥ * *
“El V.”: The most mangled quotation
in the language cropped up again last
week when the cableman reported Low
as saying in a broadcast:
I am not the New Zealander who, Lord
Macaulay said last century, would one day
stand on Westminster Bridge and see the
ruins of London.
What Macaulay actually wrote—of the
Catholic Church —was:
She may still exist in undiminished vigor,
when some traveller from New Zealand
shall, in the midst of a vast solitude, take
his stand on a broken arch of London
Bridge to sketch the ruins of St. Paul’s.
And he wasn’t original. Lord Lyttelton
wrote in the third quarter of the
eighteenth century of an American travel-
ler, in the year 2199, addressing a letter
from the “ruinous portico of St. Paul’s.’'
Horace Walpole foresaw a time when
“some curious native of Lima will visit
London and give a sketch of the ruins
of Westminster and St. Paul’s.” And
Shelley had this in his “Dedication to
Peter Bell the Third”:
When London shall be an habitation of
bitterns, when St. Paul’s and Westminster
Abbey shall stand shapeless ruins in the
midst of an unpeopled marsh.... some
transatlantic commentator will be weigh-
ing in the scales....
The bitterns are there, all right; you can
hear them booming from every news-
paper office in Fleet-street. But London
is a long way from desolation.
“Give us a few smacks on the biceps , Joe. I want loos'nin' up!”
IN THE BRENNER.
“Everything' has been told by the Axis newspapers
and by wishfully-thinking British commentators about
the talks between Hitler and Mussolini in the Brenner
Pass —except what really happened.”— Cable.
They met. as ev’rybody knows,
The couple to be ranked and reckoned
Among the world’s most ruthless foes
Indubitably first and second.
But one may only guess the tenor
Of that discussion in the Brenner.
What priceless copy it would make,
If one were just a trifle surer
About the things whereof they spake
And what the Duce told the Fiihrer,
Just what upon the mountain top
The Jerry muttered to the Wop.
They met. There’s nothing definite
To tell —no hint or nota bene
Upon what Musso. breathed to Hit.
Or Hitler yelled at Mussolini.
None but themselves the powwow heard,
So who can hazard what occurred?
Only, mayhap, the vagrant flea
And the übiquitous mosquito
Were present at the colloquy
Where Adolph settled with Benito.
This much is certain: when they pass,
A tougher monument than brass
They’ll leave upon the Brenner Pass.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“ We'll pull up in a minute, boys — l’ve got a pebble in my shoe!”
“S. Piel”: I have been waiting for some
bright youth to grab the chance that,
with a crowd of B.E.F. in our capitals,
money could be made by a little imper-
sonation. He turned up in Perth (W.A.),
where a cove told a trusting clergyman
that he was a British flight-lieutenant who
had been wounded at Dunkirk, was taken
to a nice boarding-house and introduced
to the landlady. Then he fell into the
unpardonable error of pulling his punch.
All he went for was a lousy quid, “to
cable home to his mother,” and, though
he got it, suspicions were naturally
aroused, and in he went. If the silly
young blighter had picked some bigger
mark and gone for £lOO he’d have prob-
ably got it and much junketing into the
bargain.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A. S. Blackburn, V.C.,
lawyer, coroner and colonel, has officially
accepted as the million-to-one chance
which expert evidence called it a
mechanical fault that stopped the iron
lung in an Adelaide hospital for about
four minutes, during which two infantile-
paralysis patients died. No blame attach-
able to anyone ; plant thoroughly effi-
cient ; just “an unusual fault developing
in a fuse of reputable make.”
* * * *
“P.S.’ : The women’s supplement of
Sydney’s oldest daily paper decided to
see what “prominent people” thought
about poetry and gave their preferences.
Needless to say, no Australian poet got
a mention, and the best most of them
could do was recall a bit of verse they
remembered from schooldays. A society
woman and a banker plumped for Kip-
ling, a singer stood pat on Grey’s “Elegy,”
a leader of the W.A.N.S. who had
“worked for 18 hours on end” relieved
herself with
I am the master of my fate:
I am the captain of my soul.
“One of Sydney’s best-known hostesses”
turns to Milne and finds she sleeps better
if she reads “two or three Christopher
Robins before going to bed.” An A.B.C.
songster favors the late M. Antony’s
funeral oration, and another W.A.N.S.
leader relies for her opiate on “In
Flanders Fields where Poppies Grow.”
It was reserved for Lud Mayor Crick to
make an elaborate explanation of his
choice —Burns’s “A man’s a man for a’
that” —which he said he selected
because it is symbolic of the spirit of our
British race, which has never been more
truly exemplified than during the past few
months, when, with undaunted courage
and unalterable resolution, the people of
the Homeland have faced the horrors of
the greatest conflict and yet remain de-
termined to go on till victory.
Robert would doubtless be vastly edified
by this exegesis on his tersely-expressed
theme.
* * * *
“N.”: Grafton (N.S.W.) has become
headline stuff since the City Council’s
steamroller bolted. Proceeding at its
customary sedate and dignified pace, the
portly machine suddenly uttered a loud
snort and broke into a gallop. The driver
wrestled with the controls, but his ponder-
ous steed had the bit between its teeth
and, heralded by shrieking whistles, it
pursued a headlong career round a block
of streets. Falling steam pressure at last
checked the wild race, and the exhausted
runaway was steered into the council
depot yard with the last few remaining
pounds. A stuck valve is the official ex-
planation, but it looks as if the urge of
springtime is extending to machinery.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: Breasting the waves of
female collectors who fought for my
body in the streets, I could not help long-
ing for a boat which would take me to
the Argentine, where the British com-
munity there is tackling the problem of
war contributions in a sane way. No
badges, no buttons in Argentina ; instead,
a voluntary tax, ranging from 5 p.c. on
small incomes to 20 p.c. on $5OOO per
month and over. George Middlemitch,
an Adelaide man, who is chief accountant
to La Blanca Meatworks, mentions that
there are only 18,000 British-born in-
habitants of Argentine and 25,000 more
Argentino-British, but on present prom-
ises the scheme will yield from £250,000
to £300,000 sterling per annum.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Time was when the anti-
vivisection societies thundered against
the medical profession for cutting up live
animals in the interests of surgical
science. Now that the doctors are be-
coming whales on psychology the battle-
front has changed, and the anti-vivisec-
tionists will have to become anti-mental
torturists. Columbia University, U.S.A.,
has recently completed a series of ex-
periments with guinea-pigs wherein these
martyrs to science were placed on plat-
forms opposite a black door and a white
door. The white door was locked, the
black door kept loose, and food placed
behind each. When a starving guinea-
pig, stirred up by a blast of air, leapt
at the white door it bumped its nose
severely. When it jumped at the black
door it got what it wanted. After a
month of this procedure both doors were
locked, and when the blast was released
and the guinea-pig jumped he bumped
his nose on both doors and didn’t get
what he wanted. After a few experiences
of this, when the blast struck it, the
guinea-pig would sit trembling, gnashing
its teeth and showing every symptom of
a nervous breakdown. The purpose of
this asinine experiment was to prove
to two professors of psychology that
animals can be aggravated into hav-
ing a neurosis just like a human being.
Any farmer with a sheep-dog could have
removed their doubts in a second.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: It was one of those days
in the Sydney divorce court when the
evidence is all of violent turmoil. Such
missiles as a poker, an aspidistra, pot and
all, a steak and kidney pie (in dish),
bottles, cups, pans, walking-sticks and
knives were mentioned. There followed a
case in which the most noteworthy up-
heaval seemed to be on a motor trip, when
“she went for me with a spanner and I let
her have it with a suitcase.” After a day
of this sort of thing it was natural that
his Honor should be momentarily misled
when a lady said that her husband had
been given some socks by a woman stay-
ing in the house. “She gave.him socks?”
he queried ; then added “Oh, you mean
the articles of apparel!”
* * * *
“Zake”: Should I ever decide to for-
sake the prosaic Inky Way for the more
exciting job of ratting other people’s
homes, I shall first put in some stout
work as a pew-stacker and general
sponge-holder to the local vicar. An
accused who was found guilty at
Sydney Quarter Sessions of housebreak-
ing trotted out evidence that he was a
faithful churchworker. Instead of getting
six months’ “hard,” which he probably
would have landed had he put in his
Sabbath morn reading Ginger Meggs out
to his kids, the pious one was merely
bound over, despite an admitted previous
string of “minor convictions.” Fortunate
indeed is this type of criminal that the
duties of hard-headed juries don’t go be-
yond the finding of guilty or otherwise.
Judging by the average good men and
true that I meet, if they had the handing
out of sentences the magic word “church-
worker” put forward in extenuation of
crimes would be rewarded with a further
six months’.
* * * *
“John A.”: Recent reference in Syd-
ney newspapers to the visit of a Maori-
land whaling notability calls to mind the
unpleasant experience of Sydney’s earliest
whaling firm, Lord, Underwood and
Kable. One of their ships in Port Jack-
son having developed a bad leak, they
decided to tranship her cargo into an-
other of their vessels, and requested Gov-
ernor Bligh to give them permission to
bring her alongside the leaking craft, but
for some reason or other he wouldn’t do
so. So they put it in writing, petitioning
the Governor with almost servile polite-
ness to be good enough to modify his
decision and pointing out the difficulties
of shifting the cargo in boats. They
were immediately called upon to appear
before a bench of magistrates, who fined
them £lOO for presuming to write a letter
to his Excellency the Captain-General
and Governor-in-Chief in and over his
Majesty’s Territory of New South Wales.
You might pray to God, but not to Billy
Bligh.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Although a Melbourne
lady with much strange history in her
past has achieved her centenary, she still
works hard for a living. The Marie Laure,
now a cargo lighter in that port, was
launched in 1840. Teak-built and barque-
rigged, she sailed under the French flag
until in 1850 she was bought by British
owners and put into trade between Lon-
don and St. Helena. Ten years later she
was sailing out of Hobart Town, Captain
Kennedy, master, her timbers newly
sheathed with 3in. copper-fastened kauri
to save them from the chafing of ice-
floes, crow’s nest at the main and trim,
slim whaleboats in the heavy crane-davits.
For 26 years, under various masters —
one of them Captain Billy Smith, half-
caste Samoan and unable to read or write
but a mighty seaman and hunter of
whales —and with mostly Tasmanian
crews, she returned periodically to the
Derwent from hunts which ranged from
the edge of the Antarctic ice to the
shores of Kamchatka. Then unlucky
voyages and sea-batterings ended her
days of high adventure, and she became
a cargo-wallah again, trading to M.L.
and Melbourne. In 1893 she was con-
verted to a coalhulk. In the step of her
foremast the shipwrights found her birth-
token, a silver franc of 1835, placed
there for luck during her building. But
she rose again to the relative dignity of
cargo-lightering, and often breasts the
short, steep seas of the West Channel
behind a tug bound for Geelong.
"Happen to know if Winston's doin' anythin tonight, cobber ?”
A POT OF PAINT.
I found them arguing, when within
The gallery I went,
Each with his own idea of what
A certain picture meant,
And what the gifted artist had
Attempted to present.
One thought it was a dish of prawns,
With greenstuff by the bunch,
Making a salad of the sort
That gourmets love to munch.
“My oath!” he vowed, “it gives me quite
An appetite for lunch.”
“No," said a second connoisseur,
“With that I can’t agree.
Observe the flames that shoot aloft,
The breakers on the lee!
A ship on fire is here, my lads,
A ship afire at sea.”
Another devotee of Art
Turned on it piercing eyne.
“An outback cocky’s home,” he said,
“And faith! I like it fine.
He’s caught the goats about the walls,
The washing on the line.”
And here a burly bushman sought
To interpose his views.
“The kind o’ dream,” he hazarded,
“That all too oft ensues
After a chap has spent a week
Or two upon the booze.”
My brain began to swim. I bought
A catalogue, because
It seemed the only means whereby
A fellow could be pos-
itive concerning what on earth
The cryptic painting was.
And there it was I found the key
They’d all been groping at.
“A Sunset on the Coral Sea”
’Twas labelled, fair and flat.
So, taking the creator’s word,
I let it go at that.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


•afcf
-.v<
o
<t
sdf
sdf
CRAVENA
are so much smoother
m
*
111
g®
m
tfyk
mm
818
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE
THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Beautiful reconciliations were effected
in Melbourne last week—Page to Men-
zies, with Cameron’s blessing, and Beasley
to Curtin. Now, if Evatt could only be
induced to perceive some merit in the
P.M., we might all get on with the war.
Though nothing came of last week’s
negotiations for a national Government
the talks are being continued at Can-
berra. It was said at the week-end that
Labor would repeat its offer to join a
War Council “like the one they have in
New Zealand.” What they have in New
Zealand is a War Cabinet, with Hamilton
and Coates as members. It was appointed
at the instance of the Labor Government,
which takes responsibility for methods
of financing the war, as well as for ail
non-war matters. If Australian Labor
won’t go into a national Government, it
shouldn’t jib at being represented in that
sort of War Cabinet.
“I say quite definitely that the War
Cabinet has justified itself, because it has
done its work well.” Thus Fraser, the
Labor P.M. in the M.L. House on
October 2 ; and he said it in the course
of a debate on war finance. Coates also
spoke, explaining that while, as a member
of the Opposition, he objected to the
compulsory loan, that was the Labor
Government’s responsibility, and prop-
erly so. As a member of the War Cabinet
he was concerned with war expenditure
as part of the war effort —“the only thing
that counts.” Surely a lesson and an
example to the gentlemen at Canberra.
F. R. Lee, who would be M.H.R. for
Fremantle in Curtin’s place if 700 or 800
careless Nats, hadn’t voted down the
ballot-paper, is coming out for Kalgoorlie.
It will be nothing against him in that
electorate, though it would be if he were
standing for a London constituency, that
he is one of the people who have been
trying to get the control of Great Boulder
shifted to Westralia, so that the property
may be worked as a Kalgoorlie enterprise
instead of being compelled to shorten
sail by the taxgatherers of two countries.
Senate voting in Kalgoorlie is very in-
teresting. With only postal and absent
votes (overseas included) to be checked,
Curtin Labor, with a total of 17,068,
had a lead of 1739 over U.A.P.-U.C.P.
(15,329); but the so-called West Aus-
tralian party polled another 1454, and two
Independents had 524 between them ; so
there was no actual Labor majority.
Trainer, the first man on the Labor ticket,
headed the list with 14,287, but Minister
Collett was a good second with 12,833.
These figures give Lee a decent chance
for the by-election.
Willcock, the Westralian Premier-Trea-
surer, explaining in part an unexpected
increase in expenditure —£49,400:
Pensions and retiring allowances exceeded
the amount provided by £7263. I thought
we had reached the peak of expenditure
under the Act of 1871, but each year the
amount seems to increase, although on
actuarial calculations the tendency should
be reversed.
Then he mentioned with a sigh that
two retired Under-Secretaries of the
Crown Law Department, three retired
Directors of Education and three “or
four” retired Under-Treasurers are re-
ceiving pensions. In short, old civil ser-
vants never die and refuse to fade away.
“Mr. Perkins strongly criticised the
Sydney morning papers for their support
of certain candidates during the cam-
paign.” Thus “S. M. Herald,” “report-
ing” what Perkins said at the declaration
of the Eden-Monaro poll. The explana-
tion is that Perkins, denounced by both
morning papers (the “D.T.” called him
“an amiable scatterbrain”), beat their
“outstanding candidate” Louat out of
sight. There were four U.A.P. can-
didates, and the “Herald” placed Perkins
fourth on its “How to Vote” list.
Dr. Hartnett, one of the P.M.’s oppo-
nents in Kooyong, brightened the declara-
tion of the poll by saying that the result
represented “the Might of the Millionaire
over the Minds of the Multitude.” The
doctor polled 1168 votes out of 70,152,
Informal beating him by a dozen. But
then Informal beat a lot of other can-
didates, and had more adherents in
N.S.W. than the entire Senate vote in
Tasmania.
Dwyer-Gray, the Tasmanian Treasurer,
asked for a “special” Commonwealth
“Through the instrumentality of Mr. Cameron, Mr. Menzies and Dr. Page had
a meeting in Melbourne and reached a friendly understanding.”
“And, now I’ll ask Stewart to call tenders for the burial of hatchets, two”
grant of £600,000 this year, and Curtin,
electioneering in the islet, lightheartedly
promised him £650,000. He is to get
£400,000 and is a prey to the deepest
melancholy. So much so that he has
failed to answer conundrums put to him
by a Hobart correspondent.
If a grant of £469,000 was sufficient with
a State revenue of £2,400,000, why is it
still necessary for practically the same grant
on a revenue of £3,200,000?
Is the answer to be found in the 57 p.c.
increase of persons permanently employed
by the Government as between 1934 and
1939?
It rather recalls the old election-meeting
question: “Has the candidate stopped
beating his wife?”
The Commonwealth Government has
made £1,000,000 available for “the relief
of drought-stricken farmers.” N. S. Wales
is to get £300,000, S.A. £250,000, W.A.
£250,000, Victoria £lOO,OOO and Queens-
land £50,000; the balance is to be held
in reserve. The State Governments are
to make advances to farmers, free of in-
terest the first year, and after that at the
rate charged by the Commonwealth. It’s
a drop in the bucket, of course.
Cameron’s statement that “the future
of the wheat and apple industries will be
finally decided” at a conference on
October 25 seems optimistic. When did
a conference ever decide anything?
According to Cameron, the Common-
wealth Government regards drought relief
as a State responsibility, and the State
Governments have accepted it. All very
nice, but, short of sacking their weather-
forecasters, it’s hard to see what the State
Governments can do about it except
borrow from the Commonwealth in the
good old style. None of them seems game
to make pasture improvement and fodder
storage compulsory, and none of their
departments of agriculture has come to
light with any practical suggestions for
altered farming methods.
“In suggesting how electors should
vote for the Government” in N. S.
Wales, “S. M. Herald” prescribed for
them its order of preference in 24 electo-
rates held or contested by Ministerialists.
They elected Hughes, Page, Anthony,
Spender, Collins, McCall, Marr, Spooner
and Abbott, but in every other case they
turned down the “Herald’s” ticket, jump-
ing heavily on its special favorites,
Stevens, Cowper, Wallace, Nott and
Louat, and rejecting two Ministers and
three private members burdened with
“Herald” support. They completed their
job by stamping on Granny’s Senate
candidates. And, except that the “Tele-
graph” put Dr. Evatt on its ticket, its
“outstanding candidates” failed just as
horribly.
Menzies said it on December 12, 1939:
I should be very sad if I thought that
Mr. Stevens, a man of great achievements,
in full vigor of mind and body, should find
himself at the end of an honorable
political career at the age of 50 For
what he accomplished Australia is deeply
indebted.
Since September 21 his grief must be
profound. All the same, “deeply in-
debted” is right. In seven years of
Stevens —and he was a member of the
Loan Council all the time —the N.S.W.
debt alone was increased by £72,000,000.
“No surprises will be contained in the
State Government’s Budget for 1940-41,”
remarks a Sydney newspaper rather wist-
fully. Just the same old deficit, the same
old provision for boards and commis-
sions, the same old amounts for city con-
veniences, the same old futile barney
about it in the House; in short, the
same old farce going on in the same old
way.
“Nakhoda” dives into history:
Melbourne “Argus” has discovered that Aus-
tralia is marked out by destiny or something
to build up a strong and friendly China. It
is to be presumed that our munitions factories
and arsenals would do the building, and that
we would also lend experts and advisers. There
would then be a strong China of 400 million
people. But why the “Argus” should imagine
that a strong China would also be friendly
it is difficult to imagine.
When China was strong the Chinese in-
vaded Korea, Manchuria, Japan, Indo-China,
Tibet, Turkestan and other countries, and de-
manded tribute and allegiance from Burma, the
Philippines and Java. They even demanded
the kowtow from the plenipotentiaries of
European sovereigns. If the Old Lady of
Elizabeth-street wants that sort of thing, with
modern trimmings of battleships and bombers,
there is no reason why she shouldn’t go about
it, but if she thinks that in that way she
will be producing friendship she ought to get a
fresh lot of political advisers.
The Werribee-beef war has flared up
again in Victoria. Dr. Dale, Melbourne’s
Health Officer, says there never was any
sound reason for banning the sale of
the beef. Premier Dunstan says his Gov-
ernment will oppose any lifting of the
ban. Meat-king Angliss says the short-
age of fat cattle in Victoria has meant
bringing from Queensland beef wanted
by Britain. Victorians, chewing a bit of
drought-stricken beef from the north,
regard the whole thing as “a fair cow.”
Because she read somewhere that the
British butter ration has been cut down,
the president of Sydney Housewives’
Association has burst forth with a sug-
gestion, seriously reported in the daily
press, that Australians should cut down
their own butter ration “so that British
housewives could have a larger quantity.’
Somebody should tell the earnest lady
that it is lack of ships, not butter, that cut
the British ration. Maybe the ladies
could then rush to the shipyards and do
a bit of riveting and so forth. They are
warned beforehand that shipyards are
no places for pretty uniforms.
From “Nineteen Hundred”:
Dr. Evatt and those who think like him evi-
dently regard Kalgoorlie as a sure thing.
Knowing the district and the country, I am
far from sharing their feeling. Judging by the
voting on September 21, Westralia has returned
to the spirit which impelled it to send 32,231
men into the A.I.F. out of a population of
323,000, both sexes and all ages, and poll a
9-to-4 vote for conscription. In 1917 Kal-
goorlie rejected its Labor member, and
although he scrambled back in 1919 he was
beaten again next year after his expulsion from
Parliament on the score of utterances which
that body pronounced disloyal.
Kalgoorlie was then almost wholly a mining
electorate. Now it has farming subdivisions
like Greenough and Irwin. Greenough has a
C.P. M-L.A., and so had Irwin until it was
temporarily averted from its allegiance by that
queer bird C. O. Barker, whom Federal Swan
has since turned down so emphatically.
Together Greenough and Irwin include about
one-eighth of the Kalgoorlie electors.
Known in every hamlet of his vast division,
Texas Green commanded a big personal vote
which the next party nominee is unlikely to get.
In Greenough three years ago, for example,
he scored by nearly two to one, and in Irwin
by still more —1465 to 786 and 1628 to 670.
In Kalgoorlie (3138 to 1384), Boulder (1988
to 493), Yilgarn (2239 to 860) and other mining
subdivisions, he got far more than the normal
Labor vote. So if Labor insists on play-
ing the party game, Labor may lose. Curtin
was in Westralia in 1917, and, especially after
his close call in Fremantle, he surely does not
need to be reminded that what happened in
1917 could happen again.
[For matter referring to the Commonwealth
election, responsibility is taken by J. E. Webb
and Cecil Mann, 252 George-street, Sydney. I


THE PROTECTOR OF ISLAM.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. •• £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
o-n<.
sdf
THE SKY-WAYS ARE TODAY’S HIGHWAYS
Pre-war standards of efficiency and comfort are being
maintained by Empire flying boats on the air route
between Sydney and Durban, via Singapore, Palestine
and Egypt'. A new regular service between New Zealand
and Sydney is operated by Tasman Empire Airways.
Travel Interstate . . . Inter-Dominion . . . throughout
the Empire ... in shipboard comfort at Airways
speed ... by Qantas Empire Airways.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
(Incorporated in Queensland)
SHELL, HOUSE, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. 'PHONE: 8W4481.
Also at BRISBANE and MELBOURNE.
Bookings at any recognised Travel Agency tlirougliout Australia.
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbroughj Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Sydney University carillon chimed
Chopin’s “Funeral March” at noontide
last Thursday in honor of Archibald
Hamilton Charteris, Professor of Inter-
national Law and Jurisprudence, who
died the previous evening, aged 67. He
came to Sydney 19 years ago, his earlier
career having comprised 15 years as a
lecturer on his subject at Glasgow Uni-
versity, where he graduated, and war-time
service with the Admiralty and in the
Intelligence Department. He was born
at Glasgow, son of a professor at the
University. A keen interest in and
appreciation for Scottish humor leavened
A. H. Charteris’s erudition, and one
volume in lighter vein, When the Scot
Smiles, stands among his multifarious
legal contributions. He lived at Turra-
murra, on the North Shore line, and
delighted in his garden.
Major Philip H. Thorne, who has come
to Sydney to superintend the building of
MAJOR PHILIP THORNE.
the battleship dock at Potts Point, was
born in London 60 years ago, son of a
civil engineer into whose business he
entered when he had finished his educa-
tion at Eastbourne. In 1914 he went into
khaki, as a private in the Artists’ Rifles,
later got a commission in the Engineers,
and saw service at Gallipoli and in
France, well earning his majority. His
subsequent engineering duties have taken
him to Nigeria, Singapore (where he
supervised the beginnings of the dock)
and South America. Sydney should suit
him, as he likes a spot of yachting
and there are plenty of good golf links.
Mrs. Thorne remains in England. Their
only son is a captain of A.A. guns
defending London.
Arthur Field Showers, just dead in
Melbourne, was one of that city’s best-
known and most indefatigable committee-
men. For 43 years he was an unopposed
member of the Essendon Council, be-
coming Mayor in 1904 and again in
1910. He was also president of and repre-
sentative of the northern suburbs on the
Fire Brigades Board, vice-chairman of the
water supply committee of the Board of
Works and senior vice-president of the
Cricket Association. In private business
he was a director of the Twentieth Cen-
tury Building and Investment Society.
Sixty-nine, and born in Melbourne, but
at one time a pastoralist in N. S. Wales.
Dudley Williams, who succeeds Dr.
Evatt, is the son of a solicitor,
O. P. Williams, and a grandson of the
James Milson after whom Milson’s
Point was named. A Digger with an
M. he took silk in 1935, became an
Acting-Judge of the N.S.W. Supreme
Court last year, was permanently ap-
pointed last June and now, almost exactly
four months later, becomes a Judge of
the Commonwealth’s highest tribunal.
He’s 51 and married.
“Ek D.” farewells an old acquaint-
ance : —-
Dead in London, Robert Hadfield, of Shef-
field, maker of big-gun ammunition and a
host of other accessories to war, inventor of
silicon and manganese steel and many other
essential alloys. His scientific distinctions fill
more than a column of close print in Who’s
Who. He was a tall, pale old man, who looked
colorless at first glance as he sat behind his
table in Warwick House-street, just off Pall
Mall, but, despite ailments which kept him
continuously in pain, he was a bundle of pure
dynamite. His first act was usually to give any
stranger who turned up a valuable penknife.
Then he would settle back in his chair and,
under cover of his desk, take an expert short-
hand note of the conversation. To travel with
him was a dangerous experience, for he always
had his Daimler pushed along at 50 miles an
hour if the road would not stand 60 m.p.h. Once
he sent for me to ask advice: “What would you
do,” he asked in his reedy voice, “if you came
round a corner at 50 miles an hour in my
Daimler and found yourself face to face with
closed railway gates?” “Hit them straight on,”
says I; “they’d probably come off their hinges.”
“That’s what I told the blanky fool,” shrieked
the old man —he was 68 then—“and instead
he drove the blinkety-blank thing through a
hedge and scratched my face." He liked Aus-
tralians, and once tried to establish a branch
of his huge Sheffield steel works here.
Dead in England, at 71, Capt. W. S.
Shelford, who was commodore of the
Orient Line fleet when he retired a
decade ago, and was one of the best-
known skippers on the England-Australia
run. He got his introduction to the sea
on the training-ship Worcester at 12, and
at 16 was an apprentice on the wind-
jammer Earl of Chatham, a big four-
master, when she was wrecked off Holy-
head. He had a master’s ticket when he
came under the Orient flag in 1893, and
in the latter years of his seafaring com-
manded the Ormuz, Orontes, Omrah,
Orsova, Orvieto, Ormonde, Orama and
Oronsay.
Archibald Bache Walkom, who suc-
ceeds Dr. Anderson as Director of the
Australian Museum, Sydney, was born
at Grafton, N. S. Wales, and his degrees,
headed by a doctorate of science, come
from Sydney University. A Rockefeller
Foundation Scholarship gave him a tour
of Europe and a course of study at
Cambridge. On his return to Australia
he was for six years lecturer in geology
and palaeontology at Brisbane University,
resigning to become secretary of the
N. S. Wales Linnean Society. For seven
years he edited “Australian Science
Abstracts,” and he has served as a mem-
ber of the Museum’s board of trustees.
Australian fossil plants are his specialty,
but as he’s only 51 he still enjoys a brisk
game of tennis.
“Y. B. Blue”: Jack Moses dropped
into Sydney the other day, fresh from a
round, of western and southern N.S.W.
shows. According to the cheerful old-
timer that part of the inland was throw-
ing its collective hat in the air for the
rain which came, as Jack put it, just
when “things were on the brink.” Jack
is doing his bit ‘‘Beyond the City Gates,”
having had printed thousands of cards
depicting a swagman and a dog and
carrying a parody of his famous “dog
on the tucker-box” verses, each stanza of
which ends with “When we hang Hitler
by the seat of his pants, nine miles from
Gundagai.” They’re selling like hot cakes
at a bob each for the Lord Mayor’s
fund.
Dr. John Dale, Melbourne’s tall City
Health Officer, was losing his deposit in
Kooyong while his chief, C. J. Coles,
was getting in for Henty. Though he has
odd notions about war finance, Dale is an
enthusiastic health reformer. He tried
recently to get the education authorities
interested in the Oslo meal, a Norwegian
scheme under which children are given a
meal every day at school. They passed
the buck to the Minister for Health, who
passed it on to a charitable institution,
which .is now experimenting with 60
children. Dale was born in England and
educated at Birmingham Uni. He served
in the 1914-18 war with the 2nd and 4th
British armies and then came to Perth as
M.O.H. for W.A. In 1927 he became
M.O.H. for Melbourne.
John D. Fisher, now of Stephenson
and Turner, architects of Melbourne and
Sydney, holds the Diploma of Archi-
tectural Design and was a winner of the
Robert and Ada Haddon Travelling
Scholarship. He returned last year from
an extensive trip abroad during which he
studied hospitals and modern industrial
and housing work. He is now supervis-
ing the erection of the 600-bed Govern-
ment military hospital at Yaralla, the
old Walker home at Concord, Sydney.
Sergeant-Major F. J. Davidson, who
served for 22 years with the Scots Guards,
and who spent the last 27 years as drill
instructor and school clerk at Sydney C.
of E. Grammar School, died in Sydney
the other day. When he came to “Shore”
he had seen service in the South African
War and had been a gymnastic instructor
at the Guards’ Depot at Aldershot, and
during his time in the school upwards of
5000 boys passed through his hands both
in the “gym” and in the Cadet Corps.
Only recently he was elected an honorary
member of the Shore Old Boys’ Union—
as a mark of the regard in which every-
one connected with the school held Tiim.
Adelaide Chamber of Commerce’s new
president, Sydney Powell, fulfils the city’s
tradition of choosing its leaders from the
native-born by having been born in
SYDNEY POWELL.
Adelaide. That was 46 years ago. In
the meantime the new president, who
commenced his career as a civil servant,
studying accountancy on the side, has
become one of the city’s leading char-
tered accountants, a member of the State
Bank Board, a director of Executor,
Trustee and Agency and various other
cos. and vice-president of the S.A. divi-
sion of the I.C.A. He plays golf and
tennis.
David Valentine Jardine Blake, briga-
dier in charge of administration, Southern
Command, started to earn a living as a
schoolteacher. His parents came from
the West Indies, and he was born at
Parramatta (N.S.W.), went to the Marist
Brothers’ College there and then to Syd-
ney’s Fort-street. He was teaching in
the N.S.W. Education Department when
he joined the St. George’s English Rifles
Regiment. He landed in the Permanent
Forces just before the 1914-18 war, in
BRIGADIER BLAKE.
which he commanded an A.F.C. flying
squadron. When the Americans took
over a section of the line in France held
by the Australians he did reconnaissance
work for them when they lacked a flying
eye to counter the German air force. For
that he got the American Distinguished
Service medal, a decoration given to only
10 Britons, five of whom were Austra-
lians. (The others were Generals
Monash, Burgess, Bessell Browne and
Phillips.) After the war Blake was A.D.C.
to Australian Governors and Governor-
Generals and held various staff appoint-
ments. In ’24 he became Brig.-Major of
the 4th Infantry in Victoria, and last year
stepped into his present position. His
address is mainly the Victoria Barracks,
Melbourne.
Doyen of Australian road-mappers
George R. Broadbent keeps himself fit
at 76 by pedalling a bicycle along the
highways he helped to pioneer 60 years
ago in Victoria. It was in the ’eighties
that he formed the Better Roads Assoc,
of Victoria, which stirred the Govern-
ment out of its lethargy and led to the
creation of a Country Roads Board.
The C.R.B. still provides him with an
unending occupation, for it keeps on
building fresh roads before he has
finished mapping the old ones. Broad-
bent was a foundation member of the
R.A.C.V. and one of the first to coax
a car over the Cabbage State’s highways.
His first road-guide came out in 1896.
They have been coming out ever since,
and the veteran has cycled over nearly
every foot of the tracks he describes so
accurately.
“Oxmead”: The first thing I can re-
member John Curtin saying when he
arrived at Perth in 1917 was that he had
no Parliamentary ambitions. I have no
doubt he meant it sincerely, too. He had
contested an election or two in Victoria,
and he didn’t want the Labor heads in
W.A., who had brought him over to edit
the “Worker,” to think that he might use
the paper as a handy stepping-stone to
Parliament, as previous editors had done.
But within a year or two his original pro-
nouncement was quite forgotten. He
wrote and spoke so well that it soon be-
came clear that Westralian Labor had
annexed a new torch-bearer, on the plat-
form as well as at the desk.


STATE express
Quality
1
m
sm
?r
r\\
mm
/
#
THREE SEVENS
A STATE EXPRESS PRODUCT
10 for 6d. 20 for 17-I 7 -
Also Flat Fifties and Round Air-tight Fifties.
VISCACELLE-WRAPPED FOR
77?
77,
mi
o
RESHER
FLAVOUR
73 9 E
>B.^


ABORIGINALITIES
“Aratta”: “Some blokes are daddies
at beatin’ about the bush when they’re
after anything,” remarked Singleton
Sam. “Joe Swiper, f’r instance. Joe
couldn’t, or wouldn’t, talk straight to the
point. He was an artist at trickin’ yer,
too. A wordy talk on minin’, follered by
one on eckernomic conditions an’
another on rates of exchange between
furrin countries, finally ended up in what
he wus after—bitin’ yer f’r a coupla bob.
Even when y’ asked him ter have a
drink he took so long talkin’ before he
got ter ‘yes’ that he missed it more
than once, the barman bein’ busy with
someone else. One night he burst inter
a room where me an’ some other blokes
wus flayin’ cards. He looks a bit upset an’
stands with his back ter the door. ‘What’s
up, Joe?’ I asks. He clears his throat.
There’S a bloke out here who wants yer
ter save him from bein’ done ter death.
His wife’s threatened ter cut his throat.
She’s waitin’ f’r him now with a razor.’
‘Cripes!’ we says, ‘who is it?’ ‘Me!’ he
says.”
* * * He
“Murlonga”: This has been a rat-
plague year in Queensland, and it has
set me wondering if the coming summer
will be marked, as have other rat-plague
years, with abnormal bushfires. If fires
start in the west country where the rats
are now swarming there isn’t the man-
power in the district to handle them.
They sweep up the Georgina from Boulia,
resting one wing on the river, the other
on the Overland Telegraph, taking whole
stations in their stride. In ’l7, a bad rat
year, one fire travelled 170-odd miles be-
tween sundown and sunrise on the west-
ern side of the Georgina, out where the
rats, myalls and a few ’roos and brumbies
were the only things to be disturbed by
the flames.
* * * *
C. Shaw: Good for “Berry” (B.
9 /10/ ’40)! Memory is a tricky thing,
even with railway lines, and I admire
“B.’s” quick spotting of the bloomer. All
the same, I doubt if the fictioneer in
any other country has to be so darned
careful as the Australian, who is certain
to be snapped up the moment he dis-
locates a town, misbreeds a horse, mis-
calls a drink or disparages a fond belief.
I’m not charging “B.” with being too
critical; after all, if a man locates a yarn
in a certain district he should know a bit
about that district; but I’d like to say
that it’s hard enough to imagine these
things without being compelled, as Aus-
tralian writers are, to keep a geography,
a history, an encyclopaedia, anthologies,
railway guides, brewery catalogues, turf
and criminal records and The Evolution
of the Merino beside him for constant
checking.
* * * *
“Atrax”: An open umbrella tied
amongst the upper branches of a grey-
gum often attracts the interested curiosity
of first visitors to a private zoo outside
Brisbane which specialises in providing
comfortable and healthy homes for Billy
Bluegum and his household. In a com-
fortable fork beneath the Chamberlainian
roof there is often drowsing a rotund
koala lady who takes no apparent interest
in the gaieties of the Bluegum world or
even in gum-leaves. It is the maternity
ward, and particularly in wet or showery
weather experienced Bluegum matrons
seek its shelter when they realise that
another Best Immigrant is about to
arrive. Billy, of course, behaves like
the little gentleman that he is and never
attempts to invade the accommodation
reserved for maternity cases.
* * *. *
“Old-timer”: Lanny, a veteran battler
of the N.S.W. Riverina, was seldom
stumped for an idea when it came to
breaking an alcoholic dry spell. He
arrived at Euchapivy one burning night
with his tongue hanging out, surveyed
the scene around the local pub, realised
that in their present state the locals were
beyond all human blandishment, shud-
deringly took a sip of water and retired
to the river to cogitate. He made three
sorties to the pub up to midnight, but
each was repulsed. Then he really
settled down to think. About 2 a.m.,
when some of the crowd in the pub were
beginning to feel that first shaky return
to sobriety which presages an awful
Sunday morning, there came a loud
knock on the parlor door. The trooper
opened it and fell back before a ghastly
white figure that stood without. As the
startled tongues began to unstick them-
selves the figure vanished. The trooper
moved towards the door. That pale
apparition appeared again, holding up
“I tell y' she said it Was to go inter the music-room.”
its hands, seeming to float towards them.
It was enough. All who could move
went from that pub without pause ; those
who couldn’t didn’t matter anyway. And
Lanny, the front half of him white-
washed, the back half covered by a dark
blanket so that when he turned the white
vanished, entered into his reward. By
daylight, when the considerably-sobered
trooper returned, the plot was exposed
and the hilarious Lanny removed. They
gave him seven days, but he reckoned
it was worth it.
% 4 * *
“Pick”: A bush area that is suitable
for closer settlement and readily occupied
is the big hollow white gum-tree that
stands ghostly and stark in the mauve-
blue shadows of the higher messmates
and ribbon gums. Cylindrical through-
out, each section of the tree has its cus-
tomary residents. The hollow roots have
a butt of thick, straight-grained timber
where cracks appear as the tree sways in
the wind. These cracks widen into
splintery clefts through which rabbits and
bandicoots may spring to the vacant
recess beyond.
* * * *
“Langshan”: Three spiders which have
spun their webs from my Bignonia
venusta to a scarlet hibiscus have evi-
dently solved the question of “live and
let live.” The two outer webs are hung
to right and left of the centre web, and it
is a very wary insect that escapes being
entangled and devoured by the grim-
visaged hunters when they emerge from
their lairs in the creeper at dusk.
Despite the fact that the webs are only
nine inches apart, none of the spiders
attempts to raid the other webs, each
seemingly content to await its turn. The
webs were broken down one morning,
but were promptly respun in the same
places that evening.
* * * *
“Wang”: There’s about half a dozen
of us workin’ f’r a cocky one harvest
time,” related Dan, “when a bloke drifts
along with a swag an’ the boss puts him
on. He’s a little pasty-faced coot —
looked like he’d worked in a city office
or a draper’s shop all his life. That
suited us bush-bred blokes right down
ter the ground, an’ that night in the hut
we started spinnin’ some tall tales. They
wus all about some imaginary bloke from
the city we’d each met up with some
time or other, an’ each of us tried ter
beat the other with some horrible iggsperi-
ence this bloke an’ us had been mixed
up in. Fair hair-raisin’ they wus. The
cove sits there quiet as a mouse an’ eyein’
each of us as we told our tale with a
fascinated look. We reckoned he wus
too scared even ter shiver. Which
wusn’t surprisin’—some of them yarns
wus scary enough even f’r us tellin’ ’em.
When the last liar had finished his piece
the little bloke rubs his hand across his
face an’ said, ’sif ter ’imself, ‘Cripes!
I’ll ’aveter get these ’ere eyes of mine
seen ter ; they’re lettin’ me down. Fancy
me not reckernisin’ y’!’ ‘Wotcher mean
not reckernisin’ us?’ someone says.
‘Well,’ he says, grinnin’, ‘l’m the feller
each of youse chaps ’as been talkin’
about!”’
* * * *
“Padflogger”: Cruising around the
other day I came on a gang of scouts
struggling with the Australia-old problem
of making a damper. It recalled the
recipe my old man gave me for the
job when starting me off on my
pilgrimage. And perhaps, with so
much of Australia’s present population
concentrated around George and Bourke
streets, The Bulletin will forgive me
for quoting it. “First make your
mixing water warm, but not hot. Take
from six to eight handfuls of flour and
heap on sheepskin (or oilskin) kept for
the purpose. Make hole in middle and
mix on the wet side for a beginning. Add
a good sprinkle of salt around the rim
of the crater, then work up the outside
flour until the dough is stiff enough not
to stick to the fingers. Which means a
biscuit-dough rather than a loaf-dough.
Have fire going at least two hours before
baking, so that the ground will be really
hot. Damper should not be more than
half-inch thick. As soon as done, test
with straw or blade of knife, lift and
brush with wisp of green twigs. Stand
hot damper upright, leaning against some
support. Don’t lay it down until quite
cold, otherwise it will become heavy and
sodden.” Damper mixed and baked to
these directions will eat like piecrust,
especially when hot.
* * * *
“Colebrook”: H. V. Morton, in his
In the Steps of the Master, describes
swifts “flying up to dart and scream
above the ochre-brown walls of Jeru-
salem.” The swifts I know in Tasmania
have the gift of silence, unless the whirr
of their wings as they pass at lightning
speed can be described as a “scream.”
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: An alleged seagull
which took a live bait intended for a
flathead in the Noosa River (S.Q.) and
had to be played by the angler has
achieved a headline in the Brisbane press.
Probably it was a tern, but several kinds
of seabirds in these parts are liable to
make nuisances of themselves with mov-
ing baits near the surface. Gannets are
the worst of the lot, and it is no picnic
to get a powerful bird 4ft. across the
wings and possessed of a wicked beak
and a pigheaded disposition mixed up
with you in a small boat, not to speak
of damage to light tackle. The most
dramatic episode of the kind in my
experience occurred when the business
end of a baited line slipped overside from
a launch returning from mackerel-
trailing. It was near low water and she
was going slow past a bank on which
a mob of pelicans were fishing. One
sft.-long specimen squattered across,
picked up the garfish bait and, when the
linked hooks caught in his beak, took to
the air. The helmsman jumped to grab
the running line, slipped on a mackerel
and fell overboard. Before his mate
could get to the tiller the boat went
aground, the engine backfired and she
caught fire. The stout 200-yard line was
tied to a ringbolt, and as they fought the
flames a demented pelican flew in
circles high above, followed by all its
mates squawking at top voice. The hook
drew just as the bird was above a big
patch of mangroves, and after the fire
was mastered the cursing fishyblokes
spent hours disentangling the barrel-
leaded line from the branches, eaten
alive by mosquitoes and sandflies.
* * * *
“Joe Flint”: Butting in on this bandi-
coot-wombat argument (B. 18/9/ ’4O), I
venture the suggestion that both primi-
tives were once common right through
this continent. I’ve found bandicoots out
from Coolgardie, along the Oakover
River, Pilbarra and at Christmas Creek
in the East Kimberleys ; and had them
on the menu, too. Rolled in clay or
wrapped in wet bark and roasted in the
ashes, they turned up a white flesh better
than rabbit and not much inferior to
chicken. As for the wombat, in the
’eighties colonies of them were to be
found as far west as Eucla, which is on
the W.A. side of the Bight. Probably at
one time they existed plentifully right
west as far as the Leeuwin, but they fell
an easy prey to the aboriginal, who in
comparatively recent times overran that
part of the continent.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: The raider came gliding
down from a great height, its wings rigid
and black against the blue sky. Sud-
denly a soldier gave the alarm, and
there was a rush for cover on the ground.
Other soldiers took up the warning, and
by the time the enemy was overhead no-
thing moved below. Then from the east,
two abreast and one slightly behind, a
trio of fighters shot into the sky and
raced at high speed toward the sinister
circling shape. They got above it and
dived steeply, forcing it to bank and
sheer off at a tangent. It picked up speed
and climbed, turning and twisting to
avoid the attacks, finally disappearing
over the timber. As the brown hawk
vanished, the three magpies dropped to
earth from the chase, the soldier-birds
went about their business, and on the
ground the field-larks came from cover
and a sitting plover settled herself a little
more firmly on the nest.
SEA TRIANGLE.
Life may be made of love and kisses,
But love may be bitter and void of cheer —
A tale of a cruel maiden, this is,
And a jealous mate and an engineer.
Dark ran the seas; dim-lit and tameless,
Their grey tops showed in the deck-lights’
shine,
Where the engineer, a “deucer” shameless,
Stood with the maid, whose shape divine
In the glowing lamps was silhouetted . . .
He should have T>een in the engine-room,
But neither he nor the maiden fretted—
Only the mate in the bridge’s gloom.
Pacing, he frowned with brows of thunder,
Watching the two on the deck below,
Jealousy tearing his soul asunder;
An hour ago he had held her so.
One hour ago she had promised something;
He had believed, had laughed, and now .. .
He came to the rail like a stricken, dumb thing,
Wiping the sweat from his clammy brow.
She saw him there and she gasped and started,
Her conscience smiting a body blow;
Remembering how they had lately parted,
She whispered anxiously “Let me go!”
But the engineer was unrelenting;
He held her closer and kissed her twice.
“The mate!” she gasped, her deeds repenting.
“The mate?” he echoed. “He cuts no ice!”
Ixate in a heart is a bitter cancer.
Well did the man on the high bridge know
That the engineer must surely answer
The telegraph when it rang below . ..
Slowly, as one might turn a mangle,
His strong hand moved on the telegraph:
From far below came a strident jangle;
From the bridge, a harsh, triumphant laugh.
Down where the engines’ rolling rhythm
Rumbles and mutters, so hoarse and gruff,
The “deucer” fled; but he took her with him—
He was a caveman, right enough.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


"I'll have to see the vet. about Bluey—he does nothin but scratch
himself lately !”
“Burra”: I can well believe “Thorn’s”
story of the mosquitoes which chewed up
the candle and lampwicks (B. 25/9/’4O).
Working on night shift in a big construc-
tion job in Brisbane I was constantly dis-
tracted from my job of drilling boltholes
in a 10ft. steel girder by a swarm of large
mosquitoes. Whenever I had a spot nicely
warmed up they would fly into the flame
of the lamp and attack the hot metal
with evident relish. Determined to put
a stop to it, I grabbed a dozen or so by
the scruffs of their necks, thrust their
beaks through the boltholes and with a
few deft hammer-blows riveted them
over. Imagine my rage when the brutes
took wing and made off with the girder
still attached. The cost of it left a sorry
hole in my pay envelope.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Hikers weren't popular
around our way when the tank had an
ominous hollow sound above the third
ring ; in fact, the sight of a thirsty-looking
crowd of amateur footsloggers heading
towards the house generally aroused
homicidal instincts in Dad. One Sunday,
however, a dazzling smile and a pair
of brief shorts melted his heart to the
extent of a big billy of water. Gurgling
her thanks the flapper swallowed a few
draughts, swilled the can around with
polite hygiene, then tossed the balance
of the precious fluid away and calmly
handed the billy back to Dad to be re-
filled for the next in line! The old
chap’s chivalry wasn’t equal to this con-
duct. With a voice that could be heard
up in the top paddock he let go a few
well-chosen words. Miss Shorts was both
surprised and indignant. “Why, you
nasty old man, going on like that over
a drop of water!” she exclaimed. “Any-
how (with socialistic logic), “it’s as much
ours as yours—God provides the rain! ”
Yairs,” roared Dad impiously, “but who
supplies the flamin’ tank?”
* * * *
Dickie Beech”: Should any bold
sportsman care for a spot of whaling
there are excellent opportunities just now
within easy reach of the S.Q. coast. I
came on my old friend Bill making a
carefuHnspection of the bow of his 25ft.
craft. “There I was,” he said, “trailin’ fer
jacks out on the Wide when a flamin’ whale
oigger’n a ’ole circusful uv elephants
comes up sudden an’ cuts clean acrost
me bows, the cow, without even whistlin’
urough ’is blanky blow’oles neither. An’
uv course I ’its ’im. Near stove me bow
luh Its upter flamin’ Govinment
uer ter’ ave ’em taught the rules uv the
°ad at sea or else boil ’em down.”
“Quareef”: “Oont’s” contention (B.
18/9/’4O) that 99 horses out of 100 will
ignore a snake is as absurdly untrue as it
is unjustly disparaging to the intelligence
of the horse. Apparently “O.’s” know-
ledge of the equine is confined to that
old work-worn crock with which he trails
his camels. My experience is that all
horses alike hate, fear and shun Joe irre-
spective of whether he is numerous or
scarce in the district. There are 30 horses
on the far-west N.S.W. run from which I
write, and I defy anybody to ride any
one of these over a live wriggler. They
will rear, sidle, snort and plunge madly
aside, but not over the danger. Their
horse-sense hugs safety-first instincts. As
to “O.’s” query, “Why do all other horses
flatly refuse to associate with the camel-
man’s prad?” any bushman knows that a
strange horse —no matter whether the
humble hooshtar’s mount or a petted
charger unsullied by camel-contamination
—is never welcomed by an equine mob.
For months they will kick, bite and un-
ceremoniously hool him from their social
circle. In fact, after 12 months’ overtures
there is usually some disagreeable crank
in the mob which will snatch a hunk
from his hide. On the other hand, a
lone horse in a paddock will quickly
cobber up with any stranger.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: The first warm days have
set the slim-waisted black-and-yellow
dauber wasps searching for sheltered
places wherein to build the mud mauso-
leums in which paralysed spiders will
serve as incubators and food for their
eggs and lame. So long as the site is
fairly vertical and sheltered from rain
its foundation does
not seem to matter.
Walls, picture-
backs, books, the
dried jaws of a
shark, my best pants
hung in a wardrobe
—all these have
served the need. The
decision made, the
pair embark upon
the strenuous labor
involved in building
an average of from
six to eight cells—
sometimes up to 16 —
each fin. in diameter
and lfin. long,
which make up the
complete nest. In
one observed in-
stance a pair made
40 return journeys
in 75 minutes to
build one cell, bring-
ing the mud from a
mile away. After a
careful landing near
—n ever on —the
nest, the mud pellet
is spread with the
mandibles and fore-
legs, fanned mean-
while to dryness by the harshly-buzzing
wings. As each cell is finished the
female wasp begins the task of filling it.
Carrying the first sting-paralysed spider,
she lands beneath the cell, crawls up to
it, backs carefully in with her load and
deposits an egg on the spider’s abdomen
after she has pushed it, head outward,
to the bottom of the cell. Three or four
more follow, but no eggs are laid on
them —they are more food for the hungry
larva which will hatch from the inner-
most in a few days and eat its way
through them. When the larder-nursery
is full she seals it with a mud cap and
buzzes off to help hubby, who has been
hard at work on the next cell. A month
or so later the adult Sceliphron Icetum
will emerge from its cocoon, bore
through the mud cap, and after drying
its wings will flash off on its first flight.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Big Mat was desperate
enough to take a job at 255. a week and
keep with a dairy cocky. The hours
were 5 a.m. to 9 p.m., the work constant
if not particularly heavy. Mat could
see that the cocky was struggling under
debt, poor land and indifferent cows,
and, though he didn’t believe in slavery,
he did his best. Mat was a good worker,
and the cocky regarded him as a marvel,
which was natural, seeing the type of
youth he’d been used to at the rate of
pay he could afford. After a month
Mat, with a fiver stored, announced his
departure. The cocky sighed and ap-
peared most downhearted. Gently Mat
explained that he understood that the
farm wouldn’t pay any more wages and
that, though he had nothing against the
employer or the work, he was used to
and could get much better money else-
where, briefly outlining some of the jobs.
Flattered by the cow-cocky’s interest, he
expanded on the subject. That night as
the shadows were falling bewildered
cows stood round the bails lowing in
vain while their owner and his late em-
ployee travelled steadily northwards in
"Just call me 'Butch.' missus."
the former’s sulky, heading for a clear-
ing contract that Mat knew of which
they could work in partnership. Thus
was another farm allowed to revert to
the banks.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: If “Linesman Mick” is
still footing it beside the railtracks on
his 300-and-odd-mile beat between Cler-
mont and Yaraka (Q.), he must be about
the last of the genuine old-style sun-
downers. With an equal scorn of work
and of the old-age pension for which he
has long since qualified, Mick is assured
of a liberal handout at all the good
tucker stations, and spaces his times and
distances accordingly. “Swaggie Jim,”
once famous throughout W.Q. for his
vocabulary and his habit of carrying a
battered tin bucket instead of the usual
tucker bags, has passed over. So has
“Quandong Joe,” whose buttons, hat
“corks,” jewellery and even the collar
of his. dog were made of quandong seeds
artistically carved by himself. “Charcoal
Charley,” with the charcoal filter in his
billycan and the mangrove-tanned mos-
quito net, no longer lectures to chance-
met travellers upon their dual virtues in
saving him from even one day’s illness
in 40 years of hoofing it between the
Gulf country and the southern border.
‘Barwon Jimmie” rests in a longer and
deeper sleep than any he ever enjoyed
on his camp of old newspapers, pegged
down to keep ants out of the blankets
and surrounded by a shallow trench.
“Pumpkin Paddy” no more sows potato
eyes and vegetable seeds in the flats along
the Balonne and Condamine to provide
a bit o’ greens when he came that way
again—his little patches passed the hun-
dred mark before he planted the last
one. Queer old chaps, weak in the head
by city standards, yet each of them seek-
ing soul-freedom according to his lights.
And what more engrossing search can
life offer to any of us?
* * * *
“Tom’s Boss”: Several times lately our
Tom, after playing with a rat for an
hour or so, has left it apparently dead.
Half an hour later when he returned and
tossed it up the rodent would spring
to life and the game of catch as-cats-can
would continue, Catsmeat making
desperate efforts to escape. Some rat
expert on the Council might tell me why
the rodent didn’t make good his escape
while Tom was well out of reach.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: It was fortunate for the
white interloper that the northern W.A.
abo. had no conception of the value of
gold, even as a trading medium with the
Malays who frequently visited the Great
South Land. For Mrs. Abo. has an un-
canny knack of separating the dirt and
dust from a number of substances, about
the easiest of which is gold. The pro-
cess is known as “yandying,” carried out
with the sable lady’s universal dish,
cradle and carryall, known in many
parts of the continent as the pitchi. With
her pitchi, or yandi, the abo. housewife
can take the debris of a stump or log,
eaten to dirt by white-ants, and with a
few deft twirls of her dish will have the
termites up at one end and the earth at
the other—termites, incidentally, being an
abo. hors-d’oeuvre at the tribal cocktail
luncheon. The same art applied to metals
yields the same result. Always utili-
tarian, Mr. Binghi these modern times
applies the art and labor of his female
relatives to the winning of tin, notably
on the supposedly long-ago-worked-out
Moolyella field, not far from Marble
Bar. Here Ginny with her primitive bark
dish works the parched soil much more
successfully than the various dry-blowing
machines that have been
lugged, at considerable ex-
pense, into the hottest part
of Australia and there left
to stand idle, as monuments
to the fact that there are
a few things which the
omnipotent white can’t do
quite as well as his lowly
brother and sister.
* * *
“Billy See”: Speaking of
camels, a 50-year-old oont
is not uncommon. Mrs.
Camel carries her young for
11 months, and then suckles
it for a whole year. A week
after birth the camel calf
stands 3ft. high, yet does
not reach maturity for 16
to 17 years. Nature’s best
example of moisture con-
servation, the camel has
only one sweat gland— at the
back of its head.
“0.W.W.” : When the waitress brought
in his morning tea Dad waved his hand
angrily towards the big wardrobe stand-
ing open in one corner of the room. “Get
the boss to take that outa here,” he
roared. “I spent two hours inside it
searching for the light switch last night.”
PARRAMATTA RIVER.
Here in the hushed and silent evening hour,
A lone companion to the sobbing tide,
I gaze upon the waters dark and wide
That eastward roll with all their mighty power.
The day is done and night’s pale stars look
down,
While far away the city lights aglow
Lay silver fingers on the waves that go
The seaward road by way of Sydney town.
Who knows what spirits gather here tonight
To hold corroboree ’neath a midnight moon?
I almost thought I heard a vague, sad tune,
And caught a glimpse of campfires burning
bright.
For there is mystery more than Sydney knows
Where Parramatta River winds and flows.
N.S.W.
T.L. STERWART.


PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE...
The results of your life s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
Security .
Economy
Service
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
Or AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. -(Chairman) ; J. Beresford Grant (Vice-
Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C. : .James Kidd; Hon. Colin A. Sinclair, ALL.A. ;
A. E. Heath, C.M.G. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP ‘ . £4,739,012 10
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10
0
0
0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend; Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M4383. 86371.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co.
Net , Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £
1930.. 320.70 C 10 p.e. 6 p.c.= 318,939 1,761 150,134
1931.. 319 10 „ 2* „ „ 187,141 138,312
2932.. 340 10 „ 3 ~,,205,970 1,370 139,682
1933.. 241.919 10 „ 4 „ „ 243,626 137,975
1934.. 929 10 „ 5 „,, 281,283 6,646 144,621
Unexplained reductions, £37,392 ..107,229
1935.. 016 10 p.e. Nil 93,000 27,016 134,245
1936.. 307.183 10 „ 5 p.e. = 281,283 25,900 160,145
1937.. 410.409 10 „ 7 „ „ 356,595 53,814 213,959
1938.. 702 10 „ 7 ~ ~356,596 58,106 272,065
1939.. 417.650 10 ~ 7 „ ~ 356,596 61,054 333,119
1940.. 450.505 10 „ 7 „ ~356,596 93,909 427,023
* Includes £138,301 paid on old Perdriau co.’s
shares, t Goodwill ( £354,377) not treated as an
asset herein.
This big and efficient industrial organisa-
tion owns half a dozen factories —three
each in Melbourne and Sydney—which
cover 16 acres of ground and turn out
over a hundred different kinds of rubber
products, and there are over 5000 names
on the payroll.
The capital account figures at £4,695,655
in 930,000 10 p.e. cum. prefs. and
3,765,655 ords., of which half a million
were taken at 255. each in 1927 by the
English Dunlop Co., which at the same
time made available a lot of technical
and other information. Later Dunlops
and Perdriaus got into double harness,
control of Barnet Glass was acquired,
and last term there was a link-up with
Bradford Cotton. The co. thus has
strong ramifications. Also, following an
overhaul of the buying, selling and
manufacturing sections of the business
some five years ago, a factory rationali-
sation scheme was introduced, the full
benefits of which were not felt until last
term. This scheme aimed at standard-
ising a number of products and elimi-
nated much former overlapping, and
therefore waste, thus strengthening the
co.’s competitive power.
The principal raw materials from which
the co.’s extensive range of manufactures
is produced are rubber from Malaya
and Papua; cotton from Egypt, India
and America ; zinc oxide, an activating
agent, now produced in Australia; tar
distillates, used as softening ingredients,
also made locally ; carbon black, which
increases the wear in tyres, and sulphur,
a vulcanising agent, both drawn mainly
from the U.S.A. It is plain that the
buying side of the business is subject to
a range of world-wide influences.
Tyres account for about half the turn-
over, with rubber footwear second on the
list. The number of motor vehicles regis-
tered in Australia at June 30 for each
of the last half-dozen years compares as
follows:
Motor- Commercial Motor-
. Tune 30, cars. Vehicles. cycles.
1935 . . 457,684 155,721 75,045
1936 . . 484,832 180,567 77,467
1937 . . 499,289 214,296 77,912
1938 . . 534,963 241,751 80,114
1939 . . 559,960 260,091 79,225
1940 . . 557,180 263,404 74,455
During the last 12 months there was a
smaller demand for initial shoeing,
owing to the drop in registration of new
vehicles, notwithstanding that purchases
for defence purposes largely offset the
shrinkage in private buying. There were
a contraction of 2780 motor-cars and a
growth of only 3313 commercial vehicles
on the roads. Costs continued to climb,
and the price of raw rubber shot up
from B|d. in June, 1939, to 10|d. at the
beginning of the war, and increased to
14fd. in June last; the market for cotton
followed a similar course.
However, the management’s rationali-
sation scheme brought more savings, and
the factories continued to produce at
high pressure. So the latest accounts,
allowing for an unexplained addition of
£10,907 to reserves, disclose £32,855 more
profit. That was after deducting a loss
of £44,649 on sale of some fixed assets,
providing £156,654 (up £38,201) for de-
preciation, writing £27,640 (up £17,270)
off the rationalisation account (reducing
it to £20,000), and making a larger but
unspecified allowance for taxation. The
£450,505 of profit was enough to pay the
pref. div. and show 9.5 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 8.6, 8.5 and 8.4 p.c. for
the three preceding terms. The div. was
kept at 7 p.c. Declared profit for the
co. and its subsidiaries was £457,492.
There was substantial improvement in
the already strong financial position:
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET.
Paiff capital— 1935. 1939. 1940.
Dunlop interest £4,695,655 £4,695,655 £4,695,655
Outside interest* 198,314 222,379 221,522
Reserves! .. . . 490,661 692,281 786,197
Tax reserve . . 62,407 112,270 196,278
Liabilities.. .. 239,467 290,564 271,920
Freeholds, eta .. 1,297,271 1,216,009 1,067,039
Plant, etc. . . 1,147.825 1,054,565 928,218
Stocks .. .. 2,032,486 2,116,460 2,509,088
Debtors . . . . 616,696 916,925 999,024
Investments, etc... 22,946 6,265 143,939
Cash, etc. .. 26,178 217,977 58,510
Rationalisation, acc. 46,137 20,000
Goodwill .. .. 601,477 630,830 633,058
* Includes share undistributed profits, t Subject to
goodwill and rationalisation account.
Of the increase of £392,628 in stocks,
£200,000 represented “well-bought parcels
of crude rubber,” the balance being
mainly on account of cotton and other
overseas supplies. To help meet this out-
lay and add £82,099 to debtors’ balances
and £137,674 to investments the board
drew upon cash, etc., for £159,467. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£3,294,702) was £333,904.
The market notes the all-round im-
provement in the figures, including the
advantageous stock position, and prices
the pound ords. at 18s. 9d. as against
17s. 6d. a year ago. At the higher figure
the return is 7.5 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div.
basis. The prefs. at 335. yield 6 p.c.
The net tangible cover is £5 3s. lOd.
prefs. and 20s. 9d. ords.
Mauri Bros, and Thomson, Ltd.
/ ——Dividends
r — Prefs. * —, Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.c. 10 p.c. Ordinary. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 54,117 13,500 2190 10 p.c. = 25,800 103,039
Transferred to bad debts reserve,
£5OOO 98,039
F. A. Henriques, Ltd., absorbed;
added goodwili, £9384 .. .. 88,655
1931.. 43,412 13,500 2190 Nil 116,377
To tax reserve, £16,547 .. .. 99,830
Unexplained addition, £5925.. .. 105,755
Portion goodwill sold, £5588 . . 111,343
1932.. 48,919 11,222 1820 5 p.c. = 14,281 132,939
Added goodwill, etc., £Bl6 . . . . 132,123
1933.. 44,096 10,463 1697 64 p.c.= 18,565 145,494
Intangibles disappear, £3292 . . 148,780
1934.. 56,836 13,500 2141 9 p.c. = 25,705 164,276
1935.. 76,170 13,500 2190 10 ~ „ 28,562 196,195
To contingency reserve, £5OOO .. 191,195
1936.. 89,907 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 222,569
To contingency reserve, £6OOO .. 216,569
1937.. 93,240 13,600 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 251,276
Added intangibles, £1443 .. .. 249,833
1938.. 94,432 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 285,732
Added intangibles, £37 .. .. 285,695
1939.. 94,951 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 322,113
Added intangibles, £4150 .. .. 317,963
1940.. 92,580 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 352,010
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October, 1931.
Activities of this well-handled concern,
the leader in its field, are Australasia-
wide. But the accounts reflect fully only
the result of operations in Sydney, Bris-
bane and Auckland, where the co. trades
under its own name ; profits from Vic-
toria, South Aus. and the Speck, where
operations are carried on as Harrison,
San Miguel Pty., and from Westralia,
where F. A. Henriques is the trading co.,
are taken credit for only to the extent of
dividends declared, and the true result
from varied manufacturing is also partly
blanketed in the accounts of other sub-
sidiaries. One way and another the
parent has £275,730 invested in the pups,
Australian Crown Seals Pty. and Cham-
pion’s Vinegar (Aust.) Pty. being two of
the healthiest.
The chances are therefore that the co.
may sell more bottle-seals and vinegar
and derive more profit from manufac-
ture and supply of yeast and refrigera-
tion and other equipment, etc., for
brewers, bakers, bottlers, confectioners,
restaurants, hotels and soft-drink manu-
facturers than it cares to disclose. If
anything, war appears to have extended
the scope of profitable trading there
were additions last year of £4150 to trade-
marks, etc., and of £22,799 to property.
From all sources the parent writes the
latest result in one line at £92,580, after
striking off £11,116 for depreciation and
providing a larger but unstated amount
for the next tax bill. It represented 26.9
p.c. on ord. capital, after looking after
both classes of prefs. (they call for
£15,690 annually), compared with 27.7,
27.5, 27.2, 26 and 21.2 p.c. back to 1935.
Maintenance of the 15 p.c. to the ords.
obviously again strained nothing, and
left £34,000-odd to place to reserves.
Only once since the public came in have
the ords. been neglected. That was in
1931, when merely 9.7 p.c. was avail-
able for them. The result of this con-
servatism all along has been to render
profit-earning in each succeeding term
easier than in the one before, and,
sooner or later, makes more direct bene-
fits to those on the register inevitable,
provided trade holds up, when settled
conditions again prevail.
Finances indicate something of the
encouraging course of business:
1928. 1935. 1930. 1940.
Paid capital. £429,900'£457,520 £457,520 £457,520
Sundry creditors 94,142 44,909 127,290* 147,632*
Freeholds .. 169,545 209,083 254,940 277,739
Plant, etc... 37,192 34,463 44,720 42,870
Shares subsid. 1 as f 251,357 251,113
Loans subsid. f 44 2-4,uio £ 2 9,140 24,617
Stocks .. 128,845 82,231 122.670 157,279
Book debts.. 152,460 57,082 70,630 93,311
Mortgage .. 64,000 51,130
Cash, etc. .. 8,837 94,130 169,873 146,640
* Includes provision for taxes, staff benefits and
contingencies.
Main movements in the figures last
year were the result of property pur-
chase, the accumulation of an extra
£34,609 of stock and the extension of
£22,681 more credit to customers. The
most interesting item is, of course, shares
in other cos., and that is inscrutable.
Breaking up of sundry creditors into its
actual debt and contingency components
might also be interesting. Leaving sub-
sidiary interests out of account, when the
books closed more or less liquids ex-
ceeded liabilities by £249,598, an im-
provement of £13,715.
The share capital comprises 150,000
A 9 p.c. and 21,900 B 10 p.c. prefs., rank-
ing in the order stated for both divs. and
capital, and 285,620 ords. The As at
31s. or thereabouts yield 5.8 p.c. At 625.
the ords. are priced ss. 6d. cheaper than
a year ago to return 4.8 p.c. It is a yield
better protected than most, and definitely
attractive from a holding viewpoint. The
net tangible cover is £5 7s. lid. As,
£3O 2s. 3d. Bs and 445. 7d. ords., subject
to intangibles and reserves in the accounts
of subsidiaries.
Allan and Stark, Ltd. (Brisbane)
, Dividends \
Net Prof. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 14,054 3499 5 p.c. = 13,580 20,985
Loss.
1931.. 4,531 3500 Nil 12,954
Profit.
1932.. 3,432 3500 Nil 12,886
Loss. Deficit.
1933.. 12,397 1750* Nil 1,261
1934.. 21,113 Nil Nil . 22,374
Reserves.
Capital written off, £27,161 .. .. 4,787
Assets written down, £4787 .. ..
Profit. 12.5 p.c.
1935.. 8,057 6250 f Nil 1807 , 1,807
5 p.c.
1936.. 8,295 2500 2 p.c. = 4,889 906 2,713
19.37.. 4,534 2500 Nil 2034 4,747
1938.. 9,386 2500 2* p.c. = 6,111 775 5,522
Surplus on life policies, £735.. .. 6,257
1939.. 12,904 2500 2* p.c. = 6,111 4293 10,550
Surplus sale shares, £312 . . . . 10,862
1940.. 16,636 2500 3 p.c. = 7,333 6803 17,665
* Half-year, f Includes arrears.
Stocks moved off the shelves quickly last
term, for the most part among the
busiest these drapers have experi-
enced. Managements have been able to
find fresh sources of supply or sub-
stitutes for imports no longer available,
which has meant greater opportunities
for their own workrooms, and an in-
creased volume of spending as a result
of higher incomes from abroad and home
has more than counterbalanced the in-
creased outgoings it has also involved.
Moreover, the direct effect of price con-
trol appears to have been felt less in
the case of distributors than some manu-
facturers.
For Allan and Stark the net result was
the best for over a decade. The store runs
through the busy Queen-Adelaide street
block. But position is by no means
everything ; among other things, it has
meant keen competition from a cluster
of other ragshops and chain stores, and
that in turn has involved cut profit
margins in order to hold today’s bargain-
hunting shoppers. Mail-order constitutes
a large chunk of turnover, and there is
a 52 p.c.-owned subsidiary (Stuparts) at
Maryborough —it netted £3249 (down
£104) last year.
Including £1134 passed on by this
northern offshoot, gross earnings
(£167,094) spurted £25,781, which looks
to have been a bit better than the aver-
age experience. Higher outgoings, how-
ever — £150,458, including £6863 (up
£2716) written off and £9535 (up £6353)
set aside for the taxgatherer—reduced
the improvement in net earnings to £3732.
Allowing for the £50,000 of prefs., the
£16,636 was sufficient to show 5.7 p.c.
on the ords., as against 4.2, 2.8, o.§,
2.3 and 2.2 p.c. for the five preceding
terms. Preferring to strengthen the
none-too-stout prop for capital, only half
a point was added to the ords.’ handout,
making it 3 p.c.
With rationing of sterling exchange in
prospect, the management had an addi-
tional incentive to build up stocks:
1 Q;sn IQQK 1 QQQ 1 Qlf)
Paid capital. . £321,615 £294,454 £294,454 £294,454
Mortgages, etc. 82,925 86,993 64,014 113,276
Sundry creditors 52,467 37,851 45,350 55,025
Premises & plant 231,972 220,886 211,005 216,236
Stock.. .. 162,977 131,342 132,401 195,034
Shares other oos. 21,296 21,546 21,546 21,546
Investments . . 550 550 550 50
Book debts .. 62,063 41,727 54,876 54,968
Cash, eta .. 4,042 6,803 1,350 1,168
The addition of £62,633 to the item
necessitated going outside for an
extra £58,937, of which £49,262
was lent by the bank. The surplus of
more or less liquids (£82,919) lifted
£3106. Appearances are that credit
trading is being closely controlled.
Notwithstanding the increasing diffi-
culty of restraining exes., the result has
encouraged the market to take the 18s.
ords. from Bs. 9d. 12 months ago to
10s. 6d., at which the immediate yield
is 5.1 p.c. The prefs. return 5.8 p.c. at
a buyer’s quote of 17s. The cover is
19s. 3d. ords., £6 4s. lOd. prefs. Relatively,
Queensland, with its sugar, wool, meat
and dairy produce, is possibly receiving
more benefit from Imperial purchases of
primary products than any other State.


PATENTS.—Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayera and Metallurgists,
—Advt.
* * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808,
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—■
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensla: d Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Wayrnouth Street, Adelaida.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
There is no Safer Investment in Australia
than a Public Body Loan
No Australian investor in public-body loans has ever failed to receive interest regularly and full
repayment of principal on the due date.
INVEST IN AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST SEMI-GOVERNMENTAL UNDERTAKING
The Sydney Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board offers
INTEREST PAYABLE
HALF YEARLY-
FREE OF EXCHANGE
*
>
r A
v
PRICE OF ISSUE: PAR
CURRENCY: 14 YEARS
for its LOAN OF £900,000
Closing November 2nd, 1940 (or earlierl.
GUARANTEED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF N.S.W.
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT IN NEW
SOUTH WALES, QUEENSLAND AND TASMANIA.
Minimum Subscription £5O. Subscriptions payable in
full or by instalments. Interest accrues immediately
first payment is made.
Daily Stock Exchange Quotations show remarkably
few sellers of public-body securities. Buyers are
seldom difficult to find.
Remember—the Board’s previous Loan was fully
subscribed in one week . . . two weeks before the
due date.
DELAY MAY MEAN DISAPPOINTMENT
APPLY IMMEDIATELY
to any office of the
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
or to
MEMBERS OF RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGES.
Loan Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
(Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.)
Sydney Water Board Loan
The rate for first-class public-body
borrowing appears to have been stabil-
ised at 3f p.c. That is the interest car-
ried by Sydney Water Board’s latest
£900,000 offering, its smallest (and longest-
term) approach to the market for some
time, owing to war-time cut in its works
programme.
Terms compare with recent borrow-
ings from the public in this way:
Interest, Issue
Offered. Amount. P.c. Price. Period.
Jan., ’39 .. £1,000,000 4J Par 10 Years
April, ’39.. 1,000,000 4-J „ 10 „
Sept., ’39.. 1,500,000 4| ~ 13 „
Jan., ’4O . . 1,000,000 4$ „ 12 „
Oct., ’4O . . 900,000 3f „ 14 „
Though the rate offered is 12s. 6d. p.c.
below that of January last, it is approxi-
mately in line with the yield from com-
parable securities in the open market.
With £600,000 privately raised earlier,
the new loan will complete the board’s
£1,500,000 programme for 1940-41.
Underwritten by lan Potter and Co., of
Melb. ’Change, the issue is a trustee
security in N.S.W., Queensland and Tas-
mania ; interest and capital, as well as
being secured on the revenue of the
board, which has a reserve rating power
now approaching £2} million annually,
are also backed by the State Government.
Towards redemption of indebtedness,
a sinking fund of 10s. p.c. p.a. on
loans is established. Among other things,
the fund is available to buy the loans
should they fall below par on the market,
thereby providing additional investment
support for the security.
The recent expedition into the Carnar-
von Ranges of South Central Queensland
by units of the Royal Geographical
Society has drawn attention to the oil-
shale deposits there, inasmuch as they
carried a small distillation plant, and as
a result left small lots of oil about on
their homeward tracks. This is propa-
ganda of the right type. But to make a
real step forward capital will have to be
procured to prove thickness, area and oil
content. At present it seems that only
outcrops have been knapped. The report
by T. Colman in March of a huge deposit
of oil shale in the Drummond Range
seems to have subsided into a quiet back-
water. Yet 15,000,000 tons of shale cap-
able of yielding over 160 gallons of oil
per ton was the estimate given. On the
whole, there seems enough concrete
evidence of widely distributed oil shale
in C.Q. to interest the Commonwealth
Government.
* * * *
From London:
Sections of the gold industry are not alone
in their dissatisfaction with the excess-profits
tax. The Tin Producers’ Association is also
bucking. It points out that most Empire tin is
produced from alluvial mines with very limited
lives, and maintains that, if maximum produc-
tion is to be assured for war requirements and
procurement of foreign exchange, such pro-
duction should not result in confiscation of
tin producers’ limited and irreplaceable prop-
erty, for a 100 p.c. e.-p.t. not only prevents
a producer from increasing his net income
above that of the base year, but also wipes
out the possibility of his deriving any future
revenue from an important portion of his
capital assets.
Putting it another way, on mining ven-
tures which respond to the national re-
quest for increased outputs, the English
e.-p.t. amounts to nothing less than a
capital levy, for once a mine is worked
out only a hole in the ground remains,
and seldom does it pay to shift the plant.
But for the fact that 1937 was a year of
good quotas and prices the protests of the
tin men could be expected to rise much
louder. As it is, not merely are they
making immediate sacrifices, but are
actually undermining their economic
future, as the bigger output is going into
reserve stocks, not consumption, and these
are likely to weigh heavily upon prices
and the control scheme when normal
times return. Most of the Asian dredgers
in which Australians are interested are,
fortunately for them, of either Eastern
or local domicile; exceptions include
Southern Kinta and Kamunting.
**>;<*
Dale Pitt, competent and picturesque
Mormon mining engineer, retiring boss
of American-controlled Big Bell, was
given a Yankee Doodle send-off by
the Westralian mining and commercial
community in Perth the other day. Pitt
found the Bell a despised poor-grade
derelict, and is leaving it a prosperous
front-line gold-producer. Since crushing
began in Oct., 1937, over 1| million tons
has been milled for bullion valued at
£1,694,207. Some £700,000 was expended
before any return was received. Payroll
has averaged £16,000 a month, and Gov-
ernment railway revenue exceeds £25,000
annually. With the exception of a few
Yankee bosses, the mine is staffed mostly
by young Australians.
* * * *
In 1934 Leonora Corporation acquired
from Sons of Gwalia all that co.’s in-
terests apart from its Westralian gold-
mine, and started business as a mining
and finance co. Its net profit last year
from investments of a book value of
£89,938 was only £95. Among the assets
are blocks of shares in several African
mining concerns, including Tanami Syn-
dicate, which first operated in Central
Australia and then moved to Kenya.
* * * *
Gold Exploration, Ltd., is improving
its position. Dividend and interest in-
come advanced by £19,500 to £91,600 last
year, largely the result of an increased
contribution from Victoria Dredging.
Following Gold Mines of Australia’s re-
construction, G.E.’s holding in the co.
now appears £70,885 lower, while its
interest in Triton and Victoria Dredging
has lifted by 52,100 and 13,025 shares
respectively. Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie,
another holding, reports substantial in-
crease in tonnage milled, a satisfactory
reduction in working costs, and an im-
provement of 36 p.c. in net profits. A
13 p.c. interest in Morning Star has been
acquired, loans to Central Norseman and
Western Mining Corporation have been
reduced by a total of £36,500, and the
ultimate liability to note-holders has been
cut back by nearly £200,000 to little more
than half the original amount of £500,000.
Referring to the co.’s Norseman assets,
chairman P. E. Marmion said that excel-
lent progress had been made with de-
velopment and a considerable working
profit earned in the year past.
* * * *
Clansmen, late of Norseman (W.A.),
has taken an option on something on the
Carshalton eastern anticline at Bendigo.
If a purchase is made, £5OOO cash is pay-
able in 10 p.c. of gold proceeds after
Clansmen has deducted £2 a ton of ore
crushed towards mining costs. Vendors
will also receive 30,000 paid shares if the
Federal Treasurer agrees.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
H.A.W.: Not much to choose between any
of the big mutual offices. Rate varies little
J.McK.: Co. still in the development stage.
Though bore indications appear to have been
reasonably promising, the scrip is nothing more
than a gamble, with the market at the moment
not overoptimistic.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
sum
J in
■lll5ll
ibim:
BISSSS
c r^
i4p*
%
-p
Manager
*2
JU
W. G. Bulfin
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
SMOKE-OH!
“Burmese girls held a tug-o’-war at Man-
dalay for six days.”— “World’s News.”
Apparently the bargain sales last
longer over there.
*F *F •b
“Film stars receive some queer gifts.” .
—Talkie guff.
Acting ability being the rarest.
T 1 -h T- ■!*
“Accused was always giving women frights.”
—Court report.
Hat-designer, no doubt.
-I* -2- T-
“Nazis loot ‘waltz king’s’ estate.”
— “World’s News.”
They’re leading him a dance for which
they’ll have to face the music.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Butcher fined for passing off mutton as
lamb.”
Beauty salons had better beware.
-I- -I*
“Much individual sorrow and much expense
to the State might be avoided if man and girl
had the sense and will to avoid unwise mar-
riage.”—Radio doctor.
Puzzle, find the redundant word.
-I*
Then there were the dentist and the
manicurist who married and fought tooth
and nail.
“Before his enlistment the bridegroom was
a clicker in the boot factory where the bride
was a boxer in the packing department.”
— “Sun.”
“The artist's kidding you, mister. You Wouldn't catch all them here."
Nightmare.
“A man has been granted a divorce in Seattle
because he kept falling asleep at his work. He
explained that his wife kept him awake all
night praising her two previous husbands.”
— “World’s News.”
She encouraged his resentment by the
tales of her contentment with unhappy
men who’d wed her in the past. She
would interrupt his snoring by cantan-
kerously roaring “They were gentlemen,
who loved me to the last!” Now
he’s free, and sleeping soundly, and he
curses women roundly ; says he’d rather
have his pipe and faithful pup. Thus of
wedded life’s vexation he has had his
education. Though she wouldn’t let him
sleep, she— woke him up!
Elm.
•F 4*
“After all, it is no great step from a rhymed
will to a will to rhyme.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Poets agree that once you give in to
the-will-to-rhyme you may as well get
your will ready.
Applied Psychology.
“Sprays of the Archibald Fountain, Hyde
Park, are to stop playing because of the psyco-
logical effect on the public during water re-
strictions.” — “D.T.”
There is scope for the permanent
application of this principle in many
other directions. Politicians should be
restrained from using their gold passes
because of the psychological effect on
ordinary people who earn their money,
and public servants should be allowed
to work six days a week in order to
mitigate the severe shock to the nervous
system experienced by the worker who,
on boarding his Saturday morning tram,
train or bus, is suddenly confronted by
vacant seats wherever he looks.
P.S. C.
“An ice-sponge for getting rid of that aching
head the morning after is offered in a new
American patent.”— “World’s News.”
But the look your wife gives you
should be icy enough.
Ambition.
“If you want to brighten up your house
plants, get a Tittle soapy water, with the chill
off, and a clean rag. This treatment is all
you need to wash the leaves of a dusty aspi-
distra or a powdery palm.”— Radio garden talk.
The palm wasn’t very hard to do. It
wriggled a bit when I washed behind its
ears and gave a faint splutter or two
when the soap got in its pores, but when
I threatened to dump it in the bath holus-
bolus if it didn’t keep still there was no
more trouble.
The aspidistra, however, resisted furi-
ously. At the first touch of the soapy
rag it squirmed and twisted violently,
tried to poke my eyes out with the points
of its leaves and generally proved most
obstreperous. Finally it curled itself up
into tight rolls and refused to come
unput. I was just about to get the
carving knife to work when I noticed that
the poor, fretful thing was oozing tears.
Unwilling to be cruel, I picked up the
bucket and the bar of brown soap and
retired. Next morning I was startled to
find a placard in the aspidistra’s grasp. It
bore the legend: “I want to be school-
girl complexion all over.” After that, by
always using Balm-oil soap, I had no
more trouble.
Ex-cabbager.
Fact.
1 said that I would go through hell
For just one kiss from you.
My wife has seen your lipstick marks —
Those words I spoke came true.
PATON.
Premature Celebrations.
“A man charged with drunkenness told the
magistrate that his wife had told him she was
going for a divorce.”
These joyful celebrations are always
likely to be premature. “I have forgiven
you pretty often, Aitchem,” says Maria
in her most menacing. voice ; “but this
time you have gone too far. I am going
to get a divorce.”
Whatever wild hopes this statement
may excite, it is no good springing up
with a wild “Hooray!” The best policy
is a sneering challenge. “You mean you
think you’ll get one.”
“Now don’t prevaricate, Aitchem!
Don’t deny what you know you have
done. Let me tell you I have seen a
solicitor”
“Well,” I say, “if it has gone as far as
that we’ll have to do the thing properly.
Maybe you’ll be happier if”
“It’s no good you pleading to me,
Aitchem! I’ve forgiven you too often.”
“I’m not. I’m merely suggesting that
I will get a place to stay so that”
“Oho! Wouldn’t you like thatV ’ she
exclaims. “That’s what you’ve been
aching for for years —a free leg. But don’t
you think for a moment you’re going to
get it. Why”
Usually Maria is still on that theme at
breakfast, and although there are still
References to the impending divorce there
is nothing concrete.
But there came the morning when
actually Maria departed. I had to fasten
up her cases and call the taxi (“I wouldn’t
ask you but it is the least a husband
can do”) and off she went with a final
“I hope I never see your face again.
Except, of course, in the divorce court.”
But when I woke up next morning after
the celebration Maria’s face was the first
thing I saw. It was open, as usual, and
seemed to have been that way all night.
“And this is the way you behave when
I go away for a single day!” it was say-
ing.
Well, perhaps the celebration was just
as well. Maria must have been talking
for hours without my hearing a word.
H.M.
So two soles now are made a pair,
They called their wadding guests to
sup;
lie was a clicker, so he clicked ;
It’s her job now to box him up.
M.
Illusion.
She closed the book and gave a sigh.
“So much for that romance,” she cried.
“And as for you, you can’t deny
This bankbook shows you’ve coldly
lied !”
ELM.
Why is it folks sit this way in
The trams we miss,
While in the tram we catch at last
We’rejammedlikethis ?■
CLEM LACK.
No Scratchings.
“Weight-for-age in Fowls.”
— “S.M.H.” heading.
Weight-for-age in horses is bad enough,
but the poor punter stands an even lesser
chance of feathering his nest when it is
applied to fowls.
When I was up on the Barkly Table-
land horse-racing was impossible in the
wet season. We tried it once, but the
only horse to finish the race —a five-fur-
long sprint—succeeded 2\ hours after the
barrier went up. The stewards had to
take 30cwt. of mud off that Clydesdale
before they could get to the jockey, who
had to be lifted off with a block and
tackle and hosed down before the judge
could recognise him.
We tried goat races, but the prevailing
winds blew from the starting-post straight
across the betting ring, and even the
fielders had to turn it in.
But the Aussie passion for a gamble
on a race was not to be denied because
of a few setbacks. Idly cutting the top
of my breakfast egg one day my thoughts
dwelt naturally on fowls —and there was
our new racing medium. They were suffi-
ciently light not to get bogged, and
hurdling and even steeplechasing was pos-
sible with fliers like White Leghorns.
Our scheme for kidding the scratchers
to go flat out was ingenious yet simple.
A trained butcher-bird flew along the
course singing out “Choo-00-ok, chook,
chook!” and then imitating the scatter-
ing of corn on the ground. Instantly the
fowls would leap out of the barrier, and,
necks outstretched, go like the hammers
of hell, still chasing the mythical feed,
even when the finishing-post was passed.
We started off in a modest way by
having all-comers, i.e., Leghorns, Wyan-
dottes, Australorps, games, bantams, etc.,
hens and roosters, all in the one race.
Heavy mortality among the non-games
led to the segregation of breeds in their
own divisions. Further subdivisions were
found necessary as the standard of fowl-
racing improved. Broodies only in the
Gimcrack, pullets in the Maiden and so
on.
A natural corollary to the setting of
fowl-racing on a sound basis was the
breeding of leaner, faster birds, and this
in turn led to some shady practices, of
which I was the unfortunate victim. The
growing popularity of the sport quickly
attracted fanciers and breeders from other
districts ; a few even came from Sydney.
One was a fellow called Solly Mcßern-
stein, who claimed to have the world’s
finest racing fowls, which he said he had
brought from Ireland, his native land.
The classic race at Bloodwood Bogs
was the Scratchers’ Plate, a weight-for-
age event. This was open to roosters
of all breeds. It looked a golden oppor-
tunity to get among the big money, so
I decided to buy Mcßernstein’s best
rooster at any price. Although
he had already sold all his
birds, he confided to me
that his Champion of Cham-
pions was still down in Sydney
in bond storage, and that if
I was prepared to pay 50
guineas plus air freight he
would have it sent up for me.
Its speed was such that once it had
chased, caught and severely pecked a fox.
He also promised to disguise it, thus
ensuring a better price from the books.
Two days later it arrived. -I thought
he rather overdid the comb, which was
a sort of puce, but Solly assured me that
art was not entirely responsible for that;
it was the bird’s blue blood showing
through.
It was a five-year-old, handicapper’s
weight 71b. Boz. It could certainly sprint,
so with every confidence I put my entire
wad on it at a write-your-own-ticket price.
At the barrier there appeared to be
a slight delay, but as the course butcher-
bird gave his opening “Choo-00-ok! ”
there was a flurry of beaks, feet and
feathers and out from the bunch shot
Legs Eleven, my entry. But as it tore
across to get on to the rails a big, fierce
Rhode Island Red, which had drawn No.
1, moved smartly up, and on the outside
came the topweight, a rawboned Leg-
horn. My bird was “sandwiched,” and
as they swept past the leger first time
I could see that most of its tail feathers
had disappeared. By the time it had left
the straight it was a sorry-looking spec-
tacle, almost in the nude.
Skin and hair seemed to be flying while
they were round the back of the course,
but as the field hurtled into the straight
I decided to induce yet greater speed
in my bird. I pressed the horn of my
car. Instantly that city fowl gave a
startled squawk and dashed into the lead,
which it held past leger and paddock to
streak past the winning post half a beak
ahead of a big Plymouth Rock!
Proudly I led my panting bird into the
birdcage. But I got a shock when at
weighing-in my damned fowl was 3oz.
light and was disqualified. It had me
greatly puzzled, for I had an idea that
fowls don’t sweat, and the feathers it had
lost had been allowed for. It was the clerk
of the course who cleared up the myster>
by bringing in the egg it had laid while
at the barrier. Mcßernstein had sold me
a pup, or, rather, a “combed an
“spurred” hen. . . ,
Don’t talk of weight-for-age in lowis
to me!
BO.


4
6.
A
0 "S
i
7
i
/
,r
M
?•••••• '"'i
&
Mi
v.j.
Vt?
' -WV^
Is “Good Health” carrying
your Good Money ?
See them thunder into the straight—a score of magnificent
animals each striving for the advantage that spells victory.
The race is on, and the judge’s verdict will go to the soundest
in wind and limb.
So in Life’s Race. Success to him who stakes his all on
"Good Health”; nothing but rigid adherence to sane habits
of living will serve to win the day for you. Placed high up
amongst the essential rules conducing to mental and
physical fitness is this, "Drink Wolfe’s
Schnapps for your health’s sake.’’ Wolfe’s
Schnapps stimulates and invigorates, and
it aids the entire system to function as
nature intended.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is obtainable in large, half and quarter size bottles.
WOLFE’S
cSzAmdam
SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
OLFE
SgRODUCT OF, HOLLAND.
£om
FT: 1 PWTI Ft.
Make Your Money Fight —
BUY WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES


A POOR HIDING PLACE
/k MONEY
'JpEAPOTS and other similar household
utensils are poor hiding places for money. They
afford little protection. Bank cheques, on the
other hand, eliminate the risk of loss, enable you
to make payments easily and safely, near or far;
save walking and waiting at cashiers’ desks. Each
cheque affords the safety of a receipt for the
amount paid. The butt, with its detail of
expenditure, serves as a useful record of payment,
when making up future accounts and Income Tax
Returns. Ask for full particulars from the nearest
branch of the Bank.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria)
87-16-40
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.L.C.;
Sydney Sampson. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, SOy Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agent: A. L. Frost, Fsq., Launceston.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
“Costless Credit”
From T. Pritchard, Gympie (Q.):
I notice that your paper still calls Social
Crediters “costless-credit cranks.” I want to
ask you, Do you call the members of the
Banking Commission —all well-qualified men—
which sat for 12 months, costless-credit cranks?
I here quote portion of two clauses in their
report :~
“503 : The Commonwealth Bank is a public
institution engaged in the discharge pf a public
trust. Its special function is to regulate the
volume of credit in the national interest, and its
distinctive attribute is control of the note
issue.
“504: Because of this power....the Com-
monwealth Bank can lend to the Government
or to others in a variety of ways, and it can
even make money available to Governments
or to others free of any charge.”
Interpreting this clause, the chairman of the
Commission wrote: “This statement means that
the Commonwealth Bank can make money
available to Governments or to others on such
terms as it chooses, by way of a loan without
interest, or even without requiring either interest
or repayment of principal,”
Now, Mr. Editor, I want to ask you —if you
are not bigoted—is this costless credit or is
it not, and is Mr. Justice Napier, a “costless-
credit crank” or isn't he?
Years ago you discredited the A+B theorem,
and you may have been right, but you have
written nothing yet to disprove that a national
bank can issue costless credit.
The Bulletin has never denied that it
is possible for the Commonwealth Bank
to “make money available to Govern-
ments or others free of any charge.”
Neither has it ever denied that it is pos-
sible, given a sharp razor, for a man to
cut his own throat if he so desires. Of
course it is possible to do these things.
Grant any “credits” you like. Issue
billions of notes to the Government
or anyone else, provided you have
the ink, the paper and the printing
machinery. Germany did it after the last
war, and so did Russia. Neither of these
countries has practised the method since.
This paper is not concerned with
whether Napier, J., is a costless-credit
crank or not. It knows, however, that
he is a lawyer—in this country lawyers
and royal commissions are inseparable.
Whether he is competent to express an
opinion on a matter of economics is not
discernible from any of the quotations
given by Mr. Pritchard. Those quota-
tions are simply statements of fact.
They state what is, or what is pos-
sible. They do not say what is desirable,
or what the consequences of the indi-
cated courses of action are likely to be.
Portion of Clause 503 not quoted by
Mr. Pritchard says, “Every obligation
undertaken by the Commonwealth Bank
is backed by this power of creating the
money with which to discharge it.” “This
power” is the right “to print and issue
notes as legal tender within the limits
prescribed by law.” The italicised words
also govern Section 504 ; thus the part
about the Commonwealth Bank making
money available to Governments free of
charge is qualified by “within the limits
prescribed by law.” And in the recom-
mendations of the Banking Commission
—where the “well-qualified men” get
away from merely summarising evidence
—it is stated:
The note issue should be limited by law
to a fixed maximum (for example,
£60,000,000), subject to the right of the
bank to exceed the maximum by a stated
amount (for example, £10,000,000) with
consent' of the Treasurer!
A footnote explains that this was a
majority decision.
There is a great deal of nonsense
uttered about credit, and particularly
about “costless” credit. If we are to con-
template any form of “costless” credit,
let us face it under its true name —taxa-
tion. Because anything that comes to a
Government from the people free of
charge is a tax on the people. Acres of
ground—the “national wealth”—are of
no use to anyone unless labored on by
human beings, and work done by a Gov-
ernment on behalf of the community—
public works, etc.—can only be achieved
through the medium of community sac-
rifice. The Commonwealth Bank, by
“creating credit” or printing millions of
extra notes, could not add one penny to
the national wealth.
By careful and realistic control of
credit the bank can help direct the
national energies toward better results
for everyone. It has a big job in hand
now, for instance, in arranging finance
for the war. But it realises that the war
has to be paid for in lives, work and
materials. Money and credit do not exist
where materials and labor are not avail-
able. Staring us in the face now is the
fact that all the materials and labor ex-
pended by Australia in fighting this war
have to come out of our standard of
living. All the munitions we are mak-
ing represent a proportion of the com-
munity’s annual production of wealth.
They have to be given to the nation. And
so it is with all public “works.” But since
it is not fair to ask the men actually
engaged in national work to bear all the
cost —that is, work for nothing—they are
paid for the labor and materials and then
taxed with everyone else.
Sometimes the tax burden is momen-
tarily softened by internal borrowing.
This is merely politics—the “tactful” way.
It doesn’t alter the fact that the com-
munity has to pay. And, like all forms
of t.-p., it gives additional profits to some
people at the expense of others.
As to “credit” itself, what is it? It
may be regarded as time. When a shop-
keeper is hard up he writes to the manu-
facturer and says, perhaps: “Business
has been unusually slow. I would esteem
it a favor if you will allow me an extra
month’s credit.” That is a simple
example of credit expansion. The manu-
facturer may or may not charge interest
for the month. But, if he grants the
credit, in the long run he expects it to be
worth his while. And that is the basis
of all credit operations. Just the same as
a landlord expects to be paid rent for
renting and risking a house, so do other
people expect a return when they
risk their money. The Commonwealth
Bank has been largely instrumental in
reducing this return to something like
3 p.c. for Government purposes.
Maoriland, which has a Government
ready to try anything in the “costless-
credit” line, has been forced in the last
resort to fall back on terrific taxation
and compulsory loans. At last it has
really got down to “costless credit,” but
it’s not very happy about it.
The Australian Transcontinental rail-
way has been held up as an example of
financing jobs by “costless credit.” What
are the facts? From Federal “Hansard”
of 18/5/’39: —•
Mr. Nock (Riverina): How much money
was provided by the Commonwealth Bank
for the construction of the East-West rail-
way?
Mr. Menzies: The Commonwealth Bank
was not directly concerned in financing the
construction of the East-West railway. The
total cost of construction of that railway
was £8,470,000. Of this, £1,826,000 was
provided from revenue and £6,644,000 from
the Works Loan Fund. Of the amount
provided from the Works Loan Fund
approximately £5,300,000 was borrowed
from the Australian Notes Fund, the
balance being borrowed partly from other
Commonwealth funds and partly from the
public. The greater portion of the Notes-
Fund moneys loaned to the Treasury for
this purpose represented profits derived
from interest on investments. These trans-
actions took place before the note issue
was transferred to the Commonwealth
Bank in 1920.
The portion of the money found to
finance the railway of chief interest
to currency theorists is the £5,300,000
borrowed from the Australian Notes
Fund, “the greater portion repre-
senting interest on investments.” It
is probable that most of these investments
represented securities lodged or acquired,
yielding interest, in return for the issue of
Australian notes within the limit fixed by
the constitution of the Notes Fund at
that time.
Here arises the theory of “costless
credit.” But it was not necessary for
theorists to drag in the Trans, railway at
all. This year, last year —every year
since it took control of the note issue—
the Commonwealth Bank earns interest
on its issue, and this profit nowadays is
transferred to the Treasury. It amounts
to something less than £900,000 a year.
And it won’t grow any larger until the
people want more notes for pocket
money. As it is, they are amply supplied
by the present issue, which was increased
not so long ago to accommodate some
misguided people who preferred putting
their money into holes dug in the garden.
They were afraid that the Government
was out after “costless credit” —confisca-
tion of property.
Creeping up slowly but steadily, Aus-
tralian share prices were again slightly
higher last week. The Sydney industrial-
share index at 128.33 compared with
128.16 a week earlier, 107.52 in June and
136.54 on Jan. 16. The first signs of a
flattening-out in prices is suggested in
the latest figures. In addition to small
gains in the market there have been a
number of recessions. Any big move-
ments have been in inactive stocks. Tex-
tile scrip has continued to sell extensively
without moving much, and the same
applies to 8.H.P., A.C.I. and paper cos.
Mining stocks were weaker in a number
of cases last week, Barriers and Mt. Lyell
especially. New Occidental rose notably
on reports of “the intersection of a 15ft.
lode carrying 17.7dwt.” on the No. 8
level of the New Cobar mine—which has
been a headache up to date.
& % H* #
N. S. Wales is establishing a Depart-
ment of Youth. According to Mr.
Gollan, boys and girls leaving school will
be examined at the Vocational Guidance
Bureau and given a “test.” Reports of
the tests wifi be referred to psychologists,
of whom there will be three, at the de-
partment. The psychologists will control
the show. On the face of it the proposi-
tion sounds terrifyingly departmental. It
also has an aggressively academic appear-
ance. Without knowing who the psycho-
logical gentlemen are, it is suggested that
the scheme would look far better on
paper, and perhaps it would work more
effectively in practice, if someone with
a record of employment-giving behind
him were made director of the depart-
ment. Someone connected with industry
or technical education. The problem of
finding suitable jobs for youths is a big
one, and it is worthy of a lot of time
and trouble being given to it. It particu-
larly demands more attention than the
average Government department is will-
ing (or able) to give. A labor of love
it will have to be in order to succeed.
It is significant that in a time of
national stress the Federal Government
has turned to men outside the civil ser-
vice to take charge of munitions produc-
tion, etc. It is simply because depart-
mental men rarely have the training for
that kind of work. The departmental
outlook will be of little good in dealing
with problems of youth employment,
either, and the academic mind is most
useful when directed by worldly, prac-
tical men. The teachers in technical
schools usually have a practical view. As
to psychologists—well, psychology as a
science is still many years behind econo-
mics, and yet who has heard of a uni-
versity economist running a bank, even
though the bank economist’s advice may
be of great value when dovetailed with
the experience of the bank manager?


AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPIONS
IpMIXHMA
JO -- ■
a
Your Vauxhall dealer is showing
a particularly attractive range of Vauxhalls,
including the SO-miles-per-gallon 10 h.p.
WyVern Caleche (Tourer or Roadster),
the 40-miles-per-gallon 10 h.p. Wyvem
Saloon, the 30-miles-per-gallon 14 h.p.
Happy Medium Saloon and the 14 h.p.
Convertible Coupe (Sports or Business
model).
All these Vauxhalls share in the benefits of Vaux-
hall engineering leadership, with Overhead Valve
Engine for long, efficient performance, 6-phase Car-
burettor for outstanding economy, Independent Spring-
ing for supreme riding ease, Lockheed Hydraulic
Brakes for smooth, safe stops and bodies by Holden
for luxury and comfort.
Average of 3 Automobile Club Tests
33.16 m.p.g.
Sec Vauxhall first . ♦ . still the most popular car
in Australia. GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
Vauxhall Wyvern Caleche - - £255
Vauxhall Wyvern Saloon - - £3lB
Vauxhall 14 Saloon ... £359
Use the Convenient, Confidential G.M.A.C. Payment Plan
VAUXHALL
As English As England
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL
VAUXHALL DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australis
200 owners recently averaged
52.4 m.p.g.
55 m.p.g. in Vic. Sporting
Car Club Test
Write to or call on your nearest
Vauxhall Distributor or Dealer
Free Booklet entitled
'Why Vauxhalls Save Petrol'
[or
ifc P
A a
m
A Compulsory Loan
Under the title of “New Zealand Gov-
ernment War Loan, 1953,” Maoriland’s
first compulsory public borrowing
operation of the war is now well on its
way. The prospectus is dated Sept. 26,
and the loan closes on October 18. It
is estimated to affect 10 p.c. of taxpayers.
A non-compulsory scheme offers wage-
earners £1 bonds at 175., maturing in
five years. Three per cent, interest will
be paid on war savings accounts with the
Government Savings Bank.
With regard to the compulsory loan,
“proceeds are to be used for equipping
and maintaining the armed forces of the
Dominion, and for other war purposes” ;
in doing this job the proceeds will also
ease the strain on other parts of the
Maoriland Budget. The stock is non-
interest-bearing up to Oct. 1, 1943, and
thereafter carries interest at 2\ p.c. A
first interest payment of 255. per cent,
will be made on April 1, 1944.
As to compulsion, “the Minister for
Finance has indicated that for the pur-
poses of the Finance Emergency Regu-
lations, 1940 (No. 2), he will not regard
any person as having subscribed in due
proportion to his means unless such
person has subscribed to this loan at
least the amount of the income tax pay-
able by him in respect of income derived
during the year ended March 31, 1939,”
less £5O in the case of an individual,
£7O for companies. The tax was
normally payable in February last.
Rates of income tax thus become
doubly important to Maorilanders. Here
are examples of old and new taxation
levies on personal-exertion income:
Taxable Income Tax
Balance. Last Year. Current Year.
£ £ s. d. £ s. d.
100 .. .. 11 19 7 14 7 6
500 .. .. 69 9 7 86 5 0
1000 .. .. 162 18 4 208 8 9
2000 .. .. 421 13 4 560 12 6
5000 .. .. 1772 18 4 2384 16 3
The taxpayer who pays more than £5O
of tax must subscribe to the loan on
the basis of last year’s tax, but will
pay taxes at the new rate next February.
The “taxable balance” is arrived at after
deducting a general exemption of £2OO,
£5O for a wife and £5O for each child.
There are, in addition, security taxes of
2s. in the £ on all income. Income from
property is taxed at a rate 33 1-3 p.c.
above personal-exertion rates.
The compulsory loan is payable 30
p.c. on application, 40 p.c. on Dec. 16,
and 30 p.c. on March 25. Minimum
subscriptions are computed to the nearest
£lO. Default in payment of an instal-
ment will render any amounts previously
paid liable to forfeiture, and the appli-
cant then “will not be regarded as having
contributed to this loan.” What bogey will
threaten him then is apparently concealed
in Emergency Regulation, 1940 (No. 2).
Anyone who has previously made an
interest-free loan to the Government
may convert that loan into the present
issue and deem it part of his compulsory
contribution. This is printed in black
type, being one of the two comparatively
cheerful statements in the prospectus;
the other comparatively cheerful state-
ment is that the stock will be accepted
at par in payment of death duties, pro-
vided that the person who dies originally
applied for the stock. It is not unlikely
that this provision will have to be availed
of by the executors of a number of
applicants for the stock. But taxation
goes beyond the grave. Death duties
rise as high as 60 p.c. in the case of
estates of £70,000 and over
Maoriland financially has been in a
bad jam for some time because of ex-
perimental government, and drastic
remedies have been necessary. This com-
pulsory-loan scheme, however, is cumber-
some and crude, and is utterly dispiriting
to thousands of overburdened taxpayers.
It is obvious that among the higher-
income classes taxes and compulsory
loans wifi exceed total annual income.
In any case, where earnings are partly
ploughed back” into a business ready
cash isn’t often available.
This problem, however, does not dis-
may the M.L. Treasury. “The banks
have agreed to assist commercial men,
farmers and others who cannot provide
their proportions of the compulsory loan
by advancing money at 3 p.c., expecting
in 12 months,” says Mr. Nash.
Vnich boils down to this position: The
banks lend the money to the Govern-
ment, and the nominal lender—the tax-
payer pays the banks 3 p.c. on their
oan. The taxpayer himself gets no
compensatory interest until 1944. The
anks would probably possess a lien
byer the stock as well as the taxpayer’s
ol yf r , unencumbered assets.
sr>?r ides representing “advanced”
ciahsm, this compulsory-loan scheme
of • econom jcs, and in the case
Usher incomes it does not fit in with
the principle of paying for the war out
of current revenue. It saves only £200,000
a year, and the Government has been
charged with wasting more than that
every month. The raising of com-
pulsory Joans beyond the level of current
incomes less taxation does not divert
national production to the Government.
In the case of lower incomes, which are
in the majority, but which will be barely
touched, the loan will do its job
satisfactorily only when it comes out
of current earnings, not out of savings,
though the Government will in all cases
save interest, even if it doesn’t avoid
inflation.
The Australian price of mica has been
lifted from 15 p.c. above pre-war levels
to 30 p.c. above that level. The decision
was made as a result of “further investi-
gations by the Prices Commissioner
through the official buyer at Alice
Springs.” It also followed representations
by people from the Territory, though
this was not announced. After the Com-
monwealth authorities assumed control
of mica production in August there was
much dissatisfaction on the fields about
the price arranged, and there was talk
of miners just walking off their claims, or
of sending unselected ore —good, bad and
indifferent —to the Government. The first
price fixed was “definitely unpayable,”
according to delegates from the Interior.
It remains to be seen whether the 15 p.c.
increase is satisfactory. The price now
is said officially to be slightly above that
for Indian mica. More trouble is to be
taken about grading, and the price fixed
will be on the basis of mica delivered to
the nearest motor road to Alice Springs.
* * * *
Jalan Kebun Rubber harvested
117,2001 b. of rubber last year at an all-
in cost of 5.78 d. (Aust.) a pound and sold
112,1071 b. of it under its quota at slightly
under Net profit was £3468, com-
pared with £lll7 and £2420 in the two
preceding years. A 10 p.c. div. (against
4 p.c. last year) calls for £3OOO. The co.’s
1940 export credit has been raised, and
the price of rubber has risen to over a
shilling sterling in London.
* * * *
Electrolytic Zinc’s £448,782 profit (up
£43,026) was written after providing the
same amount (£100,000) for depreciation
as in the previous year, and £50,784 more
for taxation (£163,396). The div. was
14 p.c., against 15 p.c. in the two preced-
ing terms. Market support is strong at
51s. for the ords. and 525. 6d. for the
prefs.
* * * *
In 1938-39 the number of persons em-
ployed in Australian factories was
565,106, compared with 559,160 in 1937-
38. Wages paid in the later period totalled
£106,743,062, and raw materials pro-
cessed were valued at £281,303,446. Value
added in the process of production was
£203,416,610, and value of output was
£500,419,977. Greatest expansion over
the past four years has been in the steel
industry.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
FRENCHMEN EXPLAIN FRANCE.
[Nearly all hitherto published attempts to explain
the most extraordinary phenomenon of the present war,
the utter rout and collapse of the French, have been
made by British, American and other onlookers. Re-
vealing explanations written by Frenchmen who person-
ally saw _what went on behind scenes are now appearing
in American publications, two being here given in con-
densed form. They add considerably to the information
contained in earlier articles included in “Uncabled
Additions,” with special interest added by the nationality
of their authors. First is from an article
in “Collier’s” by Andre Maurois, who was “Official
French Eyewitness” with the British Army.]
Hitler had said “I shall disintegrate their war,”
and in the course of the long winter of inaction he
succeeded in doing it. The men got tired of digging
trenches in the rain to defend themselves against an
enemy they never saw. We were so little warminded
that the generals allowed themselves to be stopped
by scruples that would have been laudable in time of
peace. I remember asking one of them why he did
not accustom his men to the sight of flame-throwing
tanks and dive bombers. “I asked about it on several
occasions,” he said, “but I was met with the response
that tank manoeuvres would ruin the crops and that
the civil authorities were opposed.”.
At the beginning of the war the men had lacked
blankets, jerseys and shoes, and agencies to supply
them had been established. Soon the soldiers were
receiving too many packages, too many presents.
“With the best will in the world,” an English soldier
assured me, “I cannot smoke two hundred cigarettes
a day!” Prominent people in Paris and London
started a variety of new enterprises: Reading Matter
for the Armies, Radios for the Armies, Amusements
lor the Armies, Burlesque for the Armies, Sports
for the Armies, Art for the Armies, Plays
for the Armies. A chagrined woman, dis-
turbed by this frivolity, said that she was
going to found a new agency—War for the
Armies. She was right; but such ideas were
not popular.
At the British front “Concert Parties,”
composed of famous comedians and beauti-
ful show girls, travelled about in military
automobiles escorted by officers. Maurice
Chevalier sang with great amiability for the
troops of both countries. His arrival at
Arras created more excitement than that
of President Lebrun. He was acclaimed by
the French and English soldiers. He was
besieged by autograph hunters. All very
pleasant, but hardly an effective preparation
for the German offensive. At the time
when the country, at the gravest moment in
its history, had only a few weeks at its dis-
posal to make up for its past mistakes,, to
complete its fortifications and train its men,
Frenchmen and Englishmen continued to
live (except in certain sectors of the front)
routine lives governed by the petty rules of
a military bureaucracy.
In Arras there were several thousand
French territorials, old soldiers who had
been mobilised—l never really knew why—
and of whom the army made no use what-
ever. Their officers employed them as best they
could to plant kitchen gardens, start poultry yards
and raise rabbits and pigs. These were praise-
worthy enterprises, but it may, perhaps, have been
more urgent to fortify Arras and the line of La Scarpe.
A commandant dared say as much to his general. The
suggestion was not well received. “Fortify La Scarpe!
But the enemy will never advance that far. You are
a defeatist! Wait for orders!”
After one or two experiences of this kind even
the most zealous leaders went back to their routine.
The soldiers, well nourished and with little to do, got
fat. The Tommies, as soon as night fell, set to work
writing interminable letters to their wives and sweet-
hearts ; the officers were unable, except with great
effort, to censor this monstrous correspondence. An
unhappy captain would no sooner see his table cleared
of one pile of envelopes before another and larger
one would descend upon him. The petty quarrels
of everyday life, nursed and brooded over, occupied
the attention of men when the future of liberty and
the destiny of the world depended upon their ability
as soldiers and their power of resistance.
At many points in the line I found admirable
troops. But some of the more thoughtful French
commanders told me disquieting things. One even-
ing the general of a North African division admitted
to me that he hoped for a negotiated peace. “The
Germans,” he said, “greatly outnumber us and they
have incomparably better equipment. The struggle
will be most unequal. My men are as brave as any
others, but if they have no anti-tank guns they won’t
be able to stop armored divisions with their bare
hands.”
General Giraud, a brave man with a reputation
for taking risks, believed that we would not be in a
position to attack before 1941. “It’s too bad,” he
said to me, “but we lack so many things. Aeroplanes
first of all! Do you know how many I, the com-
mander of an army, have at my disposal? Eight!
Not one more. Of course, there’s the Royal Air
Force, which is splendid, but if I want it to make
a reconnaissance flight for me I have to ask General
Georges, who asks General Gamelin, who makes a
request of Marshal Barratt, who transmits the request
to Vice-Marshal Blount, who, finally, orders the flight,
but by that time it is often too late to be useful.”
How was the eight-months’ respite that Germany
allowed us made use of in our factories? Very badly.'
Skilled workmen, who were indispensable for the
manufacture of ’planes or cannons, were sent to pro-
vincial barracks where they swept out courtyards or
peeled potatoes. As a result, the Renault factories,
which in peace-time employ more than 30,000 workers
and which should have filled a place of immense im-
portance in the manufacture of tanks and trucks, were
reduced, at the outbreak of the war, to a personnel
of from six to eight thousand men. It was fantastic.
Because all plans were made for a campaign of four
or five years, factories were built which would not
attain their period of production until 1941 or even
1942. Instead of making immediate use, as best they
could, of the existing plants in France, machine tools
of the latest design were ordered in the United States,
a country from which we should have ordered tanks
and aeroplane engines. For the same reason the
dollars and the gold possessed by England and France
were carefully rationed. This treasure was divided
into four or five parts, each one apportioned to one
year. Great American factories, which could have
produced in time the necessary equipment, remained
without orders from the Allies. “Engines built in
France cost us less,” people said. They were destined
to cost us the war.
The General Staff determined upon a long-term
preparation for attack upon the Siegfried Line. It
had calculated, with admirable precision, how many
heavy guns would be necessary for this operation,
and these guns were ordered at a time when all our
efforts should have been devoted to urgent and imme-
diate needs—anti-tank guns, anti-aircraft guns and
light arms, such as machine guns and sub-machine
guns. Our patrols along the Saar begged their
officers to give them sub-machine guns, such
as were carried by all the German patrols.
There were none to be had. When the Germans
"PM,” New York.
NAZI PRISON-HOUSE.
began to drop parachutists, all officers were ordered
to carry revolvers. But there weren’t any more
revolvers in France, Finally, at the beginning of June,
they were ordered in Italy. That was a little late.
Failure of- morale and political dissension im-
peded production. From the time Russia aligned her-
self on the side of Germany, the numerous Commu-
nist workmen, without showing open opposition,
worked languidly and with no enthusiasm. The almost
complete suppression of profits discouraged the small
employer. During this war one never saw, as one
had seen in 1914, small workshops and garages busy
turning out shells. For many months France worked
at a peace-time tempo.
If you add to this jumble of errors a general
lack of enthusiasm, which was caused in France by
the political divisions of the country and in England
by too much confident optimism, it becomes fairly
easy to understand why France and England after
eight or ten months of war were in no position to
resist the infernal machine which the Reich had for
seven years been constructing with such terrifying
precision and unfailing attention to detail.
*****
Leaders in the Final Drama
[Pierre Lazareff, writer of the article here condensed
from New York “Life,” was editor-in-chief of Paris
“Soir,” France’s most important newspaper, owned by
Jean Prouvost, ex-Minister of Information.]
On May 14 the Germans are on the French
frontier. The German Army overflows on French
soil so rapidly that there is no time to blow up mined
roads. The Germans cut through the masses and
isolate groups. They do not even bother to take
prisoners. Capturing G.H.Q., they telephone false
retreat orders and then cut the lines. Within a short
time communications between French columns be-
come impossible. The soldiers, under a hail of fire
and steel, lost in the countryside, have only light guns
with which to stop the metal waves of armored
columns. They cannot understand why they were not
forewarned and prepared. They cannot understand
why they are being abandoned.
Their officers, mostly reservists, feel their own
lack of leadership and ability. Brave, conscientious,
patriotic leaders, they are badly prepared for modern
warfare and cannot understand what is happening.
Like their men they look upward at a sky in which
no Allied ’plane appears to battle the swarms of
enemy aviation. In vain they wait by their field tele-
phones hoping for orders that never arrive or try,
without success, to give their positions. When con-
nections are finally made, they get their orders from
the enemy.
One soldier says “Treason!” The word jumps
from man to man, from group to group. [“The old
cry of ‘We are betrayed!’ must have been heard in
France from Dunkirk to Nice, and from the Vosges
to the Pyrenees.”— Bulletin, 29/5/’4o.]
To the soldiers it is the only plausible explanation.
In utter confusion, throwing away their arms, the men
run, completely jamming the refugee-crowded roads.
The Germans, hardly ever firing a shot, pushing ahead
at tourists’ speed, enter France through this wide-open
gap. Here and there small heroic groups still put
up a futile fight. This is the “rout of the Corap
army.”
By May 15 the Germans take advantage of the
situation by separating the armies in Belgium from
those in France. The events are too much for Game-
lin. His General Staff watches the rapid development
of a type of warfare that it has never anticipated
despite all warnings. After five days of battle nothing
is left of the famous Gamelin plan. On May 19
Reynaud names General Weygand Generalissimo of
the Allied forces in place of Gamelin. From then
on the name of the man on whose shoulders for many
years rested the fate of the civilised world never
again appears in print in France. It is said that he
has committed suicide, that he has been shot. Eight
days later General Gamelin is seen carefully tending
his roses in the garden of his house near Paris.
From May 16 on, the English High Command
has shown considerable irritation toward the inter-
Allied High Command. When Weygand takes over
Ironside bows before his authority, but states that in
view of the seriousness of the situation he must con-
sider on his own measures for saving the B.E.F. in
Flanders. When the Germans cross the
Meuse with five armored and numerous
motorised infantry divisions, General Iron-
side decides to start a counter-offensive on
the Somme. French officers agree, and add
that General Blanchard’s motorised divi-
sion and a part of the First Army will help
the operation from the left side.
Weygand has conceived another plan
of much larger scope which might make
possible the saving of the entire Flanders
army. To do this he must have all his
reserves. When he is told that a part of
his army is going to be needed to help the
Ironside offensive, which was approved by
General Billotte, Weygand scolds Billotte
for having made this decision and tells the
English that the French troops are not avail-
able. He also asks them to give up the idea
of an isolated offensive, but too late, for the
offensive has started. It attains its first
objective and then meets with such strong
resistance that the English troops have to
withdraw even farther back than their start-
ing point.
[Here the writer proceeds to give a day-
to-day account of the invasion, which, how-
ever, adds little to what is generally known.
He goes on to give the following moving
account of how the decision to seek an
armistice was reached. Written from the inside, it
serves to correct the too-facile findings of those opinion-
ated writers who have put it all down to Fascism
among France’s leaders.]
On the night of June 9 thousands of trucks back
up against the Ministries to haul off all important
documents. The bureaucrats leave in long caravans
of cars, taking their families with them. Special trains
take those who have no cars to Tours. Even the
G.H.Q. moves south 120 miles.
On June 11 Italy declares war. Mussolini’s deci-
sion hardly affects the French people. At no time
does it influence the course of events. Reynaud
returns to Tours on June 12, refusing to give up the
fight, saying “The soul of France is not vanquished.”
He buttonholes Petain and attempts to convince him.
The latter is even more decided than Weygand. “There
are no more military possibilities; hence we must
stop fighting.”
Reynaud calls Churchill on the ’phone, asks him
to fly over immediately and then calls a Cabinet meet-
ing. The Ministers are nervous, agitated, desperate.
They shake hands, talk to each other for a minute,
stop in the middle of a sentence and rush off to
speak to someone else. The meeting is called to order.
As discussions start they are punctuated by bombs
falling around Tours.
Reynaud says he will continue the war at any
cost. Mandel seconds him, as does General de Gaulle.
The latter even proposes that the Government with-
draw to the rugged Breton regions, which, he says,
“are topographically defensible by the French armies
and accessible to supplies by sea.” Campinchi and
Laurent-Eynac, respectively Ministers of the Navy
and the Air, favor a withdrawal to the colonies in
North Africa.
Slowly Marshal Petain gets up to speak. “All of
that has nothing to do with the situation. Every hour
that goes by is an hour lost. The Germans will be-
come more and more exacting as their advance con-
tinues. Let us immediately ask for an armistice while
our fleet and a large part of our army are intact and
the Maginot Line still holds. Later we will be at the
mercy of the victor.” Frossard and Chautemps agree
with Petain. So do the two new Ministers, Baudouin
and Bouthillier.
Churchill’s arrival is announced and the meeting
interrupted. He is deeply moved by the report.
“Hold fast another 48 hours,” he asks. “Tonight I’ll
send you a thousand bombers and as soon as I can
all the necessary troops and material. Try to stop


the rout.” (Two nights later 500 English bombers
try unsuccessfully to disorganise the German advance.)
At night there is another meeting headed by
President Lebrun at which the Generalissimo is to
to speak. Weygand walks in, looking pale and ner-
vous. “Gentlemen,” he says, his strained voice break-
ing the heavy silence, “gentlemen, you have before
you a dishonored soldier, a vanquished soldier. There
is nothing left to do but to lay down our arms.”
Before this great leader who is asking them to stop
the war, the men who are in charge of France feel
the burden of their terrible responsibility. Frossard
weeps unreservedly, all the others have tears in their eyes.
The only decision made this night is to declare
Paris to be an open town. The defence of the town
would only result in its destruction without retard-
ing the German advance by more than a day or two.
As Tours is threatened the Government decides to
make its second retreat, this time to Bordeaux. At
Bordeaux no preparations have been made to receive
the Government, the Ministries, the diplomatic corps
and the press. The town has been invaded by 2,000,000
refugees and more are coming all the time. The streets
are permanently blocked by rows of cars being used
as apartments. Crowds of Senators, Deputies, officials,
officers and functionaries are clinging to the Govern-
ment, feeling the end is near. Bankers, industrialists,
businessmen, writers and their wives or mistresses
are preparing for a new flight. On the streets and
sidewalks, in cafes and hotels, at Consulates begging
for visas and in the corridors of the Ministries these
people meet and remeet, asking each other for news
and spreading news which is sometimes true but
usually false. Otto von Habsburg, a youngish, hatless
man, wearing a raincoat and a melancholy frown,
paces up and down in front of the police station.
General Haller, the Polish Minister, his grey beard
wagging, chats with the Belgian Prime Minister Pier-
lot, dressed in a long black coat. In a group in front
of the Hotel Splendide are all the Rothschilds, hastily
convened from Vienna, London and Paris.
In this incredible atmosphere the Ministers are
surrounded and grilled. They meet several times a
day, awaiting the result of the last appeal by Reynaud
to Roosevelt. Meantime they are still considering the
possibility of moving the Government to Morocco,
Algeria or England. Petain, fervently pleading for
an armistice, gains adherents every day. The old
soldier, wearing his uniform, expounds his arguments
in a broken yet eloquent voice. “Please think, gentle-
men, of the future of France. We cannot leave our
nation to herself and to the invader. Let us stay on
the sacred soil to take care of our people. And before
the hour rings when the victor, with nothing to fear,
refuses to discuss terms, let us secure from him the
assurance that our young men and our towns be
spared so that we will still have in our hands the
possibility of a renaissance.”
Frossard and the Ministerial newcomers, Bau-
douin, Prouvost and Bouthillier, argue along the same
lines. “The public will not understand our departure,”
says Prouvost. “It will say we have fled with the
cashbox.” Weygand is called in. “The worst has
happened,” he says. “The Maginot Line has been
turned ; the Army of the Alps will soon be. We now
have only little isolated islands of defence, out of
contact with each other and with us. And most of the
’planes that were left have been destroyed on the
ground.”
Reynaud still attempts to argue for continuation
of hostilities. “We can’t give up the fleet. We can’t*
lose everything, even our honor. The Empire has
resources.” He telephones Churchill, tries to per-
suade him to come to Bordeaux for a last conference.
Churchill refuses, but shortly afterwards retaliates
with a new proposal: a merged Franco-British State
to govern the citizens of these two countries for the
duration of hostilities. A Government composed of
English and French Ministers and first headed by a
French President would run this State. Mandel falls
in with the idea. General de Gaulle, towering over
the other Ministers, heatedly seconds it. But Pomaret
claims it will only result in English domination. In
Roosevelt’s answer to Reynaud’s plea there is nothing
but kind words and good intentions to help the
adherents of resistance. By now Ybarnegaray and
Chichery, previously “fight-to-the-enders,” have been
convinced by the Petain-Weygand arguments.
On the morning of June 16 the only Ministers
still favoring the Reynaud-Mandel-De Gaulle plan of
continued resistance are Louis Marin, Louis Rollin,
Campinchi, Yvon Delbos and Georges Monnet.
Dautry and Laurent-Eynac are hesitant. By convic-
tion they lean toward the Reynaud view, but the
armament and ’plane statistics, which they know only
too well, influence them the other way. There are
by this time only 500 first-line pursuit ’planes left.
Petain decides to get a definite commitment from
the Cabinet. A meeting is called, presided over by
Lebrun, who shares Petain’s views. Lebrun begs the
Ministers to reach a decision immediately, adding
that it must be presented to the public over the signa-
tures of the great military chiefs. All agree, knowing
that the civilian administration and authority have
broken down. The people, and particularly the soldiers,
will accept the inevitable only on the strength of the
authority associated with Petain’s and Weygand’s
names. Finally, after Chautemps, in an attempt to
conciliate the divergent opinions, has suggested that
Hitler be “felt out” by the Swiss Government, the
adherents of the armistice win the day.
That night old Marshal Petain does not go to
bed. At dawn he settles himself in an armchair with
a blanket over his knees. Here he dozes and nods
for a few hours as he used to at Verdun when after
a difficult day he knew the next day would be even
more difficult.
Democracies’ Passive Barbarians.
[Condensed from an “Atlantic Monthly” ( U.S.A .)
article by Lewis Mumford.]
Fascism happened in Russia, Italy and Germany
for a very simple reason: none of those countries had
a long tradition of freedom. The despotism of the
army and the machine erected itself on a tradition
that had long favored despotism. Serfdom was not
finally abolished in Germany until the middle of the
nineteenth century; that country had never under-
gone the sanative bath of a liberal revolution. Italy
was governed by a succession of despots, in every prin-
cipality and city, since the fifteenth century. Russia
had not even a dim memory of freedom: it was a
word the educated had come across in English books.
All these circumstances gave the initiative to countries
whose very soil favored despotism, when the time
came to make a religion out of the denial of life,
But the same facts which explain the rise of
Fascism in Germany and Italy also explain the lack
G f resistance in other countries. In Great Britain,
France and the United States power in the form of
money took precedence over power in the form of
military weapons. And the cult of the primitive, in
these countries, came back less in the forms of violence
than in those of sensuous indolence and animal indul-
gence—in drunkenness and promiscuous sexuality and
jj-, e paraphernalia of material wealth. These people
are passive barbarians: no less than the more active
ones that have produced Fascism, they deny the
values of mind and spirit, and renounce the discipline
anc j sacrifice that make men truly human,
At their best these passive barb arians live on an
innocellt animal , evel . tl f ey suntan , heir bodieS; some .
times at vast public bathing beaches, sometimes under
, T[ A d w l-. r] sw ’ in mi]d orf?ie<;
V p ‘ f iney an SH’, wn ‘ r1 ’ s ™ ay ’ ln , mild OFg f s
of vacant sexuality. They dress themselves carefully
• c •/ j- . . . u c u-
within the range of uniformity dictated by fashion,
Th • h • • f H hv ■ and what na« M
r by a ma f bine , and what passes
for thought or feeling is also achieved, passively,
.. , f o ° ~ f. J
through the use of a machine—the radio or the mov-
•
g P
These people eat, drink, marry, bear children and
S° to their grave in a state that is at best hilarious
“World-Telegram,” New York.
DER TAG!
anaesthesia, and at worst is anxiety, fear and envy, for
lack of the necessary means to achieve the fashionable
minimum of sensation. Without this minimum, their
routine would be unbearable or their vacancy worse.
Half-dead in their work —half-alive outside their work.
This is their destiny. Every big city counts such
people by the million ; even the smaller provincial
centres, imitating the luxury and the style of the big
centres, produce their full share of people equally
empty of human standards and aims.
The novel and the newspaper accommodate them-
selves to the needs of these new barbarians ; likewise
the motion pictures. By endless repetition they build
up a mental world that is free from any values except
those of physical sensation and material wealth. This
is a world in which businessmen become gangsters and
gangsters become businessmen without changing a
single essential habit in their lives: a world in which
violence becomes normalised as part of the daily
routine. The popular mind becomes softly inured to
human degeneracy. Tobacco Road and Of Mice and
Men become popular dramas without the faintest
degree of public protest —except in traditional clerical
circles —over the defilement which they spread.
Today this degradation is all but universal. No
one is surprised when a gangster murders a man in
the public thoroughfare ; no one is surprised when a
band of gangsters invade a peaceful country and put
it under their “protection.” It is on these passive bar-
barians, who have come to exist in great numbers even
in countries that have free traditions, that the Fascists
have successfully relied in prosecuting their conquests.
The people who turn their heads away when a Brown
Shirt kicks a helpless old man in a public thorough-
fare; the people who cower behind their doors when
the Ogpu or the Gestapo rouses some poor victim at
midnight to be taken to a concentration camp or shot
in the back ; the people who utter no word of protest
against a regime that denies their humanity, people
who dare not even vote No on a plebiscite, lest they
be detected in that act —these are the passive sup-
porters of* Fascism.
At best, there is lack of even animal courage
among these passive barbarians ; their chief motto is
“Don’t stick out your neck! ” At worst, there is empti-
ness—a failure to feel their humanity challenged by
cruelty, by violence, by despotism, by contempt for
the weak and the helpless, by the spiteful renunciation
of all the higher goods of morality, art and science.
The more threatening the active barbarian’s assault,
the more inevitable becomes the passive barbarian’s
whine. “Why should we die in order to defend our
country? Why shouldn’t Hitler rule us, too? Maybe
we’d be just as well off. What’s freedom or democ-
racy? Just words.”
Those who have already lost their manhood and
their self-respect, who value their shabby little selves,
regardless of what sort of life they pass on to their
children, are the chosen accomplices of Fascism :
they are ready for its more boisterous denials of
freedom, justice and truth.
Under the German Yoke: 11.
[Revealing accounts of the general present conditions
and the treatment meted out to peoples brought under
the German yoke in conquered France, Holland,
Belgium and Czechoslovakia were included in “Uncabled
Additions,” 2/10/’4O. Further accounts are here given,
the first condensed from a “Wall-street Journal” article
sent from Uppsala, Sweden.]
Denmark
Denmark’s economic structure is such as to forbid
the very thought of self-sufficiency. Denmark lives
by and through her exports, of which well over two-
thirds were accounted for by agricultural produce. Of
this, more than one-half went to Great Britain, who
used to absorb virtually the entire huge output of
Danish bacon, plus about two-thirds of the butter and
at least half of the egg exports from Denmark. All
of this is now gone.
But something else too is gone. Denmark is cut
off from the feeding-stuffs and manures indispensable
to Danish agriculture.
The German economic masters who now lord it
over Denmark’s life feel much less interested in what
may become of Danish farming next year or there-
after than what can be now obtained from the occu-
pied country for the present needs and purposes of
the Reich’s war economy. The Germans are franti-
cally buying up all the food and livestock they can lay
hands upon. Even bacon, which formerly found its
way into Germany in negligible quantities (1| million
kilos a year, as compared with Britain’s 174 million
kilos), because the German public had little taste for
this particular ingredient of the British breakfast
table, is now being dumped upon the German market
in huge quantities and pressed upon German house-
wives by official propagandists (not much persuasion
is needed in the Reich’s present food situation).
If the Danish farmers have been hard hit, losing
a good, cash-paying customer and getting a hungry,
but inconsiderate and impecunious one in return, their
plight is still better than that of Danish industry,
which is clearly and inexorably headed for ruin. It is,
as is well-known, the deliberate and ruthless purpose
of the German economic leaders to reduce Denmark
—and to a lesser degree also Holland —to a state
where she will become a market for German industrial
products. Hence Danish industry—which had, during'
recent decades, been constantly on the up-grade—is
now being purposely kept down by the new masters,
even more than would be the natural result of its being
cut off from the world markets and the world sources
of raw materials.
The only exceptions are shipyards and other such
industrial plants as fit in with the Reich’s armaments
programme. As a result unemployment stays excep-
tionally high ; in spite of the ordinary seasonal de-
crease, and notwithstanding the fact that thousands
of Danish workers have been drafted for work in Ger-
many, there have been, throughout this summer, more
than 100,000 unemployed in Denmark. According to
a statement recently made by the late Lord Mayor of
Copenhagen, Ernst Kaper, one-third of the capital’s
inhabitants are at present living on the dole or some
other form of public relief.
Another inevitable consequence of the occupation
has been the total disappearance from the Danish
market of nearly all overseas import commodities,
such as oranges, bananas, coffee, tea, chocolates, spices
and so forth. Where the existing stocks of these are
not yet quite exhausted, prices have become prohibi-
tive and in a general way the cost of living is irre-
pressibly on the up-grade, Gasoline is unobtainable
except for ambulances, doctors, nurses and similar
urgent needs. In a normal year (1938), Denmark im-
ported 875,000 tons of gasoline and oil; at the moment
of the occupation, existing stocks were estimated at
250,000-300,000 tons, nearly all of which has been,
of course, seized by the German military authorities,
again to the detriment of Danish agriculture, which,
owing to its exceptionally advanced stage of indus-
trialisation, has been a great consumer of gas and oil.
* * * * *
(From New York “PM.”)
All factories and businesses in Denmark were
ordered to register their stocks of material. Next, all
the stocks were hastily bought up. Last, all stocks
were turned oyer to the Nazi invaders. As a conse-
quence: Within a week the world’s largest radiator
factory, situated in Copenhagen and employing 700
workers, had to shut down because its stock of iron-
plates was gone. Within a week 111 margarine factories
were closed. Within two weeks Danish textile industries
were out of materials. Within a few weeks coffee and
tobacco scarcely existed. The Danish oil supply of
250,000 tons was confiscated, so that rail traffic was
cut by 50 p.c.; gasoline was permitted only for police
cars, ambulances and fire brigades, and the number of
cars in use was cut from 200,000 to less than 25,000 ;
taxis and trucks were drawn by horses. Fuel quickly
became so scarce that it was soon rationed. Whole
communities discontinued their gas services. Hot
water became a luxury. The production of Diesel
motors, for which Denmark was renowned, was


stopped, then renewed for German use. Within six
weeks unemployment rose 40 p.c. —so much that the
trade unions lacked funds for unemployment insurance.
An immediate censorship was placed over the
radio and press. All public meetings were prohibited
and before long eight of Denmark’s 11 theatres were
closed.
Toward their German “protectors” the Danes
quickly adopted the Kold Skulder (cold shoulder)
technique. They simply acted as if the German sol-
diers did not exist. They refused to eat near Germans
in restaurants, got up and left when Germans sat near
by. Germans offering their seats to Danish women
on the street cars were ignored. Movie houses show-
ing German films were boycotted. German bands
which played old Danish folksongs they had learned
especially for their Danish “friends” performed to
empty parks. As a consequence of this cold-shoulder-
ing the Germans in Denmark lead a solitary and
isolated life.
Even the “Frankfurter Zeitung” recently admitted
that Danish agriculture was ruined. All Denmark is
now on rations. The Danish ration for bread, for
instance, is less than the German ration.
St Sc * * *
Norway
(Also condensed from “PM.”)
Commissioner Terboven’s approach in Norway
has been very different from that of Protector von
Neurath in Bohemia or Governor Frank in Poland.
There have been no atrocities, although there have
been arrests and executions. No concentra-
tion camps have been started, although a
number of Norwegians have “disappeared.”
The Norwegians, like the Danes, have
adopted the “freeze-out” process. This gives
the German soldier that same bewildered, un-
comfortable feeling he has in Denmark.
The Norwegian Nazis who comprised
the Fifth Column that helped the Nazis to
take over the country so easily are serving at
good pay in the police force. Other Nor-
wegians have ostracised them and have joined
an unofficial but very effective and consider-
able underground movement. Every German
troop movement in Norway is retailed a hun-
dred times. New German airports, with their
exact location and dimensions, are spread far
and wide in chain letters. Any new fortifica-
tions are immediately reported from one part
of the country to the other.
There is one very simple method of get-
ting the information to .Britain. Fishermen
must fish. Quite often they go out to sea,
get lost and find their way to Scotland or the
Shetland Islands. An anti-Nazi Norwegian
who escaped from Norway after having
worked at one of the new airports there —the
one at Fornebu —gave eloquent testimony
to the espionage system. He said that as soon
as the Germans construct new hangars or
get ’planes on the field the British come over
bombing.
Another escaped Norwegian, a seaman,
declared: “The Germans looted everything
in the way of foodstuffs. Every German ship
1 saw leave a Norwegian port was loaded to
the gills with food. I saw an order sent out
to German soldiers which instructed them
to spread the rumor that the harvest was very
poor this year. Actually, the harvest was
better than it had been for several years, but
the Germans wanted to cover up as far as
they could their plundering.”
The Germans have assessed the Norwegians
360,000,000 kroner (about £22,000,000) as the price
they must pay for the “protective custody.” About
£12,000,000 of this sum must be paid this year. To
raise it the sales tax has been trebled, a higher income
tax levied.
This is a big amount for a nation of only 2,800,000
to raise. Nevertheless, if that were all the German
occupation was costing, most Norwegians would
gladly pay up and call the episode closed. But the
Germans have also made other “assessments,” includ-
ing (a) nine months’ supply of gasoline ; (b) 18 months’
stocks of grain ; (c) two years’ supply of sugar; (d)
four years’ supply of coffee.
Moreover, as a result of the Nazi seizure, Nor-
way’s vast fishing industry, which exported 90 per cent,
of its catch, can no longer operate ; her huge mer-
chant shipping, one of the three largest in the world,
has either been bottled up, is working for Britain or
is in German hands ; her industry and agriculture,
neither of which can function without imports, are
stagnant. Norway’s very existence depended on inter-
national trade, which supplied fully 40 per cent, of
the national income. No people in Europe has been
so suddenly catapulted from plenty to desperate need
as have the Norwegians. As an instance of how the
German occupation works on Norway, take the typical
case of fats. Ordinarily Norway produced a surplus
of 200,000 tons. But now: (1) Whale oil will no
longer be available, since the big Norwegian whaling
fleet is cut off from the homeland. (2) Herring oil,
another big source of fats, will be impossible to get
because the fishing ships will lack fuel oil. (3) Vege-
table oils must cease because of lack of imports. (4)
Animal fats must decrease also because of lack of
fodder and grain. A general slaughter of livestock
has already taken place, and only two weeks after the
occupation the Germans started a strict rationing of
all fats.
Norway can produce now no more than half the
fats she needs. The same situation can be duplicated
in cereals and vegetables. The result is that Norway
faces —and can hardly escape—a period of the most
devastating malnutrition, if not actual starvation. In
the words of Dr. Karl Evang, who was director of
public health in Norway before the occupation:
“Norway is a pitiful example of the desperate situation
into which a peace-loving, highly-cultured nation can
be plunged through the insatiable lust for power of
the German Reich.”
Over all Norway hangs the central theme of
approaching need, of coming hunger. The well-
developed co-operatives, which used to be the means
of distributing plenty, are now the method by which
the Germans restrict consumption. A people as literate
as the Norwegians know very well the results of a
restricted diet: lowered resistance, prevalence of
disease, higher tuberculosis rate, rickets and scurvy.
To the 85,000,000 Germans of whom Hitler so con-
sistently boasts the acquisition of supplies meant for a
population of less than 3,000,000 can be only a drop
in the bucket; to Norwegians it is a matter of life
and death.
Towards War in U.S.A.
[Strong arguments and vigorous appeals in favor of
active American participation in the war are appearing
in U.S. newspapers, typical examples being here given.
First, an article by Ralph Ingersoll, condensed from the
New York publication “PM.”]
What terrible things have to happen before decent
people are moved to act against evil?
To read tbo accounts of the bombing of London
is to be made ill with anger. Our own correspondent
“Post,” New York.
“LOOK! I’M AN ARTIST!”
(A scathing comment on Mr. Willkie’s main line of attack in U.S.
Presidential election .)
began: “1 have been appalled by death and destruction
which German high school boys in $lOO,OOO ’planes
have dropped on the hard-working poor people of
London.” As his stomach was turned by the sight
of London burning, he wrote, “This was the city it
had taken 30 generations of men a thousand years to
build.” The United Press correspondent found 1000
people beneath a church when he took shelter there
and “the air was so foul it was sickening.” Outside,
“the bombs lit up the city so you could read a news-
paper.”
All the American correspondents in London are
doing a magnificent job telling what those “high school
boys in $lOO,OOO ’planes” are doing, sent out by a
gangster mob to murder. All of us are deeply moved.
The strong, sane, sound revulsion at what the Ger-
mans are doing to our civilisation must release itself
in action. Quick action. United action. A violent
and unshakable determination to stop that business.
A correspondent for New York “Times” put on
paper the suggestion that American Army pilots might
be granted leave of absence to fight in the Royal Air
Force—to learn. Let’s do it. Let’s have 100 mdre
ideas like this.
Terrible things have been happening for years.
Today American correspondents are making us see and
feel them as never before. We are the only people in
the world —in the whole wide world —who can really
stop it so it will stay stopped. Who is it that hesitates
about what we must do —we the simple people of the
world who think of ourselves as decent?
Hitler is striking at us through England. Striking
at us because he is a man who believes in might, and
unless he has the bloody testimony to his might before
his eyes he can’t sleep. Yet the world isn’t safe for
Hitler with us in it and he knows that. If we don’t
strike —we will be struck.
Again I ask Americans: What terrible things have
to happen before decent people are moved to act
against evil?
* s= * * $
Democracy v. Totalitarianism
[From a New York “World-Telegram” series of
articles on the U.S.A. written by eminent American
writers, a statement on democracy by John Steinbeck,
author of Grapes of Wrath, with practically the same
application to Australia or Maoriland as to the United
States.]
The dictators say that democracy is a degenerate
form of government. This is a ridiculous generality.
Democracy is only degenerate when its leaders and
its people are degenerate.
Actually, totalitarianism is a degenerate form, for
in it a hopeless, confused and embittered people have
tossed all thought and responsibility to one man, thus
proving their lack of morality, versatility and ingenuity.
Democracy, on the other hand, by dividing re-
sponsibility, keeps the political function and ability
alive among the people, and this makes for a differ-
ence in endurance. That endurance lies here —America
could lose any hundred thousand men and remain a
functioning nation while the loss of ten key men would
cripple the Third Reich.
Whether we [Americans] like it or not, we are
faced with a war. The totalitarian discipline, designed
for war, must continue to expand or it will begin to
die. Germany cannot permit the example of a free
America in the same world with her slave conquests
and the slavish citizens. It will then be with us to
prove whether or not we are degenerate.
We are not a contented people. We never have
been. Part of the nature of America has been its rest-
lessness. Only the most fatuous have ever considered
that we have a perfect government. But we have
maintained the right and the ability of the people to
change that government slowly and lawfully.
And our government has been in a constant
state of change since it was established. We
like this method. There are very few Ameri-
cans who do not infinitely prefer the worst
of our democracy to the best of totali-
tarianism.
The history of Germany has been a his-
tory of magnificent errors. Now, because we
fight each other —party against party, group
against group, industry against labor —Hitler
suspects that we are degenerate. He has
completely overlooked the vitality of this
fighting. It is through such fighting that we
have kept alive and that we have progressed
socially and economically. This fighting is
the proof that we are not degenerate.
The war will come and then it will be
seen whether or not a free and alert people
can coagulate into a force to withstand and
defeat the power of the hypnotised
automatons of the dictators. Nearly all
Americans believe in the same things. They
differ on the details. I think they are quite
capable of leaving those details for the
moment for the preservation of the whole.
I am convinced that this will be done. I
believe that in his judgment of America Hitler
has made one of the great historical Ger-
manic mistakes.
Britain’s Weather Ally.
(Condensed from a New York “Sim” article
by Dewitt Mackenzie.)
How reconcile recent bombing develop-
ments with the prediction by expert observers
generally that the bad weather which will
arrive shortly may be expected to give Eng-
land a respite? There is on record a British
official admission that German raiders over
London one night benefited by the heavy
clouds and rain.
The question is well worth consideration in view of
the important part the atmospheric conditions un-
doubtedly will play. There is no inconsistency in-
volved, if you know your English weather.
So far as London is concerned, there rarely will be
a time, even in the worst weather, when some bombers
won’t be able to get over the capital by instrument-
flying and dump their cargoes of bombs blindly, to
fall willy-nilly into the metropolis. It would be diffi-
cult to miss a target the size of the world’s greatest
city. Such bombing would be wholly indiscriminate.
It would do damage, to be sure, and it might kill a lot
of people, but the chances of military objectives being
destroyed would be small. In short, it would con-
tribute little to victory in the battle of Britain.
As for the rest of England, the autumn and winter
weather should provide real relief. Britain is a law
unto itself when it comes to dirty weather. Day after
day the land will be shrouded with fogs and mists
which start from the ground and reach up, thereby
making an impenetrable blanket.
The best a bomber can do in such circumstances
is to get above the fog, steer by instrument until he is
over some large target like a city and then shoot
blindly. True, there will be times when the Nazi air-
men will find more favorable conditions, but those may
easily be the great exception.
On the whole, England expects to get real relief
from the fogs and mists which last from about October
to March, inclusive. Destruction of industries and
other military objectives should fall off sharply.
Incidentally, why is it that the British authorities
have, ever since the beginning of the war, forbidden
publication of weather forecasts in England? It’s
because the weather travels from west to east —from
England to the Continent —and the weather which
England gets today arrives in Germany about 24 hours
later. Thus the English aviator knows by today’s
weather at home what sort he will encounter in Ger-
many tomorrow, but that scheme doesn’t work both
ways to help the Nazi. So weather reports are for-
bidden, to keep the information from the enemy.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Considered by many of his backers to
have been unlucky in defeat in the AJ.C.
Derby, Lucrative won the Caulfield
Guineas on Saturday in a style which
assures him of favoritism for the Vic-
toria Derby. Never farther than a neck
behind the pacemaker, Warbird, he
dashed to the front immediately
McCarten moved on him entering the
straight, and, with a display of rare speed,
cleared away to win by six lengths from
the stablemates Warbird and Velocity.
He cut out the mile in 1.37, which
equalled Ajax’s record for the race.
Doubts have been expressed whether
Lucrative is a true stayer, but, even
allowing that Saturday’s distance was
only a mile, an extra half-mile would
not have troubled him on the day. The
time was there, too, and he simply out-
classed the rest of the field. Seemingly
he is another of the staying Gay
Lotharios, and it is not surprising that he
has made a sharp forward move in Mel-
bourne Cup quotations, though he is not
yet a certain runner. Guineas suc-
cess was worth £2lOO in stakes alone,
and Lucrative has been a fine bargain at
his yearling cost of 450 guineas. Origi-
nally he was raced in partnership by R. W.
McLean and F. Levin, but after three
races in their colors, for a win in a divi-
sion of the Maribyrnong Trial Stakes,
Levin sold his interest to McLean.
Lucrative’s wins in the latter’s sole in-
terest have also included the A.J.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes, and keen judges will not
hear of his defeat in the Victoria Derby.
Warbird battled on well for second
money, even though he had no chance
with the winner, and, as has been stressed
in these columns on previous occasions,
there is every probability of his develop-
ing into a first-class sprinter. Velocity,
also trained by Sid Ferguson, may be the
better stayer of the two, but something
easier than the Victoria Derby may be
more in his line. Positron ran on well in
fourth position, and did much better than
The Adjutant, who had beaten him at
Mentone. The Adjutant received a check
near the five furlongs, but showed no real
dash at any stage. He might do better
over a longer distance, but his perform-
ance revealed that it is one thing to beat
a handicap field when carrying only 7.9,
and another to beat the best of his age
when meeting them on level terms.
Biggest disappointments of the Guineas
were Pandect, Sun Valley and Tidal
Wave. Rider W. Cook stated that Pan-
dect put no heart into his work at any
stage, but the colt’s performance was not
nearly so bad as that might suggest. No.
17 from the mile barrier at Flemington is
a big disadvantage, and, in addition, Pan-
dect missed the start. He was one of the
last two at the end of two furlongs, but
ran on strongly in sixth position. Pan-
dect might not beat Lucrative in the Vic-
toria Derby, but over the longer distance
he will do much better than he did on
Saturday.
Sun Valley could do no more than
hold his position after moving up fifth
at the turn, but Tidal Wave was never a
possibility. Trainer J. T. Jamieson anti-
cipated that, with the pace fast, Tidal
Wave would be hard to beat, and he
started second-best at 7 to 1 after 12 to
1 had been bet. The pace was fast
enough, but Tidal Wave failed where he
was expected to shine. He showed no
dash over the concluding furlongs, and
finished only tenth.
Most of the Caulfield Cup fancies were
among the runners on Saturday, but form
did not cause any vital alterations in the
market on that race. Rex Felt, however,
made a sharp advance following his
defeat of L’Aiglon and Early Bird in the
Herbert Power Handicap. Rex Felt failed
in his Sydney engagements, but his best
latest form has been over middle-
distances, and, judged by the manner in
which he outstayed L’Aiglon and Early
Bird at 10 furlongs, the Caulfield Cup
distance may not be beyond him. Early
Bird, in front from the start, looked a
certain winner when she still held a lead
of about two lengths a furlong from
home, but she stopped suddenly. Rex
Felt, with 51b. more than his Cup weight,
finished brilliantly from sixth at the turn,
and L’Aiglon, who is in the Melbourne
Cup, but not the Caulfield Cup, battled
on well enough to indicate that a return
to his best form is likely. L’Aiglon, how-
ever, carried 41b. less than his Melbourne
Cup weight.
Gladynev remains the puzzle of the
Caulfield Cup field. This much-discussed
Maorilander, popularly supposed to have
been thrown-in the Cup with 6.7, was
backed like a good thing with 7.12 for
the Herbert Power Handicap. Although
never threatening Wilson’s position as
favorite, he started at 6 to 1 after his
price had firmed from twelves to fives.
Gladynev had the run of the race behind
Early Bird, but, although still second
entering the straight, he showed little fight
subsequently, and dropped back to finish
about level with Mac Rob, who came
home well a length behind the third horse.
Opinions differ concerning the value of
Gladynev’s performance, but his form
was the best he has shown in his four
Australian races, and, if he improves at
all, a drop of 191 b. will help him over
the additional two furlongs next Satur-
day.
Although beaten into the minor places
by Gold Salute in the Toorak Handicap,
Historian and True Flight actually en-
hanced their Caulfield Cup prospects.
They were two of the last four horses at
the half-mile, but moved up fourth and
fifth respectively rounding the turn into
the straight. Historian had to be checked
when Gold Salute switched back to take
an inside run, but both he and True
Flight battled on well against the more
brilliant winner. Historian, meeting True
Flight 21b. better than Cup terms, was
doing the better of the two at the finish,
but, paradoxically, True Flight might
reverse positions over the half-mile-longer
trip next Saturday. At all events, he met
Historian on Cup terms and outstayed
him over 10 furlongs at Flemington the
previous week.
Backed from 5 to 2 to 7 to 4, Gold
Salute’s success in race-record time was
compensation for the defeats of Glady-
nev and Tidal Wave, other members of
Jamieson’s team, earlier in the day.
Jamieson can pride himself on having
won two races from as many starts with
Gold Salute, and, owing to his expert
handling of the gelding, Gold Salute may
yet be worth the reported 9000 guineas
paid for him by Alan Cooper before the
A.J.C. Derby last year. The Toorak
Handicap was worth £7OO in stakes alone,
and Gold Salute now looks to have a
first-class chance in the Cantala Stakes,
worth £1750 to the winner. He was
handicapped at 8.6 for the latter race, as
against the 8.13 he carried on Saturday,
but can be penalised up to 101 b.
Horses improve suddenly, but Satur-
day’s racing apparently revealed the fad-
ing big-race hopes of several earlier fan-
cies. Wilson was a big disappointment
in the Herbert Power Handicap. Backed
like a certainty, he never really flattered
his backers, and finished eleventh in a
field of 16. Tragopan again dropped right
out at the business end, and the hurdler
Cheery Jack, who has been backed for
the Melbourne Cup, was never a possi-
bility. Apostrophe, however, made up
considerable ground to finish sixth, and
will do better over a distance beyond 10
furlongs. A slow start contributed to
Royal Comet’s failure in the Toorak Han-
dicap, in which Phoines weakened into
fourth position after having every chance.
Freckles tired to nothing at the end of
the mile, and Chatsbury ran his worst
race.
Jockeys are not always the best judges.
A. Breasley elected to ride Law Student
in preference to High Title in the
Debutant Stakes, and E. Bartle was sub-
stituted on the latter. Law Student, start-
ing at 13 to 8, finished third after having
every chance, High Title, at 8 to 1, win-
ning from Tea Cake. High Title had
the race won at the halfway mark, and
cut out the distance in M} —time which
equalled the race record made by Esper-
anto. Latter, who was also ridden by
Bartle, won his race at Caulfield, military
occupation of Caulfield necessitating this
year’s V.A.T.C.’s spring meeting being
held at Flemington. High Title is a good
stamp of chestnut colt by Duke John
from Paper Flower, and, as Saturday’s
race was worth £7OO, is already a bargain
at his yearling cost of 250 guineas. He is
trained by F. W. Hoysted for W. J. Pel-
ham and C. F. Taylor. High Title was
bred by Keith Angas, of South Australia,
and represents the oldest of Duke John’s
get. That sire is by Blandford.
Starting at 100 to 1, and paying a win
tote dividend of 80 to 1, Primavera gave
bookmakers a “skinner” in the Debutante
Stakes. Smartly away from the rails
position, she was in front two furlongs
from home, and won clearly from Silver
Light and the favorite, Vanessa. Prima-
vera, who is by Windbag from Flower of
Egypt, was overlooked by prospective
buyers when offered for sale as a year-
ling, and subsequently was leased by her
breeder, A. G. Hunter, to R. A. Stevens.
She is trained by W. K. Jeffery, another
of whose juveniles, Portfolio, ran a
promising fifth in the Debutant Stakes.
Disappointing on previous visits, Adel-
aide gelding Panka hung on long enough
to win the 1010 Welter by half a head and
a head from Sir Romeo and Alarm. The
race was to have determined whether he
would be a runner for the Caulfield Cup,
but his owner, A. R. Withers, stated sub-
sequently that he intended to scratch him.
Withers considered that, as Panka only
scrambled home at nine furlongs, the
mile and a half of the Cup probably
would be too far for him. Further, ex-
cuses were possible for the second and
third horses. Sir Romeo was one of the
last bunch rounding the turn, and
Alarm, who was the medium of a hectic
plunge from 10 to 1 down to 7 to 2, did
not get clear until too late. Withers, a
leading S.A. pastoralist, bred Panka and
Plana, latter of whom also is represent-
ing him in Melbourne this spring, on his
famous Nalpa station.
* * * *
The A.J.C. had a well-deserved success-
ful meeting. The weather was fine on
each of the four days, the total attend-
ance larger than for several years, and
the racing excellent, with short-priced
horses the winners of the two principal
handicaps.
Beau Vite was the hero of the meeting,
with the Metropolitan and two weight-
for-age races to his credit, and each was
run in record time for the course —mile
and five furlongs in 2.42, mile and a half
in 2.29, and a mile and a quarter in
2.2}. There was no semblance of luck
in his victories, and the contention of
Maorilanders that we should see a much-
improved horse was well-founded. His
meeting with Ajax at weight-for-age will
be something for Melbournites to look
forward to with pleasurable anticipation.
The L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes will show
us whether Ajax is superior to Beau Vite
at a mile and a. quarter, and it is prob-
able that a longer race like the C. B.
Fisher Plate will favor the latter.
Mosaic was disappointing, and is not
going to Melbourne. It was naturally
thought that his runs in the Colin Stephen
Stakes and Metropolitan would have im-
proved him sufficiently to enable him to
win the Randwick Plate. He never looked
a winner, and finished third to Dashing
Cavalier and Old Rowley, the latter lead-
ing into the straight. Dashing Cavalier
was last at the half-mile, but finished in
great style to win easily from Old Row-
ley in 3.24|, which, though fast, was a
second outside the time put up by
Poitrel when he beat Kennaquhair and
Pershore in 1920, and that of Pantheon
when he led Rapine and Spearfelt in
1926. Mosaic’s rider said he was knocked
on to the rails by Dashing Cavalier, but
the stewards did not notice such an
occurrence, nor did I hear anyone else
mention it.
High Caste won the Epsom in 1.35|,
but in the Clibborn Stakes, with 9.0,
Ensign was only a quarter-second outside
that time, and the fact that he had Flying
Knight beaten before reaching the
straight gives a fair idea of his pace.
Pinero, in receipt of 71b., ran on well to
get second, while, though Derby running
gave Nightbeam a reasonable chance, he
was last at an early stage, and was not
after a possible place-getter. Lucrative
is brilliant, but it can certainly be claimed
for Ensign that he is equally fast, if not
faster.
Hope was one of the sensations of the
fixture. He was well beaten in the
Metropolitan with 7.8, but he made
amends by subsequently winning the
Sydney Handicap (7.11) and the Waverley
Handicap (8.7). He never ran better,
and it was remarkable form for a nine-
year-old gelding, especially as in the Syd-
ney Handicap he outstayed Cooranga,
who, after being in a seemingly hopeless
position half a mile from home, put in
such a remarkable run that she looked a
winner commencing the last half-furlong.
Cooranga may again tackle the Mel-
bourne Cup, in which she has a pound
less than when fifth last year. Whether
she will make the necessary improvement
to win is doubtful. St. Constant, after
his third in the Epsom, ran indifferently
in the Metropolitan, and then won the
Final Handicap. There are few slower
beginners than St. Constant, but, though
he was at the rear of the field half a mile
from home in the last-mentioned race, he
won easily from Lord Valentine and Bel
Oiseau. This was the ninth race won by
St. Constant since A. E. Cooper practi-
cally gave him away to J. W. Cook for
£l. St. Constant, by the way, repeated
his performance of two years ago when
he ran third in the Epsom and won the
Final Handicap. He also won the Final
Handicap at the last A.J.C. autumn
meeting.
The fight between Beau Vite and Mil-
dura provided the most exciting finish
for a Craven Plate since Cetigne narrowly
beat Wolaroi and Estland in 1918. When
Mildura got his neck in front of Beau
Vite shortly after starting upon the last
furlong a win for him seemed assured,
but the Maorilander, struggling on in
the gamest possible fashion, defeated him
in the last couple of strides. There was
so little in it that the hoisting of a dead-
heat would not have occasioned surprise.
Munro said he thought he won on
Mildura, but when any jockey is riding
his hardest, with only a half-head divid-
ing horses, his opinion is likely to be
erroneous. It did look as if Munro made
his effort a trifle early, but it is under-
stood the possibility of High Caste
squeezing him out when he made a fast
move rounding the turn was responsible.
Munro decided it was wiser to go on
than take that risk. While full credit
must be given Beau Vite for his win, it
cannot be overlooked that Mildura was
giving him weight. High Caste would
have done better only for a plate on one
of his fore feet becoming loose, but as he
was meeting Mildura 51b. better than in
the Epsom it would now seem as if he
was lucky to beat the latter in that race.
The run on Saturday evidently did a lot
for Mildura, and his Cantala Stakes
chance with 21b. less than he carried in
the Epsom looks particularly bright.
The fact of Beau Vite setting a new
time record for the Craven Plate did not
cause much astonishment. Previous races
during the meeting showed the track to
be faster than usual, and while the breeze
FOR CAULFIELD.
(At Flemington.)
(By “SENTRY.”)
SECOND DAY—WEDNESDAY.
Oby Hurdle: Mamillius, 1 ;
Minim, 2 ; Winterset, 3.
Toolamba Nursery: Leicester
Square, 1 ; Liege, 2 ; Ashton, 3.
Caulfield Stakes: Ajax, 1 ; High
Caste, 2; Maikai, 3.
Moora Welter: Pannade, 1 ; Foot-
mark, 2; Silenus, 3.
Coongy Handicap: Rivette, 1 ;
Katanga, 2 ; Sir Romeo, 3.
Moonga Handicap: Hilton, 1 ;
Judean, 2 ; Phoines, 3.
THIRD DAY—SATURDAY.
Caulfield Cup.
True Flight, 1 ; Historian, 2;
Reading or Gladynev, 3.
By “PILOT.”
Gladynev, 1 ; Reading, 2; His-
torian or True Flight, 3.
FOR RANDWICK.
(By “PILOT ”)
Novice Handicap: Royal Head,
1 ; Dewar, 2 ; Diamante, 3.
Flying Handicap: Overbold, 1 ;
Flying Knight, 2 ; Creditor, 3.
City Tattersall’s Handicap : Fear-
less, 1 ; 2 ; Bel
Oiseau or Cooranga,
Two-year-old Stakes: Dick Whit-
tington, 1 ; Cradle Song, 2;
Limonite, 3.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : His Lordship, 1 ; Opportunist,
2 ; Rodrigo, 3.
Club Welter: Last Chance, 1 ;
Pen Name, 2 ; Sigh, 3.


-the
the
Wi
There is nothing m
a sock that has shru
(yourself the unshrin
Viyella Socks. Be
splendid range of
eluding Khaki and Air
'unusual fancy patte
favourite store ... all
Remember to ask for
So
pla
annoying than
prove for
truth with
d see the
lours, in-
Blue, also
at your
d wearers.
Socks.
The foot rule strip Is provided so
check the size for yourself, before and
f you can
washing.
!'* s
MM
*
mmm
' £
DAT Sr A 1 HICWT
4
1
Rf CO
SOCKS FOR MEN
was not against the horses along
the back in the Craven Plate it was de-
cidedly in their favor over the last half-
mile. While I heard some of Beau Vite’s
admirers enthusiastically declare him
“better than Phar Lap,” Mildura, con-
ceding 41b., was too close to him at the
finish to uphold that idea.
J. T. Cush never has a large team in
training, but his horses generally include
a good galloper or two. Either All Love,
trained by him for “Charles Vixen,” is
right out of the ordinary or the fillies
she beat in the Gimcrack Stakes were
not up to the standard of some previous
years. It would, however, be wise to
accept the idea that All Love is an excep-
tional galloper. She bounced out of the
barrier, quickly established a lead and,
though she swung out entering the
straight, ran away from Whisper Low
(Beau Pere-Aissa), of whom trainer J. T.
Jamieson had formed a high opinion. The
wind helped All Love to reduce Pan-
dava’s record of 5Sj by quarter of a
second, but still it was a brilliant effort.
She cost 250gns. as a yearling, and is by
Double Remove from Beauvue, by
Legionnaire from that smart mare Girton
Girl (Linacre-Miss Arlington), winner of
a December Stakes.
Double Remove is by Felstead (Spion
Kop-Felkington) from Quick Rise, by
Hurry On from Pompadour. Double
Remove, who is a brother to Early School,
a most brilliant two-year-old, did little
racing, starting four times altogether. At
three years he was second to Raeburn
in the Newmarket Column Stakes. He is
related to Magpie, and it is probable that
influenced P. Miller in purchasing him.
The contention of Scientist’s trainer
that interference and the slow pace in the
early part of the Derby told against him
in the Derby was, in some measure,
borne out by that colt’s win in the Mem-
bers’ Handicap with 9.4. However, Fear-
less Fox was the only other Derby
runner that started in the Members’ Han-
dicap, and as Scientist finished ahead of
him in the former his win cannot be
taken as definitely putting him up with
the horses that beat him in the classic.
Certainly he was meeting Fearless Fox
81b. worse than in the Derby, but their
relative positions at the finish merely con-
firmed his superiority over the latter, but
did not indicate that he was sure to
prove A.J.C. Derby running incorrect
when he races in Melbourne. There was
merit in Scientist’s win with his big weight
on Wednesday, but he was fortunate in
beating Veiled Threat, on whom Cook
was scarcely seen to as much advantage
as Morsilo, who rode him in his two pre-
vious races.
Although Yaralla and All Love stood
out from their opponents in the Breeders’
Plate and Gimcrack Stakes respectively,
Queenslander Mannerheim showed excel-
lent form in the Canonbury Stakes. Run-
ning better than in the Breeders’ Plate,
he lost his opponents over the last fur-
long, second place going to It’s Funny,
a Constant Son filly. Skerries, who was
a hot favorite on the strength of the way
he finished in the Breeders’ Plate, looked
a place-getter halfway down the straight,
but failed to run on.
Gold Salute’s decisive win in the Shorts
prepared many Sydney racegoers for his
success in the Toorak Handicap, and
consequent on Fly’s win in the Chester
Handicap they will be looking forward
to the autumn for that mare to distin-
guish herself in a race like the Oakleigh
Plate. Since she did so well at two years
Fly has given her trainer a deal of
trouble, but she appears quite right again.
She met some speedy sprinters in the
Chester Handicap, but did not give them
a look-in. Overbold, who was slow in
finding his legs and seemed to be hang-
ing in, ran second, but was never dan-
gerous, nor was Red Thespian, though he
finished third*
Red Thespian also earned place-money
on the third day, when he was second to
Tel Asur in the Suburban Handicap. The
fact of D. Munro riding Red Thespian
and not Tel Asur had something to do
with the latter starting at 20 to 1 with
the books and paying 39 to 1 on the tote.
I did not think Tel Asur looked as well
as on some previous occasions, but he
acted up to his best form.
Seven Fifty ran well up to two miles
in Brisbane, but, though he won the
Squatters’ Handicap at a mile and a
quarter, his subsequent efforts in the
Sydney Handicap and Randwick Plate
did not put him in the light of a stayer.
In both he faded out at the end. Read-
ing ran a great race in the Metropolitan,
and it was unlucky for his owners that
he struck such a good horse as Beau
Vite. That run must have taken a lot
out of Reading, as though first round the
turn in the Craven Plate he was last
home. On latest form he cannot be rated
the equal of Beau Vite, High Caste
or Mildura at weight-for-age, but still he
may win something in Melbourne.
Buzalong’s Metropolitan showing was
much below expectations, as was that of
Malagigi; while, though Pantler finished
brilliantly in the Metropolitan with 7.10,
his efforts in the Colin Stephen Stakes
and Waverley Handicap said little for
him as a weight-carrier. Yours Truly
again failed to uphold the reputation he
gained as winner of a New Zealand Cup.
Gilltown is a possible winner in Mel-
bourne. Fearless is scarcely as good as
this time last year, but improvement in
him is probable. There does not seem
much prospect of Bristol or Cable Boy
winning a fair race; while Sedunum,
though within reasonable distance of his
best, is getting enough weight to make
success for him rather difficult.
High Caste was beaten by Beau Vite
and Mildura in the Craven Plate, but, as
a loose plate made excuse possible for
him, he may still be a factor in the de-
cision of some of the w.f.a. races in Mel-
bourne, though, as a stayer, he may not
improve upon last year. Without win-
ning, Binnia Hero ran well, and at the
summer meetings may again distinguish
himself; while beaten horses in Creditor,
Chatoona, His Lordship, Lyndhurst, Edi-
fice and Opportunist should each have a
winning turn before long.
Pinero will continue to prove useful
this season, even if he does not quite
reach front rank among the three-year-
olds. He came home so strongly in the
fast-run Clibborn Stakes that he may
stay. It will probably be the same with
Veiled Threat. Flying Knight will not.
Tidal Wave did not do as well as ex-
pected in the untruly-run A.J.C. Derby,
and as he failed rather badly in the
soundly-run Caulfield Guineas he does
not appear a good Victoria Derby pros-
pect, even allowing for the difference in
distance.
* * * *
Two Cups business was quiet in Syd-
ney on Monday. Reading and Katanga
were coupled with Beau Vite, the latter
being a sound favorite for the Melbourne
Cup, despite his 61b. rise. The positions
of those most fancied were as follows:
Caulfield Cup.
True Flight.
Historian.
Gladynev, Reading.
High Caste.
Katanga.
Beaulivre, Maikai, Rex Felt.
Melbourne Cup.
Beau Vite.
Maikai.
Lucrative, Pandect, Wilson.
Dashing Cavalier, Pantler, Rivette.
Apostrophe, Historian, Scientist, True
Flight.
* * * *
Fearless Fox is to run in the Guineas
in Brisbane, and it is probable Veiled
Threat will be sent north for the Derby,
to be run at the Q.T.C. meeting next
month.
* * * *
Presumably the owner and rider of
Beaulivre were satisfied to be questioned
by the stipendiary stewards concerning
that horse’s collapse in the Epsom. Rac-
ing is rife with suspicion, and in the case
of Beaulivre it was fomented by people
who should have known better. The
owner put £2500 on him at even
money, and anyone with average know-
ledge of racing should have been able to
see that Munro could not have got more
out of Beaulivre in the straight.
If Beaulivre had won the Metropolitan
there would probably have been a demon-
stration, but though his condition looked
perfect his chance was hopeless a long
way from home. The statement of the
Maoriland jockey, Ellis, who rode Beau-
livre in the Metropolitan, to the effect
that he could not possibly have won that
race, even at a mile, must have been
pleasing to Munro. Various suggestions
had been made as to what caused Beau-
livre to stop so badly in the Epsom, but
as he did no better in the Metropolitan
nearly all were probably wide of the
mark.
There have been similar happenings,
and with horses less in the public eye
than Beaulivre comparatively little notice
has been taken of them. Beaulivre has
gone to Melbourne, but, though his owner
backed him a little while ago for the
“two-Cups” double, his poor form in the
Metropolitan at first made him a doubt-
ful runner for either. However, he is
to be a Caulfield Cup runner, and is
good enough to upset calculations.
* * * *
McCarten came in for a deal of severe
criticism for his riding of Lucrative in
the A.J.C. Derby, the general opinion
being that he brought trouble on him-
self at the turn. It was suggested that
in the Caulfield Guineas and Victoria
Derby he might be replaced by some
southern jockey. This idea proved in-
correct, and, for McCarten’s sake, I was
glad when he landed Lucrative an easy
winner of the Guineas.
Despite the opinion of many racing
men that Lucrative will not stay, he
ran away from his Guineas opponents in
the straight, and it must not be over-
looked that it was at Flemington, and
not at Caulfield. As the second horse
was six lengths behind him in the
Guineas, it was a margin that will take
a deal of wiping out in the Derby, no
matter what excuses may be made for
those he beat on Saturday. It is im-
probable either Warbird or Velocity will
be able to reverse positions with him,
and he may still have most to fear from
Pandect. There is no getting away from
the fact that the latter did better than
Lucrative right at the end in the A.J.C.
Derby, and, as compared with the
Guineas, that additional half-mile may
do a lot for him, even though Lucrative
is credited with having improved since
he raced in Sydney.
* * * *
If Gladynev had won the Herbert
Power Handicap it is probable he would
have gone to the top of the list in the
Caulfield Cup quotations. He failed,
tiring at the finish, but the backing
accorded him indicated that, though he
was not optimistic a little while ago,
Jamieson must reckon him well on the
way back to his Maoriland form. Last
week’s race, in conjunction with a drop
in weight from 7.12 to 6.7, should do
a lot for Gladynev, who is a small horse,
and he may uphold the original idea that
oversight on the part of the handicapper
had given him a pronounced pull in
weight over most of the others engaged
in the Caulfield Cup.
Historian, down 81b., and True Flight
101 b., as compared with the Toorak
Handicap, must run really well in the
Cup. True Flight has done well up to
two miles, so he should have little dif-
ficulty in getting the Caulfield Cup dis-
tance. Historian’s best deeds have been
at less than a mile and a half, but that
distance should not be beyond him, see-
ing he was fifth in last season’s Caulfield
and Williamstown Cups.
Rex Felt has 51b. less than when he
won the Herbert Power Handicap last
week. As he finished strongly in that
he must be given a chance, despite the
doubt whether he will be quite suited
by a soundly-run mile and a half, and
it is certain the pace will be on through-
out. With Beau Vite out of the way
Reading might have comfortably won
the Metropolitan, and as he again has
9st. it is not surprising his trainer is
optimistic, notwithstanding his horse’s
subsequent failure in the Craven Plate.
There has been backing for Katanga,
but, though he may run well, I question
whether he has yet done anything that
puts him within 71b. of Reading.
Wilson cut up badly in the Stand
Handicap, and Maikai, with 251 b. more
than when second last year, does not
appeal to me. Apostrophe stays, but
.Freckles may find it rather far. lam
writing before the declaration of accep-
tances, but for a collection likely to
supply a couple of place-getters com-
mend me to True Flight, Historian,
Reading, Gladynev and Rex Felt. Going
further, I expect Gladynev or Reading
to win.
* * * *
Randwick gave several books a bad
meeting. The percentage of successful
favorites was not unduly high—seven and
a half in 25 races —but, without heading
the quotations, several other winners were
well backed in races for which compara-
tively few were supported. The Epsom
and Metropolitan double result was bad.
High Caste and Beau Vite being at 20
to 1 a week before the Epsom was run.
In the long run most books, though not
all, come out on top, but, like punters,
they occasionally have some bad losing
runs. Big bets are much more common
than 30 or 40 years ago, and a book-
maker who lays two or three agaimt
winners at an early stage often has a
hard time digging out over the remainder
of a meeting.
Beau Vite’s three wins made him the
principal earner at the A.J.C. spring n ‘ tc
ing, and in Melbourne in place-money,
nothing else, he can be relied on to add


HE RES
TO'E E "
4
&
fes
(
LJ?
jpr
/:
■«/
K 554
/
*
ft
S'" ' ’ * * *'- ’"
«ofe
#
■
ss:
OATMEAL
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents:
GOOD FORAWIN
A GOOD HORSE &
A COOD DRINK... /
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun-
ceston.
>
LEND TO DEFEND BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES


SAVE MONEY
ITS
THRIFTY
INSTALL
TO
NEW
\
CHAMPIONS
it sli?
Ml
CHAMPIONS
Bring FUEL ECONOMY
Worn plugs waste fuel. Install
new Champions. They ensure
fuller combustion of the fuel.
Less carbon. More power and a
smoother-running engine. Fuel
lasts longer and you soon are
repaid the cost of the spark
plugs ... and more! Champions
actually save you money.
An Empire product—made in
Windsor, Canada
to the £5BOO put together at his last three
starts. Pandect's one win gave J. Wren
£3BOO, and the other four-figures win-
ners were the two-year-olds Yaralla and
All Love. Although Mildura was not
a winner, his two seconds returned his
owner £7OO. The earnings and sire of
each winner at Randwick were as under:
Ist. 2nd. 3rd.Prize-
money.
Beau Vite (by Beau Pere).. 3 0 0 £5BOO
Pandect (by Pantheon) 1 0 0 3800
Yaralla (by The Buzzard) ..1 0 0 1000
All Love (by Double Re-
move) .. .. .. 1 0 0 1000
Dashing Cavalier (by Con-
stant Son) .. 1 1 0 960
Hope (by Heroic) .. .. 2 0 0 760
St. Constant (by Constant
Son) .. .. 1 0 1 700
Pinero (by Lord Quex) 1 1 0 460
Happy Lass (by Cheveley
Lad) 1 0 0 380
Seven Fifty (by The Buzzard) 1 0 0 380
Ensign (by Andrea) .. .. 1 0 0 380
Fly (by Irish Prince) 1 0 0 380
Tel Asur (by Marconigram) 1 0 0 380
Scientist (by Marconigram).. 1 0 0 380
Mannerheim (by Corban).. 1 0 0 380
Gold Salute (by Lord
Warden) .. .. .. 1 0 0 350
Hydra (by Bullhead) .. 1 0 0 295
Pierce (by Pantheon) 1 0 0 295
Freckles (by El Cacique) .. 1 0 0 295
Masterpiece (by High Art) .. 1 0 0 225
Mag Mort (by Magnitude).. 1 0 0 225
* * # *
Fifty-nine nominations for the $50,000
New York Handicap, 2} miles, which
was to have been run at Belmont Park
on Oct. 5, included ten steeplechasers.
Their owners said they were trained to
go from two to two and a half miles, and
were hopeful that would give them a
chance against Challedon, Kayak 11,
Gallahadion and other cracks that had
never attempted anything approaching
two and a quarter miles, and might not
be able to get that far. Azucar, an ex-
steeplechaser, won the first Santa Anita
Handicap.
* * * *
Handicapper C. H. Davis has penalised
Beau Vite reasonably in the Melbourne
Cup. He has given him an additional
61b., increasing his weight to 9.7, which,
as he decisively won the Metropolitan
with 9.4, leaves him with an excellent
chance. He will meet Reading and
Pantler 21b. worse than in the Metropoli-
tan. He should again hold the former,
and also Pantler, even though the latter
was running on at the finish of the Met-
ropolitan. Phar Lap, a gelding, won the
Melbourne Cup at four years with 151 b.
over weight-for-age, and Beau Vite has
71b.
* * * *
In many past years there has been a
dearth of good four-year-olds, but this
season they are more numerous than
usual. Beau Vite, High Caste, Beau-
livre, Reading, Gold Salute, True
Flight, Historian, Wilson, Katanga and
Dashing Cavalier are of that age, and,
while most of those mentioned have
already proved their worth, the others
are likely to do so before the conclusion
of the spring meetings. Beau Vite and
Beaulivre are by Beau Pere, and True
Flight and Katanga by The Buzzard, but
the fact of each of the others being by a
different sire suggests that a buyer of
yearlings should not restrict himself to
any blood lines in particular when at-
tempting to select something likely to
develop into a good racehorse.
* * * *
Sydney bookmakers now do a lot of
course betting on Melbourne races. They
lost over the Toorak Handicap, for
which Gold Salute was naturally a strong
fancy. At the prices they offered they
were unlucky if they lost on any of the
other events. With some 10 to 1 was the
limit about any outsider, and there were
not over many even at those odds. Still,
if backers are content to take cramped
prices the books can scarcely be blamed
for catering for them in that fashion.
* * * *
E. McMenamin will be able to look
back to the recent A.J.C. Spring Meeting
with pleasure, his five wins representing
£6980 in prize-money. At the 5 p.c.
winning fee provided for by the rules
that would represent £349, but winning
owners are usually generous, some
making fees for Randwick wins 10 p.c.
Assuming McMenamin was paid at that
rate it would mean £698, sufficient for a
week to make leading members of the
medical and legal professions envious.
# * *
Results of Sydney’s two-year-old races
have further demonstrated the luck at-
taching to yearling-buying. E. P. Walker,
who had not previously owned a race-
horse, went to 3400gns. for the Beau
Pere-Banita colt Beau Son, and, failing
to get him, turned his attention to The
Keel colt Yaralla (brother
to True Flight), for whom he gave
1200gns. Beau Son did not come through
well enough even to make him a runner
for the Breeders’ Plate, and owner Walker
won the £lOOO attached to first place with
Yaralla.
G. S. Luscombe (part-owner of Read-
ing) gave 250gns. for All Love (E)ouble
Remove-Beauvue), and then, deciding he
did not want her, passed her on to
“Charles Vixen,” for whom J. T. Cush
also trains, at the same price. As winner
of the Gimcrack Stakes of £lOOO, All
Love has already given her owner a splen-
did return, and Melbourne racing will
give her an excellent chance of adding to
her credit account. Breeder F. W. Hughes
declined to part with Trumpet Call (Fan-
fare-Desert Lily) for 140gns. at the year-
ling sales, and at Ascot on Thursday she
won him a division of the Nursery Stakes
in the fast time of 48| for a half-mile.
The other division winners at Ascot
were America (Double Remove—Miss
Rossendale), Milanja (Madagascar-Queen
Balak) and Redbreast (Christopher
Robin-Caranza), and they were respec-
tively sold for 210gns., 75gns. and 45gns.
America is a half-brother to Tunisia;
Trumpet Call, a half-sister to Sedition
and Brension ; Redbreast, a half-sister to
Pilot, a Melbourne winner ; and Milanja,
a half-brother to Prince Ariel.
* * * *
Four-year-olds have a particularly good
record in the Metropolitan since it has
been run at a mile and five furlongs. They
have won 14 of the 21 decided at that
distance, and Beau Vite’s 9.4 gave him
the weight record for a winning four-
year-old in addition to the time record.
It is questionable whether the race was
ever won more stylishly. A furlong from
home Beau Vite was a certainty. Maori-
land sends over only its best to Australia,
but even keeping in mind that fact horses
bred over there have scored freely in our
principal handicaps in the last dozen
years, their successes including: Caui-
field Cup, Gaine Carrington; Melbourne
Cup, Nightmarch, Phar Lap, Wotan,
Catalogue; Epsom Handicap, Night-
march, Autopay, Silver Ring, Synagogue,
Capris, Gold Rod, High Caste ; Metro-
politan, Waikare, Sir Regent, Royal
Chief, Beau Vite ; Doncaster Handicap,
Cuddle, Gold Rod; Sydney Cup, Mosaic
(twice); Moonee Valley Cup, Peter Jack-
son, Nightly. I have not given winners of
various other big handicaps, but sufficient
to show the prominent part Maorilanders
have played in Sydney and Melbourne
racing.
* * * *
Some of the youngsters that started in
the Breeders’ Plate at Randwick can be
relied on to improve considerably. One
is Dick Whittington, who, though he ran
greenly over the final furlong, finished
third. Perhaps it was unfortunate for
his lady owners that he did, as it de-
barred him from running in the Canon-
bury Stakes, though Mannerheim would
have taken a deal of beating. Trained
by J. M. Mitchell, Dick Whittington
is by Kuvera from Peal o’ Bells
(Hebrus-Toneful), and is that mare’s first
foal. On his dam’s side Dick Whitting-
ton runs back to a number of good
winners.
* * * *
With five wins for £9895, F. McGrath
had a great innings at Randwick, and
Flemington racing should add consider-
ably to that sum. After running in the
Melbourne Cup it is improbable Beau
Vite will run in the Linlithgow Stakes,
but the interval between Tuesday and
Saturday will give him time to freshen
up for the C. B. Fisher Plate.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Willing Welters
The attempt to settle who’s the rightful
Australian welter champ, was carried two
fights further at Leichhardt last Thurs-
day night, and at the end of the furious
doings the position was more obscure
than ever. The real point at issue is
whether the title belongs to Hockey
Bennell, widely recognised as holder, or
Alan Westbury, the rugged Newcastle
slogger, who has twice settled Hockey’s
hash: Hockey barrackers hold that the
title wasn’t involved.
Now Westbury has to fight a some-
what lucky draw with Jimmy Day. Also,
Ron McLaughlin entered into the picture.
On the previous Thursday night Ron
and Jack Brander had an engagement
which ref. Pearson, after watching it for
four rounds and a bit, declared no fight
—appropriately, for, whatever it was, it
wasn’t a fight. By arrangement with the
management, the pair now fought out the
other eight rounds —as lovely a fight as
anyone could wish to set eyes on.
Instantly they got going it was patent
that this time they meant business. Heavy
hitters, they began driving ’em home at
once. A knockout looked probable, but
it went the distance, Jack doing the bulk
of the leading, Ron standing up to the
assault, returning as heavy as he took,
and sometimes heavier. In the tenth —
adding on the four they’d fought in the
previous week’s instalment of the serial —
Jack went down for nine to a peach of
an inside right counter. While he was
down the gods considerately undid the
lace on one of his gloves, which enabled
him to recover while Mr. Pearson tied
it up ; but Ron finished the stronger of
the two, looked the more likely contender
for the title, and was given a points
verdict.
The main occurrence, Westbury v.
Day, happened earlier on the bill through
McLaughlin turning up late. A 12-
rounder, it also went the distance, and
was also a magnificent fight. The sub-
sequent affray was better spectacle, being
bright and open a clean, sparkling
match, in which the ref. had nothing
to do. He earned his oats over Day
and Westbury. They did anything but
loaf, but it was an infighting mill, and
both claimed and held while they were
in there. However, they also punched,
Day extra well, uppercutting solidly, in
the close going, Westbury better as they
came together.
A favored little game of Day’s was to
get his right glove round the back of
Westbury’s neck, spin him off balance,
and then wade in. The ref. addressed
him on this line of strategy, and it may
have cost him rounds which otherwise
he certainly won. He seemed to this
scribe to win the first four in a canter.
Westbury, who began sluggishly and
looked to have a bit too much weight
round the breadline, had by then warmed
up, and the fight now became a clinker.
They waged it from corner to corner,
over every square inch of the ring, both
impervious to punches that would have
brought most down in ruins, and each
hitting with both hands, hard, solid, and
all the time.
Westbury, mainly by virtue of a left
hook which may trouble Bennell if they
meet, took the fifth, sixth, seventh and
eighth. The ninth was anybody’s round,
the tenth a stirring battle a shade West-
bury’s way, the eleventh saw the house
nearly wrecked with deserved applause
and was a shade Day’s way, and it’d be
splitting atoms to declare for one or
other in the splendid concluding round ;
though Westbury finished strongly, he
missed a good deal, as he did throughout,
sometimes by ludicrous distances.
This reckoning makes it a draw, which
is what ref. Pearson called it. Day,
however, seemed to win his rounds much
more decisively than Westbury won his,
and therefore merited the honors.
At a time when the game has been
at a low ebb, with Sydney Stadium given
over to the fallabout business called
wrestling, it looks as if the Leichhardt
people have got hold of something in
these welter contests. Westbury v. Mc-
Laughlin should be a fine scrap, so
should either of them, or Day, v. Ben-
nell. Still, it’s sinful to think what old
man Jack Carroll or Kingfish Dixon
would have done to the lot of them.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
{Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
Though it has had a brilliant year,
American golf has seen no new faces
among the winners. Scores generally
were lower than last year, which may
have been encouraged by an increase of
£lO,OOO in this year’s prize-money. The
two national titles, the open and profes-
sional championships, were won by
acknowledged masters, Lawson Little
and Byron Nelson, the former a British
and American amateur champion, while
Nelson added to his 1939 open title the
1940 pro. crown.
Although I missed the famous winter
circuit, playing only in the last three
events of the tour, I competed in nine
open and two amateur championships,
and during that time played, travelled
and lived with the greatest collection of
golfers in the world —an experience
worth the travelling of 28,000 miles. My
play has improved: my last three opens
gave me totals of 280, 287 and 278, or
an average of 70.04 per round, against
a par of 72. This play has kept me
within striking distance of the best pro-
fessionals, and from four to nine strokes
lower than the leading American
amateurs competing in the same events.
I have got back to my best Australian
form, so that other Australians can judge
from this how they would fare in this
country.
In 1936, when I came back from my
English tour, in which I was beaten on
the 36th green in the final of the British
amateur, I made the statement that our
amateurs were equal to the British
players; today, after playing with the
Americans, I am more firmly convinced
than ever that the Aussie lilywhites are
the best in the world, and in team
matches would defeat both England and
America. Analysing the performances
of American players over the last five
months I have yet to find an amateur
who would get past the semi-final of the
Australian amateur championship. As
regards the professionals, weight of
numbers would tell in open competition,
as there are fifty leading pros, here to
our five at home ; but in a match under
Ryder or Walker Cup conditions they
would give the Americans a close go.
With the exception of Jimmy Demaret
and Ben Hogan, who each had a run
earlier in the year, prize-money was
evenly distributed, being well spread out
among the top 15 players. The play of Ed
(“Porky”) Oliver, who tied for the open
before being disqualified and had a great
win in the 7500-dollar St. Paul open
with a score of 276, has made him the
most colorful figure on American fair-
ways. Lawson Little’s slashing win in
the open was the thrill of the year ; the
big ex-amateur literally smashed his way
to victory over a brilliant field. Byron
Nelson’s epic match in winning the pro-
fessional title from Sam Snead, after
the latter was one up and three to go,
was full of exciting moments, while the
veterans Sarazen and Hagen reached the
last eight in a comeback against the
younger school. Practically every
recognised star won something or re-
ceived his share of prize-money in the
numerous tournaments.
i ,
An interesting feature of the seasons
play was the support given to exhibition
matches. In late years this once-popular
type of golf has not been attracting
sufficient galleries. However, Sarazen,
Oliver and Lawson Little have all done
well in tours this summer. Snead and
Guldahl are another touring pair who
have been successful.


Invest in Established Companies
Even if you wish to invest only about £2O of your Capital
you can obtain an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies
by investing in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
which provide security by spread of investment. Union
Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., act as Custodian Trustees
of the securities backing the Trust Certificates.
Booklet No. 1 explains it all; your copy will be mailed free
on application to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Telephone: 85294.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
ARTBURSTS.
Royal Art Society’s Show
The Royal Art Society of N. S. Wales
has been in existence for a trifle over 60
years, during the whole of which period
it has held firmly to a belief that things
are very much as they seem to be and
that the artist, however far he may strive
to improve upon Nature, shouldn’t make
her a liar.
So, as some commentators have re-
gretfully recorded, there are no surprises
in the society’s 61st show at the Edu-
cation Department’s Galleries in Sydney.
All the human figures in the pictures on
the walls have two eyes, one nose, one
mouth, two ears, two legs and two arms.
In landscapes it is the rule of R.A.S.
practitioners that the sky comes on top
and the foreground in front. In flower
painting they believe that a better result
can be obtained by studying the form
and hue of the model and copying tnese
than by throwing a bucketful of paint
at the canvas and labelling the result
according to what it looks most (or
least) like. In short, there no surprises.
The councillors of the society are well
represented, G. Lyall Trindall’s fairies
and ethereally beautiful children are
headed by “Compassion,” a really beau-
tiful piece of painting. H. A. Hanke
shows a well-posed portrait of Unk
White, “The Fencer” and a fair nude,
“Green and Gold.” His “Family Group”
smells of bread and butter. Albert Sher-
man’s flower pieces are as gorgeously
painted as ever. J. H. R. Rousel, never
a very prolific exhibitor, puts a two-
column description of character inside
the frame that encloses his portrait of
Judge Coyle. Erik Langker, who goes
from strength to strength as a landscapist,
is at his best in “Harbor from Green-
wich” and “Sunlit Brick Pits.” “Land-
scape After Rain” suffers from too much
sky. Alan D. Baker’s “Helene” and
“Pensive” are suave portrait studies.
President Lister Lister takes his cus-
tomary cheerful view of the Australian
countryside in several canvases —there’s
a jolly sky in “Australian Pastoral.” Vice-
president Syd Long’s “Water Hole” and
“The River Bank” carry out his romantic
tradition. Vice-president Alfred Coffey
achieves beauty in “The Padda Boat.”
Fred Leist exploits his love of pastel
tones in “The End of the Day” and
“Sunbath,” and shows a very capable
portrait of a Chinese lady—“ The Orient.”
Mary Edwards’s Javanese women make
barbarically splendid designs. Dora
Toovey’s simple little “How Does Your
Garden Grow?” has quality and caught
the eye of the Gallery trustees. Norman
Lindsay’s “Imperia” is the best-painted
nude in the show. Howard Ashton’s
“Ribbony Gums” is an interesting study
in the bushland mosaic of hues. His
“Geebung Tree” is badly lit and its in-
tention thus frustrated. Howard Barron’s
“September Morning” represents another
forward advance on the part of this ex-
ponent of the theory that eastern Aus-
tralian sunlight is white, not yellow.
Wolinski’s portrait of Nevill Smith is a
strong bit of work; so is J. S. Watkins’s
tribute to veteran painter George Col-
lingridge. Normand H. Baker’s im-
pressions of such places in Sydney as
Paddy’s Market, the horse saleyards and
the Chinese warehouses at the back of
Hay-street are, as ever, a strange mixture
of fact and fiction. A little more realism,
or a little less, and they’d make new art
history.
A newcomer, Dennis Adams, paints
the sea with vast cleverness. His “Bow
Wave” is a subject seldom attempted
and hardly ever with such success. James
R. Jackson, who neither advances nor
recedes, continues to make pleasant
canvases out of the Sydney waterside.
John Allcot, using every trick in his
repertoire, fails to make a good picture
of “Harbor from Elizabeth Bay.”
The water-colors of W. G. Gates,
C. E. S. Tindall, J. Salvana, Nevill Smith
and Douglas Pratt, the charming mono-
types of Tom Garrett and the pen draw-
ings and etchings of Cedric Emanuel
round off a show which, as the catalogue
foreword promises, “requires neither
apology nor long explanation.”
*. Sf * *
Art in Old Heidelberg (Vic.)
The art exhibition sponsored by the
Heidelberg (Vic.) Council and housed in
its ornate new £70,000 Town Hall is
somewhat overweighted with history and
underweighted as regards artistic merit.
It was at Heidelberg that Conder, Roberts
and Streeton, eager, excited, interested
young men, founded the Eaglemont
School, not intending to found anything
but liking the place for the advantages it
offered to the artist. Buvelot painted the
first local Heidelberg landscape.
Norman Lindsay, McCubbin, David
Davies, Phillips Fox, Mather, Withers
and dozens of others followed. Mclnnes
Storm Trooper Marius Goring, Sir Seymour Hicks (with soup-strainer) and
Wilfred Lawson in “Pastor Hall,” at Sydney Embassy.
lived there, also Blamire Young, and
“Rolf Boldrewood” Browne dwelt in an
old farmhouse by the Yarra and wrote
a book about the local gentry.
Today the shire harbors the studios of
at least 30 well-known painters, and
Heidelberg has gained great artistic pres-
tige. But whatever the artists may have
done to the township (recently granted
the charter of a city) they certainly
haven’t taught the councillors respect for
pictures. The exhibits are huddled to-
gether in such a way as to ma.ke it well-
nigh impossible to see them —like articles
in the shop of a second-hand dealer. Most
Victorian artists, A. and M., are rep-
resented, and the result looks as if the
committee had been more polite than
selective. “Cowes,” a quiet little land-
scape by Ida Meldrum, repays inspection.
STAGE AND CONCERT
What Chance Shakspeare?
“Cauboy”: Marie Ney, at present
appearing in a not very remarkable piece
at Melb. Comedy, has been invited to
launch a Shakspearean season. One
correspondent of the dailies prophesies
that the season couldn’t help but be
financial since there is a widespread
demand for the sublime works of the
greatest English poet, who is ignored by
moneygrubbing theatrical entrepreneurs
of the commercial theatre. If there is
such a demand it sounds more like a
snuffle. The only use Melbourne has at
the present moment for the Bard is as a
mine of quotations for patriotic purposes.
The only actor who is supposed to
have made Shakspeare pay in Melbourne
was Allan Wilkie. He didn t. His last
season was a financial failure until he
revived “The School for Scandal and
other post-Shakspearean pieces. For some
reason or other Fashionable Melbourne
flocked to see them, and the indomitable
Wilkie was able to return to his dream
of presenting the entire Shakspearean
canon. But he stopped short of succeed-
ing and gave up the theatre.
That isn’t to say that a Ney-
Shakspearean season mightn’t prove a
winner equal to the Russian ballet.
Miss Ney, I believe, is rehearsing “As
You Like It,” which is boring to every-
body but a university professor. Why
doesn’t she revive the whole magnificent
series of the historical dramas? “King
John” contains the passage:
Come the three corners of the world in arms,
And we shall shock them. Nought shall make
us rue,
If England to itself do rest but true.
“Richard II” has the passage “This
royal throne of kings, this sceptr’d isle,”
etc. “The blood more stirs to rouse a
lion than to start a hare” occurs in
“Henry Four.” “Henry Five” contains
“This day is call’d the feast of Crispian,”
beloved of reciters. There are hundreds
of lines and speeches which would bring
a modern house down. Add to which
“Richard III” if you want a study of
Hitler written 300 years ago by the great-
est of English writers. The whole series
makes a marvellous picture of the country
which is more interesting to Australians
than any other at the present moment.
If Miss Ney follows conventional lines
and revives the orthodox collection like
“Romeo and Juliet” she will challenge
the inevitable comparison with the talkies
and her chances of success are scanty.
But she may start a boom if she follows
the foregoing suggestion.
* * * *
In his recital at the Sydney Forum
Club Archy Rosenthal, the English
pianist, demonstrated fine versatility in
works ranging from Bach to Debussy.
Mendelssohn’s “Elfentanz,” the joy and
despair of most keyboard virtuosi, held
no terrors for him. He showed up best
in the Chopin Opus 58 Sonata, the allegro
and scherzo being given with delightful
rhythm and the presto with great verve.
A captivating fragment was the pianist’s
own Variations and Fugue on a nursery
rhyme.
AT THE TALKIES.
“Pastor Hall”
It’s a pity that this current offering at
Sydney Embassy, said to be an authentic
record of Pastor Niemoller’s trouble
with the Nazis, hasn’t more of the
qualities of a documentary record and
less of the qualities of an ordinary stretch
of film fiction. The incidental touches
and artifices employed to carry it along
like a story detract considerably from
any impression it may make as a fac-
tual record. The trouble is particularly
evident in scenes of Nazi brutality in
overrunning a quiet little village and in
a concentration camp. Set in a story
or account that adhered strictly to fact,
these scenes would probably have struck
with some impact. Set, as they are, in
something that is more like an ordinary
film story than anything else, they strike
no deeper into the emotions than the
usual scenes of American gangsterdom
or prisons.
Some of the film's shortcomings as a
factual account are compensated for by
its dramatic values, though these, too,
are slight. Wilfred Lawson, as the Pastor
who preaches against the Nazi doctrine,
is thrown into a concentration camp,
escapes, then refuses to leave the country
and returns to his village to deliver his
last anti-Nazi sermon before walking into
the storm troopers’ guns, has a role
miles removed from his magnificent gar-
bage man in “Pygmalion.” He makes a
quiet, forceful portrayal of it, his acting
limited only by the role itself.
Nova Pilbeam makes a successful if
unimpressive fist of his daughter, and Sir
Seymour Hicks makes an equally undis-
tinguished General of the old regime.
The main flaws in the film from a dra-
matic angle are a good deal of ex-
aggerated emotionalism, occasional too-
obvious artifice, and the fact that most
of the storm troopers look like univer-
sity students having a good time.
* * * *
“The Girl from God’s Country”
A very distinguished flop, viewed at
Sydney Capitol. It’s about a doctor with
a murky past doing noble work among
the Eskimos in Alaska. Chester Morris
is the medico, and distinguishes himself
by looking infinitely less like a doctor
than the very worst of the many who
have previously played such a role.
Charles Bickford, ft detective from the
States, turns up hot on the trail of Ches-
ter’s murky past, and his most distin-
guished effort is finding an uninhabited
igloo while caught in a blizzard and gain-
ing entry by shoving his hoof through
the wall—a foot thickness of solid ice.
Then, of course, there is a goil, also
from the States, and come to act as
Chester’s nurse. A brave goil this, who
thinks nothing of wandering around
Alaska in light summer frocks, though,
fortunately, the Hollywood powers de-
tected this false note about halfway
through, after which she appears in care-
fully modelled fur coats, slapped together
by the Eskimos.
The plot, too, strikes an original note.
The detective comes to arrest the young
man for something he had done from
Pure Motives, but the girl, who believes
that his Motives were Pure, helps him
to escape. Then the d. sets out in pur-
suit, but has an accident, and the noble
young man saves his life and his own
bacon thereby and marries the goil.


KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of 3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 miles
of kidney tubes and filters become clogged
with poisonous waste and the danger of acid
poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition is a danger signal and
may be the beginning of nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles, puf-
finess under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Frequent or scanty passages, with
smarting and burning, show there Is some-
thing wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles Of tiny
tubes and filters.
Don’t delay l Ask your chemist or store
for DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS...
used successfully the world over by millions
of people. They give quick relief and will
help to flush out the 15 MILES of kidney
tubes. GET DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS at your chemist or ftore.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Judge Moffitt, who in earlier years
courted Art till Law cut her out, opened
the sixty-first annual exhibition of the
Royal Art Society. The Bulletin has a
particular interest in this Judge, who was
once a prized contributor of black-and-
white work. The opening was an evening
affair, as suggested by Erik Langker, and
the idea proved popular, there being quite
a run on the coffee and tea urns. Yes,
the R.A.S. provided coffee and biscuits
for all. Estelle Oxnard-Smith Andrews
again held the fort, and it was a pleasure
to exchange your entrance card for one
of her smiles. Her afternoon frock was
blue like one of those deep twilight back-
grounds. She confided that artists pre-
ferred not to have too bright a color
close to their masterpieces.
The Education Department’s galleries
were set with bunches of nasturtiums
brought by Mary Edwards, one of whose
Javanese pictures has been bought by the
National Gallery. Mrs. Erik Langker,
who came to the private view in deep
daffodil suit and hat, was in the evening
a fit subject for Greuze in her floating
pinks and lavenders. Howard Hinton,
the artist’s friend, slipped about buying
an art treasure here and there. Ruth
Rosebery has probably the distinction of
being the first W.A.N. to have her por-
trait painted in full regimentals, so to
speak. She sparkles from artist Wolin-
ski’s canvas. Mrs. Vernon Coles was
there with the wife of Perkins, M.H.R.
Charlie Bryant’s sister was greeted by
many old friends. Dora Toovey was con-
gratulated on the Gallery purchase of
“How Does Your Garden Grow?”
Lister Lister’s “At the Close of Day”
sends out peaceful benediction, and Alfred
Coffey’s catalogue foreword of five lines
expresses the sentiment of the entire show,
which is, as he says, “sane, thoughtful
and earnest.” George Collingridge’s por-
trait by J. S. Watkins recalled a flood of
anecdote. George was proud of having
been a pupil of Corot. So was another
of his contemporaries. The contem-
porary was addressing his art class one
day. He was telling them about a visit
he once paid to Robert Louis Stevenson
in his Samoan home. The writer was
stressing the necessity of solitude and
peaceful surroundings to the creative
mind. “ ‘D.,’ he said to me,” the artist
told his class, “ ‘that’s what you should do.
You should bury yourself.’ ” Wild uproar
in the class. It’s a Syd Long story.
The wife of U.S.A. Minister Clarence
Gauss was welcomed by members of the
American Society last Thursday. Mrs.
Gauss has a bright smile and likes a cup
of tea. Those two items settle it. She’s
going to be popular in Australia. To this
afternoon party Mrs. Gauss wore a
flowered silk frock and a cream Breton
sailor with a black crown. Her flowers
were orchids, a spray of the elegance
being pinned on her black coat The tea-
drinking was set in the spacious ease of
Elizabeth Bay House, and the women
guests acclaimed the fine hostess act of
Mrs. Maurice Samuels, Mrs. Chic Bouvet
and Mrs. Von Hake. The last, in her
dahlia-red frock, was a pictorial touch
against the candle-lit table.
The wife of China’s Consul-General
Pao is happily renewing acquaintance
with Mrs. Gauss. They last met in
Peking. America’s Consular ladies were
quite a little group. Mrs. Albert Doyle,
whose husband is Consul-in-charge, wore
orchids and silver fox with her black
frock. Mrs. Wilson Flake’s toque was a
rich color note —warm gold tones. Mrs.
Randolph Kidder, Mrs. Henry Day, Mrs.
Burch, Mrs. Evans-Jones, Mrs. Rudolph
and Mrs. Zapf were others at this kettle-
drum. One of the few present who had
visited Indo-China was Dr. Keller. She
is paying a visit to her daughter, Dr.
Frances Harding, of Wahroonga.
Saw an envelope from England the
other day. It had been already used,
and for the second sending out a wide
strip of white paper had been pasted
across the former address and brought
over the envelope to make a new flap.
Across the top of the strip was a printed
adjuration: “Re-use all envelopes.” But
there’s still no mention of re-using old
stamps.
Romano’s weighed in with their restau-
rant for the use of the Air Force House
committee in Race Week. Everything was
clear profit for the cause; the manage-
ment stood the whole thing. There will
be three hundred guineas gate-money,
£lOO from the fishpond and £6O from
a floor show by broadcasting artists John-
son and Bentley. One of the funniest
items in the night was the auctioning of
a hat fished out of the pond. It was a
woman’s hat, and the men bid recklessly.
Finally it went to John Brunton for £lO.
But will Sydney ever see Mrs. Brunton
in it? She didn’t even know her husband
was the triumphant bidder till the “Going,
going, gone!” had died away.
There were no “knocking them in the
eye” styles at Randwick during the spring
meeting. Dressing was simple even at its
most blithesome, and hats, even when
they were gay, were never gaudy. The
holiday Monday was a peach of a day,
and Wednesday, though slightly filmed
with grey, was still warm enough for gay
silks, flower hats and long gloves in pastel
blues and pinks. Of all the hats the
boaters were the smartest, combining chic
with a nostalgic whiff of the family
album. As worn by Mrs. Lionel Dare,
Mrs. Alexis Albert and the McKelvey
lady, they were at their best.
With the discovery of easy-to-wash,
easy-to-iron and unshrinkable fabrics
white is going to be as much worn as our
Sydney summers have a right to expect.
The stands were here and there starred
with women in white —gloves, bags and
shoes all of a match. Rada Penfold
Hyland was one of Wednesday’s attrac-
tive wearers of white. Among the week’s
styles Mrs. Sam Hordern’s red and navy
spotted frock comes up for mention. It
had a neat little Peter Pan collar, and its
full skirt was adorned with pockets. Grey
had its followers. Mrs. Alan McGregor
and Mayoress Crick wore it with good
effect. Philippa Stephen’s white toque
and flowered frock were in the spring
picture. Noticed during the week’s
rounds were Mrs. Strath Playfair and
daughter Eve.
Noreen Dangar’s ivory and brown
turnout, worn in the early part of the
week, made a soothing moment in a pass-
ing show as brightly colored as an Eastern
bazaar. The Hon. Henrietta Loder wore
her moorland-blue suit with its pleated
skirt to meet the horses on Ladies’ Day.
Mrs. Roy Buckland was a reminder of
how neat and complete a navy suit can
be. Hers had a dash of white frogging,
and its jacket wore two red flowers. Three
attractive youngsters were Pat McGirr,
Honor Norman and Mary Woods. Pat’s
little violet hat had a slightly mitre-ish
faqade. Her brightly-flowered frock and
scarf repeated the violet tones. Mrs.
Venour Nathan and daughter Carma were
in the week’s gaieties; so were a pretty
Fagan girl, Mrs. Alan Bragg and Mrs.
Frank Bragg.
There is no more widely-known, no
more popular girl in Sydney than Mrs.
lan Gordon Spencer, who until Tuesday
of last week was Robin Eakin. Since
her coming-out about two years ago
Robin has helped on many charity com-
mittees, has taken part in innumerable
fashion parades and shows for good
causes, and is now keenly interested in
patriotic movements. Her parents are
Dr. and Mrs. R. A. Eakin, of Darling-
hurst. ’Groom is of the Roma (Q.)
family. She designed her own and her
bridesmaid’s frock. Robin’s was a souffle
of pink tulle. Shirley Arnott, old Fren-
sham schoolmate, was all soft layers of
grey net. Wedding was at St. Stephen’s
in Macquarie-street, reception in the Aus-
tralian Club annexe. Monte Luke photo-
graph.
With 400 tickets bought and paid for
before the doors opened at six o’clock
the cocktail roundabout was set for suc-
cess. From the booming of the hour by
the town clock women and men rushed
up the stairs of the Australia to
the ballroom floor, clutching the cards
that gave them entrance, four drinks
and a packet of sandwiches and
savories. The place sounded like
five parrot-houses in full cry; the dais,
banked with white lilies, looked like a set-
ting for Ophelia or the Blessed Damosel,
but later was held against all comers by
the dance band. Once inside you made
for a table, or for the end of the room
that looked a shambles —a carnival
shambles of flimsy paper wrappings torn
off the prizes from the dip. This was , a
shilling affair, and was crammed with the
wealth of the Indies —well, if you got
the right number you might pluck a ham ;
Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar did.
The dip wasn’t a dip as we know it.
It reminded of a picture in a recent loan
exhibition of men fishing down a hole
cut in the ice. You dipped into a barrel
the hole at the top of which was
just large enough for hand and arm to
dive into. You pulled out a small
envelope. This held a number ex-
changeable for a gift at a latticed kiosk
near by. People were still collecting
caviar, tinned herrings, cigarettes and talc
after ten o’clock, when this Letter was
throwing her last bit of L.S.D. into one of
those iron bandits. All the time the band
played and the dancers wove, trod or
shuffled through dance numbers. Many
heroic girls danced swathed in silver,
Arctic and platinum fox. It was a melt-
ing sight. From table to table a lalique
bowl was borne by Mrs. Bill Dawson. She
must have collected as many shillings as
there were white coin spots on her rust-
ling black silks.
Bea Meeks, Mrs. Dudley Hardy, the
Davidson lady and Mrs. Murray relaxed
from their high tension round about half-
past ten. Mrs. Roy Buckland, cartoonist
Jimmy Bancks and his wife, the Bertie
Kellys, a Jane Austenish suggestion
about her severe little hat and high-
collared black frock, Ella O’Shea, from
Brisbane, telling the best story of the
night, and checks at the door which told
you to “pass out” were happenings that
made a dent. Nobody did pass out, by
the way. One and all walked into the
beer garden trellised off with waratahs
and red roses. Here pretty girls in Tyro-
lean costume and waltzes of a pre-1914
vintage helped make atmosphere. The
Industrial Blind Institution benefits.
Countless men of the A.I.F. know the
Anzac Buffet and have enjoyed the good
meals served there. Started by the Re-
turned Soldiers’ League with the Mayor’s
Patriotic Fund for background, the Buffet
had no ladies’ auxiliary till March. Then,
organised by Mrs. Sam Jones (of this
Peter Pan photograph) and Miss Leo
Wray, both of the Australian Golf Club,
the Ladies’ Auxiliary came into being.
Since that time the auxiliary has raised
in money and food over £6OOO. Its weekly
collection-boxes in and around the
suburbs bring in about £4OO monthly.
The boxes are emptied into the Mayor’s
Fund, but all the moneys are earmarked
for the use of the Anzac Buffet.
In talking of the Buffet the generosity
of Miss Eadith Hill must not be over-
looked. Among many gifts from her is
the smart little truck, so useful for trans-
port of stores. If you want to send a
present to the Buffet concentrate on’bis-
cuits, tea, sugar and tomato sauce. If
you want to help the work and have a
bit of fun, too, go to the “Sundown”
dinner-dance at the Trocadero next
Friday. This starts at 6.30, ends round
11, and you get food, drinks and dancing
for 10s. 6d. a ticket. Furlough House and
the Buffet will benefit.
What the Girl in the Flat Opposite
calls the egg-laying competition for Prince
Alfred’s is in full swing. When corrected
and told it is a table-setting competition
she says well, it hatches a nest-egg for
the hospital. This year the competitors
have covered a wider if not as witty a
field as last year’s entrants. There’s a
Barbecue table, memories of ballet nights
haunt a Swan Lake, and there’s a table
with dear Horatio Nelson’s Victory. And
that reminds of a talk with writer George
Clune, who declares from his reading
that Nelson’s last words were “Kismet,
Hardy!” not the much travestied though
more tender “Kiss me, Hardy!”
The Kelso King lady opened the polis
in the absence of former Chief Justice
Street’s lady, who had broken a bone in
her ankle. Soon the proud table deco-
rators were scooping in the threepenny
votes. Organiser Jeanie Ranken buzzed
about. Girls from the School of Health
and Beauty clothed their trim figures in
black satin shorts and white shirts. Their
table is set for dessert —peaches, no doubt.
Violet Roche gets rich effect from deep
maroon damask, a heavy silver cande-
labra set with blue tapers, a spray ot
orchids and a £6O Wedgwood service.
The farewell to the A.I.F. shows imagi-
nation—brings in balloon barrages, pyra-
mids and all. There are restraint and dig-
nity in Mrs. Ben Edye’s table, with its
red roses and gleam of silver. The Hal-
lowe’en table is garnished with a real
pie, as well as all the witching symbols
of that mystic night. Mrs. Carl Wright
and Mrs. H. D. O’Connell are the host-
esses here. There’s a cool fragrance about
the wedding table with its water-lily
arrangement.
“The Belle of New York” went its
fascinating, light-hearted way at the Con-
servatorium on three nights of last week.
Ada Baker’s students sang and acted well
in the evergreen musical comedy, and
each night the audience was worthy of
the cause. The first performance was in
aid of the Mayor’s Patriotic Fund, the
second for the N.S.W. Railways War
Fund, the third for the Rachel Forster
Hospital. Eric Howell produced the
show, the conductor was H. H. Wyatt, the
pianist was Arline Sauer. Joan Pettiet
was ballet mistress.
The French-Australian' League tells
The Bulletin : “We recently sent £4OO to
General de Gaulle, under whose direction
this sum will be distributed to French
evacuees, soldiers and children who are
in England. We also donated £lOO to
Britain’s Civilian War Victims’ Relief
Fund, hoping that this effort will help to
alleviate to some small extent the terrible
suffering and privation which the popu-
lation of England is now undergoing.
Our working bees continue to function
as usual every Monday and Thursday.
With the very kind help of the British
Empire Union we have lately sent to Eng-
land two bales of goods, and have an-
other two large bales ready for ship-
ment.”
Writer Ivy Moore drops a line from
the Anchorage, Jervis Bay, where she is
holidaying with Alice Blanche. Ivy re-
ports that Jervis Bay is very gay, and
that visitors from far and near came to
a housie-housie party organised for the
Red Cross. Result, £7.
The Forum Club held a big audience
last week for the piano recital by
Archy Rosenthal. Among the applauders
were Mr. Murphy, headmaster of Trinity
Grammar School, and his wife. Mr.
Rosenthal was formerly professor of the
staff of Trinity College of Music, London.
Mr. and Mrs. Murphy are keen sup-
porters of the arts, and showed their
interest by bringing a party of Trinity
boys with them.
The Furlough House committee is out
to build two new blocks of eight flats
each to accommodate the wives and
children of the A.I.F. who need a holi-
day by the sea. A holiday by the sea!
The very phrase has something tonic and
soothing in it. How much more has that
actual fortnight for tired women and
children who live in arid streets or in
the outback?
It will cost £5OOO to build these flats.
They consist of a bed-sitting-room, a
balcony and bath. There is a large
dining-room for the mothers —another
for the children. Apart from their own
and their fledglings’ laundry, the mothers
have no household duties. For 22 years
this holiday association has been going
about the job of making good Australians
better. Lady Gowrie attended the recent
yearly meeting. In its active lifetime the
home at Narrabeen has neither asked nor
been given Government assistance. It
has been kept going by voluntary sub-
scription. •


Macmillan’s New Books
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
HUGH WALPOLE
THE BRIGHT PAVILIONS
This new novel reintroduces the famous
Herries family in the Elizabethan period.
The same sweep and vigour that made
Rogue Herries so universal a success mark
this new novel about a great family in a
great age. 10/6.
ELIZABETH SPRIGGE
THE RAVEN’S WING
The Raven’s Wing is the moving story
of Elisabeth Wittelsbach, the beautiful and
spirited tragedienne who, when a child,
became Empress of Austria. Bs. 6d.
To be obtained from all booksellers and
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE AND LONDON, VV.C.2.
“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A .).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
in"- radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting
13/S (2 years £l/2/9) to “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
EDWARD CHARLES PRESSEY, a son of
THOMAS and MARGARET PRESSEY, will
hear of something to his advantage if he com-
municates with MESSRS. J. WELDON
POWER & BENNETT, Solicitors, Horsham,
Victoria. Any person knowing of his where-
abouts is requested to communicate with the
said firm.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
BETWEEN ALICE MAY DONALD Peti-
tioner and
HAROLD NORMAN DONALD Respondent.
TO HAROLD NORMAN DONALD late of
137 Barcom Avenue Darlinghurst.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALICE MAY
DONALD has commenced a suit against you
in this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for
three years without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Third day of January One thousand nine
hundred and forty-one and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
Dated this Eighth day of October 1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. H. F. KALESKI & CO., Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 39-49 Martin Place, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
At the Caulfield Guineas, at Fleming-
ton, the women looked fresh, cool and
dewy as they knew how to in a few
ounces of clothing apiece ; the men, in
service uniforms, were issued a free gratis
Turkish bath. In their midwinter kit
they cooked and sizzled in a temperature
up in the nineties. The hotter they got
the more they drank, and the more they
drank the faster beads of moisture
dripped down their cheeks. The Army’s
unlucky; it has heard no word about
summer uniforms for service in Australia,
but the boys of the R.A.A.F. had last
Monday tabbed as the day when
new lightweight uniforms came out of
lockers and midwinter blues were stowed
away.
It was a large and cheerful crowd
spreading over the course, whose gardens
are gorgeous. An all pale-gold picture
was Mrs. Bill Welch (Sue Fincham that
was). Gold chrysanthemums patterned
her frock, and a bunch of buttercups
attached to a trail of honey-colored veil
floated over her honey-colored hair.
Together, and both in bottle-green hats of
generous size, were Mrs. Charlie Lane
and Nancy Deane, the former repeating
the accent with green gloves and bag.
Nancy wore white gloves and was pre-
pared to stand for hours in her up-to-the-
moment sports-girl shoes. Sheila Living
perked up a pink hat with a tie-around
of blue veil. An attractive brunette from
Mt. Gambier was Marie Aconley, who
stepped forth in a commuting outfit of
white skirt, shoes and hat with a tunic
patterned in zinnia-red.
Colonel E. M. Neylan, Captain Vic
Bland and Lieut. W. Stokeley were a
threesome who left the course after the
laundry vans. The delay was caused not
by collecting from the bookies, but by
locating a suitcase of military apparel
from a cloakroom that had been closed
down till today’s meeting (16th). Also
in khaki were Bill Adams, originally
from Lockhart (N.S.W.), Frank Healy
and a couple of pals, Maurice Alsop and
Dick Powey. Dick Linton wore his kilt
and wouldn’t bite at anybody’s chaff.
A packed ballroom (temperature didn’t
matter, though it was the hottest Guineas
night on record), a good dinner, a band
with pep and a spending recklessness
generated by such fare —such was Satur-
day’s dinner-dance at the Australia for
the big boys and the little ones, the
R.A.A.F. canteen and the Try Boys’
Society. Ask anyone in cold blood and
on a diet of cold water to buy a ten-
bob ticket on a whirly-wheel—result is a
cold stare ; but when their spending blood)
is up people will empty their wallets and
never know it.
Archie Crofts in his usual kit for even-
ing dos—white dinner coat, dark-red car-
nation and tie matching to a semitone —
won the Dutch auction of a case of
champagne, which brought in £24-odd.
A ten-shilling spin on the whirly-wheel
produced a silver tea and coffee service
for some lucky man. Two-shilling spins
were popular for beer mugs. Upon the
dance floor Mrs. John Ritchie, of Hamil-
ton, was distinctive as a tall and slender
brunette in white gown and gold belt and
the sort of sophisticated decolletage that
takes a lot of living up to. More white
frocks of lineage belonged to Mrs. Pat
Cahill, who soon removed her little
morsel of coat; Mrs. Edward Bilson,
who helped run around with the Dutch
auction’s saucers ; and Peggy Odium, who
also lent a hand and a fleet foot here
and there. Youthful Paddy Finn was
almost the Kodak girl of some years ago
in her black-and-white peppermint stripes.
In the past the Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. has entertained its staff
at an annual party. This year it held
its dance in its favorite haunt, Gros-
venor, but it was a subscription function
for the Red Cross and Comforts. The
usual 200 turned up, and most of them
stayed till two. Interludes were pro-
vided by a juggler, the Austral Male
Quartet and entertainer Harcourt French.
There was an official party but no official
receiving and no speeches. Present were
knight Alexander Stewart; the Stuart
Murrays, Mrs. Murray in white and
diamonds; John Fordyce with his wife
and daughter Elsie, the former in black
and the latter in ice-blue and silver and
a momentous orchid ; C. S. Colman ; the
general manager and Mrs. W. Sydney
Jones, in black diamente and orchids;
the G. V. Briggs couple, F. L. Kennedy,
Mr. and Mrs. Colin Rigg and the com-
pany’s manager, K. M. Hughes. Once
again Miss L. Paterson helped things
move smoothly as secretary.
Inset Maisie Curtis, who keeps her
cheery manner and sense of humor in
spite of the fact that she is always on one
or more well-doing committees. Her ven-
ture of the moment is for Jennie Brenan’s
season of ballet at the King’s on Friday
and Saturday (18th and 19th). Additional
bait for patrons is being held out in the
form of lucky programmes —the magic
number for the first night gives the pur-
chaser a pearl necklace ; on the second
evening the prize is a return trip to Syd-
ney. Maisie is a member of the presi-
dent’s branch of the Red Cross, and at-
tends regularly at Government House
ballroom, where she is much in request
to work with great speed upon a sewing-
machine. She’s an expert seamstress, and
makes all her own clothes. Her photo-
graph from Dickinson-Monteath.
The Tin Alley Players submerged them-
selves in gloom to their eyebrows for
“Beyond the Horizon,” not one of Eugene
O’Neill’s best plays. O’Neill, the trage-
dian, thrives upon reverses, setbacks,
repressed emotions and passions, but why
the Tin Alleys, a competent group of ama-
teurs whose past productions have earned
a reputation, should want to serve him
up on a dish is hard to understand.
Maybe now they have tried him once
they’ll be satisfied to sidestep away from
literature into comedy.
Win Cunningham played Ruth, bitter
and disillusioned and ageing faster than
her years. It’s a thankless role, but Win
did it faithfully, getting down to life on
a poverty-stricken farm with skimped
back hair, a drooping mouth and slat-
ternly carpet slippers. Colin
had the difficult part of Robert, a dreamer
and idealist, and though he did his best
his death seemed a long, long time in
coming. Stanley Lowe was the father,
James Mayo, who died early in the piece,
to be followed by his wife, Cynthia Sut-
ton. Peggy Tellick, in contrast to her
usual healthy, hearty roles, was Ruth’s
mother, a gloomy inmate of an invalid
chair, due to live on indefinitely. Edgar
Harcourt (who played the tramp in the
Insect Play) was an old seadog uncle.
Robert Horne was brother Andrew, an
unreal character. Producer was Murray
Sutherland,
The Blarney House Fund benefited
from the first night and the Union Build-
ing Fund from the second. On Friday
Blarney House supporters present in-
cluded Mrs. Philip Carney, doing her
duty nobly, being surrounded by daugh-
ters Marjorie and Gwenda, Marjorie’s
fiance, Col. Kennon, in khaki, Neilma
and Ken Myer, and John Walker. Repre-
senting Fraser patronage of Blarney
House was Peggy Fraser, who brought
Rosemary Lyon along with her. Presi-
dent of the newly-formed ways-and-means
committee Mrs. Jim Fitzgerald was there
with Hazel, who looks like growing into
an attractive debutante in a year or two.
Athol Shmith portrays the Frank
Faulkners’ only daughter Pamela, who is
looking forward to her first chance in
drama since leaving school, a part in the
Clyde Old Girls’ production of “Her
Shop” for the Comforts and the Kinder-
garten, to take place at the King’s on the
evenings of 25th and 26th. Frequenters
of “Her Shop,” whether salesgirls, show-
girls, customers, creditors, plus the pro-
duction’s well-wishers and propagandists,
gathered at Pam Faulkner’s for sherry
and its accompaniments, which festivity
was also more or less of a birthday cele-
bration, incog., for Pam turns 20 towards
the end of the month.
It was definitely a young people’s
party —only the young flourish in a noise
that would prostrate their parents, and
Pam’s friends stood up to the test with
never a sign of wilting. Within doors,
and safe above the sea of heads, posters
about the play were displayed, Pam’s, in
black-and-white, showing a policeman
with his baton and a question, “Have you
booked?” On the verandah Mrs. Lu
Conolly followed up the idea with a note-
taking table and the means of booking
reserved seats. Giddy little flower hats
were seen on several young heads; the
others were for the most part just un-
covered coiffures. A floral headpiece in
pastel-blue belonged to Eleanor Willis,
who, in black skirt and snugly-fitting blue
tunic, came on from the afternoon’s big
wedding, that of Betty Pleasance and her
bridegroom, Flight-Lieut. Harry Allan
Durant, who hails from Queensland.
No Americans in our midst have ever
turned into cabbages. They just have to
be up and doing with new ideas, and
their energy seems inexhaustible. Mrs.
Luigi Luiggi thinks and dreams metal
scrap; she is responsible for the lay-
out of the base metals sorting in aid of
the Free Kindergartens at present being
demonstrated in the window of News-
paper House. Two of her country-
women, Mrs. Earl Moser and Mrs. Juddy
Holt, are asking their pals to fill
Christmas stockings for children from
the poorest, neediest homes that are
known.
It was Mrs. Norman Harris, wife of
our Chief Commissioner of Railways and
fairy godmother of all Free Kindergarten
children, who sought out the window in
Newspaper House. The display within
gets the crowd that breathes upon the
window-panes seemingly lost to the world
and whatever destination they had a few
moments back. Within a young woman
is sorting silver paper at a table specially
designed by another ingenious American,
Charles Hartman, to speed up work.
This week part of the programme will
show men helpers taking to bits old
electric-light fittings, pots and pans (the
screws in the handle may be of a dif-
ferent metal) and other oddments. A
magnet is a handy tool for this job.
Down at the depot at 376 Flinders-lane
fastenings from the tails of toothpaste
tubes mount up by the thousand. A
magnet run through the box comes forth
bristling like a porcupine. All “bristles”
are consigned to the rubbish-tin as there’s
no market for that sort of scrap in this
country. In the present display statistics
made easy are seen in a child’s meal. On
her small low table are two glasses of
milk, one orange, a salad of lettuce and
carrot, a whole potato, a portion of
apple, one egg and a rusk and butter. In
scrap the value of the meal is shown
alongside—ls toothpaste tubes.
Mrs. Moser and Mrs. Holt do their
turns at sorting in the window, but their
big line of the moment is their Christmas
stockings. The directresses of the poorest
kindergartens, creches, missions, etc., are
furnishing the names, heights and ages
of their most neglected children so that
each stocking is filled as a personal gift.
Within are toys, and a garment goes with
every stocking. Mrs. Moser and Mrs.
Holt sew their red net stockings by hand
(to make them look more attractive),
with blue thread for the boys and green
for the girls. Their friends are rising to
the occasion, and up to date the couple
have handed out between 100 and 200
stockings, each one with a child’s name
and other details attached, which will
come back filled at any moment.
While Mrs. Norman Harris spends
most of her waking hours doing valu-
able and not-at-alhglamorous work in
connection with Free Kindergartens and
the Kindergartens’ Silver Door Sorting
Depot, her sister, Mrs. Dorothy Dare, is
by no means basking in the sunshine of
idleness —for these daughters of Mrs. I.
H. Moss inherit their mother’s sterling
qualities. Mrs. Dare helps regularly at
the Silver Door, but at the moment the
light in her eye is for a marathon knit-
ting contest to be held at the Town Hall
on Saturday, November 16. Mrs. Dare
is president of the comforts branch of
the N.C.W., which is sponsoring this
event.
The wool will be wound and ready for
the needles of the champions. The grand
champions will probably want to do socks,
and the honorable mentions can go flat
out on easier things—scarves and tin-hat
linings are mooted. There will be events
for solo speedsters and for teams (who
will probably race along in relays on the
same sock). As plans are at present, there
will be events for children, and Dad and
the boys can also enter. All materials,
including instructions, will be provided.
Entrance fee for speedsters or spectators
is Is., and the juveniles come for six-
pence. The prizes will be worth having.
For Mrs. Dare the brightest days of
the week are mail days from India.
Recently her daughter Phyllis celebrated
on the same day her twenty-third birth-
day and the first anniversary of her wed-
ding to British Army officer Tony Hew-
son. Since the marriage, which took place
in Victoria, 8.C., the young couple have
lived almost as nomads, following orders
of transfers from station to station.
Phyllis is happy in India, and can’t think
of any other place (except perhaps Aus-
tralia) where she would rather live.


KITCHING’S
TRAVEL Goods Specialists.
Military TOILET SETS
PRICE:
AT-
OTHERS:
32/0 to 70/-
MONET
BEETS.
6/6 to 9/6
VVET PACKS,
12/6 & 25/-
MIRRORS.
Stainless
Steel,
2/6 and V"
Free
Delivery
to all
Suburbs.
S'
VERY NEAT AND HANDY
<-< nm nri«ins:—Hhir Brushes, Clothes and
RWns Brushes, containers for Toilet and
ihairine Soap and Tooth Brush, also Steel
Mi?Mr Comb, File, Scissors, and Safety
rmot In a beautiful Solid Leather Case,
with Zip Fastener Attached.
C E. KITCHING PTY. LTD.
319 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. 8W7133.
j<Mear VVynyard Station.)
sdf
W£AK M£N AND WOM£N
Loss of vitality and premature feeling
of old age are due to failure of certain
glands. , .
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St.. Sydney
m
GLAND
TONIC
TABLfTS
THE SERVICE MAN
The Navy's Decisive Role.
“Ek Dum”: The war in northern
Europe has settled into its stride as an
air conflict which can only represent a
first phase of the decisive operations, a
preliminary blasting away of resistance
on both sides, preparatory to a second
stage. That second stage must be a land
and sea war for a foothold in some
vital spot, followed by a combined war
of all types of forces, in which naval
operations will dominate the issue.
There has been no slackening in the
bombing of the Low Countries or of
Britain. As the Germans have dis-
covered how difficult the plan fot
invading Britain has become with the
advance of autumn, they have intensified
and widened their effort. One day last
week they attacked 100 British areas,
including 30 round London. It becomes
increasingly difficult to estimate the num-
ber of machines in use, but they seem
to be on the increase. Mr. Churchill
said during the week that after their
severe mauling on August 15 the German
short-range dive-bombers, of which there
were several hundreds, had been kept
carefully out of the air fight perhaps
held in reserve for some general plan of
invasion; but since the mass attacks
began nearly 400 long-range German
bombers had visited Britain every 24
hours, and the Government was doubtful
whether this scale of sustained attack
could be much exceeded.
At the same time, a close pall
of secrecy hangs over the real
extent of the damage. Casual-
ties in Britain have been re-
duced, despite the use by the Germans
of heavier and faster machines, but they
are still heavy, and it is foolish to
minimise them. On the figures quoted
by Mr. Churchill, 18,000 persons were
killed and seriously wounded, apart from
those less seriously injured, in Britain
from September 7 to October 5, though
in the fourth week the number was only
3000 against 6000 in the first week.
Even on the fourth week’s figures,
Britons —helpless civilians, men, women
and children—are being murdered in the
most terrible manner, dying crushed
under masonry, torn to pieces by ex-
plosives, at the rate of over 150,000 a
year. Deaths in Germany are apparently
as great or greater.
If the casualties are fewer, the damage
does not seem to be less. Despite
the heavy and continuous barrages,
raiders slip through into the hearts of
London and Liverpool or the hearts of
Berlin and Hamburg.
The High Altar of St. Paul’s itself is
destroyed. A hospital crumbles with 108
helpless patients underneath the ruins.
Britons far afield read with sickening
anger in their hearts that a “well-known
church in Central London,” in which the
effigies of Crusaders lie, has been heavily
damaged along with a restaurant next
door. They recognise that, within a few
yards of Temple Bar and Tom Finch’s
fountain, the ancient Temple Church has
been war-struck, and with it the Old
Cock Tavern, whose cellars run under
the churchyard, where Oliver Goldsmith
sleeps. The church carries the ancestral
memories of Englishmen back to the
century of the Conquest. The tavern has
associations which go back to Shakspeare.
An unobtrusive paragraph at the bottom
of a page of speculation announces that
104 centres of the Salvation Army have
been damaged or destroyed in London
alone.
Britain’s war-time expenditure has
jumped to £14,000,000 a day, of which
£11,000,000 is spent on the three
fighting services. The whole of the
Royal Navy in being cost only about
£300,000,000 to build and arm three
weeks of war-maintenance money at the
present rate.
With all the effort and all the counter-
raiding and all the patrolling of the seas,
the rate of attrition among German raid-
ing machines is not now such as to
approach their rate of production, which
has been estimated at 2000 ’planes per
month before the invasion of Holland and
Belgium. The rate may have been in-
“Go up again and make the turn a little higher .”
creased by the capture of the Fokker
and other factories.
Between October 1 and October 10 the
machine casualties among German squad-
rons were estimated by the Air Ministry
at 92, and before that the numbers shot
down in August and September were
under 1100 per month. Types have to
be considered, and the British losses for
2\ months have been only 640 all told.
So, despite the fact that the advantage
in the actual air war has been all on
the British side, neither adversary is
making any real headway in effectively
reducing opposing strengths. And so
long as materials and fuel supplies and
trained men and objectives to destroy
continue to be available, the horrible
business can go on almost indefinitely
and inconclusively.
The expenditure of material is enor-
mous. Germany’s losses of machines
from August 8 have been 2249, worth
anything from £30,000,000 to £50,000,000.
Mr. Churchill remarked that the world
had been informed on September 23 that
Germany had dropped 22,000 tons of
bombs on Britain, and also that 251 tons
had been dropped on the night of Sep-
tember 26 only a few tons more
were dropped in the country during the
whole of the last war. Yet only 180
persons had been killed that night. He
added: —
There can be only one explanation,
namely, the vastly improved methods of
shelter adopted. This is not only remark-
able but most reassuring.
Reassuring it may be, but it cannot
be decisive. Property, in contrast to lives,
cannot be sheltered save by active de-
fence. And the killing of a few thou-
sand people per week is only incidental
to the real objectives of both sides, which
are primarily to destroy resources, impede
armament programmes, impose general
stringency of conditions to the point of
the breakdown of the enemy.
The most consoling factor is, as The
Bulletin has pointed out from the first,
that, as existing resources go up in smoke
and pulver on both sides, Germany is
wasting fighting assets which become
more and more difficult to replace, and
is compelled to take new risks if the
High Command can be assured of
material for the future.
The Germans at present must do
everything in a war zone. They have
no corner in which they can carry on
their great war industries, the organisa-
tion of food supplies and the training
of reinforcements save within range of
the menace of British bombing.
As the months go by Britain will more
and more be able to carry on her train-
ing and manufacturing programmes —
particularly her air-training programmes
—safe from enemy attack.
Major Fielding Eliot, an American
war commentator, notes that “Britain’s
Fleet hopelessly divides her opponents” ;
that “the German Navy is unable to
join the Italian and that the Germans
cannot land reinforcements in North
Africa and cannot dominate the Black
Sea even if they take the Dardanelles.”
He might have added that the British
Navy also walls off Germany from all
the greatest overseas sources of raw
materials, from all export trade, from
all her groups of nationals overseas, who
are having a discouraging time, and from
all foreign nations which she might
threaten or corrupt outside Europe.
Also, that when the present naval pro-
grammes are completed the Navy will be
more than a wall. It will be quite capable
of fully supporting invasion of German-
occupied territories.
Admittedly the U-boat menace has
not been effectively dealt with. Though
sinkings for the week to September 29
were considerably less than for the pre-
vious week—2o ships with a total ton-
nage of 72,337, of which 55,927 was
British —they were still 20,000 tons above
the average during the war.
A minesweeper was destroyed, and
the Germans declared that a U-boat had
attacked a British torpedo boat flotilla
off the Isle of Wight. They claimed the
sinking of 21,000 tons of shipping in a
convoy off the Hebrides by another
U-boat.
Against this sneaking destruction there
is everywhere evidence of open British
boldness. An R.A.N. destroyer, com-
manded temporarily by a young lieuten-
ant, destroyed an Italian submarine early
one morning while returning to port, after
having lost touch with the British fleet
through the bursting of a steam-pipe.
The English Channel for days has been
lively with flying high-explosive as R.A.F.
bombers have torn up and down the
coast, and the opposing guns of Dover
and Gris Nez have carried on their duel.
And British attacks developed a new
feature when light and heavy naval forces
joined in on Oct. 10 and gave Cher-
bourg a pasting. The Germans claimed
that “one heavy cruiser” only was in-
volved, and that she was “driven off by
coastal batteries.” She would be. No
captain of a single heavy cruiser would
attempt to attack a coastal port defended
with emplaced guns much heavier than
his own. “Considerable destruction of
shipping and damage to docks, the sea-
plane base and two torpedo boats,” was
the British report.
Finally came news of a naval action
in the Mediterranean. Getting in first
with their account, the Italians declare
that their destroyers attacked British
naval forces off Malta on Friday and
Saturday; that they sank a British
cruiser, probably of the Neptune class—
a sister ship to the Ajax, of Graf Spee
fame —and damaged other British units,
which “fled.” They admitted losses of
two 600-ton torpedo-boats and a 1400-ton
destroyer, adding that most of the Italian
seamen were saved. On the follow-
ing morning, the Rome report proceeded,
Italian airmen damaged an aircraft-
carrier and a heavy cruiser and shot
down two R.N.A.S. ’planes, losing one
of their own machines. No British re-
port had reached Australia when this
page had to be made up.
Germans in Rumania.
“E.D.”: Guessers and wishful thinkers
are letting themselves go concerning de-
velopments in the Balkans and North
Africa. The only real fact they have
to work on is that there are German
troops, with a full army organisation,
in Rumania. They differ as to whether
General Keitel, Chief of the German
General Staff, has gone or is going to
Libya or to Rumania.
Keitel was the designer of the German
offensive plan, an adaptation and expan-
sion of the Schlieffen Plan. He visioned
the Axis Powers as a vast central cog
wheel which could turn in any direction.
Beginning in the east in Poland, the
cogs have so far ripped through a half-
circle in the north of Europe, until every
bit of territory from the Russian border
to Biscay and the Spanish border has
been placed under control of either
Germany or Russia.
It was then intended to widen the
ambit of the wheel and do a bit of tear-
ing across the Channel, but Britain dis-
obligingly refuses to allow the German
High Command to extend its claws.
Special correspondents report that the
same tactics are about to be tried in
southern Europe, and they are sure that
Russia will oppose them.
It recalls the barrage of propaganda
that Russia and Germany were in dis-
agreement. Suddenly the disagreement
was denied and Russia moved into Bess-
arabia. Talks between Germany and
Hungary were followed by a pounce on
old Hungarian Transylvania, with the
backing of Germany and without resist-
ance from Russia. Bulgaria was bribed
with the return of a bit of the Dobrudja.
Conflicts sprang up on the Albanian
border of Greece. Italians across the
Mediterranean and the Red Sea moved
into a position of advantage in British
Somaliland.
A Nazi coup d’etat was brought off
in Rumania and followed by the flight
of Carol. British interests in Rumania
were wiped out. The Axis signed its
pact with Japan, after apparently failing
to drag Spain into the arena, thus divert-
ing attention from Europe. At the same
time Graziani moved across the Egyptian
border and sat down at Sidi Barrani.
German troops went into Rumania.
Russia called up recruits in the Caspian
area. It then became a general theory
that an advance into Greece from
Albania and Rumania via Bulgaria was
imminent. One report says Germany
intends to secure control of the Mace-
donian area as a preliminary to a drive
towards the Dardanelles and the Near
and Middle East and the oil areas.
But, agreeing on this point, the ex-
perts as usual differ fatuously about the
possibilities of the campaign. A London
“Daily Telegraph” man suggests that
Greece will be attacked by an Italian
army of 250,000 massed on the Italian
border, with a German corps simul-
taneously descending from Rumania, via
Bulgaria—another 250,000 Germans are
mentioned elsewhere.
A British military spokesman and
British military experts believe that
“winter would not be an insurmountable


5
E
Kg
s
EYE
LOTI
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
JJ^A^os^t^o^tyj^Ltdj^JOn^Stj^Sydney
(/
bSurtSEJUKs] ZAlaJLru m
Jdsb Dste ©tf Mira°fcrg
\> time / left her hem 9e
saysMMUfetihf cZt
M
4
) *
9
-a?
C
BOBBY, HERE'S AN
YOU RUDE BOY!
LATER..
you’ll go to
INVITATION TO
OF COURSE I SCOLDED HIM, BUT
YOU KNOW HOW CHILDREN LOVE
ICE CREAM AND COLD DRINKS
-irsy /'*£
THE PARTY AND
BARBARA ANNS
BEHAYE YOURSELF
PARTY
ill WHY DONT
n YOU TELL
MOTHER ABOUT
GEMUX
ASK HER OYER AND
SHOW HER OURS
DONT WANT
MUM
\ .-A TO GO,THEY
\ /(JU DON’T HAVE
* fl N watuiwc Miiru
RUIN
THAT
JUST
NOTHING MUCH
PARTY FOOD
THAfS WHY
SHOWS YOU
V "<!■
' it's simply
WONDERFUL
WHAT .
eemuKfC
CAN DO FORI'
YOU. WE ftA
MUST
ONE! I -<
£
AND IT SAVES YOU MORE
THAN IT COSTS BECAUSE !
IT SAVES FOOD WASTES
□
I'M SURE NO ONE WOULD HAVE
ENJOYED THE PARTY IF WE
HADN'T. HOW PLEASED, BARBARA
ANN IS THAT EVERYONES SO HAPPY
CAN I HAVE ANOTHER
ICE MRS. BROWN?
I DIDN'T KNOW YOU
HAD t. 66NALSK
1
PS
£7*
4
EVERYONE BUT ME THAT
IS, AND I'VE LOST THE
BEST HOME I EVER HAD
; m "
9 "WILLIE WOG" Is our
name for the bacteria that
spoils foods. Unchecked, he
will thrive in the household
larder at the expense of the
family health and purse. But
there is no risk when you own
a "GENALEX" Electric Re-
frigerator, which keeps food
at a consistent temperature
well below the danger
point at which food begins
to deteriorate.
See a "GENALEX" to-day at
your nearest dealer's.
sdfasdf
PAINTING
COMPETITION
Win a Refrigerator! Ask your
dealer for full particulars, or mail
the coupon below.
FREE
Cienalex
ELECTRIC REFRIGERATORS
rw
Made in Ausfralia
Guaranteed by
BRITISH GENERAL
ELECTRIC CO. PTY. LTD.
SOLE
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES
OF THE G.E.C- OF ENGLAND
WILLIE woe PAINTING BOOK
Big Competition Free Refrigerators
Cash Prizes
BRITISH GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. PTY. LTD.
104-114 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Please send me FREE Willie Wog Colour
Painting Book and details of Competition.
Name
Address “ B -’*
barrier to a possible German south-
eastward drive.” The “British spokes-
man” says that “talk of terrain or weather
acting as an impassable barrier to such
a highly-organised and efficient machine
as the German Army comes under the
heading of wishful thinking.”
But the military correspondent of the
“Times” takes the view set forth in last
week’s Bulletin:
An attack on Turkey for the purpose of
attacking Palestine across Syria is not prac-
ticable in winter, but, even supposing
Turkey collapsed or granted passage for
German troops, it is difficult to believe that
the main Axis thrust against Suez would
come along this lengthy route rather than
from Libya, where the Axis forces are only
250 miles from Alexandria.
Acting at once, Germany and Italy
would be able to go through Bulgaria and
take Greece, which would give the Italians
some fine naval harbors and allow them
to shift their axis of operations towards
the Dardanelles. The conquest would
allow Italy to get oil overland from the
Russian and Rumanian fields by a short
route to the new bases; at present im-
port of oil from Batum or Rumania
must give Mussolini a headache every
time he thinks of it. Such a movement
would place Turkey under menace,
also Iran and Irak (Iran was threat-
ened a few months ago by the
Australian Communist party), and thus
oblige Britain to look strenuously to
her Indian defences and take special pre-
cautions against the off-chance along the
Suez Canal and the Persian Gulf. It would
also compel Britain to strengthen her
forces in Palestine. And it would divert
the world’s attention from Egypt, which
is the most vital area of combat along
the Mediterranean. It would cause the
diversion of R.N. units from the African
coast, where the main operations are
impending.
Conquest of south-eastern Europe is
only an accessory objective to that of
getting Suez and driving the navy out
of Alexandria and Gibraltar. While
the Canal and the Straits remain open
Britain is still the real ruler of the
Mediterranean and the arbiter as to who
shall freely trade and carry there.
The Canberra Air Smash.
“Aileron”: Justice Lowe, reporting on
the Canberra crash which cost Australia
10 valuable lives, held that the Lockheed-
Hudson bomber was airworthy, had been
thoroughly overhauled before the flight,
was controlled by a competent officer,
Flight-Lieut. Hitchcock, and had not been
interfered with by any unauthorised per-
son.
It was unlikely, his Honor said, that
the crash was due to engine failure, a
defect or the collapse of the pilot. He
rejected the suggestion that the aircraft
was on fire before the crash, the most
likely cause of which was a stall at so
low a height as to make it impossible
for the pilot to recover control.
At the same time, he emphasised that
it was essential that pilots being trained
to handle Hudsons should have the
widest possible experience, especially on
other twin-engined machines, and that
they should be impressed with the stalling
characteristics of the Hudson and with
the need to approach landings with ample
speed to avoid the danger of stalls.
He remarked that the evidence sug-
gested that the control mechanism operat-
ing the landing flaps was not so efficient
as the R.A.F. attachment, and he ad-
vised that the R.A.A.F. should consider
whether it was sufficient. The machine
involved had seen only seven hours’
service.
The Hudson is a fine machine, and
its stability and flying qualities in com-
petent hands have been demonstrated
over and over again under war service
conditions. Many Hudsons in use in
Britain have been brought home from
battle with their wings battered and
heavily holed, under the worst possible
conditions. At the same time, it is known
to be a sensitive machine which calls for
exactitude in flying technique and con-
stant vigilance. It costs about £30,000,
and the supply is limited. So is the
supply of trained airmen. There should
be a rigid control of the conditions under
which Hudsons are flown.
“Ek D.”: It is a pity that whoever is
responsible for the decision not to issue
sun-glasses to the A.I.F. is not sent glass-
less to Egypt for a few weeks to gain
experience. Sun goggles, which are dust-
tight, are not merely a luxury in the kind
of desert country our men are fighting
in ; they are a necessity of life for any-
body not born to face the glare, wind
and pulver. I remember laughing when
advised to take three or four pairs—Aus-
tralian experience suggested that they
were not necessary. But through the
bulk of a summer in the Middle East,
they were never off from daylight to dark.
Where there is plenty of water for regular
eye-cleaning it may be a different matter,
but there isn’t in western Egypt.
* * * *
Several changes have been made in
important military commands in the
A.M.F. Major-General Smart leaves his
present job of Q.M.G. to become G.O.C.
Southern Command, in succession to
Lieut.-General Witham, soon to retire
from active service after 30 years as a
commissioned officer. Brigadier-General
Bertie Lloyd, who since July has been
Deputy Adjutant-General and who was
almost as successful as Director-General
of Recruiting as he was as a fighting
general in the last war, becomes G.O.C.
2nd Division, A.M.F. Major-General
Jim Cannan has been appointed Q.M.G.
* * * *
“Rudder”: Still another air accident
last week, and it cost the life of Leading
Aircraftman W. M. Aspinall and the loss
of another Tiger Moth. Aspinall, flying
low, crashed while trying to avoid power
wires near Tamworth (N.S.W.). He was
killed instantly and his ’plane burnt into
a shapeless and tangled mass. As with
most of the accidents within the past
few weeks, the pilot was a trainee —he
had had only 20 hours’ solo flying
experience.
* * * *
“Aileron”: Chief-of-Air-Staff Burnett
told a meeting of men on the R.A.A.F.
waiting list that 152 Australians were
training in Canada, and that “soon” the
intake of trainees would be 1200 per
month. The waiting period, though irk-
some, was unavoidable. To accelerate
training, Australians are to be sent to do
their full courses in Rhodesia, where 700
R.A.F. men already have arrived.
Nobody seems to have thought yet awhile
of training Australians —who have the
best flying climate in the world and a
nucleus of the most experienced flying
fighters of the last war —in Tobago,
British Guiana, Nepal, Labrador or
Antarctica.
* * * *
According to figures announced by
the Minister for Defence on 4/10/’4O,
Maorilanders serving in the Royal Air
Force have suffered 187 casualties—79
killed, 23 missing and believed killed,
49 missing, 15 prisoners and 21 wounded.
Under a new scheme 3000 M.L. lads
are attending night school or taking
correspondence lessons for training as
pilots. The 402 men sent to the R.A.F.
before the war were increased by another
641 up to 19/9/’4O, and the Dominion’s
contribution will be 1465 men by the
end of 1940. Australians would be glad
if their Ministers were as informative in
these matters.
* * * *
A Gisborne (M.L.) family holds a fine
record in military aviation. Last Decem-
ber Flying-Officer Kenneth Gray was
awarded the D.F.C. for having brought
a badly-damaged bomber home after a
raid on Germany. He was killed shortly
afterwards. Then came word that
Pilot-Officer Colin Gray, a twin brother,
had received the D.F.C. He, too,
counted among his exploits the bringing
back of a badly-damaged machine to
its base.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: The A.I.F. in Palestine
complains of weeks of delay on soldiers’
private cables. The same thing happened
in the last war. The enormous increase
of every class of message completely clut-
tered up the cables. Nine-tenths of the
traffic was defence or Governmental, and
precisely how much of this was essential
it is difficult to say. Businessmen from
long experience know how to be curt and
to the point in writing out a message,
but an official is accustomed to be long-
winded and superfluous, and as the cost
of his verbosity doesn’t come out of his
own pocket there is little to stop him
being so. Consequently soldiers’ private
telegrams to their wives and sweethearts
had to be shoved on one side. As the
war progressed the pile grew higher and
higher. Then a telegraph strike broke
out in India. Finally the cable men were
constrained to send the telegrams down
in bales to steamers and ship them that
way between stations. Hence, though
they were listed as telegrams and paid for
as such, for a good deal of their journey
they were only letters. Many a soldier
dispatched a cable from London an-
nouncing his departure for Australia and
was ringing his front doorbell a week in
advance of the arrival of his message.
But what is the Beam doing if it hasn’t
altered this situation? There was no
Beam in the last war.
The Air War Day by Day.
October 7-8: Widespread raids over
Britain, chiefly on Liverpool and London,
where the attack —by three formations —
was the longest to date. “Casualties not
heavy, considering scale of attacks,” Air
Ministry announces.
R.A.F. drops 100 heavy bombs on
Berlin, causing explosions in centre of the
city, fires on Templehof aerodrome and
damage to power stations, goods yards
and industrial plants; Germans declare
that A.A. fire forced back bulk of raiders.
Raids along French and Dutch coasts
from Amsterdam to Gris Nez. German
account of casualties: 32 British, 13 Ger-
man. Air Ministry’s report: 28 German,
16 British and six British pilots.
October 8-9: Heavy raid on 100 British
areas, including 30 districts in and around
London. Loss of life and property
severe. Buildings wrecked included a
hospital with 108 patients, a noted
London church and a courthouse. Ger-
mans admit 25 people killed during
bombing of Berlin. Hamburg, Bremen,
Wilhelmshaven and Ruhr industrial cities,
including Essen, raided.
Addis Ababa railway to sea cut by
R.A.F. R.A.F. also attacks Italian sup-
ply lines and Sidi Barrani concentrations
in western Egypt; S.A.A.F. shoots
down Italian machine near Galabat.
Italians claim to have bombed convoy in
Red Sea ; also torpedo works and petrol
supply at Malta. They admit raids on
Tobruk and Bardia (Libya), calling them
“ineffective.”
Oct. 9-10: All-night raid on London,
accompanied by attack on Wales and
raids on other parts. In London, 40 areas
bombed ; high altar of St. Paul’s demol-
ished ; Germans claim severe damage to
the Thames dock area and railways and
destruction of hangars, barracks,
grounded ’planes and a 4000-ton mer-
chantman elsewhere.
R.A.F. attacks concentrate on German
industrial towns and ports and continue
blasting of French Channel ports. Bomb-
ings through North African war zone,
with no major damage reported on either
side.
Oct. 10-11: Daylight and night raid-
ing over England ; 29 persons killed in
north-eastern town. ’Plane losses in and
around Britain for week to Oct. 10:
Germans 72, British 34. Raid on Ham-
burg admitted by German newsagency ;
“heaviest yet.” Air Ministry reports oil-
storage tanks destroyed there and in
Hanover, Cologne, Madgeburg. Warships
attacked at Wilhelmshaven ; also Krupp
naval works at Kiel, objectives from
Bavaria northwards and several North
Sea and Channel ports. Germans declare
no military damage done, but some
houses destroyed and 12 British machines
brought down to four of their own.
Admitted 18 persons killed and 20
wounded at Amsterdam. Railway plant,
stores and quays fired at Boulogne.
Tobruk (Libya) attacked by R.A.F. ;
one tanker in flames, four other ships
damaged. Hurricanes drive off raid from
Malta, shooting down two Italian
bombers.
Oct. 11-12: Germans adopt new glide-
bombing tactics over 35 London districts
Train attacked; Liverpool bombed;
windows of Canterbury Cathedral broken.
Germans lose eight machines, R.A.F. nine.
Heavy weather limits raids on Germany,
but docks at Kiel and Wilhelmshaven and
aerodromes in Frisian Islands, oil tanks
at Hamburg and invasion ports from
Boulogne to Amsterdam bombed.
R.A.F. starts large fires at Benghazi.
Italians claim to have bombed British
formations east of Sidi Barrani. They de-
clare Benghazi cathedral damaged by
British bombs, and attacks on Derna,
Bardia and Tobruk did little damage.
Widespread general raiding on both sides
from Red Sea to Tripoli Gulf.
Oct. 12-13: Lighter attacks on London,
but numerous persons killed and an
underground station damaged. Intense
raid in the Midlands. Germans lose 11
machines, British 10. Totals on all fronts
for war period: Britain 1486, Germany
4773.
Berlin military objectives, communi-
cations elsewhere and Channel ports at-
tacked. German High Command reports
“few R.A.F. ’planes” involved, and assert
raids on industrial and other installations
“unsuccessful,” R.A.F. losing 21 fighters
against Germany’s seven.
R.A.F. at Cairo reports general bomb-
ing of strategic points in Eritrea, Abys-
sinia and Italian-held Egypt and Libya.
Raid turned back from Malta before
reaching coast.


TWO PEOPLE
AN ‘AGA’
and a WAR
sadg
c
George joined the Army
English evacuees,
and Marjorie is caring for three
besides doing a lot of war work,
What a blessing their AGA Cooker is! Burning constantly day
and night, they know their AGA Cooker cannot burn more than
£3 worth of fuel in a whole year (with coke at 30/- ton). They
know, too, that their AGA will cook a meal for one
or ten at a moment:,s not i ce and s till no extra cost
for fuel. The other day—thanks largely to their AGA Cooker,
Marjorie and George managed to buy
?±k some more
War Savings Certificates with the money they had saved.
B
■YOU KNOW WHERE YOU ARE WITH AN AGA'
If you cannot call to see the AG A
Cooker in operation at our show-
rooms, write for catalogue RIO,
which shows the wisdom of investing
in an AG A.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.jxd U 52
(Inc. in N.Z.). 45 King Street, Sydney.
432 Bourke St., Melbourne; & Wellington, N.Z.
SA. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd.,
Adelaide. Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster
and Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Aboriginal Tongues
“Mo-ma”: I see a missionary has been
granted a year’s leave of absence to pre-
pare an abo. dictionary and translate
portions of the Bible into abo. dialects.
In view of the fact that there can be
scarcely any aggregation of 1000 abos.
anywhere in Australia who speak the
same native language, it seems to me a
waste of effort, especially seeing that
Binghi is such an intelligent fellow
that it is much easier to teach him Eng-
lish than it is to teach a missionary abo.
Of course, the abo. tongues have the
vocabulary which can deal with the
material parts of the Scriptures, but a
whole lot of them would give the would-
be translator a bad headache. And when
it comes to preparing a dictionary I
wouldn’t like to be the lexicographer.
It is a tradition that abo. tongues are
primitive, containing a few hundred
words. The same was thought about the
tongues of more elementary peoples of
New Guinea, like the Bainings, but my
old friend Father Volmer, who took on
the preparation of a Baining dictionary,
spent a third of a lifetime on it, and, with
well on to 20,000 words on his hands, had
not completed the job.
Abo. languages are entirely unlike
European languages. In structure they
resemble Japanese more than anything
else. Like Japanese, they have all sorts
of affixes, directional and functional pro-
nouns and verb forms, some of which
change airily to fit the nuances of the
following words. And abo. languages
are leisurely affairs. Time doesn’t matter
to Binghi, and it didn’t matter to the
Japanese when they began to make them-
selves articulate. Where a hurried Euro-
pean world expresses the first person
singular as I, je, io, ich, jeg and so forth,
Japanese uses the simple mouthful
watakushi, and two-letter “is” unrolls
itself as orimasu or gozaitnasu.
In Pitta Pitta, a central-western Queens-
land tongue which used to run current
when I was in napkins, and of which most
of the exponents are now dead, a simple
phrase like “the old man’s children
works out at koopakoopa'nga uttapeukka
pityiri wara. And if you happen to speak
of an eagle-hawk’s young one you merely
remark myerjo’nga uttapeukka-warango
berdaje. Which is just about as easy on
the normal European larynx as the Japa-
nese. When a Japanese wants to say “I
like any kind of tucker” he gets away
with Watakushino kiraina sho-
kusuru monowa arimasen.
The simple Japanese phrase
Watakushiwa shippaini kuyamio
kanjite orimasu (“I regret my
failure”) usually describes White
Brother’s attempts to say things
properly in dinkum Aussie.
It is only the rare adult Euro-
pean who can say with con-
fidence Woonjewoonje Pitta-
pittanct yunkalinga; parari kun-
nalinga nunyo “Teach me to
speak Pitta Pitta and I will
learn.”
“Lid”: Another strike has hit
Darwin. Wharf-laborers refused
to unload a shipload of coal for
the Navy because the ship was
equipped with grabs, which need
fewer men and get through more
work in less time than the old
method of unloading with bas-
kets. Minister Foil said the
Government would not “tolerate
actions of this kind during war” ;
but 40 naval ratings and soldiers
to guard them had to be taken
from their normal work for five
days to unload the coal. In view
of the especial importance of
Darwin at the present time, it
might be a good idea if the
Commonwealth Government dug
down to the bottom of every strike there
and removed whoever is responsible from
the town.
“T.N.T.”: In 1919 a workers’ home
scheme was planned for the N.T., but
nothing ever came of it. In 1937 the
Payne Committee noted the urgent need
for decent housing; and for the last six
years Blain, M.P., has been campaigning
along the same lines. At last the Gov-
ernment has come out with a plan, but
not before it has already spent many
thousands on posh gaols and an abo.
compound within a few miles of Darwin.
Territorians must smile in a wintry fashion
when they consider the Commonwealth
Government’s idea of the order of im-
portance of things where the N.T. is con-
cerned.
"'Member the time they Were reel bad and tried t' roll the tin of the table?"
Said Brisbane town-planner Mclnnis
last week: “Housing conditions at Dar-
win are deplorable. The floating popu-
lation will have to be housed in a semi-
communal scheme that would provide
cottages for occupation by separate fami-
lies.” Minister Foil followed with a
proposal for “a big workmen’s camp” —
20 two-room huts for married men and
60 one-room huts for single men; cost,
about £12,000.
Another pertinent Mclnnes comment:
There should be some responsible self-
government for citizens. Unless they are
allowed to take part, residents cannot be
expected to overcome the lack of civic
pride which is evident.
The Darwin Town Council was abolished
at its own request in April, 1937, because
it couldn’t carry on with the small
revenue received, because members of
the council were afraid to resist union
interference, and because it was hard to
get the right people to nominate. As
soon as it had gone Darwinians found
themselves worse off than ever because
of the “ponderous movement of Gov-
ernment departments and the slow
motion of the Government machine....
ordinary municipal work, poor and in-
adequate as it was, came, at least tern-
porarily, to an end.” They have been
f’ . . ■> , . r,i • |
asking for the revival of the council ever
since.
* * * *
“Norther”: A Palmwoods farmer has
given up going to the pictures. He
reckons he can get all the excitement he
wants at home since an episode in which
he found himself the centre of a bit of
gun-play. In broad daylight e was
astounded to see four men helping th m-
selves to his tomatoes and cabbages.
With a rifle to lend weight to his objec-
bolted to e a?a?an°dT followed. Thin
the driver opened up on him with three
quick shots, and he shot back. Covered
by their mate’s fire, the four reached the
car and away it went. It’s coming to
something when bullets fly over a few
vegetables.
* * * *
“D.D.”: The cheerful note struck by
“23-4” (B. 9/10/’4O) concerning Queens-
land’s wheat was no doubt inspired by
too-optimistic remarks of the local Wheat
Board head. The truth is that the har-
vest will hardly reach the normal average
of 4,000,000 bushels, and will be close to
3,000,000 bushels below last year’s big
crop. Around Warwick the wheat has
suffered badly from the drought, and
crops up Dalby way managed to pull
through because of good rains earlier in
the season. On the State average price
of 3s. lOd. a bushel, the industry is likely
to drop well over £500,000 this season.
Still, there’s no danger of anybody walk-
ing off his farm.
* * * *
“Balander”: There are 1,015,927 of us
in this land of bananas, sugar, sheep,
A.W.U. organisers, crocodiles and cranks,
and every dashed one of us, man, woman
and child, owes just on £125 to the
State’s creditors, the provincial debt
being £126,686,000 if Forgan-Smith hasn t
borrowed another couple of bob since
June 30. Still, our birthrate for 1939 was
the highest since 1930, and highest of
a u the mainland States ; and the death-
rate was the second-lowest of all States,
that rate, if we keep away from Uncle,
we Tl soon liquidate the debt. But Uncle
j sn ’t worrying. He knows State poli-
ticians, and his money is secure because
our income for the year was £129,900,000.
What sticks to us Queenslanders is the
fact that we have other ports and other
cities than Brisbane, which is more than
others can say of their States, and thougn
there is room for improvement the
cradle hasn’t entirely fallen into disuse,
# * * *
“Camel Steak”: “What would be an
a( j e quate scale of rations for an isolated
tropical outpost of 20 men?” asks F. W.
Q emen ts 5 Director of the Australian In-
st{tute G f Anatomy, Canberra, and pro-
ceeds tQ answe r it with a list of foods
“designed to provide adequate rations for
a balanced and not unduly monotonous
diet.” It comprises:—-
whole powder ed milk (for' pouring),
12oz . dimmed ditto (cooking), 40z.;
cheese, sfoz. ; dried haricot beans, 60z.,;
dried split peas, loz. ; brown rice, 20z. ;
potatoes, sflb.; sugar, 140 z .; jam, syrup
or treacle, 14oz ; tinned butter, 140 z.;
oatmeal or wholemeal, 120 z., tinned
tomatoes, 31b.; dried apricots, ' 40z. ;
prunes, 20z.; mixed preserved meats, sflb. ;
bacon, 70z.; white bread, 61b.; cocoa,
loz. ; tinned veges., 21b.; tinned fruits—
pineapple, 120 z .; tea, salt, etc. The
— b daf ’ of^Vamln
B pre p arat i on .
Q ements says t b e scale gives actually
mor£ than j s required of essential food-
stu ~ ag some mem bers of the outpost
t consume the full quantity of
of them< None of the ite ms is
a chemical product, even tavita»B
preparation being substantially the p
duct of the wheat germ. Concerning
oatmeal, the compiler says there is no
scientific foundation for the belief that
porridge is a heating food and should be
avoided in the tropics. He discourages a
large meat ration, and insists that por-
ridge provides many of the essential ele-
ments likely to be deficient in the diet or
such an outpost. Presumably the diet is
intended for a squad from the soutn.
What a bunch of Gulf country cattleme
would think of it—especially as bottl
beer isn’t even mentioned is best leit
the imagination!


Visit the
WEAPONS FROM WASTE
Exhibition
See for Yourself
• The ingenious re-use of
waste articles.
• The steps from waste metal
to munitions.
• Waste paper converted to
shiny new cardboards.
• Old rags reincarnated in a
myriad guises.
• How you can assist in this
win the war effort.
★ ORGANISED BY THE SYDNEY
JUNIOR CHAMBER OF COMMERCE.
Hitler strikes again! But the British
Empire strikes back harder and harder.
As the immense economic resources of the
Empire are marshalled, so grows the
power of each punch delivered by our
navy, army and air force. And the mar-
shalling of these resources makes the most
romantic the most dramatic tale in the
centuries of our history. See many sur-
prising aspects of this drama for yourself;
the story of wealth and weapons wrested
from waste —wealth and weapons that
will help to smash Hitler.
at DAVID JONES
Mens Store in Market Street
Oct. 14th
WE ARE
SPECIALISTS
IN
COWBOY SADDLERY
sadf
£143/6
DOUBLE RIGGED.
Three-quarter rigged, with one cord
cincha, 15/- less. This is a very
popular line, quite equal to saddles of
the same class made in U.S.A. It is
made of brown leather, without fancy
stamping, and the seat and cantle are
in one piece of heavy leather.
Weight, about 281 b.
A'.S. IF. Freight on Saddles Paid for Cash with
Order.
COWBOY BITS, SPURS, BRIDLES,
CHAPARAJOS, TAPADEROS, ETC.
WALTHER i. STEVEMSOM Tto:
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
JUST WHAT
HE WANTED?
ma
mm
M
m
m
mm.
A
VALE T
AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR
No. 101 Moulded Case Set —in
new type of moulded case,
contains razor. "Valet” strop in
hinged container and three
blades in moulded sheath, 9/-.
Stropped in a few seconds
Cleaned, in a few seconds
A Valet . . . the original self-stropping
razor! What man wouldn’t be pleased
to find your thoughtfulness has such
a practical turn. All men know “Valet”
and respect it as much for its sim-
plicity as for its efficiency. It shaves
swiftly and surely. There’s nothing to
take to pieces. It is easy to clean. The
blade is always in position and a few
quick strokes on the strop give it the
finest shaving edge of all razors.
Has your man a birthday, soon ?
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
N.H: —
There was never a Nation more steadfast,
Nor an Empire yet so strong
As the mighty and glorious British,
The Race that has always “kept on.”
R.C.: —
This is the last soil, where we stand.
Our diverse systems of existence
United in one vital, common cause,
The crazy-patterned flags we fly,
To which we are born, for which we strive and die;
And this soil, and these things shall remain to us
Always, always, despite what may prevail.
C.J.:
No barbarous Hun
Shall England’s shrine invade,
Or murderous upstart
Her ancient laws degrade.
Be not afraid.
R.H.8.: Can’t add to “Five Bob a Day.”
S.J.L.: The lass should like it L.McL.:
Would prefer Ned alive and kicking... .J.D.:
Write out of your own experience.... M.K.:
Better send it to the bard... .A.J.J.: The last
stanza wilts... .P.F.S.: Lightweights... .J.W.:
Call again.... H. W.L.: Try elsewhere....
AJ.P.: “Down” doesn’t rhyme with “ground.”
G.G.: “Once Again, Spring!” Once again....
M.S.: Four lines of your “In Memoriam”: —
Broke, broke, broke,
At the foot of the count, 8.5.8.!
And Oh if we only had labored
To change the electors’ decree!
L.8.P.: Don’t say “Ah!” except to a
doctor... .1.L.C.: Even the Religious Editor
shed a tear when he learned that the affair
with the brown-eyed maid with sparkling teeth
and soft warm lips lasted only a month
E.M.P.: No place here for “Far Away in Dolls’
Land” H.C.: Ragged... .M.G.M.: Too
literary... .F.G.K.: A glimmer... .D.A.C.:
Begins well, but dives into farce... .L.R.L.:
Yours does the same K. 8.: Cut the reflec-
tions and it might do 5.8. N.: Not even
the five murders can make it exciting
L.T.Y.: “Shakspeare delighted the world with
a theme similar to this.” Yes, but you’re not
Shakspeare M.G.M.: We’re so hardened
we can watch those prospectors die of thirst
without a pang... .L.P.D.: “Cold-blooded
crimes” invariably leave us c01d... .P.S.S.: On
present evidence, your surest way of making
money is to sell your typewriter... .M.O’D.:
Come, come, now 8.R.F.: Returning it with
suggested alterations F.T.S.: When a man
suddenly leaps from his desk and shouts to
the world “My God, she loves me,” we de-
part with all possible speed T.G.R.: “Why
can’t I get into print?” It’s the sort of things
you write J.F.8.: If you don’t want to lose
the infant, send her return fare... .T.N.E.:
“Flames of Desire” couldn’t stand up to the
office extinguisher F.8.R.: Surely we don’t
deserve being inflicted with “a horror serial
in 24 chapters” L.R.V.: Might make a par.
V.F.R.: “The Bells” have all been rung
before... .M.P.: Copy waits at Melbourne
office... .P. 0.: Not enough meat on your bone.
H.B.D.: Frankly, it’s dreadful.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.C J.: He-she gags are deader than a 1904
“Hansard” J.N.: Worth while persevering.
A.R.L.: That joke bears the unmistakable
marks of the Deluge R.W.D.: Joke suffers
from pernicious anaemia, the drawing from gal-
loping consumption of good paper M.8.C.:
Kindly indicate whether figure in foreground
clad in striped awning is misshapen dwarf
drinking beer or schoolboy blowing up balloon.
A.L.C.: The sort of pun for which the
basket’s capacious maw gapes T.N.H.: The
liner-and-busted-wharf idea came closest....
J.8.L.: The “be-jabers-Oi-do-now” Oirishman
was put out of pain with a shillelagh years ago.
T.H.M.: Try something easier Jim P.:
Go back a bit earlier and you may get a joke
we’ve quite forgotten W.D.A.: Congratula-
tions on designing a building with suicide-proof
windows!
A MIXED GRILL.
“Craiser”: I am deeply interested in
James Kilmer, the bridegroom of Kansas
City who at his wedding signed an oath
that he would not go out at night after
he was married, that he would call on
women only when accompanied by his
wife, would not drink more than his wife
allowed, and would let her be boss in
every way. Either he has extraordinary
confidence in his ability to be a perpetual
source of interest to his wife or he has
a remarkable faith in her ability to be
of perennial interest to him. Otherwise
all he has done is to manufacture future
trouble for both of them.
* * * *
Though figures are not necessarily all
they look on paper, a comparison of ore
output between Rand and Westralian
mines on an employee basis indicates
that “cheap” labor is not always just that.
Last year output per man, surface and
underground, of the seven mines in the
Consolidated Investment Group, which
treat in the aggregate 11,396,000 tons of
ore annually and employ eight natives
to every European, was 160 tons.
Among deep mines in Westralia, Wiluna
tops the list with 750 tons per employee
p.a.; Lake View gets 473, Great Boulder
385, Sons of Gwalia 349, South Kalgurli
283, Moonlight Wiluna 684 and Big Bell
gets 1112; but here the ore is won by
opencut. Over the whole of Kalgoorlie
production per employee is some three
times greater than on the Rand. Dif-
ferent ore-depositions and depths have,
of course, something to do with it.
* * * *
“Belar”: When Jimmy Rutherford,
head of Cobb and Co. for 50 years, was
in the U.S.A. in 1886, he admired the
harness of the leaders in a five-horse
stage in which he travelled. The driver
told him they went through the town
where it was made, and Rutherford
stopped off to order some. The saddler was
agreeable, gave a quote, and asked how
many sets Rutherford required. “Two
thousand sets,” was the reply. “You can
draw through your bank on Cobb and
Co., Bathurst, Australia, when you ship
them. I’m Jimmy Rutherford, head of
the firm.” “Sure,” said the American
sweetly but insincerely, believing he had a
mild kind of lunatic to deal with.
Rutherford departed next day. The
saddler did nothing about the order. A
week later he had to see his banker about
his account. “Business has been dead
slow,” he complained. “No big orders?”
asked the banker. “Not a one—well, yes,
there was one, a queer kind of lunatic
from Australia. Said he wanted two
thousand sets of leaders’ harness for his
coaches. What do you make of that?”
The banker laughed. “I make this much
out of it,” he said. “You don’t need an
overdraft. You want to get to work. The
money for that harness is lying right
here in your bank, payable as soon as
it’s shipped.” At that time Cobb and
Co. in Australia had 9000 horses running
every day and 10,000 resting.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: “When you cease to find
in the annual exhibition any new thought
or feeling or any urge to explore the pos-
sibilities of the unknown,” said the cata-
logue of the Contemporary Art Society’s
frolic at Sydney, “you may be sure the
society no longer carries the banner it
was intended to bear.” Veil, among the
68 names of the exhibitors I found 21
of foreign origin, and maybe that is some-
thing new in this country, but may I be
hanged for a Dali if I found any “new
thought.” As for any “urge to ex-
plore the possibilities of the unknown,”
all I could find was an urge to explore
the possibilities of a number of familiar
European movements, many already as
dead as the dodo. What would be
new would be an exploitation of the
present Australian scene —the factories, if
they want to be “modern”—and an ex-
ploration of the spirit of Australia. But
that’s something big and growing, and
this reactionary “advance” is bogged in
what’s small and decaying.
# * * *
“V. Cluse”: He had been working
back at the office, or something, and it
was well after dark when he reached our
street, up which he proceeded in a
tangled sort of way for some distance.
Obviously deterred by the absence of
people and the long vista of road, he
slid gently to the kerbstone, fixed his
back firmly to a telephone pole and slept.
Time passed, clouds gathered and bore
up from the south, bringing large drops
of rain. When the shower was at its
height he stirred, looked round and sud-
denly sat up. “Ish rainin’,” he marvelled,
putting out a hand to make sure. Jubi-
lantly he got to his feet and lifted a
streaming face to the heavens. “Good
ol’ rain, lerrer fall!” he cried. Then
a sudden gloom fell on him ; he turned
and wearily made up the street. “Now
she’ll make me mow ’er blasted lawn,”
he moaned.
* * * *
“Craiser”: The Speck has something
to teach the mainland. Since hotel-
closing-time was changed from 6 to 10
p.m. in Tasmania, the police have been
provided with so much leisure that they
started learning first-aid. Nearly every
John Hop now holds a first-aid
certificate, and many have gone for the
higher diplomas. The decline of 20 p.c.
in drunk convictions is held responsible
for it.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’CORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—■
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain or
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
S'ILK at Cd. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
URIMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
do not experiment with imitations.
a BBAMDABM * 00. LU. lIKMIMGHAM. ESO
FPENS
Every point
guaranteed
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service ol Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted toJSell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, Sydney, own typewriter, exp. typing
MSS., desires work; neat and accurate; charges
reasonable. —7887.
Bookkeeper, ex-Ist A.1.F., not eligible for
war service, exp. commercial, station, country
store, seeks employment. —8434.
Young people (15-18) to join literary group
commencing November. —8462.
To buy The Gentleman Rider, by Nat Gould.
—8324.
To buy any marine engineering books. —
8447.
To buy old books on mathematics, particu-
larly any by Newton, Brounker, Bernoulli,
Mercator or Halley.—B4sl.
Information Sought.
What are the rates of pay for (1) a private,
(2) lance-corporal, (3) corporal, (4) sergeant, (5)
warrant officer in the Military Intelligence?
(6) Is there an allowance to married officers ?
—7966.
(1) and (2) ss. (3) 9s. (4) 10s. (5) Class I,
135.; Class 11, 11s. per day. (6) Separation
allowance to married personnel (including
officers and other ranks) is made at the rate
of 3s. per day in respect of a wife and Is.
per day in respect of each child under 16
years.
* * * *
(1) Is the Meritorious Service Medal a higher
or lower decoration than the Military Medal?
(2) Is the Croix de Guerre on a level with the
Military Medal? —7985.
(1) The Military Medal takes priority oyer
the Meritorious Service Medal. (2) Foreign
decorations are worn after any British decora-
tion or war medal.
* * * *
Is it a fact that at any time during the
training of an Air Force pilot or navigator
the trainee is given a test blindfolded ? —8290.
At no time during the training of an Air
Force pilot or navigator is the trainee given
a test blindfolded. However, during the ele-
mentary flying course a pilot trainee, accom-
panied by an instructor, is given a “blind flying”
test. This means that he is given a course to
fly by instruments only, and during the test
his cockpit is completely covered by a hood.
* * * *
(1) What was Britain’s fighting air strength
at the time of signing the Munich Agreement ?
(2) The air strength of Russia, Germany, Italy
and France at that time? —8281.
(1) According to the Statesman’s Year Book,
1938, the strength of the R.A.F. at March 1,
1938, was 83,000 men. The Metropolitan Air
Force is credited with 124 squadrons, compris-
ing 1750 first-line aircraft; also enumerated are
26 squadrons overseas, comprising 312 first-line
aircraft. There is no mention of reserves. (2)
According to the same, authority, France’s air
defence forces, home and overseas, military
and naval, had (1937-38) a personnel of 44,963.
Aircraft, including reserves, numbered 3365.
German’s air strength for about that period
was given as 720 first-line aircraft with 500 in
reserve, total 1220—manifestly a ridiculous
underestimate. Italy is credited with 2000 first-
line ’planes and a personnel of 28,431. Soviet
Russia’s ’planes were said to number 3000.
* * * *
Are classes available for women to learn
munitions-making either in Vic. or S.A.? —
8009.
Classes are not held for women to learn
munitions-making. Applications for employment
in munitions establishments in Vic. should
be addressed to the Employment Officer at
the Employment Office, 456 Collins-street,
Melbourne, C.l, and in South Australia to
the Superintendent, Labor Exchange, Adelaide.
» * * *
(1) Does radio copy-writing consist of writing
advertisements and recording? (2) How many
words does the average ad. contain? (3)
Does a writer of radio advertising require to be
licensed? (4) If I have a record of an ad.
made, and pay for it, have I any further lia-
bility to the maker if the ad. is broadcast ?
(5) Do private cos. engaged in this work make
records for themselves? —7934.
(1) Radio copy-writing consists mainly of
writing the 25-, 50- or 100-word announce-
ments, the one-minute dramatised announce-
ments and the commercial announcements
given during sponsored sessions. Recording is
not the work of the copy-writer. (2) The most
commonly-used commercial announcement has
about 100 words, but it may consist of anything
from a brief slogan up to, perhaps, a 10-minute
talk on some subject, such as gardening, given
by one of the seed and plant firms. The maximum
in the ordinary way is about 120 words, which
would be charged as a one-minute announce-
ment. (3) No license is necessary, and there
need be no formalities in the selling of any-
thing you write. (4) Question does not arise,
as records of commercial announcements are
made at the expense of the advertiser, and not
the copy-writer. (5) There are a number of
private concerns doing recording. Two typical
ones are Australian Record Company, Ltd., 29
Bligh-street, and T. Shearman, 12 Spring-street,
Sydney.
* * * *
What is the proper way to become a comedian
on the stage ? —8260.
There is no sure way of attaining an ambition
to become a comedian. Fun-makers exist in
every town and in every State of Australia.
Auditions are granted to aspirants by the Wil-
liamson Theatres at the Theatre Royal, Sydney,
being arranged by writing.
* * * *
(1) Would it be possible for two men to earn
a living deep-sea fishing with hand lines near
Sydney ? (2) Cost of a suitable motor-boat ?
(3) Cost of fishing tackle and gear required? —•
8199.
(1) Yes. (2) Approx. £4OO. (3) About £2O.
* * * *
(1) I have been experimenting with the run-
ning of a motor-car engine on carbide. Trouble
is that when the temperature of the engine ex-
ceeds a given limit the gas seems to become
too powerful and knocking develops. Is there
a means of diluting the gas to render it less
dangerous ? (2) Is it possible for an engine to
generate enough electricity to generate sufficient
hydrogen to drive itself as well as perform
useful work, such as driving a car? —8203.
(1) Diluting the gas would not get over this
trouble to any extent, but the difficulty could
be overcome by the addition of “anti-knock”
compounds, such as lead tetraethyl. But acety-
lene is rather too expensive a fuel to be worth
the trouble of overcoming its “knocking”
properties. (2) Attention has been given to the
development of the hydrogen engine—the
“Erren” engine—in Gemany. Some attention
has also been given to the subject in Great
Britain, but the general consensus of opinion
is that the engine is not economic on account
of the cost of the necessary hydrogen, even
if this were produced by electrolysis of water
during periods of minimum dqmand for power
and thus at periods when electricity suppliers
can make low charges for current. It is quite
impossible for an engine to “generate enough
electricity to generate sufficient hydrogen to
drive itself, as well as to perform useful work.”
If the reverse were the case it would mean that
work was being generated out of nothing, and
that is quite contrary to all natural laws.
* * * *
Melbourne “Argus” states that coconut oil
has been successfully used in Diesel engines.
Any information on the subject? —B239.
The successful use of coconut oil as a Diesel
fuel has recently been claimed from Fiji, but no
details concerning cost, performance, etc., are
yet available. Vegetable oils as a group have
calorific values averaging approximately 10 p.c.
less than ordinary fuel oils. The cost of crude
coconut oil in Australia is approximately 2s.
per gallon, while that of ordinary Diesel fuel-
oil is considerably less than half this figure.
* * * *
(1) I have a Blacks lone crude-oil engine, 18-
h.p. hot-bulb type, with automatic spraybox.
Is it possible to convert this motor to charcoal
gas? (2) How is it done? (3) What loss of
power would be involved in the changeover ?
7719.
(1) and (2) In this engine ignition is secured
by spraying crude oil into a hot bulb. This
process would not, of course, be possible with
gas, and the whole mode of operation of the
engine would have to be altered. The hot
bulb and injection gear would have to be re-
moved and replaced by a spark plug with a
magneto and a gas-mixing chamber attached to
the air inlet. The cost of these alterations
would probably exceed the value of the engine.
(3) The power available on gas would be
about 60 p.c. of that developed on oil.
**=!<*•
Is Section 128 of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution a complete bar to the abolition of
State Parliaments ? —8307.
There is no such thing as “a complete bar”
to any changes for which the required popular
majorities are recorded. In other words, if the.
people in all the States clearly desire a unitary
form of government it will come about.
* * * *
Some details concerning the legend of
“Pelorus Jack”? —Bl26.
“Pelorus Jack” is not a legend. He was a
Grampus griseus, or Risso’s dolphin, about 14ft."
in length and bluish-white in color. For about
30 years he was known to seafaring men in
Cook Strait (M.L.). During that time he met
practically every steamer, day and night, on
the Nelson-Wellington run and escorted each
one, leaping or gambolling under the bows
for about 20 minutes. He was shot at a few
times until the M.L. Government stepped in
and protected him by an Order-in-Council.
Sometimes he would disappear for a few weeks,
and his reappearance was always hailed with
joy and relief. In April, 1912, he mysteriously
disappeared and has not been seen since.
* * * *
What are the daily sales of the Sydney
“Morning Herald” and the Melbourne “Age.”
“Argus” and “Herald”? —8312.
Latest available certified figures are:
“5.M.H.,” 226,809; “Age,” 98,067; “Argus,”
109,026; Melb. “Herald,” 232,956.
* * * *
(1) What difference occurs in the surface area
of a sphere when the diameter is reduced by
one quarter? (2) A sphere at a given distance
has an apparent diameter. Please state the
rule for ascertaining the apparent diameter
when the sphere’s distance has been increased.
—8346.
(1) The area of a sphere is ascertained by
squaring the diameter and multiplying by pi
(3.1416). Suppose the diameter of the sphere
is 4in., area is approx. 50-j sq. in. If diameter
is reduced to 3in., area is approx. sq. in.
(2) All such problems of perspective depend
on distance of eye from an arbitrarily fixed
plane. Suppose the eye to be 3in. from a
glass ruled in square inches. When the 4in.
sphere is 6in. from the eye it will appear,
measured on the glass, to have a diameter of
about 2in. Moved out to 9in. from the eye, it
will have an apparent diameter of about 1 1-3
in.; at 12in., of about lin. The rule is to
multiply the real diameter by a fraction the
top member of which is the distance between
eye and glass; the bottom, the distance between
glass and the centre of the sphere. This would
be exact in the case of a flat disc, but there
is a slight addition, diminishing with distance,
in the case of a sphere.
* * * *
If a person in N.S.W. buys groceries to the
value of more than £2, has it put on a docket,
and pays cash over the counter, is the grocer
compelled to put a duty stamp on ? —8344.
If the docket is in the nature of a receipt
for more than £2 it would require to be
stamped with a 2d. duty stamp.
* * * *
What is the legal scale of fees chargeable by
a registered land agent in N.S.W. for appear-
ing in a land court in support of an applica-
tion for land? —8322.
Preparation and lodging of application, from
7s. 6d. to £lO 10s.; attending before Land
Board, per day, from £1 Is. to £7 75.; draft-
ing appeal to Land and Valuation Court, from
10s. 6d. to £2 25.; appearing before Land and
Valuation Court, per day, from £1 Is. to
£5 55.; all plus out-of-pocket expenses, fares,
etc. For full particulars, see rules under Land
Agents Act 1927, published in “Government
Gazette,” No. 62, of May 13, 1927.
* * * *
(1) Date when street-lighting first came into
operation in Sydney? (2) What areas were
lighted?— 8198.
The directors of the Australian Gas Light
Co. “as a humble expression of the com-
pany’s loyalty” selected for the first night of
lighting the birthday of Queen Victoria,
Monday, May 24, 1841. The lights were dis-
tributed in George, Lbwer George, Pitt, Kent,
Bridge, Hunter, King, Market, Bathurst, York,
Clarence, Sussex, Windmill, Argyle, Bent, Camp-
bell, Erskine and Parramatta streets, and at
Miller’s Point, Church Hill, Hyde Park and at
and near Government House.
* * * *
Some time during 1937 or 1938 it wav an-
nounced over the air (national station) that a
relative of Allen (captain of the English cricket
team) had a beautiful voice and would be sing-
ing over the national stations later. Was it
Allen’s cousin or sister that was referred to ?
—B3Ol.
The singer referred to seems to be Sylvia
Benita (Joan Allen), who gave a series of re-
citals from A.B.C. stations in 1937. She is
a cousin of Allen the cricketer.
* * * #
(1) In what circumstances did the English
general Sir Robert Wilson rescue the husband
of Emilie Beauharnais ? (2) Who was Emilie
Beauharnais ? (3) Who was Emilie Beau-
harnais’s husband? —7965.
(1) The exact circumstances of the rescue
are difficult of discovery; but it seems that
in 1816, after Waterloo, Sir Robert Wilson
contrived the escape of Eugene de Beauharnais,
who had been condemned to death by the
Restoration Government, and for this feat was
imprisoned for three months and censured by
the commander-in-chief. (2) The Princess
Augusta Amelia of Bavaria, who married
Eugene de Beauharnais in 1806. (3) Eugene
de Beauharnais, Duke of Leuchtenberg
and Prince of Eichstadt, was born at Paris
in 1781. He was the son of Alexandre de
Beauharnais and Josephine, afterwards Empress
of France. He had a distinguished military
career, particularly in the Russian campaign
of 1812, when he took command after the de-
parture of Napoleon and the flight of Murat.
* * * *
What is the method adopted in share-farming,
say pig-farming ? I own land and some imple-
ments, but have not the capital to launch out
on my own. —Blo3.
Share-farming is more or less an agreement
to be drawn up between the two interested
parties. Where investments are even on both
sides half-shares, or where the owner of the
land provides full equipment, etc., the owner
two-thirds share and the farmer one-third share.
* * * *
There is a factory in my district (Vic.)
that used to be a co-operative concern, but its
management went broke. It is run privately
now, but nobody seems to know by whom.
Could the manager be compelled to disclose the
present ownership? —B3o4.
In Victoria every firm carrying on business
or having any place of business under a firm
name which does not consist of the full or
usual names of all the partners is required
to register it by delivering to the Registrar-
General a statement in writing containing,
among other matter, the nature of the busi-
ness and the full names, etc., of the persons
carrying on the business. You might write to
the Registrar-General, Melbourne, for the in-
formation required.
* * * *
Some details of the author Gurney Slade
and a list of books written by him ? —8294.
All that is known about the author in Sydney
is that his real name is Stephen Bartlett;
address, Azrak, Park Hill-road, Sidcup, Kent.
His books include Captain Quid, Black Pyramid,
Delta Patrol, Fifteen Men, Gentlemen o’ For-
tune, Lawrence in the Blue, Led by Lawrence,
North Sea Quest, Pleasure Island, Through the
Never Never, Marling Ranges and Pearlers of
Lome.
Brief Answers.
S.H.D.: The design suggested does not
appear to be feasible, as, in order to close in
certain quantities of mash that would fall into
the trough, the mash would have to be forced
back. See pamphlet on the feeding of poultry
(copy posted), which illustrates on page 9 a
hopper that you might be prepared to make.
E.W.R.G.: Patience Games, price Is. 3d.,
obtainable from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney... .A.R.H.: A cable line was opened
for traffic between King-street, city, an d
Ocean-street, Woollahra, Sydney, a distance
of 2m. 32ch., on September 19, 1894, and the
line converted to electric traction *on January
15, 1905. A cable line was opened for traffic
between Milson’s Point and Ridge-street, North
Sydney, a distance of lm. 31ch., on May 22,
1890, and the line converted to electric traction
on February 11, 1900.. . .G.S.L.E.: A 50-
ampere 110-volt generator is equivalent to
7.37 h.p., so the maximum output you can get
from a 3-j-h.p. engine is 2611 watts. A
I. motor takes 1305 watts at full load,
so if it takes 14 amps on the up-stroke of the
pump it is overloaded to the extent. of 235
watts. From a practical pointy of view this
does not matter as long as there is no excessive
sparking at the brushes... .N.H.: Shipping
records for the period are in the De-
partment of Customs, Sydney. There may
be an index by which the ship can be traced.
H.H.: In order to qualify for the award
of service medals in respect of the 1914-18
campaign it is essential that the recipient
should have actually embarked from Australia
as a member of the A.1.F., and rendered
approved service overseas... .LR.: Cant-traa
Billaroi. Billeroy means “a running creek”....
J. : The Incorporated Phonographic
Society of Australia states that the Australian
shorthand record stands at 210 words per minute.
This rate was achieved by Miss Connie Touu
something like 20 years ago, and also by Miss
K. Tewsley about 1932. The highest-recoided
rate of Australian typewriting is 106 words per
minute, achieved by Miss Winnie Owens in 1938.
H.W.M.: You are correct in your belief
that water can only be siphoned from one vessel
to another until the water in each vessel reaches
the same level... .D.V.: (1) N.S.W. literary
institutes cannot sell their properties without
the approval of the Minister for Education. (2)
Not now sent free to literary institutes. (3) No
such libraries or publishers are known. (4) No
institutes exchanging books are known. The
Commissioner for Railways might give con-
cessions if he were approached directly....
H.L.R.: No special medal was struck for those
who saw service in Salonika. The members
of this force were covered by the issue of the
General Service Medal. .. . A.S.: There is a
Doyle’s River or Big Hill Creek in the county
of Macquarie (N.S.W.). It is a tributary of
the Ellenborough River, which runs into the
Hastings River at the locality of Ellenborough.
This locality is situated in direct line, about
16 miles westerly of the town of Wauchope.
The official designation is “Big Creek or Doyle’s
River”... .A.P.P.: Communicate with Fifield
Magnesite and Refractories Co., Camellia,
Granville (N.S.W.); Broken Hill Pty., Ltd.,
Newcastle (N.S.W.), and Frank Hambridge, 22
Bridge-street, Sydney... .F.S.: Joe Peterson is
a young lady who was in Sydney recently on
the Tivoli circuit, and was born in England.
She appears in most of her acts in male even-
ing dress... .K.F.8.: There are several methods
of preserving lemons. That most commonly
practised by many factories is to extract the
juice and add a. preservative. Benzoate of
soda and sulphur dioxide are the preservatives
commonly used. It is considered preferable,
from a household point of view, that preser-
vation should be effected by sterilisation, re-
quiring subjection to a temperature of about
180 deg. for 30 minutes... .R.D.C.: Not avail-
able these days W.S.: (1) The standard allot-
ment is ss. p.d. in the case of officers and 3s.
p.d. for lower ranks, but a member may allot
any portion of his pay that he desires, pro-
vided he retains, to be drawn for use as de-
sired, not less than one-tenth of his pay or
Is. p.d., whichever is the greater. (2) Only
two-fifths of the member’s pay, exclusive of
deferred pay, is payable in English currency,
but this is "effected by crediting each member
with an exchange allowance, as shown in
Annex “A,” and converting all payments abroad
to Australian currency and debiting same to
his account in that currency.. .‘.E.G.W.: In
all probability your violin is only a trade copy
of no particular value. The wording and date
of the label you have quoted are incorrect.
Andrea Guarnieri died in or about 1698...
N.E.M.: The change was made. towards the
end of 1937, after the Chamberlain Govern-
ment came into power and reorganised the
commands of all the fighting forces.. . .J.D.:
The existing type of British steel helmet was
designed and developed by the military
authorities during the Great War. It has
proved eminently satisfactory, and with the
exception Of a change of lining no reason to
depart from the original type has arisen. The
British steel helmet is scientifically designed
to afford the maximum of deflection, is lighter
and more comfortable, and is considered to
give greater actual protection than the German
type... .D.A-W.: It will be necessary for you
to volunteer for service in order to obtain a
certificate that you are employed in a reserved
occupation. The badges mentioned have not
yet been issued... . H.W.T.: The- skins of blue-
tongue lizards are of no commercial value.


HTS
LYS
£
pro or.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
1.,.,. : .. ._,, _ _ t ..- Tfjgjj
*i **§
I'm" ;■ *&$$«&&&
SH ;
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Breeding and the War.
“Ghanam”: The war will have its
effects on the breeding of high-class stock,
just as did the last war, but they will be
greater this time if hostilities continue
for long.
Wool the abnormal conditions do not
affect, since the sheep industry has estab-
lished a monopoly of the world's best
lines through a sufficient number of
generations. And, apart from that, Aus-
tralia is a natural sheep country.
This has been proved even in the fat-
lamb industry. The results in the de-
velopment of an export type have been
remarkable, but the industry is not old
enough to be stabilised. The main danger
to the fat-lamb business lies in the fact
that war-time conditions have made the
overseas market less particular. Carcasses
which in normal times would be un-
acceptable are now accepted. Quality still
counts but size is not so important.
When the war is over, however, the
market will return to the old standards,
and the danger is that carelessness,
drought and the selling of good breeding
stock to meet market requirements at
higher than normal prices will have
affected our capacity to produce the best.
The British Breeds Society has a culling
regulation which declares that registered
stud flock owners shall not add to their
studs more than 90 per cent, of rams
and 90 per cent, of ewes dropped in any
one year, and that culled ewes shall be
killed or sold for killing. It is a regu-
lation which needs rigid enforcement,
and we should be better off in a decade
if the percentage of culls was at least
10 per cent, higher.
With beef cattle it is not so much a
matter of quality in the beast as of type
of side and quarter, size and texture and
nature of meat. Climate has as great an
effect on beef cattle as it has on human
beings. The tendency of all cattle bred
in Australia is to run to size and long-
leggedness, and it needs constant infusions
—as it does in S. America —to maintain
the features in a beast which appeal to
the British buyer in normal times and
which are essential to early killing and
Ihe production of chillers.
A great part of Australia is not suit-
able for long-distance stud breeding for
English meat purposes, in view of the
heat, pasture content and lack of the lus-
cious grasses, regular rains, mild sum-
mers and hard winters which have pro-
duced the British types of Shorthorn,
Hereford and Angus.
Maoriland comes near to Britain as an
ideal stud cattle breeding ground, and it
would be well for our business as well as
theirs if there were more co-operation.
An ideal arrangement would be the
establishment of regular studs for Aus-
tralian stations in M.L., but nobody
appears to have thought of developing
the idea. And Maorilanders themselves
never seem to have been able to buy
foundation stock of the quality which
have come into Australia through Derri-
mut, the Robertson farms and the great
studs of Victoria, N.S.W. and the Darling
Downs.
Some concerted policy is badly needed.
Ewe Mortality.
“Bungaree”: Widespread losses of
ewes in lamb are being experienced in
the drought areas of N.S.W. In many
cases the ewes.are in good condition, but
within a few weeks of lambing they die
from no apparent cause.
These deaths are due not to grass
tetany but to twin-lamb disease. They
have been erroneously attributed to “the
lamb turning,” but the trouble lies in
the fact that too heavy a strain has been
imposed on the ewes.
It is now established that a ewe can
get along on the same amount of food
as a dry sheep, until within two months
of lambing. From that date the increas-
ing demands of the lamb make it essen-
tial to provide additional protein in the
ewe’s diet. Dry, bulky feed alone is not
enough. The trouble never occurs when
there is plenty of green feed or when
enough protein is being fed.
Investigation into some of the cases
shows that the ewes had either (a) been
“Ole crock, be bloWed! Why, he won the Barcoo Cup in nineteen-twenty .”
left to get along as best they could with-
out supplementary feeding, or ( b ) had been
hand-fed on a ration that was insufficient
both in quantity and quality, or (c) had
been fed on an unsuitable ration for
lambing ewes, or ( d ) feeding had com-
menced too late.
A sheep’s stomach and digestive organs
are made to handle bulky feed, so that
bulk as well as nutriment is needed.
Sheep nuts and maize or other grain are
excellent for the purpose, but a full
ration must be fed.
There are a number of ready-mixed
drought fodders on the market which
give good results, but the owner should
satisfy himself that the mixed food does
not contain too high a proportion of
salt, as this is detrimental to breeding
ewes. Hungry sheep will eat more salt
than they need in attempting to get a
full ration. This is particularly the case
where molasses is incorporated in the
mixed food, as the molasses tends to
make the food more palatable, while the
salt is in many cases put into the food
to keep sheep from eating too much of
the grain or other content. The surest
way to avoid mortality in lambing ewes
is to feed a high protein concentrate to
the ewes, starting about two months
before they are due to lamb.
Meat- or bloodmeal, 2oz. per day,
with a protein content of over 50 p.c., is
most suitable. This should be fed in
troughs. It is often difficult to get sheep
to take to these unpalatable meals, and
they may be brought on to them by mix-
ing salt or crushed wheat or other grains
with them until the animals become
accustomed to the taste.
When sheep get twin-lamb sickness the
only way to stop it is to feed them meat-
meal or a blood-meal product straight-
away. But prevention should be
aimed at.
The Wool Board’s Plans.
From the Australian Wool Board:
Commenting on results of the drought feed-
ing research conducted by the C.S.I.R. for
the Australian Wool Board, “Bungaree” (B.
4/9/’4O) states that the recommendations are
so broad that they can be used only as a
basis.
He refers to the high prices of lucerne hay
in N.S.W., and points out that it would be im-
impracticable to feed sheep on lucerne under
drought conditions at the present price. He
offers similar comment on the figures con-
cerning grain.
The board issued its report to inform
graziers that an ideal ration lor sheep had been
found. This is an advance of great significance
and forms the basis of further work, all leading
finally to application on a large scale.
The board considers that woolgrowers should
be fully informed of all its work and felt that
the announcement was of decided interest. The
report made it clear that much more work re-
mained to be done. It concluded:
It is proposed:
1. To determine the potential production
of lucerne from sites which are not too far
distant from the pastoral areas that periodi-
cally suffer drought.
2. To determine the possibility of reduc-
ing the costs of lucerne-hay production.
3. To define the problems of storage,
transport, etc.
4. To determine the problems associated
with the production of press cakes and of
nuts from mixtures of grain, legume, hay
meal and molasses and to assess the pos-
sible costs of such a procedure.
The whole problem is highly complex, but
we assure “Bungaree” that it is being attacked
in a scientific and practical manner.
Big Wheat Figures.
“Ben Cubbin”: After looking over the
world wheat position, the Common-
wealth Statistician, Dr. Roland Wilson,
is satisfied that the crop in the Danubian
countries was nearly 140,000,000 bushels
(or 30 p.c.) below normal. He doubts if
the four main producers, Rumania, Bul-
garia, Hungary and Yugoslavia, will be
able to export unless they reduce home
consumption.
The Italian harvest is expected to be
about normal, though about 9 p.c. below
last year’s. That in the former Czecho-
slovakia is reported to have failed.
Spain’s crop was patchy.
There is no definite information about
Germany, but conditions in adjoining
countries suggest a reduced crop. All
the same, the Germans have increased
the weekly bread ration to 80oz., though
in countries under their control it is less:
Holland 710 z., unoccupied France 70,
Belgium 56, Czechoslovakia 44 and
Poland 35.
There is active preparation of sowing
for winter wheat, especially in German-
controlled areas, where an increased
acreage is expected.
Canada has a crop not far short of
the 1928 record which precipitated the
world wheat slump. Official estimates
are for a 561,000,000-bushel crop. Stocks
there at July 31 were 273,000,000 bushels,
beating the previous record stock figure of
1933 by more than 60,000,000 bushels. The
total available in Canada for the 1940-41
season is 834,000,000 bushels, which
means about 700,000,000 for export.
U.S.A. estimates
are up, 784,000,000
bushels now being
expected. Compare
this with the ten-
year average, 1928-
37, of 753,000,000.
There was a carry-
over from last year
of about 274,000,000,
to which must be
added a probable
export surplus
from this year of
80,000,000.
Thus North
America has prob-
ably 1,000,000,000
bushels for export ;
and most former
importing countries
can’t get it.
Grow Barley!
“Graz”: During
the recent very dry
winter I had a crop
of Cape barley pro-
duce more green
feed per acre than
crops of three
varieties of oats.
Barley comes earlier,
and more readily
responds to light showers and heavy
dews. Land becoming played out by too-
frequent oat cropping gave good results
under barley.
The crop is not only useful for feeding
off; its grain produces high quality
bacon. If pig-producers showed a de-
mand, wheatgrowers could step-up the
output of barley next year. An intro-
duced variety, Abyssinian, yielded five
bushels per acre more than Cape over
a five-years’ test at Wagga (N.S.W.).
Last season Ma State produced less
than half her needed 500,000 bushels of
malting barley. A Danish variety, Kenia,
pleased experimenters at Wagga. If its
smaller grain is not objected to, Kenia
may oust Pryor from pride of place as a
malting barley.
Eariy-potato Hints.
“Bogaduck”: Potatoes are scarce and
dear this year, and an early crop, if
only enough for the family use, will be
well worth while. Procure seed of an
early variety—l’ve had good results in
S.A. from Early Manistee —and, before


sadg
When BtMhA
a ftpiu "wing
“ ee a« *..
L0 °k * see <nD IO
Kith , 6 ,hat it i s
V^ s US,^a d 6
* ■ . Sa *o, ron
llSTen 'o a, ‘ '
repr °ducf, 0 „ i " Sil ?»aiy
fiadi °*o„ s W,Uoil J»»
3c? e i, A ******* ar
aiw-gy Ust reili a
YS ava iiabl e _ are
AN ADVERTISEMENT OF AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PTY. LTD.
THE COMFORT OF A SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Matter is dissolved, rendered sterile and overflows into the soil.
Fully Guaranteed (7 Years Against Corrosion).
NO SMEEES, FEIES OK GERMS.
REPEAT ORDERS PROVE SATISFACTION.
The Commonwealth Government has lately
bought 97 more and the Hunter District Water
Board 13 more.
PRICE, £ 17/9/6,
including sales tax and crating.
Write Desk U for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
I 26 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
sdf
asdf
asdf
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Prr* 1 '
planting, pickle the seed for an hour by
soaking in a mixture of a teacup of
formalin to four gallons of water.
Potatoes will grow in almost any soil
from a light sand to a heavy loam. The
really important factors are correct work-
ing of the soil and adequate fertilising.
Dig or plough the soil as deeply as pos-
sible, short of bringing up clay, and
when planting use a spade or trowel—
never a dibber or anything which will
pack the soil. Potatoes must have a
loose soil.
Use at least 3cwt. of complete fer-
tiliser —super., potash and amm. sulph.
—per acre. When the tops are about
six inches high, hill them up, and there-
after keep the surface soil stirred, taking
care not to let the teeth of the imple-
ment used go deep enough to injure the
tubers.
If the surface soil is kept stirred,
especially after any rain, no matter if it
is only a few points, it is surprising how
good a crop can be grown without
artificial watering. I have grown potatoes
year after year in this way in a 16in.
rainfall. Hardly any fell later in the
summer than the beginning of November.
When using early varieties of potatoes,
nearly twice the quantity can be obtained
if you dig them out of the sides of the
hills with the fingers, without disturbing
the plants, as soon as they are big enough
for use.
Frost is the great bar to growing early
potatoes in the drier areas, as the spot
usually chosen is low-lying, because it
keeps damp longest, and hollows are
frost-traps. A rough-and-ready frost in-
dicator can be made by nailing a square
of black fabric, like that from an old
car hood, upon a frame carried on stakes
about four feet above the ground, and
placed in the lowest portion of the plot.
If there seems to be a nip in the air
indicating a late frost at bedtime, have
a look at the fabric, and if frost appears
on it by 10 p.m. your spuds will be done
for if you don’t take prompt steps.
Have ready around the plot three or
four heaps of dry wood with a lump of
old motor tyre underneath, and along-
side this a heap of garden refuse, damp
manure or green sawdust. Light • the
tyre, wait until the wood is starting to
burn down, then heap on the damp stuff.
This should send up a thick smoke for
the rest of the night, forming a blanket
over the crop.
If the young plants get burnt by the
frost in spite of precautions, don’t write
them off until you have tried this stunt:
Get to work with the hoe at once, chop
off all the frostbitten top and cover the
stem with a good layer of earth. Often
90 per cent, will shoot again from lower
down the stem.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mt. Boppy”: To rid pigs of lice paint
them with equal parts of paraffin oil and
crude oil. Repeat at least twice at inter-
vals of seven to ten days. Add creolin
frequently to the water in the wallows.
Wind sacking soaked in crude oil around
the rubbing posts.
“Paspalover”: If you’ve recently come
within the scope of irrigation, don’t be
too eager to flood the pastures. Flood-
ing will give good feed for a while, but
after a year or so you’ll find the lower
portions going sour and reeds and rushes
where none grew before their seeds
come in on the water. Flooding might
also salt the land. Irrigate carefully, so
that the land is soaked rather than
flooded, and, if possible, run a ditch along
lower ends of the paddock to cany oft
surplus water.
“L.S.”: Legumes are practically the
only fodders that contain an over-
abundance of lime, which is largely re-
sponsible for their value as animal food.
Hay from these plants, particularly fronri
lucerne, contains ample lime and is of
great value in helping to make up lime
deficiencies in the majority of foddet s
normally used for hand-feeding. Lime-
rich fodders contain sufficient phosphoric
acid for animal needs.
“G.H.Y.”: Rats are making their
appearance in the wheat country and
should be checked. Poisoning is the most
effective method when they are numerous.
One part of yellow phosphorus to 300
parts of grain is fatal to the pests, but
keep the mixture protected to retain its
attractiveness and toxicity. One part ol
carbonate of barium to four parts ol
flour, made into a dough, rolled out
flat and cut into -jin. by fin. squares,
then allowed to dry and put where the
rats can find them, knocks ’em. Of
course, if there isn’t much water about,,
tins of poisoned water are as good as
anything, but make sure the stock or
the dog can’t get at it.
“R. Ney”: A committee from the
C.5.1.R., the Victorian and N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Departments and Melbourne
University Veterinary Research Institute
is investigating toxaemic jaundice in jum-
bucks. Blood tests from infected sheep
show that the immediate cause of jaun-
dice is a sudden transfer of copper from
liver to bloodstream, causing breakdown
of the red corpuscles. Generally the rise
of copper in the blood doesn’t last more
than two or three days, after which the
normal balance is restored. Tests on
crossbred ewes showed that the copper
content of the liver increases from spring
to summer and then declines to autumn.
It seems that mortality occurs only when
acidity develops during the period when
the red pigment from the destroyed cells
is being passed through the urinary
system. The committee is after a medi-
cated lick containing a chemical that
can be expected to form insoluble com-
pounds of copper and thus limit the
amount of copper absorbed. A survey
is being made of the pasture in an effort
to locate a source for the excessive in-
take of copper in the feed. It looks as
though capeweed, crowfoot and helio-
trope carry about twice as much copper
as ordinary pasture plants.
“Jayem”: E. H. K. Downes, Brown-
low Hill, Camden (N.S.W.), has opened
up silage pits which he put down in
1925. The sheafed oats were in excellent
condition, and were relished by stock.
Downes prefers oats, saccaline and maize,
preferably chaffed into the pit in cuts.
He has found that silage keeps well in-
definitely. He has taken good feed from
pits 25 and 30 years old.
“8.D.”: There is rather a drabby and
hopeless appearance about some of the
pine plantations in W.A. One down
Ludlow way, towards Busselton, looks
forlorn, though some of the earliest
planted trees have yielded a few logs.
Others are struggling but look unlike ever
maturing into valuable timber. Lots of
youngsters are striving to live among
hosts of scrub. Over at Hamlin a very
old experiment isn’t half as substantial
in growth as small coppices casually stuck
in old farms or bordering the railway
lines, left to care for themselves. But it
is not all failure. The Forests Depart-
ment’s experiments near Mundaring are
notably successful. There is mile upon
mile of sturdy pines.
Outback Occupations.
No. XXXIX.
SHIRE COUNCILLOR (2).
You are a shire councillor and it is
your first meeting. The president and
other councillors have greeted you, and
so have the shire clerk, his assistant and
the typist. Two roadmen whom you
passed on the way in also greeted you.
You had known them for several years,
but it was the first time they had ever
taken notice of you.
“One of the first things we want you
to do,” said Sid Jordan and the others
when they persuaded you that you were
the right man to represent the riding,
‘•‘is to get them blanks to put a causeway
over Duggan’s Creek. First time there’s
any rain the road’ll be impassable there.
Get ’em to fix it up, Jack ; that’s all we
want.”
Duggan’s Creek has never carried
water in your memory, but you promise.
So now you sit at the council table,
fully accoutred in your best suit and the
new blue shirt and striped tie the missus
bought for the occasion. You listen
closely to everything as the correspon-
dence is read, the accounts announced,
and this one and that comment or move
resolutions.
After you have been there an hour the
chair has made you sore ; you haven t
the slightest idea of what they are talk-
ing about, and you have a terrible feel-
ing that nobody is concerned with what
you think, anyhow.
The editor of the local paper sits at
the head of the table. You had often
wondered how he managed to write out
all the reports and everything while the
meeting went on. You watch him
closely. He has a bundle of typewritten
sheets beside him. Every now and then
the council typist slips in on tiptoe and
puts another typed sheet alongside him.
You can see by her look that she reckons
he’s a nuisance.
The editor has placed four sharply-
pointed pencils and a sheaf of blank
paper in front of him. Presently a box
of matches and a pipe join the pile. The
voice of the clerk drones on. You hear
him, but the editor fascinates you. He
rests his chin on his left hand and stares
at the clerk’s inkwell. Then he shifts to
his right hand and stares at a window.
Soon both hands are holding his chin.
Once he catches you looking at him,
starts, gives you a faint grin, sits up
momentarily, then slumps again.
You listen to Cr. Jones. He is berat-
ing the Government or some bank or
the P.P. Board or something because he
saw five rabbits digging under a culvert
just over the boundary in the adjoining
shire.
“And I say, Mr. President, that this
sort of thing mustn’t be tolerated. We
have spent a lot of money on rabbits
and weeds, and you all know that our
wheat is hardly worth selling or wool
isn’t such a paying—er—er —and so, for
economic reasons alone, the Government
can hardly expect us to meet our com-
mitments—er —I understand we are com-
mitted, Mr. Clerk —in this matter. So
long as the ratepayers are denied access
to water and these stray animals are
allowed to —er —well, I want to say that
I’m against it, that’s all.” He sits down,
and you shrink a little to find him re-
garding you with belligerence.
Cr. McTartan is up. “Second the
motion, Mr. President.” Cr. McTartan
is down.
Says the president hurriedly: “Any-
further - discussioni-if-not-I’lkput-motion-
for-against-motion-lost.” You steal a
look at the editor. His head is now rest-
ing on his arms and he is asleep.
The president stands up, the clerk gives
you a mournful look, the other council-
lors avoid your eyes.
“Now we come,” says the president, “to
a very pleasant duty. Ahem! ” He looks
hard at the sleeping editor. “Ahem!’ -
The editor stirs. Everybody waits. The
editor is still. “Ahem!” goes the presi-
dent. The editor starts up, grabs at his
papers and pencils, stuffs them in a
pocket, glares at the president and sits
back.
“Pleasant duty,” continues the presi-
dent, with a watchful eye on the editor,
“to welcome a new councillor, a man
whose services to this shire will, I make
bold to say, go down in its history as
bright as any of those before his advent.
I refer, of course, to Cr. John Fordcub-
bin.” (Applause.) “Cr. Fordcubbin has
repeatedly shown himself to be one of
the district’s most invaluable, most in-
valuable, indeed most important and in-
dispensable assets. This shire council is
indeed fortunate in having such a man
and such a mind at its monthly deli-
berations, and I do most heartily and
sincerely welcome him to” Cr. Jones
leans over and whispers, “He’s off now
an’ old Nick couldn’t stop him.”
On goes the president, while you listen
to a personal history and record of
achievement, a forecast of the future of
which you had scarcely dreamed. Ik
finishes at last, there are brief words
from the others and the meeting ends.
As you prepare to leave you suddenly
realise that nothing has been said about
Duggan’s Creek and turn - back, only to
stop, while a slow sense of your own
unimportance grows in you.
For the editor is once more sound
asleep.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4|d. per line; all others at
21<L per line.
Lovely woman as voter is the text of the contribution which this week earns first
place and double rates for the writer.
Women at the Polls
Recent experience as poll clerk con-
firms a hitherto secretly-cherished
opinion that women generally should not
have the benefit of the franchise. They
came unwillingly to the polls, resentfully
recorded their often-informal votes and
hastened home to interrupted domestic
jobs, relieved by the fact that they had
saved the £2 fine, but fearful that the
stew was burning.
Dozens asked me for whom they
should vote, and which political camp
their choice was in ; several plumped for
the good-looking candidates ; scores in-
serted their how-to-vote cards into the
box and went home with the filled-in
ballot-papers to show hubby how they
had voted ; 80 p.c. grumbled or joked
about having to do something of which
they hadn’t the foggiest notion.
Continually I had to remonstrate with
women who went into the voting recess
to coach friends, and hostile stares and
bitter recriminations met my tactful
efforts to point out that regulations
sternly forbid such a practice. I saw
several seize the pencil and cancel both
papers with huge crosses before deposit-
ing them ; I received two verbal requests
for ballot-papers for Mrs. Jones “next
door,” who was too busy to come to the
booth ; and one small boy handed me a
note from an elector requesting me to
record her vote for Blank for her.
The shades of the suffragette who threw
herself under the King’s horse at Ascot
and those who chained themselves to
Parliament House railings must have
writhed at the gross misuse of the hard-
won right.— Barwon (N.S.W.).
No Interest in Politics
Apathy on the part of the governed
has often paved the way to changes of
government and revolutions ; a “sleep-
ing” volcano is dangerous. No people
could be more apathetic politically than
were the people of the town in which I
live (a town with about 8500 inhabitants,
good average Australians) during the elec-
tion campaign and on election day. The
political meetings of all parties were
fiascos in that only a few people attended
them —and in apathetic silence. This is
bad for the. country ; it shows there is
something wrong.
Thirty years ago politicians of all
brands had big meetings here, questions
on current policies were free and frequent
—showing intelligent interest. Witty
interjections and witty answers added
zest to the meetings. There was ap-
plause, and there was the reverse. People
talked about the meetings, what was said
by the speakers, asked by the ques-
tioners ; and the relative merits of the
candidates was debated for days. Today
what happens? A few attend the meet-
ings, sit in silence and go home or to
a pub, but they don’t talk about politics.
Meet them on election day and many
of them will tell you they are going to
vote because if they don’t they’ll be fined
two quid.
I fought and worked for Australia, and
am interested in its future ; but I cannot
help wondering what will be the next
step along the political road. Australian
democracy, vigorous and intelligently
active for years, seems to have been
doped into a state of “don’t-care-a-damn-
what-happens-next.”—Liambeg (Q.).
The Maoriland Way
The Maoriland Government has eradi-
cated most of the causes of complaint
cited by “Barwon” (B. 28 /8 / ’4O) and
“Bungarrer” (B. 11/9/’4O). My own
wife, who has just provided the first addi-
tion to the family, received expert medi-
cal attention, as many visits to the doctor
as wished by the prospective mother,
confinement in any one of many first-class
maternity homes and medical attention at
the time of giving birth. Total cost?
Exactly £2 2s.
If the expectant mother had so
wished she could have gone to the public
hospital and the cost would have been nil.
No doctor’s fees whatever are payable
even for the attendance at the time of
birth. The only costs for the baby, apart
from the £2 2s. maternityrhome charge,
are the price of the pram, baby clothes,
napkins, etc.
The results of the wise enactments
which have bought about these happy
conditions are many. I’m no statis-
tician, but the streets are so full of
prams and tiny tots that it is safer to
walk in the middle of the road. And
all the prams have home-born, dyed-in-
the-wool, fair dinkum Maoriland citi-
zens in them. —B. V. S. (M.L.).
Free Education?
There are no bargain rates > (B.
11/9/’4O) for adolescence in the bush. In
W.A. if you want your son or daughter
to go beyond the primary standards of
the little bush school, often five or six
miles away, your sacrifices reach to
nearly breaking point.
A clever child at twelve and a half may
gain a scholarship of £24 per year. As
board near the high school cannot be ob-
tained under £1 a week and there are 39
school weeks, only £l5 more a year
sounds a bargain rate. Don’t believe it.
After a lifetime in the bush with khaki
shirt and shorts and sandshoes a lad needs
everything in the way of a school ward-
robe. Twenty-five pounds’ worth is less
than enough. Then there is pocket money
and tram fares, £6 a year being a modest
estimate. Fares home vary, but cost us
£2 a term second-class. Books and sports
fees are never less than £5. This goes on
until the child is 16, when, although there
is still no earning capacity, adult tram
and train fares add to the burden.
If you have a child that is not one of
the lucky £24-per-year holders, then add
that, too.
It takes five years to gain the leaving
certificate and, if your child chooses a
profession, university is called for —an-
other three or four years according to
the degree worked for. Education may
be free in the cities, but it’s a long way
from being free if you live in the country.
With all its talking of free education
it’s time the Government established
boarding-houses for those outback chil-
dren, who should have the same right to
high-school learning as the city children.
—Zamia (W.A.).
Circulating the Money
I was reared by a rich aunt in Scot-
land who inherited her money. When
I grew up I discovered she had more
than ever she and I could spend, and,
what made it worse, she was mean. I
wasn’t. In order to check my extrava-
gance, she bought a ticket for Australia,
put it in my hand together with a few
pounds, and saw me on the boat.
Having a mania for “good form,” I
took the weights and measures of some
other livestock on board, and eventually
picked a horse of my own color in the
person of a sporting
Englishman. This man
played whist, bridge,
quoits and every other
game available on
board, losing heavily all
round. Furthermore, he
was a real good fellow
for buying drinks and
chocolates for his
friends. At the end of
the third week he was
broke.
In the fourth week I
lost sight of him, but
one fine afternoon he
suddenly appeared
again. He had become
a stoker, and had been
promised a job by a
master boilermaker who
was returning to Adel-
aide.
My friend and I got
off at Adelaide, he
accepted the job, and
we married. He was
out of work a little while during the
depression, but I managed. We spend
plenty of money on pictures and theatres,
and thus supply the Government with
entertainment taxes. We dress well,
knowing that we are thus helping trade.
We eat, drink and sleep well, take annual
holidays and thus keep fit. Our children
are going to live as we do.
I only hope the British Government
has by now conscripted my Scotch aunt’s
money for war explosives, because if it
hasn’t she will keep it till Hitler
puts a bomb on her and it. — Smiling
Through (S.A.).
Vandalism
Captain Cook’s cottage has been closed
to the public because of the vandalism of
initial-carvers and others, many of whom
are said to have been small boys. But
can they be blamed for following the
examples set by Governments, municipali-
ties, and others in high places? Sydney’s
historic buildings come tumbling down ;
magnificent gums all over the country are
lopped or felled; and 1 have seen
aboriginal carvings, thousands of years
old, disfigured by lumps of plaster that
university anthropologists who have been
taking casts have left all over them.—
Eucalyptoides (S.A.).
“Hitler—Blunderer”
“Hitler—Blunderer” (B. 25/9/’4O) was
splendid so far as it went, but didn’t it
miss the biggest blunder of all? Other
conquerors and would-be conquerors
have sailed into all and any armies they
could reach, but it was left to Adolf to
sidestep the armed forces and wage war
on the common people. We hear plenty
about what the lion and the bulldog have
done, can and will do ; but Hitler has
invited and drawn to himself the com-
bined and concentrated fury of the
nation’s bull-ants, working bees, broody
hens, cornered cats and nondescript ter-
riers. The trained battalions fight accord-
ing to rules ; the common people, never.
And as this is the hour of the com-
mon people, give us more of their good
common British songs. There’s more
power for stirring! real patriotic feeling
in “The Harp That Once,” “The Ash
Grove,” “Ye Banks and Braes,” and their
kin than in the cheap topical trash or
highbrow stuff which strives for effect yet
doesn’t raise a ripple.— Llew O’Haggis
(N.S.W.).
From Where?
Where on earth are the bombers to
come from capable of doing sufficient
damage to warrant the institution of com-
pulsory A.R.P. training in every city and
large town in Australia (B. 25/9/’40)?
Have a look at the map, and ask your-
self why Germans are not bombing
Alexandria.
Apart from this, the Australian city
is a bad target compared with the Euro-
pean city. It sprawls out over a wide
area. The bulk of its residential build-
ings are single-storeyed and situated in
fair-sized allotments. Many suburbs con-
tain large areas of vacant land. The high
apartment building is the rule in most
European cities, and even where it is not
the houses are generally bunched close
together.
A vast air armada, operating from
bases only a short flight away, would
need continuously to blast an Australian
city to inflict on it a tithe of the damage
that Rotterdam suffered. —D. A. (N.S.W.).
For the Professors
The scorn shown in the O.F.M. from
time to time for university professors is
as deplorable as unwarranted. Certainly,
geniuses crop up and flourish indepen-
dently of the university, but the expert,
who is even more indispensable than the
genius, is essentially a university pro-
duct. The university takes an ordinarily
intelligent man and develops in him the
type of mind which, besides acquiring
the traditional knowledge of a chosen
subject, seeks out fresh facts, patiently
and painstakingly, without hope of
reward or limelight.
That is why we are able to read in a
Bulletin leader such a statement as:
Hitler fancied he had a trump card up
his sleeve—the magnetic mine. Inside a
month a few unknown men —unknown
even yet—hacf produced the answer to it.
Unknown, yes, but it would be pretty
safe to guess that they were university
men, experts.
We won’t win the war without ex-
perts, and we won’t have experts with-
out universities —and professors. Kay
C. (Q.).
Put Industrial Plants Inland
We Australians should heed the lessons
which the bombing of London has for
us. We have, very foolishly, concen-
trated our most important industries,
the industries essential to our de-
fence, on the coast, and chiefly in our two
largest cities, thus laying those enter-
prises open to attack by warships as well
as aeroplanes.
Even if Germany is crippled in this
war, the danger of an attack on Australia
will be ever present, and we must plan
now for the future. New industries, and
extensions of old ones, should be estab-
lished well away from the coast, if they
have any bearing at all on our defences.
The further inland they are placed, the
safer they will be. It will mean revolu-
tionary changes in transport, supply and
management, and it will entail a great
transfer of population in many instances ;
but no cost is too great if it brings safety.
—James Mahoney (N.S.W.).
Against Assumed Names
Is there any reason why a racehorse
owner should be allowed to hide his iden-
tity while trainers, jockeys and book-
makers must make their real names
known?
Of recent years so many assumed names
have appeared in the racebooks that the
public is beginning to wonder whether
racing is some sort of a secret society.
Nominations should be refused unless
the owner of the horse nominated is pre-
pared to publish his correct name in the
racebook. — Thorn (N.S.W.).
New Orders
There is a new order in Lizardville.
The numerous small, ramshackle stores
that ten years ago straggled down the
main street have gone, and in their places
stand the imposing edifices of the chain
stores. There are fewer shops in the main
street than before, but it is still the same
length, because each of the new temples
to brightness and efficiency takes up three
times the frontage of the old stores that
have been displaced. Even the largest of
the old-timers have succumbed to the new
order and have been able to remain only
by amalgamating, reorganising and pool-
ing their buying.
Smith was one of the last old-style
storekeepers to go. He hung on doggedly
“You may put your hands down for a minute while I get some more
cartridges.”


“Hang on to these while I run back for the wife!”
for years living on his fat. His store
smelt of mice and muddle, he could
never find anything, and storekeeping in
his opinion meant passing the time of
day with his customers, shouting at his
offsiders and haranguing the bank
manager for more credit. Yet we all
liked Smith ; and things were never so
bad that he couldn’t leave the store for
a day’s fishing. Then there was young
Brown, who took his job seriously and
tried hard to run his store on efficient
lines. But it was the same story ; the big
fellows beat him and he went out of
business too.
Both Smith and Brown are now em-
ployed in the chain stores. Smith is work-
ing harder than ever before and there is
no fishing on weekdays, which is a pity.
“These chain stores,” he confides, “are
worse than Hitler.” Brown has taken
more kindly to the change. In theory
they are both free to chuck their jobs,
but necessity sees to it that they don’t.
We are all sorry for them, but what can
we do? Wipe out the advances in
science, transport and commerce that
have been leading for the past twenty-five
years to just this absorption of the
smaller by the greater? Ethically
desirable though such a step may be, it
is, of course, impossible. You can’t put
the clock back.
There is talk of a new order in Europe
and elsewhere. A lot of smaller States
are being absorbed by a few larger ones,
and are not taking it kindly. Con-
trary as is this process to our concepts
of freedom, there seems to be a certain
inevitability about it. The same causes
which produced the new order in Lizard-
ville are having their inexorable effect on
the destiny of nations.
We are fighting Germany, not the in-
evitable. When we win the best we can
do for the small States in liquidation will
be to see that their peoples don’t get
too raw a deal. To try to restore the old
status quo in Europe would be madness.
—T. E. P. (N.S.W.).
Federal Union
“Helix” is right (B. 18/9/’4O). There
is danger in this subtle campaign for
“Federal Union.” And the idea is not
new at all, though some of its sales talk
may be. Federal Union, alias the
hegemony of Europe,” is one of the
oldest and costliest political dreams.
Hardly a nation but has produced during
its temporary ascendancy some ruler or
adventurer who yearned to spread a pro-
tective wing over all the others for the
common good. Indeed, some sort of
federation of the bits and pieces of the
uneasy continent has lured the Big Bosses
and soaked the battlefields for ages.
Viewed in their past settings, the snags
and fallacies and mantraps can be seen.
They will not be eliminated by change
of name. Had the idea of honest,
generous, longsighted national co-opera-
tion been feasible, the League of Nations
should have accomplished most of
Federal Union’s aims, or at least
laid more durable foundations to build
them on. The self-interest and general
human cussedness (or rugged individu-
alisms) of individual nations killed the
golden opportunity in little more than
a decade. If the comparatively pliable
and comfortable yoke of the League
could not endure, the much more rigid
and exacting framework of a Federal
Union would be a far more difficult
harness to wear.
Greatest bogey of all to me is this
thought. It is the Federal Union of
Europe under their banners that Hitler
and Mussolini are fighting for (“the day
of the small State is ended”); it is hardly
necessary to mention the world aims of
the Third International. The Dictators’
specious promises of the Utopia that
shall emerge under their beneficent
brand of Federal Union has been the
main plank of their platforms. The pros-
pect of such a terrifying aggregation of
power has sent us to war. Probably no-
thing less than wholesale totalitarian
methods would succeed in imposing and
maintaining the system on such a vari-
ously-assorted team in any case.
Moreover, who is to be at the helm
of this Gargantuan ship? Or how are
we to prevent its capture in 10 or 20
years’ time by some new gang of political
pirates? With the whole of Europe con-
veniently united as one, who can say
what fanatic, faction or ideological cult
may not arise to grab the ready-made
empire at its hand? The logic of events
is utterly unpredictable, and the Aus-
trian paperhanger-demagogue with his
organised blackguards has taught us the
folly of discounting the “impossible.”
I prefer the safety of the good old
Pax Britannica.—Keel Row (S.A.).
Sydney’s Milk
“Sandpatch” (B. 2/10/’4O) overlooks
a few important points. Firstly, hark to
the chairman of directors of Wingham
Co-op. Society:
On account of the shortage of milk in
the milk zone, we arranged with the Milk
Board to give our suppliers an oppor-
tunity to participate in the city milk busi-
ness. There was a good response, but the
price offered did not tempt them to con-
tinue. When the Milk Board finally agreed
to pay the same price as in the milk zone,
we circularised all our suppliers to that
effect, but it brought so little response that
it was decided to close down. Anyhow,
it was an experience, and I think it demon-
strated that where a dairy-farmer had a
herd of a breed that gave large quantities
of milk with a fairly low fat content it
might be profitable; but where a man built
up his herd to produce milk of a high
butterfat content he would need to get a
pretty high price for his milk to pay him
for giving up the money he received from
pigs and calves If the milk zone were
extended to include this district, there would
be so many block days in a good season
that it would not be any good for any-
body.
Secondly, if outside farmers were faced
with building costly new and modern
premises as the farmers in the milk
zone have been, with the bewildering
multitude of tests of the milk, such as
reductase sediment, bacilli, butterfat,
etc., they would be further deterred.
These days the farmer in the milk
zone has to have a herd which will pro-
duce milk almost as rich in butterfat
as the man supplying milk for butter-
making. so as to keep up his butterfat
test for the morning milking.
And as for oversupply in a good
season, within the milk zone farmers at
times have to separate more than half
their milk, and the return to them for
butterfat is Is. per pound.
The cause of our moans still remains the
wide disparity between what we receive
and the consumer pays. —Mac (N.S.W.).
Wasted Water
The flooding of Lake
Eyre may be a chimera,
but Australia generally
could do with a bit more
such imaginative think-
ing. Then we might con-
template the tragedy of
allowing billions of tons
of good rainfall to flow
away annually to the sea.
Take the western
marge of this continent.
Land of wonderful fer-
tility, gridironed by a
vast and complex river
system, nowadays mostly
dry, but occasionally
roaring w'ith mighty
flood. In scores of places
exist gorges and passes
which, if dammed, would
create lakes, restoring to
the country much of the
verdancy that it displayed
in the past.
Although lakes and
other water masses may
not directly create rain-
fall, they do. create dew-
fall. More, by banking
up the moisture con-
stantly draining through
the soil, they accelerate
the growth of forest around their margins
—tree growth that spreads out in-
definitely, taking the moisture with it.
Thus a country may be rejuvenated,
as was the Punjab of India, by just such
methods. And the dams wouldn’t need
to be vast concrete structures, costing mil-
lions. Earth would do, given a concrete
spillway to protect the main embank-
ment from flood erosion.—W. C. C.
(W.A.).
Strikes
He was just an ordinary little fellow
and this is how he put it: “Years ago the
workers wanted a vote —a secret vote, so
that a man could vote for the candidate
he preferred without somebody standing
over him saying ‘You’ll vote for So-and-
so, or else! ’
“It was a long, hard battle, but now
we’ve got it. The working bloke has as
much say in electing the Government as
the big head. But here's the rub ; when
it comes to the thing that concerns him
most- —a strike-—he goes back 50 years!
Have you ever seen a show of hands at
a stop-work meeting, mate? No ; well
you'd find it’s always nearly unanimous
—so is a ‘free’ ballot in Germany.
“Some day we’ll get guts enough to do
what our fathers did—fight for our right
to vote secretly, without risk of victimi-
sation from either side.” —B. A. K.
(N.S.W.).
Undeveloped Resources
The argument put up by “A.J.L.” (B.
11/9/’4O) against immigration would be
logical if our continent were to continue
to bring forth nothing but farm produce
and politicians. To show its absurdity,
just apply it to Great Britain, where a
vastly greater population has flourished
on a much smaller acreage.
Certainly we could not support crowds
of immigrants if they all depended on
taking in each other’s washing: buying
the clothes from overseas, delivering the
laundry in imported cars driven by im-
ported petrol. England’s immigrants,
often very unwelcome and absolutely
destitute, had brains as well as appetites.
They started old industries and invented
new ones that found jobs for millions of
farmers who had been scratching for a
living on the “sacred spot of earth. ’
Imagine any economist applying the acre-
age test to London.
I am an immigrant, and proud of it.
During the 30 years of my stay in this
sunny land I have earned and spent
thousands of pounds, married, reared a
family and created employment for many
fellow-citizens. Nobody has been made
poorer by my presence, and there are
some who would miss my custom. My
name is Legion. We did not descend on
the land like locusts or loafers, but as
colonists like the honorable forebears of
“A.J.L.,” determined to make our own
way in a country with plenty of elbow
room. Some of my shipmates started in-
dustries that the natives knew nothing
about and that have enriched the
common wealth by very considerable
sums. How many secondary industries
in Australia can be given a kick-off with-
out the help of experts and machinery
from overseas?
Granted there would be no sense in
dumping a vast mob of newchums sud-
denly on our labor market, but a steady
stream of decent men and women would
bring their own market with them. Of
course there is always an alternative to
organised immigration, and that is—
invasion.—E. A. (S.A.).
The Most From the Land
The farmers condemned by “W.P.T.”
(B. 11/9/ ’4O) for “grazing only a few
cows on rich river flats instead of grow-
ing bumper crops” deserve praise for
being exceptions to the general rule ot
Australian farmers, whose besetting sin is
that they are always trying to get too
much out of their land and never putting
anything back. They want bumper crops
all the time, and never stop to think that
they are robbing and plundering the soil.
The results can be seen all over N. S.
Wales. The inland plains are denuded
of permanent pasture through overstock-
ing ; huge areas are bare and windswept.
The wheat lands in the marginal areas
have been cropped, the stubble burnt
and another crop sown year after year,
until the soil is blowing away because it
has been deprived of the humus which
held it together. Farmers who had
concentrated on “getting the most from
the land” are bankrupt by the thousand
and are appealing to the Government for
help.
On the slopes and coast loss of soil
fertility and soil erosion by water are
causing tremendous damage. The table-
lands have fared better because there
grazing only has been mostly practised
and droughts, with consequent overstock-
ing, are not so severe.
In all of these areas there are men
who are more prosperous than the aver-
age. These are not the men who tried
to get the most out of their land, but those
who conscientiously tried to retain their
soil’s fertility. The best wheat-farmer l
know crops his land only every third
year; the other two it is grazed and fal-
lowed. “W.P.T.” thinks that men like
him should be forced to “get more out
of the land.” He does not know that you
can’t take from the soil all the time with-
out paying a terrific penalty.
If any Government action is needed
regarding the use of the land, it is much
more desirable that it should be designed
to curb reckless exploitation. This has
become necessary in the U.S.A. —E. O. S.
(N.S.W.).
Broken Hill-Port Pirie
Australia has a good opportunity to
take a decisive step forward with the
unification of railway gauges. Over the
Broken Hill-Port Pirie railway iron ore
could be railed if sea communications
were cut. Why not convert this 200-mile
section to standard guage forthwith?
The Royal Commission of 1921 envis-
aged the building of a
trunk line from Brisbane to Fremantle
at a cost of £21,600,000. The 8.H.-P.P.
conversion would give a standard-gauge
trunk line from Brisbane to Kalgoorlie
at a cost of not more than £200,000. Let
us get to it. —G. B. (N.S.W.).
“Let Me Feel Your Pulse”
“Stiffy’s” grouse (B. 2 /10 / ’4O) about
his personal experience with doctor;
may be justified —the fees he quotes art
exceptional—but if he meant to indict
the profession he misfired.
Suppose “Stiffy” wanted his own son
to become a “con.” and share in the
loot. The boy would have to forge
wages for many years. He would have
to study many hard and very dry sub-
jects, pay high university fees, buy ex-
pensive books and instruments and sit
for stiff exams, at so many guineas a
time. If he qualified he would probably
work in a hospital for a year or two at
pocket-money rates, or practise his heal-
ing art in the poor district of a city at
less than cost, being at call night and
day for jobs the very reverse of pleasant,
and risking his own health all the time.
Then he would have to purchase an
established practice, or start at scratch
and build one for himself, borrowing
from dad or running up bills sky-high
meanwhile. He would have to rent a
good house, dress well, employ a nurse,
run a car, obey an extremely strict moral
code, acquire a bedside manner, treat
dozens of people for charity and spend
many hours in the company of sorrow,
disease and death.
If bent on becoming a specialist, he
would then spend a few more years of
his life in Continental universities, earn-
ing nothing while disgorging huge sums
for travelling and living expenses, plus
student’s fees. Armed with new, hard-
won diplomas he might come home. beg ;
borrow or steal about a thousand pounds
worth of gadgets that depreciate rapidly
in value, and set up his brass plate. Then,
and only then, he could sit down and
wait for patients to repay him for some
of his time and trouble, but he must not
advertise for them. It all sounds quite
simple, doesn’t it?
Although a diagnosis can be made in
five minutes it may have taken 20 years
and a small fortune to learn how to do
it in the time. —Honorary (S.A.).


Mainly Mail-Order
CYPRUS DE LUXE
15 Jewel Precision nmeng Watcli, Stainless
£5/10/- Steel.
Specially tested to stand tropical conditions.
Fully Gtd. Waterproof, Shockproof, Dustproof.
Watch Repair Service. Send for Catalogue.
DIAMOND
S' WATCH
SPECIALISTS
df
112 MARKET ST. I
I SYDNEY. I
OPP DAVIDJONES I
Mgfc
m
-Tv
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
S.A, Agents: Goldberg Bros., Nth Ter., Adelaide.
Air Raid Precautions
Handbook
A. R. P.
for Australians
By Alan Brooksbank.
A complete civilian’s guide to High
Explosives, Fires, (las. What to do
before, during and after an air raid.
Concise, complete, authoritative.
(itli edition.
Price 1/-; posted 1/1.
From all booksellers or
ROBERTSON & MULLENS, LTD.,
107-113 Elizabeth St., Melh.. A ictoria.
REDUCE
YOUR
WA
Tbe GO VERNA BELT will reduce
vour waistline and give a slim
athletic figure. Supports delicate
organs. By gentle, changing pres-
sure, waistline bulge is eliminated
with every move you make.
7 DAYS' TRIAL OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will be
3in. smaller . . . 3in. of bulge
and strain gone ... OR NO
COST! Write for full illustrated
details of 7 DAYS’ TRIAL
OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
sadf
SAVE £2
ON BATTERIES
Buy direct from well-known manu-
facturer at wholesale prices. Save
nearly half usual cost. Marshall
Batteries are renowned for long life.
Every battery is guaranteed in writ-
ing. Send for 16-page catalogue
telling you how to choose, instal and
care for batteries for cars, trucks,
cycles, home or theatre lighting.
Marshall Battery Manufacturing Co.,
38-42 Harbour Street, Sydney.
WAR RAGING
The URJKAD I%¥
is . spreading deadly
disease genns.
SANI-LID can be
fitted to any lavatory
seat and banishes
Hies, odours and germs
for ever. Supplied
with 6 months’ supply
of chemicals for only
17/6. Model C (as
illustrated), complete
w ith 6 months’ supply
of chemicals,|&9o/-.
" rite for particulars.
Quirk’s Victory
Light Co.,
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS.
asdf
" 9 Castlereagh St., Sydney; 48 King St., Perth
CATARRH SUFFERERS
ln>ort in Nose.
Blow Here.
With a few drops of COLD-
MASTEIt Inhalant in this, the
COLDMASTER VAPORISER,
you can force with your own
breath a powerfully germicidal
steamless vapour deep into the
infected sinuses and remote
cavities of your head, and in-
stantly dispel all running or
congested mucus which hitherto
has. been beyond the reach of
ordinary inhalation. Each treat-
ment insures dry. and germ-free
nasal passages for hours.
The price of COLDMASTER with
bottle of COLDMASTER IN-
HALANT is 10/- POST FREE.
Extra Inhalant obtainable at
2/9. per bottle ONLY direct from
S. McKEON, Ist Floor, 16 York
Street, SYDNEY.
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, ' Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
sdf
FROM £5 UPWARDS.
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States—See ’Phone Book.
Pelmanism
Scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality,
Pelmanism trains the observation to
speed and accuracy, increases the
power of concentration and streng-
thens the will. It is a complete
mental training and it devc 1 >ps
personality.
The Pelman Institute
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Fane,
Melbourne (Cnr. Market St.).
THE IMPROVED
TREASU
permits you to
keep your baby
in the fresh air,
always free from
mosquitoes, flies,
etc. Pays for it-
self in peace of
mind every week.
Constructed of
steel tubing and
is everlasting.
sadf
3
Jabez Street, Marrickville, N.S.W.
’Phone: LM4794.
Winchester
SKATES
17/6—21,
WITH STEEL ROLLS
CM COWLES
and DUNN
71 KING STBEET, SYDNEY
One
[iiiifiir
RNING
Get rid of
HornsBEFORE
they start!
application of
CHANDLER’S CHEMICAL
DEHORNER
will remove the horn
bud from any calf up
tp two months. There is no bleed-
ing-. Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from its mother
for 30 minutes —the horn bud drops off in a few
weeks. An easy,_chea'Q_ and humane method. Price.
D. &W. Chandler, Ltd., Q/G
MELBOURNE and all branches, ’post Free.
GOOD AUSTRALIAN
TOBACCO
Direct from the Manufacturer to you.
PUKE COARSE CUTS AND FINE
CUTS FROM 6/!) PER POUND.
PLUG TOBACCOS FROM 7/-.
FLAKE TOBACCOS, 8/6.
‘SAVE MONEY—AND ENJOY '
PURE TOBACCO. SEND FOR
PRICE LIST.
SEND TO
HILLMAN TOBACCO Co. Fty. Ltd.
BRISBANE.
TILLEY LAMPS
asdf
300 Candle Power. British
Made.
Fool proof and trouble jjroof.
Burn for 10 hours on 1J pints
of kerosene. Mantles 'tied both
ends. Will not shake off. All
lamp's fitted with PYRKX Globes
and insect-proof Fitting's.
Model EXIOO All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
he used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height ft) inches.
P KICE, 03/6 Complete.
Write for. Catalogue of Radiator a
and Table, Wall, Vase and
Oilier Lamps.
Obtainable from your localaoon t or
Koi ,sen & Co. Pt.v.; ltd.,
oSO Kent Street, Sydney.
SMOKERS!
Here’s Real Value in Tobacco.
A FLAKE cut or FLAKE JINK CUT
tobacco at 8/- per lb. “BEST EVER’ 5
S/- per lb., honestly worth 12/- per Ib.
Send (id. in stamps for a liberal sample.
IMPORTED AMERICAN CIGARETTES
“Chesterfield/’ available in any quantity at
1/11 per packet of 20.
Such values are obtainable only at—
SOL LEVY
IMi
713 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Two minutes from Central Railway.
LATEST RADIO SETS
£2O Below Retail Price.
You fan l>u.v direct from factory if
no Century Agent in your District,
and thus save up to 120 on retail
prices. Marvellous tone, sensitivity
and economy; world-wide reception
brings overseas news direct to your
home. Absolute satisfaction is
guaranteed by FREE TEN DAY
TRIAD TO INTENDING PUR-
CHASERS. Illustrated catalogue of
Battery and All-electric sets post
free on request.
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
DEAF?
New Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW 1
R. A. NOEDIi, L.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 418 George St., Sydney.
Amazing climbing tomato: bears
FOR A WHOLE YEAR! Climbs Oft, trellis,
fem-e, netting. Each plant YIELDS 20Djb. (8 cases)
large, ml, smooth tomatoes. Mr. E. Sawyer, Broome-
hill, W.A., writes: “Climbing Tomato 141 ft. Already
yielded 2001 b., some over 140 z.” Easily grown any-
where, 2/6 packet. Also Ihe world's greatest
HEALTH TOMATO! “White Beauty,” PURE WHITE
and 100 PER CENT. NON-ACII) (for Rheumatism).
DISEASE FREE! DROUGHT PROOF! Heavy
bearer. Makes Delicious Jam. 2/6 packet. AMERICAN
RARE SEEDS! Sole Agenls for Australia, we
have the ONLY SUPPLY ot the following rare seeds:
Vegetable Spaghetti. Hybridised Potato Seed, Shake,
laid lavng and Climbing Cucumbers, Yard Long
Bean. Vine Peach, Odorless and Giant 30lb. Cabbages,
Dwarf Sweet Peas, Baby Fairy Rose, Baby Water
Lily, Wild Flower Mixtures from the Orient and
America. (1/- packet, 10 packets 7/6). Also 40
other rare seed importations. List free. TIMBER
KILLER. Kills trees. ROOTS TO TOP in Jf> DAYS.
New method. NO RINGBARKING. 5/0 tin. post free.
N.S.W. SEED CO., 75 George Street, Sydney.
LAMBS SAVED
asdf
By Using: the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR :nfection
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient—
Humane—Safe—and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection— No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or—
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
sadf
J. P. TALTY
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
r 44in. knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads. 4'Jin. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OP RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, icons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
STOPvOUR
Worries/
Mark ® Local-son
of YOUR RUPTURE
-Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors: Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
TIIK ItOl SSEI, AITI.'AVt E CO..
I)KI‘T. 37, 84 PITT ST., SVDUKV.
fkuK
f~ brings
instant relief
TO ACHING FEET.
Bused upon recent X-rav dis-
coveries, the “FOOTHELP” brings
new hope to sufferers from painful
foot troubles. This amazing new
invention contain* NO METAL
PARTS WHATSOEVER and is as
light as a feather and moulded to measure.
14 DAYS FREE TRIAi
Write io-day for full details and TRIAL OFFER.
Salt#factum guaranteed no matter where, you live.
JOHN .If. UN(iEU (Dept. 1JB).
65 Yoi*k Street. Sydney.
7/i
PETROL SAVERS
Amazes Motor World!!!!
asdf
MAKE YOUR OWN SOFT DRINKS
Much belter awl far cheaper
Ilian any you can buy. A full
f/allou of the nicest and most
refreshing cordial for the price
of one “deep sinker.” Jusl
delicious for the hot days, ft
sparkles like cliam-pagn,e.
Better for your health than
any bottled drink. Splendid
for the family and highly
Li*®'
appreciated by your visitors. Letts trouble than
inaki%y a pot of tea. A trial will surely please.
Obtainable in various nice flavors: lime, raspberry,
lemon, orange. Nine Pence per Packet, or
Three Packets for 2/-, carriage paid, with full
directions.
The Union Manufacturing & Agency Co.,
2!MV Elisabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
BRIGGS*, STRATTON
Air-cooled 4-cycle
SINGEE-CYEINDEK
PETROL MOTORS.
h to 5 HORSEPOWER
From £lB/17/6.
Also Petrol Electric
Generators from £25.
Agents all States.
Illustrated Bulletin with
prices gladly forwarded.
aMPLIOh (A/SIA) PTY LIMITED
582 Kent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
RUPTURE
BETS
LIKE THE HRItD
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
Tlic latest invention of Dr
L. Barrere is the result of jtf
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous sucoeis;
of Pew method of control.
The NEO-BARRERK act;
like the hand when placed
.flat upon the orifice. Yot
v will at once withou
effort and in all move
ments hold the intes
tine in its cavity
Write To-dav fo
FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 375), 35 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
16/10/’4O (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss...
Cut this out and send with your “Wants" to the Service Department, “The Bulletin "
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


\VX\
an\\
\
X
§m
\
St
¥
If
pi
&)
m
<9
u
*
>
m
a
/
'iiiit ~ ,m
hm
m
W
m+ %
V
w/.
w
/
/
J>
„
*an
ir-i
', ’X
A. W. A. Wireless Communication and
Direction Finding Stations have been
selected for the principal aerodromes
in Australia, Papua, and New Guinea.
Designed by the highly technical and
experienced laboratory and
engineering staff of Australia’s
largest wireless organisation, this
apparatus is noted for its proved
efficiency and reliability.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(A'SIA) LID.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANI S A T I 0
