

HAPING Australia’s Industrial
B.H.P. Steel in its many forms fills Australia’s need
for the metal that gets things done. The great
tonnages of quality iron and steel produced at The
Broken Hill Proprietary’s Newcastle Steel Works
give Australia an assured supply of the essential
materials for the development and defence of the
Commonwealth.
The high quality of B.H.P. Steel and the fact that
it is available at prices which compare more than
favourably with those charged for overseas steel form
convincing evidence of the industry s efficiency.
The value of the B.H.P. enterprise in peace time
is only exceeded by its vital importance in the
extraordinary circumstances caused by war.
sa
d
sad
sad
As an avenue of employment the Australian iron and stee
industry must be ranked of major importance, as it gives irect
employment to more than 24,000 persons, whose wages tota
yearly more than £6,000,000.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited not only produces
iron and steel, but owns and operates its own steamships an
coalmines, and most of the raw materials used m steel-ma ing
are obtained from properties under the control of the company.
Above is shown section of the Newcastle Steel Works blast furnace
plant, which produces more than 15,000 tons of iron per week.
B.H.P. PRODUCTS
include
Pig Iron, Steel Ingots, Blooms,
Billets, Rails, Flats, Angles, Rounds,
Squares, Beams, Channels, Plates,
Reinforcing Bar, Tee and Bridge
Rails, Spring and Alloy Steel, Cold
Rolled Bright Strip and Box Strap-
ping, Octagons and Hexagons,
Wire Rods, Toluol, Solvent Naphtha.
Ammonium Sulphate, Foundry
Coke, Coals, Steam and Roasting
Coal, Household, and Bunker Coal
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.
Iron and Steel Masters—Mine Owners -Colliery Proprietors Ship Owners
Head Office: 422 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
si Works: Newcastle, New South Wales.
Branches at: Sydney. Adelaide. Perth and London.
Iron Ore Workings: Iron Knob. South Australia.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61. —No. 3136.
Wednesday, March 20, 1940.
An Enlarged Number
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Freelance Journalism
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Pleose send, without ob ligat ion f your New Frc
booklet explaining how to Write for Profit a
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. 1 1
My Name
My Address
S.B 240
The Red Page
THREE-A-PENNY AUTHORS.
You must remember that, although authors
are three-a-penny to us, they are quite ex-
citing to other people.” —Dorothy Sayers,
quoted by Faber and Faber on the dust-jacket
of Anne Meredith’s “Three a Penny.”
If that is so it would seem to follow
either that this reviewer is not one of
the presumably countless other people,
or else Miss Meredith has fumbled the
job of making herself as an author excit-
ing. This is all the more remarkable
because right up to her emergence as
established author, towards the end of
the book, she is surprisingly exciting.
The question whether authors as such
now have any special claim to be classed
as exciting is further sharpened up by
the fact that for most of the book, to
the point of her emergence as author,
she’s a stenographer-secretary, and far
more competent and efficient in her rim-
less glasses than exciting in any romantic
sense of the word.
No doubt authors as such were excit-
ing once upon a time. That they should
seem so no longer is possibly a result
of too many of them having written to
Miss Sayers’s text. These experiences
with publishers, returning MSS., publi-
cation, literary cocktail-party inanities;
the whole business of becoming an estab-
lished author looks threadbare. Too
many authors have pulled aside the cur-
tain and shown the strings and pulleys
working ; too few have appeared in their
self-portrayals as anything like fit habi-
tations for such genius as has produced
their works ; very few indeed have them-
selves compared with characters that
have come to life in their writings.
Miss Sayers’s “quite exciting” should
probably be read as a feminine tone for
saying artificially exciting. To those who
find their particular works exciting,
authors unquestionably have a special-
interest start over the humdrum run of
humanity, as have actors and artists for
much the same reason. But it is, after
all, an artificial advantage. The best
autobiographies are rarely written by
established authors, though among the
best of biographies have been written
about them. Once established, an author
is handicapped by his own effort from
producing anything much better than a
withered turnip in the autobiographical
field. Bits of his self lie scattered all
over his writings, and for him to gather
them back and put them out again in
one piece as new-season fruit with the
bloom of freshness still on it is too much
to expect.
As for biographies of authors, as hav-
ing any application here, who thinks for
an instant of Dr. Johnson as an author?
It would even seem, by this and other
proof, that the person who is the author
has to be (or be made) superior in him-
self to anything he has done as an author
if biography or autobiography of him
is to be really good. Otherwise authors
thus offered look dear at three-a-penny.
As for authors like the one who
emerges near the end of Miss Mere-
dith’s book, these begin to look a waste
of money at tuppence-a-dozen. Miss
Meredith’s author has her own novelties,
but generally the story has been told so
often that all the kick has gone out of
it; there are surely very few readers
nowadays, even among those who may
patronisingly be classified as other
people, who can share a genuine or even
a passing interest in any autobiography-
author’s retrospective suspense over the
fate of forwarded MSS. and suchlike
common experiences. As an autobiog-
raphy-author, Miss Meredith is just yet
another woman writer, churning out
books, achieving some success and being
elected to clubs. The difference between
this end-part of her book and the rest
of it gives the impression that Miss Mere-
dith has not a shadow of the interest in
being an author that she has in having
been a stenographer-secretary, and
especially in having been one during a
period—the former war period—when it
was a specially exciting experience for a
live woman to be alive.
The production of the portrait of Miss
Meredith the stenog. is so effective that
it could be, not autobiography at all, but
a fine example of creative effort. She is
a smallish person, Yorkshire with a dash
of Scotch, faintly Victorian in dress and
manner. Add her rimless pince-nez, sub-
tract the sort of appeal you first thought
sad
you can that this trim and competent
little person is not merely interesting,
but, as Anne Meredith presents her,
quite decidedly “exciting.”
Though Miss Meredith is here presum-
ably writing authentic autobiography she
invests it with a sparkling fictional ap-
pearance. Contrary to all logical reason,
Miss Meredith the stenog., diminutive
and determined, is the centre of a uni-
verse ; when she finally becomes a mere
author she is no more than a minnow
in a sea chock-full of prodigiously big
fish. As a stenog. she is always the
leading character, both of the story and
of whatever situation she is in, confidently
aware of all the other, lesser, people
about her—coal barons, department
heads and the like.
There was a man there who looked like
Mr. Micawber, the same tall, stiff figure,
the same odd-shaped face with the plume
of hair on top. He was one of the men
who needed a secretary. One afternoon
a young married woman who seemed suit-
able arrived. I went to find this man.
“I say,” remarked Mr. L. anxiously, as
he fell into step, “d’you think she’s really
any good? Well, I suppose you do, or
you wouldn’t have called me. What does
she look like? blot one of those women
with a bosom you could rest a tea-tray
on? That’s good. I don’t care for the
anchovy-fork type myself, but there are
limits.”
Thus, lightly, they come and go. Miss
Meredith, efficient stenographer-secretary,
remains. It would not be right, perhaps,
to speak of her as personifying her
period, though she does represent in her
competent self the swarming advance of
women into all kinds of employment at
that time. The moral behavior, or pro-
gress, or what have you, of women then
she expresses only by inference, as one
of the exceptions. She is always a human
little person, and as such she takes an
always lively interest in the human
aspects of those hectic and tragic days.
All the time, of course, she is aiming to
become an author, and when she does
she becomes nobody.
Phyllis Bentley's Roundheads .
A little while ago the poets and the
little-man novelists were writing gloomy
books (reminiscent of the Victorian
novels in which everybody died beauti-
fully of a wasting disease) prophesying
that we were all going to be bombed to
bits. Now that the war has broken out,
you can hardly pick up a book that
doesn’t refer to it, but the fashion is for
cheerfulness. Phyllis Bentley is the latest
with a tract for the times, a Cavalier-
Roundhead novel with a moral, but she
is too good a storyteller to make the
Message too obvious, and her optimism
has depth. This is the end of her book,
an old woman recalling the civil war:—•
I have lived in times so troubled that
I cannot think this nation has ever seen
die like, or will ever see the like again.
But the land has not perished; the sun
shines, the rain falls, the sheep still feed
on the Pennine hills; women still conceive
and bring forth and give their children
suck; and while man lives the hope of
righteousness will not die. The strife is
sore while it lasts; yes, it is very sharp
and bitter, and wearying to the spirit, for
it seems as if it will never come to any
end ; but if we keep a good heart and
cease not to care for justice and truth,
some day the storm will pass, and the
nations rejoice in the sweet air of peace.
That plural “nations” is a slip, show-
ing how much she has the present war
in mind, for Take Courage (Gollancz;
Moore’s Bookshop) deals with factions
in England, not international affairs. In
many instances she finds herself in great
difficulties in relating Stuart times to the
present day. The Roundheads have to
be held up as the champions of English
freedom, which is awkward before the
war starts because the Puritans, while
objecting to Charles’s interference with
Parliamentary freedom, also objected to
the sports and merry-making of the
people; and it is still more awkward
when Cromwell turns out to be a dic-
tator. Miss Bentley evades some of her
troubles by inventing characters who are
slightly impure Puritans, but there are
passages of laborious quibbling that
wouldn’t have been necessary in a purely
romantic novel.
Her Puri tan-in-chief is Penninah, who
tells the story of her life from girlhood
to old age. Both she and her dour hus-
band are finely understood characters,
and the Cavalier Francis, if a more con-
ventional period figure, comes in at the
right moments with a glorious splash of
color. The story is set in Yorkshire,
peopled with Puritan weavers, cockfight-
ing nobodies and Cavalier gentry. The
human story, around which the stirring
historical essay is draped, is the inevit-
able tale of a girl with a suitor in each
camp, but after the conventional opening
with Francis flashing on horseback and
John stumping along on foot, it develops
into a moving complexity. Dutifully
married to the Puritan, but secretly and
ashamedly longing for the Cavalier, Pen-
ninah bears a child to Francis during the
course of the war ; John is away fighting,
and the thought of what he is to say on
his return holds the story in powerful
suspense.
When he does return, and there is
peace in England and peace between
John and Penninah, the story reaches its
climax. Rather unfortunately, Miss
Bentley continues it for over a hundred
pages of anti-climax. This allows her to
add a portrait of Cromwell to her fine
portrait of Fairfax, to make some appro-
priate remarks about dictatorship and the
apparent futility of war, and to round
off some minor characters such as Pen-
ninah’s children, Francis’s father, humili-
ated in his old age, and the text-quoting
servant who killed Francis during the
war and who was tormented by the
thought that he had probably done it
out of personal ill-will rather than re-
ligious convictions; but the interest in
the main characters is dead. The romance
becomes a dynastic novel and the
methods don’t mix too well.
At its worst it is readable; at its best,
in the description of the little Yorkshire
community in times of violence and con-
fusion, it is an unusually convincing
piece of fiction. The style, in a period
story, is something of an achievement;
Penninah’s monologue is quiet, yet man-
ages to be rich enough to describe battles
and human passions, and it is satisfyingly
archaic without having Jeffery FarnoPs
pack of “Zounds!” in full cry.
Neutral Uncle Sam .
One of the curious things about
American democracy, as far as its lead-
ing politicians and propagandists are
concerned, is the present unanimity on
foreign policy. Logically, there should
be a pro-war party composed of all
those who spoke of “quarantining
aggressors” and those who were so
loud in denunciation of the iniquities
of Germany and the alleged weak-
ness of Britain, opposed by an anti-
war party of the diehard isolationists.
If there is to be a policy of helping the
Allies it seems that it won’t be formu-
lated by politicians afraid of their voters
or publicists with an eye on the circu-
lation of their newspapers, but will be
forced into being by people who agree
with Mr. Ellsworth Barnard, in War and
the Verities (Angus and Robertson):
We are willing to fight—judging from the
utterances of our spokesmen—only when
our own skins and our own shores are en-
dangered, emulating the rat, who will fight
when cornered. We seem to have for-
gotten that we all must die and that in the
last analysis there is no security except
moral security.
War and the Verities, an obvious piece
of propaganda, spoils its case for Ameri-
can intervention by indignant over-
statement, but it has a core of inescapable
truth. The implications of one sentence
are enough to condemn isolation:
To understand how complete is our tacit
approval of Britain’s present position one
has only to imagine the wave of indignation
that would have swept this country if the
Allies had refused to fight in Poland’s
behalf.
Mr. Barnard opens by stating the case
against Germany and countering Ger-
many’s propaganda about the Treaty of
Versailles. He regards this war not as
a clash of rival imperialisms but as a
conflict of principles, and in opposition
to those who believe that “force settles
nothing” he invites America to imagine
the state of the world and the fate of
civilisation if Germany should win. One
sentence again: “Consider the prospect
of English literature censored by a
Goebbels, English law in the hands of
a Himmler.”
He will not have it that America is
without responsibility for the present
state of Europe. Not only does he con-
demn those Americans, now “the shril-
lest of isolationists,” who shrieked at
the “betrayal” of Czechoslovakia, but he
remembers the sorry history of the post-
war years:—
It is too often forgotten, or shamelessly
denied, that America is far from blameless
for the present state of world affairs. The
same men, in fact, who once fought bitterly
and successfully to prevent the United
States from assuming her natural place in
world affairs and exercising her vast in-
fluence in behalf of a just and peaceful
world order, who did their best to render
vain the vast sacrifice whose alleged
futility they are now loudest in proclaim-
ing, now take the lead in trying to bully
their countrymen into a second betrayal
of civilisation.
To those who say that America must
not be swayed by emotion, he answers
that it is better to be swayed by noble
emotion than by ignoble self-interest.
America’s distance from Europe, he says,
is no excuse for moral isolation: “Are
robbery and rape and murder nothing
to me because they happen on the other
side of the street?” He rails at
America’s “pharisaical assumption of
unique righteousness above other
nations”: —-
We talk importantly of making America
the haven of a civilisation endangered by
“Europe’s squabbles”—forgetting to ask
what kind of civilisation could be preserved
by a people who had cringingly refused to
face facts, declined to take the slightest
risk in behalf of the moral ideals which
it pretends to cherish, and clung with piti-
ful desperation' to the meagre and delusive
satisfactions which material well-being can
supply.
He is not, he says, asking America to
“police the world”: only to co-operate
with Britain, France and the smaller
democracies with whose ideals and way
of life America is essentially in harmony.
Also, he wants America to earn the right
to sit-in at the peace conference when it
comes. “Does anyone imagine that if
Germany wins we shall be invited to
sit at the table where Hitler and Stalin
will dictate the terms of surrender?”
He believes that the Americans do not
really want isolation and that there will
be a change of policy when they recover
from “the involuntary revulsion from the
prospect of personal suffering and death
which swept American people off their
feet at the first shock of war.”
The Verge of Scotland: William T.
Palmer (Robert Hale, Ltd.). The Red-
gauntlet and Rob Roy country, described
in a fireside conversational manner while
raking over the embers of its murky pasl.
Land and Sea : “Shalimar” (Black-
wood). Second omnibus of the “Black-
wood’s Magazine” writer’s excellent sea-
stories.
Rosemary in Rhymeland: Evelyn
Bartlett (Patersons, Perth, W.A.). Fur-
ther proof that in the spinning of charm-
ing tales for small children Australians
are often adepts. This little tale ripples
along, with a plenteous supply of genuine
youngsters’ humor.
The Valiant Heart: George Blake
(Collins). Novel about the valiant heart
of a Lowland Scots shipowner who went
broke and was valiant, went to 1914
war and won the V.C. ; also the valiant
heart of his daughter who marries the
Laird; and the valiant dirtiness of a
money-grubbing brother-in-law and the
valiant potations of a farmer’s son ruined
by the war, and the valiant hearts of a
young couple holding hands in the
picture theatre. Nice, well-written and
valiantly ordinary.
Folded Wings: Eleanor Watt (Haw-
thorn Press, Melbourne). There’s a
tendency in these short poems to worn-
out imagery “winters of despair,”
hopeful dawns and springs and sad
autumns but there is a compensatory
richness of mood and expression. An
extract from the title poem:
To find with you beyond fife’s fiery noon
The shadows waiting for the rising moon,
The peace that deepens when the heart’s wild
tune
Is still ; like waters that have lost the sheen
Of sunlight, flowing where its warmth has been
To depths of lyrical and lustrous green.
In the Wind’s Teeth: Flexmore Hud-
son (F. W. Preece, Ltd., Adelaide).
Poems. There is genuine feeling, a
strongly Australian tone, but a lack of
finish, mainly because the form is still
experimental. Whitman, the early Yeats,
and Pound in his Chinese period take
their turn as influences. When the author
escapes from them there is the directness
of:
The horses doze, drooping their heads in
hot bushes;
till sundown not one bird will sing again;
nothing moves but a dog-tired cloud
dragging a shadow on the sleepy plain.
Raiders of the Rimrock, by Luke
Short, and The Cabin in the Canyon,
by Frank C. Robertson (both Collins,
Wild West Club). Don’t these Westerns
correspond in a way with Australia’s
bush ballads? Yet the bush ballad is
held to belong to a past period, while
the Western, which by the same reckon-
ing should have had its day, is pretty
well as abundant as ever ; if anything
improving on past efforts in its kind.
These are two typical examples—both
are breezy, well salted with humor, and
tell good, plain action yarns very well.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —always the truth.
"THE SENIOR STORE’
ANTHONY HORDERNS' NATIONALLY KNOWN
' Ml
I
m
dB
m
■
■H
s
w
>
■
hi!
h M
lindei-toeai 1
Anthony Horderns' guarantee and recommend
"Jumbuk" Underwear. There is none better made
in Australia. Made from a long staple pure woollen
yarn, its excellent quality ensures long and satis-
factory wear. Its soft surface will not irritate the
tenderest skin. It is guaranteed pre-shrunk and
being stocked in a large range of sizes, enables
every man to obtain a comfortable fit. Let your
winter underwear be "JUMBUK."'
»/
220 X "JUMBUK" LIGHT WEIGHT NATURAL ALL WOOL UNDERWEAR
Sizes inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
ShS, short sleeves ":: 7/9 8/3 9/- 9/9 10/3 U/3 12/6 13/9 15/-
Underpants 8/9 9/3 10/6 10/9 11/3 12/3 13/6 14/9 16/-
Trunk Drawers 8/3 8/9 9/6 10/3 10/9 11/9 13/
330 X "JUMBUK" MEDIUM WINTER WEIGHT NATURAL ALL WOOL
UNDERWEAR
Sizes inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
ShS, short sleeves I 11/9 12/3 13/3 14/3 15/9 17/- 18/6 20/- 21/6
Lonq sleeves 1/- extra.
Underpants 12/9 13/3 14/3 15/3 16/9 18/- 19/6 21/- -
440 "JUMBUK" HEAVY WINTER WEIGHT NATURAL ALL WOOL
UNDERWEAR
All. "JUMBUK" CREAM ALL WOOL
No sleeves. Sizes, inches 34 36
At Anthony Horderns' 6/6 6/6
ATHLETIC UNDERSHIRTS
38 40 42 44
6/6 6/6 6/6 6/6
"JUMBUK" “SUNGLO" Shrinkproof UNDERWEAR
Natural all wool light weight. Sizes, inches 34
Shirts, short sleeves. At Anthony Horderns' 10/6
Underpants. At Anthony Horderns' 11/6
Natural all wool winter weight. Sizes, ins. 34
Shirts, short sleeves. At Anthony Horderns' 14/6
Underpants. At Anthony Horderns' 15/6
. Men’s Mercery Department.-Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports
m men* xKtcrc - in the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
'PHONE M 2401
Day or Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
POSTAL ADDRESS:
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


Mrs. Parsley Meets An " Arrested Crat” —
THE CORNER CUPHOLDER OF TIME
By HAROLD MERCER.
i i r\ O you notice any expressed incitement about
J me this morning?” asked Mrs. Parsley. There
L-/ certainly was something, a glow on her cheek,
a gleam in her eye, that suggested excitement.
Getting rid of a tenant who was a notoriously bad
rent-payer might account for it; but in this instance
the achievement was regrettable, if my guess was right.
“Mrs. Parsley,” I said reproachfully, “you’ve got
rid of the Count at last. When I was passing 12a this
morning I noticed he was shifting his belongings.”
“The poor old feller!” exclaimed Mrs. Parsley.
There was genuine feeling, a note of contrition, I
thought, in her voice. “He’s been a sort of destitution
up there in that Number 12a, and I’m sure I never
thought this would happen. But, as Mr. Slompack
says, you never know what the Corney cupholder of
Time has in stores.
“But it’s really surprising that the Count should
have been here so long, seeing how often I’ve told him
to go. There was the time I actually saw him out of
the place and locked the door behind him. Never did
I expect that that ladder was anything but left there
by the painters who was doing the place ; but when I
opened the door to show the room to a man who had
come early, there was the Count in bed. I hadn’t got
the heart of a stone to turn him out again.
“Having him here in the place as a handyman
was like entertaining an agent’s underwears, as the
saying is, with everybody treating him like one of
those arrested crats and calling him Count. And I
am sure if I was to have known all that was to come,
about him being really an arched duke, and them
axe-sassinators coming after him, and the way he got
married, perhaps I would have turned in my grave, if
I had been in it, rather than let him enter the premises
over my dead corpse.”
Mrs. Parsley paused breathlessly. There were
details evidently about the gentle, generally-liked irre-
sponsible who that day was being driven from his
doubtful Eden in Number 12a that I had not heard.
Mrs. Parsley, however, seldom remains out of breath
for long.
“If it hadn’t been for that trouble that I had
with Sandy, the handyman, who was going on as if
he owned the place, I might never have set eyelids on
the Count. ‘I know a man who might suit you, Mrs.
Parsley,’ says Mr. Tom Martin, who was one of the
wharf-superabundances, and was Number 19 with his
wife. ‘He’s no earthly use on the wharves.’
“Which that didn’t seem much of an accommo-
dation to me, and it was worse when Mr. Martin said,
although he told me that he was a very willing chap,
that this man was a Wide Russian. I don’t like
foreigners, as a rule, although I suppose the poor
creatures can’t help being born under the foreign
joke, as they call it, instead of British objects.
“Still, I didn’t know whether I was standing on
my head or my heels, I was so extracted after Sandy
had gone. So there that count stood before me
with a very pleasant smile, and he kissed
my hand as if I was Queen Elizabeth when the
Earl of Essence put his cloak on the ground for her
to stand on at the Boy Scouts’ Rally. It took me quite
aback, though, when Mr. Martin said ‘This is the
Count, Mrs. Parsley’; and I could only gasp that I
didn’t think a count would be quite suitable for the
job.
“ ‘Budt, Mrs. Barsley, I ligke der pletty shob. I
bromise you, Mrs. Barsley, I be chenerally useless,
he says. ‘Goodt pletty mans, me.’
“You talk about a shock ; that language made me
“ ‘I understand,’ said Mr. Slompack one morn-
ing, grinning like one of those Mrs. Cheshire’s cats,
‘that the Count took Mrs. Wassail to the pictures yes-
terday afternoon ; or Mrs. Wassail took him. She
sa y S we aB ought to help a member of the mobility
and g en t r y w ho has come down in the world to get
up again ’ and by ,aking him to ,he ,alkies he can lea ™
Enghsh ’ But 1 don ’< thlnk Mr - Wassail likes it.’
. “ Ser P e ” tl y Mr. Wassail didn’t like it, and I don’t
think he cared too much about the mobility or the
„p, ntrv pithpr whpn lUrc Waceaii
y l W .h en Wassab kept on taking the
? ° 1° l ? T"* that
he might be only a plea being, but be thought
that a generally useless P should keep his place even
if he was one of the mobility> A lot of the other
men didn < t like it either> the way the women went on,
and the way he kissed the}r hands . But the Count
was so obliging, especially about finding out where
t o get sly-grog for those who wanted it, and things
ij ke that that the men liked him too
“The children loved him ; which it was amazing
tbe things he could make with pieces of sticks and
str j ng to p i ease them ; but that wasn’t doing my work,
as j bad to ted b j m dme and a g a j ns though not liking
t c talk too severe to a man who was a count.
“As to being a genera n y use less, he was no good
at a ] k Not that he didn’t mean well, which most
willing he was. Not that I liked being wakened up at
half past three in the morning the first day he was here’,
and thinking the place must be on fire, only to find
he wanted to know what he was to do first; and before
i was U p he had whitened some steps I wanted kept
painted black, got hold of some red paint and painted
the sides of some windows so that when the inspector
came he wanted to know whether I had gone Com-
munal. Always doing something, but nearly always
the thing you didn’t want, he was. There was other
things, too. But he showed so plain he wanted to
please you, it was hard to tell him to go, as I meant to
do not once but almost every day.
~., T , . .
“I HEN, one day, just when I was wondering how
1 l’ d tell him he really had to go, there he was
talking to me about being sorry, as if he had something
to say that would break my heart in twins, as the
song says. It quite startled me ; and all the time he
was trying to tell me he was giving up the j ob!
‘ Mrs - Barsle y> 1 ban the shob of chenerally use-
less for your sagke verree mooch ligke ; but Miss
Gaskins, she say I mus’ gedt annoder shob ; so I ban
gedt b f, m : 1 ba " V ! rree so ™,’ Budt 1 llgke 10
here ’ l£ 1 ,hat twelf A may hat
horrified, as Mr. Martin saw.
“ ‘Better cut out those “plettys,” Count,’
he says. ‘Y’see, Mrs. Parsley, the Count learnt
his English from the sailors on the boat on
which he got away from Tigeria.’
“‘I learn heem pletty goodt,’ says the
Count, proud as a Punch and Judy show. ‘I
baid dose pletty so-an-sos five boundt do
deach me.’
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley doesn’t like the “pletty,”
Count,’ says Mr. Martin.
“ ‘Den I ban gut oudt der “pletty” ; I shust
say der so-and-so,’ says the Count.
“Very surprised did the Count look when
he heard that them words were not good Eng-
lish. But when Mr. Martin said he was only mis-
gardened by them sailors and he’d promise not to use
them optional words of his, which he did, I let him
have the job.
‘ < K I EVER did I do a worse day’s work in my im-
*• mortal life. It quite flappergasted me to think
I had a count doing the odd jobs ; and the tenants
were as flappergasted as I was ; which some of them
seemed to like having one of them arrested crats
dancing intentions upon them, as the saying is, es-
pecially the women.
“So that is how the Count started to live in 12a,
and I didn’t like to let him see how glad I was that he
was going to be a tenant instead of a handyman who
wasn’t handy. Though I didn’t know about the rent
then. The way some people owe their rent would
drive anyone to drink.
“ 'The Gaskins girl is after your Count, Mrs. P.,’
Mr. Slompack said to me. ‘lt’s a reg’iar case of Venus
and Adenoids.’
“That Miss Gaskins had been enaaeed to another
Anat MISS <jasKins nad Deen en B a B ea to
man when she came here, but a regular sheep in wolf s
clothing he turned out t 0 be * Why, he told everybody
, , . . - . ~, ’ a
bache * dr df arts > a ” all the bm f he ha ?. a
wife and two children in Melbourne. And now Miss
Gask * ns I . was talking about deforming the Count,
wh,ch she said it was a shame to see a man of his
bleeding doin g odd l° bs - So . she had B ot bim
*° get , a Job as a aite , r * j? he said that Job wasn 1 a
dead un ’ a man hke tbe Count would be a manager
in n ° time *
The Count, although he seemed a bit scared of
her at first > was soon all over the P lace with her.
“ ‘I couldn’t tabulate a man who has no ambition,
A man should do some good work in the world to
make himself worthless for the girl he loves,’ I heard
her tell him. ‘I ban mooch money magke,’ says he.
‘I ban magke me worthless of you, my attored,’ he
said.
“I was glad to hear that; but I wasn’t so glad
when the Count told me he couldn’t pay his rent
because his adored, as he called her, insistered that
he had to buy some clothes t 0 make himself repre-
hensible. Still as the Count, who became much better-
dressed li ke that Sodom in all its glory, said he would
fix up the rent from his second week’s wages I didn’t
min d. But on ly two days later I heard him talking to
that Miss Gaskins, and she seemed upset,
, . , , . . , ,
1( t ßut yOLI must bave done sometflin S> she says.
Only I ban gif free der dinner to the mans who
no money ban haf. And preak der blate,’ says the
< llDr . 0 „. , ,r. „ , „„„„ „ , .
C “ t ’ , a ak T bt ’ he * ays ’ K i 1
’ j ll . e 'l an rea f n ° er ae - u
ge ann ° er S ° ’ a ore vun ‘
Soon, Mrs. Barsley, I der nodder shob gedt,
he told me. ‘Then I der rendt bay.’
u u a-a , , ,
wb i ch be dld > sometimes, when he got one of
hls sbobs J that was when there was not someone else
who wanted his money. He thought there had to be
fl ° WerS f" Ml “. GaskmS ea< i b day ’ a ! ,hou S h * e
she Wenl on at hlm was very llke naBglng ‘° me ’ about
"It ain't the soap I want, it's the coupons. I need four more to get a serviette-ring ."


him being ambitious, and taking the tidal wave to
nip it in the bud and make his fortune.
“But though his rent kept getting more and more
back, he always talked so nicely about what he was
going to do that I let him stay on, though often I told
him to go.
< < A ND then it came out that he wasn’t only a count
but one of them arched dukes that was sup-
posed to be all discriminated when the Bolsterwicks
made that rebellion in Russia. It was all about him in
the paper and him having been an arched duke who
was supposed to have been terribly massacreed, but it
turned out that one of them faithful servants was
massacreed instead of him, which made it not so ter-
rible, except, I suspect, for the servant. But them
axe-sassinators weren’t satisfied. They had made
several attempts to kill the arched duke, which the
name I could not announce, it was so like a lot of
sneezes.
“It was when he was one of those common
missioners in front of a picture show that that hap-
pened ; which very nice he looked in that uniform,
although Miss Gaskins didn’t like it and said it was
degrating for a man of his rank and stationary to do
work like that. But it was one of her friends, a Mr.
Coddlehoy, who got him that job, him being one of
the people belonging to the picture theatre.
“ ‘Don’t let the Count know it’s been found out
who he is,’ said Mr. Coddlehoy. ‘He doesn’t read
the papers; and if he heard people knew who he
was he might become scared about those axe-
sassinators.’
“I was in fear and trembling myself when I heard
about it, because them people must be very terrible
to use axes ; and murdering people is not the right
thing to do at all, in my opinion.
“When the Count was missing for a couple of
days, I thought the worst had happened. Very sorry
I was to think it, too, although it seemed to me
that he would only go on owing more and more rent
to the end of the chapter of accidents, as the saying
is. But all of a sudden there he was back again,
very excited, in the lounge at the top of the stairs,
emptying money out of his pockets and pouring it
into Miss Gaskins’s lap, which she looked as astonished
as he was excited.
“ ‘No more I ban standt der bictures pefore ;
you no ligke that; so I gif heem oop. And now I
der money magke—see! All dat money in dwo nights
I magke! ’ he says.
“‘I knew you could, Valdy dear,’ she says. ‘You
have the debility and you are using it at last.’
“ ‘Doo pletty righd I haf der pletty depility! ’ he
says, forgetting himself. ‘Efry nighd now I ban go
und dis money magke. No more vork! No more
bictures! Der dwo-up in der air for me.’
“That Miss Gaskins looks at him severe. ‘You
mean to tell me, Valdemare,’ she says, cold like ice,
‘that you’ve been gambling? Do you think that is
the way to make yourself worthless of a woman —to
go making your money at gambling schools?’
“ ‘Budt I ban vin! ’ he cried. ‘My attored, I vill
vin efry nighd. Bearls shall on your negck pe’
“It was a shame to see the way he was all dis-
appointed ; but she made him put all the money back
in his pockets and told him that it was filthy look-
here, which he should take back to where he got it.
Which I never heard such a thing, especially with his
rent unpaid. The poor feller was so dazed that he
would have forgotten all about that rent if I had not
reminded him. It seemed a wonderful thing to get
him paid all up in advance.
“That pore Count was most disconsular, as the
saying is, with his ‘attored’ treating him as if he was a
condemned fellow with all the crimes of the cul-
lirfder upon his soul. ‘Budt I vill vin der more money,
Mrs. Barsley, mooch more. Den I vill do her go and
say “Attored, I haf der gampling up given ; ve vill
puy a ham und biff, and I vill show myself of you
worthless.” ’
4 4 D UT shortly the Count was owing rent again,
and, if people hadn’t liked having a count to
meals, would have been hungry as the shorn lamb. He
must have lost all that money next time he went to
that two-up in the air school, as he called it, which it
was one of those places that fools trust in where
angels fearful tread.
“Then one day he came in all excited. Miss Gaskins
was coming down the stairs, and the Count threw his
arms round her and shouted out about having made
himself worthless of her, ‘I ban haf blenty of money
now,’ he cried. ‘I haf my fordune madte. An’ you,
attored, vill share it vid me.’
“ ‘Not gambling I hope, Valdy?’ she says.
“ ‘Der ban no gample apout dis, attored,’ he says,
full of joy. ‘She a voman is, und money has so
mooch! Budt she is old.’
“‘A woman? You mean you’re taking a good
position from a woman employer?’ says Miss Gaskins.
‘lt doesn’t sound improper to me.’
“ ‘ld ban verree brober,’ says the Count. ‘I ban
godt marriedt to her dis morning. ‘Budt, attored, it
ban you I loff,’ he says. ‘My life I lay down vor
you ; but I gedt money do make myself worthless’ ;
“It was like one of them vulcanites in disruption
the way she said ‘How dare you!’ He followed her
all the way upstairs trying to explain things which
“Bit over the fence, ain't they, puttin' silent cops in the 'arbor."
he seemed to think all right, but it didn’t sound very
respectable to me; all about him having married so
as to make himself worthless for her and it needn’t
matter him having married this other woman since he
didn’t loff her. Even when the door slammed in his
face, with a noise that could be heard all over the
flats, he must have still tried to explain, because he was
still there when the other people arrived.
“From the sight of them, they was more trouble
for the poor Count. The woman was elderly, but all
done up young, and like one of them dressed-in dolls
the way she was clothed ; and there was a rough-
looking man with her who didn’t look happy.
“ ‘Where is my husband?’ the woman demandered.
‘He was living here, but he married me this morning,
and he came to take his things away.’
“‘You don’t mean the Count?’l asks, which plainly
she did; and because I didn’t think it quite the right
thing for her to find her husband hammering at a flat
with another woman inside it, trying to talk to her, I
went up to tell him.
“When we came back there was quite a number
of tenants there, and that woman was going on with
a tongue that seemed as if it never ceased. ‘And I
want to find that Mr. Coddlehoy,’ she says. ‘He told
me this man was a prince, an arched duke, and now
I find out it is a fraud.’
“But the Count didn’t take much notice of her ;
he rushed up to the man who had come with her. ‘Pill!
Pill!’ he-cried. ‘Mrs. Barsley, dis is one of dem
sailors who ban daught me do English sbeak! You
pletty so-and-so!’ he says to Bill, but it was full of
brotherly affectation, the way he said it.
“ ‘Afraid I’ve got you in the pool, Count,’ says
Bill, which, from what he said, had heard from an-
other sailor that he had seen the Count coming out of
the Reggy Straw’s office where the marriage had taken
place ; and Bill had gone along there to see where he
could find the Count, and found his wife. ‘Your
missus here’
“ ‘Missus! ’ cries the woman, which she was very
arty fishy in her ways and evidently didn’t like being
called that. ‘Valdemare, answer me: Are you a real
count? Are you an arched duke?’
“ ‘I nod say effer I vas an arched duke,’ said the
Count. ‘Joe Coddlehoy he magke up dat story ven
he vas dublicity mans dose bicture shows vor. He
say der beobles vill goom to see der man who an
arched duke vas. He gif me a few pob.’
“ ‘But you’re a count,’ I says. ‘Mr. Martin said
you were a count.’
“ ‘I a Vide Russian vas,’ the Count said, looking
puzzled as one of them Pinks that answered the riddle
of the sands. ‘On der sheep dey call me Gount. Isn’t
dat righd?’
“‘You’re not well born?’ that bride of his, who
looked old enough to have better sense, almost
screamed at him. But he only looked puzzled.
“ ‘lt’s this way,’ says the man he called Bill. ‘We
seafaring blokes always call a Rooshin “Count.” We
called the Count here that; and he got used to it. He
took it for granted that that was right fer Wide Rus-
sian in our lingo. The Count’s a good sort; not the
sort of bloke to claim to be what he ain’t.’
“There was that woman crying out that she had
been married on false pretensions and she’d get a
divorce ; and there was a terrible sensation, even after
she had gone. The Count didn’t seem to mind her
going ; he had lost his adored (which that Miss Gaskins
and her mother left the flats next day) and he didn’t
mind losing the other woman.
“Which she did get her divorce on the grounds
of desecration, the Count not going near the court to
say anything ; but if you look in them socialistic notes
in the papers, she still goes on calling herself Countess
with that name that is so like a sneeze that I can’t
announce it. So she got all she seemed to want from
marrying the poor Count.
“So there he was left staying on in 12a and
owing more rent; after all that had happened I hadn’t
the heart of stone to ask him to go. And people soon
got over being hostile to him. Everybody likes him
now, as you know ; he likes to be so pleasant to
everybody even if he does owe his rent most of
the time.”
Mrs. Parsley paused.
“And now he is going,” I said reproachfully.
“The dear old feller!” she said. “You see, he
owes all that rent, and he’ll never be able to pay it up.
And along comes a tenant with a pension who wants
just such a room as that 12a with a cheap rent which
he’ll always be able to pay.”
My looks were accusing.
“So,” pursued Mrs. Parsley, “I decided to marry
the Count. We’ve always been friends and I wouldn’t
like the dear old feller to be without a home ; so get-
ting married seemed the best way of saving the rent
of his room. We was married last night, quiet.”
I was staggered ; as I rose to congratulate Mrs.
Parsley she spoke again. “You see, that Corney cup-
holder brings some unexpectorated things. At all
events I don’t want them socialistic papers to be calling
me Countess.”
An Autumn Song.
(I)
The ageless earth receives an autumn night.
He breathes the timeless ether passively,
Easing his shoulders on the stooping sky:
He dreams a moon-mist smooths his ancient lines.
The willow sheds her leaves (and no regrets);
The plum-tree shrinks he[ ancient skeleton;
An apple takes a tumble and lies still;
- And moss gnaws closer on the crumbling wall.
We are resigned to autumn silently:
Although the moon “reviving old desires”
Involves us in a mild hysteria,
It passes with the breath of bedded leaves.
The ennui of the earth subdues our blood.
The ceaseless oceans weary us to sand:
Empires and loves . . . myths and philosophies . . .
Trail with the debris of forgotten shores.
(II)
Trail in the line that threads this arid shore;
Where the old sea sinks, crooning, to her ebb,
Of youth and youth’s fine certainty of power,
For her no more—she, too, in us is dying.
Here on a bleaching drift of sticks and straws,
A synthesis of shores of ages—left
By timeless tides —our poor inheritance,
We shape eternity with brittle fingers.
And wonder what remains of us after all
When' the old sea moons backward, and her cold
Barren-blown passions mutilate the shore,
With our last traces empty footprints . . . whither? . . .
What becomes of us after her sterile lips
Scatter with fruitless kisses this poor drift:
Egypt . . . Greece . . . New York . . . with splintered
shells? ...
Was that a step? ... or just a leaf . . . falling? . . .
N.s.w.
A. LESTER McINTYRE.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
Jf ffblt Tmllcti/ne^SandJmiquel
ST. PANCRAS—LONDON’S GOTHIC RAILWAY STATION.
At the eastern end of that drab but busy thoroughfare—Euston-road—are located two famous railway termini—St. Pancras and
King’s Cross, architecturally poles apart. The former dominates, it may be said, the immediate locality, and is at once the most ambitious
and splendid attempt to apply the Gothic principles to the severely utilitarian purposes a railway station represents. But the genius
of the late Sir Gilbert Scott proved equal to the occasion. St. Pancras is perhaps the best-known railway centre in London to the
vast majority of Australians and New Zealanders who visit the Empire’s metropolis. Leaving their steamer at Tilbury, the train journey
to the “Mecca of their desires” brings them into that vast arch comprising the roof which lies behind the hotel occupying the chief
portion of the structure illustrated. The graceful spires and clock tower, the porch and magnificent Gothic arcade are suggestive of
much the antithesis of what “the iron road” conjures up. While not of such vast proportions as the Central Station at Frankfurt-au-
Main or the Staats-Bahnhof at Vienna, admittedly most imposing termini, St. Pancras has a charm of its own, and is justly regarded
as externally one of the finest buildings in London, and in certain senses the most elegant railway station in the world, making all
allowances for the Victoria Terminus, Bombay, and the severely-classical solidity of the work of the architect who designed the
Pennsylvania terminus in New York City. St. Pancras is the youngest but three Marylebone, Victoria and Waterloo —of the “iron
gateways” of the Metropolis, having attained the respectable age of 72 years. There have been rumours that it may, owing to varying
conditions associated with transport, shortly be removed. One hopes this is but a rumour for many reasons. Dangers of modern conditions
of warfare place all great structures within the ambit of potential “destructive threatening,” which in itself is sufficiently disquietening
in all conscience.


EASTER COMES TO CHRISTIAN FINLAND.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch (Aws.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : l Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
PEACE, TRUCE OR WAR?
Compared with the blanketing of the subject for years
up to last September, it is remarkable how favorably
and prominently the faintest whispers about peace
are being reported. The slightest prospects are dis-
cussed as if the menace of aggression had never
troubled a soul. The suspicion grows that the recent
onslaught of gloom, launched by British as well as
Australian leaders, might not have been so much for
the avowed purpose of steeling public resolve to face
a distasteful job as for the hidden purpose of helping
to turn the public mind into the proper mood for
regarding peace as at least worth considering.
However that may be, it is positive that powerful
efforts to bring about peace have been surging behind
the scenes. Among other signposts to what has
evidently been going on all along was the belated
news that leading British churchmen, including the
Archbishop of York, flew to Holland in January to
attend an international conference which has been
linked up with the Welles peace offensive. Meanwhile,
the destruction of Hitlerism seemingly remains the
leading war aim, while, on the other hand, there is this
plethora of peace talk without the qualification of
that aim entering into the discussion.
No wonder people are bewildered and sceptical.
They know that either that aim must be merely a
catchphrase—that Hitlerism was never a menace so
dread and threatening that there had to be a war
to destroy it —or else the hope of peace now is no-
thing but a mirage. The combination of the aim
and the hope refuses to make sense. Tossed alter-
nately day by day from one to the other —today
told once more that the menace and the aim to destroy
it are still the meaning of this war, and tomorrow
given further hope of an arranged peace—the public
mind is confused. The result is that probably nothing
short of the combat actually joined—with terrible
fighting, aerial bombings, the lists of slaughter and
the rest of it—will now convince the body of people
that this war is real. They will believe it when they
see it.
The difference between the recently taken atti-
tude towards peace and that formerly taken was most
strikingly demonstrated in the reporting of, and com-
ments on, the Italian colliers’ deal. A few diehard
Fireside Fusiliers —the “News-Chronicle,” of course,
among them —would still like to see Britain bluntly
refusing to have any truck with such an accommo-
dation ; but, generally speaking, an extraordinary
change has come over those who for years past had
frothed at the mouth over the slightest supposed
affront to false dignity. There is tragic irony in the
fact that they did most of their frothing over Italy.
At that time The Bulletin was one of the few
organs of public expression in Australia —or any-
where else, for that matter —to see any virtue what-
ever in peace. It was concerned about the dangerous
inflaming of the public mind with tendentious news
and poisonous hate propaganda, the clamorous culti-
vation of the war mood everywhere. This paper was
then abused for its peace attitude, by none more than
those who have lately turned the most acrobatic
somersault in the direction of peace. But it had its
following of war-experienced and other thinking
readers. These and others of their kind have never
had any doubt about what war would signify if it
came. They faced the prospect realistically, while
being alarmed at the drift. They now realise that if
this war has to be fought out —if the menace of Hitler-
ism and the aim to destroy it represent the reality,
and all this peace talk the mirage—then there is no-
thing for it but to go in and win by every means
available, even if this must mean the suspension of
some democratic conveniences and liberties, including
the liberty of defeatists and traitors to damage the
war effort.
However, the choice of these who all along have
had a genuine interest in the settlement of world
problems to ensure peace would still be for a fair
peace if that were possible. They are now joined
in this by a vast number who have had the romantic
notions knocked out of their heads by what has
already happened and, more, by what threatens. Also,
of course, there are those who formerly erupted fire
and hate but now want peace of any sort, fair or
otherwise, and who, if it comes to tragic war, will
go to any length—in fostering strikes, in sabotage and
otherwise —to damage the nation’s war effort, unless
they are looked after. The sum of all these adds up
to a weighty total of peace-wishers. Whether their
combined weight will tell nobody can hope to predict,
but that it has increased so tremendously after some
six months of a hitherto merely halting war is too
significant to be overlooked.
It can be contended —and in the event certainly
would be—that any peace that could now be arranged
would be no more than a temporary truce. It is
further assumed that such a conclusion to this war
would be inescapably disastrous. As far as Australia
is directly concerned that might well be questioned.
In its scope and breadth the present Australian war-
effort defence scheme merits all the emphasis and
praise Mr. Menzies has given it. The measure of com-
pulsory national service, the share in the Empire air
scheme, the planning and achievement on the industrial
side, including already the supplying of Australia’s own
needs, as well as “providing Great Britain and New
Zealand with a surprisingly large variety of muni-
tions”—with a continuation of this effort Australia,
given two or three years of even a peace that might
have to be rightly described as only a truce, would
be an extremely hard nut for any possible hostile
Power to crack. Even as things stand, Australia, for
the first time, could now put up a pretty hot defence.
With the advantages of its geographical position and
the fighting quality of its men, it could soon be made
just about impregnable.
Other arguments could possibly be advanced in
favor of even a truce-peace. If after a time it lived
up to the assumption and failed, it might have been
possible in the meanwhile to have achieved some
diplomatic victories. Unpredictable developments and
events might improve the Allied combine, which is
not weak as it stands. The explosive elements in the
Nazi-Soviet pact, against the Anti-Comintern Pact,
might go off. In any case, both the notion that any
sort of peace now attainable would necessarily be
only a truce and the belief that it would inescapably
be disastrous are, after all, only abstract assumptions
with no better ground than the many other cocksure
assumptions which events have proved false.
Offered a peace that seemed to hold out hope of
its being made real, there is no doubt about where
Australia’s interest would lie or what the answer
would be. On the other hand, if all the current peace
efforts prove only a disgracefully conjured-up, tragic
mirage, and if the war gets going in earnest, there
is also no doubt about where Australia’s interest will
lie or what will be its response. This country will
then be with Britain to the end—for reasons of self-
interest no less than of sentiment. Any present appear-
ances which may seem to make that questionable can
be safely dismissed as due only to the peace?-truce? -
war? confusion and uncertainty, which must soon be
resolved, one way or the other.
Finland Will Rise Again.
Another act in the bloody tragedy of Finland has
been staged, though not the last act. Worn out after
104 days of incessant fighting in Arctic weather
against overwhelming numbers of men and machines,
the little republic had to accept a peace conceived in
the spirit of the Romanoff forerunner of the Red
barbarian Stalin, Peter, called the “Great.”
To the last the Red barbarian and his boyars
protested that they were not engaged in a war of
conquest. The terms of the armistice show what
cynical liars they were —and are. By robbery under
arms they have seized the Karelian peninsula, with
Viborg, the Finns’ sacred city, from which Karelia
was Christianised. They have grabbed the Finnish
Eastern Railway and all the land east of it, and per-
haps some west of it. They have annexed Viborg Bay
and all the islands in it. They are to have a “lease”
of 60 square miles of mainland and island with Hango
as the centre, giving them a military area and a naval
base from which they can control the entrances to the
Gulf of Bothnia and the Gulf of Finland.
Helsingfors, the capital, lies between Viborg and
Hango. It is now trapped, its railway system con-
trolled at both ends, its sea entrances menaced by
Russian guns. And in the north the Red barbarians are
to receive portion of the Rybachi peninsula, from
which they can control the sea entrance to Petsamo.
They have extorted free passage for freight, aircraft
and Red agents across the Petsamo area to Norway,
and “permission” to build a line from Kandalaksha,
on the Murmansk-Leningrad railway, to Kemittrask,
near the Swedish border. Thus they will control Fin-
nish traffic with Norway, will be in a position to
divert the traffic of northern Finland and the British-
owned Petsamo nickel mines to Murmansk, and will
have means of striking at Norway and Sweden.
In the result Finland will be bottled up on all
sides. At least half a million of her people will
abandon their homes and belongings rather than go
into bondage under a Georgian tyrant. And the
menace of Moscow has been brought to the doorsteps
of Norway and Sweden —Hango is 170 miles from
Stockholm.
So the bloodthirsty Stalin has more than justified
his right to send the telegram which he dispatched to
Ribbentrop when that new Comrade congratulated
him on his sixtieth birthday:—-
I thank you, Herr Minister, for the congratulations.
The friendship between the peoples of Germany and of
the Soviet Union, cemented by blood, has every basis
for being lasting and firm.
“Cemented by blood” it has been, the blood of
Poles and Finns, shed in sheer savagery and accom-
panied by wanton destruction, such as Europe had not
witnessed since the Thirty Years’ War.
Hitler, who posed for years as the bulwark of
Europe against the Oriental barbarism of Bolshevism,
could have saved the Finns. One word would have
done it, but instead of uttering it he handed a little
Christian nation over to the Red hordes of atheism,
who have inherited the cruelty of the Tartar con-
querors of Russia without their capacity to fight.
Once they were sure of Hitler, Stalin and Molotov
tried to force the Finns to become their vassals, con-
tinually under armed guard, in exchange for 70,000
square kilometres of barren clay on which 20,000
wretched people could not grow enough grain to feed
themselves. The Finns refused and stood their
ground, notwithstanding insults and threats.
If the Communists could have got what they
wanted without fighting there would have been no
war. Communists never fight unless there is no
alternative, and then only if the odds are immensely
in their favor. The attitude of the Finns made it
necessary to invent a pretext for an undeclared war.
It was alleged that Finnish gunners had fired on
Russians across the frontier. The Finnish Government
denied it, swearing that at the time of the incident its
nearest light field gun was 12y miles from the
frontier —far out of range —and that Finnish soldiers
had seen the shots fired from Russian territory at
an empty post minutes before. It suggested a joint
investigation. This Molotov refused, replying in the
brutal language only used by bullies when they are
in the wrong.
Straightway the Red barbarians denounced the non-
aggression pact which they had pledged themselves to
observe till 1945, save in the case of aggression by one
of the Powers. Within a few hours Finland had been
invaded along the whole length of the border, on a
scale which showed that the attack must have been
organised weeks before the affair of the border shoot-
ing. Helsinki, Viborg and a dozen more towns were
bombed without warning.
The war having begun, the liars of Moscow gave
it out that they were not at war. They said they were
merely taking precautions against Finland being used
as a jumping-off place for “capitalist bandits,” and
assisting a new Finnish Government (“the Govern-
ment of the Democratic Republic of Finland”) to
overcome the “Butcher” Mannerheim and the White
Terror. The “Democratic Government of Finland,”
with its head, Comrade Kuusinen, has now mysteriously
disappeared. The armistice was negotiated with the so-
called “butchers,” with whom Moscow and its Aus-
tralian Communist friends averred that they would
“never bargain save with the bayonet.”
Moscow’s excuses for its crime against a little
Christian people would not deceive an imbecile, let
alone history. Though the main object was alleged
to be the securing of safety from attack, the pretended
fears were developed at a moment when Moscow
agents were telling the world that the Red Army and
Air Force were “invincible,” and when “Imperialist
Britain and France” had entered upon a struggle with
Germany that would obviously absorb all their powers.
And the time chosen for the invasion was the begin-
ning of winter, when frozen seas made it certain that
Finland could not be used for months as a jumping-
off place or receive the protection of any friend out-
side the Baltic.
Moreover, there was no danger of invasion
through Sweden and Norway. Sweden and Norway
were pledged to absolute neutrality, in common with
other nations of the Oslo bloc, Finland included. Even
had they not been so pledged they would scarcely
have been mad enough to believe that they them-
selves would not be subject to immediate attack from
Germany were they to allow the passage of British
and French troops to a position from which a wedge
might be driven between Germany and Russia.
Help was offered by the British and the French —
M. Daladier has revealed that 50,000 Allied troops
had been standing by since February 26—but was not
accepted. Why? “Because it would have been too
hazardous,” M. Tanner, the Finnish Foreign Secre-
tary, explained, and, in any case, Sweden and Norway
had refused passage to an accredited army.
Surrender was not our fault, but the fault of others.
We were deserted by our fellow-democracies. It is
wisest to make peace while our frontiers remain
unbroken. We have risen from the ruins before this,
and we have plenty of land left. A united front is
needed just as much as in war. There is the founda-
tion of a new dawn for our nation.
A speech which any nation, however fallen, might
listen to with pride. In strong contrast were the
blusterings of the “victors,” who came out of the
war with scarcely a shred of prestige left. Their
humanity has been buried with the mangled bodies of
women and children, killed by their bombs. The
reputation of their “invincible” Red Army was lost at
the first onslaught. When the war broke out an Aus-
tralian Communist organ suggested that “the greatest
fighting machine in history” should be kept in Russia,
and that the Moscow football team should be sent to
crush the Finns. The Moscow football team could
not have done much worse than the Red Army did
until Finnish man-power had melted away and the
survivors among the defenders were half-dead from
exhaustion and lack of sleep. Some of them were in
the line for the whole 104 days. Every Digger will
realise what that means.
So, although the Finns were forced to sign a peace,
they have had the better of the bargain. They have
kept their honor. That, the Kremlin’s banditti could
not take from them, and would have had no use
for if they could have done so. The patriot bands
of the little republic were never defeated in battle.
They fought till human endurance had reached its
limit. And although for the moment they lie in
the arms of the robbers, they have preserved their
national life and enough of their territory to rebuild
their nation; and they will come again when Stalin
goes the way of all dictators and the new barbarism
is drowned in a sea of blood.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Menzies-Cameron Government.
As soon as it was certain that Mr. Cameron would
carry the Country party into another alliance with
the U.A.P., Sydney newspapers found in him merits
to which they had been blind. They gave him credit
for ability, character and energy ; a cool head and a
backbone; the paper that led the chorus of detrac-
tion even allowed that he was “essentially a just man.”
It is to be hoped that he will stand this adulation as
well as he stood the opposite.
Mr. Cameron is to be Minister for Commerce and
Minister for the Navy, with, of course, a seat in the
War Cabinet. One immediate result of his presence
in the War Cabinet is expected to be the removal
of the stupid ban on wet canteens ; and, what is far
more important, he may be able to strengthen and
accelerate war measures which, though well con-
ceived, have been seriously lacking in drive. Senator
McLeay goes from the Commerce Department to the
Customs. Mr. Spender is promoted to the Treasury.
Mr. McEwen is Minister for External Affairs,
and will become Minister for Industry also when the
coal strike is over —Mr. Hughes successfully protested
that it would be a reflection upon him to transfer
him from that portfolio while the parties with whom
he negotiated remain at daggers drawn. Mr. Thorby
succeeds Mr. Harrison as Postmaster-General, and
no doubt the A.B.C. will at once receive his attention ;
he is to be Minister of Health also. Mr. Fadden and
Mr. Nock are Ministers without portfolio.
It looks the makings of a pretty good Govern-
ment ; but the tactics decided upon are wrong. As
the leader of the largest party in the House, the
party which in the course of nine months captured
the seats held by the late Prime Minister and the
Minister sent to Washington, Mr. Curtin should have
been challenged to form a Government and make good
his claim that Labor is heart and soul for the war.
As it is, he will merely challenge the Menzies-
Cameron Government on a no-confidence motion, the
defeat of which he and his followers will welcome.
Thereupon they will sit back and criticise and exploit
the unpopularity of increased taxation until it is time
to go to the country. Then they will have a first-class
chance of capturing both Houses. And, for Aus-
tralia, that will mean the advent of a Government
deficient in experience of office, With no outstanding
characters and with a habit of subservience to Left-
Wing elements which are now outrageously pro-
Moscow and anti-Australian.
A Sorry State Election.
The one clear result of the tinpot Victorian election
is that the alleged Parliament will be more grossly
unrepresentative than ever.
Labor, though supported by a substantial major-
ity of the electors, will have 22, possibly 23, of the
65 Assembly seats. The U.A.P., which lost Castle-
maine-Kyneton to Labor and Hawthorn to an Inde-
pendent (Mr. Hollins, whom Mr. Menzies found an
awkward opponent in Kooyong), will have at most
15. Yet in contested and uncontested electorates it
has perhaps 100,000 more supporters than the Country
party; and the three groups of that party won 23
seats.
No doubt the Dunstan Country group will con-
tinue to hold office for a time. Its position has,
however, been materially weakened by the failure
of the Premier’s campaign against the Hocking fac-
tion. Mr. Hocking himself went down in Allandale,
where Dunstanites obviously voted for the Labor
member; but Mr. Cameron, in Kara Kara and
Borung, and Mr. Lamb, in Lowan, defeated the Dun-
stan nominees easily, and Mr. Allnutt, in Mildura, led
Mr. Dunstan’s man on the first count.
The Dunstan-Hocking struggle for supremacy will
be renewed at the annual conference of the C.P.
organisation. Whatever the outcome, a Labor demand
for redistribution of seats is now inevitable. The
strong vote against Mr. Tunnecliffe, the Speaker, in
Collingwood, where he was hard pressed by a recent
A.L.P. branch president, who stood as
Labor, is a warning to Mr. Cain and Ms associates
that an arrangement which is a mockery of majority
rights, and which deprives Melbourne of represen-
tation in the Ministry, won’t be tolerated much longer.
Bring These Reds to Book!
In the last hours of Finland’s agony the Federal
Council of the A.R.U. met in Sydney, and Red
windbags performed with even greater audacity than
usual.
The report of Mr. Chappie, the Federal secretary,
was read. Mr. Chappie described Finland as “a
semi-Fascist State” and the invasion as “a war of pro-
tection for Russia and its Leningrad front” and “a
war for the liberation of the Finnish workers.” In
the peace terms forced on the worn-out Finns, there
is not a word about “the liberation o'f the
Finnish workers.”
Then Comrade Moroney, the Federal president,
held forth. Comrade Moroney repeated the one about
3,800,000 Finns, spread over 134,567 square miles,
being “a constant threat to the security” of 180,000,000
of Stalin’s subjects, spread over great parts of
Europe and Asia, and proceeded to applaud the in-
vasion—without of course mentioning that it was made
in defiance of a non-aggression pact and of the
covenants of the League:
If the Soviet leaders could not remove the threat
to their country by peaceful negotiations with the
Finnish authorities, and it seemed they could not [the
Finns unaccountably chose to fight rather than accept
dismemberment and the destruction of their deiensive
system], they were as much entitled as the leaders of
other nations to remove it by such other means as they
deemed necessary.
Being bound by the League covenants, which
Nazi Germany was not, Comrade Moroney’s heroes
were not even as much “entitled” to kill and plunder
Finns as Hitler and Goring were “entitled” to kill and
plunder Poles. In other respects their invasion was
a close, though exceedingly clumsy, copy of the in-
vasion of Poland, to which it was an arranged sequel,
and the means (especially explosive and incendiary
bombs) were identical. Comrade Moroney justifies
the “means” and glorifies the end.
One of Government’s prescriptive duties is to
defend the nation and its institutions against internal
foes. In Australia this duty has been neglected too
long. A beginning might be made with these parti-
cular Red bosses. The organisation they control,
they and others of their kidney, is wholly composed
of Government employees. Red bosses have been
given large legal powers to punish members of the
union, and they have assumed dangerous extra-legal
powers. In N. S. Wales, they have, in contempt of
arbitration law, worked up a strike of Government
employees which has for the second time in a year or
so stopped traffic on a 200-mile-length of the Sydney-
Broken Hill railway, and they have fomented so-called
regulation strikes of other Government employees by
way of supporting it. Such lawless and unpatriotic
proceedings have hitherto gone unpunished, but when
they occur in war-time the nation must protect itself.
One obvious penalty that could be imposed in
these cases is the disfranchisement of those respon-
sible. Red controllers of trade-unions might also be
called upon, as a condition of holding office, to swear
obedience to the laws in the same way as members of
Parliament are obliged to take an oath of allegiance
to the Crown. It is no time for kid-glove treatment of
Moscow maniacs.
Where Is Comrade Kuusinen?
“Tovarish” : I offer a reward of a Moscow kopek,
a Czarist rouble and a shirt button guaranteed to have
been worn by Comrade Zinoviev for precise informa-
tion as to the whereabouts of Comrade Kuusinen.
Comrade Kuusinen’s movements, so far as are
known, have been as follows: —
On December 1, he was in Terijoki in Finland,
forming—with the assistance of Comrade Mauri
Rosenberg—a “People’s Democratic Republic of Fin-
land” and issuing a lot of “Awake and Arise” stuff:
Drive these hangmen, Cajander, Mannerheim and
Tanner, as far away from Finland as possible! Over-
throw this entire bankrupt Government gang.
Long-suffering, toiling people of Finland, arise!
Onward to a courageous fight against the tyranny of
your oppressors and hangmen!
Later in the same day, Mr. Kuusinen was recog-
nised by the Soviet Union as the head of the de facto
Government of Finland and “diplomatic relations were
established.”
Next day, Mr. Kuusinen was some hundreds of
miles away in Moscow signing a “treaty of mutual
assistance and friendship between the Soviet Union
and the Democratic Republic of Finland.” The time
taken in the preparation of that treaty was a record
in history for speed. Article IV read:
The Contracting Parties undertake not to conclude
any alliance nor to participate in any coalition directed
against one of the Contracting Parties.
“Pravda” published a beautiful picture of Mr.
Molotov signing this document. Messrs. Zhdanov,
Voroshilov, Stalin and Kuusinen are shown standing
behind Mr. Molotov. Mr. Kuusinen stands aloof,
and has the expression of one who has just swallowed
a prickly-pear.
On January 1, the Moscow press published Mr.
Kuusinen’s birthday greetings to Comrade Stalin:
On behalf of the working people of Finland, who
are fighting shoulder to shoulder with the heroic Red
Army to liberate their country from the yoke of the
White Guard hangmen and hirelings of the foreign
imperialist warmongers, for the victory of the inde-
pendent Democratic Republic of Finland, the People’s
Government of Finland on the occasion of the sixtieth
birthday of Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin expresses its
profoundest esteem to the great friend of the people of
Finland, Stalin, whose name will always be the symbol
of friendship and brotherhood of the peoples of the
Soviet Union and Finland, as well as of all the peoples
of the world.
To which Comrade Stalin replied that he “wished the
Finnish people and the People’s Government of Fin-
land speedy and complete victory over the oppressors
of the Finnish people, over the Mannerheim-Tanner
gang.”
I notice that the official organ of the Australian
Communist party remarks that, “although the peace
terms do not include the establishment of the Kuusinen
Government in Helsinki, there can be no doubt that
the way has been cleared for the Finnish people to
establish the People’s Government.”
But Mr. Stalin hasn’t made any move in that
direction. We hear of him patting the “White Guard
hangmen” on the shoulder, giving them beer and
signing with them an agreement which contains a
non-aggression clause in the same terms used in the
treaty of “mutual assistance and friendship” with
Mr. Kuusinen.
I am getting a bit anxious about Mr. Kuusinen.
Cables say he has been bumped off. And where is
the Finnish Democratic Government? Where is the
Democratic Army Corps, which wired Comrade Stalin
before Christmas saying “Greetings to you, great friend
and deliverer—we swear to fight to the last drop of
our blood under the banner of Stalin for the freedom
and brotherhood of the peoples of the world”? And
where is Mr. Kuusinen’s offsider Mr. Mauri
Rosenberg?
Tariff on Tripe.
Steadily growing opposition to the syndicated offal
imported cheap for use in Australian newspapers
and periodicals has crystallised in the Authors and
Artists’ Section of the Australian Journalists’ Asso-
ciation submitting a complaint to Canberra and sug-
gesting a means of stopping the evil.
The complainants hold that direct results of
feeding the Commonwealth on such tripe are:
Australian writers and artists are deprived of work.
Youngsters with a bent for, and trained in, literary and
artistic work find the field for their talents seriously
limited.
The Customs is deprived of possible revenue, and
foreign exchange is wasted at a time when it should be
conserved.
A tariff is proposed on all letterpress and
“artistic” matter imported for publication, such tariff
to bring the price to the Australian user to a level
equal to that paid under award conditions for local
material, plus 50 per cent, protective margin.
Few people will deny the truth of the statement
that the vogue of syndicated stuff is “retarding the
natural development of Australian national and cul-
tural consciousness” and that “a more or less foreign
idiom and set of thought processes are forced upon
our growing children to their detriment.”
But though church leaders, teachers and Parents
and Citizens’ Associations alike express horror at the
evident effect on children, the matter goes much
deeper. Adult thoughts are conditioned by the syndi-
cated work of foreigners who are boomed as experts,
but who have been proven fantastically wrong time
and again. The A.J.A. itself must surely be conscious
of the fact that many young journalists not only
imitate the idiom but themselves blossom forth as
writers of the same kind of stuff.
It might be said that a tariff would keep out the
good as well as the bad. A specious argument, for
the people will still have their favorites and the
customs revenue would benefit.
An aspect of syndication often overlooked is that
in the land of its origin, U.S.A., there’d be as much
chance of syndicating the best Australian work as of
finding ice-cream in Hades. The average writer in
America lives on his writing, and lives well, and his
Government protects him. Australians help him,
while the average Australian writer must work at
some mind-deadening job all day and battle with his
creative force afterwards. Imagine the reaction if
some foreigner were allowed to swamp the Australian
market with, say, boots and shoes at ridiculous
prices!
“Instead of our wealthy newspapers printing,
side by side with their appeals to patriotism, Austra-
lian ideas by Australian writers and artists, they are
filling the minds of our people with cheap imported
matter crammed with foreign phraseology and alien
ideas,” says the A.J.A. complaint. That is a true bill
and sufficient in itself to make Canberra take action
if Canberra has any Australian sentiment.
A Job for Australia.
“In a raid on the Western Front the Germans took 16
British soldiers prisoners. Brigadier-General Spears (Con.)
asked the Secretary for War in the House of Commons
whether an inquiry would be held.”
Mr. Chamberlain at once promised a royal commis-
sion, and said he would send to Australia for litera-
ture on the subject.
Mr. Attlee (Lab.): “Will the Prime Minister also
request the Dominion Government to make available
to this country as many royal commissioners as it
can spare? I understand that the Commonwealth pro-
duces them in very large numbers.”
Mr. Stanley (Con.): “It is not the intention of
the War Office to place too much reliance on Dominion
help in winning the war. We are not”
Uproar and cries of “Fascist!” “Why don’t you
face the truth?”
Mr. Chamberlain: “I cast no reflection on the
ability of Englishmen, but the fact is that whereas
we have but one Government Australia has seven,
and as each of the seven has had very extensive ex-
perience in these matters I think we should at least
avail ourselves of it. No effort must be spared that
will bring the war to a successful conclusion.”
Later, Mr. Chamberlain stated that he had con-
sulted the Australian High Commissioner (Mr. Bruce),
who assured him that Australia could supply at least
five battalions of royal commissioners, with the neces-
sary reinforcements.
He had also been informed, Mr. Chamberlain
continued, that it would be necessary to have avail-
able for the inquiry every German and British soldier
involved in or connected with the raid, together with
their commanding officers, air observers, interpreters
and battalion cooks. There would be needed at least
653 typists, 7280 reams of foolscap paper and 27
“Hansard” reporters. Australians did these things well.
The German Government, he added, had been
approached through the American Embassy in Berlin.
Although at first not enthusiastic it had at last become
curious and had agreed to make the necessary wit-
nesses available, on condition of safe conduct for
them and a corps of observers. Germany would hold
America responsible for the safety of this expedi-
tionary force. In the meantime, both sides had agreed
not to attempt further raids on the Western Front
until the findings of the royal commission had been
made known.
All Europe, added the Prime Minister, was
eagerly awaiting the arrival of the Australians, but
he wished to deny the allegation that the British Gov-
ernment hoped to defray the cost of the war from
the sale of tickets of admission to the proceedings.
Stop Press.
A late message from Canberra (Aust.) states that the
dispatch of the royal commissioners has been delayed
owing to a scarcity of shipping space for their retinues.
A later message states that a public meeting in
Narrandera, capital of Riverina, has urged that members
of all State Parliaments should accompany the royal
commissioners.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“F.S.”: A Melbourne member of the
Australian Academy of Art started to re-
paint his house, and his child, aged six,
began to take an interest. Presently the
kid grabbed a pot of paint and a brush
and started to do a bit of decoration on his
own account. His father didn’t believe
in repression, and was delighted at these
signs of budding talent in the infant.
Soon the skirting boards of a room were
covered with studies of puff-puffs,
steamers standing on their heads, oil
transport lorries and suchlike entrancing
subjects, with a few strange, sinister-
looking figures to add human interest.
One day a modernist friend dropped in
and caught sight of the friezes. “Thank
God, old man, you’ve seen the light at
last,” he shouted. “That’s a damn’ sight
better stuff than you hung in last year’s
academy! ”
* * * *
“Barber”: The tough-looking gent,
depicted by Unk White in the process of
being shaved (razors having been broken)
with an adze (B. 6/ 3 / ’4O) was a
“bong.” A bong, in our language,
need not be only one whose whiskers
grow as coarse as fencing wire ; the per-
sistent home-shaver, by erratic shaving,
careless of direction, induces the whiskers
to grow, in time, in a tangled fashion
which creates as much difficulty as tough
fibres. The expert recognises a bong on
sight; the word is whispered, and the
assistants work fast or slow as may be
needed in order to pass the tough bloke
on to the boss or one of their number
who has become unpopular. Most fights
that occur in hairdressing saloons arise
from this unfair distribution of bongs ;
one may easily put a good razor (a
barber’s razors are his personal prop-
erty) out of commission.
* * * *
“P. Street”: At least one Sydney man
feels drawn toward the Father Divine
cult. In the depression years he rented
a house to a young couple, and when the
husband lost his job allowed them to
carry on for a week or two. Then they
went off to another State owing him a
small sum and,' as the years went by, he
forgot it. The other day he got a regis-
tered letter containing the money and a
note to say that the couple had recently
been converted to the “Peace —it’s won-
derful!” movement, and one of the first
things conversion required of them was
payment of debts.
* * * S
“Nobby II”: Apropos the admission
of the Victorian Governor that he once
danced on a ship with a stoker fresh from
the stokehold, the all-male hop is a com-
mon form of entertainment in the R.N.
I once attended a dance on the quarter-
deck of one of the world’s biggest battle-
ships, at which I was the only civilian.
The wardroom decided that I was the
debutante of honor, and fixed up a
costume from a hammock and some
towels in which they presented me
solemnly to the Admiral, whose flag
lieutenant as solemnly presented me with
a beaker of rum and a bouquet of sea-
weed and onions. Then they raffled most
of my movable possessions. The piece
de resistance —at 3 a.m. —was “Neptune’s
cotillion” —a race round the deck by
senior deck officers wheeled in ammuni-
tion barrows by Royal Marine officers
to the dignified tune of “Yes, We Have
No Bananas,” played by an enthusiastic
Marine band.
* * * *
“Hawkshaw”: Sydney police are in
the frame of mind to admit that there
are ways of committing suicide too mys-
terious for them to fathom. A 23-year-
old servant girl from S. Africa with the
good Dutch name of Van Tonder was
discovered in the Clifton Gardens bush
with a stocking tied tightly round her
neck. It was tied with a granny knot and
she had been dead for hours. On the face
of it murder was clearly indicated, but
the further police inquiries went the
more evidence piled up that the young
woman had done the deed herself. She
was a stranger in a strange land; had
been “crossed in love” in S. Africa ; was
despondent; had no associates; had
threatened suicide and even attempted it
by taking an overdose of medicine pre-
scribed for a complaint which occasioned
her severe pain and deepened her depres-
sion. It was discovered that she had gone
to a beauty parlor to have her hair waved
and then attended a cinema just before
she went to her death. The hair-wave put
the detectives off the scent at the start,
but it wasn’t necessarily inconsistent with
the suicide pattern. Didn’t Caruso insist
on his best dress suit and full regalia of
jewellery as his coffin attire?
* * * *
“C.Q.”: An officer of the Light Horse
was bitten by a snake, or thought he
was, and his friends pushed a bottle of
brandy into him and rushed him off to
a doctor. Going up the stairs to the
consulting rooms he suddenly felt weak
and subsided on his haunches. Then he
leapt upright with surprising energy and,
shrieking “I’ve been bitten again,” bolted
upstairs. After examination the doctor
said gravely: “You’ve been bitten three
times apparently—once there and once
there ; that is where you sat on your
spurs. Now I’ll examine the third place.
Yes, I thought so ; that was a bull-ant.”
=» * * *
“Tuart”: No doubt Communism is a
factor in N.S.W. coal strikes (B. 13/3/”40),
it being so easy in times of excitement to
blow the always-present fires of anti-boss
feeling into a flame ; but I suspect that
the main reason for them is that striking
is an escape from dirty togs and
bullocking toil into a carefree alfresco
life in shorts. In the dingy Welsh and
North of England coalmining districts a
strike is a grim and monotonous busi-
ness of hanging round waiting for some-
thing to happen. The only alleviations
are football, cards and the like, and a
flutter on the 2.30 till the money gives
out. Because of poverty and ingrainq<|
habit, the poor devils of pitmen never get
away from a landscape which man has
made hideous to behold. By contrast,
the N.S.W. coalie lives and has his beer
on one of the most salubrious and
enchanting coasts in the world. When
the old strike fret comes o’er him he
can take his pick of bathing in lake-
water, creek and surf; of boating and
fishing ; of blackberry gathering, shoot-
ing, and snaring or trapping rabbits and
other small deer ; and for conversation
there are always the tin hares or horse-
racing, with incessant wireless broadcasts
to salt it. Whereas 8.8. C. ignores the
tin hares and limits its racing broadcasts
to five a year, Australian national and
commercial stations hurl racing reports
through the ether practically every day
in the week except Sunday, and tin-hare
reports two or three nights a week. It
is significant that the present strike was
entered upon at the beginning of autumn,
season of enchantment and of the Don-
caster ’n’ Cup, and that the 1938 affair
was ushered in at the beginning of spring
and of six glorious weeks of Randwick,
Caulfield and Flemington. Also that the
1929-30 upheaval was called off in June.
“Strict Veg.”: According to a cable,
Parisians, for the first time in living
memory, are unable to get spirits,
but champagne is plentiful and two-
pence a glass, so they can say “C’est la
guerre” with a wink. Diggers in France
in the 1914-18 war saw great tanks on
the railways similar to those in which
oil is transported. When they discovered
that they contained wine they took a
deeper interest in them. On one occasion
a row of these tanks was drawn up on
a siding near the Australian lines, and a
couple of Diggers crept underneath one
of the monsters, drilled a hole into its
belly with a bayonet and released a jet
which nearly drowned them.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Touching parents’
diagnoses of their own cases, a Mel-
bourne medico received a visit from a
woman with a son of 20 who complained
of early-morning sickness three times a
week as regular as clockwork. He had
been to the public hospital, but they
could do nothing. He thought his
trouble was “gastric stomach”; his
mother had a theory that it might he
psychological. Dissatisfied with the pro-
gress of the investigation, the doctor
asked the mother to withdraw, thinking
the patient might cough up some secret
in her absence. “What days of the week
do you have your unpleasant symp-
toms?” asked the doctor. “Mondays,
Thursdays and Saturdays,” replied the
patient. “Do anything special on the
previous evenings?” “Oh, I always go
to a party.” “Have any drinks at the
parties?” “Oh, yes.” “What do you
drink?” “Only beer.” “Much?” “Oh,
twenty-five pots —perhaps thirty.” “Did
you mention the thirty pots when they
treated you at the hospital?” “No, I
didn’t think it was necessary.” “Isn’t
it just possible,” suggested the m.d., “that
the pots may have something to do with
your gastric stomach?” “I never thought
of that,” blandly replied the youthful
toper.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Because of the censors you
don’t hear in a whole evening in a cinema
as much Rabelaisian humor as you get
at Melb. Tivoli in five minutes. The
response of the Tivolians to their prin-
cipal comedians is astonishingly imme-
diate, and a spectator unversed in their
code of innuendo, inversion and sugges-
tion is often at a loss to know why the
rest of the house is rocking with laugh-
ter. Nine-tenths of the response depends
on the responder’s repressions. The
Trobrianders, who are without most of
our taboos on the instincts, would make
a rotten audience for Mo, George Robey
or Bobby Morris. But the Trobrianders
have a tremendous taboo on all refer-
ences to uncles, so it’s pretty certain that,
if there are vaudeville comedians in the
Trobriand Islands, they get their best
laughs out of avuncular allusions.
* * * *
“Spare Corp.”: Burying or burning-
off dead horses and cows was part of
the unpleasant business of the 1918 spring
in France. When we took over the front
line the landscape was dotted with equine
and bovine carcasses. Our C.O. was
worried about them. “It’ll be a stinking
job,” he said. “I’d give a fiver to have
them burned before we move back.”
His batman-runner, Chirpy, put in:
“I’m on a fiver if I get ’em
buried? It’s as good as mine, sir!”
As we moved back two days later
the C.O. was astonished to find that the
carcasses had vanished. He willingly
paid out the reward and asked how the
deed was done. “When I came back
with messages to rear battalion head-
quarters,” said Chirpy, “there was a party
of staff officers nosing round. I gave the
boys the oil that they were taking a note
of them carcasses so that they could be
used for food to save our meat supplies.
When them Diggers got the idea that
they’d have to either bury the beasts or
eat ’em they couldn’t get hold of spades
quick enough.”
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Australian interest in
hydroponics (B. 6/3/’4O) is not confined
to Victoria. In N.S.W. hundreds of
enthusiastic soil gardeners have their
little hydroponic corner. A pal of mine
has grown tomato plants to a height of
6ft. in a few weeks, but they are all leaf
and stem, and barren ; with another mix-
ture he got (from similar seed) dwarfs
that put their entire energies into fruiting.
With the giant-producing mixture he
produced a creeper moving at an uncanny
pace and shooting out tendrils to grapple
with and suffocate everything in sight.
There is something nightmarish about
experiments like these; but the collective
research is going to result in a huge
difference in human history and man’s
methods of living.
WHEN CASEY WENT TO
WASHINGTON.
Casev made a very favorable impression with
his first public speech at a banquet as Australian
Minister to the United States.”— Cable.
He filled the eye, as nice a gent.
As Uncle Sam could have desired,
At once serenely confident
And irreproachably attired.
In garments glad correctly clad,
Impressionable hearts he won;
Our tailors got a gratis ad.
When Casey went to Washington.
To Yankee ways he’ll put us wise
And conscientiously discuss
More potent links and closer ties
Between the U.S.A. and us.
Across the vast Pacific’s blue
We’ll trust more business will be done
Between the Eagle and the ’Roo
Now Casey’s gone to Washington.
No nimble orator, perhaps,
Who wisdom drips and wit exudes,
But quite as spry as other chaps
In swapping airy platitudes.
“For any trained diplomatist,”
Our rulers reasoned, “need is none,
But here’s a bird who won’t be missed.”
So Casey went to Washington.
They spread for him the usual feast
And approbation there he earned;
His pants were admirably creased,
His pleasant phrases deftly turned.
Course y' couldn't use the road, could y'? 'Ad to come across the pad dicks wastin' the rain."
May Uncle take him to his heart,
Our first ambassadorial son!
One so sartorially smart
Could hardly fail to look the part
He goes to play at Washington.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“E.D.”: Astrology is becoming a major
industry. Sunday newspapers, headache
advertising pamphlets and special calen-
dars deal with it on a large scale, and
their seers are all agreed about the vic-
tory of the Allies and the shocking fate
in store for Hitler and his pals. So, I
suppose, are the editors of the astrological
newspaper, from whom but little is hid,
and that little not for long. Its main article
in the only copy I have troubled to buy
reads the stars for the British Chief of
the General Staff. The only thing which
does not seem to have been revealed is
his name. The editors have a theory
that it is Ironsides. I am willing to bet
the stars that it is Ironside.
“C. Coral”: The war has played havoc
with Old Moore’s Almanac. The 1940
edition evidently was in the printer’s
hands before the outbreak, and the book
makes humorous reading in the light of
present happenings. Among other vague
allusions to international affairs, Old
Moore tells us “in January, 1940, hope-
fulness will be justified, and will mark a
new era.” In April, Poland will be “dis-
“If you Were any sort of a man you'd be up waterin' the garden instead
of leavin' your wife to do it”
turbed” and “death of a soldier is
shown.” In August Poland “will still be
a storm centre.” International affairs will
improve in September, “war talk losing
its appeal.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A Glenelg (S.A.) constable
has been honorably acquitted on a charge
of stealing a boat. He said that, having
bought a motor-boat and needing a
dinghy, he was told that there was one
drifting about in the Patawalonga Creek
and seemingly abandoned. After watch-
ing it for some time he carted it away,
repainted it, and kept it at the jetty moor-
ings in case an owner came along —
which happened a month later. He had
told lots of residents how he got the
boat, and the case was dismissed.
* * *
“V. Cluse”: As the tram swung out
of Sydney’s King-street on the trip to
Watson’s Bay the elderly man’s eyes
swept along the contours of St. Mary’s
Cathedral, examined the people walking,
the trees, the cars.
Up through Darling-
hurst, down through
Rushcutter Bay and
Edgecliff, on the
long curve to Rose
Bay and up the
heights of Vaucluse,
he missed nothing of
the buildings, the
people, the traffic,
the trees, gardens
and life. He looked
down on the shining
harbor and beyond
to wooded Middle
Head and distant
Manly. He was so
obviously seeing for
the first time Syd-
ney’s most beautiful
tram trip that I re-
marked, “This your
first visit to Syd-
ney?” He smiled
slightly. “I’ve been
travelling in and out
every day for six-
teen years,” he said.
I looked around.
Practically every-
body in the tram sat with bent head,
reading book or newspaper. Their faces
had a fixed expression, their eyes were
indrawn, their mouths had a weary
droop. Young and old alike looked like
people crushed beneath a terrible bore-
dom. I looked again at the vital young
face of the elderly man, and surrep-
titiously shoved my magazine under the
seat, for—Lord help me!—l had been
travelling that route for only three years!
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”: Sundry remarks by
“O. Timothy” (B. 28/2/’4O) on the ques-
tion whether O. Henry read Such Is Life
while in gaol remind me that some
Americans at least have had their educa-
tion in Australian literature improved
while behind bars. Soon after the death
of E. J. Banfield, “The Beachcomber” of
Dunk Island, his widow received a letter
from a prisoner in a U.S.A. penitentiary
asking, on behalf of himself and some
“buddies,” if she would send them one
or two of her husband’s books. They
had read Confessions of a Beachcomber
—probably having fallen upon it under
a pardonable misapprehension in respect
of the first word of the title—and yearned
to read more about the idyllic isle off
the coast of North Queensland. At Mrs.
Banfield’s request I sent Last Leaves from
Dunk Island to that enterprising suppli-
cant, so that if a bunch of Uncle Sam’s
bad boys turn up some day to start life
afresh on an Australian island we will
know the reason why.
* * * *
“A. Polio”: Those society nitwits who
show their contempt for the rest of the
world by pronouncing names wrongly
usually refer to the Archibald memorial
fountain in Sydney’s Hyde Park as the
“Arckibold” or “Archbold.” Sydney
“Sun” has been infected to the extent of
reporting that the main body of the
crowd at St. Mary’s for Archbishop
Kelly’s funeral “extended back almost
to the Archbold fountain.” It’s only a
line was built in the ’eighties and these
two connecting bridges over deep gullies
in the Adelaide hills always gave a thrill
to the passengers because they had no
railings. Mais (afterwards of Victoria) as
Engineer in Chief, always declared that
the viaduct was as safe as any other part
of the line, and so it proved, but after
matter of time now before
some social writer will sug-
gest that the name on the
memorial must be wrongly
spelt.
* * *
“Kerys”: Our office-boy
Oswald had been behaving
suspiciously for some time.
In lunch hours and at the
end of the day he dived
into a large, unused cellar
under the store and re-
mained there, apparently
communing with himself.
After a time reports began
to circulate of weird noises
coming from under the
earth, and our charlady
gave notice because she had
heard diabolical laughter
arising from nowhere after
the staff had all left the
office and she was alone in
the building. The accoun-
tant came to the conclusion
that Oswald was going
queer, and that it was a
case for the sack. But be-
fore it was administered, the
boss, down in the store-
room, heard beneath his
feet the sound of laughter,
wild and terrifying, inter-
spersed with other strange
noises. He called the ac-
countant, and together they
listened, then crept silently
down the cellar steps. The
creak of the door stopped
the sounds, and Oswald
stood revealed as the author.
He explained that he was
a member of a bird league,
and was in training for a
competition in imitations of
a kookaburra and other
feathered pals. The boss,
highly amused, let him give his whole
repertoire, rewarded him with a florin,
and hoped he’d win. Oswald did.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: There is a parable or some-
thing in the blowing-up, as a war-time
exercise for S.A. engineers, of the foun-
dations of the famous old “viaduct” on
the Melbourne line just outside Adelaide,
for in the last war guarding this same
vulnerable spot in Australia’s railway
communications was a solemn duty. The
40 years it needed renewing ; instead, the
line was deviated, necessitating a tunnel.
The steel has long since been removed,
and now pylons have gone down as a
bit of railway-destroying practice for
young engineers.
* * * *
“D.E.”: I knew Jack Drayton (B.
13/3/ ’4O), and was one of scores who
visited him in Fremantle gaol in 1904.
One vSydney paper says he was there for
a “few days,” and imputes his incarcera-
tion to the “Daglish Government” ; an-
other explains that it was because he
“exposed the Kalgoorlie gold ramp.”
Daglish, the first Labor Premier, was
merely the instrument of the House.
Drayton, much as I admired him as a
journalist, had gone looking for trouble
as editor of the Kalgoorlie “Sun.” His
pen ran amuck at that period. He wrote
a ferocious libel on a predecessor whom
everybody else liked (the closing asser-
tion was “Blank brought to this State a
reputation which could not be dam-
aged”), and thumping damages would
have been awarded if one juryman hadn’t
brought about a disagreement. Then the
traduced pressman chivalrously dropped
the case. Drayton’s choicest term for
another editor, who was also a Federal
member, was “watery-eyed bog-trotter.”
His articles on the “Empress of Cool-
gardie ‘Scandal,’ ” a trumpery affair, were
written in the same vein, and his refusal
to communicate to a select committee
facts which he said he had up his sleeve
was not unjustly punished. It was by
his own choice that he “took it out.” At
Fremantle he had a private room, which
was well stocked with liquors and cigars
for friends (he was on the wagon him-
self), and for a while he found it a
pleasant change from Kalgoorlie,
especially as his salary went on and he
continued to hit out at all and sundry.
When gaol regulations were enforced at
the instance of the suffering Labor Gov-
ernment, it was another story. Dr. John-
son would have appreciated Drayton;
like himself, Jack was a good hater. He
was also a good friend and a rattling
good pressman, and his unconquerable
spirit triumphed over the cruel afflictions
of cancer and blindness.
* * * *
“Hamer”: A boy in our suburb saw a
pocket-book fall from an old gentleman’s
pocket, picked it up, ran after him and
returned it. A group of boys called
“Come on, Tom!” and he ran off to join
them before the elderly chap could thank
him. There was nearly £6OO in notes in
that wallet, so its owner resolved to
reward the honest lad. All he had to
go on was that the youngster was named
Tom and apparently between 13 and 15.
The old gent, decided to make a search in
the schools of the locality. He found the
youth at the second, and gave him a
fiver. But he got a surprise at the first
school he visited. Among the hundreds
of boys there wasn’t one Tom.
ARS POETICA.
Would you become a real poet, brother,
And sain a place among the shining throng
Whom learned critics vie with one another
in labelling our modem sons of song?
A thoroughly commendable ambition,
I may admit, for anyone to nurse;
But to be realised, the first condition
Is not to write intelligible verse.
Your theme will not particularly matter.
All’s fish into the poet’s net that swings,
From deeds that shake the world to lovers
Fromcreeds and cults to cabbages and kings.
But when you start your inmost thoughts
expressing
The first essential of the new routine
(Remember) is to keep your readers guessing
And speculating about what you mean.
Obscurities that set dull people frowning
And rhymeless lines all metric laws that fault
Were Dowerless to cook the goose of Browning
Or knock the stuffing out of Whitman (Walt).
Be blithe and gay, or cynical and caustic,
But keep in mind, whate’er in hand you ve
got,
The more you make it read like an acrostic
The surer you may feel you’ve hit the spot.
Would you be hailed a dinkum poet, brother?
Well, here is what would seem the latest test:
Just grab your lyre and resolutely smother
Illusions that the simplest words are best.
Your views on any elemental passion
In gusts of verbiage you may rehearse
Only beware (if you’d be in the fashion)
Never to write intelligible verse!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


m
m,
w*
m
10 lot $4* "
20 for 1/6
sa
CRAVENA
are so inueh smoother
#>* w
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
2818 j
POLITICAL POINTS
Cameron, Thorby, McEwen, Fadden
and Nock have entered the Ministry, and
Harrison, Perkins and Holt have left it.
Perkins, who is in poor health, philoso-
phically anticipated the inevitable, with-
drawing in a letter to the P.M., and
Harrison took it in good part. Both
gentlemen would be only human if they
felt sore, for being asked to stand down
for expediency’s sake was no new ex-
perience for either.
Labor was the one party that gained
at the Victorian Assembly election. It
won Castlemaine-Kyneton, and may win
Bulla-Dalhousie, from the U.A.P., and it
increased its 1937 majorities almost
everywhere. In fact, it clearly represents
a majority of the people, but because the
arrangement of seats (65) is rotten it will
have no more than 23. Naturally, the
results brought no pleasure to Argyle,
but they were a regular facer for Dun-
stan. His object in rushing the election
was to dispose of the Hocking faction.
Though Hocking failed in his attempt on
a seat (Allandale), three of his Parlia-
mentary supporters (Cameron, Lamb and
Dodgshun) are safe, and the fourth (All-
nutt) was leading on Monday.
Premier Dunstan to the admiring
“Age” when he “concluded his tour of
the four ‘rebel’ electorates”:
The tour has been a triumphant success,
with record meetings in nearly every
town visited. Everywhere our reception
has been splendid, and from the enthusiasm
shown I believe the Government can-
didates have bright prospects of dislodg-
ing the sitting members.
There must be a lot of legpullers in those
“rebel electorates.”
Two facts simultaneously published in
Sydney: (1) The Government’s deficit
for eight months was £5,658,200 ; (2) it
is guaranteeing “£25,000 for the expenses
of Argosy Films, £15,000 for the ex-
penses of Famous Films and £12,500
for the expenses of Cinesound Features.”
No wonder it has five-million deficits
when that’s what it does with the public
money.
Though the birthrate has gone to the
bow-wows, bureaucracy multiplies itself
amazingly. A young gentleman who was
“Private Secretary to the former Premier,
Mr. Stevens,” and was then appointed
Chief Clerk in the Premier’s Department,
is now Assistant Under-Secretary. The
gentleman who was Assistant Under-
secretary and Acting Under-Secre-
tary is now Under-Secretary and
Permanent Head. The gentleman who
was Under-Secretary, then Agent-General
for a few months, becomes President of
the Superannuation Board. Before
N.S.W. politicians got grandiose ideas
there was no Premier’s Department, and
the war has made the superfludusness of
the Agency-General patent to everyone
but the politicians and the bureaucracy.
After all that has appeared in the
flapper press about the marvels of im-
munisation, it was disappointing to read
that there were 4124 cases of diphtheria
in N.S.W. last year—ll 42 more than in
Victoria (1649) and Queensland (1333),
which have 150,000 more people. It is
admitted that 250,000 N.S.W. children
have been immunised. Hospital reports
suggests that the thing has value, but
too much has evidently been claimed for
it.
The Jewish refugee was made an issue
in the St. Kilda (Vic.) election. Michaelis,
the U.A.P. member, said in a speech that
his concern had been accused of sacking
Australians to find room for refugees;
he denied it and spoke of taking “legal
proceedings at the appropriate time.”
Then he went on to champion the lost
cause of seven Parliaments, and that
probably did him more harm than the
other thing. Anyway, his opponent,
Dawkins, who drily pointed out that
in the two Houses at Melbourne and
the two at Canberra a dozen members
can claim to represent St. Kilda, polled
remarkably well.
Obviously nothing has disturbed Hitler
so much as the threat imputed to him
in the Rauschning book that he would
“annihilate Christianity in Germany.”
In every speech he has made since the
Rauschning book was published he has
invoked the blessings of Providence on
his Nazi country. In a New Year mes-
sage, “the Almighty, Who in the past year
so clearly took us under His protection,”
“At the instance of Premier Mair, prayers for rain were offered up in N.S.W. on
Sunday. That same day Queensland reported more fierce downpours and floods and the
approach of another cyclone; Mackay, Premier Forgan Smith’s electorate, had eight inches
in 24 hours.”
“Lord, Lord, as the meenister said, this is positively rideeculous!”
was invited to “vouchsafe again his bless-
ings,” and he sent Ribbentrop to inter-
view the Pope when his wandering
Minister was in Rome. It is recorded
that Ribbentrop “looked very serious”
when leaving the Vatican, whose radio
station has for weeks denounced the
atrocities committed on Catholic Poles.
A surprising number of candidates for
Victorian Assembly seats spoke in favor
of the abolition of State Parliaments, and
gradual transfer of powers to regional
or county councils, with an organisation
to work for it, was decided upon by the
24 Riverina local bodies who sent dele-
gates to Narrandera. And a Labor sec-
tion wants to be in it. The Pyrmont
(N.S.W.) branch of the A.L.P. is
proposing that “the abolition of
State Parliaments be the first plank
of the Federal Labor policy,” and that
it should be put to a vote of the people
“within six months of Labor assuming
office.” Three other branches and two
State Councils have abolition motions
on the A.L.P. conference business-paper.
There will be some rare old hulla-
baloos at the N.S.W. Labor conference
which breaks out at Easter, and Lang
will be in the thick of them all. He
will never be satisfied until he regains
his old ascendancy, and his position has
been strengthened by the tactics of his
enemies, who, in dealing with branches
that support “the Big Fellow,” have
copied his own ruthless methods. And
his campaign against Communism has
helped him, since his bitterest enemies
are Moscow men.
The A.L.P. conference at Sydney is
to be asked (1) to support Soviet policy,
(2) to “condemn the aggression of the
U.S.S.R. against Finland and congratu-
late the Finns on their valiant stand
against the combined forces of Nazism
and Communism,” and (3) to extirpate
Communism, root and branch. It is quite
on the cards that the anti-Communists,
led by Lang, will walk out and form
another Labor party.
Victorian bushfire-prevention and con-
trol measures have been tried and found
wanting again. Fires ranged from Noojee
in eastern Gippsland to Mortlake and
Dunkeld in the Western District. A life
was lost, and losses of stud merinos and
other stock, homesteads, fencing, pasture,
houses, schools, have been reckoned at
quarter of a million or more. It all hap-
pened while Dunstan was concentrating
on his pitiful wrangle with Hocking.
This is a banner year for elderly
officials in Sydney. Still another has
been dragged from a comfortable retire-
ment to help win the war: at 64 John
Garlick, a former civil-service “head,”
is to become deputy chief communica-
tions censor. The chief is Forbes Mac-
kay, aged 68. Congratulations are also
due to Clifford Hay (62 next month),
who has been appointed chairman of
the Superannuation Board for seven
years—the term for which T. J. Har-
tigan, of the Railways (63), and Newell,
of the Main Roads (rising 63), were re-
appointed. Anyone know of a chance
for a retired ’Bidgee whaler who will
never see 90 again?
What Reds boisterously proclaim the
biggest coal strike in history is in its
second week. Enthusiasm for it inside
the industry is mainly confined to a
parcel of leaders and pannikin bosses
and outside to Communist union sec-
retaries. Queensland Labor has refused
support. Extremists in the Federated
Enginedrivers and Firemen demand “a
general strike to enforce the 40-hour
week,” and this disgraceful proposal for
blackmailing the nation when it is at war
is to be “considered” next month or next
century.
In Westralia Government railway re-
freshment rooms and dining cars are
leased for five years, and tenders for
leases —separate lots or the whole show
—are due at the end of March. The
method must be profitable or it would
not be continued. In N. S. Wales the
department runs the refreshment rooms
and bars, and on an annual turnover
of £BOO,OOO or so it has succeeded in
losing thousands, although it pays neither
taxes nor rates and although in some
cases its charges are terrific. For ex-
ample, at Penrith, 34 miles from Sydney,
it exacts 2s. 6d. for an ordinary bottle
of Sydney beer and
a very small bottle
of lemonade. The
Sydney price is
Is. 7d.
Delegates to the
A.N.A. conference
at Cowes (Vic.; had
nothing mild to say
about the plague of
over- government.
The constitutional
morass, duplicated
taxation, inter-State
jealousies and the
rise of government
by regulation came
in for acid comment.
One delegate was
cheered when he said
“we are further
away from Federa-
tion than we were in
1901.” Another de-
dared that “the
Commonwealth Gov-
ernment should be
given power to make
laws and to delegate
to provincial
authorities the ad-
ministration of those
laws.” That brought
applause that tested
the roof.
Lord Lothian, the
British Ambassador,
has been remarking on “the very strik-
ing and significant fact” that “the century
from 1815 to 1914 was a century without
world war.” Castlereagh, whose name
was given to a river, a district and a
city street in N.S.W., had a lot to do
with it. Though he was hated in his
lifetime, especially by poets, he was a
Foreign Secretary of rare parts. He
refused to permit the dismemberment of
beaten France, and waived Britain’s right
to extort an indemnity. Rejecting “the
sublime mysticism and nonsense of the
Holy Alliance,” that forerunner of the
League, he stood for non-intervention in
“the internal concerns of foreign States
with which Britain is not at war.” And
he said that never, while he was Foreign
Secretary, would Britain “undertake the
moral responsibility for administering a
general European police.” Pity there
was no Castlereagh at Versailles.
A resolution opposing the settlement
of Jews in Australia got a mixed recep-
tion at N.S.W. Graziers’ Association
conference, E. D. Ogilvie remarking that
“Whatever we do will not make much
difference, because very big forces are
behind the thing.” Conference decided
to oppose formation of alien colonies
and support absorption of “good immi-
grants,” thus appeasing both sides.


“HOW NOW, PROUD COW!”
“The 1940 R.A.S. Show was officially opened in Sydney on Tuesday.”


WJNQBAKE
SYDNEY
ms
*0 00-0
®oooo
QUALITY CUTLERY
No. 10—Baker’s
Bagging, Bottle
aiul Footrot Out-
fit. Consists of
Red Tang Shear,
i Pt. Galv. Tin
Bottle, Oil Stone
a n d Footrot
Knife.
32/e complete.
Postage, 1/6
extra.
Very Light.
3000
OPEN.
STUD LOCK (REG.)
PATTERN ALUMINIUM
SHEEP EAR LABELS. These
can be closed with a Flat
Nose Plier and will not pull
open. 15/- per 100. In lots
of 500 or more, 12/6 per 100.
Pliers for Closing Labels, 3/9
each.
W. JNO. BAKER
PTY.,
LTD.
Zai.
■ate
iri"
3*25
BAKER’S RED TANG SHEARS, double
liollow ground, Sheffield made.
Inter—
N.S.W. state
Each. Post. Post.
6/9 9d. 1/-
7/3 9d. 1/-
9/- 1/- 1/6
901— sin. Bagging Shear
902 6in. Eamb Shear ..
903 — 7lin. Sheep Shear .
3 Hunter Street,
Sydney
523—BREAD BOARD AND KNIFE,
coloured Knife Handle and Coloured
Design on 4 Corners. Knife slips into
slot at top of Board. 10/6 complete.
Postage 1/- extra.
493—8A8Y OR SMALL MODEL.
PINKING SCISSORS. Size overall,
sin., 25/-.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Hugh Macrossan becomes Chief Jus-
tice of Queensland in May in succession
to James W. Blair. He has been 33
years at the Bar, and his first job in
court was as associate to Justice Real.
In 1924 he went to London and appeared
for the Brisbane Tramway Trust in an
action before the Privy Council. He had
a term in Parliament, and was appointed
Senior Puisne Judge in 1926. Justice
Webb, who now becomes Senior Puisne
Judge, was one of the brainy boys of the
civil service in the T. J. Ryan era, was
Solicitor-General after a few years at the
Bar, and has been industrial Judge for 15
years. A new Judge has been added to
the Bench —A. J. Mansfield, son of an
old-time District Court Judge. He is 37,
an old boy of Shore and an LL.B. of
Sydney Uni.
Gerald Lightfoot, secretary of the
Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research since 1926, is a native of New-
castle-on-Tyne (Eng.), the son of a civil
engineer. At Cambridge he took first-
class honors in the mechanical sciences
tripos, and graduated M.A. In 1902 he
was called to the Bar, and 33 years ago
entered the Commonwealth public ser-
vice For six years he was chief execu-
tive officer of the C. 1.5.1. A pro-
GERALD LIGHTFOOT.
lific writer on scientific subjects,
he has contributed many papers to
local and overseas science associa-
tions, and various bulletins and pam-
phlets issued by the C. 1.5.1. were from
his pen. He has also lectured in econo-
mics for the Melbourne Uni. Extension
Board and the W.E.A. On a couple of
occasions the Commonwealth Govern-
ment has sent him abroad on special
investigations. A tall, good-looking,
courteous fellow in his early sixties, he
has been of invaluable help to The Bul-
letin’s Service Department since its in-
ception 13 years ago.
Horace K. Nock, M.H.R. for Riverina
for the past nine years, who becomes
Assistant Minister in the new Federal
Government, is a South Australian with
a wide experience of the land and
agrarian politics. He left S.A. a good
many years ago and bought a station
near Parkes (N.S.W.), Nelungaloo, noted
for several underground passages known
as Ben Hall’s Caves. He proved that
mixed farming could pay, producing
wheat, mutton, pork and fruit, and run-
ning an English Leicester stud. From
president of N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers’
Association he graduated to the Federal
Parliament, where he became U.C.P.
Whip. He has played a steady part in
the search for a home-consumption price
for wheat, and has been connected with
the Australian Wool Council and the
Wool Board.
The King’s Surgeon, Thomas
Dunhill, just appointed consult-
ing surgeon to the A.I.F. in
Palestine, is a Melburnian. He
started out as a pharmaceutical
chemist, but managed a course
at Melbourne Uni., from which
he emerged an M.D. in 1906.
In the ensuing years he de-
veloped skill as a surgeon which
was the marvel of contemporary
sawbones, and gained him an
appointment at St. Bartholomew’s in
London. The 1914-18 shindy found him
adding to his fame at Rouen. In 1928
he was appointed Surgeon to the King,
and knighted. He has now been asked to
co-ordinate surgical procedure and advise
on methods of treatment of war injuries.
A long journey from the little town of
Tragowel (Vic.), where he was born in
1876.
Victoria’s premier tourist resort, Phillip
Island, lost David McHaffie last week.
His life and his father’s comprehend the
whole white history of the picturesque
island, the original David occupying it
in 1842 under license from the British
Admiralty. It was then described as
“certain waste lands,” but it has since
grown into the State’s summer play-
ground, and, as it has . been kept a sanc-
tuary for native fauna, is one of the last
haunts of the koala, while the penguin,
the seal and the mutton-bird make of it
a sort of animal suburbia. McHaffie
was 75 at the finish.
W. S. Kelly, grazier and member of the
Tariff Board, has been granted 12 months’
leave of absence to make a voluntary jaunt
to England. He thinks his experience
will be useful in the economic war
against Germany, which in the agricul-
tural field is to take the form of
2,000,000 fresh acres of English earth
being put under the plough. He fought
the same unfriendly nation in the last war
as a soldier and got an A.I.F. commis-
sion. He is 58.
John Storey, director of manufactur-
ing for General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd.,
who has been appointed a member of the
Aircraft Commission, was born in Syd-
ney 43 years ago, son of a Labor Premier.
He was educated at Fort-street and
at Sydney Uni., where he graduated
B.Sc. He has been in the automobile
business for many years, and joined
G.M.-Holden’s five years ago. He super-
vised the erection of that firm’s exten-
sive new plants at Fishermen’s Bend,
Melbourne, and Pagewood, Sydney.
While in Sydney he was senior vice-
president of the N. S. Wales Chamber
of Manufactures and president of the
Automotive Manufacturers.
Handled his last stick of copy in Mel-
bourne, William Smith Mitchell, who in
1898 got the job of operating a linotype,
the first of its kind to be seen in Vic-
toria, which had been set up by his
father, of the firm of A. H. Massina. In
the Great War Mitchell was a staff ser-
geant in France, where he was wounded.
He returned to print the first issues of
the A.I.F. paper “Aussie.”
Robert William Westoby, manager in
Sydney of the Bank of New Zealand, is
a native of Woodville (M.L.), and started
in the bank as a junior clerk in 1897.
He climbed quickly to various executive
positions, and became an inspector at the
head office. In 1930 he crossed the Tas-
man as inspector to the Sydney branch,
and shortly afterwards found himself at
the manager’s desk. A Rugby Union
R. W. WESTOBY.
footballer in his youth, he still takes a
keen interest in the sport from the grand-
stand.
Melbourne knew one brother of the
late Sir Michael O’Dwyer and knows
well another. Father James O’Dwyer,
now dead, was rector of Xavier for
several years, and was the first rector
of Newman. Father Thomas O’Dwyer
is rector of St. Patrick’s College, East
Melbourne. He is the youngest of the
family of 15.
“El V.’s” glimpse of a potentate:
The first time I saw Michael O’Dwyer,
former Governor of the Punjab, he came to
a lunch at the Victoria Hotel in London to
see off John Maffey, the new Governor-
General of the Sudan. He was a wiry little
man, and he and Reginald Wingate, stocky,
burnt brick-red, looked like a couple of
country P.Ms. down for the Show. They
tackled Lord Chelmsford, who had been Vice-
roy, and had supported O’Dwyer and Dyer
when the latter fired on the crowd at Jallian-
wallah Bagh, Amritsar, on April 13, 1919, after
the Gandhi hartal of April 6, and the murder
of two Europeans, the stripping of two European
women in public and other atrocities. They
soon had Chelmsford at bay. Then they turned
their wit on to the immaculate Lord Meston,
who had sailed in like a Spanish galleon,
and a good time was had by all within hearing.
It was surprising to find in India afterwards
that the strongest supporters of the behavior
of O’Dwyer and Dyer were Indians. And one
of the oldest servants of the police in the
Indian Empire—he was the original of Kip-
ling’s Kim—told the writer that Dyer’s action
probably saved another mutiny which would
have cost thousands of lives.
Tom Playford, who heads the S.A.
Cabinet, is the only returned-soldier
Premier. Archie Cameron and Playford
were in the same platoon at the front,
and remain close friends. The Premier
is the fourth Tom Playford in successive
generations. One—his great-grandfather
—was at Waterloo, though later in life
he became a clergyman. The next Tom
Playford—“The Cabbage-grower”—was
S.A.’s Premier in the ’eighties. The
present Tom is also a gardener and
orchardist by occupation.
Group-Captain T. M. Wilkes, who
comes to Melbourne as liaison officer for
M.L. in Australia, is M.L.’s big air gun.
More than any other man he has helped
to give M.L. its wings, and practically
the whole of its civil and aviation equip-
ment has been built up under his direc-
tion. In 1914 he went to the World War
as commanding officer of the Advance
Corps of the M.L. Rifle Brigade. He
commanded the 2nd Battalion of the
brigade in Egypt, went to France with
it, transferred to the R.F.C., and won the
M.C. at Messines. Made Director of
M.L.’s Air Services after the war, he
claims the distinction of having been
boss of a service which has never killed
or injured a single passenger. He repre-
sented M.L. at the Tasman airmail con-
ference in Melbourne in 1938. He used
to be Fernland’s foremost Rugby wing
three-quarter.
Vincent Haggard, appointed director of
Adelaide Zoo, is son of an old-time
A.D.C. who settled in S.A. after his term
at Government House was up. He has
been deputy during the long illness of
Ronald Minchin, the late director, whose
father and grandfather had held the post
before —in fact, ever since the Zoo
existed.
Paddington (Sydney) boasts a Uni.
graduate among the police constables
who patrol the district. He is Edwin
Sanders Lowery, 8.A., who is preparing
to add M.A. to his distinctions in May.
He was a prize-competition-winning
junior farmer before he joined the force.
There is one religious denomination
in Australia which has but one church
and one pastor. That is the Australian
Church in Russell-street, Melbourne, hard
by the State Theatre. Dr. Charles Strong
is its incumbent. It is over half a cen-
tury since he started to create a church
for Australia. He is over 90, with his
personal powers undiminished.
James Murray, ex-chairman of the
Associated Banks in S.A., on his retire-
ment from banking gave a valedictory
speech at a club luncheon in Adelaide.
His parting shot was: “Some people say
money does not buy happiness. But with
money you can at least be unhappy in
comfort! ”
Joseph Charles Augustus Rundle, re-
cently appointed chairman of the board
of the State Savings Bank of S.A. for
the sixth successive year, has been one
of the bank’s trustees for 35 years. He
was born at Mt. Barker (S.A.), started
J.C.A. RUNDLE.
a general agency business at the age of
17, and did well. Nowadays he’s head
of J. C. Rundle and Co., hotel brokers,
and on the board of many cos. In bowl-
ing circles, where they don’t stand on
ceremony and call him Joe, his solid
qualities have been recognised by making
him president of the S.A. Bowling Assoc.,
a position he has held for some years.
He has also had a term as president of
the Australian Bowling Council.


%
II
.
m
5??:*
:
11
-V* P‘
STATE EXPRESS
m
hundreds and round airtight fifties
CORK TIPPED AND PLAIN: 9-6 d., 18-1/-, 27-1/6. Also flat fifties, square
541 E 2-4 C


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia -with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Heserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
d
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD
Financial Brokers and Underwriters.
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Associated Newspapers (Sydney)
, Dividends ,
Net Pref.* Towards
Sept., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. .Reserves. Deficit,
Goodwill, etc., “Guardian,” £577,470 .. 577,470
Preliminary exes., £15,073 .. . . 592,543
1930.. 102,453 95,312 Nil 7,141 585,402
Added preliminary exes., £7B .. .. 585,480
4i p.c.
1931.. 66,031 66,914 Nil 585,763
71 p.c.
1932.. 106,153 106,710 Nil 586,320
S. Bennett shares written down,
£465,500 1,051,820
Reserves.
Ord. capital written off, £1,052,121.. 301
5.4 p.c. 5 p.c.
1933.. 155,793 80,811 52,635 22,347 22,648
Reserved for depreciation, £20,000 .. 2,648
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1934.. 175,651 89,412 63,162 23,077 25,725
Reserved for depreciation, £20,000 .. 5,725
1935.. 176,771 89,437 63,187 24,147 29,872
Reserved for depreciation, £20,000 .. 9,872
Prom depreciation reserve, £7500 .. 17,372
1936.. 184,551 89,491 63,508 31,491 48,863
Bonus div. Sun Newspapers, £126,343 .. 175,200
To staff fund, £8729 166,479
Building renovation reserve, £3OOO .. 163,479
Nominal
7 p.c. 7 p.c. Reserves.
1937.. 238,365 104,459 74,993 58,913 222,392
Staff fund, £2OOO 220,392
Surplus liquidation S. Bennett, £376.. 220,768
1938.. 242,086 104,459 74,993 62,634 283,402
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. .. 281,402
1939.. 236,920 104,459 74,993 57,468 338,870
To staff fund, £5OOO 333,870
To reduce intangibles, £182,921 . . 150,949
* Pref. div. subject to statutory cut of 224 p.c. from
October 1, 1931, and to special tax (2s. in £)
October 1, 1931.
It has been a difficult year for the
Great Dailies, and, before passing £5OOO
to the staff fund, Associated’s accounts
show a falling-away in net earning of
£5166. As that included less than a
month of war-time trading, it can hardly
be consoling to shareholders, for reasons
mentioned below, though retention in
the business of £170,015 of surplus
earnings over the last three years should
assist in rendering profit-earning less dif-
ficult.
Still, considering that on the average
newsprint was costing the co. £l5 14s.
a ton as against £l4 7s. in 1938,
the trading result is not altogether
unsatisfactory at 12.3 p.c. on ord.
capital, allowing for the prefs.’ full 7
p.c. Newsprint, however, has since
soared to above £22 a ton, and Feb-
ruary’s ha’penny increase in the price
of the evening “Sun” —it would bring
in additional revenue of a bit more than
£lOO,OOO, allowing for some drop in
circulation —will probably not meet all
this extra expense. War and censorship
have also bumped up the cost of news-
gathering, other exes, are on the rise
and advertising revenue isn’t likely to
be so buoyant, notwithstanding lifts—
nominally, at least—in space rates.
Taken in conjunction with the expensive
dogfight with Consolidated Press in the
Sunday field and the fact that the cry
of the taxgatherer promises to become
a lot louder, Associated shareholders
fear a cut in their income, notwith-
standing the £57,468 margin between
last term’s earnings and distribution.
The daily and Sunday “Suns,” the
backbone of the business, recorded in-
creases in circulation that would have
been more profitable had paper costs
not been rising:
, —Six Months Sept.—^
1938. 1939.
Daily “Sun” . . .. 227,552 241,360
“Sunday Sun” . . 321,660 331,173
Other publications comprise “Woman,”
“Wireless Weekly” (which now has the
A.B.C. journal as a competitor), “World’s
News” and “Pix,” all weeklies. Twelve
months ago the board reported that
none was a charge on “Sun” earnings ;
this year it is shortly stated that circu-
lations in all cases have been maintained.
There are also broadcasting interests.
Since Associated formed in 1929
£3,135,930 of scrip was exchanged for
control of Sun Newspapers Pty. and
S. Bennett, Ltd., publisher principally
of the “Evening News” ord.-holders
have lost half their capital and averaged
only 6.3 p.c. on the remainder since the
cut. First the daily and Sunday “Guar-
dians” were acquired from “Smith’s” for
a goodwill payment of £400,000 in prefs.
and £175,000 in cash. But slump in-
tervened, shareholders became noisily
critical and an anresthetic was adminis-
tered to the Guardian,” “Teilegraph-
Pictorial and “Evening News” to pro-
tect the earnings of the “Sun.”
„ To bur Y decently the “News” and
“Guardian” corpses, shareholders then
accepted a reduction of £1,052,021 (10s.
per share) in their equity. Meantime the
Telegraph” had been revived, to be
sold in 1936 after a halting career to
Consolidated Press, a Theodore-Packer
co., for £125,000 in Consolidated ords.,
plus a further 35,000 ords. for the
“News” plant and £95,000 cash for the
building. So Associated has a 160,000
paicel of scrip stowed away in its strong-
room. Consolidated, which also pub-
lishes Women’s Weekly,” claimed net
earnings of 8.7 p.c. on ord. capital last
term, but has paid no ord. divs. With the
brave new Sunday venture consuming
paper and imported comics at a great
rate, the co. looks like having a struggle
to break even in the current year.
In its battle with costs the “Sun”
management put in £157,074 of new
plant last term ; obsolete plant, scrapped
at a loss of £48,685 on cost, was written
off against depreciation reserve, down
£4861, allowing for the year’s deprecia-
tion allowance of £43,873:
„ ~ 1938. 1939.
Paid capital .. .. £2,563,G01 £2,563,601
Overdraft .. .. 72,908 228,762
Other liabilities*. . ~ 156,855 231,236
Provident fund .. .. 6,976 6,252
Depreciation reserve .. 364,376 359.515
Land and buildings .. 653,144 720,394
Plant, etc. . . .. 643,388 747,758
Shares subsidiaries .. 247 1 8->5
Shares other cos. .. 188,453 216’,035
Stocks 163,864 246,369
Debtors, cash, etc. . . 192,050 188,205
* Including tax provision.
When the books closed total out-
side debt (£459,998) again exceeded
semi-liquids, excluding share-interests,
by £25,424, an adverse movement
of £151,575. Apart from Consoli-
dated Press, investments consist chiefly
of a 160,000 ord.-share holding in
Australian Newsprint Pty. on which there
was still £132,825 to pay on Sept. 24.
The newsprint co., which aims at an
initial outturn of 27,000 tons p.a., ex-
pects its New Norfolk (Tas.) mill to
reach production by September.
The reserves shown in the introduc-
tory table are subject to goodwill, estab-
lishment and other intangibles total-
ling £1,683,957. A book entry is to
be made lopping £182,921 off the item
and reserves. Taking in the holding in
Consolidated press at its net tangible
backing of 6s. 6d. per share, book value
of the cover for each Associated pref.
is 14s. lOd. ; the ords. are represented
by nothing but earning power.
At 15s. 7d. and 17s. 9d. respectively, the
ords. and prefs. yield 9 p.c. and 7.9 p.c.
respectively on the doubtful assumption
that the 7 p.c. div. continues. Any re-
duction in the ord. rate will also affect the
prefs. down to 5.4 p.c. In 1939 the
ords. ranged between 21s. 6d. and
15s. 3d. in the sharemarket, the prefs.
between 245. and 18s. 6d.
Drug Houses of Australia
' Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1931.. 51,811 2 p.c. = 46,730 5,081 3,814
Written off, £1,065 . . . . . . 4,879
1932.. 60,069 21 p.c. = 63,071 7,881
Unexplained reductions, £1.129 . . 9,010
1933.. 38,133 1| p.c. = 30,499 7,634 1,376
Reserves.
1934.. 88,112 31 „ „ 85,397 2,715 1,339
1935.. 123,581 5 „ „ 121,996 1,585 2,924
Tax refund, £2,332 .. .. .. 5,256
1936.. 147.108 6 p.c. = 146,394 714 5.970
Unexplained addition, £2,187 . . 8,157
1937.. 158,878 61 p.c. = 158,594 284 8,441
1938.. 159,331 61 „ „ 158,594 737 9,178
1939.. 161,145 61 ~ ~ 158,595 2,550 11,728
Market for this big holding co.’s scrip
has been active lately, despite threatened
importing difficulties owing to control
of overseas ci edits and interruption to
shipping services. At 21s. 9d. before
declaration of war, the pound shares,
covered by 15s. 4d. in net tangibles, now
fetch 265., after being up to 275. 9d.
At 265. immediate yield is 5 p.c., assum-
ing 6} p.c. continues to go out. The
market is apparently banking on the co.,
should the need arise, being able to
manufacture more of its own require-
ments, which it is well fitted to do, par-
ticularly at the inflated prices of overseas
supplies.
A 1929 float, the co. formed to amal-
gamate the interests of a half-dozen of
the Commonwealth’s leading drug houses.
With absorption of L. Fairthorne and
Son Pty. (Tasmania) as from July 1,
1939 —35,332 D.H.A. shares were issued
in connection with the deal —interests
now spread to all States, the chief operat-
ing cos. comprising:
A. M. Bickford and Sons (Adelaide and
Brisbane); Elliotts and Australian Drug
Pty. (Sydney); Felton, Grimwade and
Duerdins (Melbourne); Felton, Grimwade
Dental Co. Pty. (Melbourne); Felton,
Grimwade and Bickford (Perth); Taylors,
Elliotts and Australian Drug Pty. (Bris-
bane, Rockhampton and Townsville); L.
Fairthorne and Son Pty. (Tas.); Drug
Houses of Australia Export, Ltd.
(London).
Despite the elimination of price-cutting,
savings in overheard and buying advan-
tages, the merger has produced only a
moderate return on capital, and this hold-
ing co.’s shareholders have averaged only
4.4 p.c. That is partly because slump
upset original calculations, and partly
because of the basis on which the merger
was put through—£s72,Bl2 of the com-
bined capital, is still unrepresented by
tangibles in the books, after allowing for
reserves of £408,897.
Figures in the introductory table relate
to the parent co. only. Despite all-round
advances in costs and taxation, the
operating cos., which gather a manu-
facturing as well as a retail profit, found
trade better last term. After providing
£49,894 for depreciation and handing the
directors £66oo—each of the working
cos. still has its own management —the
net result for holding and operating cos.
combined was a surplus of £186,749.
Allowing for outside shareholders’ whack,
the £180,516 remaining was 7.4 p.c.
on D.H.A.’s own £2,439,912 share regis-
ter, and 6j p.c. went out for the third
year in succession.
More detail of the financial structure
is now disclosed :
Paid capital— 1938. 1939.
P.H.A £2,439,912 £2,439,912
Outside interests . . . . 75,000 79,111*
Mortgages f 75,400
Sundry creditors . . . . 691,826 698,191
Freeholds and leaseholds) (716,537
Plant, etc ( 700.2:,l 152)9 26
Shares, etc 281,573 76,489
Stocks 865.491 940,800
Book debts 908,194 886,355
Cash, etc 4,613 17,429
Suspense account . . . . . 44 494
Intangibles 865,342 981’,709
* Including proportion of undistributed profits,
t Deducted from asset.
Inclusion of all but £76,489 of share-
holdings, etc. (£281,573 in 1938), in
balance-sheet items renders comparison
difficult. Half the book value of shares
so included is now shown to have been
represented by goodwill (£261,937 at
June 30). The other £719,772 at which
the intangibles item appears in the table
is the excess cost of shareholdings over
independent valuations of the assets thus
represented.
Purchases during the year—stocks
lifted £75,309 —rendered the stock posi-
tion at balance date “very satisfactory,”
but rationing has nevertheless been re-
sorted to. Including stocks, more or less
liquids (£1,846,984, excluding subsidiary
interests) showed a surplus of £1,073,393
over the debt, half or more of which is
interest-bearing.
Of the £79,411 at which outside share-
holders’ equity appears, £75,000 is in
Felton, Grimwade and Duerdins (Mel-
bourne) 8 p.c. prefs. D.H.A. has offered
to take the lot in return for its own
6 p.c. prefs., four for three. While their
total income would remain unchanged,
the deal would give F.G.D. shareholders
greater security for income and capital
without loss in the market value of their
holdings.
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
, Dividends \
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. Old. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 249,357 24,000 Nil 225,357 263.276
1930.. 83.595 24,000 Nil 59,595 322,871
1931.. 36,000 24,000 Nil 12,066 334.937
8 p.c.
1932.. 58,018 24,000 40,000 328,955
16 p.c.
1933.. 140,820 24,000 80,000 36,820 365,775
Reserves capitalised. £250,000 . . 115,775
12 p.c.
1934.. 223,001 24,000 60,000 139,001 254,776
8 p.c.
1935.. 66,751 24,000 60,000 237,527
1936.. 190,421 24,000 30,000 136,421 373,948
16 p.c.
1937.. 157,543 24,000 120,000 13,543 387,491
26 p.c.
1938.. 243,251 24,000 195,000 24,251 411,742
Additional taxation, £31,000 . . 380,742
16 p.c.
1939.. 146,303 24,000 120,000 2,303 383,045
This big offshoot of the Goodyear Tyre
and Rubber Co., Akron (U.S.A.), has
given a very good account of itself. It
set up in 1926, when, owing to pressure
of the tariff, the parent decided to build
a factory here. The co. stepped into
ready-made trade connections developed
by an importing agency, and, with things
right on the technical side, output soon
doubled ; more plant, etc., had to be
installed, and the parent found the money
(over half a million at the end of 19305,
since repaid out of earnings. This,
liberal allowances for depreciation and
the fact that the ords. took nothing out
of the business for the first five years,
when money was wanted for develop-
ment, have placed the co. in a very strong
position.
There is £1,050,000 of capital to feed
in 300,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 750,000
ords. The Australian public put up the
pref. money, and the parent took half
a million ords. for cash and received
quarter of a million bonus shares in ’34.
Also, over the last eight years ord. divs.
have averaged 12.7 p.c. ; but exchange
has taken a lot of gilt off the ginger-
bread.
The sharp drop of £96,948 in last year’s
declared net earnings was due mainly to
heavier allowances for taxation (£77,600)
and depreciation (£87,141), together
£164,741, as against £77,873 in the previ-
ous term. During 1939 the London price
of crude rubber rose from 7.94 d. to 11.65 d.
per pound, about half the lift occurring
in the last three months of the year.
Costs climbed, too, and competition lost
none of its keenness. Also, a subsidiary,
which produced raw rubber in Java, was
sold to the parent, though it is doubtful
whether it had previously contributed
much, if anything, to this Australian co.’s
earnings. Locally turnover continued to
expand, thanks to a strong demand for
reshoeing ; sales of initial equipment were
lighter, owing to reduced sales of new
cars, trucxs and tractors. Still, at the
end of December there were 901,746
registered motor vehicles on the roads in
Australia as against 882,699 a year
earlier.
The £146,303 of profit claimed was
sufficient to pay the pref. div. and show
16.3 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
29.2, 17.8 and 20.2 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding years. That leaves out of the
reckoning an additional provision for
taxation of £31,000, charged direct to
reserves.
As for the current term, costs, includ-
ing taxation, continue on the up-grade,
and demand for the co.’s products isn’t
likely to expand much, if any, further.
Still, the well-protected prefs. fetch 295,
9d. in the market, at which figure the
yield is 5.4 p.c., and last year’s profits
more than six times covered their annual
dividend requirements.
Finances are snug:—
, 1937. 1938. 1939.
Pref. capital .. . . £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord. capital . . . . 750,000 750,000 750,000
Goodyear, U.S.A. .. 154,850 54,800
Other liabilities . . 168,245 146,583 213,724
Freeholds, plant, etc... 414,451 407,063 356 645
Stocks 769,565 683,857 781’865
Book debts . . . . 295,793 298,00 s 370 I°4
Cash, etc 83,208 80,501 138’136
Java subsidiary. . . . 197,300 197,300
Sale of the Java subsidiary, addition of
£67,141 to the amount coming to sundry


IMPORTANT
ENGINEERING ACHIEVEMENTS
AUSTRALIA
«
1
■ Li
m
a
- f
25in. x 212 in. Primary Cone Crusher, 100 h.p., for Mount Lyell Mines.
Sill!
i
1
dm.
I
RUWC
m.
m
\voLl
m
j&sfj&L
10ft. diameter, 72in. Conical-type Ball Mill, 450 h.p., for Mount Isa
Mines.
MINING
m
»» -
nilffiM
48in. (Sutherland) Disc Refiner, 300 h.p., for Australian Paper
Manufacturers,
i
tnrm
”
Jordan (Walmsley) Refiner, 200 h.p., for Australian Paper
Manufacturers.
PAPER and PULP
UM
3 Bowl, 24in. dia. x 68in. long, Rubber Calendar, 120 h.p., for
Olympic Tyre Co^
' V
mm
r*.
:
twoi
3 Throw High-pressure Hydraulic Pump, 3000ths per square inch,
90 h.p., for General Motors-Holden’s.
RUBBER
SEND ALL ENQUIRIES TO THE MANUFACTURERS:-
CHARLES RUWOLT
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
VICTORIA STREET, RICHMOND, VICTORIA
CABLES AND TELEGRAMS RUWOLT, MELBOURNE.
CODES BENTLEYS AND BROOMHALLS


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
( Incorporated, in Victoria. .)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwr.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, 1v.8.E., M.L.C. (Chairman) ; J. Beresford Grant (Yice-Chairman) ;
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; Janies Kidd; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Usetl wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager; C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South ’Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sidney.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. VV. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLI.ISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
Public Notice.
The Tongkah Harbour Tin Dredging
Company, No Liability.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a General
Meeting of Shareholders in the abovenamed
Company will be held at the Office of the
Company, A.M.P. Chambers, Hobart, on Wed-
nesday, March 27, 1940, at 12 noon, for the
purposes following:
1. To receive the Directors’ Thirty-third
Annual Report and Balance Sheet,
which will be presented for adoption.
2. To elect a Director. Mr. M. Kennedy
retires, but is eligible, and offers him-
self for re-election.
3. To appoint Auditors.
4. To transact any other ordinary business
of the Company.
By Order of the Directors,
JOHN LORD, F.C.A. (Aust.),
Manager.
Hobart, March 11, 1940.
SECURITY i FOR
YOUR SAVINGS...
Careful investors will consider
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
which spreads funds over the
shares of 20 Companies.
Custodian Trustees for..: investors:
Union Insurance Society df Canton
Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the trust:
BOX 4028 V,V, £,F;CX, SVON£V
: V:r TELEPHONE: 8 5294: •• ~ •
creditors and a net reduction of £50,418
in the book value of fixed assets enabled
the debt to the parent (£54,800 at the
previous balance) to be wiped out,
£98,008 to be added to stocks, £72,116
to debtors’ balances and £57,635 to cash,
etc. It all suggests that the management
is alive to the problems of exchange and
the raw-rubber market.
Advancing a further £224,727 to Lake
George Mines last term, Lake George
Mining Corp. (London) now has a
£1,091,879 interest in the Captain’s Flat
(N.S.W.) silver-lead-zinc mine—£626,64l
in advances and £465,238 in shares. It
also has an empty cashbox, with the
result that the operating co. has been
financing current production on over-
draft. So far troubles for the co. have
been as plentiful as rabbits in a cabbage
patch. Externally, metal prices first
collapsed before the co. could get under
way, and war has caused shipping and
other difficulties and extra expense in
the disposal of the concentrates, some
of which were being sold to Germany
under contract. Though the position in
these respects has improved, internal
problems still stand in the way of profit-
earning. For the six months to June
30 a working loss of £62,000 Australian
showed up. Throughput was only 65
p.c. of mill capacity, and mining, milling
and general expenses ran off with 38s. 9d.
per ton, as against the prospectus esti-
mates of 265. Absence of skilled labor
and the rapidity with which names on
the payroll change have been troubles
which may perhaps be alleviated when
the Central mine at the Barrier puts in
a caretaker this month. On the mining
side a weak footwall has added to ex-
traction costs and caused heavy dilution
of millfeed, while a tough nut for the
metallurgical staff to crack has been that
ore from different parts of the mine has
called for different treatment. Since the
close of accounts, however, costs are
said to have been pulled back to 295. 4d.
a ton, with the possibility of further re-
ductions, and thera has been decided
improvement in both mine output and
treatment. Pleasing features are a lift
in values and more settled characteristics
of the ore with depth, and indication by
drilling of the extension of the Central
lode, assaying 11 p.c. lead over
210 ft. below its present known limit.
* * * *
One of the newest cos. in the Papuan
oil hunt, Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum is
after a further £37,500 in ss. shares to
continue its quest. Present capital is
£62,500, so that after the present issue
there will be 400,000 shares on issue.
Scout-boring, performed to discover or
confirm structure, o.n a line 12 miles
long has given showings of oil and gas
at six places on the Apinaipi and Oiapu
domes, but only major drilling will
determine whether petroleum is there in
commercial quantities or not. Plant for
this has been hired from the Federal
Government, which has also granted an
advance of up to £lO,OOO, and deep
drilling has commenced under the super-
vision of E. A. Kodyen, brought to
Australia by the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment. It will be a good thing for
Australia if flow oil is discovered locally ;
there have been no divs. from prospect-
ing so far. Meantime the market specu-
lates in Papuan Apinaipi’s scrip at
ss. 9d.
* * * *
Deprived of its mining grant owing
to war “economies,” the Tennant, Aus-
tralia’s most central goldfield, appears
to have good claims for participation in
any Commonwealth scheme to boost gold
production. Not the least is an impres-
sive production record —to the end of
December, 57,8950 z. from 61,792 tons,
all from comparatively shallow depths.
Here is a record of individual mines with
IOOOoz. crushings to their credit:
Ore, Gold,
Mine. Tons. Oz.
Eldorado . . . . 16,134 9,256
Rising- Sun . . . . 9,901 8,584
Blue Moon . . . . 1,056 4,271
Mt. Samuel . . . . 1,816 3,575
Hanimerjack. . .. 2,030 3,0'70
Lone S’tar . . . . 2,901 2,184
Northern Star . . 3,795 1,867
Wheal Doria. . . . 666 1,162
Burnt Shirt .. . . 882 1,216
Pinnacles . . . . 1,033 1,076
Two, the Blue Moon and Hammerjack,
were under option to Melbourne in-
terests. Purchase consideration for the
former was £60,000, but the option has
just been allowed to lapse ; price for the
latter is £65,000 cash. It is a large sum ;
and large sums often aren’t good adver-
tising in the long run for fields like the
Tennant, of which nothing is known
at depth. Crushing facilities additional
to the proposed third Government
battery near the Eldorado are an
urgent need at the moment. Of the
five private mills, four are finding treat-
ment of their own ore a full-time job ;
the other is available only for intermit-
tent public crushings, with the result
that there is something like six months’
ore at present stacked on the field await-
ing treatment. Whether the ore-bodies
will live to depth remains to be proved
by development; meantime, operations
on the field have reached an interesting
stage.
* * * *
The wolfram and molybdenite mines
of Bamford (N.Q.) are showing signs of
awakening from a long sleep since 1914-
18. In four years they supplied the
Allies with over 200 tons of wolfram
and 60 tons of molybdenite. Bismuth is
a handy by-product also. The ore occurs
in pipes in granite porphyry and twists
all over the place. Still, pipes have been
followed to between 300 ft. and ,400 ft.
The field will undoubtedly produce again
any time the price is good enough to
take the prospector off gold. About 40
men have gone back to the field, and
shows reopened include the : Haymaker,
Trump and the Marseillaise, now called
the Frenchman. Small parcels of wol-
fram are already reaching ore-buyers.
There is talk of reopening the Mt.
Chalmers mine, near Rockhampton
(C.Q.), which formerly sailed as the
Great Fitzroy. Negotiations are proceed-
ing with a southern financial group under
the stimulus of increased prices for
copper. It is reputedly an enormous
body of low-grade copper-gold. Great
Fitzroy did not work after 1914, but it
left assay plans showing half a million
tons in stopes of 2dwt. gold and if p.c.
copper. At present prices of these metals
that should be enough to encourage de-
watering of the workings—some 300 ft.
deep —and further investigation.
* * * *
The Southern Cross, at Torilla (C.Q.),
has been taken up again. The reef runs
to 15in. wide and has been stripped to
a depth of 18ft. The resulting 25 tons
yielded around 15dwt. per ton. There
is not much profit in it yet, as the ore
has to be sent to Mt. Morgan, but as
a trial it is testing out the possibilities
of the lode. A local treatment plant, if
only for concentration, may be worth
while.
* * * *
Queensland Quicksilver Mines is sink-
ing a new shaft to increase Kilkivan
(C.Q.) mercury output, demand for
which is far ahead of supply. The last
10 tons averaged about 1 p.c. mercury,
and with the overseas quote around 12s.
6d. per pound there should be good
money in this grade if ore-production is
stepped up. Another float is after
£20,000 of new capital for further de-
velopment. Considering the precarious
outlook for quicksilver supply in Aus-
tralia' should war last years, the district
should have a thorough scientific inves-
tigation.
* * *
J. E. Baxter’s Tasman reef at Glaston-
bury, near Gympie (C.Q.), is turning out
well; the last 12 tons of quartz gave
30oz. gold. The reef is narrow, but
the shoot appears to be going down
below 90ft. into sulphides. If these
get : too heavy for local treatment, the
grade will stand sending to Chillagoe.
Water comes in at 90ft., but is being
coped with.
* * * *
The makings of big new goldmines are
being feverishly searched for in Westralia.
Wiluna wants one, the Yankees are
anxious to get hold of another Big Bell,
and De Bernales’s group, Western Mining
Corporation and others have scouts on
most fields. Yellowdine and Comet are
the'only new finds of consequence that
have been made in the State for years.
Of 1 the old ventures that previously
failed to do well, Big Bell and Triton
have done best.
* * * *
Blue Bird (W.A.) has paid Blue Bird
West £BOO for eight acres adjoining
Blue Bird’s southern boundary and 35
tons of ore at grass. Blue Bird West is
seeking its fortune elsewhere.
Blue Bird nestlings are receiving
on March 29 a dividend of Is. 6d. a
share. This distribution will be £15,000,
and bring total dividends to date to
£125,000.
* * * *
Future of Mt. Magnet Gold Mines,
says a Westralian inspector of mines,
looks very uncertain. The co. is London-
controlled, ex-Dominions Secretary L. C.
Amery being chairman. It has operated
Hill 60 and St. George blocks, Mt.
Magnet, for some time, and last year
took an option on the old Paris mine
in the same locality. A large low-grade
ore-body was said to be the attraction.
Co. got some publicity in London and
Australia in 1938 by celebrating the start-
ing of its treatment plant with a grand
fizz banquet attended by Lieut.-Governor
Jimmy Mitchell and a host of politicians
and others. Shareholders have received
one or two small dividends since then.
The same inspector states that Triton,
which is at Reedys, has lately added to
its hoisting equipment. The ground in
this mine, he says, has always been bad,
and remains so at depth owing to the
crushed and contorted nature of the
walls. In his opinion Triton will become
the deepest mine on the Murchison field,
which takes in Mt. Magnet, Reedys,
Day Dawn (where the remains of the
Gt. Fingall are located) and Big Bell.
* *
Lake View and Star, biggest gold-
producer in the Commonwealth, pays
another sixpenny dividend in April. It
distributes four sixpenny dividends a
year. Revenue for the term ending June
30 next is tipped to come to well over
a million and a half. Mine still keeps
six years ahead of the mill.
4 s s{c
Freney shareholders added W. E.
Gason, a retired oil expert with drilling
experience, to the board at the half-
yearly roll-up in Perth. Chairman Lear-
month reported that “fishing” to recover
the obstruction in the bore was being
continued with reasonable prospects of
success. Co., he said, had £30,000 in
hand.
* * * *
Porphyry gold deposits near Yarri
(W.A.) have been acquired by a local
co. with little cash but plenty of confi-
dence. These deposits were formerly
worked by a Sydney-controlled concern.
At first possibilities were reported as ex-
cellent, but later plant troubles, resulting
in poor extraction, gave the controllers
splitting headaches and caused them to
change their minds. Finally they closed
the mine.
* * * *
King Solomon’s Mines, which are at
Coolgardie (W.A.) and are not to be
confused with the bonanza from which
King Solomon is alleged to have obtained
much of his wealth, have closed down.
Debenture-holders have stepped in and
are looking for a buyer.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
D.S.: Don’t think so. The Australian parent
guaranteed the French co.’s pref. dividend for
20 years from 1926. Allowing for N.S.W.
Interest Reduction Act, the parent’s liability
in this respect is now £4862 p.a E.M.: The
statement was that surplus liquids were equal
to 2s. 7d. per share, out of which a shilling
div. was paid in April. Any funds the co.
may now have are likely to be wanted for
development of the Kingston venture in
association with G.M. of Australia and B.H.
South. There has been no suggestion of liqui-
dating... .E.J.8.: Leave forestry venture alone.
. ...R.G.H.: Both very sound. The shadow
of Government interference in banking, how-
ever, is always in the background, and the
switch to Props, might be a good long-term
move. You may be able to buy in cheaply
if the coal dispute becomes protracted
A.W.F.: (1) Comfortable liquid position gives
the gold stock possibilities, but a drop in the
div. rate is indicated when the present dump
is exhausted. (2) There are better tin shares
offering H.C.D.: Well-bought property is
always a good investment, but taxation is severe
on this class of security and likely to become
more so. Suggest a selection of front-line
ordinary shares. Insurance scrip (such as
Queensland and Australian General) looks
attractive; so does Burns Philp (South Sea),
while B.H.P. is also worth watching at the
moment... .L.H.: You have no hope of get-
ting your money back from the company, and
legally you are liable for the balance should
the co. decide to force payment. You might
try to sell, though buyers are few and far be-
tween. Monetary returns, if any, are very
uncertain at the moment... .W.T.J.: A solid
lot. Nominal annual assessment of Jelapang
is 404 tons of oxide, Pungah 1305 tons and
Southern Kinta 5855 tons. Actually, in the
1939 calendar year the free export quota in
Malaya averaged 51 p.c. of assessments; in
Siam, bonus additions brought domestic releases
to approx. 67 p.c.


New Issue of Shares:
THE PAPUAN APINAIPI PETROLEUM
COMPANY LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN PAPUA)
NOMINAL CAPITAL:
£250,000 in 1,000,000 Shares of 5/- each
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL:
£62,500 in 250,000 Shares of 5/- each
DIRECTORS:
W. M. MARKS, Solicitor, Sydney; The Hon. J. C. WATSON, Chairman N.RM.A., Sydney;
The Hon. Sir CHARLES W. C. MARR, K.C.V.0., Company Director, Sydney; W. H. TAYLOK,
Solicitor, Bendigo; R. S. HAYNES, Topographical Surveyor, Papua; Theo. J. MARKS, Architect,
Sydney; J. McA. RITCHIE, Investor, Parramatta.
SECRETARY:
C. A. LE MAISTRE WALKER, F.C.A. (Aust.).
COMPANY’S OFFICE:
DALTON HOUSE, 115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BANKERS:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Head Office, Sydney, and Port Moresby.
AUDITORS:
YARWOOD, VANE & CO., with G. MASON ALLARD, Chartered Accountants (Aust.), Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
T. MARSHALL, MARKS AND JONES, Culwulla Chambers, Sydney.
In view of the present International situation it is necessary to
emphasise the vital importance of obtaining Petroleum in commercial
quantities within the Territories of the Commonwealth of Australia at
the earliest possible moment.
From every viewpoint, the Company, operating in Papua, stands
to-day in a remarkably advantageous position.
1. —After two years of intensive investigation from the air, on the
surface, and sub-surface coring by Scout drilling, on a remarkably
low capital, it still remains an all Australian venture.
2. —Six Scout bores have been drilled (2 on the Apinaipi Dome' and
4 on Oiapu) over a line twelve miles long, with showings of oil
and gas in each bore, the nature of the oil indicating definitely
that it has migrated from rocks below.
3. —All Scout drilling was carried out with the approval of the Oil
Advisory Committee. The value of the expert assistance of Dr.
Arthur Wade and Dr. L. Keith Ward (two members of the
Commonwealth Oil Advisory Committee), whose advice, before
and after a visit to the field, was definitely followed, is now
clearly apparent.
4. —The results obtained have warranted the Commonwealth Govern-
ment fully co-operating with the Company to the extent of:—
(a) Hiring to the Company a full sized major drilling plant
for deep test boring of the area. (The erection of the
drilling plant on the site of the first deep test bore
has been completed and drilling will commence almost
immediately.)
(b) Under the Petroleum Oil Search Acts, 1936, the
Company has been granted an advance up to £lO,OOO,
which is being paid by instalments as the work proceeds.
The advance is payable at the rate of £1 for every £2
expended by the Company on deep drilling operations.
5. —The necessity of having an experienced man in charge of the
deep drilling plant is obviously of vital importance, and we are
most fortunate in having secured the services of Mr. E. A.
Kodyen as Field, Drilling and Production Manager.
Mr. Kodyen was brought to Australia under agreement to the Com-
monwealth Government to occupy the position of Chief Drilling Inspector
to the Oil Advisory Committee. It will be remembered that Mr. Kodyen
visited the Company’s area in May last year on behalf of the Common-
wealth Government and again in January of this year. His belief in the
excellent prospects of the Company was such that he expressed his
willingness to accept an appointment with our Company to direct the
whole of the Company’s major drilling operations, and the Directors did
not hesitate to secure at once the services of such an experienced drilling
and production expert. The Commonwealth Government has notified
the Company of its approval to the appointment', such approval being
necessary under the Petroleum Oil Search Act of 1936. Mr. Kodyen is
now on the field. The Commonwealth Geological Adviser, Dr. W. G.
Woolnough, in a letter dated Bth April, 1937, received by the Company
from the Prime Minister’s Department stated:
“Provided drilling is carried out with the most up-to-date plant
obtainable, and under the direction of Drillers who have already had
sufficient experience in the handling of such plant in dealing with
running mudstones, the chances of success are excellent.”
This statement was made before the six Scout boreholes had been
drilled with results of showings of light oil and gas almost continuously
throughout. The major drilling plant now about to start operations is
the Government’s own plant on hire to the Company. Both conditions
set out by Dr. Woolnough to ensure success have thus been complied with.
Mr. D. J. Tynan, who was engaged for nine years in the famous
Mexican Oil fields in the production of commercial petroleum and in his
position as Chief Scout Driller to our Company during the last two years
carried out the Scout Drilling programme with undoubted ability, has
stated that:—
“Never before to my knowledge has there been such a valuable
oil proposition as this placed before the Australian public.”
Mr. Launcelot Owen in his latest report, dated 14th November, 1939,
states (inter alia) :
“At Oiapu and Apinaipi the character of the oil encountered in
the Scout bore holes suggests that oil at these points is derived from
a deep source.”
“The data obtained at Oiapu have been so consistently favour-
able that the prospect's may unhesitatingly be described as excellent.
“The testing of this promising field may be considered as a
matter of urgent public importance and should be treated as such.”
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES.
In view of the possibilities ahead of the Company with the major
drilling now starting under the supervision of Mr. Kodyen, the Directors
have decided to issue a further 150,000 shares of 5/- each in the Capital
of the Company and to offer the same to Shareholders in the proportion
of three shares for every five shares held and shown on the Company s
Share Registers as at five (5) o’clock in the afternoon of the 1 Bt'h day of
March, 1940 (but without regard to fractional interest).
The terms of the issue are:—
5/- per share payable 2/6 per share on application and 2/6
per share on allotment.
Shareholders may apply for more or less than their quota of shares,
but if the number allotted be less than the number applied for the
surplus money will be refunded.
Any balance of shares remaining through omission of shareholders to
take up those shares to which they are entitled by the closing date will
be dealt' with at the absolute discretion of the Directors.
Applications for the new shares will close at 5 p.m. on the Ist day
of April, 1940; and should be made to the Secretary of the Company.
Upon due payment of application and allotment money, as provided
above, the shares in this issue shall rank pari passu for dividend, if any,
and in all other respects with the fully paid shares already issued and will
have similar rights to the fully paid shares already listed on the Stock
Exchange.
GENERAL.
All moneys payable to the Company are to be paid in Australian
currency or its equivalent. Exchange must be added to Interstate and
Country cheques.
No fees have been paid to your Directors. No cash consideration has
been paid to the Vendors, who will benefit only when oil is found in
commercial quantities to the satisfaction of the Directors.
Finally, the Directors wish to emphasise:—
1. —The vast potentialities of the area and especially of the Oiapu
structure.
2. The excellent prospects of obtaining petroleum in commercial
quantities, in view of the fact that oil has been proved to exist
in our area.
3. —The urgent need of such a discovery, owing to the importance
of petroleum to the British Empire at the present time.
Application forms, and circulars giving full particulars, may be obtained from the Secretary of the Company, or any Broker who
member of the Stock Exchanges in Australia.


ABORIGINALITIES
“The 0.D.”: Little Curl had just got
a job on the station and was very anxious
to please. He was right there when there
was any work to be done, and his eager-
ness was so great that even on Sundays
the boss daren’t show his face out of
doors but the little bloke was on his
wheel. Some of us who knew the boss
feared an explosion, for nothing was apt
to annoy him more than this sort of
thing. Still, Curl was a likeable coot,
and the boss restrained himself. One
day about 600 wethers had to be taken
to another paddock after being drafted
off for sale, and the boss and Little Curl
took them through the gate on to the
main road and headed them south. The
boss rode ahead, telling Curl to watch
the tail and not push them too hard.
About four miles along Curl suddenly
noticed that the mob were streaming
through the fence into a paddock, and
saw that the three bottom wires had been
pulled out for a couple of panels. Curs-
ing, he wasted precious minutes looking
for a gate to get his horse through, then
slid off, dived through the fence and
tried to head the mob off on foot. Rac-
ing and chasing, he yelled and waved his
hat, but he had no chance, and collapsed
in despair as the boss rode calmly up,
asking, “Was you after a rabbit?”
Speechless and blown, Curl gasped some-
thing about the sheep. “Aw, that’s all
right,” said the boss, “I cut the fence to
let ’em through. This is the paddock
they’re meant for.” After that Curl
always waited.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Quite helpful, some of our
papers. A farmer I know wrote to a
Vic. rural publication explaining that he
had a 50-acre paddock in which he could
grow nothing because of the couch grass.
He sought advice. After weeks of labor-
ing through the columns he eventually
found the reply: “Eradicate the couch.”
Another was losing so many lambs to
the foxes that in desperation he wrote
asking if there was any means of cap-
turing these pests other than by trap-
ping, poisoning or catching with dogs.
Anxiously he waited ; then came the in-
formation: “Yes. They may be shot by
a person in a concealed position.” His
opinion of the publication started a bush-
fire.
* * * *
“R. E. Ader”: If anyone wants a good
fast dye let him catch a few octopuses
and persuade them to squirt their ink
supply into a bucket. Fishing off the
N.S.W. coast we hooked a large one and,
as he was hauled aboard, he let go, the
juice flying all over one man’s shirt. All
efforts to remove the stain were fruitless.
* * * *
“Mt. Mawson”: Where did “Tall
Timber” (B. 28/2/’4O) get the idea that
Tassie “horizontal” seldom grows thicker
than a man’s arm? Actually the main
stem often exceeds a foot in thickness
and 60ft. in height before assuming that
position from which it derives its name
and from which ascend secondary
branches which in turn assume the hori-
zontal habit. From these spring tertiary
branchlets which interlock and form,
with the interwoven branches of other in-
dividuals of the same species, an almost
impenetrable mass many feet in height,
and evergreen externally. There is no
doubt about its toughness ; a branch of
less than an inch in thickness will carry
a 12-stone man with 601 b. up. And
track-cutting in “horizontal” is not such
“Absholootly marvelloush! Wotsh the bait ?”
a simple business as “T.T.” imagines. I
know of one party of four who hacked
for five days to get a tunnel through a
belt four miles wide, and that was in
fairly good going.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Henare had been scrub-
cutting, and went to collect his wages.
Said his pakeha boss: “Well, I’m a bit
short of cash, Henare. And in a case
like this I always give p.ns.” “Py korry,
boss,” said Henare. “I got te brown hen,
te black hen, an’ te feller wit te leg an’
te horn. I no want te pea hen. I want
te prurry cash!”
* * * *
“The Spike”: Old Bung-eye Jones,
battling outback, was offered a contract
picking up and burning sticks. After in-
specting the country he stated his price,
and then found himself involved in a
long haggle, the boss finally beating him
down 9d. an acre. Short of cash, Bung-
eye was allowed to draw on the station
store for tucker on the understanding
that the cost would be deducted from
the contract. Working night and day
he put the job through in six weeks, then
called for his cheque, only to find that
he had been charged retail prices for the
stuff he had expected to get at wholesale
rates. There was nothing to be done
about it, so Bung-eye restrained himself
and astonished the boss by saying, “Y’
know, Mr. Sheepskin, I’m writin’ a book.
All about me life. I reckon I’ll put you
in the first chapter.” The boss grinned
thinly. “Oh,” he said, “what are y’ goin’
to call it?” Bung-eye retreated to the
door. “Blankards I Have Met,” he
snapped, and vanished.
* * * *
“Moola”: Ever been hayed in? Dur-
ing one big drought in the Forbes
(N.S.W.) district I was on J. B. Donkin’s
Lake Cowal property. When the lake
disappeared J.B. erected windmills and
sank shafts in the lake-bed. Umbrella
grass sprang up, but soon dried up with
the scorching heat. Then a howling
westerly hit it and carried that grass hay
until it struck our cottage. The front
verandah was packed from floor to
ceiling, and the quarter-mile fence to
the homestead was quite hidden. From
a distance the cottage could have been
mistaken for a haystack.
* * * *
“Greasy”: Shearing ewes at Tammit
(River Murray) in the old days, my tongs
struck something hard in a ewe carrying
a double fleece and I untangled a spoon-
bait and its triple hook, swivel and
leader complete. The old girl must have
been grazing in some bend subject to
flood where the spoon had been car-
ried after some fisherman had snagged it.
* * * *
“2LX”: Saw a puzzling thing on
Maneroo (C.Q.). Anything up to a hun-
dred crows were sitting on the ground
on one side of the road ; on the other
side there were an equal number of kite-
hawks. I watched for a bit without mak-
ing myself a trespasser. There was
nothing doing. Each army kept exclu-
sively on its own terrain. One crow did
infringe slightly, but a kite immediately
rose to meet him. A dozen birds on each
side unlimbered as if for flight, but none
took to the air. The crow came back
to his place; the hawk did likewise.
They all appeared to be on edge, ready
for instant action ; but that’s all. After
half an hour or so I rode along the road
which separated the parties. There was
nothing on it other than the usual dust
and tracks. When I passed both armies
took to the air, mingled freely, went
about their several businesses as if
nothing unusual had happened. Any
explanation?
. • • • • •
“Gee”: “I remember,” said Big
Charlie, and waited while we took our
cue and shut up—“l remember when 1
was workin’ down Bandywallop way.
That’s where there are crows. There’s a
big gum, see, all on its own in the middle
of a paddick, with a ’uge limb stuck out
at right angles that the crows used to
roost on. There useter be thousands o’
the cows on it. Well, one night I looks
out an’ I see the tree’s abserlootly black
with ’em—y’ could ’ardly see a flamin’
leaf. I remember thinkin’ that every
crow in Bandywallop must’ve bin there,
but just then I sees another one flyin’
round the tree lookin’ fer a place ter
land. He spots the on’y possie left and
dives down on to it, sudden-like. Next
thing I knoo there’s an ’elluva crash. I
looks out an’—strike me roan!—there’s
that big blanky limb snapped clean orf
at the trunk. That last damn’ crow
must’ve jarred it as he landed, and ’is
extra bit o’ weight done the trick.”
“Cape Voltaire”: Just how long does
the workaday pearl-diver remain at the
bottom of the sea? Usually a very full
day, from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., with only
once up for light refreshment and per-
haps a smoke. And during that 12 hours
the diver may walk miles, trudging the
seabed seeking shell. Shell is not always
easily found. After a lengthy , s P
fine weather long seagrass will have
grown, making the spotting of the dun-
colored bivalve difficult. Thus pearlers
welcome a moderate blow to clear the
sea-bottom of vegetable growth. Given a
good bed of shell, such as used to lie off
the Ninety-mile Beach and around the
Lacepede Islands (nor’-west W.A.), a diver
will speedily earn his pay. On the spots
mentioned up to 900 pair of shells have
been won in a single day by a white man
—Roderiquez, of Broome, diving from
his own lugger in the days before the Jap
took possession of the industry. Nearly
a ton of shell, valued in those days at
anything between £2OO and £300! But
very few divers did as well as that. Five
tons per diver per season was reckoned
first-class work.
* * * *
“Factis”: Even the wild untutored
savage who has had no contact with
Whiteman’s fodder suffers —contrary to
popular belief —from dental troubles,
which generally he bears with stoical
fortitude. But one Centralian coon who
gladly opened wider for a travelling
Darwin dentist had had some surgical
work done on his tatts. Forced in the
cavity of one tooth, and leaving the head
uppermost for a grinding surface, was a
shortened large-headed copper nail. When
extracted the head was badly pitted from
long use.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Some men look awk-
ward in repose, but as soon as they
move are beautiful to watch ; some birds
are the same. Saw a wedge-tailed eagle
perched high above a Murray billabong.
A well-grown bird, the golden-brown of
his sleek neck shone above a pair of
shoulders slightly hunched, and this, to-
gether with a side turn of the head which
brought his profile over one shoulder,
completed a picture which for power and
arrogance and fierce beauty I rank un-
surpassed in the bird world. Unafraid,
unhurried, he slowly spread his wings,
floated away and began to climb. Down
below was a pelican. He stood up in a
few inches of water, shook himself and
with feathers ruffed out looked like
somebody’s washing ; then he waggled
his great beak with a clatter like fire-
wood dropped on a hearth. Apparently
satisfied, he took wing, flinging a good
deal of water about in the process, but
once clear began soaring in wide circles,
Head set well back, bill splitting his
spiral path, wings out to their full
spread, he caught, passed and left the
eagle, whose wedge tail was still clearly
outlined when all that was visible of the
pelican was a silvery flash as his breast
caught the sunlight. The eagle has been
poetically called “lord of the air,” “king
of birds” and so on, and Australia has
the world’s biggest eagle ; but when it
comes to climbing into the blue the
comical old top-heavy fisherman can give
him 200 ft. in a thousand and a beating.
GREEN HOPE.
When, from the hot creation fire, this spinning
ball was cooled
It wore a raw and ugly look; its smoking con-
tours drooled
With mists and fogs and slimy streams—it
seemed a thing obscene
Till God in pity soothed its wounds with ban-
dages of green. . „ , ..
And down the festering valleys and on the
shivering hills —
From sounding shore to mountain crest, whose
deathly ice-wind chills —
There spread the seed and grew the stalk until
it came to pass
That all the earth a mantle wore of sweet,
eternal grass.
Then, while the stars their changes knew in
cosmic ways of light,
On earth there grew the changing life—there
came the day and night —
From cells in hidden pools it grew until the
monsters stood,
Gigantic in their armored forms, by tundra, field
and wood.
Winged reptiles flitted through the air, the long-
necked dinosaur
Heard in the pregnant, primal land the sabred
tiger roar.
These died, not knowing everything must reach
its end and pass—
All but the creeping food of life, the sweet,
eternal grass.
There rose in time the wonder, Man, the
creature strong of brain,
Whose puny hands would rule all things on
mountain, sea and plain;
To whom were granted reason and the ceaseless
flow of thought;
Who ever hungered for the light and ever
knowledge sought;
Whose cities rose in clay and stone; whose
ships swam on the sea;
Who slowly civilised his kind—and made it
bond and free.
And ever, while one race arose and saw an-
other pass,
Careless alike of king and slave, grew the
eternal grass.
The mighty cities reared their spires, the mighty
kings their flags,
The clash and fume of struggle reached the
outer mountain crags.
And States and Empires ruled the world, the
cruel and the just,
And reached an end, their walls and towers
commingling with the dust.
Their striving eras passed away, their crumbling
ruins sank,
Their glory scarce remembered and then-
storied pages blank.
And up between the broken streets, where
once the feet would pass,
There thrust the eager spearheads of the sweet,
eternal grass.
The sea is conquered and the sky, and dis-
tance ceased to be;
Mankind has won the whole wide world but
still man is not free.
He still must spill his foolish blood, his
empty dogmas prate,
Fnslaved by power, death and war, by selfish-
ness and hate.
Yet in the pulse of all his dreams, unchanged,
the old hope lies,
That sees the final wall go down, the final
peace arise.
For though his body joins the dead his visions
shall not pass
But spring again in other men, eternal as
the grass.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“You go an find another green. We Was ’ere first."
“Wang”: “Whenever I read of a sly-
grog raid,” remarked Dan, “it reminds
me of one I wus mixed up in once. The
joint wus kept be a widder named
Simmons. It wus a four-roomed humpy
down b’ the crossroads ; an’ there wasn’t
a pub nearer than 20 mile. She done a
good steady biz., on’y after dark. Well,
one night when there wus a dozen of us
there a coupla mounted p’lice raided it;
some nark had tipped ’em orf. Talk
about a scatter! Fellers dived ev’ry-
where. Another John waitin’ outside
grabbed a couple, an’ yells at me t’ stop.
But I ducked around a corner an’ spots
a big tree stump ’bout 20 feet high
standin’ a bit away from the house.
There’s a ladder leanin’ agen it, an’ outer
sheer fright, an’ becos I wus a bit groggy
on me pins an’ couldn’t run far, I shins
up it an’ find when I get t’ the top of the
stump it’s holler. I tumbles over the
edge, an’ drop down a coupla feet outa
sight. I stayed there the whole of the
next day, an’ would have stayed longer
on’y ole Ma Simmons an’ her daughter
come an’ hauled me out. Injured? Me
foot! I’d landed meself on her grog
store that some of us had been tryin’ to
locate for munce!”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: When Weary Jack
drove up to the country bakehouse with
four tons of flour on his truck the idea
of carrying the load into the shed didn’t
appeal to him at all. Half an hour’s per-
suading convinced the baker that it
wouldn’t hurt the concrete floor to back
the lorry into the flour-shed. Cautiously,
Weary backed in—the top of the cab
creeping under the lintel by a bare inch.
After many spells the languid one got his
load off and began to drive out. Then a
horrible fact dawned on him —the cab
was three inches too high with the load
off the springs! Weary’s language as he
loaded the flour on again, drove out,
then carried it back into the shed, almost
blistered the paint on the truck!
* * * *
“Padflogger”: That bloke bogged to
the hat-brim (B. 21/2/’4O) reminds me of
an experience of my old
man. Transporting wool
across the N.S.W. black-
soil country he struck a
spot of weather. With
rain belting down at
inches to the hour he
outspanned the oxen,
then spread his nap in
the driest place available,
underneath the wagon.
Warm and snug he then
roved through aeons of
slumber, to encounter
finally a nightmare ir
which he was confinec I
in one of those medieval
torture chambers the
variety that had a tanK
for the ceiling of the cel!,
said ceiling slowly de-
scending as water dripped
from a cistern overhead ;
the victim being ulti-
mately trapped and
crushed to death with
painful slowness. This
tank ceiling of dream-
land was within
inches when with a terrific effort he
broke the bonds of sleep. Sitting up he
found reality; smack went his head
against a very solid ceiling—the floor-
boards of the wagon. His dream was
not far short of reality. With the con-
stant rain soaking the soil for feet down
the wheels under the weight of the load
had been slowly sinking ; another half-
hour and he’d never have got out. As
it was the axle bed-logs blocked egress
back and front, and it was a tight
squeeze to get out the side between the
wheels. Daylight found the rain still
pouring down —and the wagon floor flat
on the mud.
$ *
“Jay”: I found him, an obvious recent
addition to the ranks of the bagmen,
squatting beside the line at Grong Grong
(N.S.W.) and cursing fluently as the van
of the Narrandera train swayed into the
distance. After waiting nearly two days
for a train he had hurled his swag up
and climbed over the buffers, only to see
the blanketed roll lying beside the line
on the other side.
“Aratta”: The swaggie from the north
met the fellow-traveller from the south
in the roadway immediately in front of
the shanty pub door. Ryan, the licensee,
leaned against the side of the door, scowl-
ing across at them. “Where y’ makin’to,
mate? inquired he fiom the noith. Up
north,” said the bloke from the south,
with a covert look in Ryan s direction
“too cold where I come from. I like
the heat.” “I donV said the other with
goin’ sifuth ; I like the cold.” They both
turned their heads towards Ryan, who
responded the other, and their heads
turned in Ryan’s direction again. Then
from the bar-door came the voice of
Ryan, speaking in accents fraught with
meaning. “I think youse two blokes
oughter hurry along. This ain’t the
sort place t’ suit yer at all. It’s reel
temnerate iust here”
* *
“Mulyan”: Vast quantities of copi
(gypsum), the substance used for mak-
ing plaster of Paris, for breaking up
clayey soils and other purposes, occur
here and there on both sides of the
Murray and Darling Rivers ; in some
places there are ridges of it 15ft. high,
several chains wide and miles long. The
largest deposits are near Mildura (Vic.)
and Kowangie (S.A.). Kow Plain, in the
Kowangie district, gets its name from it,
kow being the abo. name for the mineral
in that part. From the Darling to the
Paroo and the Warri it is copi (white) to
the blacks, who employ it as a pigment
and for making widows’ caps. Whites
of the N.S.W. north-west use it princi-
pally for clearing muddy water, large
flakes and lumps of it being picked up
near their homes. A good deal of the
water in that area is muddy, but when a
little of the copi is dropped into an iron
tank the water at once becomes clear.
* * * #
“Murlonga”: We have been told of
a man ravaging a leg of mutton, two
dampers, five quarts of tea, a brownie
and a duff after starving for a week. It
simply can’t be done; a slice of
bread and a wisp of meat will fill him
to satiation point. And Black Brother
rolling on the ground isn’t trying to
ease the pangs of indigestion; in his
own crude way he is massaging the
muscles of his stomach, limbering up
the walls and sinews, expanding them
so he may increase his belly to the size
of his appetite. And as one who has
tried the same trick under black guidance,
I say it isn’t a bad way to do things.
* * * . *
“Gumsucker”: Sugar and rice that
used to arrive in matting bags (B.
21/2/ ’4O) recall a few other groceries
of an older, cruder day. For instance,
when Mum wanted treacle she didn’t seek
out the lever-top tin ; instead, little Willie
or Sis was dispatched to the store with
a basin, and from a big barrel fitted with
a tap it was slowly filled. In cold weather
the treacle just wouldn’t run. Honey
was retailed the same, only poured from
restored four-gallon kerosene-tins. Comes
the same way still to lots of outback
places. Jam also was purchased in a
basin, ladled out of yet another restored
kero.-tin. Butter was carved off by the
crude pound from a huge fresh-from-
the-dairy block on the counter. Most
other articles likewise came in bulk and
were weighed under the customer’s eyes.
But the primest cut of all was the ling
fish of Easter time. None of the
shrivelled, salted stuff done up in grease-
proof paper as in modern days. Then,
whole sides of cod hung behind the
grocery door, to be carved up in solid
chunks to the customer. Rich, juicy stuff,
the like of which the present generation
will never know.
“Hello, is that the plumber?"
THE TASMAN TRADE.
From wild Antarctic wastelands, from Polar
bergs and floes,
To Tasman’s golden island a wicked south wind
blows.
The Nut, that shelters Stanley, is swept with
sleety rain
And dripping tea-trees shiver and clustered gulls
complain.
Dungarees! Blue Dungarees, you’ll earn your
wage today,
A-bending o’er the combings to ease the slings
away!
Dungarees, Blue Dungarees, her freight of
spuds and ore
To Melbourne must be carried ere, back again
for more,
They turn her from Port Phillip, reloaded to
her rails
With goods for grateful buyers who live for
bargain sales.
’Tween Devonport and Burnie, the settlers on
the heights
Oft see her smokestack belching, or watch her
winking lights.
She traded to the mainland across the windy
strait
Before the Apple Island became a sovran
State.
She smells of stale potatoes; she reeks of
bilge and oil —
Her own peculiar perfume, a blend of sea and
soil.
Her decks are, mostly, dirty; her gear is,
mainly, worn;
’Tis said she left the dockyards the year that
Bass was born!
The wicked south wind freshens; from basalt
capes away,
Defeated seas are turning in scattered clouds
of spray.
But, batten down your hatches! Let go that
for’ard spring!
Stand by and ease her gently! Stand by and
let her swing!
She’ll take the grey road running from Tassie
to the Rip;
She’ll take the road and make it, this shabby
cargo ship.
Her engineers and stokers, her deck-hands —
and their wives—
Like other working people, live ordinary lives.
The landlord calls on Monday; the grocer at
the door
Presents his weekly docket; but, when from
shore to shore
Fierce gales torment to anger these troubled
Tasman seas,
They bless her careful builders—the men in
dungarees.
They bless the saintly shipwrights who ’foretime
labored true
That crank and valve and casing and thrust-
block, shaft and screw
Might all-united function, might each its strain
withstand
And credit bring the craftsmen who wrought
in Sunderland.
While salt is in sea-water, while leaves grow
on the trees,
We’ll bless those brawny builders —.aye! aye!
Blue Dungarees!
VICTORIA.
E.J. BRADY.


THE LAND AND ITS PRODUCE
A TRULY ROYAL SHOW.
“Ghanam”: Sydney’s Royal Show,
next to the Government and one or two
institutions like the Benevolent Society
and the Bank of N. S. Wales, is the oldest
public institution in Australia. In a real
sense, it dates from Macquarie’s time.
Macquarie, though a soldier, was born
a farmer. His father was a farmer;
his mother, with the aid of her sons,
managed her own farm, rented from the
Duke of Argyll, on Mull, until she was
over 80 years of age. Macquarie was
bred on the farms of Ulva and Oskamull,
and spent most of his boyhood on them
before he went to America as a soldier.
On his return he spent four years as
a farmer. His main ambition through-
out his life was to retire to a farm. His
knowledge of breeding and stock im-
provement is shown often in his N. S.
Wales Government Orders.
Macquarie tackled N. S. Wales farm-
ing with an expert experience. He was
the first man to establish herds of stock
in Australia on a breeding basis when,
in 1813, he divided the cattle of the N. S.
Wales Government herds into breeding
and working herds:
Four distinct herds of 250 cows to be
kept up, with a proper proportion of bulls
to each herd. Heifers to be two years
old before they are drafted into the breed-
ing herds... .Young heifers to form herds
of 300, no bull to be run with or near
these herds.
The Governor’s first thought on arriv-
ing had been agricultural. His first
administrative order sent a man to
Castle Hill to plant wheat and potatoes
to feed an almost starving population.
The record of the years which followed
shows him lecturing the countryside on
breeding methods, grain improvement
and the science of cultivation. In deal-
ing with stock, he was a vigorous advo-
cate of the purebred:—
You are to pay particular attention in
classing horned cattle to have the different
sorts of cows herded together as much as
possible; that is, to have the English breed
by themselves, the Cape breed by them-
selves and the Bengal breed by themselves.
....You must take care annually to pre-
serve a few choice calves for bulls.... One
bull should not have more than 30 cows.
His thoughts naturally turned to agri-
cultural organisation, and within a few
months after his arrival a “fair” was
held at Parramatta. It had in it the
germ of all the agricultural features of
modern royal shows. Stock were shown
and sold. Farmwives brought their pre-
serves and other products for sale.
Lighter featuies were not forgotten. In
the next few years the background of
the exhibition was a series of entertain-
ments which Colonel Somerville, with all
his passion for innovation, might have
approved. Even the modern R.A.S. has
not thought of “obstacle races for the
fair sex” as an adjunct to a show.
From the first, one of Macquarie’s
“favorite projects” was the foundation of
an agricultural society. This was frus-
trated by the congenital inability of the
“gentry” to mix with the rich “emanci-
pist” stockowners. Afterwards, it was
said that he insisted on the mixture, but
he denied it.
Eventually, in the year that he left, the
Australian Agricultural Society, genesis
of all real private organisation of agri-
culture in Australia, was founded. Its
work began with the importation of
purebred stock, grain and general land
produce.
The prospectus was issued on July 5,
1822, subscribed to by “almost the whole
of the great landowners, stockholders and
merchants of the colony.” This docu-
ment pointed out:
The greater part of the land on this
side of the Nepean has been cropped
out by bad husbandry and the pasture
consumed by surcharge of cattle; so that
scientific farming and artificial grasses have
become absolutely necessary to the con-
tinuing supply of victualling markets
There is no Eden in nature; all is from the
industry of man. We must do what all
nations have done before us —collect from
every quarter what is adapted to our soil
and climate. We must new-clothe our
adopted country; we must hew down the
useless gum-trees and plant more useful
fruit trees of Europe, and in lieu of the
present thin herbage give our meadows the
rich pasture of Britain.
Behind the movement were ances-
tors of men who have since made the
Royal Show a success —J. T. Campbell
(Macquarie’s secretary), Nicholas Bayly,
William Cox, George Ranken, Dr. Bow-
man —whose descendants have continued
exhibitors at Sydney Royal right into the
post-Great War period—Thomas Iceley,
who founded a stud at Coombing Park,
now the longest-term exhibitor of beef
Shorthorns at the R.A.S., and Robert
Lowe.
They sent to England £lOO0 —half to
buy merino sheep, £3OO for horses, £2OO
for horned cattle, £lOO for “grass and
corn seeds and agricultural roots.”
The first sale of this stock was held
at “Thomas Dixon —Steam Engine” in
1825. A descendant of Dixon, H. B.
Turner, M.L.A., is in camp with the
militia at the moment. The buyers in-
cluded men whose names appear in the
membership and exhibition lists of the
R.A.S. in 1940.
But before that the first show of the
society had been held at Parramatta in
1822, followed by a dinner at the Wool-
pack Inn. A light-hearted affair, it com-
bined business with pleasure like the
earlier fairs. It marked the birth of the
typical Australian show.
Show organisation in Sydney has not
been continuous. There were years when
Sydney Show was moribund—in the
“hungry ’forties” and in the restless expan-
sive first days after the discovery of gold.
All the same, the tradition has been con-
tinuous. The objectives of the founders
have been carried on without a break —
the improvement of agriculture and stock,
to which later was added the develop-
ment of secondary industries. Other
capitals and hundreds of other centres
have modelled their shows on Sydney’s
precedent and methods.
Seek to discover what kind of a bull
one of the famous sires of 70 years ago
was —you will find the description in
some written or oral record of the Syd-
ney Show. Turn back to the herd-book
records of the ’seventies —you find them
in the N. S. Wales Herd Book of 1873 or
1875, “published by the Agricultural
Society of N. S. Wales... .edited by M.
Lowe,” a descendant of one of the original
subscribers. Seek the leading textbook on
horse-breeding systems you find it in
the work of Bruce Lowe, another de-
scendant of the same founder. Study the
textbook of merino history—it is written
by a Cox, a descendant of still another
founder, William Cox.
I have heard described by two men —
Robert Clarke and Harry Bracker —the
personal appearance of the man who took
charge of the trial of John Macarthur
on the eventful day preceding the Bligh
Rebellion in 1808 Anthony Fenn
Kemp. They met him at a Sydney Show.
Sydney Show in the course of time
has remained what its original fathers
intended it to be, a sort of epitome of
the year’s progress in agriculture and
stock-raising and industry in Australia.
Its widespread competitions in pasture
improvement, wheat and silage mirror
the year’s development and conditions
in farm improvement. Its district exhibits
reflect the climatic conditions of the
season. Its stock sales indicate the de-
mand and set the standard for stud-stock
sales the year round, not only in N. S.
Wales, but throughout Australia.
The flood of visitors and the range of
them tell clearly to those who know
them which districts are having a rich
season, which are not. The luncheon on
opening day illustrates the general
economic and political atmosphere of the
moment. The spending round the
pavilions tells how money is flowing.
On the great park, named after one of
the show’s founders, is a greater town
at Easter than was Sydney in the days
when the show was established. It forms
a national window display which even in
the worst of times proves that Australia
is always a jump ahead of the rest of
the world in steady development and
prosperity.
It is no boast to say that the R.A.S.
is “the greatest show on earth.” For
extensiveness, variety, universality of
appeal there is nothing to touch it in
the world. Its only competitors are other
Australian shows, of which it is the
mother institution.
“MR. PRESIDENT ”
(Modelled by Frith.)
Samuel Hordern, K.B.—
always “Young Sam" where
he is best known—inherited
the headship of the great
Hordern business on Brick-
field Hill, Sydney, and con-
trolled it until 1926, when
it was sold to the present
company. From his youth
he was brought up to a
life of industry and service.
His time is always avail-
able for anything which
will promote the welfare
of the farming industries
and of Sydney. He has
bred and distributed some
of the best horses and dairy
cattle in Australia. He has
raced many good horses
and was part-owner of a
great one—Artilleryman,
winner of the 1919 Mel-
bourne Cup. He is chair-
man of the A.M.P., and he
has been president of the
Sydney R.A.S. for nearly
half his life. A national
figure, he is simple and
unassuming, approachable
by anybody, and he has
been a lavish giver, though
his name is rarely if ever
seen in subscription lists.
He has always been first
and foremost an Australian.
THE PROGRESS OF SHEEP AND WOOL.
“Zedo”: The story of sheep and
wool in Australia is one of the romances
of colonisation. Sheep history began
with the foundation of the colony;
wool history a little over a decade later.
Until 1797 the only sheep in Aus-
tralia were Bengal and English and
Cape sheep, with a few odd Irish and
other animals. In that year Philip
Gidley King and the Lieutenant-
Governor, William Paterson, were on
their way home to England when they
called at the Cape of Good Hope.
They met there the widow of Colonel
Gordon, who had recently died. He was
a Dutch-born Scot, head of a mercen-
ary regiment of the Duke of Wiirtem-
berg, a versatile man who had cap-
tured the fancy of the future Governors
Bligh and Macquarie when they to-
gether met him in 1788, a few months
after the settlement at Sydney Cove had
been founded.
Gordon had a flock of merino sheep.
His widow gave four of these to King
and four to Paterson, and offered the
remainder to them for sale. Two ships
bound for Sydney Cove were then at
the Cape—-one commanded by Captain
Kent, the other by Captain Waterhouse.
King suggested that for the good of the
colony they should buy the sheep and
take them over.
They shared the purchase. The voyage
was one of the most tempestuous of
the decade. Kent lost all his sheep.
Waterhouse landed nearly 30. Some he
sold to John Macarthur, William Cox
and others. Many he kept for himself.
No farmer, he left them under the care
of Thomas Rowley, because Rowley
realised their value.
At the beginning of the new century
the war-time wool position was becoming
desperate. Lord Hobart canvassed the
chances of raising wool in Australia.
King, who had become Governor, know-
ing what he knew, was favorable.
The two largest flocks in the continent
were then those of Macarthur and Lieut.-
Colonel Foveaux. Both of them had
been bred for mutton, though there was
merino blood in both, together with a
few pure merinos. There was little to
choose between them in quality. When
Foveaux went to Norfolk Island he left
Macarthur in charge of his floqk. The
two owners’ flocks become so mixed that
when Foveaux proposed to sell to the
Government they could not be separated.
Macarthur got the lot.
At this time every farmer, officer or
otherwise, who went to England or
arrived freshly had wool in mind. Major
Johnston went home and brought out a
first-class Southdown ram. In 1801 John
Macarthur seriously wounded Paterson
in a duel and was sent to England for
trial. The papers in connection with his
case were lost on the ship. No trial
could take place.
According to Macarthur’s own account
British manufacturers heard “by acci-
dent” that he had some specimens of
Botany Bay wool with him. He saw an
opportunity in the situation at once. He
wrote to Waterhouse —the correspondence
is still extant —asking him for his ex-
perience of wool in the colony. Water-
house at that time had the largest flock
of merinos in N. S. Wales —nine to
one against any other breeder. But Mac-
arthur was soon installed in British public
opinion as the father of the Australian
merino industry, and Lord Camden sent
him back with authority to secure a large
grant of land.
There is no evidence that Macarthur
had done much about wool before he
left for England to escape arrest over
the Bligh Rebellion. He had, however,
brought back a partner and a wool
“expert” who made a very incomplete
report on local flocks. While Macarthur
was concerned with trading and politics
Cox and Marsden laid the foundations
of the new industry.
Marsden sent the first successful com-
mercial shipment to England. Simeon
Lord, with the help of an ingenious
partner, Hutchinson, developed local
manufacture. By the time Macarthur
returned to Australia after an absence
of eight years, William Cox had taken
sheep over the Blue Mountains. In fact,
he had established the western industry
round Bathurst, and his drays and wagons
were bringing fleeces to the port.
Lord was making much of the convict
clothing in use, most of the hats of the
N.S.W. population and nearly all the
blankets. Macquarie was enthusiastic ;
he said the wool spun as well as the
Spanish. Between 1800 and 1821 the
number of sheep in the colony increased
from 6100 to 290,000 ; they reached the
million mark in the middle of the
twenties; 20 years later there were over
5,000,000.
By 1850 the grazing grounds had
spread from Queensland to S. Australia,
and there were 16,000,000 sheep at grass.
By 1891 the number was 61,000,000;
when the Great War broke out it had
touched 97,000,000.
Since the war numbers have grown
considerably; since the depression the
fluctuation has been between 108,875,000
and 113,000,000-odd.
The ebb and flow of numbers have
been seasonal. The effective fluctuation
in wool during the last few years has
not been due to the market. There have
been increases and regressions, but
despite artificials and despite periods
of panic when growers thought the
industry might be doomed by the
competition of substitutes despite
stupid trade agreements such as that
by which the bulk of the Japanese
market was temporarily lost a few years
ago, the cumulative effect during the
past 20 years has been a steady increase
in production and sale.
Between 1920-21 and 1937-38 output
and sale of wool in the Commonwealth
more than doubled the increase was
from 1,635,000 bales to 3,338,000 bales.
At the time of Federation Australia’s
wool cheque was £13,503,000. The high-
est pre-war cheque was £22,671,000"in
1913-14. Except during the two depres-
sion years 1930-32, the return has never
fallen below £30,000,000 in any year
since 1920-21. The peak point was
reached in 1927-28, when average price
per bale was £25 4s. 9d. and the total
£60,873,000. In 1936-37, with average
price per bale at £2O 14s. 2d., the
cheque was the next-largest in history—
£6o,ss2,ooo.
Since the end of the Great War Aus-
tralia has sold roughly £1,000,000,000


McGARVIE SMITH ANTHRAX VACCINE
The ORIGINAL Single Vaccine, used in Australia
for thirty-five years with splendid results !
Stock Department Records show that when this vaccine was introduced inoculations
reached nearly Two Millions per annum in New South Wales alone, and that out-
breaks are now of only minor occurrence. McGarvie Smith Vaccine is now known
throughout the world. Its quality has always remained constant, and each new
batch of vaccine is subjected to X'igid field and laboratory tests.
Full particulars on application to
THE McGARVIE SMITH INSTITUTE,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia. ’Phone: 81277.
“Congratulations, Tom !
You grew one of the best crops that
ever won a competition.”
“THANKS, but I reckon
a lot of the credit belongs
to my Sunshine Combine.
I’m fallowing with it
again now, getting
ready to plant for
another bumper
crop,”
im
m
SUNSHINE
COMBINES...
are used by most of the leading farmers all
over the Commonwealth, including the great
majority of crop competition winners. Many
successes in the season just ended have again
emphasised that they are Australia’s Champion
Combines.
SOME OF THE REASONS-
Grain feeds evenly and surely. No patchy sowing, no cracked
kernels.
Fertilizer feeds in a steady, unvarying stream. Each star-tooth
starts to feed before the preceding one has finished.
Both are planted uniformly, well under the shares, on a firm and
level seed bed.
Cultivation is thorough over the full width of working. Sure
coverage with the correct mulch.
Points of special steel; they wear long and uniformly even in
gritty soils, and always provide a level, compacted seed bed.
Accurate and easy control, whether horse or tractor drawn.
Rugged strength and simplicity that ensure long and satis-
factory service.
■=»Krigllgß|
THE SUNTYNE.
Combined Grain and Fertilizer
Drill and Spring Tyne Cultivator
8-row, 1 7-tyne sft. cut
1 2-row, 25-tyne 7£ft. cut
14-row, 29-tyne cut
16-row, 33-tyne 9Jft. cut
18-row, 3 7-tyne 1 Oifft. cut
20-row, 41-tyne 12ft. cut
24-row, 49-tyne 14ft. cut
All sizes are available with standard
box and fittings. In addition, 14-
row and larger sizes are offered
with enlarged box of approx. 50
per cent, greater capacity, also
strengthened wheels and frame.
sS§
555^1
saiSs?
THE SUNLEA.
Stump-jump Rigid Tyne Cultivator
Drill. The new patented Com-
bine which unites the Suntyne
feed run with bridle draught
similar to the Sunduke Scarifier
12-row, 25-tyne 7Jft. cut
16-row, 33-tyne 9Jft. cut
20-row, 41-tyne 12ft. cut
All sizes are available with standard
box and fittings. In addition, 16-
and 20-row sizes are offered with
enlarged box of approx. 50 per
cent. extra capacity, also
strengthened wheels and frame.
EQUIPPED FOR TEAM OR TRACTOR HAULAGE.
KEENLY PRICED FOR CASH OR TERMS.
Ask your local agent for the free catalogue; or write direct to —
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
CONCORD WEST (near Sydney).
95-97 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
CNR. MURRAY & KING STS., PERTH.
Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Q’ld.) Pty., Ltd., Sth. Brisbane.
At the SYDNEY ROYAL SHOW
you will see these Combines and a comprehensive range of other profit-winning
machinery in the Sunshine Massey Harris display.
worth of wool and wool products—about
20 p.c. less than would be needed to
pay the national debts of the Common-
wealth and all the States.
It will be surprising if the return from
this season’s clip on an agreed price of
13.4375 d., plus half the profits of sales
by the British Government to countries
outside Britain, does not break the record.
Unfortunately costs and taxation also are
likely to break a record.
Breeding Progress.
The industry was fortunate in its early
days in having a large group of men
with a natural flair for breeding. And
the woolgrowers were fortunate in having
abundant cheap labor, for clips in the
early days not only called for hand-
shearing but sheep were washed, shep-
herded and tended with great care. It
very early became evident that, when
land showed any tendency to increase
very much in price, the 21b. to 31b. clips
which were cut from the early merinos
would be unpayable.
Whatever John Macarthur had to do
with the foundation of the industry, he
and (especially) his son William were
master organisers of sheep husbandry.
They also soon became master breeders.
So did William Cox. By 1825 stud rams
were bringing up to £3OO in Sydney,
easily a world’s record price. The in-
troduction of Saxon merinos and of
German refugee farmers who understood
the breeding of them, in the twenties
of last century, had been a great step
forward in the development of a fine-
wool industry, and as wool cuts increased
so did the price of rams.
The ’fifties saw a big advance in breed-
ing technique with the establishment of
the Wanganella strains based on the old
Bayly blood, which had its roots in the
very beginning of Australian sheep pro-
duction. The Emperor strain established
the advantage of a Rambouillet infusion.
The work of the Peppins, Austins,
Falkiners has evolved several types, some
plain, some wrinkly, from the original
Wanganella bases. They have shown
themselves the greatest influences in the
evolving of modern Australian sheep.
One of the other important influences
on Australian type was Samuel Mc-
Caughey’s experiments from 1887 on-
wards. McCaughey infused the Ver-
mont blood. As a breed, the Vermonts
were not a brilliant success. Their use
led to an improvement of body confor-
mation, but they introduced a period of
wrinkles. Gradually, however, the large-
framed, plain Wanganellas of various
strains and types, sturdy, with great con-
stitution, wool-growth area and compara-
tive freedom from wrinkles by Vermont
ideals, have triumphed. Their triumph
has become intensified since a connec-
tion between wrinkles and blowfly strike
has come to be taken for granted.
The net progress—apart from great
changes for the better in length and
quality—which has resulted in actual pro-
duction from breeding and crossing
may be briefly stated. Till the intro-
duction of the Wanganella there had not
been much advance on the original maxi-
mum output of 31b. per sheep. But by
1875 the figure had gone up to over 41b.,
and the numerous experiments of the late
’eighties and early ’nineties raised it to
61b., for the first time in history, in
1894. Ten years later it had risen to
7.41 b. ; in 1912 it reached 81b. for the
first time.
Thus between 1876 and 1912 output of
wool per sheep doubled. The highest
averages for the Commonwealth have
been B.Blb. in 1927, 1929 and 1934. In
individual States and districts the aver-
age has been higher in decimal points.
There is no reason why a great deal
more wool cannot be packed on to sheep.
The yield of the best breeding stock is
higher than in any other sheep country
on earth, and stud rams have fre-
quently sold for five-figure prices since
the ’eighties. The first sheep to bring
over 1000 guineas was Gibson’s Tas-
manian Hercules, which changed hands
at 1150 guineas in 1885 ; the first to reach
3000 guineas was John Commings’s Ter-
ranallum-bred Lustre in 1883. There
are still breeders, particularly small
breeders of limited capital, to whom a
sheep is just a sheep. There are others
who, while they are good graziers, are
poor judges of what constitutes a good
breeding animal and lack the instinct
for mating which is half the battle in
the production of sound types.
Our Greatest Industry.
One thing, however, is certain. Wool
is Australia’s greatest industry. Average
annual exports from the Commonwealth
from 1932-33 to 1937-38 were worth
£138,889,505. Of this amount, wool pro-
vided an average of £51,645,000, or 37.18
per cent. It returned as great an aver-
age as wheat, dairy produce, minerals
(including gold) and meat put together,
and part of the meat production must be
credited to the woolgrowing industry.
The Commonwealth has become easily
the world’s largest producer of wool, with
the United States ranging next; but,
whereas the U.S.A. consumes its own
production, the bulk of Australia’s wool
is exported. And Australian wool manu-
facture supports 400 mills and factories,
employs nearly 50,000 hands, pays over
£4,500,000 in annual wages and uses about
340,000 bales in normal times —a figure
which has increased from 87,000 bales
in 1920-21. The products of this indus-
try are worth over £20,000,000 p.a. in
peace-time; but wool is essentially an
export commodity controlling our ex-
change relations with the world.
The British Empire produces roughly
one-half of all the world’s raw wool of
all types, and two-thirds of the wool
which normally enters the open market.
Australian sheep are on an average
about 84 per cent, merino and 16 per
cent, crossbred. Out of a sale clip of
2,700,000 bales the average would be
about 475,000 bales crossbred.
Of all the merino wool used in the
world market, Australia supplies 70 per
cent., apart from her crossbred quota,
and S. Africa almost the whole of the
rest. Between them, these countries are
able to assure to the British Common-
wealth an absolute monopoly of the finer
spinning qualities of workable wool in
the open international markets in peace-
time.
To Britain, the wool industries of the
Commonwealth, Maoriland and S. Africa
are of enormous importance in eithei
peace or war. British manufacturers buy
every year, in peace-time, one-fifth of
the total wool production of the globe.
Their first call on fine wools in war-
time gives them an enormous advantage
—the effect of the possession of a fine-
wool monopoly by a hostile country in
war-time would be devastating.
However, no foreign country is likely
to compete with Australia. Conditions
of pasture, variety of districts and
climate enable this country to produce
wool types to meet the needs of most
buyers of her better-class fleeces. Im-
mense areas of land suitable for sheep
place the Commonwealth in a position
which no foreign country can challenge,
especially when to natural conditions are
added a talent for handling woollies and
studs built up by nearly a century and a
half of selection.
The only two things which could beat
the Australian industry would be in-
flation of land values and too high a
loading of costs through taxation, freight-
rates and indirect imposts.
Governments need to keep that well in
mind. There is no evidence that the
wool business runs any risk of extinc-
tion or serious damage from artificials.
War and Wool Types.
“Murrawong”: Any abrupt change of
system, no matter how small or how far-
reaching in consequence, or how well
intended, must bring a certain amount
of inconvenience to some of the people
involved. The sudden switch-over from
selling Australia’s wool to the world by
auction to its acquisition by the British
Government at a fixed price has been
no exception. In my judgment the
complaints have all been minor matters
that are capable of adjustment, and they
will no doubt be rectified when the
scheme is revised at the end of the selling
season.
It was fortunate in one respect that
last year’s wool prices were uniformly


LEETON GO-OPERATIVE
CANNERY LIMITED
AT LEETON, N.S.W.
The most modern and largest
Fruit Processing Plant in the
Commonwealth
sd
Leeton Cannery is situated in the famous Murrumbidgee
Irrigation Areas
AUSTRALIA’S FRUIT GARDEN
During the 1938-39 season the fruitgrowers of
the Area supplied to the Cannery 7685 tons of
Fruit, valued at £67,500.
FRUITS, JAMS AND SAUCES
The Best Brands Prove
The Cheapest Purchase
“GOLDEN AREAS,” “IBIS,” “LETONA” APRICOTS,
PEACHES, PEARS, GRAPEFRUIT, AND ALL LINES
OF CHOICE JAMS
LEETON CO-OPERATIVE CANNERY LIMITED
Head Office and Cannery:
LEETON, N.S.W.
Phone: Leeton 170.
Sydney Office:
UNION BUILDING,
8-14 BOND ST., SYDNEY.
Phone: 86828.
YOUNGHUSBAND
LIMITED
Stock and Station Agents
Buyers and Sellers are advised to consult our
Special Stock and Property Department, or
our Branches.
BRANCHES:
NEW SOUTH WALES: ALBURY, LOCKHART, Rand, Walla
Walla, Griffith, Leeton, WAGGA
WAGGA, DENILIQUIN.
VICTORIA: ECHUCA, Kyabram, CASTERTON,
MILDURA.
Chief Representatives and Attorneys in Victoria for
THE
STATE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Cover issued fc all Classes of Fire, Accident and Marine
Insurances at lowest current rates.
YOUNGHUSBAND
LIMITED
Registered Office:
94-96 KING STREET
MELBOURNE
low. The average price per pound at
which the British Government agreed to
buy the Australian clip not only showed
an increased return per pound to prac-
tically every grower, but the excellent
woolgrowing season resulted in an in-
creased weight in the clip of over 20 p.c.
Had these positions been reversed the
Wool Committees would have been faced
with a most unsympathetic task.
When wool was sold by auction a state
of glorious uncertainty existed. The
grower was torn between a desire to sell
early one year or late the next. Prices
bounded up without warning overnight,
leaving a few growers rejoicing and many
muttering in their beards. Supply and
demand largely ruled the market, and
other factors such as lot-splitting and
speculation distorted values from day to
day. In spite of the mysteries and hush-
hush policy with which it has been sur-
rounded, the wool appraisement scheme
has brought a stability and sense of
security —if not a just return —to the
pastoral industry that is reflected in a
general state of prosperity throughout
Australia today.
Although prices for every type of Aus-
tralian wool were defined at the begin-
ning of the scheme and these prices are
to rule until June 30, 1940, irrespective
of outside influences, the world’s re-
quirements for war purposes were largely
in mind when the prices were fixed. The
urgent need was of wool for uniforms,
and for this purpose not superfine merino
but crossbred wool was required. As
a result, crossbred prices in Australia
showed a substantial increase, and the
same reason may explain why the aver-
age price under the appraisement scheme
for the M.L. clip is so little below the
Australian average, although only about
5 p.c. of the former is merino.
Growers of well-classed crossbred
wool have expressed bewilderment at
their lower lines bringing a higher price
per pound. There is not a great margin
between the clean-scoured costs of 56’s,
50’s and 46’s, but the lower spinning
qualities are generally higher yielding.
A line of fine crossbred —56’s with a
clean-scoured limit of, say, 22d. and yield
of 68 p.c.—would bring 15d. Medium —
50’s with a c.s. limit of 20d. and yield
of 76 p.c. —would be worth 15^d.
Although a comparison of values may
seem bewildering to the grazier, they are
chiefly so because of the background of
auction-sale values. Under the appraise-
ment scheme values expressed in the
clean-scoured cost of each type are on
a regular basis, and although the allow-
ances made for burry types which caused
dissatisfaction some months ago may not
have been entirely just, the system of
valuing places a premium on good wools
and on good classing which must be of
great eventual benefit to the country.
Speculation and other features of the
auction system have tended to convince
a section of woolgrowers that it does
not pay to buy good rams or to grow
good wool, and that they get as good a
price for their clip “all-in” as for care-
fully classed.
Unless a line is even in quality, length
of staple and condition it cannot hope
to attain the most favorable type in its
particular section and thus obtain the
highest possible return. Where several
types are present in the same lot the
appraiser is forced to put it down into
a lower type than even an average might
give, and the grower loses the value of
the better wools in the bale.
The new table of limits forces stricter
attention toward faulty wools, and this
fact has still to be realised by many
graziers. Any semblance of tenderness
in the staple, even amounting to a slight
or partial weakness, will reduce a line
from spinners to a topmaking type with
a drop of pence per pound. This has hap-
pened to scores of clips this season, and
it should be noted for future guidance
that any wools with pretensions towards
spinners’ types well-grown and
nourished, free, stylish fleeces —should be
perfectly sound.
Although certain well-known clips
may lose by the absence of bidding com-
petition which pushed up the price of
their top lines, these super types have
been well treated under the scheme, and
clip averages should work out remarkably
well. Before the subject of fault is left
behind, that of vegetable fault should be
closely watched when classing. The per-
centage of burr on wool has much to
do with its fate. All wools carrying over
a certain percentage are scoured and
carbonised in Australia, and topmaking
types contain sub-sections whose price
limits are regulated by the amount of
burr in the wool. Where fleeces cannot
be skirted free, carry out the skirting so
that the heavy burr goes into the pieces
and keep each line even in this respect.
Lamb’s wool receives favorable con-
sideration under appraisement, particu-
larly free wools of good length. Lamb s
wool is usually high yielding, and this
accounts for the high prices given for
some lots of crossbred lambs where
yields of well over 80 p.c. have been
allotted.
During the last few years of the
auctions, extra-long-stapled wools sold
remarkably well. Some of the later-
shearing districts, where plains-bought
wethers carried 13-15 months at shearing
and brought high prices per pound and
excellent averages, may not do so well
now.
Wools abovg the normal lengths of
staple may be forced down —that is, an
overgrown 64’s may be typed as a 60’s,
and so on. Extra good length bellies,
on the other hand, may bring an en-
hanced value.
There seems to be no apparent reason,
however, for the secrecy with which the
table of limits is surrounded. A
knowledge of the main types and the
margins between their limits should be
available to every woolclasser, who would
be enabled to prepare clips with a greater
degree of accuracy which might mean a
gain of pence per pound to his employer.
MUTTON AND LAMB.
In no branch of Australian export
trade has there been greater expansion
than in mutton and lamb. The prepon-
derance of merino sheep always has been
against the building up of the trade, but
once the business was taken up seriously
remarkable success was achieved.
All the English breed rams suitable
for mutton sheep have been tried in
crossing—Southdowns, Romney Marsh,
Ryelands, Dorset Horns and others. The
technique of development was helped by
the Australian’s natural predilection for
sheep-raising, but was complicated by
the fact that, while the British market
demands a carcass of uniform type and
size, climate and herbage variations in
the Commonwealth are apt to make uni-
formity difficult. The climate tends to
the growth of large-framed animals.
Striking results have been obtained in
local production of rams, and some of
the South Australian Southdown sires are
equal to anything in the world. In
handling and producing to export size
and quality, breeders have still a lot to
learn, but their breed societies have set
their faces sternly against the use of
poor-quality breeding stock. Studs have
grown up at a greater rate than in any
other branch of animal industry, the
demand for suitable ewes is such that
there is a constant hunt for them, and
since the war began big prices have been
paid. The comparative cheapness of
rams has helped also though up to
£250 has been paid for good stud im-
ported animals in recent months.
At the same time perfection has not
been reached. The Australian Meat
Board over a year ago urged ram-licens-
ing on the basis of the Coleman report,
which pointed out that the quality of
lamb-production was being affected by
the poor type of British breed sire in
use. Sheep-breed societies have followed
suit. General quality, however, has been
steadily improving.
The results achieved in production and
in the highly competitive U.K. market, to
which most lamb and mutton carcasses
go, would a few years since have seemed
impossible to achieve in the short time
which the job has taken. And in the pro-
cess of reaching the present stage in the
industry husbandry in mixed-farming dis-
tricts has improved. Lamb-raising has
brought with it a wider respect for arti-
ficial pastures. It has done more than
anything else to stimulate the study of
sub. clovers. In Westralia it has paved
the way for changing lands formerly
reckoned not worth £1 an acre into
good sheep-grazing lands artificially pas-
tured and doing a substantial fat-lamb
trade. It would have raised a loud laugh
a decade ago to suggest that much of
that country ever would fatten a sheep.
Fat-lamb raising, too, in N. S. Wales
has done much to deal with skeleton
weed.
A glance at the figures shows clearly
how Australia’s status as a mutton- and
lamb-exporting country has changed in
the past ten years or so. In 1926-27 the
value of mutton and lamb exports was
under £2,000,000. In 1932 518,000
mutton carcasses and 3,166,000 lambs
were exported. In 1938-39, mutton ex-
ports numbered 1,058,659 and lambs
5,578,000. Under stress of our com-
petition the mutton and lamb trade of
the well-established S. American coun-
tries has fallen off in the six years—in
mutton from 1,238,874 carcasses to
430,262, and in lamb from 4,758,000 to
4,050,000.
The sheep is a handy beast to trans-
port, and so long as there are growing


i •' ~“7W v„v V
*'
■ g
I;
M .
: :ri"
■ ■'
>:& ?
UMll*
I^**
■■
igpri
?
■SIMM
isg
111
■■■ ■ '
wm
•••.';
ilii
-g""
ONLY
FACTS
COUNT
S§|
• There is no need to generalise where Haddon Rig Rams are
concerned. These facts and figures count for themselves. RESULTS
are the acid test of true quality.
SYDNEY STUD SHEEP SALES . . . JUNE 1934;
153 HADDON RIG RAMS averaged *94/17/6.
the highest average for 10 years, for any stud.
SYDNEY STUD SHEEP SALES . . . JUNE 1937;
129 HADDON RIG RAMS averaged £9l. thus
making the two highest averages for 7 years.
SYDNEY STUD SHEEP SALES . . . JUNE 1938:
109 HADDON RIG RAMS sold for £6632 again
the highest total for any stud.
SYDNEY STUD SHEEP SALES . . . JUNE 1939:
134 HADDON RIG RAMS sold for a total of
£11,489 averaging £B4 each, representing
nearly 25 per cent, of the Total Sales of
All Merino Studs.
HADDON RIG STUD
Apply for Stud and Flock Rams now available to:
MANAGER, "HADDON RIG" WARREN, N.S.W. 'PHONE: 74 WARREN
AND AT 4 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
armies in the field and British agricul-
ture is dislocated, so long will it be pos-
sible to sell every edible lamb we can
raise. . • ,
During the war period, however, with
quality restrictions somewhat relaxed in
the market, greater care will be needed
to assure that standards are not allowed
to weaken.
The R.A.S., which manages the affairs
of the British breeds stud sheepmen, has
not forgotten this. Special action is just
now under discussion to prevent imports
of poor-quality breeders, and the demand
for official supervision of rams is being
renewed.
AUSTRALIAN BEEF.
“Mookau”: Australian beef entered a
new phase of development with the be-
ginning of the present war.
When the last war broke out the
general quality of Australian meat-pro-
ducing stock had been low for years.
The boom of the ’seventies had been
succeeded by a generation during which
stud stock were always at bargain prices ;
but when 1914 came there was an up-
ward trend, and a heavy demand for
stud stock was developing. This was
stimulated after the war, until the high
prices of bulls and other factors checked
improvement.
The invention of processes which made
the sale of Australian chilled beef pos-
sible brought Vesteys into the Australian
business on a larger scale, and coincided
with the Commonwealth Government’s
creation of the Australian Meat Board
and the signing of export agreements
with Britain. The new conditions created
a demand for first-class bulls capable of
producing quick-fattening young stock,
and a new interest in the farm-bred beef
animal developed.
Cattle numbers have not increased
strikingly since 1914. Then, the total
was 11,500,000. Today there are about
13,000,000, there having been a steady
annual decline' for six years. In 1934,
there were 14,000,000. The only areas
which since have shown increases are
Queensland and the Northern Territory,
and in both the increase has been very
small —in Queensland from 6,052,000 to
6,097,000 ; in the N.T. from 859,000 to
891,000. The figures include dairy
cattle.
In the more populated south-eastern
areas, whole districts have gradually
gone out of beef-raising into sheep and
mixed farming, and the same process is
taking place in parts of Queensland —
notably in the south-west. In N. S. Wales,
there are fewer cattle today than there
were in 1876 — 3,000,000-odd against
3,150,000.
Droughts have played havoc in some
districts, and the wholesale killing of
bobby calves has had its effect. Only in
one respect is there great improvement in
cattle, and that is in quality.
Export grading, begun during the last
war and perfected in the years approach-
ing the present one, has made a con-
siderable difference, along with the per-
suasions of herd-book societies and the
incessant work of show societies, parti-
cularly of the Royal Agricultural Socie-
ties of the capitals and larger centres.
At present, it is difficult to keep up
with the demand for stud and herd bulls.
All over Australia, particularly in the
great breeding centres of the outback,
the scrub bull is being replaced with the
purebred. Districts which before were
content to turn out anything which was
a “good walker” are now doing their
best to introduce quality into their herds.
It has been shown that even low-rainfall
districts can produce stock of high
quality. Time and again in recent years
bullocks from Central Australia have
carried off the pick of the prizes and
realised the highest prices at Adelaide
Show sales.
Whereas within a generation the
description of a witness at the Wando
Vale (Q.) inquiry of some of the stock
on State stations —“lemonade bottles on
sticks” —might have been applied to a
very large proportion of the cattle of
Cape York, there has been an amazing
change. Some of the best stock used in
the fattening experiments by Brice Henry
on his coastal property at Tully (N.Q.)
were drawn from the Cape country. North
Queensland steer carcasses have several
times topped the Smithfield market.
The Queensland Land Administration
has given every encouragement to the
establishment of stabilised north-western
studs, but the export market for chilled
quick-matured beef has proved the best
incentive to improvement.
The developments of the past few
years have opened up considerable con-
troversies as to the most suitable breeds.
There has been strong advocacy of the
zebu cross. But the greatest station
owners of the North and Centre have
been content to continue their traditional
policy of sticking to the British breeds.
It would be safe to say that 80 per cent,
of all Australian cattle are primarily of
Shorthorn origin, the bulk of them bred
from the old Van Diemen’s Land Com-
pany importations, the great-framed
Stratton stock of the Lees, the Waterloos
of the Angases, and the Summerton
Derrimuts tracing back to the old Albion
Princesses of the Favorite-Comet strains
—strongly constitutioned, big-framed,
well-fleshed, prolific animals. In later
generations they have gradually become
broadened on top and given a lower
underline, a squarer symmetry and
quicker maturing qualities from continued
infusions of Scotch blood —the same
blood which has made the superlative
quality of the Argentine chillers for a
generation.
The outlook for the station cattle-pro-
ducer of the new school —which he owes
largely to show-ring education and Stud
Society preaching—is illustrated by E. A.
Brooks, of Two Wells, S.A., who raises
his stock 700 miles from his market
under some of the most difficult condi-
tions in Australia:
The annual average rainfall of the Oodna-
datta district is only about five inches.
It is healthy for livestock, excepting during
periodical dry spells, when impoverishment
takes place, resulting in starvation; and
there is no tick in the region. We find
that the Doddie crosses well here with any
type of cow, producing good beef classes,
particularly vealers; the breed, however, is
inclined to be timid, which is a pity—
absence of horns perhaps. We have an
A.A. stud here and are trying to over-
come the timidity, but it keeps reappear-
ing. In my opinion the Hereford can
beat the Doddie as foragers, and they
stand up better in hard times One
thing is certain —that in all cases pure-
bred bulls only must be used.
The average number of animals
slaughtered in the Commonwealth each
year is round 3,ooo,ooo—the figure is
almost double that of 1931, when killing
was at its lowest ebb in recent history.
Beef production is about 1,300,000,000
pounds per annum, which makes the aver-
age carcass, including calves, about 4301 b.
About 80 per cent, of the total goes into
local consumption—Australians with a
consumption of nearly 1301 b. per head
per annum are the world’s greatest beef-
eaters. The balance is exported.
Export has grown considerably in the
last few years, and would have grown
considerably more had more high-quality
beef been available. Since the chilled
trade was introduced in 1932-33, the
total export trade has increased from
round 1,450,000 cwt., worth round
£2,000,000, to 2,569,000 cwt., valued at
£4,367,000, last year, plus £400,000 worth
of canned beef.
The bulk of this has gone to the
United Kingdom. Of chilled beef the
export of 55,000 cwt. in 1934 has in-
creased to 527,000 cwt. in 1938.
The war has made a great change in
the markets and in local conditions.
Import of bulls to freshen established
herds with English and Scottish bulls is
cut off indefinitely. The British Govern-
ment has purchased all Australian beef
for export for the period of the war.


SAVE 10/- per month ON PETROL
NEW INVENTION 1000 GIVEN FREE
New invention utilises petrol fumes now wasted. Car owners report amazing
savings . . .. together with faster pick-up . . . more power . . . smoother runniyg,
This invention turns fumes now being wasted into valuable fuel, and puts them
hack to work. Mr. A. McW., of Mitchell Koad, Alexandria, writes: “I have
installed on my Ford A one of your Aero oil attachments ... I had an increase
of 14 miles per gallon.’ 1
The Aero Oil Vaporator fits all cars, trucks, buses anil
tractors. No drilling-, tapping or cutting required. Any-
one can fit it with a spanner in a few minutes. It operates
automatically, lasts a lifetime.
sa
dsa
dsa
d
sad
sad
'
To—
NATIONAL. DISTRIBUTING CO.
Brickfield House,
GG3 George Street, SYDNEY.
1000
ATTACHMENTS
GIVEN
Free !
During the next 30 (lays, under a
new advertising plan, 1000 Aero
Oil Vaporators will be given
away FREE with the object of
further popularising this ingeni-
ous invention. To share in this
offer you must act immediately.
Post Coupon NOW.
Post this Coupon
NAME ADDRESS
CAR M.P.G
(Enclose 2d. Stamp for Postage.) 8.3.40
i Follow this Good Example
p oWiuhMCcpMTi)
SCHUTE BELL BADGERY LUMBY LTD.
WOOL AND PRODUCE BROKERS,
FAT STOCK AND PROPERTY SALESMEN,
1 Bent Street, Sydney.
Telephones: 8W4341 (5 lines).
Grading regulations are to some extent
relaxed.
The chilled trade must go by the board
for the time being, owing to the uncer-
tainty of shipping conditions and the
length added to voyages by convoy sys-
terns and submarine-avoidance routes.
But a demand is assured at prices at
present payable, though not as satisfac-
tory as they might be.
Beef-raisers and beef-breeders are in
for a busy time. Stud and herd bulls will
continue in strong demand for years. In-
deed there are bright years ahead for
the beet industry and particularly for the
stud beef industry if full advantage is
taken of war conditions.
DAIRYING.
“Mookau”: Scientific dairying is a
modern development in the Common-
wealth. The early settlers had little
stock; farm holdings of small free
settlers were often only 30 acres. If a
cow was kept it was merely for milk.
The staple animal of the bark-hut-and-
hoe era of early Australia was the pig.
The first fillip to milk-production was
given with the opening-up of the Illa-
warra. The first butter from that dis-
trict was carried by housewives —on
horseback or on foot—over the Bulli
Pass. Then a bulk supply began to come
to Sydney from Kiama, Shell Harbor
and other points on the N. S. Wales
South Coast in kegs brought by trading
vessels.
Modern butter-production was born
within living memory near Kiama —the
old factory building in which it had its
birth can be seen today beside the road
ro Jamberoo. The new system arrived
with the importation of the first separa-
tor. The father of the business was
George Dymock, who died nearing his
century only a few months ago.
Before that, however, the Australian
dairy cow had developed. There had
been numerous importations of milking
breeds from the beginning of history—
Blaxlands, Marsdens, Baylys, Coxes,
Macarthurs all played their part. Wil-
liam Berry’s establishment of the great
scheme at Coolangatta, however, was the
first large-scale experiment in improve-
ment. Ayrshire and, much later, Jersey
blood spread along the coasts of N. S.
Wales and into Victoria, which is now
the great Ayrshire State.
But Shorthorn blood was the base of
most of the best producers from the be-
ginning. When the great beef-stud boom
of the ’seventies and ’eighties exploded,
the frugal Scotch and North of Ireland
farmers of the Illawarra and, to a lesser
extent, Victoria took advantage of it to
buy—cheap—superb Butterflies and
Robin Hoods which would have been
worth a fortune in the beef-cattle market
a few years before. Bates lines in par-
ticular were grand milkers with great
wedge-shaped frames and fine breeding
qualities. They were mated with estab-
lished cattle, most of which had a dash
of Ayrshire somewhere in their past.
From the later admixtures grew up the
modern A.I.S. breed—peculiar to Aus-
tralia. The great Darbalara (Melbas),
Greyleigh, Dudgeon and other cattle are
known throughout the world.
The advent of the factory system and
co-operation put the seal on dairying
organisation.
The Royal Shows —particularly those of
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane —and
country shows have served as marts for
the exchange of stud cattle. The sons of
Illawarrans carried their cattle and their
farming methods to the rich scrubs of
northern N. S. Wales, and then for the
first time in the history of the world
created a real dairying industry—owned
and run entirely by whites—in the tropics
of the north. Atherton is unique among
world dairying areas.
In later years there have been large
imports of dairy-cattle sires and dams of
the Jersey and other breeds, and a con-
siderable spread of purebreds.
The industry is now on a thoroughly
solid basis. Last year Australia pro-
duced over 200,000 tons of butter and
24,000 tons of cheese. With the reorgan-
isation of obsolescent factories and rigid
grading, quality has improved out of
sight.
Quality and production have both been
affected by droughts in recent years, but
the Commonwealth last year supplied the
United Kingdom with 89,000 tons of
butter —18.9 p.c. of the whole of the
U.K.’s imported supplies—the quantity
being only exceeded by Maoriland, which
is the greatest exporter to Britain, and
Denmark.
Australia is also the third exporter to
the U.K. of cheese, of which manufac-
ture has made great strides in the past
five years. Export increased from 4624
tons in 1933 to 11,883 tons last year, but
Maoriland’s export exceeds 80,000 tons.
Including exports to foreign countries,
the total overseas butter shipments last
year were 102,571 tons. Butter prices
have shown a steady improvement, and
the export average of 755. 6d. per cwt.
for 1934-35 was turned into an average
of 112 s. 2d., based on daily quotations,
last year.
The industry has a long way to go to
reach economic perfection. Still, aver-
age yield of milk per milking cow in
1910 was only 278 gallons per cow. There
were then 2,064,000 dairy cows.
Last year there were 3,500,000 dairy
cows, and the average milk-production
was about 360 gallons.
Milk output in 30 years has risen from
555,000,000 gallons to round about
1,150,000,000 gallons.
Great strides have been made in cattle
improvement and butter and cheese
quality, very largely thanks to the Show
and breed societies, and they will be even
greater in the next decade.
AUSTRALIA'S HORSES.
An outstanding feature of Australian
cavalry regiments in the 1914-18 war was
the quality of their horses. On forced
desert marches the Walers established a
reputation for courage and endurance
that will not be forgotten.
When, at the outbreak of this war, the
military sent out buyers to comb the
country for Walers suitable for cavalry,
one of them unburdened himself thus:
Generally 15 out of every 20 inspected
proved weedy and under or over age, with
light bone, unsound legs, quartered hooves,
ringbone, spavin, signs of stringhalt, defec-
tive sight, lumps and swellings, bad teeth,
curbed hocks and unbroken, badly broken
or plain outlaws.
In 1918 Australia had well over
2,500,000 head of horses of all kinds.
Today she would have a job to rake
up more than a million and a half, and
their standard is indicated in the military
buyer’s remarks. The motor drove the
horse from Ihe roads, the tractor drove
it from the farms. This was to be ex-
pected, but it was not to be expected that
a country without its own petrol sup-
plies would so suddenly grow deficient
in horse-power.
When Australia did all her farming
and most of her road transport with
horses there was a big home market for
hay, maize, oats and other fodders. A
great many Australians were engaged in
trades connected with the horse. Every
town had its produce store where the
farmer could sell his farm products.
Wheelwrights, coachbuilders, farriers,
saddlers and many more thrived on the
horse.
Those days are gone, and it is not
suggested that they should be brought
back. The fact remains that Australia
needs good horses for many purposes,
defence above all.
Should she ever have to defend herself
against permanent or raiding invaders,
the horse will prove to be one of her
greatest assets. With petrol supplies cut
off she may still be able to fall back on
producer gas for her mechanised forces,
but neither petrol nor gas can pull a
heavy gun over black soil after heavy
rain, nor could armored cars or tanks
make sorties in the coastal mountain
country with the same mobility as a Light
Horse patrol. Tanks can knock down
scrub, true, but mountain ash and blue-
gums growing close together are a dif-
ferent proposition. Moreover, all mech-
anised vehicles are subject to breakdown,
a horse will go while he can stand up.
We must have mechanised-army vehicles,
of course, but there is still an important
job for the horse in home defence.
As this war goes on there is every
possibility that oil-fuel supplies will be
either drastically rationed or cut out
altogether for other than defence needs.
The horse will be needed for the farms
again, and for delivery and transport
work. It will be too late to start breed-
ing then.
The fact has not been published in
Australia, but the outbreak of war created
a big demand for horses both in Britain
and France. At the Lanark sales of
Clydesdales in Scotland shortly after the
outbreak, the demand could not be satis-
fied, and breeding stallions brought
greatly increased prices.
Australia has been overanxious to
switch from the horse to the motor, and
a glance over the mixed lot of equines
now to be found in the average Light
Horse regiment indicates clearly that a
revival in breeding is called for. The
Waler is conspicuous by his scarcity, the
heavy gun horse is no more plentiful, and
farmers who may suddenly find them-
selves unable to feed their tractors will
be hard put to it to buy working teams
of the standard required.
PIGS AND PROGRESS.
“Pappamosca”: Pig husbandry, until
recently, was the least forward of ail
animal industries. Australia had fewer
pigs than any other considerable meat-
eating country in the world. This was
attributable partly to climatic causes —
fat meats are less needed than in coun-
tries with long winters—partly to the
easy availability of other meats ; partly
to the strong competition in export which
had to be faced from closely organised
European countries with immense quan-
tities of surplus dairy products for pig-
feeding, and only a few hours from
market.
Pig-raising is essentially an intensive
business suitable for countries with small-
area farms.
Nevertheless, the vastness of the
market came to be recognised within the
past few years—Denmark’s bacon trade
with Britain is worth up to £17,000,000
sterling a year. Pig-raising methods have
been overhauled.
Denmark succeeds with her bacon
through intensive standardisation. There
is only one legal breed of export pig—
a combination of the native Landrace
and the white York.
The visit of Dr. Hammond a few years
ago taught Australian breeders the need
for close standardisation, and was of
great help in showing them how closely
they must conform to British market
requirements and measurements if they
wished to compete in export bacon with
foreign countries.
The institution by the Meat Board of
all-Australian baconer and porker com-
petitions also helped, and the outbreak
of war gave a new interest to the busi-
ness. Britain’s import of pig meats in
1938 was made up of 6,868,000 cwt. of
bacon, 664,000 cwt. of hams and
1,200,000 cwt. of pork, nearly all frozen.
Australia’s contribution towards this was
155,000 cwt. of bacon, 72,182 cwt. of hams
and 284,000 cwt. of frozen pork. The
cheque came to £882,000 last year and
£934,000 the year before.
For a country whose pig population
had shown little increase over 25 years,
and was only 1,200,000 when export
began to be taken seriously, the per-
formance has not been a bad one.
With wheat low in price and producers
being quickly educated to proper methods
and to understand their opportunities,
the progress has been striking.
Sydney’s Royal Show’s entry of pigs
this year is a record both in quantity and
quality, and it looks as if the export pork
and bacon business may show the same
sort of progress in the next few years as
has been made by mutton and lamb since
1932. U.K. import quotas have been a
check on expansion. The check is now
off for the time being.
THE WHEAT INDUSTRY.
At the beginning of last year the Com-
monwealth Statistician gave the number
of farms growing wheat in the four
States that grow for export—N. S. Wales,
Vic., S.A. and Westralia—as 51,529. All
farms growing more than 20 acres of
wheat for grain were counted. The
number of actual growers is rather more,
because share-farmers might number
from one to three on properties accord-
ing to wheat area.
This year the four States among them
produced a heavy harvest, estimated at
the end of February to be 215,000,000
bushels. If the estimate is realised the
Australian record of 213,926,900 bushels,
averaging 13.57 bushels, in 1932-33, will be
beaten. The figure includes the Queens-
land yield, that State’s crop being well
above the normal 10-year average of 34-
million bushels. For many years Queens-
land wheat has not entered export calcu-
lations, a local board controlling produc-
tion and acquiring the wheat for home
consumption and making the necessary
imports from southern States when the
need arose. For the rest of this article,
wheatgrowing is to be understood as re-
ferring only to the four exporting States,
Wheat was among the first grains sown
in Australia, and in the early days its
production was mainly for home con-
sumption as flour or stock food. After
1860, and the increase in production fol-
lowing the gold discoveries, wheatgrow-
ing rapidly developed into a major pri-
mary industry. The depression of 1893
checked it somewhat, but after that there
was further steady expansion, consider-
ably aided by the inventions of Austra-
lian implement makers such as Ridley,
Shearer and H. V. McKay,
Recognition of superphosphate as a
yield-increaser, adoption of the long-
fallowing system, and the use of new
wheats evolved by William Farrer and
others for special Australian conditions
resulted in much land coming into pro-
duction in districts hitherto considered
too dry for wheat. By 1913 wheat had
become so important a factor in the
nation’s economy that every State was
busy with closer-settlement schemes,
almost all of which were based on wheat-
growing.
The 1914-18 war opened in a year
when drought had heavily reduced yield,
but production was up again in 1915-16'
though exporters found themselves faced
with the same shipping problems as exist
at present. The war took many men
from wheatgrowing, farm laborers,
lumpers and growers, but by 1920-21
(Continued on page 28.)


1
« COOL
VIA.
soV; * so'f
cvO^
SOLTINE CLOTH is made only from
Pure Australian Wool.
SOLTINE CLOTH keeps the wearer
£ cool throughout the Summer.
SOLTINE CLOTH, having more
0 “twist” in its fine worsted yarn than
other cloths, will not crease or crush.
SOLTINE
CLOTH
(mdi §gl&&
at fyicfJi
BORN SHORN WOVEN AND WORN IN AUSTRALIA.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL LEADING STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA


HTS
LYS
PROor
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
'— r*^-v
Sr-3
•» • •
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
9,000,000 acres were under wheat, and
Australia harvested 146,000,000 bushels.
There were more closer-settlement ad-
ventures after that war, many returned
soldiers going into wheatgrowing. The
high prices of 1920 encouraged a general
belief that wheatgrowing was a business
in which you spent a few years and re-
tired with enough to live on comfortably
for the rest of your life. Many did so,
but chiefly because they were able to
take advantage of the high values then
ruling for .wheat land and sell out at
prices far above the true value of the land.
For the next few years the industry
continued to grow, and prices remained
on a fairly good level. The tractor came
and enabled men to sow much larger
areas than formerly, and bulk-handling
systems were introduced in N.S.W. and
W.A. Pools operated more or less suc-
cessfully, wheatgrowing continued to be
regarded as a good spec., and the in-
dustry seemed destined for a great future
in a world rebuilding itself after four
years of destruction. This state of affairs
continued until about 1926, assisted by
the efforts of plant-breeders and agricul-
tural education, so that Australia’s aver-
age acre yield 13.74 bushels was
higher than that of Canada, U.S.A. or
Argentina. Australia had made the great-
est relative advance in wheat-production
among all exporting countries.
But the world was suddenly called upon
to pay the price of a great war and the
false prosperity that followed it. In
Europe the nations collapsed financially
one after another, and the process was
hastened by inflation in many of them.
The Old World went broke and could no
longer pay high prices for primary pro-
ducts from the New. Depression plunged
Europe into bankruptcy, and countries
that had previously bought wheat from
Australia, Canada, U.S.A. and Argentina
because of its special qualities for bread-
making turned to and grew their own
grain, putting up with its inferiority.
Many of them even subsidised their
farmers to unheard-of limits in an effort
to produce wheat for export at dumping
prices, all sorts of tricks being played
with foreign exchange.
Canada refused to sell at the low prices
and stored her wheat until the surplus
was staggering. The U.S.A. paid its
farmers to turn the crops in. Grain piled
up in the elevators of Argentina. Stalin’s
Soviet began to dump wheat everywhere.
This followed Australian growers' re-
sponse to an appeal from State and Com-
monwealth Governments to “grow more
wheat,” when glib political tongues
shouted things about guarantees of 6s. 6d.
a bushel. The formation of an Inter-
national Wheat Committee failed to cor-
rect the world position. By 1930, to put
it plainly, the Australian wheat industry
was on its uppers.
Aspects emerged that did nothing to
improve the position. In what were
termed “marginal areas” a state of ruin
existed. These areas were mainly in
Mallee country, where both soil and rain-
fall were light. Removal of the scrub
cover and working of the ground for
wheat resulted in wind erosion and loss
of fertility. No attempt had been made
to check the erosion, to protect the soil
from constant cultivation, or to restore
fertility. Abandoned farms appeared and
a class of poor farmers sprang up. Their
debts, added to the debts of those in
better country, assumed big proportions.
In the Victorian Mallee the trading banks
withheld further credit, wheat land being
no longer regarded as security ; in N.S.W.
the State introduced a system involving
the appointment of supervisors to handle
the farmer’s debts, to pay creditors pro-
portionately from the farm income, and
to ensure the farmer enough to carry on ;
S.A. and W.A. were forced to take similar
measures.
It was revealed that the majority of
these farms grew wheat and little else.
No attempt had been made to develop
sidelines except in minor instances. Since
the 1914-18 war the farmers had their
own Country parties in the Parliaments,
chiefly by wheatgrower support. They
became vocal. Something would have to
be done or the wheat industry would col-
lapse under its own debt burden.
It was a national industry with rami-
fications wider than most. Whole com-
munities depended on it for their exist-
ence. Warehouses, machinery firms, in-
surance companies, banks, storekeepers,
flourmillers, carriers—there was no end
to the people who got a living out of
wheat. Practically every town in the Vic-
torian Wimmera and Mallee, in western
N.S.W. and its eastern Riverina, in north-
east and western S.A., and in the W.A.
wheatbelt had been put there by wheat.
Railway systems and roads, water
schemes and electric-power lines, brick-
works and foundries and .mills had fol-
lowed the wheatgrowers wherever their
fallowing stirred up the dust. There was
an army of farm workers, share-farmers,
harvest hands, lumpers, agents, all living
by wheat. It was obvious that if the
country could rescue this industry it
should.
The Commonwealth Government
began with a bushel bounty in 1931-32
that cost the country nearly £3| million.
In the two following years special relief
grants amounted to over £5 million. By
1935-36 the Commonwealth had spent
nearly £l4| million to keep the wheat
growing.
As was to be expected, a royal com-
mission was appointed—in 1934. It
travelled from State to State and took
reams of evidence from all sorts of
people from actual wheatgrowers to
suburban bakers. It prepared no fewer
than five voluminous reports and a
couple of supplements, and was in action
until 1936. All that it found out could
have been ascertained with much less fuss
and expense—was indeed already known
to most of those in touch with the indus-
try. The five reports and supplements
contained a multitude of recommenda-
tions, chief of which concerned financial
help for the growers either direct from
the public purse or indirectly in the form
of flour tax.
All this failed to put a penny a bushel
on wheat or to show farmers how to re-
duce their costs of production. The in-
dustry remained on its uppers, but con-
tinued to grow wheat, and, where good
seasons were experienced and the utmost
economy was practised, farmers managed
to break even. Nevertheless, until this
season the wheat industry continued to
be a grave national problem, its chief
trouble being the inability of the growers
in the mass to grasp the fact that the
world had too much wheat and that they
had to find either some other way of
using wheat or some other thing to grow
in its place.
Australia entered the present war with
a good harvest likely, and later found her-
self with over two hundred million bushels
of new wheat on hand. The Common-
wealth Government first of all acquired
the entire crop and, after some dilly-dally-
ing, guaranteed a price that, with the addi-
tion of the flour tax, led farmers to expect
at least 3s. 4d. a bushel. After that
prices improved, and the Australian
Wheat Board clinched a deal with Britain
for 63,000,000 bushels, for the first half
of which the price was 4s. for
bagged and 3s. 10jrd. for bulk f.o.b.
But the war had seriously curtailed
shipping, and though there were more
sales the means of getting the grain away
were restricted. There has been talk of
building ships in Australia or hiring
neutrals, but nothing more than that,
though every silo and every storage shed
are crammed with grain and the year
is rushing on to the next harvest.
Though the war may increase demand
and lift prices, it can be regarded only as
a temporary relief. One of the prob-
lems of peace for Australia, unless the
unthinkable happens and Germany wins,
will be the wheat industry, for nothing is
more certain than that world stocks will
build up again. It has to be remembered
that Canada, U.S.A. and Argentina all
look on wheat as among their chief
primary industries, and none of them will
willingly consider any restriction of pro-
duction so long as their wheat industries
can make ends meet.
Latter-day history of the Australian
wheat industry offers little cause for opti-
mism as to its future, yet the application
of some commonsense and the realisation
by the farmer that wheatgrowing is not
the be-all and end-all of his existence
would very soon place the industry on a
sound economic basis in all except mar-
ginal areas.
At present Australia consumes about
one-third of her normal crop internally in
the form of flour and poultry feed. Little
or no effort has been made to increase
that consumption, though it has been
proved, for instance, that wheat fed to
pigs invariably returns a price well above
export parity and that the country is
short of pigs. Australians consume
about 201 b. of pig a head per annum,
compared with about 671 b. in Canada
and 681 b. in U.S.A.
Though the wheatgrower has gone in
for sheep he has largely regarded them
merely as fallow-cleaners returning a
little wool for their keep. There has been
no organised effort to increase wool
yields and carrying capacity by improv-
ing pastures, long rotations and fodder
conservation. The proportion of men
successfully conducting export lamb-
raising operations is far too small, yet
there is a fairly strong market for lamb
abroad.
Poultry, especially turkeys, offers
another good sideline, and one that can
be expanded and exploited. The average
Australian household never knows the
taste of turkey largely because the
scarcity of the birds makes’ their retail
price prohibitive. Many thousands could
be reared in the wheat country.
There must be a big field for wheat in
the outer sheep country, where droughts
periodically decimate the sheep popula-
tion, and it is fairly reasonable to assume
that with a proper system of storage and
transport of wheat the back country
could carry many more sheep than it
does. It may be said that wheat is not a
suitable sheep feed on its own. Very
well, why not grow oats on some of the
country now devoted to wheat?
The wheatgrower, and he is not alone,
has far too long kept his eyes fastened on
the export market. Certainly it must
remain of great interest to him, but there
is scope for expanding home consump-
tion and there is scope for the products
of a mixed farm.
Costs will have to come down. Stan-
dardisation of machinery parts, use of
producer gas, reduction of land values,
and a simplification and reduction of
taxes are fields worth investigation.
Manifestly, if it costs 3s. a bushel to pro-
duce wheat the farmer must either get
more than that for his wheat or go out
of business.
Various schemes have been put for-
ward designed to fix a movable home-
consumption price that would balance
the fluctuating export parity so as to
ensure the farmer an all-round return
that will give him a profit. None of them
has been implemented. There does not
seem to be any practical hope along
these lines.
Marginal land ruined by wheatgrowing
will have to cease production. It must
either be used for grazing by giving cer-
tain occupiers neighboring areas and re-
moving others to other forms of produc-
tion, or be allowed to revert to the
Crown entirely and efforts made to re-
clothe it with timber and pasture as a
preliminary to stocking it later on.
No living man can foretell the changes
in world economics that will follow this
war. It is possible that Australia will re-
ceive an influx of population from dis-
tressed Europe. She may be called upon
to feed starving millions. No man can
forecast what the peace will bring.
The last war went on for four years,
killed millions, ruined nations and eco-
nomic systems, overthrew Governments
and bred revolutions. Yet there was
actual change in either the political or
financial system of Australia.
charged with the welfare of the wheat
industry would do well to remember that
and make their plans accordingly.
OATS.
“Bourke”: Though wheat dominates
the entire Australian grain scene, there
are other grains which not only yield
well but offer scope for expansion, not-
able among them being oats.
Before the horse was displaced by the
motor there was a big internal trade in
oaten hay and chaff, as well as grain, and
when the demand was curtailed little or
no attempt was made to develop other
fields of consumption. Yet oaten hay
and grain constitute one of the best
forms of fodder for sheep and cattle,
and it is constantly stated that Australia s
fodder reserves against dry spells and
prolonged droughts fall far below what
most other stock-producing countries
would regard as normal requirements.
Oats have a part in wheat cultivation,
aside from their value as fodder. Used
as a rotation crop, they help to restore
fertility, and act as a check on such
wheat diseases as take-all and smut.
Since the export lamb is increasingly
becoming a product of the wheat farm,
oats have returned to favor as grain for
self-feeders in the ewe paddocks, and
as hay or silage to carry lambing ewes
over periods of pasture shortage.
Average acreage under oats in Aus-
tralia each year is a little more than li
million, from which comes an average
annual yield of about 15| million bushels
of grain. A greater area is sown with oats
for hay each year, probably close to
2,000,000 acres. The gathering of such
statistics is at best a haphazard business,
as few farmers have more than a rough
idea of the area sown. The Common-
wealth Statistician gave a total of
1,804,508 acres of oats for hay in the
five mainland States for 1936-37, and it
is known that Tasmania grows a great
deal of oaten hay.
Oat yields vary considerably, the aver-
age being in the vicinity of 13 bushels an
acre. They are generally worth from
2s. 6d. a bushel up according to quality
and demand.
Value of the oat crop to the Common-
wealth in 1936-37 was £2,282,141 for
The grain, and oats made up more
than half of the hay crop, valued at
£12,104,079. There has been some export
of oats to Maoriland, British Malaya,
Ceylon, India and Mauritius, and be-
tween 1934 and 1937 Britain took about
700,000 bushels. Between 1932 and 1937
value of net exports of oats, in Aus-
tralian currency, was £25,330, £12,017,
£59,853, £27,718 and £34,247 for each
respective year.
About 11 per cent, of the oaten grain
produced is used in local manufacture
of oatmeal and other breakfast foods, in
which there is a very small export trade.
MAIZE.
“Y. Dent”: Though regarded in
U.S.A. and South Africa as a premier
stock food, in Australia outside the dairy-
ing districts it would be hard to find
maize being used for such a purpose.
Why this should be in a country trying
to build up an export beef industry is
somewhat of a mystery, for the value of
maize for fattening is beyond doubt.
On the average about 300,000 acres is
sown with maize for grain every season,
though there is a considerable additional
area producing it as green fodder and
for dairy silage. Over 90 per cent, of
(Continued on page 30.)


Exice
; ; ■
w
#■
■jgjM mm ' • ■
I.*—
# #*
": - : .
,
kikd
'" : 1
> •'
* '
i 1
Wtll
-. ■
.*:•-
?F(
*««» |i : ; y* %
5 W
SfS URI. T K 1! 2 5 fi. • M
<-
MM
~£3s, :
■
AN AMAZING TRIBUTE TO THE RELIABILITY OF EXIDE.
Every day in every way the uses of Exide Batteries
expand— in industry, in transport and now in the
defence of the Empire. The British Army, Navy
and Air Force all rely upon Exide to give its unfail-
ing power for defensive operations. Exide has
even penetrated to the deep recesses of air-raid
shelters to provide emergency lighting in times
of national peril. So the three arms of defence
link their faith in "Exide" with that of great
world institutions, giving you confidence in
selecting Exide for your car, motor-cycle or
house-lighting set.
sa
das
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP
OBTAINABLE
GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
FROM DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA


YfinchcombeCarson
Wool
3 Bales
300 Bales or
any other number, smaller or larger. As Selling Brokers, ViTnchcombe, Carson
have one service for all clients—The Best.
Every consignment secures the most efficient attention possible. The firm s
marked popularity among growers provides indisputable evidence of the merit
of their work
Winchcombe, Carson
Ltd.
Winehcombe House, Bridge
St., Sydney; 99-101 Eagle St.,
Brisbane.
281 18.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 53 Castlereagh St.,
224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic address: “Abbey Boots Sydney.”
MAKING BROAD FEET
COMFORTABLE
If you have broad feet and
have been unable to obtain
a comfortable shoe, try this
new Abbey shape. It is
made with a plain stitched
vamp and cap in high-
polishing Black Calf.
Stocked in full and half sizes
in wide fittings.
Price, 27/6
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good
Shoe.”
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
5t
5f
m
o
£
%po>
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus oils and
their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or coal tar
derivative. Neither washes nor dries out. Does not stain fleece.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
% ' *
i : • & / •• •
m
wmMMM,
wm
mm
mm
&mwst*
mm
<**"«#*"*
»—*,w*nnH
■mm.
j tl m;v-V"" |V >I** 1 **
mmmm
mmm
mmmm
m*mm-
■m^mmmmmmmm.
mmmmmmmmmi
mmmmm
mmmmm
mmm&Mmrn
mmrnmmmmmm^,
mmmmmm
mmmmmm
mmmmm
LYSAGHT’S
TANK MAKING SHEETS
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
Sydney Adelaide Fremantle
the total grain production is in two
States, N.S.W. and Queensland ; most of
the rest is grown in Victoria.
Australia’s record maize crop was taken
off in 1910-11, not because of any
greatly-increased acreage, but because
the season put the average acre yield up
two bushels all round. That crop of
over 13,000,000 bushels has never been
approached since, the yearly average fall-
ing below 8,000,000 bushels.
It’s a different story in South Africa,
where maize is an agricultural mainstay,
production having risen from 361,169
tons in 1904 to 2,812,800 tons in 1937.
The Union has a big export trade, grain
is graded for sale, and an elevator sys-
tem handles the harvest in much the
same manner as wheat is handled here.
More than half of the annual yield is
consumed internally, both as stock and
human food. Among the countries to
which South Africa exports maize and
maize products are Australia and Maori-
land.
Cornflour, breakfast foods and other
maize products are manufactured in Aus-
tralia to such an extent that imports are
relatively unimportant. Value of the
maize crop in 1936-37 was £1,784,716,
giving a per-acre value of £5 12s. 4d.
as against the acre value of wheat for
the same season of £3 ss. 9d.
Like oats, maize has a role in the
much-needed fodder conservation expan-
sion in Australia, and a proper appre-
ciation of its value as a stock feed would
lead to an increased acreage being sown
in districts proven suitable for its pro-
duction.
BARLEY.
“I. B. King”: Australians have fre-
quently been taunted for their ability
to drink beer. Whether this be a sin
or an achievement depends on the point
of view ; anyway, if Australians suddenly
stopped drinking beer and took to lemon-
ade or cold tea there’d be weeping and
wailing and gnashing of molars in South
Australia.
More than six times as much barley
is grown for malting there than for other
purposes, most recent figures showing
that, of a total of 7,336,767 bushels grown
in one season, 6,382,760 bushels ulti-
mately went down the throats of anti-
prohibitionists.
Previously Victoria grew more barley
than any other State, but the South Aus-
tralians soon realised the wisdom of
providing the raw material for beverages
that were drunk for pleasure, as a food,
as a rite, to nark the missus, or because
there was nothing else to do. As a re-
sult, South Australia today grows more
than 65 p.c. of the entire Australian
beer output, a fact which probably
accounts for the interest taken by the
average Australian in advertisements
issued by the Adelaide Tourist Bureau.
A small proportion of the Common-
wealth barley crops is cut for hay and
green stock feed, but as this seems to
be sheer waste —animals having no appre-
ciation of the sacrifice thus made for
them —it scarcely comes into the calcula-
tion that sets out the value of the beer —
er —barley crop at over £1,500,000.
The value, of course, cannot be
counted in mere money. When the army
of employees connected with the busi-
ness of growing barley and drinking beer
is taken into consideration, it can readily
be understood what effect an entire
failure of the barley crop would have.
Many a man sitting pretty behind a
bunch of brewery shares scarcely ever
thinks that the beginnings of his dividend
are in the seed-box of a drill somewhere
on the Gawler Plains.
SUGAR.
Queensland is the sugar State ; it pro-
duces about 93 p.c. of the cane sugar
grown in Australia, the remainder com-
ing from the N.S.W. North Coast. In
Victoria there is a small sugar beet in-
dustry, the area ranging up to about
3500 acres and production up to about
5000 tons of beet sugar a year.
As early as 1823 Thomas Scott pro-
duced 70 tons of sugar at Port Mac-
quarie (N.S.W.), but it was 1862 before
Louis Hope established the industry with
20 acres of cane in the Moreton Bay
(Q.) district. Two years later Hope
brought kanakas to the canefields, and
from then on the industry quickly got
into its stride. By 1870 cane was grow-
ing on 5000 acres and 28 mills were
crushing. Six years later development
received a serious check when an onset
of rust almost completely destroyed the
cane crops. At this time sugar produc-
tion had reached an output of 15,000
tons, and the financial crash that fol-
lowed the rust attack can well be
imagined.
But a hardier, quick-maturing variety
of cane was adopted and the industry
quickly recovered, especially w^\ en , a
Mackay grower, McCready, proved that
cost could be kept down to £lO a ton.
By 1880 there was a boom in cane-
farming. At the same time the system
of introducing black labor from the
Pacific Islands was finding increasing
opposition, the operations of the “black-
birders” having received some publicity.
In 1884 157 mills were crushing cane
from nearly 30,000 acres, and were pro-
ducing 34,000 tons of sugar and 145,000
gallons of rum. Then two dry seasons,
black-labor troubles, and a fall in price
combined to bring about a second set-
back.
The opposition to black labor was
intensified, and the adoption by the Com-
monwealth of the White Australia policy
not only stopped the further introduction
of kanakas but provided for the depor-
tation of most of those already here. By
1914 only 4 p.c. of the labor on the cane-
fields was colored, and there had come
into existence the cane-cutting gangs of
white men. These were seasonal workers
around whom there sprang up legends
in verse and story comparable with those
which marked out the shearing crews
in Australian literature.
The outbreak of the 1914-18 war soon
resulted in the Commonwealth Govern-
ment assuming control of sugar produc-
tion. In the closing years of that war
many Australians found white sugar
almost unprocurable and there was wide
use of unrefined or “brown” sugar.
Commonwealth control continued in-
directly for several years after the war;
but the industry continued to grow with
the growing population, and by 1925
over 400,000 tons of sugar was being
produced.
In that year began a series of agree-
ments between the Commonwealth and
Queensland Governments which cul-
minated in 1936, when an agreement
signed in September fixed the price until
August, 1941. Under this agreement
grower and miller were to get £24 a
ton between them on a 70/30 basis, the
wholesale price was fixed at £33 4s. a
ton, and the price to the city housewife
at 4d. per lb.
The agreement is to be continued for
five years from August, 1941.
For the 10-year period 1928-37, the
average yearly production in Australia
was 4,350,856 tons of cane and 598,432
tons of sugar. It is estimated that well
over 30,000 persons find employment in
the sugar industry.
As an exporter of sugar Australia
found herself concerned in the falling
overseas prices for primary produce, and
her delegates were among those of the
21 nations —representing about 90 p.c.
of world sugar producers —which met
in London in May, 1937, in an effort
to stabilise a position which, through
falling consumptive ability of importing
countries and overproduction, was
rapidly drifting from bad to worse.
An agreement for the regulation of
production and marketing of world
sugar for five years was entered into,
its object being to secure an adequate
supply of sugar at a price not exceeding
cost of production, plus a reasonable
profit, to efficient producers. Each
country accepted a basic annual ex-
port quota ; Australia’s was 400,000 long
tons, which was to be increased accord-
ing to expansion of consumption. An
International Sugar Council was created
to administer the agreement, which was
expected to keep world sugar stable.
The present war may, of course, upset
all these calculations, and it is possible
that Australia may find it necessary to
increase her output. She has shown her
ability to produce good sugar and main-
tain a high standard of living for those
engaged in the industry, and her cane-
fields have provided opportunities for
many European immigrants.
With the background of the pioneers,
the blackbirders and their victims,
tropical environment, modern mills dot-
ting the Queensland coast, the influx of
southern Europeans to the cane country,
our sugar industry is full of color. Much
has been said of it and much written,
and it has played no small part in our
political life. Some day will come a
writer to put it all between covers, when
it will make as fine and interesting a
yarn as any other tale of progress.
The Inventor's Contribution.
Wherever wheat is grown in the world
in large areas it is harvested by a
machine which cuts the straw, threshes
it, cleans and grades the grain, and deli-
vers the straw either back to the paddock
or into a container. In America it is
called the combine; in Australia it is
called the header —an abbreviation of
header-harvester.
The invention of this machine and its
subsequent improvement had a tremen-
dous effect on the world’s bread. It


n
:UCA
BRITISH W MADE.
THERE IS A
BATTERY
i*T3T>
m
FOR EVERY PURPOSE
mm
CSto* VEfilc iEs
to
IS
i Warn
m
WEs
LUCAS Quality Batteries
are Warranted for 2 Sears t
OBTAINABLE FEOM DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
Bennett & Wood Pty., Ltd.,
Cr. Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Moody & Company,
15 Goulburn Street,
SYDNEY.
Hannan Bros., Ltd.,
58-62 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
W. T. Burns,
46 Brisbane Street,
HOBART.
Bell’s Auto Electrical Service,
166 Brisbane Street,
LAUNCESTON.
Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd.,
156 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
Elphinstones Pty., Ltd.,
Cr. Adelaide and Wharf Streets,
BRISBANE.
Elphinstones Pty., Ltd.,
15 East Street,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Elphinstones Pty., Ltd.,
Sturt Street,
TOWNSVILLE.
Elphinstones Pty., Ltd.,
6 Alpin Street,
CAIRNS.
Joseph Lucas (Aust.) Fty., Ltd., 627-639 Wellington Street, PERTH.
LUCAS
.nshled the wheatgrower to produce
more wheat at greatly-reduced cost, thus
reducing the cost of flour and generally
t he loaf. People in cities who
earfheir morning toast with but little
fdea of the complicated process followed
tom the wheat seed to the bakery
scarcely ever think of the reason why
bread is within the reach of all. Were
thev curious enough to inquire deeply,
E wou°d find not only that tt was
largely due to the header, but that the
header is the product of Australian
brains and courage.
Three men, John W. Bull, John Ridley
and Hugh V. McKay, were associated
with the development of this machine,
but it is to the last-named that Australia
owes her great agricultural-implement
industry and the world its cheaper loat.
Bull who came out to South Aus-
tralia in 1838 and took up farming about
1844, was so impressed by the primitive
harvesting methods then in use and the
scarcity of labor that he built a model
ot a machine that would strip off the
wheat heads. With the exception of
John Ridley, he could find none to take
any interest in the machine, Ridley,
however, made some improvements to
Bull’s model, and very soon had a
stripper. It was pushed by horses through
the crop, a comb taking in the ripe ears,
and revolving beaters in a drum then
swept them from the stalks.
Ridley had arrived in S.A. in 1839,
and his steam flourmill gristed wheat
from the first S.A. harvest. His stripper
encountered some prejudice at first from
the hidebound English farmers in the
colony, but before long its use became
universal in Australian wheatfields, and
strippers were in use as late as 1920.
However, long before that it had been
realised that there was room for im-
provement, as the stripper merely took
the ears off, leaving the winnowing to be
done by a separate machine. It remained
for Hugh V. McKay to produce the har-
vester, which combined the operations
of stripping and winnowing, and later,
with the aid of a Victorian farmer
named Taylor, to give the world the
header.
The harvester merely stripped the heads
and winnowed the grain. The header
cut the heads with a knife-action similar
to that of a reaper and binder, graded
the wheat and generally obviated one of
the harvester’s chief faults, waste of
grain. Further, the harvester found great
difficulty in taking off crops heavy with
thistles and other weeds, or down through
weather, as its comb was easily choked.
The header, with its knife, cut off every-
thing, and then dealt with the foreign
matter in its winnowing and grading
interior.
McKay was born on a Victorian farm
in 1865. He was only 19 when he in-
vented the harvester, the first machine
consisting of spare parts from other
farm implements, kerosene-tins, wire, etc.
He found it hard to make farmers see
the value of the machine, and toured
Victoria on a bicycle trying to prove its
worth. Within four years he had over-
come rural conservatism, established a
factory at Ballarat, and so launched an
industry that was to become one of the
most important in Australia. The great
Sunshine Harvester works in Victoria,
which McKay founded, now cover nearly
40 acres of ground and employ up to
3000 hands in a busy year.
But though McKay emerged as the
leading implement-maker in Australia, he
was not the only one. While he was
still a child, another epock-marking in-
vention—the stump-jump plough—came
out of South Australia. This was the
invention of two brothers, Robert B. and
Clarence H. Smith, and it permitted the
cultivation of thousands of acres of
former scrub land, because it obviated
the necessity for the costly business of
grubbing out the stumps. As a result of
the Smiths’ invention, mallee scrub could
be rolled down and burnt off, and the
plough, with its shares so fixed that they
would jump over obstacles in the ground,
could follow the fire. The principle was
soon improved upon and applied to
disks, scarifiers, etc.
These forward strides were not con-
fined purely to machinery used in crop-
growing and -harvesting. For instance,
there was the shearing-machine invented
by Frederick Wolseley, which revolution-
ised shearing in Australia, and there have
been countless minor inventions and im-
provements such as fruit-graders, pack-
ing machinery, corn planters, chaff-
cutters, hay- and wool-pressers and so
on. Australia now makes in her own
factories a vast variety of machines,
from the giant auto-headers down to
hand wire-strainers, for use on Australian
farms, stations and orchards.
The road to success has not been an
easy one. In the early days of this cen-
tury, when the country was politically
divided on the question of Freetrade v.
Protection, no effort was spared by over-
seas makers of agricultural implements —
some incorporating Australian improve-
ments —to scotch the growing Australian
agricultural-implement industry. H. V.
McKay took a leading part in that fight,
and The Bulletin itself took a hand
with editorial and cartoon. Protection
came, and the country launched forth
on an industrial era that has made steady
progress ever since. The old bitterness
is forgotten now; many of the overseas
manufacturers came here and built their
own factories, employing Australian men
and material.
There is justification for the claim that
McKay and his contemporaries, such as
the Shearers, of S.A., Robinson and Co.,
of Victoria, the Clyde Co., of N.S.W.,
Nicholson and Morrow, Ritchie Bros.,
John Danks and many others, proved
that Australia could make her own goods,
for once they had shown the way with
farm implements it was not long before
others were following with all sorts of
things, from locomotives to lollies.
These men did something else for the
Australian farmer. They more than
doubled his home market, which is
always superior to the export market.
In 1908 the number of persons employed
in Australian factories was 257,494.
Thirty years later it was 530,950. As
there were more than equal increases in
the numbers employed in business and
professional life, it can readily be seen
that the fight for Protection waged by
Australian farm implement-makers was
in its way as important as their actual
manufacture of the implements. Had
that fight not been won, Australia would
not be the country it is today, nor would
there have been the money for grants
and subsidies to keep farmers out of the
financial disaster with which so many
of them were faced from 1929 to 1935
and since.
The Farmhand.
A singularly silent fellow is the Aus-
tralian farm-worker. Working hours
that generally range closer to twelve than
eight, he seldom receives more than £2
a week and tucker, and far too often
has to sleep in quarters beside which the
average suburban motor garage is a
palace.
Though classed as a laborer, he is
much more ; few farmers would employ
a man who could not produce satisfac-
tory references as to his experience and
ability to perform the duties required
of him.
Since the farm has been mechanised,
he is required to be something of a
mechanic. He is expected to keep milk-
ing-machines, pumping-engines, tractors,
harvesting gear in working order, and
to be able to make general repairs in the
event of breakdown. He must know
something of cultivation and the science
of growing crops. If there are sheep,
cows or pigs on the place, he must know
something about animal husbandry and
feeding, the use of concentrates and the
preparation and storage of fodder.
Should his employer go sick, or go on
holiday, or be called away for any
period, the farmhand is expected to carry
on the work of the farm. He must be
able to handle horse teams and the vari-
ous implements. He is out in all
weathers. All for a wage that would
render a coalminer speechless, and send
the average town worker spluttering to
the nearest union secretary.
Yet he has no protection from wages
boards or arbitration courts, nor does
he, apparently, seek any. His class of
work, the wages paid and the accommo-
dation provided appear most unattrac-
tive ; yet there are few vacancies. There
must be something on the farm that can-
not be obtained elsewhere —something
beyond wages and hours of toil, a serene
philosophy born of wind and rain, of
growing things and fresh-turned earth
and the wide horizons of the sunset —
something that is not to be had where
the neons blaze and humanity packs pic-
ture shows nightly.
However that may be at first glance,
it seems peculiar that, in a great primary-
producing country like this, the farm-
hand should get so little pay for such
hard work and be so quiet about it.
At second glance, his case is not so
bad. For one thing, he has a permanent
job, and provided he is normally thrifty
(we are speaking of an unmarried man)
should save half his wages. There’s many
an unmarried member of a union pro-
tected by awards who can’t do that be-
cause his employment is subject to all
sorts of interruptions, and because,
though he enjoys the amenities of city
or town life, they have to be paid for.
For another thing, the old-time slave-
driving type of cocky has almost passed
from the Australian scene. Science has
taken the slavery out of farming. In


HERE IT IS!
The fly dressing you have been waiting for
GRAZCOS C.B.E.
( Camphor-Boracic-Emulsion)
FLY DRESSING
This is the dressing recently produced by the Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research and recommended to all woolgrowers after thorough
tests in Queensland and New South Wales.
It has been prepared exactly to the C.S.I.R. formula, and may be safely
used on stud or flock sheep.
In 1 gal. drums . . . . . . 12/6 per gal. f.o.r. Sydney.
GRAZCOS
The Graziers’ Co-operative Shearing Co., Ltd.,
GRAZCOS HOUSE, 46 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY.
For all External Livestock Diseases
"CARBOX"
A Wonderful Healer .... A Super Cleanser
A Powerful Antiseptic.
“CARBOX” is an Australian product for Australian conditions.
“CARBOX” embodies only the finest materials in its ingredients, providing not
only a surehealer of the highest quality, hut a superlative cleansing ointment,
and has well earned its place as the farmers’ friend.
Note these few uses for “CARBOX”: —
HORSES. —For sore shoulders, itch, cracked and greasy heels, strangles, douche
after foaling, sprains, swellings, cuts and abrasions, etc.
CATTLE. For contagious abortion, douche after calving, mammitis, milk fever,
sore teats, foot rot, etc.
SHEEP.—For maggot and fly, shearing cuts, foot rot, crow peck, tailing, and
marking, etc.
PIGS. —For lice and scale, sore mouth, body wash, etc.
DOGS.—For distemper, mange, douche after pupping, grass seed abscesses, cracked
pads, fleas and dog lice, etc.
“CARBOX” is an essential on the farm.
“CARBOX” is not Good for Parasites—lt Kills Them!
Packed in 3-gallon drums, 1-gallon, j|-gallon, and tins
Full particulars obtainable from:—
HENRY BERRY & CO. (Australasia) LTD.
Australasian Distributers:
515 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Houses in All States.
When writing mention “The Bulletin.’
dsa
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM—APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required—Any Handjman Can Instal It—Automatic Overflow—Does Not
Require Emptying—Over 1100 Sold —Shell Co., 66 Repeat Orders; Bank of N.S.W., 15.
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Plus 5% increased cost of production.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write Desk B for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
d
the main, the average farmer does not
forget his permanent hand in a good
season.
Finally, the farmhand who sticks to
farming has something ahead. There are
still opportunities for share-farming, pro-
vided a man has a few pounds with
which to start, and it is no great step
from share-farming to owning or rent-
ing your own farm. To a man who loves
the land, life could offer no better chance,
which probably explains the farmhand’s
silence.
Pasture Improvement.
“R. Ney”: This autumn should be the
ideal time to look to pasture improve-
ment. Those who have good feed on the
place will not hesitate to stock heavily.
But the pre-war lessons of flogged pas-
tures and reduced soil fertility must not
be forgotten, and there is a call to the
wise man to increase and improve his
pastures.
Every district has its own problems as
to natuce and type of grasses, topdressing
rates, grazing percentages and capacity
of the soil. Every district, too, needs
more grass—and nutritious grass at that
—and every district must endeavor to
conserve the fertility of the soil.
Most State Agricultural Departments
have concentrated on these things in
recent years. Information on all aspects
of the work is readily available.
Too Many Growers' Unions.
“Ben Cubbin”: Up to last week over
92,000,000 bushels of wheat had been
sold, according to Wheat Board chair-
man McPherson, who didn’t mention
how much of it was 1938-39 grain and
how much 1939-40. The price for
28,000,000 bushels of this had yet to be
fixed with Britain. Mr. McPherson, assum-
ing that the present price holds, expects
a fraction over 4s. for bagged and 3s. 9d.
for bulk. The board has recommended
a second advance of Bd. and 6d. for
bagged and bulk respectively in the No.
1 pool. This is old wheat, and storage
charges will make a hole in the final
price. Shipping space is scarce, and there
seems little prospect of the position im-
proving in the near future.
Wheatgrowing is becoming afflicted
with too many organisations. N.S.W.
Farmers and Settlers’ Association is
standing out for an all-round price of
3s. 4d. a bushel to farmers, and it doesn’t
like N.S.W. Premier Mair’s idea of 3s. 4d.
on the first 3000 bushels—which isn’t
Mair’s idea, anyhow—seeing a weakness
in the fact that, though Mair was think-
ing of an average wheat area of 245
acres producing about 3000 bushels, over
10,000 growers are cultivating 110 acres
or less. These men, the F. and S.A.
rightly assumes, would promptly increase
their areas up to the 3000-bushel ma,rk,
which would bring another 1,400,000
acres under wheat at a time when no
increase of acreage is wanted.
The F. and S.A. claims that the Aus-
tralian Wheatgrowers’ Federation is with
it in demanding an all-round price, and
in western N.S.W. the Wheatgrowers’
Union of Australia wants “a stabilised
price of 3s. 4d. a bushel net minimum
on the harvest just gathered, with due
provision for war-time costs.”
Vague arguments with State Premiers
and vaguer resolutions about decent
standards of living will get the grower
nowhere. If growers can’t speak as one
voice, they might as well be quiet.
“Ex-Vic.”: R. E. McNabb, a Victorian
State Rivers and Water Supply engineer
stationed in the Mallee, has pointed out
that water erosion there is more rapid
and general than in hilly country of
much higher rainfall. He blames indis-
criminate scrub clearing and cultivation
of the light soil, and suggests that the
fallow system needs revision, which would
include the carrying of more sheep.
Stabilised wheat prices would help by
allowing the farmer to plan well ahead,
but McNabb suggests that legislation to
combat sand drift and bring about re-
juvenation of waste land will have to
come.
“Yarrunga”: The lasting qualities of
lucerne on black plain country are
demonstrated on Waddell Bros.’ property
at Oakwood, in the Inverell (N.S.W.)
district. Included in 880 acres of grazing
lucerne is a block of 10 acres that has
been growing the crop for 27 years and
is still considerably more productive than
natural pastures. These farmers, never-
theless, consider that, to control barley
grass, stands more than eight years old
should be ploughed up, a rotation of
two winter cereal crops adopted, and the
area again sown to lucerne.
“Yarrunga”: Only “clean” t.b.-tested
cattle of the beef breeds will be eligible
for entry in the stud classes of the Syd-
ney Royal Show next year. This early
notification is given on the recommen-
dation of the United Stud Beef Cattle
Breeders’ Association, and should be of
special interest to inter-State exhibitors.
“A.A.D.”: An analysis of applications
for wheat bounty in 1939 shows that,
though N.S.W. produces most of Aus-
tralia’s wheat, few of its growers work
big areas. On 17,115 holdings growing
wheat for grain there were nearly 20,000
growers, of whom one-fifth represented
sharefarmers. At least half cropped areas
of 200 acres or less; among 10,500
growers the average area was under 110
acres. Despite the marked increase in
the use of tractor-power, enabling the
one-man farmer to double his acreage,
only 1700 growers worked more than
500 acres, and of these only 200 exceeded
1000 acres.
“A.A.D.”: Much is expected of Koala,
a new wheat produced at Temora Ex-
periment Farm (N.S.W.) from a Hard
Federation-Nabawa cross. Early matur-
ing, highly resistant to flag smut and of
good flour strength, it is already regarded
as a rival of recommended varieties.
Golden in color, the grain is short and
plump, and capable of making a high
bushel weight. Koala has a wide range of
climate adaptability. Tested in field trials
at Trangie, Condobolin, Temora, Cowra
and Wagga Government farms in the
last three years, it compared favorably
with Bencubbin in yield.
“Porcine”: The Victorian Department
of Agriculture points out that milk is not
essential in successful pig-raising. It says
further that many dairy-farmers fail to
get the full produce return per gallon
for milk fed to pigs because of in-
sufficient cereal grains and mill offal to
balance the diet.
“Porcine”: By studying hygiene and
good feeding B. P. Stephens, dairy-farmer
and pig-breeder of Newrybar, in the Rich-
mond River (N.S.W.) district, last year
had the splendid record of rearing 92.6
p.c. of his litters, which averaged 11.8 per
sow. Except for cheap wheat, which re-
placed maize, all the feed was produced
on the farm. Ground wheat and skim
milk formed the principal ration, and, in
addition to runsywell grassed with Kikuyu,
lucerne, broadcast corn, sweet potatoes
and arrowroot varied the diet. An effec-
tive economy was the use of single elec-
trified wire, instead of netted or paling
fences, to keep the stock within bounds.
“Hopper”: Extensive sterilisation of
grasshopper eggs by the scelionid wasp
parasite has been successfully carried out
on R. A. Wright’s Goondiwindi (Q.)
property. Digging over areas of 200 and
300 acres, with frequent patches of egg-
beds, he failed to find a “live” egg. The
results are partly confirmed by extensive
research by entomologists in N.S.W.
Present in all infested districts, the abun-
dance and effectiveness of the parasite,
however, were found to vary greatly in
different parts of the same districts. The
wasp appears incapable of preventing the
occurrence of periodical plagues of grass-
hoppers, but once plagues do appear plays
some part .in again reducing them to
harmless numbers.
Outback Occupations.
No. X.
Starting with Bees.
You get the notion when some bloke
comes up to lecture at the local branch
of the Agricultural Bureau.
“Every farmer,” he says, “should keep
a few bees. They demand little time,
attend to their own affairs in regard to
breeding, feeding and producing, and,
provided the farmer exercises due care
when extracting the honey, he finds him-
self with a nice little amount of money
at the end of the season.”
Getting the bees is the first move. You
can’t go to the local saleyards and buy
a herd of them, nor can they be obtained
as day-old chicks or even in the egg
for incubation. If there happens to be
an apiary in the district you might buy
a hive or two there; if not you can
either send to another district or spend
your Sunday afternoons tramping through
the bush looking for bee nests in the
tall timber. This will give you a stiff
neck, but by the time you’ve located and
marked three or four nests you forget
that, except that you find some difficulty
in looking at your feet, and unless you
keep them under control, your eyes will
swivel upward at most disconcerting
moments.
One of the first things you find out
is that the lecturer was wrong in telling
you that bees attend strictly to their own
affairs. The moment you and the boys
heave in sight and gather round the par-
ticular tree with axes, boxes and tins,
netting, and green boughs for making
smoke, every bee in the vicinity begins
to take an interest in you. You have a
fellow-feeling for the man who starts to
dig a hole in a city street and the crowd
gathers round him, their avid eyes watch-
ing every swing of the pick, their necks
craning like an ibis looking for beetles.
As you make your preparations round
the bee-tree you are conscious of the
staring eyes of the bees, and as you hear
a faint hum you cannot shake off a feel-
ing that somewhere something is being
sharpened up. Then a weary old blowflv
drifts past your left ear, you cry out,
make a mighty swipe at him, miss and
and go off to clean up.
Ignoring the boys, who have turned
their faces away and appear to be in
the grip of some strong emotion, you
hastily cover all exposed parts with the
netting, call for smoke and begin whaling
into the tree. It falls, and you open up
the hollow. Angry bees blunder through
the smoke, but safe in your net armor
you pretend to ignore them, and get on
with the business. You find the queen
and transfer her and as many other bees
as you can to the box. Then home-
ward, where you place the box on a
stump, stick some honey and wax in it.
and go off to clear up.
In the bathroom you find three bees
that have taken refuge in the fold of
your shirt collar. You’d never have
known it, only that once free of the
smoke they announce their presence with
three hearty and enthusiastic jabs in the
back of your neck. Thus your neck
is stiffer than ever, but you have the
nucleus of a bee herd, so why worry?
A couple of hours later you go out
to have a look at the new hive, the pain
having subsided somewhat, and there you
find some honey, some wax, some dead
bees. There is no queen, nor is there
any sign of her court. A couple of pee-
wees eye you from a limb overhead.
They have a guilty look, and their waist-
coats are tight.
You decide to buy your bees, and set
about the making and setting-up of hives
in readiness.
One day there is a loud humming, and
a swarm drifts by overhead. You yell
to the boys, grab an empty kero.-tin and
a stick and rush after the swarm, belting
the tin and howling. One boy joins you,
the other runs to get a sheet. The dogs
join in the clamor and, being too short-
sighted to see what it’s all about, imagine
you have thrown off all care and are
having a game. Enthusiastically they
scatter the chooks, tree the cat, rush in
and nip your flying trouser legs and fight
one another.
You belt the tin, shriek curses at the
dogs, sweat and puff and run blindly on,
trying to watch the swarm and the ground
at the same time. Far in the rear the
boy with the sheet sits down on the
ground and rolls about, holding his sides.
The swarm disappears behind the hay-
stacks, and you sit down and blow and
put a hand on your heart, thinking it
doesn’t sound too good. The joyful dogs
sit round you in a circle, obviously wait-
ing for the next part of the game. You
heave the kero.-tin at them and go home.
Your wife and daughter are standing
by the box on the stump. Inside the
box is a sieady hum, and bees cluster
thickly round the entrance. All the
women know is that they first noticed a
dark blob hanging from the box, and
when they went to see what it was there
were the bees.
The boys come up, and with your
family round you stand watching the
wonder. Your children emit frequent
exclamations of interest and wonder, you
forget what has gone before, and you
know a feeling that something has begun.
Suddenly you hear “Pee-wee, pee-wee,
pee-wee” and look up, then you dart to
the house, get your 12-bore, and armed
and accoutred for war sally forth deter-
mined to slay every feathered raider on
the place in defence of your newly-
acquired stock. However, loath to kill
without absolute proof, you fire one
barrel in the air, the peewees vanish,
you ground arms and fall to watching the
bees again. At last you turn away to
see about other things, trip over one of
the dogs and drop the gun, which goes-
off and blows a hole through the new
beehive. Thousands of bees swarm forth
mad with rage, and you and the family
retire hastily to the house and shut your-
selves in.
And so you have your bees.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
I
A JiJ
k:; Li
if
Ml
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Women who start to study for careers seldom
get beyond the elementary stages.”
— Women’s paper.
It’s the “men” in elementary that hold
them up.
“And to think We've just 'ad the Water laid on!"
“Most accidents occur at night.”— Advt.
Including proposals of marriage.
*l* 4*
“For long periods the music simply broods
and remains static.” — “S.M.H.”
Composed by an ex-politician, most
likely.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She was a woman of few words.”
—Extract from novel.
All characters in this story are purely
imaginary and bear no relation to any
living person.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Pockets for brides.” — Women’s mag.
Their husbands’ pockets, no doubt.
❖ 4* 4* 4*
“Heavy baby will become handsome fruiterer,
his mother says.”—“ Sunday Sun.”
Then he’ll start to weigh light.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Many of our pupils dig gold after taking
our course.” — Advt.
Well, they’ve got to eke out a living
somehow.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Stated that women read too many crime
novels.”
They prefer crookery- to cookery-
books.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In time of war, with clubs depleted of
players, we need to harness our forces, rather
than split them.” — Rugby writer.
There’s too much of this “you take
a half and I’ll take a five-eighth” spirit.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“German measles are most prevalent between
March and June.”' — Home-nursing manual.
The usual rash threats are expected
of Hitler.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Public servants should be more suitably
clothed.” — Women’s paper.
We suggest pyjamas.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Star Act.
“The man who keeps his body supple has
nothing to fear.” — Health article.
I know a case where that’s not true ;
the fellow’s name is Purkiss. By trade
he’s a contortionist who’s working with
a circus. You can bend him into figure -
eights and never hear him blubber. His
joints all lead a double life; his bones
are made of rubber. But even he admits
his wife has skill that’s hard to swallow ;
as wrestler and contortionist she’ll beat
her husband hollow. When he attempts
some slippery work she wraps her tongue
around him; and then (as if that’s not
enough to worry and astound him) she
lifts her hand... he shrinks away ; and
then, if he should linger, she squashes
him with one mute look and twists him
round her finger.
E.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Surf club trains to the strains of the bag-
pipes.”—Sporting gossip.
Playing reels?
4* 4 4* 4*
“Policeman Lands on His Feet.”
—Paper heading.
That’s infinitely better than landing on
ours.
“How many pairs of ribs has a human
being?” —Newspaper query.
Eat nothing for a week and you’ll soon
find out.
• 4* •I*
“Wanted, Accounts Clerk, with all-hound
experience.” — “S.M.H.” advt.
Surely they’re barking up the wrong
tree.
*f*
“You don’t rattle the Scots.”
— Women’s paper.
Would-be cadgers find you can’t shake
them either.
Treasure.
Diana’s heart’s of purest gold,
And Peggy’s teeth are pearls;
May’s ruby lips are wealth untold,
And Joyce has platinum curls.
Cecilia has a silvery voice,
Anne’s eyes for jewels would pass.
But still plain Jane will be my choice,
Though she has naught but brass!
PATON.
The Long Shot.
“W. J. Smith, of A.C.1., has arranged with
a group including Bing Crosby to race horses
in U.S.A. and Australia.”
The field got away well, and Rhubarb
had a clear lead at the three-furlong post,
about a length ahead of a bunched field.
As they swung round the turn the leader
went wide, and though McMunro made
a mighty effort he could not get Rhubarb
going again before the rest of the field
had also swung wide and crowded on
his heels.
Then the crowd gasped as old Bees-
wing, the 100-to-1 pop, flashed through
the wide gap, to stave off the recovered
champions and win by half a length.
The stewards held an inquiry.
McMunro said his mount was going
well at the turn, but the sudden
appearance of a wooden-faced man with
a lei round his neck and strumming a
guitar while he made a peculiar moan-
ing noise with his mouth caused his
mount to shy away to the outside of the
track. Other riders supported McMunro,
and a course detective detained the man
with the guitar. It turned out that he
was an American, a part-owner of the
favorite, and had followed his usual
custom of crooning a swing song for his
horse in the best motion-picture manner.
The rider of Beeswing confessed that
he had read of the part-ownership and
knew of the custom, so he plugged his
mount’s ears with cotton-wool. The
stewards couldn’t do anything about it,
as there was nothing in the A.J.C.,
V.R.C. or A.W.U. rules governing such
a situation. But they could, and did,
warn the crooner off for life before hand-
ing the case over to the R.S.P.C.A.
O. Punter.
Pyrrhic Victory.
“A verdict was given for the plaintiff on his
promising to marry the defendant within two
months.” —“ D.T.”
On matters of law I am ignorant quite;
They’re wholly beyond me ■„ l fear.
A plaintiff is given the verdict all right —
And then a life sentence to quash his
delight!
You’ve got to admit that it’s queer.
P.S.C.
Unlucky Breaks.
“Burglars who broke into a flat in Melbourne
had to put a shilling in the meter before they
could switch on the lights.”
It is such lack of consideration that
tends to sour the conscientious burglar
and sap his faith in the decency of his
fellow-men.
Here is a man who leaves the com-
forts of his home to face the many
hazards of his calling. He has plenty
to think about in his preparations for
his nocturnal sortie: to decide whether
to pack a squirt or a life-preserver, or
whether he will need any “soup” for
the job. As it is, he will probably get
only as far as the front gate when a
shrill female voice will sing out: “Hey!
Spike, you left your jemmy on the side-
board. You’ll forget yourself one of
these days an’ a flattie’ll lumber yer.
An’ see yer don’t dawdle anywhere on
the way ’ome; I know just ’ow long
this crib ought to take yer!”
Now, on top of all these worrying
preliminaries, the harassed burglar is
expected to supply himself with small
change! It’s not only unreasonable but
unfair. And, if he doesn’t happen to
have any change, where is he going to
get it at, say, 2 a.m.?
As secretary of the Chartered Institute
of Burglars and Safeblowers I have
handled many protests about this im-
position. One of our senior fellows,
“Boofhead” Slather, was an unfortunate
victim of it. While he was going
through a flat one night, the bathroom
looked so tempting he thought he’d like
a hot bath. The penny-in-the-slot gas
gadget was empty and he had only a
crook two-bob on him, which wouldn’t
go in. He tiptoed into the next flat and
saw a pair of trousers hanging invitingly
over the end of the bed. As he slid his
hand into the pocket there was a snap
and an anguished howl from “Boof-
head.” He had put his mitt into the rat-
trap set by the occupier for his pocket-
snooping wife. “Boofhead” was stiff in
that the disturbed sleeper was an ex-
cruiserweight pug who was a bad-tem-
pered waker-up.
But —to our muttons —is it just that
a burglar should have to put a deener
into someone else’s slot meter and be
unable to claim a refund on that portion
of the juice he doesn’t use? That a
householder should not only be so mean
as to expect a burglar to pay for his
own electricity while cleaning out his
place, but dishonest enough to use elec-
tricity that the poor burglar has been
soaked for, is something that every mem-
ber of our craft deeply deplores.
I call to mind an occasion on one
bitterly cold night when I was operating
on a flat. The occupiers, I knew, were
to be away for the week-end, so I had
plenty of time to do a thorough job.
I was taking only gold and silken under-
wear at the time, and, having got my
swag together, I was leisurely scanning
a copy of “La Vie Parisienne” I found
lying on the lounge suite. Despite the
warmth of the periodical, however, I
still shivered, so I switched on the elec-
tric fire. After about a minute it petered
out, and I saw that it had a 2s. meter.
I had only fivepence on me, all that
I had left from the half a dollar weekly
pocket money my wife allows me.
Anger at the flattite’s despicable action
in leaving no current available undoubt-
edly influenced my decision to go beyond
my usual scope and search for some
money. The only cash in the place was
in the kid’s moneybox. A deftly-wielded
table-knife yielded two bob and warmth,
but nevertheless I was uneasy. Finally
my conscience urged me to regain the
coin and restore it to the nipper’s box.
Fired by the high purpose of saving a
child from bitter disappointment, I got
to work on the slot; there was about a
quid in it. Then, just as I was about
to put the 2s. back in the kid’s box, the
thought struck me that as I was press-
ing it in I might inadvertently leave my
fingerprints on the shiny red paint. Sigh-
ing with regret at being compelled to
abandon my quixotic impulse, I resumed
reading before the now cosily glowing
fire.
It was some little time later that the
door was thrust rudely open and two
large cops and another man pushed their
way in. Evidence tendered by the latter
at the subsequent official proceedings
confirmed my fears that the tampering
with the slot had set off a new-type alarm
that the co. had just installed. It fetched
me 18 months’ “hard,” all due to the
selfishness of someone who cared not for
the comfort or convenience of others.
Nor is it only in matters of heat
and light that a burglar is likely to be
embarrassed by the acts of omission of
others. One of our most promising asso-
ciate members, “Swinger” Simmo, suf-
fered grievously when he entered one of
the silvertails’ mansions in South Toorak.
Having got together his swag swiftly and
efficiently, “Swinger” deemed that his
efforts merited a magnum of champagne
before departing. He found a bottle of
Moet ’9B, but he could find nothing to
open it with. After fruitless search and
equally vain attempts to bite the top off,
“Swinger” shook the bottle violently,
hoping to blow the cork out that way.
But he was unaware that it was tied
down with wire beneath the foil. There
was a shattering explosion.
“Swinger’s” face was hard enough, but
the bits of bottle were harder, and he
staggered out, half-shot with the fumes
of the bubbly with which he was satu-
rated, and dripping gore from a dozen
points. The easily-followed trail led
straight to “Swjnger’s” dive, and it cost
him five years out of a useful working
life —again because of the downright
incivism of unreasonable people who
even make a boast of being ill-disposed
to hard-working burglars.
It is the aim of my institute to educate
the public in the requirements of our
members. To further this we are shortly
holding Burglars’ Week.
BO.


:
-1
44 You see, I can tell
W hite Horse blindfold
“But how did you know ?”
vi
“Well, to me it is unmistakable. White Horse has
got a subtle, distinctive aroma of its own: it’s soft
and smooth to the palate—just like a fine liqueur.
I knew I was right, I recognised it at once.”
Screw-cap
flasks of
convenient
sizes on sale
everywhere
A
n
(w
WHITE HORSE
WHISKY
The millions of gallons of finest Scotch whisky
matured and maturing ensure that the quality of White Horse never varies .


Business,Rollery,Etc.
Producers’ Oilwell Supplies
In the N. S. Wales Assembly on
Wednesday of last week, after The
Bulletin’s article on Senator Arthur’s
association with Producers’ Oilwell Sup-
plies, Ltd., had been published, Minister
for Mines Vincent (who had made pre-
vious reference to the co. back in
October, 1939) warned the public to be
cautious before investing in the Oilwell
co.
According to Mr. Vincent, “the most
extravagant claims” had been made by
the co. and those sponsoring Mr. Max
Steinbuchel. This gentleman, in asso-
ciation with Senator Arthur, had been
holding meetings in N. S. Wales, and
at those meetings extravagant statements
were made. Mr. Vincent said he had
a pamphlet issued by the co. stating
that Australia had enough oil to supply
the British Empire for a century, and
in another leaflet it was averred that Mr.
Steinbuchel would stake his reputation
on oil being found in Australia before
the end of 1939. No gusher, of course,
has yet gushed.
While all this criticism was breaking
in Sydney around the affairs of the
Oilwell co., Senator Arthur and entour-
age were still beating round the middle-
west of N. S. Wales making “startling
disclosures” and all that goes with them.
At Dubbo on Thursday J. C. Mackay,
the co.’s managing director, “replied” to
the Minister’s warning to possible in-
vestors. “We have an open book for
anyone to investigate, but the Minister
for Mines has not been near us. Mr.
Vincent is making statements behind the
privilege of the House.” Senator Arthur
weighed in with the allegation that “a
determined effort is being
made to prevent the dis-
covery of oil in Australia.”
What mainly interests
The Bulletin, however, is
the fact that it has not been
denied by the co. that it is
attempting to raise money
on the strength of the pros-
pectus and other material
criticised here last week.
This paper would not even
be upset, so far as its pur-
pose of guiding investors Is
concerned, if the hallucina-
tions of Senator Arthur
about the “major oil cos.”
and Governments trying to
prevent the discovery of oil
in Australia were correct.
It, of course, has no such
hallucinations, seeing that
the Shell co. spent nearly
half a million in New
Guinea looking for oil, and
seeing also that the discovery
of oil in the Commonwealth now would
save the petrol cos. from the shrinkage
in profits that is threatened as a result
of our small resources of dollar exchange.
What The Bulletin is really concerned
about is that a prospectus of a par-
ticularly undesirable and irresponsible
kind has been issued by this co. in-
viting the public to subscribe for its
shares, and that use has been made, by
Senator Arthur, of the Federal Parlia-
ment to advertise the enterprise in a
favorable light.
According to Mr. Vincent, “oil-
producer” Steinbuchel has been de-
scribed in the co.’s literature as
“America’s foremost geophysical oil
finder,” but official publications of the
Geological and Geophysical Society of
America did not even mention his name.
Again The Bulletin isn’t greatly con-
cerned whether Mr. Steinbuchel is the
greatest geophysicist in America or the
greatest Jehoshaphat of all time. But
if Mr. Steinbuchel should happen- to
be all that is claimed for him in the co.’s
prospectus, then he must know a great
deal more about geophysics than he does
about full, fair and rational invitations
to subscribe for shares. One paragraph
out of the Oilwell prospectus—Stein-
buchel assisted in the co.’s promotion—
illustrates the reckless nature of the
thing:
The discovery of oil in - Australia • must
result in an immense benefit.to the country.
Just how great this advantage will be no
one can prophesy, but it is certain that
Australians who are! financially interested in
the development of an- Australian oil; in-
dustry will profit very materially by their
investment.
There have been thousands of people
who put up money for the development
of an Australian gold industry who never
received a bean back in profits. And
thousands of people have fared the
same in the American oil industry—by
demonstrating that many wells are dry
ones, even in the U.S.A.
After a slight rally at the close of the
previous week, Australian ’Changes
showed slackness again towards last
week-end. The Sydney industrial share
index dropped down to 129.64, against
136.54 on Jan. 16. The general index of
shares relaxed to 123.34, against 129.73
on Jan. 11. Tinmining stocks were
firmer, but silver-lead issues were weaker.
Mt. Lyell (copper) shares were fairly
steady.
Kandos Cement 16s. shares, obtain-
able in Sydney at 275. 9d., compared with
Australian Cement £1 shares at 38s. in
Melbourne. On a pound-for-pound capi-
tal basis, and assuming that 38s. was a
fair price for Australian Cement scrip,
Kandos shares were worth 30s. 6d., plus
“I on'y want to go in an fill me billy.”
whatever the co.’s 111-p.c.-per-share
greater equity in the operating co. may
be considered to be worth. Kandos scrip,
yielding £7 3s. per cent., represented
favorable buying in comparison with
other stocks of similar quality.
There isn’t much rhyme or reason
about sharemarket movements these days.
A short while ago manufacturing issues
(with a few exceptions, like those de-
pendent on the building trades) were
being bought almost regardless of cost;
at present a sagging movement is liable
to show up anywhere, and when that
particular sag is straightened another may
occur somewhere else. Yarra Falls (425.
3d.) and Felt and Textiles (395.) have
held their position better than most
issues. Australasian Paper ords. have
declined from 365. lid. to 345. 6d., Cum-
berland ords. from 335. 9d. to 325., Elec-
trolytic Zinc ords. from 61s. 6d. to 545.
3d., Adelaide Steam from 365. to 335.,
Bank of N. S. Wales from £29 10s. to
£26 18s., and Australian Consolidated In-
dustries from 39s 9d. to 355. 9d. Meggitt
shares during 1940 have risen from 28s. 9d.
to 30s. 6d., and Arthur Cocks, for a time
believed to be affected by import restric-
tions, has a demand for its shares at 225.
Gordon and Gotch, another importer,
has continued to weaken in the market,
sellers now asking 435. for the shares,
which compares with a previous sale of
445. 6d An interim div. is due in June.
The yield on Commonwealth bonds
: dropped to £3 9s. 9d. per cent, last week
; following the successful flotation of the
first war loan. Some 4 p.c. issues now
stand as high as £lO7 10s.
Reports from Canberra last week pre-
dicted the introduction shortly of (1) a
war-time profits tax, (2) an increase in
Federal land tax, (3) an increase in sales
tax, and (4) a lift in the rate of income
tax. Something of the kind has appeared
inevitable since war broke out. Borrow-
ings and present taxation haven’t nearly
met the charges incurred for defence.
* * * *
Graziers are becoming afraid that the
rigid terms in the contract governing
sales of our wool to Britain will cause
difficulty in the future unless production
costs are kept down with a very deter-
mined hand. This paper pointed out the
danger of rising costs as soon as the
terms of Britain’s purchase were an-
nounced. Though 13|d. a pound is
nearly 30 p.c. better than the 1938-39
average price for wool, only by keeping
production costs at somewhere near
1938-39 levels is the full benefit of the
increase to be obtained. Once costs
started rising they might soon put the
woolgrower on a worse footing than he
was in 1938-39 ; he would not be able
to resort to a costs clause in the wool
contract, because it doesn’t exist, though
Broken Hill mines are covered in their
sales of lead to Britain. Perhaps it’s
just as well increases in costs of wool-
growing are not provided for. It should
make us strive all the harder to avoid
inflation. The Prices Commissioner has
done good work so far.
Following the successful closing of the
Commonwealth’s £18,000,000 loan at an
average rate of £3 10s. per cent., Mel-
bourne Board of Works last week came
on to the market for £1,100,000 at £3
17s. 6d. per cent., repayable in 15 years.
Last year the same body raised £650,000
tin January) at £4 2s. 6d. per cent.,
£450,000 (in March) at £4 2s. 6d. per
cent, and £650,000 (in November) at
£4 7s. 6d. per cent. Some of the more
important public-body borrowings over
the past 15 months are enumerated here:
1939
Jan., Melb. Board of Works, 15 yrs., £650,000,
4| p.c.
Feb., Sydney Water Board, 10 yrs., £1,000,000,
4i p.c,
March, Melb. Board of Works, 15 yrs, £450,000,
May, Sydney Water Board, £1,000,000, 10 yrs.,
4£ p.c.
June, Melb. Tramways Board, 10 yrs, £650,000,
4J p.c.
July, Victorian Electricity Commission, 10 yrs.,
£900,000, 41 p.c.
Aug., City of Melbourne, 10 yrs., £430,000,
41 p.c.
Sept., Sydney Water Board, 13 yrs., £1,500,000,
41 p.c.
Oct., Victorian Grain Elevators Board, 10 yrs.,
£500,000, 41 p.c.
Nov.. Sydney County Council, 10 yrs., £600,000,
Nov., Meib. Board of Works, 12 yrs., £650,000,
4f p.c.
1940
Jan., Brisbane Council, 10 yrs., £250,000,
41 p.c.
Jan., Sydney Water Board, 12 yrs., £1,000,000,
4f p.c.
March, Melb. Board of Works, 15 yrs.,
£1,100,000, £3 17s. 6d. p.c.
Portion of the total of over £10,000,000
was raised to repay old borrowings, but
most of the cash has been for “essential
works,” etc. The present Melbourne
Board of Works offering carries the
lowest rate of interest of the lot; this
has come about as a result of the Federal
Treasury’s money-cheapening activities.
* * * *
Lustre Hosiery’s increased net profit
of £33,815 was shown after providing
for heavier taxes. Maintenance of the
8 p.c. ord. div. pleased the market, and
the scrip was bought up to 21s. 6d., as
against a lowest price of 18s. so far this
year.
* * * *
First sign of disaster following the
beginning of the coal strike was the an-
nouncement that Mt. Isa silver-lead-zinc
mines, near Duchess (N.Q.), would close
down in sections if supplies of coal did
not continue coming to hand. Later
Blair Athol miners agreed to allow
coal to be sent to Isa; then they
changed their mind. Shares in Broken
Hill Proprietary, owners of steelworks
and collieries at Newcastle, ’fell little
further after the strike came into
operation last week. Coal scrip gener-
ally was not noticeably weaker. All col-
lieries except Collie (W.A.) and Rothbury
(N.S.W.) are now idle.
* * * *
The inter-State enterprises of the Vic
torian Davies, Coop concern are going
ahead “unretarded by war and inter-
national difficulties.” The South Aus.
buildings have been completed, and half
the plant is installed; production im-
mediately after Easter is con-
templated. The N. S. Wales
buildings at Marrickville,
bought from General Motors-
Holden’s, are being altered to
take the new spinning and
weaving plant, part of which
is in Australian waters. These
branch enterprises of the main
factory in Melbourne (they are
incorporated as separate sub-
sidiary cos.) have followed the
Government’s decision to grant
protection and a bounty to the
local manufacture of canvas,
duck and tyre cord. The
parent co.’s interim ord. div.
is unchanged at 7 p.c. p.a.
* * *
Finney Isles’s record profit
for 1939 was shown after pro-
viding an additional £15,000
for taxation and contingencies.
Net profit available was £3248
greater at £56,101. Turnover
was the highest in the co.’s his-
tory, and gross earnings were
a record. In 1938 there was
a slight setback to the co.'s
march of progress, and the
latest figures are therefore par-
ticularly pleasing for share-
holders to contemplate. Net earnings
represented 15 p.c. on capital, against
14.1 p.c. in the preceding year. The div.
was maintained at 10 p.c.
* * * *
Tableland Tin, Mt. Garnet (N.Q.), re-
covered 26y tons of tin oxide during
February from 64,000 c.y. —average .931 b.
per yard. Estimated value of the con-
centrate was £4980 —£190 a ton —and
costs, including £5OO transferred to sus-
pense account and £325 repairing charges
in respect of Eastern Creek dam, totalled
£3466, leaving a surplus of £1514. So
far during March the dredge has been
producing a ton of concentrate a day.
* * * *
The scintillation has departed from
Fiji gold shares in the market. Emperor
scrip, not long ago up to nearly 175.,
last week sold at 13s. lid., recovering
for a while to 14s. 6d. following the issue
of a report that mentioned better values
at the 300 ft. level. Loloma, best of
the Fiji floats, after rising above 375.,
has dropped back to 31s. Emperor’s sul-
phide ore is largely an unknown quan-
tity, both as regards mining and milling
costs, though a forecast as to milling has
been made by the management, and it
suggests a favorable result. Results,
however, in treating such a different class
of ore will be believed when seen.
Loloma supporters when paying 375. for
the shares were buying nothing more
than prospects with a substantial portion
of their money. It is a good mine, but
development is barely keeping pace with
extraction.
* * * *
“Pigge”: If the Federal Treasurer per-
mits, big-scale production of asbestos
will be started soon at Robertstown, 70
miles from Adelaide. The output con-
templated is equal to about two-thirds
of Australia’s normal requirements.
Imports of Canadian asbestos have been
restricted for dollar-credit’s sake, giving
an impetus to the S.A. project. Another
incipient venture is in marine fibre, often
experimented with as a substitute for
jute but never persevered with for long.
There are ample deposits on coasts of
Spencer’s Gulf. A third South Australian
company is going further afield by trying
to exploit a Queensland mercury area.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
OPERATING THE BLOCKADE.
[This graphic description of the working of the
Allied blockade is condensed from a New York “Times
Magazine” article.]
The Great Wall which the Allied blockade has
raised around Europe has a new and in some respects
a unique character, for both in scale and method it
goes far beyond anything that has preceded it. It
sweeps in a vast arc from the high latitudes in the
West to the tropics in the East. It begins off the coast
of Iceland; high up on the eaves of the world, and
ends at Ceylon. From end to end it spans an overall
length of some 8000 miles, by far the longest arc that
any blockade has ever covered.
In the north it consists, in this war as in the
last, of two widely-separated naval patrols, one across
the narrow waters of the English Channel, the other
across the 600 miles of grey storm-racked seas between
Scotland and Iceland. In the south it has changed out
of all recognition. In the Mediterranean it was
enough in the last war to patrol the entrance to the
Adriatic. In this war there are naval patrols not only
off Gibraltar, Malta and the Suez Canal, but off the
entrances to the Red Sea and the Iranian Gulf.
It is aimed at the stoppage of the whole of the
overseas trade, exports and imports alike, which Ger-
many attempts to continue under neutral cover. Being
concerned almost entirely with neutral shipping, it
has a legal status which differs from that of a block-
ade, and indeed technically there is no blockade. But
it is just as grimly efficient under one name as another.
For the neutral merchantman plodding toward
Rotterdam or Trieste it begins as its predecessors
began. A patrolling destroyer tears out of the horizon
and lies rolling in the trough of the seas a cable’s
length away, flying a peremptory signal, “Stop imme-
diately, we are sending a boat.” From that familiar
beginning it branches off into a new method. Formerly
the search was made then and there; but nobody
loiters at sea when there are submarines about, and
in any event modern sea-borne commerce has become
far too complicated for the navy alone to cope with.
The neutral intercepted is sent into a control base to
be searched, and it may take him anything from a day
to a fortnight to get his clearance certificate.
The control bases are the gates in the Great Wall
of the blockade. British and French together main-
tain 14 regular bases, ranging from the snug bay of
Kirkwall in the Orkneys, north of Scotland, to the
big harbor of Trincomalee in Ceylon. The biggest and
busiest of them all lies just outside the Thames estuary,
only an hour or two from London.
In peace-time the famous roadstead off the Kent-
ish coast known as the Downs is one of the most
crowded bits of highway on the seas, for it lies between
the Thames estuary and the Straits of Dover, at the
head of the English Channel. It is more crowded than
ever today, but most of its ships are dim grey forms
lying motionless well out on the horizon. They burn
no anchor lights at night, and all the shore lights
have been blacked out, the bell buoys removed, the
fog sirens stilled.
If you catch one of the navy’s motor-boats you
can run out for a couple of miles and then turn and
run past mile after mile of the waiting ships—tower-
ing mail steamers with passengers watching from the
rails and deep-lying cargo ships loaded to the hatches
like floating warehouses —ail with their neutral flags,
Dutch, Belgian, Danish, Greek, Japanese, painted on
their black steel sides. They are all bound to or from
neutral ports across the North Sea, all waiting in
British waters for permission to continue their voyages.
Meanwhile at the Ministry of Economic Warfare
in London the huge mill has begun to grind. Some
of the most powerful weapons of modern warfare
are wielded by this civilian Ministry. It has mobilised
the vast economic power of Britain and its banking,
insurance, shipping, trade connections and “agents”
reaching into every corner of the globe. The navy
can only intercept ships at sea, but the Ministry’s
watch on the movement of contraband begins at the
source, long before it is railed down to the docks to
be lowered into a ship’s hold. Its agents know and
watch all of Germany’s sources of supply overseas.
An exporter who is on its blacklist finds it difficult to
obtain transport, insurance and bank credit for the
shipment of contraband. Or the Ministry may allow
him all the facilities he wants, and eventually his
contraband is unloaded in Britain instead of Germany.
The ships’ manifests that come off the teleprinters
in the Ministry’s building represent only the final
step in its world-wide watch on the movement of
contraband. What the Ministry wants to know when
its experts examine a manifest is whether the neutral
consignees named in it —they are always neutrals —are
the ultimate consignees. If the cargo it represents is
for neutral consumption, nothing happens to it. But
if any part of it is going to Germany, then things
begin to happen.
One section at the Ministry knows all the im-
porting firms in the neutral countries adjacent to Ger-
many. Another knows the normal needs of the
neutrals. Another knows what commodities Germany
is buying from day to day.' Another knows all the
exporting firms in, say, South America. When all the
dozen or more sections at the Ministry are through
with it, any secret which may have been hidden in
the manifest has been dragged out into the light, and
a whole dossier of evidence has been attached to it on
the subject of an item of 200 drums of gasoline for
Rotterdam. Its shipper has been found to be using
an alias and its consignee to be a dummy, some Rot-
terdam dock laborer. With its attached dossier, the
manifest is then ready for its final hurdle, the contra-
band committee. This august body of a dozen civilians
is the supreme senate of contraband control.
The blocking of German exports has a different
legal status and is a somewhat simpler matter.
Neutrals outbound from the Continent are sent into
the control bases in the same way, but cargo which
is suspected of being a German export —either German
property or neutral property of German origin—is
referred to the enemy exports committee in London,
and neutral shippers are allowed to fight their battle
of wits with this imperturbable committee before its
decision is handed down.
In the presence of the grim wall of blockade
Hitler’s already shrunken overseas trade rapidly has
sunk to vanishing point. But he still has the trade of
his adjacent neutrals to draw on, and their markets
are far more important today than they were 25 years
ago. In the last war the Central Powers were shut in
by enemies everywhere except in Switzerland, Hol-
land and the Scandinavian countries. Except for
France, Germany is entirely surrounded by neutrals
today. Neutrals within the naval cordon are now
the main battleground of economic warfare. In addi-
tion to maintaining the sea blockade, the Allies are
throwing the weight of their immense resources into
the struggle to squeeze Germany out of her trade
with those neutrals.
The Real Germany.
(Condensed from an article in London “Spectator.”)
Two things we hope, instinctively and irresist-
ibly, of the German people—that they will, decide the
war by rising against their present rulers, and that
they will make a reasonable peace possible by pro-
viding a new Government in which confidence can
"Haagsche Post,” The Hague.
BALKAN GIRLS’ SCHOOL.
HEAD MISTRESS MUSSOLINA : “Look straight
ahead, girls!”
be placed. But before hope suffers the facile trans-
formation into faith such evidence as there is must be
examined with one unswerving aim, to extract from it
the welcome or unwelcome truth.
Latent opposition to the regime must be consider-
able. At the last contested election for the Reichstag,
when the National Socialists polled 11,700,000 votes,
the Socialists and Communists polled between them
over 13,000,000 and the Catholic Centre another
4,000,000. That was seven years ago, and Germany
since then has been utterly transformed. But there
must be a substantial proportion still of that
17,000,000, even allowing for all who have fled from
Germany or have been driven to suicide or immured
in concentration camps, who hate National Socialism
and all it stands for as intensely as they fear it. The
Russian alliance is viewed with suspicion and dislike.
Nine Roman Catholics out of ten in Germany, indeed
any man of any confession genuinely Christian, must
recognise with shame and sorrow that the oligarchy
which dragoons their country today is a foul and
vicious thing.
That opposition may yet count for something ;
there is no ground for believing it counts for much
today. There is no evidence of any discontent that
need cause Herr Hitler grave concern. Some discon-
tent of course there is, but the restrictions which
cause it, painful and oppressive though they be, are
not beyond endurance.
Remember, moreover, what the perversion of
truth means to Germany. Dr. Goebbels may have
failed or succeeded abroad ; there is no question of
his success at home. Germany has been hermetically
sealed against the invasion of fact. All foreign papers
in the German language, and of course all in French
or English, are excluded. No letter containing a line
unwelcome to the authorities can enter the Reich,
Listening to foreign broadcasts, neutral as well as
enemy, is a penal, and may even be a capital, offence,
and, eager as many Germans may be to hear what
the 8.8. C, or Radio Paris has to say, few are pre-
pared to make it literally a matter of life and death.
To enforce all this there are no ordinary police,
bringing offenders before ordinary courts, The Ges-
tapo, whose name strikes terror into every German
home, has all Germany in its grip. The spy is in every
cafe, the informer in every factory, and the People’s
Courts base their judgments on one simple >
whether their conception of the good of the azi
State requires that the accused should be sentence .
Truth thus asphyxiated, the beliefs of the people
can be moulded to the Government’s will. They can
be told, and are told, and for the most part believe,
that after the campaign he was forced to make in
Poland Herr Hitler offered France and Britain peace,
but they wantonly chose war. They can be told, and
are told, and for the most part believe, that the aim or
the Allies is the disruption and extermination of Ger-
many, after another peace of which Versailles was
only a half-hearted foretaste. The blockade can be
depicted as a deliberate resolve to starve women and
children. The war that is a war on Hitlerism alone
can be represented as a dastardly aggression on Ger-
many.
That, we must believe, in the light of what evi-
dence we have, is the real Germany, a Germany con-
vinced it has been criminally attacked by a Britain
dragging France unwilling in its train, a Germany
for the most part accepting Hitler as the saviour of
his country, a Germany confident of victory in the
war. There are no doubt dissident elements, but not
as many, or as strong, as German emigres in secret
touch with men and women of their own way ol
thought in Germany would suggest. The belief that
a war in which a clear decision by land or sea or air
seems distant and problematic may soon be ended
by a rising of the German people (or a coup by the
German army) will stand no scrutiny. The evidence
for it is non-existent.
Flaws in the Nazi Creed.
(From an address by Viscount Samuel to the British
Institute of Philosophy .)
The harm done by the Nazi creed is due to the
fact that, while giving right answers to some of the
great questions in debate in our present civilisation, it
gave wrong answers to a greater number, and those
including some of the most vital. (By right and wrong
I mean conducive to welfare, of Germans and of
others, or not conducive to welfare.)
The questions to which wrong answers were given
may perhaps be summarised thus:
Has a State duties only to its own people, and
none to other peoples?
Is any action legitimate which will promote the
immediate interest of the particular State?
Ought war to be maintained as an institution on
account of the virtues it evokes, and other benefits it
brings?
Are the principles of Race and Soil a right basis
for a nation’s policy?
Should the control of a country’s affairs be en-
trusted to an individual, and loyalty to him be identi-
fied with patriotism?
Does the citizen exist for the sake of the State
or nation, and not the State or nation for the sake of
the citizen?
Should the State direct all forms of education and
information, in order to promote its own ideas, and
suppress all other ideas ; and this with little regard to
truth or falsity?
Is the Christian ethic, in its broad outlines, to be
rejected, ruthlessness praised as a virtue, justice and
compassion condemned as weakness?
The questions to which most of us might say that
right answers had been given are these:
Does the civilisation of the modern world deny
social justice to a large proportion of the populations?
Ought the improvement of industrial conditions,
and of environment in general, together with the ulti-
mate disappearance of class distinctions based on
wealth, to be a chief aim of social effort?
It will not be disputed in any quarter that the
Nazi creed says Yes to all of those questions.
M. Reynaud on War Effort.
[London “Economist’s” comment: “Since the out-
break of war one statesman, and one only, among the
French and British Cabinets has consistently devoted
himself to preaching the elements of a sound war
economy. This one is M. Paul Reynaud, the French
Minister of Finance... .without doubt second only to
M. Daladier as a leader in France.” Adding that,
though brief extracts from his speeches had appeared
in the British press, they deserved far wider attention,
the “Economist” published at length extracts from M.
Reynaud’s most important speeches since the war began.
The one here represented was given to the Chamber of
Deputies. Though referring only to France it has a
more general application.]
When war broke out, France had hardly recovered
from the losses of the last war and of seven neglected
years of economic crisis. Three years more at least
would have been necessary for recovery. It is thus
a country only in process of recovery which finds itself
thrown into war.
What kind of Germany confronts us? Let us
beware of underestimating our adversary. In six
years, without gold or credit, a ruined Germany out-
paced France and Britain in the armament race, for
all their 20-year start. In 19 months, 35 million men
have come beneath her yoke, a number nearly equiva-
lent to the population of France. She has seized that
yast industrial machine, Czechoslovakia; the coal-
fields of Silesia, Her iron production is a third greater
than that of France and Britain together.
What is the basis of her victories? Armaments.
How has a ruined country built up this colossal war
machine? By immense sacrifices inflicted on her
people, accepted with enthusiasm by her fanatical
youth and suffered in terror by the German masses.
This regime is a hideous thing, but it is strong.
The Nazi leaders know that a military defeat
might lead to the collapse of a regime which is based
as much on prestige as on terror. Therefore we must


British Freedom,
Stuart Fletcher, in London “Daily Herald”:
British freedom is a strange and peculiar
thing. I recently spent the best part of a day
in Hyde Park, where a large number of men
and women stood on portable wooden plat-
forms and uttered for hours on end state-
ments that in many countries of the present-
day world would have been an immediate
passport to prison.
If these passionately earnest people had
been offering amusement in the. form of bet-
ting slips, acceptable warmth in the form of
alcoholic beverages, flattery by soliciting alms,
or even selling penny postage stamps, they
would have been promptly arrested.
As they were merely undermining the
British Constitution, distorting the nation’s
established religion and uttering high treason,
no one interfered with them.
U.S.A. and Finns.
Addressing the American Youth Congress
early in February, President Roosevelt said:
“Here is a small republic in Northern Europe
which, without any question whatever, wishes
solely to maintain its territorial and Govern-
mental integrity. Nobody with any pretence
of commonsense believes that Finland had any
ulterior designs on the integrity and security of
the Soviet Union. But that American sympathy
is 98 per cent, with the Finns in their efforts
to stave off invasion of their own soil by
now is axiomatic.
“The Soviet Union, as a matter of practical
facts, is run by dictatorship—a dictatorship as
absolute as any other dictatorship in the world.
It allied itself with another dictatorship and it
invaded a neighbor so infinitesimally small that it
could do no conceivable possible harm to the
Soviet Union. It invaded a small nation that
sought only to live at peace as a democracy —and
a liberal, forward-looking democracy at that.”
The President, however, stigmatised as “silly
talk” a suggestion that the U.S.A. was going to
war with the Soviet.
The gist of this came out in cables; it is
here recalled in the President’s words as a
corrective of wishful thinking regarding United
States action on the Allied side or on behalf
of Australia and Maoriland.
be prepared for prolonged military inactivity. From
fear? Yes, of a new Verdun. From hope? Perhaps
from a hope that, in a war of boredom, the democ-
racies, despite their riches, will succumb owing to
their inability to accept sacrifices and to survive so
extreme an economic, financial and psychological
tension. Since 1933 Hitler has played on the weak-
ness of the democracies abroad, and he has always
won. He believes, perhaps, that our regime is in-
capable of surviving the fall in production due to
mobilising one man in nine or of imposing the reduc-
tion of consumption which such a fall demands. Per-
haps he is saying: “The French will begin to dispute
over inequality of sacrifice. Once discontent and dis-
order come, my hour will strike.” Gentlemen, it
depends on us whether or not Hitler is right.
Two policies are possible. Some say: “Since this
is a war of nerves, the only problem is to keep up the
morale of the country. Therefore stop imposing
privations, restrictions and taxes which must harm
that morale.” I reply: “How long could such a
policy endure?” Rising wages, public works can
only mean a harvest of paper money and soaring
prices. Such a policy has nothing to do with morale.
It is a policy of easiness.
Confronting it, we have a policy of sacrifice.
Instead of drawing on our material resources to pre-
serve our morale, we must draw on our reserves of
moral energy for the will to produce more, save more
and consume less. Millions at the front have ceased
to produce. Those who remain must produce more in
order that France may import less and export more to
procure foreign exchange for the purchase of raw
materials and arms. The period of adaptation to a
war economy inevitably inflicts hardships, but they
are certainly less cruel and unjust than the results of
a “policy of easiness,” with its cortege of inflation,
rising exchanges and rising prices.
How can we prevent a rise in prices? Two solu-
tions are possible, orthodox and unorthodox. We
have used both. First of all, we have instituted a
direct control of prices ; but that is insufficient in itself,
and it would check production, since certain increases
—the rising cost of imported raw materials, for
example—are unavoidable. Therefore, we have re-
sorted to restrictions, to a diminution of the right to
buy. Meat, for instance, may only be bought on
certain days. We have also restricted the power to
buy, by reducing all incomes.
The special national tax on salaries and wages
has been raised from 2 to 5 per cent. The wage ques-
tion must be considered in comparison with our front-
line soldiers, who get killed for 15 sous a day. The
Government has tried to find a just compromise.
Wages up to 40 hours will not be touched. Over 40
hours they will be diminished by 40 per cent.
Why have we imposed exchange control? Argu-
ments against exchange control, valid in peace, no
longer hold. The fair weather has passed. We must
close the hatches and prepare for storm, the storm of
spending our reserves of foreign currency in mass
purchases abroad.
Our gold is our war chest. Therefore, we must
be prepared to spend part of it in the war. Yet there
must be no purchasing without plan. Purchases only
useful in civil life must be lopped off; further, even
ordinary articles of consumption —meat, coffee —must
be reduced. “We must restrict ourselves to import
less and restrict ourselves to export more.” Thus Ger-
many succeeded in doing without gold. You may
smile at the restrictions imposed on the German
people. They are, no doubt, a sign of poverty. They
are also witness to a fierce strength of will entirely
directed against ourselves. In face of sacrifices which
appear to belong to another planet, must we not find
the first sacrifices asked of our country moderate, even
too moderate? In spite of these measures, inflation
remains possible unless our expenditure can be met
either by tax or loan.
The democracies will win, but only at the price of
sacrifices of which they have still little conception.
We can easily lose the war if we do not enter it deter-
mined to endure everything. We shall conquer. But
to conquer the enemy, we must first conquer ourselves.
Americans’ War Attitude.
(From a London “Spectator” article by Erwin D.
Canham, Washington .)
As always, it is a mistake to judge American
public opinion by its metropolitan newspapers or by
its cosmopolites, by the clubs or foreign policy asso-
ciations or mercantile or banking houses of the east —
or any part of the country, for that matter.
The real touchstone of permanent policy is the
people— at the grass-roots. And their state of mind,
it cannot be too often reiterated, is a desire to avoid
“involvement” in the European war. They are not
prepared to admit that the Allies are fighting their
battles.
The country, as never before, is propaganda-
conscious. A British M.P. who pays annual or semi-
annual visits to the United States, and who has always
been able to secure ample and lucrative bookings for
lecture tours, said the other day, with injured frank-
ness, “You know, my agent finds the booking very
sticky. I have two lectures arranged, but I really
don’t know whether I shall have any more after that.”
Another speaker just back from the midwest said :
“Out there you get the feeling that people are stand-
ing in the back of the hall with shotguns—waiting to
shoot the first lecturer who mentions Belgian babies.”
*****
(William H. Seed, Chicago, in a letter to Manchester
“Guardian.”')
Explanation of the American attitude of whole-
hearted sympathy with the Allies, coupled with em-
phatic declarations of a policy of non-intervention, is
not difficult if two factors are borne in mind. This is
an election year, and rural and small-town America
decides elections.
An election year is an institution. Here an elec-
tion takes place every*four years, and nothing ever
alters the routine. There are no by-elections even.
One year in every four is, in consequence, given up
entirely to electioneering, and during that year politics
have to come before statesmanship.
From California to Maine the local wiseacres
remember that Sy Perkins lost his leg in the last war,
that the Allies never paid their war debts, and the
last war was one to end wars. Intelligent and pro-
gressive America carries on against that background.
Looking at the situation, and leaving out the unpre-
dictable effect of happenings abroad, I would not
expect anything but a pacifist re-
action this side the election. But let
it not be forgotten that President
Woodrow Wilson once won an elec-
tion on the slogan “He kept us
out of war!”
Main-street hates “foreign
‘isms.’ ” That means Fascism and
Nazism, but it means Bolshevism
even more. The Russo-German
pact was a big factor in increas-
ing, not exactly pro-Allied but anti-
Hitler sympathy. Meanwhile even
well-informed American opinion is
apt to think the United States is
doing its share. This is not a war
of man-power as yet. Even
Canada has not adopted conscrip-
tion, and we are told there is great
opposition to it in the Dominion.
The United States has lifted the
embargo, so as to facilitate Allied
access to supplies of war materials.
It is not understood, that the “cash-
and-carry” provisions seriously
hamper purchases. If they do so
the fact should be brought home to
the American mind.
Frankly I think the situation calls for Allied
propaganda. Something should be done, I do not
know by exactly what means, to clarify the follow-
ing questions:
(1) The old war debts. That is the sorest point
of all. Some seven or eight years ago several pro-
fessorial publicists, including Harry D. Gideonse and
Horace Taylor, who published pamphlets under the
sponsorship of the University of Chicago and
Columbia University respectively, very ably proved
that debt payment would be a disaster to the United
States and the world. These pamphlets, however, are
gathering dust in libraries.
(2) Can the Allies win without full American co-
operation, and is it fair they should be expected to
do so?
(3) What kind of peace must follow the war? Mr.
utterances on this question have done
a lot of good, but there must be more discussion and
more evidence that he speaks the mind of those who
will represent Great Britain and France when the
peace is made.
(4) How can the United States expect to parti-
cipate in the peace if she refuses to bear her full
share of the burdens and sacrifices of war?
Refugees in Britain.
C From the regular feature article by “Candidus” in
London “Daily Sketch.”)
To refuse persecuted Jews the right of asylum
in Britain would be against all our liberal tradition,
but in war-time one has to be very careful not to
give a handle to ignorance and prejudice, and refugees
have duties, as well as privileges. It is dangerous if
people begin to say that the refugees are entitled not
only to security, but to privileges such as our own
people do not enjoy.
As aliens refugees are exempt from conscription.
If they are of military age and physically fit they might
volunteer for service in larger numbers than they are
doing.
Some evidence that they estimate the value of the
asylum that they have in Britain, are anxious to make
return, and do not seek for a privileged position only
would make a great impression on our people, and
ensure aliens against the possibility of reaction later.
That Jewish refugees from oppression should be
scattered all over the world confirms one of the root
causes of anti-Semitism, namely, that the Jews, how-
ever loyal members they may be of their adopted
country, are in it, but not of it. And as long as that
reproach lies, so long will anti-Semitism continue to
raise its ugly head. It will disappear when the Jews
have a country of their own, where they can live no
longer on sufferance, but as a right.
Wages and Soldiers’ Pay.
(From an article in London “Economist”)
Why should a worker be paid more than a sol-
dier? The difference in conception in Britain and
"Daily Mail,” London.
FINLAND ALONE.
“Only three cartridges —the rest are goodwill messages.”
France calls for early agreement more perhaps than
any other aspect of Anglo-French co-operation.
Equality of sacrifice is something which has a
very practical meaning in France today. M. Daladier
was going to the heart of the matter when he said in
his broadcast speech that “All Frenchmen must be
ready to live like the soldiers in a spirit of devotion
and sacrifice,” and that “in a word, those behind the
lines must win the esteem of those at the front by
industry, renunciation and discipline.”
The idea of equality must go further than that,
however, if Anglo-French collaboration is to become
a reality to the French mind. It seems probable that
the French will not really begin to believe in Anglo-
French co-operation, or consider that they owe it any
real loyalty, until the British move nearer to the
French conception of “total war.”
No serious thinker in France expects to see the
gap in the two standards of living closed by British
renunciation: what he does expect to see, and con-
siders entirely vital to the growth of co-operation and
even to the winning of the war, is the maintenance of
the gap at pre-war levels. As things stand now, the
gap is widening further with every fresh wage increase
granted to British workers.
Faulty British Propaganda.
(Comment by London “Evening Standard” military
correspondent .)
The report of my neutral observer in Germany
confirms the view that our present propaganda there
is making little headway. The pamphlet raids have
quite failed. The crude attempt to differentiate
between the German people and the German Gov-
ernment has not come off. It has suffered the same
fate as the equally obvious effort of the Nazis to
drive a wedge between France and Britain.
As for our aircraft acting as flying postmen of
these pamphlets, the Nazi authorities say: “Let them
come as often as they please—at 30,000 feet. They
are merely using up their petrol.” The Nazis reckon
that they themselves use the air—in the form of
broadcast propaganda—more cheaply and far more
effectively.
The British broadcasts to Germany are not good,
says my informant. Sometimes they are made by
Germans of Jewish extraction. The Berliners claim
that they can detect this accent by the sing-song note
at the end of the sentence, much as in Britain we
might recognise a Welsh intonation.
The Nazis’ own propaganda in Germany has con-
siderable success. The Germans are well aware of
their own hardships, but they firmly believe that the
British people are suffering still worse. The mass of
the Germans are convinced that Germany is supreme
not only in the air but, by reason of the “successful
U-boat and mine blockade of Britain,” at sea also.


RANDWICK RACES
AUTUMN MEETINGS, 1940
MARCH 23, 25. 27 and 30.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Winners at Randwick included some
well-backed horses, but with Peekmond
and Lady Neith, at 20 to 1 and 10 to 1
respectively, giving them a nice jump-off,
and Cherry Bar, at 15 to 1, closing pro-
ceedings, it was not surprising that many
bookmakers voiced the sentiment “Give
me Randwick.”
The pronounced fashion in which
Peekmond curled up after going six fur-
longs in a race at Rosehill a fortnight
earlier put most backers off him for the
Farm Novice. The company was
stronger, but with 131 b. less than at
Rosehill and his apprentice rider, Whit-
ney, carrying out instructions to wait as
long as possible, Peekmond worried
Cryon out of it in the last few strides.
Thunderclap, an Excitement colt trained
by G. Young, also came home strongly,
and in doing most of the pacemaking,
and leading into the straight Log Cabin
and Prima Mel made themselves worth
remembering for a shorter race. Peek-
mond was never further back than fifth.
No excuse was possible for Guinness.
He was nicely placed from the start, but
though he was going easily coming to
the turn he failed to run on. Peekmond
is by Veilmond from Peeka (Linacre-
Miss Gunning), and consequently comes
from a good winning family. He was
for sale at 500gns. after his win.
Dark Elegance absolutely failed as
a stayer in the fillies’ division of the
Fairfield Handicap. At the three fur-
longs she and Happy Bay looked like
making a match of it, but though she
shook off the latter turning into the
straight the fast early pace told its tale,
and she responded so feebly when
tackled by Lady Neith a furlong from
home that she was beaten in a few
strides, eventually finishing a poor third,
a rank outsider in Harridelle cutting her
out of second money. Sally Rich and
Minnabel were nearest the place-getters,
but, in running, neither was ever a pos-
sible winner, though Minnabel (Pan-
theon-Annabel) may fare better at a
suburban meeting. By Pentheus from
Tresseith, Lady Neith is a granddaughter
of that good mare Neith.
. . • • • •
Flying Knight won his division of the
Fairfield Handicap in the manner of a
first-class colt. Despite his steadier of
9.5 he led throughout, stalling off a good
finishing run by the lightly-weighted
Rimveil. This was Flying Knight’s third
win in four starts, the return in prize-
money being £1495, against his yearling
cost of 600gns. He now has an excellent
chance in the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
and will also help the prices of the
Medieval Knight youngsters at the com-
ing sales at Randwick. Duke Cullen,
from the same stable as Flying Knight,
was always one of the leading division,
and ran third. The placegetters were
well ahead of the remainder, though
Trade Mark made a promising showing.
Valve ran fairly, but I thought Rylstone
looked as if he needed a race, and he
ran that way, too, failing towards the
end.
Lady Neith’s form pointed to Panchio
as the probable winner of the second
division of the Fairfield Handicap-
colts and geldings. Third to Ensign and
Roxford turning into the straight he was
unable to make any impression on them
in the run home, and finished in that
position. Roxford’s pull in weight en-
abled him to beat Ensign in the last
couple of strides, the time being the
same as recorded by Flying Knight in
his division. Patrician, who did his best
work after entering the straight, looks
like staying, and Loyal Lad and War-
time again showed pace. Roxford had
raced so consistently, but without suc-
cess, that owner-trainer D. Swanson
could not be well begrudged his win.
Roxford is of the same color as his sire,
Roxburgh, being a grey, and is out of
Sweet Heroic (Heroic-Wheatacre, by
Linacre). Bred by W. S. E. Hadley he
was sold as a yearling for 150gns.
• ••*•*
In the Chipping Norton Plate Reading
demonstrated he was none the worse for
his Melbourne efforts. Leading through-
out, he won in easy fashion in the excel-
lent time of 2.3 y. Mosaic finished well
in second place, and he is likely to be at
his best for the A.J.C. meeting. Although
outstayed by Mosaic for second, Dash-
ing Cavalier gave a good account of him-
self, while Katanga’s showing did not
earn him a start in the Sydney Cup next
Monday. Royal Chief improved on his
Rosehill form, but not sufficiently to sug-
gest that he has much chance of beating
either Reading, Maikai or Mosaic in the
longer w.f.a. races next week.
In an exciting finish Denis defeated
his stable-companion Adios in the Liver-
pool Handicap. Both are trained by G.
Price. Tarn and Penthides led at the
leger, then giving place to Denis. The
latter was immediately tackled by Adios,
but, though for a few strides the latter
looked a winner, Denis lasted the longer.
Geebung finished brilliantly in third
place, narrowly defeating The Albatross.
Gold Salute was next, and did particu-
larly well considering the ground he lost
when he swerved away at barrier-rise.
Shean, who rode Gold Salute, com-
plained to the stipendiary stewards that
he was unfairly treated by starter
Gaxieu, but the stewards did not uphold
him in that idea. It was unfortunate for
owner Cooper and Shean that Gold
Salute began so badly, but starters for
important clubs do not go out of their
way to besmirch their reputations by
treating jockeys unjustly.
A lot was expected of Bradford, but,
though he looked as bright as the pro-
verbial new pin, he ran indifferently;
and there was nothing in Billposter’s
showing to enhance his Doncaster pros-
pects. Gold Rod did not do well enough
to suggest he would be worth following
next week. Denis’s last six runs have
given two wins, a second, a third and
two fourths.
Yours Truly landed the short odds
taken about him for the Warwick Farm
Cup—s to 2 being about the best —but
he was all out to defeat Gold Spark,
whom he met 31b. better than Sydney
Cup terms. The latter, as usual, tried to
win all the way, but in order to succeed
in the Sydney Cup it looks as if less
use will have to be made of her in the
early part. There was merit in Own
Folk’s third, and he should pick up a
race during the meeting. It may be the
same with Fountain, who was doing
better at the end than at any other stage.
Halfway down the straight St. Con-
stant looked like giving his backers a
great run, but he was just short of being
good enough. Old Rowley was plugging
along at the finish, and the extra half-mile
in the Sydney Cup will be helpful to him.
Early Bird and Pantler were complete
failures.
In the Cabramatta Handicap Cherry
Bar again proved that Randwick is her
course. A furlong from home she was
giving Royal Routine, Brazen Lad, Rod-
borough and Baveon a good start, but
got up just in time to defeat Royal
Routine. Rodborough was disappointed
in trying for a run on the rails in the
straight, and had to be checked in order
to go round a couple of horses ahead of
him. He may not have won even if this
had not occurred, but with a clear run
he would have been closer to the winner.
Among the unplaced lot Brazen Lad,
Überous, Salazar and Cable Boy ran
fairly, but neither Assegai nor Astound-
ing showed up, and Baveon weakened
over the last furlong.
* * * *
“Well, what did to-day’s running tell
us concerning Doncaster chances?” was
a question freely asked at the conclusion
of Saturday’s racing at Randwick. The
general opinion was that Geebung and
Gold Salute did most to enhance their
prospects. Consequent on getting away
badly Gold Salute made a great impres-
sion, but it must not be overlooked that
he was not far behind Geebung when
the field settled down, and was ahead
of him commencing the final furlong.
The effort of making up his leeway
took a lot out of Gold Salute, but Gee-
bung must be given full credit for his
third, especially as an extra quarter-mile
will not be against him. Geebung met
Gold Salute 21b. better than Doncaster
terms, but as he has only 71b. more
than when he won the Epsom he is
well in. Nor will it be anything against
him if the long-expected -rain should
eventuate before next Saturday.
Probabilities favor Geebung and Gold
Salute beating Denis, even though he
will be meeting them better, and the
same applies to The Albatross. The
extra quarter-mile may be something in
Billposter’s favor, but I think a win is
beyond him. Nothing favorable can be
said for Bradford.
Cherry Bar finished strongly to win
the Cabramatta Handicap, but if that
field included a possible Doncaster Han-
dicap winner it was probably Rod-
borough, who was not lucky in running.
As in the Villiers I expect the lower
scale to help him. Baveon was made
the first leg of a substantial double or
two after his Rosehill win, but his dis-
play in the Cabramatta Mile said little
for his chance.
On form High Caste is bound to
figure prominently, but though he looks
well, despite his hard work in Mel-
bourne, and seems up to any weight,
9st. is a big load for a three-year-old who
will be made feel it from barrier-rise.
Breeze reads like the best of the light-
weights, but with so many brilliant
gallopers pressing her all the way there
is the possibility of the last bit troubling
her. Bonny Loch, one of the early
fancies, will have to improve a lot on
his last two runs to be a danger.
• • • * • •
Numerically G. Price will have the
strongest representation of any trainer.
He has certain runners in Beaulivre,
Denis, Mildura and The Squire. Mc-
Carten, Mornement, Munro and Thomp-
son are the respective riders. Beau-
livre is making satisfactory progress in
his work, and is a brilliant galloper, out,
as he has not raced for a couple of
months, it might be better for backers to
pin their faith to Mildura, who has done
well since he returned from Melbourne.
He has 81b. more than in the Newmarket.,
but that race proved easy for him, and
he is up to 8.8. The Squire has nothing
to carry, but he took a little too long in
winning his race at Victoria Park last
week to be altogether pleasing. If the
going is firm Mildura is likely to be
Price’s own choice. As Feminist has
been doing a fair amount of sprinting,
perhaps she is to be a Doncaster runner.
If so, W. Cook will ride her.
I am writing too early in the veek
to be definite as to Melbourne runners,
but, as El Golea’s recent win indicates
he is himself again, he may be the best.
He won last year’s Newmarket with 8.L.,
against his 9.4 of next Saturday, and it
is scarcely necessary for me to recall the
fact that the Doncaster has been a good
race for heavyweights.
Form says most for Geebung, oold
Salute, Mildura, High Caste, Rodborough
and Breeze, and to reduce it further I
shall look to Geebung or Mildura to win.
• • • • • •
Yours Truly’s Warwick Autumn Han-
dicap victory was not as decisive as some
of his Sydney Cup backers liked. In
a winning position at the turn, he was
flat out at the finish to outstay Gold
Spark, whom he will meet 31b. worse.
However, it can be said for Yours Truly
that his New Zealand Cup win proved
him capable of running two miles, and
that is not certain in connection with
Gold Spark, though she has done well
up to a mile and a half. Yours Truly
should again beat those that were behind
him on Saturday, though Own Folk, Old
Rowley and Fountain are possible im-
provers.
Maikai will find 9.6 difficult to handle.
Mosaic must enter into calculations.
Mosaic was comfortably beaten by Read-
ing in the Chipping Norton Stakes, but
he finished so straight and strongly that,
improved by his run, he is likely to make
it tough for all his opponents next Mon-
day. Feminist cannot be passed over
lightly, nor can Cooranga, though in
order to win she will have to do much
better than in the Australian Cup.
Success for Royal Chief now seems
too much to expect. I am giving my
vote to Yours Truly, with Mosaic and
Own Folk his most dangerous opponents.
* * * *
Two years ago, after his Bagot
Handicap win at Flemington and his
defeat of Damalis and Hua in the King’s
Plate (w.f.a.), Elanage became a pre-
post favorite for the Sydney Cup. He
went amiss and was unable to fulfil his
Cup engagement, nor has he won a race
since. His display in the St. Kilda Han-
dicap at Caulfield on Saturday was tc
determine whether he would have a cut-
in for the rich Randwick race next Mon-
day. Carrying only 31b. more than his
Sydney Cup weight in a field of com-
parative moderates, his fifth to Lanarus
was not an impressive face-value triai,
but rider A. Breasley subsequently ad-
vised trainer Jack Fryer that a Sydney
trip would be warranted. He contended
that Elanage did not get a clear run at
any stage, that he almost fell when he
got on the heels of other horses, and
that with ordinary luck he would have
won. Breasley might be correct, but,
sticking strictly to form, Elanage’s Cup
chance does not appear nearly so bright
as the Doncaster chance of his stable-
mate El Golea.
Form reversals continue to worry Mel-
bourne punters, and those who backed
Lanarus when he was beaten into third
place in the Kyneton Cup last Wednes-
day mumbled to themselves when they
saw him beat Lady Kidston and Con
Devon on Saturday. Quite apart from
the fact that Lanarus was heavily backed
at the country course, and was allowed
to go out at 10 to 1 for the St. Kilda
Handicap, some Kyneton races evidently
are hard to win. Ex-Maorilander J. P-
McLaughlin, trainer of Lanarus, can
vouch for this. In the spring of 1935 he
considered Epigram, a member of his
team, a good thing at Kyneton, and
backed him accordingly. Epigram was
beaten, but three days later he dead-
heated for first with Journal in the Too-
rak Handicap at Caulfield. Some keen
judges doubted the wisdom of Darcy
FOR RANDWICK.
(By “PILOT.”)
First Hurdle Race: Mag Mort,
1 ; Gymkhana, 2 ; Lockslea, 3.
Autumn Plate: Maikai, 1 ;
Mosaic, 2 ; Royal Chief, 3.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Trueness,
1 ; Flying Knight, 2 ; Broadcaster,
3.
Doncaster Handicap: Geebung,
1 ; Mildura, 2; Rodborough or
High Caste, 3.
A.J.C. St. Leger: Reading, 1 ;
Dashing Cavalier, 2 ; Katanga, 3.
Vaucluse Handicap: Sigh, 1 ;
Scarlet Circle, 2; Tel Asur, 3.
SECOND DAY MONDAY.
Easter Plate: Trueness, 1 ; Dark
Elegance, 2 ; Lady Neith, 3.
Sydney Cup: Yours Truly, 1 ;
Mosaic, 2; Own Folk, 3.
THIRD DAY —WEDNESDAY.
All-Aged Plate: Ajax, 1 ; High
Caste, 2 ; El Golea, 3.
Cumberland Plate: Reading, 1 ;
Mosaic,, 2 ; Maikai, 3.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
(To be held at Flemington.)
(By “SENTRY.”)
Trial Hurdle: Corowa Lad, 1 ,
Conandale, 2 ; Dignitas, 3.
Maiden Two-year-old: Clarhy,
1 ; Goldsmith, 2 ; Exactly, 3.
Easter Stakes: Carpentier, 1 ;
Denis Girl, 2 ; Con Devon, 3
Novice Stakes: Royal Comet, 1 ,
Rushvan, 2 ; Windfelt, 3.
Seaside Handicap: Manrico, 1 :
Hilton, 2 ; Pure Gold, 3.
Werribee Highweight: Carpen-
tier, 1; Rambler, 2 ; Lord Wind-
burra, 3.
SECOND DAY— MONDAY.
W.R.C. Easter Cup: Alarm, 1 ;
Valmiki, 2 ; Con Devon, 3.


CLAYTONS
KOLA
TONIC
fftwou
Ninxuum P-v “I SSO"
f-'ayton Br^
>-ONDON. S.VSfJ?'
Agents;
Gollin & Co.
Pty., Ltd.,
S'ydney.
A REAL Stimulant
and enjoyable
Clayton’s will build up bodily resistance
and help you to fight the effects of trying
weather conditions.
Drink Clayton’s Kola Tonic as a liqueur,
the base of your favorite cocktail, or as
a straight-out thirst-quencher with minerals
or water.
Product of Clayton Bros., London.
The only GENUINE Clayton’s
Kola Tonic.
sad
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
Built on HILL’S PATENT (Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE TREE.
Best Selected Kip Flaps and Skirts. 4-|in. Knee Pads.
3in. Thigh Pads. 4-£in. to sin. Dip in Seat.
All Hand-sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with Leathers, Irons, Girth and Surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/- (Freight Paid).
Send for New Illustrated Catalogue now available
of all classes of Saddlery.
J. P. TALTY
MANUFACTURER OF SADDLERY,
HARNESS, CANVAS GOODS, ETC.
Off Goulburn Street, between
6 CUNNINGHAM STREET, SYDNEY. Pitt and George Street s.
Eccles when he bought Lanarus six or
seven months ago, but Darcy, one of the
best judges in the game, is having the
last laugh. Lanarus’s win on Saturday,
when he sustained a run begun about six
furlongs from home, was worth £490 in
prize-money alone, and was his second
in his new colors. He is a four-year-old
entire by Salmagundi-Advance Australia.
jack Holt expected to win a treble at
Caulfield, but, although Distinction and
Courage disappointed him, Pure Gold
followed up his Flemington win of a
week earlier by beating Operatic and
Kanuri in the South Yarra Handicap.
Third from the half-mile to the turn,
Pure Gold finished gamely, and, as he
carried 31b. over weight for age, his con-
nections might now be sorry that they
withdrew him from the Doncaster. Don-
casters, however, are hard to win, and
the £350 first prize on Saturday can be
regarded as “a bird in hand.” Pure Gold
might never be as good as his brother
Hall Mark, who could both sprint and
stay, but as a sprinter he seems likely
to make a big name for himself next
season. On Saturday he was well ridden
by Norman Creighton, who will have the
Doncaster and Sydney Cup mounts on
El Golea and Plymouth Hoe respectively.
Holt can look forward with some con-
fidence to the future of Greenwich. Sent
to Australia by the Duke of Kent, but
sold because of the war, Greenwich is now
owned by Mrs. L. R. Buxton. He started
in Australia for the first time on Saturday,
but the fact that he went out at 50 to 1
in the race won by his stable-companion
Pure Gold was evidence that he was not
considered forward enough to win. At
the tail-end of the field nearing the turn
he ran on nicely to finish ninth of the
15 runners, and, on appearance, will need
very little more racing to bring him to
his top. When and if he does repro-
duce his best English form, it will prob-
ably be at a distance beyond six fur-
longs. He won up to 10 furlongs at
Newmarket (Eng.).
Connections of Chatsbury acted wisely
when they withdrew the colt from the
Doncaster and all other Randwick en-
gagements this autumn. Starting favorite
for the South Yarra Handicap, Chatsbury
narrowly missed a place, and, even allow-
ing that he struck a bit of trouble at the
top of the straight, his form indicated
that he had had enough racing for the
time being. Trainer L. McCann is of
the same opinion, and Chatsbury will
spell at the Goulburn (N.S.W.) district
property of his owner, F. Carr, until it
is time to prepare him for spring racing.
Chatsbury has had nine races for three
wins, a second and three thirds. Having
recovered from the shin-soreness which
troubled him earlier, he should be better
than ever when he returns to work.
W. Duncan and A. Reed were rival
jockeys years ago, but they were asso-
ciated in the Orrong Two-year-old suc-
cess of Fur Trader —Duncan as trainer
and Reed as rider. Fur Trader’s win was
another of the form reversals that have
characterised Melbourne racing lately.
Backed for the Gibson Carmichael Stakes
at Flemington a week earlier, he weak-
ened at the end of seven furlongs, and
finished only ninth to Pandect. Game-
ness at the finish enabled him to beat
Mei-Ling and Cyden’s Son over a fur-
long shorter distance on Saturday, when
he started at 14 to 1 after as much as
20 to 1 had been laid. A colt by Mani-
toba-Tricycle, Fur Trader has won two
races for “G. Capesthorne,” who gave
750gns. for him as a yearling. “Capes-
thorne” obviously is well satisfied with
the family, for he paid 600 guineas for
a yearling brother to Fur Trader at the
recent sales.
The fact that horses drawn wide in mile
races at Caulfield are at a big disadvan-
tage was brought home to punters again
in the Kooyong Welter, in which Denis
Girl, favorite at 7 to 2, was beaten by
Wind Robe and National. Wind Robe
drew 4, National 2 and Denis Girl 14,
though each started from a position one
closer to the rails after Riviera, who drew
1, had been sent to the outside. Denis
Girl, though second at the end of two
furlongs, had to be used up somewhat
to get across to the rails, whereas Wind
Robe was going comfortably in front for
the greater part of the trip, and was able
to withstand all challenges in the straight.
Wind Robe’s owner, E. Y. Sheil, is a
small bettor. He put several pounds, on
his mare in a division of the Apprentices’
Handicap at Flemington, only to see her
lose her chance at the start. In the
stronger field on Saturday his only bet-
ting interest was a ticket on the place
tote, but he was quite satisfied with first-
prize money of £350.
Melbourne’s leading jumping rider, L.
Meenan, is a good judge of form. He
had the choice of three mounts in the
Narong Hurdle —Glenlonan, Exmoor and
Glowing—and chose Exmoor, with happy
results. Bookmakers and punters took
the tip, and Exmoor, who opened favor-
ite, notwithstanding that he had had only
one previous race after a long spell, won
from Glenlonan and Terka. He was a
good way out of his ground in the early
stages, but closed on the leaders at the
top of the straight, and won going away.
Meenan’s good fortune this season con-
trasts with that of Ron Sweetnam, lead-
ing cross-country rider last season. Sweet-
nam has had his full share of misfortune
in recent months, and on Saturday sus-
tained slight concussion and a badly-
skinned face when Celtic King fell with
him at the last hurdle.
Improving on his form at Flemington
at his previous start, Inazuma, starting
at 8 to 1 after tens had been bet, de-
feated Elegance and Nimshi in the Gor-
don Steeplechase. Always well placed,
the grey, who is a recruit from the hunt-
ing field, headed the pacemaker, Nimshi,
in the straight, but he might not have
won so decisively had not Elegance lost
ground at several fences. Elegance came
home strongly, and evidently is return-
ing to the form which enabled him to
hang up record figures for two miles
over fences at Caulfield almost three
years ago.
* * * *
Beaulivre won at each of his starts
in open handicaps in Maoriland this
season. On each occasion the distance
was six furlongs, and he had 8.10 (mini-
mum 7.0) when he easily won the
Stewards’ Handicap at Riccarton (Christ-
church) in November. The time was
1.11, and six-year-old Paper .Slipper, with
9.5, was top weight. On the third day
of the meeting Dark Flight, who ran
third with 7.0| to Beaulivre, won the
Avon Handicap, 6 furlongs, with 7.10,
and made the exceptional time of 1.9 2-5.
Beaulivre + hen beat Beau Vite at
level weights in the King’s Plate, at
Auckland, but at the same meeting the
latter turned the tables in the Great
Northern Derby, 1| miles, and the Clif-
ford Plate, \\ miles. On that form Beau-
livre is better up to a mile than beyond
it. His Maoriland record for this season
is nine firsts and two seconds.
It may appear that Beaulivre is being
set a tough task to win a Doncaster
without having raced for two months, but
he looks well, is working freely and, in
the opinion of several trainers, Beau
Pere’s progeny are seen to most advan-
tage in sprint races when thoroughly
fresh.
* * =s *
For the last 15 years horses carrying
more than Bst. have a good Doncaster
record, but only two heading the list of
the starters were successful during that
period. They were Winooka and Chat-
ham, the former starting favorite. Twd
years later, when again weighted at 9.13,
Winooka broke down in running.
In 1927 there was an unusual number
of starters with more than 9.0. Top
Gallant had 9.13, Amounis 9.12, Fuji
San and Waranton 9.11 and Metellus 9.5.
Despite his big weight, Amounis was
favorite, but ran nowhere. The year
Greenline won the Newmarket with 10.2
he ran in the Doncaster with the same
weight, but, though he appeared favor-
ably weighted, the distance was beyond
him.
Commencing with Whittier in 1925 —
he won the previous year with 9.5 —top-
weights have fared as under in the Don-
caster :
Price. Result.
1925 Whittier, 9.10 12 to 1 Unplaced
1926 — Fuji San, 9.7 10 to 1 Unplaced
1927 — Top Gallant, 9.13 .. 14 to 1 Unplaced
1928 — Amounis, 9.10 33 to 1 Unplaced
1929 — Sion, 8.11 3 to 1 Second
Crown Area, 8.11 .. 33 to 1 Unplaced
1930 — Greenline, 10.2 8 to 1 Unplaced
1931 — Mollison, 9.7 12 to 1 Second
1932 Waterline, 9.6 33 to 1 Unplaced
1933 — Winooka, 9.13 3 to 1 First
1934 Chatham, 10.4 6 to 1 First
1935 Winooka, 9.13 12 to 1 Unplaced
1936 Hall Mark, 9.11 .. 12 to 1 Unplaced
1937 Young Idea, 9.7 .. 10 to 1 Unplaced
1938 King’s Head, 8.13 .. 14 to 1 Second
1939 King’s Head, 9.4 .. 20 to 1 Unplaced
* * * *
If the weather is favorable there is no
reason why the attendance and totalisa-
tor turnover for the last two years should
not be equalled at the coming A.J.C.
autumn meeting at Randwick. Appended
are the attendances for each day on the
last two years:
1939. 1938.
First day .. .. 61,132 .. 63,781
Second day .. .. 67,690 .. 63,130
Third day. .. .. 27,399 .. 22,818
Fourth day .. .. 33,095 .. 30,871
Total .. .. 189,316 180,600
Despite the increased attendance on
three days the tote turnover for the whole
of the meeting was not so great as the
previous year, figures being as under:
1939. 1938.
First day.. £53,456 0 0 £62,530 5 0
Second day 68,566 15 0 74,876 5 0
Third day 28,181 0 0 30,561 5 0
Fourth day 42,320 0 0 40,220 0 0
Total ..£192,523 15 0 £208,187 15 0
=i= * * *
While I often hear trainers complain
that horses and jockeys are worse,
owners more exacting, and things gener-
ally not what they were at an earlier
period, trainers do not admit deteriora-
tion on their part. Yet it is doubtful
whether the preparation of horses for
important long races is as hard a task
as it was. Trainers often had to get
their charges ready without the benefit
of much racing, whereas now most be-
lieve in racing them into form. There-
fore, when they are ready to “go off”
their connections should never growl be-
cause of short prices. As for long train-
ing gallops, they are almost unknown,,
which means that a deal of guesswork
must enter into the assessment of horses’
chances over a distance. It is said that in
America one reason why there are so
few races beyond nine furlongs is that
almost anyone can train a horse for a
short distance.
* * * *
At its opening meeting the Canterbury
Park Club may be able to dispose of its
principal sprint, the Frederick Clissold
Handicap, without resorting to divisions,
but it is doubtful whether it will succeed
in avoiding them in the Canterbury Park
Cup on the second day. There are 54
entrants, and, though several of those
engaged are likely to be knocked out by
their efforts at Randwick, the odds seem
against more than half dropping out. The
prize is the liberal one of £B5O, but,
unless there is special exemption, the
club may have to go even further than
that in the event of divisions.
* * * *
When Ajax goes to auction the prob-
abilities are that the principal bidders
for him will be those now sharing his
ownership. The proviso that he is not to
do any further racing after being sold
will naturally affect his price, and he is
consequently unlikely to approach the
sum asked when there were American
inquiries concerning him some time ago.
He has proved himself a great racehorse,
and he will not lack opportunity of
making a name at the stud. It is also
encouraging that Hall Mark, another of
Heroic’s sons, has made a fair beginning
in that respect.
* * * *
Recently I heard a bookmaker remark :
“Whenever I hear layers expressing
pleasure at the withdrawal of a favorite
from a race I wonder if they are really
better off in the long run. I do a big
ante-post business, and my experience is
that the scratching of fancied horses sours
many backers, and causes them to draw
in their horns. When they lose their
money without a run it temporarily puts
them off betting, and what you may
have gained through a scratched horse
you lose in the way of general business.
It may be different with other book-
makers, but that is how I have found
it.”
* * * *
The Aga Khan will not race as many
horses as usual in England this season,
but, between them, he and Prince Aly
Khan will have ten three-year-olds.
Seven are owned by the Aga Khan, and
he will race the other three in partner-
ship with his son.
* * * *
It was not until 1828 that a yearling
realised as much as lOOOgns. at auction
in England. By Emilius from Cressida,
this youngster was later known as Priam,
and was bought by the brothers William
and Sam Chifney. Priam won the Derby,
two Goodwood Cups, a King’s Plate,
and various other races. As a four-
year-old he was sold by the Chifneys
to Lord Chesterfield for 3000gns.
* * * *
It is said there are still some allegedly
shrewd businessmen who pay fairly sub-
stantial weekly salaries to touts for in-
formation. If they were not regular race-
goers this would in some measure be
excusable. But they are to be seen at
nearly every meeting, and, guided by
the betting market, plus knowledge of
form, they should be able to rely on
their own opinions. Any man of average
judgment is likely to fare better if he
travels “on his own,” and avoids the
advice of trainers, jockeys, pressmen,
touts or urgers.
* * * *
Poethlyn, winner of the Grand
National Steeplechase for Mrs. Hugh
Peel at Aintree in 1919, died in England
in January. Poethlyn’s early days make
interesting reading. Bred by Major
Peel, he was sold privately as a foal to
a farmer for £7. “Audax” (“Horse and
Hound”) says that a couple of years
later G. Goswell, who trained for Peel,
heard that a man in Shrewsbury had a
useful sort of two-year-old which he
had made some attempt to train, but
he was far too overgrown to be got fit
early. Peel, without knowing it was
one of his own breeding until he was
told about its pedigree, then bought
Poethlyn for £5O, with a contingency that
the vendor received the first salmon the
Major landed on his fishing ground on
the Cheshire Dee. The vendor received
his salmon and Poethlyn was a good
winner for Mrs. Peel.
* * * *
During the last four months many pur-
chases have been made for India in
England and France, and Australia and
Maoriland have not been overlooked. As
a rule Indian buyers naturally look for
older horses, but a couple of well-bred
Maoriland yearling colts were included
in their recent purchases. One was by
Phaleron Bay from La Souvenir, by
Lackham from Peut-etre ; and the other
by Bambury from Marchette, by Limond
from March. Marchette is a half-sister
to Te Kara, an Auckland Cup winner,
and to Queen March, dam of Limarch.
Three-year-old Fils de Vaals (Vaals-
Nassau Lady), who has shown staying
form in Maoriland this season, is also
reported to have been bought for India.
* * * *
The stallion Achtoi, who represented
Australian blood on the maternal side
and was a stud success, died recently in
Ireland. He was by Santoi from Achray,
by Martini-Henry from Acme, by Chester,
As a yearling he was sold for 1300gns.,
and was a good racehorse. Commencing
at the stud at a fee of nine guineas, he


We do not exhibit at the Show, so he
sure you visit us at 395 George Street.
II
a
TTfIIWUL
* v T-H€ P£-Rf€CT
STOCK W-HI-P-
-mmmm
rrm
KINGFISHER
STATION
STOCK Wttl-PSJ
ivii mTwvivMMtw.-jma/i/M'
cn
IK=I!
WALTHER * STEVEMSOM
39S CEORCE ST. SYPHEY
worked up to £149. He sired two win-
ners of the Cesarewitch, Arctic Star and
Nitsichin, and another of his good repre-
sentatives was Baytown, winner of the
Irish Two Thousand and Derby. Up to
the end of last season his progeny had
won over £lOB,OOO on the flat, and he
also had many jumping winners.
* * * *
Seekers after free tickets to race meet-
ings are often amusing, if nothing else,
but the following story told by the secre-
tary of a prominent Sydney club takes
beating:
A gentleman ’phoned the secretary stat-
ing that his wife held two ladies’ compli-
mentary tickets for the club’s next meet-
ing. The wife’s sister had taken ill, was
in hospital and unable to use the second
ticket. He asked if he could obtain admis-
sion for himself by presenting the ladies’
complimentary and paying the difference
between the admission charges for ladies
and gents.
Quite surprised, the. secretary asked if
the inquirer was serious, and, being assured
that he was, replied courteously that the
complimentary was of no value unless pre-
sented at the turnstile by a lady, when it
would admit her only.
The would-be racegoer commenced to
tell the secretary how unfair he was, and
to point out the loss of revenue to the
club by such a harsh ruling, whereupon
the secretary informed him that, if he de-
sired the greatest benefit from the compli-
mentary which had come into his hands,
he should allow one of the children to
use it and claim from the club a refund
of the difference between the admission
charges for children and ladies.
No application was received.
* * * *
Westralian bookmakers are playing
with fire in taking a stand against the
edict of the W.A.T.C. that they are to
use betting boards. It might end in all
recognised betting being confined to the
tote. In pre-tote days we had some book-
makers’ strikes in Sydney, but the mem-
bers of the ring would now do a lot of
hard thinking before they went in for
anything of the kind. In Melbourne the
machine is making such headway in
public favor that the books over there
are not‘now anxious to fight it in any
way. In America, where large stakes are
common, the tote has been the sole
medium of racecourse betting for many
years, except in the State of New York,
and it will be installed there this year.
While racing men in any Australian
State would be sorry to see the book-
makers put out of business, they should
not run away with any idea that they are
indispensable. France, as well as
America, has proved that idea erroneous.
* * * *
An odds-on chance in Waireka won the
Easter Plate at Randwick last year,
second place going to Anne, who, on
form, looked her most dangerous oppo-
nent. This year betting on the race is
again likely to be confined to two —
Trueness and Dark Elegance, who were
respectively first and second in the Gim-
crack Stakes. Both are similarly
penalised, each carrying 101 b. extra, but,
though at present Trueness appears likely
to be favorite on the score that she is
likely to be better suited than Dark
Elegance by seven furlongs, Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes running will decide that
point. Apart from Happy Bay and Lady
Neith it is difficult to give anything a
chance against these two.
* 5S= * *
Occasionally the treble tote returns
some great dividends at Calcutta. At a
meeting held there on February 3 there
was a dividend of £2098 for 7s. 6d. The
remarkable part of it was that the three
winners did not start at exceptionally
long prices. The first leg, Lahore, was
at 5 to 1 ; second leg, Filter, at 12 to 1 ;
and third leg, Morning Rose, at 2 to 1.
Moorsotis, who was sold before leav-
ing Maoriland, was purchased on behalf
of A. Higgins, the owner of Merry Smile.
The latter’s lease to T. Haylen expires
shortly, but a renewal is improbable,
as Higgins contemplates having her mated
with something in Maoriland during the
coming season.
* * * *
In England jumping meetings are
largely patronised by “battling” owners
—as we term them in Australia —and
during December and January they had
a very bad time. From Dec. 16 to Jan.
19 no fewer than 19 days’ racing had
to be abandoned owing to unfavorable
weather. As prizes are generally on
the lean side owners have to depend
greatly on the betting market for profit
on a win. Trainers were having a bad
time, the price of oats having doubled
since September, and were difficult to
obtain. As there was no racing taking
place trainers did not care to ask their
patrons to pay increased fees.
* * * *
F. T. Cush is still hopeful that Dark
Elegance will make a big bid for the
A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes. He
evidently expects the lower weight com-
pared with what she carried in Satur-
day’s handicap to do a lot for her. She
drops 111 b., but as she stopped long
before reaching the end of six furlongs
it may trouble her to run seven. Flying
Knight will have 91b. less than in his
division of the Fairfield Handicap, in
which he had a finishing effort after
making all the running. On that form
he reads better over a distance than Dark
Elegance. Trueness, too, will be suited
by the Sires’ Produce Stakes journey,
and, as improvement by Broadcaster is
also possible, a win by Dark Elegance
on Saturday will be more palatable for
bookmakers than punters. Last year the
Sires’ Produce Stakes was a good race
for the former, Reading, at 14 to 1,
beating High Caste at 6 to 4 on.
* * * *
Last autumn backers were well on the
mark in weight-for-age races at the
A.J.C. meeting. Defaulter won the
Autumn Plate at 3 to 1 on ; Ajax the All-
Aged Plate at 6 to 4 on ; Spear Chief
the Cumberland Plate at 5 to 4 on ; and
Defaulter and Mosaic shared favoritism
for the A.J.C. Plate at 5 to 2, the former
winning.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Newcastle v. All-comers
The strike that set in on Monday
mightn’t have had anything to do with
it, but, whatever the reason, a team from
Coaltown of all weights, shapes and
sizes turned up at Leichhardt Stadium
on Thursday night looking for fight. A
useful team of local lads being soon
enlisted, a good time was had by some.
Harold Little (Newcastle, 9.0) v. Peter
Murray (9.0) opened hostilities. Harold’s
performance suggested that the local crew
had been over the coal district dropping
Liddell Hart leaflets arguing the merits
of defensive tactics in modern warfare.
Harold stayed so closely smothered that
he must have nearly asphyxiated him-
self. In the first round he came out
of his dugout occasionally and recon-
noitred the enemy, who promptly dropped
a barrage on him. Thereafter Harold
folded himself up in his arms, and what
with lack of oxygen and clouts on the
side of the head he was just about out
to it when, in the third round, some-
thing reminded his team-mates of the
towel they’d brought with ’em.
Coal town’s next shock-troop, Tommy
Chapman (8.12), was so short in the
reach that it would be a severe strain
on him to play a trombone. However,
though his opponent, Ron Warner
was extra-well endowed in the
same department, what Tommy lacked in
range he made up for in vigor. Even so,
Ron, taking the six rounds all through,
appeared to have slightly the better of
it. Mr. Pearson’s verdict in favor of the
visitor had the virtue, at least, of hos-
pitality.
There may have been a trifle more
of wishful thinking than prophetic in-
spiration at the christening of Newcastle’s
next representative, Darcy Smith (10.7),
but he did not disgrace the honored
handle. The hue of his pelt a pleasing
advertisement for the local product, he
had a good sort of dial, but a bit too
much cargo in the middle hold. This
told on him in the last of the four
rounds, but up to then he put up quite
a good performance in the southpaw line.
He was assisted by the fact that Fred
Manuel (10.4) was also hampered by a
middle that looked like a spare tyre.
Darcy seemed to win fairly well, but the
ref. called it a draw, which evened things
up nicely.
At this stage the northern troops went
out of the line for a rest, what time
Tommy Sullivan (8.3|) beat Billy Brogan
(8.5) on a technical k.o. in the third of
a scheduled 10-rounder. Tommy won
with nice right-hand punches to the jaw,
Billy obstinately keeping his left glove
down near his knee, as if he thought
Tommy’s plan was to win by a short
punt. One day a mentor will come
along good enough to make classy boxers
out of such lads as these two.
Newcastle’s Charlie Lucas (10.0) hay-
ing disposed of Young Spargo (9.13) in
what may have been intended as a comic
interlude, the pride of the visitors, Joe
Delaney (11.0), launched a slather-and-
whack onslaught on Ern Clingan
(10.12). Ern employs the upright stance
and has style; Joe crouches and em-
ploys the wallop. Style deserves en-
couragement at all times; nevertheless
Joe looked to win easily. Despite that,
some of the things that were said about
Mr. Lacey, who called it a draw, must
have been pure exaggerations.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
Owing to American influence, leading
golfers the world over practise regularly.
In the old days of slapdash methods it
was indeed a strange sight to see any-
one hitting a few balls before com-
mencing a round; but nowadays at
almost any club both long- and short-
markers open their shoulders before hit-
ting off. Even the lazy ones admit that
it takes them a couple of holes before
they “feel” the ball, but a few shots
before the game would have put them
on their toes.
I am a firm believer in practice, but
there are two kinds of practice. It is
wrong to stand up on a tee driving ball
after ball without trying to concentrate
upon any particular fault. That is just
wasting both time and energy. Anyone
can take a dozen balls and hit them
for an hour every day and still not break
his 100. Merely swinging at the ball
without a set thought in mind does more
harm than good, for it allows further
errors to creep in rather than helping
to eradicate the old ones. But a golfer
who has an idea of his faults tries to
remedy them in his practice. Never try
to concentrate on more than one point
at a time. If too much is attempted,
confusing the mind, nothing can be
achieved.
The average golfer knows the rudi-
ments of hitting a ball, but very few
have any knowledge of the short game.
To my mind not enough time is spent
on the short game. One rarely sees
even the leading players pitching balls
on the green and putting them out. It
is this all-important part of the game
that calls for study and constant play
for anything like a reasonable standard
to be attained. Touch must be main-
tained and improved, and there is only
one way to do this —practise regularly.
During last season the. chief excuse
among prominent players for failure
was “my putting let me down” or “my
short game was off.” Coming from pro-
fessionals as wiell as amateurs, these
statements reveal a lack of practice. For
my part, I find practice a necessity in
keeping up to form.
Concentration upon the shorter irons
and putting will make up for many
mistakes with the longer clubs. Every
golfer should make up his mind to spend
a half-hour with a bag of balls pitching
on to a green, endeavoring to get as many
“twos” as possible. Practice after all
only means that the player is trying
to simplify his game as much as pos-
sible, making a natural and easy swing
for all shots. By attempting to intro-
duce complete relaxation into one’s prac-
tice and to play each shot with a mini-
mum of effort the player will bring into
his regular game a feeling of confidence
when faced with a similar stroke.
During my practice on those difficult
little pitch-shots over a bunker I have
found it helped tremendously to con-
centrate upon elimination of any tension
during the stroke; it has made them
much easier to play. Hagen once said,
“Practising to simplify a stroke is the
secret of success.” If a shot, by constant
play, becomes natural, the player has
made a valuable step forward and one
that will be of lasting value.
But it is of little use practising with-
out any idea of what is wrong with
one’s style. A visit to a professional will
soon tell you what is worth concen-
trating upon. Make a note of what he
says is wrong with your swing as well
as his suggested remedy; then get the
practice balls and go to work. Unfor-
tunately we cannot watch ourselves
swing ; thus we have to rely upon the
onlooker for advice. Frequently I have
had players give me hints as to things
I have done wrong, and this has helped
to put me back on the straight-and-
narrow again. Remember when practising
next to try to relax and hit the ball
naturally without tension, at the same
time concentrating on the stroke suffi-
ciently to benefit from its repetition.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT.”
(Formerly of the “Referee.”')
The Sydney grade premiership is sus-
pended over Easter at an interesting
stage. Showers on Saturday morning
affected wickets slightly, and O’Reilly’s
team, St. George (leading in the competi-
tion), is in danger of defeat. Waverley
hit up 244, the highest total against
Saints this season. St. George has lost
5 for 107. But even if the Dragon
Killers are beaten, and if Petersham
downs Paddington (which seems un-
likely), St. George will still lead by 86
points to 81 with one round left.
Solomon attacked grandly to put to-
gether 146 of Waverley’s 244 in 2 hrs.
Bmin., with 24 fours and two sixes. With
Guest he rattled up 50 in 14min. at one
stage. He emulated Hassett in hitting
O’Reilly into the outfield on the on-side.
Nevertheless, O’Reilly got five for 62 —
79 wickets for St. George to date.
Petersham found runmaking difficult.
Good length bowling with a splash of
off-theory and the wicket now and then
doing something unexpected saw them
out for 222. T. Moore’s medium-pace
good-length stuff netted four for 73 for
Paddington. Then the Paddos put on 56
without loss —slovenly fielding helping.
The left-hander Marks, after five had
fallen for 64, gave Randwick a great lift.
In a trifle over two hours he hit up 133
not out and helped ’Wick to 287. A
Gordon colt, Thame, playing his first
match, collected a hat-trick.
* * * *
Bowlers took all the honors in Brisbane
on Saturday: Dixon five for 19, Fisher
seven for 22, Wyeth four for 22, Mossop
five for 51, Hill five for 17, Hammond
six for 44 and Stafford four for 27.
* * * *
In routing Melbourne University for
67, St. Kilda’s left-hand bowler Zachariah
secured five for 25, a hat-trick among
them. In St. Kilda’s second innings
Oakley made a merry 121, Tamblyn 69.
Lisle Nagel, with six for 68, continued
his harvest of wickets for Melbourne
against Prahran (outed for 117). He
has taken 69 wickets so far.
Meikle bagged six for 22 for North
and led to Essendon’s collapse for 100.
In the second innings Essendon was
doing better at first, but again broke
down. North is in the semi-finals.
Hassett was batting well for South Mel-
bourne against Northcote when snapped
up on the fence for 39. South lost eight
for 304 to draw with Northcote (nine
for 335).
* * * *
Bill Ives’s team on its tour of
Northern N.S.W. and Queensland is
out to show bright cricket, in keeping
with earlier tours in which Victor
Trumper and Tom Foster fusilladed the
streets with sixes. Barnes smashed up
113 in an hour and a quarter at Tam-
worth, and V. Jackson 100 retired at
Glen Innes.
* * * *
L.b.w. decisions in favor of the bowler
in Shield matches this season were most
numerous in Melbourne —20 in three
matches. In Adelaide the number was
19, and in Sydney and Brisbane 12
each. The same ratio has been main-
tained over five years. In Melbourne,
in 15 matches, 80 batsmen have been out
l.b.w. (33 Victorians, 47 visitors); in
Adelaide 72 (S.A. 27, visitors 45); in
Sydney 60 (N.S.W. 31, visitors 29); and
Brisbane only 50 (Queenslanders 27,
visitors 23). The number of decisions
against visiting batsmen in Adelaide is
explainable to a large extent by the fact
that Grimmett’s wiliness is often directed
to trapping the new men with their legs
in front. Victorian batsmen, it seems,
are less prone to being l.b.w. than most
others because they don’t go for on-side
scoring. New South Welshmen are noted
for on-side scoring tendencies, with their
l.b.w. risks ; Barnes has been l.b.w. seven
times to S.A. bowlers.
* * * *
The report that the cremated ashes of
Bobby Selk, the old Westralian cricketer,
were sprinkled at the roots of a kurra-
jong-tree at Perth recalls his part in
W.A.’s defeat of a good Victorian side 30
years ago at Fremantle. Master of a nippy
break either way, Selk on his day was
very deadly. In this match he captured
8 for 28 and 5 for 49, and his side won
by 70 runs.


sggS
AT THE.
New Variety Revue, “LUCKY STARS,
featuring MARIE BURKE and
New Oversea Variety Acts.
“SPICE OF LIFE” Variety Revue,
by New Company Oversea Stars,
LEA SONIA, EDWIN STYLES,
FIVE CLEVERES, GEORGE WALLACE
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
Gilsullivan
Sure recipe for hara-kiri: Get
measured by a competent undertaker
and stand up in Sydney Royal spouting
disparagement of Gilsullivan operas.
“The Gondoliers” is the offering, so
a suitable invitation to assassins could
be to suggest that the first act of this
traditional opening gambit of Australian
Gilsullivan seasons is singularly thin. If
that brought only a score or two knives
and bullets from the assembled fanatics,
the aspirant might go on to question
whether these confections of catchy
ditties, effete romanticism and mock
heroics, decked out in hencoop dresses
and begartered tights, and the whole
garnished with tongue-twister rhyming
jingles, warrant -so many revivals or
can stand up to many more.
That should produce results. If it
didn’t, it would mean that Gilsullivan
was on the wane, and this nobody could
believe looking over and listening to the
first-night audience. They were a bit
torpid through that first act, but from the
moment newcomer John Fullard sang
“Take a Pair of Sparkling Eyes” it would
have been risky even to think irreve-
rently. Five, or it may have been more,
times they made the singer give the tra-
ditional Gilsullivan encore. When Ivan
Menzies rose to his best —which is to
the top peaks of Gilsullivan performance
—in the gavotte, the light of fanaticism
in the Onlookers’ eyes nearly set the
place on fire.
With the newcomers —including the
strong South Australian contingent,
Phyllis Curnow, Sara Gregory and
Richard Watson —and favorites like
Evelyn Gardiner and Gregory Stroud
acquitting themselves well, it’s a bright
and pleasing company all round, but
Mr. Menzies remains its brightest star —
of that there is no shadow of doubt,
no possible doubt whatever. If anything,
he has improved.
Of the cast new to present showman,
Richard Watson looks like an authentic
find. He has a splendid stage presence
for Grand Inquisitorial posts ; his bass-
baritone is exceptionally good, and his
particularly clear enunciation will de-
light Gilsullivan addicts.
* * * *
Schneevoigt Conducts
Georg Schneevoigt, the Finnish con-
ductor, revisiting Australia, opened his
Australian season at Sydney Town Hall
on Saturday night. The A.B.C. orchestra
mustered fewer players than usual. In all
the works presented Schneevoigt seemed
to be aiming more at bold sketches than
finished pictures probably the best
policy where rehearsal time is so limited.
Especially noticeable was this salient-
points policy in Brahms’s Third, which
opened suavely and closed in quiet
refulgence but had a large area of rocky
country in between.
The Second Symphony of Sibelius,
which opened the concert, has been in-
terpreted by imaginative persons as in-
cluding a paean of joy over the escape
of Finland from its oppressors. Schnee-
voigt evidently sees no such implication
ironic in present circumstances —and
the work was treated as pure music, miles
above the atmosphere of world politics.
Many of the most interesting points in
the scoring were cleverly made; the
themes were stated clearly and authori-
tatively, and that’s about as much as can
be said. “Finlandia,” which must be
getting very nearly familiar to the in-
strumentalists, went more surely.
In pleasant contrast to the cold north
wind that blows through Sibelius’s scores,
and the massive meditations of Brahms,
came the Cesar Franck “Symphonic
Variations.” Sydney pianist Beatrice
Taqge, her style considerably matured
during her sojourn abroad, was soloist.
She played clearly and confidently, with
a good round tone, and the orchestra
gave her a background that was at times
really beautiful. The “Variations” are
Franck on his melodic heights. There
are more new ideas in a page of them
than serve some other composers for a
whole sonata.
* * * *
Ballet in Melbourne
It was providential that programmes
were sold out when commentator arrived
at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, for the
opening of the ballet. He was prevented
from becoming acquainted with the
ballerinas per medium of their unpro-
nounceable names which tell you
nothing ; could concentrate on the move-
ments of some graceful little girl with-
out bothering as to whether she was a
celebrated star or a member of the
chorus ; and was debarred, through not
knowing the story, from destroying his
own pleasure by cataloguing the various
motives. You can easily see what a de-
structive force cataloguing can be by
observing the terror of balletomanes
when they can’t get a programme and
don’t know what they ought to think.
“Old Yellowbelly lost his missus last Week, so I put the hose in to keep
him company.”
From the front stalls the dancers
looked much more robust than they do
from the circle and what the ballet was
expressing, if it can express anything but
itself, was of no significance whatever.
What was of importance was the extra-
ordinary vitality and intensity of the per-
formers, their magnificent physique and
the ordered variety of their skilful move-
ments. What it was all about didn’t
matter. Probably it doesn’t mean any-
thing anyhow.
* * * *
Wirth’s Circus
The Greatest Show on Earth is back
in Sydney from its wanderings, with the
Big Top up at the back of Buckingham’s,
everybody in prime fettle, a number of
new acts, improvements in old acts, and
the elephants looking more like elephants
than ever.
Opening night was a free show for the
small boys of the neighborhood. A dis-
mounted postilion pulled aside a flap
opening out towards Surry Hills and said
“Right!” and in they charged by the
score, hurdling guy ropes, poles and the
canvas wall round the ring, and swarm-
ing up the tiered benches, kicking up
such a devil of a din that the lions
couldn’t hear themselves roaring. Good-
ness knows how many youngsters Wirth’s
have thus treated to a show on the house
in their half-century or so of knocking
about Australia. They are kindness itself
to small boys, scribes and other wild
animals.
Also, as the programme mentions, they
“employ hundreds of Australian men
and women, and pay nearly £70,000
annually in wages. A pretty good in-
dustry to support.”
The Francois clowns, the Leotards and
the Flying De Vards are still with the
show, any one of these turns a com-
pletely satisfying show in itself. The
Four Myrons, doing astonishing things
up ladders, are new. The elephant act
has been improved out of sight, the
horses behave more sensibly than most
things we back, and there’s an extra-good
dog act, together, of course, with all
the happily familiar support without
which a circus would be something else.
* * * *
Adelaide Repertory’s first offering (of
ten for the year) is “Dear Octopus,” the
story of a golden wedding week-end. It
has all Dodie Smith’s essentially human
qualities, the audience being dropped into
a welter of Family, the various middle-
aged and younger members of which
steadily sort themselves out and become
vivid characters. The play is a bit too
long, the reason doubtless being that the
old-lady part was written for Marie Tem-
pest, who had to be allowed to prattle
about many things—even including reli-
gion. Beryl Kook is fine in this part;
Arthur Fay and Florence Brown are the
other veterans. Among the rest it would
be unfair to choose, all being good,
down to three clever children. The show
filled the big Tivoli for four evenings,
the final one (on a night of almost record
heat) being the Rep.’s offering to the Red
Cross.
* * * *
Antonio Bertoldini dropped out of a
clear sky, so to speak, on to Melbourne
Assembly Hall platform to reveal a fine
tenor voice in the Italian style but
lacking in the Italian passion. He sang
the Im’proviso from “Andrea Chenier”
with meticulous attention to tone but
with none of the ardor of that celebrated
revolutionary. He was better with
Schubert.
AT' THE TALKIES.
“The Hunchback of Notre Dame”
Charles Laughton is nothing if not
thorough, and his object in this current
Sydney Regent offering seems to have
been to make the hunchback as hideous
and repulsive as make-up would allow.
That he succeeds was borne out by the
fact that, last Friday, women in the
audience wouldn’t look at his distorted
features. That he also makes a charac-
ter of the thing he portrays, and that
he eventually makes a sympathetic
character of it, is testimony of his ability
as an artist.
After Laughton’s acting, the best of
the film is its atmosphere and scenery.
Notre Dame lends itself well to ex-
ploring and selective photography, and
the Festival of Fools and the Court of
Miracles offer fine opportunities for the
kind of mob scenes in which Hollywood
specialises.
Victor Hugo’s narrative has been re-
duced to a typical Hollywood period
piece with strong emphasis on the horror
angle—no doubt trading on the success
of the earlier version in which Lon
Chaney featured. Thomas Mitchell
makes a colorful, blustering King of the
Beggars; Cedric Hardwicke a fierce
Chief Justice; and Maureen O’Hara an
attractive but empty Esmeralda.
* * * *
“Balalaika”
It’s a remarkably transformed “Bala-
laika” that’s now being screened at Syd-
ney St. James.
The stage version was extra-bright
musicomedy froth —a pleasant evening’s
entertainment, with stage Cossacks plus
girl friends, a good tune or two and a
conventional musicomedy plot.
The filmsmiths almost succeed in
making it a tragic opera of the Bolshevik
revolution. The plot, handled seriously,
with its assassinations and all its impli-
cations of underground plotting fully
exploited, bulks out to quite a substan-
tial affair, decorated with free borrowings
from “Carmen,” etc. Altogether, it makes
a good film, with Nelson Eddy singing
splendidly, and the new lass, Ilona Mas-
sey, working up from a lamentable begin-
ning to just about steal the show.
Artbursts.
A fine show of photographs of the
seventeenth-century masters hung at
Burlington House, London, in 1938 cele-
brates Daryl Lindsay’s accession to office
as keeper of the prints at Melbourne
National Gallery. Rembrandt, Claude,
Rubens, Franz Hals, Hobbema and a
host of others are represented.
One interesting fact sticks out from
the exhibition. If Claude, for instance,
were known only for his own works that
he himself most admired—his huge, stuffy
gallery pictures full of convention and
classic architecture —he would be little
more distinguished than most of his con-
temporaries. But his casual drawings,
mainly in wash, of trees and landscape
are so fresh that they might have been
painted by a nineteenth-century impres-
sionist. He didn’t think much of them.
There are several examples of his draw-
ings in this show, as also some lovely
sketches by Rembrandt, which can’t be
found in art books.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) wih
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
J.C.: This is no place for baby and his
chubby cheeks... .G.M.B.: “In their simplicity
and humor I feel sure you will see some small
merit.” Yes C.L.McK.: Not many “visions
of Wagner” in that little song M.E.B.: Just
a jingle... .U. A.: No dead dawgs, please....
N.K.: The cat’s half-starved... .G.G.M.:
“Scuttling cad” is unintentionally comic....
E.C.: Ole Billyum is a pain in the neck
M.C.: You can’t make nursery rhymes any-
thing but childish... .G.G.: Keep at it....
D.M.: After all that serious stuff, the comic
ending’s out of place... .J.H.: It takes a long
time to get to a very familiar port... .E.C.:
“Dad’s Visit to Gloucester Fair, 1884” is some-
what remote... .W.B.C.: Too many tags....
D. : The “drones” surely buzzed in only for
the sake of rhyme... .J.H.B.: “Home, Sweet
Home” is going there... .E.S.O’D.: Full of
meaningless abstractions... .M.L.B.: Not far
off F.R.McQ.: “Far-flung marge inviolate”
is a monstrous phrase, and it doesn’t rhyme
with “inarticulate”... .F.W.: Not a bone or a
bean for “My Little Dog Called Nip”... .N.C.:
“Mr. Snigg Is Dead” is dead... .K.M.K. and
M.W.: Try a women’s paper.. . .A.L.H.: We
don’t reprint... .J.G.M.: Something like it....
E. : No; but at least you made it clear
that you don’t like grasshoppers... .R.N.:
Worth saying in prose... .E.B.: Not quite....
H.C.C.: Thin G.H.: Try taking two days
over them instead of two hours... .W.C.V.:
The egg is old and dull.... A.E.W.: Better
stick to the short ones... .G.B.N.: As a
“tragedy” it’s funny... .C.B.C.: If you can
think of a solution to it you should have a
best-selling puzzle... .F.R.P.: “The Excuse”
was a lame one... .G.M.P.: Just another
drought-stricken farmer... .B.R.L.: Try the
literary page of a daily... .S.T.B.: You should
place both of them elsewhere; and come here
again... .C.S.C.: “Dinner for Two” just hash
without meat... .K.B.: “The Body in the
Bag” in the w.p.b D.R.L.: No record
J.D.T.: “In Old Vancouver” might go there.
F.T.F.: A flapper mag. should lap it up.
. ...R.B.W.: Give “A Chinaman’s Romance”
to the nearest market-gardener... .S.D.R.:
There’s an idea there, but the finish spoils it.
G.T.B.: “Growing Pains” painful
F. : A sound example of how a yarn
should not be written... .T.L.: “Good-bye”
good-bye R.B.W.: There’s nothing to it
B.L.M.: It’s a sorry “Spectacle”... .G.S.G.:
Amateurish, but keep trying F.R.P.: It
doesn’t make a yarn... .L.R.B.: Come and
take “The Cattle” home... .C.F.T.: If it’s
supposed to be prose, it’s dreadful; if it’s
verse, it’s worse... .M.G.T.: Missed....
E. : Try “Hitler’s Dream” on the Depart-
ment of Information.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.G.: One-legged gent, now making the
long journey home... .J.C.H.: Dull and
wretchedly drawn E.P.: Splintery linework,
and a gag that has done long service....
F. : Burn the midnight oil for a few more
years, but burn the drawings you sent first
R.C.D.: Full-page sketch of a swarm of grass-
hoppers and abo. with his head buried in the
ground fed to our tame goat H.J.: You
display remarkable perseverance but precious
little talent A.M.C.: A good idea poorly
illustrated E.J.D.: Why is the P.M. pic-
tured as a tubby little fellow with bow legs?
E.N.: It wouldn’t be Show time if that
old friend didn’t put in an appearance M.S.:
120 square inches of meaningless scratches
H.E.C.: A barmaid with a face and figure
like that would empty any bar....R.M.: Old-
fashioned four-decker question-and-answer gag.
N.W.: Pupil’s reply to elderly school-
marm has been going the rounds for years.
C.R.: Not so bad from the eyebrows up-
wards G.H.J.: You’d make a first-class de-
signer of gasometers... .A.L.J.: Each one has
some merit, but also several weaknesses. Try
again Y.B.: The long shot that didn’t
come off.


CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all vou need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.,
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receivin
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Males, also ■ l ' ep X e ®„ S
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, ims
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
". *feam ADVERTISING
- A CAREER FOR AMBITIOUS MEN AND WOMEN
ZrJJs 3P7 Over £20.000,000 spent yearly on advertising in Aus-
Iffl tralia. Opportunities for interesting work in many'
wXj branches for trained men and women. A big help
n . w| any business career. (You need not be able to'
v draw)* Successful students from l& to over 50 years!
' include many leading advertising executives. Out-i
t standing success in public examinations. Complete,!
oos interesting, practical training. (Evening classes ot,
| individual postal tuition). Classes start Feb..
—mimtmmnmM Oct. Students join any time.
this advertisement for big S&-page book, free to these-i
‘ iely interested *in advertising training.
. THE SCHOOL OP APPLIED ADVERTISIHCt
36 Grosvenor St., Sydney Established 193%
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
Tire service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Chemist, Sydney, exp. druggists’ sundries,
over military age, 14 years last position, wants
employment. Refs. —6569.
To buy books of essays by H. E. Boote,
Furnley Maurice, Archibald Strong and A. G.
Stephens. —6518
To buy Bibby’s Annual for years prior to
1914; also Towards a Science of Wellbeing,
by Bibby.—6sßo.
To buy Bracken, by Bernard Cronin. 6557.
To buy Green-grey Homestead, by “Steele
Rudd.”—6sso.
To buy holey dollar and dump. —6524.
To sell set of Bulletins. Januarv 6. 1927. to
February 15, 1939, one (Feb. 25, 1931) missing;
freight extra. —6562.
Words of “A Bushman’s Farewell to
Queensland.” —6578.
To buy books on horse-breaking by Aus-
tralian experts. —6493.
To buy, new or second-hand, Arabic dic-
tionary and grammar. Urgent.—6s7o.
Information Sought.
Antecedents of Admiral Lord Fisher ? I
have heard it stated that he rose from the
ranks. —6272.
Fisher was a son of Capt. John Fisher, of
the 78th Highlanders, a regiment associated
with India since the days of Tippoo’s wars.
His mother was Sophia Lambe. He was born
in Ceylon, entered the navy in 1854 as
a midshipman cadet and became a lieutenant
in 1860.
* * * *
Duties, etc., of a peace officer according to
the Peace Officers Act 1925 ? —6470.
The Commonwealth Peace Officers Act 1925
provides for the appointment by the Attorney-
General of so many peace officers as may be
deemed necessary for the preservation of the
peace throughout the Commonwealth. These
officers are liable to all of such duties and
responsibilities as are conferred or imposed
by the Common Law or by virtue of any law
in force in that part of the Commonwealth
in which they exercise their power.
* * * *
(1) What is the annual loss to Australian
graziers owing to blowflies and grasshoppers?
(2) Losses to gardeners, orchardists, etc. ? (3)
Costs of fighting these pests? —64so.
Blowflies have been estimated to cost the
graziers of Australia £4,000,000 annually.
Grasshopper damage has not been computed.
(2) No survey of costs due to pests in gardens
or orchards has been attempted, but in the re-
port of the Fruit Commission it is stated that,
in Tasmanian apple orchards worth £75 per
acre, on an annual production cost of just under
£2O pest control is estimated to cost £8 10s.
In three apple districts of N.S.W. in 20-acre
orchards worth about £2OOO, pest control is
estimated to cost £IOO p.a. In vegetable-
growing in N.S.W., pest control costs are un-
doubtedly heavy. To compute the damage in
cash value is almost impossible because of the
effect of that damage almost from day to
day on market prices.
* * * *
Is there any truth in the theory that rubber
soles or heels on shoes affect the eyes?—
6405.
No truth whatever. This popular miscon-
ception arose out of the fact that goloshes,
sandshoes and rubber boots, worn for any
length of time, cause the feet to become uncom-
fortably moist. This sweating effect was
thought to “draw strength” from all parts of
the body, including the eyes. But there is no
foundation for the belief.
* * * *
(1) The origin of the name Lady Robinson’s
Beach at Botany Bay (N.S.W.) ? (2) Is it the
present official name for this beach? (3) What
council or councils are entrusted with its
control? (4) Has the beach an aboriginal
name? —6447. „ , A
(1) The name was conferred some 50 or 60
years ago after the wife of. the then State
Governor, Sir Hercules Robinson. (2) The
name applies to the whole of the seven miles
of beach along the foreshores from Cook’s
River to George’s River. (3) The Rockdale
Municipal Council is trustee of the whole of
that section of the beach. (4) No record of
any.
* * * *
What exact amounts are meant by the fol-
lowing in directions for mixing cocktails: (1)
Dash, (2) jigger, (3) bar glass, (4) pony, (5) a
“drink" ? —6397.
(1) The addition of a few drops of a par-
ticular ingredient. Bottles containing bitters,
which are often added, have a regulating
dripper, so a few shakes, of the would
give you the equivalent of a “dash.” (2)
According to American standards, a jigger is
equivalent to Hoz. This term is not often
met with in Australia. (3) Is of a size in
which such liquors as whisky, old-fashioned
style, and other spirits are served. In Aus-
tralia the capacity of a bar glass ranges from
5 fl. oz. to 12 fl. oz., according to the drink
served (4) This is the term given to a small
drink, roughly 5 fl. oz. (5) Represents the
amount of liquor one would serve to an indi-
vidual person in one drink, the equivalent to a
nobbier. Measures as used in the United States
may not coincide with those used by licensed
houses in Australia. For instance, a U.S.A.
gallon is four-fifths of an imperial gallon.
* * * *
(1) Is there any case of a President of the
United States of America having stood for a
third term of office? (2) What candidates for
the Presidency have conducted three or more
campaigns, and how have they fared? —6432.
(1) U. S. Grant, elected President in 1868
and again in 1872, ran for a third term in
office in 1880 and was defeated. Theodore
Roosevelt succeeded to the Presidency in 1901
at the death of President McKinley, and was
elected President in his own right in 1904. In
1912, after having retired for four years from
active politics, Theodore Roosevelt ran for
the Presidency on the so-called Bull Moose
ticket and split the vote of the Republican party,
which had renominated President Taft. Roose-
velt was defeated. It may be noted that he
was only twice a candidate for the Presidency.
(2) Grover Cleveland was elected in 1884, de-
feated in 1888 and elected in 1892. William
Jennings Bryan was nominated by the Demo-
cratic party in 1896, 1900 and 1908, but was
defeated in all three elections. There have
also been a number of candidates of minor
parties of little importance who have conducted
three or more campaigns. They have never
met with any success. Norman Thomas has
been the candidate of the Socialist party a
number of times in recent years.
He * * *
(1) What is nylon, and what are its uses? (2)
Who has produced it? (3) Is nylon patented
throughout the world, and are companies in
various nations producing it ? (4) What are the
duties on nylon products imported to Australia?
—6354.
(1) Nylon is a synthetic thermoplastic resin
of extremely complex chemical structure. Its
actual ingredients are adipic acid, made from
coal tar benzole, and amides, made from coal
hydrocarbons and ammonia, the latter synthe-
sised from the nitrogen of the air. The
material may be formed into fibres, and into
various shapes such as bristles and sheets. Of
particular promise amongst uses of nylon is high
twist yarn for hosiery, while other potential uses
include brush bristles, racquet strings, fishing
lines and leaders, narrow fabrics, woven dress-
goods, velvets, knitted and woven underwear,
transparent wrapping film, plastic compositions,
textile finishing agents and coated fabrics. (2)
The technical staff of E. 1. du Pont de Nemours
and Cos. Inc. was responsible for the synthesis
of nylon. The manufacture of nylon yarn
commenced in the first unit of the new plant
established by this company at Seaford, Dela-
ware, U.S.A., during December, 1939. (3)
The Du Pont Cos. has taken out a number
of patents for the manufacture of nylon pro-
ducts. Courtaulds, Ltd., has obtained the
British rights, and it is understood that Imperial
Chemical Industries is also interested. (4)
Consult Customs Dept., Sydney, which will in-
dicate special war-time arrangements.
* * * *
(.1) Difference between metallurgy and metal-
lurgical engineering as professions? (2) Would
a person qualified in one be able to perform
the other? (3) Which firms or trades would
employ metallurgists and which metallurgical
engineers? (4) Which offers the better oppor-
tunities of employment ? (5) Is there scope for
such employment in Australia sufficient to
justify becoming qualified in either branch
of metallurgy ? —6467.
(1) None. (2) Yes. (3) Steel foundries and
firms manufacturing non-ferrous metals and
alloys require metallurgists. Mining companies
such as Broken Hill, Mt. Morgan and Wiluna
require metallurgical engineers. (4) Impossible
to answer as world conditions are changing
rapidly, and much depends upon the individual
himself. (5) Yes.
* * * *
(1) Is gum arabic produced in Australia in
any quantity ? (2) If so, yearly production and
names of firms manufacturing it? (3) If not
produced here, the amount imported annually
and the countries of origin ? (4) Market price
in Australia at present? (5) Any books on
the subject? —6342.
(1) and (2) No appreciable quantity of gum
arabic is at present being produced in Aus-
tralia. The gum can, however, be obtained
from Acacia decumins, a tree indigenous to
this country. (3) No figures are available giving
the annual importation of gum arabic into Aus-
tralia. It is imported chiefly from the Sudan
and the Near East. (4) Price fluctuates con-
siderably, and has risen since the outbreak of
war to between Is. and Is. 3d. per pound.
(5) Gum Arabic, by H. S. Blunt, Oxford
University Press, London, 1926; Gums and
Resins, by E. J. Parry, Pitman and Son, Lon-
don, 1920. An article entitled “Gum Arabic;
Its Origin, Gathering and Marketing” appeared
in “American Dyestuff Reporter,” “Chenfical
Industries,” “Textile Colorist,” “Rayon and
Melliand” and “Dyer” for October, 1935.
* * * *
(1) Is color-blindness hereditary? (2) Are
only two colors concerned, green and red? —
6408.
(1) It may be either acquired or congenital,
but in the latter case is much more common
in the male than in the female sex. Curiously,
it appears in families in which the taint of
hemophilia (“the bleeder’s disease”) has been
handed down. (2) More than two colors may
be concerned. In one form of the complaint
there is no differentiation of colors whatever;
in another, the spectrum is cut short at the
red end, so that from any distance red is not
to be distinguished, and red, orange, yellow
and green appear to be green. In green blind-
ness, the red, orange, yellow and green appear
as green or red. There are many theories as
to the cause, ranging from certain deficiencies
in the appropriate part of the grey matter in
the brain, in the fibres connecting these cells
to the eye, or in the structures known as the
rods and cones in the retina. Up to date no
remedy has been discovered.
* * * *
For what ailments is brewers’ yeast considered
to be curative? —6288.
Yeast is a natural source of the vitamin B 1
(the so-called anti-neuritic vitamin), and, as
such, is believed to promote the normal action
of the nervous and digestive systems, the
general growth and development of the body,
and the production of milk by nursing mothers.
Consequently, yeast is held to be of use in
the treatment of pellagra, neuritis in some of
its forms, arthritis, beri-beri, some digestive
upsets and disorders of lactation.
* * * *
How many varieties of malaria are known,
what variety is prevalent in New Guinea, and
which sort is considered to be the worst? —6259.
There are three main varieties. In the tertian
form, the attacks last a few hours and recur
every other day; in quartan fever, the attack
occurs on every third day. The fall of tem-
perature to normal after each attack constitutes
the intermission from which these names are
taken. In the hotter parts of the temperate
zone and in some tropical countries, the attacks
are more irregular in occurrence and of longer
duration, with shorter intervals between them;
or the temperature fails to reach the normal
between attacks, so that the fever is only re-
mittent or almost continuous. This type forms
the third group, variously called the subtertian,
remittent, continuous and malignant fevers,
which are the severest forms of the disease.
The School of Tropical Medicine, Sydney Uni.,
has records which seem to show that the sub-
tertian form is commonest in New Guinea (i.e.
the Mandated Territory).
* * * *
A galah, apparently about six months old,
was sent to us about three months ago. It
came in a small box after a railway journey of
about 20 hours, and its wings were drooping.
The bird is free all day, being locked up at
night for its own protection. Food consists
of seed labelled “for galahs,” and anything else
it may pick up. The wings are still drooping
so that they drag on the ground and lie between
the legs, otherwise the bird appears quite
healthy. Cause and cure ? —6347.
It would appear that the bird is suffering
from a disease due to nutritional deficiency.
The muscles connected with the wings have
also lost tone and are unable to perform their
natural function. Rachitis often appears in
young growing birds when there is a disturbance
of the calcium metabolism. Owing to the
case being of long standing, response to treat-
ment may be slow, and considerable time
should be allowed before a definite improve-
ment can be expected. Give the galah a varied
diet consisting of whole maize boiled in water
for 15 minutes and when cool add a mixture of
wheat, millet and canary seed sufficient for a
day’s ration. To this seed add half a tea-
spoonful of Irradol A (procurable from any
chemist); this latter can be diluted with suffi-
cient warm water to make it more fluid so it
will mix more freely with the seed. A little
fruit, such as apple or pear, and green food —
chopped-up lettuce, lucerne, etc. —should also
be offered regularly to the bird. To the drink-
ing water add occasionally 20 drops of Par-
rish’s Syrup, as this helps to tone up the system
as well. Grit and powdered wood charcoal
should always be available so that the bird can
partake of it should it so desire. Exercise is
essential.
* * * *
When using a wind-operated dynamo to keep
a wireless battery (six volt ) charged, can the
dynamo be left connected to the battery while
the wireless' is in action without fear of destroy-
ing the valves? I have in mind the construc-
tion of a wind-driven dynamo from a discarded
car generator. Do you consider the scheme a
practical one? —6473.
The receiver may be used from the accumu-
lator whilst the dynamo is charging, as the
accumulator will be floating. Because of the
retention of the charge by the accumulator,
excess voltage from the dynamo should not
be passed on to the receiver, although it is
wise, if the accumulator is fully charged, to put
the windcharger out of action until needed.
An important point is that the dynamo must
not be left connected across the accumulator
when there is no wind, otherwise the accumu-
lator will discharge through the windings of
the dynamo and tend to run it as a motor.
There must be provision for a cut-out, as in a
motor-car electrical installation. The idea of
using an old (but good) car generator for the
purpose is quite practicable. There have been
many descriptions of such home-made chargers
in overseas technical publications, notably
American.
* * * *
(1) 1 wish to construct a wind-driven home-
lighting plant, using a six-eight-volt car
generator giving 15 amps, at 1700 r.p.m. What
diameter, width and number of blades would
be required on the propeller? (2) Ratio of
drive from propeller to armature shaft? —6487.
(1) Two blades, balanced, diameter 6ft.,
width 4in. Provision for pre-adjustment of
pitch would be an advantage. (2) One pro-
peller shaft revolution to two of generator.
* * * *
I have a pair of French prism binoculars,
magnification 8 X. Field is fair. Can magnifi-
cation be increased without much structural
alteration or use of new prisms? If so, where
can new lenses be had, and at what price ?
6411.
By fitting longer focal length object glasses
the magnification can be increased. This ne-
cessitates longer tubes to accommodate the in-
crease in focal length. Price. for an average
quality pair of object glasses is approximately
£3. Alternatively the focal length of your
present lenses can be increased but definition
somewhat reduced by adding a pair of negative
glasses to them. The cost of these per pair,
unmounted, is 7s. 6d. This arrangement also
requires longer tubes.
Does Anybody ICnow?
sc'-pt'otVie** 9—-—6014.
Derivation of the surname ironic
Brief Answers.
E.G.: Write to the Assistant Pay f^ aS ££
General, Whitehall, S.W.l, London, ana i
nish him with all the particulars in
session. Copy of the will, if made in S* >
could be obtained from the General on
Office, Somerset House, London, W. • >
payment of fees determined by lengtn - • • • • •'
Write H. A. Evans and Son, 358 Collms-street
Melbourne... .N.H.C.: An aboriginal worn
for a dry well is “Baggarran.” An emp y
would be much the same thing. A dry
hole is represented by the world wmya.
record of words for good water, but * ° »>
water there are “Gatog,” “Kullig, y »
“Gapoi,” “Nijong,” “Waawaarawaa - . • • • • •
(1) and (2) No. ..E.H.H.: Apply ?°f
lars to secretary, Central Cane Prices >
Department of Agriculture, William-stree ,
Brisbane....W.A.C.: Write Institute of Auto-
mobile Mechanics, Frazer House, 42 triage-
street, Sydney... .K.J.M.N.: Get into
with either Kriesler (Australasia), Ltd. Myru
and Pine streets, Chippendale, or I” te r na 2° na
Radio Co., 254 Castlereagh-street Sydney....
T.M.C.: Get in touch with Hamilton and
Baker, 327 Pitt-street, Sydney. . . .A.B.. (U
Write to the secretary, British Dental Assoc -
tion, 13 Hill-street, Berkeley-square, London,
W.l, or to the secretary, American Dental
Association, 212 East Superior-street, Chic g ,
111., U.S.A. (2) In N.S.W. dentists may make
private arrangements regarding the engagemen
of staff. Applications for employment are in-
vited from time to time through the columns
of daily newspapers. Previous experience is
not essential in all cases... .T.W.C.: _ynce
of membership in the A.W.U. is 25s. p.a. Ticket
holds good in all States and permits its holder
to work in any of the industries covered by an
award of the A.W.U. without further payment.
The A.W.U. has awards covering the work ot
pastoral, metalliferous mining, cane-cuttmg,
wheat-lumping, quarrying, railway and road con-
struction, sewerage works, waterways and Hun-
dreds of smaller callings... .J.M.K..: Communi-
cate with the Australian Institution of Engineers,
157 Gloucester-street, Sydney.. . . J.P.B.: No:such
organisation is known to exist. . . .E.L.D.: Lrom
N.R.M.A., 3 Spring-street, Sydney A.B.H.:
Obtainable from Anthony Hordern and Sons,
Sydney, £3 3s. As importations of these hats
is now prohibited, an early order is advisable.
. ...J.A.S.: It has been done of ten. .. . D.T.:
Information not now obtainable. .. .W.B.M.:
Write Curator, Australian Museum, College-
street, Sydney....R.J.P.: Submit the volumes
to a second-hand bookseller... .W.B.R.: Write
Under-Secretary, Dept, of Mines, Melbourne.
L.C.: Always prepared to consider
original short stories and black-and-white
drawings and to pay for those suitable on
acceptance... .M.S.M.: (1) Prospects of em-
ployment are fair for men holding a diploma in
fuel technology; openings occur in coal or
gas companies, Governments and municipal
bodies, and various engineering concerns. (2)
The diploma you mention is issued by a
reputable school... .D.H.S.: Nobody, without
examining the patient, can say precisely what
is the cause of persistent coughing in an
elderly man, nor prescribe methods for the re-
lief of the cough. It may be a symptom of
heart trouble, of certain affections of the great
vessels arising from the heart, or of certain
digestive and respiratory disorders. Main thing
is to find the cause of the cough and treat that.
But if smoking makes you cough, stop smok-
ing J.A.A.: Chemical analysis has shown
that 30 large walnuts (weighing, without the
shells, 100 grammes) would contain as much
fat as of moderately lean beef, but
about 2 3-5oz. of beef would be equal in pro-
tein. It would be necessary to consume about
700 walnuts to obtain the amount of protein
required by the body every da*y.... D.S.:
They may be relieved by injections of quinine
and urethane, and of other drugs which cause
them to shrink. But it is to be remembered
that piles, suddenly appearing in an elderly
person, may be the first sign of trouble higher up
in the bowel, and in that case something more
than the injections may be required. . . .C.P.M.:
You say you have used your device for several
years. Whether this use does or does not
amount to legal “publication” could not be de-
cided without further details. Would advise
communicating with a patent attorney. . . .I.M.:
Write J. Mackay, Fifth Floor, Culwulla
Chambers, 67 Castlereagh-street, Sydney
S.R.S.: J. Hall, composer of “Wedding of the
Winds,” is English. R. B. Hall, composer of
“New Colonial March” and many others, is
American. There is no relationship... .F.O.:
Curtis Brown, Ltd., 347 Madison-avenue;
Hughes Massie and Co., 40 East 49th-street;
Paul R. Reynolds and Son, 599 Fifth-avenue;
and Brandt and Brandt, 347 Madison-avenue—
all New York, N.Y., U.S.A O.S.M.L.:
Thomson’s Written Humor (5s. 9d.), Howard’s
Art and Craft of Humorous Writing (5s. 6d.),
Leacock’s Humor, Its Theory and Technique
(12s. 6d.)... .W.L.: A Geological Map of Aus-
tralia, with Explanatory Notes, by Edgsworth
David (20s.) S.M.M.: Write to the general
secretary, Presbyterian Church of Australia,
Box 100 CC, G.P.O., Sydney D.H.E.:
Harper and Brothers, 49 East 33rd-street;
Doubleday and Doran, 14 West 49th-street;
G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 2 West 45th-street;
Charles Scribner’s Sons, 597 Fifth-avenue;
Frederick A. Stokes, 443 Fourth-avenue; Long-
mans, Green and Co., 114 Fifth-avenue; Funk
and Wagnalls Co., 354 Fourth-avenue; Farrar
and Rinehart, Inc., 232 Madison-avenue; and
Alfred A. Knopf, 501 Madison-avenue —all
New York, N.Y., U.S.A F.J.W.: Write
Melbourne University Press, Carlton, Mel-
bourne, N.3....R.E.: The Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers (N.S.W.) meets every Sunday
evening at its own clubroom, 38 Clarence-street,
Sydney... .C.E.H.: Henry Lawson was born
June 17, 1867, and died September 2, 1922;
C. J. Dennis was born September 7, 1876, and
died June 22, 1938; “Banjo” Paterson was
born February 17, 1864, and is still living.


rabbit plague threatened
sa
Deliveries Can Be Effected of
THE FAMOUS
BOSKER
RABBIT
POISON
Despite Phosphorus Shortage
The large stocks of chemicals, including phosphorus,
carried by Elliotts and Australian Drug Pty., Ltd.,
enables them to maintain deliveries of the famous
Bosker Rabbit Poison. Elliotts’ plant is now busy
producing additional stocks of Bosker Rabbit Poison
to cope with the present situation. Graziers, therefore,
are notified that, although they may have to wait a few
weeks, supplies can be assured if they
PLACE ORDERS NOW
THROUGH LOCAL CHEMISTS, STORES OR STOCK AGENTS
n
tttiotk
PASTORAL SECTION
Elliotts and Australian Drug Pty., Ltd., 35 Bligh Street, Sydney
THE GREATEST SHOW
OF ALL for the Primary Producer
Once again within the R.A.S. at Stand 47, Machinery Avenue, there will be
another Show that will be a greater attraction than ever for the “man on the
land. A Show of the celebrated M.V. Products that are a credit to the
conscientious and painstaking endeavour of Moffat-Virtue, Ltd. For fifty years
Moffat-Virtue, Ltd., by means of research, by always being a step ahead
of current events and by applying their practical knowledge, have helped the
“man on the land” increase production and cut down overhead costs.
M.V. Products were evolved throughout the years, until to-day they have
reached their present high state of efficiency. So perfectly designed by M.V.
engineers—so scientifically constructed by expert Australian tradesmen—of
only the highest quality materials, Moffat-Virtue Products stand to-day as a
lasting tribute to Australian enterprise and Australian workmanship.
A hearty welcome is assured' you at Stand
47 MACHINERY AVENUE
dsa
SHEARING MACHINERY
that is outstanding because it is designed for Australian conditions
and built by skilled Australian Engineers in the modern works
of Moffat-Virtuc, Ltd. In first cost —in operation—in upkeep—
M.V. gear, with its patented exclusive features, has been proved
time after time to be the most economical and yet the most cuicicnt.
TRIMMER HANDPIECE...
The main reasons for the Trimmer’s superiority and why it has
been proved as the perfect shear is that it is so comfortable in
operation—so efficient in performance—so low in operating costs —
and because it is so evenly balanced.
d
ly
PETROL ENGINES . . .
You will find all the latest improvements in this exceptional power
unit. It provides the cheapest and most dependable power for
general farm purposes. All working parts are automatically
lubricated and totally enclosed against dust and dirt. All models
hopper or tank cooled. Obtainable in Portable or Stationary
models. 2s, 3, 4 and 6 h.p.
DIESEL ENGINES . . .
The special Patented Cyclonic Turbulence Cylinder Head ensures
absolutely complete combustion. No pre-heating, changing of full
or compression ratio is necessary. Starts immediately from cold,
and all moving parts are totally enclosed against dirt and run
in an oil bath or oil mist. Only one oil filler. Replaceable valve
seats are fitted, and valves can be ground when necessary without
removing the cylinder head.
sa
■lG*
nil
m
ELECTRIC LIGHTING PLANTS
The most economical and simple ever built. A self-starter is
fitted so that a child can operate them without any possible risk.
Running costs are only a few shillings a week, or less than the
cost of kerosene, mantles, etc. No matter where you may live,
you can enjoy the great comforts and convenience of Electricity.
• • •
SIMPLEX WINDMILLS
The Mill that has proved itself under all conditions. Over 50
years’ experience of building water-supply plants has been sifted
and research work carried out to produce this outstanding Windmill.
When you study thje special features of the Simplex you will
realise that it is the Windmill you need.
dsa
d
A.S.L. IRRIGATION SYSTEM
This is the system that will give you a light shower or a drenching
downpour when and where you need it. The A.S.L. will put an end
to your rainfall worries—your fodder crops, vegetables cannot
fail. No worry with joints—no worry with choked sprays.
SHEEP JETTERS . . .
Here is the machine with a hundred uses. The soundest invest-
ment you can make. Besides being a perfect Jetter it has been
designed for Fire Fighting, Spraying ’Hoppers and Caterpillars,
Disinfecting Yards, Races and Pens, Spraying Orchards, Destroying
Noxious Weeds.
is-;
sad
ELECTROLUX REFRIGERATOR
The Kerosene Operated Refrigerator that will bring you constant,
continuous freezing. Save money—save food —save worry. Invest
in the world’s greatest Refrigerator. No matter where you may
live you can enjoy luxury living at the cost of a few pence per day.
MILKING MACHINES
You must see the M.V. Milker in action to fully realise how very
easy it is to operate —and how very economical. It will surprise
vou how simple it is to clean and assemble. It will give you those
extra hours to do those other essential jobs. £l7 only is the
initial outlay for a Plant to milk up to 40 cows.
sad
sa
ORCHARD SPRAY PLANTS
M.V. Spray Plant was designed with the assistance of practical
orchardists, hence its exceptional strength and outstanding perform-
ance. The big margin of power ensures fast, efficient spraying and
absolute reliability.
Other Moffat-Virtue Products include: M.V. Pest Arrestor, Centrifugal
Pumps, Sawbenches, Hay Presses, Chaffcutters, Fumigators, Sterilisers, etc., etc.
We made them good—users made them famous.
See them all at 47 Machinery Avenue.
'Phone: FL5214 (6 lines)
Telegrams: “Virtue,” Sydney
MOFFAT VIRTUE LTD.
MACHINERY
MERCHANTS
1-25 PALMER ST., SYDNEY. BOX 15848, G.P.O.
AND AT BRISBANE AND LONGREACH,
QUEENSLAND


dsa
W£AN M£N AND WOMtN
liOSS of vitality ancl premature feeling
of old age are due to failure of certain
glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St„ Sydney
on
GLAND
TONIC
TABLfTS
&
RaDIOTRON VALVES are
supplied in factory-sealed
cartons YOUR guarantee
that the valve you buy is
new. The carton must be
destroyed to remove the
original valve . . .
For more enjoyable radio
entertainment
d
wt//r
RADIOT
VALVES
★ SEALED FOR
YOUR PROTECTION
Advt. of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co.
Pty. Ltd.
THE SERVICE MAN
After 104 Days.
“Ek Dum”: The Finnish war is over.
It was a war of deceit and brutality on
one side, of heroism and exhaustion on
the other.
On the evening of Nov. 26 the official
Tass newsagency reported that “at 3.45
p.m. artillery fire was suddenly opened
from Finnish territory against a post
at Mainila, 1200 yards from the Finnish
border ; three Red Army men and one
junior commander were killed and seven
Red Army men wounded.”
That same evening Molotov delivered
a Note to the Finnish Ambassador de-
scribing the “attack” as “abominable”
and demanding “the withdrawal of Finnish
troops 20-25 kilometres from the border.”
The Finnish Government replied that
only frontier troops were in the border
zone and that there were no guns near
the frontier that could shell it. It said
that reports showed that shells had been
fired from l{ to two kilometres to the
south-east of the post from a point in
U.S.S.R. territory. It allowed that the
firing might be an accident during
training drills by the Red Army, and sug-
gested the withdrawal of troops of both
countries from the border and a joint
investigation of the incident.
Molotov called the Finnish attitude
“contemptuous,” the firing “villainous”
and said that the “note betrayed the
hostility of the Finnish Government and
its desire to keep Leningrad under
threat,” since Finnish troops were “within
32 kilometres [20 miles] of the city.” He
denounced the non-aggression treaty.
Moscow papers printed in English and
dated Dec. 4 did not mention that war
had broken out. They merely reported
the denouncing of the treaty and the
setting-up of a Finnish “People’s Demo-
cratic Government” with which the Mos-
cow Government had entered into an
alliance. Yet on November 30 Helsingfors
and Viborg and other Finnish towns
were bombed and the Russians attacked
along a 400-mile front in a way which
showed that preparations must have been
in train for the attack for weeks.
Practically nothing has since been pub-
lished in these Moscow papers (Com-
munist, of course) about the progress of
the war, save a regular emphasis on the
fact that the Finnish workers were be-
hind the Kuusinen “Government” and
that the Finns were struggling with a
White Guard under Marshal Manner-
heim. In the last papers received from
Moscow—January 18 —there is no men-
tion of the Kuusinen Government.
The Russians’ attack was, first, an
attempt on Petsamo in the north, an
outflanking movement north of Lake
Ladoga and a drive through the middle
of Finland along a front which stretched
from Kuolajarvi to Suomussalmi. They
made some progress through the weight
of their forces, but by Dec. 15 they were
held at all points.
The attack by the second and third
week in December had turned into a
debacle. In the last four days of the
year the 163rd Russian Division was
destroyed and detachments of Finns
crossed Northern Karelia and tem-
porarily cut the Murmansk railway. A
week later, in the bitterest cold which
had been known in northern Europe for
generations, the 44th Russian Division
was annihilated near Suomussalmi.
Near Salla a heavy attack was launched
by the Russians, but after making some
headway they were pushed back 30
miles on January 16-18.
The break of the cold now began,
and the Russians were able to move up
their heavy artillery on the Karelian
Isthmus on a large scale. They pushed
into Petsamo. They carried on ceaseless
bombing of civilian populations — no
large town in Finland escaped. Early in
February they were within shelling dis-
tance of the outer environs of Viborg.
The Finns held on —some of their men
were not out of the front line from first
to last.
The Russians continually poured in
new army corps, and pushed them for-
ward behind barrages largely composed
of heavy howitzer shells. Viborg held,
but the Mannerheim Line cracked a little
further north. The flag was still flying
on Viborg’s 700-year-old castle when
the armistice was signed, but there were
no guns to match the Russian heavy
guns and the Finns were outnumbered
and outflanked.
It was not the kind of war from
which any lessons can be drawn. The
strength of the Finnish defence came
from its man-power, its intensive equip-
ment with machine and sub-machine-
guns and light, mobile anti-tank artillery.
The Finns had not the resources to build or
equip with heavy guns a Maginot or Sieg-
fried Line. And they were at a disadvan-
tage in the air. The Russians had thou-
sands of machines ; they only hundreds.
And in methods of air warfare the
invaders were at a decisive advantage.
Leningrad presented about the best tar-
get that could be found —a city three
times the size of Sydney. But while the
Russians were murdering civilians in
Finnish towns every hour through Feb-
ruary, the Finns made no attempt to
retaliate by murdering Russian women
and babies. Their fighting was clean,
their fighting ethics civilised. They were
pitted against an enemy sunk in the
depths of barbarism and stronger in
man-power by 45 to 1.
The Soviet Union won. Its victory
and terms were as disgraceful as the
pretext which precipitated the war.
Among other things which it won is the
undying hatred of the Finns and their
Scandinavian brothers.
"Too Late."
It is easy to rail at Sweden and Nor-
way for refusing to give passage to the
Allied army offered to the Finns, and
railers have been busy. But what else
could the Swedish and Norwegian Gov-
ernments have done in justice to their
nations, whose safety must always be
their first consideration? To grant pas-
sage would have brought Germany, as
well as Russia, down on them, and
within a fortnight the Swedes and Nor-
wegians would have suffered the fate
of the Poles.
Certainly the Allies could have done
something for them ; more than the
Allies did for the Poles; but not nearly
enough. With all the goodwill in the
world, they would have been too late.
In any case, it would have been an im-
mensely difficult operation for the Allies.
In the transport and maintenance of an
army that would have been inadequate
in any case, they would have been
opposed not only by German submarines
and bombers but by Russian subs, if not
Russian bombers, with the certainty of
shipping losses, already serious enough.
And it would have meant war with
Russia, and that would have brought the
Pacific into the war zone.
The British Commonwealth and France
have shown the Germans that they are
not afraid of them, and they are cer-
tainly not afraid of the Russians. But
in a situation still doubtful it is cer-
tainly not in the interests of Australia,
Maoriland and Canada that the Pacific
should be brought into the war zone.
The position of the decent little neutral
nations should be viewed with sym-
pathy, not contempt. They are all suffer-
ing severely, and one of their objects
must be to prevent the war from spread-
ing, as far as they can. All along Sweden
has been in close touch with Germany—
by no means a disadvantage to the Allies,
since negotiations which will have to be
made sooner or later may be carried oil
by the Swedish route, as has very prob-
ably happened already. By reason of
its high standing in Europe, Sweden is
in an excellent position to mediate or to
support American efforts at mediation.
In any case, there is not the slightest
danger of the Swedes entering the war
on Germany’s side. Very wisely, as it
turned out, the Finns outlawed the Com-
munists. The Swedes have tolerated
them, and since the first of September
they have given a lot of trouble. In
Sweden, as in Australia, they have prob-
ably become a nuisance in some of the
metal trades and in mining and trans-
port. If M. Daladier has been correctly
reported —for certain reasons there is
ground for doubt as to what he really
said at his agitated post-mortem on the
war in Finland—“ Sweden and Norway,
in objecting to the passage of troops, had
even gone as far as to threaten to de-
stroy the only railway line capable of
transporting them.”
What seems more likely is that they
confessed themselves unable to guarantee
transport of troops and supplies by unions
with Red bosses like the Red bosses who
infest the
A.R.U.
A week big with events (a Benes bitter-
end speech not included) saw the con-
clusion of the war in Finland and some-
thing very like an unofficial armistice in
the greater war. For four days there
were no submarine attacks on British
shipping nor any bombing raids on either
side. Mr. Sumner Welles was in London
at the time, and the cease-fire —perhaps
the strangest feature of the strangest of
wars —cannot be dissociated from the
Presidential messenger’s visit. Press liars
who let themselves go while he was in
Rome and Berlin were also significantly
silent —or were silenced. And news-
papers which affected to regard his pil-
grimage as of no consequence began to
take it seriously.
* =1! * *
“Wodgil”: The mining of the flagship
Nelson was claimed by the enemy again
and again, and was repeatedly denied till
Churchill admitted it after ten or twelve
weeks. I don’t agree with “E.V.” (B.
6/3/’4O) that attempt at concealment of
the unconcealable was justified, or even
that it would have been justified if the
battleship had gone down. Frank admis-
sion of the fact would rather have con-
firmed the opinions of friends and foes as
to the unsurpassed qualities of British ship-
building and seamanship, and maintained
the confidence of the world in British
official reports. Now many of our own
people may lend too credulous an ear to
the narratives of “Lord Haw-Haw” and
his kind. I recall the mining of the Dread-
nought Audacious in October, 1914 — i.e.,
in Churchill’s first innings as First Lord.
There was some excuse for concealment
then, for the margin of superiority in
capital ships was very small compared
with what it is now; but there again
more harm than good was done by
Churchill policy. Pictures of the Auda-
cious sinking appeared in American
papers, and reached Australia, among
other countries. In England Maxse’s
“National Review” came out with sar-
donic references to the folly of trying to
hide the loss of “the A s.” The Con-
servative interests behind the ‘‘National
Review” were too powerful for the Gov-
ernment to tackle, so Maxse got away
with it. Churchill is too clever by half.
Around the Army.
XIX.
The Pioneers.
They’re the army’s Cinderellas, though
ignored in song and story.
For the pioneers the bullocking , but not
a sniff of glory.
Their remarks are somewhat lurid when
of drill there’s any mention,
While a rumored kit inspection fills them
all with apprehension.
Theirs are simple recreations: juggling
bits of heavy timber,
And from deep and viscous mud retriev-
ing lorry, cart and limber.
Nothing inspires these military handy-
men with sheer enthusiasm more than
to be awakened at 4 a.m. by the sergeant
poking his head in the dugout and roar-
ing: “Tumble out, you fellows! We’ve
got to repair that corduroy road we put
in yesterday. It was blown sky-high last
night from the chalkpits to the cross-
roads. Bring your iron rations.” If an
icy rain is lashing down, so much the
better. They’ll show those sarcastic other
units how work should be done.
Having cleared away everything that
is impeding what remains of their road,
they proceed to rebuild it. They do it
to an accompaniment of expressions of
old-world courtesy among themselves,
shot through with the spicy comments
of those who will benefit from their
labor. Let us tune in to the work as it
goes on: —
“Blime, Charlie! Didya ever see such
a blanky mess?”.. .“Hey, Nugget, give
us a hand here with this tape-measure.
I don’t think she’s goin’ too straight.”...
“Ar, y’ give a man the dingbats. That’s
near enough.” . . . “Williams! Hurry up
with that timber ; you’re holding the job
up.”.. .“What the hell do y’ think a bloke
is—the Flyin’ Pieman?”.. .“Get a burl on
with the job, you blokes, or we’ll never
get this ammo, up ; think of our poor
donks if y’ don’t think of us.” . . .
“Orright, mate, we can’t tell the diff r-
ence, and it’s a pity some o youse
didn’t try an’ make a road y®f, s^ ve / "
“Nick off, you Alicks, or you 11 be
in’ the crabs.” „ .
When it comes to ballast to supp r
the timbered road, the pioneers are no-
thing if not broadminded. To see an
A.S.C. wagon lumbering or the intantry
marching over a corduroy road, part 01
which is being supported by several l_in
shells which they hope will remain duds,
is a source of sardonic satisfaction to a
pioneer corporal.
It is only on extremely rare occasions,
such as an enemy break-through or a kit-
inspection, that the pioneer ever needs
his rifle. The C. 0., an understanding
man, usually gives a day’s notice of his
intention to hold kit inspection, and the
ceremony is preceded by the most intense
activity any pioneer battalion is ever
called upon to produce.
The order will be given one afternoon
when the mob has moved back out of
the line into iest billets. That night there
will be a general exodus towards the
nearest other Aussie unit —infantry, lor
choice, they being the most likely to be
thoroughly equipped. Each man will
have with him a blanket ; he can well
afford this bribe, for he will still have
about five left in his billet.
On the strength of it he will borrow
rifle, ammunition, tin-hat, gas-mask, dixie
and water-bottle. Those who by some
miracle have found their own rifles will
hold them up, breech open, but no
faintest glimmer of light will they see
as they peek through the end of the
barrel. When the inspection is over they
can cheerfully go back to their rifleless
and water-bottleless state until the next
far-distant inspection.
To hear growls from men of other
units about the coldness of the nights
doesn’t move the pioneer to deep com-
passion for his compatriots. He merely
advises them to do as he does —scrounge
around and get some fuel. There’s plenty
around if you only look for it, he says.
But he scarcely appreciates the manner
in which this advice is used when he goes
to the stack to get for the brazier some
fat billets of hardwood (it’s the ends, and
sometimes the middle, of timber which
the O.C. fondly hopes is being used for
roadmaking) and finds it’s been snavelled.
S.W.K.


BRANDAUERrS
wt
m
&
PENS
ft
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
& BRANDABKR * CO- Ltd- BIRMINGHAM. ENG
6<T.V
THE
lIMITCn iNSURA NCE
(Jill I CU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager.
T. 0. REYNOLDS,
Aset. Gen. Manager.
Here’s why I bought u
14 VoH~
Country
Radio
WmmM
Wk
m&mt.
mm
ws&y.'
tmm
45
T ypo
rßAL lfl>Pl
I "Like every listener who lives
beyond power mains I wanted
a set that was economical to
run and that took little or no
looking after. I found it in 1.4-
volt radio. Uses only TWO
"B” Batteries instead of three,
and a new type of "A” Battery
that eliminates recharging
worries for good!”
• • •
Offering "city set" convenience
to the outback listener, 1.4-volt
Country Radio is a feature of
nearly every manufacturer's
range for 1940. And included as
standard equipment you'll find
Eveready Radio Batteries. Un-
equalled for dependability, long
life and value, they are the first
choice of set manufacturers and
listeners alike.
EVEREADY (AUSTRALIA) PT Y. LTD., SYDNEY, N. S. W.
EVEREADY
v TP4DE - MARK
R A DIO BATTERIES
Rl7-1 tt:»
THE FLYING COLUMN
Self-sealing Tanks.
“D.8.K.”: Particulars of the German
method of constructing self-sealing petrol
tanks were given in B. 13 /3 / ’4O. It has
been referred to as a new development,
but air-mail information shows that such
methods have for years been known
to British aeronautical engineers.
During 1918 several inventions de-
signed to limit the damage done by
bullets and to prevent fire were sub-
mitted to the Air Ministry. In most
cases some form of outer rubber cover-
“She stalled, sir, so I had to pancake her .”
“Well, you needn't have made a ruddy omelet of it”
ing was suggested as a means of seal-
ing the hole made by the passage of a
bullet through a tank. The idea was
that the bullet would stretch the rubber
before piercing it. Reaction and con-
traction of the rubber were depended
upon to reduce the hole to negligible
proportions.
In that year a tank named the Imber
was produced, and it was claimed that
it could be bullet-riddled and remain
effective. It had three main parts: a thin
shell of tinned steel, a tubular frame-
work carrying the baffles and a soft coat
of pure Para rubber. There were no
rivets in the construction, it being found
that rivets and angles would spread and
spin bullets. One of the worth-while
features of this tank was the light weight.
The Germans evidently got hold of the
notion and adapted it to their own use.
One difficulty with their present tanks
is that bullet holes in the thin fibre
material are hard to repair, but this
seems to be offset by the value of the
self-sealing action for the time being.
a + _ • A .•
A British system now m production
provides a tank with a capacity of 250 ;
gallons which is virtually crash- and
bullet-proof. The sealing material is
between the inner and outer shell and
vulcanised to both. Bullet holes can be
* 2 — ’ an V he T ir ;
ing can be done anywhere, often without
* i t i.i
service Mature mese'tanfahave unto-
gone very extensive tests with incendLry
bullets. One, a 70-gallon tank, was
dropped 60ft. into a petrol fire. The fire
failed to set the tank alight, and there
was no leakage from the bullet holes,
A thickness of seven millimetres is suffi-
dent protection against damage from
crashes, machine-gun fire and incendiary
bullets.
In short, British aeronautical engineers
are far from lagging behind their Ger-
man opposite numbers, and may be a
good jump ahead.
Rigors of Reconnaissance.
“D.8.K.”: To readers of newspapers
or listeners to broadcasts, comfortably
seated in pleasant surroundings, the bare
statement that “R.A.F. reconnaissance
’planes have made a further flight into
Germany” conveys nothing if they lack
imagination. Actually a long-distance
flight to a scheduled programme in the
depth of the bitterest European winter
within the memory of living man is as
hard on the human frame and spirit as
almost anything in the annals of Polar
exploration.
Flights such as those over Vienna,
P r ?B ue a « d Warsaw must be made at
heights of three, four even five miles
above the earth—though not, of course,
all J he l ! me ' At such altitudes extreme
c ° ld and rarefied air are dangers more
deadl y tba n the enemy in the offing. On
some of those nl B ht n fll g hts over Ger-
mai/y temperatures as low as 52 degrees
frost have been encountered, and ice
formed in a y ers on the cock P ll floor
lns ‘ de tbe planes.
Uor protection against such intense
c °l d > warm clothing is relied upon. Elec-
trically-heated clothing is not used by
R-A.F. because of the possibility of
failure. Should the electrical supply
P eter °} lt at ye W hl 8 h altitudes, the sole
protection against the cold would be
gone. Woollen clothing, and plenty of it,
f th H r j ,
. , •, ‘
, As helght lncrea f s . so does ! he a 's
bec ? me more rarefied To safeguard
JfS
P , r f l
“dt r ti B lt s T ly g a3 st ES
member of the crew wears an oxygen-
breathing mask over nose and mo “ th >
; a bL n nlu^ e d X info n ,h S e UP nxv„ by a - fl , exible
l ube plugged lnto the oxygen polnt near
. - , , .
„ n ? SP< Fr P ° f bombing
, travelling 200 2nnnnft"
J h h -f* *-b’oooft-
if
any degree of accuracy the aimer must
begin to sight his target some three miles
from the point at which the bomb will
be released, and that means five miles
from the target itself. The pilot must
then maintain a straight and level course,
and whilst that is being done the enemy’s
A.A. gunners have their opportunity—
in these days of accurate A.A. fire a
very good opportunity indeed. Aimer
and pilot can only get on with their
job, do what they can to ignore the burst-
ing shell puffs around them, and hope
for the best. “The higher the safer” is
a maxim that holds, but extreme height
in vicious winter means anything but
comfort. In these circumstances leaflet-
dropping is even more difficult than
bombing; the technique calls for the
utmost care in ensuring that the paper
cargo will reach the intended objective
and not drift uselessly into forests and
other unpopulated areas.
“Ailo”: The identification charts pub-
lished in flying magazines will need to
be revised if the present rate of new
markings for aircraft continues. Spain
is the latest country to make a change.
The Spanish national flag consists of
three equal horizontal bands of red,
yellow and red, and the whole of the
rudder on civil machines is thus painted.
Service circles are carried on the upper
and lower wing surfaces. Registration
letters under the wing and rear fuselage
are followed on the fuselage by a black
circle containing, in white, five arrows
spread fanwise and crossed by something
which looks like an old steel crossbow.
Civil markings resemble those of service
machines, except that the latter have
black crosses on tail and wing tips, and
the symbol on the fuselage has a red
instead of a white background. The
crosses on wing tips might lead to con-
fusion with Nazi ’planes.
* * * *
“Ailo”: The value of the new Lock-
heed Hudsons was indicated during
an exhibition flight by a formation of
five over Sydney last Thursday. Ansons
were overtaken by the Hudsons at a
rate which made the former appear to
be loafing. Speed reached during the
test was 320 m.p.h., and a photographer
aboard a Hudson failed to get a success-
ful shot of the Ansons, even though
the pilot throttled back and lowered
the undercarriage. These products of
U.S.A.’s Lockheed factory will even-
tually put the R.A.A.F. on a formidable
basis. Pilots include several of the experi-
enced commercial airline men: Purvis,
Hall, Scott, Ryland, Barlow and Cook.
Purvis handled the Lockheed 14’s for
K.N.1.L.M., and the others have all flown
Douglas and other airliners.
The Air War Day by Day.
March 9-15: Vienna and Prague visited
for third time by R.A.F. leaflet-raiders.
All machines safe. French ’plane shot
down by German A.A. artillery south
of Strasbourg. Otherwise strangely
quiet.
March 16: German ’planes raid Scapa
Flow and three Orkney aerodromes;
enemy claims “several battleships and
cruisers heavily damaged.” British re-
port : “Warship hit, only minor damage;
seven casualties to personnel; one civi-
lian killed, seven wounded.” One
enemy ’plane shot down ; two others
intercepted and damaged.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
0
m
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM
6AM
6KG
Perth .. . 500 watts
Northam. . 2000 watts
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Pertli
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
You could get a ham or a horse or
a cocker spaniel (or, at any rate, a raffle
ticket for one) by turning into Martin-
place last Friday. If the fancy took you
you could snatch the royal-blue chiffon
evening dress dangling at the masthead
of the jumble stall. For a few bits of
silver Mrs. J. L. Ruthven would wrap
it up for you. The voice of artist
Jo Collins rose loud in the land
as he tried to sell silk stockings to stal-
wart soldiers. Electric irons and electric
jugs grew as thick as leaves on a camphor
laurel around the chocolate wheels. Girls
dressed in the colors of Italy, Belgium,
France, girls in long green coats, very
flared below the waist and bordered in
white fur, moved jauntily.
Girls with leis of yellow blooms sold
pineapple drinks. They not only sold
them but made them. There were moans
from this bar when crushing the fruit
made havoc of fingernail coloring. The
smiles of the McKelvey lady, Mrs. Alan
McGregor and Faith Macarthur Onslow
shone as bright as the polished chromium
taps they were pulling. Mrs. Robert
Dixson and Mrs. Hope Gibson traded
in old clothes or the racehorse impar-
tially.
The Italian pavilion was imposing, its
cream pillars topping everything but
the chocolate-wheel stands. There were
some nice little pieces of carved marble,
mixed up with Italian soaps, Italian oil
and boxes of vermicelli. One of the most
picturesque stalls was that of the Rand-
wick Red Cross. Before its wheat-and-
poppy facade stood Ruby Storey, justly
proud. She told that the wheat came
from the Central Tablelands, and the
poppies were Red Cross made. There
were 60 barrels all told about the city.
Standing beside them were V.A.Ds., gal-
lant in their white uniforms. Beside each
barrel was a gramophone which ever and
anon burst into the song all about drop-
ping a penny “Into the Barrel.”
Lady Wakehurst visited all the stalls
while the morning freshness was still on
them. She admired the bright jacket
worn by Mrs. de Noskowski over her
white frock. It was waist-length, of red
felt, and was embroidered in bright silk
flowers. Home-made jams and pickles
cropped up in quantities on almost every
stall. Mrs. Don Taylor, better after her
operation, was seen taking the air on the
steps of the Commonwealth Bank. Her
section was running a tearoom in the
basement. One of the day’s beauties
was the silver and crystal liqueur
set. This was on Mayoress Crick’s stall.
Busy workers here were Nancy Wedlock
and the Norman Nock lady. Another
former Mayoress, Mrs. George Parkes,
was as busy as a bee. The Hon. Henrietta
Loder, Betty Maxwell and Gloria Moore-
Cosgrave were among the toilers. The
day’s big moment was the march of over
1000 VA-Ds. This white army of women
Willing to sacrifice their leisures and
pleasures for “the duration” was received
with great applause. Lady Wakehurst
took the salute from a dais in Martin-
place.
By now the Show is really established.
From Saturday, when it made its 1940
debut, it has been having fresh beauties
added daily. Now it is a real glamor
girl. You all know where to find her!
Conductor Georg Schneevoigt, thinner
than when Sydney last knew him, tried
hard to smile cheerfully last week at the
party given to welcome him back to
Sydney. But how can a man smile cheer-
fully, though the sun shine, when the fate
of his native city is in the balance? Viborg
is the musician’s home town, and even
while pretty youngsters talked to him
and told him of the blue-and-white favors
they were making for the Finnish Relief
concert, Viborg was being handed to
Soviet control. Thank goodness the early-
afternoon party is on the return. This
party was in the Australia and was a
tea drinking. The five-to-seven party
makes the day long, and even though you
leave early the scamper home to get
dressed and back in town for a theatre,
say, is too much of a dust-up.
The Alexander Gordon lady was the
hostess, together with the women’s com-
mittee of the symphony concert tonight.
Mrs. Claude Plowman talked to Dr.
Schneevoigt in Swedish or Finnish. It
was at any rate what the girl in the flat
opposite calls one of the savory languages
(caviare to the general). The tall, grace-
ful Sandra Jaques was there, her hat a
tuft of cornelian velvet. Mist-blue were
Mrs. Harold Bott’s sheers. With her
were Mrs. McCartney, in white, and Mrs.
Hope Gibson, who was trying to get a
bid from this writer for (a) a pair of
antique earrings, (b) a Persian (or near)
carpet, (c) a second-hand pair of curtains.
She was going to sell such at the jumble
stall on Red Cross Friday. Mrs. Charlie
Lloyd Jones was there in something silky
and flower-patterned, quite recovered
from her accident. Mrs. Swinson, Mrs.
Hubert Fairfax, Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax,
Mrs. Peter Poole, Mrs. Crawford Robert-
son, Miss Phillips and Mrs. Erik Fischer
were others.
The designs for the classic, yet allur-
ing, garments worn in the Independents’
present production, “Amphitryon 38,”
were created by Rosemary Heron. Rose-
mary has had many of her designs for
printed silks accepted by overseas manu-
facturers. The “Amphitryon” costumes
prove she has a definite talent for this
branch of stage work. Photograph is
from Falk.
For three days Archbishop Kelly lay
in state in the transept of St. Mary's
Cathedral before he was buried in its
crypt. For three days Sydney (not only
R.C. citizens) paid its farewell of mingled
admiration and sorrow. For three days
the Cathedral, draped in purple and
black, was steeped in mourning cadence.
Morning, noon and night its ways echoed
to the comings and goings of feet, many
of them well-shod, many of them ill-
shod, some, indeed, in hopeless wrecks
of sandshoes. In the benches hundreds
told their beads. And the Archbishop
lay in his plain rosewood coffin rimmed
with the tall candles in their black
holders, his head mitred, about him his
churchly cloak.
After three days and three nights (and
during the silent hours of these the men
of the different church guilds and
societies had kept constant vigil) they
buried him. Before the funeral there
was a solemn Requiem Mass, at which
the R.C. bishops and archbishops from
all over Australia assisted. Never has
the Cathedral held a denser congrega-
tion. By nine o’clock there was scarcely
a seat left, and holders of cards of ad-
mission still arrived in clouds. Then the
faithful who had not thought to provide
themselves with a buff or a white card
started to surge up to the big south door.
Many of them had waited since six in
the morning. Thousands more stood till
the end on the paths and sunburnt lawns
of Flyde Park, while the roadway near
Phillip Park, opposite the south door by
which the procession of clergy entered
the church, was a still, it almost seemed
motionless, sea of humans.
The sanctuary was massed with
the color of the vestments and robes
of the officiating prelates and clergy.
Here was the Vatican purple (fuchsia-
red is close to it) of the Papal Delegate
and the archbishops, the scarlet of the
bishops, the white of the surpliced
priests. With chant and prayer they gave
him the last blessing of the Church who
had done the like for many others in his
day. Archbishop Gilroy, successor to
the ring and the crozier of St. Mary’s,
spoke the panegyric. It was direct and
simple, and the voice of the speaker
showed no strain from the preceding
days, though his face had a worn look.
Among his listeners were Lord and Lady
Wakehurst and Squadron-Leader Moir,
representing Lord Gowrie. The Premier
and Deputy-Premier were present. The
Army and Navy were represented. The
Anglican Archdeacon Langley and many
clergymen of different creeds were in the
congregation , so were C.J. Jordan, Jus-
tice McTiernan (he was one of the pall-
bearers), W. M. Hughes, Mayor Crick
and Police Commissioner Mac Kay.
After the last Absolution they carried
the dead Archbishop into the autumn
day. The sun was hot, the sky very blue
as he took his last drive along silent
avenues of his children. This funeral
procession was headed by the Mounted
Police. Slow and stately stepped their
horses to the notes of Chopin’s Funeral
March. Along the curving rise of St.
James-road there was a flash of red
from the soutanes of the acolytes, the
silver glint of the sun upon the bands-
men’s instruments. Green as the grass
in Hyde Park will be after the rain were
the Papal knights. In their brown walked
the Franciscans. White-and-black were
the Dominicans ; scarlet and purple the
prelates. Past Queen’s-square, along St.
James-road, Elizabeth-street and Park-
street he who had been Michael Sydney
was borne back to the Cathedral, where
they buried him in the crypt.
All the admiration for a gallant
country of which he is a famous part
broke loose when conductor Georg
Schneevoigt came on to the Town Hall
platform last Saturday night. Under this
conductor’s lead the National Anthem
made the spine feel like a coiled spring.
Then the orchestra unfolded the beauties
of the Sibelius Second Symphony, and
if anybody should be able to draw out
the composer’s charm it is Schneevoigt,
friend of his youth. The house was filled
with all the smart people as well as
music-lovers. The dressing was suave
or sweet, according to the wearers’ tem-
peraments. Every woman seemed to
have done something special for the
occasion, and then wondered if the heat
justified the trouble. Long before half-
time the Town Hall was like a Turkish
bath.
Lord and Lady Wakehurst with a
party from Government House were in
the audience. Tulle and taffeta made a
sort of moonbeam white aura for Lady
Wakehurst’s bright looks. Mrs. W. J.
Cleary presented her with a posy, and
she well deserved it. Pale primrose were
the Hon. Henrietta Loder’s chiffons.
Admiral Crace and his wife were in
this group. There were lots of men
listeners, many in khaki. Mrs. J. Shell-
shear was among the enthusiasts. All
in black was the Alexander Gordon
lady. Among the admired in white were
Mrs. Crawford Robertson and Ruby
Adams. Bertie Kelly and son-in-law
Gualtiero Volterra, the one a violinist,
the other a pianist, compared notes on
Town Hall acoustics. Mrs. Walter Burfilt
came with daughter Esmey. Esmey wore
the only evening frock she was allowed
in her luggage when she flew from Lon-
don recently. Dame Mary Hughes shim-
mered in silver brocades. Trix Tange,
who was the soloist in the Cesar Franck,
wore Nile-green laces and gathered in
armfuls of flower offerings.
And O my darling, O my pet,
Whatever else you may forget
In yonder isle beyond the sea,
O don’t forget you’ve married me!
It sounds like good advice to soldiers,
doesn’t it? There were plenty of them
at the opening of “The Gondoliers” last
Saturday. In fact, there were plenty of
all sorts of citizens, for G. and S. spring
for ever fresh as a daisy, gay as a lark.
The audience gave old friends Ivan
Menzies and Evelyn Gardiner a great
hand, and Viola Wilson and Adelaide’s
dear little Sara Gregory were at once
favorites. The Charles Lloyd Jones
couple were among warm fribnds of
G. and S., and the G. and S. Society’s
president, Wallace Pooley, was there with
his wife. Mrs. Edmund Playfair came
with her brother, Commander Creer, and
brought two grandchildren. Mrs. Salenger
and daughter Barbara were enthusiasts.
The final ballet performance in this city
was on Wednesday afternoon. On Tuesday
the last night of the season, the audience
was one jitter of delight from first to
last. It was a rather late last, and there
was just time for the audience to leap
across the road or dash in to the Aus-
tralia and refresh its tissue with coffee
before the midnight performance.
This midnight bill of divertissements
was arranged by Polish members of the
company for the Polish Relief Fund. It
was quite a thrill, and sent ticket-buyers
home with the happy feeling that they
had been kind to those less comfortably
placed than themselves. It was a grand
thought of the lads, Yura Lazo vs ky,
Roman Jasinsky, Narcisse Matouchaic
and Marian Ladre, to present this bill on
top of a very heavy season. In the smau
hours of the morning there was merri-
ment on the stage. After curtain-fall the
De Basil couple coo-eed a group of the
audience permanents to indulge in the
party spirit. Poland’s Consul-General
Noskowski and his wife were in one of
the boxes. France’s Consul-General
Tremoulet entertained in another box.
Mrs. Ben Edye, Stephanie (in silver bro-
cade) and Mrs. Lee were faithful to the
end; so were the Bertie Kellys and
daughter Mrs. Volterra.
Nine o’clock is a nice time to start
journeying about the Harbor reaches. If
the little new moon didn’t keep tryst with
the committee, the night when the
American Society sailed down Port Jack-
son in the Kalang was still and warm.
Red, white and blue streamers, the Aus-
tralian and American flags, and fresh and
glowing flowers turned the Kalang into
a beautiful setting for the cruise-dance.
Lady Gowrie’s Red Cross collection will
benefit. Mrs. Von Hake, Mrs. Charles
Brown, Mrs. P. Bryan, and Mrs. K. Y.
Kerr were the decorators. America’s
Consul-General T. Wilson and Mayor and
Mayoress Crick were in the official group.
Mrs. A. M. Doyle was there with her
U.S.A. Consul husband.
The lift to Florence Taylor’s flat in
Loftus-street ran hot the other night when
the friends of the Izals (she is Evelyn
Hall for singing purposes) were gathering
to give the two a cheer and a cheque.
The cheque was to help restore the piles
of scores and sheet-music the two had
lost in a recent fire. It was one of those
parties where everybody sang —those not
in active voice were still songbirds, though
passive. Carl Morris and Charlie Phillips
were exceptions. They are pianists. Mrs.
Montgomery, Mrs. Norman McLeod,
Mrs. Lorenz and Mrs. Florence Taylor
had arranged the affair. The music was
on the top floor of the building, the
supper below in the long meeting room
of the Arts Club.
Sandra Jaques, the unusual-looking
girl in this Max Dupain photograph, is
on the younger committee working for
the success of tonight’s concert for Fin-
land. The Finnish colors, Finnish music
and a Finnish conductor, Georg Schnee-
voigt, will make the occasion memorable.
Pretty Lesbia Thorpe, of Glenbrook,
is deep in consultation with Doris Fitton.
Lesbia is one of our up-and-coming
young artists, and just now her attention
is turned to designing stage sets and
effects. She recently completed some
striking decor for “Amphitryon 38,”
the Independents’ production, which
opened on Saturday. Now these are
done she turns a brooding gaze
on the bare white walls of the theatre,
for she intends to surround them
with a design of theatre throughout the
ages, starting with the Greek and finish-
ing with the most modern, showing a
stage without scenery or effects. But
that, of course, is going back again to
Will Shakspeare’s time.


HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
Doctors say your kidneys contain 15 fiilei
or tiny tubes or Alters which help to purify
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your blood
are the cause of frequent or scanty passages
With smarting and burning, nagging back*
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swollen feet
and ankles, pufflness under the eyes, head*
aches and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a 'day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat-
ter, your body will take up these
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait! Ask
y°» r chemist 0 r store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully
the world over by millions of people. They
give quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at jour ghemlst
pr gtore, ~
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1235 of 1937.
BETWEEN EDITH MARGARET HUNTER
Petitioner
And VIVIAN WILLIAM HUNTER Re-
spondent.
TO VIVIAN WILLIAM HUNTER of “The
Chalet” 62 Lamrock Avenue Bondi.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDITH MAR-
GARET HUNTER has applied to this Court
by notice of motion dated the Ninth day of
October 1939 for an order for the payment of
permanent alimony by you to the said EDITH
MARGARET HUNTER and for such further
and other order as to the Registrar may seem
meet AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that
by an order of this Court made on the
Eleventh day of March 1939 service of the
aforesaid notice of motion shall be deemed
complete two days after the publication hereof.
A copy of the said notice of motion may
be had free of charge at the undermentioned
address
DATED this Fourteenth day of March, 1940.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
McINTYRE, CONLON & CO., Solicitors
for Petitioner, 250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 358 of 1940.
BETWEEN MARY MATTHEW (formerly
Mary Taylor) of Victoria Road Bellevue
Hill wife of James Robertson Matthew of
Orient Hotel 89 George Street North,
Sydney, Petitioner
And JAMES ROBERTSON MATTHEW
of Orient Hotel 89 George Street North,
Sydney, Respondent.
TO JAMES ROBERTSON MATTHEW of
Orient Hotel 89 George Street North, Syd-
ney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
MATTHEW has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
dissolution of marriage on the ground of deser-
tion by you for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office of
this Honorable Court on or before the Four-
teenth day of June One thousand nine hundred
and forty and in the event of your not so
doing within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Fourteenth day of March One
thousand nine hundred and forty.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. W. MAUND & KELYNACK, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 62 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends
GREWCOE, Walter James. —Anyone knowing
the whereabouts please communicate with
STEPHENS & TOZER, Solicitors, George
Street, Brisbane.
THE PERPETUAL EXECUTORS AND
TRUSTEES ASSOCIATION OF AUS-
TRALIA, LIMITED, of 100-104 Queen Street,
Melbourne, desires to hear from anyone who
knew Edwin George .Taylor, Seaman, acci-
dentally killed aboard ship near Adelaide be-
tween 25 and 40 years ago. Mr. Taylor was
born in 1860 at Bishopstone, Hereford, Eng-
land, and was a brother of the late Charles
Mapson Taylor, of Fitzroy.
DATED this 14th day of March, 1940.
R. E. LEWIS & SON,
Solicitors,
414 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WANTED known present whereabouts
EILEEN MARSH, daughter of late George
Wilkie, last heard of Morven District 1937;
her advantage to apply QUEENSLAND
TRUSTEES LIMITED, Brisbane.
Melbourne
Chatter
On Saturday racegoers said good-bye
to Caulfield with great regret. The day
was perfect, the gardens glorious, the
“old hands” were all on duty, and they
seemed more than ever like old friends.
The Defence Department is taking the
course over, and, though there is talk of
its being handed back in July, optimism
in that direction is not obvious.
Saturday’s feminine element clung on
the whole to warm-weather outfits,
though a few winter models were given
a preliminary canter. Among these was
Mrs. Herbert Benton’s black woollen
ensemble, worn with a frou-frou of
parchment net at the throat. Mrs. I.
Green also decided it was a day for a
coat —hers was a stroller in cut, and in
color it matched the hydrangea posy rest-
ing on her shoulder. Accompanying her
was Mrs. Gordon Coulter in navy blue.
There also were Judge and Mrs. Foster,
she in black with militant collar of del-
blue, Phyllis and Yvonne Wearne, Mrs.
David Syme and Mrs. Alan Stuart, and
Pat Lyon and her sister Mrs. Goodwill,
both in white hats. Mrs. Lindsay Mil-
dred also chose a white headpiece, a
trifle in felt, to accompany her figured
frock of white upon cherry-red.
A lethargic State election took place
on Saturday. The general public took
very little interest in proceedings, and
even the politicians’ propaganda seemed
half-hearted, most of their shots being
threats of iron bars and fines for people
who didn’t vote. So little information
was given out about which districts had
to go to the polls that policemen, tram
conductors and newsagents had a steady
stream of inquiries all day. Melbourne
Town Hall also had its uninvited visitors.
Finding the doors bolted they wandered
like lost sheep through the catacombs at
the back till a caretaker informed them
that there was no poll for Melbourne.
Just before closing time, when the crowd
was at its thickest, there was a free fight
at the Prahran-South Yarra booth. In
the battle royal, blood flowed and fists
crashed like thunder- —but whether the
dispute was over politics or otherwise
could not be ascertained.
By sheer persuasion Marie Burke got
a hearing at the Froth and Bubble Ball
at Menzies. So great was the din that
no one any distance from the platform
had a chance of hearing the cabaret per-
formers, but Marie when her turn came
raised her hand, told those present how
much she loved them, and reminded them
of “Wildflower” days when they loved
her—so they gave her a go and all was
well. At the party there was the usual
array of things to buy from beauteous
salesgirls.
A merry table belonged to Simon
and Peter Fraser, Mary Wilson, Sue
George, Audrey Jamieson and a few
more young people who went truckin’
with success on the crowded floor. Mrs.
Alec Findlay wore a gown of azure-blue
shot with cyclamen and uplifted hair —
women are clinging tenaciously to the
femininity of Edwardian coiffures. Pat
Grey was there in misty-grey and white
frock and a white turban ; she owns these
turbans by the dozen. A good supper
came to light at the party, for it doesn’t
always follow that those who go dancing
at such shivoos for charity get enough
to keep body and soul together.
Two weddings of interest took place
on the same day. Mrs. Phyllis Mary
Eckford, of Merrimu, Point Lonsdale,
and Clive Fairbairn, of Woomargama,
Albury, faced the altar of Scots Church
together and met afterwards a gather-
ing of the families Fairnbairn and Shuter
and some other intimate friends at Men-
zies. Mrs. Roland Hope, of Geelong,
attended the bride, and Tony Fairbairn
was henchman for his father.
Mrs. Charlotte Dudgeon and Dr.
J. C. Lewis were quietly married at
Christ Church, and afterwards entertained
a dozen very special guests at 50
Queen’s-road. They didn’t absorb all the
congratulations of the afternoon, but
shared good wishes with the doctor’s
elder daughter, “Peter,” who has just an-
nounced her engagement to Stanley
Westbrook Churchus.
One of Saturday’s brides was Jean
Cumming (photograph from Broothorn),
who was married to Raymond McMillan
in Knox Kirk at Ivanhoe. ’Maids were
Margaret Cameron, a friend of the bride
from days at P.L.C., and the ’groom’s
sister Jean McMillan. The bride is the
only daughter of the James Cummings,
of Studley-road, Heidelberg, and the
’groom’s the only son of Mrs. S. Mc-
Millan. of Ivanhoe. The newly-married
pair will settle down after the honey-
moon in a home they have built in Gee-
long.
In spite of the moans about money
being tight there was a lot of it in Mel-
bourne in circulation upon backs and
heads on the first night of the ballet.
Coralled up and turned into crisp bank-
notes the wealth displayed on that gala
occasion would have paid the unemploy-
ment tax of a suburb full of wage-
earners. But, of course, such display
gives employment to many.
There was a fight tooth and nail to
get first-night ballet seats. The scrim-
mage over at box plan or telephone the
successful clamorers arrived complacent,
looking pleased with life and the
dinners they had just eaten. A climax
to the gala occasion was the second
night. The sky-high prices had fallen,
the house was only half full and the
only applause worth having was for
“Blue Bird” and “Three Ivans.” The
latter piece of flamboyancy always gets
the general public.
In the first-night audience white frocks
were distinctive and lilium aratum deco-
rated many a head. G.H. was repre-
sented ; ballet specialists like Jennie and
Eileen Brenan, Florrie Green, Eunice
Weston and Claire Aytoun were there.
The Geoffrey Syme menage occupied
half a row or so of seats and included
Mrs. John Hayne, of Adelaide, and Mrs.
Max Clemons, of Launceston. The Bal-
four sisters, Marie and Jean, burst forth
into florals. Ron Nott and Arthur Laver,
finding their turf talk for the moment of
secondary importance, made a foursome
with their wives. Mrs. Nott played a
contrasting note to the decorations
around her with the simplicity of her
aqua-green frock and high hair un-
adorned. Neither did a flower bloom
nor a star twinkle in the locks of Mrs.
John Wilks (who was Peggy Brownell
before she went to live in Canada several
years ago). Her white organza dress was
lit with sparkling beads here and there.
Lesley Browne was “who’s the girl
with the hankie,” sporting a Mary Queen
of Scots headdress. Betty Ince needed a
royal armchair for her lovely white
crinoline frock, though it emerged
smiling and uncrumpled at every interval
in the foyer. Pearls and gold thread
ornamented the yoke of Mrs. Abe Silk’s
cream slipper-satin gown. Mrs. Bill
Lempriere’s jewel-green frock had an ac-
companiment of burgundy cape and
turban —these turbans look like lifebelts
for the hair on windy wintry nights.
Among those who also saw the ballet
early in its season were Mrs. J. Fell and
Mrs. Tom Ramsay, both in creamy satin
gowns; Squadron-Leader and Mrs. Fred
Thomas, the Kingsley Hendersons, Roy
Grounds and Harold Holt, and Alec
Isaacson, who, like Toumanova’s mother,
never misses a performance. An appre-
ciative Adelaide visitor was Lilian
Lovick. One would never suspect that
she’s a serious-minded young barrister
and solicitor who works behind the same
office door as Patricia Hackett. At the
ballet Lilian made a beauteous picture in
a long coat of sky-blue moire over a
gown of vintage-purple chiffon.
Fortunately for the models as well as
the audiences and the charities con-
cerned the weather cooled off for the
mannequin parades at Menzies. These
fashion shows are an annual effort for
the Lady Forster Free Kindergarten—
this year the Red Cross shared in the
proceeds, and the ambitious project ex-
tended to a Froth and Bubble Ball on
the second evening. Harold Williams
heroically gave his vocal services on the
first afternoon —acoustically he couldn’t
have relished the draperies and other
decorative fal-lals. Frances Dillon was
soloist on the second afternoon.
Amongst those who promenaded were
Athalie Cuming, who opened the show
with an .air of assurance, a tweedy coat
and a feather elongated roofwards. Later
she looked well in a black velvet even-
ing gown and a headpiece of zinnia-red
mesh veil prolonged to touch the floor.
Mrs. Tom Patterson produced a different
personality for herself by revealing her
ears and the nape of her neck with her
dark hair swept upwards in the
Edwardian manner. She looked a pic-
ture in shades of purple and violet. Mrs.
Massey Burnside also wore violet with
success, her very fair hair standing the
test of the hardest color in the world to
carry.
Lynette Dickenson showed some scat-
terbrained little hats, each one more cun-
ning than the last. She wore also a
skirt that was almost a hobble, and her
date for after sundown was kept in a
gown of inky-blue crepe jewelled upon
the yoke. Mrs. Tom Fogarty went abroad
in the dusk of evening in a marine-blue
sway-back coat. Pen Stead was all set
for swing music in candy-pink taffeta,
but woe betide the partner who crushes
her shoulder-to-waist hedgerow of
flowers.
Paddy Wilkinson also had her generous
allotment of flowers as an accompani-
ment for a blajck crinoline traversed
upon the skirt with bands of “dragon-
blood” and “orchid-purple.” Mrs. Geoff
Norris and Betty Fogarty in garments for
the stately; Betty’s sister Celia, Bessie
Byrne, with her dimples in full play,
Barbara and Mary Stephens in “missies’ ”
frocks ; Joy Cuming-Parry of the auburn
locks and Alison Grant Hay behind
bridal tulle, were among purveyors of
clothes for the future.
Spectators were sold programmes and
shown their seats by a dozen young
usherettes wearing black even to their
sheer hose, and snoods of vineyard-
purple fishnet. On the first afternoon
glimpses were caught of Lady Dugan ; of
Mrs. Colin Mackay, Mrs. Geoffrey
Walker, Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh, in black
with ornamental necklace of seashells (a
jeweller has assisted nature to glamorise
them); Mrs. D. H. Ross, whose black hat
was made from three layers of stiffened
net with a floral offering aloft; Mrs.
Nicol Hart, in a black hat of sophisti-
cated genealogy; and Mrs. Bill Gluth, in
spectator sports outfit of navy and white.
In Athol Shmith’s photograph is
Lynette, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Albion Walkley, who has recently become
engaged to John Cowan Lowry, only son
of the late J. C. Lowry and of Mrs.
Lowry, of Lome Grove, Camberwell. As
plans are at present the wedding will take
place some time in May, it will be quiet
and Lynette will not wear conventional
bridal attire.
Originality being one of Dr. Ethel
Osborne’s virtues it was hardly surpris-
ing that the late-afternoon party she and
the Emeritus Professor gave at Riddell’s
Galleries during the Vassilieff exhibi-
tion was an unusual one. There were
sherry and madeira, egg savories and
dishes of ginger. The day was blazing
hot, and the top-floor galleries reached
a temperature comparable with that
which the galvanised-iron huts at Pucka-
punyal reach during a heat-wave. But
the heat didn’t worry Dr. Ethel —she
brought along a watermelon. After serv-
ing the purpose of a centrepiece in the
vegetable scheme of decorations she got
to it with a chopper and handed it
around piecemeal, setting an example
with her own slice by making of it as
tidy a crescent moon as one could wish
to see.
Mrs. Douglas Stephens refused to
cope with the juicy succulence, but
most of the other guests were soon ear-
to-ear in juice. Marea Lucas was round
and about with a cigarette-tin to collect
the pips. Among those present were
several artists looking particularly hot in
their beards. Madame Vassilieff eschewed
stockings, and instead of shoes she wore
a pair of Gandhi sandals.
One hundred and five degrees of heat
is no incentive towards playing golf, but
48 hardy stalwarts tramped over nine
fairways at Victoria on the opening day.
For their pertinacity Mrs. G. I. Dickson
and Mrs. S. V. Shannon became the
owners of beautiful lalique bowls placed
in their hands by the president, Mrs. Len
Buxton. Mrs. Buxton had other trophies
ready, which she will keep for some
future occasion. In normal weather
there would have been between 150 and
200 entries.
The associates arrived in spite of
the heat, but not to play golf. Over
150 entered the doors as the president’s
guests. Some played bridge, others
merely relaxed, and in so doing enjoyed
themselves so much that they won’t be
sorry if similar occasions happen in the
future.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MAIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4ld. per line; all others at
2Jd. per line.
How can State Parliaments be got rid of? A Lismore (N.S.W.) man’s ingenious
idea earns him double pay.
Simple, if not Sufficient
Someone mentioned that our “indis-
pensable” Parliament had met twice dur-
fng the six months of the war, and a hot
, , , a w mnfhnti of
« r S‘ men ensue - |
ridding our country of the incubus.
We had finally decided there was no
method, either good or bad, when my
old lady shoved her oar in. “Rubbish,”
she said. “The easiest thing in the world.
On voting day, everyone simply downs
pencils. Much easier thing to down
than a pickaxe They'd fine a few hun-
dred of us, but just make it a tew nun-
, , ’ , * « p„ r i:„
dred thousand and your Mate rarlia-
ment hasn’t a bench to snore on.”
I went away into a corner and chewed
over the idea The simplicity of it stag-
gered me. —Bungle (N.S.W./
B
“Bungle” is C. McEwen, Lismore
(N.S.W.).
One Parliament
„ , _ . ,
The speed of modern transport and
communications has unified this con-
tinent, and State Parliamentary control
of matters of nation-wide scope is not
merely an expensive anachronism but a
serious hindrance to progress. Biit many
who recognise this fact fear that one
central Parliament would intensify the
evils of too much _ centralisation.
The present administration of Federal
Territories does not arouse any enthu-
siasm for an extension of Commonwealth
control. In the Northern Territory, for
instance, there is a continually-expanding
bureaucracy, the size and cost of which
are out of all proportion to the require-
ments of that area and the results
achieved. There is also a large staff at
Canberra, and Alice Springs would have
been the home of a duplicate adminis-
r . 6 emergency
°f 1930. In addition there are, periodi-
cally, futile commissions and Ministerial
surveys. The presence of an elected
member at Canberra gives the N.l.
citizens theoretical political representa-
tion, but actually the abolition of the
Darwin Town Council and the corner-
sion of the Town Hall into an office of
he Commonwealth Bank destroyed the
last vestiges of democratic government
in J;, . • .• . . , ,
The institution of government by one
Parliament would mean more expensive
duplication and bureaucracy unless here
was a considerable extension of local
government. District councils, elected by
Parliamentary franchise and having fuL
control of local administration, or small
States with restricted powers, would be
necessary. The residents of a particular
district are the best judges of its needs,
particularly in Australia with its wide
variety of climatic conditions and stages
of development. The problem is to
devise a Constitution that will provide
a full measure of democratic control
while embodying national unity.—Demos
(N.T.).
A School for Politicians
i t
Nairb (B. 28/2 / 40) makes a plea
for the education of voters. But what
of the politicians? Isn’t it time that we
educated them? A Legislature composed
of such heterogeneous elements as ours
—retired blacksmiths, wheat-farmers,
billiard-markers, land agents, union
secretaries and the rest —is enough to
make Plato twist in his winding sheet,
These gentlemen may be completely
estimable people, but until they were
elected to rule their country most of them
had about as much idea of political
science as a newborn babe.
We, as voters, put them there, of
course, but what is usually offered to the
electors at the polls? Bill Jones, a re*
tired cow-farmer, is persuaded by his
friends to stand for Parliament because
he is a “good bloke” and has a large
personal following based upon his good-
fellowship. Tom Smith is his opponent,
representing a class group of working-
men. The fact that neither has the slight-
est inkling of what will be expected of
him as a representative of his constituency
doesn’t seem to enter into the question
at all. To those of the voters who do
think about politics, and I think they
? re . mora numerous than “Na.rb'
mugmes, the cho.ce is between two evils.
,, The “S't, renaed sf 1 can , su f Bg „l S
the establishment of a school for poll-
ticians, each elected candidate to spend
. ' , , , . I f
i ilx at the school betore talc ng
his seat m Parliament. If he fails to
£l lt “ s "“'cw
hls ear.-N. J. G. (N.S.W.).
p eace anc i W ar
a .. war effort” need
J . . . , , .
greater national stamina than the effort
, ... , ,
«h‘ ch should be made by every country
whe " lher t 18 war at all? * n
countr y where things are properly run
in peace-time there would be no need
whatever to make a special effort to win
a war
Here in Australia we are paying dearly
for years and years of hopeless political
inefficiency. If my house catches lire
I don t have to deliver an oration to
j nduce t be family to help in overcoming
tb£ fl ames
A Nationa i Government won’t
make one j ota 0 f difference to this
country It will just be the same old
tb j n g un der a new name. England’s
“National” Government was the most
disastrous Government which England
has ever had. Ramsay MacDonald led it.
It is a fundamental error for any
p eo pj e to suppose that Parliamentarians
ar£ 0 £ a b jg ber or der of intelligence than
or di nar y mortals. To put two or three
poijtica.l parties together in the hope that
tbe resu it an t “brain trust” will achieve
tbe m j racu ious is simply childish. Wipe
out st a t e Parliaments, let the people
wake up an d a ttend seriously to the
bus j ness 0 f running a democracy, abolish
tbe j dea Q £ £ bese party-picked candidates,
cut out pc> 0 f this blah and blather,
and yote some ab i e me n into the political
arena —then Australia will come in to
ber own —lnnisvickalaun (N.S.W.).
_■
Boards in S.A.
when he 8 Governments shirk the
re ibilit of dealing with affairs of
s J e b ap ' ojnting en | ess boards> - E .”
(B . 28/2/140) is on the right track. Dur-
ing the last session of the S.A. Parlia-
ment a member asked to be supplied with
th£ total number of public boards in the
State After officials had worked franti .
cally for several hours and run out a list
Q £ hundreds—including, of course, many
y necessary and unpaid health and
V e rm i n -protection boards, etc.—they gave
tb£ batde and supplied a list of just
tb£ ma j n on£S
There are at least 24 central adminis-
trabve Government boards in S.A.
Salaries range downward from £B5O for
the chairman and £250 for members. On
some 0 £ t be boards the members get a
bxed a mount for every meeting, and such
b o ards a re remarkable for the large
number of meetings they hold. Tram-
ways Trust Board members receive £1
P er meeting with a maximum of £7B a
year, though the tramways are run die-
tatorially_and one man.
A j £ (S A)
' 1
Select Committees
For sheer waste of public money, Par-
liamentary Select Committees stand un-
rivalled. The N.S.W. Select Committee
inquiring into the desirability of night
trotting is a case in point. One could
surely be excused for thinking that this
momentous question should not be be-
yond the capabilities of our ninety
Assembly members without the necessity
of several of them going as far afield
as Perth to gain information,
Neither the nature nor the history
of past committees is likely to inspire
confidence. The ruling party invariably
sees that it appoints a chairman of its
own color, and retains the odd vote in
proceedings. An adverse report is prac-
tically impossible. Instead, we have the
unedifying spectacle, as often as not, of
majority reports, with voting strictly on
party lines.
It may be argued, of course, that the
legislators are getting down to bedrock
and gaining first-hand knowledge. In
that case, they must be consistent. How
about half a dozen doing a week’s navvy-
ing to prove whether the road-workers
really need that ten minutes off for morn-
ing tea? Better still, a few in mufti
could travel the country seeking the dole
at a different town each week or go
hungry. They might then furnish worth-
while reports, compiled from bitter ex-
perience, not plagiarised from some
magazine.—Ricardo (N.S.W.).
Women
It was pleasing to note that ‘T)iana
Dustbin” (B. 21/2/’4O) made some un-
conscious admissions, such as that the
woman careerist is often unsuited for
marital mateship. Nor is it a feather in
woman’s hat to observe “many marriages
fail because the woman is both tem-
peramentally and morally unfitted for
a life of virtual domestic slavery.”
Why do some women react like that
to marriage and its demands? I suggest
that it is a faulty educational background
which has inculcated the wrong-headed
notion that “many women” are too, too
precious creatures to waste their exalted
selves in alleged domestic drudgery.
What does this type want from mar-
riage? A parasitic existence where the
meal-ticket provider will merely bask in
the reflected brilliance of his spouse as
bluestocking, bridge-player or witty
hostess, who must at all costs be pro-
tected against the social stigma of
“housewife’s hands.”
Take again, “the idea that a woman
who embarks on a career in preference to
matrimony must become frustrated is
valid only if she fails as a careerist.” The
answer to that claim is all too obvious
in the spectacle of the numerous career-
ists who become professional successes
and personal failures. Militant feminism
is itself a symptom of frustration, a wild
effort to compensate for emotional star-
vation. When woman regards the engross-
ing world of the home as a place only
fit for the nursemaid and domestic, she
cannot find happiness elsewhere nor
achieve mateship. She merely becomes
man’s competitor and commits emotional
suicide.
Not only the “average moronic male”
never misses the clever careerist; it is
an axiom that intelligent, thoughtful
males choose just the average woman
with interests close to the home and
family life. They realise that the woman
who can enthuse over a tidy home, a
well-cooked meal and a happy family—
although she is merely “rather dull” to
the brainy products of our educational
system —is worth all the clever careerists
who ever mouthed emotional and econo-
mic self-sufficiency.
The progress of the careerist, success-
ful or otherwise, through her youth to
middle-age is sometimes pathetic in its
futility. Much of the modern fiction
written by spinster careerists, often
erotic in content, is a confession of in-
adequacy and personal conflict. The
woman careerist should be mindful of
the fact that very often she is left to
work out her gloomy ideas of self-
expression sans mate, sans family, sans
home life, sans everything that gives
meaning and a satisfying theme to living.
C. Halbert (Vic.).
For the benefit of “Taurus” (B.
6/ 3 / ’4O), may I point out that in Fin-
land —much maligned by the Left-wing
press and rostrum as a home of oppres-
sion and grinding of the workers —equal
pay for the sexes exists? The law was
enacted without any violent and colorful
feminist movement. How it is panning
out on the birthrate and labor market, I
don’t know. But the country’s virility in
other directions certainly speaks for
itself. —J. B. (Q.).
Selling Children
Isn’t the problem of a falling birth-
rate generally approached in a rather
negative manner? The positive attitude
would be to treat the production of
young Australians as an industry and
as such make Australia aware of it. And
the only way to do this is to advertise.
A businessman conducting an adver-
tising campaign never rails at the
population for not buying a certain pro-
duct, never criticises its morals, taste
or customs, but concerns himself with
first making the public conscious of that
product and then making it anxious to
buy. He devises subtle advertisements
for people who will not be coerced into
buying, and slightly dictatorial adver-
tisements for the masses of people who
like to have their thinking done for them.
The entire population, of course, does
not buy the article, but if a large per-
centage does it may be said to be on
the market.
In the same way parenthood could be
advertised and the average married
couple could be induced to feel that
babies are welcome and necessary.
A. R. (Q.).
Earning and Spending
From the daily evidence of the aw
courts I have found that much or
“cadging” (B. 6/ 3 / ’4O) is not deliberate
fraud, but arises from a failure on
part of the individual to realise that
is any rigid connection between income
and expenditure. In their business matters
many of the “cadgers” are honest an
reliable; in personal relations they are
truthful, agreeable and kindly ; in priva e
financial arrangements they are hopeless.
They run up ridiculous bills for groceries,
milk, fuel, etc., even sending *heir otl '
spring from school to school as the un-
paid fees mount up; they entertain
lavishly ; they travel; they are generous
with what cash they possess. Inaeea,
their generosity increases their indebted-
ness.
What can be done to improve the
position in regard to such people is a
puzzling question. Steps taken to re-
cover either property or money fr°m
them are inevitably fruitless ; the law
provides no corrective treatment, and it
is doubtful whether correction could be
usefully applied, especially in the case of
old offenders.
Prevention, in fact, seems the only cure,
and that is largely in the hands ot
parents and educational authorities. As
soon as a child is old enough to spend
money it should be taught that what it
can spend depends upon what it can
earn ; “sponging” in any form should be
discouraged at the outset. If this simple
truth could be instilled into every youth-
ful head before the period of real earn-
ing and spending is reached, most private
financial problems and national prob-
lems too —would be solved as they arise.
—D. J. G. (Vic.).
New Industries
Now is the time to open new industries,
and our aim should be to link primary
and secondary industrial effort as much
as possible. Import restrictions are seri-
ously hitting our fabric purchases from
abroad, and in this sphere many oppoi-
tunities exist which may be turned to
our national advantage.
During the 1914-18 war a tentative ex-
periment in growing cotton was made in
North Queensland. It was successful,
and by the end of the war our cotton
production was highly satisfactory ; more-
over, by manufacturing it here we had
added another rung to the ladder of self-
sufficiency. But after the war the whole
project lapsed, and this war sees us in
precisely the same position with regard
to cotton production as in 1914.
Flax grows well here, particularly on
the Riverina, and another primary pro-
duct from which linen is made —ramie
plant grows better in Australia than
anywhere else in the world. This ramie
is the fibre from which the linen shrouds
of the old Pharaohs were woven, and its
durability is proved by the fact that it
has come from their ancient tombs as
good as new. Surely it is worth Aus-
tralia’s while to develop such an industry
at the present moment.
Apart from the obvious chance it
affords of clothing the existing population
economically, the development of new
industries can do much towards coaxing
the birthrate upward and finding homes
and congenial work for those whom new
creeds have rendered homeless. And the
possibilities of building up an export
trade are not to be sneezed at. —
Woolstra (N.S.W.).
Protecting Protection
It wouldn’t be a bad idea if those
Australian manufacturers who abuse
protection by turning out inferior articles
(B. 28/2/’4O) were given a taste of the
medicine administered to their seven-
teenth-century French counterparts by
Colbert, Louis XlV’s great Minister.
Colbert was a strong believer in Pro-
tection, and the fiscal policy he adopted
enabled France’s secondary industries to
expand enormously. He was determined
that there should be no exploiting of the
public either through overcharging or by
the production of shoddy articles. His
edict on the dyeing of cloths gives a
good idea of his methods. Bad cloth
specimens were to be exhibited with the
name of the delinquent. A second offence
was to be censured at a meeting of the
Guild to which he who committed it be-
longed. The perpetrator of a third offence
was to be tied for two hours in a public
place with a specimen of his faulty pro-
duct tied to him.
As a result of this policy the quality
of French goods became renowned
throughout Europe. —Lyle (N.S.W.).
The Strike Losses
The coal strike is on us, and, if the
strikers “win,” what will they lose? In a
previous strike, where the men were


HISTORY
AUSTRALIAN
O F
MONEY
m
ym
iJP.
RUM WAGES
For almost a quarter of a century after Governor Phillip's
departure in 1792, wages were customarily paid in spirits, or
as they were then loosely termed, rum. The liquor was con-
sumed far too freely, hut in the absence of an adequate internal
currency some of it was also passed on in exchange for goods
and services. Thus used, it was a make-shift form of money.
Rum was displaced by a sound currency during Governor
Macquarie s regime. In 1815 he introduced more coin. In 1816
he issued several orders which deprived the rum monopolists
of their powers. But a chaotic monetary situation still
remained owing to excessive private issues of notes and bills.
In 1817, Macquarie’s efforts culminated in the establishment
of the Bank of New South Wales, his 'favourite measure”
as he told the British Government. The founders of the
Bank gave Australia its first soundly regulated note
issue, and by so doing handed down the tradition of public
service which is still upheld by the present management.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
THE FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
552 H.
largely right, £1,000,000 was lost in
wages, which were increased by Is. per
shift and the men had two shifts a week.
To pick up the £1,000,000 took some
years, and to pick up the interest on the
£1,000,000 took another year or two. But
it was proclaimed a victory by the strike
leaders. . , ,
Have any strikes, with due regard to
the all-round costs and losses to workers
in other industries, shown a profit? We
have been told that education in the
schools would stop strikes, but it has not.
We were then informed that arbitration
would prevent further strikes and conse-
quent losses, but that also is a failure.
Perhaps sounder counsels will prevail
and all unions will have a say in the
affairs of the striking union. A brick-
layers’ strike affects the carpenters and
plumbers, so why should they not also
have a vote in the bricklayers’ strike?
And as the Labor people have been such
strong advocates of votes for women,
why in the world don’t women have an
equal vote with the men on union strike
matters? —F. T. C. (W.A.).
Rain-water Tanks
Every summer there are murmurs in
Sydney of a probable shortage of water.
Ominous warnings issue from the Water
Board, followed by restrictions for the
non-meter household, while the market
gardener anticipates a staggering bill for
excess and lets the price of his com-
modity soar.
Why hasn’t Sydney made the water-
consumer help himself as in most other
Australian cities by conserving the rain-
water that runs away by the ton from his
roof? During a two-year stay in Sydney
not once have I seen a rain-water tank,
not even in the outer suburbs where
dwellings are utilitarian rather than
artistic and grounds are large enough to
allow for a string of tanks.
Our rain-water supply in Adelaide pro-
vided enough annually to meet the
laundry, cooking and drinking needs of
a familv of five even in the driest season.
-White-Eye (N.S.W.).
Bushfire Prevention
Even in bad years bushfires cover but
a small portion of a State, and if land-
holders were to plough chain-wide breaks
at intervals of one mile (B. 6/3/’4O) the
cure, in the aggregate, would represent
a bigger loss of pastures than the fires ;
the labor required would be many times
greater than that needed for fire-fighting,
and few small holders could afford it.
Breaks are important factors in con-
trol, but do not assure immunity. Strong
winds and hot, expanding air carry burn-
ing pieces over a mile —in the Gipps-
land and Trunkey (N.S.W.) fires of last
year volatile gas from burning trees
ignited and, forming fireballs, roared
across mile-wide valleys, setting fire to
the ranges opposite.
Few homes or buildings would be lost
if dry grass around them was burnt in
the early summer. Brigades equipped
with beaters, knapsacks, portable water-
tanks, pumps and hoses could do this
without incurring danger. The outskirts
of scrub and forest land, particularly
where close to villages, should be fire-
trailed in the autumn for a width of ten
chains. In grass country, roads and
areas around adjacent fences should be
kept free of old dry grass.
In the event of fire water-tanks could
be moved swiftly, the fences sprayed with
knapsacks and trails burnt from inside
the fence towards the fire. The road
would act as a safeguard against fire
breaking away from the trail. — Brig. Sec.
(N.S.W.).
Importance of Failure
No one ever seems to pause and con-
template the large number of failures and
disappointments that successful people
must have endured and overcome before
achieving their objectives.
Instead of stories about the successes
of the great it would be much more in-
spiring and helpful for those who nourish
secret ambitions to hear details of their
faijures and how they overcame them.
Failures make people appear human and
humble and accessible, and the thought
that even the cleverest have had to work
and struggle upwards at first can be
comforting to lesser men when their own
, personal failures seem unending.
A certain amount of failure is in-
escapable, and it is time that it was
regarded in a different light. As a
thinker once remarked, “There is some-
thing unreal or dubious about a man that
has never failed.”— -P. Radwon (Vic.).
Freedom
Freedom, says the old-established defi-
nition, is personal or civil liberty, and
liberty is the right or power to do as
one pleases.
For a fuller understanding of what
freedom is, you have only to observe
what the lack of it means, and there are
plenty of examples of this in the world
today. Unfortunately most of us view
the oppression of others in distant parts
with the indifference with which we
contemplate the fourth murder in a detec-
tive story; an effort of imagination is
required to visualise the same thing hap-
pening to us. Yet such an effort is neces-
sary, because only by contrast can free-
dom be understood and the obligations
it imposes appreciated. Also, you must
be able to distinguish between true free-
dom and the spurious variety whose real
name is license.
We are hearing much of the latter
kind at present. Whenever some privilege
of the individual is curtailed in the inter-
ests of the country as a whole, the cry
goes up that liberty is in danger. The
row in certain quarters following the re-
introduction of compulsory training is a
case in point.
The first obligation imposed by free-
dom is restraint. The right or power to
do as one pleases must be exercised only
with due regard for others. It might
please you to rob a bank or shoot your
mother-in-law, but you must forgo these
pleasures. Freedom requires the giving
up, in the common interest, of a limited
measure of our liberty—and doing it
freely.—T. E. P. (N.S.W.).
Railways or Roads?
I have previously drawn attention to
the remarkably progressive outlook of
the Queensland Railway Department by
reference to a Parliamentary Commission
which considered roads and rail in 1863.
Since “Ex-Loco” (B. 6/ 3 / ’4O) has men-
tioned one or two things locomotive, the
report is worth another look.
Evidence was taken from the then
chief railway engineer of the infant State
of Queensland on the subject of the
width of the tracks. He explained loftily
that the 3ft. 6in. gauge proposed in
Queensland was identical with that of
the Stockton-Darlington line (the first
built). It carried an engine of a certain
tonnage in perfect safety at the amazing
speed of 15 m.p.h. It was good enough
for England. It was, therefore, good
enough for Queensland. So in went the
3ft. 6in. lines in Queensland, the same
as the First Railway in the World.
Eighty years later they are still there and
arguments are still being found for their
retention.
Incidentally, on the value of roads as
developmental instruments, the Queens-
land Main Roads Commissioner reprinted
a number of letters from various local
councils showing the boost that has fol-
lowed in the wake of new roads of even
inferior quality. In Central Queensland
productivity jumped, cream cheques were
bigger, more people came, and develop-
ment was unprecedented.
Investigations conducted by the
Queensland State Transport Board about
1933 showed that the railway is not in
it with the motor on haulage up to 200
miles. After that the railway holds its
own. But as motorised transport de-
velops in heavyweight efficiency the dis-
tance up to which it can run the old
loco, off its wheels will increase.
The big trouble with the Australian
transport problem is that if it is solved
thoroughly and conscientiously somebody
will get hurt in the pocket and some
legislator will get hurt at the ballot-box.
—Ford (Q.).
Shark Tragedies
Shark tragedies occur only among
people who swim in unprotected surf,
very often those who are too poor to
pay for the protection of shark-proof
enclosures.
Some years ago at Torquay (Q.) a
shark took a man, and the public was
so affected that it voluntarily aided
the council to erect shark-proof fences
at every seaside resort along the five
miles of Hervey Beach. Since then there
has not been one fatality, because there
is no swimming outside of these en-
closures.
Unless the Government makes the
beaches and surf safe for bathers by
introducing free-for-all bathing en-
closures, there will always be shark
tragedies.— Bill Cotton (N.S.W.).
V.D. Publicity
“Pawang” (B. 21/2/’4O) is hardly fan-
in blaming the Government for not dis-
cussing v.d. It has the same attitude
to both alcohol and v.d., except that
society is to blame for making v.d. a
subject that cannot be openly discussed.
I think it is sufficient to say that the
authorities are fully aware of the seri-
ousness of v.d. However, as newspapers
are read by children from about 10 years
upwards, it is asking too much to want
them to print details of measures taken.
—Arthur Peters (N.S.W.).
Assessing History
Arthur Falk (B. 28 /2 / ’4O) advises a
comprehensive study of history, and his
argument is sound, up to a point. In
assuming that the student would have
reference to reliable authorities, he goes
astray. For the majority, history is left,
behind in the schoolroom ; beyond that
the inquiring mind must delve into a
welter of biography, autobiography and
the miscellaneous writings of the periods
under review. Of these, which may be
regarded as authoritative?
School textbooks are more concerned
with formulating a point of view than
with recording strict historical truth.
Political, religious, philosophical and
commercial considerations dictate the
policy followed by each nation in the
presentation of history. From a patriotic
standpoint, a “nationalist” bias is, per-
haps, to be desired ; but if we are to
arrive at a true valuation of the past to
guide our future national life it is not
enough.
Historians completely detached from
all considerations but the accurate record-
ing of fact are lamentably few. Biog-
raphy is suspect because most biog-
raphers deliberately present their subjects
in what they regard as a favorable light
and so succeed in perpetuating merely
a point of view. Except in recording the
development of industrial and philoso-
phical movements, contemporaneous
writings have little value historically, and
autobiographies have less.
Certainly “we take too little notice of
the record of triumphs and blunders
upon which mankind looks back,” but
we are not alone in that. In every age,
including the current era, “men of des-
tiny” have seized power and forced their
wills 011 their contemporaries. They
have perpetrated the same crimes against
decessors. War follows war, reigns of
terror recur natrons and rulers rise and
decl'ne, and the cumulative lesson is
™sted on the very people who stand ,o
benefh most from observing it.
The lesson may have been read incor-
reedy; it may have been ignored but
he uncomfortable fact rema.ns that his-
! or y has taught us little of value There
15 <°° much laudation of the glory of
achievement and too little emphasis on
the plain record of the monotonous nose-
to-the-grindstone pracesr o/achievement.
Nairb (Vic.).
Glamor
The talkies may or may not" be re-
sponsible for juvenile crime, but they
are certainly to blame for much silliness,
For confirmation ask parents. At
first with amusement, then with dismay,
they see their offspring hitching their
wagons to some “star” or other, aping
their glamor, slang, cosmetics, smoking,
cocktail drinking and contempt for the
duties of domestic life generally. There
may be no actual “crime” involved in
the police-court sense. The law takes
no count of wasted lives, shattered
health or squandered money and oppor-
tunities.
Was it Carlyle who visualised the scene
that would result if all the persons in
a royal drawing-room function were
suddenly disrobed? We might ask what
would happen if the guests at an aver-
age cocktail party or dance had their
faces thoroughly washed. We would then
see how much we have been influenced


“The Bulletin” and
the Pelman Institute.
Through the Pelman Institute’s announce-
ments in “The Bulletin” many hundred readers
of this paper have become Pelmanists. Both
they and we are under obligation to “The
Bulletin” for effecting the introduction.
The universality of the appeal of Pelmanism
is apparent from the following particulars of
the latest 200 students of Pelmanism who are
“Bulletin” readers. The particulars also show
that the readers of “The Bulletin” are truly
representative of the thoughtful and vigorous
life of Australia.
200 Readers of “The Bulletin” enrolled for
the Pelman Course of Training.
Towns. Country.
“Towns” include not only capital cities, but
also many large towns throughout Australia
and New Zealand. Analysis shows that the
proportion of Pelman students who are readers
of “The Bulletin” corresponds with the town
and country populations of Australia and New
Zealand. Papua, Fiji and other South Sea
Islands are also included.
The callings of the 200 Pelman students are:
Accountants
(Chartered)
Advertising Specialists
Bank Officers
Barristers
Building Contractors
Cabinetmakers
Carpenters
Chemists
Clerks—
Insurance
Shipping
General
Commercial Travellers
Company Secretaries
Contractors for Work
on the a Land
Doctors
Engineers
Farmers
Journalists
Graziers
Managers of Country
Properties
Marine Engineer
Ministers of Religion
Poster Artist
Press Photographer
Prospectors
Salesmen
Shop Assistants
Solicitor
Stock and Station
Salesmen
Stockmen
University Students
Wool Sampler
Oostumiere
Housewives
Nurses
Personal Maid
Saleswomen
Teachers
Ty pistes
The agefe of the men in the group range
from 20 to 64. The average age is about 33.
Pelmanists generally arc engaged in practi-
cally every known calling. A complete list is
given in “The Efficient Mind,” the prospectus
of the Pelman Course of Training.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality training. Of these over 44,000
have enrolled with the Institute in Mel-
bourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide
organisation of 40 years’ standing. Its head-
quarters are in London, and its address in
Australia is 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders
Lane, Melbourne, C.l, where it has been
established for 33 years.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to The Pelman Institute.
liege - - 1930.
Nancy- - 1932.
Geneva - - 1933.
Paris 1933.
Pelmanism develops the following qualities:
Self-Confidence
Concentration
Decisiveness
Judgment
Will-Power
Self-Control
Observation
Tact
Initiative
Social Ease
and a Good Memory for faces, figures, names,
appointments, prices and useful data of
every kind.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
Giving and Taking
There is significance in the recency of the following letters selected from
hundreds received by the Pelman Institute during the past year. The letters
emphasise the ability of the Pelman Institute to give, and of its pupils to take,
the maximum benefit of the Pelman Course of Training even in very troublous
times.
Readers are asked to note the diverse occupations of the writers of the letters.
Bth September, 1939.
“I am enclosing my fifteenth Work Sheet. I
enjoyed every minute of my studies, and one
of the most helpful points about the course
was your advice and comments.
“I have derived wonderful benefits from the
Course and will have no hesitation in recom-
mending it to anyone who seeks a thorough
guide to life.”—Farmer (Q’land).
9th August, 1939.
“I have received much helpful advice from
you—advice which will benefit me not only
now but in the days which lie ahead. The
Lessons themselves are excellent and straight
to the point. It is surprising how much wisdom
can be packed into each book. When this is
combined with the personal guidance which is
given according to each student’s particular
needs, it makes the Course a wonderful invest-
ment.” —Retail Salesman (Vic.).
14th June, 1939.
“The results of this one lesson are worth
the price of the whole Course, and make me
feel 100 per cent, for the day.”—Master Butcher
(Tas.).
10th March, 1939.
“Having completed the Course, I wish to
thank you most sincerely for your great
patience with me. All the Lessons have con-
tributed their quota to the attainment of mental
efficiency, but of them all I would like to
single out Lesson 15 for special commendation.
It is a real gem.
“The formal course of training has now been
completed, but this does not mean that I have
finished with Pelmanism. Far from. it. - The
helpful friendliness of the books will be of great
assistance to me for the remainder of my life.
“I will always entertain the warmest feelings
towards yourself, personally, for the under-
standing way in which you have corrected the
Work Sheets.”—Agent (S.A.).
6th March, 1939.
“The main benefit is the calmness with which
I deal with everything that occurs. The
momentary pause to decide between the balance
of thought and feeling, guided by will, has set
up a favorable form of analysis, which has
definitely educated me better than any school
could. I know much more (in a practical way)
than ever I did.
“The Physical exercises have had wonderful
results. Fresher, better sleeping, better sports
performances, and the feeling that ‘life is wortn
living’ all come from this Course.” —Publisher
(Vic.).
16th October, 1939.
“I am grateful for your discussion with me
of the ins and outs of .this problem and am
glad to say that I have made -up my mind.
1 have had far less trouble: with worrying than
I had a year ago, due, I know, to your advice
and help. If I still say or do the wrong thing
now and then, it does not spoil three days of
my life as it used to do.” —Teacher (Vic.).
19th October, 1939.
“Please find enclosed my last Work Sheet.
Pelmanism does all that your advertisements
claim, and has-suited my own case. to perfec-
tion. There is something in the books which
casts a spell- on one'. Their contents arouse
latent powers, and the appended exercises give
the key whereby practical and personal, applica-
tion is made possible. I shall treasure those
books.
“Many thanks for your invaluable help in the
correction of the Work Sheets. You always
had something ‘to add which I had missed,
and so greatlyenhanced my own efforts.” —
Clerk in Holy Orders (S. Aust.).
16th August, 1939.
“As this letter accompanies my last examina-
tion paper, I would like to thank you for
your very helpful criticism of my work. I
have enjoyed the Course from start to finish,
and I think it has marked a definite turning-
point, in my life.”—Station Overseer (N.S.W.).
Pelmanism is a real training. It teaches many things, but its
qualities and attributes. This is emphasised by every one of the
letters published in “The Efficient Mind.” Copies of this book are
or call.
purpose is to train
many opinions and
posted free. Write
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (cnr. Market St ), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
NEW ZEALAND
INQUIRERS
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrange-
ments to meet the financial
restrictions and enable resi-
dents of New Zealand to
enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin
a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free.
You can write us fully, or
you can make just a bare
application by using or
copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be re-
garded as a confidential
communication; we have no
outside representatives.
To the Pelinan Institute. 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy 01
“The Efficient Mind.”
-Name
A.''’dress
112
by the talkies’ teachings of synthetic
beauty. If a conversational scrubbing
could be effected at the same time the
guests would become quite likeable
human beings, mentally and physically
real, instead of cheap imitations of stars
that shine only when permed, painted,
slimmed, corseted, dressed and directed
by the most expert producers of bunkum
and ballyhoo the world has ever seen.
J.W. (S.A.).
Clean Eating Houses
Now that the authorities seem in
earnest about cleaning up the eating
houses in Sydney and suburbs, why not
authorise health inspectors to issue cer-
tificates of clean premises in, say, three
degrees —100 p.c., 75 p.c. and 50 p.c.
clean? These certificates could be dis-
played by the owners of the cafes, etc.,
so that their patrons could see them.
Those cafes not displaying a 100 p.c.
clean certificate would soon lose their
customers. —Ox (N.S.W.).
Petrol Rationing
The idea of petrol rationing, wherever
it originated, was sprung so suddenly
that a kind of commercial panic set in,
then explosions of anger. Not for one
moment would the motoring people con-
sider such a measure. Yet the day will
come when we shall not only have to
consider it but accept it. Modern wars
cannot be won without petrol, and petrol
may decide the present war.
Rather than that Australia’s internal
economy should be painfully disrupted
by the sudden introduction of wholesale
rationing—and disruption is inevitable in
this case—it may be as well to consider
less stringent forms of rationing as a
preliminary measure. Families main-
taining two, three and even four cars
for private use are sufficiently common
to suggest that a considerable saving might
be effected in this direction for a start.
Beginning from that point, the gradual
application of rationing to private car-
owners generally and then onwards to
commercial vehicles would have the
double effect of preventing widespread
disruption and, at the same time, giving
R.A.A.F. sufficient time to absorb the
unemployment which the measure would
most certainly create. Wm. Lynch
(N.S.W.).
Fares, Please!
There’s been a lot of high-minded talk
lately about tram passengers at peak
hours not paying their fares. Now, sup-
posing it’s a corridor tram with so many
people already aboard that there’s not
even an ant-track left anywhere. You
and 78 others are jammed in the back
cabin, and the conductor is taking fares
from the front of the tram. By the time
you arrive at your destination he still has
three furlongs to go before he could pos-
sibly reach you. The space between is
a solid mass of humanity, and your
dinner is waiting.
Further, you know from experience
that the tram won’t stop at your desired
stop—it will only breathe There ore, you
just have time to shift the 11 person
who are standing on your f ee ’ sa T > ou '
prayers and make a wild l ea P ° u lntn
the darkness, trusting that you li an on
the roadway intact.
What should you have done? Should
you have stayed in the tram till the con-
ductor got through to you, thereby per-
mitting your starved self to e over
carried for miles away from y° ur
ing feedbox? Or should y° a
screamed at the top of y°ur v 1 ’
haven’t paid my fare and i ge
the next stop! May the Uor v
mercy on my soul!” The on y g
do if you are thus forced to e & now
payer is to get a small piece o
and, for every unpaid fare, mar a ar § L
Xon the worst wall of your e room -
When the total reaches a quid you can
either mail the money to the tramways
Department or break down completely
and give yourself up to the police, llm
(N.S.W.).


-
ROLEX
OYSTER
PROVED
& TESTED.
sad
For ARMY,
NAVY,
AIR
•ORCE,
all
t>cc up ac-
tions,
Water-
X>r«ot',
FKICE,
£ll.
Tudor
Oyster,
WILL GIVE SERVICE FOR LIFE. £7/10/-.
DIAMOND
fr WATCH
SPECIALISTS
i&juJz4<ytdit
112 MARKET ST
I SYDNEY, j
OPR OAVIDJONES
s. —>
17
New Shipment Just Arrived.
No Increase in Price.
GENUINE
MEERSCHAUM
PIPE
Beautifully Packed
Honestly
worth 30/-.
Special to
“Bulletin”
readers, 17/6,
Goods sent
C.O.D.
if desired.
Show visitors to Sydney, be sure and visit
my store and sec for yourself the wonderful
values in smokers’ requisites.
mi ios
(Two minutes from
Tobacconist, Est. 89 Yrs,
713 George St., Sydney.
Central Railway Station.)
Golfers!
JIM FERRIER
Australian Open and.
Amateur Champion,
has written a book,
“GOLF SHOTS,”
with over 100 photographs, which
will be published by “The Bulletin”
about the middle of April, 1940.
Book your order now, 3/- per copy.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.
Box 252 188, G.P.0., Sydney.
WNCHttTM
SKATES
15/—2O -
WITH STEEL ROLLS
COWLES
and DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY
GREENMORE ELECTRIC ROASTER
%
57/6
Plug in just like
your Iron.
It roasts, toasts,
grills, makes your
scones and boils on
top. Oven size
llin. wide, Sin.
deep, 6in. high—■
very low running
cost. Richly
enamelled mottled
Green, Blue or
Cream. Complete
with flex and plug.
From all Good
Stores, or direct from the Manufacturers:
GREENMORE PRODUCTS,
11 Stewart St., Richmond, Victoria.
CLIP THIS AD-
and post it to ns, with your Name and Address,
and we will send you in return a FREE sample
of our famous Everlasting Plant Labels. They
cannot crack, rot, rust or tear—and in shape
and size are just right. The name will never
come off—it can be read after years just as
easily as the day you write it on. In fact,
they are the perfect plant label.
OR, if you are not too suspicious—and will
take our word for it —send 6d. for a dozen,
II- for 25, 3/6 for 100, or 32/6 for 1000.
Post Free anywhere in Australia.
WARNES SHELL LIME COMPANY
(Established 1882),
Shell Lime and Fertiliser Manufacturers,
Contractors to N.S.W. Government.
City Address: 56 Dixon Street, Sydney.
IS?
&
i
A
S'
fl
0
'
m
sporls, Miss? Well, there's an old bloke
ite A that's simply rolling in it."
NEVER LOSE A FISH.
s
THE BULL DOG
FISH HOOK
A SURE GRIPPER.
A nibble sets it off and hooks the
fish safely. The hook springs
wide open directly the bait is
taker.. Strong, simple, nothing to
go out of order.
Sold in three sizes.
Price 1/3 each, post free.
Obtainable only from
THE UNION MFG. CO.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melb., C.l.
LAMBS SAVED
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
flies, or :nfection
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient —
Humane—Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback —fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection—No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From ail Agents or—
A. H. BAY & CO.,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
M
ANYWHERE
ANYTIME
MPLI
HOME POWER WITS
»r **»G6S A STRATTOM
A small, compact
Petrol Electric
Generator, with
everything a car
engine has.
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
PRICE, £39/15/-
Write for comprehen-
sive Bulletin No. 79.
rjiijiMii-iiei
• For Home Lighting.
• Battery Charging.
• Will operate twelve
25-watt lamps.
• Runs 12 hours on
lgal. of petrol.
382 Kent Street,
Sydney j N.S.W.
«gg7.:,
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion Grounds. Machines are
still going strong.
Has no equal
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
MARKER CO..
3 Jabez St., Marrickville,
N.S.W. ’Phone: LM4794.
IT’S HERE—WORLD’S SMALLEST 1940
RE-NU POCKET RADIO
dsa
NO
TUBES OR
BATTERIES
FITS YOUR POCKET,
WEIGHS ONLY 3 OZS. Long
distaneo over 100 miles clear,
natural tone; superior per-
formance. No crystal to ad-
just; no upkeep. Anyone can
use in Hotels, Boats, Beds,
etc.; takes few. seconds to
connect. Guaranteed 5 years’ satisfaction or money
refunded. Pay postman 42/-. or Wire, Write, Call.
RE-NU LTD. (Est. 1932'. opp. Richmond Stn.,
Melb. 75 other lines. Agents required. Employ-
ment offers. For full particulars and free samples
send 10d. in stamps, refundable with first order.
Wireless Statics Aerial Eliminator, connects to
anv Wireless. Price 15/6. Weighs 3oz. .Midget
Broadcaster, operates thru your own radio.
Do your own Broadcasting. Price, £l/1/-.
THE
WOMAN S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
‘54 Common
Errors in English”
The lip-perfect method
of correction by imitation,
repetition and reasoning.
The training corrects the errors so
definitely and conclusively that the
pupil speaks correctly without thought
and without self-consciousness. The
chapter “Easy Speaking” shows how to
fnW the proper pitch and how to im-
prove intonation, resonance and accent.
The Course is taught by post. Particu-
lars from E. 11. Welford, 396 Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.
DEAF!
New Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOICDI,, 1j.1.R.5.T.,
The Block, 138 George St., Sydney,
and T. & G. Buildings, Collliin St.,
Melbourne.
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 35/- only
These beautiful instruments are mar-
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post
office, for only 35/-. COMPLETE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IS
GIVEN FREE, and we guarantee that
you will be able to play within seven
days, otherwise we will refund your
money in full. This offer cannot be
repeated. Goods can be sent C.O.D.
if you wish.
TALKERIES,
161 CASTJ7EKHAC.H STREET. SYDNEY
n/y.
STOP!
Your worst fence
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
JB9 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MUSHROOMS
“PERFECTION”
100% pure culture
spawn.
Made in Australia
and is developed
under skilled super-
vision. Enough to
grow 401 b., 4/6 post
free.
But first send 2d.
postage for
iSr
FREE BOOKLET
giving full instructions as to preparation of
compost, method of growing, etc.
T. TAYNTON, SPAWN SPECIALIST,
84 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STOP™* Rupture
*
comfort.
Worries/
One leading Doctor on 3/11/’3B
says:—•
“I order your appliances for my
patients because 1 consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appli-
ance you get greater security and
To prove this we offer
-14 DAYS FREE TRIAL*
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
tor one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
20/3/’4O (See Page 42)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants" to the Service Department, “The Bulletin
L Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


Vk
7a
S S
. :
SI
fgs.
jm
MM
tiitig
iMWMi
The New
SSSiKSii'ii?®:
£
X
i
y ■■■' x .■>:>: : :->. : x : : : :::-: ; :v;:::':-:-:-
mm
R S.''
*■■■:
'MMmmmsmm
asSlPslP^^
(international;
▼
k
11.
> x' ?
:X: : : : :¥:«b»;S@X-41w
:
:• S
mmm
•: x'.Y.
|N the latest model International Utility, the
traditional stamina associated with the triple-
diamond emblem has been merged with body-
work of the highest standard of comfort and
good looks. The result is a vehicle of the most
practical and desirable type for discriminating
country users.
BRIEF SPECIFIC ATI ONSj
6-cylinder economy engine; 113" W.B.
(125” Special); high-grade all-steel
bodywork; safety glass; no-draught
ventilation; leather-hide upholstery;
6.50-16 6-ply tyres.
THIS BRILLIANT UTILITY IS FULLY DESCRIBED IN ILLUSTRATED
BROCHURE WHICH WILL BE MAILED TO YOU ON REQUEST
m
m
mmm
Superbly appointed driving compartment
—— leather-hide upholstery, safety glass
no-draught ventilation sloping V-type
windscreen.
:
of Australia
278-294 Roma ST. f
BRISBANE, e. 13
5-11 Pyrmont Bridge Rd.,
Camperdown, SYDNEY
<1
171-205 City Road,
SOUTH MELBOURNE, 5.c.4
113-114 North Terrace,
ADELAIDE
789-795 Wellington St.,
PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., HOBART, AGENTS FOR TASMANIA
577
