

mmm
J?Jf: JSJSBtjni 2ft!!!?!!*?! f !!l
iMm
r*
l
'! ji him nwjNi
II j ill Mj Ilf,'!!}}
’ ji;;j|j i 1; ;|j
jj ||! >i; }{ U j S} j jj j
; i '■ J!jj|! Tii |J ; 1 : !J!| \\\'■ ‘;:11f!!; j;j;;i; ; ' J.
!!!!!! L
"The New Inn”
Gloucester
It is a strange con-
tradiction that one of
the oldest coaching
inns in England was
so named.
For five • centuries
the courtyard has re-
mained practically
unaltered.
f
-L \>
»-
V. ?
pro
i)
! ,\
jr (
lOOiKOOK&J*
Host Holbrook says:
"Age gives my Worcester-
shire Sauce its rich mellow
flavour.
It is brewed from the finest
ingredients and matured
like good wine.
Ah, indeed! it adds a relish
to the simplest meal.”
HOLBROOKS
SAUCE
WORCESTERSHIRE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3149.
Wednesday, June Id, 1940 •
The War Comes Home to Us
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
sloni WrUWJ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 3-10
The Red Page
LAWSON DRESSED UP.
The Australian Limited Editions
Society now adds to its list a neat print-
ing of four Henry Lawson swagman
sketches, with Lionel Lindsay woodcut
illustrations—a nice collector’s piece,
finely designed and beautifully turned out
in the prevailing fashion for special press
publications, products in this fashion
being not so much books as delicate
bric-a-brac ; not for the shelf, but to be
left lying negligently about near a flowery
piece of pottery from Middle Europe.
Opening such tomes calls somehow for
special rites to offset the sacrilege, and
reading them seems a heresy.
It seems singularly incongruous to
come across Lawson, of all people,
decked out in this style; but, after all,
there are plenty ordinary editions of
Henry available to those who want to
read the best in Australian literary effort
so far, and this Limited Editions Society
tome contains its own special justifica-
tion. This is Lionel Lindsay’s work as
illustrator. The artist not only gives a
close fidelity to the text —remarkable
considering his medium, and an extra-
ordinary departure from the usual
methods of illustrators —but he has added
his own comment to that of Lawson on
the Australian swag and those who
humped it. He mentions in an introduc-
tory note that he once illustrated The
Bulletin’s swaggie jokes, and therefore
used to be always on the lookout for
“any stray Murrumbidgee whaler, short
of half-a-crown,” to pose for him. Thus
he is able to use types in his woodcuts
who were “contemporaries of Lawson’s
characters.”
The Lawson sketches are “The
Romance of the Swag” (properly also the
book’s title), “Two Sundowners,” “Enter
Mitchell” and “Rats,” this last one of his
Bulletin yarns ; he also wrote “Mitchell”
tales for The Bulletin. In small chapter-
head pieces Lionel Lindsay illustrates the
evolution of the swag, from the immi-
grant in belltopper, carrying a gun in
one hand, with a bundle of about the
size and shape of a duff slung on a
stick over his shoulder, through the knap-
sack and horse-collar styles, to the pecu-
liarly Australian bluey of Lawson’s writ-
ing days—a rare sight now, though not,
as the artist suggests, completely vanished.
Two of the four large woodcuts
illustrate “The Two Sundowners” ; an-
other has Mitchell, with cattle-dog, swag
and billy, waiting on the cab-platform
after leaving the Western train at Red-
fern ; the other a —fine action woodcut,
both exploiting Lawson’s humor and
revealing that of the artist—shows Rats
fighting his swag. As well as thoroughly
doing their main job of giving the slim
little publication unity and special asocia-
tions to justify it as a book (such publica-
tions seldom have this necessary justifica-
tion), the woodcuts are fine examples of
the work of Australia’s outstanding artist
in this medium. The four, as well as
running through the text, are printed at
the end on Japanese vellum—necessary
to show their quality.
In his introductory note —in which he
pays proper homage to the “Mitchell” and
“Rats” gems of Lawson writing—Lionel
Lindsay describes his once coming across
Lawson, in front of the (former) Bulle-
tin office, clasping firmly the “embar-
rassed hands” of a swagman and an abo.,
Henry’s eyes “lit up by some interior
ecstasy, which I have since interpreted
as a poet’s mystic union with his subject
matter.” The same spot the other day
provided a handclasping spectacle almost
as peculiarly Australian; a first edition
Digger, back in uniform, his eyes lit up
with interior inspiration, firmly gripping
the hand of a current edition officer, as
nicely turned out as any special press
job, and as self-conscious as most of these
in the face of the embarrassing barrage :
“Never mind about the pips, Dig.
What the hell are they, anyhow! / say
come an’ have one with me!”
Back to the Special Editions Society.
Apart from any Philistinian thought that
such efforts might seem to ring a trifle
superfluous in war-time, or that such
delicate publication of Lawson might be
considered both superfluous and incon-
gruous if it were not for the unity given
to the little book by the choice of
Lawson’s work, riveted by Lionel Lind-
say’s contributions, the thought occurs
that if the society was chiefly interested
in doing something for Aus-
tralian literature, instead of
being chiefly interested in
fine printing—in which its
standard is very high—it
might do better to dedicate its craft to
living writers.
There is, of course, nothing to be said
against insisting on'the worth of Lawson,
but his publishers did that in the same
way while he was living. One df the
finest special press books ever done in
Australia is the Angus .and Robertson
limited edition of hi £ Selected Plants,
with Percy Leason’s illustrations, pub-
lished in 1918, limited to 75 copies signed
by author and artist. Lawson was then
an Established Author, but his publishers
had made the same sort of insistence on
his special worth 20-odd years before
that. In 1896 they issued an edition of
In the Days When the World Was Wide,
quarto size, limited to 50 copies, and
in 1900 a uniform volume of Verses
Popular and Humorous. Later in 1900
they published a special edition of On
the Track and Over the Sliprails.
As stated, however, the latest special
press printing of Lawson contains its
own justification. On the face of it
purely a collector’s piece, it has its core
of worth as a book also. In solid con-
trast to its graces, a very weighty Lawson
is now with the printers—the first omni-
bus edition of his prose works; nine
books, 143 stories, 720 pages.
Verses from the Clubs.
Both Max Harris’s The Gift of Blood
and Jim Grahame’s Call of the Bush
owe their publication to lively literary'
groups. The Gift of Blood (surely an
unfortunate title!) comes from the
youthfully energetic Jindyworobak Club
of Adelaide, Call of the Bush from Mel-
bourne’s stalwart Bread and Cheese Club.
The books are so different in their con-
tents that about the only justification for
grouping them together under the head-
ing “Verses” is that both are set out as
verse.
In direct contrast to Grahame’s poems,
which should have been published years
ago, Max Harris’s are almost certainly
being published too early. He is obvi-
ously young, still at the experimental
stage, given to the imitation of contempo-
raries. The making of unnecessary com-
pounds—“handfirm,” “jealoushollow”—
is the almost forgotten Joyce of Pomes
Penyeach. The attempt to use commas
as a sort of musical notation —“,
block, ,immobile,” —is the ancient
clowning of E. E. Cummings. The
deliberate anticlimax —“things being
what they seem,” “and do not expect
much” —is the “dying fall” of the early
Pound and Eliot. The chief influence is
Auden, patent in lines such as:
walking
in the knowledge that the hands
like cold silk, the eyes that fixed in childhood
dream
will one day be the gleaming truth... in a
parlor
with the wedding groups on the mantelpiece
the green “dying stags” on the faded green wall,
the settee, the clock that doesn’t go any
more
Lines such as “for expectation for
monotony to be relieved in the drear”
and “while object hallowed darkens
slowly mellows” grate on the ear. Such
a line as “has, was” has hardly a Miltonic
richness. Yet Mr. Harris can manage
a lovely long swaying line in “moving
as the apparition of my desire, and not
as you are” ; here are four good lines
from his title poem:
It is the law we may not forge but as forces,
As arms, as common feet, as peasant hordes
destroying the vines and the old symbols,
As a monstrous figure marching into time.
And here (with all its charm in the
simplicity of “o so young”) is an indi-
cation of a lyric gift which, accompanied
by the seriousness of purpose evidenced
in the technical experiments, may make
Mr. Harris’s next book worth waiting
for:
let me not call you lovely. Be
the chaos of the dream that knows
nor nature not lurid beauty.
be the cramped inturning of the rose
blown past full flare.
not smooth your hair
a ti-tree storm, your lips a warm
logfire fantastic burning in the pines
to the dingo-howl.
then no fear shows the signs,
o so young,
of drab time’s scowl.
Although he makes no claim to con-
sideration as a poet in other than the
ballad tradition —
I am no classical Red Page rhymester;
I sing my songs to the old bush hand,
The dwellers of bush camp, hut or hovel,
Wielding the axe or the pick and shovel —
Jim Grahame’s verse has one of the
attributes of good poetry which Max
Harris’s writing—-so far—lacks. His
poems have the breath of life, that “sense
of something far more deeply interfused.”
It comes out in his sense of history;
he could find life in an old boot, and he
does find it in an old slab hut, an old
man, an old dog, an old gum-tree, an
old quarry, in the old days when he
“walked with Lawson.” He has that
near-reverence for common objects that
marks the true pantheist; Wordsworth as
well as Lawson would have felt at home
with him in “The Old Smithy”:
The fringe of an apron that hangs from a peg
Is stiff as the teeth of a rake;
A plaited hide halter, looped fast to a rail,
Lies twisted and coiled like a snake;
the : bellows are wheezy and eaten by ants,
Their leather sides wrinkled and black,.
And mice scuttle in through the spout at the
front
And, out through a hole at the back.
An old circus poster is tacked to the waff
And printed reports of a show,
With pictures of horses, along with a list
Of prizes they won long ago.
Bold letters and scrolls are burnt into the seats,
Old cattle brands, blackened and deep,
And quaint, painted tracings in colored designs
Of tar-brands for marking the sheep.
It’s a pity that whoever made this selec-
tion from , the great stack of verses Jim
Grahame must have piled up (he has
been writing for the Aboriginalities pages
of The Bulletin for 40 years and is
still going strong) didn’t make it more
varied. There are too many laments for
the past in Call of the Bush. But that’s
the only complaint. It is pleasant read-
ing, it is wholly Australian, and the
Bread and Cheese Club’s printer
(Specialty Press, Ltd.) has made a neat
job of it.
Romains Views Verdun.
In Verdun (Peter Davies; translated
from the French by Gerard Hopkins),
Jules Romains seems to have taken the
battle of Verdun as the focal point of
his story because its historic and
dramatic connotations are widely under-
stood. He might have chosen any one
of half a dozen great battles, for his
purpose clearly is to bring the likeness
of war into focus in one book. He hasn’t
succeeded, but has probably come as close
to success as is humanly possible. He
succeeds in conveying the feeling that
though the elements of war wear a dif-
ferent face in succeeding campaigns they
are in nature the same.
Verdun was lightly held and the for-
tifications were in poor condition. The
front lines were from three hundred to a
thousand yards apart, and the enemy
was known to be digging deep dugouts,
from which it was argued that he was
making himself comfortable and didn’t
intend to attack. Actually the digging was
to effect places of concealment for his
storm troops. On the morning of attack
the enemy opened fire on the French
front line:
The visible horizon was as though en-
gulfed in a roaring furnace, and the smell
was like that of a planet in process of
being reduced to ashes. The undergrowth
—immediately in front of the French
trenches —looked like a desert caught in a
sandstorm, a forest fire, and a powder maga-
zine in the act of exploding. The air was
thick with dust, flying earth and smoke
mixed with broken branches, scraps of
bark, pine needles, stones, splinters of
metal, flying in all directions. The dense
clouds of dust were like nothing so much
as atomised plaster. It was impossible to
see more than 50 yards ahead.
When the barrage lifted each survivor
imagined himself the lone survivor in his
sector, and it was with surprise that he
began to hear rifles cracking to right and
left, tentatively at first, then gaining con-
fidence and settling to steady firing.
The isolated survivors saw the tiny figures
of men, colored grasshopper grey, emerge
from the enemy trenches, not in a solid
mass and all at once, but gradually and
almost one by one. There was nothing
hurried about their movements. They
looked like men working on a railway line
who, after a day’s work, see the train of
flatcars arrive to take them home, and
walk towards it dragging their feet along
the gravel of the permanent way. Their
figures were bent. Their heads drooped
until their big helmets looked like swollen
glands. An uninformed observer might
have fancied that they were out looking
for something that had been dropped or
were gathering mushrooms.
So much for Romains’s descriptive
ability. To gather the war scene, from
the private soldier to Foch and Petain,
and the social scene, from the munition
worker to the War Ministry, into one
story, he has had to flatten character
and broaden action to the point where
his story bears about the same relation
to most fiction as a bas-relief bears to
statuary in the round. About a third
of the book, under the title “Prelude,”
is taken up with a survey of the campaign
up to the beginning of the battle of
Verdun, the change of ideas in respect
of the character the war would assume,
the shock of the stalemate to traditional
military ideas when the two armies went
to earth 50 yards from each other in
a line snaking across western Europe.
A vast array of small items makes up
Romains’s sweeping bas-relief. A
soldier writing to his wife expresses his
passionate gratitude for a day’s rest in
a back area ; for the first time for months
he is out of sound of the guns ; all he
can hear is the homely cackling of a hen
in the farmyard. A general does his
best to arrange a counter-battery duel
at an hour when he will be taking a
Parliamentary party through the front
line, but the enemy strafes the trenches
instead. The Kaiser is interviewed at
a moment of acute depression by an
American war correspondent. Joffre
arrives on a tour of inspection; he has
skinny legs, a paunch, and somehow
“looks like a head-gamekeeper.” An
official accepts a secret commission of
two centimes a pair on a large order for
boots, but is morally indignant when
another firm hints that it would pay three
centimes. Conversation in a platoon
reflects the change in men’s morale when
they learn that a firm man —in this case,
Petain —has control of their destinies. A
“dugout” general who has motored to
headquarters to tell Joffre that his head-
quarters have been bombed is met with a
quiet smile and the question, “Well, what
do you expect me to do about it?” Some
refugees pass by:
Handcarts with old women perched on
top of mattresses, and odds and ends of
clothes hanging over the sides; a couple
of cows with mud-caked flanks; three
§oats in single file; chickens tied together
y the feet in a wheelbarrow pushed by an
old man.
Not least interesting is a chapter
toward the last in which two lieutenants
discuss from great fullness of knowledge
the motives that keep men facing the
weariness and danger of war.
Though Romains shares the common
hatred of mass killing and destruction,
his book is less an overt indictment of
war than a dispassionate inquiry into
its nature.
Spies Again.
Spy stories had a fair run after the
Great War, but it must be years since a
spy story could carry the catchline
“Book of the Month” (“Daily Mail’s”
choice) on its dust-jacket, as does Man-
ning Coles’s Drink to Yesterday (Hodder
and Stoughton).
Of its kind Drink to Yesterday is a
better - than - average piece of work.
There’s some definite attempt at charac-
terisation, a realisation of the changes
the life of a spy must work in a man,
and no unnecessary overloading of melo-
drama. It deals with the Great War, and
knowledgeably. Its hero doesn’t travel
unhampered through the enemy lines or
mingle freely with their General Staff at
Victory banquets or State balls. A
British infantryman with a flair for lan-
guages, he is tried out extracting informa-
tion from prisoners, then sent to Koln in
Germany in the guise of a Dutch im-
porter. There’s as much interest in his
private problems—in the tragedy of the
wife he marries in an onset of war-time
loneliness —as there is in the astounding
success he has in destroying German
Zeppelins and in being asked to work for
German Intelligence.
But Drink to Yesterday, as are most
other spy yarns, is designed to appeal to
detective-novel addicts, and of this object
the story fails, as they invariably do. A
spy is either on the right side or the
wrong. If on the wrong side, he must
fail; if on the right, he must triumph.
There can be no carefully-concealed and
intricate mystery to rivet the attention.
Oxford Pamphlets. Star item in the
latest batch of these informative docu-
ments is Viscount Halifax’s fine speech
delivered at Oxford a few months back,
in which he made a vigorous war appeal
to Britain’s youth. It is included under
the title The Challenge to Liberty.
Others: The Naval Role in Modern
Warfare, by Admiral Sir Herbert Rich-
mond ; The Last Crusade (i.e., the present
war), by the Dean of Durham ; Paying
for the War, by Geoffrey Crowther
(editor of the “Economist”); The Baltic,
by J. Hampden Jackson (interesting,
despite attention being now focused else-
where) ; Britain’s Air Power, by E. Col-
ston Shepherd (editor of the “Aeroplane”;
this pamphlet a generalisation rather
than the sort of direct information that
might be expected, this, of course, being
impossible to give just now).


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — plain facts, open dealing.
■niinawrt :
m
zm
m
m
mmmm:
,-•• SSB
The ESSE MINOR
Anyone can be an expert with an "Esse" Heat Storage
Cooker. It will produce excellent baking results, because it
is one of the most dependable Cookers made. Dinner can
always be ready on time too, because an Esse is always
ready. It is continuous-burning. The ESSE MINOR caters for
twelve persons. The saving of labour and low fuel cost makes
it the most popular for the moderately sized household. It can
also be supplied with water heater combined, if desired.
• EASY TERMS AVAILABLE. BOOKLET SENT ON REQUEST
5® % Less Fuel Required
COMPLETELY INDEPENDENT OF PUBLIC POWER SUPPLY
Running costs are the lowest known. A prominent feature of the
Esse Cooker is the low fuel consumption; for by virtue of its
economy the Esse practically pays for itself. It operates at from
one-fifth to one-twentieth of the cost of ordinary coal, electricity
or gas. The Esse stays alight continuously, and is entirely inde-
pendent of outside supplies, which makes it indispensable when
gas or electricity are restricted.
ESSE demonstrations daily in the Kitchenware Department
Ground Floor, Pitt Street. ... Full particulars on application.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
PHONE M 2401
DAY & NIGHT
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C,
G.P.0., SYDNEY
"THE SENIOR STORE”
&
yi
M
s^*
II
FANCY ASKING
THRT QUESTION
NOW THAT WE
HAVE AN ESSE/'
& '.v $ j. ]
l^ppilgL
f- :i 1
m
m
Note the two roomy ovens: one for roasting and
quick baking, large lower oven for moderate
and slow cooking, inner detachable compart-
ment for baking . . . ample plate-warming
space . . . large boiling surface and extensive
simmering area. The Esse Minor has an oven
capacity larger than any other cooker its size.


OUT OF THE
PAST
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
THE OVERSEER.
PATRICK COSTELLO—“Lady Clancarty, 7
years, Cork Assizes, Arson”—came out of the
office of Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson, Principal
Superintendent of Convicts, with music in his
soul and a broad grin upon his pock-marked coun-
tenance. He was a tough-looking, smallish man of
active carriage, and, despite the blemishes of his cross-
eyed vision and crooked nose, there was that in his
aspect to induce the experienced Mr. Hutchinson to
remark to the Superintendent of the Hyde Park Bar-
racks: “There’s something about that fellow, George,
that I like. He’s no beauty, but I think there’s more
in him than his looks suggest. I’m glad you recom-
mended him for the job. I expect he’ll be all right in
charge of a gang.”
“A good little cove, sir. Ye might trust him any-
where.”
“Why was he lagged?”
“Set fire to a hayrick belonging to a farmer who’d
set a savage dog on him for trespassing. The dog
cruelled him badly, Paddy told me, and the farmer
threatened him with a gun. So he went back at night
and set the rick alight. Not a criminal, at all, just
one of those hotheaded Irishmen. I’m glad you gave
him a chance, sir. He’ll make good—not a doubt
of it.”
‘(’'■piS two candles and a mass for me mother’s
* sowl I’ll be givin’ to Father Therry, so it is,”
Paddy Costello muttered joyously as he strode down
King-street towards his home on The Rocks. “The
blessed saints —they do be kapin’ poor Pat Costello in
remimbrance, so they do. Glory be—an’ who’d ha’
t’ought it! ”
In the doorway of his thatched and pipeclayed
little dwelling, with its skillion kitchen at the back, the
fiery-headed amazon who owned him body and soul
stood, with arms akimbo on her wide hips, and gave
him scurrilous welcome as he approached it along
Harrington-street. “Ye cross-eyed spalpeen, ye!” she
yelled, infuriated, perhaps, by the sight of his smiling
face. “Ye monkey-mouthed banshee —an’ what’s hap-
pened now? Lost y’r ticket-o’-lave, I’ll go bail! Bad
luck to the day, ye little leprechaun, that Gov’nor
Macquarie pershuaded me for to marry ye!”
“Sure, thin, Kathleen mavourneen, niver mind
what old Mac done —’tis what Gov’nor Brisbane’s
done that matters now, so it is. ‘Costello,’ says Misther
Hutchinson, says he, ‘l’m a-goin’ for to make ye an
overseer, begad. You that’s the quiet, dacint man, an’
the good wor-rker, so ye are. Ye’ll get pay, ye will
so,’ he says, ‘good pay.’ T’ink of it, Kathleen —free
an’ fourpince a day, an’ a dooble ration from the
shtores. Sure, thin, we’re made for life, so we are, me
gur-rl! ”
His brawny wife snorted scornfully. “ You an
overseer! ’Tis a-talkin’ tarradiddles ye are! What
man in his sinses would be afther puttin’ you in charge
of a gang? They’d ate ye, ye little bow-legged spal-
peen. Mebbe ’tis a gang of gur-rls from the Orphan
School ye’ll be takin’ char-rge of, thin?”
Overseer Costello drew himself up and glared at
his virago of a wife. His spare frame —five feet seven,
by thirty-four inches below the armpits—stiffened with
dignity and indignation. He spat on the dust before
his front door, and yelled a curse of protest and anger.
“Blasht ye, Kathleen Malone. For why d’ye be in-
sooltin’ an’ belittlin’ the man that’s med ye honest an’
give ye the chance o’ becomin’ a dacint marrit woman?
Take shame to y’silf! ’Tis the toughest gang in the
Hyde Park Barracks Misther Hutchinson’s put me
over. So there, now! ’Tis the Market Wharf gang,
wid y’r bould Tom Riordan, an’ all. Ye fink I know
naught o’ y’r goin’s on wid that same blackgyard. Wait
till I sind me boyo to the hospital wid the hide off of
his back for him! He’ll do no more canoodlin’ whin
I’ve taught him what it is for to wor-rk in my gang,
so he won’t. I’ll larn him, an’ you wid him, afoor I’ve
done.”
The tall woman yelled jeering laughter at the
furious little man. She pointed a forefinger at him,
and called upon the people of The Rocks to come
and take a look at her small cocked-up guttersnipe!
“You dale wid Black Tom — you ! Wan day—jist wan
day—l’ll give ye wid Tom Riordan an’ thim lads at
the Market Wharf. Wan day—an’ thin I’ll be a
widdy! Hivens above, ’tis Jownathan Hutchinson
must ’a’ cast a wantin’ eye upon me, for to give you
the char-rge o’ thim fellies! Go git a skinful o’ rum,
ye little whipper-snapper, afoor ye gits made into a"
carpse! Ye’ll nade it!”
Mr. Costello wilted a little under the fury of her
scorn, and then headed back into George-street
towards Timothy Naylan’s Spotted Dog Inn. With a
contemptuous gesture Mrs. Costello walked indoors.
COON after daylight on the following morning
v —' Overseer Costello mustered and counted his sullen
charges, reported “all present” to the Superintendent
of the Hyde Park Barracks, and marched his ironed
gang past St. James’s Church and down King-street
to the scene of their daily labors at the new Market
Wharf on the upper shores of Cockle Bay, shortly
afterwards renamed Darling Harbor, They were a
rough, uncouth lot, and
despitefully they jeered at
him.
“Katie Costello’s little
Paddy, no less! ” croaked
Tommy the Rat, a small and
venomous Cockney pick-
pocket. “Veil, veil —vonders’ll
never hend! Cullies, ye’ll ’ave to look smart an’ lively,
vith the noo cove we got. Blime, yuss!”
Instantly Mr. Costello halted the procession. The
two red-jacketed soldiers bringing up its rear “ported”
their pieces, and stood ready for what might happen.
The overseer stepped briskly up from behind, faced him
and smote Tommy the Rat between the eyes with his
fist.
“Constable !” he called to a lounging policeman
at the corner of York-street. “Take char-rge of him,
an’ lock him up. Insolence. Now, thin—mar-rch, the
rist of ye. An’ shtep lively!”
With a growling murmur of sullen rage, but none
the less a little impressed by the prompt action of the
new overseer, the gang shuffled slowly forward. For
a few minutes the jingling of their legirons, the con-
necting chain looped to their belts by a leather thong,
made the only accompaniment to their slouching pro-
gress along the deep ruts of the roadway. But as they
wheeled round into Sussex-street a tall, black-bearded
giant in the leading file suddenly halted. He roared a
great oath, and turned in his tracks to face the over-
seer. “Wud ye do the same to Tom Riordan?”
Promptly Mr. Costello stepped forward, raised
the stout cudgel he carried, and brought it down upon
the big man’s head. The convict bent at the knees,
roaring like a bull, pitched forward on to all fours and
collapsed in the gutter. A trickle of blood crimsoned
his low forehead. He kicked convulsively for a
moment or two and then lay on his face, inert and
unconscious.
“Lave him be!” commanded the overseer. “Is
there anny more o’ye? No! Well, thin, mar-rch, me
beauties —an’ mind y’r pays an’ quews. ’Tis mesilf
gives ye warnin’. An’ ye’d best take it, let me be
tellin’ ye. Mar-rch, now —an’ no more foolishment.”
It was a silent and awed gang that arrived at the
wharf, and set to work unloading cedar logs—con-
signed to Government from the settlement at the Coal
RiVer —out of Mr. Simeon Lord’s schooner Annabel.
The overseer marched up and down beside them, his
stout cudgel across his right shoulder, and there was
not a man in the gang without an uneasy hope that
it might continue there.
After the heavy labor of rolling the great logs up
sloping baulks of timber on to bullock-drays had pro-
ceeded in silence for the best part of an hour, Mr.
Costello called a man to him.
“Go ye, now, Dicky Simmons, an’ see what’s come
to Riordan. Tell him if he’s not at his wor-rk in fif-
teen minutes ’tis four dozen he’ll be havin’ i’ the
yar-rd t’morry marnin’. Get to it, ye rascals. Ye’ve
a man to dale wid, an’ ’tis himself is tellin’ ye. So
mind an’ pay hade.”
Before the messenger had moved away a few
yards came a woman on the scene —weeping, cursing
and invoking the anger of God and man upon the
calm and unruffled Patrick Costello. It was that effi-
cient taskmaster’s wife Kathleen, her red hair loose
about her shoulders, her fists clenched and her white
teeth bared in a snarl of animal ferocity and fury.
Screaming, she rushed along the rough little jetty to
which the schooner was moored. Her husband saw her,
coming, and calmly awaited her, his hands behind his
back resting on the knob of his stick.
“Ye’ve nigh kilt him, ye’ve nigh kilt him, ye
murtherer,” she shrieked. “Ye’ve smashed his head in,
an’ ’tis nigh dead he is. Oh, wirra, wirra, wirra—me
brave Tom Riordan,” she keened. “Ye assashin, ye!
But ye’ll hang for it, Patrick Costello. Oh, my man,
my man —my fine big man was wort’ a dozen of ye! ”
Mr. Costello’s spare little carcass seemed to expand
with rage and indignation. He stepped towards the
hysterical woman. Sternly he spoke. “Your man —-
him your man! Och, the black shame ye’ve put upon
me before all thim min! ’Tis not to be tolerated.
Take that, thin, Kathleen Costello —an’ larn for to be
dacint.” He slapped her vigorously with his open
hand across the face.
For a moment she looked at him in bewildered
amazement —and then turned and hurried away.
“I’ll dale wid you whin I get home this night, so
I will,” he shouted after her. “Git on wid your wor-rk,
now, min. ’Tis not in a good mood I am, at all, at all.”
FROM the day he took charge of the Market
Wharf detachment of the compulsory labor system
that was in the eighteen-twenties the principal eco-
nomic feature of Australian life, Mr. Patrick Costello
never looked back. He had tamed that disorderly
troop in twenty-four hours. From the moment he
had floored Tom Riordan he became their master, and
when, on the following day, another of their number
dared to flout his authority, and was immediately ex-
tinguished, they were his self-confessed slaves.
In the home circle also Mr. Costello achieved
greatness and success. The slap in the mouth adminis-
tered to his Kathleen on the Market Wharf had had a
wholesome and salutary effect upon the lady such as
his delighted spouse would have deemed impossible
before he realised its results. As in his public life,
so it was in his private—Mr. Costello never looked
back. He had subdued the most unruly iron gang in
Sydney, and he had tamed Sydney’s most virulent
shrew. The two victories gave the little man “heart.”
Nothing, in the estimation of Patrick Costello, was
impossible to that doughty hero. He would rise in
life. And he very truly did that. In the days of Gov-
ernor Bourke, when Major Mitchell was building his
great highway across the Blue Mountains, Mr. Super-
intendent Costello was in charge of all labor between
Emu Plains and Mount Victoria.
Between the prison farm down on the flat beside
the right bank of the Nepean River and the big stockade
near the foot of the pass where the iron gangs were
piling up the massive causeway that leads the road
down to the lower lands by Hartley, Mr. Costello was
Lord High Slavedriver to the men who sweated
through hot days, and shivered in bark huts during
freezing nights, whilst Captain Cox’s road to Bathurst
was reconstructed along Thomas Livingstone Mitchell’s
survey of the route.
We find him in his office conferring with a sub-
ordinate, one Overseer Hankey, in charge of the gang
working on the great embankment leading down into
the valley now known as Mitchell’s Pass.
“Well, now, Ned,” he was saying. “This fellie
O’Toole —I’m thinkin’ I know him, an’ if he’s the lad
I take him to be, I’m a-goin’ to make things lively
for him.”
“Where’d you come acrost him, sir?” asked the
overseer. “That is, if he’s the man you think?”
“If he’s the cove I think he is, ’tis to him I owe
bein’ here at all, at all. He sooled his dog on to me,
an’ me takin’ a short cut across his field. The dog bit
me, so I burnt O’Toole’s shtack o’ hay, an’ they give
me me ticket to Bot’ny Bay for it. A sivin-year stretch.
That’s how I come to New South Wales.”
“Well, ye ain’t done so bad, sir. ’Tis a good
billet you’ve got now.”
“Mebbe ’tis —but ’tis not John O’Toole’s fault.
He’d as lief they crucified me as med me what I am.
I don’t owe him nothing but the worst I can do to
him. I’ll tell ye what, Ned—l’ll go across wit’ ye to
the embankment and make sure o’ this bir-rd. Sure,
there’s more O’Tooles than wan in Ireland —but if he
should prove to be my man, well, all I can say’s his
luck’s out.”
With Overseer Hankey he walked across the flat
to where a swarm of yellow-clad men toiled on the
lower end of the great ramp that was to carry the
Surveyor-General’s new highway from the western
edge of the Blue Mountains down into the valley. All
up its steep length groups of men were working on
the sloping bank, with here and there the scarlet jacket
of a sentry, his fixed bayonet sparkling in the sun-
light, making a spot of vivid color against the chaos
of broken yellow sandstone they were manhandling
ipto shape and the dark green of the forest-clad ram-
part behind.
“And this O’Toole, Ned?” asked the Superinten-
dent as they approached the ramp. “What like is he
to luk at?”
“He’s a sick man, sir—a pore, consumptive-
lookin’ feller, that don’t seem fit to live long. As sick-
lookin’ a cove as I’ve seen this many a day. Cassidy,”
he addressed one of the sub-overseers, “where’s that
long streak o’ misery O’Toole, can ye tell me?”
The man pointed across to a clump of trees, and
in the shade they discerned a gaunt man sitting,
doubled up and coughing pitiably, his elbows resting
on angular knees and his head between his hands.
“That’s him over there, Mr. Hankey. He’s powerful
bad this mornin’ —a-spittin’ blood an’ coughin’ fit to
wake the dead. So I sent him away for a spell, me
bein’ afeared he might die on the job. Ye couldn’t
work a fellie’s as bad as him. ’Tis in hospital he
ought to be, be rights—but I doubt if he’d ever reach
the ’firmary in Sydney. He’s on the coffin list, sure
enough.”
“Come, Ned,” said Mr. Costello —“we’ll go see if
’tis my John O’Toole, or some other wid the wan
name I hate most.”
When they came to where the wretched being
crouched beneath the trees, he lifted his head slowly
and looked at them out of glazed eyes. Mr. Costello’s
lips tightened into a hard, grim line.
“Me man,” he said, “is y’r name John O’Toole?”
A spasm of fierce coughing prevented the sick
man from answering, but he nodded his head.
“Of Ballyhinchy Far-rum, in County Cork?”
The obviously dying man nodded feebly again.
“Glory be to God!” said Mr. Costello. “Glory—
be —to —God! ” he repeated slowly, with something of
disappointment and frustration in his tone.
Of what happened then, Ned Hankey used to tell
long years afterwards, when he kept the public house
at Valley Heights. “I never seen a man look so
troubled as little Paddy looked,” he used to say. “For
many minutes he said nothing at all —only stared at
O’Toole in a dazed sort of way. Ten minutes, mebbe,
like that he was. Then he gripped me by the elbow —
an’ his grip was like a vice.
“ ‘Ned,’ he says, ‘do you take his arm an’ bring
him along. Foller me,’ he says. ‘Take him gentle,’
he says, ‘for the man’s mortal sick.’
“He led the way across, past the stockade where
the pris’ners slept, until he came to his own hut, where
he had his office and his sleepin’ place. And me an’
him, we undressed this fellie O’Toole, an’ put him to
bed in Paddy’s own bed. Three days afterwards,
O’Toole busted a blood vessel, an’ died on us. But, I
give ye my word, not one minute o’ that time did
Paddy Costello take a wink o’ sleep. He sat be that
fellie, an’ fed him wi’ milk an’ whisky, an’ never left
his side. An’ when he died I was there, an’ all Paddy
says was ‘The bloody shcoundhrelT
“Oh, a grand man was Paddy Costello. A blasted
Christian, if ever there was one. A grand manl”


HARVEST
“I still say Phar Lap Was a better ’orse than Peter Pan.”
By E. O. SCHLUNKE.
AT 6.30 each morning, two auto-headers started
on Dixon’s farm. About a mile away the first
sudden explosions woke Mary Lubeck. While
she hurried with the breakfast preparations
she could visualise the two huge machines each cut-
ting a fourteen-foot swathe through the brown-headed
wheat, leaving a white trail of stubble and chaff.
There the harvesting was being done with speed and
efficiency, but it would be hours before Charlie began
with his small, old-fashioned, horse-drawn harvester.
She rang the breakfast bell to hurry Charlie in
from the stable, wondering how he could waste such
time feeding, grooming and fondling his horses, with
the evidence of the other’s activity so plainly audible.
She always held up the activity on Dixon’s farm
as an example to Charlie, though she realised the
absurdity of the comparison. In the early days just
after their marriage he had not fallen far behind ;
only so far as he had deemed necessary to safeguard
his horses. But as the years passed he took more
and more interest in his horses, and produced less. He
developed an unconquerable desire to own the best
team in the district. He never had enough money to
buy the magnificent animals he coveted, but he had
developed a complicated system of barter, which
served his ends but wasted a tremendous amount of
his time.
This morning, as usual, it was two hours after
Dixon’s motors had started that he and his horses went
wandering slowly out to work.
Outside the fence was a main road, along which
motor-trucks loaded with wheat hurtled down to the
silos to empty their bags and hurry back with the
empties for the farmers to fill again. Some of the
truck-drivers waved encouragingly to Charlie, but
most were too hurried to notice him. On the other
side of the road was one of Dixon’s grazing paddocks.
In the paddock were three choice Clydesdale mares
and a couple of foals. They stared at Charlie and his
team with great interest and began to walk along
their fence to keep as close as possible. Charlie’s
horses tried to look at them over their winkers and
betrayed a foolish mild excitement.
Charlie looked at the mares, as he did at all
horses. He knew a great deal more about them than
Dixon, their points of superiority, their breeding and
their temperament. Dixon kept the horses because it
sometimes paid well to breed good horses for sale.
He also liked the look of them and appreciated the air
of serene well-being they gave to his farm. But apart
from that he regarded them as rather a nuisance, and
had shut them away in this back paddock so they
would not interfere with his harvesting work. But to
Charlie the Dixon mares were all that a man could
desire on this earth. They were studbook mares and
his ideal of perfection. To own just one of them was
Charlie’s idea of perfect happiness. He was always
eager to advise Dixon as to the best sire for their
mating. He hovered near them when they were about
to foal and took as much interest in the foals as if
they were his own children.
He noted this morning that the mares were well,
as usual. The foals were growing into fine strapping
youngsters. He felt a deep sympathy for Violet be-
cause she had no foal this year. He wondered if it
was because she was too old. He hoped not; Violet
was his favorite, and he cherished a ridiculous dream
of owning her some day and breeding perfect horses
from her.
He harnessed his team and did his leisurely half a
dozen rounds before noon, harvesting as much in that
time as one of Dixon’s machines did in an hour. He
lost a little time over minor breakdowns on his
machine, but more over a distant view of an accident
in which two motor-trucks were involved. In the mix-
up a loaded truck had to swerve across to the fence
and lost part of its load. Charlie watched the other
carriers helping to reload the truck. Dixon’s mares
came and watched, too, with a proprietary air because
it had happened near their fence. The trucks finally
drove away, but the horses stayed there. Charlie
“knocked-off,” since it was very near his dinnertime,
curious to discover what was interesting the horses so
much.
\ /lOLET was leaning over the fence, snuffling at
* some spilt wheat, just out of her reach. But it was
apparent to Charlie that she had eaten a considerable
quantity. He knew that none of the others had eaten
the wheat because Violet was “boss.” His first reaction
was a paroxysm of fury against the carelessness of the
truck-drivers, but that soon passed into solicitude for
Violet. When a horse has eaten wheat, quick action
is needed to save its life. Large quantities of bicar-
bonate of soda were the first requirement. He stopped
the first returning motor-truck and got a lift to his
house.
He collected all his medicines and drenching bit
and hailed another loaded truck for the ride back. He
told the driver and his loader what had happened,
expecting assistance in an emergency like this. But
they didn’t see that it was any of their business. There
was a terrific rush at
the silos, which were
“filling up fast.” Charlie
and his solicitude about
a sick horse belonged
to another world.
By the time Charlie
got his mixture ready
Violet was beginning to
look a little uncom-
fortable. She made no
difficulty about being
caught and submitted
to having bottle after
bottle of “carb.-soda”
solution poured down
her throat. She knew
Charlie, and was not
nervous. The other
horses gathered round
to watch.
Charlie paused in
his attentions only long
enough to uncouple his
horses, so they could
run home to drink and
feed. All the afternoon
he tended Violet. She
became violently ill,
groaning and rolling on
the ground in agony.
He gave her drugs to
ease the pain, and
walked her up and
down to get the swell-
ing wheat out of her
system. She became
hot and thirsty, gazing
longingly across to the
near -by dam and
whinnying ; but Charlie
knew it would be fatal
to let her drink.
He had sent a mes-
sage to Dixon with one
of the truck-drivers,
but Dixon did not
come. His harvest work was so carefully organised that
his absence would cause a serious holdup. He swore
fluently about the truck-driver who had spilt the wheat,
but, having recovered from the amazement that any
man should stop his harvesting to save another man’s
horse, he decided that Violet, having had her dose,
could be left to recover or die as fate decided. But
after he had finished his work for the day he drove
out to have a look. He was astonished to find Charlie
was still there.
Charlie had led Violet to the dam and let her stand
in the water, but would not let her drink. He assured
Dixon proudly that he had saved her life. He didn’t
want to listen to thanks ; he was more concerned about
the danger of Violet foundering. To avoid it, such and
such daily treatment was necessary. By the time
Charlie finished Dixon had decided that it would not
pay him to go to all that trouble. The mare was get-
ting old ; she might be permanently stiff-legged ; it was
by no means certain that she would breed again. The
best course was to shoot her now.
But there was Charlie. Charlie would be out-
raged ; he was still babbling on, in his tremendously
horse-wise manner, about exercise, poultices, massage
and diet; making it harder all the time. He had to
tell him, because Charlie would find out. It was an
awkward situation, until Charlie gave him a new idea.
<‘HT HAT’S what I’d do if she was mine,” Charlie
1 concluded.
“Well,” said Dixon, “would you like to have
her?”
Charlie smiled ruefully.
“You can have her if you want her,” Dixon went
on.
Charlie looked embarrassed. “You haven’t told
what money you’ve got on her, or how long you’re
prepared to wait for it.”
Dixon laughed. He was prepared to accept any
quantity of gratitude. “You can have her for saving
her life,” he said.
It took a long time for Charlie to realise that
Violet was his for the taking. He had saved the lives
of so many horses in the district, and rarely received
more than thanks. But then a boyish grin spread over
his face and he began to talk excitedly about how he
would cure her completely, then mate her with Scot-
land’s Flash —if he could raise the money for the
stud fee. He talked as though his whole future was
radiant because he now had Violet.
He led her home in triumph and tended her
until nearly eight o’clock ; not only because she was
ill, but because she was beautiful and his. He went
inside and told his wife all that had happened during
the day, and his great hopes of having an entire team
of stud horses some day. His eyes were bright as they
had been in the days when his enthusiasms used to
touch her heart; but she listened silently. Only two
facts emerged: that Charlie had wasted half a day
and was likely to waste many more with this mare.
She knew it would be wasted, because nothing he did
ever turned out profitably. She wished ardently that
Violet had died. With a sudden flash of spirit she
considered the possibility of feeding some more wheat
to her. But as his voice went jubilantly on and on
she realised that if it was not Violet it would be
something else —and that seemed to be all there was
to it.


è
tfblt Hihe -cf\ ’la “ie mellcwneJd ancllmiq/uet
ROTTEN ROW.
Not the least famous section of Hyde Park is that comparatively short portion of roadway provided exclusively for equestrians known all
over the world by the none-too-inviting appellation, Rotten Row. Here, during the season especially, much of the haut ton of the
Metropolis assembles, mounted and otherwise, for alongside the Row railings mark off the pedestrian walks. In the roadway the fine gravel
is always allowed to remain loose, so that horses may gallop over it without the danger of falling. The derivation of the phrase
“Rotten Row” is said by some to be from the French of Norman days, “Route des Rois,” or the route traversed by the Kings, while
on the other hand it is held that the change, or corruption, of the title dates from so recent a period as the reign of William 111
(1688-1702), when it was simply “Route du Roi.” However that may be, for close on a century and a half it has been used for
the purposes to which it is now devoted. The elder Dumas, it is related, was shocked to see more attention paid to the horses than
the women at Rotten Row, although the perfection of the equine specimens he saw there roused his admiration. Rotten Row has
not been without its uses in improving English horsemanship. Morand has reminded us that from Chateaubriand to Taine French
visitors laughed at English horsemanship, and had not d’Orsay made high-school riding fashionable the ignorance of the art of
horsemanship would have remained. Whether the motor-car will one day make this art, in which the French are so proficient, a
“dead item” is, as Mr. Kipling would have said, “another story.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 61.—N0. 3149.
Wednesday, June 19, 1940.
CHAINS AND SLAVERY.
“We are going to war to break the chains that have been laid upon us.”— Mussolini.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London : / Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
THE WAR COMES HOME TO US.
Effects of the Italian entry into the carnage were
immediate and far-reaching. For one thing, United
States neutrality was transformed into open and indig-
nant partisanship. For another, a war previously
fought exclusively in northern Europe was turned into
an actual world war, directly affecting four continents
and indirectly the other two, which hold large and
concentrated Italian populations—there are more
Italians in New York than in Rome.
By siding with his nation’s traditional enemy
against its traditional friend, Mussolini brought the
fighting line to France’s Mediterranean littoral and
southern Alpine border, and placed the countries of
the Balkans in actual jeopardy, especially Yugoslavia
and Greece, which adjoin Albania. Over the whole
length of northern Africa as well as southern Europe,
groups of warring countries, colonies and dependen-
cies lie side by side. Egypt, if not Turkey, is certain
to be drawn in, and for the oilfield countries, Irak
and Iran, a great struggle is bound to develop sooner
or later. Twenty per cent, of Australia’s oil is drawn
from those regions. Russia sits on the northern border
of Iran, which joins Afghanistan, with British India on
the east.
For the present, at any rate, there is a new Medi-
terranean and Middle Eastern war, spread over an area
more than 3000 miles long. Gibraltar guards one Medi-
terranean outlet; the Suez Canal defences guard the
other. There are great Allied forces in Palestine,
Syria, Egypt and at the inner entrance to the Red Sea.
At the other end of the Red Sea, 1300 miles away, it
is only a stone’s throw from Sheik Said, on the borders
of Aden, across to Italian Eritrea.
Roughly, the natural features of geography
divide the new war zone into three parts. The first
is from Gibraltar to the Sicilian strait, with the forti-
fied island of Pantellaria in its middle. French Cor-
sica, already bombed, is divided by narrow waters
from Italian Sardinia. The main Corsican port of
Bastia is only 60 miles from Leghorn. Across the sea,
the armies of French Tunisia face those of Italian
Tripoli.
In the next compartment, to the Suez Canal
entrance, Malta, the British naval base, menaces the
Straits of Messina. In Italian Libya there are large
forces, land and air, assembled for an invasion of
Egypt. Heavily fortified Italian Rhodes, off the Asia
Minor coast, is within sight of Turkey and 220 miles
from the nearest point of British Cyprus.
Then Abyssinia, served by the port of Massawa
in Italian Eritrea, a narrow strip along the Red Sea,
is next door to Kenya Colony and the Sudan, with
which it shares a long border. British Somaliland
is on the Red Sea, wedged in between Eritrea and
Italian Somaliland, whose coastline is washed by the
ocean that on the other side washes Australian shores.
The first bit of Old-World land sighted from Austra-
lian troopships going to Suez is the high cape of
Guardafui, with the hazy outline of British Aden rising
on the north across the Gulf; and Guardafui is
Italian.
To Britain and the Dominions the new condi-
tions bring imminent problems, which have been in-
tensified by the terrible defeats of the French and
will be increased if France is crushed. In that case
there will be repercussions everywhere ; already, “with
the consent of the French,” the Spaniards have taken
possession of Tangier, and on the other side of the
world a hasty, though friendly, arrangement has been
made with Siam, which has a common frontier with
French Indo-China. Britain’s main line of communi-
cation with three Dominions and all her Eastern
empire and colonies passes through the Middle East.
Passage of her main oil supplies is thus threatened.
The involvement of the Suez Canal affects relations
with neutrals whose commerce has hitherto used that
route. The Black Sea, across which Russian oil con-
signed to enemy and neutral countries is carried from
Batum, and the Dardanelles, through which Russian
tankers pass, are involved.
The imperial air link between Britain and Asia,
which continues to Australia and Maoriland and
branches to Hong Kong and the Far East, has been
severed. The head of the strip of land which has
been painted red from Sudan to the Cape is endan-
gered at the Egyptian end, its air communications
with Europe also momentarily inhibited. Commerce
which ordinarily passes Suez and Gibraltar must now
steam round the south of Africa.
The South African Air Force has already been
in action in Italian Somaliland. The war is at the
very front door of India. Though the status quo has
been maintained in Dutch New Guinea and the Dutch
East Indies it has been impossible to feel easy about
those neighbors since their homeland passed into
enemy .hands. For the first time in Australian
history troops are engaged under actual war-
service conditions in Australia, chiefly in occupa-
tion of key points in North Queensland districts
populated by Italians. And the Australian brigades
with the Allied armies in the Middle East are now
in an actual war zone and might be in action at
any moment. Those armies or the army of the British
Commonwealth will need to draw supplies, and per-
haps munitions, from Australia.
In short, the conflict has been brought right home
to us. It is no longer merely in Europe. It is here.
The Commonwealth now has to face the possi-
bility that invasion in some form may come. It may
be a remote possibility difficult to realise, but it cannot
be idly dismissed. Other chances almost equally
remote have come to pass in this extraordinary war.
Three years ago it would have seemed fantastic
that Germany could have overrun northern Europe
with the deadly swiftness with which its onslaughts
have been achieved. Not two years ago German
strength was so little valued that thousands of news-
papers the world over were urging a half-armed
Britain and a demoralised France to challenge the
Nazis —and not the Nazis alone. Less than a year ago,
it was thought a wild impossibility that “Oriental
barbarian” Stalin could ever be in the same galley
with “Scum-of-the-earth” Hitler, or that the U.S.S.R.
could commit the crime of attacking Finland. Hitler’s
Norwegian adventure was proclaimed as his greatest
strategical mistake. Even when Holland and Belgium
were invaded, the chance of an invasion of Britain
was scoffed at. Now it has been sternly prepared
against and it has entered at least the realm of matter-
of-fact surmise.
This country has been living in a fool’s paradise.
Even at the present moment, with France battered to
the limit of endurance and Britain’s resources strained
to their utmost, parties have failed to sink their petty
differences. The time has come when realities must
be faced, and there is not a moment to be lost. We
need national unity and strong and swift national
action regardless of vested interests—those of poli-
ticians above all. There must be an army of at least
20 divisions, a greatly strengthened R.A.N. and
R.A.A.F., and immensely increased production of
machines and munitions, with time the essence of the
contract.
The war has entered a phase in which the question
of when Germany can be beaten has been replaced by
the problem of whether Germany and Italy can be
beaten. Beaten they can be, but if the light of demo-
cratic civilisation is not to go out here, as elsewhere,
Australia, in common with her sister-nations, will have
to put forth her utmost strength.
Uncle Sam Speaking.
Will the United States come into this war? A lot of
people would like to have a direct answer. Not only
the British Commonwealth, France, Poland, Norway
and the Low Countries, but Germany, Italy, the
Balkan States, Russia, Turkey and Japan would all
like to know.
If words still have meaning ; if moral indigna-
tion is still a trustworthy guide for prophets; if
Presidents speak for people ; or if a nation through
other official and unofficial spokesmen—newspaper
voices and the like —speaks for itself, there can be
only one answer —the answer given decisively in 1917.
Then, as now, the fundamental issue was the mainten-
ance of a form of civilisation in which Uncle Sam
was as much interested as John Bull.
In October, 1937, Mr. Roosevelt declared that
“the peace-loving nations must make a concerted
effort” to stop aggressors. This was the famous
quarantine speech. It had a distinctly unfavorable
reception; the President was then in advance of
public opinion.
Mr. Cordell Hull, the Secretary of State, was
next heard from. All along he has kept step with
his chief, and in March, 1938, he said:
The momentous question is whether the doctrine of
force shall become enthroned again, and bring in its wake
inexorably international anarchy and relapse to bar-
barism, or whether this and other peaceful nations,
fervently attached to the principles which underlie inter-
national order, shall work unceasingly, singly or in
co-operation with each other, as the circumstances of
their traditional policies and practices and their en-
lightened self-interest may dictate, to promote and
preserve law, order, morality and justice as unshakable
bases of civilised international relations.
Later that year Mr. Ickes, the Secretary for the
Interior, had a shot at Mr. Ford and Colonel Lind-
bergh for taking German decorations:
How can they pretend, in accepting shabby baubles
from a brutal dictator, that they are honoring a great
people whom the dictator has victimised and degraded?
Incidentally, Mr. Ickes on that occasion declared that
the persecution of Jews “carried Germany back to a
period in history when man was unlettered, benighted
and bestial.” To “dramatise his agreement with Mr.
Ickes’s sentiments,” as cables reported, President
Roosevelt that evening called on Mr. and Mrs. Ickes
and “stayed some hours.” It may be forgotten,
though it would seem to have at least a little point, that
when the German Charge d’Affaires demanded an
apology, the Acting-Secretary of State who coldly
rebuffed him was Mr. Sumner Welles.
Mr. Roosevelt himself was not mealy-mouthed
when referring to the German “reprisals” against Jews:
The news of the past few days from Germany has
deeply shocked public opinion in the United States. Such
news from any part of the world would inevitably
produce a similar profound reaction among American
people in every part of the nation. I myself could scarcely
believe that such things could occur in a twentieth-
century civilisation. With a view to gaining a first-hand
picture of the situation in Germany I asked the Secretary
of State to order our Ambassador in Berlin to return
at once for report and consultation.
Mr. Kennedy, the U.S.A. Ambassador in London,
improved on his President’s words:
Germany’s anti-Jewish campaign is terrible, the most
terrible thing I have ever heard of. I’ll probably lose my
job for saying this, but let it stand. You might also say
that I am only sharing the sentiments of our President.
Mr. Kennedy did not lose his job, nor has “our
Ambassador in Berlin” ever returned to that city.
The fateful year 1939 arrived. In January the
President was saying:
We, no more than other nations, can afford to be
surrounded by the enemies of our faith and of our
humanity. We cannot safely be indifferent to inter-
national lawlessness anywhere.
Dictatorships involve costs which Americans will
never pay—the cost of being cast into concentration
camps and of being afraid to walk down the street
with the wrong neighbor.
In April Mr. Roosevelt had advanced a step further,
according to the New York “Times”:
The President strongly implied that he believed
the involvement of the United States in any general
European war was inevitable and that this nation
should stand shoulder to shoulder with Great Britain
and France against Nazi-Fascist machinations aimed at
world domination by force.
On April 14 the President asked Hitler and
Mussolini direct to give an assurance that “for
10 years they would not attack the independent nations
of Europe and the Middle East.” Everybody will
recall that neither Hitler nor Mussolini was respon-
sive to that appeal. In the present tumultuous rush of
history there may be excuse for forgetting Russia’s
cheers, per Kalinin:
I consider it my pleasant duty to convey to you my
cordial congratulations and the expression of profound
sympathy with the noble appeal which you have
addressed to the Governments of Germany and Italy.
You may rest assured that your initiative will find the
warmest reception in the hearts of the peoples of the
Soviet Socialist Union, who are sincerely desirous of the
preservation of universal peace.
The war came. Germany invaded Poland, and
when Russia’s League partner was bleeding from every
pore Mr. Kalinin’s friends rushed in to kill a few
more thousand Poles and grab their share of the loot.
A representative American journalist wrote stingingly
of German atrocities and war aims:
The Nazis massacred whole companies of young
Polish civilians very similar to American boys of the
same age, dropping them still kicking into pits because
they presumed to defend their mothers and sisters with
such poor weapons as they could find.
The Versailles Treaty was a mash note by comparison
with the terms of conquest which the Germans intended
to impose on their enemies in the last war, and their
present programme, as plainly shown by their conduct
to date, calls for the reduction of all defeated peoples
to the status of soulless, sub-human servants of Hitler’s
Chosen People.
Adolf Hitler’s own book and the German record and
their national, racial obsession of superiority over the
rest of mankind are propaganda which makes neutrality
not merely difficult for Americans, but shameful as well.
—Westbrook Pegler, in some 150 newspapers through-
out the UJS.A.
For reasons which are now obvious, France and
Britain could be only passive observers of the smashing
of Poland. The new partition accomplished, an un-
canny and deceptive calm settled on the land war. A
long and hard winter descended on Europe. There was
talk of peace, and would-be peacemakers bestirred
themselves in Britain itself. Sending Mr. Sumner
Welles to Europe to sound out prospects in March,
Mr. Roosevelt put his ideas of a “real peace” into a
world broadcast:
We seek a moral basis for peace. It cannot be a
real peace if it fails to recognise brotherhood. It
cannot be a lasting peace if the fruit of it is oppression
or starvation, or cruelty, or human life dominated by
armed camps. It cannot be a sound peace if small
nations must live in fear of powerful neighbors. It
cannot be a moral peace if freedom from invasion is
sold for tribute. It cannot be an intelligent peace if it
denies free passage throughout the world to the know-
ledge of those ideals which permit men to find common
ground; and, lastly, it cannot be a righteous peace if
the worship of God is denied. I am convinced of the
ultimate triumph of our ideals of justice and kindness
and brotherhood, which cannot die. These are the
highest of human ideals. They will be defended and
maintained.
Mr. Sumner Welles visited all the belligerents and
one of the non-belligerents—a position to which Russia
reverted after its blundering but ultimately successful
assault on another Leaguer. It was remarked that he
tarried longest in Italy, and he must have reported
that there was a gleam in that quarter. But the war
blazed up again, suddenly and terrifically. Norway
was invaded and overwhelmed, being undone in part
by its Quislings. Its fate, with new horrors and suffer-
ings added, was shared by the Low Countries and
northern France. On the second day of Blitzkrieg Mr.
Roosevelt addressed the Pan-American Scientific Con-
gress at Montreal:
All here are heavy-hearted at the tragic news that
three more independent nations have cruelly been
invaded by force of arms. The whole world has seen
attack follow threat on so many occasions in the last
few years that we have come to the reluctant conclusion
that a continuance of these processes of arms presents
a definite challenge to the continuation of the type of
civilisation to which all of us, the three Americas,
are accustomed.
The Dutch capitulated ; then the Belgians. The
battle moved to the Channel coast, to the Aisne, the
Oise, the Seine, the Marne. Italy came in. Then, for
the first time, the President spoke in terms of anger
and contempt:
Over the last three months the chief of the Italian
Government sent me word that, because of the deter-
mination of Italy to limit, as far as possible, the spread
of the conflict, more than 200,000,000 people in the
region of the Mediterranean would be enabled to
escape the suffering and devastation of war. I expresesd
my earnest hope that that policy might be continued.
... I offered to send to Britain and France such specific
indications of the desires of Italy to obtain readjust-
ments as the chief of the Italian Government might
desire. I proposed that if Italy would refrain from
entering the war I would be willing to ask assurances
from the other Powers concerned that they would
execute faithfully any agreement so reached.
In vain ; the chief of the Italian Government was
unwilling to accept the offer. Italy in his person had
“chgsen to preserve what she terms ‘freedom of action’


the hand that held the dagger has struck it in the
back of a neighbor.” And this concerned America —
all the Americas —because “victory over good by the
forces of hate would endanger the institutions of
democracy in the Western world.” Rising to the
height of his argument, the President said:
This day we send forth our prayers and hopes
for those beyond the seas, who are maintaining with
magnificent valor their battle for freedom. We will
extend to the opponents of force the material resources
of this nation, and simultaneously harness ourselves to
speed up the use of those resources in order that we
may have equipment and training equal to the task
of any emergency and every defence. All roads leading
to the accomplishment of these objectives must be kept
clear of obstructions. We will not slow dowy or
detour. The signs and signals call for full speed ahead.
I call for effort, courage, sacrifice and devotion.
Over the wilderness that was so recently one of
the glories of civilisation Hitler’s legions moved on.
The wrecks of Reims, Rouen and Le Havre were
taken. Mort Homme, sacred to the veterans of
Verdun, was stormed ; Chateau Thierry, with its
memories of the Doughboys ; Montmirail, scene of
Napoleon’s most wonderful battle, saw the swastika
rise above their ruins. For the fourth time in 126
years the French had the agony of seeing a conqueror
in their capital, while millions of its inhabitants, fol-
lowing the tragic processions of refugees from the
northern provinces and Belgium, wandered they
scarcely knew where.
In his last speech from Paris Radio the French
Premier addressed his “last appeal to ' Presi-
dent Roosevelt.” “Help France to survive,” he said.
“It is necessary for clouds of aeroplanes to come
from the other side of the Atlantic to crush the
power which is crushing Europe.” Hitler thereupon
sent for Karl von Wiegand, the old German-American
journalist, and told him that “American deliveries of
’planes and materials” would “not affect the outcome
of the war” ; that his motto was “America for the
Americans and Europe for the Europeans” ; that he
“never intended to destroy the British Empire” ; that,
“the capitalist cliques” would be “destroyed by their
own people” ; that the question of the Rhine frontier,
declared with “unbearable arrogance” to be “England’s
frontier,” he would “settle for all time,” and that “the
freedom of the seas” would be restored. All of which
shows that he is anxious to flatter American suscepti-
bilities and has an immense respect for the potential
strength of the United States.
The President, answering M. Reynaud, paid a
tribute to “the resplendent courage with which the
French armies are resisting the invaders” and under-
took that his Government would not recognise any
violation of “the independence and territorial integrity
of France.” As for material assistance:
I wish also to reiterate in the most emphatic terms
that we have been making every possible effort....for
the Allied armies to obtain aeroplanes, artillery and
munitions, and this Government, for as long as the
Allied Governments continue to resist, will redouble its
efforts in this direction... .Every week that goes by will
see additional material on the way to the Allied
nations... .So long as the French people con-
tinue in defence of their liberty, which constitutes
the cause of popular institutions throughout the world,
so long may they rest assured that material supplies
will be sent to them in ever-increasing quantities and
kinds These statements carry with them no impli-
cation of military commitments. Only Congress can
make such commitments.
Too late, unhappily, for France in her agony, but
not too late to help Britain to save the world.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
War, Deficits and Dogs.
A Premier “without portfolio” who leads a “Parlia-
ment” which is “resting,” like the actor without an
engagement —except that salaries go on —Mr. Mair, of
Sydney, seems to have nothing to do but yap ; and he
yaps and yaps and yaps.
One of the minor nuisances of the war is this
gentleman’s ceaseless flow of platitude and flap-
doodle. What he thinks of Hitler, what he would do
with enemy aliens, what the Menzies Government
should do in the matter of the battleship dock (he
demands the contract for his Water Board, of pressure-
tunnel notoriety), how he would like to swing over to
defence works because his unemployed-relief works
are giving out, how “Germany’s occupation of Den-
mark will increase the market in Britain for Australian
butter, cheese and eggs” —every day he holds forth in
this strain.
Yet his own Government’s affairs are in chronic
disorder. The financial position is a disgrace to every-
one responsible for it. In between Mair on “the
market for Australian butter, cheese and eggs” and
Mair on the battleship dock there was a paragraph
to the effect that “State revenue and expenditure for
11 months to May 31 revealed a deficit of £3,044,700,
which is £791,000 higher than the deficit for 11 months
of 1938-39.” And that year—the year in which salaries
of all hands and the cook were heavily increased, 90
Assemblymen alone getting another £205 p.a. apiece—
closed with a deficit which the Auditor-General
reckons at £2,895,200, and which carried the accu-
mulated deficiency to £33,539,100 —less £9,455,600 in
the National Debt Sinking Fund (in the same year,
loan liability to the Commonwealth was increased by
£5,676,700 to £359,843,900).
Yet shortly after the war broke out, rushing in
ahead of the Treasurer who has to find the money
for the prosecution of the war, Mr. Mair’s
Treasurer increased taxes so as to bring in another
£3,900,000. Almost everyone and everything suffered ;
on a fire-insurance renewal premium amounting to 18s.,
stamp duty was raised to 55., and income tax and
death duties were increased in the same spirit.
It is alleged that the increased deficit (i.e., annual
loss) is “due to the coal strike.” The real cause of
all annual losses is unbridled extravagance which has
been going on for many years. It is true, however,
that considerable railway and tramway revenue was
lost because schedules were cut to ribbons, the Rail-
way Department not having had nous enough to lay in
enough coal. In South Australia, which is wholly
dependent on N.S.W. coal, trams and trains ran as
usual throughout the strike.
Though Parliament is loafing and has been loaf-
ing most of the war period, the Mair Government has
set up an expensive royal commission “to inquire into
the price of milk” and incidentally go into the work of
an expensive board. When Paris was at its last gasp,
it came out that “each week in N.S.W. £30,000 is
spent to feed the 40,000 racing greyhounds which per-
form at the meetings of the 47 licensed racing
—the figures were published by the Chief Secretary’s
Department.
A hundred and twenty thousand a month to feed
tripehounds —largely on beefsteak —when Britain has
a grave food problem and when millions of refugees,
our unhappy allies, are hungry and homeless in
defeated France. And God only knows how much
money is wasted in betting on the worthless brutes,
and how many able-bodied parasites and idlers are
giving their days and nights to this unsavory pastime
when they could be doing something worth while for
a country now struggling for its existence!
And the Premier who sanctions this abomination,
and who can find nothing useful for his alleged Par-
liament to do, has the effrontery to tell the national
Government how it should run the war and to inform
the victims of his excrescence’s bloodsucking taxes that
they must “give, give, give,” and “work, work, work”!
Second-Chamber Superfluities.
In the present state of things Legislative Councils are
of about as much use to Australia as collections of
stuffed pigs or poodles, and so it will be in the state of
things to come ; but the imperilled nation is still ex-
pected to take an interest in these anachronisms. The
Tasmanian Government, itself an anachronism, is
going through the motions of reforming its Legislative
Council, and a Minister (Labor) has been delivered of
the profound remark that “the need for State Parlia-
ments is greater than ever before.” And there have
been Legislative Council elections in two States, West-
ralia and Victoria.
In each case the elections were confined to a few
candidates and a few thousand voters. In Victoria
there were contests in only eight provinces, nine
members being re-elected unopposed. Two others re-
tired, fed up, one, an ex-Minister, saying that the House
had outlived whatever usefulness it ever had. Interest
in the Westralian elections centred in the effort of an
ancient of the secesh. agitation to qualify for mem-
bership until (D.V.) he reached the age of 92. The
old gentleman was defeated, but he may come again
and perhaps become the first centenarian M.L.C.
Members of the Chamber which he adorned for 12
years receive £6OO p.a. and Government train and
tram passes, their train passes being good over all the
Government railways of the Commonwealth and
Maoriland, with sleepers thrown in. They “work”
three or four months of the year —like this:
Time
Occupied.
“Business” Done. Hrs. Min.
Aug. 2, 1939. —Opening of Parliament (the 17th).
“The Legislative Council met at noon.” Procla-
mation and commission read; sitting suspended
12.12. Lieut.-Governor’s speech (3.5 to 3.25);
address-in-reply debate begins; House adjourns,
3.51 58
Aug. B.—Question (1); address-in-reply (second day);
Supply Bill: 4.30 to 6.4 1 34
Aug. 9.—Question (1); appointment of committees;
Supply Bill passed; address-in-reply (third day):
4.30 to 6.15; 7.30 to 7.43 1 58
Aug. 15. —Question (1); address-in-reply (fourth
day): 4.30 to 6.9 1 39
Aug. 16. —Questions (6); personal explanation;
address-in-reply (fifth day): 4.30 to 6.15; 7.30
to 9.10 3 25
Aug. 17.—Questions (3); address-in-reply (sixth day):
4.30 to 6.12 1 42
Aug. 22. —Questions (2); leave of absence (“six
consecutive sittings”) granted to a member on
the ground of private business; debate on
motion to disallow Milk Act “regulations”;
address-in-reply (seventh day): 4.30 tp 6.11 .. 1 41
Aug. 23. —Questions (2); leave of absence (“six con-
secutive sittings”) granted to a Minister on the
ground of ill-health; disallowance of Milk Act
regulations again debated; address-in-reply
(eighth day): 4.30 to 6.15; 7.30 to 8.51 3 6
Sept. 12.—Question (1); Ministerial statement
(War); six bills introduced; Milk Act regulations
debate continued: 4.30 to 5.52 1 22
Sept. 19— Question (1); Milk Act regulations debate
ends; four more bills: 4.30 to 6.15 1 45
In 1937-38, according to the Commonwealth
Year-Book, Legislative Councillors cost Australia
about £65,000 in salaries, railway passes and postage,
but that is only a fraction of what they cost annually
in reporting and printing of “Hansard,” separate rolls,
preparation of answers to questions, club and library
accommodation and other ways of ministering to their
tin-pot grandeur. It is all a sheer waste of national
income.
The Cleansing.
It is a cheering thought to realise at this grim stage in
our affairs that no true Australian, whatever his opinion
regarding capitalism, the Menzies Government or the
madness of world leaders, can possibly have any sym-
pathy left for the aims of the alien system of disrup-
tion known as Communism.
There might have been, in the early stages of
this war, some suspicion of its true meaning and there-
fore some slight warrant for a belief on the part of the
easily-led that what the Communists fondly termed a
“negotiated peace” was best for the ordinary man.
And there might have been, again in the minds of
those honest but mistaken people duped by vocal
fanatics, some excuse for apathy about the war effort.
But no dinkum Australian can now read the
accounts of that magnificent rearguard action in
Flanders, the stories of the men themselves, the callous
disregard for the lives of soldiers and civilians dis-
played by the Nazis and the fact that Lord
Frederick Cambridge and the Duke of Northumber-
land died with plain Thomas Atkins and still believe
this to be a war waged by “Fascists” against workers.
Nor can any real Australian fail to feel a hot shame
for any part, however small, that might have been
played in support of the foul game of an alien brood.
Men will not fight as the British and French
fought in Flanders for anything short of a just cause.
Beside their example, that of the Communist crew
stinks in the nostrils. It is not possible that the Aus-
tralian heart, stimulated at last to its full tempo of
courage and resolution, could any longer harbor for
Communists and wreckers any sentiment other than the
hatred of a clean people for a foulness indescribable.
The dead in Flanders won a greater victory than they
knew, for the Empire stands, inspired by their example,
committed to finish this thing, whatever the cost.
Gag Wanted.
The Amalgamated Union of Holders of Useless Offices
will have to do something about Mr. Roy Gollan,
who is making far too much noise for its comfort.
Few Australians outside the civil service have any
idea of the number of Useless Offices this country
maintains, or of the big salaries, comfortable posi-
tions and autonomous rights the Holders enjoy. So
long as they keep quiet about it, few Australians
are likely to worry. But Mr. Gollan is a menace ; he
constantly draws attention to himself.
Over four months ago this gentleman, then Holder
of the Useless Office of Australian National Travel
Association manager in India, became Australian
Trade Commissioner in India. No sooner was this
appointment confirmed than he found it necessary to
come to Australia by flying-boat on a two months’
visit. Gaily landing at Darwin he announced that he
was here to “confer with manufacturers in every State.”
A market worth at least £10,000,000 a year is open
to the Commonwealth in India.
Then followed a silence. A few weeks later an
isolated press item announced that Mr. Gollan had
extended his stay to four months. More silence. The
A.U.0.H.0.U.0. settled back to sleep. But Mr. Gollan
broke out again, this time in Adelaide, where he told
the local Rotary Club how he had prepared the Indian
populace for the influx of Australian goods:
In the last three years he had told representative
people in India of the genial Australian climate and of
our great educational establishments.
One thousand distributing centres had been estab-
lished in India to give out literature about Australia.
There was no further mention of the £10,000,000
waiting to be picked up, but Mr. Gollan added that he
was anxious to meet as many people as possible inter-
ested in commerce in India. He’s had nearly four
months to meet the whole six of them.
Unless the A.U.0.H.0.U.0. squelches this gentle-
man it will have only itself to blame when the people
rise in their wrath and demand of Canberra that it put
a stop to the extravagance of supporting trade com-
missioners and travel agents who serve no purpose
other than to madden the taxpayers and to cause
Indians and others to marvel at the ways of Australia.
Petrol Rationing Arrives.
The petrol rationing scheme, which is to operate in
August, is a fair arrangement and long overdue. It
provides minimums of from eight to eighteen gallons
per month for private cars, according to horsepower,
which means about 300 miles of ordinary road run-
ning. Goods vehicles will be allowed about 20
gallons per month for every half-ton of registered
weight, unladen, with a sliding scale of increases to
provide for special cases. Ambulances, fire brigades
and vital public utilities will have their own scale.
Nothing is said about Government vehicles and
Ministers’ and official cars. A good deal of economy
should be possible there, especially with Government
buses which run along tram routes, forming a sort of
first-class in which higher fares are collected.
Ration cards will be issued and petrol will be
handed over to private owners in two-gallon units.
The mileages are a fair thing, especially as necessary
outback long-distance carriage is being placed in its
own category.
Rationing does not, however, mean security in
petrol. In certain parts of Australia petrol storage is
an open invitation to a raider. When the war broke
out airmen had to make their own technique in oil-
tank bombing, but if methods are not improving in
deadliness every day it will be surprising. It is likely
that there are already in existence types of incendiary
bombs which can be guaranteed to set a tank on
fire even with a near hit. So there should be some
provision for storage inland.
And there should be continuous production of
reserve local fuels even if the cost is high. Power
alcohol can be carburetted in any high-compression
engine above 6.8 to 1 ratio, with small adjustments,
even if it is not economical. It is producible in small
factory units along with by-products used in the mak-
ing of high explosives and other things of importance
to the munition industry. It is also safer to store
than petrol, because when it catches fire it can be
extinguished with water, while water merely spreads
a petrol fire. A petrol-alcohol mixture, with a very
small percentage of benzol to add to the calorific
value, makes a very efficient motor spirit. In Queens-
land petrol suppliers are compelled to buy a pro-
portion of alcohol, and the same law could apply
with advantage in other States.
Producer gas can be handled without much
trouble in the ordinary engine, and could become
universal in use in agriculture.
And nobody seems to have given a thought to
steam. There used to be some very efficient steam
cars on the market, and only the low price of petrol
in America prevented their extensive development
there. The steam car uses a medium which no bomber
can destroy, and the engines could be built in thou-
sands in Australia. The difference between fuel cost
for steam and that for petrol would go a long way
towards converting heavy vehicles to steam.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Hamer”: In Sydney’s Darlinghurst I
saw the swirl and heard the excitement
as the mob rushed the shop of Mario
Macaroni. It was “demonstrating,” but
as yet violence was only threatened, and
Mario was making the best of the oppor-
tunity to explain himself. He was assisted
by his missus and a couple of relatives,
who made it a sort of chant: “We maka
our home in thees country”; “Our
babbies they was borna here”; “I
speeta upon Mussolini—he no gooda!”
The balance swayed uncertainly ; one act
of violence might have started a rush
which would have wrecked the shop.
Sweat on his brow, Mario made a
supreme effort: “Mussolini, hee eesa a
blanky blankard!” he said vehemently.
That touch of good Australian saved the
situation. The only thing the crowd
broke into was cheers; and the police
who motor-cycled noisily into the picture
were astonished to see the relieved Mario
(aided by his family) handing out bananas
and fruit to patriots who patted him
on his back and told him he was a man
and a brother.
“Skyrider”: Mussolini’s madness has
at all events settled one argument. Not
many moons ago the Buggins family
bought an up-to-date cottage in a Sydney
suburb, the mod. cons, including “bath-
room with Roman bath.” Advertised
as “an Australian adaptation of Spanish
architecture,” the cottage was described
by Buggins as a Spanish bungalow, but
Mrs. 8., backed, so to speak, by the
Roman bath, assured her friends it was
an Italian villa, and even went so far as
to call the bit of bushland at the bottom
of the garden a Pompeian pleasaunce.
The argument Spain v. Italy got so in-
tense that it became agony to sit out
an evening there, but on June 11 Mrs.
B. met her Caporetto. Buggins’s flag
waves high at the moment, but Heaven
help him if Franco decides to join Musso!
“K. Ley”: First violent reaction in our
suburb to the Italian entry into the war
came from a large woman who stormed
into the local fruitshop, told the olive-
skinned proprietor off in good, round
back-street Australianese, and emphati-
cally declared she would never buy
another thing from the enemy. Toni, ,
who has been naturalised 14 years, gave i
me my pound of tomatoes and looked
after his traducer. “She always the bad
pay,” he remarked; “now I lose the
t’irty bob she owe.” He pondered, then
added, “Still, maybe it is wort’ it to get
rid of her, eh?”
“C.R.”: It has been discovered that,
if half the fruit and drink shops and
cafes in Melbourne were in the hands of
Italians, the other half are administered
by the descendants of Socrates and Myron.
Within a surprisingly short space of time
after the announcement a host of
shops budded proclamations that their
occupants were Greeks and loyal to the
Allies. One cafe run by a naturalised
Italian went even better. It posted a
huge placard:
Down with Mussolini, the Assassin of
Mankind. Out with the Fascist Gangsters.
Long Live Liberty. (Signed) The Pro-
prietor.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: In the middle of the most
critical week in the history of the British
Empire the Lawn Tennis Association of
Victoria, from its apartments at swanky
Kooyong, issued the following breath-
taking announcement:
White or cream apparel throughout,
with pullovers or cardigans, shirts, shorts
or trousers, and shoes and socks, specially
referred to, are decreed as regulation
tennis costume.
The question of female costuming was
deferred for further consideration. “It
will be much more difficult to define
women’s costume,” remarked the chair-
man.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The effects of petrol
rationing will be an interesting study.
Many people scorn to travel by
tram, bus or train, and the thought of
walking fills them with horror. Most of
them rationalise their self-indulgence bv
saying that motoring is economical. A
Toorak matron employs a limousine built
to carry seven with a chauffeur to drive
it. The car must cost her at least six
pounds a week and the driver four pounds,
but she justifies the expenditure by shop-
ping at the markets and saving a weekly
shilling. The motoring fashion has funda-
mentally changed the character of the
Australian countryside. A village not
20 miles from Melbourne once had its
own carpenter, carriage-maker,, black-
smith, wrought-iron worker, brickworks,
wine manufacturer, even its own brewery.
All the material for its houses was
obtained from the beautiful stone of the
district. Now it imports everything
from the city, and the houses it builds are
getting progressively uglier and uglier,
and there isn’t a single craftsman or
skilled worker in the district. But there
are dozens of “susso” workers digging
weeds out of the gutters.
* * * *
“Oran”: A Maoriland Young Digger,
home on final leave, was observed by his
mother to be turning over dad’s posses-
sions in an ancient cupboard. Asked
what he sought, the lad replied: “I want
that old game dad brought back with
him. He always said it was the best
thing he struck in the war. D’you know
where it is?” Mum knew, and produced
a length of much-used khaki, marked as
a roulette board, on which, with the aid
of an improvised indicator, the lads of
1915 had had many a surreptitious
gamble. The veteran game was stuffed
happily into the kit of the 1940 soldier,
and goes off to justify its existence in
another war. •
* * * *
“T.”: One of the smartest 1914-18
quips concerned the Italians, now vain-
gloriously challenging the Royal Navy.
There was a meeting of Allied generals
and admirals at which the U.S.A. was
represented by a dry old West Pointer.
During the proceedings, which were long
and confused, a Doughboy officer arrived
with a message for the general and had
to wait outside the closed door. It was
flung open at last, and out strode the
West Pointer. “A waste of time,” he
growled. “They are hopelessly at sea in
there. All except the Italian admirals,
and they never go to sea.” Perhaps they
modelled themselves on Sir Joseph
Porter, K.C.B.
* * * *
“Michael”: The history of the V.C.,
instituted 85 years ago, has falsified the
fears expressed by the brasshats of
that time. When Queen Victoria sug-
gested a special award for deeds of excep-
tional bravery in battle, nearly all the
military chiefs opposed her, their chief
objection being that it would “lead to
competitive deeds of daring which might
prove fatal to discipline.” The Queen
herself hesitated over permitting the
recipients to use the initials V.C. after
their names. “K.G. means Knight of the
Garter, and M.P. means member of
Parliament,” she argued, “and designates
a person, but one could not be a Vic-
toria Cross.” However, she yielded to
persuasion on that point.
* * * *
“El V.”: I hope that when Mr. Hitler
reached the Marne he paused for a
moment in those flat lands round
Chalons, where the river looks like a
sizable Darling Downs creek, to medi-
tate on the fate of an illustrious pre-
decessor, one Attila, who pre-empted the
title of the “Scourge of God.” Der
Ftihrer may find a moral in his fate and
learn how mutable are the fortunes of
conquerors. Attila, in a.d. 451, invaded
the Western Roman Empire with the
methods of his twentieth-century heir,
and near Chalons was defeated by Aetius
with disastrous loss. But he escaped with
his life, and it took marriage to destroy
“You do the front and lounge winders an' I'll do the bath- and bedrooms."
him; for during his nuptials with a
beautiful virgin, Idilco, he burst a blood
vessel and perished.
* * * *
“F.S.”: I see no objection to flappers
making photographs of scenery and
friends at week-ends if they want that
sort of souvenir. It is the amateur photo-
graphers who have highfalutin artistic
ideals about their activity and band them-
selves into societies with pretentious
titles who annoy me. I speak from
experience because I once belonged to
such a society. We held weekly meet-
ings, and one night we invited Van
Raalte, the etcher, to address us. He in-
structed us in the mysteries of tri-
angular composition, diagonal composi-
tion, diagonal with perpendicular and so
forth and so on, and we lapped it up like
treacle. Then one Saturday afternoon we
were let loose by our president in a gum-
tree-populated paddock to make master-
pieces like Rembrandt. I spotted two old
gentlemen in a remote corner chopping
down a clump of saplings. “What on
earth are you doing?” I inquired. “Cut
these out mentally,” said one of the old
jossers with enthusiasm, “and you will
see that with those three big fellows over
there it makes a perfect diagonal.”
* * * *
“0.P.”: “Monseer Smith’s” par. (B.
29/5/’4O) reminds me of an argument
among Ted, Snow and Jerusalem. In
1918 they were passing Ypres when Ted
said, “Poor old Eepray.” Snow picked
him up, “Y’ mean Eeper.” Before Ted
could reply Jerusalem came to light with,
“Get out, y’ mugs, the Chooms have it
right—Wipers.” A fine old wrangle then
ensued into which walked Bindertwine,
who was asked for his version. He heard
the others give theirs, gravely surveyed
what was left of the village, and drawled,
“I reckon Snow’s right—Eeper. Eeper
blanky bricks and mortar!”
* * * #
“Bo”: It was “Pharaoh’s Curse” that
was popularly supposed to have
descended on the group of Egyptologists
under Lord Carnarvon who disturbed
Tutankhamen’s tomb (B. 12/6/’4O). Part
of the spine of an Egyptian princess, sup-
posed also to have been taken from Tut.’s
tomb, came into the possession of Sir
Alexander Seton, but various mysterious
happenings which thereafter occurred at
his Edinburgh home so undermined the
Scot’s traditional hard-headedness that
he announced to the Psychic Society that
he would return it to its original resting-
place. No doubt he was influenced by
a clairvoyant’s claim to have received
a spirit message of warning that if the
bone wasn’t returned blindness would
be the lot of anyone touching it. But,
under the cold light of reason, the curse
bogey is bunk. The Earl died of blood-
poisoning, a sequel to a mosquito bite —
he was of an age favorable to death, any-
way, and most archaeologists are studious,
unhealthy men. As for Leopold, his
smashing up of his wife had to come
sooner or later, as it must to any car
driver who combines flashness with care-
lessness.
* * * *
“Soak”: I can endorse the tonic
effect of beer in quantity (B.
15/5/’4O). A few years ago I had been
suffering increasingly from war wounds
aggravated by sciatica and all I could
do was nag the missus. To get rid of me
for a while she persuaded me to go to the
special night at the lodge. I did so and
sat and soaked beer all night. I woke
up next morning feeling better than I
had done for six months. Since then,
with the approval of my medico, who
says it works only because I am a very
moderate drinker normally, I go on a
bender once or twice a year with won-
derful results.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Replying to protests, Matron
Best, who has forbidden N.S.W. nurses
serving overseas to use lipstick, re-
torted : “If people think I am old-
fashioned, I don’t mind.” Good enough
for her! A popular brand of the stuff
carries the advertisement: “Bewitching
as moonlight over the sparkling waters
of Venice, soft as the kiss of a butterfly
on rose petals, aromatic as the faintly-
perfumed orchids of the Brazilian jungle.”
All very fine, but anybody with an ounce
of observation can see that the gals put
on lipstick, not because they are dis-
satisfied with their appearance, but simply
because it is the fashion. Consequently
a damsel with the prettiest pair of lips
imaginable will obliterate them with a
slash of crude crimson just as readily
as her plain sister. Middle-aged women
try to make themselves look like young
girls and the young girls throw away the
obvious advantage that the stupidity of
their elders has given them by emulating
them.
THEY ALSO SERVE.
“Mr. drew the marbles that decided the
destination of the four major prizes in the State
ix>ttery.” —Weekly announcement.
He wasn’t counted moderately clever
At school, or notable in any sense;
None of his teachers prophesied he’d ever
Attain to eminence.
Later he led a useful life, though humble.
His unambitious thoughts would never stray
To being even a suburban Bumble,
Much less an M.L.A.
In fields of commerce by the usual labors
He doubtless earned a decent livelihood,
And paid his rates and taxes, as his neighbors
Serenely do (or should).
He played his part and did his duty fairly;
Against his probity was ne’er a hint;
Nor did he cavil, howsoever rarely
His name appeared in print.
With what a glow of pride he must have
tingled,
Selected from the undistinguished mob
Of possibles! Spontaneously singled
Out for a public job!
Some win to greatness—right and left you’ll
con them —
By merit, some by accident of birth;
Far happier they who have it thrust upon
them
By men who know their worth.
And such is Blank. Although of fame no
hunter, he
Will ever be entitled to relate
How quick he seized the -chance to serve his
country
And benefit his State.
It still should comfort him, when old and
tottery,
How he was chosen from unnumbered males
To pick the winning marbles in the lottery
That’s run by New South Wales!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“ Avon”: Character flourishes in
MaOriland, where there are no very large
cities and half the population lives in
the country. Analysis of religions at the
1936 census, just published, gives evidence
of this. Not a few of the religions listed
have only one adherent. There’s an
Anthroposophist, a Biological Christian,
a Calvinist, a Christian Astrologist, a
Cosmist, an Eclecticist, an Esoteric Free-
lance, a Free Determinist, an Iconoclast,
an Idolator, an Infinitist, a Logician,; a
Metaphysician, a Panpsychist, a Soul
Evolutionist. St. Anthony, St. Katharine,
St. Luke and St. Peter have each one
worshipper. Some people seem to have
made a religion of their politics or social
adherences, for there’s a “By the People
for the People,” together with a “Douglas
Amity,” a “Decency,” an Individualist, a
Pacifist, a Radical, a Puritan and a
Realist, and even a Rotarian. Apart from
these queernesses it is to be noted that
the Quaker community is growing (494
in 1936 as against 449 in 1926), and so
are the Mormons, who have gained 1796
Maori and 146 other adherents in a
decade.
* * * *
“Nakh”: After being driven from
pillar to post, the R.A.A.F. personnel in
Melbourne, 500 strong, has taken up its
quarters in the new Century building, an
11-storey erection begun after the war-
gong sounded and finished with mush-
room speed. It is on the Howie estate.
The original Howie came down from the
country with a friend to attend the first
land sale. The
friend thought that
prospects were
better at Williams-
town, but Howie
bought the Mel-
bourne site and
landed a fortune.
Most of his descen-
dants are now in
England.
“V. Cluse”: He
was draped ungrace-
fully over a gate-
post, blearily regard-
ing the implacable
door of his home.
He straightened up
and cried, “Mowed
the lawn lasht week,
dirrent I?” The door
remained impassive.
“Orrays get yerra
cup o’ tea irra
mornin’, don’ I?” A
stray dog came
along, smelled the
drunk’s boots and
departed. The drunk
slept a moment on
the gatepost, then
pulled himself up-
right again. “Orrays give y’ enough
money t’ carry on, don’ I?” he de-
manded of the still unmoved door. An
elderly lady coming along spotted him,
shied across the street and went on. He
teetered, his head sunk in profound con-
templation. Then he made his final
appeal. “Nerrer bin unfaithful to y\
have I?” The door moved an inch and
a cold voice said, “You can’t come in
till you’re sober.” He absorbed this
statement slowly, then carefully unhung
himself from the post. “Thash warrer I
thought,” he declared sadly, and wan-
dered into the outer darkness.
e
happens. Possibly by a
process of natural selec-
tion, anew generation
of canines is growing
up which can judge the
speed of a car more
accurately than its fore-
bears. The same thing
occurred in Java, where
the domestic poultry
runs loose and utilises
the highway as a
parade ground. The
first motor vehicles in
Java ploughed their
way over the bodies of
fowls and chickens.
Now the fowls have
become wary. During
the last five months in
Victoria road deaths
soared to a total of
240, but of this total
only nine were chil-
dren. The children use
the street for a play-
ground just as much as
ever, but they are evi-
dently acquiring aware-
ness of motor traffic
through propaganda
and . experience. Most
of the . victims were
elderly people. They may have the
awareness but lack the agility to escape.
* * * *
“Old A.W.U.”: The shade of Andy
Fisher must have started at the words of
the British Chancellor of the Exchequer,
Kingsley Wood: “Britain must mobilise
all her resources to the last man and the
last shilling!” That, with Australia as
the subject, was what Fisher said. An
ultra-Red from whom little is heard these
days was credited with the remark at
the time that he didn’t know who would
give the last shilling, but he would be
the last man.
* * * *
“Quirker”: A Sydney paper recently
ran an article on freak accidents. It
didn’t mention mine. Waiting for a
mate I consulted a huge gunmetal watch
on the end of a chain, then gave the
chain a couple of swings. Next thing I
knew two strangers were helping me up
from the footpath, asking what had hit
me. The swinging watch had clouted
me under the chin.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Sir Charles Vyner
Brooke, the third white Rajah of Sara-
wak, continues to have trouble with his
family. His youngest daughter, Valerie,
is being sued lor divorce by Gregory, the
wrestler ; ground, desertion. “She is a nice
person,” said Gregory, “but she is always
somewhere else.” A short time ago the
rajah publicly repudiated his daughters’
claims to the title “princesses of Sara-
wak.” The dynasty has been unfortu-
nate in the matter of offspring. The first
“That will do, Miss Adams. Now, Mrs. Blair, will you carry on?”
rajah had no progeny. The second, a
nephew, lost nearly the whole of his
family by fever in the Red Sea. Few of
their descendants have shown the slightest
disposition to share the burdens of tropi-
cal government with their parents. During
the administration of the present rajah’s
father, district officers I stayed with in
the remote provinces of the country were
always on their toes. They never knew
when the rajah, by no means a young
man, would walk out of the jungle on to
the residency verandah and start asking
“The poor cow met her during a blackout !”
them questions in the local dialect as to
the manners, customary laws and history
of their charges ; also who had married
whom and what had happened to old
Damit the headman. If the d.o. didn’t
know as much about those subjects as
the rajah he would be shifted to a clerical
job in Kuching, the capital. This was the
only examination the Brookes ever sub-
mitted their officers to. They were all
young men sent out from Devon, the
Brookes’ county.
* * * *
“F.S.”: A seven-foot bronze statue of
Diana and her dogs by the local Leslie
Bowles is to be erected in the Fitzroy
Gardens by the Melbourne City Council.
It was commissioned before the war and
cast in Italy, and forgotten till it sud-
denly came to hand recently. This re-
minds me of the English tinned-food
magnate who made heavy contributions
to the Lloyd George party funds. Ex-
pecting a title, out of it, he was some-
what chagrined on being told that no-
thing he had done would bear advertise-
ment, so he hit on the bright idea of
resurrecting the name of a forgotten
British general and commissioning a
sculptor to make a statue of the worthy
for erection in a public place in London.
The sculptor had just completed the
work when the Great War broke out
and live generals became more important
than dead ones. The magnate’s claims to
recognition were forgotten, and he was
nursing his grievance in solitude when it
occurred to him that the price of copper
was steadily rising, and that his statue
was made of that precious metal. He
went to the sculptor and asked him what
was the weight of the statue “AUeast
’T'U h n ave a it h nt’Znd mmy e ;i C ace P for
safe keeping,” remarked the philan-
thropist. No more was ever heard of it.
“Colbun”: Amongst the horrors of the
present war which will affect. the later
life of another generation are. some of
the names that will be wished on helpless
infants by patriotic parents. Already
there must be a crop of D.unkirks,
Narviks, Essexes, Ajaxes, Achilleses and
Weygands, not to speak of Churchills,
Cobbers and Gorts. Only the pained
protest of a parson saved a girl infant
in these parts from being labelled May
Rotterdam for life. Amongst other draw-
backs it would have made a total loss
of any chance she might have in after
life of marrying into the Tooth or Cheeke
families.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: My old friend Cap-
tain Vangs is positive that if he can suc-
ceed in persuading Mrs. Vangs to let him
replace their 1928 model car by a horse-
drawn vehicle designed by himself the
idea will catch on to an extent which will
relieve the Federal Government of any
fears of petrol shortage. Mrs. Vangs
persists in her original idea that it would
be cruelty to animals, and that she
wouldn’t be seen in such a thing any-
how. Its underlying purpose is to gtt
the animal under proper seamanlike con-
trol instead of letting it range about
ahead of the ship, free to mutiny when-
ever it chooses. In midship section the
Vangs vehicle forms an inverted U
running on four rubber-tired wheels.
Passenger and cargo space is built out
from the sides, with navigating and look-
out seats forward to port and starboard,
where the horse’s head projects from the
hull. Suitable towlines, springs, as
breastlines, are led from the harness for
movement ahead and astern, and lines
rove from the bit through small snatch-
blocks to the wheel provide for steering.
A grapnel slung on release gear aft can
be let go from the navigating seat in
case of a bolt, and acceleration is
effected, as on racecourses, by a small
electric battery. The gifted inventor is
now working out detail for a winch
attachment by which the horse can be
hoisted clear of the ground for coasting
down hills or as an extra measure of
safety in a bolt. Auxiliary sail for use
uphill is also under consideration.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: It is certainly amusing to
find the Nazis monopolising Shakspeare
and arguing that he was accepted by
Elizabethan England because Englishmen
in those days were really Germans. As
a matter of fact the Bard was not whole-
heartedly accepted by Elizabethan Eng-
land. The censorship was as active
against him as Cresswell O’Reilly would
be if a new Shakspeare arose to shock
him. But the Nazis haven’t descended
to quite the same depths of stupidity in
the realm of Shakspearean criticism as
the Marxists of Russia. A few years ago
“Romeo and Juliet” was performed in
Moscow and the Marx-Engels Lenin
Institute approved of it in these terms:
“Shakspeare’s artistic power is due to his
destructive criticism of capitalism....
That is why the bourgeoisie fears the real
Shakspeare.” This is heavy artillery to
bring against a simple love story, but
institutes are like that.
A JUDICIAL SATIRIST.
“Advocate in Workers’ Compensation Court, Sydney :
‘This letter is in either a solicitor’s or a doctor's
handwriting.’
“Judge Moffitt: ‘lt’s not a doctor’s. I can read
it.’ ”
Good on you, Judge! While others have
elected
At Coke and Blackstone for their job to toil,
It's pretty obvious you’ve not neglected
To take a tip or two from Conan Doyle.
You know there’s truer wisdom than at college
The student may absorb from legal tomes.
You solve your problems from a wider know-
ledge,
The same as Sherlock Holmes.
Not yours to say why medicoes’ epistles,
In those who have such things to struggle
through,
Occasion knitted brows and puzzled whistles;
You’re only sure —and rightly sure—they do.
And I suspect you’d have an answer speedy
For any doubters stripp’d of legal fudge:
A positive and plain experto crede
Would be your dictum, Judge.
Is it that penning intricate directions
For. curing any malady to which
Our flesh is heir, in less involved connections
Will cramp a doctor’s style and queer his
pitch?
These symbols to the layman so mysterious,
These scraps of Latin few may understand,
Are such the influences deleterious
That spoil a Galen’s hand?
Amend your unintelligible scrawling,
Learn how to dot your i’s and cross your t’s,
All you practitioners who ply the calling
Of ALsculapius and Hippocrates!
Before complaints grow noticeably rifer,
’Twere well you substituted for the screed
That takes a practised chemist to decipher
Something a Judge can read. ,
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


-
l fIOE
m
'
mmmwm
1
m
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
The Government is establishing a
home-defence force of 250,000 men, and
is to ask Parliament tomorrow for the
emergency powers granted to the British
and Maoriland Governments. All ex-
cept one —conscription for overseas ser-
vice. Meanwhile the Communist party,
the League for Peace and Democracy
the Minority Movement and several
Fascist bodies have been declared illegal.
This proceeding coincided with a Russian
seizure of Lithuania, arranged in concert
with the Nazis, though simple-minded
members of the intelligentsia, such as
were inveigled in droves into the League
for Peace and Democracy, see in it a
sign of an impending Bolshevist attack
on the Axis Powers. The truth is that
Stalin is as scared of Hitler as Mussolini is.
Still in a frenzy because Menzies didn’t
make Theodore Co-ordinator of Defence
Works (and others), and because he re-
fuses to sack Air Minister Fairbairn,
Sydney “Telegraph” had the gall to de-
scribe Fairbairn as a blundering “novice.”
After all you can’t expect Mr. Fairbairn
to make a success of his first real job in
life.
Fairbairn’s first real job was as R.A.F.
airman—he was wounded in action and
taken prisoner—and he is a practical fly-
ing man. What was Theodore’s “first
big job”?
Alike in peace and war, Theodore has
done less than nothing for Australian
defence. He was Treasurer in the Gov-
ernment that skittled the national army,
and when he got to work with the prun-
ing-knife the warrant officers kept on
the establishment were actually the first
of his victims. Warrant officers first ;
clerks last.
Baker, the Opposition Leader at
Hobart, has mortally offended Senators
by describing the Senate as “a mere
House of deadheads and duds” which
“we could wipe out without the slightest
loss.” Certainly the latter-day Senate
has not lived up to the expectations of
its founders, but that is largely because,
contrary to the intentions of the founders,
it has been made subservient to party.
Anyhow, seeing that Tasmania with
238,000 people has as many Senators as
N.S.W. with 2,800,000, a Tasmanian
politician should be the last to talk airily
about wiping out the Senate.
Tasmania’s Labor Government is try-
ing to “reform” the Uppah House again.
It proposes removal of the age limit (30
years) for candidates, adult suffrage
and/or grant of the vote to “members of
the armed forces of the Commonwealth.”
But what does an island with less than
a fourth of the population of Melbourne,
and with 11 members i.n the National
Parliament, want with two local Houses
or even one? What it needs is abolition
of the more superfluous Chamber as a
first step towards the abolition of the
other, and the local imitation of Bucking-
ham Palace with it.
Almost every traveller returning to
Australia from Britain warns the Gov-
ernment to beware of refugees. The latest
is Mark Sheldon, the Sydney businessman
who was the Commonwealth’s represen-
tative in the U.S.A. for three years, 1919-
22. In a rush of sentiment to the head,
the Lyons Government agreed to admit
15,000 refugees from Central Europe, and
the present Government doesn’t know
what tc do about it.
Departments of Information seem to
be unsatisfactory everywhere, and the
one in Britain has not improved since
Duff Cooper took charge. It ought to be
taken for granted that there are anti-war
elements in both enemy countries, and
nothing should be done to stifle the
sentiments expressed in the great popular
welcomes which Chamberlain received in
Germany and Italy, and which were cer-
tainly not feigned. Yet Duff Cooper’s
first comment on Mussolini’s villainy was
in essence an indictment of Italian cour-
age:—
We know the Italians of old, and know
that we can never fail to beat them on the
field of battle.
That sort of thing is apt to drive even
a pacifist into the war party.
Short of breaking off relations with
Italy, President Roosevelt did everything
possible to restrain Mussolini from giving
France a stiletto stab. One powerful
weapon which his Democratic pre-
decessor possessed the second Roosevelt
lacked. Before the last war Italians entered
the U.S.A. at the rate of 200,000 p.a. ;
the figures for 1913 were actually 265,542.
Of recent years, as a result of the Re-
publican quota law, Italian immigration
has dropped down to round 7000 p.a.,
so the threat of an immigration embargo,
which must have powerfully influenced
Italian policy in the boom years, is no
longer of any use. That quota law has
had effects on European conditions that
its authors never dreamed of.
When the Mediterranean became a
war zone, the Government at Canberra
had to make up its mind about petrol
rationing, and it announced that ration-
ing would be introduced in August. The
quota for pleasure cars is to be eight
gallons to eighteen gallons a month ac-
cording to horse-power ; for commercial
vehicles 20 gallons a month for “every
half-ton registered unladen weight.”
Diesel oil and power kerosene are to be
rationed, as well as motor spirit.
An enormous consumer of petrol and
Diesel oil is the N.S.W. Transport
Department, which has been abandon-
ing tramways and putting double-decker
buses on the roads at a great rate. In
the larger interests of Australia and
Britain these insensate proceedings should
have been vetoed under the National
Security Act; but even in war-time the
State Rights bogey can make Canberra
politicians go at the knees.
Mair, the Sydney Premier, has become
the State’s prize bore. Every day, when
not killing Hitler and Mussolini with
his mouth, he comes out with a tripe
issue. He is buying a charcoal-gas out-
fit for his car, he considers Australia
“the jewel of jewels in the casket of
the Empire,” he is sure “our existence
depends on the British Navy,” he would
like other people to work on public holi-
days, it is imperative that the battleship
dock should be built by his Water Board,
and that defence works should be started
as soon as unemployed-relief works cut
out —and so on. Even Stevens, whose
stopgap Mair was content to be until
his head started to swell, now realises
that “we should abolish State rights and
amalgamate the forces of State and
Federal industry” ; but Mair goes blither-
ing on and meddling.
In large parts of N.S.W. dog-racing
has become a disease. It rages in 47
cities and towns, and 49 other towns
applied for licenses, which cover exemp-
tion from the anti-gambling laws. In
very shame the Mair Government re-
fused the applications for the 49 licenses,
but it said nothing about calling in the
others or cancelling the exemption from
the betting laws —a thing which would
kill the noxious trade in one act. If only
on the ground that the useless brutes
that chase the tin hare consume food
at the rate of £30,000 a week, the
Mair Government should withdraw a
privilege which is granted in no other
State; but, since votes would be alien-
ated, it is not game.
The Sydney Government’s suggestion
that King’s Birthday should be a work-
ing day led to its making a sorry show
of itself. While still striking its patriotic
attitude, it was tartly reminded that its
own alleged Parliament was “resting,”
and that its own departments were fully
determined to take the holiday; and
presently Mair was heard mumbling that
they couldn’t be kept open without a
special Act. Special Act there was none ;
instead, a “proclamation was issued on
June 12 proroguing Parliament from
June 18 to July 16.”
“Permanent arrivals” of Southern
Europeans numbered 5274 in 1938 and
3975 in 1939; of Central Europeans,
2816 and 6717. Southern Europeans
include Maltese, who are British and
loyal—so much so that in Sydney a
party of them smashed the shop win-
dows of naturalised Italians when they
heard that Malta had been bombed. They
explained that they did it in a burst of
patriotic indignation. Patriotic indig-
nation could find more forcible expres-
sion in Malta itself or in the A.I.F.
That forcible-feeble Sydney politician
McKell must have been ransacking the
dictionary for expressions to apply to
Cameron. Part of one collection in what
his paper describes as “a slashing
attack”:
Mistrusted and detested; narrow prejudice,
blindness, personal jealousy, intemperate-
ness; blackmailing the very Government in
which he is supposed to be serving; bush-.
ranging methods, dictatorial behavior, un-
balanced, furious, high-handed impulses;
a national liability; this rural dictator;
irresponsible, headstrong, egotistical; a man
who has no scruples about using threats
and bombast.
And all, or nearly all, because Cameron
objected to Theodore getting a big war
job.
It is safe enough for McKell to cham-
pion Theodore now. It wasn’t safe in 1931,
when Lang ran Rosevear against him at
Dailey ; so McKell, then the meekest of
Lang’s supporters, took good care to
shout with the larger mob.
According to Comrade Norman Jef-
fery, of the N.S.W. No-Conscription
Committee, the German High Command
is alarmed at the growth of Communist
activity among German troops. Perhaps
it won’t be long before we are asked to
believe that the real object of Germany’s
invasion of the Low Countries and
France is to free the workers there of
their “economic chains.”
Addressing a meeting of Maoriland
farmers, A. H. Cockayne, the Director-
General of Agriculture, told them that
what the inhabitants of Cockayne and the
other parts of Britain needed most from
Maoriland in the produce line was cross-
bred wool, beef, bacon and eggs. He
added significantly:
Under the immense powers taken by the
Government to do all that is possible to
speed our war effort, it will be a case of
the farmer being told what he can’t do
rather than what he shall do.
It would be a good thing for Australian
farmers to be told what they can’t do
during the war. Unfortunately Australia
has six Ministers of Agriculture, and they
are so infected with the conference
disease that the war may be over before
they decide on a farm plan and see that
it is carried out—if that indeed is possible
under the “system.”
“Red-tape must go into the wastepaper
basket,” howled Dunstan at a Win-the-
War rally. This was while he was still
“inquiring” into the cases of three Vic-
torian policemen who, evidently believing
they could do more for the country by
fighting than by collecting drunks,
enlisted in the A.I.F. According to
Kent Hughes, M.L.A., they were dis-
missed from the force with loss of all
privileges, including superannuation
rights, because “they did not follow
the departmental routine in enlisting.”
Communists continue the distribution
of poisonous anti-Ally propaganda,
especially Dimitrov and Molotov
pamphlets. In one, a report of a Molotov
speech to the Council of People’s Com-
missars, there are two choice passages:
Let me remind you that the population
of Leningrad has grown to 3,500,000,
almost equal to the entire population of
Finland, which is 3,650,000 ( amusement ).
Some have said that the U.S.S.R. de-
mands the city of Viborg a sheer fabri-
cation and a lie.
Four months later this unconscionable
liar and his friends were in possession
of Viborg ; but, operating from the city
with nearly as many people as Finland,
it had taken them 14 weeks to turn Fin-
land’s one prepared line. And when the
Finnish leaders gave up the fight their
soldiers had a Red division almost com-
pletely surrounded.
Major-General O’Ryan, that old com-
rade and admirer of the Diggers, has
been sent from New York to Tokyo as
leader of a commission designed “to im-
prove trade and diplomatic relations”
between the U.S.A. and Japan. If the
gallant old soldier can bring it off, Aus-
tralia will have another substantial reason
for regarding him as a steadfast friend.
There is no denying that the anomalous
position of the Dutch East Indies has
complicated the situation in the Pacific,
and it is of the first importance that the
old friendship between Japan and the
U.S.A. should be restored. Foreign Minis-
ter Arita’s recent reference to tariff and
immigration policies, though expressed in
language to which no exception could
be taken, was meant for the Common-
wealth as well as the Republic.
A ringing note was struck by N.S.W.’s
little Swiss community in an appeal for
funds to provide comforts for the citizen-
soldiers who, for nearly 10 months, have
manned their frontiers:
Ten minutes before the declaration by
Great Britain that a state of war with the
German Reich existed, 500,000 Swiss stood
at arms, ready for defensive action. Our
confidence in our army is unbounded.
Should our country be invaded, we know
that the fight will be to the last man.
But for shortsighted and faint-hearted
politicians, Australia could have said as
much and more, seeing that it has
3,000,000 more people than Switzerland.
Had the national-service organisation
been preserved and had more country
groups been called up as the world situ-
ation grew darker, there would have been
no need for expensive recruiting cam-
paigns and no excuse for dangerous
delays.
“F.S.”: Gandhi (B. 12/6/’4O) used to
be a thorn in the flesh of British official-
dom in India. He is now its bulwark.
Although he does not belong to any
political institution, the little loin-clothed
ascetic has such spiritual authority over
his fellow-Indians that he can declare
a state of civil disobedience at any time ;
but he has decided to defer his campaign
until the war is over because he doesn’t
think it right to embarrass Britain at this
juncture. This is quite consistent with
Gandhi’s principles. The antithesis of
Hitler, he disbelieves in force as passion-
ately as Hitler believes in it. Gandhi
was making £20,000 a year as a lawyer
in South Africa. He gave it up because
he regarded money as a hidden form
of violence.


THE FIGHTING SPIRIT.
“Replying to Premier Mair, Premier Forgan Smith said he did not intend to drive his car on charcoal gas because he already was using power alcohol a good
Queensland product.”


The Kieharilson Chain Hotel
I ■*'
ms
l 1 It
w
n
II
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from. . 12/6
’Phone: M 4 14 1, (10 lines).
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE FALL IN SHARE
PRICES.
THE OUTLOOK ANALYSED.
June Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.. Ltd., 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
John Musgrave Harvey, from 1925 to
1934 Chief Judge in Equity in N. S.
Wales, who died at 76 last week, was of
English birth, son of a clergyman, and
came to Sydney as a young man. He
studied law after his arrival, became
associate to Judge William Owen, and
"later made a reputation as a barrister
in equity. He mounted the Bench in
1913. As a Judge he was always the
great gentleman, and he was a great
worker, even when his sight was failing.
A staunch Anglican, he was for a while
Chancellor of the Diocese of Sydney.
Cheerful, hearty Cyril Docker, the
A.R.P. man, has been succeeded by
cheerful, hearty John Back as Chief
JOHN BACK.
Warden of Sydney. Born at Minto
(N.S.W.), Back was educated at Syd-
ney Boys’ High School, Sydney Uni-
versity (8.A., B.Sc.) and the Teachers’
College. After graduating he was a
teacher at Sydney High, whence he
enlisted for service in the 1914-18
affair. He was commissioned before he
went overseas and his knowledge of
stinks got him a job in charge of No. 2
Area Gas School in England—which in-
cluded all the Australians on Salisbury
Plain and some English and Canadian
Brigades. He was wounded in August,
1918, and after the war spent two years
at Oxford engaged in chemical research
associated mainly with phosgene. He
came home again in 1920, and was ap-
pointed Science Master at Technical
High, Inspector of Secondary Schools in
Science and Maths, in 1927, and Staff
Inspector at the beginning of this year.
Waiting to be called up for the
R.A.A.F. in Melbourne is John Mcln-
tosh, a 24-year-old son of the lionhearted
Mclntosh who was Ray Parer’s partner
in the famous flight from England to
Australia in 1920. He has flying experi-
ence gained in Westralia, where his
father died in an accident not long after
the war.
“C.Q.”: Is this an Australian record?
The Dunstan family of Kyneton, Vic.,
lost their father in the 1914-18 war. A
few weeks ago five of his sons enlisted.
Last week their two remaining brothers
submitted themselves in Melbourne. The
whole seven will go into camp together.
Assistant officer of the C.S. and I.R. in
Adelaide, George Lewis Amos, M.Sc.
(Adelaide), has been appointed research
chemist at Maribyrnong Munition Fac-
tory for the duration of the war. Amos
collected his B.Sc. in 1936, three years
later achieved the major degree, and
in the same year was awarded a student-
ship in animal biochemistry at Cam-
bridge. He was unable to take advan-
tage of it because of the war.
Charles Pearcy Mountford, member
of Adelaide Uni. board of anthropologi-
cal research, now leading a small expedi-
tion to totemic sites in Musgrave, Mann,
and Petermann Ranges, is senior G.P.O.
mechanic as well as scientist. His party
is investigating the secret art work of
the initiated aboriginal man, also artistic
expressions of native women and chil-
dren. Mountford’s researches into abo.
art have attracted attention from high
authorities overseas.
E. W. Bick, retired curator of Brisbane
Botanic Gardens, rediscovered Brown’s
lily, which some English authorities
declared did not exist. When Flin-
ders was in the Gulf of Carpentaria
in 1802, his botanist, Brown, discovered
a lily, Calostemma, on one of the islands.
Later investigators, unable to find the
lily, said that Brown must have made a
mistake by describing the flower of one
plant and the foliage of another as a
new discovery. Bick, 106 years after
Brown’s discovery, found the lily on
Bountiful Island, in the Mornington
group, and sent some specimens to
Kew Gardens, where identification
was confirmed. Bick has been curator
of the Gardens for 23 years, and has
devoted half a century to botany and
horticulture in Queensland.
Reached his 90th
milestone in Mel-
bourne, Rev. Patrick
John Murdoch, father
of the new Director-
General of Informa-
tion. He was ordained
by the Free Church of
Scotland in 1878 and
was a pastor in Scot-
land till 1887, when
he was called to Mel-
bourne. He served
Trinity Presbyterian
Church, Camberwell,
for 40 years before
retiring. In 1898 he
was Vic. Moderator-
General. While his
son was changing the
character of popular
journalism in Mel-
bourne he was writing
theological treatises,
and he published a
volume of war ser-
mons.
Dead at 77, Frank
Leverrier, K.C., one
of the most scholarly
of Sydney’s lawyers.
He was born in Syd-
ney and educated
there (Fort - street,
Grammar and Univer-
sity), though he spent most of his earliest
years in France. He was a Bachelor of
Arts, of Law and of Science, was for a
while Challis lecturer in law at Sydney
University, and from 1914 to 1917 Vice-
Chancellor. He was a director of M.L.C.
Assurance.
The latest recruit to the Supreme Court
Bench of N.S.W., Dudley Williams, is a
descendant on his mother’s side of James
Milson, first settler in North Sydney. The
new Judge’s father was a solicitor. The
son, immediately upon passing his final
law examinations in Sydney, in war-time,
went to England and enlisted in the Royal
Field Artillery. Returning, he was for
a while associate to Cullen, C.J., then
went into practice as a barrister, made a
reputation in Equity and High Court
cases, and took silk in 1935. He has been
an acting-judge since last November.
Thomas Church, well known in Aus-
tralian banking circles, retires on July 12
from management of the ’Asia’s affairs
in N. S. Wales. He has been 43| years
with the bank. Reginald Hemingway,
who was in the London office and who
recently became Victorian manager,
comes to Sydney to succeed Church.
“Ek D.”: Brigadier-General “Bertie”
Lloyd—Herbert William away from the
Artillery—was born to his job. In civil life
he gives the impression of a somewhat
courteous leopard who has been invited
to a ladies’ tea party. In uniform and
with a military occupation, he becomes
a different man. He was a “permanent”
before the last war, went away a captain
and was an artillery brigadier at 33. He
was noted at the front for his cool daring
and almost complete contempt of danger;
but there is much more in him than
mere native courage. It is an experience
to talk to him about the details of soldier-
ing—it is like reading a good military
map. He has all the knowledge there
is, lucidly arranged, and can produce it
to meet the intellect of the meanest
civilian understanding. Psychologists
would envy him his understanding of the
Digger mind. Lloyd returned to a
country in which defence was being
scrapped, and was wasted for years in
civil and political life, when in any other
land a fine military career would have
stood ahead of him. A sound speaker,
popular with men, he placed recruiting
BRIGADIER-GENERAL H. W. LLOYD.
(Modelled by Frith.)
on a basis which it had never seen before
when he was appointed Director-General.
He is the inevitable choice for a senior
fighting command when the real second
A.I.F. has been organised.
Westralia has appointed Hyman
Solomon Spigl its official stargazer, vice
H. B. Curlewis, retired. A graduate of
Perth University, Spigl joined the Lands
and Surveys Department in 1936 and has
specialised in astronomical observation
associated with surveying. He’s 29 and
Perth-born.
Had a centenary this year, A. M. Bick-
ford and Sons, the Adelaide manufactur-
ing chemists. William Bickford, of stout
HAROLD BICKFORD.
Devon stock, founded the firm, but died
at 35. A. M. Bickford was his widow,
who carried on. Harold Bickford, present
head of the firm, subject of this Lionel
Coventry diagram, is a grandson of
William. Two great-grandsons, Leslie
and Reginald, are on the board, and the
fourth generation is represented by sons
of Harold and Reginald. In his youth
Harold Bickford played foobtall, repre-
senting S.A., and won an Austral Wheel
Race in the booming days of cycle-racing.
Nowadays he recreates with a golf club
and is a figure in racing circles.
Aubrey Duncan Mackenzie, who suc-
ceeds Kermode, retired, as chairman
of the Melbourne Harbor Trust, was
born in Victoria 45 years ago, qualified
as a municipal engineer, and has been
in State or municipal service ever since.
He was chief engineer of the Victorian
Public Works Department, also engineer
in charge of Ports and Harbors for five
years before he was appointed junior
member of the Country Roads Board
in 1938. He served with the A.I.F. in the
1914-18 war. His recreations are yacht-
ing and fishing.
A prompt reply came to an appeal
from the Victorian Red Cross to be
rescued from its cramped quarters in
Latrobe-street, Melbourne. Norman Myer
handed the keys of the old Barnet
Glass building opposite the Mel-
bourne Hospital with the sole stipulation
that his gift should be surmounted by
a sign “Red Cross House.” Norman
Myer is managing director of the Myer
business. He was educated at Wesley,
served in the 1914-18 war and got a
commission. In the present trouble he
has the job of advising the Government
on the clothing requirements of the
Forces.
Colonel Hargest, in command of
Maoriland’s second echelon, was a farmer
when the blast of war blew in 1914. He
sailed with the main body of Maori-
landers as a first lieutenant. In 1916
and 1918 he collected an M.C. and a
D. 5.0., and he was one of the few Fern-
landers who were awarded the Legion of
Honor. Senior officer to Gordon Coates,
later to be Priminister, he served under
Coates in Parliament after the war.


NO THANKS
/■J rather have a &£ Capet^
%
A
\ *
mm
mm
m
0*
m
! fgSP&mftSsw
m
"Lock"—N. M. Sherlock—whose navy
cartoons are so well known, gives
us this impression of his favourite
phrase, "No thanks! I'd rather have
a Red Capstan!"
Time for a
CAPSTAN
they're blended better
10 for B n " 20 for /-
ALSO FLAT AND ROUND FIFTIES AND HUNDREDS
Capstan Special Mild Red Packs
Capstan Medium Blue Packs
Capstan Full Strength .. Brown Packs
w
CAPSTANS
664 E-6.401


ABORIGINALITIES
“K. Ley”: Old Mac, the Mallee cocky,
got home from the town well-inked one
Sunday morning and insisted on his
missus arising and cooking for him a
large lump of steak. There were words
in the shack, and when Mac’s eldest son
tried to calm him Mac lashed out and
the son hit back. The second son then
tackled his brother, and a free-for-all fol-
lowed, during which a thieving staghound
got away with the steak. Mac ran
blunderingly after the tyke, leaving the
fight to look after itself, but fell over a
box in the darkness, crawled to the side
of the shed, and lapsed into sleep. Inside
the shack the fight petered out, and Mrs.
Mac and the boys went to bed. Later,
a Mallee hurricane blew up, with accom-
panying deluge, and, in the business of
trying to keep the shack on the ground
the family forgot all about its head. The
storm passed as dawn arrived and Mac
came to and found himself sitting in
muddy water. Before him a pine-tree
lay across the front of his home, his
wife was fishing things out of the flood,
one son looked down at him from the
broken roof and the other was blas-
phemously splashing about looking for
his trousers. Mac took this in with a
bleary eye, then got slowly to his feet.
“By cripes,” he remarked admiringly,
“we must’ve made it willing while we
lasted! ”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Bill, who’d been pulling
down a lucerne-stack, ambled over to
the homestead. “Look,” he said, “would
y’ mind tyin’ a bit o’ string or somethin’
round me finger ’ere an’ cuttin’ it an’
rubbin’ in some Condy’s?” “Good
heavens,” cried the boss, leaping up,
“have you been bitten by a snake?”
“Yair,” drawled Bill, eyeing him in slight
astonishment; “did y’ think I wanted t’
remember somethin’?”
* * * *
“Doubting T.”: I’ve heard a lot of
skite about bushmen and their sense of
location, but I’ve never seen one who
couldn’t be bushed once he lost sight of
familiar landmarks. It’s easy enough
for a man who’s lived years in one dis-
trict to memorise its general features and
use that memory when lost, but turn the
same cove loose in a patch of scrub he’s
never seen before and watch him get
tied in knots. It’s different for dogs and
horses, which are guided by instinct, a
thing bushmen might have had once but
have since washed out of themselves with
beer and tea, if they haven’t smoked it
out. More especially do I mistrust the
Collins-street variety which frequently
insults the intelligence with “Abo.” pars,
on how to find your way. All these
birds can ever do is to find their way to
the nearest pub.
* * * *
“Pick”: The echidna is a roamer of
the wilds, but when on trek he never gets
far from his burrow or hollow before
being hungrily attended by a squad of
eagles that are presently joined by a
company of crows. The little traveller
seeks to avoid their onslaughts by beat-
ing beneath the scrubs and nettles or
sidling along logs or stones until he
finds a hill of the meat-ants’ or sugar-
ants’ colony, into the terraced compart-
ments of which he can burrow out of
reach of claw and beak with ease and
rapidity.
* * * *
“Arev”: For weeks Mrs. Jupp had
been at her husband to mend the gate.
“I’ve planted seedlings in the garden and
I don't want them trodden down,” she
said. Bill always assured her he would fix
it as soon as he had a minute to spare.
“If you’re afraid of the calf getting in,”
he said, “I’ll tie it up. I’ll see to the gate
tomorrow; but I must get those seed
potatoes ready.” He tied the calf in the
paddock beyond the house, where it set
up a dismal mooing all the morning.
Bill, cutting potatoes from the bags and
depositing the portions in a large tub,
thought Mrs. J. was a bit too fussy about
the gate. It did not worry Bill; in fact,
he found it easier to step over the lean-
ing gate than to undo a catch whenever
he wanted to go from the yard to the
paddock. When Bill went to the kitchen
for lunch, his wife was still worrying
about her seedlings. “What’s going to
trample on ’em?” Bill said. “I’ve tied
up the calf, haven’t I? And I’ll mend
the gate as soon as I get the spuds in.”
So now the gate had to wait for the
“One angel kiss cocktail please , ol' boy.”
planting! Mrs. Jupp sighed, while Bill
started his meal in apparent unconcern
at the mooing of the tethered calf. Having
finished his dinner he went back towards
the shed. As he hurried past the lucerne
patch he noticed an animal stepping over
the broken gate and making its way back
to the paddock. Bill quickened his steps.
It was the cow, and not the calf. Bill
hastened across the yard. The seedlings,
he found, were unharmed, but the cow
had demolished all the cut potatoes.
When Mrs. Jupp looked out of the
kitchen door Bill was mending the gate.
* * * *
“0.P.”: Can birds think? Hearing a
pecking inside an upturned jam-tin my
mate carefully turned it over and cap-
tured a soldier-bird. The soldier struggled
a bit, gave my mate a woeful look and
collapsed in his hand. “Poor little
blanker. Heart-failure, I s’pose,” he said,
and put it on a post. There was a de-
risive cheep and the minah flew off.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Mass-invasion from the air
is no novelty in these S.Q. parts; every
spring and summer we find thousands of
discarded parachutes about the garden.
After discarding them the fierce invaders
take cover and carry on unrelenting war-
fare against the local population, not
sticking at cannibalism on occasion. The
parachutes are of silk, manufactured by
their users as required and superior to
the man-made article in that they can
be adjusted to rise and fall at will. These
invasions have been going on for count-
less centuries, and one race among the
daring air voyagers has travelled round
the world, unchecked by seas or moun-
tains, long before man first descended
from the branches of his family tree. Yet
all these bold adventurers are babies —
infant spiders who have paid out their
first web-threads with the wind and sailed
off before their ever-ravenous mother
could eat them.
* * * *
“W.D.McC.”: Can’t agree with
“Valerin” (B. 15/5/’4O) that a mongrel
is as good as a pure-bred dog —at least
when it comes to working sheep. I’ve
been breeding dogs, kelpies in particular,
for more than half a century, and I have
yet to see the mongrel that is worth his
tucker as a sheep-dog, except as a yapper
in a drafting-yard, where noise is in de-
mand ; but send him to turn a wing, and
ten to one he will cut off a few and
scatter them in all directions. When it
comes to a breeding proposition the
“mong” usually fails to pass on any good
points he may have. The kelpie is just
the opposite. I have an old kelpie dog
who is priceless simply because all his
progeny are like himself, natural workers.
As soon as they are old enough they take
to work like a duck to water and require
little or no breaking-in.
* * * *
“Cloviski MacOdoacer” (T.N.G.):
Brown Brother has weird ways of extend-
ing his pidgin vocabulary. A salmon ris-
sole is a fishball, and if the eccentric
white man wants meat instead of salmon—
well, he can have it, but it’s still going to
be a fishball ; so, if you want your cook-
boy to make meat rissoles, you have to
tell him to “workim fishball along meat.”
Tins were made before crown seals, it
seems, and a tin-opener is “ope-tin” ; so a
bottle-opener, naturally, is “ope-tin b’long
bottle.” As soon as water, however cold,
is put into a kettle with a view to heating
it, it is hot water ; so, if you demand your
shaving water before it’s ready, the
answer will be “ ’Ot wahter ’e no ’ot
yet.” The sea is soda water, and high
tide is high-water ; but when it comes to
low tide the howls of Scotus are added
to those of Fowler, for low tide is dry
tort, 0 ' the . shir,s
country by those who care about shirts
have two large breast pockets ; but evi-
dently shirts came into the native ken
later than trousers, and a trousers-
pocket is bag trousers; so, inevitably a
shirt pocket is “bag trousers b’long shirt ”
My wash-boy hung out the cheque-book
which he had washed with my shirt, and,
tired of gazing at the beautiful color
pattern it made on the pocket, picked up
a magazine in which was a picture of
an elephant. Delightedly he drew my
attention to the “bullamapig.”
* * * *
“P. Street”: In what it called a “re-
markable illustration of the superstitious
traits of the Australian aboriginal,” Syd-
ney “Sun” ran a story of an abo. who,
compelled to break a train journey—he
was on his way to enlist—insisted on
going back to his starting point so as
to complete the journey without a break,
In the same paper there were ads. for
patent medicines “She’s 75 but looks
15, glands to restore youth,” “he got
the job and the girl after washing himself
with our soap,” and so forth ample
evidence of superstitious traits of white
Australians. Anyhow, reporters being
what they are, and abos., too, these days,
it’s on the cards the dark gentleman
forgot something and went back for it,
seizing the chance to indulge in a little
legpulling on the way.
* * * *
“Abergowrie”: To test the proverbial
cleverness of the ant I placed a piece of
wood over the entrance to their nest
and waited. There was a grinding noise
and a hole appeared in the wood from
which emerged a wood-borer, followed by
the denizens of the mound, who then sur-
rounded it and drove it back into the
nest. Several times I repeated this test,
each time with the same result.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: As a depleter of natural
game and fish, civilised man is destruc-
tion’s most efficient instrument. Let a
given sea stand for a million years and
Nature will preserve the balance between
the preying types and the preyed-upon,
keeping the population up to the limit
the sea can hold. But let civilised man
arrive with his nets, his dynamite, or even
his gut fishing line and alluring bait, and
within almost no time that sea will show
signs of depletion. Have visited islands
off Westralia’s northern coasts where bird
life was so abundant that over acres it
was difficult to walk without treading on
eggs or sitting birds. For countless
generations blacks had visited these
islets for picnic feasts, but had made no
perceptible impression. Came the white
man—and within a few decades the
countless millions of sea fowl were
diminishing to mere thousands. For
whereas the black man had been able
to destroy only such eggs as he could
eat on his brief visit, the white man came
with boxes and baskets ; carried away
such quantities as would provision his
luggers for weeks. Even Nature in her
most prolific mood can’t prevail against
so voracious a thing as a box.
* * * *
“James W.” : “Ophir” might do his
sna ke-strokinfT ac t fR is/s/mm w ; t h a
snalce stroking act (B. 15/5/ 40) with a
frg ed ca rpet snake or other constrictor,
but if he ever tries it on any venomous
wriggler there 11 be a vacant place in the
CounclL None that secretes death-juice
ever swal ! ows . anything big enough to
render him immobile. Almost any
Poetry-farmer can quote instances of
browns or blacks departing in all
SOrts a burr y despite a cargo of eggs
or chicken, and with definite ideas on
fight if cornered. True enough, the jaws
dislocate if Joe swallows anything too
big to gulp, but in the poisonous varieties
they resume normal position in next to
no time. Anyway, when a venomous
snake goes into action the lower jaw
has nothing to do with the performance,
because these snakes strike ; they don’t
bite. The fangs are in the top jaw,
and it is an integral part of Joe’s skull.
He literally hits his victim with his top
jaw, and the lower face-piece could hang
on his chest without affecting the strike.
ADVICE ACCEPTED.
“Y’ll have t’ get ’em out,” he says, “them
shaky teeth o’ yours.
They’ll make y’ crook; they’re rotten with
decay.”
He reckons it’s a flamin’ wonder, screwin’ at
me jaws,
1 ain’t been in me grave full many a day.
Well, I s’pose he knows what’s bcr.t, f’r he’s a
dentist, see!
An’ if he says they’re crook —well, crook they
are.
But still they’ve served me pretty well, in work
an’ on the spree,
Or trampin’ tracks all hungry, hard an’ far.
Y’ know, a bloke like you or me, that’s sorta
knockin’ round,
He seldom thinks about his bitin’ gear.
He just goes masticatin’ on an’ takes what can
be found,
Attackin’ anythin’ from ’roo t’ beer;
But since I heard that dentist bloke condemn
these tats o’ mine
An’ tell me that their useful days was past,
It’s sorta set me thinkin’ of the times I’ve sat
t’ dine;
It made me sad to know they’re goin’ fast.
“Y’ll have t’ get ’em out,” he says, “they’ll
kill y’ in the end.”
I feels a nasty shock go through me bones;
Yet still I see there’s nothin’ else, no matter
how I fend,
That dentist bloke has wisdom in his tones.
An’ so I’ve got me courage up, I’m goin’ right
ahead—
I’ve come t’ town t’ face me bit o’ woe.
I wonder if this dentist cove remembers what
he said
That time I saw him—twenty years ago.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Mat’s Mate”: “The trouble with a
lot of you blokes,” said the cocky im-
portantly, “is that y’ want too much!
Now, you come here askin’ me f’r tucker
an’ say y’re willin’ t’ work, don’t y’?” Mat
nodded. “Well,” said the cocky, “if I
was t’ say I’ll give y’ a job on the place
at a quid a week an’ tucker, an’ asked
y’ to work no more than I do meself,
what would y’ say? Y’d say” He
stopped as Mat held up a hand. “You’re
right, boss,” said Mat quietly, “that’s
just what I would say —if there was no
wimmen about.” And, picking up his
knot, the big fellow headed for the road.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Quick as a flash and
sharp as a needle, Nip, the boss’s foxy,
was a born killer. Rats, rabbits, lizards
or snakes—she was sudden death on ’em
all. Then she began to include fowls
in her pogrom and the boss’s trouble
started. He punished her with the sulky
whip after the first murder. Next day
she knocked off another. Someone sug-
gested flogging her with the deceased
as a certain cure. She bore it like a
stoic then promptly claimed another
victim. The next bright suggestion came
from a neighbor: “Tie the dead chook
round her neck” ; and for half a day the
murderess wandered around decorated
like the Ancient Mariner. After that
she killed ’em and carted the corpses into
the bush. In desperation the boss sought
the advice of old Jock, a noted doggy
man. “When a dawg starts killin’ fowls,”
declared the old chap, “there’s only one
cure —cut ’er tail off short.” “Cut her
tail off!” The boss was incredulous.
“Yair about two inches behind the
ears,” drawled the Voice of Experience.
* * * *
“Odd Pint”: The city has its hatters
no less than the bush. A 76-year-old
inhabitant of a cave on the foreshores
of Sydney Harbor was recently taken off
to an institution. He swore he hadn’t
seen George-street since 1899, had lived
in his cave 41 years and had passed most
of his time fishing and just sitting in the
sun. He had seen a few papers with
pictures of Sydney in them which is
probably why he stuck to his cave. He
succeeded in remaining a bachelor.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: One generation is time
enough for man or beast to grow used
to a new order of things. Thirty years
ago the sight of a car in the distance
was the signal for Mum and the girls
to hop nimbly out of the spring-cart,
leaving Dad and me clear to handle the
old mare when the approach of the
mechanical horror sent her up on her
hind legs, then dashing towards the river
for safety. If the car was heard nearing
the school and you could hear those
models coming—all we nippers would
d gwn bats and scramble for good seats
on top of the post-and-rail fence. Writer
was in long pants before the first plane
came our way *, a wobbly old pioneer
that crawled just above the treetops in
the teeth of a tearing Gippsland easterly.
The outline of it could be seen on the
“What time do you make me, sister ?”
racecourse for a month afterwards, for
the crowd trampled the grass to mud
round its wings and fuselage. Nowadays
the youngsters take as little notice of air-
craft as horses do of motors, though the
enthusiasts among them can at a glance
distinguish Douglas, Lockheed, Stinson,
DH 86, AvrO and the rest, just as the
keener ones of our day could spot when
the peewees began to carry mud and
where they flew with it, or, scanning the
skies, see the first returning swifts.
* * * *
“Eamado”: A natural and never-failing
characteristic of the quinine tree which
grows profusely where I observed it in
the inland Gulf country on the route
between Croydon goldfield and George-
town is a “blaze,” which always occurs
on the western side of the trunk. Thus
does Nature beneficently toss around
guide marks for the traveller who is
willing to read.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: I wonder whether the
quaint Norfolk Island dialect of a
generation ago still persists —it would
make a good study for a philologist. As
now, the islanders spoke good English
to visitors, but amongst themselves to
go for a swim was “go nawe,” anything
coming all adrift “wa-00-loo,” anything
repulsive “wa-a-wa-ha.” A friend was
greeted with “What-a-way you,” and
bidden any long farewell with “I mussa
buss with sorrow for you.” One’s best
girl was “ma fish,” and if she cried for
sorrow when you left she was “myosul-
lun ” a crying person. If she only ex-
pressed her intention to cry she would
say- “I shall big Jack.” The origin of
this was in the tearful propensities of a
stout islander.
“Naturala”: Around the Australian
central plateau, noticeably in populous
places like Kalgoorlie, folk are often
plagued on summer nights by myriads of
flying ants. These fliers are really the
royalties of termitedom, the princely
males and females out on one of their
civilisation’s periodic sex carnivals.
Watching an anthill one may see them
pouring out, through holes cut expressly
by the workers and guarded till the given
moment by the soldiers of the community.
And, strangely, though both workers and
soldiers are blind, these royalties about
to wing a brief life in the upper air are
endowed with sight. Which explains
why they flutter so persistently around a
lamp ; born of the kingdom of the blind
they are light-drunk. For so short a
time they use their sight; soon they shed
their wings and drop, mostly to death.
Only very few mated pairs survive. Like
babes in the wood, these creep into a
crack and wait. Now comes the oddest
part. Night falls, and from the parent
termitoriums issue scouting parties of
workers and soldiers. By strange instinct
these ferret the royal couple out, tend
them and establish them in a new home.
Presently the husband disappears. But
the queen, now grown to an enormous
size, lives on, laying eggs and eggs until
the colony reaches into millions. Then
on a given day doorways are cut, winged
“ 'E’s called ’ Enry , after Uncle William."
royal lovers issue out for one glorious
hour —and so the eternal cycle goes on
and on!
* * * *
“Turon River”: Wise in the ways of
trappers and suspicious of every patch
of freshly-disturbed earth, my old trap-
dog seldom puts a foot in a set trap ;
but if he does he startles every living
thing within miles and
almost shatters my ear-
drums with his yowling.
And, although he is
normally a quiet,
friendly dog who looks
upon me as the light of
his life, I have yet to
rake up the courage
necessary to free him
with my bare hands;
sight of his slavering
jaws and sharp teeth
going to work on the
offending trap always
sends me in search of
a long, forked stick with
which to effect the
rescue. On being freed
he emits one final yell,
bounds a few paces,
sits awhile and licks the
inju r e d paw, then
bounds at me quite
happily with a question-
ing look on his ugly
face which asks quite
plainly “What was all
that flamin’ racket a
minute ago?”—as if it
was / who’d been yell-
ing the hills down!
* *
“Sea Foodster”: A
vegetarian diet may
have its points, but in
the sea, at any rate,
Nature seems to regard
it as a cumbersome
way of extracting energy from food.
Take the tailer, a streamlined devil
with teeth like needles, eminently
fitted for the biting of a meal out of a
school of mullet or any other unresist-
ing prey that it may encounter. He who
cleans tailer may marvel that so small
a digestive outfit should serve for the
assimilation of the great quantity of
food that the fish must day by day
devour. For of all fish the tailer is the
easiest to clean—no more gut than the
length of a man’s finger, even in the
biggest. Take the John Dory, sometimes
called the zebra fish, a flat denizen of
the deep alternately marked with broad
stripes of black and silver. Johnny is a
vegetarian, living mostly on seaweed,
though he will take a fish bait. Cleaning
Johnny is almost as revolting a job as
drawing a fowl, so much intestine has
Nature been impelled to give him in order
that he may extract sufficient nourish-
ment from his vegetable diet. Yet even
with so generous an outfit, Johnny seems
to obtain little energy, for at best he is
a sluggish fellow and comes up on the
hook like a piece of wet rag.
* * * *
“Wang”: The new hand, who had
arrived the previous afternoon, finding
sleep impossible after tossing for hours,
decided to get up and take a stroll in
the hope that it would induce slumber.
He dressed quietly and tiptoed outside
in his stockinged feet, carrying his boots.
In the east a faint grey tinge presaged
the approach of daylight. Suddenly a
sound caught the hand’s ears; peering
in its direction he could see a shadowy
figure walking near the stable. He began
to feel excited. At the tea-table the
previous night the activities of harness
thieves in the district had been discussed.
Hastily pulling on his boots, the hand
stealthily moved towards the shadowy
figure, which he saw pause for a moment
or two at the stable door, then vanish
inside. Dave, who at that moment was
dismounting from his horse, having just
arrived home from the Bachelors’ Ball
over at Gooleygum, caught a glimpse of
a figure sneaking stealthily towards the
stable. He temporarily lost sight of it as
an outbuilding came between it and him-
self. Then a hullabaloo at the stable
door sent him sprinting to it. A con-
fused mass was struggling there. He
made a grab at a threshing leg and
pulled. From underneath came Dad’s
voice wanting to know what the devil
was happening to himself. Dave grinned
and hurried off to his horse, while the
hand helped Dad to extricate himself
from the tangle of harness around him.
The hand was aghast. “I’m sorry, sir,”
he began, “I” “Cripes!” cried Dad
in a tone of heartiest approval. “It’s
you, is it? I s’pose I oughter have let
yer know it wus me pokin’ about; but
I didn’t expect you’d be up ready f’r
work so early on yer first mornin’ here.”
RAMS.
“The Sydney Sheep S'how begins on June 19 ; ram
sales to follow on Friday.”
1 would sing your triumphal song, merino rams,
In rhythmic numbers, but your phlegmatic pose
Seems to make lyre and lute inappropriate
things. . , ~ ,
Dignity, standing, importance and pride and
all that . . , .. .
Demand that I shape it in verse of another sort.
Pardon me, rams! . . . The show and the sequent
Bringforth the lords of acres and pastures wide,
With all the lesser, but plentiful, “men on the
From snowy Monaro to Murchison, W.A.,
From the Downs to the Gawler Ranges and
God-knows-where,
Who invade your kingdom without any by-your-
leave,
Tip you endways and open your overcoats,
Evaluating you, rams, from teeth to tail,
And delivering judgment shrewd, if over-
Scotch :
“Too dense,” “too plain,” or “not as fine as my
own,” ~ ~ ,
While you, Q kings, shake horns with a blase
stare.
Soon the auctioneers will be speaking their
annual piece.
With encomiums bringing the blush to all but a
sheep.
Superlatives follow the heels of Conditions of
Sale, . , ...
And the chance of a lifetime is here, believe
it or not.
Fair words are said for those who have come
to buy,
But fairer by far for the merchandise —that is
you,
Though to you it is naught, O prepotent quad-
ruped kings,
“Five hundred guineas!” or “five” or the
round of applause-
When a buyer goes in the deep end and wins—
at a price.
Money talks. Today you’re the counter of
Fate’s caprice;
Tomorrow, whither —and what? One end
seems clear.
On delicate ground I pause for another breath.
Now listen, rams! ...A life to be envied is
yours—
So the masculine voice in coarse innuendo avers.
But this I believe: had you but voice or pen,
Some counsel worth while, backed by example
strong,
Might give great Homo sapiens food for
thought
As he dances the primrose path of selfishness.
Get hence to chosen paddocks sacredly saved,
And remember the charge to skipper Noah of
old
And his cargoed pairs: “Replenish ye all the
earth.”
S.A.
BILL O'C


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL, PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age 7 If the answer
is “No," just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of Australasia
Writ-
Oet., Profit. Dividends. ten Off. Reserves.
-£ £ £
1927.. 654,060 14 p.c. = 560,000 50,000 3,989,568
Share premiums, £600,000 .. 4,589,568
1928.. 675.192 14 p.c. = 595,000 80,000 4,589,760
1929.. 677,183 14 „ „ 630,000 4,636,943
1930.. 615,084 13 „ „ 685,000 4,667,027
Hidden reserves disclosed, £85,000.. 4,752,027
1931.. 217,536 9 p.c. = 343,500* 4,626,063
1932.. 254,970 7 „ ~236,250* 4,644,783
1933.. 258,508 74 „ „ 253,125* 4,650,166
Inner reserves disclosed, £106,000.. 4,756,166
1934.. 265,087 94f p.c.=331,313* 4,689,940
Centenary bonus to staff, £36,250.. 4,653,690
1935.. 273,857 71 p.c.= 270,281* 4,657,266
1936.. 300,962 8 „ „ 289,898* 4,668,330
1937.. 309,501 8 „ „ 297,000* 4,680,831
1938.. 310,049' 8 „ „ 288,000* 4,702,880
1939.. 292,023 8 ~ ~ 282,797* 4,712,106
*After deducting tax.
(Includes 2 p.c. centenary bonus.
Headquarters are in London, though
most of the staff there has been moved
outside the city as a war precaution at
the moment. The business, however, is
mainly done in Australia, and has been
ever since the co. set up here 105 years
ago. During that period the bank
has never failed to show a profit, and
only twice (1847 and 1848) has it failed
to pay a div. The co., which now does
a large turnover in the exchange market,
gathers about 43 p.c. of its deposits in
Victoria, 23 p.c. in N. S. Wales, 15 p.c.
in Maoriland and the balance from the
four other Australian States.
The latest accounts, made up only a
little over five weeks after war with Ger-
many began, reflect a solid financial
structure. Indeed, the soundness of the
Australian trading banks is something
for which the public has had reason to be
thankful in the past, and appearances are
that these banks, now buttressed by a
strong central bank, will prove pillars of
our financial strength again. Here are
the ’Asia’s balance-sheet figures:
Liabilities.
1929. 1938. 1939.
Notes . . . . £434,329 £2,745 £2,732
Bills, etc. . . 4,569,795 5,568,657 5,711,816
Deposits . . 34,414,798 39,563,740 40,921,527
Assets.
Liquid assets.. 10,914,862 14,040,448 16,228,593
Bills, etc. . . 3,362,670 2,673,088 2,466,733
Advances . . 34,314,960 37,047,137 36,534,456
Premises . . 278,373 739,349 770,275
Outstanding feature last term was the
extent to which the co. came to the aid of
the Governments in Australia and Maori-
land, no less than £2,887,641 being added
to the holding of Government securities
of the two countries combined. This was
made possible mainly by a growth of
£1,357,787 in deposits, a reduction of
£699,495 in cash, etc., and a contraction
of £512,681 in trade advances, which re-
flect the easy-money conditions pre-
vailing at the close of acounts. Liquids
then amounted to 34.8 p.c. of liabilities
to the public as against 31.1 p.c. a year
earlier. Advances were 89.3 p.c. of de-
posits compared with 93.6 p.c. in 1938,
and the co. was holding only £5 Is. 3d.
of the public’s money for every pound
of its own. It is a strong position, and
the co. is very well equipped to extend
further its lending connections, which are
its chief service to the community.
The improvement in the year’s gross
earnings (£1,500,454) was £96,462. In-
cluding £425,222 (up £75,487) for taxa-
tion, exes. (£1,208,430) took all the in-
crease and £18,026 besides, leaving the net
result at 6.5 p.c. on the £4,500,000 of
share capital, compared with 6.8, 6.8, 6.6,
6 and 5.8 p.c. back to 1934 and 15 p.c.
in 1929. The div. was kept at a nominal
8 p.c.—nominal because British income
tax is deducted before payment is made to
shareholders.
The amount paid by the co. in income
tax on dividends last term was £77,200,
equal to approximately 4s. 3d. in the
pound. Allowing for exchange at the cur-
rent rate, that made 8 p.c. in London
worth £7 17s. 6d. in Australian currency.
Recently the standard rate of British
income tax was lifted to 7s. 6d. in the
pound, which makes 8 p.c. worth no more
than 5 p.c. in London. However, 5 p.c.
sterling is now worth 6.2 p.c. in Austra-
lian notes. So, assuming that the div. is
maintained at a nominal 8 p.c. —it cannot
be lifted “for the duration” above that
rate, which was the average for the three
immediate pre-war years—the immediate
net loss to Australian shareholders on
account of British income tax is £1 12s.
6d. p.c. But rebates may be claimed.
On Sydney ’Change the price of the
co.’s £lO shares paid to £5 —the other £5
is a contingent liability callable only in
the event of liquidation—fluctuated be-
tween £9 7s. and £7 18s. since the begin-
ning of this year. At £8 10s. the return
is now 3.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis,
after allowing for English income tax at
7s. 6d. in the pound and for exchange
at the current rate. The 3.7 p.c. will
increase in proportion to the rebates of
tax eventually recovered.
From the economic point of view,
Italy’s entry into the war last week has
thus far caused Britain, and Australia,
too, little more inconvenience than the
closing of the western half of the Medi-
terranean. Much, of course, will depend
upon the outcome of naval activity in this
sea, which means retention of a strong
British fleet there, and upon how soon
the position at the mouth of the Red Sea
can be tidied up. Germany’s early and
sweeping victories in Western Europe do
not mean that she has won the war.
The immediate and urgent duty of
every Australian citizen is to do his
utmost in developing the Common-
wealth’s military, financial and economic
strength—victory will depend more upon
what we do than upon what we say. In
this connection, the ’Asia and the rest of
the trading banks in Australia have early
set an example in their own sphere by
prompt answer to the call for mobilisa-
tion of finance for war purposes.
Ballarat Brewing Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 38,048 11J p.c. = 19,516 18,532 141,172
Share premiums, £65,000 .. .. 206,172
1937.. 38,553 12* p.c. = 29,318 9,235 ( 911 .'
Brokerage, etc., written off, £3911 j iJ,4yb
1938.. 42,498 124 p.c. = 31,249 11,249 222,745
Pref. Ord. Total.
1939.. 46,008 6 p.c. 124 p.c. 33,750 12,258 235,003
1940.. 40,683 6 „ 11-J „ 35,625 5,058 240,061
Formerly Coghlan and Tulloch’s Ballarat
Brewing Co., which had merged the busi-
nesses of Magill and Coghlan and Tul-
loch and Son in the mid-’nineties, this
old-established brewer has produced
attractive results in its brief history as
a public co. Aided by bulkier paybags,
balance-sheet figures suggest trading was
brisker last term. The profit-slip was
therefore unexpected. It appears due
solely, however, to war-time demands of
the taxgatherer, to whom £175,000, in-
cluding £17,000 more in excise, was
handed one way and another.
Gross earnings (£137,476) expanded
£3184, of which £45,493 (up £7755 to
12.1 p.c. on capital) came from rents,
etc.; earnings from brewing were £4571
lighter at £91,883. After writing £7723
off working assets, meeting all tax bills
and raising the provision against future
commitments from £11,500 to £13,000,
sundry outgoings (£96,793) were £8509
heavier, leaving the declared net result,
down £5325 at £40,683.
Allowing for the 6 p.c. pref. charge,
the amount available for the ords. was
13.2 p.c. on that class of capital, com-
pared with 17.4, 17 and 16.4 p.c. since
the public came in. Div. was cut from
12-1- to 11| p.c.—interim 5 p.c., final 6y
p.c.—and reserves benefited by £5058 ;
of the heap in the introductory table,
£62.500 is earmarked against property
depreciation, etc.
The brewery is at Ballarat, but the
co.’s trade spreads throughout western
Victoria, and to Melbourne, Mt. Gam-
bier (S.A.) and the N.S.W. Riverina. The
decline of £10,535 in declared brewing
earnings over the past two years appears
hardly consistent with the anchoring and
extension of trade by property purchases
and the general trend of consumption
figures, which for Victoria have behaved
this way:
, Consumption N
Year to Sales, Gallons
June 30. Gallons. Gallons. per Head.
1932.. 17,531,090 14,184,200 7.9
1934.. 20,071,765 15,969,300 8.8
1986.. 21,327,523 16,958,500 9.3
1936.. 23,469,853 19,538,800 10.6
1937.. 24,837,399 20,750,800 11.2
1938.. 27,647,194 23,099,800 12.4
1939.. 23,555,700 12.5
Per capita, Victorian consumption is now
ahead of pre-slump levels, and it is un-
likely that any further improvement can
be expected under present conditions.
Vigorous expansion has added £322,083
net to the book value of fixed assets in
four years, of which £255,375, including
share premiums, has been found by
shareholders:
1936. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £184,025 £250,000 £375,000- £375,000
Mortgages . . 1,500 38,500 55,500 125,000
Overdraft . . 80,138 66,175 17,384 38,326
Sundry creditors 6,766 13,107 8,357 8,140
Brewery, hotels,
etc. . . 259,133 425,-652 505,514 563,216
Plant, etc. . . 47,000 49,500 68,0-00 05,000
Stock . . 23,136 24,872 25,167 31,348
Advances . . 83,419 111,412 121,246 148,399
Shares other cos. 353 353 346 340
Cash, etc. . . 12,076 5,904 7,338 10,593
Twelve months ago the co. was inter-
ested, either alone or conjointly, in 89
hotels. There were further acquisitions
and improvements last year at a visible
net cost of £57,702. To finance the out-
lay and increase advances by £27,153,
the board tacked £69,500 on to the mort-
gage debt and went to the bank for an
extra £20,942. A result has been a de-
cline of £53,636 in the more or less liquid
surplus, now £19,220.
The £375,000 of capital is in 125,000
prefs. and double that number of ords.
At 245. 6d. the former, for which the
backing is £4 18s. 5d., yield 4.9 p.c.
The latter fetch 405., or a few pence
more than the book value of the net
tangible cover, as against 495. 6d. 12
months ago, and yield an immediate
5.6 p.c.
A new refrigerated store and depot
is being erected in Geelong, but, though
the future is faced with confidence,
“continuance of present war con-
ditions may adversely affect earnings
in the near future,” the board counsels.
Still, capital and visible reserves com-
bined need turn in only 5.7 p.c. to main-
tain last term’s divs., and there is con-
siderable inner strength to help in profit
earning. At the end of May, 1936,
brewery, hotels and other fixed assets
independently valued at £545,200 stood
in the books at £306,100.
Country Producers’ Selling Co. (Sydney)
Bonus To
to Con— Re— Re-
Mar.. Profit. Dividend. siernors. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 7,489 7 p.c. = 7,000 Nil 489 45,142
1931 . 10,598 7 „ „ 7,000 1,233 2365 47,507
1932.. 7,766 5 „ „ 5,000 1,056 1710 49,217
1933.. 8,060 5 „ „ 5,000 2,300 760 49,977
1934 16 611 6 ~ „ 6,000 4,583 6028 56,005
1935.. 6,772' 5 „ „ 5,000 2,731 55,046
1936.. 19,635 10 ~ „ 10,000 5,341 3294 59,340
1937.. 18,419 10 ~ „ 10,000 5,275 3144 62.484
1938.. 14,384 8 ~ „ 8,000 4,460 1924 64,408
1939 6,223 5 .. ~ 5,00-0 Nil 1223 65,631
1940.. 9,500 5 „ .. 5,000 2,764 1736 67,367
The business, which is semi co-operative,
is confined to N. S. Wales, and has been
ever since the co. set up as a wool- and
produce-broker and livestock-selling
agent at Sydney in 1910. During the- 12
months covered by the latest accounts,
the co. disposed of 11,052 bales more wool
and put an extra 33,846 sheep and an
additional 1437 head of cattle under the
hammer:
Wool Gross
(bales). Sheep. Cattle. Earnings.
1920 .. 35,998 287,138 12,314 £49,158
1925 .. 38,164 118,343 21,415 51,042
1930 .. 88,707 392,371 14,632 73,581
1933 . . 91,457 411,830 11,673 65,825
1934 . . 82,541 340,801 10,938 78,750
1935 . . 58,100 341,480 13,802 65,921
1936 .. 87,267 276,466 12,589 93,317
1937 . . 63,182 356,202 20,008 92,726
1938 . . 04,874 387,687 23,820 88,589
1939 .. 71,035 359,502 17,538 75,379
1940 . . 82,087 393,408 18,975 83,646
Another factor which helped to put the
spring of £8267 in gross earnings was
Australia’s wool deal with the Imperial
Government. But mounting costs
gobbled most of the gain. Including
£2OOO set aside as provision for taxation
(no such allocation was made in 1939),
exes. (£74,146) were up £4991, leav-
ing the net result £3277 better at
£9500, or 9.5 p.c. on capital as against
6.2, 14.3, 18.4 and 19.6 p.c. back to 1936.
The div., which was kept at a nominal
5 p.c., was sweetened with a rebate to
consignors, who are mostly shareholders,
of £2764—n0 rebate was made for the
previous term.
The year’s brisker trading is further
reflected in this comparison of balance-
sheet figures:—
1933. 1936. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £100,124 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Sundry creditors 103,283 58,459 140,739 168,551
Freeholds, etc. 146,523 146,523 156,886 158,162
Shares in other
cos., etc. . . 12,372 5,366 9,445 10,229
Debtors & cash 102,488 79,909 145,038 174,527
To carry an extra £29,489 of debtors’
balances, etc. —the etcetera was £335 of
cash—the board went to its bankers for
an extra £8268 (making the overdraft
£73,036) and leant upon sundry creditors
(£95,515) for a further £19,544. There
was thus a shade over 20s. of outside
money at risk in the business for every
pound belonging to shareholders when
the books closed. More or less liquids
exceeded outside liabilities by £16,205 (up
£2461).
From the growers’ point of view, the
season now closing has been an excellent
one. In addition to a record clip, the
average contract price is 13.43 d. per
pound as against an average open market
price of 10.57 d. for previous season. For
the 11 months to the end of May, the
average appraisement value for the Com-
monwealth was 12.57 d. per pound, of
which 10 p.c. has been temporarily with-
held by the Central Wool Committee.
This retention money, together with the
difference between the appraisement and
contract prices, will provide a substantial
dividend to be paid to growers after the
close of the season. As for the current
term, the immediate outlook favors an-
other heavy clip, but costs continue to


fMMt.
0
wwr,
sH4ulup OH/
Qatt&eal ~
oteut
m
mm,
TOOHEYS
OATMEAL
STOUT
f*
c
TOOHEYS, LTD.
STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY
Agents:
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA*
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., LtcL : Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun-
ceston.


The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
2gS22S
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manulacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote lor all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
mm
5>J
V..*X
STOP Him
WITH A BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCER
Temporary or permanent pad-
docks, subdivisions, shade en-
closures, laneways, breeding or
exercise pens, fodder storage
enclosures, market gardens,
orchards, Ore., can be fenced off
end made stockp'roof wherever
and whenever you want them—
at trifling cost—and with little
trouble.
One charger controls 25 miles
of stockproof fencing, and one
man can fence up to 20 acres
o day!
£9 / 9 / -
GUARANTEED FOR 5 YEARS
Complete with 50 Insulators
and Battery. NO EXTRAS.
SAVE
80%
On Fence Costs!
No farm can be considered com-
plete to-day unless it is equipped
with an electric fence. It isn’t
only that it sav*es 80 p.c. on the
cost of ordinary fencing, but it
actually teaches animals to respect
all wire fences, and soon cures the
most persistent fence-breaker of
the habit. Think what this
means in fewer injuries from barb-
wire cuts to valuable stock and the
saving in cost of repairs to
fences.
J)e£wus~
feita d
*o*4 J
Jr=S
X.low'fcUAM
HO
The Neiv and Improved
BIG SIX
See it at
DANKS'
Bourke-st.
Showrooms
Call or Write for Descriptive Folder «
Victorian Distributors:
/‘OAMK3Z.
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: M 2381.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 6505.
ASBESTOS.
Mines and leaseholders able to supply quan-
tities of crude asbestos are invited to send
samples for testing, with view, if fibre and
prices suitable, to arranging regular supplies.—
Write to NOYSLESCEIL COY., c/o Box 28,
Alexandria, N.S.W.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £30,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,500,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.. LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals. — Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
v * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt,
rise, and taxation will bite deeper into
earnings.
The co.’s pound shares, paid to 10s.
each and covered by 16s. 9d. in net tan-
gibles, are not listed on ’Change.
“O.B.”: The almost-forgotten Federal
Gold Bounty Act expires at the close
of this year. At the end of 1930 the
Commonwealth Government legislated
for payment of a bonus of £1 per fine
ounce on gold won in excess of average
production for the three years 1928, 1929
and 1930, payment to be made in Aus-
tralian currency for ten years, commenc-
ing January 1, 1931. Six months later,
under the Financial Emergency Act, the
bounty was reduced to 10s. per fine ounce
from July 1, 1931, with a proviso for an
increase of Is. per fine ounce for every
3 p.c. fall in the rate of exchange on
London. After greatly helping produc-
tion, the bounty was suspended on Sept.
30, 1932, owing to the rise in the price
of gold. It was, however, stipulated that
it would be restored should the price of
the yellow metal fall below £5 10s. per
ounce. Instead, it has gone up and up.
* * * *
The new war-time powers to be asked
for by the Federal Government next
Thursday will place Australia, theoreti-
cally, on a basis almost similar to Britain,
the main difference between the two coun-
tries being Australia’s principle of send-
ing only volunteer troops overseas. But
although the powers granted to the two
Governments are extreme, in respect of
both man-power and money-power, it
remains to be seen how they will be
exercised, and it isn’t likely that in prac-
tice they will be availed of to an exactly
equal extent.
The prices of Consols as at Friday,
June 14, are henceforth to be the mini-
mum prices for dealings.
* * * *
The new low level of Australian share
prices reached just before France’s despe-
rate position became fully known at the
week-end is shown in the last line of
this table:
July Jan. June June
31, 31. 6, 15,
* 1939. 1940. 1940. 1940.
Bank of N.S.W. .. £28.4 £29.0 £25.5 £24.5
■National (£5) .. £6.1 £6.1 £5.5 £5.0
Carlton Brewery.. 70/- 68/- 59/- 56/-
C.-Perkins .. 23/- 22/- 17/6 17/0
th •• 52/3 52/3 44/- 43/6
Metropolitan Gas.. £13.0 £13.5 £12.9 £13.0
dland Insurance.. 55/6 58/- 52/- 50/-
Assoc. News .. 18/6 16/6 11/4 11/6
Melo, “Herald” .. 62/6 57/- 44/6 44/-
Adelaide Steam .. 32/- 36/ 28/6 28/6
Huddart Parker . . 52/6 59/9 48/6 48/0
A asian Paper .. 28/6 34/3
A-C-I; .. . . 37/9' 38/3 30/6 30/-
Bradford Cotton .. 38/- 37/6 32/- 30/-
B.H. Prop. .. 63/3 49/6* 39/9 39/3
Burns Philp .. 50/- 54/- 49/- 48/3
Colonial Sugar .. £45.1 £50.6 £45.3 £45.5
David Jones . . 35/- 33/6 29/- 26/-
Drug Houses . . 22/6 26/6 22/3 22/6
electro. Zinc .. 49/- 58/9 41/- 41/3
Fairymead Sugar.. 32/6 37/- 33/- 32/-
Felt and Textiles. . 30/6 38/9 32/- 29/-
G. J. Coles .. 73/- 74/3 58/- 55/-
Henry Jones .. 50/- 56/6 45/- 44/6
Howard Smith .. 19/6 24/3 18/9 18/0
Kandos Cement .. 31/- 29/9 24/6 24/0
Meggitt .. .. 30/- 29/- 26/- 27/-
W i n c h c o in b e,
Carson .. 26/- 28/- 25/- 24/-
Woolworths .. 22/- 22/9 14/6 15/-
W. it. Carpenter.. 41/3 45/6 35/6 36/-
• • 36 /~ 42 /~ 39/- 38/0
North B.H. .. 40/- 47/6 30/9 30 9
B.H. South .. 26/- 29/9 20/9 21/-
New B.H. .. 15/3 20/- 11'/- u/-
Mt. Lyell .. 25/6 32/- 22/6 22/6
* Ex Bonus.
Monday was a holiday. In spite of all
the darkness in the atmosphere com-
monsense says that industries must go
on, and that they must not be unduly
disturbed; therefore there is no real
reason for shares to be sacrificed unless
the need of ready cash is pressing.
* * * *
Norseman G.M., of Dundas (W.A.),
handled its largest monthly quota of ore
yet during May—14,505 tons, of which
10,124 came from the Norseman leases
and 4271 from the Iron King. Owing to
the low grade, however, surplus at £5761
was little more than half the average for
the preceding six months. It has contri-
buted to further weakening in the scrip
to Bs., ex 6d. div. An official announce-
ment would help clear the air—one way
or the other.
* * * *
Excluding gold in course of recovery
from the plant, Lancefield (W.A.) esti-
mates net liquid resources at around
£60,000. It covers current market for the
million shares on issue with a couple of
pence per share to spare.
* * * *
On expanded throughput (some 112,000
tons for 35,0000 z. gold), Gold Mines of
Kalgoorlie records profits from its string
of Kalgoorlie resurrections £32,581 higher
at £122,244 for the year to March. That
was before providing for taxation, depre-
ciation, etc.- £51,311 in ’39. Co. is sup-
plementing its 4}d. February div. with a
final of 6d., making 8| p.c. for the year,
an unchanged rate. Mine output has
now reached 150,000 tons p.a.
* * * *
Yellowdine and Comet are starred in
the first joint half-yearly report which
De Bernales’s Westralian group has de-
cided to issue. To date Yellowdine’s divi-
dends aggregate £5420,502, shared mainly
by Commonwealth Mining and Finance
50 p.c., Anglo-Australian 20 p.c. and
Gt. Boulder Mining and Finance. In the
last six months Yellowdine’s revenue has
totalled, after deduction of Federal gold
tax, £A 104,596. Results underground are
said to indicate persistence of values in
the main shoot below No. 5 (400 ft.) level.
Comet s production for the same period
is valued at £A31,739, of which £13,644
is ticketed as working profit. Develop-
ments are described as promising, and
widening of the ore-body in places is
expected to assure extraction of a ton-
nage exceeding first estimates. Gt. Boulder
Mining and Finance holds a four-ninths
share, Commonwealth Mining and
Finance a two-ninths, and Anglo-Austra-
lian and its only subsidiary Beryl a ninth
each. Meekatharra, Ltd., which is asso-
ciated with the group, holds the remain-
ing ninth. Besides their interests in Yel-
lowdine and Comet and their sharehold-
ings in each other, both Commonwealth
and Gt. Boulder Mining and Finance are
interested in Murchison Gold Develop-
ment and two North American ventures
—Columbia Exploration, Ltd., and Coast
and Lake Alluvials, Ltd.
* * * *
Chairman A. C. Moreing says that,
while it is early yet to assess closely the
results of development on No. 30 (bot-
tom) level of the Sons of Gwalia (W.A.),
it has already made appreciable contri-
butions to ore reserves and gives pro-
mise of further large additions. Develop-
ment so far has covered less than half
of the 1200 ft. of ore-body, and the drives
have not been stripped to the full width
of the gold-carrier. Ore reserves stand
at about six years’ supply at the current
rate of mill throughput ; grade is
6.24dwt., compared with 6.39dwt. 12
months ago. Mine output last term was
152,450 tons, of which over 90 p.c. came
from above No. 27 level. The
Federal gold tax is reckoned to mean
to the Gwalia, with its pay limit of about
3dwt., the rejection annually of some
23,000 tons of ore, containing over
3000 oz. of gold, thus shortening the life
of the mine and leaving much gold buried,
perhaps for ever —a loss to the State, the
co. and workers.
* * * *
Net earnings of Lake View Investment
Trust for the year to March were
£56,118, or some £l5OO above those for
the previous 12 months. Pref. dividend
took £9375 and ord. £35,575. Value of
investments is estimated to exceed the
£2,165,837 at which they appear in the
balance sheet. Formed in 1920 to acquire
the assets of Lake View and Oroya Ex-
ploration, the co. has since become in-
terested in concerns in various parts of
the globe.
* * * *
From T. J. M. Higgins, Miclere
Battery, Clermont (Q.):
That par. (B. 13/3/’4O) has created the im-
pression that there is ample room here for
another mill, and the field has been visited
by a person seeking to instal a five-head battery.
Owing to drought, last year I was able to put
through only a few small crushings after June,
and this year I did not start up until March 1,
after the wet season had filled both dams.
I am at present on the last parcel of accumu-
lated dirt, and your correspondent will want
a magnifying glass to find the stuff that was
to have kept my mill going 12 months, although
I have been working only one shift per day.
The deep ground at Clermont certainly appears
promising. The Venus (Cole and party) has
just cleaned up 228 tons for about 4600 z.
Three parties in that locality are due to bottom
inside a month.
* * * *
Australia’s most consistent producer of
rich ore for some years, the Duffer mine,
at Dittmer (N.Q.), of which medico
Felix Dittmer is chairman, has re-
sumed normal routine after the dis-
location caused by the coal strike and
exceptional rains. An extensive develop-
ment programme has been carried out.
At the 100 ft. level the north drive is in
600 ft. and the south drive nearly 300 ft.
The drives at the 200 ft. level are in much
the same distance, all on good ore, and
now the 300 ft. level is being opened up.
It is an extensive shoot of ore, but
appearances are that the northern ex-
tremity of the sensational gold values
has been reached. Indications of an
extension to the south, however, are
somewhat favorable, and as values are
good at a depth of 320 ft. the mine may
have a long future ahead. An additional
power unit, now almost complete, should
appreciably swell output. A new man-
ager, Mr. Betheras, lately of Gold Mines
of Australia, has moved in.
* * * *
Thanks to a higher Canada-Australia
exchange, Guinea Gold, Adelaide, is
now on a 25.-a-share p.a. basis. Co.’s
only asset is its 65,825 shareholding in
Bulolo Gold Dredging, New Guinea,
from which £51,466 was received in the
year to Feb. 29 ; profit was £49,522 (up
£2715), and £47,917 was distributed.
Taking Bulolo shares in at £5 155., net
Guinea Gold assets are worth 14s. 6d.
per 2s. share, or 4s. 6d. more than the
present market for the scrip.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
gsm
■EXECQMp i||
Si fcffir
IMIHIHIM!
QSSS^
fe.
jgrf
VyP^S
VJ
ir\
SB
-T5
3
Si
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
Manager W. G. Bulfin
SMOKE-OH!
w
to see an old friend outside the church
and I wanted”
“You were dictating to me. You were.
persisted Maria, violently and weepfully.
“You told me not to stop,” I said
determinedly. “It was you who were dic-
tating ; and let me tell you I am not
going to be dictated to.”
“Oh, you brutal bully! There you
are!” sobbed Maria. “Isn’t your saying
to me that you won’t have me dictating
to you dictating to me?”
It was her first victory.
H. M.
+ •J* 4* 4 1
“My husband was a terrific drinker. He
drank everything—his pension, his dole, his
legacy, the rent. He finished up by drinking
the furniture.” — Petitioner in divorce.
Having liquefied all his other assets,
he started to polish off the furniture by
easy instalments.
4> 4 1 4* 4*
Discretion is what a girl shows when
she doesn’t show too much.
4 > 4 1 4" 4"
Uncivil War.
“Peace pacts bring harmony to your home.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
It’s when a man’s wife is the captain
of his soul that mention by him of a
“But remember , madam , you've had that suit on the lay-by for three
years!"
peace pact in the menage is likely to start
total war. She starts off by giving him
a look as sharp as a bayonet-thrust. Then
she’ll shoot his arguments to pieces, and
manoeuvre him into a position behind the
kitchen table for a hand-to-hand battle
if necessary, her voice all the time going
with the staccato rattle of a machine-
gun. Then she sticks to her guns until,
forced to retreat and responding to the
well-drilled discipline of years, he is
marched into the lounge, where he sur-
renders and signs many costly dispatches
to dress saloons, and shells out like a
Briton. At other times she is content
to declare a brief armistice, put on a dis-
arming smile and rifle his pay envelope.
EVa.
e
The Rub.
“The man who marries a constant woman
should be well satisfied.” — Magazine article.
Though my wife is ever constant — well,
/ candidly confess
That in wedding her / proved far too
importunate and rash ;
Were she fickle I am sure my disappoint-
ment would be less,
For Constance far too constantly is
biting me for cash /
T.W.N.
Fashion Marches On.
To mention “petticoat” would make
Great-grandpa blush and trip;
For then it was a big mistake—
But now it’s just a slip.
ELM.
The "I's" Have It.
e
of putting another ribbon in my type-
writer and gulping down a cup of steam-
ing cafe au lait and I was ready. From
my own experience I can well appre-
ciate the impatience of the fighting men
waiting to get at the enemy. I chafed
at the bit until the order to move off.
A sous-officier offered me a lift in a
tank to the jumping-off point, but I pre-
ferred my trusty bicycle. Apart from
the fact that appearing to take cover
of any sort was anathema to me, I
could absorb every detail better when
my visibility was unrestricted. I must
have appeared an incongruous figure
pedalling along with my typewriter
balanced between the handlebars, while
great tanks, tractor-drawn guns and
w
The first streaks of dawn
were beginning to show in the
sky as I crept through a copse
and took up my position on
the edge of a spinney that de-
bouched almost on to the
bridgehead. I could plainly see
the Nazi engineers working
like beavers as they strove to
repair the damage so as to let
the enemy tanks across the
bridge.
Idly thinking how privileged I
was that it should fall to my
lot to chronicle as an eyewitness
battles which should be spoken
of with awe in centuries to
come, I absentmindedly struck
a match to light the cigarette
already between my lips. A
couple of seconds later there
was a sputter of machine-gun
fire and my tin hat spun around
on my - head. One bullet took
the match clean out of my fin-
gers and another left only half
my cigarette. Coolly, even con-
temptuously, I lit it and pro-
ceeded to set up my typewriter
on its low portable stand. De-
spite a murderous fire main-
e
BO.


Business,Rollery,Etc.
Carrying On Strongly
In spite of the interruptions and un-
certainty caused by war, Australia is still
going strongly industrially. Doubtless
enlistments had something to do with it,
but it is a fact that trade-union unemploy-
ment throughout Australia on February
28 was down to 8.1 p.c., against 10.4
p.c. at the end of August. Only on one
previous occasion since the depression
has this country been blessed with such
a low ratio of unemployed ; that was in
February, 1938, before the effect of the
world-wide economic “recession” became
obvious. Coincident with the slide from
recovery Australia had to put up with
the Reddaway award, which loaded in-
dustries with a “prosperity bonus” of 6s.
a week on the basic wage. Although this
award was ill-timed, it says a good deal
for our economic management that the
benefit of the award hasn’t been entirely
lost to the worker by credit inflation.
But in order to maintain the Australian
standard of living at the level aimed at
by the Reddawage it has been neces-
sary to raise money wages by something
more than 5 p.c. over the past two years.
Though many men have been with-
drawn from industry to fill the fighting
services, a thing that suggests a genuine
fall in unemployment is the high level
of factory production just now. It has
never been greater. Also, we have had
record crops of wool, wheat and sugar,
and the silver-lead-, gold-, copper- and
coalmining industries are hard at work
—after a painful lapse by the coalminers.
It doesn’t necessarily follow that because
we have record land production employ-
ment has increased in proportion. When
prices are low landmen have a habit of
“getting-by” without some of the usual
hired labor. But in this case prices have
been better all round, even if not highly
remunerative, and the effect is bound to
be fairly widely spread. Compared with
the average for 1938-39, export prices as
a whole for the first quarter of 1940
were up 25 p.c.
Values of exports, excluding bullion
and specie, have been £16,000,000 sterling
higher in value for the first 11 months of
1939-40. Our gold production also has
been higher. Though the increased cost of
imports has mostly offset this greater
external income so far —principally be-
cause of a larger volume of overseas
purchases in anticipation of restrictions,
and to some extent because of higher
prices—it is encouraging to record that
the cost of living in the Commonwealth
has risen by little more than 1 p.c. since
the outbreak of war, and the rise over
the past 12 months hasn’t been as big
as in the previous year.
The Federal basic wage for Melbourne
was 81s. in June, 1939. It was 82s. on
May 1 last. The average for six capital
cities was 795. in June last year. At present
it is 80s. The shilling rise has been all
that was .necessary to maintain the stand-
ard of living, according to the Common-
wealth Statistician’s computations.
Up to the present indirect war taxation
has been shifted from the basic-wage-
earner to industry. Any additions, by
way of duty or excise, to food, clothing,
transport, etc., go on to the price or
cost, and the Arbitration Court acknow-
ledges them in balancing wages with
living costs. But inevitably there will
be a reduction in this living standard
unless we work harder. Up to date it
seems that we are spending about 10
p.c. of the national income on war. In
other words, 10 p.c. of the national
effort is now only productive of war
necessities. That means that only 90 p.c.
of our efforts is available to maintain
living standards. It will require 10 p.c.
more effort without extra pay for the
nation to live in the style to which it is
accustomed.
It may be that, later on, more than
10 p.c. of Australia’s income will be
absorbed by the cost of war. It may be
necessary to meet the occasion by com-
promise—a little more work, a little less
pay, rather than a. sacrifice all in one
direction.
The Federal Treasurer, P. C. Spender,
speaking at Newcastle last week, said: —•
Men must be trained, munitions must be
produced, works must go forward at a scale
and pace never before conceived or con-
templated. This will exact a cost from
everyone in energy and self-denial. It will
be impossible to maintain the standards of
the ways of life we have known. Yet in
places still I hear it urged: “Take your
pleasures, do not trouble to save, resist
those who would impose sacrifices upon
you or ask your contribution!” This is
obstructionism—it falls little short of sabo-
tage and treachery.
The measures now in hand must be
doubled, trebled, and the time of comple-
tion cut down by half. We must pass
quickly into a state of total military and
economic mobilisation. Every man and
woman amongst us has a supreme respon-
sibility. Many have not acknowledged it,
and many are fighting hard today and
will fight harder—but only to advance their
own private interests and not their
country’s cause.
The Menzies Government may be much
better at talking than acting, but the
foregoing remarks can be taken as no
great exaggeration of the position.
From Britain’s Channel coast may be
seen the fires and reflections of fires of
burning French towns. Therefore the
British Government has been readily
granted exceptional war-time powers to
deal with labor and property. There is a
burden to be borne, and it must be borne
equitably. Australia also has a burden,
not so heavy yet, and it, too, must be
fairly distributed.
With a strong, sensible Government
now Australia’s economic position would
be quite reassuring, considering the
nature of the times. As it is, many de-
partments and private institutions are
endeavoring, with fair success in some
directions, to fill in the shortcomings of
Government action. Loan-raising efforts
by the Treasury have been reasonably
successful considering the cheap-money
policy and also the unpleasant position
of the accounts of most of the States.
Banks, etc., should be particularly for-
bearing in the case of disappearing security
values at a time like the present. Never
was there an occasion on which the long
view was more necessary. Banks should
know, even if emotional investors don't,
that, should the worst fears of the nervous
concerning the scrap overseas be realised,
their money won’t be worth any more
than stocks and shares. There are times
when banks do a good job in acting
sternly when punters are caught on a
falling market following a boom. But
our economic position doesn’t warrant
severity at the moment. So far as the
general financial behavior of everyone is
concerned, things aren’t too bad —prices
reasonably stable, money cheap, restric-
tions on unnecessary new industries,
strikes off, and the average Federal basic
wage still not over 80s. a week. So it
is meet that ordinary rule-of-thumb bank-
ing practices be suspended in the over-
draft department just now. Figures show
that, even with some expansion during
April, there has already been a reduction
of £12,000,000 in advances since war
broke out. It will be good politics as well
as good banking not to call in any more
overdrafts except where the borrower is
using the credit wantonly.
* * * *
Some Sydney new registrations—from
one issue of a daily last week:
Duratex Weaving Mill Pty., Ltd. Capi-
tal £5OOO. Weavers and manufacturers and
distributors of cotton goods. Directors:
Henry C. Herrman and Wolfgang E. Ham-
burger.
Modeltrim Pty., Ltd. . Capital £2400.
Manufacturers of dress accessories. Direc-
tors : Gerrard Goldner, Ernest Lunzer,
Richard Goldner, Mary A. Goldner and
Anne Lunzer.
Rational Trading Company Pty., Ltd.
Capital £2OOO. To deal in voucher books
for the purchase of goods and to sell goods
in exchange for vouchers. Directors:
Andrew Balogh, Joseph J. Reimer and
Elizabeth Balogh.
“Fruitamine” Pty., Ltd. Capital £l2OO.
Traders in fruits and preserved fruits and
goods. Directors: Bernhard Schoen, Karl
Otto Smetana and Ernst Heller.
* * * *
Australasian Paper rights were the talk
of the investment market last week. After
being run up to 3s. Bd. by rather impetu-
ous buying they subsided suddenly to
2s. lOd. following Mussolini’s production
of the dagger in his Italian opera. They
were bought steadily at 2s. lOd. on Tues-
day, though many people who were
“thinking of buying them” were still toy-
ing with the idea rather than ringing up
their broker. The lists close this month,
and, though they may weaken about the
time the application money is due, there
is little doubt that the rights were cheap
at 2s. lOd. Long association with the
Stock Exchanges teaches that the best
bargains occur when trustworthy well-
known stocks are affected by unusual
market conditions. A common, though
minor, example of this is when a parcel
of estate scrip proves indigestible. A
major case was in evidence last week —
....In the day when heaven was falling,
The hour when earth’s foundations fled,
to revive Housman’s epitaph on the Old
Contemptibles after the retreat from
Mons in 1914 —when emotional people
were so confused about things that the
cheaper a stock became the more danger-
ous did they seem to regard it. Except
for those who relied on overdrafts, etc.,
to carry their shares, the idea last week
should have been: Well, if good shares
aren’t worth a price that gives a yield of
6 p.c. or so, then pound notes aren’t
much good either. Those who were sell-
ing their shares last week couldn’t send
the money out of the country. It has to
stay here, the same as the shares.
* * * *
There was a slight recovery in the
sharemarket on Wednesday of last week,
the industrial index moving up from
Tuesday’s 109.37 to 110.72. Still, at that
it wasn’t much better than the figures of
the preceding four business days on
’Change, though there were some out-
standing recoveries of an isolated nature.
Electrolytic Zinc ords. rose 2s. 3d. a
share, touching 435. 9d., and B.H.P.
moved up a shilling, with British Tobacco
in somewhat similar mood. North Broken
Hill and Mt. Lyell also moved up a shil-
ling or so. A lift in the New York market
had something to do with the revival in
leading stocks, and the New York senti-
ment in turn seemed to have its origin in
Roosevelt’s speech. But there was an
atmosphere of uncertainty about the
whole market position. Australian in-
vestors would be well advised to take
Wall-street price movements with more
salt than has been customary hitherto.
There has been a great reluctance to take
note of our own economic affairs and
the real financial and economic effects of
war. Last week an effort was made here
to present the real picture of the position
to confused investors.
On Thursday the Australian share-
markets remained quietly steady. At this
stage a more sensible appraisement of
the position seemed to be general. Per-
haps the bears were at long last warned
off by ’Change officials.
'*••••
On Friday the market again lost
ground, this time disregarding Wall-street
and everything else bar the war. Follow-
ing the entry of Germans into Paris,
prices eased back to around the lowest
levels of the week.
* * He
A good motto for investors at the
moment: It’s a great life if you don’t
weaken.
* * * *
In spite of the fact that export prices
this year have latterly been about 25
p.c. above the average for 1938-39, the
Australian trade balance has shown very
little improvement so far. Actually, in
value, exports of merchandise have risen
from £90,810,000 sterling for the first 11
months of 1938-39 to £106,374,000 for
the same period of the current financial
year, but imports have also risen from
£90,988,000 to £105,395,000. A favorable
commodity balance of £979,000 for the
latest period is only £1,157,000 better than
for the first 11 months of 1938-39. The
trade balance in both periods, of course,
is made more favorable than indicated
by our exports of new gold produced,
but movements of this metal are not now
published. Unless, however, the final
month of the current financial year shows
a remarkably high surplus of exports we
shall be drawing on our London reserves
again in order to pay interest. On top
of that we have to provide for looking
after the A.I.F. abroad. It is possible
that London will lend us most of the
money for the latter purpose.
•••••*
The rise of nearly £15,000,000 in the
value of imports during the past 11
months has been principally due to im-
ports of essential war machinery and the
efforts of merchants to get in ahead of
import restrictions. One result has been
a huge rise in Customs revenue and a
large Budget surplus for the Common-
wealth Government.
* * * *
How the Manchester “Guardian”
opened out on Britain’s economic policy
during the first week or so of the Blitz-
krieg :
For nine months the controllers of British
economic policy were incessantly warned on
all sides that they were underrating the material
resources of the enemy against which the Allied
resources would one day have to be matched.
The nature of the total war that has now
broken out demanded the instant abandon-
ment of traditional business methods on the
declaration of war last autumn. All private
interests, both of labor and of property, should
have been subordinated at once to the single
purpose of organising man-power and pro-
ducing power for the decisive battle. How far
the actual effort fell short of this standard is
only too evident.
A new Government is now faced with the
urgent task of bringing the British war effort
up to totalitarian pitch. The task, however,
has changed. No longer can the country
afford to lay plans with a view to husbanding
reserves for a long war. The immediate needs
of the battle in France must come before all
else. It is too late to await the gradual sort-
ing out of private interests. Absolute priority
now belongs to work that can be thrown into
the fight within the next few weeks.
It is not certain that the Bank of England,
which in practice retains full charge of foreign
exchange policy, has yet realised that the
sands have shifted under our feet. Considera-
tions of the post-war position of London as
the world’s chief banking centre are still
standing in the way of an effective exchange
control. Unfortunately the Treasury, which
should direct financial policy as part of the
general war policy, is not likely under its new
chief to abandon its subservience to the
Central Bank. Even now the mobilisation of
the country’s full strength is hampered by
powerful apparations disguised as sacred con-
ventions.
To some extent, perhaps, it is wisdom
after the event; but it is comment of a
kind interesting to Australia when so
little news of a reliable nature reaches
us during the confusion of conflict.
* * * *
During April the Australian trading
banks held deposits averaging about the
same level as in March, but advances
rose by £6,300,000. The holding of Gov-
ernment paper showed little change dur-
ing the month, Treasury bills falling
slightly in contrast with an almost corre-
sponding rise in Government securities.
Here are comparisons of figures for the
nine banks covering 12 months:
Apl., Sept., Feb., Mar., Apl.,
1939. 1939. 1940. 1940. 1940.
£mil. £mil. £mil. £mil. £mil.
LIABILITIES—
Deposits—
Fixed .. 200.8 198.0 210.6 212.2 212.0
Current .. 122.2 116.6 139.9 140.2 140.7
Total .. .. 323.0 314.6 350.5 352.4 352.7
ASSETS —
Cash .. 31.5 32.6 46.0 42.6 43.2
Govt. secs. .. 22.2 22.0 33.3 39.0 41.0
Trsy. bills .. 25.8 17.5 44.4 45.1 43.4
Advances .. 289.7 295.8 277.1 277.6 283.9
Ratios— •
Cash and Trsy.
bills to de-
posits, p.c... 17.73 15.92 25.79 24.89 24.55
Advances to de-
posits, p.c... 89.70 94.02 79.05 78.78 80.52
The position has become much more
liquid over the past 12 months, though
some of the liquidity is represented by
Government securities. Still, the actual
cash position is better, too.
* * * *
Prestige, Ltd., the big Melbourne
women’s hosiery and lingerie manufac-
turer, showed a profit £4845 higher at
£30,116 for the year to March 31. A
10 p.c. div. goes out on the ord. shares,
as usual. With the pref. div., £19,465
was required, leaving an ample margin
for reserves. The co. is very solidly
established in its line of business, cater-
ing particularly for the better-class trade,
and, though it suffered a setback in the
1937-38 term owing to dislocation of
manufacturing following installation of
the “newest, largest and most up-to-date
full-fashioned hosiery plant in Australia,”
there has been full recovery since. Raw
silk has been a problem to the trade
for some time, but the co. appears to
be well stocked up with raw materials
at present.
* * * *
For the moment, anyway, there is a
lot of money in paper, even though price-
fixing operates. And though Edwards,
Dunlop and Co. is in no dire need of
putting every penny it earns on view
in order to pay a 10 p.c. div., it has just
shown the highest profit since 1930. The
£42,020 exhibited was £2339 better than
the result for 1938-39, and the unchanged
div. rate left £4424 to be visibly carried
to reserves, which now stand at £324,836
(excluding a • contingency reserve of
£23,000 brought to light during the year),
in comparison with a paid-up capital
(all ords. now) of £375,965. Though
the co.’s directors point out the impos-
sibility of getting supplies from Scan-
dinavia and Belgium, they admit that
their turnover has lately been very large.
Stocks of £222,042 at balance day
compared with £137,257 a year earlier.
Canada will now be the main source of
supply for most types of paper. The
co.’s balance sheet discloses a taxation
provision of £40,546 this year, nearly
equal to the profit. Following sales at
415., there were no sellers of Edwards,
Dunlop shares about last week.
* * * *
Though listeners’ licenses continued on
the up-grade, there was a marked re-
cession in the wireless trade during 1938-
39; value of the output, excluding
valves, declined from £3,247,000 to
£2,502,000, and the number of employees
in 72 establishments from 5519 to 4828,
56 p.c. of whom were juniors. At June
30 . there, was £863,421 (book value), in-
vested in the industry in fixed assets, or
double the figure of 1935.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall M L.O. *
Wm. White; Sydney Sampson. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.’ ''
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in-AU, States. 129 Pitt Street Sydney.
POPULAR
‘ROOM ONLY" TARIFFS
SINGLES
5/- to 10/- per day
DOUBLES
8/- to 18/6 per day
Suites, Family Rooms,
etc.
Fall Catering Services
MELBOURNE’S
NEXT TOWN HALL
MOST POPULAR HOTEL
LITTLE COLLINS STREET
S. D. HORNE—Manager.
And so another satisfied
guest reluctantly leaves the
Victoria . . . to go . . . who
knows where? For travel-
lers from every corner of
the globe come to Mel-
bourne—stay at its leading
hotel—the Victoria—enjoy
the luxurious comfort—the
convenience of staying in
Melbourne’s city centre —
and appreciate the special
guest service which so
smoothly takes care of your
requirements when you
make your Melbourne
home the Victoria.
Australian Exlorers
GEORGE WILLIAM EVANS.
IN 1802 H.M.S. Buffalo picked up at the Cape of
Good Hope George William Evans, a young,
hard-working, somewhat dull civil servant of
not much talent, but reliable and honest in all
he did, who was to do much useful work in opening
up New South Wales for settlement.
A native of Warwickshire, Evans had found a
good position in the Government dockyard at Cape
Town. When the country was restored to the Dutch
in 1802 he went on to Sydney, under some vague
understanding that he was to get an appointment there
as a deputy-surveyor. At first, however, he had to be
content with a job as storekeeper at Parramatta, where
Governor King also granted him a farm of ninety
acres. Then Grimes, the Surveyor-General, having
gone to England on leave, Evans was given a tem-
porary commission to act in his stead. He fell out
with King in 1805, and was discharged, when he
settled on the Hawkesbury.
During the Rum Rebellion in 1808 Evans was
one of those who supported Bligh, but nevertheless
was appointed Assistant-Surveyor at Port Dalrymple
(Launceston) by the rebel junta. Macquarie confirmed
the appointment in 1810, but Evans did not go to
Van Diemen’s Land for three years, and then only to
be recalled to Sydney by Macquarie to report on the
route across the Blue Mountains discovered by
Blaxland.
In November, 1813, with a party of five men
and a number of horses he struck out southward
from Blaxland’s terminal point until he reached the
Fish River, which he followed to its junction with
Campbell’s River. Evans named their combined
waters the “Macquarie,” and followed them down for
twenty miles through well-grassed plains until he
was about 100 miles further out than Blaxland had
reached.
On his return to Sydney, he reported so enthusias-
tically on the country that Macquarie instructed Wil-
liam Cox, of Clarendon, near Richmond, to make a
road over the mountains along the track —the only
possible way for it —followed by Blaxland and Evans.
Cox completed the job in six months, and in April,
1815, the Governor and Mrs. Macquarie, with a
numerous suite, of which Evans was one, travelled
over it to Bathurst.
Next month Evans was off again into the south-
west, and on May 25 he discovered the Lachlan River
close to its junction with the Abercrombie, and he
made later journeys with John Oxley. In bare out-
line that is the story of Evans’s work. His journal
gives interesting glimpses of the country he saw.
ON the morning of November 24, 1813, writes
Evans, he came to Mount York, “from which the
prospect is extensive and gives me sanguine hopes.”
He made a depot of provisions in a cave and then
went down into the valley.
On Monday, November 29, there is a despondent
entry: “I stopped in very bad spirits, not being able
to get on, being completely entangled among the hills,
and our course being so little westing. Were it not
for the horses, the difficulty to ourselves would be
nothing. They are sometimes difficult to manage,
and soon tire among the high lands. When so they
will not move.” However, they managed to get along,
and on the 30th he writes of the district about Tarana:
“I am more pleased with the country every day. It
is a great extent of grassy land, without being divided
by barren spaces, as on the east side of the mountains,
and well watered by running streams in almost every
valley.”
On December 10 he describes the country on
which Macquarie, a little over a year later, established
Bathurst.
“Yesterday’s track left me much north of west.
To-day it is south of it. The extent of the plain fol-
lowing the river is eleven miles, and about two wide
on each side, the whole excellent good land, and the
best grass I have seen in any part of New South Wales.
The hills are also covered with fine pasture ; the trees
being so far apart must be an acquisition to its growth.
At the termination of the plains is a very handsome
mount. I named it ‘Mount Pleasant’ from the pros-
pect it commands to the N.E
“Nothing astonishes me more than the amaz-
ing large fish that are caught. One is now brought
in that weighs at least 151 b. They are all of the same
species [Murray cod]. I called the plain last passed
over ‘Bathurst Plains.’ ”
Macquarie was delighted with Evans’s report,
and made his characteristic pompous tribute in a
Government Order dated February 12, 1814. “The
general description of the heretofore unexplored regions
given by Mr. Evans is that they compare in beauty
and fertility of soil with any he has seen in the
colonies.
“In consideration of the importance of these dis-
coveries, and calculating the effects they may have
on the future prosperity of the colony, his Excellency
the Governor is pleased to announce his intention of
presenting Mr. Evans with a grant of one thousand
acres in Van Diemen’s Land, where he is to be sta-
tioned as Deputy Surveyor, and, further, to make a
pecuniary reward to the two free men who accom-
panied Mr. Evans, and a grant of land to each of
“THAT’s not the Way to hold a hose. Let ME show you”
them. To the three convicts who also assisted in the
excursion the Governor means to grant a conditional
pardon and a portion of land to each of them.”
EVANS’S discovery of the Lachlan marked the
beginning of an era in Australian exploration and
settlement. A new and rich territory had been added
to British possessions in the South Seas, and a new
political situation developed.
As long as New South Wales was confined to its
strip of coastal land —roughly, Phillip’s “Cumberland
County”—there could be no real objection to its
use as a penal settlement. It was quite sufficiently
large to serve as a dumping ground. But the dis-
covery over the Dividing
Range of a vast and
potentially rich interior
changed all that.
Britain was suffering
a painful recovery from
the Napoleonic wars.
People were anxious to
emigrate, and the dis-
coveries made in Aus-
tralia between 1813 and
1820 pointed to a new
means of solving some
of the poverty and dis-
tress in overcrowded
England. Nothing, until
the finding of gold forty
years later, was so im-
portant to Australia.
But Earl Bathurst,
Secretary of State for the
Colonies, was not so car-
ried away as Macquarie
had been, and appears
to have considered Evans
hardly fitted for the re-
sponsibilities of leader-
ship. In a dispatch to
Macquarie dated April
18, 1816, he directed that
for the future Evans
should work under some-
one “of more Scientific
Observation and more
General Knowledge.” So
when Macquarie decided
on another exploring expedition in 1817, he was con-
strained to give the leadership to John Oxley, with
Evans as second-in-command.
From 1818 Evans was employed in Van Diemen’s
Land, being very hard-worked and not too well paid.
But he was always a favorite of Macquarie, and in
1821 the Governor doubled his salary by giving him
the additional offices of Collector of Quit-rents and
Inspector of Roads and Bridges. In 1825 he requested
leave to retire on pension, and finally was granted
£2OO a year. He had sailed for England from Hobart
in 1826, but returned to Sydney in 1832, and opened
a library and stationer’s shop in Bridge-street, whilst
Mrs. Evans conducted a girls’ school, at first at
Miller’s Point and afterwards in Castlereagh-street.
He took his family back to Hobart in 1842, and died
there ten years later.
In no sense does Evans rank as one of the
“great” explorers, but he did good work as the only
departmental official available to do it. His maps
are not always reliable, and in his survey of Van
Diemen’s Land he was quite willing to admit that
he owed much more to his subordinates than to his
own exertions. But it is greatly to his credit that
Macquarie always had a good word for him. Mac-
quarie was not an easy man to work for, and any-
one who earned his good opinion was probably
endowed with better qualities than he was always
capable of displaying.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
BRITAIN’S ALL-IN CONSCRIPTION.
[Last month the British Labor leader, Mr. Attlee,
soon after joining in the National Government, intro-
duced the measure mobilising the entire nation —its
labor, industry, wealth and man-power—for war purposes,
about two-and-a-half hours being taken to make the
measure law. On one day—after which the subject,
despite its extraordinary nature, was dropped—cables
reported this peaceful British revolution at length, though
in a generalised manner. Items here condensed give
additional informative particulars and comment, a little
that was cabled being included to make the statement
as complete as the latest air-mail to hand permits. If
Australia is to make an all-in war effort—necessarily
very different from that revealed in the conducted tour
of aircraft factories and munition annexes in Sydney last
week—the move on similar lines to be made at Canberra
tomorrow is a vital one.]
Main. Clause of the Bill
The powers conferred on His Majesty by the
Emergency Powers ( Defence ) Act, 1939, shall, notwith-
standing anything in that Act, include power by Order
in Council to make such Defence- Regulations making
provision for requiring persons to place themselves,
their services and their property at the disposal of His
Majesty, as appear to him to be necessary or expedient
for securing the public safety, the defence of the
Realm, the maintenance of public order, or the effi-
cient prosecution of any war in which His Majesty may
be engaged, or for maintaining supplies or services
essential to the life of the community.
*****
Mr. Attlee Explains
(Condensed from the “Times” Parliament reports.)
Introducing the bill, Mr. Attlee said that the
situation was so critical that the Government was
compelled to seek special powers by a bill to be passed
through all stages in both Houses of Parliament that
day [22/5/’4o]. A ruthless enemy, restrained by no
considerations of international law, justice or humanity,
was throwing everything into the scale to force a
decision. We were resolved that he should not suc-
ceed. The Government was convinced that we must
mobilise to the full the whole resources of the country.
Every private interest must give way to the urgent
needs of the community. It was necessary that the
Government should be given complete control over
persons and property, not just some persons in some
particular class of the community, but all persons,
rich or poor, employer or employed, man or woman.
Indicating the kind of regulations and control that
might have to be exercised under the bill, Mr. Attlee
said the Minister of Labor would be given power to
direct any person to perform any services required
of him. That applied to everybody. No one could
tell what these days might bring forth or who might
be required to dig defences or do anything else, but
everybody alike must be under this control. The
Minister of Labor would be able to prescribe the
terms of remuneration, the hours of labor and condi-
tions of service. Remuneration would be on the
basis of the remuneration for the job. It was pro-
posed to carry out wherever they existed industrial
agreements which had been arrived at already, and
wherever such agreements had not been arrived at to
observe the rates normally paid by good employers.
There was power to inspect premises and to re-
quire employers to produce their books. Some estab-
lishments would be controlled altogether right away.
Others might be controlled later. They would, in
effect, be working on Government account. Wages
and profits would be under Government control. The
excess-profits tax would be at the rate of 100 per cent.
There would be no profit out of the national emer-
gency. Other establishments might be ordered to
carry on, and they might perhaps be ordered to carry
on at a loss, but there must be power to carry on
essential services. If people were put in a position
where they were making a loss they must have ade-
quate remuneration to do their job effectively. The
essential thing was that over a wide field of industry
—how wide one could not say at the moment —industry
would be carried on for the community in fact and
not for private profit. There might be cases where
firms would have to close down, and there might be
destruction of property here and there. One could
not tell what would happen. There would be difficult
questions of compensation. There would have to be
full reconsideration of compensation ; but in an emer-
gency these things could not be worked out precisely.
In the meanwhile there would have to be interim
compensation.
There would have to be control of the finance of
the country and the banks. It might be done cen-
trally, or, if conditions required it, done through
regional commissioners and financial advisers.
These things were to be done under the orders of
the Government, and the orders would be given by
the competent authority—the Minister concerned with
that particular national activity. It was essential in this
crisis that we should produce to the full all our essen-
tial munitions, and the Minister of Labor had been
given the responsibility of supplying the labor re-
quired for the programmes of the various departments.
He proposed to set up, at once, a production council.
It was proposed to set up a Director of Labor
Supply with full-time assistance drawn from trade
unions and employers. There would be local organi-
sations based on area boards. There would be full
control of building operations. That was essential.
At all important centres labor supply committees
would be set up to organise local self help for meet-
ing difficulties in the labor supply. It was proposed
that firms should be grouped for the best utilisation
of labor and to prevent waste.
Firms engaged on munitions would become con-
trolled establishments. The Minister of Labor in-
tended to work in the closest co-operation with trade
unions and employers’ organisations. It might be that
cases would arise where, under this stress, agreements
were reached to set aside for the time being customs
in industry that had been agreed between employers
and employees.
It was essential that all engaged in this great
effort should be satisfied that their rights would remain
alive and in being, and it was proposed that there
should be an addition to the Fair Wages Clause
whereby employers who did not, at the end of this
war, restore any customs or conditions which had
been set aside for the war would be ineligible to go
on the list of Government contractors.
What other action was taken must depend on how
events moved. It must be in the minds of all that
everything for which we stood was in jeopardy. Our
political rights, our rights of conscience, our indus-
trial rights—everything would go if we did not defeat
the enemy. He was quite sure that everybody knew
what was at stake, but while the powers envisaged by
the bill were necessary, the real force behind the Gov-
ernment was the will and determination of a free
people.
*****
Press Comment and Criticism
[Naturally the drastic changeover was at once the
main topic of newspaper comment and criticism, mostly
accepting and welceming it as unavoidable and neces-
sary. Some newspapers insisted that it should have been
done months ago, overlooking that such a measure
could only be imposed in a democracy under the com-
pulsion of extreme necessity. First of the following
items is condensed from a “Times” report, headed
“Quick Law-making.”]
It had been expected that the Government would
find it necessary to exercise wide control over indus-
try and labor to achieve the production of war ma-
terials on the scale now necessary, but no hint had
been given that the executive would ask for the drastic
powers now conferred. That it was necessary to ask
for such powers was the measure of the emergency.
It is believed that the decision to enact the
measure was not taken until yesterday morning [May
“Daily Sketch,” London.
NOW BRITAIN IS ALL IN.
22]. The Commons passed the bill in two hours ; the
Lords disposed of it in 20 minutes ; and by 6.10 p.m.
the Lord Chancellor and other members of a Royal
Commission had signified the Royal Assent to the Act.
The powers conferred on the Government go far
beyond any powers exercised under the war-time legis-
lation of 1914-18. It is doubtful whether such powers
have ever been in the hands of the Executive since the
seventeenth century. .
* * . * „ *, . *
( ,om °t er ones lepots.)
The Minister of Labor and National Service will
be able to direct the distribution of work and labor
so as to ensure that neither plant nor men are idle.
He will also have power of control over the conditions
of employment, including wages The wider powers
of the Government include control over all persons
not only industrial workers, both men and women, and
of property, including of course, industrial plant of
every kind. Plant and labor must be used as the Gov-
ernment directs.
Factories fully employed and economically using
their labor force will not be disturbed , they will be
left to get on with their jobs. Where these conditions
do not exist the Minister will intervene. Similarly
wage rates already settled by negotiation will not be
disturbed , but these established rates will be applied
to establishments whether or not they are represented
in the employers organisations which made the agree-
men ~i'. .... -
There will be powers of control over retail dis-
tribution, with particular reference to the distribu-
tlon ° * °° d ' * *
Sir Robert Kindersley, broadcasting, said: “In
regard to the new Emergency Powers Bill, and in
answer to many inquiries I have received, I am em-
powered by Mr. Adlee to assure you that your sav-
ings are not affected in any way by the Emergency
Powers Act. You will have just the same freedom in
regard to these savings as you have today. You need
have no anxiety.
* * * * *
("Times” leader comment.)
In passing at a moment’s notice an Act empower-
ing the Government to require all persons “to place
themselves, their services and their property at the
disposal of His Majesty,” Parliament has fulfilled the
dearest wish of a people who can face any misfortune
and rise to any emergency, provided that they can be
sure that a means will be found for each one of them
to share in the national defence. At this grave moment
a united nation feels no hesitation or misgiving,
though the new Act, printed on a single sheet of paper,
comes near to suspending the very essence of the
Constitution as it has been built up in a thousand
years. Our ancient liberties are placed in pawn for
victory ; nothing less than the destruction of Hitler-
ism will redeem them. The temporary surrender is
made with a glad heart and a confident spirit; for it
makes every man and woman a member of the
national forces.
This new conscription enrols rich and poor, men
and women. It should satisfy the demand of the
Labor party for assurance that wealth as well as
labor is put fully at the service of the nation. Mr.
Attlee further explicitly assured a Labor member that
land, as well as other kinds of property, would be
placed under the same obligations. It should be a
satisfaction to every landowner to think that, whether
his estate is taken over for an aerodrome or a factory,
or whether it continues to grow corn or to pasture
cattle, it must henceforth be regarded as a post in
the national line of defence.
*****
(Front London “Daily Mail”)
Now all property and every man and woman in
the country are under Government control. Any
person may be asked to take on any job. The wages
will be those usually paid for that kind of work. A
professional man —perhaps a £5OOO-a-year man —may
be asked to do a laborer’s job at a laborer’s pay.
*****
(From London “Spectator”)
The Government has taken complete command
of the lives and liberties and property of every man
and woman in this kingdom. Liberty of the subject
has disappeared, so far as the Government may decide
at any moment to curtail it. No dictator of a totali-
tarian State exercises, or could exercise, greater powers.
The authoritarians have
driven us into an authori-
tarianism which, if any-
thing, exceeds their own.
Yet, by what is only super-
ficially a paradox, the Par-
liament proceedings mani-
fested democracy at its
highest. What the Govern-
ment asked for was ac-
corded, deliberately but un-
hesitatingly, by normal
legislative process. Anyone
who chose could have
spoken on the bill. Anyone
who chose could have op-
posed it. But recognition
of the wisdom of the Gov-
ernment’s action was uni-
versal, and in granting the
powers asked for without a
division the two Houses
were reflecting the spirit of
the country. If this war is
to be won every citizen must
be ready to give all he has
and all he is. The sur-
render is immense, but un-
grudging. But in the exer-
cise of the powers great vigilance will be necessary
if injustices are not to be done and discontents aroused,
* * * * *
(From London “ Daily Sketch")
The changes are sweeping—general conscription
of workers in every field, a universal control over all
private interests as may be considered necessary or
expedient for State purposes. Such an astonishingly
drastic action, such a revolutionary turn of the social
wheel, is possibly inevitable. In the existing circum-
stances we agree in principle with its provisions, but
j s imperative to point out that, while these condi-
tions imposed on the community are just and unavoid-
ab]C; it is the administration of the conditions, the
equitable execution of the terms, that forms the real
crux of the matter . We must depend not U pon the
measure but the men behind the measure. The men
entrusted with this terrific power must be absolutely
free from political bia s, social pre j u dice, class envy
and recognise only one c i aim -the cause of their
country
Xhe better to meet the Hitler menace we have
substituted the dictation of Parliament. Our safe-
gUards j n doing so can rest only in the character of
that Par i iam ent, in the leaders of which it is com-
posedj and in the fact that if these leaders betray
t be j r trust or do not acC omplish their tasks they will
unhe sLt a tingly be replaced.
The bin strikes a deep, perhaps irreparable, blow
at all the individualism, the intelligence, the thrift and
enterprise with the aid of which the British race has
won ds f or t unes j n the past. We can, however, afford
to suspend just for the duration of the war all our
treasured past liberties all our personal and private
ha PP‘ ne j; s . ali our tsolated enterprises, because they
are k ”, the *=?<?>;«* r fr.am a foreign foe. But
lf k badl r administered this bill can be the medium for
L b X r ' V C °
y ... t *
' (From London .. Dall Express.")
Under the sweeping new powers given to the
Government clerks or domestic servants, for instance,
may be required to undergo training to make shells
or to work on the land. Skilled men and women may
be switched from one branch of industry to another,
or workers may be ordered to go to a part of the
country where there is a shortage of labor. Factories


will be taken over by the State, and run on a “ho-
profit-from-the-war” basis for the duration. Interests
of the workers will be safeguarded, but longer hours
and perhaps lower wages may be enforced.
The Government controls the banks, and, if it
thinks fit, can limit the amount of money to be drawn
from private accounts, or from those of business con-
cerns.
As it affects the private individual, the new law
will work this way: If ordered to do so, you must
give up any property you possess and take whatever
job is allotted to you. If it is necessary for defence
purposes to pull down your house this will be done,
and compensation will be paid later. But there will be
no possibility of delay resulting from the owner taking
legal action.
In this country we hate compulsion, just as we
hate war. Yet now that we are fighting a war against
totalitarianism, we must fight a total war. When we
conscript the lives of our sons, we cannot shrink from
conscripting industry, labor, wealth, and property,
everything. A nation which loses its liberty shall
save it.
The French realised this before we did. They
cherish freedom. But for months every soldier and
workman has been mobilised in a magnificent war
effort, every industry has been called into service. The
bill is a pledge and a proof to our Allies that we are
ready for the same sacrifices.
* He * * *
(From a leading article in Manchester “Guardian” —one
of the papers to overlook that events alone compelled
the changeover, and that it could not possibly have
been made earlier. As London “Star” commented:
“Attlee’s Act would never have passed through the
Commons in a day if we, the happy islanders upon
whose soil no foreign army has set foot for hundreds
of years, had not suddenly found ourselves face to face
with just such a threat as the French have had to meet
and to endure three times in the Biblical span of years.”)
Never before has a British Government come to
Parliament for such powers —complete powers over
persons, property, labor and wealth. But no Govern-
ment before has had the need. Never since Europe
emerged as a system of greaf national States has
Britain’s integrity been so desperately threatened.
Never has our existence as a free people hung by so
slender a thread. We must surrender our liberties to
the Government of our choice in order that we may
resume them. We surrender them trusting that the
surrender will not be abused. With things as they
are the handing over to the Executive of these enor-
mous powers is the only means by which we can
mobilise quickly the resources of the country and
carry on the war as vigorously as does the enemy.
It is a tragedy which will hardly bear thinking
of that for all these months we have shirked decisive
measures of organisation. The main purpose of the
Act is to secure the aim which should have been that
of the Government from the start, to make it possible
for our industrial resources and man-power to be
concentrated on the most urgent purposes of war.
Supplies now come first, but also we must not forget
that the war may soon be brought fiercely to us —in
the air and round our coasts if not by attempts at
actual invasion. The Government has therefore to
have a free hand —which the Act gives it —to meet the
menace, to transfer us about as necessity demands,
to occupy (even destroy) our property. The enemy
will stick at nothing ; we also can stick at nothing to
repel and overcome him.
The Act secures at one stroke the power over
industry and labor that was secured piecemeal and in
very incomplete form by a long series of measures
and after many hard-fought controversies in the last
war.
We are not to be plunged right away into a totali-
tarian State. What the Act means is that efficiency in
the State’s business shall not be impeded by private
rights.
The Act could do one thing that would have great
significance without causing any dislocation: it could
assume control over the Bank of England. It is intoler-
able that the bank should have full charge in practice
of our foreign exchange policy, which is exercised in
a manner that leaves alarming loopholes. But on
psychological grounds alone the change of control
would be worth making. Employers and workers
will have to accept disciplines that go much against
the grain ; they will be only human if they resent a
failure to impose discipline on finance as well.
*****
(From the Yorkshire “Post”)
The Emergency Powers Act, probably the most
drastic piece of legislation ever passed by Parliament,
is a measure of the Government’s determination to
throw the whole weight of the home front into the
war.
In outward pattern we have become a totalitarian
country overnight. We shall shrink from that word
only if we fail to distinguish between means and ends:
only if our faith in freedom is so weak that we cannot
let our private freedoms die in order that the cause of
freedom may live.
We may well feel a natural reluctance at seeming
to imitate the methods of the very tyranny we are
pledged to overthrow. But totalitarianism, as we have
come to know it in Germany, is far more than a
method of government. It is the product and expres-
sion of a fanatical creed which ranks national power
as the one supreme good and regards freedom and
democracy as evils to be wiped out. Because we are
now adopting the governmental methods of totali-
tarianism, must we be charged with fondness for the
Nazi creed? Only the shallowest thinking could make
that charge. We shall disprove it by keeping our
cause and our purpose clear, through the war and
beyond.
*****
(From London “Evening Standard.”)
It is magnificent —and it is war. That is the judg-
ment of the British people on the new law. The
authority given to the Government comprises the
most formidable powers ever surrendered by Parlia-
ment to the Executive, yet the deed is done amid
public acclamation. The reason may be stated in a
single sentence Had this measure been passed nine
months ago, five hundred thousand, perhaps a mil-
lion, lives might have been saved.
One supreme cause has enabled Nazidom to strike
successfully against the territory of the Allies. Hitler
started his war on civilised mankind years ago. He
started it in the coalpits, the iron foundries, the simple
homes of Germany. By these means he was able to
gain a superiority of machines and man-power. Our
delinquency in preparation has condemned thousands
to their death and decreed a longer war. However, we
now decide that it shall not be allowed to decree
defeat.
For all our welcome to the Act we do not make
the surrender lightly. The restraints imposed by the
judiciary on the Executive, the full exercise of Parlia-
mentary rights of protest and recall, the protection of
the workman in his union, the protection of the indi-
vidual by known and established law —these are not
privileges to be tossed away as playthings of no con-
sequence. They are honored, treasured safeguards
for the freedom and happiness of the citizens of this
land. Why then in the space of a few hours are we
ready to forgo them now?
Hitler is the answer. He has banished all other
argument and offered a simple choice. If he and his
legions are to be crushed, every man and machine
that we can muster must be thrown into the battle.
To achieve that total mobilisation, rights of property
and labor must be rigorously overridden.
* * * * * .
(From London “Daily Telegraph.”)
Millions of people have been afflicted with a
deepening and deadening sense of frustration at the
absence of the summons to make their contribution
“Daily Mirror,” London.
“OOOER!”
(How Mussolini must have felt on taking the plunge into war, or on learning that
the first round had gone to the R.A.F .)
towards a supreme national effort. Now that the call
to forthright action has been made they will respond
not merely with cheerfulness but with exhilaration.
*****
(From London Labor “Daily Herald”)
We accept the new law. We salute the intelli-
gence of the statesmen who have introduced it We
rejoice in the part which Labor leaders have p aye
to brmg about tins revolution in the national economy.
We, the Democrats, must be in a position to ac as
united ly, as suddenly and as drastically as Hitler.
community of free men must jgoye itself even in the
abhorred science of war, as efficient as his ho
mechanised slaves. , . ,
In an afternoon, Britain s Parliament has equipp
us with the power we so sorely needed. It has placed
victory within our reach. , ,
Here are reforms which Labor has sough . y
are essential corollaries of Labor s contention t a
the burdens of the war must be fairly distributed over
all classes ; that pnvi eges indefensible even in peace-
time, become urgently intolerable when a nation is
fighting tor its hte.
Mediterranean Front.
[Further comment on Italy’s strength and position,
and on other related aspects of the Mediterranean Front,
are here condensed. Like those given in last week’s
“Uncabled Additions,” the articles drawn upon were
written with Mussolini urging Italy on to the plunge
into war The first item is from a Manchester
‘Guardian’ leading article.]
Italy is associated with a new barbarian invasion,
for nobody who has studied Nazi methods in Poland
and Czechoslovakia or the text of Mein Kampf or of
other Nazi declarations of faith and policy can doubt
that the Allies are defending the ideas of European
civilisation.
Those ideas are a complex of principles, some
given to the world by the Greeks, others by Chris-
tianity. The medium in which these principles were
kept alive and handed down was the Roman Empire,
One of the great services of that empire to the world
was its spirit and habit of tolerance, which enabled the
new ideas of brotherhood to spread through a great
part of Europe and thus aided the progress of Christian
teaching. These are the ideas that are challenged by
the Nazis, who set up a new religion of race and
blood, despise the weak and the poor, condemn cer-
tain peoples to perpetual subjection, and worship
force and violence. This is the barbarian invasion of
our time.
The Italian people had heard a strong and pas-
sionate protest against this crude and cruel philosophy.
The Pope denounced it in his encyclical of October
29. He has spoken out again and again on the Ger-
man atrocities in Poland. His condemnation of the
Nazi system is a condemnation of its basis and its
purpose.
It might have been expected that Fascist Italy
would have had some regard for the splendid tradi-
tions of the Roman Empire, and that Mussolini would
have taken pride in defending its great legacy to
Europe. Unhappily he has been seduced by another
dream, a dream of sharing in the barbarian conquest.
He speaks of Germany and Italy as the “young nations
who will crack the whip of mastery over the necks of
the outworn nations now ripe for enslavement.”
What will he gain for Italy from acceptance of
the Nazi view of the mission of violence, from part-
nership in this enterprise? What will be Italy’s stand-
ing in the world, what will her pride or her indepen-
dence be worth if the Nazis triumph?
Mussolini has only to glance at history to find
the answer. For four centuries Italy was the victim
of superior power. France, Spain and Austria all in
turn indulged their ambitions at her expense. The
Austrian hegemony lasted nearly a century and a half.
(The two peoples who helped Italy most to put an end
to it are the two peoples with whom Mussolini is at
war.) Italy suffered because she was still politically
disunited when other peoples were forming great
national units. If the Nazis gain their will a friend-
less Italy will live on the doorstep of a State that will
exceed her in power and
strength as greatly as
France, Spain or Austria
exceeded Venice and
Genoa in the old days.
This is the position to
which Italy will be re-
duced by a Nazi triumph.
* *
(From a London “Daily
Telegraph” article by
Dorothy Thompson.)
Italy’s man-power is
large. She actually has
2,000,000 more men be-
tween the ages of 20 and
55 than France, apart
from the empire, and with
almost exactly the same
population. She claims
that she can mobilise
8,000,000 men ; but she
certainly could not equip
them. Even her present
army is inadequately
equipped. Indeed, these
facts about equipment of
the army brought about
the drastic changes in the
army command which
Mussolini instituted last
autumn.
A considerable army
is tied up in Abyssinia and
another in Albania. An
Achilles Heel of Italy is
Abyssinia. As far as her
foreign policy is concerned
the chief prestige of the
regime rests on the fact
that Mussolini has made
of Italy an empire. At war with the Allies, it is obvious
that Abyssinia, enclosed and bound by British and
French Somaliland and Egypt and not completely
subdued, must be in danger.
* * * * *
Vrom an article Herald air
Four $ Ita | y . s air force was pro bably the
best j n tbe wor ] d- A year ago it was fourth or fifth
- n list _ well below Britain. Today facts and
flgures about a j r strength are the most carefully con-
cealed secrets in the world, but it is certain that the
Italian reorganisation drive , started in November, has
no t y e t had time to strengthen all the weak spots,
The strength of the Italian air force had been re-
duced by the wars in Spain and Abyssinia—not merely
. the f osses of planes and pilotSj but by the finan-
cial burdens, which drained the aircraft industry. Pro-
ducdon f ed o ff. Other countries produced models
super i or to Mussolini’s favorite Savoia-Marchette
bo^bers and Macchi fighters . These, improved re-
are stin the stant f ard mode i s .
j!q ew are nQW in production . Squadrons
are be j n g re-equipped as hastily as possible. But
neutral experts have estimated that three years must
pass before all the leeway will have been made good.
only one respect, in fact, has Mussolini no
cause to fear comparison : in personnel. His long-ser-
vice men are generally admitted to be well-trained,
loval and enthusiastic.
y **' * * *
(F/wn a London “Daily Express” article by Alan
Moorehead.)
Italians have obeyed Mussolini so long it has
become a habit. There is no opposition to Fascism —
only the slow dead weight of opinion of adult men
and women in Italy who wanted no war. But Musso-
lini is all-powerful. The Italians will march with him
to the promise of quick, easy victory. He has done
it before,
Financially the rearmament programme and the
last three campaigns have drained Italy’s war chest
badly. She lacks gold.
Economically Italy might soon be in a bad plight,
She is harvesting an average crop this year, but still
she will have to import grain. There were already
three meatless days in Italy. Soap is hard to get.
Sugar is rationed.
The price Mussolini risks paying is the loss of
Italian Africa, invasion and blockade. As one Balkan


diplomat put it to me, “The Allies might even lose at
home and win abroad.”
A long war will mean certain hunger and great
peril to Italy along all her coasts and borders.
The reason why Mussolini chooses to support
Hitler is because he and his Fascist party realise that
they personally cannot hope to gain from an Allied
victory. They stand for the new dynamic Italy that
wants to burst out of the Mediterranean.
**. * * *
(From a London ‘‘Daily Mail” article by Emrys
Jones.)
Politically, economically and strategically the
Mediterranean is vitally important to four nations—
Britain, France, Italy, Turkey—and of little less im-
portance to several other countries.
For a few years now the Italians have been say-
ing that the Mediterranean is vital to them, but only a
highway for the British. Certainly we can go via the
Cape, but it’s a long way round.
For France, the Mediterranean is a lifeline con-
necting her with her empire and man-power of
Northern Africa. Turkey looks on the sea as her
route to Europe ; Russia, too, is interested, for her
trade passes through the Black Sea into the Mediter-
ranean.
So no wonder the Mediterranean seems less like a
sea than a number of fortified points surrounded by
water. Look at the fortified naval bases alone. Going
eastward, there are British Gibraltar; French Oran,
Bizerta and Toulon ; Italian Genoa, Gaeta, Naples,
Palermo, Pantellaria, Tripoli and Benghazi; British
Malta, Alexandria, Port Said and Cyprus ; and Italian
Leros in the Dodecanese Islands.
Strategically, Italy is not enviably placed. First
of all, she is dependent almost completely on her sea
trade for supplies of raw materials and food. Her
land frontiers do not help, for Germany has little to
spare her. From where then is she to obtain the raw
materials for armaments? She must import all her
rubber, platinum, nickel, tin and nearly all her coal,
iron, lead, manganese, copper, cotton and oil. The
vast part of her sea-borne trade passes Gibraltar or
through Suez. From Russia to Italy come oil and
grain through the Dardanelles, which the Turks control.
Normally, about 35,000,000 tons of shipping pass
through the Suez Canal in a year, of which about 50
per cent, is British tonnage. The importance of Suez
to the Italians is again emphasised when you realise
that they are the next biggest users of the Canal after
Britain, with the Germans, Dutch and French
as runners-up.
*****
(From a London “Star” article by Commander
Edgar Young.)
Only about one-fifth of Britain’s supplies from
overseas normally pass through the Mediterranean.
The prolonged closing of this sea, however, may have
effects which would embarrass us a good deal. The
following tables show what the effect will be upon our
shipping:
Via Mediterranean. Via Cape.
Distance, Miles. Distance, Miles.
India 6,200 .. 10,500
Sydney .. .. .. 11,200 .. 12,300
Singapore .. .. 8,100 .. 11,400
Hong Kong .. .. 9,500 .. 12,800
Time, Days. Time, Days.
India .. .. .. 15 .. 26
Sydney .. .. .. 28 .. 31
Singapore .. ..21 .. 29
Hong Kong .. 24 .. 32
To carry the same amount of cargo in the same
time, more ships will be needed. A few specimen
cases:
Via Via Extra Ships,
Mediterranean. Cape. P.c.
India 5 9 80
Australia .. .. .. 7 8 14
Far East .. .. .. 3 4 33
This additional strain on our mercantile marine
resources, which is substantial in the case of our valu-
able commerce with India, would seem likely to affect
in particular our fleet of oil-tankers, whose work has
been heavily increased since the war as a result of our
increased demand for oil, and of the neutrality legis-
lation, which has deprived us of the services of the
vast tanker tonnage of the U.S.A.
The tankers which normally carry the output of
the Iranian oilfields from the Persian Gulf and through
the Suez Canal will now have a very much longer
journey; also, they will have a further load thrown
upon them. For if the output of the Mosul oilfields,
which is normally piped to the ports of Tripoli (in
Syria) and Haifa, can no longer be shipped from
those ports to France and Britain, it will presumably
have to revert to its former, very much longer, route
via the Persian Gulf.
Fortunately for us, the possibility of this aug-
mented stream of traffic up the West Coast of Africa
being raided by the enemy has been considerably re-
duced by the successes achieved by our Navy against
the German fleet. But so long as the possibility exists,
the load thrown on our cruisers and escorting vessels
will be increased in roughly the same proportion as
that on our mercantile marine. Another indirect effect
of this diversion of our commerce is that which it
would have on our incipient trade offensive in the
Balkans and Near East.
The other side of the picture can be seen when
one realises the enormous importance to Italy of her
foreign trade routes, passing through narrows which
are absolutely under our control or that of our Turkish
Allies. Italy is a poor country. She is, moreover,
very deficient in natural resources and therefore very
dependent on foreign trade. Lacking coal, she has
founded her industries on hydro-electric power and
she has partly electrified her railways, but she still
must import coal. She must import a considerable
quantity of her cereals, as well as almost all the raw
materials for her textile, motor-car and other indus-
tries —many of which originate from territories which
the Allies own or control.
Finally, to pay for these essential imports, she
must export her manufactures, as well as her agricul-
tural produce (mainly fruit and vegetables), to
countries overseas.
*****
(From an article by Ronald Matthews, London ‘‘Daily
Herald” correspondent with Middle East forces.)
Any troops that try to attack Egypt will have no
walkover. This is my conviction after two days spent
at Merso Matruh, the Anglo-Egyptian fortress which
bars the route into the country from the coast.
From an uninstructed look at the map you would
think that the Italians could enter Egypt anywhere
along the Libyan-Egyptian frontier. This is an error.
For 40 miles south of the Mediterranean coast the
desert rises to a great escarpment —a sheer, sandy cliff,
600 feet high and unscalable by the most agile tank.
Sixty miles south again the cliffs descend, and
another possible way to an invader would seem open
through the frontier Siwa oasis. This is connected by
a track to the Bahariya oasis, within 12 hours’ run of
the Nile. On a map this, too, looks easy. But the
Siwa-Bahariya route crosses a desert region, which
would be impossible for tanks. On each side of the
track —which could be easily destroyed —stretch piti-
less expanses of soft sand. Any means of transport
but the camel would be bogged in a matter of seconds.
Mersa Matruh, therefore, stands at the edge of the
only feasible way into Egypt, and it bars the only
metal road to the East. It is situated on the edge of a
lagoon harbor, hemmed in by encircling promontories
and barred by a reef with a single narrow entrance.
This reef is under constant observation from the shore,
and covered by guns. Up the gentle slopes from the
water’s edge lies a chain of defences sweeping in an
11-mile circle round the town. Key points are now
constantly manned.
Across the desert entangling dark grey strands of
barbed wire are stretched. Parallel with the barbed
wire loom the grey conical shapes of anti-tank pylons.
"TelegraafAmsterdam,"
"THERE ARE STILL PLACES LEFT....”
Then there are broad deep trenches into which tanks
would plunge. Within the lines of wire and pylons
are the defensive positions of the garrison.
It might be asked what would happen if an
invader tried to sidestep Mersa Matruh by sending
troops across the desert to the north. That is why
mechanised troops are waiting in the neighborhood
ready to move at instant notice to intercept any
mobile attackers. Not far away, equally ready, are
warships. Every day ’planes of the far-flung patrols
of the Egyptian frontier force scour the desert, watch-
ing for suspicious activities.
Nazism and the German People.
(From a “Time and Tide” article by Odette Keun.)
Only a few weeks ago Lord Halifax publicly
stated that a “hideous philosophy had been imposed
upon the German people.” Only recently the British
Labor party issued a proclamation saying that there
must be “no punishment” for Germany. Such repre-
sentative and authoritative declarations, presented to a
population inclined by temperament to be easygoing,
nonchalant and to forget, make one despair of the
intelligence of the English and of the role they will
presumably play in the reconstruction of Europe. For
here is the proof that they will not admit reality.
Nazism is not a vagary, a freak, a passing mad-
ness or the explosion of an extreme and hopeless
misery. It is the deliberate and organised manifesta-
tion of the inherent vice in the German spirit—a vice
that is dormant sometimes, like the ferocity of the
tiger or the deadliness of the rattlesnake, but which
remains part of the organic make-up of the German
race, just as the ferocity and the deadliness remain
part of the nature of the brute and the reptile. Not
merely the disinherited, the frustrated, the knaves and
the hooligans rallied to Hitlerism. The troops that are
carrying out its programme, practising its methods,
massacring civilians, machine-gunning refugees and
firing on forlorn swimmers in the water are an
authentic section cut through the German nation,
which has closed its ranks, as never before, with dis-
cipline, loyalty and passion, behind the savage cheat
who leads it—conniving at his broken pledges and his
fierce lies, executing his barbaric threats and his inde-
scribable devastations.
Nazism is only “the true spearhead forged for
itself” by the collective German soul, a soul steeped
in a material mysticism from which proceeds its flam-
ing inhumanity. From it, no rights can be claimed
by others, since Absolute Right belongs to it alone ;
with it, no relations can be established, since it does
not acknowledge any counterpart or opposite number ;
in it, no change can be expected, since it is a single
essence. In the conduct of this war it stands revealed,
and now is the moment to impress upon the English
that they are not fighting the influence of a group, but
the very nature of a race. It must be broken. But
until the English compel themselves to see it, it will
not be broken. Of all the terrible necessities of this
time, one of the most urgent and imperative is that the
people of this land should recognise the reality of evil,
its continual existence in the German character, its
eternal manifestation in the German behavior.
Dragnet Digest
(General items of information and comment from
various acknowledged sources.)
All told, there are 22,000 Italian residents in
Great Britain, of whom 17,000 live in London, this
being the largest and best-organised foreign colony in
the country. Incidentally, there are more than
12,000,000 Italians living outside their native land ;
there are 1,000,000 in New York.— Charles Graves;
London "Daily Mail.”
*****
Sir Oswald Mosley, arrested in the drive against
supporters of Fascism, may be called Britain’s out-
standing political turnshirt. He entered Parliament in
1918 as a Tory ;in 1922 turned Independent; in 1924
turned Labor; in 1931 founded the New party; has
been a professed Fascist since 1932. — Edward Neil;
London "Daily Express.”
* * * * *
Two more names have been added to the list of
members of the House of Commons serving in the
Forces, of whom there are now about 100. Mr. Wedg-
wood Benn and Mr. E. L. Fleming, K.C., have joined
the R.A.F. with the rank of pilot officer. Mr. Wedg-
wood Benn, who is 63, served with distinction in the
Yeomanry and the Air Force in the
last war, and was awarded the
D.S.O. and the D.F.C., together with
French and Italian war decorations.
There are now 15 members of the
House of Commons serving in the
Royal Air Force. — "Times.”
* * *
When the Minister of Labor’s
appeal for workers to be employed
“seven days a week, 24 hours a day”
was read to the workpeople in a
Midlands aircraft factory, only one
man grumbled. The whole shop
downed tools and, in the words of a
member of the staff, “within a couple
of minutes he was outside the shop,
chucked into the drive.” — "Times.”
* * *
The “News-Chronicle’s” New
York correspondent stated on May
15 that we should “soon” be receiv-
ing from the United States machines
at the rate of from 300 to 400 a
month. He added that something
like 2000 ’planes “have been de-
livered or are being delivered now.”
The “Times” published the official
figures of the cost of aeroplanes
shipped to Britain and France re-
spectively during April. The total
was roughly 11,700,000 dollars, or
rather less than £3,000,000 at the current rate of ex-
change. At an average cost of £20,000 apiece (a rough
but reasonable estimate) that means something like
150 machines for ourselves and France (most of them
were for France). However, improvement from now
on should be progressive.— "Janus,” in London
"Spectator.”
* * * * *
The French knew all about the German heavy
tanks. On January 10, lunching at the French
Embassy in Rome, I was told: “We know that the
Germans are building 100 tanks a month of a weight
of 60 tons, but no one can imagine where or for what
purpose they will be used, since no bridge will bear a
tank of that weight.” It is clear, therefore, that the
Allied armies were overrun, not through ignorance of
the facts, but through lack of imagination to visualise
what those facts implied.— G. Ward Price; London
"Daily Mail.”
* * * * *
Sacked from two jobs in three days because she
goose-stepped before 100 women in a weaving shed
at Huddersfield was the experience of 29-year-old
Mary Adderley. “I have for years been an avowed
enemy of Hitler and everything he stands for,” she
explained. “I was talking to other girl weavers at
work and said, ‘I hope the British Empire does not
fall before the week-end.’ With that I began doing
the goose-step in front of my machine. I only did it
as a joke.” When Mary did the goose-step the women
.in the weaving shed stopped their looms and refused
to resume work till she had been dismissed. She began
work again at another Huddersfield mill, but the fore-
man called her to his office and told her he could not
afford to risk a similar incident in his shed. — London
“Daily Express.”
*****
Is there a war on? Sometimes we are made to
wonder. A few weeks ago, a German was allowed out
of an internment camp to attend the gala performance
of a patriotic film he had helped to direct. Escorted
by tecs, he mixed with the brasshat guests. Also,
Ernest Fredman disclosed in the “Daily Film Renter”
that Savoy Film Productions, Ltd., which is making a
picture named “The Fifth Column,” has as its directors
Major R. Lloyd George, Rolf Carston and Rudolf
Jess (German)! — Hannen Swaffer; London “Daily
Herald.”
*****
During a National Day of prayer service at Can-
terbury Cathedral Canon F. J. Shirley said: “The
Germans are intensely idealistic, and their armies owe
more to their revolutionary fervor than to weight of
armaments.” Thereupon 30 men and women
out of the cathedral. — London "Daily Herald.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINES THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The League football match between
N.S.W. and Queensland may have had
something to do with it, but the attend-
ance at Randwick on Saturday dropped
to 19,280, compared with a little over
23,000 on the corresponding day last
year. The totalisator turnover, however,
increased to £28,849, against £23,105.
Small backers who for once in a way
gave football preference to racing had
nothing to regret. It was a most un-
profitable afternoon for any system
bettor who laid himself out to win £5 on
a favorite, and then stop. As every
favorite was beaten pursuit of his losses
left him with a lot of leeway to make up,
and might have caused him to decide
that there was too much risk for too
little possible profit in that system.
In the June Plate Vergure showed
further improvement, but though he dis-
posed of Winnipeg over a furlong from
home, he was unequal to stalling off Pen-
thides, who had not raced for over two
months, and whose form was con-
sequently a surprise for most backers.
Creditor was prominent'throughout, and
it is probable his run earned him a Bris-
bane trip, though he will have to im-
prove to beat Vergure, whom he again
meets on the same terms in the Doom-
ben Newmarket. In that race Winnipeg
will meet Vergure only a pound better
than on Saturday.
Blue Baron showed his usual pace in
the early part, but will be better suited
by a sprint at a mid-week or suburban
meeting. Denis had more weight than he
could manage, and Caesar, again being
rather slow in finding his legs, was too
far back after going nearly three furlongs
to subsequently raise the hopes of his
backers. Denita was outpaced all the
way, but, though still above himself,
Desert King ran well enough to make him
a winning possibility in the near future.
The Ellesmere Handicap provided the
best finish of the afternoon. Herarde
figured in his usual role of pacemaker,
Buzzal and Reunion being nearest him at
the turn. At the leger Herarde gave
place to Mainlaw, and then Hilarious,
Thunderclap and Cable Boy also joined
in. A few strides from the post it was im-
possible to say which of the last-men-
tioned three would win. Cable Boy, on
the outside, momentarily looked like
doing so, but Hilarious, who got through
on the inside, was a shade too good.
There was only a half-head in it, and
Cable Boy similarly beat Thunderclap,
with Mainlaw a good fourth.
Anpapejo dropped out a long way
from home ; in fact, did not flatter his
backers at any part of the last half-mile.
He looked better than the previous week,
but did not run nearly as well. Tinker
Bell also gave a poor display, while Sali-
vant did not act up to the reputation he
made at Tamworth. He is a strongly-
built gelding by Salmagundi.
In the Hurdle Race it was again
demonstrated that Belvoir is a poor
stayer. In the lead with Duke Caledon for
the first mile, then passed by Spearbine at
the six furlongs, he again led at the half-
mile and was first into the straight. That
was the end of him, as Lockslea quickly
took his measure. Then Phil put in his
claim, and got his head in front of
Lockslea in the last few strides. The
Winger was a close third, and, as he is
only four years old, his prospects as a
hurdler are bright. He is by Spearhead.
Kerry Bay was fourth, and the stewards
questioned H. Robinson as to the way he
rode him. They were satisfied with his
explanation. Phil has not been allowed to
eat the oats of idleness, this being his
thirtieth start and third win this season.
Martheus, looking all the better for his
recent racing, commenced smartly from
the outside, and led all the way in the
First Nursery Handicap. Air Link and
Lady Neith were the only runners within
striking distance of him at the turn, but
they were unable to reach him in the run
home. They filled the minor places,
with Hydra (Bullhead-Eager Air) next,
and then the slow-beginning Angus.
David Copperfield never really got in it.
In addition to being slow off the mark he
was galloped on. Royal Exchange tired
after being fairly placed to the straight
entrance. Martheus was fairly beaten
when favorite the previous week, but a
section of the spectators resented his im-
provement. Running true to form they
hooted cheerfully and invited the stewards
to “Rub them out.” If the stewards took
notice of all demonstrations by dis-
appointed backers there would soon be a
scarcity of horses, owners, trainers and
jockeys.
• • i « • •
Buzalong shared favoritism with Gill-
town for the Royal Mile, but weight
stops the best. Though third to Gilltown
and Speardale, at the half-mile Buza-
long’s chance was gone before reaching
the straight. When Gilltown shot away
at the bend an easy win for him seemed
probable, but Forward fairly ran over
him in the last furlong, finishing as if a
longer distance than a mile would not
now come amiss. Lord Valentine
came home well in third place, adding
to G. P. Nailon’s numerous minor
placings of the last few weeks. It will
take a G.N. Steeplechase win by Bully
Hayes, of whom he is still owner, to
compensate him for his recent bad luck.
Hamurah’s showing did not suggest an
early return to her best form, and Climax
can stand more racing.
Irish Sea gave knight Hugh Denison a
win in the first division of the June
Novice Handicap, but Liege Maid’s
backers were unlucky. In addition to
commencing slowly Liege Maid ran out
very wide after turning into the straight,
and then was beaten only half a length.
Still Irish Sea finished strongly to dispose
of the others. Royal Head appeared to
have a winning chance a furlong from
home, but had to put up with third ;
while Evertrue, after being one of the
rear division to the three-furlongs post,
then got such a smooth passage on the
rails that she was a possible place-getter
inside the last furlong. However, the
long run she made caused her to weaken
before reaching the winning-post. Though
they had nothing to do with the finish,
Canvasser, Theorise and Rhythmic
showed pace.
Mandowie was a strong fancy for the
second division of the Novice Handicap,
but with luck against him in the early
part he was never really dangerous.
L’Amond was first into the straight, with
Dom, Fisk, Mrs. Caudle and Monowai
prominent. Less than a furlong from
home Mrs. Caudle made a dash, but
failed to sustain it, and Mestoravon’s
half-sister, Cadette, with a strong finish-
ing run, won from Control, who also
put in good work over the last furlong.
Like Cadette, he recently raced in novice
company at Newcastle. Trump Card,
who was heavily backed, lost his chance
at barrier-rise, getting away too badly
to have any chance afterwards. Fisk did
not finish as well as at his previous out-
ing, but Diamante should pick up a race
of this class.
Mandowie did much better in the
Encourage Handicap on Monday. The
apprentice Thompson brought Man-
dowie smartly over from a wide
barrier position, and his mount finishing
fast, ran down the early leaders, Electra,
Padua and Harinesta, winning from the
last named and L’Amond.
Kerry Bay was another to show im-
provement. At one stage of the A.J.C.
Hurdle The Winger had a lead of 12
lengths, but Kerry Bay was always fairly
well placed, and, jumping well, he went
to the front at the turn to beat Saratoga
nicely, with Lockslea —a bad last early—
third.
Creditor led almost all the way to win
the Botany Handicap (7furs. 22tyds.)
from the consistent Denis and Caesar,
who made a sharp run in the straight
but petered out. With the Second Nur-
sery (Lady Neith) it added two more
wins to Munro’s list.
Sidcup carried them along for most of
the way in the Winter Plate, but Foun-
tain went to the front at the turn. Cable
Boy, nicely placed throughout, made a
run in the straight, but could not go on,
and finished second to Fountain, with
Hilarious plodding into third place.
* * * *
Turf Boy, hot favorite for the G.N.
Steeplechase, provided a sensation at
Flemington on Saturday. Beaten like
a hack in the Wanda Steeplechase, for
which he started at 6 to 4 after 2 to 1
had been bet, his running formed the
subject of a stewards’ inquiry. After
exhaustive investigations, during which
certain betting transactions were verified,
explanations of owner-trainer M. T.
McGrath and rider Alec Fullarton were
accepted.
Turf Boy’s sudden loss of form was
inexplicable. A fortnight earlier he had
won impressively over the same course
with 12.5, but with 12.10 on Saturday
he jumped badly, showed no dash on
the flat, and, always hopelessly out of it,
finished fifth, about 16 lengths behind
the winner, Blackford. McGrath and
Fullarton were mystified concerning his
lapse. Turf Boy has a doubtful leg, and
McGrath thought it might have troubled
him during the race. Fullarton, knowing
that Turf Boy had had occasional bleed-
ing attacks on the training tracks, and
fearing that he had bled for the first
time in a race, looked to see if that was
the cause of his failure to stretch out
and draw to his fences. There was no
suggestion of bleeding, however, and, as
the going was good, track conditions
could not be blamed. Turf Boy’s failure
meant that he escaped a possible rehandi-
cap for the National, but, on Saturday’s
form, he could not win that race with
11.2, let alone 12.2. He was scratched
on Monday.
Weighted at 9.13 for the G.N. Steeple,
Blackford became liable to a rehandicap
after his Wanda Steeplechase success with
10.2. Now in his eleventh year, this
former brilliant hurdler was having his
first race since last November, but he
had been working and schooling well,
and there was sufficient support to bring
his price from 20’s down to 10’s. Well-
placed throughout, he gave a good exhibi-
tion of fencing, and finished strongly to
win from Sir Muslin and Gracstello.
Trainer Harry Gabell stated after the race
that he was unable to say definitely
whether Blackford would be a runner
for the G.N. Steeple. “It depends on the
owner,” 'he said. Blackford was bred
and is owned by South Australian T. S.
Ryder, who was unlucky to lose the 1924
Melbourne Cup with Blackford’s sire,
Stand By. Latter finished second to
Backwood in that race. Sir Muslin and
Gracstello are G.N. Steeple candidates,
but they make no appeal, and the form
of the other runners on Saturday was of
little account.
Whether Glowing will be up to G.N.
Hurdle standard is another matter, but he
is a hardy individual who has stood up to
hard work and racing in remarkable style.
His owner-trainer, W. McKay, better
known in the light-harness sport, has
done bookmakers several good turns
lately. Glowing was a 12-to-l chance on
Saturday, and in recent weeks McKay
has trained and driven three long-priced
trotting winners, Pink Globe (twice) and
Lee Tennessee.
Mamillius lost caste for the G.N. Hurdle
following his easy defeat by Glowing,
but, like the winner, he is only four years
old, and probably will improve. Winner
of three successive hurdle races in re-
stricted company, he tackled open com-
pany for the first time on Saturday, and,
considering that he became unbalanced
when Fighting Cock fell in front of him
and broke his neck at the first jump, and
that he was forced to cover a good deal
of extra ground during the race, he was
not altogether disgraced. First Brigade,
now in the same stable as Blackford, did
well at his first start in Melbourne, and
although this ex-Adelaide performer
might not be up to National class, he
should pay his way here.
Realising that he was better treated in
the Minook Two-year-old than in the
Princess Handicap, run two days later,
connections of Sun Valley threw in for
a nice first-up win on their colt. Sun
Valley was having his first race for over
three months, but bookmakers who laid
as much as 12 to 1 against him —he
firmed to sixes—discovered to their cost
that he was not short of condition. Prob-
ably the fact of his having drawn No. 3
position up the straight-six was the de-
ciding factor in Sun Valley’s success, as
he had to be ridden right out to win
from Ten O’clock and Darraweit, both
of whom were drawn wide at the
barrier.
Sun Valley is by Manitoba-Golden
Gondola. He has been a good invest-
ment at the 525 guineas he cost
W. V. Manton and his son. Manton
senior won the AJ.C. and Victoria
Derbys of 1920 with Salitros, and
naturally hopes that he will do
likewise with Sun Valley, whose
spring engagements include the two cups.
Big disappointments in Saturday’s race
were the favorite Cephren, who weakened
over the last furlong, and second favorite
Balkan Chief, who was one of the last
three to finish. Perhaps a collision with
another runner at the start affected
Balkan Chiefs chance. On Monday
Cephren, favored by a run on the rails
at the turn, won the Princess Handicap
over seven furlongs, beating New Zea-
land and Password.
Wisdom of racing El Golea during
the winter months, while most of the
other star sprinters are spelling, has been
proved by his two successive wins at
Flemington. His Royal Handicap win
on June 1 was worth £350, and Saturday’s
success added a similar amount to the
thousands of pounds he has won in
stakes since Archie Crofts bought him
for 1000 guineas early last season. His
connections take the view that, while
spring races may be harder to win, El
Golea’s winter racing will not prejudice
his spring prospects. His spring engage-
ments include the Epsom, Toorak Handi-
cap, Cantala Stakes and Caulfield Cup.
Norman Creighton rode El Golea confi-
dently on Saturday, not asking him for
an effort until Rex Felt challenged inside
the last furlong. El Golea was always a
hot favorite, but his apparent mortgage
on the race did not scare the party behind
Rex Felt, who was backed from as much
as 10 to 1 down to fives.
One of the most spectacular plunges in
recent months was brought to a success-
ful conclusion by the ex-Sydney gelding,
Prince Ariel, in the Cambria Welter.
Ten to one was bet against him, but
weight of money forced his price down
to 3 to 1, and many bookmakers could
not afford to quote him at all at the
finish. Always reasonably well placed,
though forced rather wide on the turn, he
outstayed the country gelding Cythorn
and won by a head, with consistent nine-
year-old Somerset third. A three-year-
old by Marconigram from Queen Balak,
Prince Ariel was trained in Sydney by
R. Skelton, and won a Maiden Handicap
at Randwick last October. Later he was
purchased by Frank Godby, who has
done so well with Maikai and Unishak
this season, and, at the same time, the
indentures of J. Crossingham, who was
apprenticed to Skelton, were transferred
to Godby. Crossingham is only a midget,
but several Victorian country wins pre-
ceded his first Melbourne metropolitan
success on Saturday, and more oppor-
tunities are certain to come his way.
Maintaining the improvement he had
revealed at Moonee Valley a week earlier,
Ellison, a four-year-old half-brother to
the Australian Cup winner, Carry On,
beat Rose Princess and Pantoon in the
Richmond Handicap. The race was not
a true staying test, as Windrobe slowed
the field down after getting to the front
early, but Ellison finished resolutely once
he got through in the straight, and is
undoubtedly one of the most promising
stayers in training. Whether he will
hold his form until the spring, when
opposition will be stronger, is another
matter. Rivette was able to do so last
year, but Rivettes do not appear every
season.
* * * *
E. McMenamin reached his 100 wins
for this season, when he scored on
Hilarious at Randwick on Saturday. He
is still some distance behind Cook, and
as the latter’s weight gives him an ad-
vantage the probabilities are he will
remain on top until the close of the
season. J. Duncan, with 70 wins up to
the end of last week, has a good record,
as has D. Munro with 65. Riding fees
provided for by the rules have alone
given the four mentioned substantial in-
comes for the season, but there is always
a bit extra for a winning jockey, no
matter how small the meeting. Whether
those additional amounts are always re-
membered by jockeys in making up their
income-tax returns I cannot say.
* * * *
Carefree, winner of the 1933 Cantala
Stakes, had two runners at Randwick on
Saturday—P. H. Osborne’s Happy Lass
and Royal Sceptre. Neither showed their
dam’s pace, each finishing second last
in their respective races. At his first
start at two years Royal Sceptre dead-
heated Beaucaire for the Breeders’ Plate,
but it looks as if he will reach four years


before adding to his winning account.
There is no reason why he should not
recover his early speed.
* * * *
Form of Creditor and Winnipeg in the
June Plate at Randwick worked out cor-
rectly as compared with the Flying Han-
dicap at Canterbury Park. At the last-
mentioned meeting Winnipeg and Credi-
tor met at level weights, and the former
was beaten a half-length. In the June
Plate Creditor, in receipt of 31b., defeated
Winnipeg a head. If horses always ran
that true to form at an interval of a
fortnight handicappers would be happy.
* * * *
In racing popularity is fleeting. The
people who will vociferously cheer an
owner or rider one day are likely to hoot
him the next. This was brought home
to W. Cook after he won on Martheus ;
instead of the usual “Good boy, Billy,”
there were shouts of “Robber,” as he re-
turned to weigh in. The same thing has
happened to many other riders, but Cook,
knowing he did his best on Martheus
when he was beaten, must have been un-
pleasantly surprised at the attitude of
many of his erstwhile admirers. A suc-
cessful Victorian rider had the greatest
contempt for public applause and it was
said that in his later years he only once
unbent so far as to touch his cap in ac-
knowledgment of the cheers which
greeted his success in an important race.
¥ * * *
Imported Golden Sovereign has favor-
ably impressed all racing men who have
seen him, and on breeding, racing form
and appearance he should be a worth-
while addition to N.S.W.’s bloodstock.
1 am unaware whether it has since been
beaten, but his price of 2700 gns. when
he was bought by Sir Abe Bailey was
the highest ever paid for a yearling at
auction in Ireland.
* * * *
The trouble in fixing conditions for
restricted races in N.S.W. will be to strike
something suitable for metropolitan,
country and provincial meetings, at
which prize-money varies so greatly. The
best way out may be to allow clubs to
frame conditions that suit locally, at the
same time keeping in mind the necessity
for debarring horses from winning three
or four races of the same class.
* * * *
Hawkesbury Race Club is showing its
patriotism by giving the profits from its
spring meeting in September to the local
war fund. The club has also handed over
its course for a military camp, as well as
given £2OO to the Federal Government
free of interest. It has been suggested
that all profits from race meetings should
go to war funds, but that idea would
scarcely appeal to some clubs in and
about Sydney.
* * * *
Clarence River J.C.’s much-alive secre-
tary, Miss K. O’Mara, reminds owners
that nominations close at 5 p.m. on
Monday next, 24th inst., for the Grafton
Cup, £6OO and £2O trophy, Ramornie
Handicap £3OO and C.R.J.C. Handicap.
Entrance fee is £1 for each.
* * * *
If El Golea retains the form he has
recently shown until the spring he will
have to be reckoned with in the shorter
weight-for-age races. He won the New-
market with 8.12, running the six furlongs
in I.ll|, but in the Rosny Plate at Flem-
ington on Saturday he improved upon
that effort, both in respect of weight and
time. He carried 10.0, and comfortably
beat Rex Felt (8.12) in I.lo|, So far El
Golea has not shone beyond a mile, but
as he is by Eastern Monarch, he may
improve as a stayer. At three years he
twice won at a mile, and at four years
dead-heated Ena for the Toorak Handi-
cap. He ran in the 1938 Caulfield Cup,
but was out of his distance. Although
third in the last Doncaster with 9.4, that
run must have temporarily knocked him
out, as he made a poor showing in the
All-Aged Stakes a few days later. It is
to be hoped he will be here early in the
spring. He is in the Epsom Handicap.
His inclusion in the Hill Stakes at the
Red Cross meeting at Randwick would
add interest to that race.
* * * *
A section of Melbourne bookmakers
are of opinion that those who bet on
the rails at race meetings have too great
an advantage over those who are not so
fortunate, and petitioned the V.R.C. for
the abolition of such a concession. The
Victorian ruling body gave the matter
consideration, and replied that as the time
for the abolition of betting on the rails
was not opportune, present arrangements
would continue. In one of the Melbourne
papers a correspondent - suggested that
tenders should be called for the coveted
positions, and that the money paid by
successful tenderers should go to war
funds.
* * * *
Con Devon, who started favorite for
the Adelaide R.C. Birthday Cup, made a
great bid for that race, but was beaten
a head by Silent March, a three-year-
old by March Along from Amy’s Flight.
Bred by W. H. Schlink, Silent March
was sold as a yearling for 75gns.
* * * *
Sydney owners should not overlook
the fact that entries for the minor races
at the B.A.T.C. (Brisbane) meeting close
on Monday next, 24th inst., and first
acceptances for the Doom ben New-
market and Cup are due on Tuesday,
25th inst.
At the time of writing it is probable
Sydney competitors for the Doomben
Newmarket will include Beaulivre, Ver-
gure, Winnipeg, Micawber and Creditor.
The last-mentioned four have recently
shown good racing form, and Beaulivre,
who did well during his holiday, is
rapidly getting into shape. His 9.2 seems
a big weight, but though it is 41b. over
weight-for-age he had a pound in excess
of the scale when he ran second in the
Doncaster. If he starts his backers will
get a good run.
Micawber showed his liking for Doom-
ben when he won last year’s Newmarket
with 8.1, and, though he is up 61b., he
has at least a fair chance of another vic-
tory. As usual, Brisbane will supply some
tough opponents for the Sydney division,
and Expressman’s win with 7.6 at the
Q.T.C. meeting last Saturday must put
him a long way in the race. He not only
ran six furlongs in 1.12, but beat the
second horse, Early Closing, six lengths.
Unplaced runners included Graceful
Mover and High Rank. If Expressman’s
win was not of sufficient value to permit
of his being rehandicapped, he will carry
only 7.2 at Doomben. He is a four-year-
old gelding by imported Wyvern, and
last season was lightly raced, starting
four times without winning. He will
meet a strong field, and selecting N.S.W.
horses from which he may have most to
fear I shall take Beaulivre, Vergure and
Micawber.
* * * *
Fourteen-two ponies rarely race
beyond six furlongs in Sydney, and more
often at shorter distances. Consequently
not a great deal is asked of most in the
way of track work, and that is probably
one reason why so many last longer than
bigger horses. Some occasionally display
unexpected form, and Majorca’s win at
half a mile in the Fourteen-two Handicap
at Rosebery last week was something
backers did not expect. “Too short for
him” was the general summing-up, but
though a furlong from home the winner
seemed certain to come from Lady Gay,
Brucas or Kentucky, who were prac-
tically level, Majorca arrived on the
scene just in time to beat Kentucky.
Majorca, who is rising ten, never did
much better at such a short distance, and
this was his sixth win of the season.
Kentucky is also one of the veteran
division, being nine next August, and he
is still fairly close to the best of his
class.
* * * *
Pen has been one of this season’s un-
lucky horses in Sydney. He has pace
above the average, but though he has
generally flattered his backers only one
win has been credited him since August.
Up to Wednesday last he had scored
nine seconds and three thirds this season.
Mischief is another of the unlucky divi-
sion. He won his only race as a four-
vear-old at Canterbury on April 6, and
since then has recorded four seconds and
two thirds. A trainer cannot be envied
a horse that invariably runs well, though
without being quite equal to winning.
Every second or third means a little more
weight, and makes success more diffi-
cult.
* * He *
D. Lewis has trained the winners of
various important distance handicaps,
and it is possible he has another in the
long-striding Reunion. It was not an ex-
ceptional effort on the part of Reunion to
win the Rosebery Encourage, especially
as the favorite, Aristocrat, had more
than his share of bad luck, but Reunion
was going on at the end, and his time
was only a quarter of a second outside
the race record. He is by Marconigram
from Facility, a half-sister by Fern-
kloof to Yule Cake, dam of Mince Pie,
and grandam of John. On the maternal
side Reunion’s pedigree includes stayers
and sprinters, and, so far is staying is
concerned, he loses nothing on his sire’s
side.
* * * *
The Hobartville Stakes, at seven fur-
longs, has never been a guide as to the
probable result of the A.J.C. Derby, and
the Rosehill Guineas has not been much
better. Very few horses have won the
latter and the Derby, but the fact that
the Guineas will be run at Randwick
this year may make it a better guide than
usual. Last year High Caste, winner of
the Hobartville Stakes and Rosehill
Guineas, failed in the Derby, and Beau
Vite, an odds-on favorite for that race,
did not get a place. In the last twenty
years others that failed when particularly
hot favorites were Caserta (10 to 9 on,
third), Mollison (7 to 4 on, second) and
Gold Rod (7 to 4 on, third). The Derby
is a race that generally looks easy to
backers, but the reverse has often proved
the case, the last twenty winners includ-
ing only five favorites.
Of the last ten favorites two were
successful, and three winners and one
dead-heater for first started at double
figures. For the period mentioned win-
ners and favorites were as under:
1930: Tregilla (E. Bartle), 10 to 1; Veil-
mond, 9 to 4, second.
1931: Ammon Ra (M. McCarten), 9to
4 on.
1932: Peter Pan (J. Pike), 3to 1; Gaine
Carrington, 9 to 4, unplaced.
1933: Hall Mark (D. Munro), 2 to 1;
Blixten, 7 to 4, third.
1934: Theo (M. McCarten), 7 to 1 ;
Silver King, 11 to 8 on, second.
1935: Allunga (D. Munro), 4 to 1, and
Homer (A. Knox), 33 to 1, dead-heat;
Young Idea, 5 to 4, unplaced.
1936: Talking (A. Knox), 10 to 1; Gold
Rod, 7 to 4 on, third.
1937: Avenger (E. Bartle), 2 to 1; Ajax,
7 to 4, second.
1938: Nuffield (D. Munro), sto 4 on.
1939: Reading (D. Munro), 14 to 1;
Beau Vite, 5 to 4 on, unplaced.
The last four A.J.C. Derbies have not
been productive of a double-figure field,
and it is no certainty it will be different
in the coming one. There is always the
possibility of something making marked
improvement between the autumn and the
spring, but at this stage it would be
difficult, on form, to give more than six
or seven N.S.W.-trained colts any con-
sideration, and not that many in Vic-
toria.
* * * *
The success of an owner-trainer in an
English Derby is something decidedly
unusual, but at Newmarket last week
F. Darling had the pleasure of winning
the New Derby (£2OOO added money)
with Pont l’Eveque, who started at 10
to 1, and finished three lengths ahead
of the Aga Khan’s Turkhan (14 to 1),
who beat Lord Derby’s Lighthouse II
(hot favorite at 85 to 40) by a
head. Pont l’Eveque is by the 1931
Grand Prix de Paris winner Barneveldt
(son of The Winter King) from Ponteba,
by Belfonds (French Derby winner) from
Poet’s Star, by Chaucer. For the benefit
of disciples of Bruce Lowe it is men-
tioned that he comes of the No. 3 family.
He was a late foal, being foaled on
May 25, equivalent to December in
Australian foaling time.
Last year Pont l’Eveque ran twice in
the colors of his breeder, H. Morriss,
who bought his dam, Ponteba, from
H. Corbiere when she was carrying the
Derby winner. Pont l’Eveque was un-
placed in one race and second in the
other. When he was leaving England
last autumn Morriss sold him to Dar-
ling, for whom he won his first race,
a mile Maiden Plate, at Newbury in
April.
Gordon Richards rode him when he
won, and was on his stable-companion,
the Maharaja of Kolhapur’s Tant Mieux
when he accounted for the Greenham
Stakes, also run at Newbury meeting.
It was at first announced that Richards
would be on Pont l’Eveque, but he finally
decided in favor of Tant Mieux, and
S. Wragg was on the winner. Richards
was not the only one who was at fault
in his selection of a Derby hope, as
Stardust was given a much better chance
by the stable than the Aga Khan’s other
representative Turkhan. Neither Pont
l’Eveque nor Lighthouse II was nominated
for the original Derby. Entries for the
New Derby closed on February 27 of
this year, and there were 16 starters
from 78 nominations.
* * * *
Full accounts of the Kentucky Derby
show there was nothing fluky in Galla-
hadion’s defeat of Bimelech, who was
a 5-to-2-on favorite in a field of nine.
Gallahadion was third to Bimelech and
Dit just after turning into the straight,
and then outstayed them. Only two
horses received less tote support than
Gallahadion, his price being 35 to 1, and
the amount put through on the race was
$443,084, which was $156,000 less than
last year.
The pace was fast in the early part,
the first furlong being run in 11 3-5,
half-mile in 48, and five furlongs in
I. 3-5. As the mile and a quarter took
2.5, that meant 1.4 2-5 for the last five.
The final furlong took 13 2-5. The net
value to the owner of the winner was
$60,148, second SBOOO, third S3OOO,
fourth SIOOO. Trainers’ awards were:
Winner S3OOO, second S2OOO, third
SIOOO. Breeders’ awards: Winner S2OOO,
second SIOOO, and third SSOO, making
the total value of the race $81,648.
Owing to a severe cold, Mrs. Ethel
Mars, who gave £1250 for Gallahadion
as a yearling, was not present to see
him win.
* * * *
The custom with many American
jockeys is to get to the front as soon as
possible and stay there as long as pos-
sible, no matter whether the distance is
six furlongs or a mile and a quarter.
Similar tactics are becoming usual in
Sydney, even prominent jockeys riding as
if it were more important to be in the
lead entering the straight than in that
position at the winning-post. It is, of
course, easy to criticise, and, the other
day when a once-prominent rider took a
leading jockey to task for indulging in
helterskelter tactics, the latter replied : “It
is different now from your day. If you
do not go all the way you are simply
not going to be in it.” There is a lot of
truth in that, but the odds are always
against any horse winning at a mile or
further when driven along from barrier-
rise. While it is inadvisable to attempt
to concede much start in any race it is
possible to go to the other extreme and
get a horse right off its balance by try-
ing to get too much out at a very early
stage of a race.
* * * *
Dhoti (Dastur-Tricky), who did not
fulfil his engagement at Flemington on
Saturday, was brilliant at two years in
England, winning the three races in which
he ran. Naturally that caused a great
deal to be expected of him at three years,
and he shared favoritism with Blue
Peter for the Two Thousand Guineas. He
was unplaced, and fared similarly in each
of the other three races in which he ran
last year.
* * * *
A duchess is managing a racing stable
in England. Since the outbreak of the
war the Duchess of Norfolk has managed
as well as helped to train the horses in
the Michel Mangrove stable, the training
license being held by the “head lad.”
The Duchess ran Lucullus in the New
Thousand Guineas, but he was not a
placegetter.
* * * *
France had a good innings at the New-
market first spring meeting. On the
opening day that country had winners
in Majano and Le Marmot, owned and
trained in France, and ridden by the
jockey R. Brethes, who is in the French
Army and attended the meeting in his
regimentals, complete to the spurs. On
the second day Djebel won the New Two
Thousand Guineas for M. Boussac.
Although it was inferred by cable that
S. Donoghue trained Djebel, he must
have been merely located at that trainer's
stable. English papers gave A, Swann,
who has always had him in France, as
his trainer. If he had been in Donoghue’s
care it is improbable he would have re-
turned to France after the Guineas.
* * * *
The 1940 edition of Ruff’s Guide con-
tains some interesting English statistics.
For instance Fred Archer rode 2748 win-
ners from 1870 to 1886 ; George Ford-
ham, 2597, from 1850 to 1894; and
Gordon Richards, 2586, from 1921 to
1939. Solario’s 47,000gn5. was the most
ever made at auction by a stallion that
had done stud duty, and Tracery was 11
years when he was sold privately for
£53,000. At auction Flying Fox made
37,500gn5., and Call Boy and Nearco
were each bought privately for £60,000.
The two-year-old Duke of Westminster
was sold privately for 21,000gn5., and
Silvretta, of the same age, for 13,000gns.
at auction. Yearlings Feridoon and
Colonel Payne were respectively sold for
17,000gns. and 15,000gn5., the latter at
auction. Khorsheed, as a foal, made
5000gns. at auction. The largest entry for
a Derby was 404 for that of 1931, and
the largest field for a flat race was 51 in
two-year-olds at Newbury.
* * * *
All Irish, winner of the recent Great
National Steeplechase in Auckland, was
bought by his part owner, A. J.
Smales, for £lO. He has run in 40 races
for 11 wins, five seconds, seven thirds
and £5565 in prize-money.
* .* * *
Noted sire Son-in-Law, who is in his
29th year, was mated with only one
mare in England last year, and she threw
a fine colt. R. Day is training a two-
year-old by Son-in-Law, and in the be-
lief he would be the last of his sire’s
progeny he was named Last Son. In
view of the latest arrival it may be
deemed advisable to alter that.
* * * *
On the whole bookmaking must be a
better business in England than in Aus-
tralia, During the hearing of a recent
racing case in London it was mentioned
by counsel that a successful backer


—depend upon the
quality of your tyres
Whether buying a new car or re-
equipping, your choice of tyres is
vastly important.
You need tyres which will stand the
stress of hard driving and rough
roads;
. . . tyres which will hold the road
and ensure your .safety in any
circumstances;
. . . tyres which will give long and
faultless service;
YOU NEED
Olympic
Tyres.
Choose
e
OLYMPIC
TYRES
At all leading garages and tyre
dealers.
Olympic Tyre Distributors
PTY., LTD.,
Cnr. Crown & Stanley Sts., Sydney
SAVE MONEY
ITS
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS
A
Bring BETTER ACCELERATION
Spits and jerks when accelerat-
ing put a strain on your car and
on your nerves. New Champions
improve acceleration and ena-
ble your car to pull smooth-
ly. This saves fuel, too. So
much, in fact, that you
soon are repaid the cost
of your new Champions
... and more! Champions
save you money.
An Empire product—made in
Windsor, Canada
bought a fine house in one of London’s
choicest residential areas, but subse-
quently lost it and everything else. This
caused the Judge to comment: “During
a considerable practice at the Bankruptcy
Court I can recall only one bookmaker
who went bankrupt.” In Australia many
who did not go into the Bankruptcy
Court went so close to it that they had
to give up business. In Sydney up to
a few weeks ago things were going so
badly that some bookmakers were won-
dering how they could avoid bankruptcy.
Judging from some men who made a lot
of money, bookmaking in Sydney must
have been quite easy at one time. Now
it is a very keen business.
* * * *
Moses L. Annenberg, whose Nation-
wide News Services supplied bookmakers
and others all over America with
price lists, pari-mutuel odds and
racing information of various kinds,
pleaded guilty in Chicago a few weeks
ago to evading payment of $1,217,296
(£A304,324) income taxes in 1936.
It was understood that charges of
evading taxes in other years would be
dropped, though the taxes for those years
must still be paid, the whole amounting
to about $5,500,000 (£A 1,375,000), includ-
ing penalties and interest. Annenberg,
who is said to be one of America’s rich-
est men, became liable to a maximum
prison term of five years, but no decision
as to his sentence had been made up to
the beginning of last month. Charges
against -Annenberg of conspiracy to
operate a lottery and an attempt to bribe
a Government witness were still pending.
Wire services were temporarily dis-
organised when Annenberg dropped out,
but in a few weeks they were in full
swing again, with some of his ex-em-
ployees in charge. An indictment was
taken out against several of them, and
among those charged with conspiring with
others to furnish racing information by
radio to 400 Chicago bookmakers were
two ex-members of A 1 Capone’s gang. In
America, as in some Australian States,
“off the course” betting is illegal, but the
fact of 400 Chicago bookmakers being
willing to pay for information suggests
that observance of the law is even less
honored there than in Sydney, Melbourne
or Brisbane.
❖ * *
In 1857 a rule of the Australian Jockey
Club with respect to horses’ ages read as
follows: “Horses foaled after the Ist
of August shall take their ages from the
following January; and horses foaled
prior to the Ist of August shall take their
ages from the Ist of January past.” The
weight-for-age scale was different then
from now, and was the same at all dis-
tances. The A.J.C. scale was as follows:
Two-year-olds, 7st. ; three-year-olds, Bst. ;
four-year-olds, 9st. ; five-year-olds, 9.8 ;
six years and aged, 9.12. Bearing on
betting, the club said it took no cogni-
sance of any claims or disputes in respect
of betting, and recommended persons
having disputed bets to decide them by
referees, one to be chosen by each of the
parties, and the two referees to select
another to decide between them.
However, for the guidance of the public,
the English betting rules were included
in the A.J.C. rules.
* * * *
Although we read so much about
Becher’s Brook in connection with the
Liverpool Grand National Steeplechase
at Aintree, it is not, according to the
present description of the course, a stiffer
jump than Valentine’s Brook. Becher’s
Brook is officially described as follows:
A thorn fence (fir), 4ft. lOin. high, 3ft.
3in. wide, with a natural brook on far
side, sft. 6in. wide. Valentine’s Brook,
a thorn fence (spruce), sft. high, 3ft. 3in.
wide, a natural brook on the far side,
sft. 6in. wide. Either jump is enough
to worry any rider with the least sug-
gestion of nervousness in his make-up.
In the last National eight horses fell, and
two of these were ridden by England’s
most successful cross-country jockeys, T.
Rimell and G. Wilson.
* * * *
A filly named Maemante won the
Juvenile Championship for two-year-olds
at Hialeah Park (Miami, Florida) a few
weeks ago, running three furlongs in
33 1-5. The occasion was too much for
her owner, De Witte Page. He saw his
filly win, and immediately after suffered
a heart attack, from which he died soon
afterwards.
* * * *
Jamaica (8.W.1.) claims the oldest
amateur rider in the world. This is S.
Burke, a retired barrister and resident
magistrate. He is 72, and recently rode in
an amateur race at Kingston, finishing
fourth, and he received a great ovation
from the crowd.
* * * *
At the commencement of the war many
of England’s advertising bookmakers
dropped out, but they returned to busi-
ness early in the year. One of the attrac-
tions offered by a leading firm was the
multiplied odds against placing the first
two or three in the Grand National. That
is to say, the return from the first horse
would go on to the second at its starting
price, and the amount from the first two
on to the third. As the winner of the
National started at 25 to 1, and the third
horse at 50 to 1, it is improbable that
any of the books doing business on the
terms mentioned suffered to any extent.
* * * *
Arlington Park, Chicago’s principal
racing track, was sold at the end of April
to a group of businessmen for £A400,000.
Few of them have had much experience
of racing, but they’ll soon learn, perhaps
to their financial loss. It must have been
so with the previous owners, who gave
£A600,000 for the property 11 years ago.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
{Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
I have changed my Australian iron clubs
in favor of U.S.A. models, which are better
suited to the bigger American ball. Aus-
tralian clubs have, on an average, three
degrees more loft per club than American
irons of similar design; with the loss
of length in using the larger-size ball,
I was rather at sea as regards club selec-
tion during earlier rounds.
My new set of irons, now ready, was
made to my order and is suited to
American conditions ideally. After using
my old set for four years I was satisfied
that they really suited my play. I am
today convinced more than ever that one
has to use clubs suited to the occasion.
• •••••
Gene Sarazen has had a good run
among the tournaments this year. In the
last half-dozen events he has stepped up
and collected his cheque at the prize-
giving ceremony—the result of his steady
play. Although he has not won an event
for some time he is usually in the money.
Two South American pressmen accom-
pany the two professionals now touring
the United States. Unable to speak a
word of English, the two players have
had an awkward time since their arrival.
Both good golfers, they have been prac-
tising keenly to make a good showing
in the Open in Cleveland. Small in
stature, they will feel the strong breezes
that blow at the Canterbury course.
Ralph Guldahl says “a score of 290
will be good enough to win this year’s
Open Championship on Cleveland’s
wind-swept Canterbury course.” [He
was wrong; the Open was tied for with
scores of 287, Little beating Sarazen in
the play-off.]
Although he has won but 2500 dollars
this year in tournament play, Guldahl
has only played in a few events ; he has
spent most of his time in Florida at a
club where he was retained on a huge
fee to teach wealthy New York busi-
nessmen how to break 100. Teaching
at £6 per hour by a leading professional
is not an uncommon happening during
the season in Florida, where the best
players have a club to spend the winter
teaching and playing. Tommy Armour
told me he earns from 15,000 to 20,000
dollars during this period at Boca Raton,
his Florida Club.
Olympia Fields Country Club, the scene
of the Chicago district sectional qualify-
ing for the Open Championship, where
I am going to attempt to make my way
into the select band of qualifiers, will
attract about 200 local entries, from
which there will be approximately 17
to 20 qualifiers to go on to the champion-
ship proper. Although this is one of
the leading districts in the United States
I should be able to qualify comfortably
on a pair of 74’s ; though I will be trying
to do as well as I can.
With the leading 30 players in last
year’s Open exempt from going through
the sectional qualifying rounds, the
Golf Association gives those prominent
in the previous event a little reward for
their efforts. With the growing popularity
of our own Open Championship meeting,
which had to be curtailed last year, at
Royal Melbourne, it seems that the
writing is on the wall in regard to each
State having its own qualifying rounds
to decide who plays in the championship
proper.
Sarazen and Demaret are playing
a big charity exhibition match near
Gene’s home at the South Norwalk Club.
The game was decided upon to settle the
question of the effect noise has upon a
golfer’s concentration.
Demaret, recent winner of the Mas-
ters’ Tournament, said “You can do
anything you like except that I don’t
want anyone grabbing my club at the
top of the backswing.” The stunt has
been instituted by Corcoran, the arch-
opponent of temperamental golfers, who
believes that the scores of the two players
will be no different from those returned
in regular tournament play. Babe Ruth
and Gene Tunney—both good players—
will probably partner the pros.
The latest tournament winnings to
April 10 read: Jimmy Demaret (Texas),
7652 dollars ; Ben Hogan, of New York,
6538 dollars ; Craig Wood, New York,
3608 dollars ; and Lloyd Mangrum, 3350
dollars. With 75,000 dollars offered this
summer from June to the end of Sep-
tember the professionals have a great
opportunity to increase their incomes.
The greatest amount won in a season
was 20,000 dollars —by Sam Snead in
1938 —which beat Horton-Smith’s record
of 15,500 dollars in 1930.
Footbrawl
With the Melbourne-Fitzroy clash held
over till the King’s Birthday holiday,
most of the V.F.L. patrons went out to
Collingwood to try to forget graver
matters. The home side must have had
its usually-good football mind on other
things, for Richmond belted, it to a
fare-ye-well by 10-15 to 6-13, the latter
figures being something new on a ’Wood
scorecard.
Sowths, at home to Saints, had the best
of things in the air and in the centre
play, but an erratic wind and lack of
system nearly cost them the match, only
a last quarter rally pulling them through.
South Melbourne, 12-9 ; St. Kilda, 10-16.
The crowd at North Melbourne had
a job to retain its hat and keep its dress
down in the fierce gale, and its attempts
to roar encouragement to the locals
against Geelong failed to reach the
ground, which is probably why Norths
went down by 8-15 to 13-20.
Footscray swept out of its alpine fast-
nesses and fell upon the astonished
Hawthorn like the Assyrian of old.
Working like a machine on the ground
and with its air force dominating the
upper strata, ’Scray selfishly took pos-
session of the bone of contention and
belted it through the sticks with
monotonous precision for 15-20. Then
its heart softened and Hawthorn was
allowed 8.17.
Out at Essendon the Carlton team
was entertained to some heavy ruck
work, a demonstration of system and
knowledge of the wind’s antics and
several footraces. The barrackers almost
forgot the war as Carlton crept up to
within a point of the lead, but subsided
as the ’Dons recovered, shot a couple
of quickies and ran out winners by
12-14 to 8-15.
* * * *
East’s 15-14 defeat of Randwick in the
Sydney Union Rugby competition was
amply avenged on Saturday. The Greens
scored six tries to two, and Rankin piled
on goals: 29-12. East, St. George and
Drummoyne share second place on the
competition table ; Randwick is first.
St. George downed North 18-13 in a
scrappy forward game. Drummoyne
came late against Parramatta, but not too
late (16-8), and University had a win—
its third at the expense of Gordon, 11-9.
In a fast and open game Manly beat
West 20-16.
* * * *
True to its grand old gate-money tradi-
tions, the Sydney Rugby League is stag-
ing inter-State matches. In Sydney on
Saturday a local team ran rings round
an allegedly representative Queensland
side, scoring twelve tries to three.


Hi
«><si*sTfa
-—-
If * *•*£» sisis s|| |f f f
&S$mUBO ili
w>> w.-'i*!<U I
11
t
Queensland’s Masterpiece
BOWEN
GENUINE POT STILL
RUM
' I ’HE method of distillation
used by the leading distil-
leries in the West Indies is the
Pot Still process. Double dis-
tillation under this method,
combined with longer maturity,
has endowed Bowen Rum with
a delicate flavour and fine
quality — a quality hitherto
unknown to be produced in
Australia.
Obtainable in Basket Bottles
and Half Bottles at both over-
proof and underproof strengths.
PRICES
in .Metropolitan Area: —
Bottles, U.P. 8/6, & O.P. 11/
£-Bottles, U.P. 4/9, & O.P. 6/
MAKES MILK MARVELLOUS
Obtainable from leading hotels, including The Australia, Aarons ,
The Arcadia, Carlton, Metropole, Plaza, Usher’s, Wentworth and
the Railway Refreshment Rooms in N.S.W.
AGENTS:
HARRISON & ATTWOOD PTY., LTD.,
11 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BW6336, B5256.
F*
.T inance is an
arm of defence
no less important
than the fighting
services . .
CJ The enormous expenditure involved in modern war
places a severe strain upon the financial system of
every country. Commerce and industry in all their
aspects need the “stiffening” of sound and well-
organised finance, if they are to function efficiently
under extraordinary conditions.
C| The Banks play a vital part in the financial
structure and among them, the Rural Bank is con-
tributing its share. Co-operating with primary industry
in all its aspects, and with home-builders, the Rural
Bank is rendering a valuable national service.
CJ The Bank’s capacity for this service to producers,
home-builders, and the nation as a whole, depends upon
public support . . . funds derived from the transaction
of general banking business.
{]] This vital finance is derived in part from the
transaction of general banking business. Any member
of the community may open a cheque account, or
make an interest-bearing fixed deposit, at any branch
of the Rural Bank . . . and in doing so, enjoy the
advantages of an efficient banking organisation.
Rural Bank
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners:
C. R. McKERIHAN (President), H. ROGERS, P. KEARNS
MURDOCH’S "Fair Deal
9 9
Sensati
1
&
'm m
m
m
mm
S&S-
. a
%m
jHf
SH
HM
mmi
f m\
■ -■
m • •
'
WM
Ks/<
11
ill
■
m
■
IM
m
mm
m,
mm
m.
Everything Reduced
(except a few proprietary
lines and tobacco). Many
lines, to effect rapid clearance,
are going for as low as
HAM PKICE;
at least
10%
80/- O’COATS
Sale Priced at
Here's a virtual
present of 36/-. . .
Special clearout of
Men’s S.B. Raglan
Style Overcoats.
44
Made by experts from serviceable grey
fancy check backed tweeds. Vertical
pockets. Snap up this amazing offer!
Great Bargain
Usually SALE
21/- MEN’S SILK-LINED PURE FUR FELT HATS 13/6
22/6 MEN’S BLACK OR BROWN GOLF OR WALKING .
SHOES 15/11
10/6 MEN’S ALL-WOOL SINGLETS OR UNDERPANTS.. 6/11
3/6 MEN’S FANCY SOX, ORDINARY OR ELASTIC
TOPS */*
26/6 ALL-WOOL RUGS, BROWN, FAWN, GREY, OR ■. o/#
NAVY, 60 x 80 ,0 /°
35/- OLYMPIC CO.’S “AUTOGRAPH” TENNIS /
RACQUETS “V/"
35/- POWER GENERATOR SETS 19/11
Thousands of others!
Catalogue FREE.
Write to Desk “R” for your free
copy of the big- bargain bulletin.
It will save you pounds and pounds !
WE PAY
FREIGHT.
11111111111111111111118 & KiRBVj LTD. lIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIM
“CONRIK” Improved
lOin. Swing, Self Acting
Sliding and Surfacing
LATHE
This latest addition to our com-
prehensive range of Bench
Lathes has been designed for
use in garages, Production
Shops, Machine Shops, Techni-
cal Schools, Workshops, etc.
All kinds of work in wood,
metal, catalin, bakelite, etc.,
can be performed with a great
degree of accuracy.
The highest standards of work-
manship are maintained through-
out. Materials are to our usual
high standard, and rigid inspec-
PRINCIPAL
Size of Face Plate, 82in. diameter.
Height of Centres, sin.
Distance between Centres, 2ft. tin.
Length of Bed, 49in. >
Width of face of Bed, 61n.
Hole through Mandril, 13/lfiin.
Diameter of Mandril Nose, l’.in.
Length Overall, 4ft. lOin.
Breadth Overall, 20in.
Height Overall, 16iin.
Swing over Saddle, 7iin.
Swing over Gap, 13Jin.
Swing over Bed, lOin.
Dimensions of Saddle, lOlin. x lOlin.
tion of all components, during
the various stages of manufac-
ture, enables us to guarantee
you years of trouble-free opera-
tion.
Ease of operation is an out-
standing feature. Conveniently
placed controls, graduated com-
pound rest, instantaneous lever
locking device on tail stock,
lever reverse gear and ball type
handles reduce the possibility
of errors and result in a saving
of time.
DIMENSIONS
Dimensions of Boring Table, BMn.
x 4 Jin.
Diameter of Dead Screw, |in. Acme
Thread.
Diameter of Feed Shaft, fin.
Hack Gear Ratio, C to 1.
Cone Pulley Steps, sin., 3£in., 2’ln.,
Jin. drop.
Distance Face Plate to Edge of
Gap, Sin.
Weight, approximately 3201b5.
Deadstock Centre Bored No. 3
Bushed to No. 2 Morse Taper.
Tailstock Centre No. 2 Morse
Taper.
£67/10/-
NOGK & KIRBY Ltd.
417-421, also 188-194 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


M
Dine in pleas-
ant surround-
ings, in an
atmosphere of
gaiety and
char m, un-
excelled else-
where in Aus-
tralia.
The Hotel Plaza’s
Palm Court Winter Garden
is the most popular restaurant in
the Commonwealth, and here all
Sydney meets to hear Jim Donlevy
and his band, including that virtuoso
of the Piano Accordion, Billy Lake,
together with Beryl Miller and other
well-known artists in all the latest
hits. Here you may dine ala carte,
at most reasonable rates, and liquor
is supplied with a two-course meal
until 8.45 p.m.
HOTEL
13 W
4091
at Wynyard
The Friendly Hotel.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
Schneevoigt
The A.B.C.’s Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, which five days before had
been playing under Dorati, played under
Schneevoigt’s baton at Sydney Town Hall
on Thursday night. Sir Thomas Beecham
had arrived in the city a few days pre-
viously, to take up the warm baton as
soon as Schneevoigt drops it. It’s a
wonder the orchestra doesn’t get giddy.
Schneevoigt’s task on this occasion was
to steer the band through a course of
Max Reger (transcription of a Bach suite
and variations on the andante from
Mozart’s Sonata K 331) followed by the
Fourth Symphony of Sibelius. As asides
from this serious material there were a
lengthy concerto by Palmgren in which
swirls of pianoforte arpeggios supported
the title “The River” and a long-
forgotten overture by Rossini. Madame
Schneevoigt, an excellent pianist, was the
concerto soloist.
Sibelius in his Fourth is at his tersest.
He draws a broken outline of something
tremendous and elemental. The orchestra
gave only a rough sketch of the broken
outline all it could compass in the
rehearsal time allotted. But, as its in-
telligence and resource in face of exas-
perating handicaps have proved a hun-
dred times, it is capable of much better
things.
* * * *
Friedman
Ignaz Friedman, whose first pianoforte
recital of his current Australian season
took place at Sydney Town Hall on
Saturday night, is an unchanging rock
among the shifting sands of modern
music. His technique, as crisp and clear
and straightforward as could be
imagined when he was heard in Sydney
12 years ago, is the same today. For
his Saturday night recital he played
Mozart’s A Minor Rondo, Schumann’s
“Carnaval” suite, the Brahms-Gluck
Gavotte, and a generous allowance of
Chopin—G Minor Ballade and some
mazurkas.
Thoroughly enjoyable pianism, in the
old, dignified scrupulous manner. But
why A.8.C., which plays so many Fried-
man records, should find it necessary to
bring the virtuoso to Australia is not
quite clear. The recital wasn’t listed in
its official programme, and the Chopin
numbers, for which Friedman is best
known, were not broadcast.
* * * *
“Carmen”
The Conservatorium Opera School’s
“Carmen,” put forward as a twenty-fifth
anniversary offering, was a well-balanced
and meritorious performance. Orchestra
and male chorus lacked something in
freshness and vigor on the opening night
—the orchestra sometimes overrode the
singers—but the rest of the venture was
well within the school’s power.
Isolde Hill was Carmen, arid she
brought vitality and force to the role, as
well as a pleasing, capable voice. As
Don Jose, Reginald Willoughby did ex-
cellently after a nervous beginning, and
that was true of the whole production—
it gained in confidence as it went on.
Sydney de Vries’s Escamillo, the torea-
dor, was the dominating personality. He
tightened the cast about him whenever
he was on the stage. Cynthia Garner
made a fresh and appealing Micaela, and
the women’s choruses were rendered with
confidence. The dances were interesting
—though anything but Spanish.
Harold and Gwendolen Abbott struck
a virile, colorful note with the scenery.
Florent Hoogstoel conducted. The per-
formance is to be repeated next Friday
and Saturday.
* * * *
The Navy stole the show at Gladys
Moncrieff’s final concert at Melbourne
Town Hall last week. When the patriotic
and popular fervor had reached a climax
after the singing of “Land of Hope and
Glory,” ten members of the A.I.F.
marched up the aisle bearing armfuls
of floral offerings for Australia’s light
opera prima donna. Just as the Army
was about to make a ceremonial
obeisance, a Navy lad leapt out of the
audience, rushed the platform, grabbed
Gladys’s hand and monopolised the lady’s
attention with the ardor of his admiration.
It was a spontaneous gesture that de-
stroyed the formalities completely.
The A.B.C. made no mistake in bring-
ing Miss Moncrieff on to the public
platform. Enthusiasm steadily mounted
as the singer forged her way through
an enormous programme, and if nine-
tenths of her repertoire was culled from
the lowbrow classics, it was no worse
received for that. The soprano’s singing
is extraordinarily easy and unaffected,
and nobody was ever better at gauging
the feeling of her hearers than Gladys.
* * * *
Rene Morrissy and Kate Liddle oper-
ated in concert on two pianos at the Mel-
“ That's the second block of flats they've ruined."
bourne City Fathers’ last free midday
feast of music. Their snacks from Bach,
Mozart and others were so good that
some of the audience would have gone
away with a fuller feeling if the per-
formers had let themselves go in a more
extended effort.
s|: * * *
“Biography”
Marion Froude, a celebrated artist, is
commissioned to write her autobiography,
and a prospective Senator is alarmed that
the story of his youthful love affair with
the lady will wreck his chance of elec-
tion. S. N. Behrman built a comedy
around that, but he also tried to be seri-
ous in parts, which was of no advantage
to anyone. The editor who commissions
the artist, and who falls violently in love
with her, is an ardent and intolerant
social reformer and several years younger
than the lady, while she is a tolerant
Bohemian. So, in the interests of reality,
Mr. Behrman must send the lady on her
Bohemian way and the editor back to
his reforming.
But why consider the interests of reality
or be serious in a play that is mainly
pure comedy? Hollywood made a film
of it a while ago, adjusted the ages of the
two characters, and wound up with the
traditional happy ending. It mightn’t
have been as “clever” or as “different”
or as “modern” as the original, but it was
better entertainment.
Doris Fitton’s Independent Players are
presenting the play at their theatre in
North Sydney. On the opening night
Miss Fitton brought all her experience
to the part of Marion Froude. Her act-
ing was not spontaneous, but it was
accomplished and, except for some
prompting, a lesson in histrionics. John
Howard, as the editor, was more
emotional than any man should be, pos-
sibly because he had to take seriously
something which didn’t merit a serious
thought. Tom Sutterby seemed to
appreciate the wealth of character that
goes into the role of Marion Froude’s
Bohemian friend, but he failed to master
the part. Clive Coppard as the Senator-
to-be missed a chance to bring the house
down by failing to grasp the potential
comedy of his role.
ARTBURSTS.
Vice-Chancellor Medley, of the Mel-
bourne University, was appropriately in-
vited to open that artistic medley the
second exhibition of the Independents, at
Melbourne Athenaeum. James Quinn is
a traditionalist of the traditionalists, and
so are Norman Macgeorge and Dora
Wilson, yet so far has Melbourne gone
in the direction of the new styles since
the “Herald” popularised the modernists
that to many people their work looks
odd and out of place, and the work of
Arnold Shore, Louise Thomas, Nutter
Buzacott and Grace Gardiner looks as
natural and normal as lipstick on the
face of a young lady. Miss Gardiner
takes a single aspect of nature in “Rock
Shadows” and heavily underlines it;
Buzacott affects the innocence of child-
hood in a series of untitled pictures.
Arnold Shore holds a more reasonable
balance, and his still-life studies have
more realism than most of the others.
* * * *
Possibly war-time economy has pro-
duced the unique style of Raymond
Wallis, whose oils at the Kozminsky
Galleries, Melbourne, look like water-
colors. His use of pigment is so canny
that he scarcely covers his canvas, and
the method is only successful where mist
or fog has obliterated contrasts in his
subject-matter. Where Nature is bolder
his work looks too attenuated to carry
.much conviction.
* * * *
Mary Edwards, whose show at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, opened
last week, is best known as a portrayer
of the brown and yellow people of the
Pacific, and it is her work in this field
which gives a backbone to the present
exhibition. In her portrait studies of
natives of Java and of Bali Miss Edwards
shows insight and sympathy. She has
absorbed the art conventions of these
peoples and shows that she can use them
effectively. Her backgrounds, as ever,
deserve attention on their own account.
They are sometimes striking, sometimes
gorgeous, always apt.
AT THE TALKIES.
“Double Crime in the Maginot Line”
A new French film at Melb. Savoy.
Two officers one a company com-
mander — of the army of troglodytes
which inhabits the Maginot Line are
murdered deep down in the extraordinary
labyrinth that the French built against
the German invader. Suspicion centres
on Captain Bruchot, whose German wife
has given him cause to dislike the com-
pany commander. He proves his inno-
cence after an exciting hunt after a
lieutenant who turns out to be a German
agent provided with the papers of a dead
French officer by the Nazi secret service.
In the orthodox setting of the good
old haunted grange this would pass for
a moderately effective thriller. The laby-
rinthine setting of the vast French under-
ground fortification gives it more than
ordinary interest. And, as usual in these
French films, it is almost unnecessarily
well acted. Victor Franchen, as Captain
Bruchot, the efficient officer emotionally
broken by his errant wife, and Vera
Korene, as the wife with her allegiance
divided among her native country, her
husband and her lover, occasionally lilt
the film to heights where the thriller
business becomes an unmitigated
nuisance.
Also on the programme is “One More
River,” a British film from the Gals-
worthy novel. It is a five-year-old
revival, but a lot of waste water has
poured under Hollywood’s bridges with-
out floating as goodly craft as this Eng-
lish picture. Diana Wynyard, Frank
Lawton, Mrs. Patrick Campbell, Colin
Clive and Alan Mowbray are the Gals-
worthian characters.
* * * *
“Rebecca”
“The Stars Look Down,” an excellent
English film, ran for only eight days at
Sydney State, the main reason for its
brief run being given that it was too
sombre and heavy for war-time con-
sumption. This current offering at Sydney
Regent is just as gloomy and hasn’t half
the quality of the State picture.
Still, it is quite a competent piece
of dramatic fiction. It’s well presented
generally, and acted and directed capably
enough—excellently so at times. The
story is a brooding sort of mystery
narrative, built up and sustained by vari-
ous devices and sometimes by too-
obvious artifice —it is more intense and
forceful than convincing, while charac-
terisation is detailed and insistent rather
than recognisably human.
Joan Fontaine is the mousy, self-
effacing girl who marries the landed
English gentleman and sees her marriage
threatened by the shadow of his former
wife. Her acting of the part, though
somewhat flat and unvaried, should do
more to give her some reputation as
an actress than anything else she has
done. Laurence Olivier, as her brooding
and troubled husband, gets into the part
satisfactorily, but he, too, fails to strike
any highlight which would have relieved
his performance of monotony.
* * * *
“Buck Benny Rides Again,” at Sydney
Mayfair, is a bright stretch of the lightest
of froth. There is no story worth mention,
but a continuous of Jack Benny’s
wisecracking humor, plus spots of nice
song-and-dance stuff, makes tiptop light
entertainment. Andy Devine, Ellen Drew
and “Rochester” help it on its way. Sup-
port, “The Briggs Family,” is yet an-
other “family” film, but worth some at-
tention for the glimpses it gives of family
life in war-time England. Blackout
scenes, knitting parties at the vicarage
and discussions over afternoon tea as
to whether the cake was made with mar-
garine or at the expense of “such a lot
of coupons”, give some faint idea of
conditions.
* * * *
“Virginia City,” going the rounds,
is a story of the early days of
one of those rip-roarin’ Amurrican
western towns, with a dash of Civil
War interest Hollywood seems to
be overworking this. Errol Flynn is
dashing Unionist officer, detailed to pre-
vent five million dahlars in gold from
reaching the rebels ; Miriam Hopkins is
bewchus rebel supporter who loves her
cause more than her man. There is also
a bandit leader (Humphrey Bogart) with
an eye on the gold. Errol duly intercepts
the gold, but philanthropically decides to
hide it for post-war aid to the rebels.
Miriam talks the President into pardoning
Errol for pinching five million dahlars
and it all ends very happily. Plenty of
wild adventure and Errol Flynn.


ECZEMA
Sensitive people feel eczema
acutely. The continued irritation,
the unsightly eruptions and the
uncertainty where the trouble will
next spread makes them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema is not due to dirt, but to the fact
that certain skins react badly to various
forms of irritation (internal or external)
and poor general health increases the
liability.
Since there is a great tendency for eczema
to spread and to become chronic, early
local treatment is imperative, and the best
salve for this purpose is DOAN’S Oint-
ment. It penetrates to the true skin where
the inflammation lies, is antiseptic and
healing and quickly allays the irritation.
DOAN’S Ointment is also good for other
itching skin complaints and for the relief
of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but, be sure
you get DOAN’S.
DoansOintment
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The sailor, whether of the Navy, the
mercantile marine or the fishing fleets,
has won the gratitude of every Briton.
During this war his exploits have been
heroic, his self-sacrifice something before
which we stand abashed. Think of the
defeat of the Graf Spee, the battle of
Narvik, the evacuation of 336,000 British
and French soldiers from Dunkirk.
But the sea takes toll of gallantry ; the
sailor faces dangers and hardships for
us. His wife, his children and his own
welfare are our trust. This Letter’s
friends knight Thomas Gordon and
A. M. Pooley are busy on the work of the
King George V fund for sailors. As the
chairman of Birt and Co. said when the
appeal was launched in the Town Hall:
“Australia is a country that lives by the
sea. There is not one commercial house
in the Commonwealth that does not owe
its well-being to the sailor.” Never before
has the King George V fund asked the
Dominions for help. Now its president,
the Duke of Kent, has sent a request to
Lord Wakehurst, and Thomas Gordon has
rounded up overseas shipping interests
as well as inter-State. In a little over a
month the fund is round the £6OOO cor-
ner. The men of the Australian' Navy
and shipping services share in the money
collected here. So when you send that
small donation to 9th floor, No. 4 Bridge-
street, you are helping a boy on an Aus-
tralian trawler as well as one sailing the
North Sea.
It was not a very joyous afternoon, that
opening day of the King’s Birthday race-
meeting at Randwick. War news was in
everybody’s heart and mind. In no-
body’s was it more vivid than in Mrs.
Joe Coen’s. One son, Kevin, who has
been with the troops in Narvik, is now
appointed M.O. to the Royal Scots
Fusiliers in France. Another son, Verney,
has been fighting in France right through.
Khaki and Air Force blue were the
popular wear for men. The Blake Pellys,
from Bowral, were racegoers. He was in
his flying-officer’s uniform. The day
was almost springlike in its warmth, so
lush furs were not greatly worn. The
little fur-trimmed hat, though, gave an
Arctic-explorer look to many a woman’s
head. Mayoress Crick’s, with its silver-
fox border, was the right finish to her
grey costume. One of the smart was
Joyce Carpenter. Black with dashing
yellow doeskin gloves was her attire. A
parma-violet skirt of thin woollen, with
a jacket striped in pale mauve and violet,
made Mrs. H. O’Connell’s suit.
Lots of country people in town for
the Sheep Show put a bale or two of
the sheep’s clothing on the horses’ backs.
From Wagga came Valmai Kendall, hsr
all-black outfit culminating in a small
silver-fox wreathed toque. She was with
Judy Sayers. Mrs. M. F. Bruxner and
Mrs. Philip Lloyd Jones made a dent on
the memory; so did pretty Sue Other
Gee, in cosmos-pink Angora.
There was feverish activity in the girls’
dressing-room at the Conservatorium last
Saturday. “Carmen” was the work being
presented, and producer Hilda Mulligan
deserves three cheers and one cheer more
for her work. Hilda, fair and outwardly
calm in her black velvets, gave a hand
between acts to girls adjusting mantillas
or silver scarves around their heads.
Isolde Hill, who was the dashing, man-
eating Carmen, slipped with eel-like speed
into the bronze brown skirt, the yellow
blouse and Romany-striped hair scarf
for the scene in which she deals herself
the card of death. Ruth Pearce-Jones
and Joyce Livingstone, the Frasquita
and Mercedes of the piece, flicked a
bead or two of agitation from their
brows as they dashed off the one garment
and raced into another. For a gipsy
train they travelled with something of
a wardrobe. Cynthia Garner remained
as crystal-cool as her notes. As Micaela,
in her maidenly blues, she was as set as
an angel in a stained-glass window. She
alone has no change of costume to worry
her.
Isolde Hill’s Carmen was a winner
from start to finish. What psychologists
those old composers were! The recurring
line “over the hills and through the
glade” of Carmen’s song when she is
tempting Jose to join the gipsies created
just the vision of freedom that the soul
of man ever craves. Reginald Wil-
loughby in voice and acting was a con-
vincing Jose. Sydney de Vries, flying
the crimson cape of his calling, was a
toreador for bulls to fear and girls to
love. Cynthia Garner’s Micaela was like
a posy of rosemary and love-in-the-mist
set amid exotic tiger-lilies.
Memories of Paris like silken banners
enriching the heart unfurled in last week's
bitter wind of disaster—drives out to Long-
champs, through the Bois, or out to
Passy in the late spring afternoons when
the top of the car was pushed back and
on your summer frock was patterned a
tracery of leaf and sunshine, while every
now and then the petals from the chest-
nuts drifted down ; the first unforgettable
sight of Notre Dame ; that unexpected
turning into the Quai aux Fleurs to which
Heloise and Abelard are said to have
brought romance ; the noble outline of
Sacre Cceur looking down its blessing
on the city ; the Luxembourg Gardens,
with their poplars still with autumnal
calm ; the fountains, the statue of Joan
of Arc! Thousands of us in Australia
have known Paris in the spring. May
we all meet there in the spring of its
glorious resurgence.
Sparkling and pretty Bunty Scott Fell
became engaged a week or so ago to
Owen Platt Hepworth. Owen goes off
soon to fight with the A.1.F., so Bunty,
who does a lot of work on welfare com-
mittees, is keeping all her time free just
now to fit iff with Owen’s hours of
leave. Later on she will take up her
soldier-canteen and comforts-fund work
with redoubled energy. Norton Tre-
vaire photograph.
Ignaz Friedman’s concert was the big
draw at the Town Hall last Saturday.
Ignaz is Polish, so of course the Consul-
General for Poland and Mrs. De Nos-
kowski were present. Conductor Thomas
Beecham was a listener. Georg Schnee-
voight and his wife Sigrid Sundgren
were others who applauded. Opera-
singer Lisa Perli was another celebrity.
Mrs. T. W. Bearup, wife of the deputy
general manager of the A.8.C., came
in floral lame. Another bright torch on
Saturday night was the dance of the
younger workers of the Lord Mayor’s
fund.
President of the National Gallery
trustees B. J. Waterhouse opened Mary
Edwards’s show at the Macquarie Gal-
leries last week. Mary took a trip to
Java some time ago and garnered
material for the exhibition and decided
to go ahead with it, in spite of war con-
ditions. When this Letter looked in at
the Macquarie there were enough red
stickers to put the painter on the credit
side of the expenses account.
France’s Consul-General Tremoulet
was at the opening. Clever artist Maude
Sherwood and Mrs. Edwards were among
the noted. The John Youngs were warm
admirers ; T. C. Rethers another. One
of the smartest was Hilda Hudson, of
Brisbane. Her tweeds might have come
from the best tailor in England.
The wedding of Lieutenant Claude
Healy and Jean Anderson was a com-
plete surprise to their friends. Not that
their interest in each other had gone
unobserved, for, as the Spaniards say,
“Love and a cough cannot be hidden,”
but the two kept the secret of their
wedding date as closely as the oyster
guards the budding pearl. No one but
members of their families was told till
after St. Mary’s Cathedral had blessed
the partnership. Then Jean’s sister, Mrs.
Jim Ashton, got busy on the telephone,
and invited the wedding guests to cock-
tails at Overthorpe, Double Bay, the
home of the bride’s parents, the W. A.
Andersons. Later still was a reception
at Prince’s. The bride, who is pretty and
slim, wore a blue frock, a hip-length
silver fox cape embellished with orchids,
and a blue pillbox hat.
The Independent Theatre has weathered
the gale for ten years. In that time it
has had four changes of address. Its
last one in North Sydney promises to
be permanent. Here in their own theatre
the Independents will celebrate their
tenth birthday on Sunday, June 23. The
programme will be made up of scenes
from past hits. Dick Parry, his
stage successes in England still fresh
upon him, will appear in “The Constant
Nymph.” That poem of old China,
“Lady Precious Stream,” will provide
another scenes Tonight at 8.30 The
Housemaster,” “1066 and All That will
revive old memories, Ivan Menzies and
Maxwell Oldaker, of the Gilbert and
Sullivan company now at the Royal, will
lift their voices in song.
When Schneevoigt conducts, the music
takes on an added charm. An orchestral
work led by him becomes as delicately
shaded as a masterly pencil sketch. Last
Thursday night’s symphony concert was
timed for a quarter past eight. Long
before that taxis and cars not yet sub-
ject to petrol rationing dropped coveys
of music-lovers. Over from the tram
and bus stops, and up from the under-
ground, flocked still greater companies.
Vice-regals were in the audience, but
without panoply of place and power.
Conductor Thomas Beecham was there,
too, his beard at a Captain Kettle angle.
The Ignaz Friedman couple were in
the audience ; so was A.B.C.’s manager
Moses in his khaki. A smooth, neat
little dark head was worn by the Alex-
ander Gordon lady. It rose above a
sleek-as-seal black velvet dress. Mrs.
Hugh Poate brought daughter Marcelle.
Her taffetas were bright with flowers.
Two notable coats were a ground-length,
currant-red cloth with hip ruffles and
a sweeping one of Chinese embroideries
in blue and silver.
The Francis Anderson couple, Mrs.
Crawford Robertson, Nancy Jobson, of
Hopewood House, in Florentine blues
(she was being congratulated on the
seventh birthday of her school), Mar-
jorie Hambridge, Phyllis McDonald,
Mrs. Harald Bowden, Ritty Van
Staveren, new to Sydney, Noreen
Dangar and Mrs. Mary Irvine- were
among those in the crowded vesti-
bule. Above shone the chandelier, glit-
tering and sophisticated as a woman with
a past who still has. a future ahead. No
more ardent applauders of Sigrid Sund-
gren’s playing of the piano in the “River”
concerto were in the house than Finland’s
Consul-General and his wife.
Here is the latest photograph of Mrs.
Mair, wife of the Premier of N. S.
Wales. At the moment, with the war-
time activities of her position, there is
probably no busier woman in Aus-
tralia. Norton Trevaire photograph.
Only possible to get peep-hold at the
meeting for the Red Cross concert to-
night. The ballroom of the Australia
overflowed with good workers and good-
will. Lady Gowrie was a speaker, for
the concert will benefit the Lady Gowrie
Red Cross Fund. This has now reached
the respectable figure of £160,000. The
concert, what with one thing and an-
other, should bring another £lOOO. Lady
Wakehurst presided, and there was a
proud note in her voice when she told
that this State had contributed half of
the £160,000.
The star of the concert is Yehudi
Menuhin, who is donating his fee of
£5OO. He will play with the orchestra,
and this will be directed by Schneevoigt.
It will be a big night, the Town
Hall the scene of action. During the
meeting a great ripple of applause
greeted the cheque for £506 handed over
by Mrs. Warwick Fairfax. It was the
swag from the Ice Carnival. There was
also a cheque for £3OO from jumble sales.
The Avalon-Newport branch swelled the
total with £5O.
Lots of people found themselves quite
unimpressed by conductor Thomas Bee-
cham’s broadcast interview last week. His
friends claim for him the wisdom of
Solomon, the wit of Sheridan (or there-
abouts), but the girl in the flat opposite
says that since the broadcast she’s con-
tent to concentrate on the fact that he s
a great musician.
On her way home after many years
in England is Fay Hardy, who was Fay
Ainsworth. Fay met handsome Harry
Hardy (who was Seymour Hicks s man-
ager) when that actor was touring Aus-
tralia. Since her marriage she has made
her home in England. But Harry may
be said to be one of the first war-time
casualties. Some months ago he died
of pneumonia contracted in France,
where he was managing a concert party
for the B.E.F. Now Fay returns, and
with her comes sister Bette, who has
been studying the art of the drama in
England and on the Continent.
The debs, at the Dragon Festival were
among the lucky. They had their cake
and ate it, too. Before the ball, which
was the effort of the Young Chinese Re-
lief movement in Sydney, Mrs. Pao, wife
of China’s Consul-General, had given the
young things a gay party in her own
home. There were 15 of them altogether,
and when Mrs. Pao received them in a
Trocadero blithe with wistaria blossom
and brilliant with lanterns she wore a
frock of black net rich with Chinese
embroideries. The decorations had been
fashioned by young members of the
committee. The Phcenix, so beloved of
China, arose, a floral triumph, on the
official table. Here also were a kooka-
burra and a dove of peace. Guests at
the Consul-General’s table consisted of
Consular importants mixed with bankers
and their wives, such as the Alfred
Davidsons and Harry Sheehans. Harry
Gullett’s lady and Mrs. Charles Lloyd
Jones were others.
Lisa Perli is an English singer, despite
the Italian-sounding name. This was
taken five years ago when she was about
to appear as Mimi in “Boheme.” She
felt there was something in a name, and,
although as Dora Labbette she would
have sung just as well, still she felt there
was more “atmosphere” about the
foreign-sounding Lisa Perli. She was a
great success, and indeed she deserved to
be, for she had studied hard first with
Lisa Lehmann and then in Paris and in
Italy. She has sung, since the Nazi regime,
at the Berlin State Opera House. Just
before coming to Australia Lisa had been
doing her bit by driving a lorry on the
business of the Medical Transport Ser-
vice.
Little Louise Sheffer has returned to
Sydney after her treatment in U.S.A. as
bonny and lively as any 11-year-old
should be. Some time before being
taken to Boston, U.S.A., by her parents
the Mel Sheffers, of Killara, Louise
suffered from a baffling sickness which
caused recurring periods of unconscious-
ness. The Lahey clinic in Boston re-
stored her to health after a month’s
treatment. The family left Australia in
March and returned in much brighter
mood last week.
On to the Neutral Bay ferry the other
night stepped two women, well-dressed,
and cheerful of face. Both grasped a
newspaper. They sat down, arranged
themselves, and one started to unfold her
paper. “Oh,” she said, “I can’t be
bothered reading the news; can
“No,” her friend replied, “I can’t, either.
I haven’t time.” The woman opposite
felt herself burn with indignation. In
these days of devastating war, women
were to be found who could not be
bothered reading the war news. The
listener was thinking out a comment
when each speaker put her hand in her
bag and drew forth soldier socks, and
purl-plain-plain-purl went their knitting
needles for the whole journey.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 43 of 1940.
BETWEEN PRISCILLA MAY HOYLE Peti-
tioner
And WILLIAM JOSEPH HOYLE Re-
spondent.
TO WILLIAM JOSEPH HOYLE late of
Canowindra.
TAKE NOTICE that the said PRISCILLA
MAY HOYLE has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion for three years without just cause or ex-
cuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Tenth day of September One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Tenth day of June One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty.
<x.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. R. COEN, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1295 of 1938.
BETWEEN FRANCES ANN DOODY (for-
merly Bassham) Petitioner
And JOHN LAWRENCE DOODY Re-
spondent.
TO JOHN LAWRENCE DOODY late of
Broken Hill in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said FRANCES
ANN DOODY has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for the dissolu-
tion of her marriage on the grounds that you have
without just cause or excuse wilfully deserted
her and without any such cause or excuse left
her continuously so deserted during three years
and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court
on or before the Twelfth day of September
One thousand nine hundred and forty and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition in this suit may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 13th day of June One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
W. C. BEERWORTH, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Broken Hill; by his Agent, JOHN H.
PEOPLES, Solicitor, 77-79 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME .COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1907 of 1939.
BETWEEN MARGARET WRIGHT Petitioner
And WILLIAM EDWARD EUGENE
WRIGHT (also known as William E.
Bowden) Respondent.
TO WILLIAM EDWARD EUGENE WRIGHT
(also known as William E. Bowden), late
of Darby Street Newcastle the above-
named respondent.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARGARET
WRIGHT has commenced a suit against you in
this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for
three years without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearence to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Thir-
teenth day of September One thousand. nine
hundred and forty and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit will be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Fourteenth day of June 1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
W. O. CURRIE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 967 of 1940.
BETWEEN ANN ELSTOB Petitioner
And CHARLES HENRY ELSTOB Re-
spondent.
TO CHARLES HENRY ELSTOB late of
Carson Street Toowoomba Queensland.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANN ELSTOB
has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of Marriage on the grounds that you have
without just cause or excuse wilfully deserted
her and without any such cause or excuse
left her continuously so deserted during three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Sixth day of
September next and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED the Twelfth day of June a.d. 1940
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
E. R. TRACEY & CO., Petitioner’s Solicitors,
81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The sporting fraternity thronged the
Crazy Cabaret Ball, the crowd number-
ing 1400, though the fixture was arranged
in less than a fortnight. Star turns were
Jennie Howard and other lively enter-
tainers from the Tivoli, who sang, danced
and tossed repartee from 11 p.m. till
1 a.m. The Tiv. Ballet also came along
after its stage job of the evening to do
a cheekv can-can. The Dutch auction
of Will-to-Win, the little black Shetland,
barbered to look like a baby racehorse,
raised about £4OO. Right in the running
though defeated at the deathknock was
Hamilton Sleigh, who wanted the pony
for his children to ride on the family
property at Nagambie. Others who
claimed auctioneer Scott Lang’s attention
were deputies of A. E. Kimpton and
Charlie Kellow.
Other diversions to keep the flag flying
on Air Force House, Blarney House and
the Comforts Fund supplies were a darts
board run by Pat Mein and Mrs. Geoff
Docker (with no dearth of triers at a
shilling a shoot), and a fishpond with 12
rods and hooks wriggling at the end of
insecure pieces of string. At the starting
whistle lines were cast, and it was the
steadiest hand which hooked the prize,
sometimes large and heavy and as hard
to land as a cunning fish, or good and
small but tricky even for canny fisher-
men like Dan and Charlie Taylor, Jim
Niall and jockey O. Phillips. Mrs. J. S.
Dunbar and Maisie Curtis helped to keep
the pond restocked with prizes of nutri-
tive value.
In these days when everybody’s
weighed in with a spot of war work it
may be invidious to single out instances,
but a couple came to notice which may
be of use to the general effort. Thomas
Harrison, the maker of ladies’ hats, who
in all seriousness tries them on his own
head and gets away with it, even with
his mouth full of pins, is keeping his
assistants well supplied with wool so that
they can knit for soldiers in between
knotting a ribbon on a toque for today
and creating a sonnet in straw for the
coming spring.
Another good deed is being done by
Sleeping Bag Supplies, whose address is
Monica, 258 Flinders-lane. Mrs. J.
Sheffield and her attractive daughter
Mrs. R. Kelly started the scheme with
Saturday-morning work bees. In a week
they had interested so many people that
various firms are donating blankets and
buttons and factories are speeding up
the supplies. The first troops in camp
who received sleeping-bags had a spot
of ragging about being sissies, which
soon gave way to envy, for the nights
are cold at Pucka and other camps; The
bags are not being sent in bulk or at
random, but are delivered to men who
apply personally or through a friend.
Among those who had more than their
fair share of gusty wind on Saturday
afternoon when the Caulfield June meet-
ing was held at Flemington were Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell and Mrs. Norman Spry,
at a table outside the V.R.C. office, and
Mrs. Roy King and Julienne Cox, who
established an anchorage around one of
the pillars of the grandstand to keep
themselves and their possessions on terra
firma. All four were concerned in the
disposal of shilling tickets for the race-
horse Winston. They hope to average
£lOO per week up till the end of
November, when the prize will be drawn
and the big sum collected handed to the
Red Cross.
All in grey and attractive therein was
Erica Burston, with Breton hat and
pleated skirt to her ensemble. With Mrs.
Alec Lane was daughter Sylvia, wearing
black suit, saucy cap and an orchid of
magnificence. Mrs. Viv Cumberland was
all for tailored suit and sporty hat. Kath-
leen Anderson’s chocolate-brown suit had
super-protection from a tweed coat.
Paddy Wilkinson, exchanging tips with
Air Force lads, wore a little woolly pill-
box cap of pillarbox-red with a feather,
also of wool, which nearly touched the
sky. Mrs. Lionel Grimwade’s mist-blue
suit had accompaniment of furs upon her
shoulders; Mrs. Chester Manifold in a
grey suit showed a penchant for fur also,
in tail-end snippets upon her brown hat.
“Squatter” Edgar and Dr. Ken Skewes
followed their fancies with moderate luck.
London and the Midlands have their
Gracie, but Australia has “Our Glad”
—she surely got a hand at her two
Melbourne concerts. Our Glad goes
over well with young and old, and
patriotism mounted to fever degree with
“British Grenadiers," “Land of Hope
and Glory,” and a final “God Save the
King.” At each concert soldiers in
khaki, most of them old Diggers by the
look of their badges, trod the aisle in
single file to place flowers at the feet
of the singer. Last of the troop at the
second concert was a sailorboy whose
admiration of Miss Moncrieff reached
abnormal heights. His hands were sore
with clapping and his feet with stamp-
ing ; while the army stood at attention
the nautical lad’s expression was one
of beaming delight.
For her second concert Miss Moncrieff
wore midnight-blue and a glitter of
sequins, two glamorous orchids but no
jewellery except a diamond brooch. Her
background was a supercharge of “life
is real, life is earnest,” the Victorian
Liedertafel, bespectacled gentlemen who
sang with intense concentration and
much rustling of sheet-music.
A marriage of town and country in-
terest took place last week at the Toorak
kirk when Robert Hood gave away his
sister Peg to Neil Calvert, only son of
the Neil Calvert couple of Hopkins Hill,
Chatsworth. The bride is the youngest
daughter of the late R. A. D. Hood and
of Mrs. Hood, of Merrang, Hexham. For
her marriage she chose a frock and full-
length coat of pastel-blue Angora and a
little toque of velvet ribbon and fur. She
should be wearing orchids for some time
to come, for a dozen or more bloomed
in her bouquet. Broothorn photograph.
Land girls are to arise under the
rurally-trained eye of the C.W.A. The
scheme sounds a good one, for the
C.W.A. is used to organising in a big way
and it has contacts in all States. The
aim of the land army is to provide girls
to take men’s places on farms. Lily-
white hands and lacquered fingernails
simply will not be in the picture, though
a hair-do may possibly be a weekly in-
dulgence in the nearest village. It is pro-
posed to establish schools in several dis-
tricts ; the first one will soon be opened
at Berwick. City girls who are interested
will be able to register in town, but once
they get out on the farm the timid maids
who are scared of cows must hide their
fluttering hearts beneath their green shirts
or return defeated to their knitting, for
the land army must be all one happy
family with docile Strawberries and tem-
peramental little Jerseys. Though there
is no talk of the girls doing shearing,
they must learn to milk and pick up all
they can about sheep, pastures and
machinery. When considered efficient
enough they will be available for jobs at
the discretion of the local C.W.A.
branches, which will act as liaison offices
between employers and employees.
Mrs. Norman Welsh, of the Yarra
branch, set the ball rolling last week with
an offer to pay the fares of three or four
girls to the family property on the Upper
Murray and to give the girls their keep
while they are learning the preliminaries
of land work. Opinions on the scheme
voiced at the C.W.A. Conference were
favorable, though the wives of Mallee
and Wimmera farmers visioned the army
with no rose-colored glasses. One mem-
ber mentioned with a twinkle in her eye
that with a nice land girl to help him
Dad would cheerfully leave Mother at
home to do all the dullest chores. An-
other member suggested that the farmer’s
wife is the farm’s first mate, but a land
girl would be useful for doing the wash-
ing, darning the socks and minding the
baby—so it looks as if the lasses will
need aprons as well as jodhpurs in their
work-a-day kit.
Today, the 19th, Joy Garnham and Dr.
Bruce Grieve are to keep an appointment
at the Toorak kirk and receive felicita-
tions afterwards from intimate friends at
the home of the bride’s parents, Mr. and
Mrs. George F. Garnham. The bride’s
choice of apparel was misty-blue angora
with hat and accessories of burgundy.
Her flowers are to be held at the all-
important moment of slipping on the
wedding-ring by Joyce Nevile, in frock
of Patou-pink woollen sheer with re-
liefs of pigeon-grey.
Dr. Grieve is the son of the H. J.
Grieves, of Hastings, M.L., and studied
medicine at Auckland College, pluck-
ing more than one honor by the
wayside. He met Joy, who trained
as a nurse at the Alfred, while he was
at the Women’s Hospital in Melbourne,
doing post-graduate work. With his
young bride he will cross the Tasman
next month, for he means to enlist with
the N.Z.A.M.C. His best man, Dr. Ron
Rome, is a keeper of the wedding-ring
for the ninth time. With Clive Speed-
ing he must hold a share in the record
for Melbourne’s most popular ’groom’s
henchman.
Boy-friend Cupid has been sharp-
shooting during the last few days. In
his bag in pairs are Pen Stead and
medico-on-service overseas John Bowie
Somerset; Betty Pleasance and Flight-
Lieut. Harry Allen Durrant, A.F.C.,
R.A.A.F., who is the only son of Mrs.
H. W. Durrant, of Brisbane. Betty is the
only daughter of the Norman Pleasance
couple, of Hopetoun-road; Yvonne
Atkinson, of the Titian hair and the artis-
tic inclinations, and Tony Daniell, eldest
son of the J. F. Helton Daniells. Yvonne
used to paint in a studio in Avoca-street,
but now she produces canvases of
modernist persuasion in a made-over
stable at the back of the family home in
Grange-road. She’s the elder daughter
of the E. J. Rupert Atkinsons.
Among recent engagements is that of
Sheila Morrell Armytage and John Robert
Nassau Molesworth. Sheila, whose
photograph is by Jack Cato, is the elder
daughter of the Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Armytage, of The Wilderness, Coleraine,
and her fiance is the second son of the
John Molesworth couple, of Ballark,
Morrison,
Melbourne artists are keeping their
flag flying and selling a picture now and
again. Every week shows are opened and
those people who find their footsteps
wandering gallery wards enjoy a respite
from turmoil as their spirits are uplifted
into-another world —even when they get
into the wrong gallery by mistake as a
dyed-in-the-wool conventionalist did when
searching for Violet Mclnnes’s flower-
pieces, He was caught between four
walls of Sidney Nolan’s abstractions and
embellishments of colored paper stuck
on with paste.
Camellias, roses, zinnias, phlox, flowers
in profusion, in season and out, are
blooming upon the walls of the Sedon
Galleries from the brush of Mrs. Violet
Mclnnes. The Angliss lady comman-
deered half-an-hour from committees and
canteens to open the show. Jean Mclnnes
honored her mother’s big afternoon for a
brief interval in a black coat and a little
black and red cap adjusted to her locks,
while the inquiring young minds of her
art-class pupils at the “Emily Mac” were
intent upon Work in hand. Among
others at the show were Senator and Mrs.
Jack Leckie, Harold Herbert, in one of
his Puckish moods, Mrs. C. N. Finn,
Mrs. Bob Croll, Mrs. Pat Hanna and a
threesome in halo hats —Mrs. W. Davies,
Mrs. C. Nightingall, and Mrs. Frank
Meadows. Mrs. Meadows’s choice of
horizontal blue ensemble was a welcome
color spot, for everybody seemed to wear
black and her Arctic foxes also were a
variation on the theme of the silver
brethren.
Other art shows of the week were
Raymond Wallis’s decorative pieces at
Kozminsky’s and the Independent
Group’s co-opted effort at the Athenaeum.
Most of the 13 Independents, a cheery
group who snap their fingers at super-
stition, were present in person. One of
them was Dora Wilson, who parried a
compliment on her “beautiful work”
from Vic. Artists’ president James Quinn
with “Silly little things aren’t they ; but
amusing.” That was in front of her
“Horse of a Different Color” —the gees
were china models capering across a
fairy-tale paddock. Melbourne artists
are running a war funds arts and odd-
ments shop, open every day at Mrs.
George Farmer’s studio at 9 Collins-
street.


O.S.K. LINE
OSAKA SYOSEN KAISYA
BUSINESS MEN AND TOURISTS
should travel by
NEW, FAST MOTOR VESSELS
to
JAPAN, SOUTH AMERICA and AFRICA
Also Special Round the World Trip
European Cuisine and Accommodation
For Particulars, Fares, etc., apply
BIRT AND COMPANY (PTY.) LIMITED
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
8W1421.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth ... 500 watts
6AM Northam . . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE
When certain giands.fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and. will
restore your man*'
hood. Price 10/6.
821
GLAND
i
WRITE
TO-DAY
T. JONES £ CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
THE SERVICE MAN
At France's Throat.
“Ek Dum”: The barbarous slaughter
in France which passes for a battle
reached its full strategical development
at the beginning of last week and entered
its main tactical stages. The strategy
had been to apply the von Schlieffen
plan to bend down the long French line
from Montmedy to the sea till it reached
breaking point at the joint with the
Maginot Line; then to break through
the Stenay Gap at the junction, pour
down the banks of the Meuse and
isolate the Maginot, with its garrison,
and the Moselle, Haut Rhine and Bel-
fort, between the Meuse and the Rhine.
The tactics were those of Clausewitz,
as interpreted by Foch —to use the
whole might of the German nation in
arms projected with the use of every
reserve of energy, hatred and force to
seize France by the throat and murder her.
By June 10 the Channel end of the
Anglo-French forces had been bent down
and pinned to the Seine
near Rouen. The Ger-
mans, avoiding the
crossing of the difficult
Bresle River near the
coast, had begun to
apply the weight of
their blows further in-
ward towards Paris, the
throat to be seized.
One blow was being de-
livered in the region of
Soissons and the Aisne
so as to capture Reims ;
others on a line north
of Compiegne.
The green and
pleasant countryside,
usually full of happy
peasants in the fields
at this time of year, was blasted
into a slough of blood and ashes. Oppos-
ing aircraft in thousands added to the
incessant din. More German armies
chopped at the Montmedy junction of
the Maginot and the other French lines.
Heavy artillery had come into play
behind the tanks and the plodding Ger-
man infantry. As they neared Paris, having
to fight every inch of the way against a
desperate French resistance, new horrors
appeared. An artificial fog blocking out
everything more than a few yards away
from sight rose into the sky in front
of the German lines, depositing a black,
sooty sediment over everything and hiding
enemy movements from the French.
That evening Italy declared war. The
Mediterranean was sealed at both ends
by the Allies. Desultory bombing began
over the 3000 miles of the Mediterranean
and the Red Sea. The R.A.F. raided
northern Italian industrial towns. Italian
troops manned the Alpine and Mediter-
ranean borders of France. And firing
was heard across the Rhine from the
Belfort Gap near the Swiss border, as the
heavy German artillery began a bombard-
ment which presently extended the whole
of the way northward to Montmedy.
On lune 11 the French were fiercely
holding off the German onslaughts on
Reims. There were 100 German
divisions pressing on the northern lines.
The enemy forces nearer the Channel had
gouged their way in past Beauvais and
Compiegne to Senlis, almost at the point
where Von Kluck met his fate in the
last war. They had then reached the
inner ring of road junctions nearest
Paris. In relation to Australian cities
it was as if the foe were within seven
or eight miles of Parramatta on their
way to Sydney, or at Ipswich on their
way to Brisbane.
Bombs fell incessantly in the suburbs
of the capital. Shells ripped through
the blazing forests near Pontois and in
the woods of St. Germain which lie in
a loop of the River Seine. A great
stream of refugees, many marching
four abreast, poured south and west by
the roads which run out of the city
every mile or so, through Sevres and
Versailles, past Sceaux and Choisy.
Doors were left swinging on their hinges.
The Bois was deserted. The soot of the
German fog settled on the awnings.
Acrid smoke rose from bomb craters
in the Place de la Concorde, which is
bounded on one side by the Champs
Elysdes and on the other by the Tuileries,
and drifted up the narrow street to the
columned face of the Madeleine. A
silence hung over • Paris, whose central
core covers a space of about eight to
nine miles long and five miles broad.
Three-fourths of the population had
been evacuated. The Government had
moved to ancient and lovely Tours, which
lies amid its chateaux and gardens, 145
miles south-west of Paris in Indre-et-Loire
—a favorite resting spot for the retired
English who choose to live abroad.
"Never mind the X-ray—just stand against
the window."
Paris was a city of the dead, its white
fafades covered in soot, the windows
of the Rue de la Paix dark and empty.
The fields to the south were full of
women and children resting on their
weary exodus. The Allies had mean-
while been heartened by the promise of
Mr. Roosevelt that all the material re-
sources of the United States would be
placed at their disposal.
Next day the French were putting
up a last stand in defence of their great
city. In the region of the Seine the
enemy was seeking to cross near Pontois
into the forest of St. Germain, and,
further towards the Channel, near
Rouen as a preliminary to a drive to-
wards the port of Le Havre, where British
troops, tanks and guns were still landing.
For a moment it seemed as if the
German advance had been checked.
It was actually stopped and moved back
a few miles near Pontois, but the move-
ment may have been voluntary to
lengthen the grip of the pincer which
had been forced round the corpse of
the City of Light, its arms pressing in
from the north-east and from the west.
In the afternoon, anyway, the 8.8. C.
announced that the invaders were within
25 miles of the heart of Paris and still
coming on. The French spokesman said
that Reims was still held and the
French fighting off violent attacks at
Senlis. And on that day Pont l’Eveque,
with Sammy Wragg up, won the Eng-
lish Derby in new surroundings at New-
market. An imperturbable people, the
English!
On Thursday the last hope of saving
Paris was gone. The German tank
columns, dripping blood, were across the
Marne and the Seine. Reims was in
German hands. Paris had been declared
an open town to save its historic streets
and bridges from the destruction which
defence would have entailed. And M.
Revnaud broadcast a message to the civil-
ised nations of the world:
France’s spirit cannot be broken by in-
vasion ; the fatherland is wounded, but the
day of resurrection will come. We will
fight for Paris, we will fight behind Paris,
we will fight in the provinces. If we are
driven out we will go to North Africa,
and if necessary to our possessions in
Asia. At the moment when I speak
another dictator has struck France in the
back, a new frontier is menaced, a naval
battle is about to begin.
He ended with an appeal to Mr. Roose-
velt :
It is my duty to ask you for a new and
even wider help. I beg you publicly to
accord the Allies moral and material aid
by all means, except the dispatch of an
expeditionary force.
The German Army High Command
announced that the fate of the capital
would be decided in a matter of hours ;
that they had taken 100,000 Allied
prisoners (among them a British general
of division and part of the division) and
2000 tanks, and had inflicted huge
losses. Air fighting stretched from Nor-
way to the Indian Ocean. The British
bombed the Italian naval base of
Tobruk ; the Italians bombed Bizerta.
Notices now began to appear in the
Parisian streets stating that Paris was
an undefended town and that steps had
been taken to assure food supplies and
the safety of the inhabitants, who were
characterised as “brave and calm.” All
provision shops, chemists’ shops and
stores selling necessaries were requi-
sitioned.
Turkey’s council of Ministers met. Con-
scripts were being hurriedly mobilised ;
submarines had left their base in the
Sea of Marmora, but no decision was
announced at Ankara. Spanish policy was
officially declared to have become “non-
belligerent” instead of neutral.
Black Friday dawned in France. As
in 1870 German helmets were seen in the
streets of Paris. A communique asserted
that the French front had completely col-
lapsed from the Channel to the Luxem-
bourg border. The great French limb
of defence had been lopped from its main
bole at Montmedy, which had been
taken; and the German armies had
reached the southern end of the Argonne
fonest. A new offensive was begun
against the Maginot Line in the Saar
region. German church bells were
ringing for the victory; but London
scouted the idea that the French line had
been shattered.
Small Spanish forces that day occu-
pied Tangier, across the Gibraltar
Straits from Tarifa Point, the centre of
some of Britain’s oldest associations with
Africa. The move was made in the
name of the Sultan of Morocco to
guard the international zone ; the French
agreed. British troops in Egypt took two
forts on the Libyan side of the frontier
and with them 200 soldiers. Italian sub-
marines got an old British light cruiser,
the Calypso, and 39 men are missing ,
but two hits were scored on the attackers
before she went down.
The position became worse after the
capture of Paris. A vital movement began
after the French north line was severed
at its base from the Maginot along the
Meuse by a devastating German drive
which penetrated 100 miles in two days.
The German forces poured down both
sides of the Meuse, took Verdun in their
stride, broke westward on to the Marne,
formed a broad front and swept south
to Gray into a position which covers
the Belfort Gap and the Basle enclave.
The Germans then claimed also to
have smashed through the Maginot Line
on a wide front, south of Saarbrucken,
about 75 miles south-east of Montmedy.
This was followed by a statement that
they had crashed through the whole
length of the Maginot Line. Thus their
advancing armies were in continuous
linkage with the Siegfried Line and had
confined any French forces between the
Marne and the Rhine between two scour-
ing and advancing armies.
The Maginot Line may have been
partially abandoned after the swift Ger-
man break through at Montmedy and
the German drive south of Paris, which
endangered its communications. In any
case, the enemy on the west had pushed
down the Seine to Fontainebleau, 35
miles from Paris.
The position then was that all of
France between the Rhine and the Marne
had become a German-enclosed island
heavily attacked from both sides. The
Verdun line of fortresses had fallen.
The French security troops along the
Swiss border were under threat on the
northern flank. The movement south of
Paris threatened, if it advanced much
further, to form another island between
the Seine and the Marne, a net which
would gradually be constricted to squeeze
the life out of the defending armies.
Though the bulk of France was still in
French hands, country from Basle
at the junction of France, Germany and
Switzerland to Le Havre at the Seine
mouth was in German occupation. And
all the northern ports of importance,
save Brest, Granville and Cherbourg, had
been captured.
Britain had been pouring troops into
France through Cherbourg, which is
140-miles-odd from the nearest point on
the Seine.
The coast here runs out in peninsulas.
Allied divisions had been isolated by the
Germans who broke across the Le Havre
Peninsula. If they could succeed in
closing the Cherbourg Peninsula across the
base, which is about 60 miles wide, by
a drive from Caen to Granville, a similar
situation would arise, and their way to
Biscay and Vannes or Nantes would be
easy, again isolating the last port of
Brest. They were 80 miles west of Paris
at Laigle on Sunday, threatening to cut
off Cherbourg and Brest.
The British troops sent include many
of the veterans who were evacuated from
Flanders. They have proved themselves
grand fighters, but it must be acknow-
ledged that they were thrown into
a lost battle, that their communications
are anything but satisfactory, and that
the new operation increases the strain
on the Royal Navy and its auxiliary
services. Bombers are a continual
nuisance, and U-boats have been mis-
chievous again.
When the new week opened the French
Government had moved to Bordeaux, 300
miles to the south-west of Paris, at the
head of the wide estuary of the Gironde,
which flows into the Bay of Biscay.
M. Reynaud resigned and was replaced
by the aged Marshal Petain, with General
Weygand, as Vice-Premier, and ex-
Premier Laval, who tried to avoid the
calamity of “sanctions,” as Minister of
Justice. Sinister reports of overtures for a
separate peace were denied, but it would
be a miracle if defeatism had not shown
itself among 4,000,000 terrified refugees.
And Italy is not the invader’s only ally.
Communism will certainly try to com-
plete its treacherous work.


Reprint of Advertisement
"Sun,” 7/6/'4O.
Organisation to announced to-
swews.tb-* =isis
„ .‘a 1 -^i
for further sale
equipment. m
.»•-SSJ-SJa. *K B
Learn
PRODUCER GAS
ENGINEERING AT
HOME
Authorities agree that before the end of
1940 Producer Gas units will be in general
use throughout the Commonwealth to a
degree previously undreamed of, and that
petrol for trucks, tractors, etc., may be
almost entirely replaced.
BIG MONEY
FOR THOSE
WHO GET IN
EARLY
w
The simplified Producer Gas home
study course of the Kingsford
v Smith Colleges makes it possible
| to gain a thorough knowledge of
Producer Gas engines in your
spare time at home. The course
covers all phases of the subject
—manufacture, conversion of
engines from petrol or oil, service,
and the preparation of the charcoal which
produces the gas. There will be a wonder-
ful opportunity in every district to make
good money for those who learn about
Producer Gas engines early. Whether you
intend to get into the business of Pro-
ducer Gas manufacture, conversion or
service or require to learn
HOW TO CONVERT AND
MAINTAIN YOUR OWN
VEHICLES
the Kingsford Smith Course is the quickest
and most efficient method of obtaining
the knowledge you need. Everything is
made clear by simple, easily-followed dia-
grams and instruction-sheets, and the
course includes coaching by Producer Gas
experts to suit the individual require-
ments of every student. A practical
course for practical men! An essential
for every truck and tractor owner, gar-
age man, and service station owner! No
big cash outlay. Post coupon immediately.
(The College can supply the necessary
conversion parts, if required).
If you want to be
the first trained
man in the Produ-
cer Gas field, in
your district, send
the Coupon without
delay.
KINGSFORD SMITH COLLEGES
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Please send me particulars of your Producer Gas Course.
NAME
ADDRESS -
B. ID-0-40.
THE FLYING COLUMN
The Middle East.
“Aileron”: The Italians may have a
good air force, but they’ll need it. The
Middle East has been a training ground
for the R.A.F. ever since the last war.
There, at least, some units have been vir-
tually on active service year in and year
out.
When I passed that way, 13 years ago,
long before the air-mail service, the air
was full of activity. No military man
could talk of anything else in Istanbul.
The Galata bridge was festooned with air
posters, and girls sold tickets for the lot-
teries which were to provide Turkey
with fighting ’planes.
The inspiration was the British effort
in Egypt and Iraq, where almost every-
thing was done by air—brigands hunted
down, desert tribes quieted, dispatches
carried. At Quetta, the thud of bombs
shook the rickety town and the canton-
ments every morning as the big Vickers
machines practised out along the Loralai
road, scarcely earning a backward look
from the marching Gurkhas.
When Amanullah crashed a couple of
years later, British troop-carriers brought
the English out of Kabul.
Since then, a vast amount of work has
been done. Every inch of ground has
been surveyed from the air, the strategy
and tactics of air war have been worked
out, and a lot of big jobs accomplished
on the side.
One was the opening up of the Hydra-
maut, which lies behind the mountains
at the back of Aden. It is, one of the most
curious districts in the world. Cities
tower in it, but till the Aden command
took over it was completely isolated and
probably the least-known part of the
world outside parts of S. America. The
R.A.F. gave it civilised facilities. More
than one Aussie had a hand in that; and
others have held senior positions at the
central bases—Heliopolis, which has long
been headquarters, and Ramleh in
Palestine.
Before war broke out Westralia’s Peter
Drummond was chief of staff at Helio-
polis. Another Westralian, Huddleston,
when last heard of was head of the British
training mission which was putting
Johnny Turk through his paces at Eski
Shehr.
And the present C.-in-C. for the whole
Middle East is an Australian—Air
Marshal Arthur Murray Longmore, born
in Sydney. He was here with the British
air mission last year.
Australian Brains Needed.
“Caudron”: Every time I open my
morning paper these days I shrink with
shame. Thirty years ago —June 12, 1910
—I sat on top of Brisbane’s One Tree Hill
while Doctor Graham Bell, inventor of
the telephone, explained why he had
come to Australia to buy the Hargrave
models for the Smithsonian Institute.
“These models,” he said in his gentle
Scottish voice, “are the greatest thing of
the age. Having them would be like
owning Archimedes’s first model of a
water screw, or hearing him shout
‘Eureka.’ They ought to be in a national
museum, but I understand your Govern-
ments don’t want them.”
This was true. The N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment did not even answer when
Hargrave offered them. Bell did not get
them. The Germans had sent an emissary
who got in first—and took them away
for nothing. I have seen them palatially
housed in Munich.
Next year I went for a first flight in
Brisbane with a fellow named Jones—the
machine was a French Caudron. There
were a thousand youngsters who would
have given a pound or two to change
places with me. On that brief voyage I
said my last prayer. Prayer didn’t seem
worth while after that experience.
Twenty-nine years afterwards —June 14
—I picked up a Sydney paper and read
this at a time of great national urgency:
Australia could obtain 500 fighter and
bomber ’planes within a year from the
smaller American aircraft manufacturers,
provided unplaced United States contracts
do not absorb the industry’s entire output.
She would have to provide her own engines,
however, and accept a multiplicity of
types, including some not tested and proven
in actual warfare.
And this is the country that invented
flying, and the same country from which
came the men who made the first flights
from Europe to Australia, across the
Pacific, across the North Pole. One of its
sons, Harry Hawker, gave his name to
the finest fighter in any modern army—
the Hawker Hurricane. Another, Edgar
Percival, within a few years past, was
flying ramshackle crates round N.S.W.
wondering where next week’s meals were
coming from. He took his ideas to
Europe, and in a year or two became
about the world’s best-known light-plane
designer.
We are making American-model
trainers with American-model engines,
built under license. We are getting ready
to make a British bomber which may
be outmoded by the time we get into
production. We have thousands of
youngsters ready to fly and scarcely a
feather for them to fly with. There are
hundreds more flying and making names
in the war zone who have had to go
14,000 miles because in Australia and
Maoriland there is no scope for their
talent.
What is wrong with a part of the
world which men like Kain and Clisby
have to leave to find a chance 14,000 miles
away? And why should we be bound in
aerial defence by other people’s neces-
sities and temperaments? England, with
her short distances, developed the ultra-
fast short-range interceptors and fighters
and magnificent multi-gun fighters in
which range was sacrificed to speed. After
further study, Uncle Sam’s men adopted
the interceptor and adapted it to their
conditions. In the close warfare of
northern France and Belgium, these types
have proved devastating; but Britain’s
designing of fighters has been governed
by her small area. She has soon found
the need of long-distance fighters to guard
her bombing squadrons, and has had to
improvise them out of Blenheims and
other medium bombers.
Every country has its own, needs,
governed partly by distances, partly by
naval strength, partly by the nature of
its fixed defences. The Germans have
learnt that. A lot of their air plant
looked quite mad. Now the reasons
which promoted the designs are all too
evident.
Australians’ problems are all their own.
We cannot have a large air force, and no
air force here or anywhere can have a
maximum efficiency, unless it is designed
for the conditions under which it operates
and having respect to its numbers.
It seems to me that the elements of our
job are, first, long-distance bombers
and troop-carriers; second, intensively-
armed machines for ground strafing, with
most of their guns set for that purpose
and under pilot control —Germany had a
Junker like that at the end of the last
war. These would be able to take care
of landing troops which would be served
only by seaplanes. And then there needs
to be a protective battle force of jobs
like the Hurricane and/or the Boulton
Paul built in a long-range model.
Australia should be provided with
machines superior individually to all
other machines and designed for Aus-
tralian purposes.
Impossible to build ’em? Flying itself
was impossible until an Australian solved
the problem. Everything has been im-
possible in aircraft manufacture —until
some brain, often an Australian one,
solved the puzzle.
J wo months a S° it would have looked
safe to wager that Canadians would be
the first Dominion fighters to come into
action, since Canada has had at least a
division in Britain for several months.
Australians or Maonlanders would have
? ee med the next-best bet. South Africa,
™ September almost equally divided on
the neutrality issue-at least the politi-
cians were—would have been quoted at
outside odds. Actually, South Africa
had ds baptism of fire first when a squad-
£>n of Afrikander airmen, operating from
Kenya bombed Italian points in Abys-
sl.nia; South Africa has a pretty good
+ forCe ’ and W oU ld have had a much
better one if Pirow, who was Hertzog s
Minister of Defence, had been as active
as he talked of being. When the Smuts
pTm/ornmonf r ~ , .
Government took over it found that
Pirow s promise had far exceeded his
performance.
* * * *
The D.F.C. has been awarded to
Flying-Officers Clisby (S.A.), Wright,
Ross—all Australians—and Fitzgerald, of
Timaru (M.L.). Wright got a submarine
on a reconnaissance flight; Ross led an
attack on the enemy-occupied and
strongly-defended base at Aalborg (Den-
mark), and Fitzgerald was one of the
heroes of the effort to hold up the enemy
when he broke through at Sedan —forced
to land, wounded, he “saved the lives of
his crew.” Clisby, showing “great cour-
age on all occasions,” shot down two
German ’planes in April and eight in
May. The intrepid South Australian has
been on the missing list since May 14.
* * * *
The onslaught on Paris started a new
expansion of war effort in Australia.
Thirteen patrol ships are to be built in
five Australian shipyards for the
Admiralty; they will be speedy 800-ton
craft, 180 feet long, and they are addi-
tional to ships of the same type under
construction for the Commonwealth. And
further orders have been placed for
Wirraways to bring the total number up
to 811. Moreover, inquiries are being
made for likely types of machines in the
United States. The Wirraways will take
the place of the Fairey Battles which the
British Government is now unable to
supply.
* * * *
In the break-through on the Meuse,
dive-bombers were used with telling
effect. In the later stages of the invasion
they have suffered severely, the French
having learned that they can be brought
down from the ground by good marks-
men with steady nerves. The A.I.F. in
Palestine has been warned to look out
for them, but told, “on the authority of
Weygand’s successor,” that its own fire
power will be sufficient if coolly and sys-
tematically applied. In any case, there
is an excellent air force in the Middle
East, directed and manned in part by
Australians.
The Air War Day by Day
June 10: R.A.F. dropped 1000 bombs
in Ardennes and wooded country along
German and Luxembourg border. Raids
over western Germany.
June 11: German mechanised units
south of the Bresle River, northern
France, punished by R.A.F. ; 1000 bombs
dropped in 10 minutes. French squadrons
concentrate on Soissons front; 75 tons Ol
bombs dropped and over 30 German
’planes brought down by pursuit for-
mations. Imperial air-mail services sus-
pended, but route will be reorganised.
June 12: Mediterranean air war be-
gins. Malta bombed by Italians with
small casualties (they included women
and children) and slight damage. R.A.F.
bombed factories and military objectives
in Turin and Genoa. Libyan ’dromes
and dumps, Eritrean and Italian Somali-
land bases bombed ; S. African A.F.
attacks Abyssinian bases. Italians bomb
Aden and French Tunisia.
June 13: Though unable to arrest the
German advance in France, and still
operating against superior numbers,
British medium bombers and converted
long-distance fighters harass the Ger-
man masses attacking Paris ; they wreck
convoys, tear up troop columns and set
fire to wooded areas round the Seine
bends. Italians again raid Malta.
June 14: Importance of air fighting
emphasised by France’s appeal to U.S.A.
for “clouds of ’planes.” The concen-
trated air battle continues on the Paris
front. Heavy bombers attack German
back lines from the coast to the Ardennes.
Fleet Air Arm scatters German motor-
boats at Boulogne. R.A.F. Middle
Eastern command scores direct hits on
Italian bases at Asmara (Eritrea) and
Gura (Abyssinia) without suffering loss
and raids other bases. Coastal Com-
mand ’planes bomb German ’dromes in
Norway. Heavy bombs score one, pos-
sibly two, hits on German battleship
Scharnhorst in Trondhjem Fiord. Further
raids on Germany.
June 15-16: R.A.F. and French Air
Force continue fierce effort against Ger-
man communications and front lines, dis-
persing German air formations and caus-
ing much destruction and disorganisation.
R.A.F. bombers in low fog damage
docks at Boulogne, aerodromes at
Ostend and Flushing and fire tanks at
Dunkirk. Bombing goes on in East
Africa, Egypt and Malta.


ARE YOUR SAVINGS
EARNING A FAIR
RATE OF
INTEREST?
Better returns with greatest possible
safety can be secured by becoming a
Certificate holder in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Your investment will yield around 5 p.c.
p.a. and is safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of
Canton, Ltd.
Write or phone to-day for informative
Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of
the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY..LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
e
OVER
UNION
100 YEARS OF INSURANCE
INSURANCE
OF CANTON, LTD.
SERVICE
SOCIETY
1940
A British Colonial Office—lncorporated in Hone: Konsr.
ASSETS EXCEED £5,700,000 STERLING.
Nearly £1,000,000 invested in Australia and New Zealand
MARINE—FIRE—ACCIDENT
, p . BRANCH: UNION BUILDING, 8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Phone: B/10l (2 lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Legal Notice.
IN BANKRUPTCY.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND.
OTAGO AND SOUTHLAND DISTRICT
DUNEDIN REGISTRY.
TO JOHN REX GREY formerly carrying on
business as Grey’s Collecting Agency New
Zealand Express Company Building 11
Bond Street Dunedin Debt Collector and
Mercantile Agent.
WHEREAS a Petition in Bankruptcy has
been filed and a summons thereon issued against
you in the Supreme Court of New Zealand
at Dunedin by ROBERT WALLS praying that
you be adjudged a bankrupt on the grounds
that you are indebted to him in the sum of
£126/9/8 which is unsecured and that you have
committed the following acts of bankruptcy:
(a) That on or about the 15th day of January
1940 with intent to defeat or delay your
creditors you departed from your dwellinghouse
at Dunedin aforesaid and that with such intent
to defeat or delay your creditors you have
since that date otherwise absented yourself and
still so absent yourself.
(b) That on or about the 18th day of January
1940 you departed out of New Zealand and that
since the said 18th day of January 1940 with
intent to defeat or delay your creditors you are
remaining out of New Zealand.
NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that
you are summoned to appear at the Supreme
Court at Dunedin at the hearing of the said
petition on the 19th day of July 1940 at 10.30
o’clock in the forenoon to show cause why you
should not be adjudged a bankrupt.
DATED at Dunedin this sth day of June,
1940.
(L.s.) T. KANE,
Deputy-Registrar.
THOMAS O’SHEA is the Solicitor for the
abovenamed Petitioning Creditor, whose
address for service is at his office, A.M.P.
Chambers, 163 Princes Street, Dunedin.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Queensland’s Premier Forgan Smith
celebrated his eighth anniversary of
taking office on June 12. This puts him
ahead of any previous holder of a
Premiership except Westralia’s John For-
rest (1890-1901).
* * * *
“11 Vecchio”: A systematic job was
made of the round-up of Italian nationals
in N.Q. As soon as war was declared
police, backed by military authority, went
into action over more than 1000 miles
of country. There were two operating
forces, one interning, the other searching
premises. The biggest numbers were taken
in at Innisfail, Ingham, Home Hill and
Ayr, and the paraphernalia captured
would have equipped a respectable
museum. Rifles of every sort and size,
shotguns, revolvers, ammunition, in-
cluding military ammunition with clips,
a Very-light gun everything from
automatics to ladylike pearl handles
made modest piles at police headquarters.
But the main collections were bundles
of Fascist literature gathered in from
dozens of homes and shops all over the
State. However, that does not neces-
sarily mean that all the owners were
Fascists. The Italian is a frugal fellow.
Catch him refusing a supply of useful
wrapping paper!
* * * *
“T.”: There are more aliens in Herbert
than in any other Australian electorate,
and George Martens, the member, has
made a special study of them. He has
arrived at the conclusion that “the
majority of these people are as lqw-
abiding as the Australian people” ; but
there are ruffians among them. “Com-
munista —him bad fellow,” Italians said
to him once “with a nod in a certain
direction.” Then there is the Camorra.
Its membership is a secret which has
baffled the police, and it is the most
difficult thing in the world to get evi-
dence against it, but some facts have
emerged:
The method is to demand a certain sum
of money from a person and direct that it
shali be left in a certain place by a certain
date. It may be wrapped in a paper parcel
and left without a word in writing. In
more than one case the person who has
been directed to leave money in these cir-
cumstances and has failed to do so has
disappeared, or has been shot. No one
will say anything about such incidents.
The punishment most dreaded by Italians
of all kinds is deportation.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Brisbane’s new outfit
of City Fathers has been considering the
matter of dog-licenses. It is no mere
question of barking nuisances, fouled
footpaths and bitten tradespeople. With-
in the council’s 300-odd square miles of
territory are large tracts of undeveloped
country infested by dingoes and foxes,
lonely farms with no telephone or police
station within miles, mobs of wild horses
and cattle and other quite unusual civic
features. The hardy inhabitants of these
metropolitan backblocks maintain that
dogs are kept by them not as pets, but
as safeguards. Moreover, people get lost
in the city’s Great Open Spaces, and
canine help is necessary for finding them
before they perish from starvation and
exposure. The ratepaying pioneers argue
that Mrs. Subbubs’s pet poodle renders
no such services and may reasonably pay
a fee, but that Bluey and his hardworking
mates should be on the free list.
* * * *
“Mataranka”: Clyde Fenton, the
N.T.’s flying doctor, ran true to sample
when a farewell was arranged for him
before he left for his R.A.A.F. camp.
A testimonial fund was started by ad-
mirers, and £lOO was collected. At the
last moment it was discovered that Dr.
Fenton had received an urgent call to
Timber Creek, 300 miles out in the
Never Never, where he was holding a
private valedictory with the last—for the
present —of his bush patients.
* * * *
“Goobi”: Even German artillery
could scarcely do what the cyclone a
month or two ago did to isolated Willis
Island, where three philosophers live a
“Pack me some lunch, Ma; think I'll go and shoot a few rabbits."
secluded and taxless existence, without
seeing a skirt or a movie for years on
end. A 200-m.p.h. blow lifted one end
of the island, about 200 yards long, and
deposited it at the other end. Then
another bit of wind obligingly tried to
move the transplanted surface back, but
got only halfway with it. Luckily,
the human inhabitants remained un-
damaged, but there were a good many
mother turtles mourning for their eggs,
which were scattered in thousands over
the landscape.
* * * *
“Atrax”: . That curious and flavor-
some fruit Monstera Deliciosa —it really
is a highly-modified flower —is achieving
a well-deserved place in city fruit-shops.
A native of Mexico, it was originally
brought to Australia by the old Queens-
land Acclimatisation Society and grown
first in Brisbane. Its luxuriant foliage
of broad perforated leaves has been
combined with tree-ferns to form a
striking ornamental surround on the
pediment walls of the Brisbane City
Hall. The green truncheon-shaped fruit
takes 12 months to develop, and when
mature gives off a strong, agreeable per-
fume. Its only drawback is the presence
amongst the sections of tiny hard spicules
which irritate the tongues and throats
of some people. They can be avoided
by wrapping the fruit in paper for a
couple of days after the perfume first
indicates its maturity, then wiping them
off with a dry soft cloth after the green
patchy covering is scraped away.
Queenslander E. C. Barton, who came
into prominence last year through his
scientific film “Tides,” is a civil engineer
who has done research work in many
fields. He went to England during the
1914-18 war to engage in the manufacture
of high explosives; was then for a time
assistant to Sir Ambrose Fleming in the
task of devising a method of detecting
submarines by sound, and remained in
England as a lecturer for the Decimal
Association, of which he is now a vice-
president and chairman of the council.
Writing in April, he said he was at work
on a film illustrating anew method of
drawing in perspective.
* * * *
Edward Job Allen, of Chinaman
Creek, near Kenilworth (Q.), has passed
over at 97. He came from Bristol with
his parents in 1846, and as a boy of 11
saw the storming of the Eureka Stockade
at Ballarat. Twenty years afterwards
he rode from Bathurst (N.S.W.) to the
Palmer goldfield in far-north Queens-
land. When he was 93 he stuck to a
buckjumper until the girth broke, and
till the last month of his long life he
rode spirited horses, always greys.
“Clayfield”: Major-General R. E.
Jackson has settled down in the
Northern Military District Command,
and so has his GSO 1, Lieut.-Colonel
R. H. Nimmo, another Queenslander,
who hails from Oak Park, north of
Hughenden. Jackson, born at Crow's
Nest, in the Esk district, went to Bris-
bane Grammar School, enlisted in the
10th A.L.H. in Perth (W.A.) at 18, was
wounded on Gallipoli, became chief ad-
ministrative officer and staff officer *o
the 3rd Division in France under
Monash, won a C.M.G., a D.S.O. and
the Legion of Honor, joined the General
Staff of the C.M.F. in 1936, and helped
to prepare the present defence plans,
Nimmo is a Duntroon product, He was
adjutant to the sth A.L.H. in Palestine,
and afterwards brigade-major to the First
Light Horse Brigade. He was on the
instructional staff at Duntroon for several
years after the war, and did two years’
special training abroad.
* * * *
“Old Willie”: At the present rate of
degeneration there soon won’t be a tree-
top in any part of this continent where
a bushman can roost in safety without
his nether garments on a hot day. When
I first went across the O.T. line to Dar-
win, not long before the last war, they
used to give you a gun at a telegraph
station for exchange at the next port of
call. In ’24 I was a bit shocked to find
a Governor struggling through over the
Finke to the Alice, his ears full of
sand. Since then, wireless and com-
mercial travellers have invaded the out-
back, and the Do Drop Inn has given
way to the Royal (or something) Hotel.
But now the limit seems to have been
reached. A party of 17 girls from a
Methodist Ladies’ College at Adelaide
have been out having a look at Standley
Chasm and Palm Valley. It used to take
a strong man with camels to get there
from the south.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: The unsleeping vigilance of
British law through the centuries is
strikingly demonstrated by a paragraph
in the “North Queensland Register” of
June 1. It runs: “The punishment of
hanging, drawing and quartering was first
inflicted in 1241 upon one William
Marise, a nobleman’s son, who had
turned pirate. His English estate was
valued at £701,229. A reseal of the will
was granted in the N.S.W. Probate Office
today.” Impatient legatees who complain
of delays in the settlement of large and
involved estates may well take note and
refrain from pestering the executors with
premature demands for their cuts.
* * * *
“0.C.”: Patriotic appeals are no pre-
rogative of towns or even villages. Little
Dunk Island (N.Q.) has its Red Cross
Society and arranged a fair, the pro-
gramme of which included coconut
shies (material no bother with mil-
lions of nuts to be had for the picking),
hoop-las (the
lawyer - cane is
dragged out of the
jungle) and a
treasure hunt that
sniffed of buccaneer-
ing days. While
Dunk is as peaceful
as ever, its sun-
shine just as warm,
its rockpools just
as deep and full of
fish, its Big White
Chief Hugo
Brassey is in the
smoke and din of
battle. He had a
narrow escape
when his ship, the
St. Goran, was
bombed and hit off
Norway. To Hugo
memories of his
beloved island
must be a comfort
between times of
turmoil.
Andrew McCartney, who compiled and
published the Handbook on Colloquial
Arabic which is enjoying large sales
among young Diggers, enlisted in August,
1914, and saw service on Gallipoli.
After the war he took up an appointment
with the Egyptian Government, became
chief of the Political Office in Alexandria
and mastered several Oriental languages.
Later he joined a mining syndicate in
Alexandria, and prospected for minerals
throughout southern Palestine and Trans-
jordan. He returned to Australia at the
end of 1931, and now runs a produce
business in Brisbane.


f.
<O.
4
ft
PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
NOW READY
sy/y
m
58
■
a
am
■
HH
■ i
“This book of photographs . . . .should be on the
shelves of all Australian golfers , both for its in-
structional value and as a very faithful record of
the methods of our greatest player. —From Eric
Apperly’s introduction to the book.
JIM FERRIER’S "GOLF SHOTS”
contains 118 photographs of the champion in action,
selected by Ferrier from a special slow-motion
film made of him before his departure for America.
The essential points of each shot are illustrated
and explained in a way that puts 80 off the stick
within the reach of everyone.
The size of the page is 10 x 12 inches.
PITCH WITH STOP
w
-
■
PITCH WITH STOP
e
w
(postage 3d. extra).
Price 3 -
From the publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOX 252188.
•BUNKER’PLAY
411111
<: \>
e
•BUNKER PLAY
w
e
SEND FOR YOUR COPY NOW
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. shouia
be addressed to the Editor , \iot to members of the staff personally.
L.P.T.: “The Skeleton” needs more meat on
it... .L.F.: There’s a yarn there, but it’s too
patchy as it stands... .P.W.V.: Your “brain
child” needs to grow up C.L.S.: All right
of its kind, but not for us P.R.M.: That
“literary titbit” is only hash... .N.R.S.: So
the lifesaver debated whether or not to risk
his life among sharks, waves and rocks, and
when he did he found that the beleaguered
swimmer was his own offspring... .K.T.D.:
“Orphan of the Storm” still an orphan....
G.R.8.: That old prospector has been finding
gold in his beard for the last 20 years....
S.J.F.: Much too long for what’s in it....
P.R.8.: We looked “The Gift Horse” in the
mouth and turned him down... .8.R.5. :
“Writing is only a winter pastime with me.
We’ve started praying for an early summer....
C.D.L.: Try a travel magazine N.G.P.: Why
so mournful? F.P.R.: Misses out on the finish.
T.B.G.: No, but come again... .F.8.P.:
“Ships That Passed” .passed 0n... .T.N.: You
might get somewhere if you worried less about
your writing and more about plots.. . .G.C.S.:
Banjo Paterson spun the same yarn in “Mulga
Bill” T.D.: Try elsewhere 8.R.D.: Only
your youth excuses them... .J.P.McG.: Not
so far off the target... .H.C.8.: Too jingly.
. ...R.VJ.: Nothing in it....H.D.: Warble
away, then... .H.W.: Something comic in the
spectacle of all England’s truest sons beating
Drake’s drum.... McLJ.: Read it several times.
. ...J.C.: Just a glimmer... .K.C.: Trick end-
ings feeble... .R.R.: Try some pars
Didn’t bust our sides... .S.A.: A very gallant
failure.... P.McC.: It’s a good job sailors
don’t care:
Here we are in a mighty ship
Transporting troops trip after trip
Doing our best in the time of strife
To crush Nazi ambition
And Hitler for life
Some people at home don’t know how we
Daily risk our lives
Without wearing khaki.
. ...J.O’C.: Hoots awa!... .A.N.8.: New-
chum’s “G01d”... .D.M.: It sounds young,
especially the bit about “the awful gate, the
gloomy gate of death”... .C.H.P.: You might
place it with a daily... .W.A.H.: It needs
to be sharper than that to sink into a politician.
R.S.H.: “Broken Bubbles” broke our
heart.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.MJ.: That old cove must have made a
hundred trips to our office within recent years.
D.R.: Refuse to believe the animal is a
horse W.H.: Drawing is decorative, but
the wheeze is stale... .L.K.: Prefer to leave
the metho-drinkers where they are T.C.:
“Stars and Tripe” cartoon was destined for the
w.p.b. from the first stroke H.R.: More
suitable as children’s story-book illustrations.
O.H.: We admired the old Diggers
philosophy but not the way you have drawn
him F.F.: More like a geometrical problem
than a humorous drawing L.R.: David Low
thought of that Fifth Column idea a few
months ago W.T.: You managed the dove
and the olive branch, but you made a dread-
ful mess of Mars.... A.P.N.: The bomber
missed the target by several miles P.R.:
Where did you see an Australian station-hand
attired in a smock?... .F.G.: Our dungeon is
cluttered with drunks clinging to lamp-posts
R.H.: You get this week’s booby prize....
T.H.: That buckjumper has kicked his heels in
The Bulletin backyard before,.. .E.W.: Draw-
ings too scratchy, gags not bright enough....
P.T.: Outed in the first round C.W.R.:
Nothing original in the gags and nothing meri-
torious in the sketches F.P.: Prepared to
consider gags apart from drawings.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Maoriland caricaturist Alan Reeve,
who drew about 500 Australian notabili-
ties between 1934-37, including the entire
Sydney and Melbourne Bars, is now
on the staff of Dublin “Irish Times,”
having left London a couple of months
after war broke out. In the last 2\ years
he has held exhibitions of caricatures in
Italy, France, London and Eire. Among
the figures in his London show were
Augustus John, G. B. Shaw, Low, Lord
Southwood, Sir John Reith, and Sir
Kingsley Wood.
* * * *
If Sir Arnold Wilson, M.P. and gun-
ner, reported missing in an R.A.F. ’plane,
has indeed gone to his account his name
will be honored. An admirable writer,
with friends in many countries, he courted
unpopularity by working for appease-
ment, and even when war broke out he
was in favor of an armistice. Convinced
at last that it was impossible, he joined
the R.A.F. at 55, saying to his con-
stituents, ‘ I have no desire whatever to
shelter myself and live in safety behind
ramparts of the bodies of our young
men.” Editors, newspaper proprietors
and radio professors who wanted other
young men to fight “the totalitarian
Powers” with catapults and peashooters
are still storming away in safety, though
well under the recruiting age limit.
f-pi, * A /U , .
“Ente Mand : The new A.I.F. lost
n „ t : mf , ; n pntprina innrnnlism in Pales-
no time in entering journalism in 1
tine. Its Artilleryman has three
managers fall majors), an editor, an
assistant editor, a news editor and a
sports editor. It runs to eight pag S,
printer is I. Nachtigal, Tel-Aviv, and the
price 15 mils. Much space is given to
Australian cabled news. There are two
,Z~ , i * „ i
(2) advertisers: a general military con-
tractor” who operates in the Sudan,
Egvpt and Palestine, and whose services
include tailoring bartering, shoemaking
laundry, and catering tor officers and
sergeants’ messes, and a Tel-Avlv photo-
erapher And it is evident that in
n i Ar.cc- coo ti,o
Palestine the censor does not see the
personal column and that the law of
libel does not operate.
* * * *
“Pedagogle”: The confusion arising
~ • Ur.
over what is alleged to be Macaulay s
New Zealander (B. 22/5/ 40) is really
due to the fact that this New
Zealander was not original in
Macaulay’s essay. There were several
variations of this theme—the over-
seas traveller from the New World
standing amidst the desolation of the
Old. Shelley, for instance, years before
Macaulay, in his dedication to Peter Bell
the Third, wrote: “In the firm expec-
tation.that, when St. Paul’s and West-
minster Abbey shall stand, shapeless and
nameless ruins, in the midst of an un-
peopled marsh ; when the piers of
Waterloo Bridge shall become the nuclei
of islets, of reeds, of osiers, and cast the
jagged shadows of their broken arches
on the solitary stream....” then some
transatlantic commentator will be weigh-
ing in the scales some ponderous
thoughts. Horace Walpole, 50 years be-
fore Macau i ayj a i so wrote of a visitor
from Lima giving a description of the
ru j ns 0 £ Paul’s,
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.”: I recently picked up in
a second-hand bookshop W. Clark Rus-
sell > s william Dampier, which I hadn’t
reac j £ or man y y ea rs, and was surprised
tQ n( j t^at t he author makes no men-
tjon D am pj er ’ s court-martial on his
retum to England in 1701 after the
voyage of h.M.S. Roebuck to Westralia.
“jj ie case Q f Lieutenant George Fisher,
tagether wit h t / ie Sufferings and Oppres-
sions / a /d on him by his late Commander,
Capf william Dampier, in H.M.S.
‘ Roe-Buck,’ ” is preserved in the records
G f the Admiralty. The court-martial’s
finding is worth reprinting:
° ■ ... . , .
The Court havin 8 strictly examined into
a u par ticulars of their several) Infor-
mations: It is of opinion that it has
appeared to ye Court by Evidence upon
oath that Captn William Dampier has been
Lieutenant Fisher in beating him on Board
ye sd Ship, and confining him in Irons
for a considerable Time, and afterwards
Imprisoning him on shore in a strange
Country, and it is Resolved that itt does
a pp ea re to ye Court by ye Evidence
that there has been any grounds for this
ill usage of him, and that the sd. Captain
gat. &
Court does Adjudge that Hee be Fined all
His Pay to ye Chest at Chatham exclusive
of about Fifty Pounds stop’d in ye Treasury
of the Navies Hand for indemnifying the
Queen as tQ a BiU drawn on ye Na / y | oard
t>y Lt. Fisher from Lisbon: And itt is
farther the opinion of ye Court that the
said Capt. Dampier is not a Fitt person to
be employ’d as comdr. of any of her
Maty. Ships. And the Court is of opinion
that t jj e i n f orma tion sett forth by Captn.
Dampier against Lt. Fisher have not been
made good and therefore the Court does
Acquit him from that Charge.
Strange that Russell should have omitted
from his delightful biography one of the
most vital facts of his hero’s life!


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
racket of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq. O.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. 10RBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Males, also
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the YY orld, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady (19), Sydney, University night
student, typist and shorthand writer, four years’
office experience, seeks position.—736o.
Gentleman, Sydney, over 40, seeks companion
for Sunday hiking trips.—737B.
Copies of magazines published by units of
the Second A.I.F. either in camp, on trans-
ports or abroad. —7379.
To correspond with someone in the eastern
Australian States with progressive ideas on
brickmaking.—7297.
Short-story writer will read and constructively
criticise manuscripts. Moderate fees.—73B3.
To buy back numbers of “Picture Post”—
No. 8, Aug. 26, 1939; No. 7, Aug. 19; No. 6,
Aug. 12.—7356.
/
Information Sought.
Details of Mussolini's career up to the time
he seized power in Italy? —74oo.
He was born on July 29, 1883, at Prcdappio,
province of Forli, the son of a blacksmith.
Turned Socialist and was exiled to Switzerland
in 1902. Returned to Italy and in 1912 was
given ' charge of the Socialist party organ
“Avanti.” Turned Nationalist in 1914, favored
Italian intervention in the war and was expelled
from the Socialist party. In November, • 1914,
he founded a paper of his own, “Popolo
d’ltalia,” leading the Interventionists. Joined
the Italian army in 1915, rose to the rank of
corporal, was seriously wounded in 1917 and
returned to his paper. Opposing the Left-wing
Radicalism which spread in post-war Italy, he
formed the first fascio di combattimento at
Milan on March 23, 1919, with a programme
of nationalism and anti-Communism. The
movement grew, rapidly assuming the name of
Fascism. There was political chaos in Italy
in 1922, as the Radical Socialists grasped at
power and the authority of the Government
declined. After a Fascist party congress at
Naples 40,000 Fascists marched to the capital
and their Duce (leader) Mussolini demanded
power. The Facta Government gave way, and
the King appointed Mussolini Prime Minister.
* * * *
(1) Rates of pay for men training as fitters
and mechanics for the R.A.A.F. ? (2) What are
the qualifications for such employment? (3) Is
separation allowance payable to a sister? (4)
What is the allowance to a dependant of an
R.A.A.F. recruit killed in action or otherwise?
—7172.
(1) Rates of pay in the R.A.A.F. for the
duration of the war are: Fully-qualified fitters
10s. per day, members trained as flight
mechanics Bs. 6d. per day, members under
training as mechanics ss. per day. On pro-
motion the rates increase. In addition, quarters,
rations, clothing and medical attention are pro-
vided. (2) Applicants for training for the
highest grade must have a standard of skill
which, as a rule, can be gained only by
serving an apprenticeship. For training as flight
mechanics applicants should have general
mental alertness, elementary knowledge of in-
ternal combustion engines, some knowledge of
the properties of the more common metals and
materials to be found in aircraft and' aero
engines, experience with the use of common
hand tools likely to be encountered in servic-
ing aircraft and engines, ability to read dia-
grams such as lubricating charts, knowledge
of commonly-used engineering terms, ability
to make simple calculations. (3) Separation
allowance may be payable to a sister if she is
dependent on the member. The rate of allow-
ance is 3s. per day, and its payment is con-
ditional on the member allotting 3s. per day
from his own pay in addition. (4) The ques-
tion of pensions is still under consideration by
Parliament.
* * * *
How does the record of the Maoriland airman
“Cobber” Kain compare with that of "aces”
of the last war? —7386.
Numerically Kain’s record does not equal
those established in the last war, but in point
of time taken it compares favorably. On March
29 his score was five victories; on May 28 he
was credited officially with more than 40. Out-
standing pilots of last war were Major Rene
Fonck 75 victories, and Major Edward
(“Mick”) Mannock 73.
* * *
What are the Cinque Ports? —7375.
These, as the name signifies, were originally
five —Dover, Hastings, Hythe, Romney and
Sandwich. Rye and Winchelsea were added,
and at the last two coronations the “Barons
of the Cinque Ports” were allowed to send one
of their number from each of these seven
towns, as well as from Deal, Faversham, Folke-
stone, Lydd, Margate, Ramsgate and Tenter-
den.
* * * *
Was it possible for Australian soldiers in
England during the war of 1914-18 to obtain
divorces from English wives 7370.
A number of Australian soldiers before re-
turning desired to obtain divorces from. Eng-
lish wives whom they had married in England,
but, although the grounds for divorce might
exist, the British Courts were closed to the
husbands whose domiciles were in Australia.
In order to enable them to sue in Great Britain
the British Parliament passed the Matrimonial
Causes (Dominion Troops) Act, by which,
after corresponding legislation had been passed
in the Australian States, the disability was re-
moved.
* * * *
(1) Where were the 12 I.W.W. men who
were gaoled in Sydney in 1916 born? (2)
What were they charged with ? (3) On what
charges were they found guilty? (4) For what
periods were they sentenced? —739l.
(1) Only two of them were Australian-born,
three were born in England, two in Ireland,
two in Scotland, one in Canada, one in M.L.
and one in Russia. (2) They were indicted on
three counts: (a) conspiring to set fire to
premises, ( b ) conspiring to pervert the course
of justice and to secure the escape from prison
of a man named Tom Barker, (c) seditious
conspiracy. (3) The jury found seven of the
accused guilty on three counts, four guilty
on the first and second counts, and one guilty
on the third count only. (4) Justice Pring sen-
tenced them to terms varying from five to 15
years.
* * if *
Figures for (1) 1916 and (2) 1917 conscrip-
tion referendums in Australia ? —*7318.
(1) N.S.W., 356,805 for, 474,544 against;
Vic., 353,930, 328,216; Q’land, 144,200, 158,051 ;
S.A., 87,924, 119,236; W.A., 94,069, 40,884;
Tas., 48,493, 37,833; F.T., 2136, 1269; totals
for Commonwealth, 1,087,557, 1,160,033. In-
cluded were 133,813 votes by members of the
Australian Imperial Forces, of which 72,399
were for, 58,894 against. (2) N.S.W., 341,256
for, 487,774 against; Vic., 329,772, 332,490;
Q’land, 132,771, 168,875; S.A., 86,663, 106,364;
W.A., 84,116, 46,522; Tas., 38,881, 38,502;
F.T., 1700, 1220; totals for Commonwealth,
I, 1,181,747. Included were 199,677
votes by members of the A.1.F., of which
103,789 were for, 93,910 against.
* * * *
Figures showing enlistments in A.I.F. for
each month during the war of 1914-18. ? —7380.
Figures by months are not available for
1914. From August to the end of December,
1914, enlistments totalled 52,561. Figures for
the months of the other years are as follows:
Month. 1915. 1916. 1917. 1918.
January .. 10,225 22,101 4575 2344
February .. 8,370 18,508 4924 1918
March .. 8,913 15,597 4989 1518
April .. 6,250 9,876 4646 2781
May .. 10,526 10,659 4576 4888
June .. 12,505 6,582 3679 2540
July .. 36,575 6,170 4155 2741
August .. 25,714 6,345 3274 2959
September.. 16,571 9,325 2460 2451
October .. 9,914 11,520 2761 3619
November.. 11,230 5,055 2815 1124
December.. 9,119 2,617 2247
* * * *
I am a manufacturer in a small way and am
contemplating the manufacture of (a) certain
substitutes for imported materials and of (b)
certain war materials. Where can I obtain up-
to-date information, such as literature and
advice, on technical problems that may arise ?
—7332.
The Information Section of the C.S. and I.R.
has a staff especially trained to search and
summarise technical literature bearing on any
industrial problem put to it. For this work, it
has accumulated extensive sources of informa-
tion. All technical information supplied is
entirely free. Inquiries should be addressed to
the Information Section, Council for Scientific
and Industrial Research, 34 Albert-street, East
Melbourne, Vic.
* * * * .
How did Rugby League football originate in
Sydney ?— 7382.
Originated in 1907 from a dispute within
the Rugby Union as to the adequacy of the
allowance for out-of-pocket expenses. Allow-
ance at the time to players on tour was 3s. a
day; several popular players demanded more,
and even suggested that payment should be
made for matches in the home town. This
raised the question of professionalism, and a
Rugby League was formed which agreed to
pay its players 10s. per day and 7s. 6d. for
out-of-pocket expenses. The Union authorities
thereupon declared all League players profes-
sionals and expelled them.
* , * * *
List of novels by Australian authors published
in Australia in 1939 ? —7346.
Three Went West, by G. Anstruther, Nothing
Is Ever Lost, by J. N. Barcham, Tales of the
Dandenongs, by J. N. H. Cook, Fool’s Harvest,
by E. Cox, Broad Acres, by W. M. Fleming,
Pioneers on Parade, by Dymphna Cusack and
■ Stella Miles Franklin, Pastoral Symphony, by
J. J. Hardie, The Jingler, by S. A. Hosgood,
Apron Strings, by Mary Kelaher, In Ben Boyd’s
Day, by Will Lawson, Larapinta, by R. B.
Plowman, The Scarlet Cape, by A. Rixon,
Dark Interlude, by E. V. Timms, The Mystery
of Swordfish Reef, by A. W. Upheld, Beauty
Wins, Rubicon Outlaws and Vengeance of
?, by J. Wallace.
* * * *
Titles of Australian novels which have either
won or been placed second or third in novel
competitions ? —6891.
■The Pioneers and Coonardoo, by Katharine
Susannah Prichard, Ashes of Achievement, by
Frank Russell, A House Is Built, by M. Bar-
nard Eldershaw, Men Are Human, The Passage
and The Swayne Family, by Vance Palmer,
Cattle Camp, by J. J. Hardie, Wards of the
Outer March, by Kay Glasson Taylor,
Karangi, by F. S. Hibble, Tiburon, by Kylie
Tennant, All That Swagger, by Stella Miles
Franklin, Capricornia, by Xavier Herbert,
Crucible, by J. P. McKinney, The Valley of
the Sky, by Tarlton Rayment.
* * * *
A simple method of determining whether
the metal foil used in wrapping cigarettes or
chocolate is made of tin, lead or aluminium 3
—6392.
Warm the foil with caustic-soda solution
(say 20 p.c.). Aluminium passes into solution;
tin or lead remains. Make a small metal
button in a flame and flatten it out. Lead will
mark paper if drawn across it, tin will not.
* * * *
(1) Are there rifle ranges of any importance
in the world that have shooting mounds at and
up to 2000 yards? (2) What is the size of
target and bull’s-eye at 2000 yards? (3) What
is the effective or killing range of Mark VII
bullet? (4) The muzzle velocity of the Mark
VII, and the reasons why the VII sharp, pointed
bullet was adopted in place of the soft, blunted
Mark k 7 3—7145.
(1) and (2) Not known. Competitions at
Bisley include practices fired at 1100 yards at
10ft. by 6ft. target and 3ft. bull’s-eye. This is
probably the longest range used anywhere. (3)
Depends on various factors. At 2000 yards
its velocity is still 600 f.s. At 3000, it is 300
f.s. Wounds have been fatal at extreme range.
(4) 2440 f.s. Adopted on account of reduction
of resistance of air, permitting greater velocities
and obtaining a flatter trajectory.
* * * *
Religions of members of the A.I.F. during
the war of 1914-183 —7276.
Church of England 166,994, Roman Catholic
66,205, Presbyterian 51,821, Methodist 34,205,
Jews 2304, others 21,721.
* * * *
Number of adherents of the various religions
in M.L. at the 1936 census? —7385.
Church of England 600,786, Presbyterian
367,855, Roman Catholic (including Catholic
undefined) 195,261, Methodist 121,012, Bap-
tist 24,703, Brethren 17,086, Salvation Army
12,608, Church of Christ 11,197, Congregational
7179, Christian Scientist 4617, Seventh Day
Adventist 3825, Lutheran 2537, Hebrew 2653,
Rationalist 2066, no religion (so returned) 4292,
all other religious professions 27,800, object to
state 71,302, not specified 14,705.
* * * *
I am about to be married, and own some
property, let as two shops, in a Sydney suburb
from which at present l am receiving a regular
rent. Will my marriage affect my ownership
in any way so as to give my husband a direct
or indirect control over the property? —7367.
No. Under the N. S. Wales Married Women’s
Property Act a woman, married or unmarried,
is capable of holding, acquiring or disposing
of any real or personal property as her sepa-
rate property. It is not liable for any debts
contracted by her husband, nor can he exercise
any control over it.
* * * *
A man dies intestate, leaving a wife and four
children. How is his estate divided among
them 3 —7340.
In a reply (B. 29/5/’4O) the law in force for
many years in N. S. Wales was quoted, over-
looking an amendment made by an Act of
1938 under which the wife is entitled on the
death of her husband, dying intestate, where
there is issue surviving, to one-third of his
property, two-thirds being divisible among the
children, share and share alike. The old £SOO
rule has now been changed to £IOOO, but this
does not apply where there is issue surviving.
* * * *
An old-age pensioner owes me money for
provisions and household items. I have made
demand for payment frequently, but can get
nothing out of the old fellow. Can I garnishee
his pension 3—7349.
No, an old-age pension is absolutely in-
alienable whether by way. of sale, assignment,
charge, execution, insolvency or otherwise. It
cannot be levied upon for payment of a debt,
nor can it be pledged as security for a loan.
* * * *
Is there a law in N. S. Wales to prohibit
unreasonable noise at a late hour, say after
midnight, to the annoyance of neighbors 3
7358.
There is no limit fixed, by Act of Parliament,
but at Common Law interference by one citizen
with the quiet enjoyment of another’s rights,
as, for example, “anything that discomposes
or injuriously affects the senses or the nerves,”
may be ground for action as a nuisance.
* * * ❖
What persons are entitled, in the case of an
accident in the course of their employment, to
benefit from the N.S.W. Workers’ Compen-
sation Act? —7364.
The N.S.W. Workers’ ' Compensation Act
1926-38 applies primarily to “workers,” a
worker being defined as “any person who has
entered into or works under a contract of ser-
vice or apprenticeship with an employer.” To
determine whether a contract of service exists
the relationship of the parties to the contract
must be considered, and, if on examination of
this relationship it appears that they are in the
position of master and servant, there is then,
generally speaking, liability on the employer to
obtain a policy of insurance or indemnity cover-
ing the person supplying the services. Gener-
ally speaking, if the employer retains the right
of control over the employee, that is, reserves
to himself the right of directing the employee
as to the manner of doing his work, it can be
said that they are in the position of master and
servant. Subsidiary criteria are the arrange-
ments made as regards hours of working and
the method of paying wages.
* * * *
Winners of the Pulitzer prize for plays since
1918 3—7394.
1918, Jesse Lynch Williams’s “Why Marry?”;
1919, no award; 1920, Eugene O’Neill’s “Be-
yond the Horizon”; 1921, Zona Gale’s “Miss
Lulu Bett”; 1922, Eugene O’Neill’s “Anna
Christie”; 1923, Owen Davis’s “Icebound”;
1924, Hatcher Hughes’s “Hell-Bent for
Heaven”; 1925, Sidney Howard’s “They Knew
What They Wanted”; 1926, George Kelly’s
“Craig’s Wife”; 1927, Paul Green’s “In Abra-
ham’s Bosom”; 1928, Eugene O’Neill’s
“Strange Interlude”; 1929, Elmer Rice’s
“Street Scene”; 1930, Marc Connelly’s “The
Green Pastures”; 1931, Susan Glaspell’s
“Alison’s House”; 1932, George S. Kaufman,
w


Winter Feeding—
Keep up condition with
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
Stock will make good use of coarse Winter fodders if Tri-cal-os
and salt is before them always. Feed while the stock is in
good condition to avoid the danger of waiting until they are
too poor to benefit properly from the Winter ration which
should be sufficient to maintain them. Tri-cal-os, containing
a guaranteed minimum of 33 p.c. phosphoric acid and 40 p.c.
lime, is the best source of calcium and phosphorus, the
essential minerals.
Write for particulars about Tri-cal-os for Sheep and Cattle.
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, or 4058, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
Bl
m
o
is
£
Heals , soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus oils and
their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or coal tar
derivative. Neither washes nor dries out. Does not stain fleece.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
1?-21 Myrtle St. f CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sydney Sheep Show.
“Murrawong”: There will be a war-
time simplicity about the Sydney Sheep
Show today (June 19). Entries are little
below last year’s total.
Merinos are well represented, particu-
larly the medium wools, and there is a
new section for extra strong wools. There
is a healthy sprinkling of newcomers
among the studs listed.
The Corriedale section will miss J. F.
Guthrie’s team, which was the largest in
last year’s show. Nevertheless, the breed
will be well represented in quantity and
quality. Gundowringa and Attunga sheep
will again be there. Five Polwarth studs
will compete, as against one solitary
breeder in ’39.
British breeds are down in numbers,
but most of last year’s representatives
will be showing and a number of new
studs are listed. Border Leicesters have
attracted several entries from Victoria,
and strong teams are scheduled from
N.S.W. breeders. Dorset Horns show in-
creased support, and some entries have
come all the way from S. Australia.
There are new challengers in the
Romney lists also. Gamboola and Chats-
bury studs will be defending their titles.
Southdowns received less support than
usual, but strong entries from Ingle-
wood ensure that there will be no de-
crease in standards. Ryelands will be
represented by half a dozen studs.
Entries of fleeces are almost double
those last year, but Sydney is still behind
the best country shows. There will be
separate sections for fleeces from un-
housed' sheep, which will not have to
compete directly with fleeces from housed
and rugged sheep.
ft will be a sheep show pure and simple,
without “novelties.”
A Blowfly Repellent.
“Bungaree”: The C.S. and I.R. has
had interesting results with citronella oil.
Highest degree of repellency was obtained
from a 50 per cent, solution in medicinal
paraffin, but this was abandoned because
of cost, and because of the irritant effect
of citronella solutions above 20 per cent.
Solutions of 5 p.c. and 10 p.c. showed
fairly good results in the laboratory,
and in an endeavor to find a more
economical base soft soap and water
were used with satisfactory results.
Recipe for a 10 p.c. citronella solution
is—lo parts by weight oil of citronella,
10 parts by weight soft soap, 80 parts by
weight of water. Fifty parts water should
be heated almost to boiling and the
soap dissolved in it. The citronella should
be added slowly and stirred in with the
greatest care or the solution will boil
violently and overflow. Cover the vessel
with a lid and keep at this temperature
until thoroughly mixed, then stir in
balance of water and allow to cool. Keep
in an airtight container.
It is not suggested that this solution
will prevent strike, but treated sheep are
more unattractive to flies, and strikes
are fewer than on untreated animals. The
citronella solution was used as a lamb-
marking dressing on a small flock oyer
two seasons. In 1938 a 5 p.c. solution
reduced fly attack slightly in ewe lambs
but gave better results in wethers. Last
year a 10 p.c. solution was used with
better effect and strike in marked lambs
reduced to a minimum.
Half of the lambs were tailed in the
usual manner, leaving two joints, while
the others had three joints of the tail
left. Of the short-tailed lambs 11 out
of 20 in the controls were struck, and
three out of 20 similar treated lambs. Of
the longer-tailed group two out of 16
ewe lambs and none of the wether lambs
from the untreated sheep were struck ;
none of the treated lambs was affected.
If flies are not bad, it is generally
agreed that there is little need for dressing
lambs after marking. Some home-made
dressings based on arsenical dip are
likely to kill as many lambs as the flies.
When flies are bad, however —whether
blowflies or the little black fly—a repel-
lent must give some protection. Tests
"Wo, there aren't any Fifth Columnists here. Try next door."
have shown that the incidence of fly
strike is very light for the first two days
after marking. After the third day,
with putrefaction of discharged blood,
there is a strong attraction for flies.
The odor of the citronella solution is
still noticeable in the wool a fortnight
after application. The most satisfactory
method of applying is to spray the solu-
tion over crutch and tail and to soak as
much surrounding wool as possible.
These results have been obtained largely
from experiments in the laboratory and
in limited field tests. Large-scale use
of citronella in general station lamb-
marking has still to be tried.
Supplementary Feeding.
„ R Jf.E,. Both : sheeD aa d cattle
Ryeanall . both in sheep ana caiu
areas it is now clear that one of the
worst aspectproTe
stockowners with reserves or ioaaer xo
frequently fail to begin supplementary
feeding soon enough. The result is that
stock get too low and a proportion finds
recovery impossible when the stored feed
is handed out.
Where stock are low in condition con-
stipation is common and there may be
inflammation of the stomach. These
conditions have to be relieved before the
stock can recover. Again, when paddocks
are denuded and the stock have to feed
close to the ground they will pick up
many more worm eggs than normally.
When feed is plentiful, worm infestation
is not particularly noticeable—except in
abnormal cases—but when the feed goes
off and the animal’s strength is lowered
the effects of the worms show out
prominently. If feeding is begun early
the stock is able to resist the worms. It
is a good idea to drench before the
supplementary feeding begins.
Watch pastures rather than the stock,
Watching the condition of the stock as a
guide as to when to start feeding is risky,
particularly when drought is sudden or a
fierce frost kills off the grazing. Take
a walk round the paddocks and look at
the feed on the ground.
Pig-breeding Troubles.
“Tryana”: Sows failing to breed,
giving birth to dead pigs, or farrowing
weak litters are largely due to faulty
feeding of the sows prior to and after
their gestation period.
Lack of vitamin “A” in the diet is
a common cause. In California it has
been shown that sows constantly fed on
a ration deficient in this vitamin failed
breed at all. A deficiency of lime in
the diet will also result in sows farrow-
jn g dead pigs.
Feeding experiments conducted in
mer j ca showed that when sows were
fed a goo d-quality animal protein
throughout the gestation period the loss
0 £ pjg S during the first week after birth
was jj p er cen t. 5 compared with 44 per
cent. j n jitters of sows that did not re-
ceive any animal protein.
For sows in pig the protein supplied
by cereal grains alone, such as barley,
y should be sun-
y a daily a fl owance of animal
to - skim-milk to liberal amounts
f meatmea i skim-
or 6 p.c. or more of meatmeai. worn
milk will provide the sows with the
necessary minerals, but in the absence
of milk a mixture of salt one part, air-
slaked lime two parts and dicalcic phos-
phate two parts should be fed, 3 p.c. to
4 p.c. being added to the ration. The
necessary vitamin requirements can be
provided by allowing the sows a daily
run on good grass or, if they have to be
kept in sties, by feeding some freshly-cut
green feed daily.
New Wheat.
“A.A.D.”: Bordan, one of the most
promising of the newer wheats, has been
sown on a largely-increased scale in
N.S.W. this season. Excellent results
last harvest in the central-west and
Riverina won it favor. In 1939, with a
total of 14,985 acres, Bordan headed the
list of varieties recommended “for further
trial.” A yield of 50 bushels an acre at
Cowra was the highest ever recorded in
crop championships.
Evolved at Roseworthy Agricultural
College (S.A.), Bordan is of mid-season
maturity, with tall, strong straw and
medium strong grain, and is resistant
to flag smut and stem rust.
Of similar habit of growth, Bordan
suits good conditions better than Ford,
which it is likely to replace in the better
areas of central and southern N.S.W.
Hybrid Maize.
“Yarrunga”: Outstanding yield results
from hybrid maize have been obtained
in field trials in the
Manning River
(N.S.W.) district.
Australia has not be-
fore had a public
test of plant-breeders’
work in this method
of maize improve-
ment, which the
U.S.A. Department
of Agriculture claims
has revolutionised
commercial maize
production in
America.
The hybrid type
used in the contest
was evolved from
Fitzroy variety at
Grafton experiment
farm, and was tested
in plots on two
farms against
farmers’ pure-seed
strains of several
other varieties.
In an adverse
growing season the
hybrid produced the
highest acre yield,
bushels, and averaged 12If bushels,
as compared with the next best, Fitzroy,
103 bushels.
This result and experimental experi-
ence in N.S.W. indicate that hybrid
corn increases yield by 20 p.c. to 30 p.c.
Gatton Agricultural College (Q.) records
support that estimate. Present drawbacks
are that the production of hybrid seed
is work for specialists only, and the grain
from the commercial crop being an un-
fixed cross is not suitable for seed pur-
poses.
Victorian Tobacco.
“L. Strike”: Fifteen years ago in Vic-
toria’s Ovens River district I saw tobacco-
growers hard at work. They were curing,
and the kilns were smoking their hardest,
while in the paddocks other workers were
suckering the maturing crop. I had a
pretty vision of a new agricultural in-
dustry that would settle men on small
areas, growing something for an assured
home market.
It settled them all right! At least 1000
men formerly engaged in tobacco grow-
ing have since left the north-east, and


82611
SUPER QUALITY BOX CALF
Wide Fitting
Oxford, 45/-
• Here’s one of our best selling shoes —and
rightly so. Offering everything you expect in
the way of a smart man-style shape, plus
superb quality leather and workmanship, it
fits snugly and comfortably and will give
exceptional long wear. In wide and extra-
wide sizes (state type desired when ordering),
and in full range of sizes and half sizes. In
Black or Brown Box Calf 45/-
• When ordering state size and enclose tracing of
stockinged, feet. Add inter-State postage if you
live outside of N.S. IT. Satisfaction guaranteed.
ABBEY SHOES
316 Georgre St._,
224 Pitt St.
For all External Livestock Diseases
"CARBOX"
A Wonderful Healer .... A Super Cleanser
A Powerful Antiseptic.
“CARBOX” is an Australian product for Australian conditions.
“CARBOX” embodies only the finest materials in its ingredients, providing not
only a surehealer of. the highest quality, but a superlative cleansing ointment,
and has well earned its place as the farmers’ friend.
Note these few uses for “CARBOX”:—
HORSES.—For sore shoulders, itch, cracked and greasy heels, strangles, douche
after foaling, sprains, swellings, cuts and abrasions, etc.
CATTLE.—For contagious abortion, douche after calving, mammitis, milk fever,
sore teats, foot rot, etc.
SHEEP.—For maggot and fly, shearing cuts, foot rot, crow peck, tailing, and
marking, etc.
PIGS.—For lice and scale, sore mouth, body wash, etc.
DOGS.—For distemper, mange, douche after pupping, grass seed abscesses, cracked
pads, fleas and dog lice, etc.
“CARBOX” is an essential on the farm.
“CARBOX” is not Good for Parasites—lt Kills Them!
Packed in 3-gallon drums, 1-galion, and tins
Full particulars obtainable from:—
HENRY BERRY & CO. (Australasia) LTD.
Australasian Distributers:
515 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Houses in All States. When writing mention “The Bulletin.”
ŵw
PTY., LTD.,
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Top of Barrack Street
Modern accommodation is offered at a
moderate cost. Hot and cold water
now available in bedrooms.
TARIFF
Room and Breakfast Rate—
Single Rooms from... -7/6
Double Rooms from... 15/-
Room Only Rate—
Single Rooms from... 5/6 per night
Double Rooms from... 11/- per night
Modern a la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager
Telephone: 8W1631.
Telegrams:
“Grancentral,” Sydney.
w
many of those still there are on susten-
ance. The value of equipment kilns,
barns, etc.—lying idle must be pretty
close to £200,000.
r" ould . undoubtedly contributed
“ > h r e Idss ' but “ was ! he on, i
T’-s ns i
markefforTobacco 1 V"re^isgreater than
market tor tobacco I .-re is greater than
was 15 years ago bn the industry is
fr ° m , *“* , of Governmental
attent.on and doubtful moves by manu-
Se n n, * ! ' nS ’ r n'•
blames the gradual raising of local buy-
ing grades to a level in some instances
ZZI , f r q " alll l°‘ T
ported leaf. Growers are asking the
j * ,i • •
Tariff Board to increase the minimum
proportion of Australian leaf in blends
5 fT m T £ C - p ‘ pe ; T ,O
i P iti FT ! ° ba ?T
together wtth a differential exetse duty
Australian P P ° “ ° £ "’ e
Australian.
It doesn t seem unreasonable, especially
at a time when conservation of dollar
exchange is necessary and when the
more Australians can be persuaded to
smoke Australian tobacco the better,
Still, smokers’ tastes must be served,
and, though low-grade tobaccos find
ready sale in countries of low-wage stand-
ards, they won’t do for Australians. If
the growers get the tariff help sought,
it will be up to them to obtain and fol-
low expert advice as to varieties, suit-
ability of soil and methods of curing best
calculated to turn out a good-quality
product. Far too often potentially good
tobacco is ruined between field and buy-
ing floor by ignorant or careless curing,
,
Cn a rc° a i limbers.
Double End”: Tests in N. S. Wales
show that, though charcoal from soft-
woods gives a good performance in gas
producers, that from hardwoods yields
a higher density—thus more can be car-
ted.
The State Mines Department has a
couple of steel kilns in action. All sorts
of timbers are being tested, samples of
the burns analysed chemically and the
remainder tested for power in gas-
producer driven trucks. So far, best
results have come from bluegum, iron-
bark, red and white mahogany and some
similar eucalypts. The timber must be
sound and without its bark.
Hints for the Farm.
••Bundalinga”: Look near the ears,
inside the elbows and on the breast of
P'Ss for lice. The vermin may cause
dea,h . frora "» <* b '°° d aad extensive
imta tion. Apply equal parts of paraffin
oil and crude oil, repeating the treatment
in seven to 10 d 1 Ru g bing posls> on
which sacking s / aked in C /J e oi , is
wound . will help the pigs rid themselves
jj C£ y
Boppy”: Keep calves on fresh
milk for the first week or two. If milk
: c .
,s scarce, a good substitute is 14 parts
~a 1 .
C
and parts locust-bean meal. Mix
31b. with five quarts of boiling water and
a inch of J Givc |hree * a|s a d
™ da r three months old, and two meals
from then on.
“Yeno Ham”: Sunflowers—there is
an unusual shortage of the seed—will
grow on almost any soil, but do best on
rich alluvial and will give a satisfactory
yield under conditions that suit maize or
lucerne. Thev like soil rich in potash
Don’t sow until all danger of frost is past,
After sowing in drills, 3ft. to 3ft. 6in.
apart, thin out to 16in.. or 18in. between
the young plants, as they need plenty
of sunlight. About 41b. to 51b. of seed
per acre is sufficient. Cultivate between
the rows to control weeds, and give a
light hilling when the plants are a foot
high. Cut the heads when the petals of
the flowers fall and the seeds have hard-
ened. Leave a few inches of stalk to
facilitate handling. Dry the heads under
cover, and handle the seeds on a clean
surface, preferably a good floor. Don’t
stack the heads too deeply when drying,
as heating may result. Bag seed when it
is thoroughly dry.
“Bundalinga”: When it was needed
urgently by stockowners as a supplemen-
tary feed recently, molasses was practi-
cally unobtainable. Now there is plenty
on the market, and the price is lower
than it was a few months ago. When
molasses can be bought cheaply, a few
drums could be stored as part of the
fodder-conservation programme,
“Solanum”: Potatoes that have been
infested with moth grubs can be safely
used for seed provided the eyes are sound
and the grubs have emerged. A further
precaution is to dip the tubers in the
standard corrosive sublimate solution for
scale disease. After treatment and drying
the seed can be held over for spring
planting. Both Victoria and N.S.W. have
shortages of seed owing to light crops
and extensive moth damage.
“Ex-C.G.”: Victoria expects to have
46,000,000 bushels of wheat this year,
two millions less than the big crop of
1937-38, and more than twice as much
as the previous season’s 18,000,000
bushels. The sample is good, except for
Goulburn Valley wheat, which suffered
from rust and is pinched, and the f.a.q.
standard has been set at to the
bushel. Ghurka was still principal
variety, nearly half the total area being
sown to it, with Ranee 4H, Dundee, Free
Gallipoli and Bencubbin next in that
order. Oat and barley yields were well
above average, and again the grain
sample is excellent. Dry weather and
frosts have reduced the tobacco and maize
crops.
“Bundalinga”: H. G. R. Swan, ot
Southport, has grown the first crop of
rice on Queensland’s south coast. He
sowed six acres, harvesting an average
of 75 bushels of paddy rice per acre.
The grain was sown to feed pigs and
other stock. Plans are in hand for sow-
ing 30 acres next season.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Departments
A cure for footrot in cows? Soaking the
feet in Condy’s and treating with boracic acid
gives only temporary relief. —7209.
Make a concrete bath, 7ft. by 3ft. by 6in.
deep, sloping in on all sides, in one of the
bails. Fill to a depth of 3in. with a solution
of one tablespoonful of Cylline and 1J gallon
of water, and bail the animal up in this for
eight hours. Water and feed on a concrete
floor and put her in again for eight hours next
day. If you have a great many cows, place
them in the bath for three hours each out of
the 24. Usually in about three days the lame-
ness ceases, and the wound will heal in about
six weeks. A small bath sft. long and 2ft.
wide could be made, and a bag secured the full
length across the bath and behind the animal
will serve to hold the solid portion of their
faeces, which could be emptied three times a
day if necessary.
Outback Occupations.
No. XXII.
CHANGING TO CHARCOAL.
“Look here, Dad,” says young Tom,
“y' get this gadget put on the tractor,
an’ then burn charcoal in it an’ the char-
coal makes gas an’ the gas goes inter the
cylinders an’ is compressed an’ then the
spark ignites it an’ it’s just the same as
if y’ had petrol or kerosene, see! Only
cheaper.”
So one day there arrives a gas-producer
with instructions how to affix it to the
tractor. It’s a queer-looking thing—a sort
of cross between a laundry copper and
the pump down on the river—and, not
being very familiar with technical terms,
you hand the book of instructions over
to the boys and let them go at it.
But first you have to get charcoal. You
go up into the timbered paddock and
set fire to some logs and then you come
back and take the 100-gallon tank full
of water up there. Soon you have a
couple of hundred logs burning. It takes
a long time to get round them all, throw-
ing water on to put the fire out and
make charcoal, and by the time the day
is out you’re pretty tired.
That night you return to the homestead,
take the old horse out of the water-cart,
and triumphantly carry half a wheat-bag
of charcoal over to the tractor and drop
it beside the plant.
“There y’ are, Tom ; that ought to give
y’ a good start,” you say.
Tom eyes the half-sack of fuel dis-
appointedly. “How long you reckon
that’ll last?” he asks disdainfully. You
don’t know, and say so. He says maybe
half an hour. You point out drily that
if it takes a man, a horse and a water-
cart all day to collect a half-bag of char-
coal and that half-bag will run the tractor
only a half-hour, howinell does he reckon
charcoal is cheaper than kerosene? He
starts to talk, but you are tired and
dirty, and there are several red spots
and stinging blisters which you collected
among the burning logs, and you tell him
you think the whole idea is cranky. With
that, you stalk away to the house.
That night, knowing that you’ve had
tea and are feeling better, Tom opens
out on you. He says that you have to
pick your wood for charcoal and hard-
wood is the best.
You point out that belar is the hardest
wood on the place, and if anyone can
burn it you’ll buy the drinks. Suddenly,
while Tom and Dick are both yabbering,
you get a brilliant idea. You offer no
more argument, but go off to bed, chuck-
ling to yourself.
Next morning you address the boys
and spring your idea.
“Well, seein’ as you fellows know so
much about it, you can go up today and
collect charcoal. I’m goin’ inter town
to the sheep sale.” They look at each
other in alarm, and Dick says, “AW,
Dad, it’s Tom’s idea, not mine.” You
insist on both doing the job, and give
vent to more chuckles as you go out
to the car.
It’s a big sale, and what with the
fellows you meet and so forth, it’s
nearly dark when you get back. From
a great, red glow near the house two
black and scorched figures greet you.
Smoke and steam rise from a heap of
embers. One grimy youth that looks
like Tom enthusiastically explains how
they first carted the timber to the yard,
then burned and doused it. A grimy fist
indicates a big stack of filled bags.
Charcoal, tons of it. A sudden pride in
these lads of yours fills you. Why, they’ve
got more brains than the rest of the dis-
trict put together.
You step forward through the smoky
dusk to have a closer look at the bags.
Your right foot drops down and a cloud
of fine ashes, hot and infiltrating, flies
up and envelops you at the same time
as your right foot bites you in several
places. With a yell you spring back.
With a laugh Tom says, “That’s the
trench Dick dug and filled with mallee
and sandalwood. He thought it might
make into charcoal but it only went to
ash.”
“I see,” you remark, sitting down and
wondering how badly your foot is burnt,
and trying to get the ashes from your
throat and nose.
Next morning, having slept rather fit-
fully with a right foot bound in oil-soaked
bandages, you rise a little later than
usual and go to the back door to survey
the day.
Tom and Dick, up and comparatively
clean again, are busy with the tractor ;
Tom with the engine, and Dick doing
things with the gas-producer at the
rear.
Full of interest, you go out to watch.
Just as you arrive Tom gives the starting
handle a twist, the tractor coughs a
couple of times, shudders, heaves a deep
sigh and relaxes into silence. Dick comes
from the rear and watches Tom, who
takes a screwdriver and does things to
the machine’s inside.
Tom gives the handle another turn.
The tractor gives one preliminary cough,
hesitates, then bursts out barking like
a kelpie in a drafting-yard. Tom springs
to the seat and fiddles with the throttle
control. The barks increase their tempo
until they become a steady roar. Gaily
Tom starts the machine, swings her round
and goes for a preliminary round of the
paddock. You go into breakfast.
You are on your fourth egg when a
clap of thunder comes. Puzzled, you
look at the sky through the window, then
step to the door. Dick is running up the
paddock. Ahead of him there is no
sign of the tractor or Tom, but somebody
has started a fire judging by the thick
black smoke in one spot. Suddenly you
start running, forgetting your sore foot.
Out of the smoke Dick comes running
back, and behind him, running in the
same direction, is Tom. You stop, blown.
Dick charges past. Then comes Tom.
His eyes look wild, his clothing is burnt.
He is gasping words as he runs: “Silly
young cow (puff) forgot to (puff) turn
off the feed pipe (puff) from the (puff)
fuel tank!”
You lean on the fence. The boys will
settle their own problem ; yours is to
get horses hard enough to do the fallow-
ing.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4|d. per line; all others at
21d. per line. , ,
Names—though required as a guarantee of good faith —are not now publishe
unless it is clear that the writers don t object.
For a reasoned defence of the kind of editor who is regretted so often, a South
Australian gets the double-rates award.
Headlines
The remarks of George Graham (B.
29/5/’4O) about optimistic press reports
are true, but is the editor always to
blame? He is a business employee, and
his job is to increase the circulation of
the paper.
The public demands headlines —the
bigger the better —and he must supply
the large type. The man in the street
craves for excitement rather than the
truth. A plain, unvarnished tale, set up
in small print, would not sell, and would
seldom be read even if given away gratis.
The layout of the paper must be made
many hours before it reaches the break-
fast table. It is the result of hand-
winnowing a few grains of fact from
bushels of cocky-chaff, local, inter-State
and international. The worried editor
has actually less time to think about the
“general situation” than the reader who
leisurely studies the f.a.q. sample. And
what is written in good faith may be
officially contradicted before it is read,
and the brilliant leader or feature com-
posed at midnight may be weevily by
7 a.m.
“Constant subscribers” prefer their
war clouds served up with silver linings.
If the tints are too bright the editor is
not penalised. If they are too dark he is
branded as a defeatist and is requested
by his employers and his customers to
show cause why.
During the Boer War I was selling
papers in a city. The staid “Honest lohn”
told the truth and told it ever, without
cross headings, even during the long hunt
for De Wet and his men. Then there
arose an opposition penny “Ananias”
that captured De Wet and his commando
every morning in headings with knobs on.
Its circulation soared, while that of the
other flopped. Thousands of otherwise
sane citizens bought both papers —one
for information and one for pleasant sen-
sation.
The owners of “Honest John” in-
structed their editor to “use more imagi-
nation.” He refused and was promptly
sacked. He was really given the boot by
the public, which preferred the leeks, the
garlic and the onions of journalism to
the insipid manna of the printed word. —
Special Edition (S.A.).
Power Alcohol
There are three misstatements by “Cho”
(B. 15/5/’4O) in the one short sentence —
“though molasses is a waste product the
methylated spirits produced from it can
hardly compete with petrol at current
prices.” Molasses is used in Australia
to make methylated spirits, power alcohol,
acetone, butyl solvents, rum, yeast and
as a fertiliser, a fodder and a fuel. It
has a definite commercial value.
Power alcohol and methylated spirits
are by no means one and the same thing,
and it ill behoves anyone who is making
a “critical examination” of a new Aus-
tralian industry to display such ignorance
and spread such confusing ideas. And if
power alcohol cannot compete with
petrol, why is it that eleven and one-third
million gallons of ordinary grade petrol,
plus two million gallons of power alcohol,
are now being sold in Australia as
thirteen and one-third million gallons of
super quality petrol every year?
Power alcohol cannot be made in Aus-
tralia at as low a price as the landed
cost of ordinary-grade petrol, but users
maintain it is the best substance in com-
mercial usage for mixing with ordinary
grade petrol to make a super quality
petrol. It produces no carbon in an
engine, and trucks and ’buses in service
have operated for over 50,000 miles with-
out changing the spark plugs or removing
the head for valve grinding.
A mixture of 15 p.c. to 20 p.c. power
alcohol and the remainder ordinary grade
petrol —the best refined petrol—is the
optimum mixture for the modern auto-
mobile at its present stage of design.
Fifteen gallons of power alcohol mixed
with 85 gallons of this ordinary grade
petrol not only makes an automobile fuel
of greater power and acceleration than
most super quality petrols, but gives a
mileage equal to, or better than, 100
gallons of petrol. When, to this per-
formance, now established by actual
practice, we add the fact that power
alcohol is made in Australia from Aus-
tralian material by Australian-owned
companies, we must recognise it for the
great asset it is, particularly at the present
time. —R. W. Harman, D.Sc. (N.S.W.).
Churchill
To give Churchill his due, he is some-
thing of a strategist; but he always seems
to underestimate the enemy —an unpar-
donable and dangerous trait in any
leader. At Gallipoli he attempted to
cross the peninsula with an army which,
the commander warned him, was far too
small. Information disclosed after the
war proved General Hamilton correct.
Churchill does not appear to have
learned from previous mistakes. He, of
all the British leaders, appeared to realise
the importance of Trondhjem, but again
he underestimated the enemy. He re-
fused permission for the Navy to enter
the fiord —partly because two Allied
forces were reported to be operating suc-
cessfully north and south of Trondhjem
—resulting in the loss of this important
base.
The man who successfully stormed
Zeebrugge with a handful of madmen
would not fail to carry a naval engage-
ment in Trondhjem Fiord to a satisfac-
tory conclusion with a North Sea battle
squadron at his command. So it was of
interest that Sir Roger Keyes was shortly
afterwards appointed Naval Attache at
Brussels. That’s one means of dispos-
ing of a dangerous critic.
Churchill is spectacular. He talks
fight and appeals to the crowd. No doubt
he will finally lead the Empire to vic-
tory, but first he must learn not to over-
rule his generals and admirals. —A. W. B.
(N.S.W.).
Chamberlain
“T. 0.” is unjust to Baldwin and
Chamberlain, particularly, in pronounc-
ing them responsible for Britain’s neglect
of her defences after the Great War (B.
5/ 6/ ’4O). The blame must be borne by
the British people. Obsessed by the
chimera of “collective security,” the great
mass of Britons; in the 1920’s and early
1930’5, were opposed to heavy expendi-
ture on defence. Had any British Govern-
ment attempted to institute a compre-
hensive defence policy, it would have
committed political suicide.
The Italo-Abyssinian war, by exposing
what a hollow sham was “collective
security,” brought the average English-
man back to a sense of reality. In 1936
Baldwin was able to institute a rearma-
ment programme. Chamberlain did not
become Prime Minister till 1937, and then
he greatly extended the scope of British
rearmament. It was not his fault that
England was not as strong on land and
in the air as Germany when the present
war commenced. Germany had had
three years’ start, and her system of
government enabled Hitler to mobilise
the whole resources and man-power of
the State to the purpose in hand. Cham-
berlain could not do the same because
he did not have the powers.
Chamberlain’s foreign policy was
directed to keeping his country, if pos-
sible, at peace until the rearmament
programme had been completed. He was
also determined that, as long as he held
the British Prime Ministership, the
Empire would not be involved in any
war in which the other side would have
the moral advantage. Hence he ignored
the clamor of politicians and editors who
wanted England to intervene in the
Spanish Civil War —on the Red side —
which would'have meant war with several
other countries, would have divided the
Empire, and would have alienated those
good customers of England the South
American republics. .
It was fortunate for the Empire that
such a levelheaded man directed Eng-
land’s destinies during the past three
difficult years. One less patient and
considerate of the point of view of other
Governments might well have plunged
the Empire into a war in which both the
odds and the sympathy of the world
would have favored the enemy.—Tom
(N.S.W.).
That section of the British press which
has never forgiven Chamberlain for re-
fusing to obey its demands that the
Empire should be risked on behalf of
Red Spaniards, Chinese and others is
now howling for his dismissal from the
Churchill Cabinet, and is dutifully fol-
lowed by its Australian imitators. . .
The old man is blamed for “Britain’s
tragic unpreparedness.” How any man
could have corrected the position brought
about by Ramsay MacDonald’s disarma-
ment policy and the Baldwin -Govern-
ment’s pathetic faith in Geneva in the
short time at Chamberlain’s disposal is
not explained. At the worst, Chambei-
lain gained 12 months for Britain and its
ally, who, in September, 1938, was even
more desperately unprepared than the
Motherland.
Perhaps Chamberlain should fade out,
along with other old and tired men,
but to vilify a man who did his darnedest
to avoid war in the face of a concerted
shrieking for “action” by a crowd of
ignorant and bellicose editors who never
expected that, when it did come, they
were likely to be among the bombs is
a woeful reminder of the depths to which
journalism has sunk—O. T. (N.S.W.).
A New Warfare
A drastic change is necessary in our
conception of battlefields. Where,
hitherto, in a war of positions, infantry
has always been used as the spearhead
in attack, and, when dug in, as the main
bulwark against attack, it is now obvious
that infantry, armed with rifle and
bayonet, grenade and light machine-gun,
is a weapon of the past.
No infantry, unless in a fortress such
as the Maginot or the Siegfried Line, has
a hope of survival against a mechanised
attack supported by low-flying aero-
planes. Even in the last war, the low-
flying ’plane—and these were not very
numerous —was dreaded more than any
other offensive weapon, for infantry in
shallow trenches had no protection
against the flier. What the conditions
are now can easily be imagined by those
of us who went through the last war.
With bombing ’planes taking the place
of artillery, and with the onslaught of
heavy mechanised forces smashing all be-
fore them, war must become a war of
movement. In previous wars consolida-
tion after an attack was the first duty
of advancing troops, but advance is so
fast now that such consolidation would
not only be useless, but it would also
leave the infantry either too far forward
or too far back.
We learned most of our methods of
warfare from the Germans in the last
war, and it is patent that we shall have
to unlearn some of them if we wish
successfully to combat the new blitzkrieg.
—Toxites (W.A.).
Don’t Be Fooled Again
The coal strike failed. Possibly because
of that failure, our politicians assured us
that Communist activity was a matter of
little concern. Communists were busily
white-anting Australia long before the
term “Fifth Columnist” arose out of the
Soviet-inspired struggle in Spain, and, de-
spite Government “restrictions,” they are
still on the job.
After the brief howls of rage and dis-
may aroused by Russia’s treacherous in-
vasion of Poland and Finland, an all-
pervading silence regarding Red activi-
ties descended on the daily press. The
only time Russia is mentioned is when
something may be said which tends to
place Comrade Joe in a more favorable
light. Because Stalin is not openly en-
gaged in the present conflict, the flapper
press is gradually restoring him to his
former position as the peace dove.
The Communist machine works at its
best underground. It should be recog-
nised by now that where Russia is con-
cerned no news is bad news. It must not
be forgotten that one of the foremost
planks in the Comintern’s platform is the
disintegration of the British Empire. To
that end, Communist agents in every land
under British rule work ceaselessly,
spreading their subversive doctrines,
organising discontent and disruption,
slowing up national effort and efficiency
and weakening loyalty to the mother
country. Every movement or suggested
movement which tends to co-ordinate the
national spirit is immediately condemned
by the Reds as a contrivance of capi-
talism.
The public memory is notoriously
short, and public opinion childishly fal-
lible, and it is that very trait which Com-
munists turn to their best advantage. For
the moment, at any rate, the danger from
Nazi Fifth Columnists is comparatively
negligible, but the Communist machine
moves on practically unhindered. Our
French ally has shown us how to deal
with Reds in a national crisis. Our own
Government can barely summon up the
courage to mention them. — Nairb (Vic.).
Leaflets
Our leaflet propaganda may have been
anaemic (B. 29/ 5/ ’4O), but there was no-
thing wrong with the idea, except that we
expected it to show results too quickly,
and to show them un-reinforced by mili-
tary aid. Now, when the hospital trains
are telling the Germans that they have a
real war on their hands at last, it is the
very time it should be persevered with,
even at the cost of slightly weakening our
night bombing.
We have plenty to say to those Ger-
mans who trusted Hitler to give them
world domination without war; to those
who are driven to the limit in the hope
that they may rest after this summer; to
those who saw victory turned into defeat
in the last war; and, most of all, to the
youths who are learning now (nor should
we neglect photograph propaganda) that
war isn’t exactly the glorious adventure
it seemed in schoolroom and camp.—
B. S. Driver (S.A.).
R.A.A.F. Fitters
James Mahoney (B. 5/6/’4O) has
wandered far from the truth. At May 25
there were 1343 R.A.A.F. recruits under-
going courses of instruction as “fitter
trainees” in technical colleges at Adelaide,
Melbourne, Canberra and Sydney. As
soon as the necessary barracks are com-
pleted this “fitter trainee” scheme will be
extended to technical colleges at Perth,
Newcastle, Brisbane and other centres.
The R.A.A.F. was not slow to recog-
nise the shortage of fully-trained fitters
and took immediate steps to train men
who fell just short of the required
standard. Only a week ago additional
accommodation was secured near the
Sydney Technical College, and a greatly
increased number of trainees is now re-
ceiving instruction. These men are not
being trained for a few hours only each
day, as stated by “J.M.,” but are re-
ceiving instruction throughout the day.
—A. G. (N.S.W.).
Creative Workers
In England there has been some pro-
vision made for the creative worker who
is likely to go under during the war.
There have been well-patronised art
shows for artists, the National Book
Councils have tried to maintain the
public’s interest in reading, and the
8.8. C. has co-operated. Australian
artists get a pretty raw deal at any time,
but surely something could be done to
assist them over what threatens to be the
leanest time of their lives. — Outsider
(Vic.).
Paper-saving
The day that the restrictions on the size
of newspapers and periodicals were an-
nounced, I received a five-line letter from
a Government department. A quarto
size sheet was used where a piece half
that size would have done.
The same day, I* bought a packet of
cigarettes which had round it a totally
unnecessary wrapping. My wife
bought tea, staich, cornflakes, cornflour
and flaked oats, every one of which was
in a packet instead of being in a paper-
bag, in which case much less paper and
cardboard would have been used. Also,
three advertisements, none of them of
particular interest to either of us, arrived
through the post, using between them the
equivalent of three quarto sheets of paper
(and, of course, three envelopes).
The envelope as a medium for carry-
ing letters has only been in general use
during comparatively modern times. Why
not make envelopes illegal on sealed
letters for the duration of the war? They
could be secured by pieces of gummed
paper about postage-stamp size.— Hack
(S.A.).
Waste
The N. S. Wales Harbors and Rivers
Department has had a dredge working
for 18 months (weekly cost over £5O)
dredging an arm of a river which has
not been used for several years. While
the dredging was in operation the wharf
towards which the dredge was working


was being demolished, and the materials
comprising it have since been sold by
tender. The arm dredged, the mud was
deposited on the low-lying bank which
is subjected to flooding at extra high
tides, so it is almost certain that the
result of 18 months’ work will eventually
return to its original home.
Several months were spent in over-
hauling the dredge, and it is now
operating in another portion of the river,
despite the fact that the only vessels
using the river are two droghers working
less than half time.
For over 18 months the relief workers
were using about 40 bags of cement daily
repairing the breakwater at the entrance
to the river. Just how much money has
been wasted in this manner is hard to
estimate, but there is a Ministerial
promise that another dredge will arrive
soon to clear out the channel. No boat
has entered the river for several years
now, the tug has gone and also the pilot,
though a launch goes over the bar once
each week, takes soundings and gets
six lovely quid for doing it.
Meanwhile the N. S. Wales Railway
Department has a highly-paid officer
canvassing those parts of the State which
can be served by boats for freights at
greatly reduced rates. So on one hand
there is one State department spending
a small fortune to make the river safe
for traffic, and on the other there is
another department doing its damnedest
to see that no freights shall be sea-borne.
—A.W. (N.S.W.).
The Oracle Cheops
Where was “M.M.” (B. 5/6/’4O) on
September 16, 1936? For almost a
hundred years, prophets, astrologers,
students of the Pyramids, etc., have pro-
claimed noon on that date to be an hour
of importance. Perhaps something un-
toward did happen, which is known only
to the pyramidologists, but whatever it
was it just passed me by.
I’ve followed the pyramidologists, step
by step, through every inch of the main
interior route of the Great Pyramid of
Cheops. They were armed with tape-
measures, notebooks, rulers, and what-
not. Armageddon, according to them
and their readings, is scheduled for 1953.
What we’re having now is, I suppose, a
sort of try-out. The pyramidologists
were wrong about the date of the signing
of the Armistice in 1918.
For my own part I put as much faith
in Johanna Southcott’s box as I do in the
Great Pyramid. Johanna left a trunk
which was only to be opened when Eng-
land was in dire peril, and then only in
the presence of seven bishops (C. of E.).
During the last war they did open a box
which was supposed to have belonged to
Johanna, and all they found in it was a
packet of nails and suchlike junk. The
Southcottians say that was the wrong
box.
You can’t bowl these prophets out.
Reminds me of a story of the late W. G.
Grace. He went in to bat one day at
some local match. First ball down
grazed his off stump and removed the
bail. Grace simply turned round, picked
up the bail and, after remarking to the
wicketkeeper “Bit windy today,” went on
batting. Angus Mac Abracadabra
(N.S.W.).
War in Miniature
My little corner store is halfway be-
tween two bigger shops that are running
a price-cutting campaign. A is selling
many leading lines under cost in an
effort to starve out B. He has bought
over B’s best canvasser at a larger salary,
and the cream of his customers with
him. Bis fighting back by cutting prices
to the bone and giving extended credit to
the clients who remain faithful.
Both firms are heading for bankruptcy,
but neither will give in as long as the
wholesalers provide financial backing.
Meanwhile I’m being ruined, though not
a belligerent, for I can’t afford either to
give credit or cut prices. I can only
dress my windows and hope that one or
other of the big shops will blow out
before I’m busted.
There’s plenty of room for all of us
if we could only agree, but A wants to
buy B out and start a “chain.” There
is no legal authority to stop the “compe-
tition” or to help me to f balance my
budget. Business is business. I’m a
pacifist, but I can’t help wishing there
was some sort of association big enough
to blow A to blazes all the same.
Maybe the wholesalers—who are also
neutral —will see that A will hurt their
pocket whether he goes through the hoop
himself or shoves B through it. They
might then take a hand by refusing to
supply him with goods unless he agrees
to use fair methods. But they’re deadly
slow. — Warifist (S.A.).
Taxation
While it is correct to say that the use
of relief stamps has brought thousands
into the taxpaying fold (B. 22/5/’4O),
there are still thousands who let others
stand the-burden.
Working as an accountant in a small
farming and tourist district I have found
that at least 25 p.c. of those who should
send in returns never do, while quite
a number who do expect me to fix them
up to show anything but their true in-
come. In fact, my insistence on the truth
and the production of the bank pass-
book often does me out of a job.
My point, however, is not the accuracy
of the returns, but the failure of so many
people to send them in and, to a lesser
extent, the failure of small employers to
fix the necessary stamps in the stamp
books. It is difficult to say how they
could be brought into line without the
extra taxation received being eaten up
by the cost of policing the scheme, but
if all those on electoral rolls were re-
quired to furnish returns, irrespective of
income, it would be a simple matter to
check off the returns against the rolls.
In regard to accuracy of returns, the
only remedy is to have them compiled
by a competent authority, who could be
paid on a sliding scale with a fixed
minimum charge.—F. I. A. (Vic.).
Unhealthy Homes
Why isn’t there a strict law compelling
landlords to paint all empty flats or
houses, or at least fumigate them, before
the new tenants move in?
A person in my neighborhood died re-
cently, suffering from the worst type of
skin disease. The flat was neither fumi-
gated nor painted, and inside a week it
was again occupied.
Landlords can’t possibly know every-
thing about all their tenants, but a law
enforcing precautionary measures for
cleanliness would give home-hunters a
better feeling of safety. Flatite
(N.S.W.).
Curable Diseases
Socialisation of medicine —a system
which would necessitate regular over-
hauling of every individual by specially
appointed medical men —would be one
way of assisting modern science to over-
come the difficulties regarding curable
diseases mentioned by “Retep” (B.
29/5/’4O).
The organisation of preventive medi-
cine would revolutionise the health and
hygiene of our national life and give a
better chance of recovery to many people
who, for various reasons, do not consult
a doctor until their condition is precarious.
It would also give the profession a fuller
acquaintance with the normal, as com-
pared with “morbid anatomy,” and per-
mit of diagnosis of certain malignant
diseases from their inception.
For the individual it would mean a
system of insurance against ill-health and
disease and would promote a happier,
healthier future generation.— Pequena
(S.A.).
Contentment
Small wonder if “H.J.McL.” has dif-
ficulty in defining contentment (B.
29/5/’4O). Just as cold is the absence
of heat, contentment is the absence of
ambition or covetousness or the “Excel-
sior” spirit. It is an entirely negative
quality which defies definition. Laziness
doesn’t enter into the argument. A man
may be quite “content” to lump wheat
all the days of his life.
Discontent can be divine or devilish
according to the direction it takes. It
made Adam eat the apple. It made
Alexander conquer one world and cry
for another to conquer. It inspired the
Curies to search for radium and Freud
to analyse “repression” or “frustration”
—or discontent.
A few saints and philosophers have
tried to arrive at the zero of content-
ment by self-denial, but they have always
been in the minority, though their idea
is the only practical one. Diogenes, sit-
ting in his tub while talking to Alexander,
was more content than the world con-
queror. Buddha was more content as a
beggar than as a powerful prince. Other
and even greater teachers of the same
doctrine had many hearers but few fol-
lowers. Not many men are so anxious
to pass through the eye of a needle that
they will drop their baggage. They prefer
to keep their “great” possessions and
remain “exceeding sorrowful.”
Solomon in all his glory was a miser-
able fool. He knew that a dinner of
herbs in peace was better than a stalled
ox and strife therewith, but he stuck to
his diet of juicy steak and vexation of
spirit.
“Thou shalt not covet” or “Be con-
tent” is the slogan of all the great reli-
gions. It is the practice of none. An
odd swallow here and there does not
make a summer, and a few “high souls’
do not make a religion, though they do
help to leaven this otherwise sodden
damper of a world. —Our Daily Bread
(S.A.).
Birth Control
From time to time, vast quantities of
righteous and moral indignation are
hurled from the pulpit and from certain
sections of the press at the poor defence-
less people who practise birth-control and
limit their families. They are called
selfish and told that they are committing
race suicide; that, if they persist in it,
the population will eventually be unable
to support itself. They are asked to feel
violent alarm over the alleged fact that
in 40 years’ time the population of
Britain will have sunk to 30,000,000,
though, in the fifteenth century, when
there were only about three and a half
millions, nobody seemed to be very
worried about it.
At the other end of the scale are the
people who point out the dangers of
population pressure, who talk of swarm-
ing nations and the resultant wars and
devastation, and of a world of
2,000,000,000 which is adding to itself at
the rate of 20,000,000 a year, thus bring-
ing a dire catastrophe nearer every day.
In the midst of this bombardment
birth-control still goes on, being influ-
enced more by practical commonsense
than by these extreme and alarmist
opinions. At the root of much of the
condemnation of birth-control is the
desire of some to see a large class of
people existing for the purpose of doing
the manual work and the fighting. Even
the Communists would prefer increased
population because that would mean in-
creased unemployment and a consequent
hastening of the proletarian uprising.
A realistic view of the position makes
ordinary people hesitate to bring too
many new lives into a world devoid of
peace and security. The impulse to
parenthood will not be denied, but an
excess of it in present circumstances is
avoided. It is economic and inter-
national conditions which determine the
birthrate, particularly in these days when
wars are fought and felt by entire nations
and not by hired armies, and my belief
is that the babies will arrive when the
world is made fit for them to live in.
—-Anither (Q.).
Wheat for Farmers
Badly wanted is an arrangement
whereby poultry-farmers and pig-raisers
can buy small quantities of grain from
the Wheat Board, especially in districts
where surplus wheat is stored. Sales in
this way would be on a cash basis, and
they would help to reduce the present
heavy overdraft carried by the board.
Potential buyers have been told that
they can obtain wheat from produce mer-
chants and storekeepers, but buying in
this way means that the extra cost is Is.
to Is. 6d. a bushel in districts where the
wheat is grown, stacked in railway yards
and, in many instances, damaged by
mice.
Lack of facilities for direct purchase
of wheat has hampered the pig-raising
industry—and Britain needs Australian
bacon. Huge quantities of wheat remain
unsold, and it may be impossible to ship
much of that already sold before next
harvest. If sales were simplified, much
of the surplus wheat could be used in
Australia, an important factor when it is
considered that a baconer, weighing
1501 b., is worth about 985., and would
not take up the shipping space of a bag
of wheat valued at 10s. —Cow Time
(N.S.W.).
Trees
Why haven’t our Governments the
power to control landholders who ill-
treat the land they hold? The position is
such that, with erosion and timber de-
pletion becoming more serious every
year, the Government of at least one
State has been forced to admit that it
“has no power” to prevent the harmful
cutting of timber on freehold and per-
petual-lease lands. Yet men can be im-
prisoned for embezzling funds they hold
for others.
Timber (because of the possible severe
curtailment of supplies from overseas
and because of the erosion-prevention
value of trees) is like gold to all Australia,
and those having timber on their proper-
ties should be looked on as holding
national funds that must not be abused.
—Eucalyptoides (S.A.).
Trees and Billboards
A drive on the Blue Mountains
(N.S.W.) road now gives the same im-
pression as listening to a B-class broad-
casting station, and brings to mind the
little verse that appeared some time
ago on my desk calendar:
I think that I shall never see
A billboard lovely as a tree ; ....
And perhaps, unless the billboards fall,
I’ll never see a tree at all.
—F. B. (N.S.W.).
Enlarged Imports
According to the Statistical Bulletin
of the Commonwealth Bank for May,
the flow of imports of merchandise in
recent months has been at the rate of
about £A 180,000,000 for a year. If this
rate continues for the rest of the finan-
cial year we shall have imported about
£24,000,000 worth more than in 1938-39.
If our war effort in the production of
war necessities is really going to increase
we shall be exporting less and less. Then
what?
How much of this import increase is
due to unnecessary buying? Most of the
newspapers are still saturated with syn-
dicated slops from Hollywood. Has any
attempt been made to cut down the im-
portation of films from America? I still
see perfume being sold in Sydney at £2
or £3 per bottle. I see women waddling
around with imported grease and paint
and powder smeared all over their faces.
It was announced in the press the other
day that paper for the press is going to
be rationed, and yet the papers still come
out with yards and yards of alleged
“news” about dog-racing, horse-racing,
football, etc. And we still have yards of
“news” about Mrs. Humphnong’s cock-
tail party and Miss Thruster’s approach-
ing nuptials.
It will be a case of Guns or Gutter
before we’ve finished, and we might as
well face the fact right now.— Xenon
(N.S.W.).
Tracts and Tractarians
With a kind of missionary zeal they
travel from house to house, even enter-
ing hospitals, or they flood letter-boxes
with pamphlets. In trams, trains, streets
one is confronted by these propagandists.
Often they are persistent to the point of
rudeness, and at times become aggressive
and insulting. Sometimes the matter they
print is libellous and even disloyal.
Two instances from personal experi-
ence : From a woman in Maoriland, quite
unknown to me, I received a long scur-
rilous attack on the clergy of all denomi-
nations. Secondly, on the day after the
announcement of my mother’s death, 1
received through the post detailed in-
structions as to the only way whereby I
might meet her in the skies.
I hesitate to advocate suppression of
any sect or form of belief, but the prose-
lytising pest should be exterminated. —
Bly (N.S.W.).
Fair Play for Players
The writers of “letters to the editor”
are always with us and their style has not
changed since 1914-18. Som'e of them
specialise in presenting literary white
feathers to the athletes who are not in
khaki or air-blue. They view with horror
the spectacle of physically-fit young men
exhibiting their prowess on the sports
field, and shriek “shame” at them
through the open columns of the press.
It is an inexpensive form of patriotism
which is often mistaken and sometimes
cruel.
Why should the players in shorts be
singled out for this form of conscription
while the barrackers in civvies are left
out of the picture?
Many of the youths who give “dazz-
ling” displays of agility are as unfit for
service in the ranks as trotters and
hurdlers would be for the artillery.
Several world-famous performers have
offered and been turned down. One of
my friends, a crack footballer, a fearless
horseman, a racing cyclist, and seemingly
as strong as a lion, was accepted and
passed every test till he was required to
slog a ten-mile march in full service kit.
One glance at his swollen ankles by the
M.O. was sufficient. “Too much foot-
ball” was the verdict, and out he went.
There are many other equally innocent
“shirkers” being subjected to slander
against which they have no legal protec-
tion.
Some of their accusers are financially,
if not physically, fit. Volunteers are be-
ing called for to offer the “sinews of
war” that are just as necessary as the
muscles of warriors. Are the letter-
writers doing their bit by writing their
names on the necessary cheques? If
not willing to conscript their own wealth
let them for ever hold their peace about
other people’s health, which, once sacri-
ficed, can never be repaid with interest.
—Mote and Beam (S.A.).


ẁ
Straight thinking is an antidote to despondency, a proved means of discharging
efficiently our immediate work and obligations, and a very valuable contribution to
the cause for which we are fighting.
The Pelman Institute—with every Pelman student—knows that Pelmanism is an
effective instrument for the development of the power to think straight, of the efficiency
that is demanded today as it was in 1914-18, when 160 Admirals and Generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks went through the Pelman training.
Readers of “The Bulletin” are invited to
obtain a copy of “The Efficient Mind” and
learn exactly what Pelmanism can do for
them. Address inquiries to The Pelman
Institute, 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.
Pelmanism is the scientific training of the
Mind, Memory and Personality. The Pelman
Institute has been established in Melbourne
for 33 years. its Headquarters are in
London. More than 44,000 men and women
in Australia, New Zealand and the Islands
have enrolled with the Melbourne Branch.
ẃ
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
+
• /
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
xl
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
“Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra)
by Brian
“LANDTAKERS,’
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the „
Australian National -i
Character. 500 < »’ (ft 6
pages. Price 5/-
( S P /eTa). V
fs 0°
aft)
/
«.e*\
••
n\<" .•••'co'.-^»V6^ e '*’


ẅ
w
THE NAVY ....
THE ARMY . . . .
THE AIR FORCE
GOVERNMENT DEPTS.
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CIVI L AVIATION
SHIP OWNERS
AIRLINES
ŵ
