

The Spirit of
COMMONWEALTH
lONAL LIBRARY
u
That's the Spirit
99
MORE MILES... MORE POWER...LOWER UPKEEP
Purr-Pull’s continued existence as an
Independent Company demands that
it shall produce and market a Motor
Spirit that is superior to any other.
THERE'S NO SUBSTITUTE FOR PURR-PULL
Always DRIVE ON to the PURR-PULL PUMP
<<
ALWAYS INDEPENDENT
INDEPENDENT OIL INDUSTRIES, FEDERAL ROAD, GLEBE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3145.
Wednesday, May 22, 1940.
Who Said It Was “Phony”?
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
SIXTH S. H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Entries for this year's S. H. Prior Memorial Prize will close in two
weeks’ time—on June 6, 1940. The prize will be awarded for the
prose work—fiction, biography, autobiography, history, etc. —that is
considered the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries should be typewritten, and must be submitted under a nora-de-
plume, and the correct name and address of the author, with the nom-
de-plume, must accompany the MS. in a sealed envelope. All rights,
including book, serial, dramatic, cinema and radio, are reserved to the
author, subject to the proviso that “The Bulletin” shall have the option
to purchase the first Australian serial rights of any work submitted.
Entries will be acknowledged through the columns of “The Bulletin.”
The value of this year’s prize is £3OO, of which £2OO represents
accumulations from previous years when no award was made. The
Trustees shall have the right to withhold the prize if no work sub-
mitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award.
Further particulars can be had by writing to
THE TRUSTEES, S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
“Bulletin” Office, Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney
tn
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Tree
liooklvt explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
The Red Page
"WIND, SAND AND STARS."
One useful phrase in a futile sermon
by C. E. M. load recently reviewed here
was “the snobbery of anti-culture.” It
means the. cult of toughness in con-
temporary novels, not only in subject-
matter, but in style. Possibly, as Joad
suggested, the fashion is the result of a
spiritual barrenness and timidity; more
probably it is a phase of Leftism, the
oafs and idiots and drunkards of Hem-
ingway and Steinbeck being Rousseau’s
“noble savages” in a modern disguise.
At any rate, it is a relief to read Antoine
de Saint-Exupery’s Wind, Sand and Stars
(Heinemann; Angus and Robertson),
which, telling of adventures as daring and
men as tough as in any he-man novel,
is couched in language of the deliberate
purity of the prose of Yeats and presents
its aviators in the spirit with which
Homer presented his herpes.
Saint-Exupery has so sure a touch in
prose that he can take liberties that woulej
terrify the proletarians'!’ Pe can describe
a tablecloth laid fbr dirrher as “a feast
of snow and crystal” ; can speak of the
pilot of a fiying-boaf his ship
from the water in gdkture■ ientler than
the culling of a flower” ; can write a
sentence such as “What cap one . know
of a girl who passes, walking with slow
steps homeward, eyes lowered, smiling
to herself, filled with adorable inven-
tions and with fables?” ; in effect, he can
play with the jewelled phrases and emo-
tional elegancies of the ’nineties and yet,
because these spring naturally from a
style in which sensitiveness is synony-
mous with strength, the writing is neither
precious nor effeminate. It has the tone
of French poetry since Baudelaire, an
idiom in which delicacy and virility are
not incompa'tibles. The translator,
Lewis Galantiere, has done his work
admirably.
It is significant of the rare quality of
Wind, Sand and Stars that one has to
bring great names into the discussion of
it. In the autobiography of an aviator
heroic incident is not unexpected, but
loftiness of style and depth of philosophy
are not at all the usual thing in the
book of a man of action. As if he realises
his own improbability, Saint-Exupery
offers a remarkable defence of the
machine, picturing himself and his fellow-
airmen as the forerunners of a new kind
of man, masters of a mechanical civili-
sation in which the bulk of mankind, still
fumbling with the machine like a bar-
barian with a new toy, has not yet
learnt to live.
Admitting that a decline in human
values has accompanied the rise of the
machine, he insists that this is purely
temporary:
We lack perspective for the judgment
of transformations that go so deep. What
are the hundred years ot the history of the
machine compared with the two hundred
thousand years of the history of man? It
was only yesterday that we began to pitch
our camp in this country of laboratories and
power stations, that we took possession of
this new, this still unfinished house we live
in. We Europeans have become again young
peoples, without tradition or language of
our own. We shall have to age somewhat
before we are able to write the folksongs of
a new age.
That recalls Wyndham Lewis and his
picture of the Nazis as “the most
efficient exponents of contemporary
machine-age barbarism.”
: Whether or not Saint-Exupery and his
companions are “new” men (as a matter
of fact pilots do regard themselves as
a race apart; but so, perhaps, do phila-
telists) he has certainly found a new way
of writing about airmen. Believing that
the machine does not isolate man from
the problems of nature but plunges him
more deeply into contact and conflict
with earth and weather, he is able to
make a pilot’s battle with a storm as
immediately real as a description of a
flood by Hardy or of turmoil at sea by
Conrad. His account of a fight with a
hurricane is an amazingly dramatic piece
of writing. Whirled and buffeted by the
wind, he says he realised for the first
time how certain accidents occur in the
mountains when there is no fog: “For a
single second, in a waltzing landscape
like this, the flier had been unable to
distinguish between vertical mountain-
sides and horizontal planes.” He touched
nightmare when he found that his hands
were numb —he was afraid that he would
let go of the controls and
never know he had done it.
He describes an extra-
ordinary storm-scene en-
countered by a fellow-pilot
in the “Black Hole” region, off Africa :
Great black waterspouts had reared them-
selves seemingly in the immobility of temple
pillars. Swollen at their tops, they were
supporting the squat and lowering arch of
the tempest, but through the rifts in the
arch there fell slabs of light, and the full
moon sent her radiant beams between the
pillars down upon the frozen tiles of the
sea. Through these uninhabited ruins
Mermoz made his way, gliding slantwise
from one channel of light to the next,
circling round those giant pillars, in which
there must have rumbled the upsurge of the
sea, flying for four hours through these
corridors of moonlight towards the exit
from the temple.
In his scenic descriptions Saint-Exupery
proves his own point that the airmen
have rediscovered the earth —or, rather,
seen its true face for the first time, be-
cause all previous observers have been
tied to the roads, and roads avoid the
deserts and the mountains and the jungles.
He tells of a crazy lunar landscape near
the Strait of Magellan, pitted with
hundreds of craters of extinct volcanoes,
lookingfrd t m the air like “gaping
howitzer mouths” ; and of an outcrop in
the Sahara where, after a forced landing,
he found meteorites that had rained on
thd ,for centuries, probably never
before seen by man.
Two narratives of lost aviators —his
friend Guillaumet among the snows of
the Andes, and himself and a mechanic
in the desert of Libya—have each the
quality of an epic. Guillaumet, “alone
in a cathedral of snow,” endured the
hardships of a polar explorer before he
was brought to safety by his resolution
to die where people could find him so
that his wife would be able to collect
the insurance without the delay necessi-
tated by a “presumed” death. Saint-
Exupery and his mechanic suffered
thirst, hunger and the worse torture of
hallucination. They kept seeing imagi-
nary rescuers.
As if this blend of poetry, philosophy
and adventure were not enough for one
book, Saint-Exupery adds stories of
desert tribesmen and of French soldiers
at lonely outposts, some of them brilliant
studies in character. There is the story
of Bonnafous, something of a T. E.
Lawrence ; of the Moors of the waterless
desert who were taken to France and,
after they had been shown a waterfall,
begged not to be taken away as they
wanted to wait till the miraculous torrent
stopped flowing ; of Bark, the freed slave,
who wandered in torment from the cafes
to the Berber prostitutes and back to the
cafes, searching for someone to rejoice
with him, and who, finding no one, spent
all his money on gifts for the poor
children of the city. In Night Flight,
his only other published work, Saint-
Exupery wrote a fine novel, and he
handles these short stories like an expert.
Wind, Sand and Stars concludes with
a noble and impartial description of
scenes in the Spanish war and an analysis
of the causes of war. With the Freudians,
he holds that the fundamental cause is
the restlessness of the young men, so
that war satisfies a want. “It is easy,”
he says, “to dig up wooden idols and
revive ancient and more or less workable
myths like pan-Germanism or the Roman
Empire, but... .it is not true that hatred
adds anything to the exaltation of the
race. To set man free it is enough to
realise that there does exist a goal to
wards which all mankind is striving.
And each sentinel among men is respon-
sible for the whole of the empire,”
Knockabout Autobiography.
Both in its simple directness of style
and its naive confessions of more or less
venial villainies, Weston Martyr’s The
Wandering Years (Blackwood, Ltd.) re-
sembles W. H. Davies’s Autobiography
of a Super Tramp. Martyr, who makes
a living now out of short stories (“Black-
wood’s Magazine” readers will know
them), takes his work seriously, writing
only a thousand words a week and spend-
ing three months on a story from con-
ception to completion, but he is less
successful than Davies as an auto-
biographer.
Instead of going ahead and writing his
experiences as the poet-tramp did, he
searches laboriously for pegs on which to
hang the story. He decides that he is
writing it with a moral purpose —as a
guide and warning to the young ; which
is nonsense. It is not a sermon, but, on
the whole, a gripping narrative of rough
living. He wastes much time vilifying
himself as stupid and unobservant, pro-
ceeding immediately afterwards to give
his intelligent observations of people and
countries. One of his pegs, largely true
no doubt, is the theme “I was born on
Vimy Ridge, at the age of thirty, during
a long and intense bombardment.” The
corollary, that before Vimy he was “a
poor, pathetic, cocksure, ignorant lout,”
is laboriously overemphasised.
Once he is into his stride, he tells a
good story. From early seafaring adven-
tures he brings yarns of skinflint owners,
leaky ships and sudden deaths caused by
rotten gear. He describes a terrifying
six hours steering through icebergs
crowded in a foggy sea. Comedy comes
in with the yarn of the skipper known
as Dirty Jones, who seldom wore any-
thing but a pair of pyjama trousers with
one leg rolled up to the knee and the
bottom of the other leg slipping down
over his carpet slippers. Martyr’s own
story begins in earnest when he deserts
a ship in South Africa just after the Boer
War and, unable to find work, reaches
such a state of starvation that he snatches
a loaf of bread from a man in the street.
The man gave him a job in a goldmine,
and provided Martyr with material for
anecdotes about murderous Chinese,
miner’s phthisis and King Pegs of brandy
and champagne.
Martyr took to the sea again on a ship
which was to repatriate Chinese miners,
most of them criminals whom China had
gladly exported. The Chinese had with
them a total of about £6OOO in sovereigns
and there was trouble all the way to
Shanghai. Seeking a life on land again,
Martyr went broke and was rescued by
one Sam, the buccaneering owner of a
tramp steamer. Having just been
deprived by a German patrol boat of a
nice load of pearlshell poached from the
Eastern Carolines, Sam was broke, too.
While Martyr lived on unboiled rice for
nine days, Sam went off in search of
cargo and came back with a mysterious
commission which involved the trans-
portation of a bevy of Chinese girls to
an island near Manila. Martyr says he
is ashamed of that venture.
There follows a series of more moder-
ately disreputable adventures as Sam and
the author traded around the South Sea
islands. They made another onslaught
on the forbidden pearlshell of the Caro-
lines, only to lose the loot in a typhoon.
When Sam was eventually arrested on
many charges in Japan, Martyr went
into commercial life. Still retaining his
swashbuckling proclivities while he
worked for various oil and shipping
companies, he financed Sam in a sea-otter
poaching trip to Petropavlovsk. Sam was
arrested again and Martyr had to bribe
the Russians to free him. At one time
during this period Martyr became tem-
porary secretary to Sir Henri Deterding.
He pictures the oil king as a man of
unflagging energy:
He had more brains and worked harder
than any man I have ever met. I remem-
ber him as a dark, sinister-appearing man,
prowling about my little office and dictating
to me interminable and dictatorial cable
messages in a brand of English most difficult
to understand. He had one weakness. He
thought his English was good, and he
snarled so fiercely at me if l asked him
to repeat a sentence that l soon made up
my mind to make a guess at any unintel-
ligible phrase. Then there would be a
flock of cables beginning “Are we right m
understanding ”
Leaving Sam somewhere up a river in
Kamchatka that was supposed to be
“solid with salmon,” Martyr sailed for
England when war broke out, and was
greeted at Victoria Station by a woman
who pinned a white feathet to his coat.
His war chapters are exciting without
flamboyance. Expressing his bitterness
at the sending of half-trained troops to
the front, he says that the first time he
led his platoon into the line —which was
no more than a series of shell-holes—he
led them on nearly to the German lines.
They were greeted with a shout of "Aha!
Do not be afraid. If you not shoot, we
not shoot. Here good Saxons are. We
do not. fight. Ja.” Martyr became a
sapper, and describes his emotions when,
tunnelling towards the German trenches,
he learned that the trench he had started
from had been taken by the enemy.
After post-war illnesses and troubles
he turned to story writing as a career,
sublimating the buccaneering spirit in
archery. He is a great advocate of the
simple life and parries all arguments in
favor of cities with the excellent paradox,
"! prefer to live in the country because
I am a man, not a sheep.”
Three Mysteries.
The first of the batch, Raymond Post-
gate’s Verdict of Twelve, isn’t really a
mystery at all, but it comes from The
Crime Club per Moore’s Bookshop, and
its subject is murder. The other couple
--Hilbert Footner’s Sinfully Rich
(Crime Club) and Give a Corpse a Bad
Name, by Elizabeth Ferrars (Hodder and
Stoughton)—have plenty of mystery and
to spare. Postgate is more concerned with
writing a good novel, and he succeeds
admirably. Characterisation is his chief
interest. Half the book is taken up with
introducing the men and women on a
jury panel, then he puts before them
the purely circumstantial evidence of an
in-no-way-spectacular murder and shows
their reaction. One of the jurors reacts
with some piquance, for in the past
she herself has committed a murder and
got away with it. Each member of the
jury comes to life ; the murderess, judge,
counsel are all skilfully drawn.
Hulbert Footner’s concern is to turn
out a close-knit story. For this one he
uses much the same ingredients as in his
recent The Murder That Had Every-
thing. He dips into the same melting
pot, New York cafe society and its
satellites, for his characters, changing
them round a little, drawing his hero
from the class in which he previously
found a villain and so on. The clues
are all there, tangled and hidden; it’s
a pity Footner has to rely so much cn
coincidence in bringing them to light.
He’s done much better, and it’s time he
realised that these sinfully-rich society
hangers-on are deadly uninteresting.
The unfortunate corpse of Miss
Ferrars’s Give a Corpse a Bad Name
and the half-dozen people its discovery
introduces to policemen and amateur
detectives are all well worth examining.
They form a tight little community, the
elite of a little English west county vil-
lage, and they’re all conditioned by
prejudices and ideals and little bits of
scandal they wish to hide. Toby Dyke
and friend George, who, hiking, waik in
on the mystery and stay to fathom it,
are pleasant lads ; their deductions are
clever, the denouement remarkably neat
and satisfying.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTlSlNG” —completing the highest conception of modern business.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
?o
az.
cO
\*u c
w
\J\ex
: i£*|
?
OV-
9?V^
1
vA--*
*Uss
m
Invitation to Dinner
And an excellent dinner
you and your guests
know it will be. An
“Esse” produces won-
derful results. It is one
of the most dependable
cookers made. Economi-
cal, labour saving, and
space saving for modern
kitchens, too!
I
: :
m
rjt
'i , i
m
m
i „ ■* \
l««, - • • ■- ■
«* tn
■
: :
ip***
yic. Z Cam JaiNf
THE BIGGEST LITTLE COOKER
ON THE MARKET . . .
Caters for up to 6 persons. Can also be supplied
with water heater combined. Fuel consumption of
2 tons a year. The saving compared with gas or
electricity is estimated to be 50%.
50% less Fuel Required
Always ready for
immediate use day or night
ESSE HEAT STORAGE COOKERS are con-
tinuous burning and ready day or night for
immediate use. All models are finished in vitreous
cream enamel, which requires but a wipe with a
damp cloth to maintain its sparkling cleanliness.
This feature is only surpassed by the amazing
economy effected of upwards 80% of fuel bills.
EASY TERMS. Details of favourable hire-purchase
terms, with catalogues illustrating models for every
household, available on request. Call or phone for
further details. Complete prices on application.
Esse Cookers —Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Delivered free only within our delivery area. Installation extra,
according to locality.
ANTHONY HORDERNS
PHONE M 2401
Day or Night
r
BOX 2712 C
G.P.0., SYDNEY


SQUALLS
By FREEMAN SANDOM.
“Hey, Mustapha, where's the surf about here ?”
FISHING off the Barrier ain’t all roast duck and
applepie. You run risks of wind and weather
and whatnot as much as anywhere ; and if you
ain’t got a good boat, a cool head and a good
mate you'd better stick ashore. I’d put a good mate
first.
Eric and me’d been cobbers for eight years.
During that time he never went back on me once,
and I can’t remember failing to back him up in a
pinch either. He was twenty years younger ; but we
suited one another. When I was a bit under the
weather Eric was ready to toe the mark, and when
he was off color 1 was crowing at daylight.
Bad luck and monotony and lack of sleep can
sour tempers and crack mateship as easily as a kid
can a soft-shelled egg. But ours stood the gaff. We’ve
been out of tucker and out of tobacco for a week
lying weather-bound off an island, playing draughts
for twelve hours a day, and, except for an occasional
growl and a cuss-word or two, we were reasonably
polite throughout.
Yeah, Eric was the best of cobbers, and I was
always a bit afraid of losing him. It doesn’t take
much to make a young feller drop fishing for a town
job. One of them red-and-white paintings that walk
the streets on stilts might do it. As I said to Ann
one day, “He’ll slip through your fingers if you don’t
glamor up a bit.”
Ann’s got sense. She’s the youngest of ten of
us, but she’s got all the family brains. Her grey
eyes, clear and cool and steady, see behind your
words. “Shorty,” she said, “you’re using me to hold
Eric for you.”
“I don’t like + he warpaint,” said I, “but it’ll wash
off when its work’s done. Eric’s a good boy, but
he’s young.”
Ann laughed. She was mending one of my shirts,
and she looked down suddenly and began to plv the
needle. When she spoke there was a funny little shake
in her voice that made me feel uncomfortable. “If
Eric can’t see beneath the paint I don’t want him.”
Then one day, towards the end of the kingfish
season, things came to a head.
AN hour out of port we struck what we’d been look-
ing for. Out of the north-east came hundreds of
screeching, wheeling, diving seagulls. Under them
the water boiled from the press of a school of sardines,
millions strong. Behind this leaped our meat, the
long torpedo-shaped kingfish. In a few minutes we d
tied the wheel on the school’s course, baited and slung
the lines over the stern.
They were heavy, hungry beggars, and they
grabbed our garfish without batting an eye. In half
an hour a dozen beauties were safe in the cockpit. I
was crouching in the fishing-pit, sunk knee-deep into
the deck, hauling in hand-over-hand a forty-pounder,
judging by his tugs, when out of the corner of my
eye I saw a blob of yellow duck out of the forehatch.
Screwing my head for a better look, I got within an
inch of cobbering-up with the leaping kings. You
can’t afford to gather wool when fast to a biggie. I
spoke to Eric, who was on fish, too. I heard him
swear softly in surprise, then he nearly tumbled over-
board. We got the fish on deck almost at the same
time, used the stunning-waddy and straightened up.
The girl was sitting on the cabin hatch, swinging
her bare, shaven, sandal-clad legs and smiling at us,
confident as if the boat belonged to her. She wore a
white sweater and shorts. Her mouth, finger- and
toenails were red and she was dabbed pink and white
and black besides.
“Hallo,” she said brightly.
“Hallo,” said Eric, staring.
I baited and slung the line over. “Fish!” I said
to Eric. “Think the kings ’re here for good?” He
looked round wildly, saw a leaping king and grabbed
for his line.
“Aren’t you going to ask me how I got on board?”
said the girl.
I spat into the sea. “Why?” I asked. “ ’Course,
you sneaked on board when we weren’t looking.”
“When you went ashore for your last drink,”
giggled the girl. “Then I hid under a tarpaulin. The
heat nearly killed me.”
“Pity. Been a thrill that! Thrills you’re after,
ain’t it? We had another stowaway a year ago. Cost
us half our ice and two cases of juice to put ’er
ashore.”
“Why put her ashore? She could help you —
fish, cook, wash-up and such.”
“She was seasick from go to stop.”
She swung her legs over the companionway. That
was to make me look. It didn’t work, for I know all
them tricks of the spellbinding racket.
“I’m never seasick,” she said, glancing at Eric.
“You won’t be this trip anyway. You’ll be ashore
long before this calm breaks. I’ll see to that!”
“Break it down, Shorty!” said Eric. “That ain’t
the way to talk to a girl.”
I looked at him sideways. So that’s the way
the wind was blowing—already. Then I was. on fish,
and, soon after, Eric. There was no time to talk
then, nor for the next hour. Forty-, fifty-pounders
some of them, hardly giving the bait time to strike
water. Then all of a sudden, as sometimes happens,
they were gone. We began to wash and gut and
pack the fish away in the ice. The girl and Eric
were chattering like monkeys. I reckon she
told him the story of her life nearly. Appears she
was tired of humdrum town life, wanted to see the
Reef from a fishing boat, had read of stowaways and
thought it romantic. We were all in a ditch, she
reckoned, but some of us were peeping over for a
look at the stars. I see ’em ’most every night and
would rather be in my bunk. So would she if she
fished for a living.
I T was me who first heard the roar of the speed-
' boat. I knew her. She belonged to Nils the Dane.
A tourist bait, all mahogany and brass and upholstered
leather, and she could go some. Flat as a toad she
came riding on top of her own private, permanent
wave of boiling, frothing water. A young feller in silk
shirt and white pants stood by the wheel amidships,
smooth, dark skin, black, pomaded hair and a black
Hitler smudge under his beaky nose.
“Hullo, Lucy!” he called cheerily as the speeder
drew alongside and slowed down to our pace. Ive
come to take you home.”
The girl used her legs like drumsticks beating the
air of the companionway. She was getting a thrill
out of this, I bet. “You go and chase yourself, Mr.
Bert Parfitt.”
The young feller bowed, a polite sort of a cove.
“D’you mind stopping your engine?” he asked. “I’d
like to come on board for a palaver.”
“Sure!” I said readily. I would eat out of his
hand to get rid of the sheilah quick. When I got on
deck again, Silkshirt had boarded us and was talking
earnestly to the girl in a low voice, the speedboat was
drifting a yard or two off, old Nils’s burly tanned
torso was poking out of the engine-room hatchway,
his grinning face like a piece of wrinkled leather
under the white mane.
“Hullo, Nils.”
“Hullo, Shorty. Hullo, Eric.”
Meanwhile the palaver amidships had got con-
siderably heated. Finally Silkshirt grabbed the girl
by the waist. “Righto,” he said angrily, “I’ll have to
carry you, that’s all.”
She held back. “Eric!” she said. “Shorty!”
I’m hanged if she didn’t expect us to stand up
for her! I was about to give my views when Eric
cut in ahead. “If Lucy wants to stop, she stops,”
he said coldly. “Just go easy, Bertie.”
Bert let the girl go and swung round on Eric,
taking in the bronzed deep torso, powerful shoulders
and steady blue eyes in an unfriendly stare.
“Aha! ” he said mockingly, looking at Lucy. “The
nigger in the woodpile!”
Eric never moved, but there was a tenseness about
his squatting figure. “You call me a nigger again,
feller, and I throw you overboard. And that’s flat,
too!”
I watched Bert to see how he would take this.
He seemed undecided what to do. And so was I, by
crikey! First of all I wanted to get rid of the girl.
But Eric seemed disinclined to back me up there.
On the contrary, it was clear he wanted her to stay.
If his heart was set on that it was my play to back
him up. I looked at Bert: hefty enough, but not in
Eric’s class in a rough-and-tumble. No doubt who
would get the ducking. But that wouldn’t hurt him.
In the scramble I might get a chance to push Lucy
overboard, too. Seeing her with wet hair and war-,
paint running Eric might change his mind. A duck-
ing would do us all good. There wasn t a breath
of wind, a grey blanket hung over the sky and the
muggy heat under it was worse than a scorching sun.
Sweat was pouring out of us. A month later 1 would
suspect a cyclone in the offing, but not now. The
glass was all right half an hour ago: 29.70.
Then came action. Bert grabbed the girl firmly
and hauled what looked like an automatic out of his
hip pocket. “Come on!” he ordered the girl, but she
looked at Eric as she was being pulled towards the
railing where the speedboat was now made fast.
My first reaction to the gun-play was satisfaction.
With a revolver pointing to your guts you can do one
thing only. But a look to Eric made me not so sure.
He showed signs peculiar to the feller who is about
to become a hero. Now, you never know what 11
happen when guns are flourished. I didn’t want Eric
a dead hero, so I had to sit in on the game quickly.
“Bertie,” I said, “are you a good shot?”
“Pretty good,” he said grimly, pausing.
“And quick?”
“Fairly. Why?”
“Because Eric’s on one side of you and I’m on
the other, and if you don't wing both of us your goose
is cooked.”
He backed a little at that, threw a glance at Nils.
“Two against two,” he said smartly. “My boatman
will back me up.”
“By Yimminy, Ai vill not,” said Nils, fishing a
heavy spanner from somewhere. “You shoot my
friends Shorty and Eric and Ai smash you v..’ this.”
“Good man, Nils!” said I. “Well, what about
it, Bertie?”
He looked stubborn. “I’ve a fair chance to get
the three of you.”
“And then hang for it? You talk like a book.
Use your head for a change!”
The girl was looking at him with dawning ad-
miration. Her glance darted from his set face to
the gun again and again. It was this caused me to
make a discovery. I know a bit about guns, and I’ve
played with a small, black “automatic.” You poke it
into a friend’s stomach, press the trigger, out pops a
cigarette. They look much like the real thing. I
blamed myself nothing.
» I seldom laugh out loud, but when I do they
say a mob of dingoes couldn’t beat the row. I threw
back my head now and began one of my beauties,
but broke it off short. Fool! I started another laugh,
changed it into a gargle, bit my lip and fell to the deck
in a pretty good faint.
Eric was the first to reach me. “What’s wrong,
Shorty, what’s wrong?” he kept saying, and it did my
heart good, the concern in his voice.
“Heart attack,” I said feebly.
“Bunk!” said Eric. “Your heart”
“Been smoking too much lately. Getting on in
years, too.” I spoke slowly and with difficulty be-
cause I needed all my strength to hold back the laugh
which, moored somewhere in the neighborhood of
my tonsils, was bucking to go. “Help me up, Eric.”
With difficulty I got to my feet and, clinging
securely to Eric’s right arm, which was about my
shoulders, I made a gesture of surrender towards Bert.
“Take the girl and go,” I said. “We can’t buck
you now.”
I felt Eric tensing, but I didn’t worry. He couldn’t
very well buck the gun —not alone and with me hang-
ing on his arm. But I’d reckoned without the girl.
As Bert said “Fine!” and prepared to pick her up,
she snatched the “automatic” from his hand and threw
it overboard. I could have spanked her there and
then.
“All right!” I said. “You can let me go now,
Eric, I feel better.”
I rubbed my nose. “Seems we’re back where we
started from, and there’s going to be a brawl after
all unless Lucy, ain’t you changed your mind
about going with Bert?”
She tossed her head. “I never change my mind.”
“Well, well, that’s bad. A bloke comes tearing
along in a speedboat, bails up three men, all to
rescue you! Ain’t a man could do more, I reckon.
(Continued on next page.)


“That was only a flash in the pan. Bert thinks
of nothing but grubbing for money in his musty old
office.”
“And we grub for the same stuff as hard as we
can.”
“That’s different. You’re out under the open sky,
breathing clean air”
“Hey, Shorty!” It was Nils calling. He stood
upright, looking north under shading hands.
One look at the ominous gathering of clouds and
I sprang for the cabin. I was back on deck in a
moment. “What the hell does it signify?” I asked,
puzzled. “The glass should be going up this time of
day and with this wind. Instead it’s dropped fifteen
points in the last half-hour.”
“Cyclone?” suggested Eric.
I shook my head. “A cyclone that close should
cause dirty weather —rain, wind, heavy seas.”
“Not always,” said Nils. “T’irty years ago odd I
strike one cyclone coming yoost like t’is one, no rain,
no wind, only swell, till she fall slap-bang on top
of us.”
“That so, Nils? Well, cyclone or not, it’s one
almighty bad squall coming, and we’d better run for
port.”
“Me. I t’ink so, too!” said Nils. “Yoomp on
board, mister.”
“Right!” replied Bert, jumping. “Come on,
Lucy.”
Lucy had been looking northward anxiously. The
rolling dark masses of cloud, growing darker and
larger and closer every minute, had taken much of her
cockiness away. She’d lived long enough in the north
to know what a cyclone can do.
“In the last one,” said 1 maliciously, “half a
dozen boats of our fishing fleet went down, crew and
all. Not to speak of umpteen beche-de-mer luggers.”
She looked at Eric —there was too much looking
at Eric. “But aren’t you running for port, too?”
“We are. We can’t beat the squall, though. Nils
can with the speedboat. Pop off now! I’m going to
start the engine, Eric.”
While I was priming and fiddling about I heard
Lucy speak in a low voice and Eric replying: “Oh,
we’ll be all right. We’ll make for a creek on the main-
land, or ride it out.”
Lucy seemed unconvinced. “You must come
with us, Eric!” she cried hysterically.
Eric shook his head. I had a clear view of him
through the companionway. “I can’t leave Shorty.”
“He must come, too, of course.”
“Shorty’ll never leave the boat. We’ll be all
right. Good-bye, Lucy.”
Then the engine kicked into noisy life, and I
heard no more. When I came on deck five minutes
later the speedboat was shooting along like an arrow,
rapidly getting out of sight, Eric staring after it, look-
ing glum, as he handled the wheel.
A QUARTER of an hour later he broke the silence.
“I know what you’re thinking, damn you, Shorty.
But what the hell good could she do on board us?
Drown for nothing!”
The storm was overhauling us, and it was too
windy to smoke. I’d made a chew out of my cigarette
and spat to leeward. “I know one girl wouldn’t leave
you to drown if there were a thousand cyclones on our
tail.”
There was no more time for talk. The squall
struck us in all its fury. For one solid hour or more
it tested boat, engine and crew up to the limit. I’d
never been out in a cyclone, and I wouldn’t have
believed a small boat could live in a devil’s cauldron
like this. But we made it. Mostly by luck we struck
the mouth of Blackfellers Creek, and by more luck the
tide was reasonably high. All hell roaring behind us,
we scooted up the tidal creek as far as we could,
rammed the boat’s nose into the soft mudbank under
a tall clump of mangroves, made her secure with
anchors and moorings to big trees close by, climbed
below, bolted the hatches and went to sleep, letting
the elements do their damnedest.
It was three days before the seas abated so that
we could make the bar and over it. We had to dump
the kingfish, the ice having petered out on us —but
that’s part of the game.
Near the wharf I recognised the white figure
standing there. Eric said suddenly and without lead-
ing up to it, as if my remark of three days ago had
just been made: “Shorty, I’ve been thinking of what
you said. I reckon I’ve been blind. and deaf and
dumb. So if you’ve got no objection I’il try my luck.”
“Boy,” I said, “that’s sensible words, and if it
counts for anything you have my blessing. But re-
member this: if you don’t come running for Ann with
your tongue out and panting she’ll pass you up like
a bad penny.”
| T was a few weeks later that a bloke with a Hitler
blob under a hooked nose stuck me up in the street.
He rammed a black automatic into my stomach. “Pull
the trigger,” I said, grinning ; “I can do with a smoke.”
He pulled it twice, and we lit up.
“I had an idea you knew,” he said. “Tumbled to
it when you cut that horselaugh of yours short and
pulled off the faint. It was well done. Have a spot?”
“How’s Lucy?” I asked after the first round.
“Settled down nicely,” said Bert. “She’s making
a grand wife, as I knew she would.” He played on
that theme over the next half a dozen drinks, and, if
it’s right, as they say, that truth comes out as whisky
soaks in, I reckon he’s reasonably happy.
PACIFIST
By DAVID GOODHART.
I REALISE the necessity for it, but to me it is
make-believe. I am still a bit ashamed of myself
for joining the militia. I am sitting on a box of
live ammunition on the back of a tractor smoking
a cigarette with one eye out for an officer. Our
battery, an eighteen-pounder mechanised unit, takes
up a quarter of a mile of road in column of route.
It is all far removed from the University and exam-
inations.
I know I am serious-minded, but I find army life
dulling. Fortunately in the army that doesn’t matter.
War is an escape. “Many people like war because
they find their peace-time occupations positively
humiliating and frustrating, or just negatively boring.”
Huxley. Pacifism. Our debating club at school.
Nowadays no one wants to be a soldier. Ido not
want to be a soldier. Yet here I am sitting on a box
of live ammunition with the rest of our gun-crew,
being trundled through a peaceful countryside on our
way to the shoot. Today, for the first time, we are
to fire live ammunition.
Everyone smiles at us as we pass, waves to us.
There is a girl, pretty too, arm-in-arm with another
girl on the verandah of a farmhouse, smiling at me.
Today I am to lay our gun. Yesterday our
regular layer was paraded sick with German measles
and sent into hospital. What I don’t know about
laying a gun would fill an ocean full of bricks. They
say that later on I will make a good gunnery officer.
I know about mathematics and trigonometry. They
say that, if I work hard, soon I’ll be a sergeant. I
don’t want to be a gunnery officer. I don’t want to
be a sergeant. All I want to do is to serve my term
in the militia and get back to the University, and
peace, and my examinations.
They say our gun jumps back two or three feet
sometimes. They say a new layer can get his teeth
knocked out, or his nose broken, or be thrown out
of the seat —till he’s used to it. You’ve got to keep
your mouth open for the blast. Trouble is with the
artillery you never see anything. It’s all angles,
co-ordinates, maps and things.
They are shouting orders down the column:
“Prepare—for— action !”
I jump from the tractor with the others, run
to our gun and check over the sights and the shield
and the quick release brake. I am Number Three
on the gun, the most important except Number One,
who is a sergeant and gives us orders. Number Two
removes ffireech and muzzle Covers, elevates and de-
presses the gun, opens the breech, sees that the bore
is clear, examines the range gear indicator. It is all
in the little book. It takes six of us to man the gun
in action.
“Action! ”
Our Number One, with other Number Ones,
runs for the lick of his life. Our gun-position is
half a mile away in an open paddock. There are
officers, signallers, cars camouflaged in the fold of
a hill. And we wheel the gun into action, racing for
il, bouncing about on our tractor like crackers in
a box, the guns on each side of our gun pitching and
swaying like destroyers in a heavy sea.
“Halt! . . . Action — front!” Our sergeant is
yelling. We all tumble down into our positions like
the automatons we’ve been trained to be. Round
we go as at drill, carrying the trail shoulder-high in
a half-circle to the right—Two and Three at the trail-
eye ; Four mans the off gun-wheel; Five and Six
push on the muzzle. It is all in the little book.
“Aiming—point! ” That is the Gun-Position
Officer with his megaphone. “Left —nine —three —
degrees—one—oh—minutes.”
“Left —nine —three—degrees—one—oh—minutes.”
I put the switch carefully on the dial-plate, which
is graduated 180 degrees right and 180 degrees left.
I proceed to lay on the chosen battery aiming point.
I am acutely aware of that bugbear of a layer’s
life, the incalculable human element of fallibility,
causing him to put on left switches when right are
ordered, and vice versa. I am well aware that I
must put up my left hand to turn the left micrometer
head towards me for a left deflection ; I must put up
my right hand to turn the right micrometer head
away from me for a right deflection. “Right, away ;
left, behind.”
Our Number One, having doubled out with other
Number Ones to pow-wow with the G.P.0., I am left
momentarily to my own devices, trying to assume
before our gun-crew—simple fellows with a childlike
faith in my ability—an air of familiarity with these
intricate instruments. I check my zero-line lay,
squinting into the eyepiece of my dial-sight at the
tiny segment of scenery I can see in the lens. I bring
into line a lone tree in a gap on the horizon several
miles behind us, our gun aiming point one, and lay
exactly on the intersection of the two fine crosswires
in the centre of the prism. From this pivotal point
several miles behind me I can control fire into any
given zone several miles in front of me. At least I
hope I can. While the battery commander, from the
observation * post several thousand yards in front,
can shoot in the battery to his heart’s content simply
by ordering slight right or left deflections from zero-
line.
The silence of suspense settles down over the
irregular line of guns staggered along the hillside,
camouflaged, concealed, with gum and wattle boughs
draped across their muzzles. Suddenly it occurs to
me that all these other guns have practised layers.
I have no right here. If anything goes wrong I am
liable to clean up half the countryside. I wish it
wasn’t live ammunition. Supposing I get off the line?
Supposing I make one of those ghastly mistakes that
more experienced layers than I can make? Supposing,
for instance, I put on a left switch when all the other-
guns put on a right?
I visualise, away up there on the target, a nice
tidy row of shell-bursts, with one missing. I visualise
with a shudder the scene at the observation post as
forty pairs of binoculars scan the horizon for the
blast that never comes. While perhaps away, miles
away, there soars to heaven a magnificent fount of
dust and smoke that is Number Three gun’s con-
tribution.
“Target . . . zero point.”
“H.E.” . . .
Suddenly it becomes to me tremendously impor-
tant, in fact the most important thing in the world,
more important than mathematics, or the University,
or examinations or anything, that I should somehow'
get on all those switches accurately.
“One —oh —minutes —right—of—zero-lines.”
Up goes my right hand. “One—oh —minutes —
right of zero-lines.”
“Angle of sight . . . three —oh minutes
elevation.”
I follow the orders, putting the angle on my
sight clinometer and running the bubble to the front.
“Number —one —ranging.” •
That lets us out for the first few shots. We do*
not load.
“Six —five hundred.”
“Fire!”
Fortunately my mouth is open. I am dimly aware
of a vicious spurt of smoke and flame from the
muzzle of Number One gun. But, engrossed in my
own micrometer drum readings, and in following the
switches, I have no time to feel any reaction to the
blasts of the opening shots. Still we have not loaded.
“Parallel lines to Number One . . . directof
method.”
I am lulled into a false sense of security, expect-
ing Number One to go on ranging all day, when
at last when I least expect it: “One —round — gun-
fire !”
Our Number One orders: “Load!” Two re-
peats the range sharply and adds: “Set!” I take a
quick look at my lay and the level of my sight
clinometer bubble and add: “Ready!”—with a catch
in my throat as my hand seeks the firing lever. Num-
ber One says: “Fire!” —and I pull. Perhaps I close
my eyes and ears. I don’t know. My mouth is open.
The world is full of noise from other guns. I sit
back, dazed but thankful, and more than surprised
at the absence of shock, when I hear our Number
One yelling at me: “Go on —pull—pull!” I make
another grab at the firing lever and pull again, hard.
The seat rocks suddenly beneath me and there
is a singing sensation in my ears. The world is still
full of noise. I glance around uncertainly at our
Number One. Then I see the recoil running out,
see Two swinging the breech open, see the empty
shell-case, reeking hot, go clattering across the trail.
And then I know. I have fired a gun in action. I
check my lay, level my bubble, wait tensely, elated.
But we do not reload.
“Number One ranging” . . .
Number One gets all the sport!
Later in the day, after long intervening waits,
we are ranging gun. 1 become mechanical, as we
all do. “Dig in!” “Run up!” “Load!” And once
—glorious interlude —the whole battery: “Five —
rounds — gun-fire! ”
I understand now what they mean when they say
that in the army you are just one tiny cog in a
machine. I understand now what they mean when
they say that from the battery commander down to
the humblest gunner everyone must do his job. I
think I understand now why it is that, in action, men
do not run away.
At last: “Ammunition expended, sir!”
“Cease firing . . . Rear —limber —up!”
Regretfully I set my sights at zero. Replace
breech and muzzle covers . . .
On the way back to camp I sing enthusiastically
“Tipperary,” “Long, Long Trail,” “Mademoiselle
from Armentieres.” The girl at the farmhouse is
there. She smiles at me as we pass. And this time
I remove my hat and wave frantically. There is a
dance in town Saturday night. Usually the sergeants
cut us out. But I’ll tell her about how, soon, I’m
going to be a sergeant, too, and about how, with
my knowledge of maths, and trigonometry, I’m going
for a commission.


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
Jfff/fd < tyme of state mellcumeMmuUmiq/uei>
Not so long ago a foreign commen-
tator stated that the speediest
manner to destroy the British Empire
was to strike home to its heart —
London. It may be he visualised
somewhat of the extent of her com-
merce as illustrated by those Thames-
side activities so ably directed by
the Port of London Authority.
Assuredly the docks show at once
not alone the great enterprise and
prosperity of the Port of London,
biit the manner in which the com-
ponent parts of the Empire are aid-
ing in increasing that prosperity.
But not only the Empire’s sections
are engaged in the titanic work
London’s seaborne industry repre-
sents, but all the rest of the civilised
world. It is not easy to realise,
regarding existing conditions, that
until the end of the seventeenth
century London had no proper dock
accommodation. The first wet dock,
in the modern sense of the term,
was the Howland or Greenland
Dock at Rotherhithe. This was
built by private effort in 1695 and
only used for repairing and fitting
ships, not for loading or unloading.
It was about a century later before
cargo docks were constructed, the
West India docks being the first.
As a financial investment they were
extremely profitable.
U PPER—Howland Great Wet Dock, 1740.
L OWER—Royal Albert Dock, 1940 .


“ALARM IN AMERICA.”
“Vasn’t you der feller vot said it vas a ‘phony var’?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (.Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire.
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
IT HAPPENED BEFORE.
Except that the instruments of slaughter are more
devilish and the tempo of invasion and conquest has
quickened, there is nothing in the present situation,
serious as it is, that hasn’t happened before. During
Britain’s wars against the first Republic and Bona-
parte the Low Countries were overrun and held for
long years by the French. Then, as now, the people
in the homelands of our race had to deal with a
counter-blockade in which “the whole world” was
ordered to co-operate —and a great part of the world
did—and with threats of invasion. It was written last
week that the enemy was in control of the coastline ex-
tending from Namsos to Rotterdam. There was a
time when the Berlin Decree against England operated
all the way from Archangel to Cadiz. Britain indeed
had to retire from the Continent.
If Wordsworth returned from the shades he could
republish some of his Poems Dedicated to National
Independence and Liberty without much alteration,
and others without any’ alteration at all. The six-
teenth sonnet (“It is not to be thought of that the
flood Of British freedom.... should perish”) could, as
the printers say, “be kept standing” ; and so could
the twentieth sonnet (“These times strike monied
worldlings with despair”), the twenty-first (“England,
the time is come when thou shouldst wean Thy heart
from its emasculating food ; The truth should now be
better understood”), the twenty-second (“When,
looking on the present face of things, I see one Man,
of men the meanest too, Raised up to sway the
world”) and the twenty-fifth (“Lines on the Expected
Invasion,” 1803). And “Another year! another deadly
blow, Another mighty Empire overthrown! ” might be
applied with slight verbal changes to the fate of
Norway, Denmark, Holland and Belgium, while the
poet would dwell with too much cause for apprehen-
sion on “Thought of a Briton on the Subjugation of
Switzerland.” But he would not transcribe the lines
he wrote in 1815 —and altered in other years:
God’s most perfect instrument
In working out a pure intent
Is man arrayed for mutual slaughter;
Yea, carnage is His daughter.
Musing on the outrages committed by the Nazis on
the homes and persons of civilians with the weapons
which the perversion of noble inventions has placed
at their service, he would start in horror from his
own stanza.
Nor would Hitler have appeared strange to a
generation that had to fight a merciless megalomaniac,
after contending with merciless fanatics who followed
one another to the guillotine. Thus early in his career
as war-maker the Austrian has reached the state of
mind at which the Corsican arrived after 18 years of
war. “What does a man like me care for the lives of
a million soldiers?” Napoleon said to Metternich,
another Austrian. “You are lost, Sire!” Metternich
replied. “I only thought it before ; I know it now.”
Not conquest but the organisation and unifica-
tion of Germany after it had plumbed the depths
made Hitler what he is. Conquest, to whatever lengths
it may go, cannot sustain him. It has made him the
centre of a concentration of hate that has had pal-
pable effects already. When his people begin
to realise the terrible cost of his victories, when
they read the names of their sons and brothers on the
dreadful lists of the dead, when they see their military
hospitals filling with shattered men, their faith in their
Leader will weaken. The British people can endure
privations and doubtful, even unsuccessful, war without
even thinking of turning against the King who is the
sober impersonation of their institutions and history.
No dictator can ever command such steadfast loyalty,
Dictators who go to war must be ever-victorious or
they are lost.
And between Hitler and the mastery of Europe
stands the great obstacle that Napoleon could never
surmount, the Royal Navy. Though parachute-
jumpers and troop-carrying ’planes may descend on
British soil, though factories, workshops, temples, dis-
tricts, towns may be wrecked by bombers, while the
Royal Navy remains Britain and Greater Britain can
never be subdued.
And the ninth month of war finds the Royal Navy
unconquered and unconquerable. Though there have
been cruel losses of men and ships, there has never
been a moment when naval supremacy was in doubt.
On one of the few occasions on which British war-
ships have been tackled in fair fight, a German battle-
ship was worsted by comparative midgets and scuttled.
British inventive genius and daring have found the
answers to the U-boat and the magnetic mine. Exposed
day after day to the fire of the bombers who blasted
the army of the Netherlands into submission, the
squadron detailed for operations in Dutch waters did
its job magnificently, landing and re-embarking sol-
diers and marines without loss, saving thousands of
refugees—among them the royal family and the
members of the Government —and carrying them to
England unharmed. And all the while the men of
the auxiliary services have been sweeping up mines
and carrying cargoes to and from the ends of the
earth as if daring death in hideous forms, especially
during the worst winter on record, were just part of the
day’s work.
Other parallels may be cited. During the
struggle against Napoleon Americans complained bit-
terly of the British blockade measures, and on June
18, 1812, when the Emperor was about to invade
Russia with 650,000 soldiers and Wellington was con-
ducting a campaign which, though brightened by the
victory of Salamanca, ended in a retirement to Por-
tugal, the Washington Government declared war on
Britain. As a result, some of Wellington’s men had
to be sent across the Atlantic to fight in a fratricidal
war that dragged on for three years.
American complaints of British blockade measures
have been heard on many occasions since September
3. They are not likely to be heard again. The crime
against the Low Countries provoked the President
into a declaration, made at a congress of scientists
from all the Americas, that “the cruel invasion of
three more independent nations” had “shocked and
angered the people of the United States” and amounted
to “a definite challenge to the continuation of the type
of civilisation to which the three Americas are accus-
tomed.” The words “cruel invasion” and “shocked
and angered the people of the United States” Mr.
Roosevelt repeated in a message to the King of Bel-
gium, adding that “the people of the United States
hope, as I do, that the policies which seek to dominate
peaceful and independent peoples through the force
of military aggression may be arrested, and that the
Government and people of Belgium may preserve
their integrity and freedom.” And Congress he asked
“not to take any action which would in any way
hamper or delay the delivery of American ’planes to
those foreign nations which have ordered them or
which seek to purchase more”—this when bespeaking
support for an emergency defence programme amount-
ing to $1,182,000,000, necessary because “in these
ominous days shocking developments force every
neutral to look to its own defence.”
And Hitler, like Napoleon, has to reckon with the
immense influence of the Vatican. The Pope addressed
messages of sympathy to King Leopold, Queen Wil-
helmina and the Grand Duchess of Luxembourg. To
the King “and your entire nation so beloved by us,”
his Holiness sent “an assurance of our paternal affec-
tion,” while “praying that this stern trial may end with
the restoration of Belgium’s full liberty and indepen-
dence.” “Osservatore Romano,” the Vatican City
newspaper, “branded the invasions of the Low Coun-
tries as ‘appalling and completely unjustified.’ ” And
Pope and President, by using their good offices with
the Duce, have been trying to keep Italy out of the war.
It is unfortunate that when Anglo-Italian rela-
tions were at their most delicate stage Mr. Chamber-
lain should have been brought down by an irrational
agitation of which Britons seem now rather ashamed.
Author of the agreement which stood the strain of
the Spanish civil war, Mr. Chamberlain is regarded
in Italy as a friend, Mr. Churchill with active dislike,
Mr. Eden and Mr. Attlee with hatred. Though the
cables have not said so, the street demonstrations
against British representatives in Italy, the distribution
of anti-British posters and isolated insults to tourists
were connected with these changes in the Cabinet;
but even papers that reported the impertinences of
prigs and the outrages of blackguards allowed that “the
Englishman living in Italy finds himself surrounded by
the most friendly people who hate the idea of enter-
ing the war.”
In 1934, when Dollfuss was assassinated and the
Austrian republic, then under Italian protection, seemed
about to be overrun by the Nazis, Mussolini moved
an army to the Brenner. Though he was not sup-
ported by Britain or France, the manoeuvre had an
immediate effect; the precarious existence of the
republic was prolonged. The next year brought Mr.
Eden and “Sanctions.” With furious comments on
the many British and French campaigns in Africa,
the Italians whirled themselves out of the British orbit
and cultivated friendship with the traditional enemy
—the enemy who, down to 1919, was in possession
of Unredeemed Italy, and who even in the nine-
teenth century held Venice and Milan.
For the Italians it is a very uneasy friendship,
strongly influenced by fears of German military
strength, ruthlessness, faithlessness and greed for terri-
tory. The German conquest of Poland, save the part
that was flung to the scared Russians as payment for
their betrayal of the democracies, altered the situation
in Middle Europe greatly to Italy’s disadvantage.
Contemplating the frightful things the Germans have
done to the peaceful and harmless Dutch, their own
blood-brothers, all Italy must be asking itself'in alarm
what they mightn’t do to Italy if Italy does not con-
ciliate them and secure some guarantee for the pos-
session of Trieste, the Tyrol and a frontier far more
defensible than the 1915 line, by fulfilling the terms
of an embarrassing alliance.
This position, so ominous for France and Britain,
need never have arisen if “the covenant of the League”
had not been made “the cornerstone of British foreign
policy.” All things considered, the League, now in
flight from Switzerland, was a dreadful misfortune for
the Empire and for Europe. The Swiss themselves
were not deceived by the false sentiment and dream-
ing pedantry which reigned in the Palace of Illusions
at Geneva —it reached a point so fatuous that Russia
came to be accepted as the hope of the democratic
side —nor were the totalitarian Powers deceived ; but
all the democratic nations, save Switzerland, were.
All surrendered to the leave-it-to-George spirit, and
all dangerously (some tragically) neglected their de-
fences. Australia was one of those nations. It has had
a rude awakening. It must now realise that its old
pleasant security and carefree existence have gone
for ever. It will have to wage war to the limit of its
capacity—which is no mean capacity—and stand pre-
pared always to meet invasion.
Vengeance of the Vanquished.
(The writer of this article is a doctor of established reputation.)
The unending streams of press-featured guesses by
all manner of people, from astrologers to zoologists,
as to how this war is going to develop and end have
one basic feature in common. Whether the line of
argument is militaristic, political, diplomatic, pacific,
prophetic or just wishful thinking they all take for
granted the continued availability of vast masses of
physically fit population, at least on the winning side.
Such an assumption is not borne out by history.
An invariable aftermath or accompaniment of
long-continued large-scale wars in the past has been
a pandemic outbreak of disease. There is no reason
whatever for believing that matters will be any dif-
ferent in the future once the conditions are estab-
lished under which such pandemics evolve.
The most recent instance was the so-called
“pneumonic influenza” of 1919-20. In less than six
months it killed four times as many people as the
World War had slain in four years. In every country
in the world it created public panic, disrupted trade,
traffic and commerce and inflicted enormous economic
loss.
Hygienic safeguards against such a world-disaster
are no more effective today than they were then.
The actual causative organisms of pneumonic influ-
enza were never fully identified —hence no effective
vaccine against it is available. Even if one were, there
is no sound ground for believing that it would be
effective against any future pandemic.
The infection was conveyed by the breath, and
infected persons were capable of spreading the disease
before they themselves showed any very obvious symp-
toms. No pattern of mask or respirator which per-
mitted any kind of active work was found to confer
protection. The worst complications and highest
mortality occurred amongst persons at the most effec-
tive working ages. An average surviving case entailed
a fortnight of complete invalidism, with another
fortnight of disabled convalescence. Resolute folk
who tried to “shake it off” died in large numbers
from heart failure.
The evolution of such a pandemic occurs amongst
large numbers of people of all ages maintaining a
bare existence under extreme conditions of squalid,
crowded semi-starvation. The resultant lowering of
body-resistance enables disease organisms to infect
them on a large scale and to develop increasing viru-
lence by rapid recultivation from one weakened body
to another. It is much akin to the laboratory pro-
cedure employed to increase virulence of disease
germs for experimental purposes. Once the common
infecting agent acquires sufficient intensity of viru-
lence to overcome the body-resistance offered by a
normally healthy population the pandemic begins.
In the last war more than four years elapsed
before sufficiently large masses of squalid human
misery were created to serve as a suitable culture
ground. This war began where the last one left off.
Between the Spanish Civil War and the Nazi destruc-
tion of Belgian civilisation more human beings
have been driven into abject want and frozen poverty
than has ever been the case in the whole previous
history of Europe. These conditions have been re-
peated, though perhaps not on so vast a scale, in
China. The most dangerous feature of it all is the
cramming of 18 million helpless starved wretches into
the 32,000 square miles of the “Polish Reservation”
without any organised or assured means of support-
ing themselves. That colossal crime may yet bring
about the downfall of Germany, although at an
appalling cost to the world in terms of human life
and economic welfare.
Such a disaster would certainly end the war if it is
a long war. Apart from the enormous loss of life no
form of concerted military activity by land, sea or air
would be possible under the conditions created by it,
and for a considerable time after the worst of its
effects were over. The short incubation period, swift
disabling onset, intense infectivity and special selec-
tivity for the young and vigorous would disable both
sides simultaneously. Should one suffer before the
other the balance would be adjusted within a very few
days after the occupation of the disabled enemy’s
territory. Meanwhile the infection would be spread-
ing a trail of death and panic across the globe as fast
as man can travel.
It is entirely unlikely that the Nazi mentality is
capable of realising the immensity of the disaster
which organised brutality may at any time bring
upon the Germans and the rest of the world. The
only consolatory feature in such a prospect is that
the Nazis will probably bear the first and worst
brunt of it, and that disease has no respect for persons
or for politics.
It will be a cynical turn of Fate should the vast
German war machine be wrecked and shattered by
the unconscious agency of its millions of miserable
victims.
PUYYAKA.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
On Our Own Doorstep.
The experience through which the harassed Dutch
Government is at present passing is not without pre-
cedent in history. Up to a point, the course of events
was much the same in the French Revolutionary wars.
The French permeated the Lowlands. A large section
of the Netherlanders turned o'ver to the revolutionaries.
British assistance to the legitimate Government was
a failure. The Stadtholder fled to England for pro-
tection.
In the Revolutionary and Napoleonic wars Eng-
land occupied Dutch colonies, handed back some
of them temporarily and kept the rest. Australia’s
Governor Macquarie helped to take Cochin and
Ceylon; 20 years later General Nightingall, who had
been named Governor of N. S. Wales, took Java,
which was presently handed back —the Dutch had held
it since 1602.
The Dutch East Indian empire has since developed
to such an extent that, in capturing Holland, the
Germans acquired only a small section of Dutch
wealth and power. Holland is only the size of a big
Northern Territory station —12,700 square miles ; the
Dutch East Indies have an area of over 735,000 square
miles —bigger than Queensland, 14 times the size of
England. The population of the Netherlands is
8,500,000, that of the D.E.I. going on for 70,000,000,
though the white population is under 300,000 and a
third of the natives of the great islands are still savages.
The N.E.I. are ruled by a Governor-General with
an advisory council, but there is a partly-elected
Volksraad which passes a Budget. Economically, the
country is one of the soundest in the world —its ex-
ports in recent years have been as much as 40 per cent,
over imports.
The natives as a whole are contented, but a few
years ago Communists stirred up a number of revolts
which led to bloodshed in some of the islands and
to the banishment to the interior of Dutch New
Guinea of a large number of agitators, who were in-
terned on the Diggoet River.
Defence has been developed considerably during
the past few years. The air force is as large and
powerful as the R.A.A.F. and owns much the same
types of machines. The army is negligible in size, but
the navy has 36 ships, among them two light cruisers,
a few destroyers and a dozen submarines ; and the
Council recently sanctioned the building of three
27,000-ton battle-cruisers.
The status of the N.E.I. is a matter of great
importance to all the Pacific countries. They form a
stepping-stone between Malaya and Australia, a vital
airline link between the Commonwealth and the
Motherland. They are so close to Singapore that
Britain could never brook their possession by a hostile
foreign Power. The same applies to France in respect
of Indo-China and to the U.S.A. in regard to the
Philippines. To Japan, the Dutch islands represent a
main highway to Europe and to the south, and a
great source of supplies, notably oil.
To Australia they are still more important. Aus-
tralian trade with the islands runs to about £9,000,000
p.a. Above all, Dutch New Guinea adjoins Austra-
lian territory.
It has been given out that Britain, France, Japan
and the U.S.A. have agreed to maintain the status quo
in the N.E.1.; and that is all to the good. But there
is no mention of Australia in the consultations that
preceded the agreement. A familiar omission, but
especially striking in this case, considering the
geographical relationship and the fact that Australia
and Maoriland, which is also concerned, have a greater
population than that of Holland.
The surrender of the Dutch has, in effect, brought
the stark realities of conquest and international
politics on to Australia’s front doorstep. It has become
more necessary than ever that Australia and Maori-
land should be represented in the Imperial War
Cabinet and have at least one voting member on the
Allied War Council.
Something More Needed.
The coal strike was declared off after the N.S.W. and
Victorian miners (though not the Queenslanders) had
had 10 weeks on the dole. It is reckoned that they
lost £1,000,000 in wages. Wages lost in other indus-
tries are placed at £500,000, and the State Government
estimates that it is the poorer by £1,000,000. This
may be exaggerated, for the Government will pres-
ently have to explain why it didn’t “reduce the deficit,”
as promised when it scourged the community with
additional taxes; but there is no exaggerating the dis-
comfort and inconvenience to which the general public
was subjected in three States.
The only people who have not lost anything are
the strike leaders, unless the unions heave them out
of their jobs and replace them by Australians who
are prepared to follow constitutional methods.
Under the terms of the settlement, the combined
unions agreed to abide by awards of the Arbitration
Court, so as to maintain continuity of production dur-
ing the war. Free labor was to be withdrawn, and
work resumed “immediately”—an impossibility in
some mines. Outstanding differences are to be settled
by a conference called by the Chief Judge in Arbitra-
tion and presided over by a Judge of the Court.
Nothing about a change in the direction of the
Miners’ Federation.
That concern has been run by men who from
the time of their election in 1934—with brief intervals
when hedging became expedient—have told their fol-
lowers that arbitration must be destroyed. The atti-
tude of their newspaper has been such that it has
been necessary to censor its Red propaganda, propa-
ganda directed against everything the British Empire
stands for. Because the ample funds they claim to
have had ran out, the enemies of arbitration have led
their men back to work, themselves unscathed and
unwarned.
Australia is certainly unique in its easygoing
tolerance of those who would see its freedom de-
stroyed and replaced by a system of brutal mob rule
conducted on Asiatic lines.
In Canada on the day the strike was settled the
Supreme Court of Ontario (population nearly a mil-
lion greater than that of N.S.W.) declared the Com-
munist party illegal; and two wide-mouthed persons
who had been circulating anti-war literature were sent
to gaol, one for 36 months and the other for 30
months. Fines were also imposed —the equivalent of
£A625 and £A3OO-odd.
It would have been a fitting pendant to the coal
strike if similar measures had been taken in Can-
berra, as a warning that in future Red promoters of
illegal war-time stoppages in major industries will
have conferences with only one agency of Govern-
ments —the police.
"England the Enemy."
Hitler preceded his invasion of the Low Countries
with a puerile falsification of history, which in other
days would have made even German schoolboys laugh.
Britain and France have aimed for 300 years to
prevent any consolidation in Europe and specially to
weaken Germany In order to achieve this aim the
British have tried for many decades to divide Ger-
many into small States in order to rob her of strength
and the necessities for 80 million people. Britain and
France have followed this policy without considering
what German Government was in power.
In point of fact, Britain took no part in any war
in which Germans were engaged until the eighteenth
century. Though a son-in-law of James 1 was King
of Bohemia and lost his crown in the horrible Thirty
Years’ War (1618-48), Parliament refused to vote sup-
plies sufficient for a British campaign. In the wars of
Marlborough (1702-13), of Frederick the Great (1756-
63) and of the French Republic and Empire (1793-
1815) Britain was allied with Germans, always against
the French ; and in each case its alliance was a decisive
factor. In the last instance this is how the record
stands:
1793: Britain concluded treaties with Prussia (July 14)
and Austria (August 30).
1795: Peace of Basle between the King of Prussia and
the French Republic (April 5). Britain fights on; Austria,
Prussia and Russia partition Poland.
1796: Treaty of Berlin, guaranteeing the neutrality of the
north of Germany, ratified by France and Prussia (August 5).
1797: Armistice between Austria and France (April 18);
treaty of Campo Formio (October 17): France gets the Low
Countries and parts of northern Italy; Austria gets Venice.
1799: Second coalition against France by Britain, the
emperors of Germany (Austria) and Russia, parts of the
German Empire and other States (June 22).
1800: Treaty between Austria and England guaranteeing
that neither should enter into a separate peace (June 20).
1801: Austrian Emperor signs a separate peace with
France (Feb. 9).
1805: Third coalition against France: Britain, Austria,
Russia, Sweden and Naples. After Austerlitz Austria gives in,
surrendering territories to Italy, Bavaria and Wiirtemberg
(Dec. 26).
1806: State of war between Britain and Prussia (A 17);
no fighting. Fourth coalition against France: Britain, ) russia,
Saxony and Russia (October 6). Prussia beaten at Jena,
Napoleon issues Berlin decree declaring the British Isles
blockaded. Saxony becomes France’s ally. Peace of Tilsit:
Conquered Prussia gets half its territories back.
1808: Austria issues declaration breaking off all connec-
tion with Britain (Feb. 18).
1809: Fifth coalition against France: Britain and Austria
(April 9). Beaten Austria cedes the Tyrol and Dalmatia to
France and engages to adhere to the prohibitory system
adopted towards England.
1812: Treaty of alliance, France and Austria (March 14).
1813: Treaty of alliance: Britain, Russia and Prussia
against France (June 14). Austrian alliance with England
(October 3).
There followed the campaigns which closed at
Waterloo. In August, 1914, the then German Chan-
cellor protested that “just for a scrap of paper” Eng-
land was going to war with “your old ally of Water-
loo.” It was perfidy reproaching good faith, but that
Chancellor at least did not descend to the rank hum-
bug of mangling the facts of history.
Italian Feeling.
Letter from an Australian woman who has lived
years in Italy and knows the people well. It was
written in an Italian city on April 26:
This press campaign by Gayda in the “Giornale d’ltalia”
has displeased many, but it is considered as a tit-for-tat for
what the British wrote against Italy when we had the
Abyssinian affair. The Danish and Norwegian move of the
Germans has made a great impression, and a victory for the
Allies would be most necessary.
They say that the King does not want us to go into
war; that General Badoglio and even Ciano are against it;
but that the Duce is inclined that way. The population
absolutely does not want to enter the war on one side or
the other. Italy must look after her own interests and remain
neutral. That is what the man in the street thinks.
Meantime Italy has built enormous lines of fortifications
at the Brenner —yes, the frontier with Germany. They
call it the Guilio-Cesare Line. That means we want to
defend ourselves against everyone.
Naturally, my only wish is for neutrality. We are all
getting poorer and poorer every day : —taxes, taxes, taxes.
All the industrial shares are giving much smaller dividends
than last year, and in the last month have lost many points on
the Stock Exchange, where everything is falling. Everything
indeed has depreciated, except houses and farm properties,
which have risen enormously in value.
We are rather anxious as to what will happen in the
Pacific—l mean the Dutch colonies. It is quite possible
that war could break out there. I do wish England would
have a great victory or do something to stop Germany
getting her own way everywhere. I think it would be easier
for the Allies to take Holland under their protection before the
Germans step in. Still, it is an awful thing that innocent small
countries should become battlefields.
Be sure that we don’t want to go with the Germans;
but what will the Duce decide?
Thorby Goes Into Action.
Australia supports a Minister for Information, who
gives it none, a Minister for the Interior (also silent)
and a Minister for External Affairs, who repeats a lot
of information that has appeared in the papers. Enter
Mr. Thorby, who is Postmaster-General and Minister
of Health:
Any person who has any information that would
assist the Government in its fight against C9mmunism
and enemy agents should give that information to the
nearest police officer, or send it to me direct. Informa-
tion supplied will be treated as strictly confidential.
What a chance for malicious backbiters, meddling
busybodies and hysterical old women of both sexes!
Well may that overprevalent pest the anonymous
letter-writer come into his and her own.
And what sort of a Government is it that needs
this sort of assistance in its “fight” against Com-
munism? Hasn’t it the necessary intestinal fortitude
to do the job itself?
The Cabinet of which Mr. Thorby is a member
was appointed from a collection of representatives
appointed by the people to deal, among other things,
with “Communism and enemy agents.” Surely it can
do so without the aid of pimps, eavesdroppers and
anonymous tittle-tattlers. “Strictly confidential” in-
formation means that an accused person would not
be allowed to have his accuser brought face to face
with him, a direct negative of the Australian right
to a fair go.
Snowy River Magic.
Far down in the south-east corner of N.S.W. the Great
Dividing Range, heading for the Victorian border,
pulls up so short as to suggest it has spotted a Vic-
torian rabbit inspector or something, doubles back
on its tracks, makes a startled dash to the west and
then dives southward again with a sort of “Bruthen
or bust” desperation. Naturally, this inverted U in
the range causes a basin within the figure, and in that
basin the Snowy River is born. It follows roughly
the U of the range until it finds the southern opening.
Thence it flows southward to the Tasman, through
Gippsland and the Orbost country.
Whatever has been said of the Snowy in song
and story fails to do it justice. The rugged scenery
is unsurpassed, and the waters are as clear and in-
vigorating as to be a veritable fountain of youth.
Nobody with a sense of appreciation could stand on
its banks and fail to rise above such mundane things
as work, taxes and beer. The mind is exhilarated,
the heart beats with a joyousness utterly indescrib-
able, songs rise unbidden to the lips and there comes
a surge of optimism which makes that of a man on
his way to Randwick appear ridiculous.
Some such experience must have befallen Mr.
R. T. McKay, “consulting engineer, who was for-
merly executive member of the Water Conservation,
Irrigation and Drainage Board,” for Mr. McKay
intends to bring the Snowy River —or, rather, its
waters—right into the sinks and bathtubs of care-
less, unthinking Sydney! He has told “S. M. Herald”
all about it:
The Snowy contains enough water to supply Can-
berra, Goulburn, Moss Vale and all intermediate
towns, as well as pastoral holdings, and there would
be an ample quantity left over to fulfil Sydney’s
requirements for all time. He estimated that the scheme
would cost less than £20,000,000. The Government
should immediately investigate the Snowy River scheme
and have a detailed survey made without delay.
Good on you, Mac! All we have to do now is
get the Snowy over a couple of mountain ranges,
convince the Victorians that Gippsland can do without
the river, and invite Mr. Spender to forget this silly
war business and permit Sydney Water Board to go
on the loan market for the 20 million quid. To do
this, all that is necessary is to cart the board, the
Mair Cabinet and the editor of “S.M.H.” to Jindabyne
or Steeple Flat, and let the untamed wilderness work
its magic on them.
Will Women Rule ?
“Old Iron S.”: Some sort of a social disturbance,
probably of a slow and passive nature that will not
be observed until it has been achieved, seems due in
England and Wales, where a census shows that women
outnumber men by 1,631,000. The surplus is nearly
all English ; in Greater London alone there are 543,000
more women than men. And a very great proportion
of them are of marriageable age.
In the old days the authorities would have
rounded up a big proportion of this surplus and dis-
patched it to Australia, but now they’d create a lot
of trouble in a country where nearly half the people
are clustered in six Big Cities and more than half the
Big-City population is female. There doesn’t seem
much prospect for them in Canada, South Africa or
Maoriland, so it looks as though they’ll have to stay
at home. Indeed John Bull must resign himself to
seeing them enter industry and the professions, an
entry that must be facilitated by the fact that Britain
is about to have 2,000,000 men under arms and is
steadily increasing industrial output of all kinds.
This may be well while war lasts, but afterwards
when the survivors of the 2,000,000 try to re-enter civil
life they may find the prophecy made by a Boer War
veteran in a Sydney street during a march of the
Second A.I.F. borne out:
“What’s going t’ happen if all the country’s best
youngsters are taken away?”
“The women’ll run it,” declared the B.W.V.
Some people claim that, after a great war such
as that of 1914-18 drains away man-power, nature
readjusts the balance by seeing to it that male births in
the next generation or so far exceed female births.
Nature seems to have lost interest, or gone on a holi-
day or perhaps, being a woman, has at last woke up to
a wonderful opportunity. Whatever the truth of that,
the presence of those 1,631,000 spare women in Eng-
land and Wales is a factor that no thinking man —nor
any married woman with a susceptible lord —can
regard with equanimity.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Dick Tafone”: Exchange ads. in
Great Dailies occasionally afford
glimpses into curious and intriguing
aspects of community life. What exactly
were the reasons which impelled one
advertiser to offer 20ft. of pewter-lined
beerpump piping for a small portable
altar of any Christian denomination?
More understandable is the individual
who would give home-carpentering cor-
respondence instruction for the making
of 12 useful household articles for a
genuine recipe for home-brewed beer,
together with full particulars for pro-
ducing it without attracting attention from
others in the same house. But the one
which really stirred my imagination ran:
“Will Exchange Large Venomous Snake,
Beautifully Mounted In Glass Case, For
Small Marble Tombstone, Not In-
scribed.” Had his mother-in-law passed
away? ■
* * * *
“T.”: A rash of divorce cases has
broken out on the fair face of Perth,
which likes to consider itself the most
English of Australian cities, and has been
inclined to sniff at the N.S.W. divorce
statistics. In two recent cases the co-res.
were former matrimonial partners of the
respondents—which would be considered
unusual even in Sydney. And a young
woman charged with misconduct by her
husband, a farmer —it was remarked that
he and most of his witnesses were six-
footers— countered with an application
for a judicial separation, alleging that he
had been guilty of “sullenness, sulkiness,
threats, abuse, jeering, leering, coarse-
ness and bullying.” Sounds like a couple
of lines from a poem by “T. the R.”
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Recent road accident
figures in Victoria are revealing. They
show that 243 persons were killed and
3499 injured during six months to De-
cember 31. Bright clear days accounted
for 3036 misadventures, rainy days for
684, foggy ones for 14 and tempestuous
red-dust days for eight. So it is over-
confidence in modern quick acceleration
and marvellous super-braking, plus the
high-speed factor, which is the major
cause of the death toll. In bad weather
even the showy driver armed with a
lethal weapon capable of doing 90 drives
with the same care and circumspection
as the old gent, in a doddering Ford of
the 1920 vintage.
* * * *
“Masniblick”: It was on a city golf
course, very early in the morning. My
partner swung wildly at his tee shot,
topped it, and let go a burst of pro-
fanity, confident that nobody was about.
When he turned to pick up his clubs lie
met the demure gaze of a couple of
associates. Scarlet, he broke into
apologies. They heard him out, then the
taller remarked, “Oh, I wouldn’t worry
about it. You’ll do better with more
practice.” We’re still wondering what
she meant.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: In a play recently staged
in Melbourne the leading lady came on
and took her allotted place by a table.
She stood there in contemplation, and
then started as a bell rang. Abstractedly,
and without looking round, she stretched
out her hand to take the receiver off
the telephone. But the instrument wasn’t
there ; in the hustle and bustle of the
first night the property man had forgot-
ten it. An anguished look momentarily
swept the lady’s countenance; then,
making the best of a bad job, she went
through the pantomime of taking the
receiver off the hook, putting it to her
ear and speaking into a non-existent re-
ceiver. The audience tittered, and its
merriment increased when an arm was
thrust through the curtain and a real
telephone was placed on the table. A
Chinese audience like the one which
rolled up for “The Cast-off Something
Fan” at Melbourne Apollo wouldn’t
have even known it was an accident.
* * * *
“The Barber”: Out of work in Bris-
bane, I rented a dosshouse room. The
boss, a large hirsute person, asked me
to give him a haircut. When the job
was finished I said “What about a bit
"You cant expect a man to work with cold hands."
of wood to light the copper so’s I can
boil some clothes?” “Wood for the
copper?” he repeated. “Thruppence is
the usual charge. But I’ll tell you what
I’ll do—cut the wife’s hair and we’ll call
it square.”
“Chink”: Whenever I read a par. such
as that of “Uramao” (B. 24/4/’4O) about
the country paper and its customer’s
“pug” pastry and “mice” pies, I feel
again the surge of sorrow that I felt in
my youth on a rural journal. It was
an ambition of mine then to steal some-
thing unseemly into print, and often in
the temporary absence of one of the
hand-setting comps. I added a few re-
marks to his “stick.” No good ; I was
always euchred. But other comps, have
made misprints for me without assist-
ance. In a few well-chosen remarks on
a Nature topic I quoted an early natural-
ist as saying that the voice of the wattle-
bird resembled the noise made by a
person vomiting; and the “e” in
“person” was turned into “a.” Still, that
slip was not as bad as the one of a
Victorian country paper that, in a birth-
notice, changed the “n” in “son” into “w.”
* * * *
“Odd Pint”: I see be the papers
where mice are eating clothes and things
down in Riverina and even havin’ a pick
at people’s fingernails while they sleep.
Some of them mice must get a norrible
shock when they start munching the nails
of a modern flapper, colored with some
scarlet or pink mess. It reminds of the
mice plague in ’l7, when old Bill went to
bunk on his straw mattress and the bunk-
got up and bolted in 3002 different direc-
tions, with Bill swiping at it with his
blucher boot. He was still cursing when
Tom the Liar came up and said, defen-
sively, “I ain’t fellin’ y’ this ; I’m askin’ y’
to take a look at it y’self.” Bill followed
him down to the river. Tom had
stretched a night-line across the water
between two trees, and across that cord,
like a multitude of minute Blondins,
scrambled a line of mice.
* * * *
“Yeno Ham”: After 70 years the pro-
prietors of the Goulburn (N.S.W.) “Even-
ing Penny Post” have dropped the
“Penny” from its title. The increased
price of newsprint has necessitated a
change which didn’t have to be made
during the 1914-18 war —the “Post” was
published three times a week then. One
of the founders was Thomas Daniel, a
printer from Staffordshire, brought to
Australia by Stevens and Stokes, who
preceded John Fairfax and Sons as
owners of the “S. M. Herald.” His sons,
Walter and Alfred, succeeded him;
Walter Daniel was chairman of directors
for 40 years, dying in 1935. His sons,
Tom and Jack, were in control until
this year, when Tom died, leaving his
brother and his own sons in charge. On
the writing side Harry Pinn, editor from
the early ’eighties until 1925, and T. J.
Hebblewhite, the senior member of his
staff —they were together nearly all the
time —did a great deal for the “Post.”
* * * *
“K. Ley”: He wavered uncertainly up
our street, peered closely at a number,
untangled himself from the gate, and
went in. To his knock there came a large
lady with a beady eye. “Thish,” he
stated, “ish num’er twenny-four, ishn’t
it?” The lady admitted as much. “Then
tha’sh where I livesh,” he asserted, and
tried to push past. With a dexterity that
hinted at practice she propelled him to
the gate and on to the footpath. He
picked himself up, teetered in considera-
tion, then wavered back down the street.
Curiously, I followed. At the corner,
cuddling a tree-guard, undulated the real
male inhabitant of No. 24. To him came
the ejected one and muttered, “S’no
goo’, ol’ man, she won’t havesh y’ on
(hie) any pricesh. Chucked y’ out, she
didsh.” Mr. 24 shed a momentary tear,
then linked arms with his friend, and
forth they went into the cold world.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A much-argued question
of “lawful excuse” has been settled by
S.A. Supreme Court. A man was con-
victed of being in a house without l.e.
He appealed on the ground that his wife
and children were there, and that this
was sufficient excuse for anyone. The
Chief Justice thought the plea worth send-
ing on to the Full Court, but there agreed
with his colleagues that the idea was a
“mistake in law,” and not to be accepted.
The other side stated, without contradic-
tion, that the house belonged to the
culprit’s father-in-law, that he had previ-
ously been warned to keep away from it,
and that he was living with another
woman.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: There is a man in Mel-
bourne who is shifting one part of Aus-
tralia to another while his homeland is
going into German hands. He is the
overseer of the Dutch company which is
scooping half a million cubic yards of
mud from the site of the new Appleton
Dock at Port Melbourne. The stuff is
being dumped in the vicinity of the
notorious Dudley Flats. Flattites bitterly
resent this invasion of their ancient rights
and want to know why Toorak isn’t
getting some of it.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: That eminent stylist
Stevens (“Mr. Weaver has enjoyed bad
health for some considerable time”) has a
disciple in an inspector of local-govern-
ment accounts who reported on the muzzy
affairs of the Sydney municipality of
Glebe. The gentleman found a “financial
retrogression of £19,514,” which is just
what Stevens would have found. Though
he decided not to decide between an
engineer, who asserted that he had shared
commissions with “the boys” (term used
in the Waterloo case for which three
aldermen got three months), and “the
boys” (they all denied the impeachment),
he came to the conclusion that some of
“the boys” had made a welter of hiring
cars. But this is how he expressed it:
Hired cars were not used on council
business alone by Glebe Council between
June, 1936, and December, 1938. Average
annual mileage of the council car between
December, 1935, and April, 1939, was
12,500. Having in mind the smallness of the
area [5lB acres!] and the regularity with
which cars were hired for funerals and
other purposes, it is difficult to imagine
how such a mileage was purely the result
of council business.
Anyone but a Stevens stylist would have
made it “Hired cars were used not on
council business alone.”
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Humor isn’t usually
associated with cooking, but there was a
bright spot in a cookery competition
organised by the Council of Melbourne
University Women. The more inventive
gals concentrated on the novelty section,
but they were beaten by a man. The
prize went to a huge mound of pastry
charred to a cinder in the University
incinerator and entered under the name
of “King Alfred.”
* * * *
“Uramao”: Misquotations of Grey’s
“Elegy” (B. 24/4/’4O) interest me less than
the liberties taken with Macaulay’s New
Zealander who was to “take his stand
on a broken arch of London Bridge to
sketch the ruins of St. Paul’s.” A Well-
ington (M.L.) weekly: “We have heard of
Macaulay’s New Zealander sketching the
ruins of Westminster Abbey from Lon-
don Bridge.” An American authoress:
“We have not thought often enough of
that hypothetical New Zealander on
Westminster Bridge.” Another Welling-
ton weekly: “We picture Macaulay’s
New Zealander seated by Thames-side
gazing on the ruins of St. Paul’s.” Same
journal, a year later: “Horace Walpole’s
New Zealander, sitting on the ruins of
St Paul’s, ruminating over the end of
civilisation.” A Sydney weekly (not The
Bulletin) had the fellow (1) “standing
on the ruins of St. Paul’s,” and (2) “on
Westminster Bridge surveying the ruins
of St. Paul’s.” A defunct soldiers’ jour-
nal : “There is the celebrated quip of the
Maorilander standing on London Bridge
shaking his head over the ruins of
the historic town.” Strange that no one
placed the übiquitous Maorilander on a
broken arch of the rickety Waterloo
Bridge, demolished a few years ago in
the interests of safety.
ODE TO A ROOSTER.
“The sound of a rooster’s crow is beautiful, it is
music, it is magnificent.”
• —Violinist Yehudi Menuhin.
Bold Chanticleer, whose merits none deride
Roasted or boiled or fricasseed or fried,
How slow we’ve been, how infinitely slow,
In finding splendid music in your crow!
Your sphere of usefulness we used to fix
In expediting eggs and siring chicks,
Before a posthumous success you scored,
Seasoned and sauced, upon the dinner board.
’Tis strange, ’tis passing strange, to think
how few
Have hailed you as a champion songster, too.
“The crested bird that claps his wings at
dawn”—
Thus was your portrait by a poet drawn,
And no embittered critic can gainsay
The carrying power of your roundelay,
Though one may find considerably less
Accord regarding its melodiousness.
Yet who should know so well as one who
wrings
Entrancing sounds and strains from fiddle-
strings
What genuine music is, and where belong
The sweetest voices in the feathered throng?
Skylarks and nightingales for many a day
In their own line have held unchallenged sway;
The warbling blackbird and the trilling thrush
Have had their tributes of poetic gush.
Now, judged by what our Menuhin’s revealed,
A new competitor is in the field.
No more we’ll rank the male domestic fowl
With braying kooka. or with hooting owl.
How deaf we must have been who never knew
What music lies in “Cock-a-doodle-doo”!
1 see at break of day the cocky stand,
His eager ear cupped in his spacious hand,
Loath to be cheated of a single chord
Emitted by the barnyard harem’s lord.
Time was, immune to its harmonious joys,
He merely found it a disturbing noise,
Like to the bark of dog, the moo of cow.
But, thanks to Menuhin, he’s wiser now.
Late —but yet not too late —he’s come to know
The vocal rapture in the rooster’s crow.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


"Good morning, mister. Where's me cabin?"
“Mac Hoots”: As it is extremely un-
likely that I shall ever become a mother,
and as it hasn’t yet occurred to the
multiple stores and other tradesmen with
a pecuniary interest in sentimentality to
set aside an Uncle’s Day, my loathing
of Muvver’s Day may be only sour
grapes. But I don’t think so. For one
thing, the seasick pallor of a white
chrysanthemum always makes me think
how right the Chinese are to make white
the color of mourning. For another
thing, when great, strong, bouncing tiny-
tots of 45 and 50 make a public display
of their love for Muvver there is some-
thing of the same peculiarly American
infantilism that is evidenced in the popu-
larity of comic strips in the Silly Press.
Furthermore, it is all in very bad taste:
we bleak Highlanders and reserved Eng-
lish and tough Australians used to pride
ourselves on concealing our emotions,
leaving open Muvver-worship to the
Yanks and the lorn Irish tenors. Let
us by all means be communally glad at
Christmas, mad at New Year and solemn
on Anzac Day ; may Guy Fawkes never
be forgotten. But are there no lofty and
independent souls who will refuse with
me to take this common bath of senti-
mentality every time the shops remind
us it is Muvver’s Day?
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide is getting thought-
ful about the gradual whittling away of
the great belt of parklands which is its
chief pride. A cemetery was the original
bite out of it, and since then the Oval,
the Adelaide Racing Club, the Tennis
Association and others have obtained
leases. In the main, everything is still
open to the public, except on special
occasions, and even the racecourse has
a free flat. However, technically the
3200 acres reserved by Colonel Light for
posterity have been reduced by about
one-third, and a new High School plan
is causing much argument. Hundreds
of clubs have playing rights over various
numbered, though unenclosed, bits of the
parklands, and almost every outdoor
game is to be seen there. Footballers of
all grades are now taking a leading part
in the hands-off movement.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Geelong got a mild attack
of war jitters, irrespective of the news
from Europe, when a fore-and-aft
schooner anchored in Corio Bay hoisted
the white ensign upside down, thus sig-
nifying that a mutiny had broken out on
the vessel. A party in a rowboat has-
tened to the rescue. It turned out that
a mutiny had indeed broken out, but it
was between the elderly caretaker’s de-
sire to lead a quiet life and the pangs of
hunger gnawing at his stomach. The old
man had been marooned without pro-
visions for a week and, lacking a dinghy,
had decided to send out a call. He knew
nothing about the international code,
and by a pure accident had used the
signal most likely to attract shore atten-
tion.
“Harold Hardupp”: That Melbourne
school for cooks (B. 15/5/’4O) re-
minds me of old Harry Meyer and
his boast that he was “the only
fully qualified hotel manager in
Australia.” His father, a publican in
the English Midlands, prescribed a long
course under the best instructors in
France, Germany, Austria and Italy, the
curriculum including cooking and but-
chering as well as the liquid side of the
Trade, Then, the
spirit of adventure
seizing him, Harry
went travelling as
ship’s cook. Leaving
the sea, he managed
a pub at Honolulu
and the Baden Baden
at Coogee, Sydney;
but mainly he was a
chef. In that capacity
he worked at Sydney
caravanserais like the
Grosvenor and
Petty’s, and he en-
joyed his jobs and
life. Physically huge,
“Old Harry” liked to
take the sun in shorts,
and that long before
they were general
wear on the beaches.
He was one of
Bondi’s noted iden-
tities until his death
two years ago.
* *
“Perry”: Talking
of these ancient
metho. addicts (B.
15/5/’4O), a Sydney
suburb owns one who
is a loca/ celebrity.
Everyone with a
backyard knows Old
Tom and is likely to find him in it re-
covering from the effects of his potations
if the gate has been left unlocked. House-
holders usually eject him quietly and
kindly. The only time I ever knew his
removal to be accompanied by any com-
motion was when Tom on a bleak winter
night crept into the back regions of a
boarding-house and took refuge in a
warm corner of the furnace-room. A
maid who took a last-minute look at the
furnace saw him there and reported his
presence to the proprietress, remarking
that she supposed it was all right for
the old man to stay there until morning.
“All right!” shrieked the missus in a
panic. “Get him out at once! After all
the metho. he’s swallowed he’s liable
to catch fire and blow up any minute.”
Tom, plus a shilling, was hustled into
the night, and we heard later that, forti-
fied with an unexpected bottle of his
dope, he spent the night in a chapel.
* * * *
“T.”: Reading the war news, one
realises how fortunate we Australians
and Maorilanders have been and how
necessary it will be to strain every nerve
if we are to remain as fortunate. In
the sad processions of Belgians flying
from the German hordes were many
who went through the same harrowing
experience (though without barbarous
bombings) quarter of a century ago;
and in Sedan there must be aged
Frenchmen and Frenchwomen who
have seen Prussians swarm into their
town three times in 70 years. For those
poor old people occupation of the town,
if any remained in it, meant entering
upon the sixth year of subjection to
merciless masters, for the enemy occu-
pied Sedan for roughly a year in 1870-71
and for four years in 1914-18. Allowing
for later refinements of cruelty, the first
experience must have been the worst, for
“To Berlin!” was the cry 70 years ago,
and the trapping of the third Napoleon
and McMahon’s army in Sedan was a
shock as stunning as the retreat of the
first Napoleon over the Rhine in 1813.
Had McMahon not been laid out by
a thigh wound it is possible that part
of the army would have cut its way
through ; hopeless confusion was caused
by the sudden arrival, from Algiers, of
Wimpffen, who, ignorant of the army
and the country, produced an order
superseding Ducrot, a good soldier, and
altered all his plans. As it was, 17,000
French were killed and wounded, and
82,000 surrendered, among them the
Emperor and McMahon —a descendant,
by the way, of one of the Irish soldiers
who went into exile with James 11.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: A jubilee has been cele-
brated by Katie Towers, who is so active
and versatile that she has many times
been on the bills of two city theatres on
the same night. What the jubilee is need
not be mentioned ; but Katie’s stage his-
tory goes back to childhood, when her
father, Frank Towers, toured the world
with his family and the rest of the com-
pany. They played in the crude canvas
towns of the South African diamond
fields when Kimberley was young; they
played in Maori pahs, and on one occa-
sion Katie and her sisters, Addie and
Rose, appeared as the Three Little Maids
in “The Mikado.” The sisters married and
left the stage both arc still with us
and the inexhaustible Katie, whose work
as the cook in “The Women” transcended
that of the lady who did the part in the
American screen version, has a Cinesound
job.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: These young pagans!
Asked to write a sentence using the
word “pew, ’ a 12-year-old girl at our
outback Maoriland school handed in
this effort: “Pew is what Dad says when
the meat smells.”
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Ernest Brown,
the British Minister for Labor, has
pointed out to the Union an
intimate account of Hitler s character
and career contained in the 11th chapter
of the Book of Daniel from verse 21 on.
The Revised Version is scathing enough,
but the modern (pre-war) translation by
a Hebrew scholar quoted by Brown
seems likely to give Dr. Goebbels apo-
plexy. For samples:
A despicable creature shall arise, one
on whom the royal honor is not conferred
but who comes when men are off their guard
and gams the kingdom by means of crafty
promises... .As soon as anyone becomes
his ally, he starts to outwit him, for he
rises to power by aid only of a small
Party i when men are their § uard he
attacks the ]eader jn each province .... He
shaJl do what neither his fathers nor his
fathers’ fathers ever did, he shall scatter
prey, plunder and property among his fol-
lowers. . ..but he shall fail, for treacherous
him Then rumors from the east and the
north shall alarm him, till he retires.. ..
So shall he come to his end with none to
e p im.
It will be dangerous to be seen reading
the Old Testament in Germany once the
Gestapo gets to hear of this,
* * * *
“C.R.”: A Melbourne “Argus” con-
trovetsy reveals that there is no more
contentment in the servants’ hall in
modern Toorak than there was in the
days of Good Queen Victoria. When
I was a boy maids-of-all-work got 7s. 6d.
a week, slaved from morn till dark and
did the cooking. They were given one
afternoon off a week, but had to be
in at nightfall and slept in a kind of
dog-kennel off the kitchen. Their mis-
tresses, regarded themselves as custodians
of their virtue just as much as if they
were their own children, with full right,
if they fell from grace, to cast them forth
with contumely. Nowadays their wages
are larger, their jobs far easier, and they
enjoy a greater degree of uncensored
freedom; but the demand for their
labor is far greater than the supply.
The modern girl nearly always wants to
go to “business.”
THEM UNIVERSITY BLOKES.
“Whenever I, in the days of my slavery, began to
give a broadcast talk, in a thousand happy Australian
homes some estimable citizen would ask ‘Who’s he?’
—and another would reply ‘Oh, just one of them
University blokes. Try another station.’ ”
—Professor Walter Murdoch.
It’s easy to spot them, you must be aware,
As soon as their voices are heard on the air.
Nor is it the scholarly English alone
But what you might call the pontifical tone,
Suggesting the firm and emphatic conviction
That what is conveyed is beyond contradiction,
Which often the petulant comment evokes,
“Another of them University blokes!”
For ever the tang of the lecture-room clings
To the draughts they purvey from Pierian
springs.
Sustained by diplomas and stiff with degrees
They’ll talk upon almost whatever you please.
No problems evade them, you’d think, in their
cloisters,
From the conduct of war to the culture of
oysters.
Yet they’re found unimpressive by ordin’ry
folks,
The bleatings of “them University blokes.”
One may garner in quiet academical nooks
No end of a lot from the study of books,
But few (vide Pope) would maintain that it can
Compare for results with the study of man,
A subject on which there is scarce, I conjec-
ture,
A prof, who’s equipped to deliver a lecture.
Yet still at our firesides the radio pokes
The blither of “them University blokes.”
In their own estimation Sir Oracles, eh?
And there’s little with which they’re not fairly
au fait?
Yet it’s curious how often the instrument’s
drone
Is apt to elicit a snarl or a groan,
With a muttered injunction, forbidding denial,
To give 2KY (for example) a trial,
Since the chap who’s emitting these tedious
croaks
Is “just one of them University blokes!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


CRAYENA
..ate so
«e <
/
I*.
ŗ
EIBCT
10 for 9°
20 for 1/6
THRO ATS
POLITICAL POINTS
If the battle moves much nearer Paris
the Government will almost certainly
start to shoot Communists. It will be
a grievous shock to the feelings of
Australian bishops, canons, professors,
radio commentators and other persons
in comfortable positions who think no
end of “the mighty Russian experiment”
and would-be local experimenters; but
France has always had a short way with
Fifth Columns.
While kingdoms were falling and
sovereigns becoming hunted fugitives,
little Parkhill, who since 1937 had been
nursing thoughts of r-r-revenge on the
rapidly-risen Spender, renounced them
in words which will be remembered till
they are forgotten:
The whole Empire is facing a national
crisis, and all minor matters should be set
resolutely aside to enable the nation effec-
tively to confront its foes and organise
the victory which must be won.
Magnificent —and politics. Parky is after
a seat in the Senate.
Another scene in the comedy of
the two Lazzarinis began when
brother Hubert Peter angrily
repudiated Lang and Beasley
and their “Australian Labor party
(non-Communist).” As an asso-
ciate of the interesting pair, Hubert
Peter helped to turn out the
Scullin Labor Government in 1931.
Brother Carlo Camillo was one of
Lang’s Ministers in 1925-27, was
passed out of the Ministry in that
year, but remained in the
Assembly, first as an opponent
and then as a humble supporter of
the Big Fellow ; then he whirled
himself away with the Heffron
group. For a time Hubert Peter
and Carlo Camillo were in dif-
ferent factions. Now they are in
the same camp, and ready to risk
anything for their principles, even
the crown of martyrdom. At least,
that seems to be the position.
Thirty years ago, when Asquith
was on top, a favorite speculation
in Britain was whether Lloyd
George or Churchill would succeed
him. It is matter of history that
the Welshman shouldered his old
chief aside in 1916 ; and now at
long last Churchill is in the saddle.
Everything comes to him who
waits —provided he can last long enough.
Premier Mair was asked by McKell
for a select committee to inquire into
the administration of the Milk Board
“in view of the widespread dissatisfaction
with that body.” Mair replied that he
did not know of any “widespread dis-
satisfaction.” Presently he commissioned
Judge De Baun to “inquire into the cost
of distributing milk in the Sydney zone,”
a subject on which the board is supposed
to be brimful of knowledge. It means
only that a few more thousands will be
added to Mair’s deficit.
A political reputation that has gone
phut is that of Hore-Belisha. Chamber-
lain knew what he was about when he
got rid of the self-advertising gentleman.
Petulant Hore-Belisha demands that huge
forces should be sent to Finland pro-
voked an ordinarily mild Labor mem-
ber into asking whether he wanted
to fight everybody; and his news-
paper articles, syndicated in Aus-
tralia, lapidly dissipated the impres-
sion that he was a genius, persecuted
because of his origin. Finally he sup-
ported the Labor motion of censure on
the Government of which he was a mem-
ber. It will mean his finish, for he was
left out of the Churchill Ministry and
Conservative support is sure to be with-
drawn from him in his electorate. He is
a “National” Liberal, and all the
“National” Liberals are at the mercy of
the Tory organisation.
The octogenarian Franklin, who lost
his Westralian Leg. Council seat to Cole-
batch, was one of the secesh leaders.
They were nearly all elderly gentlemen,
and an ungrateful public has had no use
for them since their agitation collapsed.
All that now remains of it is an enor-
mous petition which Westminster re-
fused to entertain and the memory of a
terrific bill for exes., which were charged
up to the suffering country.
Sydney Sunday papers persist in stating
that Justice Evatt plans to retire from
the High Court and have a shot at
Beasley in West Sydney. His Honor’s
political experiences were unpleasant—
he found Lang impossible in 1927 —but
he is the kind of man who would not
be daunted by the prospect or even the
certainty of still more unpleasant ex-
periences if he felt that Australia wanted
his services in Parliament. Nor would
“As for that hideous apparatus of aggression which dashed Holland into ruin and slavery
in a few days, we are ready to face it, endure it and retaliate against it to any extent that
the unwritten laws of war permit.”
“In you go, John, and remember he made the rules —no blows or holds barred!"
he be deterred from doing what he
thought right by the sacrifice of position,
salary and pension rights, for which he
could qualify in five years—at 51. But
if this eminent Australian takes the
plunge Barton would be a more suitable
electorate than West Sydney.
The Canberra correspondent of the
Melbourne “Herald” group of news-
papers makes the astonishing statement
that “the British Government advised the
Commonwealth against an Australian
appointment to Tokyo on the ground
that it might cause misunderstanding
there.” Whether right or wrong, he
knows the Canberra politician of the
Right:—•
Most members of the Ministerial party
would be opposed to taking action of this
kind against the advice of Britain.
Of course they would. “Follow Britain”
has become part of their political re-
ligion. Still, at bottom, it means follow-
ing British politicians, and in the con-
duct of relations with foreign countries
British politicians have not been out-
standingly successful. There might really
be Australians who could do a better
job in Japan.
Scullin, in a rare self-laudatory mood:
In 1929 a rectification of our trade
balance brought solvency to this country,
and the tariff measures accompanying it
established industries which are saving us
in this hour of need. I tremble to think
what our present position in respect of the
defence of this country would be if we did
not have the trained artisans and well-
equipped factories which resulted from the
steps taken.
Agreed as to the tariff measures and their
fruits. Unfortunately, in the same year
the Scullin Government did away with
national training, and it was just our luck
that the effects were not disastrous. As
it was, the war found us lamentably un-
organised and lacking in trained men,
and the consequent losses in time and
money are incalculable.
Stunt Press and A.B.C. historians made
much of Churchill’s descent from “his
ancestor, Marlborough.” Marlborough’s
sons predeceased him, and his daughter
Henrietta, who became duchess by virtue
of a special Act, was succeeded by her
nephew, a Spencer Charles Spencer,
Earl of Sunderland and Duke of Marl-
borough. The fourth Duke was also
content to be a Spencer; it was the
fifth Duke who added Churchill to the
family name. The P.M. is a Spencer-
Churchill, great-grandson of the seventh
Duke, and half-American on the maternal
side of his house.
About the silliest of the silly gas
restrictions introduced by the panic-
stricken N.S.W. Government prohibited
the use of bath-heaters while permitting
the householder to heat as many con-
tainers of hot water as he liked, pro-
vided they didn’t exceed six pints
capacity each. In this way a person
would burn at least three times as much
gas as would be used by the bath-
heater.
N.S.W. householders whose fire-
insurance premiums have fallen due
recently are bitterly realising what the
Sydney Government had in store for
them when, assisted by an alleged Labor
party, it shoved up stamp duties “to
reduce the deficit”— i.e., the annual loss,
which looks like being bigger than ever.
On a cottage insured for £lOOO the
premium is 18s. and the stamp duty ss.
And this robbery-by-statute impost is
levied on renewals.
Talking at Canberra about high rents
for military headquarters in Melbourne,
Senator Brand protested against extrava-
gance in these matters. That was all
right, but he then went on to commit an
Awful Blunder, suggesting that the Gov-
ernment shouldn’t bother about incon-
veniencing some football clubs. Fancy
telling Melbourne people that!
At the end of June people liable for
income tax owed the Commonwealth
£3 331.985, and £208,042 of land tax was
outstanding. Probably inspired by these
figures, and by the 1939-40 exactions of
the N.S.W. Government, a Sydney con-
cern is offering loans to taxpayers at its
customary rate of interest. Anthony,
M.H.R., declares it an argument for pay-
ment of taxes by instalments. Taxation
departments study their own convenience
and the necessities of Governments, but
they have a habit of hurling two or more
annual assessments at the taxpayer when
he is hard put to meet one.
“Taxpayers in Queensland receive
almost simultaneously assessments for
Federal income tax, State income tax,
State relief tax, State land tax and
Federal land tax.” Thus Jolly, M.H.R.,
and Tummas Paterson chipped in with
“It’s the same in Victoria.” The only
thing Jolly could suggest was that the
seven taxing authorities should be im-
plored to “spread their assessments.”
What is really needed is that taxation
of incomes (and control of education with
it) should be taken over by the Common-
wealth. Land tax (except, of course, in
Commonwealth territories) might be left
to the States till they are divided into
provinces.
The Sydney Government, which is dis-
tributing £52,000 of guarantees among
Sydney film companies, has urged the
Board of Trade to assist the exhibition
of Australian films in Britain. No doubt
the British will be glad to forget Hitler
for a moment and rush off to spend their
hard-earned cash to see something like
“Ants in His Pants.”
Sydney “Daily News,” which still
wants Australia to hop into the war in
China, sees in the defeat of Holland, the
fate of Belgium and the peril of France
and Britain nothing but further proof
of the iniquities of Capitalism.
“We have nothing to offer but blood and
toil, tears and sweat,” says Mr. Churchill.
Blood and toil, tears and sweat —for
whom? Whose blood will be spilt in this
developing war, which is fast reducing
Europe to a shambles? The masses of
the people of England must suffer and
sacrifice as never before.... men are sent to
their death across the sea.
And so on in the characteristic post-
August anti-recruiting jargon of the Reds.
Then, perhaps maddened because its Red
gods lost their coal strike, Mr. Nelson’s
paper went on:
Capitalism produced this war. Capital-
ists are determined to prop up a decadent
system in their manner of waging it. The
people’s battles at home against the mil-
lionaires and their Governments may yet
merge into the international military con-
flict of nations.
By the civil-war route, apparently,
“Scandalous and treasonable” are the
P.M.’s words for this article in the self-
styled “official organ of the Australian
Labor movement,” to which McKell is
a regular contributor.
“X.S.”: I accept Premier Dunstan’s
assurance that the s.p. bookie or his
agent has no official existence in the
Victorian civil service. So the lady who
rang up the Premier’s office and tried to
book a bet was unfortunate. Secretary
Jungwirth politely made a note of it, thus
humoring the female punter, whose horse
ran third. Doubtless she was on the
wrong number, or “no official existence”
may be one of those terminological in-
exactitudes.


EMERGENCY CALL.
"Many of our girls are now instructors, and train men who are waiting to be called up.”—Women’s National Emergency Signalling Corps.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
I
.1.1
I
3a
■-1
;
12 J .32 i!
IftO&SS
I
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Kailway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from. . 12/6
’Phone: M 4 14 I CIO lines).
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for vour dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 26/1 /’ 38.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
TO BE CAREFREE
ABOUT CAPITAL..
Follow the hundreds who have
invested small and large sums in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 402 S V.V, G.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 5294
PERSONAL ITEMS
At 92, knight Thomas Buckland has
retired from the board of the Bank of
N. S. Wales, after an association dating
back to 1869. He became a director in
1909, and was president from 1922 to
1927. Chairman of Pitt, Son and Bad-
gery, Ltd., and a director of the Perma-
nent Trustee and United Insurance com-
panies, he has handed out cash freely for
patriotic and charitable purposes, in-
cluding £lOO,OOO for erection and endow-
ment of a convalescent home on the
mountains and a bombing ’plane worth
£10,500.
When Rev. P. W. Stephenson goes to
Nelson (M.L.) as Anglican Bishop, he
will be adding another job to a variety
he has done for his church. Victorian-
born, he was educated at Caulfield
Grammar School, Ridley Theological
College and Melbourne University. He
was 10 years a missionary in India, with
a base at Peshawar, four years on the
staff of St. John’s College, Manitoba
University (Can.), has been Federal secre-
tary of the Church Missionary Society in
Australia and headmaster of Trinity
Grammar School, Sydney. He joined the
Bible Society in 1938 and was Common-
wealth secretary when the call came to
Nelson.
I. H. Grabowsky, who has been
prominent in Australian aviation for
years, has been appointed to the aircraft
production branch of the Supply Depart-
ment. Until recently Brisbane manager
for Australian National Airways, I.H.G.
served in both the Royal Naval and the
Royal Air Force in the 1914-18 war, and
later became a test pilot for the De
Havilland Aircraft Co. in Australia. He
flew over most of New Guinea as a pilot,
and was for a time manager there for
Guinea Airways.
Martin Mcllrath, who takes a place on
the board of the Bank of N.S.W., fol-
lowing the resignation of knight Thomas
Buckland, is head of the big grocery and
general merchandise firm that bears his
name. He has been responsible for
MARTIN McILRATH.
many benefactions —latest being a gift
of £lO,OOO to the Federal Government
for war purposes.
Regular travellers on the Melbourne-
Launceston run across Bass Strait will
miss their friend John Mclntyre, who died
suddenly at 55 in his Melbourne home.
Mclntyre began his sea career in sail, but
transferred to steam in 1906, and, after
44 years as master on Huddart Parker
cargo boats on the Maoriland run, be-
came chief officer of the old Nairana,
moving up to acting-master and finally
master. He’d held these last two posi-
tions for 11 years, transferring to the
Taroona when the Nairana went off the
north-west Tassie run.
Arthur Christian, M.H.A. (S.A.), who
hopes to steer over its remaining
obstacles this year a State Wheat Bill
for which he has been fighting for three
years, is a son of Edmund Christian,
one of the earliest local-born colonists
in S.A. Former schoolmaster, now wheat-
grower, the member was in the 11th
Field Ambulance 1915-19, and compiled
an official history of the unit.
Victorian Education Department is a
far-flung organisation. For the past three
years it has been educating the small
son and daughter of C. C. Tavere, a
Melbourne mining engineer, at Takuapa,
on the wild west coast of Siam. In their
last exam., done by correspondence, the
two students got 90.
With a majority of 1119 over A. R.
Park, the ex-Australian XI fast bowler
C. J. Eady has retained the Hobart seat
in Tasmania’s Leg. Council. Charlie Eady
first got into the Council in 1925, and was
re-elected in 1934; now there until
May, 1946. He will be 70 in October.
Harrison Owen, back again in Aus-
tralia after 20 years’ sojourn in Fleet-
street, wrote countless sparkling para-
graphs, much bright verse and several
stories for The Bulletin during the
second decade of this century. Readers
of the Red Page can still recall a de-
lightful legpulling controversy he had
with David McKee Wright as to the rival
merits of Owen’s bookstall thriller
The Mount Marunga Mystery and
Thackeray’s Vanity Fair. Owen was 30
when London called. He wrote leaders
for the “Daily Sketch” and did special
work for other leading London papers.
Three of his plays, “The Gentleman in
Waiting,” “The Happy Husband” and
“Dr. Pygmalion,” saw production in
London, New York, Paris and Vienna.
Some of his jingle is collected in a
volume called Tommy rot Rhymes. He
is now doing leaders for the “Sun-News
Pictorial,” Melbourne.
One of the last stories told by old
Tom Ross, who passed out recently
down Wentworth (N.S.W.) way, was of
how he had a trick turned against him-
self. While managing Lake Victoria,
Ross suspected a boundary-rider of
loafing, followed him, and found him
asleep under a tree. To shock the man,
Ross lay down beside him, but himself
fell asleep. When he awoke the boun-
dary-rider and both horses were gone,
and Ross had to walk about 20 miles
back to the station.
J. E. Cummins, elected a Fellow of the
Australian Chemical Institute, was an
officer in charge of chemical investi-
gations in the W.A. Forestry Department
when he won a C.S. and I.R. senior re-
search scholarship which took him to the
U.S.A. Forests Products Laboratory for
three years. Returning, he organised the
C.S. and I.R.’s Forest Products Division,
becoming later head of the Preservation
Section. He has vastly improved preser-
vation practices in Australia, and has de-
veloped chemical processes that render
veneers and other timber immune to cer-
tain borers. He has been chairman of
the Standards Association of Australia,
and his academic distinctions include
M.Sc. (Wisconsin) and B.Sc. (Perth). At
present he is an officer of the Infor-
mation Section of the F.P.D.
Squadron-Leader Duncan Good, re-
ported seriously wounded in air
operations recently, was born at Adelaide
in 1917, joined the R.A.A.F. at Point
Cook at 18, and in 1938 went to England
for further training with the R.A.F.
Good is probably the youngest Aus-
tralian airman to hold the rank of
squadron-leader, and is the first South
Australian to be awarded the Dis-
tinguished Flying Cross, which he
received for exploits in Norway.
S. R. Selleck, Prahran’s (Vic.) city
accountant for 18 years, is to be Red
Cross secretary of the unit to work in the
Middle East. He was with the old
A.I.F. and the R.A.A.F., and his experi-
ence of the soldiers’ needs should go
well with his actuarial knowledge.
N. H. Connolly probably knows more
about schooners and their lading than
the oldest seaman afloat. A foundation
member of the Federal United Licensed
Victuallers’ Association, he is now presi-
dent of the N.S.W. branch for the
twelfth time. He served the Federal body
three years as president, then withdrew
from election and became a life-member.
Born in the Speck, he first interested
himself in theatrical affairs, becoming the
Theatrical Employees’ president and play-
ing a big part in organising entertainments
for the benefit of returned men, both in
Maoriland and Tasmania. He sold his
first beer from the Howard, in Hobart,
N. H. CONNOLLY.
thence moving to Sydney and behind the
bar of the Royal Sovereign. A doughty
fighter against prohibition, his voice has
been heard in all States, and he believes
in attack rather than defence against the
onslaughts of the wets. Rugby League
football and cricket get his practical sup-
port, and lately golf has gathered him in.
Every time the bell on a cash register
in a South Australian Government office
rings, it can be regarded as a token of
the work of E. R. Dumas, Senior Auditor
and chairman of the S.A. Public Service
Superannuation Fund, who has retired
through ill health after 43 years’ service.
He it was who introduced the cash
register to departmental South Australia.
He held a variety of offices in various
p.s. organisations, was a chess player of
inter-State class and holder of the Smith
Challenge Shield for chess. One of his
chief interests is gardening ; he founded
the Public Service Floricultural Society.
He is 60.
Soldiering has always been life s main
interest for Brigadier Harry Charles
Bundock, recently appointed Base Com-
mandant in South Australia. Queens-
land-born 54 years ago, he got his learn-
ing at Sydney Grammar and the Uni-
versity, and joined the Royal Artillery
Regiment in 1908. From 191- to 1915
he served at Thursday Island, and thence
BUNDOCK, D.S.O.
got among the real stuff in France with
the Ist Australian Siege Battery. He
emerged from that experience with two
wounds, his majority, a D.S.O. and com-
mand of the battery. Since then he has
served in every State. He was for a time
in command of N.S.W. coastal defences,
and left a similar job in Westralia for
his present appointment.
Robert Lawson, chief engineer of the
Commonwealth’s posts and telegraphs,
who has become Director-General of
Supply and Production, is a Liverpudlian
who started at an early age in the British
Post Office and transferred to the Com-
monwealth in 1914. He is a foun-
dation member of the Australian Insti-
tute of Engineers, and there isn’t much
he doesn’t know about wireless tele-
phony. He is 60.
Among passengers on the sailing ship
Boanerges, which berthed in Port Jack-
son in the spring of 1857, was an 18-
year-old colleen from County Cavan
(Ireland). She became Mrs. Mary Ross,
and, after a period in the N.S.W. bush,
she followed her family to Victoria. Her
descendants sent her greetings on her
101st birthday last week.
Twenty years ago, a long ginger-
headed ex-Light Horse sergeant entered
the small basement office of a shearing
company in O’Connell-street, Sydney, in
search of a job. He gave his name as
Robert Christian Wilson, born in 1896
near Mudgee (N.S.W.) and bred among
sheep and wool. Within a few weeks
he was out woolclassing, and shortly after
was touring the Riverina on a rackety
motor-bike for the just-fledged company
launched as a result of the desire of
N.S.W. Graziers’ Association to bring
some semblance of stability into the
chaotic shearing system. Wilson’s prac-
tical knowledge, plus a strong flair for
organising, soon made him secretary.
Now, with Wilson as general manager,
Grazcos has just celebrated its 21st birth-
day by shearing 7,837,000 sheep last sea-
son in 642 sheds scattered over four
States, and is easily the greatest shearing
organisation in the world. Its co-opera-
tive services to the pastoral industry in-
clude two other thriving activities —wool-
classing and pooling and veterinary
science and supplies. Bob Wilson is presi-
dent of the Employers’ Federation,
councillor of N.S.W. Graziers’ Associa-
tion, and a director of several com-
panies.


ř
VICTORIA*
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co. f Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA*.
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun-
ceston.


ABORIGINALITIES
“The 0.D.”: Daniel O’Sheay, a rather
morose agriculturist without wife or off-
spring, came out of his shell when
Riordan, his neighbor, was killed, and
rendered what assistance he could to the
bereaved widow and her large family.
This was repaid, when the good woman
had somewhat recovered, by gifts of pies,
custards and other delicacies which the
young Riordans delivered at Dan’s shack
from time to time. One day Dan came
back from a trip to town to find his
shack spick-and-span, clean curtains on
the windows, and other signs of a
woman’s ministering hand. Daniel stood
at his door and bent a long and thought-
ful gaze across the paddocks to the
Riordan farm, then went to bed. Next
day a Riordan appeared and announced
that, knowing he had a gramophone,
Mrs. Riordan had sent over a new record
she had bought, and would like him to
try it. That night Dan put the record
on. It was the Londonderry Air, with
words that concluded, “Oh, Danny boy ;
oh, Danny boy, I love you so.” “Now,”
muttered Daniel, “we know where we
are.” He was 40 miles away by day-
break, placing his farm on the market,
and hasn’t been seen in that district
since.
* * * *
“Mei”: Peter was sent to take over
the Quitit outstation from Tom. “You’ll
have to tell me how many sheep you’ve
got in each of these paddocks, Tom,”
Peter said. “I don’t rightly know,” Tom
confessed, scratching his head. “I did
have ’em all marked down on the table,
but the missus scrubbed the dashed
thing.”
❖
“Gumsucker”: My first job was at
a killing shed. The bullocks, mostly
huge Queensland beasts, were yarded
right against the slaughtering pens, and
no sooner had the spear begun to fall
than they became frantic at the smell
of blood. A 12ft. fence with tree-trunk
posts kept them from breaking loose.
At frequent intervals it was necessary
for men to enter this yard, separate in-
dividuals from the madly milling throng
and drive them into the race which led
to doom. To me an old hand spoke
words of wisdom: “If a beast charges
you don’t try to climb the fence ; fling
yourself flat against the bottom rail and
try to wriggle under. Even if he chases
you up against a blank wall do the same,
for even if he could get his horns low
enough no bullock will try to root out
anything from right in the angle where
a wall meets the ground.” Many a time
I wriggled under the bottom rail, but I
was always lucky enough to escape being
cornered against a building. Has any
Aboliar had practical proof whether or
not a horny can root a man out from
the position described?
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow had a
fair growth of hair and beard and betook
himself to the barber’s for a clean-up.
All went well until the razor, trimming
the back of Mat’s neck, collided with a
small pimple. Mat let out a howl and
almost bounced from the chair. “Sorry,”
said the barber, dabbing at the blood ;
“must’ve been a pimple there, or some-
thin’.” “Too right, there was,” Mat
roared, “but I didn’t tell y’ t’ grub the
damn’ thing out!”
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Mrs. Brandingiron had
been a city schoolmistress before she
married the boss, and domestic life out-
back seemed to her capable of sub-
stantial improvements. Essentially a
tactful woman, she commenced the good
work in the kitchen by delighting old
Jimmy Ah Foo the cook with accounts
of her visit to his native Canton during
a vacation trip overseas. Gaining his re-
spectful admiration she was able, with
many inward shudders, to observe the
finer details of his professional technique.
Insidiously she began to instil into
Jimmy’s mind an elementary idea of
germs, their appalling effects upon the
human frame, and how they can be
destroyed or circumvented. Jimmy gave
up cooling his feet in the tub while peel-
ing potatoes, washed his hands when-
ever he remembered, and went to the
door to spit. A fine new mincing machine
arrived to replace his manual method
of preparing such items as stuffing or
mince. It was then that the tea began
to deteriorate so strangely until Jimmy
himself cleared up the mystery. “No
germ in that tea, missus,” he explained
proudly. “Grind hot water through
"He broke his moustache cup yesterday."
mince machine make tea, smash up all
germs, make machine clean all same
time.”
* * * *
“Nagheer”: The old bush legends are
fast dying out under the relentless com-
petition of wireless, talkies and crime
magazines. Even the most venerable of
bush-pub liars has given up producing
the prehistoric grease-soaked hat with the
bullet holes inflicted by Ned Kelly's
revolver. It is many years since a
treasure-seeker aggravated his lumbago
by digging for Frank Gardiner’s gold,
hidden while he was disguised as a publi-
can at Apis Creek in the Rockhampton
(Q.) district. Henry Lawson’s trousers
still survive in the folklore of parts of
backblock N.S.W., but they are wear-
ing out almost as fast as the originals
appear to have done. From local
accounts of even 20 years ago Henry
must have been terribly hard on pants;
I have met twoscore kindly souls who
gave him a fresh pair when he came
along to their homestead, hut, camp or
pub, humping his drum. No other por-
tion of the poet’s apparel seems to have
needed repair or replacement. But from
personal memories Henry was always a
great one for sitting down, and, any-
how, few poets write standing up.
* * * *
“James W.”: Those coves with the
brain compasses (B. 24/4/’4O) were
novices. Old Angus McMudslopper
could give them all the points in the
compass and a beating when it came to
picking accurate direction without a
landmark in sight. All I’d absorbed in
the navigation schools counted for no-
thing on board Mac’s Mangrove Queen.
He carried miscellaneous cargoes in her
to settlements along the Gulf rivers.
Making for Normaloola on a night as
black as Himmler’s heart, we were
flogging up the twistiest and snaggiest
river that ever wound through man-
grove flats, flat out at the Queen’s full
four knots. Hour after hour we travelled,
with devil a glimpse of stars, banks or
anything else, and Mac steering as if he
could see everything within miles. I
was thoroughly windy, but he wouldn’t
even let me use the lead-line ; he just
stood at the wheel and snarled things
about ignoramuses and ninnies who had
no self-reliance. I sat harboring thoughts
of being digested by two or more crocs,
when Mac suddenly swung the telegraph
to “Stop,” then to “Astern,” and bellowed
“You can sling that lead-line o’ yours
now, Mister.” I did. It landed —on
the wharf!
* * * *
“Clinton Cape”: That big male crab
seen swimming seawards 10 miles off-
shore (B. 17/4/’4O) was throwing a
seven, as it were. I’ve often watched
them at it, though never so far out.
W.A. estuary crabs (male) invariably
grow beyond the 2ft. rule. At that stage,
become slow and sluggish, they seem
to realise that life has been fulfilled and
it is time to die. Many go out with each
tide and may often be netted miles along
the open sea beach. Others, reluctant
apparently to leave home waters, simply
fold up beneath a bush of seaweed and
pass out. Scores of times, drifting over
river shallows with a long fish spear, I
have made a swift shot at what I thought
to be a monster live crab only to find
emptiness. Of course, every season
myriads of young crabs, male and female,
go out to sea from the rivers, though
whether they perish there or ultimately
return is something which natural history
has been unable to inform us.
* * * *
“Flight”: Who told “Bufo” that
emus, laying their eggs in December,
are doing “just as their ancestors have
done from time immemorial” (B.
1/5/’40)? In England the bird is doing
the same as it does in Queensland—
laying its eggs early in winter. On the
Barcoo country, which is perhaps the
thickest emu land in Central Q., an
early clutch might be hatched during
May. June and early July is the time
when fellows come home with strings of
eggs tied in legs of trousers and arms
of shirts. In July those streaky chicks
follow old cock birds over the plains. I
have never seen a summer hatching, and,
as for finding nests in December, a
man might as well expect to find ice-
creams flowering on the gidyas.
H* H* *!•
“Q.E.D.”: Apparently trees can smell
their tucker. When growing oranges near
Gosford (N.S.W.) on poor sandy loam
I put some bags of mixed fertiliser on
the floor of the garage, waiting for a
less windy day for spreading it. In a
few days trees some distance away had
sent roots four inches into the bag, and
others were reaching up several inches
from all directions.
* * * *
“E.C.8.”: “I’ll back an ’orse against
a dawg any day for intelligence,” said
old Bill. “Once I was out drivin’ an
ole mare in foal —I ’ad ’er in a light
sulky and was takin’ it pretty gently.
I gets down to kill a snake that was
moochin’ across the road an’ she bolts,
sulky an’ all. I ’unted for ’er for weeks,
orf an’ on, an’ then I give ’er up xor
lorst. About six munce later I’m walkm
over the same country an’ I sees er
grazin’, still in the shafts, with the foal
at ’er ’eels. I’m sneakin’ up on ’er,
gradual, when she spots me. She gives
a bit of a whinny, the flamin’ foal ’ops
up inter the sulky, an’ orf she goes like
blazes. I never set eyes on ’er again
from that day to this.”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: We were throwing
off a big load of foot wood, and the
chap was trying to stack it. Bill didn t
like it a bit. “Better wait till we’re
finished,” he advised. “You might get
hit.” “I’m all right,” the stacker assured
him. “You keep throwing—l can dodge.”
We weren’t so sure about that, and
before we’d thrown off half a ton we
were getting jumpy, waiting for the acci-
dent. After the second near-miss Bill
selected a small billet, took aim, and
caught him on the seat. He nearly took
a header through the wall, and faced
around full of fight. “You did that on
purpose,” he howled. “I saw you.”
“Yairs,” Bill admitted, “I did. Y’ see,
yer bound to git hit sooner or later, an’
it might be a big piece. Like this.” He
let drive with a Tom Bowler, and the
chap skipped. Then we finished unload-
ing in peace.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Trudging the mulga
beyond Mt. Margaret (W.A.), we obeyed
an SOS call to a camp the two occupants
of which were rolling on the ground with
agony. “We’re poisoned!” one of them
gasped. Our thoughts flew to strychnine,
the symptoms
being similar;
but it was “that
stuff there.” The
stuff proved to be
a mess of pottage
got up something
in the style of a
salad. “They told
us it was good to
eat,” was the
further agonised
explanation. Long
Ned turned it
over. “So it is,
it’s parakeelia;
but you’ve been
eating it raw.
Only niggers and
camels can stand
that; a white
man needs to
cook it.” Luckily
our medicine
supply included
chlorodyne, which
eased the un-
happy diners’
situation. Lots of
newchums far in
the desert made
the same mistake.
Hearing of the
parakeelia’s nutri-
tiousness, and
fearful of barcoo
and scurvy, they
hastened to partake of the remedy, with
unhappy results. Unless pushed to the
limit by thirst the blacks broil the weed
on a bed of hot coals until the ice-plant-
like fingers burst. Long Ned’s was the
best way—roasted in the camp-oven with
plenty of dripping well seasoned with
pepper and salt. Tasty, but seldom free
from minute particles of grit, bedded
into the succulent flesh by the force of
the desert wind.
% * *
“Murlonga”: It is, or it was, a common
sight to see a gin suckling a pup or two
at her breasts, and on one occasion that
I know of the canine world showed its
gratitude by reciprocating. A girl baby
was born to Possum, an old gin on Glen-
ormiston, on the Georgina (W.Q.).
Possum died that night. There was no
other gin in milk ; there was no tinned
milk in the store and no cows were be-
ing milked at the homestead. A cattle
bitch saved the situation. She whelped
the night that Possum died and the baby
was put on the bitch. By the time the
dog had gone out of milk a couple of
old gins had brought on a lacteal flow
by lying in the hot sand and bathing
their breasts with streams of it.
$ $ * *
“Feathers”: “Bad Australian” (B.
17/4/’4O) is giving virtues never owned
by our native fauna in ascribing to them
a grim dumbness under pain. He care-
fully omits the koala. Billy Bluegum
beats any imported animal when it comes
to kicking up a row when in the throes,
though admittedly he may die silently.
The possum and the bandicoot will
squeal their pain and fear. And if “8.A.”
has never before heard a ’roo-rat squeal
he has never been introduced to the little
fellow.
THE ROAD.
“The road goes west,” the old men say,
“North, south or east by plain and hill.”
Maybe it did so yesterday,
But now the old road never will
Go anywhere. They’ve sealed it down,
A concrete cap its martyr’s crown.
“Once it rose up by that red hill;
Once it dipped down by that deep dale.”
A wayward road, it wound at will
Of teams that toiled through drought or hail
Furlong by furlong, mile on mile,
In their old free-and-easy style.
It went the way our fathers went,
Leaving wide lands for lands more wide
Where loneliness and banishment
Were things for strong men to deride.
“By that blazed tree out Walgett way . . .
Them dry creeks made a darned long day.”
Chance often marked its course, maybe.
“The Ten-mile Peg” a place they’d call
Where a worn wheel-hub bumped a tree
And made a loaded waggon stall.
Later somewhere a bridge arose,
And a sharp corner lost its nose.
So the road grew till now it’s smoothed,
The dips are filled, the hill-crests shorn —
Like an old man with mouth new-toothed,
Its face is round that once was worn.
No more its brows the tyres will line.
They only make the tarmac shine.
Yet ’tis the old road, just the same,
Where wheels sank deep and whips were loud
When through the dusk the wagons came,
Eager to join the campfire crowd.
“The road goes west ” Old man, nay, nay!
Where’er it wandered in your day,
Now it’s nailed down where it must stay.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Like shellin' peas, isn't it, nurse?"
“Jayem”: Harry, my mate, spent the
night at a pub which wasn’t even second-
class. He had just removed the top from
an egg when the publican walked in. After
bidding Harry good morning, Bung told
him that Ben Hall once made an escape
from that very room when he was having
breakfast. “Well, he must’ve bin in a
hurry,” said the cobber, “not to have
time to eat this flamin’ egg before he
went.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Quicksilver Ted and
Calico Charley, battling the bush shows
with a sweat-wheel, found accommoda-
tion scarce and took one of several tents
in the pub yard. They had a good
day at the show and celebrated that
night, retiring to their tent well after
midnight. Sometime later Ted was
awakened by a tremendous grunt.
“Whassa matter, Charley? Crook?” he
asked. Charley woke up and blearily
demanded who was making all the
flamin’ row. There was another terrific
grunt, followed by other sounds. “One
o them stallions loose,” said Ted, moving
shakily to the tent door. He peered into
the moonlit hotel yard for a moment,
then sank down by the door, whispering.
“Huh,” sneered Charley, “too bloomin’
drunk t’ stand.” He debated whether to
leave Ted there or make the effort of
dragging him back. But Ted got to his
feet and plunged outside. Charley
listened but could hear nothing. Then
another shocking grunt burst forth. In
semi-drunken rage, Charles arose. “Tell
that flamin’ publican” he began, but
stopped short at the tent door, suddenly
cold sober as he looked into the face of
what was undoubtedly an African lion.
How long he looked he never knew, but
men came with ropes and things and
without much fuss took the beast back
to its circus cage. Weak in the legs
Charley sought his vanished mate —and
found him, shivering, on the windmill
stand.
* * * *
“Keel Row”: The move to enrol blind
men as aircraft detectors, due to their
enhanced acuteness of hearing, fits in
with my memory of Great War con-
ditions on the east coast of England.
After the first few raids we always knew
when to expect another from the exces-
sive barking of dogs. The explanation,
of course, is that dogs possess a sensitive
range of hearing far beyond our own.
Whistles made for dog-training emit a
sound not audible to human ears, but
effective for Fido.
* * * *
“Arev”: “Wireless,” said Bill Jupp,
“is the curse of the country. It ain’t
natural fer voices ter come outa the air
like that. An’ it ain’t right that when a
man’s havin’ a bath a female voice starts
givin’ out beauty hints as brazen as
if a man was in his Sunday clothes.
Interferes with the weather, too, I reckon.
Look at the floods an’ droughts we’ve
had. Our grandfathers never had any
wireless an’ they got on all right—every-
body workin’ happy an’ peaceful an’
stoppin’ home at nights.” And Bill
stamped disgustedly out of the store.
Another customer looked after him and
grinned. So did the storekeeper. “Bill
had a bit of bad luck,” he said. “Brought
in a load of spuds, expectin’ a good
price, an’ the agent had just heard over
the wireless they’d dropped three quid
a ton.”
* * v *
“No. 1 Bench”: To those who admire
beauty in polished wood I recommend a
table top or panelling sliced from the
big burls that grow on the king jarrah.
The burl (really a wooden wen), stand-
ing out from the trunk in a huge gnarled
lump, carries grain twisted and curled
like a mass of knotted rope. Smoothed
down to a fine surface, this grain takes
French polish, which shows up its intri-
cacies as though under a sheet of glass.
The depth and beauty thus sometimes
obtained are marvellous ; I doubt whether
any other timber can show anything to
compare with it. Burls from Californian
redwoods occasionally cut to panels six
feet wide and long, but, being softer wood,
they never take polish with the mirror-
like surface of the jarrah.
* * * *
“Memoros”: The large motor-truck
heavily laden with a miscellaneous col-
lection of articles was lumbering through
a W.A. country township. At the rear
of the vehicle was a much-blackened
portable copper with the usual few feet
of chimney attached. As it passed the
drinkery one well-sprung citizen staggered
out and, blearily gazing at the passing
truck, amiably remarked to the world,
“Cripes, ain’t there a lot of them blashted
gash-perdoocer plants gittin’ about
now?”
“Jayem”: The employer pointed out
to the wage-slave that clearing timber
was not an easy task, but the new hand
said that work didn’t worry him, as he
never got tired. So the boss took
him down to the bottom paddock, ex-
plained what he wanted done, and went
back to the tractor. An hour or so later
he decided to see how the clearing was
going. His employee was fast asleep
under a tree. The boss wakened him with
a prod in the ribs. “Cripes,” he said,
“I thought you were the bloke who never
got tired?” “So I am,” said the other,
rubbing his eyes ; “this doesn’t tire me.”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: A curious and interesting
bit of snake lore is the observation of
H. A. Longman, Director of the Queens-
land Museum, concerning the real pur-
pose and use of the small tail-spur of
death adders, long regarded as a poison-
ous sting. Awesome tales are still told
in which adders have struck unwary
persons who have picked them up after
smashing their heads. The thing, which
resembles a small yellow grub, is in
reality a bait for attracting birds. Camou-
flaged by its color pattern, the snake lies
motionless with tail curved close to its
head, gently agitating the tip. Some
hungry bird spots a seemingly desirable
snack of tucker and hops along to grab
it. From a range of only a few inches
the fat, sluggish, purblind killer cannot
miss with the lightning dart of the head
which is the only speedy action of which
it is capable. The heavy charge of blood-
clotting viperine venom, deeply driven,
kills the victim practically instantaneously.
* * * *
“Wang”: “I’m sidin' in the township
pub one evenin’ after work,” related
Dan, “when a young chap comes in
an’, after swallerin’ a coupla pots, asks
the lan’lord for a bottle of whisky.
‘Havin’ a party, Joe?’ asks Bung as he
hands it over. The young chap grins
and ses, sheepish-like, ‘No, not ’zackly.
I’m. wantin’ it to give me some Dutch
courage, Ben. As a matter o’ fact, I’m
proposin’ to me girl t’night.’ Bung
wishes him good luck, an’ orf he goes.
Next night I’m in havin’ me usual when
the young bloke comes in agen an’ gasps
fer a pot. Gripes! He does look a wreck.
He’s limpin’, one arm’s in a sling, shanties
on both lamps an’ half his hair’s missin’.
‘Somethin’ must’ve been wrong with that
blarsted whisky y’ give me,’ he tells Bung.
‘lt’s just gettin’ dark when I reach me
girl’s place, an’ spots her cornin’ from
the house t’ meet me. Least, there was
two of ’em. ’Course, that was all right,
I reckoned ; the whisky’s makin’ me see
double. I rushes at her an’ shoves me
arm round her. Lumme! Nex’ thing
I know she’s scratchin’ an’ kickin’ an’
squealin’ blue murder. The row brought
out her ole man an’ her brothers, an’
they finished what she’d started. If that
whisky of yours had been all right it
wouldn’t have happened—l’d have really
been seein’ double. But I wasn’t. Me
girl was there all right; but what I
thought was her double was an ole maid
aunt who was visitin’ there; an’ it was
her I had the bad luck to pick on.’ ”
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Remarkable how some
otherwise strong characters fall for the
flattery of a vulgar mob. Take our
common magpie. Cleanly built, boldly
marked, independent and fearless, he is
the sort you’d expect to be above the
influence of the other fellow’s mind. He
chooses tucker without regard for or
fear of anybody, and behind the plough
will scatter the other fowl just for the
fun of doing it. He is complete master
of his selected territory, and will acceler-
ate any intruder on wing or on foot.
He will belt any bird half as big again
as himself and then gloat over the feat
in a voice that places him away out
in front as a songster. Sunrise finds him
taking a glorious solo above the lesser
morning chorus; at midday he and his
cobbers can raise a soft concerted carol
when other birds are asleep or just
silent; and when the stars are waxing
above the ridges a final burst ringing
from a bluegum announces that the
singer doesn’t care a cuss who knows
where he has camped. Birds of prey
don’t interest him, except to practise on ;
but tomtits are allowed to jam their
domed nests between the sticks that form
his house foundations. He’s the nearest
thing in feathers to the Diggers, yet when
he decides to mix with another species
he passes all the sprites and sports and
singers of his own nationality, and goes
flapping about in the midst of a cloud
of bobtailed, wheezy starlings. Their
motive is plain enough nowhere are
birds safer from hawks than beside
maggies—yet how they get his permission
beats me.
“Smoke up, Nugget — they're on to us again!"
“....FOR ART’S SAKE.”
There is a tragic lack of art patronage in country
centres. A good picture hung in prosperous home-
steads is rare. But we are still determined to foster
appreciation of contemporary Australian painters.”
—Sydney painter.
ft’s sad, extremely sad, when one considers
That rural dwellers, wheresoever found,
Don’t constitute a mob of eager bidders
When works of art are being hawked around.
The cove who sits for hours before an easel
They think could be about more useful graft.
Even a water-color of some trees’ll
Find them as interested as a weasel.
The bloke who daubs is daft.
A name like Lindsay, Heysen, Meldrum,
Streeton
Seems to recall, but in a hazy way,
To cockies hard of mitt and weather-beaten
Perhaps a pill, or someone’s poison spray.
Tlieir cares about ars longa, vita brevis!
The long-haired coots who talk of “light and
shade”
Can’t sell them any specimen. It’s grievous,
This Philistinian attitude, believe us;
But Art is undismayed.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN PRODUCING COMPANIES
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
LONDON TIN CORPORATION, LTD.
FOR THE QUARTER ENDED 31ST MARCH, 1940.
* The Estimated Mine Profit is from permitted quota sales before providing depreciation and overhead charges.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £30,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,500,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
The WILDCAL
COLUMN
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Ordinary Department.
Written
Off or
Provided Added
Total Ex- Contingen- to
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. cies, etc. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’05.. 2,794,231 1,042,341 245,242 38,701 1 g 55 947
Aid to Industrial Department, 12,000 j ’
’lO.. 3,492,096 1,841,184 291,775 36,366 1,322,771
’l5 . 4,353,213 2,578,973 369,172 30,473 1,374,595
’20.. 5,634,997 2,688,538 555,863 90,112 2,300,484
’25 7,478,871 3,623,206 727,206 112,880 3,015,579
’30.. 9,652,433 4,800,554 1,008,756 471,472 ] 3 134 016
Provision for taxation, £237,635 J ’ ’
’31.. 9,470,449 5,610,260 1,222,207 685,149 1 1 8 77 j468
Provision for taxation, £69,365 ) ’ ’
’32.. 9,144,567 5,540,825 1,380,037 30,236 2,193,469
’33 . 9,322,373 5,383,344 1,347,987 61,150 2,529,892
>34 . 9 714,268 5,353,985 1,017,985 51,044 3,291,254
’35.10,179,608 5,565,054 1,135,176 29,172 3,449,606
’36.10,747,061 5,445,849 1,203,947 119,285 \ 4 Q7B 580
From conting. res., £lOO,OOO .. ) 9
’37.11,197,066 5,681,864 1,291,292 60,166 1 4 213)74 4
From conting. reserve, £50,000 .. } ’ ’
’38.11,629,215 6,436,313 1,279,263 74,244 3,839,395
’39.12,182,925 6,200,352 1,324,168 671.168 1 3 812,237
Additional tax provision, £175,000 ) ’
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 2,175,179 717,377 490,880 ]
Written off, £64,047 i 870,510
Provision for taxation, £32,365 J
1931.. 2,140,548 837,761 492,270]
To con’t’cy fund, etc,, £164,477 V 635,405
Provision for taxation, £10,635 J
1932. 2,103,758 796,026 536,082 ) 768 189
Written off, £3461 .. .. j ’
1933. 800,834 552,582 ) 810 4 qo
Written off, £7359 .. .. j
1934. . 2,310,472 853,034 533,936 1 017 B (si
Written off, £5651 .. .. t ”
1935. 964,512 582,580 ] q 0 Q 595
Written off, £4280 .. •• 5 ’
1936. . 2,679,507 1,095,085 641,792 ) . n 7„
Written off. £1558 .. • • 5 ’
1937. . 2,943,122 1,162,121 753,995 ) 1,011 882
Written off, £15,124 • • )
1938.. 3,220,576 1,233,996 791,728 I 4 181 654
Written off, £13,298 .. j ’
1939. . 3,444,913 1,518,872 823,260 )
.Written off, etc., £47,699 .. 1 1,030,082
Additional taxation, £25,000 J
The A.M.P. is No. 1 in the front rank
of Australian life offices. The surprising
feature of the latest accounts is the pro-
gress disclosed in matters not beyond
the management’s control, despite an
unusual crop of economic and other
difficulties at home and abroad.
Combining the figures of the two
departments, the amount of new business
put on the books was £29,407,675 (up
£302,992). At Dec. 31 business in force
(original sums assured plus bonuses)
was £375,087,711, or £18,869,422 more
than at the previous balance, while the
aggregate book value of the investment
portfolio (£122,495,075) increased by
£5,485,817.
The year’s growth in total income
(£15,627,838) was £778,047, of which
£538,443 was in respect of premiums
(£10,378,305) and £239,604 interest, etc.
(£5,249,533). After paying all legitimate
claims and exes., including £26,117 sent
to the staff fund, £5,761,186 remained,
or £652,695 more than in the previous
year. That was after meeting taxes, etc.,
amounting to £364,929 (up £37,562). Of
the £5,761,186, £454,927 was sent to the
contingency reserve (now £2,500,000),
£263,940 was written off the book value
of premises and other assets, and
£200,000 was earmarked as extra provision
for taxation (now £300,000). That left
£4,842,319 (down £178,630) to add to the
assurance funds, etc., raising them to
£118,275,149.
The reserves mentioned remain in the
business, and returns therefrom supple-
ment the earnings of the assurance funds,
all of which belong to policy-holders,
there being no shareholders. The idea
behind last year’s heavy provision for
contingencies, etc., is to strengthen the
position of policy-holders by helping to
offset war effects of increased taxation,
lower interest rates and rising costs. So
far as claims are concerned, the effect of
war is to concentrate deaths at the
younger ages. The real loss to an office
in this connection is not measured by
the amount paid in claims alone, but by
the difference between the actual strain
(which is the difference between the sum
assured and the reserve held in respect
thereof) and the expected strain. The
society has, of course, removed all war
restrictions on policies issued prior to
Sept. 26, 1939, no matter in what arm
of the British or Allied forces the policy-
holder may serve.
In addition to the sums set aside by
the management, the actuary also ear-
marked £650,000 as a special reserve for
contingencies in the Ordinary branch.
Owing to this heavy provision for con-
tingencies of one kind and another, the
amount distributed as O.D. bonuses was
£1,097,855 less than in 1938:
BONUSES DECLARED.
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1929.. £2,941,005 £211,584 £3,152,589
1930.. 2,849,656 226.578 3,076,234
1931.. 2,468.817 233,998 2,702,815
1932.. 2,470,310 259,751 2,730,061
1933.. 2,566,322 276,776 2,843,098
1934.. 2,674,409 288,312 2,962,721
1935.. 2,746,567 297,574 3,044,141
1936.. 2,837,798 310,646 3,148,444
1937.. 2,944,883 327,885 3,272,768
1938.. 3,094,348 350,516 3,444,864
1939.. 1,996,493 377,033 2,373,526
In the Ordinary department the sum dis-
tributed was equal to 26.7 p.c. of pre-
miums received on participating policies
as against 43.5 p.c. for the previous year.
This means a cut in bonus rates, which,
however, remain handsome and compare
favorably with those of other offices.
The assurance funds have the support
and assistance of reserves aggregating
£2,805,857. On the two combined, the
effective rate of interest was £4 9s. Bd.
p.c. as against £4 9s. 6d. p.c. for 1938.
In calculating the reserves to be set aside
to meet policies when they become
claims, the actuary assumes that the
assurance funds alone will turn in 3 p.c.
So there is a satisfactory margin there,
though it can be expected to narrow a
little in the near future.
Another. heartening feature is a drop
in the expense rate, despite the tendency
of costs generally to climb. In the Ordi-
nary branch commissions, expenses of
management and taxes absorbed respec-
tively 5.62 p.c., 7.23 p.c. and 4.25 p.c.
(total 17.10 p.c.) of the year’s net pre-
miums, compared with 5.98 p.c., 7.50
p.c. and 3.96 p.c. (total 17.44 p.c.) in 1938.
The percentage allowed by the actuary
for future exes, and profits is 18.5 p.c.
In the Industrial section, exes., including
taxes, took 29.41 p.c. of net premiums, as
against 30.04 p.c. and 31.55 p.c. for the
two preceding years.
It is all very encouraging from the
policy-holder’s point of view.
The investment portfolio is made up as
follows:
1938. p.e. 1939. p.c.
Public securities. £68,623,307 58.6 £71,234,671 58.1
Mortgages . . 27.997,864 23.9 30,292,781 24.7
Loans on policies 16,234,626 13.9 16,618,912 13.6
Premises.. .. 2,095,872 1.8 1,924,641 1.6
Other assets . . 2,057,588 1.8 2,424,071 2.0
Most of the money that became available
for investment last year went into public
securities (up £2,611,364) and mortgages
(up £2,294,917).
Holeproof, Ltd. (Vic.)
, Dividends Nominal
, —Pref.— N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.o. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £ £
’30.. 14,102 524 6i p.c. = 2,836 10,742 13,374
’31.. 160 Nil Nil 160 13,534
’32.. 358 Nil Nil 358 13,892
’33.. 5,734 Nil Nil 5,734 19,626
’34.. 10,982 9247 f Nil 1,735 21,361
Preliminary exes., £2569 .. .. 18,792
Dec.,
’34+. 6,904 1027 500 6 p.c. = 2,749 2,628 21,420
’35. . 15,199 2194 3000 8 „ „ 7,330 2,675 24,095
'36. . 22,626 2214 3000 10 ~ „ 9,162 8,250 32,345
’37. . 25,150 2214 3000 10 ~ „ 9,162 10,774 43,119
’3B. . 25,626 2215 3000 10 ~ ~12,075 8,336 51,455
’39. . 27,887 2215 3000 10 „ ~12,827 9,845 61,300
* Subject to goodwill and trade-marks (£15,934
at Dec. 31). t Includes arrears. J Six months.
At current prices Holeproof scrip is
one of the most attractive-looking hosiery
investments offering. Despite keen com-
petition, turnover has got a move on of
recent years, and, though visibly little
benefit to net earnings has accrued from
the larger trading, appearances are that
profits have been conservatively written.
Expansion, moreover, continues. Since
the close of accounts manufacturing
activities have spread to Sydney by pur-
chase of the Berkeley Knitting Mills Pty.,
whose plant includes full-fashioned and
circular machines for annual production
of 70,000 dozen pairs of fine-gauge
women’s hosiery, while a plan for manu-
facturing men’s socks in a separate
mill at Melbourne is crystallising in the
management’s mind.
Tt is just 10 years since the public
came in. That was just after Staley and
Staley, Ltd., took over a proprietary of
similar name which had its beginnings
when A. G. Staley set up business in
Brunswick (Vic.) in 1924. An association
with the Holeproof people of U.S.A.
soon followed —the present brassplate
was not put up till the end of 1935, how-
ever —but depression took a hand and the
pref. div. got 3j years behind. This
back-pay was cleared in 1934, and.
assisted by new capital, things haven’t
looked back since. The 10 p.c. paid the
ords. for the past four years brings their
average for the decade to 6 p.c.
Widening of demand for both men’s
and women’s hose was again “appreci-
able” last term. Higher plant efficiency
helped to combat a tendency for produc-
tion margins to narrow, and an expan-
sion of £13,144 in gross earnings
(£151,002) was recorded. But there was
an offsetting spring of £10,883 in exes.
(£123,115), mostly in anticipation of an
increased call by the taxgatherer and
apparent provision of £lB9l more
(£24,964 altogether) for depreciation. At
£27,887, net takings thus improved
£2261, the margin available for the ords.
being 17.7 p.c. on that class of capital,
as against 16.9, 21.8 and 19 p.c. in the
three preceding terms. The £9845 carried
to reserves lifted them to £61,300. The
figure is subject to intangibles of £15,934,
and includes £15,000 earmarked against
stock fluctuations and contingencies.
By marketing through wholesalers the
co. is both able to sidestep much of the
problem of bad debts and lessen its capi-
tal requirements. Note the extent of re-
cent stocking-up:
1934. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Ord. capital.. £91,621 £91,621 £128,270 £128,270
Pref. capital. . 75,685 77,685 77,685 77,685
Liabilities* . . 58,304 41,749 49,229 51,303
Freeholds, etc. . 68,045 70,787 83,241 81,297
Plant & fittings 67,241 65,349 68,686 64,308
Shares other cos. 5,000 16 16 16
Stocks . . 92,709 98,203 . 136,380 158,647
Debtors .. 8,718 2,862 10,421 6,017
Cash, etc. . . 659 2,017 2,264 2,643
* Includes tax provision.
Now double the value of four years ago.
stocks comprise mainly raw materials,
manufactures being at an “extremely
low” level. Last year’s increment of
£22,267 necessitated going outside for
only £2074 more, despite the spending of
£18,642 —£6322 less than was written off
—on fixed assets, obviously in at a very
conservative figure. When the books
closed more or less liquids showed a sur-
plus over the moderate debt, including
tax provision, of £116,307, a position
£16,168 stronger than a year earlier.
Current term has opened with sales
ahead of the corresponding period ol
1939. There should be some benefit
from defence orders, while the happy
situation as regards stocks, together with
more economical manufacture, has
rendered only negligible selling-price in-
creases necessary so far. Much will
depend on continued control of costs
and on taxation. Depreciation provisions
may stand some nibbling at, if necessary,
particularly as import control may re-
strict the board’s successful policy ot
continuous plant replacement out ot
earnings.
At 235. Holeproof ords. are priced to
yield 8.3 p.c. from 10 p.c. divs. At
255. 6d. and 21s. respectively, returns on
the 8 p.c. A and more numerous 6 p.c. B
prefs. are 6.3 p.c. and 5.7 p.c. Book
value of the net tangible cover is £9 Is. 7d.
As, £4 9s. sd. Bs and 275. ords.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
Net To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.t
o £ £
1929.. 22,708 8 p.c. = 22,400 308 25,551
1930.. 18,450 8 „ „ 22.400 21G01
1931.. 24,830 8 „ „ 22,400 2,430 24,031
Loss.
1932.. 3,559 Nil 20,472
Profit.
1933.. 19,553 0 p.c. = 10,800 2,753 23,220
1934.. 21,402 64 „ „ 18,200 3,202 26,487
1935.. 28,001 74 „ „ 21.000 7,001 33,488
1936.. 30,877 8 „ ~ 22,400 8,477 41,965
1937.. 31,140 8 „ „ 22,400 8,740 50,705
1938.. 30,512 84., „ 23,800 6,712 57,417
1939.. 34,349 9-j,. ~ 20,600 7,749 65,106
f Not including depreciation reserve —£108,424 at
31/12/’39.
Seasonal conditions, which affect the
quantity and quality of cane put through
the rollers, and the price realised for sur-
plus sugar exported are two of the most
important factors governing the earnings
of millers and growers. The price of
raws for local consumption is fixed at
£24 per ton under agreement between the
Queensland and Federal Governments.
Last year Nature was kind, and the
co.’s mill at Bundaberg crushed a record
quantity of cane —224,075 tons, up
47,975 tons. The output of raws (30,900
tons) was 7900 tons in excess of the mill’s
new sugar peak, thanks to a stronger
demand from Britain, Canada and
Maoriland. The average price for the
1939 season No. 1 pool sugar is expected
to be about £l6 10s., or 9s. Id. less than
for the previous season. Excess sugar is
expected to average £9, up £1 13s. 2d.
After setting aside an unspecified
amount for taxation, and allowing
£13,285 (up £1365) for depreciation, the
board figured net earnings £3837 better
at £34,349, or 12.2 p.c. on capital, com-
pared with 10.9, 11.1, 11, 10, 7.6, 6.1, a
loss, 8.8 and 6.7 p.c. back to 1930. The
div. was kept at p.c., and a bonus of
1 p.c. was added, making 9\ p.c. for the
year, the average distribution over the
last decade being 7 p.c.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances:
1935. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £280,000 £280,000 £280,000 £280,000
Liabilities* .. 26,403 29,283 35,147 44,334
Freeholds,
mac hinery,
plant, etc... 369,057 407,877 440,254 465,780
Stocks 30,277 38,729 34,661 57,170
Govern ment
securities, etc. 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000
Sundry debtors 33,801 29,678 43,185 33.469
Cash, etc. . . 22,008 23,123 1,202 1,204
* Including provision for taxation.
When the books closed, more or less
liquids exceeded outside liabilities, which
include an unspecified provision for taxa-
tion, by £62,509, or £3608 more than at
the previous balance. That was after
spending £19,526 on further modernising
plant, the chief earning asset. Of recent
years the management has given a lot of
attention to plant improvement, thus re-
ducing costs, to the benefit of net earn-
ings. Also, the co.’s irrigation scheme


JUST WHAT
HE WANTED!
* f'■
A
YALE X
AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR
No. 101 Moulded Case Set in
neu> type of moulded case,
contains razor, _ "Valet” strop in
hinged container and three
blades in moulded sheath, 9/-.
Stropped in a jew seconds
?'o
Cleaned in a jew seconds
A Valet. . . the original self-stropping
razor! What man wouldn’t be pleased
to find your thoughtfulness has such
a practical turn. All men know “Valet”
and respect it as much for its sim-
plicity as for its efficiency. It shaves
swiftly and surely. There’s nothing to
take to pieces. It is easy to clean. The
blade is always in position and a few
quick strokes on the strop give it the
finest shaving edge of all razors.
Has your man a birthday, soon ?
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
Modern ... H
PLASTICS for the HOME!
p LASTIC ware with its beauty, hygiene, lightness and durability, is
in ever increasing demand (or the modern home. And no wonder
you'll say, when you see some of the many beautiful "Garnite" products
now available. Manufactured by the most modern methods, and of the
highest quality raw material, "Garnite" offers you a wide range of
useful, economically-priced items from which to choose and all of
the designs are exclusive to "Garnite." The selection of attractive
"Garnite" products shown on this page, and many others also available,
may be seen at most hardware or department stores. Call in next time
you're shopping and ask to see them.
BEAUTIFUL DRESSING STOOL
FOR BATHROOM OR BOUDOIR
The “Garnite” Dressing stool is the
only plasticware stool on the market,
and combines beauty, hygiene, utility
and long life to a degree that cannot
be attained by any other material.
With ordinary usage, it is practically
everlasting; its colours are abso-
lutely permanent; its surface is im-
pervious to stains and corrosion;
little more than a rub with a cloth
is ever needed to keep it clean and
bright. Colours include: Walnut,
Green, Blue, Cream, White and
Black, and attractive marbled
designs.
BATHROOM WALL LAMP
The attractive Wall Lamp illustrated
below right is an almost indispensable
fitting for the modern bathroom.
Fixing is simple, and the lamp itself
can be obtained in green, blue, ivory,
pink and cream as desired. Other
bathroom fittings include coathooks
and door pulls in a similar range of
colours.
PRODUCTS illustrated in the
panel belpw are only a
few from the wide range of
"Garnite" products available,
and all of them are well worth
your inspection.
e
1
•1.1.-> ;
4
5
6
1 These attractive "Garnite" Cups
* * and Saucers are Odorless and
Tasteless, not affected by extremes
of temperature and will stand plenty
of rough handling. A stout rim
formed on the bottom of both cup
and saucer similar to that on the
ordinary china cup and saucer, is
an exclusive feature of their design.
2 Here's a really compact 2-way,
3-flat-pin plug which fits all
standard outlets. There's a place
in every home for one or more of
these attractive "Garnite" plugs.
3 Strong serviceable plates as il-
lustrated are available in a
wide range of colours.
A, A wide range of "Garnite" tum-
*• biers is available, and can be
had in a variety of popular colours.
They are just the thing for picnics,
camping and caravanning, as well
as for use around the home.
C This delicately moulded lamp is
available in a wide range of
lovely pastel shades and is ideal for
the dressing table. A special feature
is a spring clip in the base of the
lamp by which it can be attached
to the bed.
g Mothers will find these light-
weight "Garnite" Chambers
very helpful in training the tiny tots
to develop clean and regular habits
from babyhood. They are available
in a range of modern pastel shades,
hygienic, easy to keep spic and
span, unbreakable with ordinary
usage, and very reasonably priced.
PLASTICS PTY« LTD.
420-434 Spencer Street,
Melbourne.
also at
Dowling Street, Waterloo,
Sydney.
Agents; Q'kmd Glass
Mfrs. • Ca< •• Pty. . Ltd.,
Montague St., Brisbane.
Aust.;: Gloss Mfrs. Co.
Pty. .Ltd., Grenfell St.,
•.••I • Adelaide.
Aust. Glass Mfrs. Co. Pty.
Ltd., Murray St,, : Perth.
has proved excellent insurance against
adverse seasonal conditions.
The Federal Government has decided
to renew the sugar agreement, which runs
out at the end of August, 1941, for an-
other five years on the old terms. Also,
since the outbreak of war, Britain has
agreed to take our surplus production of
raws at about £AIO per ton to the Aus-
tralian grower, compared with the low
average return of £8 4s. 3d. per ton for
1938 season’s exports. It all means a
better average return to the miller and
grower; and that just as the outlook
began to get misty.
Still, owing to continued growth of
output, following improved production
methods, including introduction of better
varieties of cane, the industry in Australia
is faced with the question of overpro-
duction as a long-term problem. The
probabilities are that this problem will
become acute when the war in which we
are now engaged ends. The need of
some definite and immediate measures
for control of production is obvious if
what look like difficulties ahead are not
to be aggravated.
The market prices the pound shares at
31s. 6d., at which figure the return is
6 p.c. on a9i p.c. div. basis. Excluding
the depreciation reserve, equal to 12s.
per share, the cover is 245. Bd. in net
tangibles.
Permewan, Wright, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930 .. 17,949 10 p.c. = 15,625 2324 101,465
Loss.
1931 . . 2,735 4 „ „ 6,250 92,480
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO .. 87,480
To staff fund, £9lB .. .. 86,562
1932 .. 1,870 Nil 84,692
Written off, £3285 81,407
Inner reserves disclosed, £366 .. 81,773
1933 .. 366 Nil 81,407
To staff fund, £B3l 80,576
Written off, £9OOO 71,576
Profit.
1934 .. 6.097 4 p.c. = 5,000 1097 72,673
To staff fund, £843 .. .. 71,830
1935 .. 9,053 5 p.c. = 6,250 2f03 74,633
To staff fund, £933 .. .. 73,700
1936 . . 13,542 6 p.c. = 7,500 6042 79,742
To staff fund, £9Bl .. .. 78,761
1937 .. 18,064 8 p.c. = 10,000 8064 86,825
Share premiums, £lO,OOO . . 96,825
1938 . . 22,380 10 p.c. = 15,000 7380 104,205
S’hare premiums, £5OOO .. .. 109,205
1939 .. 24,719 10 p.c. = 19,438 5281 114,486
1940 .. 2,701 2 „ „ 4,000 113,187
The co. is in the produce, station-
supply, carrying and agency business in
the back-country of N. S. Wales and
Victoria, and has been for the last 56
years. So far as earnings are concerned
the two factors responsible for most of
the co.’s troubles have been seasons and
prices.
When the books closed in 1939 there
was a strong demand for the produce the
co. supplies for handfeeding of livestock,
owing to drought conditions, and the
(Continued on next page.)


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
è
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD„ CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assay era and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Commonwealth of Australia
CENTRAL WOOL COMMITTEE
NATIONAL SECURITY (SHEEPSKINS) REGULATIONS
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT all Sheepskins for export must
be appraised in the store or stores of an approved Packing House.
Sheepskin Export Packers who desire to apply for approval as Packing
Houses under the above Regulations must submit their applications to
the CENTRAL WOOL COMMITTEE, 540-542 LITTLE COLLINS
STREET, MELBOURNE.
Applications should be accompanied by a statement indicating the
volume of business done in t'he three years prior to Ist September, 1939.
Melbourne, 14th May, 1940. N. W. YEO, Executive Member.
management had stocked up in anticipa-
tion of the increased sales continuing,
for some months at any rate. But in
February, 1939, widespread and heavy
rains produced a quick growth of suc-
culent feed, and, of course, there was an
abrupt contraction in the co.’s sales, as
well as a sharp fall in the value of its
stocks. Furthermore, good rains con-
tinued to fall throughout 1939, and the
co.’s produce sales fell away by over
£289,000 ; in some instances stocks had
to be sold below cost or written down
to realisable values.
After making larger-than-usual allow-
ances for taxation, depreciation and other
contingencies, gross earnings (£123,584)
were £35,504 less than the previous year’s.
Exes. (£120,883) were got back £13,486,
leaving the net result £22,018 lighter at
£2701, or 1.3 p.c. on capital, compared
with 12.7, 14.9, 14.4, 10.8, 7.2 and 4.8
p.c. back to 1934. The div. dropped
from 10 p.c. to 2 p.c., which was handed
out halfway through the term, no final
being paid. For 11 years to the close
of accounts in 1930 divs. averaged 11.4
p.c. Shareholders got 4 p.c. the following
year, but then had a two years’ dry spell.
Divs. began to flow again in 1934, and
the volume of earnings continued to swell
until the end of the ’39 term.
As for the current term, prospects
favor a substantial recovery in earnings,
provided the cut in stock values has been
deep enough. But return to a 10 p.c.
div. basis seems unlikely. Good seasonal
conditions will keep the demand for stock
feed down, while war-time taxation and
the upward trend of other costs will bite
deeper into takings. The market prices
the scrip at 225. 6d. as against 255. a
year ago. At the lower figure the return
would be just under 5 p.c. on a p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 31s. 4d. in net
tangibles.
Here is the position as the published
accounts show it:
1934. 19'38. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £125,000 £175,000 £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities .. 38,025 218,142 181,782 215,719
Plant & property 66,093 118,621 130,553 137,183
Book debts . . 103,646 226,089 216,485 230,671
Merchandise . . 58,490 141,626 143,689 141,479
Shares other cos. 6,900 11,899 11,899 11,899
Cash, etc. . . 6,528 16,192 14,333 13,755
The business continues to expand.
Additions and extensions to branch
premises, etc., cost £6630 more than was
written off last term, and £14,186 was
added to debtors’ balances. The net re-
duction in the book value of merchandise
was £2210. To meet the year’s outlay
£33,937 was added to the outside debt;
there was thus 13s. 9d. of outside money
at risk in the business for every pound
belonging to shareholders when the books
closed. The contraction in the more or
less liquid surplus (£170,186 excluding
shareholdings) was £22,539.
Tongkah Compound, N.L.
Investment interest in this successful
old Malayan venture, which to date has
distributed £560,419 in divs. on a paid
capital of £207,113, is largely centred in
the prospects of a group of mostly-
Siamese subsidiaries, in which it holds
shares to the face value of £242,039 —
45 p.c. of their combined issued capitals.
Details:
Parent’s Holding.*
t \
Issued £ 1 Paid Reserves—,,
Co. Capital. Shares. To C.y. Av. T.o.
No. 2. . £lOO,OOO | 75/* } 9,153,000 0.411 b.
, rnfuvn r/nnn 1 «/_ 1 15,000,000 I.oolb.
No. 3.. 100.000 d 6,000 16/ 5,500,000 0.461 b.
nil 12,425,000 I.oolb.
No. 4.. 150,000 47,303 £1 \ 39,000,000 f 0.561 b.
No. 5.. 130,000 97,999 5/- 15,000,000 1.021 b.
* At September 30, 1939. f New Kopah property.
The parent takes the lot into its books
at £140,977. So far No. 2 co. has been
the only contributor to the pool, restric-
tion until lately having hindered the
development of the others. Nos. 3 and
4, however, are now operating, leaving
No. 5 the only idle member of the group.
Though the properties are rich in all
except No. 2’s case, assessments are
small. Ironically, the parent is assessed
at 1071 tons, a figure it cannot hope to
produce with existing equipment.
In its own Mantin area reserves of
189 acres, value not stated, indicate a
working life for the parent of around five
years, though purchase of small adjoin-
ing lots may add something to this figure.
The co. then proposes remodelling the
plant to redredge 120 acres of tailings
in the Setul area, where a rock intrusion
forced it to give up two or three years
back.
An exceptionally dry spell restricted
dredging last term to eight months
of the year, depriving the co. of full
benefit of higher metal prices:
, —'Surplus—v—Dividends—,
Sept., Revenue. Outgo. Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
1935. . £66,150 £28,222 £37,928 3/- 3/- £37,280
1936 J 00,223 25,241 34,982 2/9 3/- 37,280
'■ I Loss sale dredge, £5185.
1937 J 79,239 23,062 56,177 4/6 2/- 24,853
1 “Balance received sale ot dredge, £7500.'’
1938.. 62,077 21,783 40,294 3/2 3/- 37,280
1939.. 34,174 22,776 11,398 —/II Nil Nil
Also, £8902 less came in in divs., etc.
(£3135). After allowing a nominal £233
for depreciation, the net result thus
slipped £28,896 to £11,398, and share-
holders were passed by. A shilling a
share, however, has gone out since the
close of accounts.
The sharp rise in working costs mainly
reflects charging of a new bucket-band
and top tumbler against revenue:
1937 1938 1939.
Cubic yards .. 1,651,000 1,559,000 1,042,350
Tin oxide, tons .. 348.3 282.1 179.6
Recovery, lb., per c.y. 0.47 0.40 0.38
Production cost c.y. 3.26 d. 3.35 d. 5.16 d.
Tin price, ton .. £245/17/9 £lB7/7/3 £220/3/4
Further reduction in earnings seems likely
in the current term, mine profit for the first
seven months having amounted to a mere
£2975 stg. Though recoveries have been
maintained, only 367,000 c.y. has been
dug for 61 tons t.o.
Tongkah Compound has 248,536 £1
shares called to 16s. Bd. on issue, for
which the market pays 235. Excluding
shareholdings, surplus liquids amounted
to £76,456 on balance day, down £17,985
over the twelvemonth owing to calls by
one of the pups.
With a new bottom tumbler fitted,
Ngahere Gold Dredging (M.L.) is at
work again. Returns continue to be
disappointing, but market for the pound
ords., recently down to 165., now has a
healthier tone around par. The next few
weeks should be informative as to
prospects.
* * * *
To dig 1,000,000 c.y. p.a., the plant of
Snowy River Gold Dredging, Ltd., an
Adelaide float of early 1939, is expected
to set in within a month or two now.
The property is in the Snowy River
valley, near Greymouth (M.L.). Bored
to be worth from 4.7 d. to 12.7 d. per c.y.,
the selected area of 500 acres is estimated
to contain 12,500,000 c.y., so a 12-year
life is indicated. For the first half of
this net earnings of £35,000 p.a. are
being looked for. Issued capital is
£70,000 in ss. shares.
* * * *
The rich Duffer mine at Kelsey Creek,
Proserpine (N.Q.), was temporarily hit by
the floods that swept away the Burdekin
Bridge. Treatment was held up, and sul-
phide ores had to be sent to Port Kembla
vice Chillagoe. Normality of tonnage is
being regained, but is far below that of
last year, when the mine was third to Mt.
Morgan and Golden Plateau in the
matter of gold production. It is the rich-
est show in Queensland at present, aver-
aging all over soz. to 6oz. fine gold per
ton, but the reef is narrow.
* * * *
W. H. Clark had a temporary stop-
page last month in Wallis’s Day Dawn,
Charters Towers (N.Q.), when sinking
near the 1100 ft. level. The Mines De-
partment generously came to the rescue
with a £450 subsidy with which to carry
on while further capital was being
secured. Intersection of the cross-reef
with the footwall reef of the Day Dawn
system is looked for within 50ft. How-
ever, reefs have habits of bending
wrongly and unexpectedly, and the issue
may not be satisfactorily settled within
the footage covered by the grant.
* * * *
From a man on the spot: The reduc-
tion in grade and consequent fall in
Great Boulder’s working profit call for
official explanation. The monthly aver-
age for 1939 was £A30,000. Surpluses
this year have been January £29,780, Feb-
ruary £35,086, March £24,851 and April
£22,886. The average valuation placed
on reserve ore last year was 6.9dwt., on
a 90 p.c. extraction basis equal to about
61s. at the price producers now re-
ceive for their gold after deduction of the
Federal gold excise. April extraction,
however, averaged only 425. per ton. It
means that either a lot of gold is being
left in the tailings, or the last estimate of
the gold contents of the ore was over-
stated, or the co. is sending mostly skim
milk to the treatment plant and holding
on to the bulk of the cream. The local
inspector of mines seems to have a good
opinion of the mine. His latest annual
report comments:
Caunter veins in the main-shaft workings
have developed well, greatly assisting
in keeping up and adding to ore re-
serves... .High-grade ore is being mined in
a large number of faces throughout the
workings... .Hamilton’s section, at the
north end of the co.’s holding, has become
a big mine, with every indication of the ore-
bodies extending below the 2350 ft. level.
Rich ore was cut in the main drive at 2600 ft.
Winzing is proceeding in payable ore below
2800 ft. Agreements with tributors, some
of whom made fortunes during the past
few years, have been terminated.
The Great Boulder board, replying to
the shareholders’ committee’s circular
(B. 15/5/ ’40):
Last year the Grundt Committee had every
opportunity of having their views considered
by members, and were overwhelmingly defeated
at the annual meeting. The directors had hoped
that the substantial majority in their favor at
the last general meeting would have terminated
the protracted quarrel. They must inform
members that the cost to the company to date
has exceeded £BOOO.
The directors appeal to the members not to
associate themselves with any fresh effort to
create dissension, but to safeguard their interests
by extending their full support to the board.
In view of the heavy taxation with which this
company is faced as a result of the war, eco-
nomies must be effected wherever possible, and
the directors look to the members to assist
them to avoid further unnecessary expenditure.
To satisfy a minority of the members the
directors decided not to take advantage of the
opportunity given to them to oppose the re-
quest for a Board of Trade inquiry. The
directors regret that the report of the Board
of Trade has not yet been received.
* * * *
Summary of the most important
development results in 1939 as broadcast
at the Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) meet-
ing in London on May 1:
G Lode. —(l) Continuation of high values
to 100 ft. above the 1300 ft. level; (2) con-
tinuity of good values between the 1300 ft.
and 1450 ft. horizons; (3) exposure on the
1600 ft. level of sft. of s.sdwt. ore for a
length of 140 ft.
Australia East Lode. —Exposure at the
2200 ft. level of 7.7dwt. ore over a width of
sft. and a length of 115 ft.
East Boundary Lode. —Disclosure of 6dwt.
values over a width of 7ft. and a distance
of 180 ft.
Diamond-drilling. —One of two bores
directed from the 2200 ft. level to intersect
the Australia East lode at a depth of
2350 ft. cut ore averaging 4.4dwt. over 48in.
Deepening of the main shaft below the
2050 ft. level or sinking of an internal
shaft below that point is under con-
sideration.
Principal developmental results in the
adjoining Kalgoorlie Enterprise operated
and 65 p.c.-owned by Boulder Persever-
ance were:
No. 11 (1075 ft.) Level— On Greenhill
shoot, exposure of ore averaging 6.Bdwt.
for a width of lift, and length of 315 ft.;
on North Branch shoot, proving of ore
averaging s.ldwt. for a width of s£ft.
and length of 170 ft.
Diamond-drilling. —lntersection of sft.
of ore assaying 14.2dwt. by hole bored in
a southerly direction from a point near
the eastern boundary.
Still, the management’s estimate of
broken, proved and probable ore here is
down by almost the amount of the year’s
extraction to 382,700 tons, grade 6.6dwt.,
as against 7.2dwt. in ’3B. Ore milled
during the year was 59,336 tons, averag-
ing 6.BBdwt. ; exes, were 335. 2d. Aust.
a ton, as against 345. 3d. for Boulder Per-
severance, but Enterprise workings are
shallower.
Norseman field (W.A.) has substan-
tially increased its gold production as a
result of great mining activity during the
past year. Latest Mines Department
report on Norseman G.M., the biggest
mine there, says the most important work
done during the past 12 months has been
extension of the main drive at No. 8
level (950 ft. inclined depth) to 1750 ft.
south of the main shaft, with the face
still in payable ore. Three winzes sunk
200 ft. below this level indicate the per-
sistence of the gold-carrier. The main
shaft, down 1053 ft., is to be deepened
to 1400 ft., and No. 10 level-opened out
at 1350 ft. An electric haulage train is
running at the No. 8 level.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia’s mining profit for
1939 was £148,792 (up £16,919) stg., of
which £50,000 is appropriated for taxa-
tion, £5OOO for depreciation and £lO,OOO
towards cost of the proposed internal
shaft below No. 30 level. Final dividend
of 2s. (less ss. 3d. U.K. tax), payable
June 22, makes an unchanged distribu-
tion for the year of ss. a share (£81,250),
compared with 6s. in 1937,
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W.E.A.: (1) and (2) Shares aren’t listed, but
have a “vestibule” market in Sydney around
2s. ords. and 9s. prefs. Any ’Change member
would do business for you. (3) Financial posi-
tion is very tottery, costs have far exceeded
estimates, and prospects of even moderate divs.
on the huge capital structure appear remote....
W. Jail: (1) On the figures presented propo-
sition is attractive; but there is often a slip
’twixt cup and lip. (2) Not listed on any of
the Stock Exchanges, but your broker may be
able to help. No recent record... .A. 5.8.:
The venture is well managed, and those associ-
ated with it are confident. Capitalisation, how-
ever, is heavy for so small a mine.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
<s
r v
Si
ink
P151115151311131/-T. *2*. Tr*. M
|gg||p^L
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
Manager W. G. Bulfin
SMOKE-OH!
“Patrons of film theatres will be interested to
learn that a new invention makes theatre carpets
luminous.” — Film guff.
At least this will give talkie fans some-
thing interesting to look at.
*t* 4* 4* 4*
“He was told that Mr. Hughes would be
replying and he gave his permission for Mr.
Hughes to speak. ftc’t’Orctk—oe‘i6in6gwere’te
lyiy.”— “Sun.”
Welsh, eh?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Two men arrested in Melbourne for dis-
posing of valueless goods to sailors.”
—News item.
Their motto —Sell it to the marines.
•2* *2* *2* *2*
“Could you let me have a tomato-sauce
recipe which will keep well?”
—lnquirer in women’s paper.
Copy it on parchment with Indian ink.
4* 4* 4* 4*
It is quite false to say that modernistic
poetry has no rhyme or reason.
Occasionally it rhymes.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Bananas will bring your weight up.”
— Dietitian.
The skins, on the other hand, will
often bring your weight down.
4* 4* 4* 4*
It’s not the hats that men wear that
makes them bald but the hats their
wives wear.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“English Gelding for Australian Stud.”
—Perth paper.
That’s carrying the importing craze to
ridiculous lengths.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Parliament was blacked-out for more than
an hour during an electric storm.” — “D.T.”
A lucky break for members who can’t
sleep with the light on.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Desert Song.
“Men are the same the world over.”
— Women’s paper.
Now, Ali was all lie, as well his wife
knew, so her manner was icy, though
hot the winds blew. From the door of
their tent this Arabian dame watched her
home-coming husband and cursed on his
name. With the sand swirling round
him, the sheik rode apace ; he was late,
and he blenched at the look on her face.
With a brave little wave Ali greeted
his wife and commenced what he thought
the best yarn of his life. “I was caught
in the storm”—his expression was bland
—“and my camel was buried right under
the sand! I was slaving for hours until
—Allah be praised!—at last I unearthed
him; he seemed only dazed. But I sat
on the wrong hump —ah, what could be
worse!—when I turned him for home —
well, he raced in reverse. After many
more trials” But here Ali baulked,
for his wife donged him one with a rock
as he talked.
Lying there in the desert these words
smote his ear: “So your camel was
buried!” His wife gave a sneer. “And
you dug the brute out! That’s too bad,
O Unwashed ; you’ve retrieved the wrong
camel yes, that’s got you squashed.
That dolled-up and painted Fatima, the
idle young hussy —her name is carved
here on the bridle!”
E.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Evidence.
“Convicting a dog-poisoner is most difficult.
A witness must see the accused lay the bait,
must see the same bait eaten and it must be
identified as the one placed there by the
accused.” — “Sun.”
The defending solicitor thought it was
a lay-down misere.
“Do you mean to say,” he demanded
of the witness, “that you not only saw
the accused lay the bait, but saw your
dog eat it, and you actually identified the
bait?”
“Yairs, that’s right. Y’ see, I”
“I don’t see anything. Nor can I see
how you could possibly identify the bait.
Was it marked? Did it have an X cut
in it? Numbered? Indexed? Come,
come, answer.”
“Well, y’ see”
“Answer yes or no!”
“No, but y’ see, mister, I saw ’im pick
it up after I chucked it over his fence
an’ chuck it back.”
MB.
Fodder Conservation.
“Mr. J. R. B. Branson, aged 67 years, of
Battersea, lives on grass, with a supplementary
ration of raw vegetables.”— “Argus.”
I tried this during the food shortage
in the last war and it worked well for
a time. Of course, some people tried to
“ ’Oo said I’m a Nazzy? It's flooid on the knee makes me go like this.”
sell me things like sundials, thinking me
rather green, but the development of
carroty hair and the ability to turn red
as a beet at will soon choked them off.
However, I found that my diet wasn’t
compatible with social happiness. Most
of my friends forgave the oniony smell
I gave off when hot, but it was far too
upsetting, after a good dinner, to see
me retire to the nearest couch, stare
round drowsily, gulp, and start chewing
my cud. Even that may have been for-
given in time had it not been for the
drought which denuded the place of all
grass. People suddenly found their
aspidistras eaten right off, and it needed
no Sherlock to solve the mystery. I
was charged under the War Precautions
(Food Hoarding) Act and sentenced to
death.
R. Paspalum.
4* 4* 4 1 4*
“I came through the war without a scratch,”
says a veteran.
What! no chats?
•f* *2* *2*
Eve had one big advantage—her hus-
band never told her that her cooking
was inferior to his mother’s.
The Rains Came.
She bowed her head, her lips trembled,
and tears began to trickle down her
cheeks. Another victim in this land of
drought and flood, it seemed that the
whole scheme of Nature was against her.
She had borne up gallantly through
the drought, had held her head erect
while the countryside baked in the pitiless
sun and the stock staggered vainly in
search of water. And then the rains
came. The rivers rose, flooding the
pastoral lands. The crops drooped in
the soggy mud. But still she had faced
life courageously—until last night. Then
the downpour had ruined her new hat!
T. W. N.
4* -I- -r 4*
“A Chester licensee has been paid £lOO
insurance following the death of his African
grey parrot.”— “World’s News.”
It feathered his nest.
•2* *l* •J*
“Please tell me how to make a tent water-
proof.”—lnquirer in weekly.
Pitch it.
4* 4" *l*
“The average man works one week a year
for the Government.” — Article on taxation.
Or about a week more than Agents-
General.
Chronic Cliche.
Perhaps rude children are as bold as
brass,
And men may cudgel, as alleged, their
brains.
Things come, it’s likely, to a pretty pass,
And cats and dogs fall on us when it
rains.
That fools pursue wild geese l can’t
deny;
I won’t dispute that chance is fortune’s
twin.
But give me, I implore, a reason why
The feckless gods are always made
of tin !
PERCY.
Facing Trouble.
“Make a beauty salon of your kitchen while
you’re working.”—" Sunday Sun.”
The glamor-bride prepares the tea;
With loveliness she twinkles.
But starving hubby wishes she
Would pick up Mother’s wrinkles.
E.
Postman’s Knock.
“One day he found his wife in the act of
eloping with the postman.” — Divorce item.
The postman called upon his dear;
With sweet address he praised her
charms;
And then, collecting her to clear,
Enveloped her within his arms.
Her spouse was posted near the scene.
Another man in such a case '
Might register some fistic spleen,
And stamp on the intruder’s face.
But he, though knowing how to box,
Delivered not a single blow.
He merely whistled —sly old fox !
And very wisely let her go!
T. W. NATHAN.
A Matter of Theory.
“A lecturer says that, according to the law
of physics, a bee does not possess sufficient
wing surface to fly.”
It reminds me of the time I went big-
game shooting with Basil Brainpan. He
had just finished his first year in physics
at the Uni. and was full of the doings of
such things as impulsive forces, latent
heat of fusion and the coefficients of
superficial expansion, all of which he in-
tended to harness to the solution of any
problems that might arise on the trip.
His first opportunity came shortly after
we left Sydney Heads. There was a long,
oily roll on, and Basil, looking at a few
pea-green fellow-passengers, informed me
he had discovered the reason for mal de
mer. He had worked out theories to cover
both “rolling” and “pitching.” His start-
ing-off point was his contention that
sound, not movement, was the basic cause
of seasickness.
“The pitch of a note depends on the
vibration frequency of the vibrating
body,” he said. “It stands to reason, then,
that as the human body is receptive to
the vibration caused by the sound of the
waves, taken through the inanimate mass
we call the ship, all we have to do is
eliminate the vibration by finding the
pitch of the note causing it and neutralise
it—then no more seasickness.
“Now, I propose lying on my stomach
with my head away from the oncoming
wave. Working on Galileo’s principle
that the period of oscillation of a pen-
dulum is a constant, coupled with
Kepler’s postulation of a periodical vari-
ation in the obliquity of the ecliptic, then
by holding between my teeth a fork tuned
to the pitch of the sound entering my
body from outside the ship I shall vitiate,
as explained by Chladni, the effects of
the vibrations, which, conveyed to the
nerves of the stomach, cause the trouble.
Thus I simply can’t get sick, even if I
want to.”
I left him to work out his plans while
I went in to dinner. Basil wouldn’t have
any, as he had a theory that, food being
a calorific fuel, the heat energy thus en-
gendered would offset the effect of the
cold tuning fork on the stomach nerves.
As I was going into the smoke-room
I saw Basil, a pale saffron about the
gills, stagger towards the gun’l, waving
away with feeble hand the steward who
would have assisted him. He informed
me a few days later, when he had re-
covered sufficiently to take his first meal,
that his experiment must have been suc-
cessful but for the fact that the ship
was rolling and pitching together.
It was not until we had struck out for
the interior from our base camp in South
Africa that he had an opportunity of
putting his knowledge of physics to use
again. After much tracking, we at last
got on to the spoor of a rhino and
Basil was very excited.
He had it worked out to the
last detail. “You see, Bo,” he
said in the tent that night, “brain-
less mugs like yourself who know
nothing of gravity or velocity just
pick up a gun and aim straight
at your quarry. You don’t use
your nut. You’ll never hit any-
thing that way. Have you ever
given a thought to the equations
of uniformly accelerated motions
for falling bodies? No!
“Now, / reason things out first.
You see this V here. That’s the
speed of the oncoming rhino. N
is the numerical value of the
acceleration due to gravity.
Say its calculated speed is 16 m.p.h. In
tropical Africa the acceleration due to
gravity is 982.8 centimetres per sec. per
sec (982.8 cm/sec.2). A .303 h.v. bullet
travelling at 1200 ft. per sec. would, there-
fore, allowing for variation in distribution
of materials in the earth’s crust, make the
initial velocity greater than the final
velocity if at zero time the acceleration
is V = 5.0 + (- 0.8) x 3. Allowing
for uniform retardation of the line of
arc plotted, the negative acceleration due
to frictional resistances would be nil.
Therefore by firing just above its head
when the onrushing rhino is 124 yards
off my bullet will get it between the eyes.
I simply can’t miss.”
Next day our beaters set a big rhino
up. I was over on the flank stalking a
gazelle when I heard Basil shout and raise
his rifle. When the charging rhino was
the requisite distance off he gave it the
full magazine. Before it had gone another
twenty yards the great animal crashed
over, dead.
With a whoop of joy Basil rushed up,
but a puzzled look spread over his face
as he looked in vain for the holes in its
frontispiece. It was not until I silently
pointed to the single hole in its side, near
the heart, that Basil gave vent to a burst
of vituperation at what he said was my
action in spoiling his theory. He hasn’t
spoken to me since.
BO.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. £4,739,013 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used'wholly in’the 'business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Hon. Dr. F. E. AVall, M.L.C.;
Wm. White; Sydney Sampson. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines’): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
PTY., LTD.,
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Top of Barrack Street.
Modern accommodation is offered at a
moderate cost. Hot and cold water
now available in bedrooms.
tariff
Room and Breakfast Rate—
Single Rooms from... 7/6
Double Rooms from... 15/-
Room Only Rate—
Single Rooms from... 5/6 per night
Double Rooms from... 11/- per night
Modem a la carle Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
“Grancentral,” Sydney.
WItST-W
. tT g
■ Jfc*.
Tl B TffrfWf 1.
Rtf
-r w
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Trade with “The East”
A. W. Raymond, an Australian who has
spent a number of years in China, Japan
and the Malay Archipelago, here gives
his opinion on the ways and means by
which Australia may expand its trade
connections with China. He particularly
stresses the necessity for understanding
the Chinese as businessmen and as con-
sumers:—
Until about 10 years ago import and ex-
port trade in China was a monopoly of Euro-
pean and American trading-houses, called
hongs. There was plenty of trade for every-
one, and the foreign hongs waxed fat. British
companies commanded great prestige and
got the lion’s share of trade. An elaborate
and comfortable trading system had been built
up, and, because of the traditional honesty
and placidity of the Chinese, business was easy
and everyone contented.
But Europeans never intended to be anything
but traders in the East. Trade was easy, and
in a few years they accumulated a fortune and
went home again with almost as little knowledge
and understanding of the people and country
as when they first arrived.
Time has changed things, and the foreign
hongs’ share of trade is rapidly diminishing.
National pride and spirit are being cultivated.
Former employees of foreign hongs, modern
educated native merchants and returned
students from abroad combine in an effort to
wrest trade and business from
foreign hands. Europeans
today are conscious of a
barrier, a barrier erected by
themselves and strengthened
by the modern consciousness
of nationalism in the East.
It is not to be wondered at
that this is so. The Eastern
people are following modern
examples set by ourselves.
But we should not remain just
inanimate spectators of these
changes. It is quite obvious
that we must pursue a more
co-operative policy in trade
with the East. Let us play
games with these people, ex-
change students, provide our-
selves with up-to-date in-
formation .on their affairs,
learn their languages and en-
courage travel. Then our
trade and relations will have
a sound basis.
Businessmen both in the
East and in Australia have
very little knowledge of the
conditions each has to contend with. At present
there is a temporary demand in the East for
goods formerly bought in Europe. A good share
of this business can be taken by Australians, but
it is advisable, even essential, that it be
borne in mind that it is only temporary, and
will cease with the European war. There is
no question of Australia’s being able to retain
it. Post-war Europe will still be able to
supply it cheaper, and in any case industrialisa-
tion is occurring so rapidly in the East that
many things will be manufactured there.
It is also about time that something reliable
was told about the actual position in re-
gard to the Sino-Japanese war. It is not
necessary to go into the merits of the contend-
ing parties’ claims to get an accurate picture
of the present position. All the ports of
China are in Japanese hands. The richest areas
of China, including the famous Yangtze Valley,
are also under their control. The Chiang
Kai-shek Government cannot regain control of
the areas lost to the Japanese because it
has not the means and cannot obtain the
means. Huge ill-equipped armies are useless
against not-so-big perfectly equipped, trained
and organised armies. The Japanese have been
completely successful in what they set out to
do. They have subjugated the best part of
China and averted foreign intervention. They
will not collapse economically, politically or
militarily.
However, I do not think that after peace
is made the Japanese will absolutely dominate
the Chinese for long. China is more for-
midable passively than militarily, and I think
the situation will gradually resolve into a
co-operative partnership, with the Chinese ulti-
mately regaining their comparative indepen-
dence.
Trade with China for the Australian merchant
with comparatively little experience of foreign
markets can be difficult in view of prevailing
conditions. 1 do not refer to the war, which
is a passing thing and can be considered, for
our intents and purposes, a fait accompli. I
refer to the manner and customs of trans-
acting business, peculiarities of the markets,
Customs administration, banking and financial
arrangements and methods of merchandising.
We may consider that we have permanent
markets in the East for raw materials and fruit
—raw materials because many that we can
supply cannot be produced there, and fruit be-
cause our seasons are at the opposite time of
the year. We have, and will have, temporary
markets for many other manufactured and
semi-manufactured goods.
It must be borne in mind, though, that we
are not dealing with the same trusting, simple
and dependable merchants that the earlier
"Too busy to come home for dinner, old girl — I'm just having a snack
in the office."
European traders encountered. The present
merchants are well-informed, educated and
able businessmen, just as sharp, wily and cap-
able of taking advantage of a slip as the
keenest anywhere. Today no one does business
without a legally binding contract. Even with
these contracts in force the merchants often
try to evade their obligations should it not be
to their advantage to take delivery of goods,
They find fault with the quality, condition and
times of delivery, etc.
Quite often suppliers of goods to China,
through lax supervision, faulty packing, un-
even quality and late shipments, give them
opportunities to refuse the goods or make
claims on more or less legitimate grounds,
Then there are endless correspondence, bad
feeling, loss of business and unsatisfactory
adjustments which leave one party or the other
feeling it has had a bad deal,
Exporters in Australia should watch these
points of possible friction and make efforts
to provide goods true to sample, of even
quality, packed well so as to ensure their
arrival in good and attractive condition, and they
should ship on time. Labels, generally speaking,
should be the usual ones, with the addition
of directions, statement of origin and any
other interesting information printed on them
in the language of the purchasing country as
well as in English.
I have imported Australian fruit to China
in considerable quantities. We have seasonal
advantages over California, yet why is it that
Australia gets so little of the trade? Ameri-
cans sell 10 times the quantity of oranges
we sell, not because the fruit is better
or cheaper but because it is packed better,
graded better, advertised better and handled
better. The fruit is taken from the ship’s
refrigeration chambers and put straight into
refrigeration on the wharf, where it awaits
Customs inspection and delivery in perfect
condition to the buyer. On the other hand,
our fruit on arrival is placed on the wharf,
where it lies for several days while the Customs
formalities are attended to. It is then released
in poor condition to the buyer.
Banking arrangements are rather antiquated
and difficult in China. Drafts must still
be drawn on London. No doubt we shall
wake up and arrange more efficient facilities
some day.
Wool is the product which we should push
most in the East, as it is possibly the one
thing we produce which can be used in the
everyday life of the people, and cannot be
produced in our qualities locally, because of
climatic and soil conditions.
Owing to the low price of goods manufac-
tured in China, enterprising merchants will
always seek overseas markets, but trade with
China, contrary to trade with Japan, will not
necessarily have to be reciprocal, the impact
of the debit balance being easily absorbed in an
enormous population and the gradual rise in
their standard of living. The future relation-
ship of Japan to China may even allow some
convenient form of adjustment which would
obviate the necessity of our having to balance
our trade with Japan.
The financial willy-willy that swept New
York following initial German successes
in the Low Countries had a counterpart
in the London and Australian share-
markets. But, while dollar securities
commenced to change hands by the mil-
lion, making the downward movement
self-reinforcing, only the normal amount
of business was done on the British and
local sharemarkets, which stood up much
better. Price movements in the three
countries are mirrored in the following
industrial-share indices:
New
Sydney.* London, f York.J
May 9 .. 12943 94.5 148.17
„ 10 .. 129.56 91.8 144.77
„ 11 .. 128.90 144.85
„ 13 .. 129.13 92.6 137.63
„ 14 .. 127.93 91.5 128.27
„ 15 .. 125.46 90.5 129.09
„ 16 .. 125.77 88.9 130.43*
* Sydney Stock Exchange. t “Financial
Times.” f Dow Jones.
Whereas the D.J. index declined 13.4 p.c.
compared with May 9, the London down-
swing was only 5.9 p.c. and the Sydney
retrogression 3 p.c. When the enemy
thrusts showed signs of being halted there
was another typical stampede in New
York but this time to buy back the
scrip that but a few hours previously had
been thrown on the market.
In Sydney, which for once had been
almost impervious to overseas move-
ments, prices broke suddenly on Wednes-
day, but the fall was not near so severe
as that of August 25 last. It was a time
for those with the requisite courage (and
cash) to get into front-rank stocks, some
of which behaved this way:
1940 May May May
High. 9. 15. 17.
Industrial — , on ,,
A. .. 39/7 38/- 36/4 37/1
B. .. 51/6* 46/6 44/3 44/94
B. Tobacco .. 50/9 47/- 45/ 45/6
B. Philp .. 56/- 54/- 52/- 52/
C. .. £s4f £s2f £sl* £5 lit
Elec. Zinc .. 61/4 55/9 52/9 53/6
Felt & Tex. .. 43/6 42/- 39/6 38/ 3
G. Mort .. 29/1 29/- 27/3 27/3
G. J. Coles.. 76/3 68/6 65/9 66/6
Mauri Bros. 70/- 66/9 65/3 65/9
Millaquin .. 46/- 45/- 44/-
Woolworths.. 20/3 18/7 18/- 18/1
Mt. Lyell .. 34/6 31/2 28/- 28/4f
New B.H. .. 23/1 15/10 14/2 14/7
Norths .. 48/3 42/6 38 / 6 39/
Souths .. 30/- 26/4 24/7 24/9f
*Ex bonus basis, tEx div.
At Wednesday’s quotes Tooths (which
has announced an unchanged div.), B.H.
Props, (particularly with the coal dis-
pute seeming settled) and Electro. Zincs
were outstanding buys base-metal
scrip perhaps the best of all. Returning
confidence, evident on Thursday, gained
momentum on Friday but was shortlived.
* * * *
A.C.l.’s final of 3* p.c., placing the
stock on a 7 p.c. basis, caused neither
exuberation nor regret in a market that
is more interested in the actual profits
from which the div. is being paid. The
distribution will call for £244,250, as
against £239,598 handed the ords. in ’39.
As a result of the “rationalisation”
scheme, disclosed earnings then included
only nine months’ profit from the parent’s
manufacturing activities, so considerably-
expanded cover for the div. the ’39
margin was £69,164 should be shown,
particularly in view of the spread of
activities since.
* * * *
Woolworths at 18s., with sellers pre-
pared to continue at that figure. That
last week was the position of a stock that
in 1938 brought up to 28s. Effects of
new taxation on the div. rate— p.c.
for two years now —have been freely dis-
cussed, but if there is to be any reduction
here it is not likely to be because of the
louder call of the taxgatherer so much
as of the need to conserve funds for the
expansion of the business now that chain
stores are not being permitted to
approach the public for additional capi-
tal. Last term the co. showed a margin
of £56,472 between earnings and distri-
butions, and that disregards its equity m
the unearned profits of its subsidiaries.
While war must of necessity curtail civil
spending, “Woollies” handle everyday
lines that aren’t likely to be greatly
affected, and its depression experience
was that hard times brought more people
to its stores.
* * * *
Reduction in Gordon and Gotch’s half-
yearly handout from 14 p.c. to 12 p.c.
p.a. by omission of the bonus was no
more than expected. At the lower rate
the immediate return at 40s. 3d. is
now 6 p.c. Old stocks —£209,000 at
September 30 —have so far cushioned the
effects of war-time import and other
difficulties on earnings. Still, shaving of
another couple of points off the div.
would reduce the yield to only a frac-
tion below 5 p.c.


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he Dossess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands ?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service,, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Directors'.
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND W. G. HULL
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
“I've
a wife and 3 kiddies
got a wii® ucntilM
IT’S A ‘RAPP^
vauxhall
‘l4’
medium
for ME!”
■ AUXHALL ‘l4’ is the one Happy
Medium car that permits you to steer
a middle course between the big car
and the small car and gives you
practically all the advantages of both.
Roominess for 5 or 6 . . ♦ 6-cylinder
performance . . . long wheelbase . . .
Independent Springing . . . commodious
built-in luggage trunk . ♦ ♦ all-silent
Synchro-mesh Gears ♦ ♦ ♦ Hydraulic
Brakes , , . top gear performance . . .
all these recognised big-car features
are possessed by the Vauxhall ‘l4/
Yet, at the same time the Happy
Medium car gives you the outstanding
advantage of the small car as well—
economy. In normal driving it gives
over 30 M.P.G.— 50% more than most
other 5-6 seaters.
Before you make a decision on any
car—see and drive and figure out the
extra value you get in a Vauxhall ‘l4'
first. GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S Ltd.
SALOON - - £35 9
CONVERTIBLE COUPE £334
Use the Convenient G.M.A.C. Payment Plan
Vauxhall’s OCTANE SELECTOR instantly ad-
justable for the use of Second-grade Fuel
Vauxhall is the only car with
the petrol-saving 5 -phase car-
burettor. It gives 6 different
mixtures instead of the usual
3, changing automatically
from one to another as occas-
ion demands. Two R.A.C.
Tests averaged 33.29 M.P.C.
Happy Medium
14
Buy from Your Local Vauxhall Dealer
Buy from your Local Vauxhall Dealer
Sold and Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout. Australia
639
influenced by defence contracts, tex-
tiles have provided the strongest section
of the sharemarket Yarra Falls, for
example, actually put on weight in Wed-
nesday’s price debacle. Also outstanding
was the speculative support in Sydney
for Bond’s Industries pound shares, which
have been taken to 7s. 6d.; at one stage
last year they could have been had at
2s. Disregarding a capital reserve of
£166,166 (largely a book entry in re-
spect of freehold), all but £7838 of the
co.’s £112,806 of capital was unrepre-
sented by assets of a tangible nature at
Dec. 31. But the deficiency is rapidly
being made up. Assuming debenture-
holders will receive £5 Bs. 6d. p.c. p.a.
when their agreement comes up for re-
view a year hence—they at present get
4 p.c., and there is a contingent liability
of £42,816 for arrears to be met “as
profits are available and the financial
position shall permit”—maintenance of
earnings at last year’s rate would leave
£34,500 —30.5 p.c. on capital—available
on shareholders’ account after meeting
one year’s debenture payment. Plant
these days is being kept in a high state
of efficiency out of earnings, and activi-
ties are expanding.
Weakness in Lincoln Mills (Melb.)
has been an exception to the trend,
official reports of “appreciably” higher
turnover and “increased” profit notwith-
standing. The new tax proposals may
be responsible. On capital and reserves
at June 30 last year’s rate of net earning
ran out at 12.4 p.c., so that the co. will
be subject to E.P.T. unless the £322,000-
odd lopped off capital account to cover
trading losses prior to the depression
is taken into consideration. But with a
preponderance of 9 p.c. pref. money
capital account is highly geared, and the
surplus available for the ords. last term
represented 41.2 p.c. on that class of
capital. Maintenance of the 12} p.c.
div. should thus be a comfortable mat-
ter. On that basis the 4s. ords. at 9s. 3d.
yield 5.5 p.c., with prospects of some
of the lost capital being restored in the
long run. Stabilisation of wool prices
under the Imperial purchase agreement
has removed the hazard of stock fluctua-
tions.
* * * #
Funds at present flowing into the
banking system, the combined result of
a higher export income and national
war spending, augur well for the success
of the coming defence Joan if the rate
of interest is right. An expansion of
nearly £5,000,000 in liquids is shown
in the National Bank’s latest accounts,
most of which was advanced to the
Federal Government by way of Treasury
bills and Consols incidentally favor-
ably influencing interest rates. Despite
a record level of deposits, private
advances were curtailed by £937,908 ;
it reflects a lighter call from landmen
and the directorate’s co-operation with
the National Advance (Capital Issues)
Board in the control of new investment.
Before whisking the usual £50,000 to
bank premises account net result of the
year’s trading was declared £4851 higher
at £356,096, and div. stays at 6 p.c.
Speaking generally, the effects of the
Government’s financial policy on bank
earnings should be more beneficial than
otherwise.
Hs $
Undeterred by an adverse official
opinion from members of the Common-
wealth Oil Advisory Board, the holders
of the Plevna oil-shale deposit in the
Mackay hinterland (C.Q.) have been able
to attract southern capital for its in-
vestigation, and the last few months have
been devoted to an extensive survey of
the field, supplemented by a drilling
campaign. This is authoritatively stated
to have shown a considerable increase
of oil-shale country, and to have proved
a bed at least 100 ft. thick. Obviously it
is scarcely to be compared with the rich
torbanite of the N. S. Wales fields, but
rather with the Estonian type of mas-
sive deposition. The claim therefore
that the shale is rich may need qualify-
ing until sectional analyses are available.
But the deposit does appear to be of
some importance in size at least.
* * * *
Following on the announcement of
a one-for-four share issue at par—it will
lift subscribed capital to £625,000, as
against £250,000 at the close of accounts
in ’37—Younghusband has declared its
final div. —4 p.c., making 8 p.c. for the
year ; 7} p.c. and 10 p.c. were the rates
in the two preceding terms. Profits,
however, have not yet been indicated.
In the circumstances, they might have
been. Six times in the last decade, in-
cluding ’3B and ’39, disclosed earnings
have fallen short of div. requirements.
Recent share offers have brought with
them £95,000 of premium capital; the
money now sought will have no such
assistance in earning its keep.
Assuming 7s. Id. (Fiji) a ton profit, last
term’s experience, net worth of ore in
sight at Mt. Kasi would just about cover
present market valuation of the scrip.
But as, after payment of royalty, the co.
is now getting above £F9 an ounce for
its gold, subject to realisation exes.,
whereas last year’s net return was £8 3s.
an ounce, the figure may allow a margin
for contingencies ; more ore should also
be developed, though prospects at depth
have taken on an uncertain character.
In the year ended December the mill
handled 39,434 (up 1014) tons ore for a
profit £2360 higher at £14,008. Despite
a slight fall in head values —they came
a half-’weight short of the grade placed
on proved ore at the end of ’38 —im-
provement in extraction from 86 to 90
p.c. lifted recoveries from 4.35dwt. to
4.4ldwt. All-in costs ran to 28s.
Fijian. Half the rise of 2s. 10id. a ton
here was represented by a higher charge
for development. Reserve ore is cal-
culated at five years’ mill supply—
-114,000 tons (sdwt.) positive, 92,290
(s.ldwt.) probable, the total declining
5410 in tonnage and o.3dwt. in grade
compared with a year earlier. A first
divvy of 3d. Aust. has been paid.
* * * *
Commonwealth woollen-mill and wool-
scouring statistics show the value of land
and buildings in the industry at June 30
at £2,380,009, and of plant, etc., at
£3,369,517. For the year to that date
output of 90 factories, employing 19,608
hands (54 p.c. women), was £12,515,000,
as against £12,618,000 in 1938 and
£6,759,000 in 1931, notwithstanding that
the number of establishments is now two
fewer. Annual imports of woollen piece-
goods, etc., have been reduced to
£422,580, against which there was a
counter-export of £736,994 in the way of
tops, yarn, etc.
* * * *
The outstanding rise of last week was
scored by Walter Reid, Queensland, with
a spurt from 365. 6d. to 395. Chief
attraction about this co., which does a
large general merchandising and agency
business throughout the central and far-
western districts from Rockhampton
headquarters, is a pile of cash and in-
vestments running into £354,896 twelve
months ago. What the board will even-
tually do with its bulging moneybags is
a matter for conjecture, but it could re-
turn part or even all of the share capital
should it desire without affecting trading
activities one iota. From last term’s 8
p.c. div., paid for seven years now, the
yield at 395. would be 4.1 p.c. A lift in
the rate may be indicated. Prior to 1933
better than 10 p.c. went out more often
than not. Seasons in the northern State
are behaving splendidly.
* * * *
While the Victorian Grain Elevators
Board was able to raise publicly only
two-thirds of the £450,000 it sought at
£3 15s. p.c., Melbourne Tramways Board
has been able to get £175,000 privately
at £3 16s. 3d. p.c., or only 12s. p.c. above
the average return from Consols in last
week’s unsettled market. With the bond
yield on Friday £3 4s. 2d. p.c., the coming
defence loan may need to carry some-
thing more than £3 ss. to be sufficiently
attractive.
* * * *
Listed at long last, Selfridges had their
first official sale at 11s. 3d. Creditable
reorganisation with the funds available
has been performed by the present man-
agement, and the 6 p.c. shown on capital
last term should, if maintained, produce
better prices.
* * * *
Calling-up of the balance of the con-
tributing capital (7s. 6d. a share —£18,750)
has not been relished by Howard
Auto-Cultivator holders, who were part-
ing with the 12s. 6d.-paids at 2d. last
week after previous dealings at Is. 9d.
The fully-paids, which last sold at Bs.,
were quoted wide at 12s. seller, 6s. 6d.
buyer. The board says it wants the
money ( a ) for defence contracts,
actual and potential, ( b ) to take
fuller advantage of the opportuni-
ties afforded by import restrictions,
and (c) to replace obsolete plant with
modern equipment —an admission that
depreciation, etc., provisions in the past
haven’t been adequate. The co. turns
out rotary hoes and other farming imple-
ments at Northmead, near Sydney, selling
them through Rotary Hoe Cultivators,
Ltd. For the five years to the close of
accounts in 1938 profits averaging 15.6 p.c.
on a gradually-expanding share-register
were claimed ; but the scrip has been
under a cloud since the declared loss
of £17,996 in ’39, a “regression” shared
in part by the whole industry, however—
the Commonwealth Statistician’s estimate
of the value of output for the industry
over the period declined from £4,225,000
to £3,403,000. On the figures presented
the factory “reorganisation” that has been
going on for so long now appears to have
produced more muddle than efficiency,
but under present conditions the board
should have a great chance of retrieving
the co.’s fortunes if it can capitalise its
opportunities. Meantime, the best way
shareholders can help is to meet their
calls promptly.
* * * *
Third issue of the N.Z. Manufacturers’
Directory, besides being a comprehensive
official trade fingerpost on anything from
dredge machinery to eyebrow prepara-
tions, is a useful pointer to recent
growth of Maoriland industry. Credit
goes to L. J. Schmitt, who ’tween times
looks after tourist advertising.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
RETREAT FROM MOSCOW.
[Here are Victor Gollancz, the prophet of the Left
Book Club, and John Strachey, known wherever Com-
munist literature is read, turning away in disgust from
the Communist party, whose policy, as revealed in its
official organ, London “Daily Worker,” both stigmatise
frankly as “pro-German.” Their letters to London “New
Statesman and Nation” (here reproduced nearly in full
because, coming from acknowledged leaders of the
Left, they are of some importance) will help to explain
to Australians why the circulation of the “Daily
Worker” outside Britain has recently been forbidden.
Also they offer to Australian Corns, and Parlor Pinks
plain evidence that intellectual Communism is as dead
as the murdered Finns.]
John Strachey’s Letter
It is necessary for those who do not accept the
attitude expressed by the “Daily Worker” to the Ger-
man invasion of Scandinavia to dissociate themselves
from that attitude.
On April 9, the day before the invasion, the
“Daily Worker” expressed the view that the laying of
mines by the British in Norwegian territorial waters
“does not directly harm Germany in a military sense
—that indeed it is obviously directed rather towards
the general domination of Scandinavian policy by the
Western Powers, with the principal idea of directing
it against Russia.” Hence there were indications “that
the German Government may after all prefer to let
the situation ride for the moment... . and act diplo-
matically rather than militarily.”
But after the German invasion, in the issue of
April 13, Frank Pitcairn wrote: “Everyone knew that
if Britain invaded Norwegian territorial waters with
minefields the Germans would respond with counter
action. Nobody is fool enough to suppose that they
would not.”
The contradiction, though extreme, is not in itself
particularly important. But it is decisive in the sense
that it shows the nature of the argument used by Pit-
cairn in the same article, and by the “Daily Worker”
on every day since the German invasion of Scandi-
navia. The argument is that that invasion was an in-
evitable, easy to foresee, and in that sense justified,
reply to the British violation of Norwegian waters ;
that the whole responsibility for the spread of the war
to Scandinavia and the sufferings of the Norwegian
people rested on Britain and France exclusively and
not upon Germany. The passages quoted show that
this argument was resorted to only after the German
invasion had taken place.
The whole tenor of the “Daily Worker” during the
past weeks has expressed this view—of the ex-
clusive guilt of Britain and France. For example, on
April 10 the Diplomatic Correspondent began his
article: “In a single day and night, British and French
Government wrecking of Norwegian neutrality has ex-
tended the war by nearly 1000 miles.... Sweden is
directly threatened. There is an immediate possibility
of a British and French attempt to invade that coun-
try.” Neither in this article nor (except by inference
from an agency report that Oslo had surrendered)
anywhere else on the front page of this issue of the
“Daily Worker” is it possible to discover that the
German Government had taken the slightest part in
any attack on Scandinavia. It is literally true that
someone who, on April 10, took no other newspaper
but the “Daily Worker” would have been unable to dis-
cover that on the previous day the German Army had
invaded Denmark and Norway.
On subsequent days the “Daily Worker” inferred
that German forces were in Norway, as, for example,
on April 11, with the headline “British Attempt to
Take Narvik Repulsed.” Since then, too, the German
invasion has been, by inference, repeatedly referred
to and justified, by the argument that it was the British
who first broke international law by laying the mine-
field. But no attempt, even, has been made to answer
the obvious retort that, if we are to play the not very
profitable game of asking “who began it?” why should
we fail to mention the far more violent breach of
international law which the German Imperialists have
been committing, in respect of Norway, since the be-
ginning of the war, in the form of sinking 50 Nor-
wegian ships and drowning over 1000 Norwegian
sailors?
Examples of the apologetics for the German Im-
perialists into which the “Daily Worker” has fallen
could be multiplied. But no one who reads, especially,
the first half-dozen issues after the invasion of Nor-
way can possibly doubt what is the real attitude to
the war of those who write and direct the newspaper.
That attitude is something quite different from the
characterisation of this war as an inter-imperialist
war. With such a characterisation of the war I, for
one, am in agreement. (Though, because of the special
character of Fascism, I do not agree that the British
workers have no interest in the question of which
group of Imperialists is victorious.) But the “Daily
Worker’s” attitude was one of apology, the more com-
plete in some ways because tacit, for the German Im-
perialists ; it was an attitude of apology carried, on
the day after the German invasion, to the fantastic
lengths of refusing to report that invasion at all.
This is no more than the culminating revelation of
an attitude on the part of the “Daily Worker” which
has caused many of its readers to characterise it as
not so much anti-war as simply pro-German. It is
being asked on all sides how the able and sincere men
who write and conduct the “Daily Worker” can have
given this impression. This is, I think, the explana-
tion. They believe that the safety of the Soviet Union
is now bound up with the success of the German
Government in averting defeat at the hands of the
Allies ; that if the Allies have any considerable growth
in strength they will attack the Soviet Union.
Every line written in the “Daily Worker” drives
me to the conviction that those controlling the “Daily
Worker” are prepared, for the sake of what they con-
sider to be the interests of the Soviet Union, to give
way to Hitler to any extent, and that they are utterly
irresponsible as to the consequences to the British
people of such unlimited giving way. So long as that
remains the case I, and, it seems, almost everybody
else in the country, can have nothing to do with them,
however much we, like all sane people, “do not want
the war,” and however much we may agree with them
as to the general character of the war.
* * * * *
Victor Gollancz’s Letter
I wish to appeal to those rank and file members
of the Communist party with whom I worked with
such harmony in Popular Front days, when, however
great the difference between their philosophy of life
and mine, so many of our immediate practical objec-
tives were, or seemed to be, identical. Especially do I
address those who were converted to Socialism by the
Left Book Club work, and who may then or subse-
quently have joined the Communist party.
Do they realise the way things are going?
Originally, after a short “pro-war” period, the
“line” was the straight “defeatist” one —this is an
imperialist war: the enemy is always at home: let
each working class concentrate on attacking “its own”
bourgeoisie, and the result will be an international
socialist revolution. I totally disagree with this posi-
tion. However great an element of imperialist rivalry
there may be in this war, in effect it is a war for the
defence of the world against Fascist aggression. A
Hitler victory —indeed, a failure to weaken Hitler’s
power to dominate and enslave —would be the end of
all our hopes of progress. But while I totally dis-
agree with the “defeatist” position, it can be under-
stood and defended.
But Communist party policy in the various coun-
tries (and it must be seen, of course, as a co-ordinated
— “Volk,” Amsterdam.
JUDAS RESURRECTED.
Dedicated to the Quislings of Europe.
whole) shows unmistakable signs of developing from
a straight “defeatist” position into something very
different.
In France it is alleged that leaflets are being used
by the Communist party advocating sabotage in muni-
tion factories: calling upon the workers to unite “so
that British capitalism shall be wiped out” —not French
capitalism, or French, British and German capital-
ism—and saying that it is the British Empire which
is the real enemy and that the Fiihrer has stretched
out a loyal hand to Frenchmen. If these allegations are
untrue, why, after their publication in the British press,
has there apparently been no denial either of their
authenticity or of their Communist party origin?
Finally, the “Daily Worker.” Already on Feb-
ruary 1 we were presented with the grotesquely un-
Marxist argument that Chamberlain, not Hitler, was
responsible for the war, because it was he that de-
clared it: and since then there has been a rapid
degeneration. In the issue of April 9 huge headlines
presented our minelaying in Norwegian waters (which
had just taken place) as an atrocious crime ; next day,
after the German invasion, that invasion was virtually
unreported, and a Communist party manifesto was
published which contrived to make no mention of it.
And we are now told day by day that the British are
preparing to invade (successively) Holland, Belgium
and the Balkans, and that all reports of any such
German intention are “smoke screens” to cover our
own projected villainy: and (culminating grotesquerie)
the British press is accused of having carried on a cam-
paign of provocation against Italy since the Scandi-
navian invasion—the roles being just simply reversed!
Is all this concentrating on the defeat of “one’s
own” bourgeoisie? Is it not rather a singling out
everywhere (in Germany, France and Britain) of
Britain as the main enemy?
The reason is obvious. The Soviet Union, for
whatever reason, inclines to Hitler Germany: then
inevitably so do the Communist parties in every
country.
I submit that Communist party members should
face the following questions. If they are sure that
nothing matters but the security and Power of the
U.S.S.R.; if they are sure that the U.S.S.R. is the best
judge of the measures necessary to maintain that
security and increase that power; if they therefore
consider it the duty of progressives everywhere to act
on her instructions ; if they would tolerate a Nazi
victory in Norway and Sweden and Denmark and the
Balkans and France and Great Britain, provided that
Soviet policy demands it, then I have nothing further
to say. Alternatively, if they are sure that, whatever
the present appearances, Soviet policy will so shape
itself as ultimately to secure the defeat of reaction
everywhere, and in particular of Nazism, and that
what she is now doing is a mere preliminary tactic,
then again I have nothing further to say. .:i
But if they feel with me that the only way to
secure working-class objectives is to prevent the
disaster of a Hitler victory, and that in fulfilling that
task it is only on ourselves that we can rely: then they
will reconsider their position.
* K * * *
“Moscow Fools Them”
(Editorial comment from the “New Statesman and
Nation,” itself Leftist in its views.)
The Communists, as the letters from Mr. Strachey
and Mr. Gollancz show, have suddenly adopted a line
of policy which exasperates many who have travelled
lately with them. In view of the now patent fact that
Hitler is determined to extend his dominion over
France and Britain, it would seem a kind of madness
on the part of revolutionaries to urge that Mr. Cham-
berlain is more dangerous to the British working class
than Hitler.
To analyse the European situation on Marxist
grounds is proper; to struggle against the real or
imaginary danger that the war would be extended to
Russia is sensible ; to attack the home and foreign
policies of the National Government; to urge that
when possible we should have a negotiated peace —all
these are activities which a democratic Government
should permit in war-time. But to advocate sabotage
in the factories, as some underground propaganda in
France is doing, cannot be defended on any ground
of civil liberty.
Men who go to these lengths are only entitled to
respect if they have thought out the consequences of
their revolutionary line and are willing to suffer its
penalties, as, for instance, Lenin, Tukachevsky, Sir
Roger Casement and the P.O.U.M. were prepared to
do. Many of the Communist rank and file do not,
we are confident, understand the implications of the
present party line. Do they deceive themselves into
the belief that we are on the edge of another war with
Russia or another Versailles? How many would
maintain their present line if they realised that the real
question is whether the west of Europe should suffer
the fate of Denmark, Czechoslovakia and Poland?
They have been the leaders of the anti-Fascist front,
but today, to use the phrase they have so often used
of others, they have become “objectively” allies of
Hitler. Moscow simply fools them.
* * * * *
An Imperialist War?
[Another idol of the Left—Professor Laski—pro-
vides the text for this (condensed) defence of British
imperialism by Manchester “Guardian.”]
Some of the friends of appeasement, Right and
Left in sympathy, try to discredit the cause of the
Allies by describing the war as a conflict between
selfish imperialisms. A convincing answer is given by
a writer whom nobody will accuse of whitewashing
British history. In a pamphlet published by the Labor
party with the title “Is This an Imperialist War?”
Professor H. J. Laski draws a distinction of the utmost
importance between British imperialism and German
imperialism: the first has passed the stage of expan-
sion and aggression, while the second is entering on it.
The effect of a victorious war on Hitler’s Ger-
many would be, as he well puts it, to consolidate the
power of a new and vigorous imperialism at the be-
ginning of a career of expansion. This distinction is
one of capital importance. During the last genera-
tion British rule has been steadily relaxed. Ireland,
South Africa, Egypt, India, all tell the same tale ; the
self-governing colonies have become Dominions and
the Dominions have become independent but allied
nations ; the same liberal spirit is preparing the British
people for great changes in the government and status
of the colonies and dependencies in British hands.
The British Empire is an empire in revolution;
that is why some Continental rulers had supposed it
to be an empire in dissolution. What would happen
to all these liberalising forces in a Nazi empire?
To answer the question it is necessary to notice
a historical fact of great importance. Modern im-
perialism began with the discovery of the New World
in the fifteenth century, and throughout its career
there has been a struggle between the good and the
bad forces in human character and in public life. The
first chapter was dark and terrible, but it was fol-
lowed by the awakening of a public conscience in
Spain. The attempt to prevent the Spanish Empire
from becoming a piratical adventure in the sixteenth
century was as serious and sincere as the movement,
two centuries later, that awakened the conscience of
the British Empire over the slave trade. The violence
and cupidity of conquering and expanding peoples
have been checked again and again by reformers at
home and abroad, public men, writers, philanthropists
and missionaries.
It is this important fact that has to be kept in
mind in considering what a Nazi empire would be like,
for in this respect a Nazi empire would have a charac-
ter of its own. The world would step back four cen-
turies. Before 1914 German colonial enterprise had
been disfigured by notorious excesses. The men re-
sponsible for them had been checked by the energetic


protests of Socialist, Catholic and Protestant leaders in
Germany. Bebel made a storm in the Reichstag. The
missionaries spoke up with great courage. Peters,
Trotha and Puttkamer were disgraced. Today Peters,
named by the natives “the man with the bloodstained
hands,” is a Nazi hero. His portrait decorated one of
the stamps of the German colonial jubilee in 1934.
Where under the Nazi system would Germany
find the successors to Bebel and the missionaries who
compelled a reluctant Government to set Peters aside?
Where could protesters speak or write? All such men
are buried in concentration camps. The history of the
government of the weak by the strong during the cen-
turies when Spain, France and Britain were collecting
their empires would have been a tale of sheer violence
and cruelty if men had had no freedom to think and
speak in those countries. The Nazi theory of race
does not admit any scruples. The Nazis worship the
methods of terror. It is not surprising that nobody
who is governed today by France or Great Britain
wants Hitler to win.
French Socialist Viewpoint
[From a letter to the British Labor party by Paul
Faure, secretary of the French Socialist party, justifying
the measures against Communists in France. Published
in London “Daily Herald.”]
It is necessary to understand the magnitude of
the danger which the Communists represent to us in
France.
It had simply to be decided whether a party,
under the orders and in the pay of a foreign Power,
could, in time of war, take part, discuss, vote, legis-
late in a French Assembly and whether it could be in-
formed in the Parliamentary commissions or secret
committees of the Chamber and the Senate of the
military and diplomatic situation of the country and
given all the secret intelligence concerning national
defence.
Our British comrades ought to know the import-
ance which the Communists had assumed in the Paris
region, thanks to large-scale propaganda fed by funds
from abroad during 20 years. They had cells in all
the factories of the Paris region, which constitutes
the vital centre of the country. They had got their
hands on the greater part of the trade-union offices.
In the electoral sphere, thanks to the system of absten-
tions in the second ballot and to the Popular Front,
they had secured 33 out of a total of 60 Parliamentary
seats for the Seine area. A very large number of
suburban mayoralties were under their control, and
they made them into centres of Bolshevist propaganda
pure and simple.
Today, no one can doubt that the Communists
place themselves outside the nation, that they obey
a foreign Government. If this state of affairs is diffi-
cult to admit in time of peace, it becomes absolutely
intolerable in time of war.
An abominable underground leaflet campaign is
being carried on which describes the present war as
having been desired solely by British capitalism. The
Communists thus seek to turn French public opinion
against Britain, to demoralise the mass of the people
and the army in order to provoke moral disintegra-
tion and prepare the atmosphere for disorders. After
that, no doubt, Hitler and Stalin would have the mis-
sion of restoring order.
That is the situation. It justifies French policy
and the measures taken against a party of treachery.
War for England’s World,
o Condensed from an article by the French author
Andre Siegfried in the U.S.A. “Foreign Affairs.”)
Can anyone seriously imagine that the effects of
a rivalry like that between Germany and the Allies —
not to mention Soviet Russia —can be localised in
Europe and a fence built around them? White civili-
sation is a unit. Which of the Powers that share in
that civilisation is to exercise leadership? This is the
real issue in the present war.
The British Empire has been the great civilising
Power. The system of inter-continental relations, the
inter-continental exchange of goods and ideas by
which the modern world has been living, was set up
and organised by the English. Given the important
Place held by Europe in the general scheme of white
civilisation, is it not possible—is it not almost certain
—that the country which becomes predominant there
will aspire to world leadership? That is why Eng-
land, every so often, and without any desire to exer-
cise rule over the Continent, feels obliged to interfere
in a domain not strictly her own.
The issue in such cases is not control of Europe.
It is world control. German domination on the Con-
tinent would lead to German supremacy on the seas.
That would bring the continued existence of the whole
British world system into dispute ; would affect the
interests of England, France, the U.S.A.
The shattering of the world structure as we know
it today would probably be a fatal defeat of the white
race. We incline as a matter of habit to imagine that
the future of our civilisation is secure. That is a mis-
take. The future of our civilisation is not at all
secure. We have to watch over and guard it.
The nineteenth century formulated and applied a
way of life which, while retaining the basic principles
of the eighteenth century, tried to combine them with
the new system of production resulting from the indus-
trial revolution. During that glorious period of ex-
pansion, which really lasted down to the World War,
the European continent was divided politically, but it
functioned nevertheless as a unified civilisation of a
race everywhere recognised as superior and worthy to
lead. There also existed an economic system which,
originating in Europe and more particularly in Eng-
land, extended its benefits to all Europeans and, in a
general way, to all white humanity. Though not con-
sciously so, it was in essence an international system
and a liberal system. At any rate it was international
and liberal in comparison with the system that the
twentieth, century is putting in its place. This is a
matter of personal experience for my generation. As a
boy I saw the nineteenth-century system in operation
without realising that it was something quite excep-
tional in history, and that before long we should be
mourning its passing. Today I look back upon it with
something of the nostalgia that the people of the
Middle Ages felt for the Roman Empire, or that
touched Talleyrand when he talked of “the comfort-
able living” under the Old Regime.
In those days when one left the shores of Europe
one entered a sort of international mercantile republic.
It operated under the British flag ; but by virtue of
a principle called “fair play” any white person, of
whatever country, could take advantage of it. Eco-
nomic management on a world-wide basis actually
existed. Europe devised it and Europe very largely
benefited by it. It was a management of an exceed-
ingly delicate and an exceedingly intelligent sort —
nothing like the dictatorial “planned economies” of
today. It made money-changing, freightage and travel-
ling very easy. Boats and trains were not so fast as
they are now, but one was considerably surer of get-
ting where one wanted to go. Bureaucratic difficulties
were reduced to a shadow. One could rely on a general
stability in almost everything. Tariffs and duties were
stable under long-term treaties. National credits were
stable—the word of any one of the great countries
seemed as trustworthy as the existence of the country
itself. Currencies had a value in gold and they were
interchangeable at only slight fluctuations in price.
There was the greatest freedom as regards the move-
ment of persons. Emigration and immigration were
virtually free. Investigations and examinations at
frontiers were matters of perfunctory routine. I can
see that enormous advances have been made since
those days in technical equipment; but I cannot help
seeing just as clearly that civilisation has gone back-
ward.
It might be well to specify in more detail Eng-
land’s role in all this. She practised freetrade, guaran-
—“Daily Minor,” London.
"WHAT FOR?”
(English comment on President Roosevelt’s “If another country is
invaded I’ll be right back.”)
teed freedom of travel and exchange, and kept order
over enormous areas on land and sea. The English
liked to boast that their navy was the principal guaran-
tee of public security everywhere. Jealousy kept other
countries from agreeing, but today as we look back
we have to admit it was true. Part and parcel of the
system was the maintenance of white prestige, for
England alone had ready means of protecting white
people even in the most out-of-the-way corners of
the world. Thus it was due to British naval might
that Australia was enabled to adopt and enforce an
immigration law that saved her from being swamped
by an influx of yellow peoples.
The English find it increasingly difficult to fulfil
the world functions which they gradually assumed in
the course of the past century. They are, however,
continuing to fulfil them after a fashion. A serious
English defeat would mean a dislocation far surpass-
ing the confines of Europe. The key positions of
European civilisation everywhere would be grievously
weakened. There would be an outburst of racial
movements in all quarters of the globe. England
developed the concept of credit based on the given
word, on the trust inspired by the honest man. She
was, besides, the first and only country to understand
that political power has to be something more than
a mere expression of common interests, that liberty
and authority are not contradictory terms, that liberty
can be enjoyed without disorder and authority can
be exercised without tyranny. It was due to that
spirit that the nineteenth century world became a habit-
able world —a fact which the twentieth century, alas,
inclines to forget.
What would happen if a Power inspired by the
totalitarian spirit achieved world leadership? A world
controlled and managed by Germany would be alto-
gether different from the world we have known for
the past century. It can be taken for granted that
the production resulting from German technical
methods, long since tried and tested, would be very
impressive. We French have been battling the Ger-
mans for a long time. We have come to know them
well and to appreciate them at their true worth. Under
the German system every motion is harnessed to serve
a single purpose ; nobody’s imagination or inspiration
is allowed to divert an ounce of energy from the pre-
determined goal. It is inspiring to picture all that
German organising ability might do in the world if
it were given a free hand. But there is a flaw in the
picture, and unfortunately it is a fatal one.
The exorbitant price of German singleminded
efficiency is precisely the condition on which it is able
to operate—everything connected with free living
based on respect for the individual must be given up
and forgotten. All energies are regimented and canal-
ised in a single system of conscription. The concept of
a free humanity in which all men are equal, at least
in the respect owing to them as human beings, is
replaced by the iron doctrine that a few supermen
have been created to exploit the masses that are born
, congenitally inferior. The procedure involves re-
pudiating the whole ideal of the nineteenth century
and with it the deeper ideal enshrined in Christianity
itself.
The war, therefore, is in its broader bearings a
world war. The fate of our whole civilisation is to be
fought out.
One would have to go far back in history to find
a struggle where the stakes were so significant. My
country, France, is a decisive factor since she supplies
the chief elements in the military resistance to Ger-
man aggression, and because with her survive or perish
human values that all human beings, of whatever
race, nationality or color, can understand, admire and
strive after. The outcome will also depend very
directly on the fate of the British Empire and on the
position in the world that the English are able or
willing to maintain. The weaknesses of the Empire are
only too well known, chief among them being its vast
extent and the vulnerability of its lines of communica-
tion. Not enough is said about the Empire’s strength,
which resides very largely in the unanimous loyalty
of the white portions of the British world. The
British Commonwealth represents a civilisation to
which the member nations are deeply enough attached
to defend it by arms whenever need arises.
Italy’s Choice.
(Condensed from an article in
London “Economist.”)
If we are to believe the Italian
press, matters stand at a crisis between
Italy and the Allies.
Since the outbreak of war there
has been only one Italian question:
would Germany’s ally and Axis part-
ner move from non-belligerency to
hostility, and, if so, at what moment?
The Allies have tried to meet and,
if possible, counter the possibility by
a policy of tact, conciliation and for-
bearance. The blockade was engi-
neered to do a minimum of harm to
Italian interests, concessions and ex-
ceptions were made, pledges of good
faith accepted, buying commissions
sent out in the hopes of making it
economically worth Italy’s while to
divert supplies to Britain.
Meanwhile, in “Popolo d’ltalia,”
the Duce’s own paper, the section
which is reputed to be from his own
hand never once abandoned a bitter
gibing attitude towards the “pluto-
democracies.” Nor could it escape
careful observers that some of the
help afforded by Italy to Germany in
order to outmanoeuvre the blockade
suggested anything but a broken Axis.
On the contrary, it seemed as though Italy’s “non-
belligerency” was exactly what her Axis partner
needed most. Involved in war, Italy might well have
become an immediate economic and military liability
to Germany. Out of the war and winning favorable
treatment from the Allies by her equivocal attitude,
Italy occupied a key position in that ring of neutral
States which protected Germany from attack and
helped in varying degrees to secure her supplies. “Non-
belligerency” in this sense served both German and
Italian interests, and could continue to do so just so
long as the Allies allowed the blockade to leak.
The first sharp reminder of Germany’s interpreta-
tion of “non-belligerency” came with the breakdown of
the British trade talks after months of negotiation.
The meeting of the two Dictators at the Brenner was
followed by the launching in Italy of a frenzied anti-
Allied campaign, which still rages in press and radio ;
it reached unequalled heights of misrepresentation and
bias in reporting the onslaught on Norway. Finally
have come warnings, war talk, rumors of mobilisation
and troop concentrations, of naval manoeuvres, rein-
forcements to Albania, and of a possible Balkan offen-
sive. Even if the break so far exists largely on paper,
Italian non-belligerency has entered a new phase.
The new phase is not easy to interpret, for inter-
pretation carries us beyond the reach of known facts.
The fact of the Brenner meeting is useless without
precise information on the nature of the conversa-
tions which took place. Some commentators are con-
vinced that the Duce refused compliance. The press
campaign they explain away as being the least the
Duce could do to compensate Germany for Italy’s
defection. Italy will remain “non-belligerent” even
at the risk of the strongest German pressure. There is
no lack of good reasons to support this interpretation.
The people of Italy have a genuine horror of wars of
any sort, but especially of a war in which they would
be fighting beside Germany. The whole influence of
the Vatican, together with that of the House of Savoy,
would be thrown on the side of continued Italian
neutrality, and certain influential leaders are known to
oppose the hazardous adventure that war at this junc-
ture would mean. Germany would provide the Allies
with a battlefield and front on Italian soil just at a


time when (after radical reorganisation) the Italian
army is easily the least efficient of the three services.
Economically, the outlook is even more gloomy.
The first effect of intervention would be the extension
to Italy, under conditions which make its effectiveness
certain, of the Allied blockade. In her most impor-
tant raw materials, Italy is largely dependent upon
extra-Mediterranean and especially American sup-
plies, and even though Germany, by a vast effort, is
guaranteeing to cover the Italian coal demand, the
outbreak of hostilities, especially in the Balkans, would
put an immediate stop to the elaborate transport
arrangements necessary to make the delivery of the
million tons a month at all possible. The excessive
cold of the winter played havoc with water supplies,
and hence with Italy’s entire hydro-electric system.
Nor is the food situation happy. Nowhere in Central
Europe will the harvests be good. Italy is reported
to be below her necessary autarkic figure. Small
wonder, then, that starvation is what her people fear
most when they envisage war.
Were rational arguments likely in the last resort
to settle the problem of Italian intervention, then it
might be safe to prophesy the continuance of non-
belligerency. But beside the rational arguments there
are a host of countervailing desires, beliefs, urges, feel-
ings, half-truths, which are likely to play at least as
decisive a role. In the economic sphere the arguments
based on the inability of Italy to go to war owing to
her economic straits may work in exactly the contrary
direction. Faced with the slow economic haemorrhage
which is gradually sapping the country’s standards and
resources, the Italian leaders may prefer a desperate
venture now to the slower defeat of increasing bank-
ruptcy. Italy’s war stocks stand higher today than
they are ever likely to do again. At immense cost to
herself, reserves of vital raw materials, especially of
oil, have been accumulated. If the Allies tighten the
blockade by some system of rationing stocks can no
longer be replenished. There is thus an economic
price factor to be considered.
It is, however, factors of prestige and psychology
which defy the drawing of any certain conclusions.
Britain perhaps underestimates the extent to which
British policy in Italy for years past has missed its
mark. Sanctions were the initial error —not because
they were imposed but because they were not imposed
to the full. They were sufficiently hostile for a lasting
resentment to be sown among the Italian people, and
sufficiently ineffective to breed a growing scepticism
in our imperial strength. “Pluto-democratic deca-
dence” has been so drummed home in Italy that certain
leaders now believe in it, and our failures vis-a-vis
Hitler, culminating in Munich and Prague, have only
confirmed the impression. Convinced of our im-
potence, certain circles press that Italy join the jackals
marauding round our corpse.
Actually the decision rests with one man. It is
important to remember that four years’ conciliation
has not caused him to modify his antipathy towards
Britain, an antipathy which is perhaps 13 years older
than Sanctions and has been a permanent under-
current in his regime.
In Conquered Denmark.
[After describing the remarkable ease with which
Denmark fell to the German invaders a London)
“Times” correspondent offers this picture of the country’s
unhappy present and uncertain future.]
The first few days after the invasion left con-
flicting impressions on the observer. The event had
been foreseen by most Danes even before the war.
Although the Government had always proclaimed its
conviction that Germany would honor her engage-
ments to Denmark, it was the impression of the man-
in-the-street that Ministers were whistling to keep up
their courage. There was disagreement only as to how
much Germany would be likely to take ; whether she
would occupy strategic points on the Estonian model,
whether she would overrun Jutland and leave Zealand
and Funen. No larger body of opinion thought that
the entire country would be occupied than that nothing
at all would happen.
On that fatal Tuesday (April 9) Copenhagen pre-
sented an extraordinary sight. It was a brilliant day
and the concourse of cyclists and pedestrians had
never been thicker. They thronged the streets, staring
their fill at the German troops, and chattering in-
quisitively to the invaders. Yet it would be unjust
to suggest that this betokened indifference on the part
of the Danes to the loss of their independence.
Uppermost in the minds of the crowds was prob-
ably a first feeling of relief that the long-dreaded day
had arrived without any catastrophic destruction or
loss of life. Coupled with this was inability to take
in rapidly the full implications of a new situation.
There were neither black ties nor black looks. Yet
even by the next day the crowd’s demeanor had
changed.
If there were few outward indications of indigna-
tion, sadness and depression were apparent on all
sides. A glum expression appeared on the usually
impassive, contented faces of the crowd, while within
four walls Danes gave vent to the whole range of
their feelings from misery and despair to open shame
that not even a token resistance had been offered.
“We are utterly disgraced,” a spirited Danish girl
said to me on the Wednesday morning. “It is all the
fault of this pusillanimous Government which has
disarmed us in the last 20 years. Now the Germans
will force us to fight against our English friends, and
our nation will be wiped out.”
Above all else, my conversations with innumer-
able friends betrayed an intense anxiety to know what
Britain would think. “Will our British friends think
that we ought to have fought and that we are irremedi-
ably disgraced?” they asked. “Will they now write us
off and abandon us to our German enemies?”
The Danes may lose faith in our ability to rescue
them, and set about saving what they can from the
wreck and playing the part allotted to them in Hitler’s
flimsy continental system. If, on the other hand, their
morale is maintained they may be expected as time
goes on to oppose a passive resistance which, even if
it never reaches the heights attained by the Czechs,
will at least be a thorn in the German flesh and com-
pel them to maintain in Denmark larger forces and
supplies than they can conveniently spare. If not a
great deal is to be expected of the towndweller in this
respect, the Jutland farmer is made of tougher stuff.
What of the immediate future? Denmark views
it with acute apprehension. In spite of their promises
the Germans had begun even in the first week to strip
her of her small reserves of essential commodities.
Between the devil of German spoliation and the deep
sea of our blockade Denmark will be reduced within
a few months to complete destitution. Nor is her
nominal autonomy likely to be respected. In breach of
General Kaupisch’s glib assurances the greater part of
the Danish army were disarmed and sent back to their
homes on the first day of the occupation, and similar
treatment was meted out to the navy and air force
shortly afterwards. German commissars were attached
to each Danish Government department and to each
Danish newspaper, which, like the wireless, thence-
forward drew its reports from exclusively German
sources. The Gestapo within a few days had begun
to arrest not only German refugees, but a number of
Danish subjects, on whose behalf the Danish Govern-
ment could do nothing. In this they were helped by
the immediate seizure of the trade-union archives,
which may have contained indications of anti-Nazi
activities.
It is difficult to establish to what extent a Fifth
Column played a decisive role in affairs. There seem
to have been no Quislings, partly because it was un-
necessary to “quisle” in a country which, as the Nazis
have always said, “could be taken by telephone,” and
partly because Fritz Clausen’s Danish Nazis com-
manded even less of a following than those of the
Norwegian traitor. On the other hand, members of
the large German colony undoubtedly played pre-
arranged roles, as did a number of German reserve
officers in civilian clothes who had obtained Danish
visas in the guise of commercial travellers. A member
of the German Tourist Bureau in Copenhagen and a
German film agent temporarily in the country accom-
panied the soldiers who raided the British Legation.
For the present the majority of Danes may be
expected to swallow their feelings and make the best
of a bad job. But they have a traditional hatred of
Prussianism and an inherent dislike of interference.
Denmark was defended with courage and tenacity
against overwhelming odds in 1864, and if there have
been some signs of spiritual decay since then adversity
is likely to reawaken the old spirit.
Anglo-French Unity.
{From an article by a correspondent in London “Times.”)
The French mind, terribly impressed with the
German threat, looks round to see by what means
positive peace is to be secured. The great hope is
closest possible collaboration with Great Britain, not
only for winning the war but for maintaining peace.
This vision began to receive public expression, at
first cautious, with the publication of the Anglo-French
financial agreement and the provision that it should
last for six months after the war. M. Reynaud gave
the first indication of an even wider horizon when
he pointed to the epoch-making character of the
Anglo-French agreements. Contacts between French
and British Labor, the conversations in London of
M. Dautry and M. Gentin, the discussion between
French and British employers, and, of course, the
meetings of the Supreme War Council have given on
each occasion new stimulus to this hope.
The announcement on February 16 of the Franco-
British trade agreement was followed on March 8
by news of the formation of an Anglo-French Indus-
trial Council. On the latter date the French Minister
of Commerce, M. Gentin, referred to a twofold barrier
raised at the beginning of the war by the early import
restrictions. This barrier, he said, had fallen as the
result of the agreement between M. Reynaud and
Sir John Simon which linked the two currencies. The
new agreements, following on the falling of the barrier,
would enable Franco-British mutual trade to reach
and even exceed its pre-war volume. He added:
“Upon the close union of France and Great Britain
when peace comes a European economic system can
be hinged ( articulee ) which will form a factor for
peace for our children.” The “Temps,” commenting
on March 12, said:
These agreements and measures of co-ordination are
for war purposes. But Franco-British co-operation in
one form or another should continue in peace-time.
The “Petit Parisienthe popular daily whose
associations with the Quai d’Orsay are well known,
published a feature article which pointed out that
“the two nations are closer to one another than at
any time for five centuries.” “L’Ordre” reprinted
parts of an article in the “Atlantic Monthly” by
the new French Prime Minister. M. Reynaud’s thesis
is that Great Britain and France by their mutual agree-
ments have set an example of true internationalism
which others may follow. The two countries have
sacrificed some essential attributes of their sovereignty
for the common good of both. If such a result could
be achieved by countries in the stage of economic
evolution of France and Britain, why should it not
be possible for others less powerful and with a less
complex economic structure? That, he concludes, is
the hope for the future of Europe.
This conception is having a much greater effect
than most people in Britain have yet appreciated upon
the French war effort. Frenchmen recognise the
immense power residing in the British Empire , they
are encouraged to see in Anglo-French collaboration
a magnet sufficiently powerful, economically, finan-
cially, and in liberal ideas, to pull Europe out ot the
slough of autarchic despond and subservience to the
crude and cruel dictates of Nazi Germany.
Setting for a Revolution.
(Condensed from a “Current History” article by
Michael Scully.)
There is an adage in Mexico that the Govern-
ment can be changed only by a revolution or a
miracle. It has never held a free and democratic elec-
tion ; no independent candidate has ever won at the
polls.
But Juan Andreu Almazan believes he is a miracle
man. He resigned as senior general of the army to
oppose General Manuel Avila Camacho, the machine s
choice to succeed President Cardenas. He drew
200,000 cheering listeners to the greatest demonstra-
tion Mexico City has seen in 30 years. In Camacho s
home State, Puebla, he won the open support of the
Federation of Workers and Peasants.
Such feats by a Conservative candidate in “Red”
Mexico prove two significant points: That great
bodies of Mexicans have been disillusioned by Car-
denas’s programme, and that the Government machine
is not opposed this time by the traditional straw-man.
Should he win the Presidency in July, Almazan
might be the answer to a Pan-American prayer. He
opposes Communistic influences and believes that
Mexico needs the co-operation of the United States.
Supporters see him as an intelligent “strong man”
who would return to a moderate course without de-
stroying the basic gains of the revolution. They
believe that without returning the oil lands he would
work for a compromise to satisfy both the companies
and national pride, and, most important, assure capital
of its future security.
Almazan makes Cardenas’s administration the
issue of the campaign, ignoring Camacho, his nominal
opponent. He points out that since Cardenas took
office in 1934 these things have happened:
The public debt has doubled, largely because ex-
propriations of oil properties, railroads, mines, the
sugar industry and 30,000,000 acres of land have
wiped out big segments of normal tax revenue. In-
creased tariffs have so strangled trade as actually
to lower Mexico’s Customs revenues. Currency has
been inflated 70 per cent, to take up part of the
slack; the peso has dropped from 28 to 17 cents.
Wage increases averaging 42 per cent, won by inces-
sant strikes have been swallowed by doubled living
costs. Mexico, a wheat-corn-beans country, last year
imported 100,000 tons of wheat and proportionate
quantities of corn and beans because the new collec-
tive farms did not produce enough.
Like Cardenas, Almazan followed Francisco
Madero in the 1910 revolution which exiled the dic-
tator, Porfirio Diaz. When Madero was murdered
in 1913 Almazan was the 22-year-old commander of
the garrison of Morelos. During the next few years
fantastic cross-currents of revolution made a shambles
of Mexico and it was every man for himself. Almazan,
tireless and magnetic, flourished in the chaos. In his
middle 20’s, he was a self-made general leading 15,000
men, and under Calles he was picked to command
Monterrey, the country’s most important army zone.
Since 1926, Almazan has been a big figure in
northern Mexico. In 1929 he quickly quelled a
threatening revolt. Cardenas left him alone —by tacit
agreement as long as Almazan kept quiet—and it is
significant that there have been practically no expro-
priations in Almazan’s estate.
Almazan, like Cardenas, has become wealthy. He
became a builder, developing resort properties from
Monterrey to Acapulco on the southern Pacific coast.
He heads a construction company which even under
Cardenas has been awarded Government contracts.
Business classes are naturally behind Almazan.
Catholics have rallied to his promise of freedom of
education. Since he declared for woman suffrage,
women have formed pro-Almazan units throughout
the country. At least a third of organised Labor —the
base of Cardenas’s strength—publicly supports Alma-
zan’s charges that the unions are exploited by
racketeers.
But, granted all this, can Almazan be elected
President of Mexico?
The administration machine, now called the
Party of the Mexican Revolution (P.R.M.), has always
controlled elections, from village ballot box to final
tabulation. Almazan plans to split the P.R.M.
Chances for such a feat are better than ever
before. A dominant P.R.M. group decided in 1939
that Cardenas had gone too far Left in his support of
Lombardo Toledano, the radical Labor leader, heir-
apparent to the Presidency. This group presented
an ultimatum: It would not support Lombardo but
would compromise on a more moderate Cardenas
man. Thence emerged the candidacy of the mild
General Camacho.
Almazan watched these developments cautiously.
When Washington cut the price to be paid for Mexi-
can silver, adding the next-to-last straw to the coun-
try’s burden, the general came down from his moun-
tain shelf, expressing complete faith in Cardenas’s
promise of an uncontrolled election and offering to
save the country.
There were immediate charges that he was being
backed by the foreign oil interests. This seems un-
likely. His campaign is financed by himself and a
few wealthy friends, and by the sale of “patriotism
bonds”—non-redeemable and suitable for framing—
chiefly to professional, small business and church
people.
An open split of the P.R.M. would result in
clearly defined Rightist and Leftist parties. The situa-
tion is mined with explosives, and Mexicans fear that
developments may lead to nation-wide violence.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Searching of Demotic’s rider, W. Cox,
for a battery prior to the start of the
Second Beach Welter division added a
sensational touch to racing at Moonee
Valley on Saturday. Officials were reticent
concerning every aspect of the affair, and
no report was issued to the press, but Cox
stales that while waiting to be called into
line by the starter he was ordered by the
assistant steward to dismount. Taken
into the casualty room near the starting-
point he was subjected to a thorough
search, his whip being examined also, but
nothing of an incriminating nature was
found.
Cox could afford to laugh off the
whole affair, but he was intrigued con-
cerning the origin of the search. As a
result of other inquiries, Cox believes
that somebody informed the V.R.C.
during the week that he would be using
a battery on a certain horse on Saturday.
Demotic, a nine-year-old gelding who
has not won a race since December, 1938,
was Cox’s only mount during the after-
noon. Never better than 12 to 1,
Demotic started at 10 to 1, and rattled
home strongly in third place to Barham
and David Spear.
Form of Barham, who started at 10 to
1, was a big improvement on his efforts
at Pakenham and Ascot five and seven
days earlier respectively, and the general
run of backers found no reason for
chuckling when Chortle beat Wind Robe
and Great Eastern in the Bay View
Handicap. In a day full of incident, the
improved performances of these horses
were outstanding. Perhaps the state of
the track was responsible.
Chortle, like many of the stock of her
sire, Manfred, is partial to soft going,
and backers who forced her price from
12 to 1 down to sevens evidently took
that fact into consideration. Trainer
Harry Bird, however, declares that he
did not put a penny on the mare, who
is owned by his sister, Mrs. I. Foulsham.
At Ascot a week earlier Chortle
had been outpaced by Diaphane
after going about two furlongs, and
dropped back eleventh of the 14
runners at the finish. Positions
were reversed on Saturday, when she ran
past Diaphane near the six furlongs, and,
though headed by Wind Robe in the
straight, fought on again to beat that
mare a neck. A four-year-old by Man-
fred from Ebon, Chortle was raced on
lease earlier in her career by the late
J. Bird. Latter exercised an option of
purchase for £l5O after Chortle’s first
win, and after his death the mare passed
into the ownership of his daughter.
Chortle has been a good investment, but
on Saturday she was fortunate to beat
Wind Robe, who, though weakening after
looking all over a winner, lost consider-
able ground by going very wide on the
turn.
Greatest surprise of the day was Pen-
field’s 25-to-l half-head defeat of Dark
David in the Kororoit Trial Hurdle.
Backers of Dark David did not throw any
bouquets at the latter’s rider, J. Maher.
They contended that he would have won
had he gone all out for the judge after
entering the straight with a lead of two
or three lengths. Their criticism might
have been justified, as Maher did seem to
underrate the opposition, but against this
is the fact that Dark David had 11.7 on
a rain-affected track, and might have
required “nursing” in the ruin home.
Further, previous experience of the horse
has shown that he does not like the whip.
Stable commission on Penfield was £1
each way ; profit, £7l 14s. A very plain
six-year-old by Mountfield-Pendelite, he
has been running in all sorts of races with
very little success, and at Bendigo 10
days earlier had run poorly in a moderate
hurdle field. He was so far back at one
stage of Saturday’s race that the most
extravagant odds would not have tempted
punters, but, making up his ground gradu-
ally, he moved into second place at the
turn and maintained the run to the
finish. Like Dark David, he is engaged
in the Grand National Hurdle, but per-
haps the third horse, Bureaucrat, will
improve more than that pair. Only a
four-year-old, Bureaucrat, who received
a skin wound on a fetlock, shaped really
well for a horse having his first race over
hurdles.
From a G.N. Hurdle viewpoint, how-
ever, nothing impressed more than the
Sydney-owned Cheery Jack. A 50-to-l
chance for the main flat race of the day,
the Bay View Handicap, he did well to
finish fifth to Chortle after swerving and
losing many lengths at the start. Cheery
Jack looks in splendid condition, and,
though assured of his fair share of weight
in the National, he will be among the
early fancies for that race —a race for
which he was “set” last year, but had to
be withdrawn because of an accident.
Ten O’Clock and Balkan Chief, a
“Cinderella” and “Prince” of the 1939
yearling sales, won their respective divi-
sions of the Juvenile Handicap. Ten
O’Clock, a Manfred-Billenya filly, cost
only 80 guineas, and Balkan Chief, a colt
by Gay Lothario from Balkan Rose,
1100 guineas. Ten O’Clock more than
repaid her purchase price when, at her
first start, she won a division of the
Maribyrnong Trial Stakes at Flemington,
but subsequent form indicated that six
furlongs was a bit farther than she liked,
and, although she was well backed at
the Valley, the race was supposed to be
at the mercy of Retnuha. Latter finished
second after appearing to have every
chance, but he was not as adaptable in
the soft ground as Ten O’Clock, who shot
away coming to the turn and was not in
danger of defeat subsequently. As winner
of his two previous races, however,
Retnuha has been a cheap proposition
at his yearling cost of 45 guineas. Flash-
light finished well in third place, and
seemingly requires a bit of distance.
A fearless buyer, Archie Crofts
deserves any success that comes his way,
and he will win more races with Balkan
Chief. Latter displayed pace and game-
ness, as, after looking beaten more than
once in the straight, he responded to
Harold Badger’s vigorous riding and won
a half-head half-head finish from Darra-
weit and Throttle. Balkan Chief, chest-
nut in color, looks the part of a good
horse. He is bred to gallop, being a
brother to Balkan King, Balkan Prince,
Old Story and Gay Balkan.
Border Lass, starting at 20 to I, gave
apprentice L. Armfield his first winning
mount in the Gellibrand Handicap, but
she was lucky to beat Glenfino. Chances
of several of the runners were ruined
when Beamish swung towards the out-
side at the start, but none was affected
more than Glenfino, who lost many
lengths on top of his initial disadvantage
of having drawn the extreme outside of
a large field at the mile post. Border
Lass, who was drawn next to Glenfino,
escaped the mix-up, and the latter came
from a hopeless position to run her to a
neck, with Conflagration a close third.
Border Lass, however, also recorded a
good performance, and apparently is
back to the form that stamped her one
of the best fillies of her age last spring.
Trained by Roy Shaw for “Noel Gilbey,”
she is by Gay Lothario from Ellen
Douglas.
Although his starting-price was 5 to 1,
Ellison looked more like a 50-to-l chance
when he was a clear last passing the half-
mile in the first Beach Welter division.
Even on the turn he was a good way out
of his ground in sixth position, and rider
V. Hartney, realising that it would be
suicidal to attempt to go round the field,
decided to remain on the inside and
hope for the best. A rails-run came his
way just when Fort Belvedere and
National looked like fighting out the
finish, and, dashing Ellison through the
opening, he landed his mount winner
by half a neck. Trained by Steve
Murphy for Eli Phillips, Ellison is a four-
year-old gelding by Constant Son from
Farfadet, and, having returned to winning
form, he may be expected to improve
still more. Strategy was a disappointing
favorite, even allowing that he was
crowded slightly on the turn.
Stablemates Brightello and Gracstello,
trained by Duncan Mcßae, provided two
of the thrills associated with the Autumn
Steeplechase. Gracstello set up a lead
of eight to 10 lengths near the seven
furlongs, but, just when Kent had his
measure at the last jump, Brightello made
a mighty leap and, dashing between the
pair to take the lead soon after land-
ing, went on to win comfortably from
Kent and Man of Ayr. Brightello, who
was backed from 10 to 1 down to sevens,
has always had a fondness for Moonee
Valley, but his form was an improve-
ment on his effort on the same track a
fortnight earlier.
* * * *
Canterbury was not as well patronised
as at its two previous meetings, but as
it was not a really attractive programme
that was not surprising. However, the
attendance was far from unsatisfactory,
likewise the tote turnover, and gave the
club a fair idea of what to expect at its
ordinary fixtures. The best class field
of the day was that for the Flying Handi-
cap and, with the winner, Bona Fide, an
outsider, was the one most appreciated
by the books. The tote paid 25 to 1
about the winner against her final quote
of 14 to 1 in the ring.
Hedonic made a good bid for the
Jumpers’ Flat Race, but his big weight
told at the end, and, veering out, he was
unable to quite reach Sir Leighton, who
ran past the pacemaker, Evercello, at the
leger. The best price laid against Sir
Leighton was 3 to 1. The distance was
too far for Evercello. It is impossible
for people in the main stand at Canter-
bury to be definite concerning a result
in which horses finish wide apart, but
that, as at other courses, does not prevent
them from finding fault when the judge’s
decision is against them. A section of
Hedonic’s backers demonstrated and re-
flected on Dudley Smith’s eyesight. With
many racegoers loss of money also means
loss of any sense of fairness.
In the Nursery Handicap Our Barney
ran up to his form of earlier in the sea-
son, and, disposing of Lejong inside the
last hundred yards, was then a little too
good for Martheus. Wedding Belle and
Lejong did the pacemaking into the
straight, but though the former was ex-
pected to finish well she tired, as did
Loyal Lad, who was fairly placed early
in the race. Nothing looked fitter than
Martheus, and though his second has
sent him up a little in the weights
he should shortly score a win.
Constant Chatter ran fairly, but, apart
from the half-dozen mentioned, nothing
showed form of any account. Costing
140gns. as a yearling, Our Barney has
won two races and £395.
Bona Fide had run well in other races
this season, but in winning the Members’
Flying Handicap she improved upon any-
thing she had previously shown. Promi-
nent from barrier-rise, she disposed of
Jazbeau after turning into the straight,
and was not in danger of defeat over
the last half-furlong, though Radical ran
on well to cut Denis out of second
money. Radical is a first-class type of
welter horse. McMenamin excused
Denis on the score that he did not take
kindly to the track, but the real trouble
appeared to be that his weight was a
little too much for him. Brazandt did
not show his customary dash, and was
slightly lame after the race.
Samurai’s fourth gives him winning
prospects at a mid-week meeting. The
good-looking but slightly overrated little
Vergure did not run at all well, nor did
Forward or Lady Curia. Tobasco was
never going well enough to suggest that
he would have been a possibility even
if he had not been a little unlucky at
barrier-rise. Denita looked as if he re-
quired more racing to bring him to his
best. /
It was not so much Buzzal as Cook
that won the Turf Club Handicap. Lord
Valentine lost a little ground when, after
running up to Gilltown, he swung out
turning for home, and then, though his
apprentice rider rode him well with
hands and heels, Cook was too strong
at the finish. There was only a half-
head in it. The demand for Gilltown
was surprising, as, though he looked
bright, his form of the previous Satur-
day at Randwick did not suggest he was
a winning possibility. However, as he
is bound to improve with racing, it will
not be long before he is seen to greater
advantage. Bonny Loch did a little better
than in his recent races, and perhaps he
may be Papworth’s next winner.
The conditions of the Progressive
Stakes debarred Mag from running. That
was officially overlooked, and she started
in the first division. First of all out-
staying Good Earth, she won in good
style from the late-coming Consonance,
with Hazaden, who made the early run-
ning, heading the unplaced division. The
last-named, who has won a few small
races, is by Hazrat from Golden Wheat,
who runs back to Golden Slipper on the
maternal side. Grand Billy was a disap-
pointing favorite, being in trouble a long
way from home, and, after getting to the
front in the straight, Good Earth did not
finish as well as expected.
The field included Pannade and Aren’t
We All, both of whom should be equal
to wintyng a race of this class in the
near future. It was Pannade’s first run
since he was second to Katanga in the
Members’ Handicap at Randwick last
October, and he was gelded subsequent
to that race. Aren’t We All’s last dis-
play of form was when he won an
Encourage Handicap at Warwick Farm
in August. As the weight flag was hoisted,
Mag’s backers collected their bets,
though her owners were subsequently
deprived of the prize-money.
Herarde, who is a really good type of
Heroic stallion, won the Campsie Handi-
cap ah the way. At the turn it seemed
as if Gold Pan and Osculum would
trouble him, but at the winning post he
was doing better than either.. He will
continue to improve with racing, as will
Gold Pan, who is still a little above him-
self. It was Herarde’s first win since the
City Handicap, mile, in fast time, at
the A.J.C. autumn meeting last year.
Though Osculum won recently at a mile
at Menangle, it is probable a mile and a
quarter still suits him better than any-
thing shorter.
Winnipeg, who is a well-grown three-
year-old by Manitoba, looked the race-
horse of the field that started for the
second division of the Progressive Stakes,
and proved it. He was a winner a long
way from home, and easily defeated
Benburbj though the latter raced honestly
enough on this occasion. Pimm’s, who
was hurdled off at the barrier, was
narrowly beaten for third by Sir Regal,
and they were well ahead of Mabson,
Merton, Mantilla and Reunion. The
last-named, though strongly fancied, was
never dangerous after commencing in-
differently. As a yearling, Winnipeg cost
E. J. Watt 825gns., and after winning
three races with him at provincial meet-
ings this season that owner sold him for
250gns. With 9st., Winnipeg’s time was
only three-quarters of a second slower
than that recorded by Bona Fide (7st.) in
beating a good field in the Flying Handi-
cap.
* * * *
The V-R.C. Grand National meeting
is less than six weeks off, and Grand
National Hurdle candidates will now be
stepped out at Saturday meetings in Mel-
bourne. Dark David was not quite equal
to winning the Kororoit Hurdle with
11.7 at Williamstown last week, but his
effort was sufficiently good to make it
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(By "SENTRY.”)
Federal Hurdle Race: Lord
Jevington, 1 ; Conandale, 2 ; Keva-
star, 3.
Piccaninny Handicap: Balkan
Chief, 1 ; Darraweit, 2; Ten
O’clock, 3.
Commonwealth Steeplechase:
Brightello, 1; Bully Hayes, 2 ; Am-
haric, 3.
Mount Alexander Handicap:
Marcius, 1 ; St. Fervent, 2;
Diaphane, 3.
Keilor Handicap: Cumulus, 1 ;
Bow Tie, 2 ; Scarlet Toi, 3.
Empire Highweight Handicap:
Dannevirke, 1 ; Rambler, 2; St.
Fervent, 3.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
(To be held at RANDWICK)
(By “PILOT.”)
Hurdle Race: Tweedside, 1 ;
Mag Mort, 2; Spearbine, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Martheus,
1 ; Wedding Belle, 2; Tunic, 3.
Flying Handicap: Tuhitarata,
1 ; Hamurah, 2; Scarlet Circle, 3.
Encourage Handicap: Tyrannus,
1 ; Gretchen, 2; Lavengro or Dis-
cipline, 3.
Warwick May Handicap: Mis-
chief, 1 ; Bristol, 2 ; Buzzal, 3.
Welter Handicap: Old Serpent,
1 ; The Kite, 2 ; Thunderclap, 3.


SAVE MONEY
\
IT'S
;thrifty
TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS
CHAMPIONS
Bring
MORE SPEED
Learn a lesson from the race
drivers. They choose Champions,
the spark plugs with the
proven ability to give every
engine the strong hot sparks
that bring out its best speed,
power and fuel economy. In
racing and in every-day driv-
ing, Champions are winners!
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
Pmt Pi
certain he will be one of the early selec-
tions for the Flemington race. In view
of his good second in last year’s Aus-
tralian Cup he should not be troubled by
three miles over the jumps. Sydney-
owned Cheery Jack is among those
being prepared for the National, and
though he is rising seven he is not too
old to be even better this winter than
a year ago. He ran well in a flat race
at Williamstown on Saturday. Among
the younger Melbourne jumpers Mamil-
lius is one worth keeping in mind for
something good. He is in the same stable
as Dark David.
There are 76 entrants for the V.R.C.
Grand National Hurdles, and 78 for the
Steeplechase, the total for the two races
being one more than last year. Pooley
Bridge, winner of the 1936 G.N. Hurdles,
is in both races, as is Padishah, a good
performer in Maoriland. W. Burke,
trainer of last year’s winning double, has
Giant Killer, Druspear and Bozzago in
the Hurdles, and Green Cape, Druspear,
Giant Killer, Nevizes, Peep o’ Day and
Strathian in the Steeplechase. Another
trainer with strong representation is D. S.
McCormick, with Mamillius, Dark
David, Atticus and Kevastar in the
Hurdles, and Dark David, Sea King
and Kevastar in the Steeplechase.
The last time a total of 20 runners
was exceeded in the V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle race was when Coybeau
won from 21 others in 1927. Belar holds
the time record for the race with 5.29|,
while last year Green Cape’s time was
5.49|. Heavyweights have not had re-
markable success in the National. In
the last 25 years there have been only
two winners with over 11 stone —Fiscom
11.6 and Pooley Bridge 11.3. Over the
same period 13 winners carried weights
ranging from 9.0 to 9.8.
Heavyweights have done better in the
G.N. Steeplechase than in the Hurdle
Race. Sixteen have won with over 10.0
in the last 25 years, the most carried by
any of these being 12.7 by Mountain
God in 1922. The previous year that
horse won with 11.7. Daimio was the
only other that won twice, carrying 9.3
and 11.10 in his respective years. Red-
ditch, with 6.5, holds the time record, and
he made it with the steadier of 12.3.
Sussex had 13.1 when he won, and
Bribery was successful with 12.11.
* * * *
For nominating and running*Mag in
a race for which she was ineligible—the
Progressive Stakes at Canterbury Park
—the joint owners were fined £5O and the
trainer £25. Poor consolation for the
backers of the second horse, Consonance.
* * * *
Entries close on June 4 for the prin-
cipal three-year-old races to be run in
Sydney and Melbourne in 1941-42. Un-
necessarily early, in my opinion. Until
recent years forfeits swelled first money,
but now the clubs set aside a fixed
amount for each race. In the circum-
stances there is no sound reason for
nominations closing nearly two years
before some races are run.
It is the English custom in connection
with Derbies and St. Legers, but in
America the Kentucky Derby loses no-
thing by nominations closing only about
three months before it is run, and it is
improbable something similar would ad-
versely affect Australian classic races.
There is practically no ante-post betting
on them, and a later entry than under
present conditions would do away with
the possible omission of some three-year-
old that might be the best of his age of
the season. Peter Pan, winner of the
1932 A.J.C. Derby and Melbourne Cup,
wais not an entrant for the Victoria
Derby, and, though M. Boussac entered
four youngsters for the original Two
Thousand Guineas, his colt Djebel was
not one of them. However, a substitute
Two Thousand and Derby, for which
entries closed early this year, enabled
him to come in. He has won the Two
Thousand, and is expected to account
for the Derby. We are wise in follow-
ing England in many things in racing,
but, as I have emphasised on many pre-
vious occasions, not in the matter of
early nominations for classic races.
* * * *
Lockray has shown how much a horse
can improve in a couple of months, and
it is the same with Sethia, who less than
two months ago failed to run anywhere
when 31b. from the minimum in a seven-
furlongs welter at Randwick. Since then
she has won at a mile at that track when
101 b. from the bottom, giving a pound
to Überous, and last week she had an
easy victory in the Tamworth Cup, in
which she met Scarlet Circle on level
terms, gave a pound to William Wont,
61b. to Numeral and 71b. to Knight Folly.
At the end of March her chance of beat-
ing that lot on those terms would have
been indifferent. When some horses start
their limit, and Sethia is only four years
old. She is by Sion from Quethia, by
Mousqueton from Orzinthia, by Orzil
from Carinthia, and on the maternal
side runs back to Trieste, who as a two-
year-old won the Carrington Stakes
with 7.6, beating 29 other runners. The
minimum was then 6st.
» * * *
Sign On is another of the horses that
have stood up well to hard work this
season. His first run was on August 9,
when he won at Ascot, and at his
twenty-fifth start he won at Kensington
last Wednesday. As his win and place
record for the season is five firsts, three
seconds and four thirds, he has more
than covered expenses.
* * * *
In backing horses some courses are
more dependable than others. On Rand-
Wick and Rosehill there appears less
likelihood than elsewhere in Sydney of
a horse’s chance being completely settled
by a little bad luck. At Rosehill a posi-
tion wide out at the mile post is disad-
vantageous, as is a bad draw at the
four and three-quarters, but very little
fault can be found with any of the other
starting points. Rosehill, with 43 runners,
still holds the record for the largest field
in Australia. That was in the 1897
Rosehill Cup, seven furlongs, won by a
horse named Kelso. At Randwick they
are able to win from anywhere, and,
though backers are averse to supporting
horses widely drawn in some races at
Rosebery or Victoria Park, they are ex-
cellent tracks, and their long straights
give chances to horses unable to gain a
prominent position at an early stage. It
is now the same with Canterbury Park.
* * * *
F. T. Cush has always done well with
two-year-olds, but this season he has
eclipsed himself. Up to last week, young-
sters from his stable started 28 times for
14 wins, five seconds and three thirds.
Dark Elegance has been his most impor-
tant winner. Beaten a half-head by True-
ness in the Gimcrack Stakes, she then
won five races in succession, these includ-
ing the December Stakes. Her earnings
total £2475, and her owner, W. H.
Mackay, has had a pleasant experience
of two-year-old racing this season.
* * * *
Canterbury’s new track has proved a
puzzler for some big backers, and those
stay-at-home bettors who have pinned
their faith to first favorites at a fixed
stake are considerably out of pocket.
Twenty-one races at the three meetings
have given three absolute winning favor-
ites, while two other winners shared
favoritism with beaten runners. Those
system backers who set themselves out
to win a certain sum on the first favorite
and then stop betting experienced a bad
day at Canterbury on April 20. Every
favorite failed, and, while in two races
favoritism was shared by two runners,
favorites for the last three races started
at even money, 6 to 4 and 2 to 1
respectively, and an attempt to win, say,
£5 would have cost an amount that it
would have taken many winning days to
recoup. Like some other systems, it can
be ruined by only one or two days of
unsuccessful favorites.
* * * *
Young Crusader is to be used at F. W.
Hughes’s Kooba Stud next season, and
his breeding is not against the possibility
of his siring useful horses. He is by
Caledon from Bonnie Lady, by Boniform
from Portland Lass, and, though a racing
failure towards the end of his career, he
holds two Australian records —2.42£ for
a mile and five furlongs and 2.55 for a
mile and three-quarters. He goes to a
stud where he will not lack opportunity
with well-bred mares.
* * * *
A strong committee has been appointed
for the Red Cross meeting at Randwick
on September 21. Rosehill R.C. has
transferred the day on which it is cus-
tomary to run its Guineas, and will play
a big part in making the fixture a suc-
cess. Ajax and other well-known
horses from Melbourne and Brisbane are
likely to be among the day’s runners,
and to assist further in making the occa-
sion a great financial success it might
not be a bad idea to ask members and
others to forgo their customary privi-
leges.
* * * *
Tamworth had a good meeting, but,
considering the prize-money distributed,
not better than the club deserved.
Salivant, who was too good for Kori-
mako in the Mornington Handicap, has
done well this season, and, as in the
winter middle-distance form is never of
a high standard in Sydney, perhaps he
may be tried here. In the Mornington
Handicap he made a course record of
1.511 for nine furlongs, and though 3:>lb.
was a big concession from Korimako,
who ran second, he did not give her a
look-in. Knight Folly and Numeral were
also among the well-beaten division.
Salivant is by Salmagundi from Happy
Maid.
* * * *
Up to the present buyers of four-
figure yearlings at the 1939 sales have
had no reason to congratulate themselves,
but next season may put a different com-
plexion on affairs. A Derby win in
Sydney means £3BOO, and in Melbourne
£3500, and either prize is more than
double the amount realised by a yearling
last season. No matter how good a
judge a man may be no certainty attaches
to the selection of a yearling likely to
prove a success, but if the breeding and
conformation are right the risk of pay-
ing a high price is always worth taking
when the outlay can be covered by a
win in one race alone. Of this season’s
winners of important two-year-old races
Trueness cost 550gns., Lucrative 450gns.
and Broadcaster 450gns.
* * * *
New York had its first experience of
the totalisator at the Jamaica track on
April 15, and an attendance of nearly
23,000 took kindly to the new method of
betting. There were seven races, and
the turnover was £A206,000. This ex-
ceeded expectations, and tended to up-
hold the contention of many supporters
of the machine that at Belmont Park
(New York’s principal track) the daily
average will run to a million dollars,
approximately £A250,000, and on some
special occasions will reach double that
amount.
* * * *
We continue to read about the big
starting-price commissions launched for
horses at various suburban meetings.
Presumably those associated with them
must be mainly responsible. If so,
it seems rather a pity that they should
not uphold the law and also assist racing
by confining their betting to racecourses.
Incidentally, it is unfair to those book-
makers who pay licenses and taxes that
they should suffer in the least through
competition with “off-the-course” layers,
who do not contribute in any way either
to the Government or racing clubs.
* * * *
Horse-training is pleasant and profit-
able for the man who is turning out
winners, but a look over a list of licensed
men suggests it must be a hand-to-mouth
business for many who follow that calling
in Sydney. They rarely have more than
a couple of horses in their stables, a
winner is something unusual, and about
all the use a license or permit is to some
is that it enables them to “tell a tale.”
They must get a living somehow, and
there is always a bookmaker or punter
ready to listen to a trainer. At one
time it was usual when a comparatively
unknown horse opened at a short price
to blame the men who reported the
gallops for the various papers, but now
it is recognised that trainers have more
to fear from trainers than anyone else.
* * * *
Comparatively few people who invest
a lot of money in yearlings receive fitting
reward, but success of her colt Galla-
hadion (Sir Gallahad 111-Countess Time,
by Reigh Count) in the valuable Ken-
tucky Derby gave Mrs. Ethel V. Mars a
well-deserved return. For the last five
years Mrs. Mars, who races as the Milky
Way Farm, was the principal buyer at the
Saratoga sales. Last season she paid
approximately £AII,BOO for 12 yearlings,
but considerably exceeded that sum on
some previous occasions.
I have no record of what she gave
for Gallahadion, who, if he raced last
year, did not win anything. Early this
season he was taken to the Santa Anita
meeting, and in February, though not
fancied as much as his stable-companion
Tough Hombre, won the mile San Vin-
cente Handicap, for three-year-olds. He
beat 18 others, and first money was
£A2330.
Bimelech, who was a hot favorite for
the Kentucky Derby, won the Futurity,
6i furlongs, at Belmont Park (New
York), also the Pimlico Futurity, 9\
furlongs (Baltimore), last year, and, un-
beaten in his six races, finished his two-
year-old career with £A33,270 to his
credit. After Bimelech’s Pimlico win his
owner threw out a challenge to run him
against any horse in America, at weight-
for-age, over 8i furlongs, for any sum.
This was not accepted, one reason prob-
ably being that those of the older division
of account were being prepared for im-
portant handicaps. Bimelech was Black
Toney’s only two-year-old winner last
season.
Col. Bradley had won four Kentucky
Derbies, but, as no winner of the Pimlico
Futurity had succeeded in that race,
the latter was regarded as something of
a hoodoo as bearing on the Kentucky
event. That belief caused some backers
to look round for something to accom-
plish the seemingly impossible —defeat
Bimelech. However, Gallahadion’s tote
dividend at the rate of 35 to 1 shows that
he did not enter into the calculations of
many as having much chance of doing it.
* * * *
Grakle, who ran in six Liverpool
Grand Nationals, and won in 1931, died
in England at the end of March from
injuries received in an accident. He was
18 years old. Shaun Spadah and Poeth-
lyn, other Grand National winners, also
died this year.
* * * *
The V.R.C. Grand National Hurdle
Race has not been a good race for Syd-
ney horses, and a glance over the entries
from this city does not suggest they will
fare better this year than in the past.
Because of his two recent wins there is
an inclination to boom Blackie Miller,
but in view of the moderate lot he beat
each time it is difficult to hail him yet
as anything out of the ordinary. How-
ever, Victorian handicappers never form
exaggerated ideas of our hurdlers, and
Blackie Miller is likely to get a weight
that will give him a fair chance if he
is up to the required standard. He
jumped smartly when he won at his last
start, but he had only 9.5. Admittedly
he could not do more than win easily,
but at present Sydney hurdling form is
decidedly poor, and, while no one would
begrudge his owner success, Blackie
Miller will have to show something more
before he can be seriously considered


TIE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Head Office and Registered Office:
271-279 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l
AUSTRALIA
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir James A. M. Elder, k.b.e., Chairman. The Hon. Sir Frank G. Clarke,
k.b.e., m.1.c., Vice-Chairman. T. C. Alston. General Sir Henry Chauvel,
g.c m.c.. k.c.b. H. G. Darling. Clive McPherson, c.b.e. D. York Syme.
Chief Manager: L. J. McConnan.
Chief Inspectors: E. J. Osborne. S. M. Wreford.
Auditors: John Bishop (F.C.A., Aust.) ; S. J. Warnock, (F.C.A., Aust.).
Boards of Advice:
LONDON —The Right Hon. Lord Inverforth, p.c., Chairman.
The Right Hon. Lord Hutchison of Montrose, p.c., k.c.m.g., c.b., d.s.o.
Sir James Leigh-Wood, k.b.e., c.b., c.m.g.
NEW SOUTH WALES —Lieut.-Col. The Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, d. 5.0., o.b.f.
v.d., m.1.c., Chairman. Rodney R. Dangar. Hunter White.
QUEENSLAND —Sir Edward H. Macartney, Chairman.
Byrne Hart. De Burgh B. B. Persse.
EXTRACTS FROM BALANCE SHEET 31st MARCH, 1940,
LIABILITIES.
C A PITAL—
-200,000 £lO shares, fully paid £2,000,000 0 0
600,000 £8 shares, paid to £5 per share 3,000,000 0 0
Capital paid up £5,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund (used in the business) 3,000,000 0 0
Exchange Adjustment Reserve (used in the
business) 300,000 0 0
Profit and Loss 312,281 18 4
Total Shareholders’ Funds £8,612,281 18 4
Deposits and Other Accounts 47,597,045 13 3
Notes and Bills in Circulation 2,028,410 6 5
ASSETS.
Coin, Australian Notes, Cash at Bankers, Cheques and Bills
in Transitu, Investments and other Liquid Assets £21,338,472 19 1
Bank Premises, other Real Estate, etc. 1,433,393 13 3
Advances and other Assets 35,465,871 5 8
Total Assets £58,237,737 18 0
The Statutory Declaration made by the Chief Manager, the Auditors’ Report
and Certificate, and the Statutory Certificate signed by two Directors appear
on the original Balance Sheet, a copy of which, including the Statutory Report
of the Directors made in conformity with Section 123 of the Companies
Act 1938 has been posted to each Shareholder.
Dividend for the year is at the rate of six per cent, per annum.
THE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS
will be held at the Head Office of the Bank on Wednesday, the 29th day of
May, 1940, at 11.30 a.m.
in a Grand National connection. Some
favorably-weighted good Sydney horses,
have found that race too much for them.
* * HI *
English matings of this year included
Hyperion with Rockfel, who, in the
opinion of many critics, proved herself
as good as Sceptre or Pretty Polly.
Hyperion has done well at the stud, and
it is reasonable to expect Rockfel to
throw something good to him. How-
ever, there is no certainty as to that,
as many mares that distinguished them-
selves on the racecourse have been stud
failures.
* * * *
At Tattersall’s recent meeting a couple
of trainers made the mistake of claim-
ing apprentices’ allowances in a race in
which the prize-money was too high to
permit of that concession. The error
was discovered in time to prevent trouble.
However, there cannot be any mistake
on that score at the Warwick Farm May
and June meetings at Randwick. Allow-
ances are permissible in every flat race.
* * * *
In America the totalisator machines
in general use do not provide for more
than 14 runners in a race. Nor, as a rule,
is it necessary. There were only 13
starters for Seabiscuit’s Santa Anita
Handicap, and in the seven other races
the same afternoon the largest field was
11. In four double figures were not
reached. For the valuable Widener Cup,
run the same day at Hialeah (Miami,
Florida), there were 16 runners, and four
of these were bunched on the totalisator
as “the field.” Two of them dead-heated
for third. In only one of the other seven
races did runners reach 10.
* * * *
A new totalisator may be installed at
Moorefield, but that and other contem-
plated improvements may be held up
until the club knows how it stands in the
matter of Federal taxation. At this junc-
ture it would be unwise for any club to
incur liabilities, and though a more up-
to-date machine at Moorefield would be
appreciated the odds are probably against
a change for some time. Without being
unduly pessimistic, the drop in attend-
ance at the recent meeting at Randwick
did not augur well for next season’s
meetings in Sydney.
M.Q. and Rafferty
La Verne v. Hall at Leichhardt,
Sydney, was another unsatisfactory affair.
La Verne tried to make a fight of it, but
Joe was in one of his unresponsive moods.
Referee Pearson rebuked him for lead-
ing with his head; Joe repeated the
offence ; La Verne on a foul. It hap-
pened in the eighth. The 10-rounder
between Tommy Hunter (10.4), from
Newcastle, and Billy Fadden (10.5) was
infinitely better. Hunter didn’t let up
for a minute, but Fadden was too good,
and after a rattling good tenth William
got the verdict. He is a likely-looking
two-fisted scrapper with a smart back-
move.
* * * *■
Alleged to have boxed Henry Arm-
strong three times, Augie Soliz, a Mexi-
can, was stopped in seven rounds by
Johnny Hutchinson at Sydney Stadium.
He shaped just like a game novice. Very
few' people swallowed the “publicity.”
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
{Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
Quite the most distinctive golf course I
have seen in any part of the world, as
well as being a severe test of golf, the
Augusta National course was built in
1930 by a few wealthy Georgia business-
men under the watchful eyes of R. T.
(“Bobby”) Jones, who had then just
retired from competitive golf. In con-
junction with the late Dr. A. Mackenzie,
a famous golf architect, Jones has created
in this old-fashioned Georgian town a
course containing replicas of all the best
holes he had seen and played during his
long career, and I can testify that he
did a wonderful job.
Augusta is a clay-soil centre, but many
thousands of dollars were spent on soil
and sand till the fairways today are as
soft and springy as any of those laid on
sand. Measuring 6800 yards, made up of
3400 yards each nine, it has two
threes, five fours and two fives each way.
Par is 36 for each nine holes. Entirely
balanced for length and playing value,
the holes are so laid out that it is a
dream course for any golfer to play on.
The turf is emerald green all over the
place, and so thick that it is a rare
sight to see the earth when the club digs
under the ball.
The first hole is 400 yards, and the
tee in front of the clubhouse overlooks
a dip in the fairway which gradually
rises from beneath the tee to bend round
several tall pine-trees into a gradual dog-
leg to the right. Graded uphill from
start to finish, it calls for a carry from
the tee of 180 yards over a rambling
shallow bunker at the kink in the dog-leg,
thus opening up the second shot to the
flag. From here I use a No. 6 iron with
a fairly high trajectory to the green,
which is constructed of two plateaus, one
a narrow ledge in the front of the green
which goes into the green proper. Narrow
and winding toward the right, it has
several natural positions for the play over
the tiny mounds in front of the green.
A bold second shot must be played,
otherwise a ball dropped short is deflected
by undulations.
• • • • • *
The second hole of 525 yards is an-
other dog-leg hole, this time to the left.
The tee shot carries two little shallow
sand traps in the middle of the
fairway about 190 yards from the
tee. From here the green is visible
at the foot of the slope, just over
a grassy hollow and guarded by a large
bunker on the right. Owing to the down-
hill lie of the ground, a good second
shot can sometimes reach the green, but
generally a little pitch shot straight up
the green, which is narrow, long and
kidney-shaped, gives one a putt for a
birdie. A sporting hole, it gives the
big hitters a chance to skirt the pine-
trees on the left and get extra distance
down the slope.
The third hole, 350 yards in length, is
copied from the 12th at St. Andrews. It
is an ideal drive and testing short iron
shot hole. The drive, slightly uphill
between pine-trees, with a large bunker
dug into the face of the hill on the left
side of the fairway, is one where keeping
to the right-hand side gives a better view
of the green. The green, about 20ft. in
width and fairly flat, with a tiny slope
from right to left, calls for a most
accurate No. 7 or 8 iron shot with plenty
of stop on the ball.
The fourth hole is 190 yards, with the
tee on one hill and the green on another
and a huge grassy dip between. The
green is fairly undulating, with a bunker
which nearly covers all of it from tee.
Offering plenty of width and no depth, it
allows a loose shot of the right length to
find the green, but a most tricky putt is
left, as undulations divide the green into
two portions and on whichever the flag is
placed it is many yards from the other
end of the green. It is useless to term
any particular hole a “gem,” as they are
all perfect.
The fifth is 440 yards. Stretching a
dog-leg to the left, it is guarded by only
one bunker, which forces play round the
bend from the tee. A good drive over
the end of this trap leaves a long No. 2
or No. 3 iron to the green, as a slight
up-grade from the tee takes a few yards
off the drive. The built-up green is sur-
rounded by those mounds that are such
familiar sights on British courses. The
second shot must be played short of the
green to run up the slope to the flag.
A one-shotter, the sixth is 185 yards
in length, and is played from an elevated
tee down over a brook on to an un-
dulating green with a large sand trap
just over the water and stretching up to
the green. To be short here is to court
disaster, but there is ample room for a
strong ball. The green slopes down to
the trap and brook, giving a dropping
shot assistance to stop quickly. Putting
needs care on this rolling green, which is
more undulating than most of the others.
A 4 iron is generally needed from the tee.
Another charming drive and testing
pitch hole is the seventh, with a yardage
of 37. By hitting one’s drive down
between several lone pine-trees to a
gentle dip in the fairway, the second shot
must-be thrown high into the air, as the
green, up on a higher level, is entirely
surrounded by bunkers, making a run-
up shot impossible. Not very large in
area, it is one of the smallest greens on
the course and a high-flying No. 8 iron
is called for.
The eighth hole is a par five of 510
yards uphill from start to finish. From
the tee the line lies over a fairway bunker
in the centre of the cut portion about
175 yards from the tee. Carrying this, the
second shot is a blind one up over the
brow of the hill from where the ball
must be placed in order to get the shot
up a very narrow but long green with
huge mounds on both sides.
The ninth hole is another left-hand
dog-leg hole of 430 yards. Coming up
to the clubhouse again the tee is hidden
from view of the green by the pine-trees,
which must be skirted by a perfect drive.
There is a huge dip between where the
drive finishes and the green up on a
plateau in front of the practice putting
green, while a bunker on the left-front
and side of the green makes a testing
shot for a hooked drive or second shot.
Usually I found I needed a No. 4 iron
with a fairly high trajectory to hold the
green for the second shot.
Footbrawl
After the V.F.L. games on Saturday
Melbourne hardly knew which was the
most astonishing, the German advance
in Europe or the downfall of Footscray
and Collingwood before what were be-
lieved to be weaker teams.
• • • • • •
At home to St. Kilda, ’Scray found
the greasy oval not altogether to the
liking of its fast side. Saints went
into attack early but were repulsed, and
a game developed that kept the bar-
rackers on their toes. Saints relied on
heavy ruck work, countered by ’Scray’s
fast-flanking moves, and so even was the
play that Saints’ point lead at quarter-
time was still a point lead at half-time.
Only a goal separated them in the third
term, but in the concluding stages ruck
work told and St. Kilda drew away to
win by 13-14 to 9-16.
’Wood went to North Melbourne and
unexpected defeat. The home side was
superior in the air, and, though the Mag-
pies’ tactics of keeping it low offset the
soft and springy conditions, they could
not beat the high-flying Northmen, who
broke away with an early lead and held
it; 14-15 to 10-15.
Twenty thousand went out to Prince's
Park and saw Melbourne beat Carlton
by 16-20 to 13-12. The game was worth
seeing until the third spasm, when the
Demons got control and began to treat
the home side as amateurs. The Blues
rallied in the final stages, but could not
overhaul the leeway. As goal-kickers
both sides would have done well in a
women’s match.
Ancient rivals gnashed their teeth at
each other when Fitzroy and Essendon
met at Fitzroy. The Maroons proved
the better gnashers, biting with more
system and precision. They took a
mouthful of 12-14 out of the score,
leaving the Same Olds to chew over a
hard-won 10-16. There was more gnash-
ing out in the wilds of Broadmeadows
as it was realised that the team had been
stoushed, as one put it, “be a lot of
Soccer players.”
Out at Richmond the Tigers took the
shock of an invasion from Sleepy
Hollow, and might have gone down if
Geelong hadn’t started kicking wildly
in all directions. Growling deeply, the
Tigers settled down, got some system
into the centre, and ate the invaders alive
to the tune of 17-15 to 11-6.
There was a pretty display of the
code at Albert Park, where Hawthorn
and “Sowths” performed before the
poorest house this season. All the dash,
aerial cleverness and systematic play that
make the game the spectacle it is when
properly played were in evidence, and
“Sowths” went to a well-earned win,
22-13 to 16-10.
Back in the days when Australian
footballers used to have their physogs.
on cigarette cards, Northcote was a
stronghold of enthusiasts. Still with a
side in the Victorian Association, it
made fresh footy history on Saturday
by downing the mighty Williamstown,
Todd and all, by 18-18 to 18-9. Which
just shows the game to be full of points.
* * * *
In the Sydney Rugby Union competi-
tion Randwick has gone further ahead
as a result of a 22-8 win over Drum-
moyne. Beaten in the forwards as well
as the backs, Drummoyne was never in
it. East, Gordon and ’Varsity are
’Wick’s remaining first-round opponents,
and none of them is likely to topple the
leaders, though all three won on Satur-
day.
East showed out best with a 20-9 win
over St. George ; Stone as hooker is a
tower of strength to East. The Students,
though without two of their key men,
Wansey and Eric Hutchinson, proved too
good for West —14-9. Gordon had a
much closer call against Manly;
O’Brien’s kicking for goal —very much
better than against Drummoyne —gave
it the extra points, 14-12. Parramatta v.
North was mainly a battle of forwards,
and Parramatta’s were a shade superior;
9-5.


SAVE 802 ON PETROL COSTS
».th » POWELL CHARCOAL CAS
PRODUCER
Read What This User Says:—
THOMAS & SONS, PENRITH, report:
2 i ton Reo Truck, 15)29 Model.
Condition: Had done over 140,000 miles,
and was underpowered for job. Intended
trading in for new truck but decided to fit
“Powell” Gas Producer instead.
Performance with “Powell” Gas Producer
as compared with Petrol under same Load
and Operating Conditions.
Hoad : Carries 4-ton to 5-ton load daily
from Penrith to Sydney Vegetable Markets
and return. Distance approximately 75 miles.
Power Homs : Compared with petrol we find
it necessary to change gear more often on
hills, but the “Powell” Gas gives more
pulling power in low gear than was previously obtained
with petrol on this truck.
Speed: We get all the speed we want—no difference
on level stretches with 5-ton load.
Servicing: Naturally requires more attention than with
petrol fuel, but savings more than compensate.
Running Costs: Costs with petrol at 1/8 per gallon,
10/- per day. Costs with “Powell” Gas, 2/8 per day.
Savings, 12/4 per day, which is the equivalent of £4
per 6—day week, or i 208 per annum.
Remarks: More than satisfied with the “Powell” Gas
Producer. It is giving excellent results. Can strongly
recommend to other truck owners.
1
v ■
mm
[ ■■ * p t od uce ? S
1. »*— ‘ to put •T°traVtne
. ne ed » Wa ,Key any truck an< ' gs by
aidn t n at e J re <is 1 raS \* ,
t\ie tnaP , eat s e noY^° US to P et c
the taakxng lnp reieren^ ool?ro o^
_ have hee i Qas m> nX t e v ehi cVe ng m e '
° d Sea°by *e D ep ■ to Ol
tor '> lseU '
oo r“ *e Dept- ot „„
d u by th . save »p to aO l
„ Gas Ptodocet a"
a povreU 0
j\ costs-
m
m
mm
mm
■
FEATURES THAT ONLY POWELL
CAN OFFER . . .
Quick Starting—1 2 minutes from cold.
Patent Generator—produces richer gas.
Patent Cooler—independently cooled, no
radiator overloading.
Patent Oil Filter and Dry Cleaner—gas 100%
clean—no extra engine wear guaranteed.
SEND FOR OUR FREE BOOKLET
or Ring for a Demonstration l * L 3701
e
POWELL
Uftb PRODUCERS
To POWELL GAS PRODUCERS
(AUST.), LTD.,
142-146 Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
Please send me full particulars of Powell
Gas Producer Plants.
NAME
ADDRESS
NAME OF TRUCK 8.H.1.
AUSTRALIAN MILITARY FORCES
-EASTERN COMMAND
7th Division and Corps Troops, A.I.F.
11,000 RECRUITS
REQUIRED
Applications are invited for Recruits for 7th Division
and Corps Troops
MINIMUM HEIGHT
sft. minimum.
AGE LIMITS
WARRANT AND NON-COMMISSIONED OFFICERS AND RANK AND
FILE. British subjects, 20-40 years. For technical duties, Army Field
Workships, up to 45 years.
Parents' consent necessary where applicants are under the age of 2 I years.
MEDICAL STANDARD
Class 1 only.
About 11,000 recruits are required for the following arms:
Cavalry (mechanised —not horsed), Artillery (Field, Medium and Anti-
Aircraft), Engineers, Signallers, Infantry, Machine Gun Battalion, Army
Service Corps, Army Medical Corps, Army Ordnance Corps, Army Pay,
Postal and Provost Corps, Miscellaneous Units.
Preference for arms will be allowed as far as possible.
AREA RECRUITING OFFICES
Applications for enlistment will now be received at Area Recruiting Offices
at the following addresses:—
Area Office 2A, Drill Hall, King Street, West Newcastle.
Area Office, 28, Drill Hall, West Maitland.
Area Office 1 3, Drill Hall, Kempsey.
Area Office 33, Drill Hall, Tamworth.
Area Office 41, Drill Hall, Show Ground, Lismore.
Area Office 18, Penshurst Street (near Victoria Street), Willoughby.
Area Office 30, Drill Hall, Argyle Street, Miller’s Point.
Area Office 35, Drill Hall, Inverell.
Area Office 36, Drill Hall, Hill and McKenzie Streets, Leichhardt.
Area Office 20/19, Lancer Barracks, Taylor Street, Parramatta.
Area Office 54, Drill Hall, Bathurst.
Area Office 56, Drill Hall, Cootamundra.
Area Office IA, Park Road, Paddington.
Area Office 18, Carrington Road, Randwick.
Area Office 1 7, 333 Military Road, Cremorne Junction.
Area Office 4, Soldiers’ Memorial Hall, Crescent Street, Homebush.
Area Office 45, Drill Hall, Burrow Street, Arncliffe.
Area Office 3, Drill Hall, Auburn Street, Goulburn.
Area Office 55/53A, R.A.A. Institute Drill Hall, Addison Road,
Marrickville.
Area Office 55/538, Drill Hall, Belmore.
Area Office 34, Drill Hall, Wollongong.
Application may be made personally or in writing. Preliminary medical
examinations will be conducted at' Recruiting Offices, or in home towns
of applicants in the country. Full particulars will be given each applicant.
Those applicants found fit will be required to attend the Recruiting Depot,
Moore Park Road, Sydney, for medical board, X-ray, and enlistment.
Individual notice will be given each applicant', and rail, etc., warrants and
meal tickets if necessary.
No action should be taken by applicants to vacate civil employment until
all medical examinations have been passed and they have been accepted
for service.
(a) Separation Allowance i.s payable to wives and other dependants of members
of the A.I.F. as follows: —
Wife, Unmarried Wife, Guardian, or other dependants, 3/- per day or part
thereof.
Dependent Children under 16 years of age or Invalid Children, 1/- per day.
In order to secure Separation Allowance, a W. 0., N.C.0., or Private must
allot the dependants at least 3/- per day from his own pay, and in the case
of an Officer, 5/- per day, before Separation Allowance can be paid.
(b) Deferred Pay becomes payable on discharge, and begins to accrue only on
the day of embarkation for active service.
Rates of Pay—Tradesmen, etc. (Privates)
Higher daily rates as under are payable for those being employed in the appoint-
ments and trades as shown: —
GROUP I, 8/- PEII DAY.
Ammunition Examiners, Armament Artificers, Artificers Artillery, Blacksmiths,
Bricklayers, Computers, Coppersmiths, Draughtsmen, Dispensers, Electricians
(other than Engineer), Electricians-Fitters, Fitters, Instrument Mechanics,
Millwrights, Pattern Makers, Pharmacists, Plumbers and Gasfitters, Photo-
graphers (wet plate), Photo-writers, Surveyors, Toolmakers, Turners, Type-
writer Mechanics, Watchmakers, Welders, Wireless Mechanics.
GROUP 11, 7/- PER DAY.
Armourers, Bakers, Battery Commander’s Assistant, Boilermakers, Carpenter
Joiners, Driver Mechanics (eng. and med.), Dental Mechanics, Electricians
(engr. units), Grinders, Gunner Operators, Height Takers, Helio Operators,
Hospital Cooks, Instrument Operators, Intelligence duties, Lithographers,
Linesmen, Machinists, Masons, Masseurs, Mechanics M.T., Miners, Motor
Mechanics, Moulders, Operating Room Assistants, Operators (Signals),
Wood Turners.
GROUP 111, 6/- PER DAY. ,
Battery Surveyor, Butchers, Concreters. Cooks. Coach Trimmers, Clerks,
Technical M.T., Despatch Riders, Draughtsmen (Signals), Dental Clerk
Orderlies, Driver Mechanics (other than Eng. and Med.), Drivers M.T., Ist
class. Engine Hands, Equipment Repairers, Farriers, Gun Layers (Artillery,
2 per gun), Gun Position Officers’ Assistants, Hammermen, Leather Stitchers,
Mental Nursing Orderlies, Nursing Orderlies, Platelayers, Rangetakers,
Riveters, Saddlers, Saddle Tree Makers, Sawyers, Shoemakers, Tailors,
Technical Storemen, Textile Refitters, Tinsmiths, AVhitesmiths, Vulcanisers,
Waggon Erectors.
V. P. H. STANTKE,
Brigadier i/c Administration, Eastern Command.


Personal and Missing Friends.
TO WILLIAM GEOFFREY GRIME for-
merly of 33 Griffiths Street Richmond in
the State of Victoria but now of parts un-
known Professional Boxer.
TAKE NOTICE that vour wife rvy
MARTION GRIME has instituted proceedings
for a divorce on the ground ol
during three years and upwards UNLESS you
enter an appearance in the office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Sunreme Court at
on or before the Fifth day of June One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty tne U 3. ~w
proceed in your absence AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that the sealed copy petition
and copy citation in this suit have been served
on your sister Mrs. L. Ashby 25 King Street
Prahran.
JOAN ROSANOVE,
440 Chancery Lane, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
WILL anybody knowing the address of LAURA
ELIZABETH GAMBLE, formerly of Swansea,
in Tasmania, please communicate immediately
with MESSRS. BUTLER, McINTYRE AND
BUTLER, 22 Murray Street, Hobart, Tasmania?
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of
JAMES WILKIE, formerly of Hastings, New
Zealand, but who went to reside in Sydney
about 10 years ago, please communicate with
MACLEAN & KINCAID,
Solicitors, Taihape, N.Z.
The 1940
International
Motor
Show
OPENS TO-MORROW,
THURSDAY,
MAY 23,
FOR
9 DAYS
11 a.m. to 10 p.m*
EXHIBITION
BUILDINGS,
MELBOURNE
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.,
With Menuhin, Antal Dorati and
Gladys Moncrieff hovering about the
Town Hall, “The Mikado” at Sydney
Royal, “Oriental Nights” at the Tiv.
and “French Without Tears” coming on
tomorrow at the Minerva, Sydney’s stage
and concert platform is better populated
than usual. If the film of “French With-
out Tears,” showing at Sydney Prince
Edward, can be taken as an indication,
the stage show should be a clinker.
Around the other filmhouses Walt Dis-
ney’s “Pinocchio” should fill the State
for weeks to come, and M.-G.-M.’s
“Gone with the Wind” seems assured
of a long run at the Liberty and
St. James. Both films are in techni-
color and admirably suited to that
medium. Sydney Lyceum has a neat bit
of war-time drama in “U-Boat 29” ; the
Embassy and Mayfair house light,
romantic comedies in “Raffles” and “Re-
member the Night” respectively ; while
at the Century “Dr. Ehrlich’s Magic
Bullet,” with a fine stretch of acting
from Ed. G. Robinson, is having its last
few screenings.
* * * *
“The Grapes of Wrath”
Sydney Regent is showing “The
Grapes of Wrath,” which, as “the
story they dared not tell,” etc., is
comparatively timid after the book from
which it was taken. It covers the book
by such great leaps and bounds that it
is curiously incomplete—it should make
a statement of some sort and it doesn’t.
It may have been badly cut or rigorously
censored, but, even so, it seems impossible
that that could denude it so thoroughly
of any meaning or purpose.
The film offers an almost abstract
consideration of a group of miserable,
poverty-stricken cotton-farmers thrown
off their farms and trekking across the
country in search of a living. They ex-
perience the trials and vicissitudes of ex-
treme penury, are burned out of filthy
unemployment camps by irate citizens,
are exploited by fruitgrowers and, pre-
sumably, find their way eventually to
decent employment. That demands more
explanation than the film seems game or
willing to give, and a bit of garbled
philosophy from one of the characters
at the fadeout only deepens the mystery.
Americans, perhaps, might read some-
thing into the film ; anyone else, it seems,
must go home guessing.
In the bare presentation of its charac-
ters and setting the film is excellent. On
one or two occasions it lapses into senti-
mentality and overdramatisation, but for
the greater part it offers a flat, un-
colored picture of real poverty and all
the misery that goes with it. The Joad
family’s journey from Oklahoma to Cali-
fornia is extraordinarily vivid and real.
The old truck with its dozen or so passen-
gers and all their possessions seems to be
rattling through real country—at times
there is an impression of standing by the
roadside and watching it drive past.
Henry Fonda, Jane Darwell and John
Carradine head a good cast, but, for all
its realistic depiction of the people
and the conditions under which
they live, the film is still empty. It pre-
sents a harrowing picture of human
misery, but supports it neither with ex-
planation nor criticism.
* * * *
“Cauboy” views a “Crime Does Not
Pay”:—
If the emotional content of a film is the
criterion of its quality (B. 8/5/’4o)—and it
should be —a “Crime Does Not Pay” picture at
Melbourne Metro has it all over many of the
grand, splendiferous, million-dollar spectacles.
It deals with the simple, everyday theme “If
you drink, don’t drive; if you drive, don’t
drink,” and on the night I saw it there wasn’t
an individual in the audience who was un-
affected. No doubt the majority were pedes-
trians and the minority motor-owners, but they
were equally involved in the story of the young
married man who gets promoted and natu-
rally wants to celebrate his good fortune, while
his friends, with the best intentions in the
world, aid and abet him.
With no more than four cocktails beneath
his belt, and in a state of innocent elation,
“Would you oblige me by getting through my pantry window? I've
locked myself out!"
the young man takes to the road with his lethal
weapon. His normal reaction to stimuli re-
duced by 40 p.c. (as demonstrated scientifically
in the laboratory) and his optimism increased
out of all proportion, he cuts in on a slow-
moving vehicle in front of him and, at 60
miles an hour, hits a lorry containing two
people. The results are appalling. Three
people, including his wife’s mother, are killed,
and he escapes with a minor injury. But
nothing is left out. His wife is expecting a
baby, and what happens to her is shown by
one of the most poignant strokes of filmcraft
present writer has ever seen.
The shootings, bashings, stabbings and whole-
sale human holocausts of the conventional crook
film leave an audience blase, and probably tend
to brutalise some of them because nobody
can identify himself with situations that are
completely outside his own experience. But
most people can identify themselves with the
plight of the young man whose momentary
self-indulgence has such terrific consequences
for other people and who is left with a legless
wife to rear his baby and nothing but remorse
to protect him.
Coupled with their realism, the “Crime
Does Not Pay” series are extremely well acted.
The actors live their parts because they come
within their own experience. Nine-tenths of the
“great” feature films deal with emotions no
human being ever could have experienced.
Stage and Concert.
Menuhin
xu second programme at Sydney
Town Hall Menuhin remained technically
captivating and intellectually disappoint-
ing. The Sonata in A of Faure, with
which he opened, is suave but shallow, its
chief interest really lying in the piano
accompaniment, in which Hendrik Endt
excelled himself.
Infinitely more satisfying was the
second item, Bach’s third Partita. Un-
accompanied, Menuhin’s violin filled the
hall with a flood of sound far richer in
its emotional depth than his usual steady
mellifluence or technical fireworks. It
was a masterly performance, and one felt
sorry that the A.B.C.’s microphone wasn't
strung across the hall to let a wider
audience share it.
It was followed by the comparative
unimportance of Ernst’s F Sharp
Concerto, the “Havanaise” of Saint-Saens
(its endless variations on the most trivial
of themes were very nearly boring, even
with Menuhin playing) and some palpi-
tations of Paganini.
* * * *
“Mikado”
Gilsullivan fans rolled up at Sydney
Royal for “The Mikado,” and were, as
a matter of course, delighted. With
them rolled a number inspired by the
screen version, and these were probably
disappointed. The show was presented
in the best Savoyard tradition, but it
lacked the gaudy accoutrements of the
Hollywood product and the character
which Kenny Baker gave to his screen
portrayal of Nanki-Poo.
The show was G. and S. at its best.
Ivan Menzies turned on his usual bril-
liant clowning as Ko-Ko, and introduced
some smart topical improvising. Phyllis
Curnow (Yum-Yum), Peggy Shea and
Sara Gregory were three charmingly coy
little maids from school. Richard Watson
was a solid Pooh-Bah and lent weight to
“The Flowers That Bloom in the Spring.”
Bernard Manning and Evelyn Gardiner
as the Mikado and Katisha were superb.
Miss Gardiner’s make-up is something to
witness.
* * * *
“Stepping Out”
There was nothing particularly new
or original about this opus at
Melbourne Princess except the policy
of following up a succession of
bedroom comedies with a nice,
pure, simple, unsophisticated farce of
the sort that amateur societies used to
favor 40 years ago before Dr. Freud was
invented and when the sex joke was con-
fined behind that portal to hell the
legitimate theatre.
The absence of the sex joke was more
surprising, inasmuch that all the action
and excitement went on in the combina-
tion office and reception room of an
exclusive girls’ finishing school, into
which are introduced Charles Norman,
masquerading as a titled English archae-
ologist, followed by the archaeologist
masquerading as one of his own mum-
mies, and succeeded by the county sheriff
with a warrant to arrest the baronet for
breaking quarantine when he has the
mumps. All the leading men find brides
in the girls’ school, and there was nothing
more than that in the opus.
The public likes good clean fun
occasionally, and there was more con-
tinuous laughter from a large house than
in the case of the preceding two produc-
tions. This was mainly due to Charles
Norman having a personality to exploit
and having no false modesty or reluctance
about exploiting it.
* * * *
The ballet at His Majesty’s, Melbourne,
has broken all Australian records and is
near breaking records for any country.
Last week “Spectre de la Rose” was
added to the procession, and, with
Toumanova’s assistance, Jasinsky gave a
fine-drawn, delicate portrayal of the
maiden’s dream materialising through her
bedroom window in the shape of a
masculine fairy.
* * * *
The highlight of the current bill at
Melbourne Tivoli is, strangely enough,
our old friend the Apache dance, carried
to the umpteenth degree of ferocity and
violence by a gentleman named Rudy
and a lady called Latosca. If the music
were as sensational as the dancing it would
make the Russian ballet look insipid.
Elsewhere on the programme the Stalac
brothers toss each other about for a
living, C. Ray Smith makes his marion-
ettes dance grotesquely, and the human
form divine gets an innings in the shape
of the Tivoli lovelies. But none of the
imported turns explains the packed houses
the Tiv. is getting as much as the man-
agement’s engagement of favorite stars
of the local radio. The rapture with
which the physical appearance of some
of them is being received can be ex-
plained only on the assumption that lis-
tening-in causes acute visual starvation.
Arthur sts.
Another provincial art prize has gone
to a metropolitan artist in Victoria,
W. A. Dargie winning the £lOO Wood-
ward prize at Bendigo for a portrait of
his wife. Dargie is one of the younger
members of the Meldrum school, is
art instructor at Swinburne College and
Melbourne representative of “Art in
Australia.”
* * * *
The autumn exhibition of S.A. Society
of Arts is not particularly stimulating.
The old reliables are mostly there. New
notes are introduced by Fehiberg with
an unusual seascape, and Wolheim, who
has been to Los Angeles and New
Mexico. Also Mainwaring, one of the
very few who venture on figure composi-
tion, has a striking beach-party, though
with the rather gloomy faces winch seem
to be growing upon this rising artist’s
fancy. The autumn prizes, on the judg-
ing of Goodchild and Millward Grey,
go to T. H. Bone and Leila McNamara
for flower-studies, to Max Ragless for
a crayon drawing of a cliff, and to
Gladys Good for a neat etching of the
North British mine at Broken Hill. Some
of the awards have caused a bit of a
newspaper controversy.
* * * *
In the catalogue of his show of land-
scape, still-life, portraits and “abstrac-
tions” at Melbourne Athenaeum, Adrian
Lawlor quotes Wyndham Lewis as say-
ing that “it is not as good a thing at the
present day to paint a picture in the
manner of Tiepolo, or of Velasquez or of
Manet, as in some new or different
manner, more appropriate to the beliefs
and conditions obtaining in the twentieth
centupr.” Mr. Lawlor follows this pre-
scription pretty faithfully. His pictures
suggest attempts at a symposium of all
the art fashions of the moment, and
he appears to have been influenced by
Cezanne, Van Gogh, Gauguin, Matisse
and a host of others. One would have
liked to see more of Mr. Lawlor’s own
personal observation.


BRANDAIIER'A
m
PENS
*
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BHANDAOKB * CO. Ltd. BIKUINGHAM. UNO
Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have made
it famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Refuse all substitutes. Remember
the name DOAN’S.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
A vivid impression of War Victims’
Day was meeting a woman acquaintance
tottering down Martin-place under a
weight of parcels. She had coat-hangers
and a button from the Polish stall, a
gadget for the writing table from the
Netherlands, two pieces of glassware from
Czechoslovakia, two jars of pickles from
the Friends-of-France stall, some sweets
from Westralia’s offerings, some raffle
tickets from Queensland and a chintz
shopping-bag born under another flag.
As she stopped to speak, a small voice at
her elbow said: “Would you buy some-
thing to help the war victims?” and a
pretty youngster in Denmark’s national
costume looked up expectantly. With the
look of a camel whose vertebrae have
given way, the compleat customer mut-
tered something about the last man and
the last shilling, and staggered on.
The French-Australian League put up
a good show. Here were Mrs. A. Brenac,
Mrs. Playoust, Mrs. Bertie Kelly, Mrs.
C. L. Jones, Mrs. Ken Prior (daughter
Joan was one of a band dressed as
daughters of France). The Friends-
of-France stall was all the brighter
for poetess Ivy Moore’s smile. Here
were home-made jams and pickles,
iridescent in the sunshine. The workers
for France literally did bring home the
bacon. Besides clearing out every bit of
stock, one of the day’s ardent sales-
women won an enormous ham from the
chocolate wheel next door. Mrs. Alan
Foott and Jean Ramsay drew the pence
to the lucky-packet stall. Fruits and
vegetables in plenty made artistic show-
ing on the C.W.A. stall.
Mrs. C. L. Jones was seen getting an
outsize in defunct turkeys into a basket.
She was taking it into the country. Mrs.
K. Lindsay was proud of the Guildford
grass baskets, a specialty of the W.A.
display.
Cherokee, Iroquois or Mohicans were
the squaws adorning the Canadian
Women’s enclosure —or so it seemed till
you found that they were just make-
believe Indians. Lisa and Marguerita
Jensen wore Danish national dress. The
wife of Poland’s Consul-General wore
with her white frock a short jacket of
scarlet felt, bright with a border of
flowers. The sports girls put brains and
beauty behind their effort, and Alice
Gould’s voice carolling the merits of
golf balls and electric irons brought
gamblers running to her wheel of chance.
Bernard Manning’s Mikado is as rich
with G. and S. tradition as his black
satin coat with gold embroideries. The
audience at the Royal showed it liked
him on Saturday night, likewise his
daughter-in-law-elect Evelyn Gardiner.
The rich red of her robe with its wide
kimono sleeves made intense drama in
itself. In her white kimono sashed in
gold Phyllis Curnow sang her song of
sun and moon, and made play with her
rose-and-silver fan, and all the time
the stage looked as colorful and as
fragile as a Japanese teaset. Viola Wilson
was among the listeners. Under her
black velvet coat her net frock shim-
mered white and silvered with sequins.
Lilac chiffons were worn by Mrs. F. J.
Davy with good effect. Mrs. Salenger
was caped in ermine, and was with the
parents of her new son-in-law, Maxwell
Munro. Also in the group were the
Gilsullivan-loving Bradys. Mary Kelly
and the Volterras were with Mrs. Bertie
Kelly. Mrs. Edmund Playfair was
another constant.
Wedding rings continue among the
most-bought articles of jewellery. About
three weeks ago Barbara Salenger, of
Killara, and Maxwell Munro announced
their engagement. Last Friday evening
Max, who is of the R.A.N.R., having
special leave, slipped the ring on Bar-
bara’s finger in St. Martin’s Church,
Killara. Barbara, in her layers of ivory
tulle, looked the perfect bride. The
celebration was a family dinner-party
given by Barbara’s parents, the Ernest
Salengers, in the Forum Club. Max is
the younger son of the John Munros,
also of Killara.
Bright lasses and blithe lads, fathers
and mothers with the young fry of the
family, stood four and five deep in the
streets where the University “Commem.
procession ambled and rambled. Skits on
Hitler, the coal strike restrictions, the
paper shortage, the Fifth Column, the
closing of Suez, stirred gales of laughter.
The Fifth Column were a weird-looking
lot that might have aroused suspicion in
a babe. Dressed as clergymen and
eye-striking tourists, they sleuthed
such military objectives as trams in
sinister fashion. “Gone With the Wind”
showed a shack torn to ribbons. There
were students in prams, on bikes that
bucked and pigrooted. Scarlett O’Hara
burst on the scene on a crimson scooter.
“Scram,” the Commem. festival book,
is good fun. There’s a clever world
map in it. Any newspaper person would
like the verse on the Censorship and
Mumbling Minnie.
Dear little Micaela with her high sweet
voice and blue dress of innocence will
live again in Cynthia Garner in the com-
ing season of “Carmen.” This is due at
the Con. on the 15th, 20th, 21st and 22nd
of June. Cynthia is still remembered as
the village maiden in “Hugh the Drover.”
Photo, by Falk.
Another crowded house greeted Yehudi
Menuhin last Wednesday. It was the
day of the fateful news of Holland, and
the music that flowed from Yehudi’s
bow was even as balm of Gilead. Mrs.
Menuhin had come up from Melbourne
for her husband’s concert, and sat, a
slim, black-frocked figure, with sister-in-
law Mrs. Lindsay Nicholas. After the
concert there was a supper party of
intimates at the violinist’s flat in 52
Macleay-street. Mrs. Phil Finkelstein
and daughter Peggy, up from Melbourne,
were with Mrs. F. J. Davy. During their
visit to Sydney their address is Wyldefel
Gardens, Potts Point. Wife of the
Consul-General for the Netherlands, Mrs.
Elink Schuurman, was in the audience,
her vellum silks patterned in bright red
tulips.
Norma Cox, just-budding violinist,
turned an attentive ear. Yehudi gave her
an audition last week, and her greatest
treasure is the book in which he wrote
“Recalling a pleasant afternoon.” Norma
gleamed in silver lame and white fox,
and was with Mrs. Rex Bennett. Mrs.
Alan McGregor was there, and so was
Phillipa Stephen. The A. G. Thomas
couple from Wahroonga were noted ; her
blue and silver crepes were one of the
night’s pleasant sights. Miss Mary Fair-
fax and Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax were there.
Marjorie Hambridge was graceful in
black velvet. Constance Pickworth, not
long back from Italy and France, was
with Edna Williams. Sir Hugh and
Lady Poynter were applauders.
Mary Kelly, daughter of Will Kelly,
is back in Sydney. She returned last
week and is staying with the Bertie
Kellys. Mrs. Bertie gave a lunch at
Prince’s to celebrate niece-by-marriage’s
visit. Among the guests were the Jordan
lady, Mrs. C. L. Jones (all in mauve),
Mrs. Alice Brenac, Mrs. Carleton and
Mrs. Tom Kelly, and Mrs. Kelly’s daugh-
ter from Italy, Mrs. Volterra.
Readers of this paper know the clever
modelled caricatures done by Frith. Last
week, having assembled some 70 or more
victims and done them in boiling lead
or bronze, the artist cooeed the living
to the Jamieson Gallery to see how they
liked themselves in the gallery of their
peers. Strange how behind the caricature
the heads divide themselves into types.
Here are clever businessmen, all with
a resemblance about head and forehead.
Here are the intellectuals —note the up-
rearing of the dome. Here are Roman
types, there the Celt, there the Gaul.
Here is Cleary, of the A.8.C., a sug-
gestion of Savonarola belied by a
humorous twink. Bruce Dellit, the
architect, makes a good subject, and near
by is an exquisite head of small son
Victor. Frith has done his wife rather
Greek and classical. Small daughter
Jacqueline, too, is there. Honey Glad,
who was Honey Lindsay, is cleverly
depicted.
There was quite a party for this open-
ing. The Feltex House potentates had
given the use of their boardroom and
the roof garden for the festive round-off.
Mrs. Frith hostessed in a frock of
Quaker-grey, and all went merry as the
swish of siphonated waters. Knight
Francis Anderson was among those who
gazed on their own heads. The Frank
Medworths were there ; so were the Cecil
Manns. With Mrs. Cecil of the red-gold
hair was an attractive sister-in-law from
the Northern Rivers. Father Sexton,
of Mayfield was present; tall Ted Scor-
field, whose Hitler cartoons are becoming
a family word, buttled amiably. Ken
Prior breezed in. Feltex chief Van de
Velde looked as jolly as his bronze
portrait.
That woman can be both earnest and
decorative is proved by Mabel McElhone.
Mabel does a big job of work, for love
of the cause, as secretary of the State
Council of Voluntary Aid detachments,
and is to be assistant commandant of
the Red Cross detachment of the
Greenknowe centre. Her guiding hand
had much to do with the smooth running
of the V.A. rally and march-past at Vic-
toria Barracks recently,. when over three
thousand war helpers stepped out with
a clean-cut smartness and did the “eyes-
right” with the precision of veterans as
Lady Gowrie took the salute. Mabel’s
hobbies are ice-skating she is one of
Sydney’s best —and surfing.
Trumpeter Grace Adams East, who
has been half around the world since
Sydney saw her last, leaves us again this
week after a short stay. She had in-
tended going home to U.S.A. by way
of Java and China and suchlike merry-
go-round. But she has to connect with
some broadcasting dates in her own
country.
Grace was lunching at Prince’s the
other day with Mrs. Matson, from
Christchurch, Maoriland. She wore
above a cape of military cut a black
Egyptian fez bought in Port Said. Worn
by Grace it had the dash of a Suzy,
the allure of an Agnes model. But
then this American woman trumpeter
has the face and head which make the
milliner’s life a happy one. Mrs. Matson
showed a nice line in deep cyclamen
suiting. It went admirably with her
clear complexion and bright eyes.
All the arts and the cultures seethed
and simmered in the Blaxland Galleries
when the Industrial Arts Society had its
exhibition of paintings. This was opened
on a day last week by Lady Poynter,
who in the absence of the president
was introduced by Jean Isherwood (noted
that her small pillbox hat had its rim
of fur).
Mary Soady and Guoin King s “Road
to Peace” was a good deal better than the
verse accompanying it. The angel with
outstretched wings at the end of the
road is a particularly fine conception.
Toby Williamson’s magnolias have a
dreamy, Indian-love-lyric quality, though
one guesses Toby painted them in her
garden above Middle Harbor. Jean
Isherwood’s “Blue Road to Yass makes
Waltzing Matilda look a pretty good
occupation for those of us who haven t
a car.
There was a sniff of gorse and lupin (or
so it seemed) from Cedric Emmanuel’s
“Muratai” ; and a Maorilander’s thoughts
went winging back, to O. N. Gillespie’s
poem “The Road to Muratai. Singer
Carrie Lanceley smiles from a canvas of
Franki Payne’s. Carrie’s off-white frock
and the Louis Quinze settee on which
she is seated are a delicate color com-
position.
Franki also shows some fowls—leg-
horns white as the driven snow, their
combs a bright lipstick red. Flower
pieces by Eileen Vaughan and Mary
Cooper Edwards were among the ad-
mired. Ella Dwyer, who showed some
book-plates, was with novelist sister
Vera. Ada Newman and the Roland
Wakelins were among the throng; so
was Mrs. Will Ashton, cinnamon-brown
her outfit. Likeable were the poppy-gold
coat and hat worn by Eileen Vaughan.
After another year or two Norma Cox
will be one of Australia’s leading violin-
ists. Her groundwork is sound, her
talent unquestioned, and time will give
her added experience. Norma’s first
recital at the Conservatorium snatched
at least two hours from the sum
of the week’s horrors, and the
listener was led into a land flowing with
Brahms and flowering with Bruch.
Oliver King added to the pleasures of the
night with groups of songs by Scarlatti
and Carissimi. Norma looked the sin-
cere little artist she is in a white frock
that was a swirl of tulle over taffeta.
Her puff sleeves ended just above the
elbow. Stage was set with a background
of green curtains and a high standard
of tawny chrysanthemums, yellow and
orange gladioli tied with long orange
ribbons.
From family friend Father Gallagher
and teacher Gerald Walenn to the girls
who sold the programmes —sister Marie
was among them —there was a heartening
warmth about the audience. Flowers as
well as applause were handed in pro-
fusion to the young player. Mother was
too nervous to come into the hall for at
least half the concert, and sat in a little
room near by. President of the com-
mittee Mrs. Norman McLeod wrapped
an ink-red velvet cape about her moss-
green velvets and sat with Marjorie Ham-
bridge and Mrs. Bainton. The Athol
Chards came with pianist daughter
Jessica, Mrs. Chard’s pale-gold chiffons
a nice harmony with Jessica’s ice-blue
satins. Secretary Elizabeth Plummer was
regal in flowered satins set with a minia-
ture of great antiquity and French origin.
The Hugh Poynters, the Halse Rogers
lady, Mrs. Crawford Robertson, M.H.R.
Harrison and his wife and Mrs. M. Ellis
were among the interested.
Vern Barnett, who was the night’s
pianist, was, as usual, a joy in his own
right. Charles Phillips was with visiting
pianist Rosenthal, who gives his concerts
in June. Mrs. Rex Bennett, who managed
the concert, has a right to be pleased.
Dame Eadith Walker, who was such a
generous giver during the 1914-18
struggle, would be pleased to know that
on the site of her old home Yaralla, at
Concord, will rise the Commonwealth
Hospital. This war hospital will hold
600 beds, and in the pavilion sections will
be 240 beds. At the end of the war it is
intended to transfer the Repatriation Hos-
pital at Randwick to the Yaralla estab-
lishment.
The Raymond Lamberts (she was Jill
Ryan) are in Sydney and staying at the
Australia. Pianist Raymond is doing a
tour of the States under A.B.C. manage-
ment. Mrs. Lambert, however, will visit
Sydney and Brisbane only. Her mother,
Mrs. T. J. Ryan (widow of a one-time
Queensland Premier), has just had her
seventh year as representative of the
Queensland Government in Melbourne.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 741 of 1940.
BETWEEN GLADYS MADELINE ZORTEA
Petitioner
And ROY BUCKLEY ZORTEA Respon-
dent.
TO ROY BUCKLEY ZORTEA late of Giral
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GLADYS
MADELINE ZORTEA has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Second day of August
One thousand nine hundred and forty and in
the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may b.e
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this third day of May One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
CLIVE CLARKE, Solicitor for Petitioner,
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 606 of 1940.
BETWEEN EFFIE MAY NEWCOMBE Peti-
tioner
And WILLIAM GEORGE NEWCOMBE
Respondent.
TO WILLIAM GEORGE NEWCOMBE for-
merly of Newcastle in the said State.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EFFIE MAY
NEWCOMBE has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and has applied
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Eighth day
of August One thousand nine hundred and
forty and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of May, 1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, JOHN COR-
CORAN & CO., Solicitors, Assembly Hall, 2
York Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
Divorce.
TO WALTER MAXWELL LEE last heard of
at Campbell Town in Tasmania Labourer.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife has filed a
petition for divorce against you on the ground
of desertion. If you wish to defend the
matter you must enter an appearance at the
Supreme Court Hobart by Friday the Twenty-
first day of July One thousand nine hundred
and forty.
(L.S.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 789 of 1940.
BETWEEN ELLA MARY DODDS (formerly
Ella Mary Martin) Petitioner
And LEONARD DODDS Respondent.
TO LEONARD DODDS, late of Morpeth in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELLA MARY
DODDS has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Sixteenth
day of August 1940 and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and thfe suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this seventeenth day of May One
thousand nine hundred and forty.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
W. J. ENRIGHT AND SKILTON, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 467 High Street, West Mait-
land ; by their agents, TAYLOR AND KEAR-
NEY, Solicitors, City Mutual Building, Hunter
and Bligh streets, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
There’s a superstition among Hun-
garian peasants that, if a listener sneezes
when a tale is being told, what the
speaker has just said is true. Such
annotation appeared among the pro-
gramme notes for the Hary Janos fairy-
tale suite by Kodaly, which was played
at last week’s symphony concert.
It opened with a sneeze, a crescendo
of noise from the brasses, which bit of
humor put everyone in a good temper,
even those who, in the grip of winter
colds, sneezed and coughed throughout
the evening. Soloist in the Grieg con-
certo was Eunice Gardiner, ingenue from
her simply-curled hair to the tips of
her white satin shoes. She’s lucky enough
to own a retroussee nose and young
enough to wear white muslin with puffed
sleeves and nary a sparkler of jewellery.
Toumanova, who enjoyed last week off
the boards, was present under the wing
of Mrs. Sidney Myer. She’s a very young
twenty-one and a most unsophisticated
ballerina. Verchinina was there in a black
gown pricked with silver nailheads, and
with her ash-blonde hair in her favorite
duet of hunter’s horn curls. Dr. and
Mrs. Frank May were there, Mrs. May in
two shades of purple and orchids to
match. Peggy Fraser’s black velvet gown
was effective against the background of
white satin-lined coat discarded over the
back of her chair. Lorna and Betty
Bradford were enthusiasts, Lorna in a
banana-colored coat and Betty in mid-
night-blue. April Mackintosh displayed
a pleasing version of an informal gown
for a winter’s evening, high-necked and
long-sleeved in hyacinth Angora. Reba
Shearer robed herself in a blue cloak,
and Mary Stephens had a halfway pro-
tection for her black net frock with a
little lynx coat. Mrs. R. G. Menzies,
who was taken unto the bosom of the
A.B.C. in the south gallery, wore a fur
wrap over her pastel-pink brocaded satin
gown.
When women think of bridge it’s in
fours, a snug table over the fire or else
a room full of people with a lot of
cigarette smoke and a hectic rush in the
kitchen during the morning, coaxing
savory gee-gaws to sit still upon slabs of
fried bread. But last week bread for
bridge wasn’t ordered by the loaf but
by the bakers’ carts for 7000 women who
played in the cause of the Royal Mel-
bourne Hospital. Not all of them
squeezed between the same four walls
(what a din there would have been if
they had, in the Exhibition Building!),
but they permeated the suburbs through
private houses and forgathered by the
hundred in the lower Town Hall, in the
Hawthorn, Brunswick, Preston and
Coburg City Halls and in the Wentworth
Cafe. Mrs. B. T. Zwar convened the
enormous committee which operated
through numerous smaller committees.
At a given moment the 7000 downed
cards to hear details of the party spoken
over the air by the Lady Mayoress. Mrs.
Russell Clarke, who is chairwoman of the
Royal Melbourne entertainments com-
mittee, was immediately up and away on
the wings of an even bigger party. In
imagination she sees 27,000 women play-
ing bridge for the Red Cross. If her
dream comes true every woman who
doesn’t punch a time clock every morn-
ing will be throwing in her lot for bridge
on that afternoon.
Painter Arthur Streeton remained in-
accessible on the opening day of his ex-
hibition of pictures. Always a shy man,
he’s happiest in his Olinda fastness. He
cares neither for crowds nor speeches of
adulation, so there were no formal open-
ing speeches for this show, which regret-
tably is to be his last. There were many
inquiries at the Athenasum for the artist;
so many friends of his generation would
have liked a word with him about old
times, so many younger people wanted
to express appreciation of his art.
Streeton has always been a fighter
against one of his country’s greatest prob-
lems, erosion. In one canvas, “Sylvan
Dam and Donna Buang in 2000 a.d.,” he
gets his point home with a forceful brush
—stark barren hills are the result of the
ruthless and unscientific cutting down of
forests. In very different mood he executed
his catalogue ; it’s almost too flippant for
a Streeton signature. There’s a cat with
uptilted tail, and a fallen tree, an anno-
tation of bird-call music, and below the
slogan “Stay me with flagons, comfort
me with apples.”
When Angus Tweddle’s pals noted his
regular appearance at the Embassy after
the ballet they suspected a romance, so
little surprise was expressed when that
charming ballerina more recently Mile.
Nelidova was introduced as “My
fiancee.” Marriage plans were a closely
guarded secret; practically nobody but
the Tweddle family knew the time and
the place when Nelidova was farewelled
by her colleagues after the curtain went
down one evening. It was the next after-
noon that, having discarded her nom-de-
ballet, .she again became Betty Cuff, of
Surrey, England—but only for a brief
interval. She and Angus kept their
appointment in the side chapel of St.
Paul’s with Bishop Booth, of Geelong,
and not a sightseer was there to watch.
Nelidova’s contract has expired with the
Ballet, and henceforward she and Angus
will keep house in a flat at Yarralumla
at the corner of Marne-street and
Toorak-road.
Beryl Wilson, owner of the smile
below, has a hand and a voice in “Shop’s
Hooey,” the 1940 University revue at
the King’s, which commences a five
nights’ season on May 28. Beryl, who is
the only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. A.
Wilson, of Canterbury, is an “old girl” of
Tintern and is doing her final Mus. Bac.
year at the University Conservatorium,
with singing as a major subject. Profits
of the revue will be shared between the
University Union and the Comforts
Fund. Photo, by Athol Shmith.
Betty Matear commandeered the ball-
room of the Australia for a show of her
sketches. The Rathbaron branch of the
Comforts Fund will profit by admission
charges and sales of catalogues. On the
first afternoon the artist, in dove-grey
with a party piece of violets upon her
head, hostessed a private view. Her
sister, Mrs. Winton Gillespie, went in for
Parma-violet from topknot to hemline.
Mrs. Douglas Carnegie plunged for the
King’s Navee with her reefer coat and
brass buttons, while Mrs. Bruce Carnegie
helped at the entrance door. Elinor
Willis belonged to the no-hat brigade and
wore snippets of fur upon her black coat.
Little red or near-red jackets were
popular. Mrs. Jack Manton’s had a com-
plicated array of pockets and pipings.
Mary Wilson’s was of a simpler pattern,
her bit of frivol being round her ankle,
a strand of gold under her sheer stocking.
A bride of this week, Joan Purnell, chose
her short coat in a vintage tone. Kay
Ingleton went in for all black with a
rush of fur to hems and edges. Maisie
Cowper’s check suit accompanied a black
hat of the bonnet family. Lone repre-
sentative of his sex on that afternoon —
discounting photographers and waiters
who had jobs of work to do upon the
spot —was John Langley on the arm of
fiancee Hersey Brookes.
Miss Matear’s sketches have a place
for film stars and a couple of walls for
sundry other people. American golfer
Helen Hicks is there ; so is a sister of
greens and fairways, Katherine Rymill, of
Adelaide, sketched as “Mary, Mary,
Quite Contrary,” watering can and all.
Mrs. Burdett Laycock, plus her dark
glasses, has a place ; Dick Brookes, of
Adelaide, is sketched with an aeroplane ;
the Bruce Carnegies are on the spring-
board at Portsea Pier; Mrs. Alec Cres-
wick (who was Claudia Palmer) leads an
open-air life. Elizabeth Agar hikes in the
Tyrol. Mrs. Robin Todhunter travels
with suitcases labelled with her present
name and her ex one of Pat Lem-
priere. Dick Webb and Judy Price
do a bit of histrionics. That was in the
days before Judy went to London and
became Mrs. George Taylor. Alex. Mac-
pherson is there with his favorite toy —a
surf board. Beth Campbell is shown
with a pack of cards and Mrs. Bill Har-
rison (she was Patsy Whitehead) with a
nipped-in waist and bars of swing music.
Out to rake in funds for the Red Cross,
members of St. Margaret’s Old Girls’
Association held their dance this year at
Kooyong tennis club instead of at their
favorite haunt, No. 9 Darling-street. Hopes
were fulfilled, and some 200 young people
kept faith with the old school tie.
Ticket secretary Marli Sherwin was
gowned in black lace. She had assist-
ance from June Robinson, who, when her
duties were over, went dancing in ashes-
of-roses brocade. Elspeth Mackenzie,
who is president of the association, was
in pastel blue ; secretary Barbara Perrott
wore white with a glitter of gold lame
foundation, and Jean Kerr, who keeps the
account book neat, balanced and up to
date, was in black splashed with vari-
colored flowers.
Maximum success in minimum time
was made of the Racing Patriotic Appeal
Committee’s good luck party to Lieut.-
General Blarney. The idea was born
only a couple of weeks before the
do happened. Originally Blarney House
would have received all the profits, but
in the last fortnight Air Force House
has moved over the horizon, a dream fast
materialising, and it also will benefit
from proceeds. Lieut.-General Blarney
was accompanied by his wife (she also
goes abroad). He was presented with a
travelling clock on behalf of the sporting
fraternity concerned. When he uses it
maybe in some dugout far away he might
hear in its ticking the thud of hoofs on
turf and see in his mind’s eye the fast
finish up the straight which gave him so
many thrills in the palmy days gone by.
The farewell at the Australia took the
form of a cocktail party and dinner
dance. There were plenty of tricky little
oddments to eat, and glamorised potatoes
stuffed with prawns served as useful
hunger assuagers for those who felt that
their dinner was a long time arriving.
Dress was optional and covered a wide
field from the khaki uniforms worn by
the A.I.F. leader and his officers to
lounge suits and ties both white and
black. A number of short frocks and
gay little hats came to the party, but
long gowns won through force of
numbers.
Among the short-skirted were Betty
and Jean Wallace Mitchell, Jean in a
featherweight woollen frock of oyster
toning and Betty in lame with pleated
skirt. For the toe-touching robes sleeves
were popular, and so were chaste little
necklines. In the crowd the
Robert McLeishes and the Ken Lukes
made a foursome (after Ken arrived late
from a football meeting). A T-square
meeting made Bob Hamilton another
late arrival. A few extra black ties
drifted into the party as the evening pro-
gressed, for some of the boys were giving
Noel Dickson a bachelor dinner in an
adjoining room.
In Spencer Shier’s photo, is that attrac-
tive American girl Jayne Harper, only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. Cairns
Harper, of South Yarra. Jayne is wear-
ing a ruby-and-diamond ring, and is re-
ceiving much commendation on her de-
cision that Australians make good hus-
bands. The young man who has per-
suaded her thus is Cedric Bright, young-
est son of the late Alfred Bright and of
Mrs. Bright, of Shipway Lodge, Sor-
rento. No plans have yet been made for
the wedding or for the future home, for
Cedric has joined the R.A.A.F.; but
Jayne likes traditional bridal attire and
hopes to wear a mist of veil and sweep
of train upon her wedding day.
Traveller and authoress Winifred
Ponder,, in Melbourne at the present
moment, gives much interesting informa-
tion about the Dutch East Indies. She
has lived there long enough to speak
Dutch fluently and to take the country
to her heart. She has a high regard for
Holland’s methods of colonisation, but
she tells disquieting stories about Fifth
Column activities. Although she finds it
difficult to determine the harm done by
pro-Nazi traitors before they were re-
cently rounded up for the calaboose, she
knows more about the seeds of sedition
sown among the natives by Communists
on Stalin’s payroll. They have been
working underground like white-ants for
years.
Speaking of lighter things, the
authoress paused on the subject of rijst-
tafel and its 22-odd ingredients and the
fact that the Dutch don’t mind this rice
dish lukewarm, which must be a great
help to the cook. She says that sales of
peanuts in Java must be enormous;
“katjang goring” is a familiar cry in every
street. She gives a couple of hints about
curries ; a spoonful of vinegar at the last
moment before serving improves the
flavor, and try rice steamed instead of
boiled.
Miss Ponder is English, and her varied
career has included journalism, dairying
(though she was never a champion at
milking) and acting as horseback mail-
man at Dalby (Q.). She went to the
Dutch East Indies because, through her
association with dry areas of Australia,
she was interested in irrigation. After-
wards she found an absorbing interest in
archaeology, which took her several times
to Cambodia and Angkor and necessi-
tated much study (for she knew French
well) at museums in Hanoi and later in
Paris. Her most successful books are
Life of Clara Butt, Java Pageant and
Cambodian Glory. A beautifully-bound
edition of Java Pageant was among Java’s
wedding presents to Princess Juliana.


Hvr
&
I
VL
A
MANY FORTUNES
HAVE HAD THEIR
HUMBLE BEGINNINGS
I IN A
THRIFT
IS THE
ARTIFICER
OF
FORTUNE^
Thrift is just saving, not alone
by the accumulation of money,
but by the wise spending of
it, and saving is just common-
sense. The majority of in-
comes are modest, so the
majority of people must plan,
either for unusually heavy
purchases, or for the eventual
establishment of a compet-
ence. The majority of people
obviously realise this, and use
the best, most practical sys-
tem of all, the Savings Bank
account. It costs nothing,
holds your money safe while
paying interest, and releases
it to you, whenever and
wherever you may require it.
cpmmonujjfliTH
sflumcs fifl nK
Of fl USTRAIIfI
THE FLYING COLUMN
"In the Second Storey."
“Aileron”: The aeroplane first
appeared in battle in the Balkan War,
when there were a couple of buses up
aloft. The 1914-18 war saw a good deal
of knightly combat, but it was individual-
istic, more or less a closed fight for
airmen only, save in the closing stages.
In this outbreak the sky war is as com-
plete as the ground war, and the two
are so closely interrelated that they can-
not be separated.
Aircraft has, in fact, taken the place
of heavy artillery in the first phases,
because the movement of mechanised
units is so swift that it is impossible for
the big guns to keep up with the
objectives.
Even an Bin. semi-mobile gun weighs
nearly 30 tons on the road. It has to be
positioned for firing, cannot follow
its objectives and cannot escape if need
be, whereas an aeroplane can. An Bin.
gun can fire three shots per minute —each
shell under 3001 b. A squadron of heavy
bombers can drop about nine tons of
heavy explosive pills on a moving target
in a few seconds and that with better
aim.
The bomb has not the power of the
shell for material damage of heavy
fortress protection, but, used against the
moving column, the hangar, the sitting
aeroplane, the railway junction or any-
thing above ground, it is as destructive
as heavy gunfire. This has been demon-
strated terribly in Holland, Belgium and
France.
The conquest of Holland was achieved
largely through German domination, not
only of the air but of aerodromes. Cap-
ture of aerodromes by German parachute
troops was one of the first moves in the
game. Military aircraft without a
properly-equipped ’drome are like a man
with his legs cut off.
By the time of the Dutch surrender
the Netherlands air force had been
almost completely wiped out.
The air war in Belgium and northern
France has been on a scale so formidable
that on one day, Paris radio reported,
there were 6000 machines over the
11,000 square miles of Belgium alone.
Despite lack of total numbers as com-
pared with the Germans, the Allies have
shown that the staple of their front-line
squadrons is made up of the best fighters
in the world. Again and again the Hurri-
canes and Boulton Pauls seem to have
proved themselves against superior
numbers of German machines. And the
Dominion airmen who form a very large
percentage of the R.A.F. have especially
shown themselves better than their
adversaries.
The Air Ministry insists that our losses
have been comparatively small. That is
one method of making up some leeway
in the Allies’ obvious and admitted
shortage in total numbers. At the same
time, the air position is one about which
it is wise to be conservative.
Encouragement may be drawn from
the long-range raid by Wellingtons, Whit-
leys and Hampdens “over a wide area”
in Germany —the largest operation of its
type yet carried out by the R.A.F. Rail-
way junctions, road crossings, high-speed
military highways all had their share of
high explosive.
But important as this type of operation
is, it is only secondary to the fight on
the battlefields.
The Air Forces.
“Norelai”: “The numerical disparity
between the air strength of Germany and
that of Britain has compelled us to carry
on under difficulties which will continue
until more favorable conditions can be
established.” So said Mr. Churchill in the
Commons on May 8 ; and almost every
report from the Low Countries and
France (has shown the enemy almost
everywhere superior in number of
machines, though nowhere in quality of
personnel.
Germany, according to President
Roosevelt, “not only has many more
’planes than all its opponents combined,
but also appears to have a weekly pro-
duction-capacity far greater than that of
its opponents.”
T. P. Wright, vice-president of the
Curtiss-Wright company, which is build-
ing heavily for France and Britain, gave
arresting figures in an article published in
American “Aviation.” He states that in
the Munich month (September, 1938), the
Allies had fewer than 8000 machines,
whereas Germany had 18,000-odd. In
the previous 12 months there had been a
falling off in French production —a re-
sult, though he does not say so, of
dalliance with Communism and Com-
munist cells in air factories.
By September, 1939, Allied production,
including ’planes bought in the U.S.A.,
had risen steeply from a little over 200
a month to about 1500 a month. But
actual numbers of machines of all types,
including co-operation and training, were
then 10 to 6 in Germany’s favor. By
the spring of 1940 (that is, the present
season) the German advantage, Wright
reckoned, would have been reduced to
10 to 7.6. Provided they suffered no
exceptional losses the Allies would catch
up to the enemy late in 1941, when both
sides would have about 40,000 machines
in the air.
The average proportion of front-line
aeroplanes is about 30 per cent, of the
total. Hence, when fighting efficiency is
considered, the disparity to which Mr.
Churchill referred is even more strongly
in favor of Germany than the numbers
show. At the same time, a valid com-
parison on a figure basis is not easy to
make. Before he lost his job as Air
Minister, Sir Samuel Hoare said that
British aircraft production was larger in
April “than ever before.”
Germany’s staple building is of
bombers; that of Britain and France,
fighters and interceptors. The advantage
in offence is with Germany, in defence
with the Allies. They, however, lack
power in retaliation and in destruction
of military objectives.
Germany’s air arm has an inherent
weakness in a long war. Big bombing
machines operating at distances from
their bases, transports carrying parachute
and other troops are vast users of fuel.
So are heavily mechanised divisions em-
“We'd like a transfer, sir. We’ve been on that anti-aircraft gun too long!”
ployed so prodigally in the operations in
the Low Countries and France.
The time factor is important. Every
hour of fighting and every mile of the
extension of fines put an added strain
on German petrol stocks. And offensive
air war calls for greater sacrifice of men
and material than defensive fighting. In
the end, if the French can hold out long
enough, fuel advantage might mean the
difference between success and failure.
To Work with the Army.
“D.8.K.”: Unique among British mili-
tary aircraft is the Westland Lysander,
designed from the wheels up solely for
army-co-operation work. In appearance
and performance it is unlike any other
aircraft used by the R.A.F. today.
As modern ’planes go, speed is not
great —just over 220 m.p.h. —but the
machine has remarkable climbing and
handling qualities. From a short take-
off run it can be lifted off the ground
like a rocket and landed on a desired
spot. These qualities are excellent in a
’plane which may have to operate from
small or makeshift aerodromes, or land
and take-off in country within the firing
zone. For these reasons it is more than
likely that Lysanders will be heard of in
France.
Features of construction are a high
“parasol” wing and the use of automati-
cally-controlled Handley-Page flaps and
slots. These assist a rapid take-off and
ease of control at slow speeds, full flying
control being held at only 55 m.p.h. That
feature is valuable for observation pur-
poses. A controllable pitch airscrew helps
take-off further, the blades exerting full
pressure on the air at an early stage.
The latest version of the Lysander, the
Mark 11, is fitted with a Bristol Perseus
engine of 905 h.p. This gives it a speed
of 230 m.p.h. at 15,000 ft. and a ceiling
approximating 26,000 ft. Climb is to
5000 ft. in three minutes. There are three
guns: two fixed and firing forward for
attack against ground forces; the other
movable and handled by the observer
for defence. Particularly good field of
vision is provided for pilot and observer,
with complete dual control for flying
and bomb operation. The smaller types
of bombs are carried on special racks
fitted to the undercarriage legs and be-
neath the fuselage ; and there are can-
isters for dropping supplies and foodstuffs
to troops in difficult positions.
Germany has a counterpart of the
Lysander in the Henschel Hs 126.
“Aldis”: The latest type of parachute,
of Italian make, is designed to reduce
the shock of opening if the wearer leaves
a fast military ’plane in a hurry. The
shock-absorber consists of a hole at the
centre, fitted with an elastic rim which
allows the hole to dilate and spill the
air until some reduction of speed occurs.
The Air War Day by Day.
May 14-20: Germans continue their de-
structive bombing of Allied troops,
positions, lines of communication,
aerodromes, depots and bases over the
whole battle-zone and beyond; also
their merciless attacks on cities,
towns and refugees. Even where
direct hits are not scored, con-
cussion stuns defenders in the vicinity
of exploding bombs. British and
French airmen offer a heroic resist-
ance, and in combats prove their in-
dividual superiority. But they are
almost everywhere outnumbered, and
possession of so many more machines
enables the enemy to carry out opera-
tions to which no effective reply can
be made.
Rotterdam lost when German troops
from the south established touch with
Fifth Column i.n the city and parachute
jumpers in the recaptured aerodrome,
and Utrecht in danger of being wiped
out, General Winkelman, the Dutch
commander, orders his soldiers to lay
down their arms except in Zeeland
(night of May 14). In his proclamation
he said, “We could not fight against
the German air superiority.”
German advance across the Meuse in
the Sedan sector halted by great Allied
air attack, in which over 150 machines
take part. Four bridges destroyed,
tank and troop concentrations broken
up and roads blocked. Thirty-five
Allied machines missing. Germans
also admit loss of 35 ’planes, but claim
that crossings were unhindered (May
14).
Two R.A.F. raids east of the Rhine ;
considerable damage done to military
objectives, chiefly road and rail com-
munications (May 15 and 16).
Germans assert that a week’s fighting
cost the Allies 1462 machines (May
17). Air Ministry replies: “The Ger-
man High Command must have pub-
lished its own losses in error. Allied
losses have, in fact, been only a small
fraction of the number alleged.”
Another R.A.F. raid on Germany;
oil depots and storage tanks destroyed
and others damaged (May 18). The
machines were Lockheed Hudsons,
known in Australia. British bombers
almost incessantly attack the spear-
head of the German advance into
France.
Alleging that 40 civilians had been
killed and 114 injured in Friday night s
raid on Hamburg and Bremen, the
enemy bombs Paris. Four bombers
brought down.
Flying-Officer Clisby, of Adelaide,
reported missing. He had shot down
14 enemy machines, three two
Heinkel Ill’s and a Messerschmitt 110
—in one day. Landing at an emer-
gency ’drome, he rounded up the crew
of one of the Heinkels with his re-
volver.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM
6AM
6KG
Perth .. .
Northam. .
Kalgoorlie
500 watts
2000 watts
500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
BE YOUNG
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
doctors say your virility ond vig-
our depend greotly on your Hor-
mone Glondt. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness.
Price 10/6. Write TO-DAY.
MEN!
5
B 21
GLAND
tomic
T J O N E S 6 CO.
CHKMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
THE SERVICE MAN
The Hurricane Campaign.
“Ek Dum”: Holland did not long hold
out after devastating universal war was
put into operation against her. The little
country had no chance. Parachute troops
rained out of the skies. Ships in the
closely packed harbors disgorged armed
men. Nazis hidden in houses poured
into the streets. What appeared to be
Dutch soldiers turned out to be German
detachments disguised in local uniforms.
Everywhere there were German sym-
pathisers—people who have fraternised
for years with Nazis across the adjacent
border and who have been captivated by
the marching, the propaganda and the
uniforms.
Over all there was a scorching air
war, the greatest blast of bombing in his-
tory. And the short distances and innu-
merable roads which run from Germany
to the sea over low, flat land made per-
meation by swiftly mechanised forces an
easy matter.
In a few hours, Dutch air strength
was crippled by the capture or the de-
struction of aerodromes, the Dutch air
force in process of annihilation; in a
day or two German columns moving
from the north-east into Friesland, where
there were few defences, had reached the
Zuyder Zee.
There remained to be dealt with the
“Holland fortress,” the four provinces
which lie inside the much-vaunted water
defences, between the wide mouth of the
Waal, the North Sea and the Zuyder Zee.
Here are The Hague, Amsterdam and
Rotterdam. But this district had been
permeated from the first by parachute
troops and by “fifth column” men, and
it was continually blasted from overhead.
Moreover, it had a vulnerable gateway
on the south where the great bridge—
the longest in Europe —on the road from
Breda to Dordrecht crosses the Hollands
Diep. Once in possession of that, the
enemy could outflank the water-defence
zones and at the same time shut off the
Dutch defenders of the “fortress” from
contact at the most vital point with the
Allies and Belgium.
This crucial point of entry was appar-
ently treacherously handed over early in
the invasion. From then onwards, the
fate of the heart of Holland was sealed.
On May 14, after five days of re-
sistance, General Winkelman, c.-in-c. of
the Netherlands troops, asked the Hilver-
sum radio station to make contact with
German headquarters. With all the back
country and the north overrun, with the
gate of the “fortress” open, the defend-
ing air force destroyed, Dutch territory
white-anted throughout, the General
issued an order to the troops to lay down
their arms to avoid the complete de-
struction of the country. Thus Germany
gained possession of the capital and of
two of the world’s greatest ports, of
Dutch shipping and shipbuilding yards,
of all the principal Dutch aerodromes.
Only in Zeeland could the Dutch
continue to fight, with Allied help.
Except for part of the mainland
on the south of the Scheldt, which
is entirely surrounded on the land
side by Belgian territory, the province
consists entirely of islands—Walcheren,
where Earl Chatham, with his sword un-
drawn, stood waiting for Sir Richard
Strachan —S. and N. Reveland, Schou-
wen, Tholen and Over Flakee, which lie
in the gap between the south Scheldt bank
and the northern entrance to the Hol-
lands Diep. But a German back-wall
facing the whole of the Belgian northern
defences had been built.
Operations against Belgium and France
began contemporaneously with the drive
into Holland. The enemy’s early methods
were the same as in Holland —demoralis-
ing attacks behind the Allied lines, blast-
ing of French and Belgian towns by air-
craft, dropping of parachute troops.
His general plan was to break through
the French border defences at the
weakest spot, and establish coastal bases
from which he could harass England
and cross-Channel traffic.
The lines of offence and defence
quickly took shape, roughly in the form
of the letter “Z.” The top of the letter
runs across Belgium, along the Albert
Canal defences; the diagonal, from Liege
to the French border near Mezieres,
along the River Meuse ; the bottom hori-
zontal, along the French defences into
the Maginot Line proper, which ends at
Montmedy.
Montmedy is 64 miles from Mezieres,
42 miles from Sedan. From Montmedy
to the sea, near Dunkirk, Allied defences
are newer and less strong than the
Maginot.
German progress, therefore, moved in
three directions —towards the North Sea
above the Albert Canal to take up posi-
tions for a drive on Antwerp and Brussels
from the north; towards the Meuse,
where the great line of fortresses stretches
roughly west and south from Liege ; and
directly toward the French border in the
bottom angle of the “Z.”
The pivot of German operations was
Aix, from which numerous main military
highways spread fanwise to the rear
into Germany. In front, numerous other
highways spread fanwise into Belgium.
The first main operation was to take the
rugged hill country of the little Duchy
of Luxembourg. This gave control of
four other road systems from the focal
points of which troops could be quickly
spread over the whole length of the Liege
line —Eupen, Malmedy, Bastogne, Arlon.
These were points of approach in the
last war, but this time the method was
different. In both cases, the element
of surprise was used, but the factual posi-
tions have vitally changed. In the last
war, lack of mechanisation and imperfect
roads and transport made progress slow.
On the other hand, the Allies were not
unprepared to make heavy infantry re-
sistance, but their fortress line, supposed
to be capable of resisting anything, was
actually completely vulnerable. The sur-
prise lay in the German mobile heavy
howitzers, which cracked the Belgian
forts like walnuts.
This time, the natural order of old
wars was reversed. The Germans’ ad-
vance was so swift that they were at
points nearly 200 miles from their pivotal
centre and 120 miles from the German
border within four days after the first
move. The capture of the Liege line of
forts was made subordinate to smash-
and-grab raids on the Allied fronts at
points of weakness.
These were conducted with hurricane
speed on a wave system. First, the raids
of bombers and troop-carriers behind
the Allied lines —for demoralisation of
the civilian population and of Allied
communications. Next, merging with
the preliminary raids, heavy bombing
raids on troop and communication con-
centrations —demoralisation of the defen-
sive front; then, the first hurricane drive
of the mechanised units, still guarded
and assisted from the air. The armament
of these advanced attacks consisted in
everything that horror and barbarity
could devise; columns of tanks (some
80-tonners) armed with medium artillery
and machine-guns driving against the
defenders; flame-thrower tanks blasting
everything in their way, setting everything
inflammable on fire, with mechanised,
intensively armed infantry to follow and
consolidate gains.
The waves swept past and isolated the
fortresses. As they succeeded the
motorised heavy artillery trundled up
behind to smash these at their leisure.
It was hurricane battle, carried on
over 400 miles of lines by an army whose
leaders do not count human life or
material or consider anything but ulti-
mate success.
The Allies had to face, first, a drive
in the region of Sedan, which lies 13
miles inside France near the Stenay Gap.
This was designed to create a break at
a weak point between the Maginot Line
and its northern continuation.
The second main attacks were on the
170-miles of the bent-arm Liege-Mezieres
line, the elbow of which, at the for-
tress of Namur, points inward, like an
arrowhead, towards Brussels.
Inside this, the Allied forces were dis-
posed, covering all approaches on the
three land sides, and fighting very much
in the formation of an old infantry
hollow square, whose fronts aimed at
resilience and elasticity rather than at
rigidity.
The enemy crossed the canal on
the north and the Meuse on the Luxem-
bourg side at every approach. The coun-
try inside the defence line is flat, gener-
ally speaking, making for mobility. The
road system is magnificent.
The Allied method, like their for-
mation, was that of the old square fight-
ing: to take the brunt of the blows, the
line bending but not breaking, until the
impetus of the German rush exhausted
itself, all the time destroying. Then to
launch the counter-attack with an added
concentration of fresh troops behind
their return blow.
Meantime, they carried on a secondary
attack on enemy rearward concentra-
tions, cutting up mechanised columns,
blocking roads with bombed transport,
harassing every movement, every trans-
port junction which could be picked up
for a hundred miles behind the enemy
line.
The northern Belgian line held by the
British swung back presently towards
the French fixed defences, which were
almost along the exact line held by the
northern parts of the Allied armies on
November 11, 1918, when Germany was
decisively beaten in the last war.
The greatest brunt of the German
blows by the end of last week were fall-
ing on two sides of the salient on the
French border.
One arm of this stretches from Longwy
.—about 90 miles from the corner where
Luxembourg joins France —to Mezieres,
where the Meuse turns toward Namur.
Here, round Sedan, was the spearpoipt of
the attack on the French and the Stenay
Gap. The line of the attack then from
Mdzieres continued up the other salient
arm along the Meuse about 50 miles to-
wards Dinant. The two attacks formed
a twisting movement, with pressure out-
ward on both sides. On the Mdzieres-
Dinant front, a few miles’ advance across
the river placed the enemy in pos-
session of the pivots of the radiating
road systems —Phillipeville and Charleroi
—and provided a centre from which to
swing up from the south at the back of
Namur.
On May 16 British forces stopped a
deep penetration at Louvain, out of
which they drove the enemy. But to-
wards the week-end German pressure
increased at two points, smashing flat
the already-dinted top of the original
double salient forming the “Z” lines and
changing the shape into an open ragged
“L,” with the enemy inside, round the
angle which was at Mezieres and Sedan.
Both sides of this angle the French
were holding. Of necessity the British
line in Belgium had to come back.
Brussels and Antwerp were abandoned
to the enemy and the fate of the Dutch
Zeeland provinces was sealed. The
British and Belgians settled on prepared
fortifications in an attempt to hold the
Channel ports and maintain their junc-
tion with the French army. On Monday
morning they were holding their posi-
tions.
The Germans began to break through
at the Mezieres angle on the Maginot
Line side of it. As they poured through
the Sedan gap into a 30-mile-deep salient
Marshal Gamelin issued his last order
of the day:
Any soldier who cannot advance should
allow himself to be killed rather than
abandon that part of our national soil
confided to him. As always in the grave
hours of our history, the order today is
“Conquer or die.” We must conquer.
The salient established on French soil
had its apex at Rethel on the Aisne,
38 miles from Rheims. Here much of
the country south of the Belgian border
is flat or undulating, ideal for wide
manoeuvre by heavy motor vehicles. As
German divisions poured in—by Satur-
day 50 were reported to be through the
border gap the bursting pressure be-
came too heavy to hold. It was applied
on the French northern front leading
away towards the Channel coast, with a
scouring movement westward. The bulge
soon extended both northward along the
border, threatening to cut the Anglo-
French communications, and further
westward into France toward Paris. On
Sunday it extended out to the great main
road which runs between St. Quentin,
through Laon and Rheims.
The Germans reported that Le Cateau
was also in their hands, so that another
deep salient driving towards the Channel
coast had been definitely formed. Later
a claim was made that they were within
75 miles of Paris on the west. The 75-
mile circle runs roughly through the
forest of Compiegne behind St. Quentin,
and further south just to the west of
Chateau Thierry.
On Sunday night the French Govern-
ment announced that General Weygand
had been appointed “Commander-in-Chief
in all theatres of operations.” It had
already recalled Marshal Petain from
Spain to act as Vice-Premier, Prime
Minister Reynaud becoming Minister of
War and Defence.
On Friday the enemy claimed to
have taken 12,000 prisoners, “including
two generals,” in the Sedan salient; on
Sunday his communique said “110,000
prisoners so far counted, exclusive of
Dutch.”
A serious position? Yes ; but the posi-
tion in August, 1914, was worse. “If
they are behind our front,” the British
P.M. said on Sunday, “the French at
many points are behind theirs.” In other
words, there were then opportunities for
a counterstroke; and in the planning of
counterstrokes Weygand, who was
Foch’s right-hand man and the saviour
of Poland in 1920, excels.
The second contingent of the A.I.F.
arrived in the Suez Canal area on May
17, “in good condition and good heart
and ready for anything,” said Major-
General Mackay when he stepped
ashore. All the States were represented
among the boys, Victoria and Westralia
especially, and the voyage was made
to schedule. The R.A.A.F. patrolled
nearly 500,000 square miles of sea until
the ships were out of aircraft range of
the Australian coast, and British, Aus-
tralian and French warships were always
handy.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: Maoriland raised the re-
cruiting age-limit to 40, and once more
Australia has followed its example. There
are many Diggers round 40 who served
in the 1918 campaign in France, and,
although their memories of aerial bomb-
ing and machine-gunning are not
pleasant, the probabilities are that they
would stand it better than youngsters
who never endured it. Nor would there
be any occasion for demanding birth
certificates. Sound veterans of France,
Flanders and Palestine who look no
more than 40 and satisfy the quack might
be reckoned 40 for the duration.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: Because it is desired to
retain the old cavalry spirit, “Light
Horse” regiments are being enlisted in
the Second A.1.F., but there will be no
horses, no emu feathers, none of the
trappings so familiar in Palestine during
the last war. The units are being com-
pletely mechanised. Recruiting sergeants
are on the lookout for men with ex-
perience of rough bush driving and with
the nerve and mechanical ability to
handle light tanks and armored trans-
port vehicles.
* * * *
Australian factories have begun to
produce the new 3.7 in. A.A. guns which
are designed to deal with fast, high-
flying aircraft. They are an outsize in
length of bore and are highly mobile.
It is intended to turn them out in great
numbers.
* * * *
“D.E.”: The Dutch seem fated to
be the victims of unusual methods of war-
fare. Their collapse on the fifth day was
precipitated, though not exactly caused,
by the seizure of aerodromes by troops
that dropped from the sky and were
reinforced towards the end at the rate of
500 an hour, though at intervals Allied
bombers gave them fearful punishment.
In 1795 Dutch resistance to the French
invaders was to a large extent overcome
by Pichegru’s hussars, who ventured on
the frozen Helder and captured their ship-
ping. Afterwards, as in 1940, the head of
the House of Orange took refuge in
London. A previous Prince of Orange,
our own William 111, when hard pressed
by the French, took the heroic resolution
to remove the entire nation to the Dutch
East Indies rather than yield. In those
days, there was room for it in the
islands ; they are now much too crowded
for any such migration even on a
limited scale.


m
~ r TT
(0
N l T E NEWS
u
f ; : r|Kij ;|
wm
Wf3«
1* ........
mmm
■
m
.
.Wl
!lig!iH Jifi
AT General Motors - Holden's
new Pagewood Plant,
Masonite Quartrboard De Luxe
was used tor the ceilings and
Masonite Presdwood for parti-
tions and flush doors.
General Motors - Holden's are
keen and farsighted buyers.
They perceived that Masonite
possesses greater qualities of
service, greater possibilities for
design, greater ease in working
and a more attractive finished
appearance than any other com-
parable medium. Whether you
are building a factory or a
"week-ender", whether you are
constructing or modernising,
you'll save money, time, labour
and worry if you use Australian
made Masonite "The Wonder
Board of a Thousand Uses .
G.M.-H. for insulation against heat and coldl
[Cane-ite was used extensively by
For Modernising Homes, for Furniture. f ° r S^® lveS Caravans
boards ... Wall Lining ... Floors ... ’ r tc
. . . Store Displays . . . Concrete Forming, tic.
JE3
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD • PRESDWOOD • TEMPRTILE • QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
THF COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide rerin
Sydney
Adelaide
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Dick Tafone”: Brisbane’s Vice-
Mayoralty seems an unlucky sort of job.
Watson went out with the Jolly Admini-
stration, Nixon-Smith with Greene s,
Warmington didn’t even get to the polls
(he lost the party nomination) and Laurie
has followed the massive “Alfie” Jones
into outer darkness. Whether the jinx
will pursue Tait, fifth incumbent of the
politically-fatal office, is already the sub-
ject of a few long-range bets among
those interested in such matters.
* * * *
“Atrax”: The giant fig-trees at the in-
tersection of Creek, Elizabeth and Eagle
streets in Brisbane, actual survivors from
the original magnificent rain forests de-
scribed by Oxley in 1823, are protected
by a special deed of grant. Signed by
Governor H. W. Norman on May 16,
1889, it conveys for ever to the people of
Queensland, through the municipality of
North Brisbane, 10 perches and 1-11th
of a perch of land in the streets men-
tioned, for plantation purposes and other
similar usages only. Those trees have
looked on all of Brisbane’s history: con-
victs drawing nets at the near-by creek
mouth to get mullet for the little prison
settlement, blacks swimming across from
Kangaroo Point to raid the Petrie garden,
young John McMaster wielding the
hammer in his blacksmith shop just
across Creek-street from them, the birth
of Queensland’s Labor party under the
Tree of Knowledge close by ; indeed, a
thousand forgotten memories whisper
amongst their leaves and haunt the green
shade beneath.
* * * *
“Leaf”: Under stress of war the fetish
about Australian tobacco leaf being poor
stuff is dying fast. Everything that looks
like commercial leaf is selling like hot
cakes, and floors at Queensland sales are
being swept clean, whether the leaf
comes from northern N.S.W., the Texas
country or Mareeba and Dimbulah in
the far north. Last week one lot from
Dimbulah brought 54d. per pound, and
there were many sales at 50d. and 52d.
There seems to be a good chance to put
the industry permanently on its feet.
“ That's right, stupid—scare the daylights outa the ’ orse !”
“X.T ”: Innisfail (N.Q.) has celebrated
its golden jubilee, a fact which the casual
visitor would find hard to believe, since
it looks as if it had existed since
Adam was in knickerbockers. The
founder was T. H. Fitzgerald, afterwards
in the Leg. Council, who established a
sugarmill there in 1880. There are now
four big mills—Goondi, Mourilyan, S.
Johnstone and Tully—which pour money
into the town, one of the richest in Aus-
tralia. The place was originally known
as Geraldton, but confusion with the
Westralian Geraldton led to a change.
“Titre”: If ever there was a story
which should put heart into white Aus-
tralians, it is that of the development of
sugar in Forgan Smith’s Mackay (N.Q.)
district. When black labor was in its
last throes at the opening of the century,
the district considered itself rich and pro-
lific with an output of 24,000 tons. Gloom
descended on it through the 1903 drought
year, when production came down to
16,300 tons. Old hands shook their heads
and proclaimed that without the kanaka
there would soon be no sugar and very
little Mackay. But this year’s output
was 204,000 tons.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: Brisbane’s new Story
Bridge is undergoing finishing touches.
Footways are being put down and lamp-
posts going up, and everything is fixed
for ribbon-cutting in July. Not so impos-
ing a structure as the Sydney Harbor
Bridge—local statisticians point out
gloomily that it is only 120 feet above the
water, while Sydney’s mammoth is 170-
odd feet up —it will follow the Ma
State’s bridge in being subject to tolls.
How much the toll will be has not been
decided. But Cabinet is divided as to
whether to tax vehicles only or footpath
passengers as well.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Queensland’s Full Court
Bench in scarlet and ermine farewelled
James Blair, who handed over the reins
as Chief Justice to Hugh Macrossan, J.
He had been on the Bench for 18 years,
for all but three of which he occupied
the C.J.’s chambers. Hugh Macrossan
was called in 1907, and has been senior
puisne Judge since 1926. He is 59. The
retiring C.J. goes out without pension.
He is to retain his position as Lieut.-
Governor, and the William Lennon prece-
dent will probably be revived and a
salary attached to the job. There are
no pensions for Queensland Judges
appointed after the passing of the Judi-
ciary Act in 1921, which put all future
appointees off the Bench at 70 without
compensation.
* * * *
“Pietro W.”: “The moment arrives for
refuting unworthy misunderstandings
and wrong impressions. We have an
opportunity for showing, by our generous
contributions [to Australian war funds]
how heartily we participate in the vicis-
situdes of this generous country. Our
sons, Australians of tomorrow, will be
proud of our gesture.” Statement issued
by Innisfail Italo-Australians about the
same time as Fascists were plastering
walls in Rome with anti-British posters.
* * * *
“Cloviski MacOdoacer”: New Guinea
is a place that one does not get to know
in a week or a fortnight, and we fixtures
generally harbor sentiments of ridicule
towards globetrotters, tourists and poli-
ticians who drop in for such periods nnd
think they have seen the Territory. But
author Frank Clune seems an unusual
sort of person, and he may prove an ex-
ception. On a flying visit, he accom-
panied the Administrator on his trip to
the Sepik district, first up the river by
boat, then across from Marui to Mapnk
on foot—partly over the road which is
still going ahead in spite of a North of
Twenty-eighter’s decisive abolition ot it
a few months ago —and in from Maprik
to Wewak by air. The trip up the river
took them as far as Wogamush, where on
special occasions the Mayor and Cor-
poration can with the greatest of ease be
prevailed upon to line up on the bank in
full regalia and take potshots at their
visitors with arrows. This is 400 miles
or so up the mighty stream, and anvone
who has been as far up as that can tauly
claim to have been in the real New
Guinea and to have carried away some
lasting impressions of it. It is perhaps
unfortunate for Clune that he reached
the river in the off season for mosquitoes,
but, as he absolutely refuses to believe
that he will never know what he missed.
’** * *
“Norther”: Though the average Syd-
neysider regards Bananaland as a rather
backward country somewhere north of
Newcastle it can show N.S.W. points in
decentralisation of population. Figures
got together for Queensland cities out-
side Brisbane as at 31/12/’39 show Rock-
hampton with 34,696 people; Bunda-
berg, 13,000; Cairns, 15,200; Charters
Towers, 8150; Gympie, 8400; Ipswich,
22,991 ; Toowoomba, 29,518 ; Towns-
ville, 31,414 ; and Warwick, 7000. Apart
from Newcastle, Broken Hill (which is
really a S.A. city) and Wollongong,
N.S.W. can show no collection of com-
parable centres, its best being Bathurst
and Orange, about 11,000 each; Goul-
burn, 17,000 ; Albury (really Victorian),
10,833 ; Grafton, 9500 ; Lithgow, 15,000 ;
Lismore, 12,000 ; West Maitland, 14,000;
Tamworth, 11,500; Wagga, 12,000.
H: * *
“Scat”: Blain, M.P., is still crying
in the wilderness for a housing plan for
Darwin, where workmen from the South
have to make shift with whatever accom-
modation they are lucky enough to find.
There are workers’ homes schemes in
most of the States, and, Payne
Committee said, they have “had a re-
markable stabilising influence in Jhe
social and industrial life of Australia. A
scheme of a sort for the N.T. was
approved in 1919, “but it was never
brought into operation and no advances
under it were made.” That’s Govern-
ment’s way with the N.T.
* * * *
“James W.”: Amos Baker, who had
an argument with a crocodile at Moss-
man (N.Q.), is making medical history.
The shock of such a mauling is usually
fatal, and in this case a slash pierced the
lung. As a rule the slightest scratch or
tear from the teeth or claws of one of
the filthy beasts means blood poisoning
unless a doctor gets in a shot of serum
hurriedly. Nevertheless, Baker is on the
high road to recovery, and incidentally,
through a newspaper report of the
attack, he got in touch with a daughter
he hadn’t seen for 31 years. All Moss-
man would like to see that croc, over
the sights of a high-powered rifle.
* * * *
“Yippee”: I read of the proposed
establishment of a dude ranch in the N.T-
as a magnet for tourists, mainly—l sup-
pose American. Forlorn hope. In
Nevada, the home State of dude ranches
in the U.S.A., tourists (mostly women
with business at Reno) insist upon going
Western” with all mod. con. Las Vegas
supplies all these needs. The streamlined
Union Pacific Express carries you to
Las Vegas at 100 m.p.h., and while
you’re speeding past the open spaces °
cactus and alkali you can sink highballs
in a vibrationless bar-room furnished like
an early Mae West interior. In Las
Vegas gambling and drinking joints are
wide open all day and night. Cowboys
come from Arizona, California and Texas
to take part in “Helldorado Week, an
the official slogan during that season is
“Whiskers, Bustles and Whoopee. J-
can’t see Darwin rivalling Las Vegas
at least, not until we get a new slant on
entertainment values in this country.


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
r
You CAN
Write Stories!
Let us develop your writing: talent with
our simplified postal course. Make your
spare time profitable.
Write or call for FREE booklet to Dept. B.
NEWTON COLLEGE
FAYS BUILDING, CNR. PITT AND
LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
BLUE GILLETTE BLADES
When you meet a man for the first time you may not notice
the colour of his eyes but you will notice whether he is well-
shaved or not. For any man of self-respect, then, the daily shave
is an important matter. You can be sure he uses Blue Gillettes
—the blade that gives him a close, smooth shave with the least
trouble and expense. Blue Gillettes are 5 for 1/6.
O \V^ TTE aL *D is
C ££AN
lG
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
K.G.: “Too Bad” i5....E.K.: Lacks form,
O.C.P.: Another poem about Hitler!.—
P.A.W. (Kansas): It’s coming the long way
home... .W.0.C.: Sounds youthful... .N.T.:
You can’t rhyme “score” and “law”
~ r t • U 4. ci,
M.L.W.: A featherweight. E.R.M.. Prefer
your usual vein... .F.E.: For the Lord s
sake don t send us little rays of sunshine.
....S.H.S.: A statement, but it’s not a poem.
L.K.S.: Indistinguishable from a dozen
others on the same theme D.0.D.: The
first line describes it W.A.W.: “Thou art
wont to be” is years away from the living
language J.S.: A women’s paper might
bite M.H.H.: “Arise, arise, O people.”
Avaunt, avaunt, O poem A.R.N.: “Trifle”
is mostly stale cake... .K.D.S.: A wooden
tree J.W.: Interred.... W.N.J.: There
weren’t any vipers in the Augean stable....
A.C.: A pair of nothings G.N.Y.: Not
here, but it might go elsewhere L.P.T.:
Even a flapper-mag. would consider that over-
sentimental... .N.F.P.: You’ve cut the best
parts of it... .G.K.R.: “The great horse that
came through storm and fire and water with
courage yet undimmed” is grazing peace-
fully in the w.p.b D.C.R.: Too long
for a par.; add characterisation and set-
ting and it might get across as a short
yarn G.R.: An idea there, but it needs
better treatment 8.W.P.: An improvement,
but you’re still too fond of scenery... .F.P.R.:
It’s all right to be angry, but you have to
back up your case with facts... .L.H.: Too
long E.D.A.8.: Read it to a kindergarten.
. ...K.D.: We all know that... .8.H.0’R.:
Write on one side of the paper, please....
M. : Pleasant sentiments worth only a
quarter of that length J.R.C.: Mark Twain
beat you to it M.R.D.: No, but call again
with a less sentimental yarn in the same set-
ting J.D.E.: You forgot to provide the
villain with a black moustache... .D.L.R.:
Illustrations are hopeless, but even so they’re
better than the yarn... .N.C.T.: There’s an
article there, but you’ve smothered it with
words 8.H.A.: “A Legal Eagle” is coming
home to roost D.L.T.: “Wild Dog” was
returned; no record of the others N.D.L.:
Try an English monthly K.T.: Forget about
trying to write the Great Australian Short
Story, and you might get somewhere....
N. : Shows some promise, but not enough
to merit publication... .L.D., J.C.A., P.S. and
D.T.: Missed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.H.: It didn’t penetrate our first line of
defence M.D.: Gent, poised on top of
wheat stack told to go home V.N.: Too
many black, ugly patches R. 8.: Chamber-
lain-Billy Hughes gag first came into circula-
tion about the time of the Munich Pact
N.H.: It calls for a lot of repairs M.T.:
Mildly-amusing jest handicapped by a wretched
sketch E.P.8.: Didn’t pass muster J. 8.:
The wash drawing beat the other by half a
head in the race to the w.p.b H.S.: Dead
tired of Dad-and-the-toothbrush gag....F.J.:
Suggest you postpone bombarding us with full
pages until you succeed with a joke b10ck....
W.W.: You’d do better to drop that freakish
style S.M.: That ancient manages to hobble
to our door at least three or four times a year.
J.M.: Caricatures need to be something
more than mere portraits L.A.: Not re-
quiring picture of kangaroo waving Australian
flag R. 8.: A mass of misplaced scratches.
M.A.: A temperance journal might print
that masterpiece T.A.: Not good enough.
JUGIONG
(BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.)
OF all the bushranging episodes that
occurred in Australia in the
middle of the nineteenth century
the most astonishing was when
Ben Hall’s gang, consisting then of only
three members, held up 60 people on the
Upper Murrumbidgee towards the end
of 1864, robbed the Melbourne-Sydney
mailcoach, and shot dead a sergeant of
P° lice -
Hall’s band of outlaws had by this time
been reduced by half. Gilbert and Dunn
remained Hall’s only assistants. And
as it had made the western district too
hot to hold it, the gang had turned its
attention to the main southern road of
N.S.W., and was engaged in sticking-up
mailcoaches along its length pretty much
in a fashion of when and how it liked.
Early on the morning of November 17
the three bushrangers began a day’s work
which was about as thorough a job as
they had ever done. The locality was the
main road near the little village of
Jugiong, and they bailed up everyone
who came along it, until in a few hours’
time they found themselves guarding a
mixed contingent of some 60 persons. The
prisoners were mustered into a secluded
spot a little way off the road, and for
most of the time they were there they
were guarded by only one man! It
seems incredible, but is literally true.
The gang was waiting for the mail-
coach, and it was of course necessary
that no travellers should be allowed to
give warning in the town—but it also
relieved the crowd of about £lOO in cash,
Presently a mounted policeman came
along, and they collected him also. He
pu t up a fight, but when he had emptied
his revolver there was nothing for it but
t o give in and take his place with the
rest 0 f t h e captives in the scrub. Soon
afterwards the coach turned up, with
a pol j ce escort accompanying it. Con-
stab]e R oac h, of Yass, who had acted
as guard of the down coach the previous
day as far as Gundagai, rode on the
ve hicle. Beside him was Police Magis-
trate Rose; c f Gundagai, and Sub-Inspec-
tor O’Neill and Sergeant Parry followed
on horseback a short distance behind,
The three bushrangers, warning the
doc ji e crowd they were guarding to
stay w here they were, mounted their
horses and rode to meet the coach. As
SO on as the quality off the approaching
horsemen was recognised a signal was
made to the mounted men behind, and
they immediately spurred to the front,
Sub-Inspector O’Neill gamely attacking
Ben Hall and Johnny Dunn, whilst Ser-
geant Parry fought a duel with Gilbert,
Before he had fired more than two or
three rounds, the sergeant fell with a
bullet through his heart. Realising that
he was outnumbered, and having
emptied his revolver, O Neill suri en-
dered - and was P laced wlth the o,her
meant i me , whilst the coach-
drjver retained control of the horses
from the box> the P.M. ordered Roach
no t to fire from the coach, but to get
down and take cover behind a tree,
which he did. But when he saw Ser-
geant Parry killed and the sub-inspector
overpowered, he took discretion to be
the better part of valor, and bolted into
the bush. It doesn’t seem that Roach
v/as as much to blame as Rose —at any-
rate, they were both subsequently re-
quired by authority to “please explain.”
There was a heavy mail on the coach,
and, together with the £lOO collected
from the prisoners before its arrival, the
bushrangers made a good haul. After
they had completely looted the mailbags
they mounted their horses and rode
away, but before they did so Gilbert
walked over to Sergeant Parry’s body.
“I’m sorry for him,” he said, “for he
was a brave fellow. I don’t like to
shoot a man, and he’s the first man I
ever shot —but I can’t help the poor
fellow now.”
Gilbert himself was filled with police
bullets a few months afterwards, whilst
Hall met the same sort of unpleasant
end in the following year. Dunn finished
up in Darlinghurst a little later on in a
hempen necktie. Jugiong was a really
brilliant bit of bushranging, but bullets
and rope were, after all, its only and
inevitable reward.
“Bohemian”: The widow of the Maori
prophet Ratana is dead. A daughter of
Ngapaki, chief of the Ngarurawura tribe
(South Taranaki), she was known as I’e
Urumanoa. She came of a very intelli-
gent branch of the Polynesian race, and,
sharing the opinion of other authorities
that the Maoris did not spring from
aboriginal stock, she reached the con-
elusion that their remote forefathers
came from Egypt. A son is H. T. Ratana,
M.P.
* * * *
From Finland Fights, by one Herbert
Elliston:
Stalin got much more than is known out
of the Germans [in return for his pact with
Hitler]. One of the subsidiary prizes was
a present of the plans of Finland s Man-
ner p heim Line . Ev £ ry Finn knows it . The
giver was General Arnike, formerly in the
German service at Helsinki, who had helped
the Finns with their defences.
If this is true the “mighty Red Army”
should never show its face again, for
with this knowledge and a superiority
of 40 to 1 it still took three months and
a half to turn the Mannerheim Line.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
; n two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. An
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, sq.,
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wni. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
MOTORISTSI-RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
V
M
Just pour in plug holes;
reconditions while- U-drive.
Saves rebore, ends piston
slap, rattles, oil, petrol
•waste, &c. Restores power.
Guaranteed good for 10. IW
miles. Harmless finest en-
gine. Trial tube, 6/6- Any-
one can use it. HE-NU
LTD. (est. 1932), op. Rich-
mond stn. 75 other lines.
Free samples offered. Agents
required.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
r
for murder the jury may convict the accused
of manslaughter. (3) Murder is unlawfully
killing “with malice aforethought, either ex-
pressed or implied.” Manslaughter is killing
without any intention of taking life.
* * * *
What was the value of Australian exports
to various foreign countries for the year 1938-
39?—7132. „ _
Belgium £5,546,514, Chile and Peru £2542,
China £2,918,476, Manchuria £63,450, Egypt
£591,493, France £9,378,782, Germany
£2,652,420, Italy £1,211,326, Japan £4,865,469,
Netherlands £1,038,627, Netherlands East
Indies £1,373,197, Norway £25,263, Pacific
Islands (foreign) £385,800, Philippine Islands
£498,893, Russia £278,460, Spain £954, Sweden
£637,038, U.S.A. £3,614,038, other foreign
countries £2,345,876. Figures are Australian
currency values.
* * * *
How much bacon and ham is produced in
each of the Australian States annually? In
what year was the peak reached? What
percentage is exported? —7154.
The highest production of bacon and ham
was reached in 1935-36 with an output of
77,655,1781 b. compared with a 72,800,0001 b.
average for the last five years. The production
in 1937-38 amounted to 70,340,1901 b. and was
distributed among the several States as follows:
N.S.W. 21,374,6911 b., Vic. 16,696,4041 b.,
Q’land 19,607,2231 b., South Aust. 6,196,3781 b.,
West Aust. 4,010,4461 b., Tas. 2,454,5281 b.,
A.C.T. 45201 b. Practically the whole of the bacon
and ham produced is consumed locally. On the
experience of the last five years the local con-
sumption was about 71,200,0001 b. per year,
10.51 b. per unit of population. The bacon and
ham exported from Australia is consigned
chiefly to the Pacific Islands and the East.
* * * *
A few details concerning the Kellogg Pact ?
—7140.
Also known as the Kellogg-Briand Pact, it
was an international agreement signed in 1928
on the initiative of Frank B. Kellogg, at that
time U.S. Foreign Secretary, by virtue of
which the signatory nations (almost all in the
world) condemned war as an instrument of
settling international disputes and undertook
to settle such disputes by peaceful methods.
* * * *
I am about to buy a house in Sydney on terms.
(1) What legal expenses do I have to pay?
(2) What are the usual instalments on a £SOO
purchase, £SO deposit? (3) Who is liable for
rates, water, light, gas and insurance? Do
contracts come under the Moratorium Act? —
7121.
(1) You will have to pay the solicitor’s
costs and all other incidental expenses of the
transfer. (2) A matter for agreement between
the parties; there is no fixed sum. (3) Your-
self as the owner. The property does not come
under the Moratorium Act.
* * * *
(1) What is the present price of antimony ?
(2) Is it a controlled price? (3) Names of
buyers ? —7021.
(1) The London price for antimony is approxi-
mately £lO2 per ton for English regulus (special),
£92 10s. p.t. English regulus (ordinary), £BS p.t.
Chinese, £95 p.t. Canadian —all sterling.
Approved 50 p.c. Sb sulphide ore is quoted
at about 10s. sterling per unit delivered London.
(2) Marketing is “controlled,” although the
price is not fixed. (3) Suggest try Frank Ham-
bridge, ore-buyer, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney.
* * *
Number and length of < films dealt with by
the Commonwealth Film Censor, and the
countries of their origin, for the last year for
which figures are available? —7135.
Imported films dealt with by the Censorship
in 1938 were as follows: 1615 films of
3,954,547 ft. passed without eliminations, 102
films of 368,137 ft. passed after eliminations, and
17 films of 111,503 ft. rejected in the first in-
stance, making a total of 1734 films of
4,434,187 ft. (one copy). U.S.A. sent 1223 films
of 3,632,887 ft.; United Kingdom, 428 films of
666,065 ft.; and 83 films of 135,235 ft. came
from other countries. The foregoing figures
relate to standard-size films (35 millimetres).
There were also imported during 1938 1925
miniature films (16, 9.5 and eight millimetres)
of 598,898 ft.
* * * *
What was the cause of the strike on the
Vic. State Electricity Commission’s work at
Yallourn in June, 1938 ? —7150.
The refusal of a claim for an increase of
6s. per week on all marginal rates, which was
included in a log of claims served on the
State Electricity Commission by the Amalga-
mated Engineering Union. A conference was
held at which the commission presented its
terms of settlement —including a service grant
to employees with four or more years of ser-
vice ; cumulative sick leave up to a maximum
of 16 days; an extra 3s. per week for motor
mechanics and double time for work on
Sundays and statutory holidays. The proposals
were at first rejected by the employees, but
later negotiations between the Trades Hall
Disputes Committee and the commission re-
sulted in an agreement being reached after a
stoppage of approximately 13 weeks.
* * * *
What opportunities are there and what
certificate is necessary to secure employment
as a Diesel engineer in N. S. Wales? —6864.
Certificates for engine-driving, gas, oil, steam
and electric, are granted by the Mines Depart-
ment, and examinations are conducted by this
department at various centres. Of over 900
certificates issued in 1938 the majority were
for Diesel engines. Suggest you get in touch
with Inspector McGrath, Department of Mines,
George-street, Sydney.
* * * *
l am constructing a kerosene-operated re-
frigerator. What fluid should I use in the unit
and how does it operate? —6943.
In one type of gas refrigerator a small gas
flame is applied to a generator containing a
30 pc solution of ammonia and distilled
water This vaporises the ammonia, which is
liquefied in a condenser by the cooling action
of the air in the room passing over a fin-type
coil. In the evaporator, hydrogen gas flows
in a counter direction and produces rapid
evaporation of the ammonia, withdrawing heat
from the ice trays and box, thus causing
cooling to occur. The ammonia gas flows be-
neath the lighter hydrogen through a heat ex-
changer to the absorber, where the weak liquid
flowing over the baffle plates absorbs the
ammonia gas and returns it to the boiler, thus
completing the cycle. A . secondary methyl
chloride circuit carries off the heat given out by
the ammonia within the absorber. In the
kerosene-operated refrigerator a small kerosene
lamp takes the place of the gas burner. It
would be necessary to obtain accurate details
as to sizes of various parts of the equipment,
the pressures used and many other technical
details which have not been disclosed.
* * * *
(1) How to repair aluminium utensils with
solder ? (2) How to coat a child’s school black-
board? —7023. . t
(1) Ordinary tin or lead solder is unsatisfac-
tory, but various proprietary solders are avail-
able designed especially for alummiumware.
Patents include (a) French patent 758,394:
Zinc 8 kilograms, tin 1, copper 0.5, alu-
minium 1, bismuth 0.025. ( b ) U.S. patent
1,927,052: Zinc 24 parts, tin 12, mercury 4,
aluminium 1. (c) U.S. patent 1,926,853: Tin
66-69 p.c., zinc 27.5-28.5, aluminium 2.5-6.5.
(2) Mix together 4oz. shellac, 2oz. ivory black
or lamp black, loz. fine-powdered emery, loz.
ultramarine, 1 quart methylated spirits. Agi-
tate occasionally until the shellac is dissolved.
If not easily available, ultramarine can be
omitted, although the finish obtained will not
be quite so good. The mixture when dissolved
is applied by brush, and care should be taken
to keep it frequently stirred so as to keep
powder in suspension. For the best results,
two coats should be applied, the first coat
being allowed to dry thoroughly. If the old
blackboard is dirty it should be thoroughly
cleaned by washing with a solution of strong
washing soda.
* * * *
I wish to study practical navigation as would
be required by a junior officer in the Australian
mercantile marine. (1) What textbooks would
I need? (2) Names of schools teaching navi-
gation? —6952.
(1) Nicholl’s Concise Navigation Guide, .vol.
I, 355.; Norries’ Tables, 375. (2) Candidates
for certificates of competency in the mercantile
marine can be coached at the following navi-
gation schools: Capt. J. F. Bayldon’s Nautical
Academy, Eitt-street; Capt. J. W. Rich-
mond’s School, Sirius House, Macquane-place
—both Sydney.
* * * *
(1) What is the maximum permissible octane
rating of petrol under the regulations prohibit-
ing the import of super-grade spirit ? (2) What
was the average octane rating of (a) super, (b)
standard petrols hitherto marketed in this
country? (3) In the event of (1) being lower
than (2) (a) why can the lower grade • im-
ported spirit not be treated in this country
to bring it up to the standard of (2) (a) ?
(4) Will (1) have any appreciable effect on the
rate of carbon deposition and the fuel con-
sumption of a 1939 Chevrolet ? —-6948.
(1) 71. (2) (a) Approximately 80. (b)
Approximately 70. (2) The general method of
treatment is to add tetra-ethyl lead in order
to raise the octane number. _ This product is
expensive and is made only in U.S .A.; there-
fore, to conserve dollar exchange the manu-
facture of super-grade spirits from standard-
grade spirits is . prohibited. (4) No.
* * *
How to make an office paste from flour? —
7092.
Dissolve ioz. of alum in one pint of warm
water; when cold, Id flour to make a creamy
fluid; add boiling water and stir till thick,
then add preservatives —four cloves,
powdered resin and a few drops of corrosive
sublimate (bichloride of mercury). For house-
hold work it is better to make the paste as it
is required ; in which case the preservatives are
. not needed.
*
Where and when was Edward Dyson born,
and what did he write? —7138.
At Morrison’s Diggings, Victoria, on March
4, 1865; he died in Melbourne in August,
1931. He was the author of Rhymes from the
Mines and of the following novels and col-
lections of short stories: The Golden Shanty,
Below and On Top, The Gold Stealers, In the
Roaring Fifties, Fact’ry ’Ands, The Missing
Link, Benno, Spat’s Fact’ry and The Love of
Launcelot.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of aboriginal word “Warilya” ?
7120.
Information Supplied.
6994. —About “balloon jumping” (B.
1/5/’4O). A balloon filled with any light gas
such as helium, hydrogen, hot air or coal gas
and capable of not quite supporting the weight
of the jumper is fitted with a harness. The
jumper is armed with a long bamboo pole
with which he can push himself off the ground
every time he slowly descends to earth; the
“jumps” may vary from 50 yards to some
miles, depending on the buoyancy of the
balloon. For jumps over water the bamboo
stick is fitted with an inflated bladder so that
the jumper may push- himself off the water
with it. The sport is still popular in America,
but the cost and upkeep of the balloons are
a problem.-—S. G. H.
Brief Answers.
R. 8.8.: Write Under-Secretary, Dept, of De-
fence, Melbourne J.M.: (1) and (2) On
the facts furnished a prosecution would
not be advisable. The only action that could
be brought against the bank would be by the
co. and then it would have to show that it had
suffered damage. (3) Yes, punishable by up to
10 years’ penal servitude C.K.: Clothes
moths, carpet beetles, silverfish, etc., are pests
likely to damage the textiles mentioned. Con-
trol would best be effected with paradichlor-
benzene. If you will write to the Techno-
logical Museum, Harris-street, Sydney, it
will furnish full details as to control measures.
p.A.: (1) Submit to one of the many
Sydney stamp dealers, who may make an offer.
(2) The “Australian Stamp Monthly,” 8 Orr-
street, Melbourne... .8.E.M.: A small “Queen”
type of stove can be used in a room without
any special provision for fireplace apart from
the lengths of flue provided. These can be
taken through wall from stove, costing from £3
to £5. The approximate cost of building a fire-
place and chimney in brick would be £8 10s.
..L.W.G.: See The Australian Encyclopedia.
A.E.S.: Information of that nature is not
available for publication during war-time
A.McK.: (1) and (2) Too lengthy to describe
here. Any advanced textbook on arithmetic
will give methods. (3) Radius squared multi-
plied by 3.1416... .R. 8.: It is a French word,
and should be pronounced accordingly
J.D.: Make inquiries as follows: Navy-
District Naval Office, Beach-road, Edgechtt;
Army —Victoria Barracks, Paddington; Air
Force —No. 2 Recruiting Centre, R.A.A.F.,
Dalgety’s Buildings, Palmer-street, Woolloomoo-
loo—all Sydney M.S.: The Q land Mar-
riage Act makes no provision f °r I h r e D cele^'
tion of marriage by proxy C.H.8.: ihe
preparation mentioned can be obtained Irom
the Australian Vitamite Cos., 192 .Castlereagh-
street, Sydney E.L.M.: Hand in some oi
the letters complained of at the nearest police
station and ask that the writer be informed
that the practice must cease or steps will be
taken to abate the nuisance. . ..TG. ; See
Whitaker’s Almanack, Daily Mail Year-Book
or the Statesman’s Year-800k. ... .A.E.S.:
“Stead’s Review” ceased publication some
years ago. No present-day publication can be
likened to it... .C.H.M.: Lionel Monckton, the
musical composer and critic, was the son ot
Sir John Monckton, and was born j in 1862.
He was educated at Charterhouse and Oxford,
and died on February 15, 1924. He married
Gertie Millar... .J.C.: Such a divorce is not
recognised in Australia, but the children would
be legitimate under U.S.A. law C.G.S..
Write Mick Simmons, Ltd., George-street,
Sydney H.C.: It would be unwise to delay
the transfer as until it is made the property
stands in the vendor’s name. Better have the
transfer made to yourself, then leave the
property by will to your niece and so cover
the contingency of your death before she attains
her majority. On the other hand, should you
be alive when she comes of age you could
convey the property direct to her and make a
new will J.S.: Best consult a solicitor. As
the wife, and not the husband, was the de-
serter, she would find some difficulty in obtain-
ing a divorce on the ground of desertion.
H.R.C.: Yes, the council can prohibit
building; perhaps some form of subdivision
could be devised that would not spoil the
camping-ground M.M.: Suggest that you
write to the Secretary, Commonwealth Forestry
Bureau, Canberra... .E.P.A.: Section 10 of the
Naturalisation Act 1903-17 provides that a
person who was an infant at the time °f “ 1S
father’s naturalisation and resided in Australia
with such father during infancy shall in the
Commonwealth be deemed to be naturalised.
In the circumstances you would be deemed to
be a naturalised British subject. Your wife
and child are also British subjects.. . .A. 8..
“Amazing Mystery Funnies,” Amazing Man
Comics” and “Wonder World Comics have all
been prohibited entry into Australia. In the
absence of copies of the other publications
named it is impossible to say whether they would
come under the ban or n0t....W.W.. (1)
Constitution Acts, 2s. 3d.; Knowles s Austra-
lian Constitution, 15s. 9d.; Report of the
Royal Commission on the Constitution (1929),
10s 6d (2) Of the population in the sugar-
cane districts of Queensland 79.42 px. are
Australian, 13.38 p.c. other British and 720
p.c. foreign.... H.M.D.: Have consulted
various nautical authorities and searched all
available records but can find no trace ot th
incident....F.Y.: Write Deputy. Industrial
Registrar, Commonwealth Arbitration Court,
Darlinghurst... .Anon: Old motor-tyre rubber
may be softened by heating to about 300 deg.
F in a suitable vessel. Petroleum oil can be
included, but considerable mixing or kneading
is necessary. Introduction of sawdust at this
temperature would no doubt cause charring.
The utilisation of old waste tyre rubber is not
easy, and for successful results a reclaiming
plant is necessary C.S.L. : (1) Ini 1938 ship
ping entering the world s chief P
totalled: New York 36 529,626 tons London
30,776,918 tons, Kobe 28,362,528 tons
Rotterdam 27,809,541 tons, Istanbu> 22,968*02
tons. (2) Liverpool 17,627,805 _ tons
Southampton 13,468,875 tons... -LG-.• '
Suggest you obtain a copy of Bulletin No. 16,
“Grass Tree Resin,” from the Technological
Museum, Sydney. (2) There is a very good
market for this resin, and you should submit a
4-lb. fair average sample for examination by
the Technological Museum.. . .D.D. : No in-
formation about an old gaol at South-wes
Rocks or Pelican Island. You may have made
a mistake in the location. There is an o
gaol at Trial Bay, which was built in 1886 and
abandoned in 1903... .J.U.: Write Technologi-
cal Museum, Harris-street, Sydney... .H. 0.8. .
Consult Country Lending Branch, Pubhc
Library of N.S.W., Bent and Macquarie streets,
Sydney.... H.C.: Philip MenneW s Dictionary
of Australasian Biography was published by
Hutchinson, London, in 1892. It comprised
“Notices of eminent colonists from the m
auguration of Responsible Government down
to the present time (1855-1892).”


WHERE AUTUMN GRASS LS FROSTBITTEN, FEED
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
to supply just those minerals that the scorched pastures lack,
and so enable stock to make the most of the fodders.
Tri-cal-os contains over 70% tricalcic phosphate, having *
a guaranteed minimum of 32.5% phosphoric acid and 40%
lime —it is the most economical and reliable form of calcium
phosphate for all stock feeding. Improve production with
Tri-cal-os.
Folders and all information from —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne, Victoria.
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
St
if
m
o
'Six
£
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus oils and
their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or coal ar
derivative. Neither washes nor dries out. Does not stain fleece.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Shearing Preparations.
“Murrawong”: It will be shearing time
in N.S.W. shortly. The shed should be
overhauled early, yards first.
Fences should be sheep- and lamb-
proof ; gates should swing so that they
may be closed and opened quickly and
suitable fastenings provided. See that
there’s a weatherproof track through the
yards to the shed. If mobs have to be
drafted before shearing, clear up any
likely puddle holes in forcing yards,
drafting race and other pens. If it rains
during shearing, wet yards mean muddy
trimmings and bellies. It doesn’t cost
much to put a concrete floor in the draft-
ing race, and if this can be extended both
ways, so much the better. Where there
are droppings, the top layer should be
removed to 4in. or sin. and sprinkled
liberally with lime. This will help control
tetanus.
Pay attention to chutes.
There should be no project-
ing nails, wire or broken
battens to injure shorn
sheep.
Inspect and replace all
broken gratings where sheep
may get a foot stuck or a
leg broken. In some old
sheds, where battens are so
close or so worn that drop-
pings will not fall through,
it pays to take up the
battens and re-lay them.
Dirty sheds harbor germs
—tetanus, in particular.
Give the board and wool-
room a thorough clean-up.
Knock down old dust and
wash floors and chutes with
hot water and washing soda
to remove grease and dirt.
Sprinkle copiously with a
reliable disinfectant and let
it lie.
Overhaul wool tables and
replace broken rungs. Wool
baskets may heed repair. A
piece of* soaked cowhide
strapped on to the bottom
of a basket will lengthen
its life, and a couple of
parallel hardwood battens
bolted under the bottom of
the basket will take up
rough wear.
Before tackling bins, ask your broker
or elasser whether you have enough bins
to suit appraisement. This is important.
Overhaul and oil the press. Ropes
should be carefully inspected and re-
placed.
Test scales and see that bale stencils
are complete. Where they are missing
or broken, order new ones now, unless
you can cut a clear stencil yourself.
Have woolpacks and bale-fasteners
delivered at least a month before shear-
ing ; stencil ink, raddle, branding brushes,
sheep brands, branding oil, disinfectant
or sheep dressing also.
An oil engine—particularly an old one
—should be given a run and an overhaul.
Look to the belts; if they are leather,
get them in supple order with castor oil
or belt dressing and keep spare laces or
fasteners on hand. If shearing machinery
is old or worn, get the expert up to start
work on it a day before shearing starts.
If the grinder or handpieces need an
overhaul, send them down months before
they will be required, but have every-
thing on the spot —duplicates, emery,
glue, lubricating oil for machinery and
engine and fuel oil —at least a month
before.
Finally, see that cooking utensils,
bunks and all the requirements of the
cook and men are on hand —lamps and
kerosene, woodheap, and straw for
mattresses.
The Crow Pest.
“Bogaduck”: Feed shortage in some
districts has resulted in weak ewes at
lambing time, and crows are busy again.
Remember crows are not very clever,
only wary, alert and cunning. You can
kill them by the hundred if you go the
right way about it. But don't scare the
“Say that again and I'll knock y'r teeth down y'r throat!"
mob by killing odd ones. There are two
tried and proved methods. When birds
follow the plough to pick up grubs, cut
fresh caul fat or meat into small pieces
resembling a fat grub in shape, and with
the end of a match push some grains of
strychnine into the centre of each bait.
(If the poison is on the outside the birds
get rid of it before it can do its work.)
Put the baits into a tin after giving them
a liberal sprinkling of fresh blood, and,
as the plough goes along, toss them over
your shoulder, a handful at a time.
Within an hour the ground will be lit-
tered with crows.
Where the ewes are lambing, make
sapling-and-netting enclosures Bft. square
and 6ft. high. Cover the top with net-
ting except for a hole in the centre a
foot across. Put a few lamb carcasses
into the cages for bait, and burn or bury
every other carcass in the paddock. If
you go near the trap in daylight, or
leave dead birds where the rest can see
them, they are likely to shun the trap in
future.
Best bags I have seen in one day are
an estimate of 300 poisoned on ploughed
land, and an average of 20 per day for
over a week to each netting trap. After
that there were no more about to be
caught.
However, crow-baiting is not effective
unless the whole district takes to it.
Anthrax.
“Graz”: Anthrax in sheep and cattle
comes so suddenly they seldom show
symptoms. Victims drop down and die
in convulsions.
Animals found dead with heavily-
distended abdomens and a discharge of
dark blood from the nostrils should be
treated as suspect, and the stock in-
spector notified. A post-mortem would
reveal very dark, unclotted blood and
the spleen greatly enlarged and dark;
but skinning and p.-ms. are taboo. Apart
from personal risk, opening the carcass
considerably helps the spread of infec-
tion. Once infected blood is exposed to
the air the anthrax bacilli form spores.
Without air the organism ceases to
multiply and dies within the carcass.
The spores, once formed, remain
potent to infest pastures for many years.
Swallowed by grazing animals, the spores
break, a bacillus is formed and multiplies
with great rapidity. Carcasses should be
burnt on the spot. Burials, to be effec-
tive, need to be six feet deep and chloride
of lime spread over the ground whence
the animal was moved.
Fortunately outbreaks are not frequent
and preventive vaccines are a success.
A Farmer Stays in Bed.
“Mt. Mawson”: No need to rise at
sparrow-chirp just because you have
horses to feed. Here’s how I do it:
Above each manger is a box 18in.
long, 15in. high and lOin. wide at the
top, tapered to 4in. wide at the bottom.
A trapdoor at the bottom is kept closed
by a 15in. pin of No. 8 wire run through
staples. The pin of each box is con-
nected by a short piece of rope to a
main rope which runs through eyes the
length of the stable.
An alarm clock is placed face inwards
in a small box nailed to the wall sft.
from the floor, a small hole first being
bored through the bottom of the box
directly beneath the alarm winder. A
lever by lin. by 3ft. 6in. long is
bolted to the. wall (loose enough for free
movement) immediately below the clock
box, so that when it is in the set position
the other end fits into a slot under the
box and is held there just off the
balance so that it will always fall in the
one direction —by a wire trigger which
hooks in the alarm winder and projects
through the hole in the bottom of the
box.
The main rope is attached to the lever
9in. from the bottom and the top is
weighted with 21b. of lead to give extra
leverage. The chaff is put in the boxes
overnight, and when the alarm goes the
winder turns and lifts the wire trigger
which lets the lever fall. The rope drags
the pins out and breakfast is served auto-
matically.
Skeleton Weed.
“B. Cub”: Skeleton weed increased in
Riverina this season, so much so that
some paddocks have been put out of
wheat production. There is need for an
intensification of the approved cropping
and grazing technique, but many farmers
cannot achieve this at once. For one
thing, more tanks are needed in paddocks
to water the increased stock.
Tests of the germination power of
s.w. seed have shown that seed from
stubble (before burning) had a 61 p.c.
germination, from pasture 36, and from
lightly-grazed fallow 30; these are not
conclusive, seed from different districts
showing a wide variation. Tests j.vith
seed from weed that had recovered from
an early stubble burn —when the weed
itself is sappy —showed that it would not
germinate, but this applies only to plants
that were at the flowering stage when
singed. If burning is too early, and rain
follows, plants may set fertile seed in
autumn. •
So far, no quick way of beating
skeleton weed where infestation is heavy
has arrived. Subdivision, ample water,
fodder reserves, good sheep and a long-
range programme of systematic grazing
combine to make the most reliable means
of control.
Hoary Cress.
“Bogaduck”: One of the bars to the
eradication of hoary cress (B. 6/3/’4O)
is the newcomer to a district who will
persist in trying out his own theories, in
the face of warnings.
On one property the new owner,
ploughed up a bad patch of hoary cress
in one of the paddocks. “A few more
ploughings should settle it,” he remarked
to a visiting agricultural expert. “No,”
replied the expert, “that one cultivation
has already undone all the work of the
previous owner during the past five years
on this patch.”
On big patches the land should be
sown with lucerne, cut up into small
paddocks and grazed in rotation by cross-
breds, together with the digging up of
all plants and placing of coarse salt in
the holes before filling in again.
In irrigation areas build a fowlyard
over thick patches and stock it well with
hens. I have yet to see the weed pest,
from bindweed to blackberry, that can
survive concentrated fowls.
Once let the cress get a hold and you’ll
curse yourself for not having dealt with
pioneer plants.
Hints for the Farm.
“Goulburn”: Cut long-stemmed warts
from cows’ teats with a pair of sharp
scissors. Then brush on to the stumps
a solution of one part of salicylic acid
to seven parts of collodion. Keep it up
every day until the warts disappear.
“Bundalinga”: When an outbreak of
scours occurs change calves to fresh
pasture. Don’t run calves on the old


For all External Livestock Diseases
"CARBOX"
A Wonderful Healer .... A Super Cleanser
A Powerful Antiseptic.
“CARBOX” is an Australian product for Australian conditions.
“CARBOX” embodies only the finest materials in its ingredients, providing not
only a surehealer of the highest quality, but a superlative cleansing ointment,
and has well earned its place as the farmers’ friend.
Note these few uses for “CARBOX”:—
HORSES. —For sore shoulders, itch, cracked and greasy heels, strangles, douche
after foaling, sprains, swellings, cuts and abrasions, etc.
CATTLE.—For contagious abortion, douche after calving, mammitis, milk fever,
sore teats, foot rot, etc.
SHEEP.—For maggot and fly, shearing cuts, foot rot, crow peck, tailing, and
marking, etc.
PIGS.—For lice and scale, sore mouth, body wash, etc.
DOGS.—For distemper, mange, douche after pupping, grass seed abscesses, cracked
pads, fleas and dog lice, etc.
“CARBOX” is an essential on the farm.
“CARBOX” is not Good for Parasites— lt Kills Them!
Packed in 3-gallon drums, 1-gallon, and tins
Full particulars obtainable from: —
HENRY BERRY & CO. (Australasia) LTD.
Australasian Distributers:
515 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Houses in All States. When writing mention “The Bulletin.”
:nTi*
tm
* &
mi
aesti
<x%
i*S
L P
I
STOP Him
WITH A BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCER
Temporary or permanent pad-
docks, subdivisions, shade en-
closures, laneways, breeding or
exercise pens, fodder storage
enclosures, market gardens,
orchards, &c., can be fenced off
and made stockproof wherever
and whenever you want them—
at trifling cost—and with little
trouble.
One charger controls 25 miles
of stockproof fencing, and one
man can fence up to 20 acres
a day!
£9 / 9 / -
GUARANTEED FOR 5 YEAR.
Complete with 50 Insulators
and Battery. NO EXTRAS.
SAVE
80%
On Fence Costs!
No farm can be considered com-
plete to-day unless it is equippe 1
with an electric fence. It isn t
only that it saves 89 p.c. on the
cost of ordinary fencing, but it
actually teaches animals to respect
all wire fences, and soon cures the
most persistent fence-breaker of
the habit. Think what this
means in fewer injuries from barb-
wire cuts to valuable stock and the
saving in cost of repairs to
fences.
Jim.
BIG SIX
fcLECTRIC FENCE. CHARGE R
I -I ; r
* s, 'v- ~>
kl
5'
M
The New and Improved
BIG SIX
See it at
DANKS'
Bourke-st.
Showrooms
Call or Write for Descriptive Folder,
Victorian Distributors:
WANKI PS
e
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: M 2381.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 6505.
Genuine Abbey
Quality
r
SPECIAL WORKING
BOOT
SPECIAL
VALVE
Mel
If you are a hard-working man then
here’s the working boot for you.
Specially made to stand up to months
of hard wear. Heavy double soles —
obtainable in full and half sizes in
Black or Brown. Specially priced at
32/6. Write NOW while stocks last.
Note: You can order by mail from Abbey’s with
every confidence. A record of thousands of shoes
sent all over Australia and to all parts of the
British Empire proves that Abbey Shoes give
service and satisfaction. Use the coupon below
if it is more convenient.
ABBEY
316 George St., Sydney. B 1
334 Pitt St., Sydney. U E
Abbey Shoes,
316 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me 1 pair of your Cossack Work-
ing Boots at 32/6, plus Interstate postage. I enclose
remittance for this amount. My size i 5....
(Enclose tracing of stockinged foot if possible.)
NAME
(In Block Letters.)
ADDRESS
(In Block Letters.)
Tick here if you would also like a
copy of our catalogue of orthopaedic models. Sent
FREE.
A2l-163*
spot for at least six months, and then
only after the land has been ploughed
and cropped. Give each affected calf
2oz. of castor-oil, followed in four
hours by a pint of boiled water as a
drench. Four hours later feed equal parts
of boiled water and boiled whole milk.
From then on gradually decrease the
water until the calves are receiving plain
whole milk.
“Impress”: Clean branding is impos-
sible without proper tools. The brands
themselves must be in good order, not
too sharp, with even edges, clean and
free of rust. A blotch can be due to
brands which are too cold or too hot.
To preserve the faces of brands after
use, and while they’re still hot, dip them
in fat, Stockholm, heavy oil or anything
of that sort. That burns the oil into the
metal, puts a protective enamel face on
it. The best way to judge the heat is on
the post of the yard or on a pine board.
Draw the iron from the fire, place it
evenly on the timber. If it smoulders
for a second and bursts into flame, it
is too hot. If it only chars the timber
it is too cold. But when the brand is
placed on the timber —not pressed heavily
—and when smoke rises immediately, no
flame following, and, when the iron is
drawn away, a clean outline of the burn
shows, then the iron is the right heat.
“Quick, light, crisp” is the ideal motto
in branding.
“A.A.D.”: The wheat-for-pigs idea is a
good one so long as the wheat can be
got for something under 4s. a bushel.
Any margin disappears when cost soars
to 4s. 6d. or 4s. Bd. The wheat-acquisition
scheme is operating to the discourage-
ment of pig-farming: costs are too high.
The only man who can produce pigs at
a profit on wheat is the grower of the
grain, and to serve him the acquisition
scheme needs to be rationally overhauled.
“W. Nala”: Some idea of what can
be done by good farmers with good land
is given by the Delaney brothers, who
have 1500 acres on the Lachlan near
Cowra (N.S.W.). Nearly 600 acres are
under lucerne, with a lucerne-Wimmera
rye mixture in some paddocks. On this
they carry about 1800 crossbred ewes,
and turn off between 1200 and 1600 fat
lambs yearly. At times more lambs are
brought in for fattening. They have put
down silage pits as an additional reserve
to hay and grain, and still had 300 ‘tons
of lucerne for sale.
Outback Occupations.
No. XIX.
FODDER CONSERVATION (3).
Having won the local fodder contest
and suffered much discomfort of mind
and some loss of money thereby, you
swear by all the gods that you will not
permit an invasion of your property by
the R.A.S. championship judging party.
But your wife, having acquired a cut-
lery set (the prize given by the local
society and which you cannot collect until
next show day, which may or may not be
held according to whether there is or is
not a drought, a fall in the prices of
primary products, and the outcome of
the war), is now ruthL She has heard
or read or been secretly informed by the
local show secretary that winners of
R.A.S. trophies are expected to visit the
city for the show and to be handed the
prize by the State Governor before an
admiring multitude, and that R.A.S.
trophies run to gold-mounted clocks,
wireless sets and inlaid busts of past
R.A.S. presidents, and it is evident that
nothing short of your demise will stop
the R.A.S. party from coming.
As you note the orders for lager,
whisky, candied peel, cinnamon, new
curtains and paint that are sent to the
town so that the party will be royally
welcomed, you contemplate death
solemnly but decide that, after all, there
might be women and show secretaries in
the Beyond.
So you paint the kitchen, help hang the
curtains, select three of your choicest
turkeys for the slaughter, clean up the
garden, mend the homestead gate and in
other ways spend five feverish days pre-
paring.
On the morning of the sixth you are
up early. The turkeys are roasting and
the wife up to her ears in flour. You
walk restlessly about, picking up old
tins, peering down the road and running
your finger round inside the irritating
collar that fences in your breathing
apparatus.
By midday the cooking is finished and
the table is set. Midday passes. So does
1 p.m. Your wife becomes fretful. By
1.30 she is fighting back tears. You swear
under your breath. At 1.45 four cars
come through the road gate. The R.A.S.
has come.
The party comprises the judge, an
R.A.S. official, sundry pressmen armed
with notebooks and cameras, local big-
wigs and stray agriculturists of the
district.
Once again the hay and oats are
measured, weighed, tasted, smelt and
commented upon. Once again you sweat
with the shovel digging into the silage
pit, uncomfortable in your Sunday
clothes and aware that cameras are
“shooting” you from all angles.
Then the judge takes you on one side
and asks a few questions relative to
carrying capacity, etc. He steps away,
and the newspapermen surround you. In
rapid succession their questions come.
Name, age, where born, how long farm-
ing, acreage, sheep, cattle, horses, pigs,,
average wheat yield, ever won a contest
before, do you read their paper, would
you like one sent, have you any side-
lines, favorite sport and film actress,
what do you think of Hitler —the voices
blur and you answer wildly, looking
vainly for help.
The inquisition ceases. You move
away, only to be halted while they
photograph you again. At last you are
free and manage to stammer, “Well, I
think is a bit of a snack up at
the house. If you gentlemen will”
The gentlemen look at each other, and
the R.A.S. man, with a winning smile,
says, “We’d like nothing better, Mr. Ford-
cubbin, but we’re running late and must
get on. We had a bite in the town with
Mr. Dogthistle and er —er well, we
must get going. Good-bye, Mr. Ford-
cubbin, very glad to see you." Limply
you shake his hand, trying to work out
in what way you’ve been let down. The
others shake your hand. Weakly you
stagger to a handy post and clutch it,
thinking of your wife waiting at the
house, anxiously shooing flies from the
laden table. As the cars move off, the
flat voice of a pressman drifts back to
you. “That bloke had the lousiest lot
of fodder we’ve seen this trip. He
oughter be”
Somehow you get to the house and
somehow tell the wife she’d better eat
the turkeys herself. For the first time
in your life you hear her speak profane
and blasphemous words, then she col-
lapses in tears. A tiny cheer is struggling
for utterance, for you have a dim
realisation that, in addition to fodder,
you now have a reserve of liquor. Night
comes, and the sleep that wipeth away
sorrow.
One month later a long envelope is
found in the mailbox. It contains an
important-looking missive. This reads
as follows:
Department of Taxation.
John Fordcubbin, Esq. OU/45
State and Federal Income Taxes, 1938-39.
Dear sir or madam—This department
notes that figures as to number and head oi
stock carried by you, together with average
yield of wheat per acre, and average price
received therefor, as published in three
daily and one weekly newspapers under the
heading “Fodder Conservation,” and
claimed to be as given by you to repre-
sentatives of the said newspapers during
or at the time of a visit to your property,
do not correspond with the relative figures
supplied by you in the income-tax return
for the current year furnished by you to
this department. We have therefore to in-
form you that an inspector of this depart-
ment, armed with the necessary authority,
will visit your farm within one week of the
receipt hereof and that, after a check has
been made, proceedings for recovery of the
excess amounts will be instituted according
10 the inspector’s report.
There is another missive. It is from
your bank manager:
Dear Fordcubbin, —Some time ago I re-
quested a reduction of your overdraft, and
you said that it was not possible for some
time. In a report of a fodder competition
I note that you have 123 tons of silage
in pits. It is my suggestion that you sell
some of this, paying the money towards the
aforesaid overdraft reduction.
Firmly you march to the back room,
possess yourself of one of the bottles of
whisky there stored, and retire to the
patch of scrub in the creek paddock.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4|d. per line; all others at
2ld. per line. , , ,
Names—though required as a guarantee of good faith—are not now published
unless it is clear that the writers don’t object.
Double rates for an unusual bit of writing on a set of cranks to whom plain
people are much exposed these times. The author is a South Australian.
Pyramids, Etc.
Amongst students of the occult every
world crisis revives interest in the pro-
phetic value of the Pyramids. At present
many extremely ingenious theories are
being advanced by the enthusiasts.
Last Sunday afternoon 1 sat on a park
seat between two strangers. After a few
remarks about the weather, the man on
the left produced an elaborate chart of
the Great Pyramid and explained how
the various tunnels and chambers in their
branchings, angles, heights and widths
coincided with the devious course of
ancient and recent history. The argu-
ments were cleverly stated and the con-
clusions seemed very convincing to me.
The feet and inches balanced exactly
with the years and months of the em-
pires, kings and dictators concerned.
Every stone in the masonry seemed to
have a message.
The man on my right listened cour-
teously for about an hour, meanwhile
playing with a twig he had picked up.
Then he drew our attention to the little
branches, buds and leaves on the twig,
and showed that they told the story of
the European tangle when properly in-
terpreted. The length and bends of the
stem, the position of the leaves and the
extent of their decay, etc., were worked
into a story that was just as convincing
as that of the pyramid. Hitler and Stalin
were two leaves that overlapped. Musso -
lini was halfway between another over-
lapping pair that represented France and
England. And so . on.
Not being an expert, but being very
inquisitive, I asked the last speaker 10
explain how such things could be.
“There’s nothing easier,” said he. “I
could do that with any twig, or with any
tree for that matter. The fact is I chose
the persons, nations and incidents that
suited my purpose and my twig. Any-
thing that didn’t fit in I conveniently for-
got. I’m a tailor. Give me plenty of
cloth and patterns and I’ll guarantee to
fit them to any size, shape or taste. I used
to be interested in the Pyramids till I
found that the more history I knew the
more stories I could read in the tunnels
and burial chambers. Every one of them
could be made to fit like a glove by using
the scissors as well as the needle.
I’m still wondering.— Loafer (S.A.).
Government and Strikes
Strikes against Court awards are said
to be illegal, yet they are allowed to
continue for lengthy periods, causing
enormous losses to the nation, before
any action is taken. Bad enough at any
time, with war in full blast the delay is
calamitous. One would think that the
first day of a strike would be the right
time for action —the shock of such signs
of life in a Government would probably
break the strike right away.
After an 89 days’ railway strike a move
for the cancellation of the Australian
Railways Union brought the Broken Hill
fettlers up with a round turn, and the
strike was declared off. Why that move
shouldn’t have been taken on the first
day instead of the eighty-ninth passes
comprehension.
The thousand-times-worse coal strike,
instead of being tackled at its inception,
was left to its destructive course while
cajolery and other futile means were
tried. The very weakness of these
methods gave power to the onslaught on
the nation’s industry and war efforts. It
also created definite contempt for Gov-
ernmental authority.— Fitzjay (N.S.W.).
We read—and it is probably true—
that there would never have been a coal
strike if all the members of the union
concerned had voted according to their
own desires on the proposal.
We all know from experience how few
of the members of any organisation take
any constructive interest in its affairs or
even attend meetings. Invariably a small
group of intense individuals run the
whole business, and a general meeting is
often attended by less than 20 per cent,
of the members. That some individuals
should be willing and anxious to spend
time and talents to benefit their fellows
is all to the good so long as their efforts
are constructive and concerned with the
betterment of conditions affecting their
own particular group. But this applies
to what is constructive. It is all to the
bad when such people concern them-
selves with, and usurp authority for, con-
tentious and militant proposals such as
strikes, the effects of which reach far
beyond their own industrial neighbor-
hood and sometimes threaten to dislocate
the life of the nation.
We should recognise that a strike is a
democratic instrument, and insist that it
be governed by democratic principles.
It should be required that (1) all ballots
should be held by a committee consisting
of one representative each of employees
and employers under the chairmanship
of a Government nominee ; (2) the Gov-
ernment, through its nominee, to be re-
sponsible for the preparation of papers
and returns; (3) the same compulsory
voting provisions apply as for Federal
elections; and (4) less than a9O per cent,
vote be declared no contest.
The result might create jobs for a few
more public servants, but it would make
known the real wish of the majority of
those concerned, and not what paid and
largely self-appointed leaders think it
should be. Also, the public would have
confidence that the vote represented the
genuine feeling of those actually con-
cerned —a confidence which it has not at
present. — Seconds Out (S.A.).
Taxes by Instalments
T.P. threatens to invade the field of
taxation, or rather tax payment, and it’s
not a bad idea in practice. Consider
what happened round the Yarra.
People grumbled for a week or two,
then made the necessary adjustments to
the weekly budget. They never missed the
few pence a week thereafter. When the
assessment came along, the victim was
pleasantly surprised to find that, not
only was the State tax paid, but also
that he was entitled to a refund suffi-
cient to meet the Federal assessment. If
he was not burdened with a Federal
assessment, he then had the unique ex-
perience of being paid money by the
Tax Office. True, that is something like
getting his own teeth back from the
dentist, but it is unique. Such a refund,
too, often provided quite a decent bank
with which to try out his own “pet
system” at Flemington or the Valley.
There were the unfortunates, of course,
the thousands of confirmed tax-dodgers.
Many of them confessed at once and
faced the music. Others, and they were
the hundreds who had dodged taxes for
years by the simple expedient of never
submitting a return, now found them-
selves faced with the alternative of com-
piling returns for the preceding five years
and paying tax, plus penalty, plus
interest, or of never claiming an exemp-
tion certificate, which meant that they
were probably paying double tax each
year.
The only argument against the system
(apart from that of the dodgers) is
rather weak—a few pence per annum lost
in interest to those who would have
budgeted and banked accordingly to meet
the assessment when it came along ; but
even this loss was reduced to a mini-
mum by the provision which enabled a
man to apply for his assessment and get
an exemption certificate when sufficient
had been deducted weekly to meet the
demand.
There is, too, an important national
aspect to the question. The weekly
deductions constitute a steady flow of
money into the Treasury and materially
reduce the lag in State finances; The
Government previously depended upon
overdraft accommodation from the banks
to carry it over the “drought” of the first
nine months of the financial year.
Taken by and large, the system is the
best on offer and admirably suits the
needs of the average earner. The best
feature is the inescapable net which the
system casts for the inveterate tax-
dodger, and the more of him caught the
easier the burden will be for the genuine
payers.— Nisio (N.S.W.).
Road to Divorce
One need not be- a pessimist to
prophesy a large crop of divorces in
the near future. . .
Tommy A. draws a salary which is
based on the silly assumption that he
has a wife and two kids to support. He
pays a stingy “board” to his parents and
spends the balance, which exceeds his
discretion, on the entertainment of his
best flapper. . ,
Susie B. also draws a fair cheque, pays
reduced board, and spends the rest on
glamor with which to attract Tommy A.
She avoids housework of every descrip-
tion because it spoils the polish of her
nails.
Tommy and Susie make the pace in
a whirlwind courtship ’mid pleasures and
picture palaces that cost every penny of
their combined screws. The course of
their love runs smoothly and nightly
from 8 p.m. till 2 a.m.
Wedding bells. Photo, in paper. End
of romance. .
The girl doesn’t know the right end
of a broom from the wrong one and
can’t even open a sardine-tin unaided.
Her domestic virtues are nil, as she has
never in her young life deigned to help
Mum. Most of her glamor comes off on
the first washing day.
The boy, without a background of
jazz bands, dress circles and chocolates,
is a very ordinary bloke whose enter-
tainment value is nix.
A quiet evening at home is boring. A
succession of quiet evenings is unbear-
able. Where are now the merry parties?
There remain only the t.p. wireless, the
sofa and the slipper. Bed and board are
no longer to be had at reduced prices.
The couple have been made “one” in
salary, but multiplied in expenses.
And to people whose education has
been based on jazz tunes and fashion
mags, there appears to be only one way
out —the divorce court. — Shawspear
(S.A.).
The various O.F.M. contributors dis-
cussing the divorce problem should look
back at the empires that have gone
before us. A sure sign of the fact that
such empires as Rome and Greece were
crumbling towards an almighty smash
was the fact that divorce and its atten-
dant evils of birth control and general
licentiousness had obtained a firm hold
on the people. The same is happening
in America, Britain and France today.
Before France took up the practice of
divorce and birth control her population
was greater than Germany’s. Some day
people will look back at us and say
“poor fools.” —B. V. S. (Vic.).
“Glammer”
An article of Hollywood origin in one
of our Sunday papers published on
Mother’s Day began, “They don’t look
like mothers, these lovely young film
stars of H011yw00d....,” and then it
mentioned three glamorous clothesprops
who had braved the dangerous experi-
ment of having a baby. I gather that
they don’t look like mothers because
they’ve got glamor. Further on are par-
ticulars about another of these hussies
who actually had a second baby, and
“wiseacres predicted that such foolish-
ness would mean the end of her film
career.”
This is just one part of the bunk that
floods the press month by month and is
all imported from Hollywood. What is
wrong with looking like a mother? Most
of us had mothers who (thank God) did
look like mothers. If the photos, which
I see of these film props are an illus-
tration of “glamor” then I see nothing
in glamor except the reflection of a
selfish, undeveloped and spiritually im-
poverished personality. Most of these
women look half-starved, not only of
essential foodstuffs, but also of every-
thing in life that is supposed to make
it worth while.
Our imports for the first quartef of
1940 show a sharp rise, instead of a
decline. It is surely time we cut out
this picture rubbish, together with all the
syndicated nonsense which goes with it.
—Gerdon (N.S.W.).
Women and War Work
This war-work business has its peculiar
aspects. Over the radio and in the press
we hear women appealing to other
women to knit socks, donate comforts
to soldiers, organise parties for com-
forts funds and do various other types
of war work. They never appeal, how-
ever, for women to address public meet-
ings, attend social gatherings, talk over
the radio or do any other work that
would bring an ordinary patriotic woman
into the limelight. No, that sort of
work is reserved for the chosen few
society women who love to stand in the
spotlight and do the asking and the
thanking.
Fortunately, in Australia there are
many women who do all sorts of real
war work without thought of reward,
whether in the form of limelight, social
ladder-climbing, decorations or anything
else. Their sole idea is to help the sol-
diers who do the fighting. But, unfor-
tunately, when all the war and work is
over and the bouquets and medals are
being handed out the women who did the
real war work will still be in the back-
ground and the 0.8.E5., etc., will be
handed out to the limelighters.
In this war-work business there are far
too many officers and not enough
privates.— Thorn (N.S.W.).
Our Fighting Press
I read with appreciation “How the
Papers Took Narvik” (B. 24/4/’4O). It
was heartening to see criticism of our
apparently infallible press, which has so
consistently and unintelligently criticised
the Allied war efforts one moment and
falsely buoyed up our hopes the next.
Criticism, especially of a constructive
kind, leads to efficiency. When it comes,
however, from those partly responsible
for the Empire’s state of unpreparedness
and is directed at those least responsible,
but who are trying to rectify matters, it
becomes just another selling stunt.
Morning, noon and night the “public’
reads with amazement and disgust that
“it wants to know everything.” In
reality, the public would be quite satis-
fied, and would have a more peaceful
mind, if the official news were presented
to it in a concise and sensible manner.
It knows full well that this touching
anxiety emanates merely from the desire
to fill columns with sensational rubbish.
The best news published since the out-
break of war is that:
Because they resented a new system for
the release of news, all British and Ameri-
can war correspondents with the R.A.F.
on the Western Front “walked out” in a
body and returned to London.
I hope the authorities keep them there
and carry on the war unhampered. How
long would any private enterprise permit
reporters to come in whenever they
wished to interview members of the
staff, especially in connection with their
work?— Keep Stroke (N.S.W.).
I resent the attitude of dailies in serv-
ing up for public consumption falsehood
and indifferent guesswork under the head-
ing of war news. Unlike the press of
Italy, Germany and Russia, Australian
papers are free to tell the truth. Why
don’t they? They have nothing to lose
by supplying the public with facts rather
than fabrications. It is better to tell even
unpalatable truth consistently than to
be under the constant necessity of con-
tradicting their own “authoritative” state-
ments.
Our dailies have much to answer for
—by presenting a picture of recurrent
Allied successes attended by microscopic
losses and contrasted with an array of
overwhelming German defeats in every
arena, they have lulled the public into a
false sense of security. Owing to their
policy of unbridled exaggeration, our war
effort has been hampered by apathy and
division within our borders.
If the public had been told the truth
about the war in the air and the Nor-
wegian campaign, every Australian —ex-
cept the “hands-off-Russia” gang —
would have realised that the Empire is
facing a crisis unparalleled in its long
history. There would have been no talk
of “keep our men here,” no stabs in the
back by strikers, no outcry against com-
pulsory training, and no childish belief
in the inability of Germany to wage a
long and relentless war. — Nairb (Vic.).
Chamberlain and Churchill
An astonished public, astonished no
less probably in Britain than in Aus-
tralia, could scarcely credit the truth
about Norway when it finally became
known. Led astray by wild assumption
and unfounded statements, people could
scarcely be blamed for believing that a
mighty Allied force had landed in Nor-
way, that the British Navy was blasting
the very bottom out of the Skagerrak
and that the R.A.F. was blowing Ger-
man occupied aerodromes to the four
winds.
The old man then in No. 10 Downing-
street watched the mounting tide of public


elation and then saw it sink into silence,
to be followed presently by the roar for
his political head.
Came his answer. They could have his
head. Willingly he yielded, with such
lack of fuss or recrimination as made
some people marvel, and the orchestra-
tion to his words was the roar of German
bombs on the Low Countries.
Condemned though he was for Munich,
he yet gained time there for a strengthen-
ing of a sadly-weakened Britain; dis-
placed as he is over Norway, he has not
burdened his successor with the fright-
ful task of getting us out of a catas-
trophic blunder there.
Whatever lies behind the change of
Prime Ministers, neither England nor the
Empire could permit Chamberlain to
drop into obscurity. Churchill may well
lead us to ultimate victory, and nobody
will fail to do him honor for that, but
when these times are viewed from the
perspective of history Chamberlain’s
name will surely stand equal with any
that earn the title of greatness. —O. T.
(N.S.W.).
“A Penny for the Army”
The answer to “Patriot” (B. 8 / 5 / ’4O)
is that if Gerald Dillon had the handling
of a war budget he would see to it that
in the distribution of the Commonwealth’s
revenue the matter of the pay of the
fighting services came first and not last.
If we got rid of our superfluous Parlia-
ments, handed five superfluous Governors
single tickets to London, instituted a
drastic economy drive in public expendi-
ture, and put the boxing, boozing and
betting industries under some form of
severe restraint—then the Commonwealth
Government would have no need to
appeal to charity for the upkeep of .its
sailors and soldiers. — Gerald Dillon
(N.S.W.).
“Beer as Usual”
“Here’s Hooey” (B. 8 / 5 / ’4O) makes
the usual mistake of the prohibitionist.
He confuses drinking with “boozing.”
Most doctors, and most other intelli-
gent men, are agreed that moderate
drinking is beneficial to the body and the
mind. Any man leading a normal, bal-
anced life will agree that a militant ab-
stainer’s views on drinking are about as
useful as a politician’s views on himself.
If “H.H.” has not the desire —or the
ability—to see drinking as a pleasant part
of living, that is purely his own affair.
The rabid non-drinker, like the boozer,
is a departure from the normal, and
they are both to be pitied. I have so
far managed to sink my pint after work
for a good many years without making
“extra police work, hospital work, etc.”
—Here’s Sense (N.5.W.).
Australian Literature
“Wusslean” (B. 1/5/ ’4O) seems to think
that money doesn’t make the winged
Pegasian mare or horse to go, and that
literary quality is not conditioned by
cash considerations. That opinion is
heartily seconded by a friend of mine
whose income is pegged somewhere
around £lOOO a year, and who actually
pays one magazine to print his effusions.
But it is not endorsed by the hundreds
of mute, inglorious Miltons to whom
time is money, and who can’t afford to
give it away without some recompense.
“The poet’s food is love and fame” is
true only in the spiritual sense. In the
material sense he is as fond of and pays
as much for his sausages and onions as
the jockey or the maker of clothes-pegs.
Goldsmith and Dickens are both un-
fortunate examples for “Wusslean.”
When the former was found starving by
Johnson, Sam did not feed him on sage
advice. He went forth and sold The
Vicar of Wakefield for £7O. If Dickens
had not made cash out of Sketches by
Boz he would have been too busy stick-
ing labels on bottles of blacking to write
Pickwick Papers and the rest.
Kipling wrote for Fame — plus one
guinea per word. Tennyson, after read-
ing one of his inspired poems to a group
of admirers, remarked, “And the beggars
gave me only £l5 for that.”
The Bulletin has always “fostered a
national appreciation of good literature”
by paying space rates for every word pub-
lished. Is that policy wrong? S. H.
Prior, though dead, speaks through an
annual cash prize. Money talks and
writes the very best English.
Literary geniuses are just human
beings with a trick of word-spinning.
Three meals a day and an easy mind are
as necessary to them as to the laborers
who produce sugar or other protected
commodities, and they are as worthy of
their hire. — And So Say (S.A.).
Every newspaper or periodical pub-
lished in the Commonwealth carries in a
prominent position the legend “This
publication registered at G.P.O. for
transmission as a newspaper.” It would
be an inestimable boon to struggling
authors of stories, verse and paragraphs,
etc., if each publication was compelled
to state in bold type whether or not out-
side contributors would be paid A.J.A.
rates. The notice “Usual rates paid”
is a snare and a delusion, for individual
editors have a very elastic conception of
what is the usual rate.
I submitted a short article, containing
some 45 lines, to a magazine. Three
weeks later I received the munificent sum
of 35., or less than one penny per line.
The freelance has a bad enough time of
it trying to break through a barrage of
oversea syndicated rubbish without being
bilked on the infrequent occasions that
he does manage to catch an editor’s eye
with his stuff. — Melton (Vic.).
Keep It Out
It is interesting to note that no Par-
liamentary action was taken to restrict
the importation of American literary
trash until financial considerations
stepped in to force the issue. Yet this
measure should have been introduced
years ago, on cultural, not to mention
social, grounds.
It would be impossible to estimate the
magnitude of the damage caused to Aus-
tralian youth in the past years by this in-
sidious spate of racketeering, filibuster-
ing, law-at-the-hip literature. Some of
our youth have been fed on this stuff
almost from the cradle, starting with the
stupid comic strips and ending with the
“thrilling” or “horror” books, the de-
vouring of which is the short cut to the
reformatory.
There is a feeling abroad that this
country would flourish under American
influence and “protection.” The sooner
we throw out that absurd notion the
better. We have enough political huck-
sters, super-super and ballyhoo as it is,
and the more we can throw off the fast-
developing Americanisation of our coun-
try the better prepared will we be to
face the future as an all-Australian
nation. — Celt (N.S.W.).
Euthanasia
“Pierrot” talks of providing “adequate
safeguards” and making the patient’s
consent essential, a board of specialists
with constantly changing membership to
review all cases.
It won’t work in the present state of
human nature. “Adequate safeguards”
is a beautiful phrase which has been
applied to every proposal to give people
power over others. Weren’t “adequate
safeguards” provided in the Australian
Constitution against things that have hap-
pened in spite o'f them?
Making the patient’s consent essential
does not help matters in the slightest.
When an individual is unhappy and dis-
couraged he is looking through jaun-
diced eyes, and he may even regard his
own life as not worth living. But there
may be quite removable causes for his
misery and suffering even if they are not
known to the specialists of medicine. I
know a man who wanted euthanasia in
some form or other. He believed that his
sickness was incurable, and was confirmed
in his belief by doctors. He recovered,
and took an entirely different view of
the nature of his suffering.
A board of specialists with constantly
changing membership could review all
cases, but why would one set of special-
ists necessarily review them any better
than another? The Parliaments of Aus-
tralia are composed of political special-
ists with constantly changing member-
ship, but each successive Parliament is as
like the last as one pea is like another. —
Dukun (Vic.).
Experience in mental nursing makes
me agree that legalised euthanasia, con-
trolled and supervised by a humane and
noble-minded fraternity, could bring
peace to many incurable suffering human
beings whose lives are merely a tor-
turous, living hell. Unfortunately many
people who oppose euthanasia have little
knowledge of the extreme mental and
physical agony endured by “incurables.”
Our Government institutions alone care
for hundreds of pitiful cases who crave
release from their sufferings.
It has been contended that legalisation
would mean modification or breaking of
the Sixth Commandment. Paradoxically,
whole armies of healthy, happy young
manhood of every generation are sacri-
ficed by all countries for the sake of
national honor. Furthermore, painless
death is administered to criminals—the
least deserving members of any com-
munity—Pequena (S.A.).
Preference for Discomfort
Our efforts to attract American tourists
to this country must fail so long as we
maintain our traditional policy of prefer-
ence for discomfort. We have ,been told
recently that we now have a golden
opportunity to develop an American
tourist trade.
I might mention two things only, which
might seem rather minor affairs, but in
regard to which our lack of education
stamps us as somewhat crude in the
eyes of the experienced tourist. First
and foremost —water. One of the things
that help to make life go well in America
is water of the first quality. The water
in which one washes and takes one’s
bath in America is luxuriously soft, and
there is a general and hygienic conviction
that a drink of cold water is always good
for one. In America it is supplied, with-
out asking, before every meal and in a
glass with ice.
Secondly—milk. The safety of the
New York milk supply is well known,
and there is no stint of cream. Butter-
milk is readily obtainable in America,
even on the trains. We hear so much
of our lack of liquor facilities in respect
of the tourist that one might be pardoned
for concluding that tourists travel only
for the purpose of consuming alcohol
ad lib. Americans generally find our
milk and water facilities much cruder
than our alcoholic facilities. We should
get a much bigger advertisement for be-
ing a land of “Pure Milk and Water ’
than as a land of Lively Liquor. More-
over, our hotel accommodation would be
much improved if the bar were not the
main motive for the hotel. — Manhattan
(N.S.W.).
Advertise Wool
Extensive advertising is necessary these
days to do big business. About £38,000
is being spent annually on publicity by
the International Wool Secretariat, of
which Australia is a member.
It looks a big sum until it is con-
trasted with the £500,000 spent by Court-
lands, £350,000 by Lever Brothers, and
£315,000 by Players to advertise silks,
soaps and tobaccos each year.
Wool is meeting strenuous competition
from substitutes, and those substitutes
are constantly being improved. The
ascendancy of wool is being threatened,
and countries which under war-time con-
ditions are not getting as much wool
as they would like will improve sub-
stitutes still further.
Wool, even in war, needs extensive
advertising. If the producers cannot pay
the bill, what is wrong with the Govern-
ment allocating the sum which is
absorbed by useless travel associations? —
Cow Time (N.S.W.).
Australian Films
As another who “did” his money to
see a recent Australian film (B. 1 / 5 / ’4O),
I shuddered to read in a weekly sup-
plement an enthusiastic account of the
plots of four Australian films in the
making.
One, I learned, concerned the Light
Horse in Palestine, the second was
another “Dad and Dave,” the third was
a “Cinderella story,” and the fourth had
“some thrilling shots of the Royal Air
Force.”
Most space was given to the “Dad and
Dave” film, central theme of which was
a burst dam and the fade-out nuptials
of a young couple drawn from hitherto
feuding families, all of which sounds so
horribly familiar that I have a sneaking
idea I won’t have to go to a theatre to
“see” it.
Everywhere we are offered “glorious
shots of typical Australian scenery.”
Nobody denies that we have some pretty
good scenery and nobody denies that
Australians don’t take enough notice of
it. But why drag it in by the tail in
every picture? Surely there are other
and less amateurish ways of capturing
the Australian spirit without slowing up
the story and picture to feast our eyes on
distant ranges and grazing cows. And
don’t some of us live in towns?
And it is about time, too, we got away
from the idea of using Dad and Dave
as representative Australian characters in
our films that seek an international
market. Rudd intended them to be real
and human people, not the burlesque
characters they have been turned into
on screen and radio. We in Australia
know that Dad and Dave are only
caricatures. Overseas viewers of Aus-
tralian films don’t.
If the Australian film industry is to
prosper it has to tighten its belt and (like
Australian literature) stop trading on the
name “Australia.” —J. B. (Vic.).
Shipbuilding
The Commonwealth Government is
considering Walsh Island (near New-
castle), Cockatoo Dockyards (in Sydney
Harbor), Williamstown (Victoria) and
Whyalla (S.A.) for shipbuilding. No
mention of Tasmania or Westralia.
Hobart has one of the finest harbors in
the world, capable of sheltering a vast
fleet, and with water 60 feet deep at the
piers. Albany (W.A.) possesses the
finest natural harbor in the Southern
Hemisphere, and one capable of shelter-
ing the British Navy.
There are no existing facilities for the
construction of steel vessels at these
ports, but surely that is not an insuper-
able difficulty. And the use of the re-
moter ports would tend to decentralise
some of the greater industries and to
develop some of the more neglected por-
tions of this continent. —W. C. B. (W.A.).
Thrift
“0.T.” errs (B. l/5/’4O) in thinking
that the great prosperity Australia en-
joyed in the 1920’s was due to “royal
spending.” That prosperity was the
result of high prices then ruling for Aus-
tralia’s principal exports. On the strength
of it there was heavy borrowing abroad,
mainly in London, by all the Australian
Governments.
The overseas loan markets were closed
to Australia after the sharp fall in com-
modity prices in 1928-29. Governments
and people had no alternative but to cut
expenditure. Imports had to be drasti-
cally curtailed. Until the national
economy had become adapted to the
changed conditions, an unfortunate but
unavoidable period of acute industrial
depression, with unemployment at a
record level, was passed through.
That period did not last long. By 1937
the country was again in a flourishing
condition, and most of the jobless were
re-employed.
Australia has a far sounder economic
system today than when the depression
commenced. The necessity of restricting
foreign purchases gave an enormous
fillip to secondary industry. Innumer-
able articles that were imported a decade
ago are now made in Australia. Not
only did these new industries procure
most of the capital needed to finance
them in Australia, but the Federal Gov-
ernment, the States and local government
bodies also raised many millions of loan
money locally. None of this would have
been possible if saving had not been
general among Australians.
Thrift, like every other virtue, can be
carried to excess, but a certain amount
is imperative.
The individual or community that does
not save can secure capital only by bor-
rowing. If his or its credit is not good—
and that of a spendthrift never is for
long—that capital will be secured, if at
all, only at usurious rates of interest. —
Tom (N.S.W.).
Road and Rail
Interesting in the light of recent dis-
cussions on the respective merits of road
and rail transport is a discussion in a
two-year-old “Esquire” turned up in a
second-hand bookshop ramble.
America, it appeared, tried to meet
the challenge of road transport with
light Diesel engines on its railroads. The
Diesels travelled fast and burned little
fuel, but they also drew light loads and
cost a lot of money. Interest charges on
them and the loss of payload for each
trip just about offset the speed advan-
tages of the Diesels.
For a while, according to the author of
the article, Diesel engines became the
rage, and steam locomotives dropped out
of popularity. The Diesels, as already
pointed out, travelled faster, didn’t stop
so often for water and were easier on
the rails.
Then the makers of steam locomotives
got to work. Faster engines capable of
pulling the big payloads were evolved.
Water economies were instituted, cutting
stops down to about those of the Diesel,
and other innovations made running of
steam locos, just as easy on the rails as
Diesels.
In 1937, the steam engine was just
about back to its peak. In one year as
many new steam engines were ordered
as had been purchased in the whole of
the five preceding years—and those years,
people interested in road v. rail will re-
member, were the years of most intense
competition between road and rail, years
when road seemed on the up-grade and
the railway on the down-grade.
Perhaps there is a moral in the story
for our own transport heads. Maybe
the way the railway can answer motor
traffic is to put on bigger, efficient loco-
motives that can meet the motor on
haulage costs and lick it, in the end, on
capital charges. It seems to be the one
chance of the railway’s’redeeming the
millions already sunk in permanent way
and rolling stock.
After all, the railway has a very dis-
tinct function —heavy haulage. If it ful-
fils that function properly it must pay as
long as the freight is there to make it
pay, and in a continuously expanding
young country, as this should be, the
freight must be there. — Ford (Vie.).


X.ady Keeble.
(MissLillah McCarthy.)
“Pelmanism makes
you do your best, and,
moreover, makes your
best better than yon
thought it possible
to be.”
m
m
Mr. Compton
Mackenzie.
“Pelmanism defi-
nitely cultivates the
imagination, and I do
not hesitate to say that
there is nobody who
would not benefit by a
Coarse.”
m.
m
The Baroness Orcay.
“Pelmanism has
meant to many just
the difference between
a life of mediocrity
and disappointment
and one of prosperity
and triumph.”
wm#*
ft
Sir Herbert Barker.
“Benefit beyond com ~
putation can be se-
cured by all who will
follow the directions
given in the Pelrh.an
Course. It is impos-
sible to speak too
highly of it.”
Sir Arthur Quiller-
Coucfa.
King Edward VII.
Professor of English
Literature at the Uni-
versity of Cambridge,
England, writes —
“The Pelman Course
gave me practical hints
which, if they had
come my way in youth,
would have saved me
more time a/nd labor
than I can reckon.”
Pelmanism
is the
Accepted Scientific Method
of Training Mind,
Memory and Personality
Pelmanism is the Science of Successful Living. It deals with fundamental
personal attributes and qualities which, when developed, establish mental
and physical health, increase resistance to the pressure of outside influ-
ences, and make possible adjustment to conditions that might otherwise
destroy happiness and success.
Fortunately the qualities are inherent in every normal man or woman.
Xhe most important are
Self-Confidence
Concentration
Decisiveness
Self-Control
Judgment
Will-Power
Tact
Initiative
Social Ease
and a Good Memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
useful data of every kind.
PELMANISM is so universally success-
ful largely because it sets out to train
rather than to teach. It knows that,
according to the nature and the strength
of the individual’s habits of mind and
will, so are his personal efficiency and
his standing with his fellows. If these
habits are bad he will be ineffective
personally; if they are good he will be
strong.
A Doctor writes; “Pelmanism has shown
me how to observe instead of merely seeing.
That alone is worth the price of the course.”
A Clerk writes: “I have been able to get
a definite aim, and have abolished drifting.
I feel happier and better in myself. I can
concentrate much better. I am losing my
horrible self-consciousness.”
A Salesman reports: “Results gained—a
healthier state of mind and body, more self-
confidence, a better memory, a feeling of
ability and keenness in business, a desire
always to employ my spare time to some use
and a systematic style of working.”
A Secretary writes; “I am forming
good habits and choking bad habits. I have
more self-control or self-reliance. I enjoy
life more. I feel better physically and men-
tally. I am easier to live with. I do not
brood.”
A Nurse writes: “Fits of depression are
far less frequent, and these are soon over-
come; Certainly much happier.”
A Musician writes: “I have a brighter
outlook on life, and I am not as apt to
become easily depressed as formerly. I realise
my aim, and have more self-confidence in
my work ”
A Shorthand-Typist writes: “I have
energy enough for two, and the will to carry
out to the finish that which 1 pursue.”
A Draughtsman writes: “When I
started the course I was suffering from
severe worries. I have completely got over
these.”
A Motor Mechanic writes: “I now
gratefully realise that without a sound know-
ledge of the principles as set out by the
Pelman Institute we cannot hope to make the
best of ourselves. I myself have overcome
Shyness, Lack of Confidence, Mind-wander-
ing.’'
A Teacher writes: “Increase in my
powers of Concentration and Memory. In-
crease in Self-confidence. Great interest in
people and in my surroundings.”
A iSank Officer writes: “Self-conscious-
ness has given place to Self-confidence. I
am able to work harder and concentrate
more.”
A Builder writes: “I have developed
confidence in myself and a broader outlook
on life. My life has changed from a listless,
drifting one to one of purpose. I now have
a mental and bodily health I did not have
before.”
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality.
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU23SS.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin” a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, post free. Your inquiry
will be regarded as a confi-
dential communication; we have
no outside representatives.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements ro
meet the financial restrictions,
and enables residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay.
There are over half a million
Pelmanists, of whom more than
44,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to the Pelman Institute.
Liege - - 1930.
Nancy- - 1932.
Geneva - - 1933.
Paris - - - 1933.
The Headquarters of the Pelrnan
Institute are in London.
I-
Dame Sybil
Thorndike.
“Pelmanism gives a
menial clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportunities
and uses them rightly.'’
1
Dr. F. W. Norwood,
D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind - training. A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility. It teaches
that man has the key
to his oum career.”
mmmm
wm
m
Dord Baden Powell.
“No man—no matter
how educated, or what
his age, or what his
profession—who seri-
ously takes up the
Course, can go through
it without improving
himself.”
m
£
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Bimringham.)
“Pelmanism is valu-
able to all men and
women ... the re-
sults endure. Habits
of mind are formed
which are of the very
highest value in life.”
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 flinders L,ane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
103
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEKS ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
e
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
J enclose 24/ - (plus exchange), the regulai
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME .
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
“Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage x,
2d. extra).
Brian
H"
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra). cl
“LANDTAKERS,’ by
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra) .
w
W
\c
V
0°
,® ■&)
aP
,) S®^e e
6°' *' X
N^ k
sM”
•,#<#'
v° V^V 4 ’
,\\) L


ALIKE!) J. i>KITON, Australia's Leading Physical Director,
Pounder of “Health and Physical Culture” Magazine.
FREE TO ALL "BULLETIN" READERS.
THIS month, to every reader of this paper who is interested —here’s my
offer. To prove to you what I have said about “The Secrets of Muscular
Strength and How to Acquire It,’’ I am going to give ONE rREE
ISSUE, providing you make application at once! This book has been the
cause of changing the lives of thousands of men. I have received countless
thousands of wonderful n letters and photographs of actual transformation
of men who never thought they could acquire strength and development.
Make me PROVE these assertions to you by sending for your copy this
minute. Not to-morrow, you may be too late, but to-day—NOW. Are
you ready ? Let’s go 1
100,000 PEOPLE HAVE READ
This AMAZING BOOK
DASSED the 100,000 mark—and still going strong! If you
* would read something that would stir your very vitals —if
you would learn something the like of which you had never even
dreamed. Then send for this book and read how YOU can
charge your body full of vitality, add five inches to your chest,
acquire the power of battering rams in your arms, and develop
a neck and legs like pillars! It’s all here in this
very book explained in detail, and you’ll agree,
like thousands of others have, that it’s the most
amazing book you have ever seen,
r
Watch Them Turn Around
|\JOTICE how every woman prefers the fellow who
carries himself with head up. Notice how the
t tv' r
broad-shouldered man always gets their eye. They
want a dependable he-man when they make their
choice—one who can protect them. AND YOU
CAN BE THAT MAN! Remember I do not only
promise it, I GUARANTEE IT. Now, don’t put it
off a minute. Get going to new happiness, and real
manhood, to-day!
SEEEEd
A. J. BRITON,
Dept. L, 24 Clarence
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me,
absolutely FREE, a copy of
your latest book. .“The
Secrets of Muscular Strength.”
for postage.
I enclose stamp
FULL ADDRESS
I Build Strong, Handsome, Healthy Bodies
PEOPLE call me tlie Muscle-maker. I make
men’s bodies strong and healthy. My list
of over 30,000 wonderful successes includes
farmers and lawyers, bookkeepers and clerks,
grandfathers and grandsons, fat men and
skinny men, weaklings and nervous wrecks.
By a method of scientific body-building, 1 go
all over your body strengthening your internal
organs, broadening your shoulders, cutting
off fat, and generally turning you inside out
until you’re a healthy, handsome, fighting he-
man any woman will be proud of, in just
thirty days.
I will add one whole inch of live, flexible,
steely muscle to each of your arms, and five
full inches of rippling' muscular strength
across your chest. Your legs will become
straight and strong, your head snap back
erect, and large lumps of red-blooded muscle
will begin to stand out on your broadening
shoulders. What a hit you are going to make
with that girl of yours! How proud and
happy she will be!
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Dept. L, 24 Clarence Street, Sydney.
YOURS if you
send now
✓
?
>
S
8 ■
S 3
fa.
<9
1
1
These men are pupils who sent the
coupon tor a FREE Book!
Become an ARTIST
—QUICKLY!
Brodie Mack’s Amazing FREE
Book Offer To Young Talent!
FOB a limited time Brodie Mack, famous
Australian black and white artist, is offer-
ing; absolutely FREE. a copy of Ins new
book, “How To Be An Artist,” to all
readers of “The Bulletin” who have an
inclination to draw.
Let BRODIE MACK
Teach You at Home
THIS Book will amaze you with its possibilities
and the vast field it opens up to you. At last
you will be able to learn all branches of the black
■md white art under the supervision of Brodie Mack.
Ihis amazing short-cut method simplifies art. rou
learn at home. If you have an inclination for
drawing, an inclination that many of us possess,
then why compete with the crowd in ordinary occupa-
tions? Brodie Mack can develop your ability for
this fascinating accomplishment. Thousands of
pounds are paid every year for drawings, fashion
illustrations, advertising, catalogues, pamphlets,
books, comic strips, cartoons, etc.
IS
YOU'
5
I
§
§
“How To Be
An Artist” Is FREE.
Never before has a book of this
nature been offered free; that is
uhy you should send for your copy
now. 'This brand-new book shows
you how to draw- —develop your
talent—how to cartoon, the secret
of illustrating, and how money
can be made even while learning.
Fill in your coupon and get it into
. the post now-—at once, before you
forget.
The Brodie Mack
Correspondence Art School
DESK 4iT, WAYNE HOUSE,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
POST NOW!
ACT
AT
ONCE!
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School,
Desk 43, Wayne House,
Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me, FREE, a copy of your famous
book, “How To Be An Artist.” I enclose twopence in
stamps to defray postage.
NAME
ADDRESS 22/5/10
Free Book
on
Drawing
For You!
Use Coupon
Below!
THE SECRET of MAKING
PEOPLE LIKE YOU!
'HAT is it that makes some people liked
W and others disliked ? Haven’t you your-
self purposely avoided somebody approaching
you; looked the other way; gone down a
side street; done anything just to avoid
meeting ? Then there’s the other type, whom
you’ll go out of your way to meet.
In the past 8 years 1:3,870 people have put
this simple system to the test —and made it
work ! it has given them what they desire- -
it will give YOU what you warit, if you will
but try it. What is it that puts some people
to the fore, while others remain nobodies?
What is the secret that attracts and influences
people? NOW you can read the answer—
at last you can prove to yourself without
risking one penny that this system works —
and works rapidly!
OVERCOME YOUR
INFERIORITY COMPLEX
THOUSANDS of people have PROVED that
you can literally pull out your nervousness
by the roots —completely remove it from your
system. NOW you can be your real self —
masterful, calm and controlled. Why be a
slave to your weaknesses? Why show them
in your conversation and your actions, as you
MUST do? Read this unusual book —it will
amaze you, as it has thousands.
THE POWER
OF PERSONALITY!
IN you—at the moment —there is a sleeping
power just waiting you to call upon. It’s
yours to use ! Thousands go through life and
... a
never know it. Are
you going to miss half
the joy in life because
you suffer shyness, lack
influential friends, have
weak conversation? What
is in successful, prominent
people that is not in you 5
Nothing; you are exactly
the same as they, EXCEPT
that you are not using
this dormant power and
they are!
Httvt STKMOn
self amaovmss
and
PEMONAUn^*
Post This Coupon NOW!
FREDERICK GRAY,
Dept. 84, Lombard Chambers, Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me at once, ABSOLUTELY FREE,
a copy of your new book, “How to Overcome
Nervousness,” in plain wrapper. Enclose stamp
for postage.
NAME >
ADDRESS
22/5/’4O.
FREE BOOK TELLS YOU*
• One Thing the Other fellow Always
AVants.
0 How to Stop Being Shy.
• The Knack of Influencing People.
• An Easy Way to Make New friends.
• How to Make People Say Yes.
• A Simple AA'ay to Develop Person-
ality.
• How to Get Bid of “Nerves.”
• Overcoming an Inferiority Complex.
■ The Secret of Courage.
FREE —lf You Hurry!
ARE you shy, nervous, self-conscious,
afraid of people? Send for my fully
illustrated FREE BOOK. See for yourself
what others have actually accomplished, check
up on what you will be
able to do yourself.
This book will show
you how- to banish all
forms of nervousness. A
few copies are
offered free! Send the
coupon at once.
FREDERICK
GRAY,
Dept. 84, I.oinbard
Chambers, Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
