

£2
62/ ,/tyy/yy/s ~
tw/ Afy AAA/ A
WA
” ift ifi ffft ft
Wg%&yAA/'A
i
i
sy.
S
{B
»
£
/
(0£
1.
M 6
©f
ku»?!
5353
gOSt
itS®
, 1 'l'n'/'rr
, ' >,. Aj'r /'
' ' ~ ii,,.,
A
IN i
st #t
■ \V*#
V/s.
iti»
*
|%Ctl
(VlC®
S
e
n.w
ss
e
rvice
e
it
Se
hone
atn
B
e
te\eP
ShiP s
\kf\xe\ eSS
\o
tvice
Sc^' te
Se
W\reit s f
Vl\teU $s
ce
Gu*ui cd
SeW
He^
ss
e
ice
e
Setv
it
£
\i
t\n9
★
ic3 S
★
ce
a
B
Set v
o
ce
rv
S
e
a
ct
A\t
e
am
ctut
9*
e
ctut
rAann
P
ch
ss
e
at
V/
e
it
Rese
on s
ss
St at
e
V/
e
it
tin 9
*
dcas
aioi
a
a
B
o
R
a
k
f
Th
e
*
J wireless ****
"ATiohu
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.- —No. 3133.
Wednesday, February 28, 1940.
Six Months of War
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Posi as a Newspaper.


DYMQCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
MimceJoumato
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B 240
The Red Page
MAORI AND PAKEHA .
J. C. Beaglehole’s The Discovery of
New Zealand and James Cowan’s
Settlers and Pioneers come with the com-
pliments of New Zealand’s Hon. Min-
ister for Internal Affairs ; and thank the
Hon. Gent, very much, for they’re both
unusually digestible for centennial pub-
lications.
Maoriland is treating its centennial
with the respect it deserves. If any of
the local authorities are following the
Australian model of making it an occa-
sion for plump society girls to float about
the streets representing Plenty, Nature,
Shearing-time, Whey Butter and so on,
the Government is celebrating it with
dignity. Nothing could be more fitting
than its plan of putting the achievements
of the past hundred years on record in
a series of books. Whitcombe and
Tombs, using good paper, attractive bind-
ing and clear, large typography, arranged
by Mr. Beaglehole, are aiding and abet-
ting nobly.
The Discovery of New Zealand and
Settlers and Pioneers are the first two
volumes of a proposed set of 13. The
Women of New Zealand, as Helen Simp-
son sees them, are to make their bow this
month. Thereafter, at the rate of one a
month, will come: The Maori People,
by Apirana Ngata; The Exploration
of N.Z., by W. G. McClymont; Govern-
ment in N.Z., by Leicester Webb ; The
Farmer in N.Z., by G. T. Alley ; Educat-
ing N.Z., by C. E. Beeby ; Social Ser-
vices in N.Z., by W. B. Sutch ; Letters
and Art in N.Z., by E. H. McCormick ;
N.Z. and the World, by F. L. W. Wood ;
New Zealanders and Science, by S. H.
Jenkinson; and N.Z. Now, by Oliver
Duff.
It is as a survey, wide in scope and
easily accessible, that the series is most
likely to be valued by Maorilanders them-
selves, for the facts, as they are in the
first two, may be common knowledge.
By relating his own experiences, Mr.
Cowan adds a little to what is specifically
known of the pioneers—places, names,
dates, the story of the settlement of many
districts—but there’s really only one
pioneer story —they came out and cut
the trees and fought the Maoris—and his
variations on that theme are not as in-
teresting as those in his many previous
books.
Similarly, Mr. Beaglehole, though his
spirited prose almost makes the tale
fresh, can add little to what they tell
you in the schoolbooks about Kupe the
Navigator, the Fleet of a.d. 1350, Tas-
man, Cook and the Frenchmen. One
thing that might impress Maorilanders
is the extraordinary number of place-
names along the coasts that date back
to Cook. Everybody knows Tasman’s
Murderers’ Bay (now Golden Bay), but
New Plymouth’s snapper fishermen,
when the launches go north to Kawhia,
mightn’t realise that the Endeavour sailed
along by Gannet Island and Albatross
Point, and that Cook named both.
Both the writers are interesting on the
Maoris and the Maori wars. Mr. Cowan,
skimming over the well-known cam-
paigns, has anecdotes of isolated encoun-
ters—that of the “scalping” of W. D.
McWilliams near Te Aroha in 1879, for
example. Knowing that the white man's
roads were their enemies, the Maoris
hated surveyors, and made many attacks
on them ; natives objecting to the sale
of land between Paeroa and Te Aroha
fired on a survey party, and McWilliams,
wounded, fell down and pretended to be
dead. A Maori ran up with his knife,
cut off some of McWilliams’s hair, put it
in his mouth and chewed it. When the
Maoris had gone off, leaving him for
dead, McWilliams crawled into a swamp
and was rescued by a half-caste woman.
If Sir Apirana Ngata doesn’t do it,
Mr. Cowan should make an anthology
of the speeches and recorded statements
of the Maoris. Here, from Settlers and
Pioneers, is a translation of the final
clause in the deeds of sale of the land
on which Napier now stands:
Now we, having fully considered, wept
over and bid adieu to this land inherited
by us from our forefathers, with all its
rivers, lakes, waters, streams, trees, stones,
grass, plains, forests, good places and bad,
and everything either above or below the
soil, and all and everything connected
with the said land, we have fully and en-
tirely given up under the shining sun of
the present day as a lasting possession to
Victoria the Queen of England and to
all the Kings and Queens her successors
for ever.
In the appendix to Mr. Beagle-
hole’s book, as a commentary to his
exciting description of Cook’s voyage
round the coastline, is an equally fas-
cinating translation from the Maori, a
transcription of Te Horeta
Taniwha’s reminiscences of
first seeing the white men.
Mr. Beaglehole reprints it
from White’s Ancient His-
tory of the Maori. Some selections:
We lived at Whitianga, and a vessel came
there, and when our old men saw the
ship they said it was a tupua, a god (some
unknown thing), and the people on board
were strange beings. The ship came to
anchor and the boats pulled on shore. As
our old men looked at the manner in
which they came on shore, the rowers
pulling with their backs to the bows of the
boat, the old people said, “Yes, it is so:
these people are goblins; their eyes are
at the back of their heads.” When these
goblins came on shore we (the children
and women) took notice of them, but we
ran away from them into the forest, and
the warriors alone stayed in the presence
of these goblins ; but, as the goblins did
not do any evil to our warriors, we came
back one by one and gazed at them,
and we stroked their garments with our
hands, and we were pleased with the white-
ness of their skins and the blue of the
eyes of some of them.
Now, some of the goblins had walking-
sticks which they carried with them, and
when we arrived at the bare dead trees
where the shags roost at night, the goblins
lifted the walking-sticks up and pointed
them at the birds, and in a short time
thunder was heard to crash and a flash
of lightning was seen, and a shag fell from
the trees; and we children were terrified,
and fled, and rushed into the forest, and
left the goblins all alone.
When we got on board the ship we were
looked at by the goblins, who with their
hands stroked our mats and the hair of
the heads of us children; at the same time
they made much gabbling noise in talking.
I and my two boy-companions did not walk
about on the ship; —we were afraid lest
we should be bewitched by the goblins;
and we sat still and looked at everything
we saw at the home of these goblins. The
chief goblin put out his hand towards me
and spoke to us at the same time, holding
out a nail towards us. My companions
were afraid and sat in, silence; but I
laughed and he gave the nail to «me. I
took it into my hand and said “Ka pai"
(“Very good”), and he repeated my words,
and again patted our heads, and went
away. I kept this nail till one day I was
in a canoe and she capsized in the sea,
and my god (the nail) was lost to me.
The Maoris make one of the most de-
ightful chapters in a third centennial
wok from Whitcombe and Tombs, E.
Earle Vaile’s Pioneering the Pumice. An
unofficial publication, this is very much
better from the point of view of enter-
tainment than the authorised surveys. Its
dull title is misleading, for although it
records the conquest of the pumice lands
near Taupo—a farming experiment of
the first importance—the “pioneering”
dates only from 1907, and the humorous
anecdotes through which the main theme
meanders make it emphatically a book
::or the ordinary reader rather than a
treatise for the land man. Mr. Vaile
describes the Maori of today with
humor and realism; he brings neigh-
bors, earlier settlers, workmen, waifs
and strays to give a picture of
himself, his life and the outback
atmosphere so vividly that any novelist
might envy him. He is no professional
prose-writer, but he has set down what
he has seen with no more padding than
some occasional labored humor, and that
is the sort of autobiography that is
always worth reading.
“N.Z. Best Poems.”
Two of the country’s most assured
poets, Arnold Cork and Eve Langley, are
absent from the 1939 New Zealand Best
Poems (H. H. Tombs, Ltd.), but the other
regular contributors are there to make
it an attractive little book.
Arnold Wall submits his customary
polished verse, something like Yeats in
its blend of philosophy and passion, but
never imitative. “Bushed” is another
proof that he can ' treat of a modem
psycho-analytical idea without making
his poem read like a chemical formula.
J. R. Hervey, struggling a little with a
tendency to polysyllables, emerges with
a fine picture of “The First Snow”:
And we know why the travail, why
The speeding tragedy, the baffled sky,
The frantic assemblage, the earth lost
In angry dark, and crucified by frost,
For the white child is born, the daughter
Of the high tempest and long, inscrutable
slaughter.
C. R. Allen, under the ugly title “Klaus-
trophilia,” writes a powerful verse:
“Lift up your eyes,” they chant, “unto the
hills
Whence cometh help.” The crags are raw and
steep;
Measure me on the plains my dram of sleep,
Let me find slumber as the cistern fills.
Here is the solace of the curfew ringing,
And reconciliation at nightfall,
And here a concord of fair children singing
Of one who died without a city wall.
The anthology can be regarded as a
farewell to Robin Hyde, who died
tragically in England last year. Eve
Langley’s memorial to her, published in
The Bulletin under the title “Thauman-
tias,” was presumably written too late
to be included:
Thus, only to islands in the south’s Greek seas
She gave her youth; to wahines walking slow
And pregnant through the gorse’s golden peas,
With rough black hair. They do not need to
know
She loved their unborn wild seed while she
walked
And smiled to see them marked upon each dress
Of wild south seal, and listened while they
talked
In ferny Dorian down the wilderness.
O Light! the earth you loved and rambling
wave
Rise out of me, despite of me, and cry to you,
“Death has returned to us that which we gave.
Triumph of our wish were you, good-bye to
you! ”
A fine long poem by Robin Hyde opens
the book. Though it was written in
China on her last travels, she is mainly
concerned with recalling New Zealand
scenes, and the poem—curiously—is the
only one in the anthology strongly
stamped with the hallmark of New
Zealand:
Watching the kea, red outlaw, circle a plain
Scarred with old river-beds . . .
How a fall sprang out and down, singing,
The mountain’s woman,
And the dreadful singing of winds blew out at
dark.
Down upon Diamond Lake the trout plopped
home,
Spreading such lonely circles . ..
With the anthology comes Dora
Hagemeyer’s Sonnets and other Songs
from the same publisher. Born in South
Australia, Miss Hagemeyer was brought
up in New Zealand and now lives in Cali-
fornia. Because they are sonnets and
come from America, her poems bring
Edna St. Vincent Millay to mind, but
there is little real likeness, except in
technical competence. Miss Hagemeyer
has less to say than Miss St. Millay,
but what she does say she says with
rare delicacy and color. Each sonnet
is like a flash of light; a pool caught in
the sun, with the sun’s gleam and the
pool’s stillness. Poems in a minor key,
but presenting the image that Eliot has
often sought for- —“the still point of the
turning world”: .
After the dark within me, let me stand
Before this day, transparent as a leaf
Held to the light; and in the radiant land
May there remain no heritage of grief;
Nothing to cast a shadow nor to run
Between my heart’s quiescence and the sun.
“The Bulletin” and N.Z.
I met in the Red Page reminiscences
in The Bulletin jubilee number men
and women whose writings I had read in
your columns almost from the beginning
—many of them I met when I also
climbed those stairs in George-street.
I remember a group at the foot of
the stairs: Alex. Montgomery, Jack
Barr, Lionel Lindsay, A. W. Jose, Bert-
ram Stevens, James Edmond, G. A.
Taylor, Dave Souter (whose home was
my guest-house), Nelson Illingworth,
Frank Mahony and Fred Broomfield.
Of course, it was payday. When we
climbed the stairs there were Arthur
Adams, in charge of the Red Page (who
was my junior reporter associate on the
Wellington “Post”), and David McKee
Wright, who was minister of the Congre-
gational Church which I attended in
Wellington.
When the group adjourned to the pub
round the corner, David declined —for
back there in Wellington he had been
president of the Prohibition Alliance, of
which I was a member. The two of us
were wowsers!
It was the greatest sub. of them all,
Archibald, who broke me in to par.-
writing. I still treasure his script, as
small and neat as Rudyard -Kipling’s, in
a letter written from Athenaeum Club
dated Aug. 25, 1897. He wrote: “It
takes longer (in this office) to cut any-
thing down than to build it up. We
want to get at the heart of things—our
game is to trade in the forceful, pic-
turesque, direct and unconventional,
severely letting alone anything of ordi-
nary newspaper character. When writ-
ing, please try and keep this in view.”
I did —so successfully that Gresley
Lukin, a Bulletin fan, used to say to
me when he was editing the “Post”:
“Give our local-and-general column
some pars, with your Bulletin snap and
color in them!”
So far as The Bulletin is concerned,
N.Z. and Australia have been more
closely related than first cousins. A full
million pars, is the total from this side
the Tasman. I remember one issue in
which a Wellington man had 17.
When we heard that Archibald and
Edmond were to be in our city in the
same week, the Wellington group of
Bulletin writers organised a modest
dinner at which the joint brains of The
Bulletin were guests of honor. Most
of the diners were “mere modest par.
writers.” As a result of that dinner,
Arthur Adams, then a junior reporter
on the “Post,” reached the first rung of
the ladder upon which he ascended to
the chair as Red Pagan, A. G. Stephens’s
successor. A.G.S., by the way, was im-
ported by Gresley Lukin to brighten the
pages of the “Post.” He did not stay
long—he did not fit in. He was enamored
of Adams’s work and edited his Maori-
land and Other Verses for the Snowy
River series. Jack Barr—at case in the
“Post” printery, then a reporter on the
New Zealand “Times” —is a native of
Wellington. He and Will Lawson in
their youth contributed verse to the
“Post’s” supplement—one signed “J. 8.,”
the other “Quilp N.”
Edmond migrated from here to Aus-
tralia ; W. A. Woods (who remembers
his “I Don’t Go Shearing Now” in The
Bulletin?) worked in the bush in
Taranaki, like Edmond, before return-
ing to take democratic editorial chairs
in Launceston and Hobart —and so into
Parliament. Pat Lawlor is equally well
known along the Inky Way in Sydney
and Wellington.
Henry Lawson came across twice, and
he stayed in my home on both occasions
•—his wife with him on the second visit,
when they went south to teach at a
Maori school. I have an interesting
letter from Henry written in 1894 at
Louisson’s telegraph camp at Tua Marina
in Marlborough, where he did laborer’s
work which he found very severe. In
this letter Henry wrote these lines:
Oh, had you tracked where Kendall trod,
I think you would be kneelin’
Three times a week and thankin’ God
That you are of New Zealand!
For this I'll say, and make it short
An’ keep my tongue from clacken—
The people are a kinder sort
You’re singin’ for, Tom Bracken.
TOM L. MILLS.
A Cynic on Politics.
A. N. Field, in The Truth about
New Zealand (published by the author),
traces what he regards as the evil in-
fluence of the Bank of N.Z. on Maori-
land’s financial policies, recounting such
half-remembered affairs as the mystery
of Vogel’s vanishing overdrafts, the hypo-
thetical oats that got Joe Ward into hot
water, and the effective way in which
the Bank punished Bob Stout for exer-
cising an independent mind.
Pursuing his theme that Maoriland’s
ever-increasing debt burden is ruining
the country and its people, Mr. Field
emits such aphorisms as: “Socialism is
exploitive Finance-Capitalism carried to
its ultimate end of total enslavement of
everybody”; and “Democratic Govern-
ment in New Zealand has been marked
by a continual sacrifice of principles to
expediency.”
His remedies are simple. He wants to
see the party system abolished by vesting
in the Governor-General the responsi-
bility of appointing Ministers, who would
not be members of Parliament, could
speak in it but not vote, and who could
be removable only by the same process
that takes the wig off a Supreme Court
Judge. As to borrowing, it should cease
—just like that. New money created by
the Reserve Bank should be used to buy
up internal loans; a sinking fund should
be established to amortise the overseas
debt. Coincidentally volume of currency
issue and rate of exchange should depend
on world market prices, and Maoriland’s
debt obligations abroad should be pay-
able in Maoriland currency at the current
rate of exchange.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’ —and
THE SENIOR STORE”
FABRICOID LOUNGE SUITE,
Three piece Suite covered in £33/10/-
good quality fabricoid, consist- '
ing of a full length Settee and two large Easy
Chairs, sprung backs, sprung platforms, loose
spring-filled reversible cushions. Cushions are
covered in Genoa Velvet.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS' £33/10/-
EASY TERMS: Deposit £3/7/-; 18 Monthly
payments of £l/16/-.
K
m
\ $
mm
m
TV
X,
'■\'> j '•
tex&ftx
*v '' '
For Outdoors LAWN HAMMOCK
Good quality multi coloured striped canvas £ 13/7/6
adjustable canopy top, strongly woven
diamond wire, flock filled canvas covered cushion and two
pillows. AT ANTHONY HORDERNS', Price £l3/7/6
EASY TERMS : Deposit £l/6/9; 12 Monthly Payments
of £l/1/1.
• Furniture —Third and Fourth Floors.
Delivered free only within our delivery area.
FIVE PIECE SOLID CEDAR
BEDROOM SUITE,
Suite consists of a sft. Ward- £B2/10/-
robe, full , hanging space,
dressing mirror behind left-hand door; 4ft.
Chest of Drawers, four drawers, two large and
two small, wall mirror; two 3ft. Bedsteads and
Cheval Mirror. At Anthony Horderns' £B2/10/-
EASY TERMS: Deposit £B/5/-; 24 Monthly
payments of £3/8/1
m
mm#***
?s*«*«»*
m»
FRENCH WALNUT
DINING ROOM SUITE
Six piece highly figured £37/107-
full polished French
Walnut Dining Suite, consisting of a sft.
Sideboard, fitted with three drawers,
silky oak fittings. Ample cupboard
space. sft. x 2ft. 9in. Table with rounded
ends and box end legs. Four Chairs,
sprung stuff over seats in Fabricoid,
walnut backs.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS' .... £37/10/-
EASY TERMS: Deposit £3/15/-; 18
Monthly Payments of £2/0/4
£7/5/- OAK TALLBOY
Strongly constructed Tall- CA/ 1 Q/C
boy, made in our own 1
Factory from specially selected Oak timber,
finished a medium oak colour. Nicely
grained flush doors. The main feature of this
Tallboy is the extra large hanging space and
drawer space. Interior is fitted with six
sliding trays, two small drawers, and shelf
on the right-hand side, balance hanging
space; mirror behind left-hand door. Width
4ft., Height sft. 9in., Depth 2iins. Price £7/5/--
SPECIAL PRICE £4/19/6
EASY TERMS: Deposit 10/-; 6 Monthly
Payments of 15/4.
mm
■
m
i
• w •••••• W'
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
'Phone M 2401 Day and Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


“HE’LL BEAT YOU, JOE”
BY A. C. HEADLEY.
IT was three o’clock, but there was no weariness
in the waiting man. His nerves were tight,
jangling, and the feel of anxiety was in his throat.
There was a dimness of night about the hospital.
Occasionally he moved at the sound of footsteps and
his heart jolted to a stillness in his body. On the
bench near him Murley had fallen asleep, and his
breath was thickening into a snore. A door opened
silently and his face lifted, but the nurse moved
through the doorway and was gone.
There was nothing to do but to wait and to
think. He watched Murley shift uneasily on the
seat and expel air through the hanging drop of his
bottom lip. Sleep. A stab of his anger edged itself
towards Murley. He moved from his position, feeling
the cramp in his legs.
He watched Murley settle more comfortably on
the seat. The wrestler’s bad ear, knotted into a
turk s-head, was near him. His gaze focused on it.
He tried to yawn, but the effort made him conscious
of that vague fear, and his eyes kept moving towards
the finality of that white door.
The knuckles of his hands showed tight where
they gripped his knees. They were swollen and flat,
the skin hard from brine. He twisted a piece of the
hard skin and brought a spot of blood. Then suddenly
his hands were clenched before him and he was think-
ing of the fight.
jPHE dressing-room was hot, and the stillness made
him restless. The colored pictures of the cham-
pions along the wall he had seen a dozen times, and
they held no interest. The air was filled with cigarette-
smoke, and he had the dead feel of it in his lungs. The
smell of liniment was in his nostrils. Murley’s huge
hands slapped at his legs, and he could feel the strength
of shivering flesh.
Across from him the other fjghter lay on his
back, his hands loose across his body, relaxing. Joe
Marlin, studying him, noted the look of smart ease
in his shoulders, the smoothly confident set of his face.
It was funny thinking that in a few minutes they
would be circling each other, stabbing punches to
hurt; there would be blood and cut and smarting lips.
He leaned back lazily and grinned.
Murley stopped the slapping tattoo. “ ’E’ll feed
y’ with lefts, Joe. I seen him fight. ’E’s a decision
fighter. Give him plenty of the right loop. I’ll be
waitin’ when his knees buckle.”
111 take im.’ There was the conviction of a
long line of knockouts. The other boy was clever.
He had read somewhere about his coming straight
from the amateurs into the eight-rounders. There
were three or four points decisions—skipping out
of the way and placing delicate, punches. But he
hadn’t met anyone with Joe’s drive yet. That was
going to make a difference. The power in his arms
as he flexed them filled him with confidence. “I’ll
take ’im all right.”
“We’re goin’ good.” Murley grinned. “He’s the
boom boy, this feller. They like ’is curly ’air and
because he’s been to school. Bust ’im, Joe. Bust
’im. The dough gets better when the papers start
talkin’.”
Murley was right. The dough gets better. He
was going to get out of it soon. But he wasn’t far
enough in front yet. He wanted enough money to
buy a small business. And he was creeping closer to
the big money with each fight. He could beat this
boy on the rubbing table.
Murley was speaking now, and he held his hands
out to be taped. There was sudden movement in the
dressing-room.
Murley said: “We’re on.”
He stretched off the table and drew the cord of his
dressing-gown. Murley tagged on to the end of the
line and Joe moved in behind his huge bulk.
There was crowd noise as they came into' the
open. It was a wrestling bill and this was the main
fight. Eight rounds—Joe Martin and Don Gray.
Gray was in the ring already. He looked smart
and clean, sure of himself. His feet shuffled the resin,
and he came back to his corner, limbering with the
ropes. Joe Martin climbed into the ring. His move-
ments were slow, methodical. He sat hunched in his
corner while Murley tied the gloves on his hands. They
were tied, and he smacked them together with the
force of his muscles. When the referee called them
together he came out with his head down, his shoulders
hunched. He moved back to his corner without rais-
ing his eyes.
The bell sounded and Murley’s arms, over the
ropes, hoisted him into the ring. He heard the swift
injunction “Go get ’im, Joe!” and then they were
circling in the white square of ring. It was funny
how smooth and soft the ex-amateur looked.
There hadn’t been enough fights to work on his face.
Joe watched the half-smile as they touched a tentative
glove. A left felt for Joe’s face and he moved away.
The shift fooled Gray. His left flashed again, and
this time Joe was close. His right smacked into
Gray’s body. He could feel it cushion on the wind.
There was a new respect in Gray’s eyes as he back-
moved. The mark of the punch was on his white
skin. It had hurt. NoW Gray moved warily. His lead
propped, Joe’s head shifted, and he took the strings
off his right hand. But this time there was no resistance
to the force of the blow, and the right that took him
on the side of the head stood him up.
They moved into mid-ring. Gray shot a left,
propped, and his right took Joe flush on the jaw.
It was pretty fighting, clean punches. Joe jolted him-
self into aggression. The ropes V’d suddenly, and
Gray was in front of him. He moved in, throwing
punches, his chin safe behind the heap of his shoulder.
But the punches were landing on Gray’s defence,
on his arms and his gloves. A hook jerked Joe’s
head, and he punched hard at the slim white figure.
But the blow tailed into air, and Gray came under his
arm into the open. The left was flicking into Joe’s
mouth again. He could taste the salt of a cut lip.
It was hard to fix this shifting white figure on his
gloves. He opened out, missing badly. At the back
of his mind he heard Murley’s call, and backmoved
towards his corner. It was an old gag and he wasn’t
sure that it had any value, but at the bell he was ready
to drop into his corner and watch Gray troop across
the ring. It meant extra seconds of rest.
Murley slipped the guard out of his mouth and
stretched the elastic of his trunks. ' A towel wiped his
face, but he was still fresh. He hunched forward,
waiting for the bell. Murley hung over him. “Watch
the left, Joe.”
“I ain’t worryin’.”
He was confident. He had faith in the power and
drive of his fighting. His eyes moved across the ring.
Gray looked all right. They had stopped working on
him and the kid was loose, waiting for the bell.
They met in mid-ring, Gray moving fast to meet
him. There was something different. Joe noticed it.
Gray was tighter, harder. The flick of his left had been
replaced by a vicious stab. Joe’s head jerked back
The punch was smart and crisp. Joe crossed a right,
hooked the air, and a left stabbed over his arm. It
was fast. He moved in, throwing punches, but they
were meeting on ready arms. His left shot high to the
head, but it sailed past Gray’s shoulder. Gray one-
twoed and Joe doubled. A right hand slid under his
“Thought you said it was a matter of life and death.”
“So it is—the dahlias are almost done.”
guard, and the uppercut jerked his teeth together. He
held on.
He wanted time to think, to set himself to this
new problem. The referee forced them apart. Gray’s
left flashed. Joe moved in and clinched. They broke,
and his back burned on the ropes. His arms were
solid against the rain of punches. He came out of it
fighting, his fists moving fast, driving across the ring.
But they weren’t scoring punches. The kid was
using his defence. The round ended in a neutral
corner.
“Keep at ’im, Joe,” Murley offered the advice.
“That’s all you gotter do. ’E’U tire soon. You won’t.
You’re strong. ’E’s smart now while ’e’s got the wind,
but you’ll get ’im. You’ve ’ad them prettier than this
kid, an’ you got ’em.”
He knew he wasn’t going to get Gray as easily as
the others. There was a difference. There had to be
a knockout. This fight was important, as important
almost as being in the same ring with the champion.
It was money to win this fight, money in the future.
Gray came out in the next round with the same
tight alertness. There was a businesslike quality in
his movements. His arms were as clean and efficient
as pistons. They stabbed through Joe’s defences. The
dead thud of leather in his mouth was making him
angry. He wanted to get close, to fight, to pummel,
and let strength argue the result. But it was hard to
get close to this shifting white figure.
The ex-amateur was making him look easy. The
thought of it brought heat to his face. He lunged for-
ward. Gray moved away, stabbing a left. But the
movement was hurried. His steps were too long, and
his back foot slid. There was the moment when
his jaw was open, his arms wide. Joe Martin’s right
hand cracked hard. Gray’s eyes glazed. He crumpled,
hung in the air for a moment, and slid to the canvas.
There was the hushed stillness of the crowd following
the count, and then it was over. Murley swung the
dressing-gown over Joe Martin’s shoulders. “I knoo
you’d do it, Joe.”
“I’ll beat ’em all, Murl. They was talkin’ about
this bloke for the champ., wasn’t they? This oughter
start ’em talkin’ about me.”
Murley looked across the ring. Seconds were
working on the ex-amateur. Murley grinned. “You
put that one to sleep orright, Joe.”
Gray was still out to it when Joe had had his
shower. They had brought him back to the dressing-
room, and he lay stretched out on the rubbing table.
With the towel moving over his shoulders Joe came
to have a look at him. He spoke to a second. “How
is ’e?”
“ ’E’ll be orright. You must ’a’ ’it ’im pretty ’ard.”
Someone must have sent for the doctor, and now
he came, quick and efficient. His examination was
brief. He straightened abruptly. “You’d better ring
for an ambulance.”
Joe Martin felt his throat tighten. It was sud-
denly something different from a hard punch. A dozen
pairs of eyes were looking at the still figure on the
table with anew interest. Joe Martin looked down at
the knuckles of his right hand.
He was beginning to feel the strange cold ot'
the morning. There was a loneness in the waiting.
Murley was still asleep. Abruptly there was move-
ment near that door, and now it was opening. The
panic of it made him want to wake Murley. There
was a nurse distinct and real before him.
“Sorry, son.”
Suddenly he was watching Murley’s cauliflower
ear, his eyes following the lines of the knotted flesh.
It was the brief dead space between thinking. He
heard the nurse’s footsteps moving away. He moved
over and woke Murley. The big wrestler blinked
owlishly and propped himself erect. Joe spoke. “We
can go now.”
“It’s all right? I knoo it was all right. We
could ’a’ been ’ome in bed.”
They were walking in the darkened streets when
Joe Martin spoke again. “I’m through, Murl. 1
ain’t fightin’ no more.”
Murley stopped abruptly, turning
him into the light. “What’s got inter
you? You ain’t lettin’ nothin’ like that
upset y’?” His voice was reasoning.
“You got a chance of bein’ up on the
top in a couple more fights, an’ you want
to turn it in because someone takes a
faintin’ fit on y’. ’E’s orright, ain’t 'e?
You got nothin’ to worry about.”
“He’s dead, Murl. I ain’t fightin’ no
more.” It was a promise to himself that
had no cognisance of looking for work,
of finding a job. There was enough
money to last till he picked up some kind
of a job. Sure there was. But there were
no jobs, and money dwindled amazingly.
He had a wife and kid.
'T' HEY were beginning to get him now with talk
* of fights and of fighting.
■‘Listen, Joe, that thing was an accident. It
might ’a’ been done be anyone. It just ’appened
to be you. It wasn’t your fault. You read in the
papers about where ’e ’ad a thin skull. It wasn’t your
fault. And take a look who’s champion now. Jimmy
Coomber. You beat ’im once, Joe, what's to stop
('Continued on page 5.)


you again? It’s easy money, Joe. All you need is
a few fights an’ a go at the champ. It’ll give you
dough enough to set you up. A coupla of fights an
you’ll be up the top.”
Eight rounds against Bob Furtin: A white figure
with a half-smile dancing before you. A left jabbing
hard into your face. He’s smart and smooth and clever.
There’s an opening, Joe. Look at his jaw. Where s
the power and strength in that finishing punch? It's
there, Joe, but there’s scmething tight holding it,
something that makes you think of Murley’s bunched
ear and the white of a hospital. You’re strong, Joe.
You’re taking punishment. You’ve got to take punish-
ment because you think of those things. You should
have finished it then, that time he overreached and
left himself open as a book. You should have
finished it then, but your punch was a push. You
can see a white figure and a half-smile.
Eight rounds with Barney Porter: A white figure
with a half-smile dancing before you. A left jabbing
hard in your face. He’s smart and smooth and clever.
You've made him drop his guard, Joe, but you won t
hit him, not hard. It’s something to do with Murley’s
ear and white hospitals. It’s a good thing you’re
strong, Joe. You’re taking punishment. You’ll lose
this fight, Joe.
Six-rounder: Undo the strings on that right hand
and you’ll win. When he takes your left he leaves
that gap. What makes you think of white figures
and half-smiles? He’s black, Joe—a nigger. Niggers
must be different. He’s open again, Joe. Hit. He
couldn’t have lasted a round with you- once. But
your mouth is filled with blood, and you are behind
on points. He’ll beat you, Joe. You should have
been champion, but he’ll beat you.
Four rounds.
Four rounds.
Four rounds.
You're a sparring partner now, Joe. The gloves
are thicker. You can hit now, Joe. You won’t hurt
anything. You spar with the champ., and you can
shade him, Joe. You should have been champion
ana out of the game long ago. But you’re struggling
now for your wife and kid, and you won’t last much
longer. You’re fighting a dead man, Joe. He’s smart
and smooth and clever, and there’s a half-smile on
his face. He’ll beat you, joe; he’ll beat you.
THE
LAST OF THE
PROSPECTORS
By TED MAYMAN.
THE goldfields, as everyone knows, have long
been "haunted. Places with names like White
Feather Coolgardie, Black Flag, Broad Arrow',
Golden'Gate, Comet Vale, Boulder City could
hardly hope to escape handing down a vague
mvthology to the people who followed those who first
lived and loved and hated and died there. A recent
legend of those parts is that of Peter Flynn and his
team of camels.
In the gold-standard days men like Peter
brought their gold into sleepy, stagnant mining town-
ships and thought themselves lucky to get three
pounds odd an ounce. Then, when the bleak wind
of business collapse swept the world, and country
after country cried out in the pain of unemployment,
strikes and riots, they wandered into those lapidly-
changing townships and to their puzzled delight sold
their gold for seven, eight, nine pounds an ounce,
and wondered why the period was called the Economic
Depression. The quick-witted took this change of
fortune in their stride, opened bank accounts, bought
motor-cars, gave up their nomadic bush habits and
built suburban villas in the reconstructed townships.
But Peter Flynn—there will always be men like Peter
—found it difficult to accept the strange ways of a
swiftly-changing world.
I knew Peter fairly well in the days before the
mining boom, and am perhaps one of the last to
have spoken with him. Every six months or so he
would drift in for a beer and a yarn from a lone
prospecting trip out near the South Australian border.
He was a small, burnt-up, inoffensive old man with
a straggling beard, bright eyes which saw everything,
and half a dozen splendid yarns of lost finds which
he had been forced to abandon when his water cut
out, or his camels died, or the blacks attacked. His
inability to accept things he could not understand
sprang from the naive simplicity of his character.
Fie rather admired the old Ford trucks that rattled
round in those days, though he swore by his camels
for the desert. But he was acutely suspicious of
petrol pumps. He could never quite understand how
the petrol came out of the ground all ready for
use. I know for a fact that he never went back to
Dolorite after Bill Morgan installed one outside his
store.
It was particularly soothing for Peter to return
after many months out Lake Wells way and call in
for a few days to the old places he’d known for
nearly a lifetime. Of course they’d be a bit changed
in his absence the pub shabbier, some vacated
weatherboard house fallen in, another old show
abandoned, an old face missing, the place a bit
quieter. Peter would leave his team in the bush and
slowly walk down the silent street, looking this way
and that, smiling pleasantly to himself as he recalled
the Good Old Days. But, as I was saying, things
are quite changed now. I don’t think we’ll ever see
that same Peter about his old haunts again. I’ve put
together the tale as I’ve heard it from some of the
old hands who knew Peter when 1 did, and what I
saw myself in Flynn’s Find.
GREEK JOE told me Peter left Boogoodie hurriedly
for the inland when someone brought talkies
up from Perth, and had never gone back. I think
that was about ’32.
Mike Ryan told me he last saw Peter in Sand-
ville in ’33, when the Consolidated opened up and
an American technical staff arrived in breeches, knee
boots and patent fly-veils with mica visors. But of
course places like Sandville and Boogoodie didn’t
mean nearly as much to Peter as Flynn’s Find did.
For it was Peter who first found gold there —in those
dim and distant days the most easterly find in the
State. For thirty years it had been crumbling away,
just another forgotten mining township. There was
a wide dusty street, a rusty pub, a few shaky wood-
and-iron houses, some grey, untidy slime dumps and
a few gaunt poppet heads. It was so remote thai the
tide of Progress took some time to flood out that
way. It was only remembered as a jumping-off place
for the spinifex country.
Tom Trethewey, who kept the pub, told me that
Peter, rather dazed, called there on his way outback
early in ’35. Its familiar calm acted like a drug to
his system, which had received a frightful shock in
White Rock when the first display of neon lighting
north of Kalgoorlie (an advertisement for Lustful
hosiery) had been switched on. He told Tom he
was going out beyond the Tomkinson Ranges and
would be away twelve months or so but when he
came back he’d stay at Flynn’s Find. He was a
stranger in the other places now. He looked lovingly
over the few sprawling, heat-hazed buildings. This
was his own town, he said ; he’d always be welcome
Jaere.
Tom suggested to
Peter things might be dif-
ferent when he got back. ,
For there was talk that
Gus Mortimer had floated
Flynn’s Find in London.
Augustus Mortimer
was known in England as
one of the West’s grand
old pioneers, who had, in
the face of tremendous
odds, done wonders for
the State’s mining industry.
After tying up miles of
country around Flynn’s
Find by annual exemp-
tions, he was, after twenty
years’ residence in London,
returning to give the low-
grade deposits of the dis-
trict the glory they de-
served. I was at Flynn’s
Find when he and his
party arrived. He went
out in his car to look over
the half a dozen leases his
companies controlled, then
wrote a glowing report to
London and a demand to
the Government for a rail-
way. They rushed the
railway through in record
lime, and astonishing
quantities of machinery
for Mortimer’s mines
began arriving. Before I
left for the bush there was
a vast influx of population,
and the rebuilding of the
township had commenced.
After knocking about
the mulga for a year or
so I was driving a truck
back to Flynn’s Find. A
few miles out I met Peter,
his camels plodding faith-
fully behind him. He
hadn’t changed much.
Perhaps a bit more wind-
burnt and thinner, that
“THAT U-boat'll give us no more trouble!”
was about all. It had been a fair trip and he’d brought
back a pile of dogskins to pay expenses. He told
me I was the first man, besides blacks, he’d seen
since he’d been out.
He was heading for the Find. The other town-
ships could go begging before he’d set foot in them
again. He was getting too old for the bush, and was
thinking of settling down in the only place he could
call home. I couldn’t bring myself to disillusion
him. I drove on ahead. Though I didn’t realise
it then, it was to be the last time I was to speak to
Peter Flynn.
“THERE was frenzied activity on the leases about
1 the town as I drove in through them. Steel
girders lay about like Meccano strips. Boilers and
winders and engine-houses and machinery were
scattered everywhere. The town itself had undergone
a complete transformation. I managed to get into
a new, glittering hotel and waited nervously for Peter
to show up.
I was too confused to ask if Tom Trethewey’s
pub was still standing and admit to the smartly-tailored
waiter I did not know my way about Flynn’s Find.
Then out of the window I saw Peter’s familiar figure.
Completely bewildered, he was trying to walk down
the middle of the street as was his fashion. A long,
low, luxurious motor-car whizzed up behind him and
clipped his heels. Peter jumped like a rabbit for the
wide asphalt footpath.
The hurrying crowd soon edged him into the
gutter. Slowly he made his way past the Automobile
Lubritorium, past Jacques the coiffeur’s, until he
stopped and stared up at an odd building which had
risen, like so many of the others, in his absence.
Then I realised that Peter, bushman that he was, had
found the spot upon which Tom Trethewey’s rusty
pub had once rested.
The bonds of Empire are strong in Westralia.
T’othersiders may import their architectural styles from
California, but the traditions of the Old Country
remain firm in the Golden West. The two top storeys
hung out over the bottom, and thick beams, painted
black, hung up the white stucco walls at odd angles.
The gables were bright with gilding and picturesque
colored patterns, and heraldic shields and crossed
battleaxes hung over the square door. I followed old
Peter’s puzzied eyes as they slowly travelled to a niche
below the roof where a plaster figure of Shakspeare
frowned, a little uneasily, over Flynn’s Find. Below
hung the sign “Ye Olde Elizabethan Inne.”
Slowly Peter swayed backwards and forwards in
the gutter. I thought at first it was caused by a surge
of knightly chivalry stirring his brave old heart. Then
I realised he was only shuddering. Suddenly he
turned and galloped madly down the street. I chased
after him out of town, but my shouts urged him only
to greater effort.
THE last I saw of Peter was on his lead camel,
j his team in full pursuit, making for the distances
that lie behind the horizon and Lake Yeo, where the
March of Time marks time. And that is why I
always nod believingly when newcomers to the gold-
fields whisper of a bent figure with a trailing beard
which they sometimes see on the skyline, flying like
the wind, with a team of camels. It is old Peter
Flynn, shattered by his impact with Progress, a
stranger in his own country vainly seeking rest, another
lost soul unable to identify himself with the vast
social revolution which the mining boom has brought
to the goldfields.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
j 4 ffbtt < Wme Wie meu<mvic4d aridlwuq/iiet
HAMPTON COURT PALACE.
This famed palace, with which the name of Wolsey is imperishably connected, enjoys a perennial popularity with visitors and “natives”
alike, and deservedly so. Situated some twelve miles south-west of Hyde Park Corner, its location on one of the loveliest reaches of the
Thames is of rare beauty. The palace is one of the finest specimens extant of the Tudor style of architecture. Built by the great Cardinal,
it was by him.presented to Henry VIII, in 1526, and continued to be a royal residence down to the reign of George 11. The State
apartments, picture gallery and garden, with its famous maze, are open to the public, but other parts of the building are reserved as a
home for persons of rank or distinction in reduced financial circumstances. Little remains of the original palace, three large quadrangles
of Grecian design having been erected for William 111. by Sir Christopher Wren. The Cardinal had noble ideas on the subject of
architecture, coupled with the finest artistic instinct. He laid the palace out in five splendid quadrangles, some of which were removed
by Wren in his remodelling scheme. Hampton Court is writ large in the highly-colored domestic relations of “bluff King Hal.” Charles
I. spent many of his earlier and happier days here, though he was also a prisoner at the palace “by order of the republicans.” The
history of Hampton Court after the Restoration is curious and amusing. Gramont and Pepys present a vivid notion of the scenes it
witnessed when “Old Rowley” (Charles II.) kept his Court there. The Great Hall, a superb apartment fitting as either the audience
chamber or the banqueting room of a sovereign, is 106 feet long, 40 feet wide and 60 feet high, the walls supporting a richly-carved roof
of most elaborate design. The twelve windows on the sides were filled with stained glass, representing, in heraldic language, the bearings
and quarterings of Henry VIII. and his “multitudinous wives,” and also the arms and offices of the Cardinal. The picture gallery, comprising
the Raphael Cartoons, is in some senses unique. To it was sent the collection of paintings “Beauties of King Charles II.” when “banished”
from Windsor. While Hampton Court is a “show place” of surpassing interest, it is more. It is a fountain from which flows a generous
stream of history.


D’ARTAGNAN ON THE DEFENSIVE.
“Not only Mr. Curtin but Mr. Cameron is pressing the Prime Minister hard.”
“Didn’t I hear one of you silly cows say we should all be Musketeers?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 1 Is.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
SIX MONTHS OF WAR.
A few days hence this surprising war will be six
months old. So far it has surprised everybody—the
“experts” and professional prophets above all. Being
a hardy breed, they survive ; indeed, they were never
in better form —still camped under Hitler’s bed ; still
able to forecast with traditional inaccuracy exactly
how this war will develop, and when it will end. But
every one of them must be somewhat bruised in the
parts prophets fall on.
Their heaviest crash was, of course, concerning
the nature of the war ahead. To a man they forecast
“lightning war”—the full weight of the German
military machine crashing into action, the German air
force swooping wave after wave over England, rain-
ing down incendiary and gas bombs. The strength
of their influence was manifest in the general accept-
ance of this prophecy everywhere ; in the fact, too,
that what is really surprising everybody about this
war is only that the prophecy has failed to come off.
In England the persistent hawking and the
general acceptance of the “lightning-war” prophecy—•
from the best-informed in official places to the least-
informed in the land —led to some of the most extra-
ordinary happenings in the history of that realm.
The exodus of children, scattered for safety over the
countryside ; the second exodus in their wake of busi-
ness houses, Government departments and the
wealthy ; the removal of art treasures; sandbagged
monuments ; trenches in the parks; gas-masks slung
at everybody’s side; the whole population groping
dangerously in nightly blackout —it will make a
strange story of human frustration, a bitter comment
on civilisation, when it all comes to be written.
The wisdom of all that is not in question. The
ruthless performance of the Germans where they
have been able to strike does not suggest that motives
of human decency on their part prevented the prophecy
from coming right. The precautions may have done
so. The fact stands that the instant “lightning war”
of wholesale attack on civilians —hammered out by
the prophets till it had become a terrifying tenet of
faith —failed to occur. Pamphlet showers on Ger-
many and a bombing raid or two on German naval
bases; attempts at bombing British naval bases;
minor front-line raids —the rest mainly at sea.
Otherwise the war that was to see civilisation
blasted out overnight settled down from the start
into a siege war on much the same pattern as the siege
wars of centuries back, with casualty lists to match.
After four months of it the combined casualties of
the Allies were given out as some 3000 men in all;
the next two months have seen no increase in the
rate. In the official list at the end of the year the
British Navy—which, with coastal patrol ’planes, has
so far fought the war; stirring chapters the Graf
Spee battle and the Altmark rescue alike —had most
casualties, 2070 ; air force, 438 ; army, 3. The French
Navy casualties were 256 men ; air force, 42 ; army,
1135. One typical example from 1914-18 for com-
parison: British casualties alone on the one day,
July 1, 1916, totalled 57,470, more than 19,000 of
them killed.
The prophets foretold that this time the greatest
casualties would be among civilians; “the safest
place will be the front line.” In a sense they were
right, though not as intended. Not “lightning war”
but blackout has lengthened out the casualty lists.
Road-accident figures for England show the number
of persons killed in December as 1155, the highest
total ever recorded, despite the fact that not less
than a third—probably nearer half—of the normal
number of cars are shut up in garages owing to
petrol restrictions. Casualties among adult pedes-
trians increased from 321 killed in December, 1938,
to 746 killed in December, 1939. With slight and
minor accidents included, total blackout casualties
have been given as 5,000,000.
Next to the “lightning war” the most spectacular
cjash of the prophets was over Russia. Right up to
the hour of the Nazi-Soviet Agreement it was taken
for granted by the prophets that the Mighty Soviet
would come in on the side of the democracies. And
“this time Russia, the Soviet Union, has the strongest
war potential, the most mobile army and the most
powerful offensive weapons.” It had “at least” 10,000
tanks ; its air force, “not less than” 15,000 to 17,000
machines. No printed line could number the vastness
of the Mighty Red Army. It was evidently all
believed. Less than 12 months back an election
might have been won in England on the tune-in-with-
Russia ticket, written up by intellectuals of the calibre
of Mr. Shaw and the Dean of Canterbury, and
parroted everywhere by Communists of Moscow’s
foreign conspiracy and their countless Parlor Pink
dupes. On this wild deception a whole mountain of
false prophecy was built—which is worth keeping in
mind for present and future reference.
Not only was the Mighty Soviet due to rush in
with the democracies; Spain, Italy and Japan were
due to rush in instantly against them. On the other
hand, it could confidently be expected that the U.S.A.
—straining for “action” —would be in with the Allies
also. On the strength of all this false prophecy war
was openly or covertly favored in quarters that have
since turned a somersault to be directly in opposi-
tion or have lost all their former frenzied enthusiasm.
When the war which has turned out so strangely was
launched, the London Communist “Daily Worker”
came out with a leader, “How to Win the War”:
The war is here. It is a war that CAN and MUST
be won. And the people of Britain can win it. Fascism
and its friends everywhere have brought this war upon
us. Till now Hitler has had an easy time of it. His
friends in other countries —and above all in Britain—
_have “opened the door” for him. Now it is our busi-
ness to face him and his friends with a resistance
such as he has never dreamed of. Now it is the busi-
ness of the enemies of Fascism to take a grip of things
in Britain and fight this war to a victory over Fascism
on every front.
That was Communist policy—ip Australia as
well as in Britain —for years before and for some
time after this war started. The war has changed all
that —rather, Moscow has done so. The latest issue
of the “Daily Worker” applauds the Mighty Soviet in
its war against Finland ; it also has a cartoon on the
blockade labelled “What it means.” The cartoon de-
picts an emaciated figure labelled “German worker”
dying of starvation. The “brutal Fascists” are now
Comrades.
No war has ever worked a stranger metamor-
phosis. One of the few definite accomplishments of
the war, it should have put 999 prophets in every 1000
out of a job if it was still the custom to stone them
for false prophecy. Instead, the price of their wares
has gone up.
The prophets being naturally a gloomy breed,
the wreckage of their prophecies in nearly every
instance adds up as war gain. Not the most opti-
mistic could have hoped—the prophets certainly
never envisaged—that the Allied side would have a
full six months, at least, to continue the recovering
of stupidly sacrificed fighting strength. That is an
immeasurable gain.
Another outstanding line of prediction was the
pending break-up of the British Empire. This, it is as
well to keep in mind, was not all direct Nazi propa-
ganda, nor even indirect. It inhabited the same minds
that conceived the fantasy of the all-powerful Soviet.
In the test of these six months of siege war the
Empire has proved as strong as ever. Australian,
Maoriland and Canadian soldiers are at war stations
overseas ; the Empire Air Scheme has a sweep and
scope hitherto only dreamt of in Empire defence. In
a harder testing the ties will probably prove stronger
still—the nature of the war, and the kind of appeal
that has had to be made accordingly, more than any-
thing else account for any apparent apathy. If this
war really gets going the response is likely to be
somewhat different.
Whether it will get going or not is the present
preoccupation of the prophets. Any day of the week
their prophecies can be taken out of the oracular
barrage and laid side by side:
The Big Offensive is Hitler will try to sit
coming in the spring. tight during 1940.
All that needs to be kept in mind regarding them is
that they are the same prophets who —at the time
unanimous—gave out the various false prophecies
already listed; also the “impossibility” of Poland
being overrun (“Don’t think Poland is another Czecho-
slovakia. The Poles have 2500 airplanes, and good
ones at that”); the “certainty” of early revolt in
Germany; and scores of other wonders. They are
now, for once, divided: the war will be over by
June ; the war will begin in March.
In favor of the early-enders is the American
Sumner Welles’s visit to Europe. The United States
official version is that the visit is purely one of ex-
ploration and must not be taken to indicate attempted
mediation cy even hope of an early peace. Against
that, it seems incredible that Mr. Welles would have
been sent unless there was some hope of an accept-
able peace settlement.
On the other hand, there are signs, which might
be held to be just as clear, supporting the prophets
who predict full-scale war at any moment. For one,
Madame Tabouis has ominously given out that “the
not enough men to attack on the Western
Front” —which, coming from that “authority,” must
disturb even those most optimistic of an early ending
or continued siege war. Again, there is this list of
dates: March 16, 1935 —Hitler denounced the dis-
armament clauses of the Versailles Treaty and intro-
duced conscription; March 7, 1936—marched into
the Rhineland and ended the Locarno Treaty; March
11, 1938—marched into Austria; March 15, 1939 —
marched into Czechoslovakia. The war will be six
months old on March 3.
“You Are Now to Hear...”
A.B.C. prides itself on preventing its microphones
being used for political purposes. This accounts for
the fact that the Prime Minister and Mr. Curtin arc
so rarely heard from national stations, though pro-
Russian-alliance speakers of little note were heard
often in August and preceding months, and anti-
Japanese speakers can be heard even now. Nor is
the prohibition extended to the Communist party.
In a series of Monday-evening talks, Mr. J. N. Raw-
lings, who left the Communist party after the signing
of the Russo-German pact, and Mr. R. Dixon, mem-
ber of the Communist party executive and editor of
the “Communist Review,” have spoken over the Com-
mission’s national network.
A.B.C. can scarcely plead that it did not know
how subversive Mr. Dixon’s views are, because they
have been stated again and again in black and white.
In a signed article in the January “Communist
Review,” Mr. Dixon wrote that the present war was
an imperialist war, and that Labor support for it
amounted to “betrayal of the working class.” He
declared that the “British capitalist class enslave
480,000,000 peoples in the colonies.”
Today they are waging war against German imperial-
ism to maintain their world domination and their right
to go on exploiting and oppressing the colonial peoples
in India, Africa and other parts of the world.
In the same issue of the “Review” an Indian
correspondent quoted the speech of an Indian com-
rade to the effect that “all we are ready to do is to
push the British lion deeper into the pit, along with
dust and sand, to give this vicious exploiting Empire
a decent burial.” The Commonwealth, of which the
A.B.C. is a Government agency, is, of course, part
of the “vicious exploiting Empire.”
Mr. Dixon denied that the Australian Commu-
nist party acts under instructions from Moscow. Can
anyone out of Bedlam believe him? Compare the
“party’s” present attitude with its attitude in August
and part of September, as expressed in its official pub-
lications :
In the organ of the Fascist beast of prey, drug-addict
Goring, the Poles are accused of possessing a “rule
of the cudgel”... .Germany is under the rule of the
headman’s axe and the midnight strangler, of dehuman-
ised thugs, the dregs of humanity.
Hitler.. . .compelled to recognise the growing might
of the Soviet Union... .sends Ribbentrop to Moscow
to try to make terms....a great victory for the Soviet
and for peace. The Soviets agree to sign a non-aggres-
sion pact; but that does not mean and could never
mean that they are prepared to give Hitler a free hand
for new and greater aggressions Ribbentrop will soon
find....that in the event of unprovoked aggression the
pact becomes null and void.
The savage German Fascists have launched a new
aggression against Poland, and the British Empire and
France are at war with Germany
This war....is an act of stark aggression, without
justification of any kind whatever. Therefore, lovers
of justice and liberty throughout the entire worlcj, will
support the struggle of the Polish people for their
independence and against enslavement to a foreign
Power.
The Communist party supports the Polish people in
their struggle for independence against the savage Nazi
Fascists. In the event that a voluntary expeditionary
force is organised for use in any part of the world to
safeguard Australia from aggression and/or to par-
ticipate directly in the struggle to defeat the aggressor
armies, the Communist party will advise fit and available
members to offer their services.
Not a word nowadays about “the savage German
Fascists” or “the beast of prey Goring.” Instead,
exultation at the fate of Poland and the agony of
Finland in complete subservience to Moscow.
In his A.B.C. effort Mr. Dixon supported the
Russo-German pact “with all my heart.” He
said that Finland had been attacked by the Soviet
Union “in self-defence and for no other reason,” and
he sought to minimise the bombing raids by Russian
airmen on open towns, adding that the horrors of
such attacks were “nothing to the cruel horrors of
starvation imposed by the British blockade on a whole
people”—a blockade to which Moscow’s ally has
retaliated with wanton, ruthless and wholesale murder
by U-boats, minelayers and bombers.
Finally, Mr. Dixon admitted that the objective
of Communism in Australia was socialism achieved
through revolution. Asked whether he meant revolu-
tion “by force,” he said that socialism involved taking
over the banks and the property of the capitalists.
As he did not think they would yield without resist-
ance, “force would have to be used.”
Controllers of broadcasting stations who permit
the dissemination of matter which advocates the
overthrow of the Constitution by force or sabotage or
the overthrow by force or violence of any established
Australian Government, State or Federal, are liable
to be delicensed under the Crimes Act. All that is
to happen in this case is that Mr. W. M. Hughes is
to pick up the microphone in a few days and reply
to Mr. Dixon through A.B.C.
Communism is on a different level from other
political creeds, because it is a matter of religious
controversy. To the Catholic Church, in particular,
publication of its doctrines over the air is grossly
offensive. All Communist works are on the Index.
In 1937 the Pope, the Papal Nuncio in Australia and
the Catholic archbishops and bishops combined to
denounce Communism as the source of “forces that
would strive ferociously to blind the remorse of con-
science while working to destroy the source from which
springs Christ’s Church and her doctrine for the sal-
vation of mankind.” Communism is equally anathema
to hundreds of thousands of unionists, mostly Protes-
tant, who have kept their organisations Australian
and democratic. Other unions—because of apathy,
inertia, a false conception of mateship and fear of
being branded as “scabs” —have fallen under Red
control, and are going in for irritation and regulation
strikes, with threats of worse to come, and for pro-
Soviet resolutions.
Comrade Dixon’s broadcast speech coincided with
the publication of a British Labor party pamphlet,
“Finland: Criminal Conspiracy of Stalin and Hitler.”
Do the people of Australia think that a national


station should be used to spread the propaganda of
a “party” whose Moscow master is thus stigmatised ;
of a “party” which accepted as a condition of affilia-
tion with the Communist International that it “should
dispense, not only with avowed patriotism, but with
dishonest and hypocritical pacifism”? Do Parliament
and the War Cabinet think such a “party” should be
allowed to exist in war-time, when its “Training
Manual,” published in Sydney, sets out as part of its
programme “arming the revolution to break the resist-
ance of landowners and capitalists expropriated by the
revolution,” and declares that “the working class must
break up and shatter the State bureaucratic and
military machinery as a preliminary condition to the
workers’ revolution”?
Better the methods of Sweden, France and
Quebec. Sweden has rounded up its Communists
preparatory to placing them beyond the law. France
has outlawed Communism, completing its job by
expelling 60 members of the Chamber of Deputies
and denationalising their party secretary, the traitor
Thorez. In Quebec since 1937 the Communist party,
its publications and its members have been completely
banned, and no Communist may nominate for the
Quebec Assembly. The Quebec Government knows, as
the Australian Government does not seem to know,
though the “Party Training Manual” must be in its
possession, that every Communist party is instructed
to “make use of bourgeois Parliaments, and enter
them for the furtherance of the revolutionary class
struggle—to expose the fraudulent character of ‘demo-
cratic’ policies, to secure points of vantage from which
to harass the ruling class... .to take the machine into
its own hands, that it may help the masses to
destroy it.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Exit Lawson.
Mr. J. N. Lawson, who was Minister for Trade and
Customs, has paid dearly—but not too dearly—for
his folly in leasing a racehorse in training from Mr.
W. J. Smith, of A.C.I., after the negotiation of the
contract for a five-year A.C.I. car-manufacture
monopoly, with guarantees of Government bounties
(£1,500,000 in all) and “substantial” departmental
purchases.
It costs something to get a horse fit, and the horse
Mr. Lawson leased was handed over in such shape
that it won at Randwick on the very day people
were apprised of the car-manufacture contract through
the newspapers. According to Mr. Lawson, the prize-
money went to Mr. Smith, and this nobody has denied.
It has not been mentioned, however, whether Mr.
Lawson paid anything towards the cost of getting the
animal in winning condition, or whether he backed it.
To the Prime Minister when the fact of the lease
came out Mr. Lawson explained that he had been
“interested in racing for many years.” Mr. Menzies
has never been so interested, otherwise a man so well
read would have quoted the example of Lord George
Bentinck, who, when, at Disraeli’s solicitation, he
became leader of the Protectionist party, “at once
abandoned his connection with the turf, disposed of
his magnificent stud and devoted his whole energies
to the laborious duties of a Parliamentary leader.”
And that was during the long post-Waterloo peace.
Mr. Lawson is member for Macquarie (N.S.W.),
of which Bathurst is part. Last week the Bathurst
branch of the U.A.P. described the racehorse inci-
dent as having been “grossly exaggerated for elec-
tioneering purposes,” and declared it “over and done
with.” About the same time Mr. Curtin travelled to
Canberra to examine the A.C.I.-monopoly files, and in
Queensland Mr. Cameron reiterated his determination
to see the matter fully inquired into when Parlia-
ment met.
On Thursday Mr. Lawson sped to Melbourne by
car, driving all night. Arriving in the early morning
he saw the Prime Minister, and left on his return
journey, being in Melbourne “only a few hours.”
During that period two letters were written. One was
from Mr. Lawson to Mr. Menzies, to the effect that
he had been “greatly distressed by the fact that
public criticism” of his “perfectly innocent” transac-
tion with Mr. Smith had “assumed proportions of a
character that must seriously embarrass you and your
Government,” and that he had “decided to ask you
to convey my resignation from the office of Minister” ;
the other from Mr. Menzies to Mr. Lawson, accept-
ing the resignation and regretting that “a career which
has been marked by such loyalty and hard work
should have to be interrupted because of an error not
involving your integrity or your Ministerial com-
petence.” There were also an exchange of compli-
ments and mutual protestations of gratitude, Mr.
Lawson closing on the note of “my very deep appre-
ciation of your great generosity and loyalty to me in
this matter.”
Seeing that it is war-time and that the Govern-
ment is engaged in a critical by-election, the generosity
and loyalty were excessive. Some of the U.A.P.
newspapers insisted that Mr. Lawson should resign.
How the whole body of them would have thundered
had a Labor Government arranged the contract with
Mr. Smith and a Labor Minister leased the mare
Billie and won with her in her first race in the colors
of “Gordon Rodney” or “Kitchener St. Vincent” or
some other nom de course !
Three Labor Parties.
The general attitude of British Labor towards the
war has been set forth by its two chief leaders, Mr.
Attlee and Mr. Greenwood. As defined by Mr. Attlee:
Our people have entered upon this war with a sense
that we have been forced, despite all our desires to
preserve peace, to take up arms in defence of vital
principles. There is a grim determination to see it
through. We have to deal, not only with the problem
of bringing hostilities to an end, but of ensuring that
they shall not sooner or later break out again. It is
no use seeking to gain a short respite from immediate
evil if we are to meet it again later, perhaps in an
even more intense form. The war has arisen because
there exists in Europe a country the rulers of which
resolved to use force in order to achieve their political
and economic objects. They rejected the elementary
conditions necessary to a civilised existence. The real
cause of the war was not the invasion of Poland, but
the challenge to civilisation. Anyone who urges that
the war should be ended at any price is no real friend
of peace. If civilisation is to survive aggression must be
brought to an end. Life becomes intolerable under a
constant threat of war.
As defined by Mr. Greenwood:- —
The Labor Movement is peaceful. It hates war. It
knows that the masses everywhere suffer when war
deluges the world. But it knows also that the most
precious human possession is freedom. This war that has
been forced upon us is a war which we cannot shirk.
We must face it —and win it—so that what Labor
has gained in the past shall not be forfeited. Organised
Labor has translated all this into statements of practical
policy which have been repeatedly endorsed by the
Labor Party Conferences and the Trades Union Con-
gress. By those statements we must stand, or sacrifice
everything. Since war was declared we have, in the
House of Commons, done everything we could to
ensure the efficient prosecution of the war.
The war attitude of Labor as the Government in
Maoriland has been lately set forth by Mr. Mason, the
Attorney-General: —•
Who in his senses imagines that if Britain succumbs
we shall survive? Do recent happenings in Bohemia,
Moravia and Poland, to say nothing of China, teach
no lesson and convey no warning? Let me repeat what
both the Prime Minister, Mr. Savage, and the Minister
of Education, Mr. Fraser, both of them lifelong haters
of war and militarism, have in recent speeches made very
clear —that, if Britain falls, so do we. If Britain’s
enemies drag her down, we are among the spoils for the
victors and become hewers of wood and drawers of
water for a contemptuous and merciless conqueror.
What a fate for the country that bred and still breeds
Anzacs!
In this spirit Maoriland, led by its Labor Gov-
ernment, is making a noble contribution to the
British Commonwealth’s war effort. If Maoriland
Labor is right Australian Labor must be wrong, and
vice versa; for Australian Labor, while full of sym-
pathy with Britain and of willingness to sell the
Britons everything for which a good price can be got,
is “opposed to expeditionary forces.” Certainly it has
promised, with no appearance of enthusiasm, to
accept the accomplished fact to the extent of reinforc-
ing the Sixth Division, but “no expeditionary forces”
remains the “policy” of the party. The electors of
Corio will pass judgment on it next Saturday. If
Labor wins the by-election the enemy will stridently
repeat what he has been saying for six months, that
Australia’s heart is not in the war. This has been
false all along, and it will be false to the end ; but
Goebbels and his gang will bellow it to the ends of
the earth.
The Barons' War.
“El V.,” back from the front:
While all has been quiet on the Maginot line, Sydney
has had its own little war, the participants being a couple
of press barons. It broke out in the battle of Randwick
racecourse, in which the private army of one baron socked
the other baron on the jaw, while his general, in the true
brasshat manner, looked on and controlled the field.
The victor presently found himself in the position of
having to give evidence in the matter of a piece of jewellery,
alleged to have been stolen. The baron repaired to Darling-
hurst courthouse with “a bodyguard.” The bodyguard—
“attaches” —sat in the corridor. Their general retired to the
apparent security of the witness-room. A raiding party in the
service of the other baron sneaked up and shot him through
the window—with a camera.
According to an attache, the baron called his bodyguard
and said: “Someone just took a flash at me through the
window. Go and get the camera.”
The bodyguard went into action with such suddenness
that the other baron’s “special constables” had scarcely time
to open their mouths to shout defiance or something.
Presently the bodyguard ran in triumph to the court building
—a Crown sanctuary—with a camera.
The pursuivant who performed the daring act found him-
self charged with assaulting a photographer and robbing him
of a £SO camera. The charge of assault and robbery was
reduced to one of common assault, whereupon the magistrate
said:
“Each faction went to the court armed with a body-
guard. It smacks of the gangsterdom that one sees
in some American films....lt is a fact that this man
took the law into his own hands and committed an
assault. I feel it my duty in the interests of the public
and for the administration of justice... .to sentence
him to three months’ imprisonment with hard labor.”
Notice of appeal was given. Meanwhile, each baron’s
astrologer is predicting that blue blazes will burst on the
other baron, and urgent appeals for reinforcements have been
sent to Damon Runyon, Dorothy Thompson, Brick Bradford,
Dixie Dugan, Fritzi Ritz, Henry, Joe Palooka and Mandrake
the Magician.
Cameron "the Rustic."
Sydney papers are never so amusing as when they
parade their contempt for Archie Galbraith Cameron.
To the “Daily Telegraph” and at least two of the
Sunday sheets he is a Hayseed with hair on his
teeth.
At Warwick (Q.) last week, Mr. Cameron made
an appeal for national unity, saying in effect that
the people expected it and looked to the politicians
to rise above the party spirit. This drew a charac-
teristic “D.T.” sneer:
RUSTIC NOTE.
The leader of a party which has a unique record
for political opportunism lectures us on the need for
national unity. The leader of a party which bargains
for portfolios as the price of co-operation in a national
emergency deplores the party spirit.
Really, Mr. Cameron!
Presumably the “Daily Telegraph” supports the
U.A.P. Government, which has been in office for ten
months. That Government couldn’t have lasted a
week without the support of the Cameron party ; and,
except in the case of the car-bounty measure, which
has had such an amazing sequel, the support was
forthcoming, and that without portfolios. In the nego-
tiations for a composite Ministry Mr. Menzies has done
as much bargaining as Mr. Cameron ; and if U.A.P.
accounts are correct, has raised more objections.
Mr. Cameron has had to reckon with the fact
that a very strong section of Country-party supporters
is against any arrangement with the U.A.P. To this
section he has faced up manfully ; and he has all
along been in favor of a far greater measure of national
service than the Menzies Government saw fit to adopt,
very tardily. So he is no popularity hunter.
Asa young Digger, the man from Barker saw a
great deal more of the world than most editors have
contrived to see in a lifetime ; and, like many another
Digger, he cultivated a naturally vigorous mind by
reading and reflection. He has a gift of crisp speech,
equally effective in debate and at the microphone ;
and unlike many pressmen and most politicians—the
latter because they will make speeches instead of con-
versing—he is a capital talker. And he has strong
convictions and a capacity for making swift decisions
when occasion calls for such.
On May 9, while the “Daily Telegraph” was still
laboring under the delusion that President Roosevelt
could be relied upon for “positive action against
aggressors” and was demanding an alliance with
Soviet Russia, alleged possessor of “the greatest fight-
ing machine history has ever known, the Russian Red
Army,” Mr. Cameron made a speech on foreign affairs
in which he traced the course of events from the time
we “succeeded in closing the war to end war by sign-
ing a peace to end peace,” and referred —very scath-
ingly— to the current craze for “a line-up of the demo-
cratic and dictator Powers.” Brief quotation does him
less than justice, but some of his remarks should be
preserved. Minister Gullett had just said that “the
British Government has promised instant and the full-
est possible aid to the threatened lands,” specifically
Poland and Rumania. Mr. Cameron by way of reply:
Certain principles ought to be observed by any
Government when considering an alliance with another
Power, especially if the alliance is likely to lead us into
hostilities after a short period. The first of them should
be a community of interests between the Powers affected;
the second, that there should be identity of objective
between those Powers; the third, that there should be
geographical or strategical capacity to render mutual
aid; the fourth, that operations of a military character
will result in a concentration of forces on the third
party, rather than in dispersion of the efforts of the
allies. Certain of the alliances referred to today do
not measure up to those required.
Where exactly is the community of interest between
Great Britain and Russia? Where can be the identity
of objective between a country that is anti-Communist
and one that is Communist, especially when the matter
is viewed in relation to the third parties affected?
Where are those geographical and strategical con-
siderations which would render it possible for us and
for Rumania and Poland mutually to aid each other?
Poland is as effectively cut off from the sea as
Switzerland has been throughout its history... .In order
to assist Poland we should have to attack Germany on
the Western Front. That is a prospect to which no
statesman can look forward with equanimity.
Rumania is a reed on which neither this country nor
Great Britain can afford to lean.... One of the prin-
ciples to be observed should be the concentration of
your greatest possible force at the weakest point in the
defences of your enemy. With allies of this description,
not strength but weakness would be brought to any
alliance.
The Minister has referred to the U.S.A Once only
has it been employed in a European war, and, if I am
any judge of its policy, it is not only the intention
but also the determination of the American people that
that time shall be the last.
My only concern is that the Government shall use
every endeavor, whenever the opportunity is presented,
to insure that British policy is firm, strong and united;
above ail, that it is well directed—that it is directed
towards tasks which are capable of accomplishment, and,
principally, capable of justification.
If this man is a Hayseed, Australia needs more Hay-
seeds in national politics.
Whispering Sirens.
A six-month Sydney history:
September, 1939: On outbreak of war leading citizens
begin air-raid precautions. Reliably reported that enemy
bombing ’planes are only 12,000 miles from coast. Small
children in schools lectured on what to do in raids. People
living near bridges, water-towers, etc., fear they will be
used as targets and consider moving to less conspicuous
localities. Headmasters of schools warned to stay near tele-
phone all the time. Air-raid wardens and offsiders sport
serious expressions.
October, 1939: More instructions issued to public. Gun-
fire heard, and coastal suburbanites climb on roofs and peer
anxiously across Tasman Sea; others begin to roll their
blankets. Further A.R.P. instructions. Late-flying ’plane
over Vaucluse puts seven people under beds.
November, 1939: Outbreak of letters from citizens in
newspapers condemning A.R.P., anxious to show what they
know about it, or warning cynics of very real danger of being
caught unprepared. Compiler of this history studies map of
roads running west in attempt to find short cut to Darling.
December, 1939: People informed that sirens have been
mounted on city buildings. Confirmation that enemy bombers
are within 13,000 miles. Nervous motorists, crossing Harbor
Bridge at night, keep one eye anxiously aloft and step on it
so as to get away from such a target quickly. Letter-writers
maintain offensive.
January, 1940: Michael Bruxner, Generalissimo of
National Emergency Services, announces air-raid sirens will
be sounded on a Friday. Shopkeepers threaten revolt if
business thus interfered with, and Brux. announces sirens will
not sound. Definite confirmation of presence of enemy
bombers at point 12,782 miles to north-west.
February, 1940: Populace warned that air-raid sirens will
sound on Thursday, the 22nd: Zero hour, 2.30 p.m. Whole
city waits in state of tension. Kindergarten superintendent
hopes noise will delight children. Head of boys’ school pre-
pared to keep pupils working if possible. Patients in hospital
warned not to be upset when blast comes. Generalissimo
Bruxner issues urgent appeal to public to remain calm and
normal. Worried office managers remember Ulysses and the
sirens and try to plug typists’ ears with wax. At 2.29 entire
city pauses, breathless, waiting, with nerves jumping in expec-
tation of hurricane of noise.
Somewhere afar off a faint sound like a vacuum-cleaner
in action is detected. Clocks tick with heavy strokes in
silence. Minutes pass. Word comes that the test is over.
People look blank. Nazi agent hurries to secret wireless trans-
mitter and informs Wilhelmstrasse that large part of Sydney
population now unfit for war service owing to strained ear-
drums and tendency to burst into hysterical laughter when
anyone talks of air raids.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“T.”: Everyone is enjoying the Syd-
ney Sunday-newspaper war, Granny
“Herald” most of all. The Old Lady
of Hunter-street is not only raking in a
tidy bit of the money the combatants
are lavishing on puffs for their Ameri-
can features, but gets some crisp copy
now and then. For example, she pub-
lished the statement of one of the parties
to the war on the circumstances in which
he induced the second party and a part-
ner not to bring out an evening paper (a
heartless Taxation Commissioner refused
to allow the inducement to be deducted
from taxable income); and she dealt
faithfully with that shindy on Randwick
racecourse in which the second and third
parties were engaged. And last week she
came out with a racy account of a “dis-
turbance” outside Darlinghurst Court-
house, as a result of which an “attache”
(a sardonic S.M. noted that it was spelt
with a “k”) was charged with having
pummelled a press photographer who
was supposed to have taken a picture
of the third party. The “attackd” ad-
mitted that he had been a pug, but
denied that he was a “bodyguard,” and
a gentleman who exchanged blows with
the “attacke” was described as one of two
“special constables” sent to protect the
photographers and enlisted as specials on
the same day. The trouble between these
eminent newspaper proprietors seems to
have had its origin in a photograph, and
it looks as if peace will never be restored
until each agrees to pose for the most
candid camera in the other’s outfit and
accept publication of the result, however
ghastly. Meanwhile, the “attacke” is
appealing against a sentence of three
months’ without (he option.
* * * *
“C.R.”: Known once upon a time as
No. 1, Melbourne, Altson’s Corner,
Collins-street, went up for auction the
other day in Melbourne. It was the first
block sold in the land sale of 1837, and
it was bought by a carpenter who
“touched” John Batman for £2O of the
£32 it cost him. To pay his debt to the
founder of Melbourne the carpenter sub-
sequently sold the block to Cotter, the
city’s first surgeon, at an annual rental
of one peppercorn. In 1886, B. H.
Altson, the tobacconist, bought it, and
in 1903 erected a new building of the
sunburnt bricks that were used in
those days extensively and are being
revived now as the cheapest and one of
the most durable of materials known
since the days of the Romans. The site
is worth £2OOO a foot at present.
* * * *
“Decibel”: The Sydney attempt at stag-
ing an air-raid warning flopped dismally.
Sydney’s metropolitan-cwm-suburban area
is about 30 miles long by a dozen miles
broad, and a few sirens scattered over
this extensive locality made no impres-
sion whatever. Everybody knew at what
time the alarm was to be given, and ears
were strained at the appointed minute,
but even so the clatter of trams, the
chatter of typewriters and the normal
hum of industry in factories blotted out
the feeble squeak entirely, and it was
only in comparatively quiet spots that
the faint sighing of the compressed-air
whistles could be heard. They wouldn’t
have been heard at all, and certainly
wouldn’t have conveyed anything as
significant or identifiable as a warning,
if people hadn’t been listening for them.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: An attempt to rival the per-
formance of a beer wagon which entered
a doctor’s bedroom recently in Mel-
bourne was made by a railway train
which nearly ran over a house in Tas-
mania. The engine, followed by eight
trucks loaded with sheep and cattle, left
the rails at a crossing and stopped within
ten yards of a perfectly inoffensive
residence.
* * * *
“S.U.”: A correspondent of Melb.
“Argus” reports that over 25 p.c. of
recruits for the R.A.A.F. have been re-
jected on account of color-blindness and
wonders if the condition is incurable. I
understand that it is, but there is at least
one activity the sufferer can go in for
which will give him a great deal of com-
pensation for his unfortunate complaint.
“ 'Ang round, son, an' see nobody pinches me clobber.”
That is, strange to say, painting— at least,
painting of the realistic school. If a
color-blind individual sees blue in
Nature where there is actually some
other color the unthinking would sup-
pose that he could not possibly make a
canvas look like anything resembling his
subject-matter. But if he sees blue in
Nature and then looks at his palette for
a corresponding color he will select what
seems to him blue, but which will be
whatever color he was actually looking
at. The pigment he dips his brush into
will be the correct one. We have no
means of knowing whether the artists
of the past were normal-sighted. For
all we know, some of the greatest
masters who painted the most convincing
impressions of natural scenery may have
been color-blind.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Action for wrongful dis-
missal brought by a member of Parlia-
ment is not common, but Illingworth,
M.H.A. of S.A., has had a moderate
success in one. He was a highly-paid
employee of an advertising co., but went
into politics two years ago, and was then
given a contract as a part-time worker
at £4 a week. When the co. had internal
complications two directors resigned and
a shareholders’ meeting voted Illingworth
out, so he claimed £750 as damages. The
Court gave him a quarter’s pay in lieu
of notice.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: An extraordinary circum-
stance moved the captain of the s.s.
Weeroona to alter his course while con-
veying a band of real estate agents to a
picnic at Sorrento on the shores of Port
Phillip. It was the spectacle of Squadron-
Leader D. A. Connelly and Pilot-Officer
R. H. Thompson, in full uniform, miles
from land, apparently enjoying a dip in
the briny. Not having the slightest
notion as to how they got there he was
further astonished when one of the
officers cheerfully hitched his thumb over
his shoulder with the hitch-hiker’s ges-
ture and shouted “Give us a lift,” and
his brother officer momentarily dis-
appeared. The squadron-leader had been
instructing the pilot-officer on methods
of alighting on water per R.A.A.F.
amphibian, and the ’plane had caught fire
eight miles off Portarlington and gone
down. If the captain of the Weeroona
had not seen a whiff of smoke and
steamed towards it, there would have
been two casualties in the ranks of the
air force.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Trouble over Melbourne’s
big organ (B. 7/2/’4O) recalls things.
Close on 60 years ago I was in Mel-
bourne as a youngster for the Exhibition.
The Christmas pantomime was running,
and from it two things stick in the
memory. First, Thorne, as the bad boy,
apologising to the Fairy Queen, with her
actual name dragged in by one of the
puns of the period:
Forgive me, fairy, for you have the power;
And I won’t go and do it Annie Mauer.
Second, the organ at the Exhibition,
run by a new system (hydraulic, I think)
that was constantly getting out of order.
So, in the school scene, Thorne being
funny again in two snappy comebacks
that needed explaining to a visiting
youngster: “What is the organ of
speech?” “Gaunson’s tongue.” “Then
what is the organ of silence?” “The
Exhibition organ.” (Loud cheering.)
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The portable radios which
have been supplied to forest officers in
Victoria have justified their existence.
A settler drove five miles to Erica to
report an outbreak. Erica then broadcast
a warning which was picked up by two
forest officers and a member of the
Forests Commission, who were able to
organise a firefighting force which was
launched at the heart of the conflagra-
tion. Meanwhile an R.A.A.F. machine
hovered over the landscape radioing
progress reports to impromptu head-
quarters. A similar organisation last
year would probably have saved dozens
of lives, whole townships and many
square miles of bush.
* * * *
“Uramao”: The pomp and pageantry
of R.C. ceremonial make a strong appeal
to the Maori mind. After the Eucharis-
tic Congress procession, in which Maori
participants met with a tumultuous recep-
tion from the throng lining the route, the
Papal Legate, Archbishop Panico, visited
the Maori mission at Otaki, where a great
gathering of natives assembled. The
grandiloquence of the Maori found an
outlet, and the Legate must have been
surprised at the language used ; “the
captain of the canoe of St. Peter,” “the
heron of one flight,” “the bird who flies
only once in these regions,” were a few
of the phrases he listened to. When pre-
decessor Ceretti made his first visit to
M.L. an old Maori referred to him as
“the eye of the Pope,” and followed it
up by exclaiming: “If there are an\
holes in the fences of our souls you re
the one to mend them.”
* * *
Charming par. from London Daily
Express”:
On January 12 the Daily Express re-
printed a cartoon from the Sydney UuUe-
tin. On January 16 an enterprising press
cutting agency, scenting a new customer,
wrote to Sydney Bulletin, Esq., c/o Daily
Express, enclosing their price list and this
specimen of their work.
Consigned to the archives, along with a
recent letter from Burgos, Spain, ad-
dressed “Senor George Street, Sydney,
Australia.” #
“X.S.”: A boy of 16 has escaped
from the Royal Park (Melbourne)
Boys’ Home seven times. After his
seventh disappearance he was arrested
and charged with unlawful posses-
sion and popped into a cell at the
Fitzroy police station. A couple of hours
afterwards he was free again, having cut
a hole through the ceiling and climbed
to the roof. He should be drafted to
a submarine, where his ability could be
put to use.
* * * *
“The Lug”: Despite its critics credit
must be conceded to the A.B.C. for its
unique sense of news values and the
totally unexpected manner in which it
frequently adds to the gaiety of a nation
at war. On a recent night, after sonu 1
rather portentous 8.8. C. stuff, 2FC
swung into the local news, and gravely
announced new Commonwealth regula-
tions for the conduct of the war. After
this, in a voice pregnant with doom, the
speaker intimated: “It is officially an-
nounced that”—everybody sat up tensely
—“that the price of duck and hen eggs
has been increased by a penny a dozen.”
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Australian papers gave
three lines to the sale of Lamach
Castle in Otago (M.L.), which cost
£lOO,OOO to build in the days when labor
was cheap—it went for £1250, with 35
acres of land thfown in. It is the final
kick to an old Tory dream. The trans-
plantation of the feudal system to Aus-
tralasia appealed to many rich English
and Scottish chiefs. It was tried in S.
Australia, Westralia and N. S. Wales. The
movement rapidly lost force in the free
air of Australia, the democratic offspring
of the would-be lords having as little
taste for it as the people themselves, but
in M.L. it reached its zenith. What Charles
Jeffries called “the Shepherd Kings of
Canterbury” were a law to themselves
until Grey brought them to book. The
Scottish chiefs of Otago were fully as
arrogant and almost as powerful; but
their sway passed, too. Lamach Castle
has long been a ruined survival of that
stormy past.
* * * *
“Conchy”: All sorts of questions are
put to conscientious objectors by the
English tribunals in order to see if their
spirit can be aroused, and some of the
answers would make a milksop blush,
Still, humor is not absent, as shown bv
the bright lad who, when asked what
he would do if a German attacked his
mother, promptly replied, “I’d lay 5 to I
on mother!”
PROPHETS.
“ ‘Wot’s a prophet?” inquired Mr. Weller, looking
sternly at hjs son.
“‘Wy, a man as tells wot’s a-goin’ to happen,’
replied Sam.” —“Pickwick Papers
I never think particulars
Concerning what’s “a-goin’ to hap”
Derived from studying the stars
Are worth a single finger-snap.
1 take no stock in second-sight,
Whatever credence Scots allow
Thereto, but even as I write
I wish we had some prophets now.
The Delphic priestess from her lips
Was apt to drop ambiguous words;
The Roman augurs based their tips
Upon the viscera of birds.
Quaint methods, p’r’aps, yet wide respect
They hardly would have won, I trow,
Unless they sometimes proved correct —
1 wish we had some prophets now.
Although they doubtless did their best,
The prophecies of Hebrew seers
Have scarce survived the acid test
Of five-and-twenty hundred years.
But now and then they hit the spot,
One may admit, and anyhow
(Inspired from up above or not)
There’s far more scope for prophets now.
Old Moore I rank with priests of Baal,
And Mother Shipton I despise
As impotent to lift the veil
That hides the future from our eyes.
No mediums get the dinkum oil
For those who in stances bow
To spooks of Lodge and Conan Doyle.
We’re short of genuine prophets now.
What negligible “also rans”
He’d make of all the prophet clans
That e’er preceded him, I vow,
An operator of the kind
The younger Weller thus defined;
O for one real prophet now!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Ek D.”: Sydney dailies get heaps of
copy from a concern called the In-
stitute of Industrial Psychology. When
a bloke batters his wife on Saturday
evening, reporters descend on the Insti-
tute, and the Institute reveals his motives.
When an air pilot blacks out and hits a
cowshed, the Institute’s explanation is in
the forefront of the news. When lottery
winners refused to have their pictures
taken, a lady from the Institute explained
brightly:
Many people do not like being brought
into the limelight. They shrink from any
kind of publicity, and do not welcome
attracting the attention that published
photographs may or may not cause.
I could give the lady some better reasons
why wise lottery-winners lie doggo. I’ve
never won a lottery, but once an aunt
of mine left a cousin with an identical
name a few thousand Jimmy O’Goblins,
and some cow put a piece in the paper.
That morning my doorstep looked
like the ante-room of a scanties counter
bargain sale. Hordes of eager borrowers
and beggars for weeks went as near as
they dared to telling me that I was a
liar when I said I hadn’t got any money.
The mail for days was brought home in
a kerosene-tin. That happened in 1922.
One hopeful charitable organisation
which started the siege then is still send-
ing me demands. It cannot believe that
“in my unexpected good fortune I can
forget the suffering of others.”
* ¥ * *
“V. Cluse”: A much-travelled Aus-
tralian, she had been thrilling her hosts
with accounts of her adventures in Japan
during the Tientsin tension, in London
during the early stages of the war and
its air-raid alarms, and on board a vessel
zigzagging out into the Atlantic with
the fear of submarines in every mind.
“Oh,” she said, “you can’t imagine what
a feeling of safety one knows to be back
in Australia. I really must go. Er —I
wonder if you’d mind seeing me to the
bus; I’m dreadfully afraid of these
suburban streets at night.”
* * * *
“S.C.”: A smart riposte stands to the
credit of N.S.W. Department of Educa-
tion. An exchange teacher, returning
from England, was held up by the dis-
location of shipping schedules at the out-
break of the war, and was a fortnight
late in resuming duty. Informed that pay
would be docked accordingly, the teacher
asked the department to consider the cir-
cumstances, adding as a final plea, “You i
know, I couldn’t help the war starting.” s
“Neither could we,” was the blithe re- ■
sponse, and there the discussion ended.
* * * *
“Squatter”: David Low, now on
London “Evening Standard,” greeted
the arrival of the Anacs in the
Middle East with a cartoon show-
ing them leaning against the Sphinx
and Pyramids. The caption said the
real reason why the Australians landed
there was because there were plenty
of solid objects to lean against. It
might have passed 25 years ago, but
not now, because Australians have given
up their leaning habit. Most of the
verandah posts have gone from cities
and towns, and Low could tramp the
streets of Sydney and Melbourne with-
out seeing more than an odd leaner.
They sit down now on kerbs and in
doorways.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Three years ago a Melbourne
bank clerk, aged 29, drove his car at
speed over the Williamstown ferry
wharf into deep water and was drowned.
The other day his widow sued the A.M.P
for £5lOO. It came out that the
bank clerk’s father had been drowned
in the course of an air flight over Bass
Strait, and subsequently the son had a
dream in which a white-robed figure
“ Mainhrace, tell the Minister and his friends lunch is ready.”
beckoned him through a succession of
doors until a great portal opened, and he
heard his father saying: “Come in, boy.
You’ll be all right here.” It was alleged
that the son had become obsessed with
the idea that the dream was prophetic
of his own end and that he began to
make preparations for it. He took out in-
surance policies, with one co. for £lO,OOO
and two hours later with the A.M.P.
for a similar figure, concealing the earlier
transaction. Altogether, it was claimed,
his insurances totalled £55,000, though
this figure was challenged. In any case;
the annual premiums he would have had
to meet exceeded his income by £66.
Finally he bought a refrigerator costing
£lO4 for his wife on time payment.
After paying one instalment he was
drowned. In his will his post-mortem ex-
pectations were found to be divided
among his widow, his child and a lady
friend to whom he was alleged to have
entrusted racing transactions. The A.M.P.
denied liability under the policy, alleging
suicide. The jury answered “No” to the
question “Did the deceased die by his
own hand?” Judgment for the widow,
with costs; stay of proceedings granted.
* * * *
“Shorus”: Add this one to expres-
sions purely Australian. The flapper on
the Mosman boat was giving a detailed
account of her boy-friend’s shortcomings
to another damsel. “And, as you know,”
she concluded, “he has about as much
tact as a bull-ant.”
* * * *
“X.S.”: As Victorian law stands a wife
can get a divorce from a husband if his
treatment of her is such that no self-
respecting person could live with him.
If in these circumstances she leaves him
it is he who by law is regarded as the
deserter. Other grounds are adultery,
cruelty, habitual drunkenness and deser-
tion for three years, if it can be shown
that one party intended to end the con-
nubial relationship. But one of the most
rational pleas is not considered at all.
If both parties want to separate by
mutual consent, they are regarded
as little better than criminals. The
only thing they can do then to get their
release is by indulging in collusion and
framing up a false case.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: West of the Divide my
road to work was blessed with varied
offerings from all the seasons, and the
view swept to the horizons; now on
the way to the 8.20 tram the interests
are wholly human and they all run to
schedule. The same few people are
“Now, your Excellency, you really must let me help with the
Washing-up .”
ahead each morning, and a different
group are—or should be —behind ; and
I pass No. 87 just as the brown sedan
stops at the gate. At first it held three
cheery men, and always waiting for it
was a smart young woman who never
delayed the party longer than it took
to open and shut the rear door. Then
one morning the car
drew up with two men
already in the back, and
the lady took the front
seat. It was after that
that the engine was
switched off if she wasn’t
waiting, as she some-
times now wasn’t, and
gradually the driver
began to drift in through
the gate if after a few
minutes her ladyship
hadn’t turned up. Now
he arrives earlier to
allow for her dallying or
something, and when
they finally emerge the
younger sister comes too
and sits in the back. Away
‘ they go, the back wench touching up her
color-schemes, the front one floating over
deeper ones, and the mere male driving
like blazes because they’re all late and
because he looks pretty desperate any-
way. The two cobbers dropped out
long ago. I suppose they discuss the
poor cow over a pot sometimes.
* * * *
“Billo C.”: Kipling’s opinion of his
own poetry in “The Absent-minded
Beggar,” as shown by his exclusion of
it from his collected works (noted in a
recent B. par.), is matched by a casual
observation of his partner in crime,
Arthur Sullivan. Claire Sheridan in her
Nuda Veritas, lively reminiscences of
life mainly among the Bohemians, tells
how she and her mother called on
Sullivan in the Boer war period. They
found him putting the finishing touches
to his musical setting of Kip.’s verses.
Mrs. Jerome observed: “But don’t you
think the words are rather vulgar?” to
which Sullivan answered with a grin:
“So is the music.”
* * * *
“X.S.”: The mysterious disappearance
of a boy of eight from a beach picnic
has puzzled the police of Melbourne. As
he was dressed in a bathing costume he
could hardly have travelled anywhere un-
noticed, any water he might possibly
have got into was far too shallow to
permit of a theory of drowning, and
kidnapping was discounted in the absence
of any likely motive. The distracted
parents offered a reward, but the lad
was still posted as missing after a fort-
night. A few years ago a boy who van-
ished from a Melbourne suburb was dis-
covered by a strange coincidence. On the
second day of his disappearance his
mother went in to the Russell-street
police station to make a report and on
her homeward way dropped into a
cinema for half an hour. After a while
she became conscious that there was a
shape between her and the screen that
seemed familiar. Her missing offspring
was sitting in the row in front of her.
* * * *
“O. Timothy”: Why should it be sup-
posed that O. Henry, while in gaol, read
Such Is Life (B. 14/2/’40)? He was
in gaol from 1899 to 1901, and I
don’t see how a copy of a recently-
published Australian book could be ex-
pected to reach a gaol library in Texas
Gaol libraries, even in these days, do
not usually have new publications.
Further, Henry was no more indebted
to Furphy for “style” than to Shakspeare,
whom he also probably read in the Texan
gaol library (if there was such a thing).
O. Henry was a journalist who became
an author, and his first literary efforts
appeared in 1895, before he went to
gaol. In so far as Henry was indebted
to any one for style he was indebted to
Bret Harte.
* * * *
“Mayo”: That frosty calm recognised
as the mark of the pukka sahib and the
perfect gent, has its disadvantages. Vigee-
Lebrun wrote that the French Revolu-
tion’s excesses would have petered out
much earlier if the aristocracy had not
deemed it necessary to die with a lofty
smile on their faces. She cited the case of
Madame du Barry, who, not being of
the noblesse, loudly protested against
losing her head, and besought the
executioner to stay the guillotine and let
her go. Her appeal so affected the man,
likewise the crowd, that she nearly got off.
Shakspeare’s Prince Arthur, who shed his
princely calm and begged so hard for
his eyes, saved them thereby. There’s
no profit in dignity when one’s life is in
the balance.
STUNT-PRESS MONODY.
Who sits aloft and earns his screw
By scoring out with pencil blue
Aught that he thinks should be taboo?
The Censor.
Who is it has a license got
To settle and determine what
Is fit for us to print —or not?
The Censor.
Who, ever since he first was hove
Into our ken, suggests a cove
Patterned upon Olympian Jove?
The Censor.
Who reasons would disdain to tell
For what he thinks he does so well,
Being, of course, infallible?
The Censor.
Who condescends to let us show
Some happening as news, although
’Twas common knowledge weeks ago?
The Censor.
Who warns us what, at his behest,
Sole judge of public interest,
May be disclosed, and what suppressed?
The Censor.
And who, unless he gets a check,
Is like to prove, I’ll risk a spec.,
A pain more poignant in the neck?
The Censor.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


c?
10 for 9d. 20 for I^6.
EIB6S
It’s their extra touch of quality
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
ffyM *****
ĺ
PREVENT
Effl
T H R
POLITICAL POINTS
Lawson —the one who leased the horse
—resigned from the Cabinet on Friday,
and Menzies was sworn-in as Minister
of Customs, with young Holt to help.
The P.M. is still Treasurer (with Spender
“Acting”) and Minister for Defence Co-
ordination. Though full of troubles and
acquainted with annoyances, he never
spares himself.
Apart from the aristocracy of poli-
ticians and their hangers-on, the univer-
sal feeling in Victoria is that the Dunstan
election is a damned nuisance. In Gee-
long, Werribee, Macedon, Gisborne and
a score of neighboring places it is doubly
damned. People in those parts will have
to vote as Commonwealth electors in
Corio on March 2, and as State electors
on March 16 ; and the Dunstan-Hocking
squabble interests them no more than
the yelping of two pampered poodles.
President Roosevelt’s swift and mys-
terious departure in the cruiser Tusca-
loosa was explained to some extent by
that potentate in a message from the vasty
deep. His exact whereabouts were not
disclosed, but he mentioned that he had
been inspecting defences and fishing.
Somehow it recalls the Sydney “D.T.’s”
announcement that the President had
decided on “positive action against
Japan,” and the “D.T.’s” insistence on
Australia being in it up to the neck.
The good Roosevelt wouldn’t take posi-
tive action against an aggressive blind
asylum.
The Q.C.E. soon disposed of young
Fisher’s claim that he was a Labor man,
fully qualified to stand for Wide Bay.
“No continuity of membership,” it said
curtly, and Fisher’s name was struck off
the list of candidates. He writes copi-
ously for Communist publications. Labor
in Corio has published a letter from his
mother to the effect that if Andrew
Fisher were alive today he would be
“opposed to expeditionary forces,” like
Curtin and Lang and the Corns. Aus-
tralians old enough to remember the “last
man and last shilling” speech take leave
to doubt it.
The French have expelled 60 Com-
munist Deputies, a Communist Senator
(Cachin), and a host of Communist
mayors and councillors. They recognise
that a democratic State has the right
and duty to defend itself against internal
foes. If the U.A.P. had recognised this
long ago, and acted accordingly, Com-
munists wouldn’t now be stirring up
bogus peace agitations and thinly-dis-
guised Muscovite strikes.
The end of the third month of Fin-
land’s agony saw Congress still haggling
about a loan to the little Republic for
which America was going to do so much,
and, in spite of the much-advertised
“moral embargo,” U.S. exports to the
Red brigand for five months to the end
of January were valued at $36,100,000,
of which $33,000,000 represented “items
essential to the war machine.” There
are still Australians who imagine that the
Americans would speed to Australia’s
help if the Commonwealth were invaded.
If the nation depended on this possibility
it would be stark staring mad.
Cameron, the Country party leader,
must be grinning at the discomfiture of
Lamb, who sits for Lowan (Vic.). When
Cameron’s organisation was having a
struggle for existence in S.A., Lamb
turned up exuding patronage and ad-
vice, the advice being to the effect that
the S.A. Cockies should be guided by the
example of Dunstan. Now Dunstan’s
hand is against Lamb, and so are those
of the “Liberal” Country party, the
U.A.P. and Labor, and all Lamb’s bleat-
ing won’t save him.
Last week A.B.C. allowed a Communist
to attack Australia, threaten Australians
and proclaim his allegiance to Moscow.
On the same day the Maoriland mail
brought newspaper reports of Labor
Minister Semple’s indictment of “politi-
cal enemies of the State; Communists,
pacifists, direct agents of foreign Powers,
who glorify the Red murderer, Stalin”:
Stalin’s invasion of Finland is glorified
by these people. That means that they are
glorifying aggression and the murder of
innocent women and children. These
people, so they say, object to New
Zealand doing anything to assist in the
defence of the life and liberty of the people
of the British Commonwealth, and in their
publications they hold up Stalin, the inter-
national murderer, as mankind’s saviour.
Semple is an Australian by birth; but
he wouldn’t be permitted to say anything
“I personally experienced the intervention of Providence in its deepest significance a few
months ago.”— Hitler, explaining his escape from the beer-hall bombing.
Stand-in Man: “Better nick off, boss —I can hear something ticking.”
like that from an Australian “national”
station. Nobody ever is.
Newspaper report from Wollongong
(N.S.W.):
The Commissioner for Road Transport
and Tramways, Mr. Neale, informed a
meeting of the Ulawarra Public Vehicles
Committee that the policy of his depart-
ment was to pull up the Sydney tramlines
and substitute bus services.
“The policy of his department"? Then
what is the alleged Government for?
What does the alleged Parliament do
for the £875 p.a. which members voted
themselves during the twelvemonth which
closed with a deficit of three millions
and a half? The scrapping of tramways
has never once been debated by these
people. If they are going to let a de-
partmental boss decide the fate of a
system in which £8,000,000 of borrowed
money has been sunk, alleged Govern-
ment and alleged Parliament are very
palpably useless, dangerous, and ought
to be abolished.
After his declaration of “policy” at
Wollongong, the boss . of the Sydney
Transport Department was tackled in
Sydney about the rotten tramway service
provided for the eastern suburbs, and
in an incautious moment he blurted out
that “fifty per cent, of the Sydney bus
services, taken individually, do not pay.”
His “policy” is to go on buying buses
until street transport is 100 p.c. bus;
and then the 100 p.c. won’t pay. And
when that position is reached £8,000,000
of tramway capital will have gone west,
though the interest will be a permanent
burden on the taxpayers.
“Grow more wheat” was the cry of
Commonwealth politicians 10 years ago ;
and the farmers grew more, with tragic
results. “Grow less wheat” was heard
in the same quarter three months ago.
Now it’s “You needn’t reduce the crop,
but don’t increase it,” the Federal Agri-
cultural Council having passed a reso-
lution to that effect.
T. H. Bath, the Westralian authority
on wheat, predicts that wheatgrowers
will reject the “pious advice” of the
Federal Agricultural Council because
McLeay, the Minister of Commerce,
issued “a very optimistic forecast that
the No. 2 Pool would bring in 3s. 4d.
a bushel at siding.” Bath points out
that there is still an unsold balance of
66,000,000 bushels, and that the difficulty
of getting shipping for sold parcels re-
mains acute. In effect, the recent spurt in
the market has solved nothing, and “the
problem” of the grower of wheat for
export “will be side-stepped until we are
right up against a crisis induced by an-
other cycle of low prices.”
From the “appreciation” of Stalin
with which the “A.B.C. Weakly” entered
upon its unhappy career the thing
appeared on the third day of the in-
vasion of Finland: —•
As a revolutionary, this peasant cobbler’s
son had what it takes When the Red
Army marched into Poland, its tough and
brawny soldiers carried photos, of Stalin
The Red Army went into battle against
the Japanese at Changkufeng with the
war cry “For the Fatherland, Communism
and Stalin” Bernard Shaw says Stalin
finds humor in the position in which
Britain finds herself today At the sound
of the dread name the farmer wants
to reach for his shotgun to defend to the
last breath his tin-and-weatherboard house,
his muddy dam and his overdraft from
Stalinist collectivisation.
After three months of the war against
Finland “the dread name” wouldn’t
frighten a Holy Roller.
“One of the most iniquitous elections
ever fought.” Thus Argyle’s verdict on
Dunstan’s rush to the country because
he has quarrelled with a little clique of
unknowns who are not in Parliament.
“Iniquitous” is scarcely the word: the
doctor needn’t have gone beyond “im-
pudent.” He was much happier in his
reference to the proposal to establish a
Dunstan dynasty:
I understand that the Crown Prince —
beg pardon, the Premier’s son and heir
—aged 26, is going to try to wrest Bulla-
Dalhousie from a man who served with
distinction in the last war, and who is
unable to defend it properly because he is
preparing to defend his country.
The “Crown Prince” decided that he’d
better not.
A Portland (Vic.) parent reports that
Portland has 133 children being com-
pulsorily educated by two Government
teachers in one schoolroom. Last year
125 children were crowded into one room
under the same two harassed dominies.
It is characteristic of the treatment meted
out to Portland by generations of Mel-
bourne politicians.
In July a Sydney Parliamentary select
committee of ten was appointed to
“investigate” night
trotting. In Septem-
ber the chairman, a
prize bore named Lee,
announced that the
inquiry stood sus-
pended because of the
war. Then somebody
discovered that Perth
(W.A.) was to have
night trots on a grand
scale in February, so
February saw four of
the ten, accompanied
by a secretary and a
“Hansard” reporter,
in Perth, “taking evi-
dence,” with “taking
evidence” in Adelaide
to follow. And this
daring political ramp
was financed by a
Government whose
deficit for seven
months was five mil-
lions and a half.
According to an
“A.B.C. Weakly”
blurb, “two more great
artists have been en-
gaged by A.B.C. for
the 1940 celebrity
season” —no, three
more: (1) Nathan
Milstein, “described in
America as one of
the world’s outstanding violin virtuosi”;
(2) Babin and (3) Bronsky, famous
duo-pianists, “who went to America early
in 1937 and are Russians too.” Britain
could spare any number of fiddlers and
piano-pounders, and it would be a kind-
ness to the Old Man to relieve him of
a few —actors too. But, like boxing pro-
moters, A.B.C. has a weakness for
foreigners born or domiciled in the
U.S.A.; and to the devil with the drain
on dollar funds!
“Ratepayer” lets himself go:
Sydney’s Water Board went on the loan
market for a million at £4 7s. 6d. and got it.
Its greed excited, it immediately sought per-
mission to go after another £500,000, but was
knocked back by Treasurer Spender. Gnashing
its teeth at Spender, it said it would get an
overdraft from the Commonwealth Bank, see!
But the bank refused to unbutton, probably
because it had just collected £350,000 out of its
£1,000,000 loan, and couldn’t see the sense of
giving a £500,000 overdraft on the security of
another loan. Gnashing its teeth again, the
board withdrew into its new £460,000 fastness,
and was heard to mutter something about giving
its custom to another bank. Then the president
announced that a £136 bronze tablet would be
placed in the polished marble vestibule of the
£460,000 palace bearing the names of board
members, architects and builders. The words
“Spend, Borrow and Bust” will not appear on
the tablet, nor on the honor-roll of 1914-18
servicemen which has been hidden away because
it “is not ornamental enough for a building
like this.” In the meantime Sydney faces an-
other water shortage, money that should have
gone into dams having been damned in the
“building like this.”


THE MASCOT.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
it
.t 1
» uf i
'*('({ f
rH « f fJ
a? l«tt
it
»
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street. Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
’Phone: M 4 14 1 (10 lines).
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds *.o meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 26/1/’3B.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have made
it famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy; ever
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Refuse all substitutes.. Remember
the name DOAN’S,
PERSONAL ITEM S
The wandering Australian? Twenty
years ago, when he was 18, Morris
Hoban left Preston (Melb.) to go mining
in Bananaland. Nothing more was heard
of him until his mother read his name in
the list of British prisoners released from
the Altmark in Norwegian waters.
The first member of the Lindsay family
of artists and writers to take a settled
job, Daryl has assumed the mantle of
Keeper of the Prints at the Melbourne
National Gallery. The youngest of the
family, he was also the only one who
swore never to set his feet on the steep
path that leads to Parnassus, and in
observing his vow he was successively
a shearer, a farmer and a soldier, serv-
ing through and getting a commission
in the Great War. But at 30 he capitu-
lated to the family failing and took up
art as a profession. His is a much more
DARYL LINDSAY.
decorous art than that of his famous
brother, who started by doing police-
court drawings for the Melbourne
“Hawklet” and went on to make etchings
whose subject-matter kept them for many
years off the walls of the gallery where
his brother has his official position.
Daryl’s work has mainly been Aus-
tralian landscapes, famous racehorses
and Russian ballet dancers. He has
been hung on the line at the Royal
Academy and has examples of his art
in most Australian State galleries.
Colin Duncan, the new private secre-
tary at Government House, Adelaide,
succeeds Legh Winser, who was 25 years
in the post. Duncan had similar experi-
ence in the Munro-Ferguson household,
but has latterly been in England. He
comes of a notable political family. His
father used to be Liberal leader in the
Leg. Council of S.A., and his brother
Walter holds that position now. An-
other brother, Duncan-Hughes, used to
be a Federal Senator, and talks of a
comeback.
Died recently, Tom Lawson, share-
broker, of Wellington (M.L.), one-time
chairman of the Wellington Stock Ex-
change. Born in Newcastle-on-Tyne 66
years ago, he arrived in Dunedin in 1880
with his brothers and parents. The
family stayed a year, then migrated to
Brisbane, where Tom was educated. In
1893 the family returned to Maoriland,
where Tom’s father, Nicholas Lawson,
became manager of the N.Z. Insurance
Co., in whose office Tom began his busi-
ness career. Will Lawson, the writer, is
a brother.
Dr. Francis Henry Vivian Voss, dead
at 80, brought the first X-ray plant to
Australia in 1898, and was one of the
pioneers in this country of the use of
anti-diphtheria serum. He was the patri-
arch of a remarkable tribe of doctors.
Two sons are medical men, and two
daughters adopted the profession. One
of the sons married a woman doctor,
and one of the daughters assists her medi-
cal husband in his practice. Voss arrived
in Queensland in 1886 to act as locum
tenens for a practitioner who wanted a
holiday. He intended to remain for only
a year, but decided to make Australia
his home. He assisted in the establish-
ment of two hospitals for women in Q.,
and became med. super, of the Women’s
Hospital and a Government M.O.
Flight-Lieut. E. A. Mustar, who is on
h.q. staff at Laverton (Vic.), had a dis-
tinguished record in the 1914-18 war, but
it is outweighed by his peace-time per-
formance. He piloted the first ’plane up
to New Guinea, found that the coast was
agog with the news of immense stores
of gold in the ranges and offered him-
self for the pioneer job of substituting
the airway for the exhausting and almost
impassable landway. In 1927 he carried
the first load of 5001 b. weight of material
over the mountains. Six months later
rhe ’planes were lifting a ton. Then
came the problem of transporting
dredges. Mustar got in touch with the
German Junkers co. and it sent out
machines capable of lifting 70001 b.
Guinea Airways owes its existence to his
initial effort. The air survey of the
Great Barrier Reef is another fine
achievement to Mustar’s credit.
Commercial Sydney has lost one of
its kindliest citizens in F. E. Bryant, dead
at 82. A Queenslander, he was one of
the original 94 boys
who opened the Bris-
bane Grammar School
in ’69. Bryant joined
the Union Bank in
1875, and retired as
manager of the Sydney
head office in 1924.
From then onwards,
sitting on a few direc-
torates, he gave most
of his time to good
works —the Boys’ Bri-
gade, the German
Verge Trust, of which
he was hon. managing
trustee, and the Fair-
bridge Farms were
among his activities. In
his later years he looked
like one of the more
dignified figures in the
Forsyte Saga, a solid,
kindly man whose ap-
pearance and manner
inspired confidence.
There are a good many
depression sufferers
who have good cause
to remember him as a
sovereign proof that
bankers are not hard-
hearted.
Relics of the patri-
archal system of early
days still subsist in Vic-
toria. The Chiv e r s
family, ten miles out of
Melbourne at picturesque Templestowe,
is an example. The founder of the race
came to Melbourne in 1840, and in 1851
156 acres of rich Yarraside land were
knocked down to him for the same num-
ber of pounds. He divided the patrimony
amongst his four sons on his deathbed.
The present head of the clan, T. R.
Chivers, divided his land amongst his
sons. He still lives on his portion, and
the other day the township rolled up in
force at the local hall to celebrate the
seventieth anniversary of his wedding.
He is in his ninety-sixth year, and his
wife in her eighty-ninth. Ten of their
own children, 51 grandchildren and 35
great-grandchildren attended the party.
Lamb, K.C., is dead at 76. Few men
have been so prominent in N. S. Wales
legal affairs. A son of John de Villiers
Lamb, grazier, and a grandson of an old
R.N. commander, he was christened
Sydney Ernest when bom in London.
From Winchester he came to Sydney
Grammar, and went back to graduate at
Trinity Hall, Cambridge. Called to the
English Bar in 1886, he was admitted to
the N.S.W. Bar in the same year, and
soon established a reputation for ability,
especially in cross-examination. He was
Associate to the late Darley, Chief Jus-
tice of N.S.W., and became a K.C. in
1910. He appeared many times as coun-
sel in royal commissions, and was chair-
man of the petrol inquiry when ill-health
compelled him to retire about two years
ago to his farm at Young. Keen on
racing, he was counsel for the A.J.C.,
and was regarded as an authority on
bridge. A bachelor, he could celebrate
his birthday on the same date as Aus-
tralia —January 26.
Lawrence John Hartnett, head of
General Motors-Holden’s in Australia, is
a 44-year-old, mediurp-sized Englishman
with a sprightly step and a wide know-
ledge of the world, geographically and
otherwise. Woking, Surrey, was his birth-
place ; Vickers, Ltd., gave him his first
job. He joined the R.A.F. in 1917, was
demobbed in 1919, and put his all into a
London motor business which had a
volatile career in the post-war boom and
slump. In 1923 he went to Singapore,
joined General Motors for the first time
in 1927 —in India—went to New York
for factory experience, became sales
manager for Sweden, travelled the world
and established an export market for
G.M.’s English-made Vauxhall, and came
to these shores as managing director for
L. J. HARTNETT.
(Modelled by Frith.)
G.M.-Holden’s early in 1934. He was
chairman of the committee that investi-
gated possibilities of Australian aircraft
manufacture, and is a director of the co.
now making Wirraways. Hartnett likes
to spend his leisure time with wife and
three daughters at his country place at
Frankston (Vic.). Frith found him an
entertaining sitter.
Robert Roy Pittar Barbour, newly-
appointed Warden of Melbourne Uni-
versity, was born in Sydney 41 years
ago but spent his early years in Queens-
land, for which State he was Rhodes
scholar in 1920. His B.A. comes from
Queensland University, his M.A. from
R. R. P. BARBOUR.
Oxford. He has represented Queensland
in cricket and tennis, S.A. in tennis and
hockey (latterly he has been student
adviser and lecturer in ethics at Adelaide
Uni.) and Oxford Uni. in cricket, tennis
and lacrosse. This is not his first job
in Victoria; he was for four years a
master at Geelong Grammar School.
In 1881 some prospectors left Mac-
quarie Harbor (Tas.) and went into the
King River valley looking for gold.
Among them was, of course, an Irish-
man: William Dixon, then 30. Dixon
found gold, and later realised that the
claim contained copper and silver. Thus
he became one of the foundation share-
holders in Mt. Lyell. He sold, his in-
terest in the co. early, and lived in retire-
ment until his death at Hawthorn (Vic.)
last week at the age of 90.
Kenneth de Lacey Cudmore, of Syd-
ney, who died last week aged 65, had
been identified with Goldsbrough, Mort
and Co. for 33 years, and at the time
of his death was joint-manager. Born
at Glenelg, S.A., he studied mining en-
gineering at Adelaide University, but the
1893 drought caused his family to
requisition his services at Tara station,
Q., which was managed by his brother,
J. K. Cudmore. He succeeded as a sheep-
farmer, and on New Year’s Day, 1907,
became manager of the Rockhampton
branch of G., M. and Co. Later he was
manager at Brisbane and Sydney.
Christchurch, M.L., seems to be the
recognised gateway to the Primacy of
the Dominion. Archbishop Averill, re-
tiring, is succeeded by Bishop West-
Watson, of Christchurch. Dr. Averill
commenced his ministration in M.L. as
vicar of St. Michael’s, Christchurch. His
predecessor, Dr. Julius, was brought to
M.L. to be Bishop of Christchurch. Bishop
West-Watson came from England to take
the Christchurch crozier in 1925, when
Archbishop Julius retired from the see
and from the Primacy.
Henry Barwell, back from London and
in Adelaide with the idea of staying
there, was formerly for about four years
Liberal Premier of S.A. Then from
1925 he had three years in Federal poli-
tics as a Senator, finally going to London
in 1928 as Agent-General for S.A. His
term in that office has long expired, but
he made his home in England for twelve
years.


SMOKE-OH!
“Wife says her husband has never been in
trouble since they were married.”
The peace that passeth all understand-
ing.
•F *F *F *P
“More Scotsmen than ever are choosing their
wives abroad.” — Women's paper.
No wonder there are blue belles in
Scotland.
•F *P *P *P
“Some wives are willing to spend anything
on weight reduction.” — Women’s paper.
And the old man usually loses pounds.
•i* *P *F *P
“Pairs for Soldier Ms.L.A.” — Heading.
It will be a change from plums.
•p *p "P *P
“Wife of French soldier, told that only one
letter in ten ever got through, wrote him ten
letters a day.”— News item.
Now he sees that escape was impos-
sible.
•p *p *p *P
“Standing in the shade cast by a clump of
mallee scrub, the Premier listened sympatheti-
cally to the request of the irrigationists, who
stood in a circle round the Ministers, clad only
in shirts and singlets.”— Melbourne paper.
And hats, surely!
*P »p *p *P
A skite is a man who credits himself
with attributes which you know belong
more to yourself.
•p *p *P *P
“Usherette’s romance with millionaire.”
— Women’s paper.
She made him walk down the centre
aisle so that she’d land in the best-dress
circle.
•P *P *P *P
Change of Address.
(With a pause between each line to allow
for the passage of time.)
“Oh, how d’you do, Mr. Johnston?”
“Oh, that’s only dear old Bill.”
“This is Bill, one of my boy-friends.”
“This is Bill, the boy-friend.”
(With dignity): “My fiance!”
(With pride): “This is Bill, my hus-
band.”
(Big pause here. Ten years pass.)
(Suspiciously): “Seen that loafer Bill
round anywhere?”
(In a top-of-the-voice scream): “And
tell yer lazy good-for-nothing father to
come when he’s called.”
“Yes, that’s Bill, the thing I married.”
“Yair, that’s my old man.”
“Oh, him!”
Elm.
The Changeover.
“English Food Ministry official, referring to
fact that no meat ration card is issued for
dogs, says he is afraid dogs will have to be-
come vegetarians.”
Nothing new in that, either. I tried
it once.
I began by giving them boiled spuds.
It wasn’t long before they took to cold
fried onions, and when I gave Bluey
some spinach he went over the road
and cleaned up the big
Alsatian that used to go for
him. A careful mixture of
lucerne hay and thistles with
the other veges. resulted in
the dogs nipping at bits of
grass and wild oats as they
scampered about the pad-
docks.
One of the drawbacks with
the two kelpies was that I
found them watching the
sheep closely, and every time
the jumbucks got on to a bit
of good picking the blasted
dogs would hunt them off it
and gobble it themselves. It
wasn’t long before the sheep
got poor and the dogs fat,
and I realised I’d have to sell
the place on a carrying basis
of so many dogs to the acre.
But I didn’t realise how
successful was the experi-
ment until the night when,
going round the kennels to
make sure they were all tied
up, I found every dog lying
down, contentedly chewing
the cud.
O. D.
“Women In brasssieres, paint and powder do
not defile the beaches north of the harbor.’’
— Correspondent, Sydney “D.T.”
So we understand the population is
flocking south.
•^4
“When Mrs. Went found her husband with
the other woman she assaulted him.” — “D.T.”
“Now which one is it ?”
Ambition.
I’ve no desire to rock the nations
With new and startling excavations;
To find out what the Pharaohs did
By opening someone’s pyramid.
No urge I feel for futile boring
For oil and such ; nor yet exploring.
Let others fly the blue Atlantic
And make the flapper papers frantic.
The thing I’m seeking, con amore,
Will surely bring far greater glory.
Some kidney still I hope to spy
Hid in a steak-and-kidney pie!
GUY W.
Prepared for Battle.
“Girls must learn martial step.”
—“Sunday Sun.
The goose-step’s no effort,
For, sooner or later,
When married, she’ll walk
Just like any dictator.
ELM.
When Went went wantoning abroad,
His wife, with grim intent,
Went after. When she found her lord,
Lord, how she went for W e nt!
H. M.
Presents.
“A woman should value the gifts her husband
gives less for the gift itself than for the thought
that inspires it.” — Women’s paper.
That is exactly what I told Maria.
What if the flowers I bring home at 11
p.m. or thereabouts are a little be-
draggled? So would Maria be if she had
been slept on in the train. It’s not the
flowers themselves or the state they are
in she should think of, but the trouble
it took to get them home. Why, I even
knocked back several barmaids who
asked me for them, and several times
1 went back to the previous pub to get
them after leaving them there, and picked
them up from the sawdust on the floor.
But it is no use telling Maria that at
least a few of the drinks I had were
made necessary when I had to go back
for her benefit.
It’s the same way with prawns. Bloggs
may say “Drink up, boys; I’m having
a birthday.” It wakens an uncomfort-
able feeling that it might be Maria’s
birthday. I’m not at all sure that it is,
but it might be, and it would be a grace-
ful act to buy her something. Over
nearly every drink I have I ponder about
what she would like. Then suddenly
the inspiration flashes, “Ah, prawns!”
But I am not one to do things by
halves. I buy a couple of pounds of
prawns. After Bloggs and Binks and
Fullajoy and the rest of us have eaten
them I buy another pound. In fact, I
keep on buying pounds of prawns. On
one occasion, having reached my suburb,
“I'll give you a trey if you've got change of a fiver.”
I went all the way back to town to buy
prawns because the local fishshop had
sold out, and I had to replace those
the guard and I had eaten on the
train.
And, then, when I waggle a prawn
before Maria, holding it by its whiskers,
and say “For your birthday, darling;
you see, I didn’t forget,” she only flares
into a rage.
Next day, probably, I have to give her
a present, even though it isn’t her birth-
day. The way she puts it is “You had
a birthday yesterday; well, I’m going
to have one today.”
Maria never seems to think of the
thought that inspires these gifts of mine.
H. M.
“Dear is the memory of our wedded
lives” —
But Solomon possessed a thousand wives:
And would the world consider me a
sneerer
If I suggested his was even dearer?
DOUGAL.
Bandbox Administration.
“According to a retired British colonial
administrator, meticulous attention to his
personal appearance, even when in remote
districts, had a strong psychological effect
on the natives, assisting him in his dealings
with them.”
I remember when I joined the service
I had an interview with the acting tem-
porary assistant Permanent Officer for Re-
mote Appointments. Shaking himself half-
awake as I entered his sanctum, he hastily
put his pen in his mouth and dipped his
lighted cigar in his inkwell. The hissing
sound shattered the remnants of his som-
nolence, and he put down form X 248,
which he had automatically picked up,
and took the file which an obsequious
underling had brought in.
“Ah, yes,” he said. “Winchester, eh?
And your great-uncle was once the Con-
servative member for Stoke Pogis. You
certainly appear to have the qualifica-
tions. And you look as if you could
wear tails and a crush hat with the —er —
necessary savoir vivre. No doubt you
will have had some experience in deal-
ing with natives, lions, hippopotami and
other pests. Well, Ai think we could
post you to Nigeria, eh?”
“Rather uncomfortable, what?” I
said. “I mean to say, cooped up in a
beastly mailbag and all that for weeks.”
He looked at me rather queerly. “You
will go by air,” he said. “One more
thing. The Colonial Office doesn’t wish
to exercise arbitrary powers over its offi-
cials in the matter of their habiliments,
but you will be expected to dress in a
manner befitting the dignity of your
office. We don’t exactly pin you down
to Savile Row or anything like that, but
keep in mind that a carelessly-cut suit
may lead to racial riots, and that it is
not impossible that brown socks worn
with black shoes may lose us a colony.
Kindly remember it.”
Now, I pride myself on my ability to
select and wear clothes, and the seven
cabin trunks that I shipped out bore
evidence of my determination to impress
the niggers.
My duties embraced tax-collecting and
the trial of murder, arson and like cases
in my area. My first case was to try
a minor chief named Ngibbit, who had
sliced his aunt up with a tomahawk for
squeezing the family tube of Govern-
ment-issue toothpaste from the top. It
being about 138 degrees in the shade, I
donned my oyster-grey Palm Beach suit,
teal-blue airtex shirt and school tie, white
silk socks and white doeskin shoes, with
cream topper and puggaree to match,
and with my swagger-cane I considered,
rightly, that there was no better-dressed
man in Central Africa.
But as I took my seat at the butter-
box and rapped the Court to order, I
felt the eyes of the entire black commu-
nity, who had turned up to see the fun,
fixed on me with unmistakable dis-
approval. As the case progressed, the
glances became positively hostile, and as
these became no less so even after I had
acquitted the prisoner on the ground of
justifiable homicide, I realised that some-
thing was radically wrong.
It was Whoa, my “boy,” who put the
finger on the trouble. “Yo’ hab de pale-
green hankchif in yo’ breast pocket,
bawss,” he said. “Dat offend de good
taste ob de niggars, sah, fo’ it clashed
wid yo’ oyster-grey suit.”
The unconscionable blunder I had
made taught me a well-deserved lesson,
and at the next case, even when I sen-
tenced a big buck to two weeks in the
compound for having only one wife, my
perfectly-groomed appearance was such
that every inhabitant of the village lined
the path from the courthouse to my bun-
galow, and threw flowers, and even fruit,
including coconuts.
I found that collecting taxes in the
form of pigs, rhinoceros hides and
elephant hooves whilst clad in tails and
a boiled shirt —no African nigger would
think of coughing up to an official in
clothing less dignified—was not only
arduous but definitely hard on the
clothes. The fact that I had developed
to a high degree the art of shooting
through my pocket in order to beat mur-
derously inclined coons to the draw
didn’t improve them, either, so that I
had to bite my Uncle Plantagenet for
the £l5O for the clothes bill that my
entire salary had not covered.
That wouldn’t have been too bad if
I could only have relaxed sartorially after
my onerous daily duties, but the mere
suggestion—mine—that I should get into
shorts and open-necked shirt for dinner
nearly caused a riot among the house-
hold staff. Whoa pointed out that the
taking of port with the cigars in any-
thing but a black tie, ironclad 3in. collar
and dinner suit might lead to a danger-
ous uprising if it became known.
It was only then that I realised to the
full the significance of that phrase “the
white man’s burden.” But, stiffening my
lip, I bowed to the inevitable. It is the
price we Englishmen must pay for the
honor of upholding the dignity of old
Albion in the far-flung outposts of
Empire. I have even got used to sleep-
ing beneath mosquito nets clad in sac
suit, fused collar and tie, golf shirt and
Homburg hat. The jolly old natives
insist on it.
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“C.A.”: Old Paddy, lolling against the
bar of a Westralian goldfields pub, was
getting to the belligerent stage. “What
about a drinksh on housh?” he de-
manded. “There’s no free drinks here,”
returned Bung “Come on, givesh one
on the nod,” Paddy persisted. “Can’t
do it,” said the boss. “I’ll give you one
more chansh,” said Paddy. “Give me a
shtraight on the shlate.” But Bung was
stony-hearted. “There’s no slate here,”
he said. “Well, don’t shay I didn’t warn
you,” Paddy growled, and, pulling a
matchbox from his pocket, he emptied
a couple of white-ants gently on to the
bar. “Now,” he said solemnly, “hop
into it, boys, and eat his blanky pub
down! ”
* * * *
“Tall Timber”: Newchum bushmen in
the Speck’s timberlands hate most of all
to encounter a belt of dense-growing
scrub known as “horizontal.” Tough,
wiry and seldom thicker than a man’s
arm, this scrub grows stark upright and
so dense that pine logs have been roiled
over its top without breaking through
the mass. Track-cutting through “hori-
zontal” is an art in itself. Only by
cutting low down to the root and push-
ing the cut branches into the sides of
the track can any headway be made
through it. Should a branch be bent
or partly broken, other branches grow
out of it thickly, all pointing skywards.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Little Curl told this yarn
at the pub on the Shepparton-road: “He
was one of these here gentleman farmers
—y’ know, they have a business in the
town an’ buy a bit of a place a few
miles out an’ put some bloke on t’ look
after it. Well, I gets the job. One day
some blokes arrive, an’ next thing I got
a telephone hangin’ on the wall of the
hut. I reckons that’ll do me —there was
a sheilah in the town I could ring up,
an’ a few cobbers. Well, f’r a few days
the boss used t’ ring me up when it was
lunchtime or after tea. Then, about
nine o’clock one mornin’, just when I’m
thinkin’ of gettin’ up an’ doin’ a bit, the
’phone rings. I was just goin’ t’ answer
when I wakes up t’ meself. So I grins
at the ’phone an’ lets her ring. He tries
it on a coupla more mornin’s, but it
don’t come off. Y’d ’a’ thought the cow
didn’t trust a man. ’Nother thing, he
starts ringin’ when the weather’s a bit
wet, hopin’ t’ catch me loafin’ in the hut.
But, o’ course, I’m right on me toes an’
don’t answer no ’phone rings between
seven in the mornin’ and sundown. Then
I gets sick of it, an’ one mornin’ when
he rings I puts on a high voice an’ says,
‘Oh, Curl’s out in the paddock. Could
I take a message?’ ‘Who are you?’ he
says, sort of excited. So I goes all coy
an’ says, ‘Aw, just someone,’ an’ gives a
bit o’ a silly giggle like a sheilah does
when y’ ask ’er t’ go t’ the pictures. He
slams the ’phone down, an’ I ducks down
the paddock. A bit later I sees him race
up t’ the hut in his car, an’ I watch him
peepin’ through the winders an’ pokin’
about everywhere. Then he goes off
again, an’ that night I go in an’ get me
time. I don’t like a boss that don’t trust
a bloke.”
* * * *
“No. 7”: The soldier-bird has never
shown any fear of man, and, as recently
related, can be readily tempted to camp-
tables with gifts of jam. On an outer
metropolitan golf course on a recent
“I'll ’ave to part with ’ im —’e can't keep up with me now.”
burning Sunday some golfers found one
in the water of a sandbox. The fowl
had evidently gone for a drink, got down
but couldn’t hop or fly out owing to
the restricted space and its being up to
its wings in water. Lifted out and placed
on the edge of the box, it sat quietly
drying off. When a sympathetic golfer
attempted to stroke it, the bird showed
no fear, but its look of indignation was
worth seeing.
* * * *
“Jayem”: Long Harry’s nephew, a
student at an agricultural college, was
visiting the farm. “You know, uncle,”
he said, “your methods are a hundred
years behind the times. Why, I’d be
surprised if you made a tenner out of
the oats in that paddock.” “So would
I,” Harry agreed, “ ’specially as it’s a
crop of barley.
* * * *
“Ida D.”: “Si Anu” does an injustice
to the waringin tree of Java (B.
24/1/’4O). Growing on a single trunk,
it is a lovely thing with long hanging
branches, thickly clustered with leaves
of a most unusual green. In bad seasons
the Javanese leave offerings of food and
water beneath the branches of this
sacred tree to placate its titular deity.
The Dutch, scrupulously respecting the
religious idea of the natives, do not
remove these trees, even at cost to them-
selves. The wall of Tegowangi sugar-
mill (East Java) was built up to one side
of a waringin tree, then carried on from
the opposite side so as not to disturb it.
* * * *
“Odd Pint”: I see by the papers where
Charlie Stone, a big-game hunter, has
been telling the San Franciscans how he
bagged 416 head of big game, all with
a bow and arrows, in several countries,
including this one. He told the gaping
reporters that curators of museums pre-
ferred skins from animals shot with an
arrow because the missile makes only a
small hole. I never met the loquacious
Charles, but next time he lands out here
I hope he comes up our way. Then I’ll
show him my patent arrow, which pierces
the quarry, then drops off like a sun-
lizard’s tail, leaving no hole at all. I
get heavy premiums on my skins.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: So “G. Roper”
thinks that jarrah leaves less ash than
most timbers (B. 7/2/’40)! Well, I’d
like to take him for a stroll through some
jarrah-red gum country. There he’ll see
lines of charcoal and ash 2ft. to 3ft.
wide and some inches deep, marking the
spots where forest giants have burned.
They’re jarrah. Interspersed he’ll find
thin white lines of ash, barely discernible ;
about a kerosene-tinful of it being all
that’s left of an 80ft. log. That’s red-
gum.
* * * *
“Chink”: That Bulletin bard who
turned out his jingle on typing (B.
31/1/ ’4O), with its refrain of “Clickety-
clackety, pittery-pattery,” was perhaps
unaware that it was also the song of a
bird. And yet that was the first thing
I thought of when I read the verses.
They took me back over many years
to nights in the jungles of N.Q. when,
at irregular intervals, a singular voice
shattered the tropic hush. It was the
“song” of that strange bird of the forest
floor the jungle-fowl. “Clickety-clack,”
it cried ; “clickety-clack, clickety-clickety-
clack.” That curious cry remained with
me long after it was heard no more,
not merely on its merits but because
it recalled a sound which I could not
identify. But no sooner was I back at
my desk in Brisbane than the recollection
became localised: the unbirdlike bird-
voice of the North was a replica of the
“clickety-clack” of my old typewriter!
Not for many weeks did that ancient
and trusty machine forgive me for
having forgotten its music in the wilds
of the tropics.
& * * *
“Koolpinyah”: One point mentioned
by “Edjudina” (B. 14/2/’4O) regarding
abo. babies calls to memory an incident
in my buffalo camp in the far North.
Larapinta, the lubra of Wirrawarra, gave
birth to a child, and I was asked by the
proud father to go and see it shortly
after it was born. This happened to be
the first youngster I had seen so soon
after its birth, and I blurted out: “Lara-
pinta, this belongs to petticoat [white
man], I think!” The mother eyed me
with something like scorn. “No more,
boss, you talk-talk no good. All ’bout
blackpfeller when ’im pirst come is all
same color. Bimeby, my rub ’im wif
charcoal and ’im black. Look at 'im
nose ; that all same ’im pather.” Lara-
pinta was right; the kid’s nose was a
huge one just like that of Wirrawarra.
A fortnight later I saw little Tapsaret,
and she was quite black.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Nature may be wasteful
(B. 31/1/ ’4O), but she is never purpose-
less. She has a definite design when she
endows trees with oils and perfumes.
Probably not for the repulsion of insect-
borers, either, such being among the least
of a living tree’s troubles. It is fungus
that she aims to keep at bay. Trees
removed from their native habitat, trans-
planted to a different soil or clime, often
lose the faculty of secreting a sufficiency
of protective oil or perfume—the per-
fume is really a derivative from the oil—
with the result that they fall a prey to
fungi. The flowering gums of Kings
Park, Perth (W.A.), are an instance of
this. Brought as seedlings from another
part of the State, they, on attainment to
maturity, become seriously affected with
a fungus that rapidly brings decay and
death. Old trees anywhere are the same.
Like animals, including humans, when
young their secretions are pungent and
virile, but with age these fade to a senile
flatness.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow was
stiff in a Victorian dairy town, so he
took a job with a cow-cocky at 255. a
week and keep, determined to save hard
for a month to get his fare out of the
place and a few bob over. He even gave
up smoking. The cocky, impressed by
Mat’s financial frugality, had begun to
skite about him among the neighbors,
and was horribly jarred when Mat asked
him for his time. “Some of you blokes,”
he said, “don’t know when y’ well orf!”
“Well,” drawled Mat, “y’ can bet y’ life
it won’t be long before I am well orf.”
“Yairs?” asked the cocky. “Yairs,” said
Mat, “well orf y’ place.”
* * * *
“Monger’s Lake”: If “The Duke” (B.
31/1/ ’4O) really succeeded in inducing
a carp to take a worm —well, he’s a
better angler than I am. I’ve caught
hundreds of the golden fellows, but never
with a flesh bait—fish, fowl or worm.
My lure has ever been a small ball of
wheaten dough sweetened with con-
densed milk or merely sugar. Observa-
tion has taught me that the carp is a
vegetarian, dining for
preference on water
weeds, but not beyond
nosing in the lake mud
to get at the succulent
roots of bulrushes and
water-lilies. In pursuit
of this kind of susten-
ance, he naturally gets
a bellyful of earthy
slime, which gives to
his flesh that muddy
flavor so abhorred by
diners accustomed to
salt-water fish. Many
times I have angled for
fresh-water turtle in
waters well stocked
with carp, and baiting
with a worm have con-
sistently caught the
shellbacks. But it
needed only a return to
the sweetened dough to
start the big golden fish
biting again.
* *
“Badila”: The new
barmaid, a buxom
damsel, whose appa-
rent charms were
only overshadowed by a remarkably
predatory nose, had just knocked Bill
the Bum back for a pot. Bill, sour,
looked Hebe over. “Hey, miss,” he said,
“you ever been in Mildura?” The bar-
maid cast a disdainful “no” over her
shoulder. Bill persisted. “You’d make
more flamin’ money there than you
would ’ere, miss.” Hebe pricked up
her ears. “More money what d’yer
mean?” Bill started for the door. “Well,
they pick fruit there. You’d make a
bonzer fruit-picker. Y’ could ’ang with
that flamin’ snout o’ yours a-J pick with
both’ ands. Keep yer beer!”
* * * *
“Boree Joe”: After a long period in
the bush battling droughts, floods, fires,
bosses, stations, towns, stony-hearted
publicans, wild horses, insurance agents
and all the other bugbears of the out-
backer, I fled to the city. But that was
worse. I still had bosses to battle, and
with them were landlords, canvassers,
rate- and tax-collectors, noise, crowds,
six-o’clock closing, wireless sets and bath-
heaters. Being an independent spirit, I
decided to seek another field. I had
fixed on Europe when it decided to have
a war. America? It celebrated the New
Year with 30-odd suicides! New Guinea?
Ah, surely in the quiet jungle ways there
would be peace. I rolled the swag and
went down to wait for a boat, buying a
paper. Almost the first thing I read
was that a couple of scientific Johnnies
had just got back from there with tree-
climbing kangaroos, rats a yard long,
periscope grasshoppers and flies with
stalked eyes. I’m now trying to decide
whether to go to King’s Cross or Smith-
street, Fitzroy, for the evening of my life.
BALLAD OF DISCONTENT.
This is a ballad of discontent, sung in a minor
key,
Like the desolate curlew’s cold lament or the
moan of the distant sea;
A song of sorrow for days long done, ere
science arose to mar
The soul of man, and the blazing sun was a
god in a golden car,
When Sappho flourished and Homer sung to
the glory of God and man.
Oh the world was merry, the world was young,
and danced to the pipes of Pan.
But Pan and Homer are dead, and faint is
the echo of pagan glee,
And a gloom and heaviness seems to taint
the splendors of earth and sea.
The nymphs have gone from the woods and
streams and the haunts where they loved
to hide;
We have laid rude hands on the pagan dreams
and riven their veils aside.
We dance no more in the greenwood glade
where magic and music blent;
Our souls are fettered by bonds of trade and
burdened with discontent.
There is war in the East and war in the West,
and the days are dark ahead;
The world is stirred with a tierce unrest, and
heavy with doubt and dread.
There is death in the air and death on the
sea and death on the shell-torn sod,
While *the great guns bellow with gusty glee
their blasphemous song to God.
As I gaze around on a world gone mad my
grief can no more be pent—
Do you wonder then that my song is sad and
burdened with discontent?
The sun shines bright in the early morn and
the ocean’s breast is fair,
But the caves are empty, the rocks forlorn,
where the mermaids combed their hair.
They frolic no more in their arbors green as
they did in the olden time,
But a loathsome brood in the depths unseen
lie couched in the weed and slime,
And the great ship reels with the bulkheads
torn and her steel ribs gashed and rent,
And her anguished bellow is landward borne —
the cry of her discontent.
Little quarter of old they gave at the fall of
a ’leaguered town.
But who can succor today or save when the
bombs come whirling down?
It is woe alike to the strong and weak —to the
women and children, woe—
At the dead of night when the sirens shriek
and the war birds circle low.
Blazing cities and shell-torn fields where the
maimed and the dead lie rent —
Alas! for the harvest our wisdom yields, the
fruits of our discontent.
We have searched the stars, we have weighed
the sun, we have girdled the sea and earth,
But what is the measure of all we’ve won, and
what are our conquests worth?
Is man less slave to the evil thought, less given
to ruthless deeds,
Or live we still in a world distraught in a
welter of warring creeds?
We can only wait for the storm to cease, and
pray when its rage is spent
That the sun will rise on a world at peace,
unburdened by discontent.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


“Hopper”: I hasten to warn out-
backers not to be alarmed if they find a
lot of little red fleas roaming over the
landscape looking for rabbits—it will
merely be what the Adelaide correspon-
dent of a Sydney Sunday paper calls a
“big step in the solution of another of
Australia’s major problems—erosion.”
He says that the flea comes from the
porcupine, but does well on the fur of
other animals. It has been infected with
a virus fatal to rabbits, and is being
turned loose among bunnies on Wardang
Island, where the C.S. and I.R. has been
experimenting. The idea is that the in-
fected fleas will bite the rabbits, which
will then turn up their toes. If it works,
the fleas will be turned loose on the
mainland, and the rabbit population will
be wiped out. This will stop them ring-
barking “mulga and other bushes,” which
is one of the “major causes of inland
erosion.” Nothing is said of whom the
fleas will turn on after the rabbits are
gone, but doubtless the C.S. and I.R.
will then dig up a smaller parasite to deal
with the porcupine fleas. It’s just as well
some of these correspondents don’t take
to writing Abo. pars, or professional
Aboliars wouldn’t have a hope.
* * * *
“Hayes Kop”: It is a widely-held
notion that beef cut from an animal that
has been hard chased before its decease
is liable to be tough and not as whole-
some as it should be (B. 14/2/’4O). Per
contra, I have heard it insisted in Eng-
land by persons of experience that a
coursed hare is better eating than a
shot one.
* * * *
“Wang”: “Talkin’ of kickin’ horses,”
said Dan, “I had one once that wus a
champ. a three-quarter thoroughbred
pony she wus. She cured herself in the
end an’ earned me a tenner at the same
time. A great caper of hers when I
went to catch her wus to tear about,
snortin’ an’ throwin’ up her hind legs
in sharp, vicious kicks. Well, one day
I’m after her where she’d got inter the
pertater paddock. There’s a couple of
spud-diggin’ forks standin’ there a
coupla feet apart, an’ her ladyship, in
one of her hind-leg flips at me, drives
each of her hoofs through one of the
D handles of the forks, an’ couldn’t
get ’em out agen. Cripes! Y’ never
saw such a comical sight! There she
wus, whinnyin’ an’ hoppin’ about with
her two hind legs three feet in the air.
But did it stop her? Not on yer life!
She took the fence on to the road like
a bird, an’ went hoppin’ like a string-
halted ’roo down the road to the town-
ship, with me after her. Be the time she
does that two miles she’s done. When
I catch up she’s standin’ in the main
street, her hind legs up, with a crowd
around her—includin’ a cove from the
local paper with a camera—an’ is as
docile as a lamb while the blacksmith
wangles the diggin’ forks orf over her
hoofs. She never kicked after.” “But
where did the tenner come in?” I
asked. “Well,” said Dan, “be the
strangest chance the traveller fer that
partic’ler brand of forks happened to be
amongst the crowd, an’ he reckoned it
wus the best advert, fer ’em he’d ever
had, an’ insisted on me takin’ a tenner
for a photograph.”
* * * *
“Dedsee”: This diving into brine lakes
of such density that the human body
refuses to sink —be careful. Most Aus-
tralian inland waters carry brine com-
posed of almost pure sodium chloride —
some of them indeed yield a rich annual
harvest of table salt —but there are a
few with a mineral content tending to-
wards the caustic. The accidental swal-
lowing of such a brine might easily have
disastrous results.
* * * *
“Peedamulla”: Our friend “Jayem”
(B. 31/1/ ’4O) must have been quite young
at the time of the Big Stoush if he be-
lieves Australia suffered such severe
meat-rationing that a pair of rabbits
brought 2s. 6d. Actually, Australia dur-
ing most of the four years had a large
“No, we don’t Want no help. Buzz off!”
“I never thought George Was so heavy.”
surplus of food. Beef, mutton and wheat
piled up to mountainous proportions,
simply because ships became too scarce
to call for cargoes. There wasn’t even
a demand for bunny’s skin, though
nearly every soldier’s wife sported a black
fur coat. About the only boost the skin
trade got was when some expert
advised the Commonwealth of a possible
and, of course, highly profitable market
for ’roo skins, alleging that the mar-
supial overcoat made an unexcelled
covering for aeroplane wings. This was
sufficient to start writer and a couple
of cobbers on a camel-cart pilgrimage
which began at Carnarvon, swung nearly
out to the S.A. border and finished at
Onslow. Arrived at that arid town with
a thirst built to incredible dimensions
by a series of unbelievable droughts, we
found that the bottom had dropped out
of the market, if it ever had a bottom,
and our cargo of potential aeroplane
wings was hardly worth the price of a
pot all round
* * * *
“Mine-Tinkit”: Radio stations have
put kookaburras, bellbirds, lyrebirds and
other lesser known songsters over the air,
but the recording has yet to be made of
the finest bush concert that one could
hear. There are baritones, sopranos,
basses, tenors and a huge chorus ; solo-
ists galore, with a delivery remarkable for
its clarity, tone and enthusiasm. They
sing paeans of praise, songs of thanks-
giving and joyousness. They never get
tired, don’t postpone their shows if it
rains and don’t have to be imported
from Central Europe. I still await the
placing of a microphone in a bullfrog
swamp after rain.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Old Harry, the Vic-
torian, didn’t bat an eyelid when the
boss, who’d just put him on drawing
banksia from the bush, warned him
against getting bogged. The boss looked
quite serious, but Harry was something
of a legpuller himself, so he just looked
at the bone-dry Westralian country, with
its sparse shrubs, occasional jarrah tree
and thousands of banksia stumps, and
didn’t bite. Instead he nodded silently,
took it all in and drove his truck over
to the nearest heap. An hour later, with
three cords up, he essayed to cross a
bare patch surrounding a white gum,
broke through the surface and stopped.
Three hours later, with the back wheels
almost out of sight, we found him still
trying to “bottom” the dry sand. He
didn’t complain when we told him he’d
have to unload, dig under the wheels,
and give her a bottom of banksia-tops.
At that it was a couple of hours before
he was clear. Then he announced that
he was finished. “Oh, this is nothing,”
the boss laughed. “You’ll soon get used
to it.” “Don’t wanter git used to it,”
Harry snarled. “I’m goin’ back to where
a man on’y gits bogged in winter.”
* * * *
“Walkabout”: That cattle stampede
from the Tabulam saleyards (B. 7/ 2/ ’4O)
reminds me of the havoc a sandstorm
caused amongst a mob travelling the
Marree track (S.A.) one midsummer. The
drover in charge, ignoring advice to
travel by the coach road, attempted to
make the creek higher up, where he
imagined there’d be more water. When
the mob of 800 fat bullocks began to
bail up about midday the drover rode on
ahead to seek the water, leaving a black-
boy and a youth with the cattle. Binghi
soon coiled up in the shade and went to
sleep, and when a sandstorm gathered
and hit the mob the thirst-maddened
beasts commenced to ring. The youth’s
efforts to calm the mob were futile, and
by the time the boong had rubbed the
sleep out of his eyes the bullocks were
off in a mad rush across the desert, head-
ing in the direction of a boredrain where
they’d watered the previous afternoon.
Into the pool near the borehead thun-
dered the leaders, those following falling
and piling up in scores over bellowing
beasts that were being scalded to death
by water only a few degrees below boil-
ing-point. When late that evening the
drover returned to find his mob, less
than 250 head remained alive.
KATIE WENT.
“I tells y’ straight,” said Yanga Ted, “no more
I’ll do me nut
On any prinked an’ powdered tart, from
squatter’s home or hut.
They’re just a lot o’ flamin’ narks; they’d drive
a man t’ drink;
They swamp y’ with their talk o’ love an’ leave
y’ there t’ sink!
Now look at me an’ Katie Bell, who lived at
Myall Flat;
She’s just the sort I’d waited for. An angel?
Strike me fat!
She had me in her little hand, an’ I’m on
marriage bent,
An’ then, without a word or line, she simply
up an’ went.
“Now, fair the dink, I had a block —a decent
bit o’ land —
When first I sights this Katie piece an’ sees
she’ll suit me grand.
I on’y had t’ clear the scrub, an’ get the plough
t’ work,
An’ fence the place an’ build a house —y’
know the kind o’ lurk —
An’ so I hangs me cady up t’ fair an’ buxom
Kate.
I calls on her most ev’ry night, an’ often
plays till late
At euchre with the family. I thought the time
well spent,
Till she, without a word or line, just simply up
an’ went.
“I mind that night I’m makin’ home —we’re
standin’ be the gate—
An’ in a strangled voice I says, ‘What price
a weddin’, Kate?’
It’s then I know the kind o’ joy makes gods
o’ little men—
She turns her beamin’ eyes on me an’ shyly
whispers ‘When?’
I could ’a’ pulled big gum-trees down or took
the Siegfried Line,
I’m barmy with excitement when I know that
Katie’s mine.
An’ on me block I toils like hell, spurred on
be her consent,
An’ then, without a word or line, she simply
up an’ went.
“I burns the scrub an’ grubs the stumps an’
ploughs an’ reaps an’ digs;
While seasons come an’ seasons go I works
like twenty nigs.
It took just on eleven years t’ knock it inter
shape,
That farm I hopes t’ share with her, an’
ev’ry year I’d scrape
A few more quid t’ meet me debts, an’ nearer
get t’ square;
An’ all the time at Myall Flat, me Katie’s
waitin’ there.
She must’ve seen I’m dinky-di an’ what me
toilin’ meant,
An’ yet, without a word or line, she simply
up an’ went.
“It’s got me beat why Kate should go an’ do a
thing like that.
An’ she had waited fifteen years at home on
Myall Flat.
Y’ would ’a’ thought that she’d be glad, an’
pleased as Punch t’ know
I’d have the house all ready in about four
years or so.
But when I tell her, Sundee night, her face
goes cold an’ set,
An’ with a screechin’ sort o’ laugh she flings
off in a pet.
I dunno what I said or done, or what I
should repent,
But, ’strewth, without a word or line, she
simply up an’ went.”
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD
CAPITAL PAID CP
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL
£4,739,012 10
4,300,000 0
4,739,012 10
0
0
0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D.S.O.,
General Manager: C. Darvall.
V.D.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout: ,
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN PRODUCING COMPANIES
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
LONDON TIN CORPORATION, LTD
FOR THE QUARTER ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER, 1939.
Company.
Rawang Tin Fields, Ltd
Rawang Concessions, Ltd
Kundang Tin Dredging, Ltd. . .
Kuala Kampar Tin Fields, Ltd. . .
Kampong Lanjut Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Kramat Tin Dredging, Ltd. . .
Southern Kinta Consolidated, Ltd.
Larut Tin Fields, Ltd.
Tongkah Harbour Tin Dredging, Ltd
Jelapang Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Berjuntai Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Estimated
Mine Profit.'
£stg. 18,430
5,552
7,462
11,158
46,825
20,390
87,808
29,208
21,361
21,773
20,194
The Estimated Mine Profit is from permitted quota sales before providing depreciation and overhead charges.
INVENTORS —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Adm.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayed and Metallurgists.
•—Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined fin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try 0. l.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). Advt.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Dalgety and Co., Ltd.
Ordinary Written off Re-
June, Profit. Dividends.* Premises, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 337,590 17 p.c. = 255,000 25,000 1,727,942
1930.. 210,946 10 „ ~ 150,000 25,000 1,738,888
Inner reserves disclosed, £67,729 .. 1,806,617
1931.. 35,741 7 p.c. = 105,000 1,712,358
Inner reserves disclosed, £175,177 , t . 1,887,535
Loss.
1932.. 131,070 5 p.c. = 75,000 1,656,465
Inner reserves disclosed, £61,908 .. 1,718,373
Profit.
1933.. • 13,530 5 p.c. = 75,000 1,631,903
1934.. 97,575 5„ „ 75,000 1,629,478
Inner reserves disclosed, £40,000 . . 1,669,478
1935.. 46,789 5 p.c. = 75,000 1,616,267
Exchange repayment debs., £lOO,OOO. . 1,516,267
1936.. 120,851 6 p.c. = 90,000 1,522,118
Exchange repayment debs., £40,000.. 1,482,118
1937.. 148,044 8 p.c. = 120,000 1,485,162
1938.. 107,375 6„ „ 90,000 1,477,537
1939.. 106,625 5„ ~ 75,000 1,484,162
*The prefs. (5 p.c.) get £25,000 p.a.
Since the beginning of 1938 the price
of the £2O ords. paid to £5 has fluctuated
between £8 11s. 3d. and £5 10s. in the
market. At £6 65., the figure offered
last week, the return in Australian
currency is 3.6 p.c., after allowing for
English taxation (now ss. 6d. in the £)
and exchange. The net tangible cover is
£9 19s. The prefs. seldom come on to
the local market.
The co. is the world’s premier wool-selling
and pastoral-finance organisation. Head-
quarters are in London, where a lot of
the £2,000.000 of share capital and prac-
tically all the £4,234,794 of debenture
money are held. That means that ex-
change (£93,667, down £274 last term)
bites deeply into net earnings these days.
It also gives the scrip a speculative in-
terest in the possibility of the exchange
value of Australian currency and sterling
coming a bit closer together later on ;
but he is a bold man who would
venture to predict in this sphere at the
moment.
Most of the business is done in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, and there is a
branch at Kenya, East Africa. The co.
also enjoys an extensive agency business
in shipping, grain, dairy produce, motor-
cars, insurance and metals, and does a
substantial trade in merchandise on its
own account as well.
Conditions were mixed last term.
Owing to a heavy carryover from the
previous season, more wool was put
under the hammer (the co. handles about
16 p.c. of the Australasian clip), despite
drought and lighter shearings:
Dalgety’s Average
, A/sian Sales N Sales, per
Season, Bales. Value. Bales. Bale.*
1928.. 2,955,585 £73,877,862 471,841 £24 19 11
1930.. 2,979,223 39,054,959 485,023 13 2 2
1932.. 3,188,981 33,214,644 528,158 10 8 4
1934.. 3,230,477 62,617,343 529',521 19 7 8
1935. . 3,520,218 43,012,504 582,059 12 4 5
1936.. 3,573,745 59,702,028 577,283 16 14 1
1937.. 3,611,047 75,896,803 567,449 21 0 4
1938.. 3,422,835 53,073,662 540,630 15 10 1
1939.. 3,682,601 48,509,406 578,743 13 3 5
* Australasia.
Only on three occasions since 1930 has
the average price per bale been less.
Wheat, dairy produce and livestock prices
declined, too.
However, what the co. missed in one
direction it mostly picked up in an-
other. Gross earnings were only £2408
less than the previous year’s:
1932. 1936. 1938- 1939.
Gross profits. . £676,376 £885,754 £879,853 £877,445
Salaries,” etc.. . 574,781 503,499 510,558 514,808
Interest . . 161,494 173,016 149,408 158,467
Taxes . . 61,171 63,388 87,512 82,545
Total outgo* £797,446 £739,903 £747,478 £755,820
* Before staff fund contribution.
The tax bill was £4967 lighter. But
other costs continued to climb, the net
increase in total outgoings being £8342.
After sending £15,000 (down £10,000) to
the staff fund, the amount available for
shareholders was only £750 less at
£106,625. This was enough to pay the
pref. div. and shew 5.4 p.c. on the
£1,500,000 of ord. capital as against 5,4,
8 2 6.3, 1.4, 4.8, two losses and then
profits of 0.7, 12.3 and 24.1 p.c. back to
1929, when the cost of exchange didn’t
enter into the picture. The £6625 that
remained lifted reserves to £1,484,162,
equal to 19s. lOd. per pound of ord.
capital.
Last term the preference share and
debenture capital combined (£4,734,794)
cost the co. approximately 3.8 p.c. In-
cluding debenture interest, the year’s
profit (£265,192) was equal to 3.4 p.c. on
the share and debenture capital and re-
serves combined; so the fixed-interest-
bearing securities weren’t earning their
keep.
Here is a condensed view of the finan-
cial structure:
Liabilities.
1932. 1938. 1939.
Capital .. . . £2,000.000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Perpetual 44 p.c.. . 749,910 749,910 749,910
„ 4 „ .. 1,725,544 1,725,544 1,725,544
Redeemable 44 p.c. 500,000 500,000 500,000
Terminable* . . 678,900 774,140 1,259,340
Sundry creditors, etc.+2,327.590 2,911,948 3,231,535
Staff fund . . 366,000 456,000 481,000
* Rates not stated, t Includes unspecified provision
for contingencies and taxes.
Assets.
Advances, proper-
ties, etc. . . £6,784,231 £6,704,038 £7,193,149
Premises, etc. . . 329,621 525,055 647,593
Stock . . . . 462,241 600,762 662,477
Sundry debtors . . 1,020,913 1,199,919 1,344,055
Cash & investments 1,447,402 1,647,805 1,556,717
During the year £485,200 of fresh ter-
minable debenture money was gathered
and £319,587 was added to the amount
coming to sundry creditors. The money,
together with the contribution to the
staff fund and £91,088 from the cash
holding, etc., went into advances (up
£489,111), premises (up £122,538), stock
(up £61,715) and sundry debtors’ balances
(up £144,136). When the books closed
the floating debt (£3,712,535) exceeded
stocks, debtors’ balances and cash by
£149,286, to cover which there were ad-
vances and premises, in at £7,193,149 and
£647,593 respectively.
As for the current term, seasonal con-
ditions are bright enough, but war is
likely to affect adversely several sections
of the business. But the British Govern-
ment has bought the Australian and
Maoriland wool clip, which is the back-
bone of the co.’s turnover, for the dura-
tion of the war and one clip thereafter.
In terms of local currencies, the price
is 13.4 d. per pound Australian and I2id.
per pound in Maoriland, an increase in
each case of about 30 p.c. on the aver-
age price for the previous season’s clip.
Westralian Farmers, Ltd.
Bonus Nominal
to To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
1929.. 10,341 Nil Nil 10,341 63,752
Bad debts written off, £15,458 .. 48,294
Loss.
1930.. 4,872 Nil Nil 43,422
1931.. 25,995 Nil Nil 17,427
Deficit.
1932.. 67,760* Nil Nil 5(1,333
Profit.
1933.. 829 Nil Nil 829 49,504
Loss.
1934.. . 567 Nil Nil 50,071
1935.. 126 Nil Nil 50,197
Profit.
1936.. 1,164 Nil Nil 1,164 49,033
1937.. 3.969 Nil Nil 3,969 45,064
1938.. 36:536 Nil Nil 36,536 '8,528
Reserves.
1939.. 12,728 Nil Nil 12,728 4,200
♦lncludes bad debts written off.
War has directly affected the earnings
of several sections of this semi-co-
operative organisation. Also, returns
from other sections will be affected by
the action of the Federal Government in
taking control of the country’s main
exports. Still, “adjustments will be made
from time to time to meet the position,”
the chairman says. So hopes of an early
resumption of dividends to shareholders
and bonuses to clients, who are mostly
shareholders both have gone without
since 1928 —are by no means shattered,
despite the effects of war upon the busi-
ness.
The co. is one of a network of co-
operative selling organisations, here and
overseas, which have done good work
for the farmer by endeavoring to market
his produce at top prices and low cost.
Its activities cover all the most important
branches of primary production in its
home State, and include merchandising,
insurance, chartering and agency business
as well.
The trouble occurred with this big
break in the markets over a decade ago.
Since July, 1920, no less than £423,678
of uncollected debts, mainly incurred prior
to the crisis of 1930, have been written
off the books; and the money which
the co. borrowed to make most of these
advances has been repaid. Losses from
bad debts since are reported to be neg-
ligible, despite some difficult periods.
Also, when the books were last ruled off
the debit in the p. and 1. 'account was
reduced to £10,454, and shareholders
could see the whole of their capital and
£4200 besides intact.
Wheat still dominates the co.’s finances
—as agent for Co-operative Bulk Hand-
ling, Ltd., and trustee for the pool the
co. handles about three-quarters of the
grain in the State. What has happened
in connection with Westralian harvests
is illustrated in this table:
Westralia’s Wheat Production.
Average Pool Average
Total per Acre, Prjce per Return
Bushels. Bushels. Bushel.t per Acre.
1926.. 20,471,000 9.7 6s. Bid. £2/15/4
1930.. 39,081,000 11.0 3s. 7R £l/19/8
1931.. 53,504,000 13.5 Is. lik'd. £l/5/9
1932.. 41,521,000 13.1 2s. Bfd. £l/15/7
1933.. 41,792,000 12.3 2s. 5d £l/9/9
1934.. 37,305,000 11.7 2s. 2td. £l/5/7
1935.. 26,985,000 9.8 2s. sd. £l/3/8
1936.. 23,315,000 9.2 3s. 2id. £l/9/4
1937.. 21,549,000 8.3 ss. OR £2/1/7
1938.. 36,225,000 12.0 3s. 5R £2/1/1
1939.. 36.711,000 10.8 Is. lOd. 19/11
1940*. 39,000,000 13.2
* Estimate, t Excludes bounty.
Though more wheat was handled, there
was a precipitous drop in the price and
average return per acre. More livestock
and wool passed through the co.’s hands
also, and the new skin-drying and
-packing store proved too small for the
business offering. Of the State’s record
apple exports (approx, one and a quarter
million cases), the co. handled about a
quarter, and it packed and shipped more
eggs, too. But war interrupted the man-
agement’s ship-chartering activities. Still,
sales of merchandise were well main-
tained, and the new Nash car and C.O.R.
agencies are expected to supplement
earnings.
The year’s gross takings were £131,610
(up £39,120) from commissions and
£158,504 (up £6845) from other sources.
Exes, (£267,078) took £45,797 of the
increase, leaving the declared net result
only £l6B better at £23,036. That leaves
out of the reckoning an unexplained
reduction of £10,308 in reserves (there
was an addition of £13,669 in the pre-
vious term), which lowered the profit
to the £12,728 (5.9 p.c. on capital) shown
in the introductory table.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1933. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £213,790 £213,862 £213,967 £213,978
Debentures .. 107,730 108,768 125,124 124,371
Other liabilities 693,434 546,117 488,190 672,991
Freeholds, etc. 148,058 123,449 99,997 118,188
Plant, etc. .. 37,190 31,198 38,501 43,512
Shares in other
cos .. 48,705 78,221 91,549 8/,037
Stocks . . 119,311 89,035 106,040 122.432
Debtors . . 599,279 477.421 461,208 630,564
Cash, etc. . . 12,907 18,226 21,458 13,807
There was all-round expansion last term.
The outstanding movements were in-
creases of £184,801 in the amount coming
to sundry creditors and of £169,356 in
debtors’ balances. The growth of
£18,191 net in freeholds, etc., is in re-
spect of the co.’s new headquarters.
Excluding shares in other cos., the excess
of liabilities over more or less liquids
increased by £5951, reaching £30,559
when the books closed.
Kcuri Timber Co.
Written
Aug., Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
Jo ib
1929 31 634 3 p.c. = 22,500 10,752 216,599
Tqqn" 98 939 24 18,750 10,374 216,405
ill®:: 2 !;IS? "mi w 206,005
1932.. 14,700 Nil 11,250 180,055
Profit.
1933.. 22,095 2 p.c. = 15,000 11,159
1934 31,978 3„ ~ 22,500 11,429 174,040
1935.. 52,604 5 ” ” 37,500 12,692 176,452
1936.. 63,576 5 „ „ 37,500 21,107 181,421
1937 67 772 6 , ~ 45,000 22,434 181,(59
Goodwill disclosed, £12,000 169,759
1938.. 70.696 6 p.c. = 45,000 20,407 175,048
1939.. 65,227 6 ~ ~ 45,000 19,421 170,804
The slip of £5469 in last year’s earn-
ings was due to price-cutting, mainly in
Melbourne and Westralia. After allow-
ing for depreciation, shown as written
off in the table, enough remained to show
6.1 p.c. on capital, compared with 6.7,
6, 5.6, 5.3, 2.7 and 1.3 p.c. back to 1933.
The combined net earnings of the co.
and its subsidiaries, disclosed for the first
time, was £65,674.
Speaking generally, earnings follow the
trend in the building trade. This was
buoyant in Maoriland last term, owing
to the Government’s housing schemes,
and the value of building permits for


I
exrmm
Mm
m
* i J
■m
mmm
wmsm
mm
>
mm
mi
We're all going in the
VAUXHALL ‘l4’
Australia’s Happy Medium Car • a 5-6 Seater • over 30 m.p.g.
ALL aboard the 1940 Vauxhall ‘14'!
Here’s a brand new Model that suits the
needs —in both size and economy—of 9 out of
10 families.
In that long, wide commodious body (on a
wheelbase of 105 inches) 5 or 6 people can
be carried in comfort. Yet although the ‘14*
gives you comfort usually associated only with
the big "full size" cars, it gives you 50% more
economy! Yes, a full 30 m.p.g. plus 6 cylinder
performance, plus a new astounding top gear
performance that will take you up almost any
hill without a change down.
Buyers of a 1940 Vauxhall *l4* can look
forward to years of ownership with the least
worry. First of all Vauxhall engineering gives
you all the best of modern features: Patented
Independent Springing, Lockheed Hydraulic
Brakes, Overhead Valve 6 cylinder Engine
with exclusive 6 phase Carburettor, 3-speed
Synchro-mesh Gears that won’t clash, All Steel
Turret Top Body by Holden —just to mention
a few of the most outstanding points. And
secondly, when you do trade your T4’ you re
assured of a good resale price, for no car com-
mands a higher figure in relation to purchase
price! GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S LTD.
THE 1940 RANGE INCLUDES 3 MODELS I
Business Coupe £334; Sports Coupe
£339; and the Saloon £359.
Buy on the Convenient, G. M. A. C. Payment Plan
Buy from your Local Vauxhall Dealer
Sold and Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
The Vauxhall ‘l4‘
Saloon £359
490
ivivi&S-
-m
•4
w
m
m
■ .s&s
mi
»*7*fftWWSWW?Wf*WP:;. :r , .W?T.?:'. i :'.:'.*!tJ’.! -'. . i «*-
.*,.w:.T|W
■< ■•■ - - ; .. r ,r.-
:
||:|;iv ; V | v
\
vi i )
m
HHk " 1 *
mm* f'' * > *
& N
/1 m v
li
* .
I I
f -yy.-M-y : 5 ■
3#:&
£ . I
«ll lIIIIHW
isi:
■
Vauxhall’B OCTANE SELECTOB Instantly
adjustable for Standard-Grade Petrol
Greater Melbourne continued to in-
crease, too.
Drought, however, lessened the de-
mand for butterboxes, turned out by
the recently-acquired Commercial Boxes
and Plywood Pty., Melbourne. But,
owing to narrower margins, rising costs
and stinging increases in taxation, there
was less profit in the larger business.
The div. was kept at 6 p.c., a rate justi-
fied only by the co.’s strong financial
position.
Those who look for fat returns from
timber won’t find any encouragement in
the co.’s earnings for well over a decade.
Certainly two-fifths of the £750,000 of
capital is bonus scrip; but the last gift was
in 1919, when £135,000 of capital was
also returned. For the 14 years to the
close of last accounts shareholders aver-
aged a shade under 4 p.c., and reserves
were tapped for £143,364 to pay it and
cover special depreciation and trading
losses.
The co.’s fieehold and leasehold stands
are chiefly in Maoriland, where another
area was purchased last year, and where
the co. has extensive subsidiary milling
interests. It has large holdings in West-
ralia, too, where an additional property
was also bought last term. Other in-
terests comprise a 50 p.c. holding in
Vanikoro Kauri Timber (issued capital,
£90,000), which operates in the Solomon
Islands, and the box and plywood busi-
ness already referred to.
Here is the position as the parent’s
balance-sheet figures show it:
1935 1937 _ 1938 1939.
Pai<J capital. . £750,000£750,000£750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 36,242 38,134 51,034 70,868
;; gss} ® 9 - 644
Plant, etc. . . 121,274 116,381 162,330 152,880
Stocks, etc. . . 175,885 215,340 341,314 336,577
Book debts .. 106,821 117,50 b 119,947 214,811
cos 152,978 160,922 164,467 173,969
1 n v estments,
etc... 314,649 303,797 139,571 75,091
,
Last term £94,864 was added to debtois
balances and £9502 to shareholdings. To
do this the board went outside for an
extra £19,834 and drew upon cash, etc.,
for £64,480. Stocks, one of the most
vulnerable points in the co.’s armor, were
down £4737. On fixed assets £14,508
more was written off than was spent.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£555,611, excluding
shareholdings) was £5813.
At 235. 6d. (225. a year ago) the f.-p.
255. shares return 6.4 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis. Including subsidiary interests,
the net tangible cover is 335. 2d.
. .. _ , r Co
Hy rau ic ower an To ße- Be-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. selves, serves.
£ £ **
1930 5*276 3 ~ 3600 1676 &7,609
1931.'. 6’,253 6i „ „ 6600 K 8 104
1932.. 6,942 5 „ „ 6000 »4Z 00,
1933.. 7,469 6 „ „ 7200 269 ao,o
1934.. 8,559 7 „ „ 8400 159 08,oa
1935.. 7,920 64 „ „ 7800 120
1937!! 7,’459 7200 259
1939" 7’652 64 ” ” 7800 58,553
Although shareholders have never pulled
anv Dlums out of the business in the way
of Y honus share issues or fat dividends,
thev have had a long unbroken run of
a?r S fac7ory returns For 20 years to
the close of accounts in 1929 the average
was 7 3 pc., the highest being 8 p.c.
and the lowest 6 p.c. For the 10 years
since the average has been a trifle under
6 p.c. Meanwhile electric-lift installations
were undertaken, the Major, Stevens and
Coates business was bought and the
Commonwealth agency for the Express
T ift fY» T ondon was acquired, thus
*? • ’ rw-rcitinn to SUDOIV
putting the co. in a position to supply
all the latest types of high-speed electric
lifts and moving stairways.
The best returns have been won when
building activity in the city has been at
its peak. During less-active periods lift-
maintenance and repair work have kept
the pot boiling. Last year there was a
sharp contraction in building activity in
Sydney, and the co.’s gross earnings fell
away £22,354: —•
Revenue, penses.
1926.. £47,279 £37,415
a92 g.. 61,995 51,629
1930 . 47,375 42.598
1932 39,025 32,083
1934.. 46,261 37,702
Ex-
Revenue. penses.
1935. . £88,054 £80,134
1936.. 88,507 80,652
1937.. 73,019 65,560
1938. . 105.577 97,442
1939.. 83,223 75,572
Exes, were pulled back £21,870, so the
ne t result was only £483 lighter at 6.3
p.c. on capital as against 6.8 6.2
6.6, 7.1 and 6.2 p.c. back to 1933. Halt
a point was chipped off the div., re-
ducing it to 61 p.c., the final being at
the rate of 6 p.c. p.a., and visibly re-
serves were tapped for £l4B to do it,
reducing them to £58,553.
These reserves, the share capital and
some outside money as well are m-
vested in this way:
1935 1937 1938 1.939.
capital .. £120,000 £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Liabilities .. 35,021 i 5,904 23,912 18,92.3
Mains & plant 136,556 135,918 135,199 134,880
Freeholds .. 35,231 35,231 35,231 35,231
Leaseholdg 1 149 1 149 1 149 1,149
gtoek 27>568 13 177 18>22 i 17,061
.. 14,779 14,103 18,103 12,734
’ , ,
Last term debtors’ balances were reduced
by £5369, stocks by £ll6O and £4989
, >
(Continued on next page.)


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
Business As Usual
BRICKS AND
MORTAR
LIMITED
displays its confidence in the future by
issuing additional capital to advance the
building programme, etc., commenced during
the last financial year.
No setback is anticipated from the results of the
war, other than increased Taxation, and the
letting position of the numerous properties now
accumulated by the Company is in a very sound
and stable condition.
Features of the Company are:
Security of Capital and steady dividends payable
quarterly.
Two interim payments for the current year have
been paid.
The Board aims at efficient and economical
management and simplicity of administration.
The basis of the Company is income from rents.
It Does Not Speculate.
BRICKS AND MORTAR
LIMITED
117 PITT STREET SYDNEY
ARE YOU GETTING CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
.
GUTHRIDGE,
GEORGE ST,
CAMPERDOYVN,
, SYDNEY,
'MANUFACTURERS
If you are having trouble with
your water supply, either for
household or industrial purposes,
we can help you. We manufac-
ture water filters of all descrip-
tions. Our ABBOT pressure and
drip type filters used throughout
the Commonwealth and the East.
Our pressure filters used for Butter
Factories, Ice Works, Cordial
Factories, Hospitals and wherever
pure water is required.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
was clipped off the debt. The contrac-
tion in the more or less liquid surplus
(£10,992) was £1540.
During 1939 the price of the fully-
paid pound shares fluctuated between
16s. 6d. and 13s. 9d. in the market, which
assesses current prospects by pricing the
scrip at 15s. 3d., at which figure the
return is 8.5 p.c. on a 6| p.c. div.
basis. On the same div. basis the
125.-paid contribs. at Bs. yield 9.7 p.c.,
and there is nothing to suggest when, if
ever, the remaining Bs. (it has stood at
call for the last 18 years) is likely to
be wanted. The net tangible backing is
295. 9d. per pound of paid capital.
The Tennant, Centralia, is to get a
much-needed third Government battery,
raising total plants on the field to
eight. The privately-owned ones are the
Eldorado, Rising Sun, West’s, Fazol-
deen’s and Central Milling. To Sept. 30
last production of the field was 51,4800 z.
gold, worth £434,780, from 54,880 tons,
an average of 18.7dwt. per ton. It has
mainly come from above 200 ft. The
new plant is to go up near the Eldorado,
one of the most promising shows on the
field.
% * * *
Owing to increased Australian demand
for ferro-manganese, a further essay is
to be made to exploit the manganese
deposits at Pernatty Lagoon, near
Woocalla, which is 70-odd miles from
Port Augusta (S.A.). Weekly production
of 500 tons of ore is spoken of, the stuff
to be shipped from Port Augusta to
N.S.W. for smelting by the B.H.P.
Manganese finds its chief use in the steel
industry, consumer of 90 p.c. of the
world’s production, but the ore has to
be high-grade. At Pernatty barytes,
salt, fluorspar and ochre also occur.
Manganese-ore production was most
active in the late ’eighties and early
’nineties, and in 1914-19 and for a short
time thereafter. Production in between
has been practically negligible. Total
worth of the output to the State has been
£93,000.
Drilling of the big lode at Kingston,
near Brisbane, taken over by Gold Mines
of Australia and others, is being put
in hand. There are already extensive
shallow opencut workings. Drills will
test the base of these close enough to
permit cross-sections to a depth of several
hundred feet. Again, the boundaries of
this big quartz-schist lode are not de-
fined, and these can be marked off on
the base of assay plans. If values to
500 ft. will equal those extracted in the
present workings—2dwt. to 3dwt. —the
mine should go. And one who deserves
a cut out of it is A. Kussman, who at
times kept his tributors going out of
private funds rather than see it go phut.
$ * $ - $
The North Fanny, in the Duchess dis-
trict (N.Q.), has been sending 30 p.c.
copper carbonate ore to Chillagoe. It’s
mostly been picked in boulders from pot-
holes in what looks to be an impressive
outcrop. It has now been decided to
sink and pick up the richer sulphides.
Systematic working may open up a pup
out of the Trekelano.
* * * *
There is still a bit of gold on the old
Barmundoo field behind Gladstone
(C.Q.). Percy Barrett and his mates
lately took out a crushing of five tons
on the Pioneer reef for a return of
gold per ton. They took £195 gross
for the parcel, and are now stoping more
ore out at the 90ft. level.
H* H*
Blair Athol Opencut Collieries has been
coal-winning at Blair Athol (Q.) foi 30
years, for most of them as Newcastle
Coal, Ltd. The change to the present
title came a couple of years back, when
plans, proposed by mine manager T. D.
Jones and approved by Lindesay Clark,
for a switchover from mining to opencut
operations were put into effect. Now
great steam power-shovels are scooping
the stuff out at a brisk pace, but the pre-
vailing Government quota system in the
northern State has prevented the direc-
tors obtaining a full reward for their
enterprise. In the opencut at present
there is a face of clean coal 65ft. thick,
overlain by some 35ft. to 40ft. of over-
burden. The seam has been proved to
over 85ft. in thickness, but here the over-
burden also increases to 100 ft. Coal
resources of the field are estimated at
between 800,000,000 and 1,000,000,000
tons.
* * * *
Ralph E. May, the Melbourne share-
broker standing for New Occidental’s
board, has replied to Malcolm Newman’s
circular (B. 21/2/’4O), which dealt princi-
pally with sharebrokers on mining co.
directorates. May says, in part:
Mr. Newman was elected to the board
of Mount Morgan, Ltd., in October,
1938, and at that meeting assured share-
holders that he was “going to take every
step” to oppose the election of share-
brokers to the board. It is therefore sur-
prising to note that, despite this assurance,
Mr. Newman at the very next annual meet-
ing actively supported the election of two
Melbourne sharebrokers, Eric Morgan and
E. Byron Moore.
Secondly, Mr. Newman “unhesitatingly
recommends shareholders to re-elect the
three retiring directors,” although Mr.
Newman, as a member of the shareholders’
committee of New Occidental Gold Mines,
N.L., found, as recently as September
last, that—
(a) Estimates for expenditure of large sums
of capital at the mines were not pre-
ceded by sufficient study nor supported
by plans and specifications, and for
that reason the method and procedure
left much to be desired.
(b) Although much was written in regard
to the disparity between estimates and
final expenditure, a great deal of the
excess expenditure was known to and
approved by the directors when the
work was commenced.
(c) Original estimates of mining costs at
the New Cobar mine had been greatly
exceeded, and latest figures showed
same to be still too high.
New Occidental’s meeting is being held
in Sydney tomorrow (29th). A review
of the annual report appears on page 22.
* * * *
A few months ago blocked ore
reserves in Swan Bitter’s Magnet (W.A.)
mine were figured at 4000 tons of
joz. average values, and the manager
reckoned that there was 10,000 tons of
probable ore averaging 7dwt. He added
that the lode appeared to be stronger
and wider at the bottom than at the top
levels. The co. hoped to “double the
output before long.” A little later a cir-
cular issued by a Perth firm of brokers
said: “There is sufficient ore ready to
break and keep the plant going for three
years. Shares are quoted at 3s. buyer,
3s. Bd. seller, and the dividends which
are expected to commence before the
middle of the coming year should show
a very high return on this figure.” Sellers
now ask 2s. 6d., no buyers.
* * * *
Principal achievements of Lake View
and Star for the final quarter of 1939
were the treatment of 173,230 tons of
ore and 169,888 tons of tailings for
£A404,332, and substantial additions
to the ore reserves. Mine costs took
£231,355, leaving a working surplus
of £172,977. Expenditure on capital
account, development and plant was
£12,040. Two miles of development and
nearly a mile of diamond-drilling were
done. Since the end of the quarter a
bore east from the Gt. Boulder, 2600 ft.
level, penetrated a 12ft. lode showing
free gold. Re-treatment of the old
Chaffers-Lake View residues dump has
begun. About 4,000,000 tons has been
sampled, and metallurgical tests indicate
a profit of Is. 6d. a ton or thereabouts.
Co. has also begun re-treatment on the
Associated block of a 2,500,000-tons
residue dump.
* * * *
Latest half-yearly report of Freney Oil
(W.A.) has something further to say
about recent obstructions by cavings of
strata in the borehole and the steps that
are being taken to remove them. Mean-
while shareholders are urged to keep
their pecker up. Accounts at Dec. 31
show cash £7085 and sundry creditors
£4629. New grants obtained so far from
the State Government amount to £4904
and from the Commonwealth £4304. Ex-
penditure during the term totalled
£10,896, principal items being transport,
freight, etc., £3328 ; wages and salaries,
£2697 ; hire of plant, £ll6l ; fuel and
power, £929; and maintenance, £9BB.
Directors’ fees took £266 and secretary’s
salary £3OO.
* * * *
Mocatta and Goldsmid’s yearly review
of bullion markets states that the shadow
of the control to which the gold market
was to be subjected later appeared in
the early part of January, 1939, when the
embargo on speculative dealings for for-
ward delivery was reimposed. Another
event suggesting that sterling was ex-
pected to require considerable support
was the transfer of gold amounting tc
about £350,000,000 at the rates then cur-
rent from the Bank of England to the
Exchange Fund. Gold opened in 1939
at 150 s. o|d. an ounce ; it advanced next
day to 150 s. 5d., which was the highest
quotation until the exchange was un-
pegged on Aug. 25 ; but by the end of
January the price had fallen to 148 s.
6d., and it remained within a few
pence of that until the week before the
outbreak of war, the fluctuations being
even smaller after the end of March, when
dollar exchange was virtually pegged
at 4.68-g-. On Aug. 25, when the New
York exchange was unpegged, the price
was 150 s. 6d., rising to 1595. by August
31 in sympathy with the depreciation of
sterling. Since the outbreak of the war
the market has been subject to defence
regulations, under which all gold deal-
ings must be made through official chan-
nels. The Bank of England’s buying price
was fixed at 168 s. on Sept. 5, and has
remained unchanged since that date.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
H. 1.5.: (1) Not one of the stronger (and
more profitable) life offices, but quite solvent.
(2) Same co. A fair spec, at present prices.
The co. is winning good tin, and though the
big dredge will have to be running before profits
will be available for divs. (about two years
off), prospects look reasonably g00d....
Curious: (1) In the case of the bank, the
figure quoted is arrived at by dividing total
liabilities to the public by the sum of capital,
reserves and the perpetual debenture stock.
(2) In calculating the “more or less liquid
surplus,” the “Wild Cat” usually takes the sum
of stocks, debtors, cash and readily-realisable
investments, less outside liabilities other than
tax provision. The surplus is nearly always
ascertainable from the figures presented....
F. : (1) No open market for the shares,
which are still a long-shot speculation; ask
the secretary if he can find a buyer.
Sawmilling and fibre-board production are
scheduled to commence “as early as possible.”
Outlay involved is put at £350,000. (2) Head
office is in Royal Bank Building, Vancouver,
Canada ; Sydney office, Shell House, Carrington-
street... .W.1.M.: Co. is in a class of business
particularly susceptible to trade fluctuations, and
the market, which has never put a high value
on the scrip, is apparently not expecting earn-
ings to hold as a result of war. Present price,
however, would appear to allow for some
cut in the div. rate. The fact that practi-
cally the whole of the funds is invested in
stocks and debtors is a decided weakness,
although liabilities are relatively moderate....
R.T.J. and E.T.D.: The “memorandum from
the trustees to the debenture-holders” in Aus-
tralian Forests is not satisfactory inasmuch as
a balance sheet of the co. does not form part
of it. Although a prospectus issued in 1925
or thereabouts said that debenture-holders re-
ceived a mortgage over the forests, pref. shares
would have priority only over ord. shareholders,
not over outside creditors. The circular does
not say that pref. shareholders will have voting
rights, and though two representatives are to
be appointed to the board, the number of ord.
share directors is not stated. Though the
amalgamation scheme may be, and probably is,
quite sound, it does not deserve other than
tentative discussion at the meeting to-day (28th)
until a much clearer view of the whole under-
taking is placed before debenture-holders
G. : (1) Lode has already been found by
diamond drill. (2) Perhaps within two or three
years. Depends on development from Zinc
Corp.’s shaft. Small quantities of ore are
already being extracted. (3) Shouldn’t be. Zinc
Corp.’s plant is to be used.


ł
WefeA
Toee
The full nourishment of finest malted
oats is concentrated in this favorite
health beverage.
Brewed by
TOOHEYS, LTD.,
STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY
AGENTS:
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.
A
■».W»X«W'>WV->X
H


Australia's Leading Financial Journal.
MONEY IN THE BANK—WOULD IT BE SAFER
IN SHARES OR PROPERTY?
FACTS, FIGURES AND COMMENT ON THE
MONTH’S FINANCIAL HAPPENINGS
March Issue on Sale Next Saturday.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty„ Ltd., 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States.
MELBOURNE’S
GREATEST
HOTEL
Stay at this great hotel in
the heart of Melbourne,
near shops and theatres,
convenient to trams and
trains. Room-only tariffs:
Singles, 5/- to 7/G;
Doubles, 8/- to 16/-.
VICTORIR
PRIME
215 Little Collins Street,
(Next Town Hall), Melb.
Business, rollery, Etc.
New Occidental
Things still go contrarily with this
N. S. Wales goldmine, the best in the
State. It has had mining trouble, labor
trouble, management trouble and capital
trouble—the New Cobar mine, a pur-
chase the wisdom of which has yet to be
proved, added 200,000 shares to the
register and a bulge to plant account —■
and in 1938 boardroom trouble started.
An uproarious meeting marked the
presentation of the 1938 annual report,
and knight Harry Moxham resigned from
the board, Eli D. Aboud taking his place.
At the meeting to-morrow (29th) the
seats of three retiring directors are being
contested. It is to be hoped that the
proceedings are more elevating than last
time, and of more profit to shareholders
in the long run.
At the adjourned annual meeting in
1939 a shareholders’ investigation com-
mittee was appointed. Only a “sum-
mary, conclusions and general recom-
mendations” was forwarded to share-
holders when the report was eventually
made.
For the year to Nov. 30, 1939, net
earnings of the Occidental and Cobar
mines have been disclosed by the board
at £187,611, up £59,415. The figure was
arrived at after capitalising £29,496 of
“advance development,” against £17,224
in the preceding term. Higher head
valpes of ore treated (below average
grade in Occidental and substantially
above it in Cobar) and better recoveries,
plus assistance from the higher gold
price, were almost entirely responsible
for the increase in profits. Ord. divs.
declared in respect of the term totalled
a shilling a share, against 6d. in the pre-
ceding term, and of the remaining profit
£82,220 is to be transferred to reserve
for mine depletion and depreciation,
which will then stand at £241,194. Last
balance day reserves of various kinds
totalling £282,174 had opposite them a
surplus of more or less liquids aggregat-
ing £135,779. Mining assets made up
the rest of the reserves and shareholders’
capital.
From the Occidental mine last term
97,524 tons of ore, head; value 7.99dwt.
(against 95,657 tons, 7.72dwt.), was cya-
nided for 34,3860 z. (recovery 88.27 p.c.,
against 84.93 p.c.), value £333,663, com-
pared with 31,3590 z., worth £276,641, in
1938. Tail values were 0.94dwt., against
I.l6dwt.
In New Cobar’s flotation plant 39,775
tons, head value B.sldwt. gold, 1.31 p.c.
copper (against 45,045 tons, 7.26dwt.
gold, 1.36 p.c. copper), was treated for
14,0280 z. gold and 515 tons copper, re-
covery 82.88 p.c. gold and 99.04 p.c.
copper (against 80.89 p.c. gold and 99.1
p.c. copper). Production in 1939 was
worth £167,986, against £146,244 in 1938.
The 84 p.c. extraction of gold mentioned
early in 1939 has not been maintained,
and “it is now evident that a cyanide
plant will be necessary to obtain a gold
recovery of 90 p.c. from this refractory
ore.”
A quick survey of the position at both
mines is obtained from this table:
New New
Occidental. Cobar.
Paid capital .. £303,750 in 1,012,500 ss.
ords. and 202,500 10 p.c.
redeemable ss. prefs.
Ore reserves—
Positive .. .. 376,960 tons. 174,300 tons.
(8.04dwt.) (7.84dwt.,
„ , ~ 0.89 p.c. copper.)
Probable .. 203,110 tons. 1 11/t
Indicated .. 383,000 tons. J 1N,320 tons.
Treatment, 1939 —
Ore .. .. 97,524 tons. 39,775 tons.
Gold recovery .. 34,3860 z. 14,0280 z.
Copper .. .. 515 tons.
Proceeds, ton .. £3/6/10.67* £4/0/10.91*
Working costs .. £l/16/3.70 £2/17/6.91
Working profit.. £l/10/6.97 £l/3/4.00
* Gold tax deducted.
Comparable mine figures for the pre-
ceding year are:—
New New
Occidental. Cobar.
Ore reserves—
Positive .. .. 337,401 tons. 93,855 tons.
(8.21dwt.) (7dwt., 1.3 p.c.
copper.)
Probable .. 377,000 tons. 155,000 tons.
Treatment, 1938 —
Ore .. .. 95,657 tons. 45,045 tons.
Gold recovery .. 31,3590 z. 13,2300 z.
Copper ... .. 609 tons.
Proceeds, ton .. £2/17/10 £3/4/11
Working costs .. £l/15/7 £2/10/7
Working profit.. £l/2/3 £O/14/4
The rise in working costs in both the
Occidental and Cobar mines was partly
due to machinery and electrical-gear
breakdowns, and to the fact that the
advantages of shrink-stoping are not yet
in full effect. The improvement in Occi-
dental’s recoveries did something towards
offsetting higher outgo, and the better
grade of ore and gold price helped in
lifting the working profit from 225. 3d. a
ton to 30s. 7d. a ton. Cobar’s surplus
rose from 14s. 4d. to 235. 4d.
Even when allowance has been made
for overhead (totalling £14,277 in both
sections last year) these mining profits
do not fully represent distributable net
revenue. Last year, for instance, a total
of £47,351 spent on development and
plant was capitalised, and the following
table shows that a considerable sum is
always tied up in stores and broken ore,
etc., which, however, are in a category
different from mine outlay—they are
eventually realised on:
1938. 1939.
Mine property .. .. £117,814 £117,814
Development .. .. 33,956 63,452
Plant, etc 276,104 293,959
Broken ore and bullion 49,890 71,780
Stores 39,223 54,849
Debtors, cash, etc. .. 11,888 69,318
£528,875 £671,172
Liabilities .. .. 22,445 29,793
Mine valuation, plus
surplus liquids .. £506,430 £641,379
A final div. paid on Dec. 13 absorbed
£30,375 of the cash balance.
Ore reserves in Occidental totalled
580,070 tons positive and probable last
balance day, value of the positive being
a shade over Bdwt. There was also
383,000 tons of “indicated” ore. Assuming
“indicated” ore means something, develop-
ment has more than kept pace with ex-
traction. Cobar’s positive ore (174,300
tons, 7.B4dwt. gold, 0.89 p.c. copper)
shows an increase both in grade and
quantity, but probable ore is down.
Additional revenue is expected to be
derived in the future from cyanidation
of old Occidental slimes and Cobar flota-
tion residues. Taking working profits at
somewhere near last year’s figure—say
30s. Occidental, 20s. Cobar (the latter
treated ore above the mine’s average
grade), and assuming that probable ore
in Occidental’s case is of a grade equai
to proved reserves, then proved and prob-
able Occidental ore, plus proved Cobar
ore, indicates a working surplus of about
£1,200,000 —perhaps £1,000,000 net. At
12s. for the co.’s 1,012,500 ss. ords. and
7s. for the 202,500 ss. 10 p.c. prefs.,
market valuation of the undertaking is
about £680,000. In this case the co.’s
div. and other history damps the market’s
usual enthusiasm for profit assumed to
be in sight.
There is talk of retaining the services
of Professor Copland as Federal Prices
Commissioner if arrangements can be
made with the Victorian Savings Bank
to release him from his proposed com-
missionership, which is scheduled to start
in March. Copland appears to have
done good work in a difficult job ; the
rising cost of living has been checked
since war broke out. Copland has been
closely associated with the Australian
economy for over 10 years, and that
experience in itself is valuable, even if
there is not always unanimous agree-
ment on the professor’s economics.
* * * *
It had to happen, of course. “It is
expected” in Canberra that when Par-
liament resumes in April Westralian
members will criticise the Federal gold
tax on the ground that the price of
copper has been “let out” from
£63 17s. 6d. to £76 a ton, £4 of the
increase to be reserved for development
of coppermining. The Bulletin weeks
ago pointed out that it would be diffi-
cult for the Prices Commissioner to use
any discretion among the various mining
industries owing to the danger of estab-
lishing a precedent, but before there was
any outcry against price-fixing the
peculiar circumstances of copper and
tin were mentioned here. These circum-
stances have forced the commissioner
to take a risk about precedents. So
far as gold-producers are concerned,
there are no Australian copper or tin
shares in the market priced at anywhere
near the premium of Lake View and
Star, North Kal., Great Boulder, Sons
of Gwalia or Norseman. There has
been no protest from silver-lead pro-
ducers, though Mt. Isa (Q.), on the same
price basis as the richer Barrier mines,
is in comparatively poor shape.
* H= * *
As often happens after much specu-
lation beforehand, Mt. Lyell shares gave
only a half-hearted response to the in-
crease in the permissible charge for
tralian copper. The co. will have an
extra £8 a ton electrolytic with which
to pay increased costs and add to profits
—a total of about £lOO,OOO from an
“What Would you offer for my
reminiscences?”
output of 13,000 tons a year—and there
will be a further £4 a ton to be applied
towards increasing the production of
copper. Really, the whole £l2 extra is in
the nature of income, since the co.,
year in and year out, is active in de-
veloping its Queenstown ore-bodies, and
such expenditure of money and labor
has usually been fully repaid by yields
therefrom. Miners will now be entitled
to an extra 3s. a week at Lyell, but, not-
withstanding this, profits should permit
a 10 p.c. div. this term if the co. chooses
to pay it. Last year the distribution was
1\ p.c. At 335. a share the return
would be 6.1 p.c. on a div. rate of 2s.
a year. Until such a div. is clearly in
sight the scrip isn’t worth much more.
H= H= H= H=
British Board of Trade inquiries into
the Great Boulder group are not yet
complete. There is a possibility that the
investigation will be extended to Aus-
tralia, so that publication of a report of
the findings is still many months off.
* * * *
Australian Paper Manufacturers, work-
ing co. for Australasian Paper and Cum-
berland Paper—the capital reorganisation
is still awaited —reports that since the
outbreak of war all mills have operated
to full capacity. The Maryvale pulp mill
started working during the last half of
1939, and eucalypt hardwood pulp “is
being regularly and satisfactorily used in
the co.’s regular range of manufactures. ’
* * * *
Southern Portland Cement, in the
Howard Smith group, earned £54,097 for
the year to Oct. 31 last, and handed out
£52,758 of it in an all-round 6.2 p.c. div.
to both pref. and ord. shareholders. In
the preceding term the ord. div. was
2.5 p.c.
* * * *
Holeproof Hosiery’s final ord. div.
made 10 p.c. for the year—an unchanged
rate that does credit to the management.
As anticipated here the men’s hosiery
section helped to cushion the effect of
dearer raw materials in the silk-stocking
end of the business, and ord. share-
holders will collect Is. a share on
March 11. Profit (£27,887) was a record.
The scrip is at 255.
* * * *
About the middle of last week a de-
cidedly weaker tone became evident in
both the investment and mining sections
of the Australian sharemarkets. Divs.
recently declared by many concerns have
been lower. B.H.P. slipped back to
475. 9d., A.C.I. to 365. 9d., British
Tobacco to 48s. 6d., G. J. Coles to 725.,
Huddart Parker to 575. 6d., Australasian
Paper to 345. 9d., Cumberland to 325. 9d.,
Kandos Cement to 28s. and Port Jack-
son Steam to 11s. 9d. The
Sydney index of industrial
shares fell to 132.53 on Wed-
nesday, as against a “high” of
136.54 on Jan. 16. The general
index of shares declined to 126,
comparing with 129.73 on Jan.
11. There was a slight recovery
toward the week-end.
Still widely out of step with
Australian Cement scrip in
Melbourne, Kandos shares at
28s. in Sydney gave a yield of
slightly under 7.2 p.c., against
just over 6.4 p.c. from Aus-
tralian Cement. With the
Melbourne co.’s £1 shares at
395., Kandos 16s. scrip is
worth 31s. 6d. on a yield basis,
more on an assets valuation.
Melbourne Steamship’s annual meeting
was interesting to all holders of scrip in
inter-State steamship cos. Since the out-
break of war the Melbourne co. had
found cargoes well up to usual quanti-
ties, helped to some extent, perhaps, by
industrial expansion. At the beginning
of the war there had been a sharp drop
in passengers carried, but that aspect is
now improving. Chairman D. York
Syme is not in favor of withdrawing
ships from the Australian trade in order
to carry cargoes to other parts of the
world. He said that coastal vessels were
fully employed just now, carrying neces-
sary goods, with only a small reserve
tonnage for contingencies. Any with-
drawal of ships from the coast wouid
cause dislocation.
• • • • • *
Wages in inter-State vessels have gone
up from 10 p.c. to p.c. because of
war risk. The rise dates back to Dec.
15. A rise of 10 p.c. on Aug. 31 freight
rates has been permitted by the Prices
Commissioner.
* * * *
Britain last week made its first call on
privately-held dollar securities. British
holders in 60 named U.S.A. stocks are
compelled, under the order, to sell to the
U.K. Treasury at Wall-street prices on
Feb. 17, exchange rate at 4.03 dollars
to the £.
* * * H:
Though the British Ministry of Food
has released butter to the extent of 65 p.c.
of ordinary consumption, demand has
been below 50 p.c. Higher prices for
butter and a general increase in living
costs have apparently turned the public
to margarine, selling at Bd. sterling a
pound in England. This situation may
affect the price of Australian butter when
the contract with Britain comes up for
review.


ARE YOUR SAVINGS
EARNING A FAIR
RATE OF
INTEREST
?
If not you owe It to yourself and
family to enquire about
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UHIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees :: Uriion
Insurance Society of Canton ltd,
Writefor a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P.0.. SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 5294
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £28,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,200,000.
Arthur Eedy, 0.8. E.,
Managing Director.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Carlton Brewery (Melbourne) shares
have been among the steadier issues over
the last couple of years—very tempera-
mental years —the width of quotations
being within a range of less than 10s.,
which isn’t bad for a stock in the 605.-
70s. class. After having been up to 70s.
recently, the scrip was on offer at 675. 3d.
last week, yielding £4 9s. per cent, on
the current 15 p.c. div. basis. Carlton’s
declared profits for the year to Dec. 31,
including those of its wholly-owned sub-
sidiary Victoria Brewery, were £137,933,
up £1433 on the preceding year. The
15 p.c. div. called for £122,500, leaving
£15,433 (1.9 p.c. on capital) for reserves.
By virtue of the co.’s 32 p.c. interest in
Carlton and United Brewery, which dur-
ing the term to June 30, 1939, showed a
profit £35,224 higher at £528,892, there
was an equity in Carlton and United’s
undistributed earnings equal to a further
6.4 p.c. on Carlton’s capital, making un-
distributed profits 8.3 p.c. on capital alto-
gether, compared with 6.7 p.c. in the
preceding term. There is also some un-
distributed profit in C.U.B. subsidiaries
not taken into account in these figures.
A hitherto-undisclosed property and in-
vestments reserve of £972,000 came to
light in the co.’s remodelled accounts
last year.
Carlton is the most active of the C.U.B.
group of holding cos., followed by Mel-
bourne Co-op.; both cos. give approxi-
mately the same yield (£4 9s. per cent.)
at 675. 3d. and 595. 6d. respectively.
Foster shares, which over the past nine
months have strengthened in relation to
Carlton —in June, 1939, the yields were
Carlton £4 7s. per cent., Melb. Co-op.
£4 10s. p.c., Castlemaine £4 17s. p.c.,
Foster £5 2s. p.c. and Shamrock £4 18s.
p.c.—gave a return of £5 per cent, at
last week’s quote of 525., ex div. In B.
21/6/’39 this scrip was pointed out as
the pick of the C.U.B. bunch for purely
holding purposes, though sometimes hard
to buy or sell*; it is the one stock to
show market appreciation since then.
Castlemaine Brewery has slipped back
most, from 31s. to 295. cum div. (9d.);
the yield was £5 ss. per cent, at last
week’s quote, and on the basis of imme-
diate and potential yields, taking C.U.B. s
undistributed earnings into account, this
is the best purchase offering in the group
at the moment.
Coming back to Carlton, a historical
note has a bearing on present-day
finances. Carlton took over two dis-
tressed Melbourne breweries after the
crash of the ’nineties, selling out (for
shares) to Carlton and United in 1907.
By arrangement with creditors divs. were
limited to 3 p.c. until the accounts were
balanced, and that is how things were
up to 1922. But the market for C.U.B.
products expanded, and with it earning
power. Old debts were cleared off by
1923, and next year Carlton’s share-
register was multiplied 17 times by the
capitalisation of reserves. There were
some generous cash distributions about
this time also ; divs. lifted, and from 1926
to 1929 (inclusive) 14 p.c. p.a. went out.
In slump-time nothing less than 8 p.c.
was paid.
From the ’nineties onward share-
holders in the Carlton holding co. haven’t
had to put their hands in their pockets
for more than £20,000. Since 1924
C.U.B.’s capital has grown from
£1,100,000 to £2,925,000 by cash and
bonus issues, but Carlton shareholders
have maintained their equity without
having to put up more cash themselves.
In other words, Carlton’s interest in the
growing earning power and assets of
C.U.B. is not spread over any more
shares than in 1924.
* * *
Bonus shares issued at the end of
1935 by Castlemaine Brewery, Foster
Brewing and Shamrock Brewing cos., all
shareholders in Carlton and United
Breweries, have been held by the Full
High Court to be non-taxable. The
appeal of R. W. Dickson, a Melbourne
solicitor, against assessment on the bonus
scrip relied on the provision that divi-
dends paid out of profits arising from
the revalution of assets not intended for
resale were non-taxable. Costs of two
appeals are to be borne by the Taxa-
tion Department.
* * * *
Though Emperor (Fiji) thinks it can
mill its sulphide ore at 3s. a ton more
than the oxides (it is debatable whether
it can, and whether it can maintain its
throughput by reason of the more com-
plicated fine-grinding and flotation pro-
cess), little has been said so far about
mining costs in the lower levels. The
oxidised ore has lent itself to open-
cutting, but later on, when the deeper
ore is tackled, it will have to be
extracted by stoping, with higher costs
inevitable. It costs Loloma 14s. lid. a
ton for mining from shafts and drives ;
Emperor’s opencutting costs last term
were 4s. lid. a ton. Emperor’s mining
costs may later on move up to about
midway between its present costs and
those of Loloma.
* * * *
Wattle Gully, Chewton (Vic.), showed
a profit of £35,901 for the half-year to
“Who's strikin' a match? It's a cigarette-lighter, you mug.”
Dec. 31, which compares with £18,157
in the preceding six months. In the last
half 15,023 tons yielded 5558oz. gold,
which, after paying costs, provided share-
holders with six divs. of a shilling each
and a bonus of 3s. Some of the shares
are paid to 20s., others to 9s. 3d. All
participate equally. The contribs. are at
80s. each in the market.
* * * *
The cost of newsprint is going to bear
heavily on newspapers depending on
their bulk to attract sales. Since the
outbreak of war there has been a lift
of at least £5 a ton in the price of paper,
and a big newspaper might use 15,000 or
20,000 tons a year. In Sydney the
dailies have raised their prices from
Hd. to 2d., and in the case of
the “Sun” this may offset newsprint
increases up to the present. But adver-
tising revenue and future prices of news-
print are uncertain. Prices for the co.’s
ords. had fallen to under 16s. last week.
Consolidated Press prefs. sold down to
16s. This co. publishes the “Women’s
Weekly” and the “Telegraph.” The
daily has dropped several pages
since war broke out, and the
“Weekly” must be feeling the weight of
its free novel —it, too, has dropped
some pages. The co.’s new “Sunday
Telegraph” couldn’t have kicked off at a
worse time, either ; it is trying to match
the “Sunday Sun” in bulk, and is eating
up any reserves of pre-war newsprint
that Consolidated may possess. “Truth”
got in well ahead with its lift to 4d. a
copy, and the sharemarket in any case
has marked this co.’s scrip down heavily
already. The pref. shares are well pro-
tected among newspaper stocks, espe-
cially the first prefs.
* * * #
Commonwealth wheat yield for the
1939-40 season was 15.57 bushels an
acre, compared with an average of 11.81
bushels oyer the preceding 10 years.
* * * *
“A.L.”: No greater contrast could
have been shown by two companies than
the meeting of the Queensland Meat
Export Cos. and that of the Australian
Stock Breeders’ Cos. The latter became
an offshoot of the former (original com-
pany) in 1915. The meetings on Feb. 9
followed within a quarter of an hour
of each other. The shareholders in
many cases were the same. The happy
ones were the Q.M.E. Co.’s scripholders.
They took only a few minutes to pass
the report and balance sheet, to authorise
a dividend of 5 p.c. and a bonus of
2 p.c., and, incidentally, to vote the direc-
tors the fairly substantial remuneration
of £IOBO. The Stock Breeders’ Co.’s
shareholders, on the other hand, were
faced with a revived proposition to cancel
arrears of preference divs., with a pro-
vision that ordinary shares be written
down to not less than 2s. a share. No
agreement could be reached.
* * * *
“W.C.T.”: The so-called Great War
hadn’t got out of its preliminaries before
the sawmillers of W.A. (ever dependent
on exports for the bulk of their trade)
found themselves forced to close down
the majority of mills and throw a couple
of thousand workers on to the unem-
ployed market, driving a harassed Gov-
ernment to provide them with susten-
ance. The new Great War is having a
like effect. The requisitioning of ships
by the authorities is threatening the in-
dustry again, charters being most diffi-
cult to obtain. To obviate some of the
worst features of the crisis, the sawmillers
recently asked the union, under a pro-
vision of their award, to agree to a part-
time arrangement. A decided negative
was the answer.
Victory Before Peace.
“P.P.”: It is natural that some people
should begin to talk about terms of the
next peace treaty before the war is out of
its infancy. But too much talk about what
is going to happen after the war is likely
to get our minds off the war effort, and
that would be disastrous.
Our first job is to win. the war, and
we should first concentrate on the things
that will make us stronger in the con-
flict. Australia has not used the months
since war began to cast aside all the frip-
pery of a wasteful and extravagant sys-
tem of government. When we entered
the 1914-18 war taxation was at the
rate of £4 14s. per head of popu-
lation ; today it is £lB per head. Take
out the non-producers, and the burden
on adults in productive work is much
more than £lB each per year. And,
although it is proposed to add the cost
of the war to the £lB, there is not the
field for increased taxation there was in
1914.
Politicians have not yet suggested that
taxation should be reduced by Govern-
ment economies to £l2 a year before
beginning to pile on additional burdens.
Australia cannot afford seven Parlia-
ments and a war. One Parliament is
enough for one people.
Unnecessary Jobs.
“E.”: It seems the practice now for a
Government to shirk the responsibility of
dealing with matters by appointing a com-
mission or board with a highly-paid chair-
man, several other members, secretaries,
under-secretaries, chief clerks and all the
others that go with them. In many in-
stances the work done by these boards
and commissions could be done just as
efficiently by the ordinary Government
departments.
One case in point is the Main Roads
Board. Surely this work could be done
under the supervision of the Public
Works Department. This would do away
with the necessity for the highly-paid
chairman and other officials. Roads
would still be built and maintained if
this Main Roads Board were abolished
overnight.
Every new board, commission or de-
partment means extra highly-paid offi-
cials. A few years ago one Chief Rail-
way Commissioner and two assistants
were considered sufficient to administer
the workings of railways and tramways.
When buses were taken over by the Gov-
ernment these commissioners could easily
have included them in their sphere, but
another board had to be established.
All transport could be administered by
one board of commissioners, and thou-
sands of pounds in salaries could be
saved. The same applies to other ser-
vices which have been split up over a
i number of boards and commissions.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
UTOPIAN WAR AIMS.
[In recent cables Mr. Herbert Morrison, M.P.
(Lab.), came out as yet another war-aimer bent on
imposing on another nation the form of government
he personally favors. Mr. Morrison’s choice is “an
enlightened democratic regime.” Mr. Chamberlain and
Lord Halifax in Britain and Mr. Menzies in Australia
have all insisted that deciding Germany’s form of
government is no part of British war policy. In the
article here condensed the editor of the “Nineteenth
Century” roasts the Morrison brand of war-aimers,
though his own recipe, implicit in his argument, for
disposing of the German problem might also be ques-
tioned.]
It is regrettable that persons of some influence
should use the opportunity presented by the Second
World War to publicise Utopian projects of their own
as though they could become suitable war aims for the
nation—projects that are nothing other than fashion-
able fantasies which, at no time related to any recog-
nisable reality, are in almost inconceivable incon-
gruity with the demands of the present hour.
All contemporary projects for the establishment
of everlasting peace and concord resemble those
schemes and formulae for solving the problem of per-
petual motion, or for creating life in test-tubes, that
fascinated pseudo-scientists a generation ago. It is no
mere chance that the principal adumbrator of the a
priori impossible, the chief pseudo-scientific projector
of that day, should also be the chief pseudo-political
projector of our day, namely H. G. Wells.
Mr. Attlee and Sir Walter Layton demand that
the liberty of the individual and the “rights of national,
racial and religious minorities” must be respected in
all countries. This is a prodigious imperative, for it
means that western liberalism shall be imposed upon
powerful nations who have no interest in western
liberalism, who do not want it, and do not understand
it. To inflict it upon them as a permanent political
theory and practice is to create a permanent casus belli
in Europe. They would also be condemned to perma-
nent internal crises, for a State adopting political insti-
tutions alien to the character of its subjects will always
swing from despotism to anarchy and from anarchy
to despotism (old Polish and new German history are
as conclusive on this point as history can be conclusive
about anything). What Mr. Attlee and Sir Walter pro-
pose is a form of “totalitarian” —and essentially
illiberal —regimentation for all Europe. And, indeed,
for the whole world; for although their scheming is
intended fc5r Europe, they also hanker for conquests
greater than the conquests dreamt of by Alexander,
Csesar, Napoleon and even Hitler, namely a despotism
that would impose liberal politics and socialist eco-
nomics upon all the nations of the globe (Mr. Attlee
modestly demands “bold economic planning on a
world scale”).
Mr. Attlee and Sir Walter, although opposed to
a “dictated peace,” would not only dictate to every
Power its internal political order, they would also dic-
tate the international order which the European Powers
must accept. And woe to them if they refuse! Mr.
Attiee becomes almost Biblical. “Europe,” he declares,
“must either federate or perish.” It is as though the
God of Wrath had spoken.
Mr. Attlee, like Sir Walter, demands “an inter-
national force” of “overwhelming strength” for the
establishment and maintenance of their “totalitarian”
regimentation. He regards “an international air force”
as “the most appropriate instrument.” As all the
nations are to be disarmed, there would be no forti-
fications or munition works for the international air
force to bomb. It would, therefore, have to exercise
its “overwhelming strength” by bombing open towns —
in fact, it would do what the Germans did in Poland,
because Poland was inadequately prepared, and have
so far failed to do in Britain because we are much
better prepared.
There is some disagreement between Mr. Attlee
and Sir Walter in the matter of armaments. The
former demands disarmament, the latter such a limi-
tation of armaments as would remove “the existing
disparity”—in other words, the very thing we are
striving to achieve by an unprecedented national effort,
for without an ever-greater disparity between our
armaments and Germany’s we cannot hope to win the
war. And unless this “disparity” is permanent, we
shall have lost the peace, however signal our victory
in the field will have been. The difference between Mr.
Attlee’s and Sir Walter’s proposals with regard to
armaments is not fundamental. Both proposals would,
if carried out, have the same consequences, namely
the German domination of Europe. Germany began
her present attempt at domination by demanding pre-
cisely what Mr. Attlee and Sir Walter would now con-
cede —“equality” (“ Gleichberechtigung ”) in arma-
ments. Germany’s demand was granted by the
Western Powers —the Second World War is the result.
Mr. Attlee and Sir Walter would grant it a second
time —and so bring on the Third World War.
“Equality,” whether achieved by general disarma-
ment or by the limitation of armaments, will always
make Germany master of Europe, because only by
“inequality” or “disparity” in armaments is it possible
to counteract the immense advantage which Germany
enjoys by virtue of her central position, her internal
lines, her industrial organisation and her vast resources
in men and material.
Mr. Attlee would allow each country no more
than the armed forces needed “for the preservation of
internal order.” These armed forces would be big-
gest where internal order is most menaced, that is to
say, where there is least freedom. The Russian G.P.U.
and the German S.S. exist solely “for the preservation
of internal order.” Compared with the police of other
countries, these terrorist organisations are powerful
armies, equipped with machine-guns, artillery, tanks
and bombers. Mr. Attlee’s proposals would, if carried
out, automatically make Russia and Germany by far
the greatest military Powers in Europe.
Mr. Attlee and Sir Walter would establish an
international authority” (they both use the same ex-
pression) which would be the central executive in a
federal Europe. This “authority” would be a sort
of European League of Nations endowed with coercive
powers. It would dispatch the “international air force
against recalcitrant States or impose economic “ sanc "
tions.” Such a League would always be a packed
jury. And as Germany is the strongest Power on the
Continent, and as she has more small neighbors whom
she can bully into compliance than any other Power,
she would do the packing. She would also enjoy the
support of Russia and of Italy; she would be master
of the new League, and it is she who would, in the
end, command the “international air force.”
The Attlee-Layton proposals would, therefore, if
carried out, make Germany the real victor in the
Second World War, even if she were defeated in the
field. Mr. Attlee, Sir Walter and their followers and
supporters do not consciously desire this end. What they
do want is that there be no ultimate victory, not even
the victory of the Allied Powers. They are prepared
to see these Powers win the war, but they are deter-
mined that they shall not win the peace. What they
do not realise is that there is no alternative to an
Allied victory, in the war, as in the peace, except a
German victory.
Ward Price Interviews the Pope.
[Condensed from G. Ward Price’s report in London
“Daily Mail.” It should be noted that the interpreta-
tions of British and French peace aims and also of the
Pope’s opinion, with which the report opens, are Mr.
Ward Price’s interpretations.]
The British and French Governments have made
it clear that they can accept no peace settlement which
—“Daily Sketch,” London.
WAITING FOR SPRING?
does not right the wrongs done to Poland and Czecho-
slovakia.
The Pope maintains the same opinion. In his
Christmas speech to the College of Cardinals, Pius
XII. defined the “fundamental requisites of a just and
honorable peace” as follows:
(1) The right of all nations, great and small, to
independence.
(2) The reparation of infringements of this right.
(3) Disarmament, material and spiritual.
(4) Guarantees for the respect of conventions.
(5) Just revision of treaties.
It was with the hope of learning more about the
beneficent intentions behind the Pope’s words that I
came to Rome and solicited the private audience with
his Holiness to which I have just been admitted.
I said that I had asked for the honor of an audi-
ence because the time was getting short before the
beginning of the great carnage that might be expected
in Europe. “The recent pronouncements of your
Holiness,” I said, “have led some people to hope that
it may be possible for the Holy See to undertake some
action in the direction of conciliation.”
“That would be very difficult at the present time,”
was the Pope’s reply, “though I pray most earnestly
that peace may soon be restored to the world. And
I give a special blessing to England,” he added. He
repeated the words with emphasis—“A special bless-
ing to England.”
The formal part of my audience was over, but
this was not the only visit I have paid to the Vatican
in the past two weeks. As a result of the contacts
which I have had there, I am able to give the follow-
ing statement as an expression of the present attitude
of the Pope towards the possibility of future media-
tion. It is derived from the most authoritative and
informed quarters of the Holy See.
“The Pope,” I am informed, “is profoundly moved
by the ravages that have taken place in Poland and
Finland, and by the daily disasters at sea, which
have brought sorrow to thousands of human being .
He is continually ready to avail himself of any P -
pitious moment that may occur for the purpose
undertaking an action of conciliation based up
peace combined with justice.
“At the present time the utmost that ®
done would be to make a quite preliminary ettort t
reach, at any rate, that state of spiritual an “. l^ ) prit
calm in which alone a just and enduring settlement
can be reached. The experience of the last war
showed clearly the danger of neglecting to prepare t e
minds of the peoples, during the war itself, tor in
peace which was to follow.
“In contemplating this possible development or
a future which may be remote, the Pope feels that
at the next international conference the unfortunate
error made by both sides in 1919 of failing to aval j
themselves of the good offices of the Holy See should
not be repeated. His hope that an effort of concilia-
tion may prove possible has definitely been strength-
ened by the action of President Roosevelt in laying
the basis of a close collaboration with the atl< r an
nominating a personal envoy to the Pope, Mr. Myron
Taylor. This is a conspicuous event in pontifical his-
tory, for since 1867 the United States been
diplomatically represented at the Holy See.”
The foregoing statement may be taken as defining
the position adopted by Pope Pius XII. towards the
question of mediation. It does not seem to him to be
at present a practical possibility, but he is ready to
take up that task if an opportunity should arise.
In his reply to President Roosevelt’s Christmas
message, published in Washington on January 20, the
Pope again defined how he would act in the cir-
cumstances.
“Peace,” he says, “must be dictated by the prin-
ciples of justice and reasonableness. The peace must
be fair for all, effective and based upon mutual con-
fidence.”
I have had unusual facilities during my stay in
Rome for learning the attitude of several of the lead-
ing figures of the Vatican City towards the war. But
what part the Vatican may play in the future cannot
yet be descried. •
Considering the war situation from the angle of
a non-belligerent country, it may be said that the
heads of the three chief neutral forces in the world all
desire to make their voices heard at any future peace
conference. They are the Pope, the head of the
Italian Government and the President of the United
States. If they acted independently it is probable
that their intervention might not be welcomed by the
countries now at war. These naturally believe that
they have a better conception than any neutral of
their own rights and interests. If the three great
neutrals, however, were to come to an agreement
among themselves before asserting their desire for a
share in the peace settlement, their influence would
obviously be increased.
Among them the Pope has been the first to make
clear his readiness to undertake the task of conciliating
the warring nations on the essential basis of justice
and reparation as well as peace.
Doubts Around the Baltic.
{From an article by a Riga correspondent in London
“Economist.”)
The spectacle which the Red Army is making of
itself in Finland has had no visible effect on the
“amicable” relations which have existed between the
Soviet Union and the Baltic States since the Foreign
Ministers of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania were sum-
moned to Moscow last September and October to
sign on the dotted line. The controlled press in all
three countries is careful to publish nothing that
might offend Soviet susceptibilities, and it might be
supposed from the newspapers and the wireless that
the sympathies of the Baltic States are wholly on the
side of the Bolsheviks.
The same people who write songs of praise about
the “inspired” leadership of Stalin are not ashamed
to admit—off duty —that “every night we pray for
the success of the gallant Finns.” There is no great
confidence in the Baltic States yet that Germany will
be defeated, and much more discretion is observed
in discussing the Nazis than in the case of the Bol-
sheviks. Pro-Nazi sentiments have not entirely dis-
appeared with the exodus of German Balts from the
Northern States.
No matter what course the Soviet-Finnish war
takes, it seems now most unlikely that any action
will be attempted by Estonia, Latvia or Lithuania to
rid their territories of Soviet garrisons. The military
agreements of last September and October are being
—outwardly at least —observed on all sides, and the
Baltic States show no desire to call the wolf out of
the woods. In the final analysis, of course, their fates
will be decided by the Allied-German war and not by
the outcome of the Red Army’s attack on Finland —
even if the final outcome of that be the “liquidation”
of those in the Kremlin who have themselves been re-
sponsible for so much “liquidation” in the last 20
years. Their turn, in any case, will come in due
course. That is the history of Russia.
The presence of Soviet garrisons, moreover, is
proving much less obnoxious to the Governments and
peoples of the Baltic States than was at first feared.
Instead of the Estonians, Latvians and Lithuanians
flirting with Bolshevism, there is good reason for
believing that it is the occupying forces which are
undergoing conversion. The sight of unlimited sup-
plies of good, fresh food in the shops ; footwear and
clothing, obtainable without difficulty at reasonable
prices; and the general well-being of the people —
these are in such striking contrast with conditions in
Russia that even the most ardent disciples of Lenin


and Marx must be wondering what has gone wrong
with The Great Experiment.
Soviet soldiers on leave visit towns and spend
their money in the shops. For the first time in their
lives most of them are now seeing and buying such
things as wrist-watches, fountain-pens, cigarette cases
and artificial silk undergarments for their womenfolk.
While responsible leaders in the Baltic countries
may be hoping that Stalinism will meet its doom in
Finland, they are content to sit tight and await events.
They realise that a revolution in Russia would have
terrific repercussions. The utmost uncertainty, for
instance, is felt over the effect of a Bolshevik col-
lapse on Germany. Most people who try to look a
little beyond the immediate future are now asking
themselves, if things continue to go badly for the
Bolsheviks in Finland —-and perhaps elsewhere before
long —will the Nazis try to save the present rulers of
Russia, or are they already secretly conniving—say,
with Italy and Hungary— at the destruction of Stalin-
ism with the intention of seizing the Ukraine in the
chaos which would follow a Bolshevik collapse? The
only road which the German Army would ever think
of taking to the Ukraine lies through Breslau, Cracow
and Lemberg, and from the positions this army now
occupies it could reach the heart of the Ukraine in a
few days—after a Bolshevik collapse.
With Germany now one vast armed camp, in
possession of the greater part of Poland and all
Czechoslovakia, and secure behind the West Wall
from Allied attack, the occupation of the Ukraine and
another Brest-Litovsk peace —this time with an anti-
Bolshevik Russia —must already be making a strong
appeal to Nazi imagination. The entry of the United
States on a large scale in the last war eventually
forced the Germans to risk and lose in the West
everything they had gained in the East. It might be
very different this time.
Italy’s Plans.
(From an article by Signor Gayda in London “Sunday
Dispatch.”)
Italy’s conception of a better Europe is very
simple. Italy does not seek in Europe or the world
any particular privilege for herself. She is against
all systems which give obvious or hidden supremacy
to one nation or nations.
Italy has still some vital problems to be settled,
problems which were aggravated instead of solved by
the Versailles system. The solution of these problems,
according to Italian needs, cannot be further delayed.
Italy maintains that her needs can find their solu-
tion in a more balanced, sane and just Europe than
that which came out of the Versailles workshop. How
this Europe will be formed it is still difficult to fore-
see. Certainly Italy does not intend to be absent
from its formation. To this end Italy follows the
new European conflict and the course of events not as
a neutral Power but merely as a Power not today
directly interested, but ready for any eventuality of
peace or war.
Italy would like to hope that to reach the new
European order the extension of the war would not
be necessary. Her policy hitherto has been to limit
the conflict, and, in fact, she has been able to suc-
ceed, notwithstanding the threatening clouds which
first appeared in the Balkans and the Mediterranean.
But only the course of events and the development of
political and military plans of the belligerents will
show whether the war can be confined to its present
sphere.
Soviet Russia’s advance into Danubian Europe
and her pressure on Balkan Europe bring, in the
meantime, new problems. Does a Communist menace,
such as many foreign newspapers would like to make
out, really exist in South-east Europe? Italy cannot
be indifferent to this contingency. In fact, Italy’s
interests are permanent and vital, as she borders on
Danubian Europe and has today become the greatest
Balkan Power of Europe.
Italy is not prompted by any aggressive plans
against Soviet Russia. Italy intends only to prevent
the expansion of Communism and its consequent
threat to civilisation, order and sanity in Europe.
Italy’s policy in regard to Communism is in sub-
stance an integral part of her policy of a sane and
civil European order. Soviet Russia may remain
tranquil inside her own borders, and Italy will have
no objection. But if Communism should attempt to
advance towards zones of vital interest to Europe and
Italy, Fascism will know how to reply.
(From a London “Daily Mail” report by G. Ward
Price, in Rome.)
The first thing to be noticed in Italy is the uni-
versal relief that the country has not been drawn into
war. The word “Axis” disappeared from the Italian
press on the day war began. The Axis had con-
tained two conditions —that there should be no
European war for three years; that Germany would
consult with Italy before taking any action which
might bring it about. Germany broke both.
The fact that Italy was thus automatically
released from her bond is a boon which the Italian
people profoundly appreciate. They do not want to
fight on either side.
The war has brought some hardship to Italy, but
nothing serious so far. Two meatless days a week
and no coffee for civilians are minor inconveniences
compared with the sacrifices that war would have
entailed. Food of other kinds is plentiful. Musso-
lini is trying to make Italians eat more fish.
The cost of living has gone up about 25 per cent.
The tourist industry, mainly centred at Rome and
Florence, is dead, with resultant distress to the large
class that it employs and to the small shopkeepers who
depend on them. The north of Italy is booming with
war contracts. Boots and uniforms for the Allied
armies are being made there. The motor and ship-
building industries are busy with orders from Allied
sources.
I find the memory of sanctions still strong among
all classes of the Italian people. Most Britons regard
that chapter as belonging to past history. The Italians,
however, will forget the bitter taste of sanctions only
when their palate has been sweetened by substantial
concessions to their national interests. Those interests
they define as the need of greater Italian freedom
and security in the Mediterranean ; better access to
raw materials, and an outlet for their surplus popu-
lation.
In this war Italy is following a policy entirely
dictated by her own interests, which is a natural
state of affairs. Britain, France and Italy, the three
Great Powers whose interests are in such close con-
tact in the Mediterranean, have hitherto succeeded,
by the all-round exercise of forbearance and intelli-
gence, in getting on together satisfactorily even under
the difficult strains that war imposes.
France and Spain Make a Deal.
(Bowling over another row of false prophecies in
the process, France and Spain last month concluded
their trade agreement. Some of the more remarkable
details are here condensed from Manchester “Guar-
dian.”]
The Spanish Government is praised in the French
press for having honored the pledges made by General
Franco during the civil war that he would safeguard
the sovereignty and independence of Spain. The
trade agreement, valid until the end of this year, pro-
vides for French exports composed chiefly of
machinery and manufactured goods which Germany
will not need, or foodstuffs which Spain herself needs
very badly. The list of Spanish exports include
several items of the greatest importance to France’s
war industry—notably 431,000 tons of pyrites, 672
tons of mercury, 365,000 tons of iron, between 7000
and 10,000 tons of lead, 21,000 tons of nitrous sul-
phate of zinc, and quantities of wolfram and bismuth.
Further, Spain is to export to France one and a
half million quintals of oranges, tangerines and
-“La Derniere Heure.” Brussels.
BELGIAN VIEW OF NEUTRALS’ DILEMMA.
“I told you not to play soldiers!”
“I wasn’t playing. I was the neutral!”
lemons, 6,000,000 francs’ worth of nuts and almonds,
fruit pulp worth 10,000,000 francs ; cork, sherry and
sardines ; and 40,000,000 francs’ worth of sheepskins.
Although the total exports are not equal to the
Spanish exports to France in 1934, it is noteworthy
that the figures for pyrites are three times higher than
during that year.
The principal items in the list of French exports
are 1,750,000 quintals of wheat and 350,000 quintals
of rice. It is claimed that the French stocks are suf-
ficiently large to allow this. Another important food
item is 30,000,000 francs’ worth of cod.
More remarkable still is the list of manufactured
goods which France is to export to Spain. Most of
these Spain used to receive from Germany. These
include 45,000,000 francs’ worth of dyes and other
chemicals, 30,000,000 francs’ worth of pharmaceutical
products, 22,000,000 francs’ worth of electrical equip-
ment, 3,000,000 francs’ worth of optical glass, 8,000,000
francs’ worth of engines and 18,000,000 francs’ worth
of other machinery.
The list also provides for 4000 motor-cars and
6,000,000 francs’ worth of separate parts, 20,000,000
francs’ worth of Algerian tobacco, 325,000 tons of
phosphates and, perhaps specially remarkable,
10,000,000 francs’ worth of books, periodicals and
films.
Spam’s Changing Outlook
(.From an article by London “Times” Hendaye
correspondent.)
Under the cover of strict neutrality, Nationalist
Spain is engaged in seeking her true place in Europe.
There are two major causes for the disorientation
that is undoubtedly being experienced. First, the
civil war, inasmuch as it was drawing the Nationalists
into the orbit of Germany, was detaching the country
from the traditional policies, imposed by geography,
of approximation to England and France, perfectly
compatible with Nationalist Spain’s revitalised friend-
ship with Portugal and Italy. Secondly, the
Germano-Soviet pact and the Bolshevist invasion of
Finland suddenly revealed this by the commotion
they produced in Spain.
General Franco on January 24 last year capped
war comradeship with Germany by signing a “cultural
agreement” with a view to fostering, through, teach-
ing and study, mutual knowledge of one nation for
the other, and on April 8 he joined the Anti-Comintern
Pact. It seemed that the die had been cast. The
agreement was on German initiative and a counter-
part of the convention signed between Berlin and
Rome a few months before. It appeared to be the
final link attaching Nationalist Spain to the Berlin-
Rome Axis.
Everything was proceeding according to plan.
The Germans were securing steady payments in kind
for the war materials they had supplied. The return
of gold from France to Spain offered prospects of
a final settlement. . The agents of the German
monopoly trading company, the H.1.5.M.A., had
large contracts in course of execution for minerals
and other supplies under a system of barter. Ger-
mans throughout Spain were regarded with respect
by the Nationalists ; their Government was admired ;
their future appeared bright. Then came war, which
sent some 200,000 tons of German shipping running
for safety into Spanish harbors (there are over 30
ships in Vigo bay alone) and put a sudden end to
the big-scale operations of H.I.S.M.A.
By overreaching himself and seeking alliance
with Stalin Hitler has shown his true colors to the
Spaniards. Now Spaniards find that the vaunted
paladin in the crusade against the Communists (whom,
through the horrors perpetrated in the chekas in
Madrid, Valencia and Barcelona, they have learnt
truly to hate) is no paladin at all.
Indian War Effort.
(Condensed from an article by the “Times” corre-
spondent in India.)
The geographical position of India and her asso-
ciation with Great Britain endow the country with
immense political and military importance, while her
actual and potential assets in men and material are
enormous. In conjunction with the Royal Navy, the
Indian Army is helping to maintain peace over half
a hemisphere. With troops in Egypt and Aden the
country is assisting in the protection of the Red Sea ;
her influence is behind the friendly sheikhs of the Per-
sian Gulf. Afghanistan, apprehensive of the intentions
of Russia, has in India a firm friend, holding that arch
of mountainous terrain stretching from
the Arabian Sea to the Bay of Bengal.
Indian troops in Singapore contribute to
the safety of Burma and the Malay States,
sharing with the British Navy in upholding
peace over the northern part of the Indian
Ocean. East Africa looks to India for
goods and reinforcements if necessary;
Great Britain, the Dominions and France
obtain supplies from her.
The expeditionary forces of British
and Indian troops which reinforced the
garrisons in Egypt, Aden and Singapore
did so at the request of the British Gov-
ernment. The troops are fully equipped
for their tasks in these places, and pos-
sess the latest mechanised first line trans-
port. Arrangements for the expansion of
the Indian Army are proceeding.
Units of the Royal Air Force non
mally stationed in India have reinforced
Imperial garrisons in Malaya and the
Middle East. An Indian Air Force Volun-
teer Reserve is in process of creation. The
personnel for these forces will be found
in India. The Royal Indian Navy is
mobilised and is collaborating with the
Royal Navy in Indian waters.
Rulers of princely houses, which for generations
have played an important role in Indian history, have
once more placed their personal services and the re-
sources of their States at the disposal of the King-
Emperor. Large cash gifts are flowing in to the Vice-
roy from the States. The Nizam of Hyderabad not
only made a gift of £lOO,OOO to the British Air Ministry
to meet the cost of an air-fighting squadron, but has
offered a monthly contribution of £lO,OOO for the dura-
tion of the war. The Jamsahib of Nawanagar is
making a monthly contribution representing one-tenth
of the income of his State. All the States possessing
troops have offered their services ; the Maharajah of
Bikaner offered to raise and maintain five battalions.
Leading princes have inspired their countrymen
to support the Allied cause. Appeals for war support
have been addressed to the Moslems by the Nizam of
Hyderabad, to the Sikhs and the Dogras by the Maha-
rajah of Kashmir, and to the Mahrattas by the Maha-
rajah of Kolhapur. Palaces in New Delhi belonging
to Hyderabad, Baroda, Kashmir and Travancore have
been placed at the disposal of the Government, and
special war departments now occupy them. Modern
ambulance units have been offered by the rulers of
Rampur, Bhopal and Bahawalpur, and by that com-
posite group which forms the Eastern States Agency.
The maritime States are associated in measures for
the protection of the seaboard, and all the States have
enacted war legislation in keeping with that found
necessary in British India. The friendly relations which
have long existed between Great Britain and Nepal
have again been emphasised by the gesture of the
Maharajah, who, as in the last war, has offered a con-
tingent of 8000 Gurkhas for service in India.
Offers of personal services, gifts of cash and indi-
cations that the resources of their territories were at
the disposal of the King-Emperor have been received
from the rulers of many frontier States and clans.
Among them are offers from the Maharajah of Sikkim,
the Mehtar of Chitral, the Nawab of Amb, the Khan
of Kalat, the Jam of Belas and from a group in the
Gilgit Agency, including the Mirs of Hunza and Nagir,
the Governor of Punial, the Governor of Kuh-Ghizar,
the Governor of Ishkoman and the Mehtar Jao Sultan
Wali Khan of Somal (Gupis).
A comprehensive organisation has been set up to
secure supplies of cloth, blankets, steel, textiles, boots,
leather, tentage and other materials ; many of the mil-
lions of sandbags which now protect British buildings
were obtained from the jute mills in Calcutta. The
supply of munitions to Great Britain and the
Dominions, as well as to the forces abroad, has been
an outstanding feature of war organisation in India.
Essential military supplies, such as ammunition of all


kinds, saddlery, clothing, respirators and metal and
steel products, are being sent for the use of Imperial
service troops in all parts of the world.
Lord Meston on Congress
[The foregoing article deals with the favorable side.
Though all that is true the political situation continues
• disturbed. This aspect is dealt with by Lord Meston,
formerly for many years an administrator in India, in
a speech here condensed from Manchester “Guardian.”]
Lord Meston said that where Congress rule
had been most dominant there had been decline in
administrative efficiency. It was a dangerous thing to
allow widespread unrest to raise its head in India as
it was doing today, particularly that communal
trouble, which was worse than in the years when we
were supposed to foment it in order to divide and rule.
He thought the worst of the less agreeable
features of the new situation was “the autocratic
domination of Congress over the Ministries in power.”
Congress was attempting to dictate policy over the heads
of the administrators on the lines of its own ideology.
The “high command,” as it was arrogantly called,
had made several attempts to run the provinces in
that way. It was absolutely fatal to the whole con-
ception of government, and more particularly to the
conception of democracy which Britain hoped to
instil into the new Indian Administration. That it
would in time overreach itself was the one con-
solation.
Congress demanded independent nationhood and
the application of that status immediately to the larg-
est possible extent. It had intimated that it would
not co-operate with Great Britain in a righteous war
unless promised complete independence and a Con-
stituent Assembly. Complete independence, Lord
Meston said, was known by Congress to be “pure and
absolute bluff,” and in spite of the bluff and bluster
of provincial politicians the people of India were
rallying to their old friends.
The political situation dominated the economic.
When the truth came home to that most important
person the peasant that his industry was being penal-
ised and starved to subsidise the moneyed interest of
a far from efficient manufacture the reign of fallacy
and make-believe would be over. He could only hope
it would end without violence.
For the immediate present there was no need
to despair, but there were certain things which must
be made clear to Congress—that there could be no
discussion of the policy of severing the British con-
nection ; that we would not allow totalitarianism to
take the place of democracy; and that there could be
no abandonment of our treaty obligations to the great
Princes or of our moral obligations to the Moslem
and other minorities.
Soviet’s U.S.A. Cultural Dupes.
[ln the article here condensed from the “Saturday
Evening Post” Eugene Lyons indicates the confusion
among United States Parlor Pinks since the Soviet-
Nazi agreement, Uncle Sam’s “intellectuals” having
proved the same childlike dupes for the Soviet hoax
as their counterparts in Britain and Australia.]
The Stalin-Hitler deal exploded violently on the
cultural front of the American Communist movement.
The cultural front is a periphery inhabited by writers,
artists, professors, actors, clergymen and wealthy or
socially prominent converts to the Red cause.
The flight from this region has approached panic ;
most of these converts and fellow-travellers had been
lured into the periphery by appeals to their honest de-
testation of Hitler and his works.
Until Stalin and Hitler embraced, the Communist
cultural periphery had imposed something like an in-
tellectual Red terror in the New York area and in
Hollywood —which is an extension of New York in
this respect. The movement to denounce, ridicule and
ostracise any critic of Moscow operated through Com-
munists and fellow-travellers on newspapers and maga-
zines, in book-publishing houses, little-theatre groups,
Federal art projects and the like.
The social-intellectual pressure was such that it
intimidated many reviewers and columnists who were
not themselves part of the Communist movement. As
New York sets the country’s intellectual fashions, dic-
tates the tone of book and theatrical reviews, this
influence has been national. It was powerful enough
to make Communism fashionable in literary and
artistic circles wherever such circles exist.
Though today bewildered and demoralised, the
Communist periphery is, however, still populous. It
is filled with job-holders—secret or open members of
the Communist party —in the innumerable committees,
leagues, bureaux and congresses. There are the editors
and contributors of a long string of Communist publi-
cations who likewise have a vested economic interest to
keep them in line. Then there are those with an eco-
nomic stake in the literary markets, lecture and concert
audiences, trade-union posts and even Federal patron-
age at the disposal of the party. Finally, there are
more recent and vocal converts who find the double
somersault of a reconversion so soon too difficult.
The crumbling of faith in the Kremlin cause is
serious in communities where a “proper” attitude
toward Soviet intervention in Spain meant prominence
in any number of committees, mass meetings, banquets
and house parties dedicated to Stalinist enterprises ;
in communities where, by the same token, straying
from the party line meant exclusion from the “best”
left-wing purlieus. These communities have poured
millions of dollars into Stalinist coffers through cock-
tail parties, street-collection boxes and mail solicitation
for anti-Fascist causes; they turn out in sables and
chinchilla for left-wing theatre premieres; they enforce
a social ostracism upon writers and others who ques-
tion the perfection of the Soviets. Those who “belong”
have been as one against the nonconformists, while
engaging in righteous literary and artistic logrolling
for one another.
The most completely drenched in the Berlin-
Moscow cloudburst were 400-odd Americans de-
scribed by the “Daily Worker” as “leading figures in
education, the arts and science.” They released a
manifesto vehemently denying the fantastic false-
hood that the U.S.S.R. and the totalitarian States are
basically alike” and branding its purveyors as Fascists
and their allies” out “to prevent a united anti-aggres-
sion front.” To exemplify the Fascist breed, the docu-
ment, addressed “to all active supporters of democ-
racy and peace,” shook an accusing finger at a Com-
mittee for Cultural Freedom which, it appeared, had
menaced peace and democracy by listing Russia among
the totalitarian nations gaoling and exiling writers,
educators and scientists for their political views and
otherwise denying cultural freedom.
Seven days after the publication of the 400-
manifesto the Kremlin betrayed the 400 by announc-
ing its friendship with Nazi Germany. The 400 pro-
vide a convenient case study in the technique of firing
up innocents for purposes far beyond their knowledge
or understanding. Their manifesto, has some note-
worthy features. For instance, Point .8 among ten
achievements listed to distinguish Russia from other
dictatorships is its suppression of “the myths and super-
stitions of old Russia” —in plain English, the suppres-
sion of religion. Any doubt on this score is dispelled
by the “supporting material” not released to the public,
wherein Point 8 specifies “the superstitions of old-time
religion.” Yet the signers included sundry clergymen.
Point 1 underscores Russia’s role as ‘a consistent bul-
wark against war and aggression” —which must have
had a curious sound to the signers two weeks later,
with aggression and war under way.
But what is specially interesting is the process of
gathering the 400 signatures and their use as a weapon
— “Marianne,” Paris.
“WAIT TILL I DRAW MY TERRIBLE SWORD!”
After three months of enforced fighting P inland (population 3,800,000)
still holds out against Soviet Russia (population 180,000,000). Soviet
threats are now being hurled at Britain.
of moral terror against anti-Stalin intellectuals. The
document was created for the Communist party by a
friendly “initiating committee”; the ultimate news
release on the document was mailed from the office of
an American Council for Soviet Affairs. The “initiat-
ing committee” knew what it was doing. So did those
who put them up to it. Dozens of the signers, being
members of the Communist party or people whose
names are routine on all Communist documents, also
went in open-eyed. But the majority were men and
women who let themselves be blindfolded and led
into a job of character assassination. Most of them
would probably be astonished to learn that they had
been used to smear “Fascist” on people whose crime
is that they mentioned Russia among nations denying
cultural freedom.
Refugees and Suspect Aliens.
(i Condensed from a London “Daily Telegraph’’ report.)
Scotland Yard and military and naval intelli-
gence departments who are responsible for the detec-
tion of German spies in England are gravely con-
cerned by the leniency of alien tribunals.
Of every 100 Germans and Austrians who have
appeared before the enemy alien tribunals only one
has been sent to an internment camp. The total
number interned up to the present, including those
who were interned under the royal prerogative at the
beginning of the war, is less than 800. In the last
war over 30,000 aliens were interned.
Scotland Yard officers have placed before the
tribunals dossiers compiled from the records of the
Special Branch, the Criminal Record Office and the
naval and the military intelligence departments, prov-
ing that an alien has pro-Nazi connections and sym-
pathies. Despite this the alien has been exempt from
internment. Hundreds have been granted exemption
because well-meaning British people have vouched
for their friendliness. In most cases they speak
more from sympathy than knowledge. Aliens have
even brought their landladies to speak for them. The
fact that these people have told the Court that the
alien keeps regular hours and has no friends who
have Nazi sympathies has in certain cases been the
deciding factor in releasing the alien from special
restrictions. Dozens of these aliens are known to
be living in the vicinity of arms factories and aero-
dromes.
In ; one case a Gestapo man who had been
exempt from internment was leaving the court when
he was recognised and denounced by a genuine
refugee. His case was reconsidered and he was in-
terned. Hundreds of enemy aliens, against whom the
authorities have no direct evidence of Nazi sym-
pathies, are free. As well as keeping an eye on these,
C.I.D. officers in the London divisions and in police
forces throughout the country will be continually en-
gaged in keeping registers and checking up aliens who
have been exempt from internment, but who are sub-
ject to special restrictions.
Twenty thousand domestic workers appeared
before the tribunals. In the majority of cases their
employers appeared in support. Yet it was known
to the Special Branch some time before the war that
German woman agents were being sent to England
to establish themselves in domestic employment. Many
returned to Germany before the war broke out. Others
were rounded up by Scotland Yard and interned, but
the police believe that others of these women are
dangerous.
The genuine refugees, who have been vouched
for by the refugee organisations and whose ante-
cedents are well known, have given valuable assist-
ance to the authorities in detecting suspected German
agents who have posed as refugees.
Paris, Rome, London, in War.
(>Condensed from an article in “Time and Tide by
Norman Bentwich.)
The most striking distinction between Paris and
London is in the lighting of the streets and shops. In
London we have plunged ourselves
into Cimmerian darkness. The French
have shaded half-lighting with a
soothing orange color in all the mam
thoroughfares. Nobody needs to carry
a torch; nobody thinks of carrying
a gas-mask. The Paris traffic lights
are bails of luminousness compared
with London’s thin crosses. Paris
continues with little disturbance its
life in the cafes ; the main places are
more thronged than in normal times.
The great collections of the National
Museums have been removed to
safety, but the special Exhibition for
the 150th anniversary of the French
Revolution has been held ; and, while
many of the theatres are shut, the
Comedie Franfaise has celebrated
the tercentenary of Racine with per-
formances of his tragedies, and other
theatres have had special Racine
matinees.
Paris has not spoilt the looks of
her streets by indiscriminate laying
of sandbags. Principal monuments
and principal buildings have their
neat ramparts ; but the rest take their
chance. Organisation of shelters is
more complete than in London. Each
apartment block and place of business
bears its placard, stating either the
shelter provision on the spot for a
particular number of persons or the
nearest shelter available. No doubt
Paris is in a better position than
London for guarding against air-raids
and has not to take such drastic precautions of ob-
scurity. For Paris is nearly 500 kilometres from the
German frontier, and so can get an hour’s warning of
an attack after the enemy ’planes are sighted ; whereas
London is only some 50 miles from the coast, and
may be attacked within a few minutes of the signal
of a threatened air-raid. Paris is thronged with more
soldiers than London ; France has called up already
between four and five million men.
If Paris is more carefree than London in regard
to air attack, she is more apprehensive and more con-
trolled in regard to spies. It was found necessary
in France to intern all those males who were tech-
nically enemy aliens in the gates, even though most of
them were genuine refugees. France has an enormous
foreign population of over two millions ; whereas
almost every alien coming to England has entered
legally and after scrutiny by Consular and immigra-
tion authorities, a large proportion of the aliens in
France have entered illegally, crossing the frontier
without leave and without scrutiny. So the fear of
enemy agents amongst the alien mass is explicable;
and the strictest precautions are taken to control
movement. The French, too, partly for the same
reason, have had to place a stricter control on their
press than has been imposed in England.
Rome, basking in the sun of neutrality, is more
prosperous than for many years: trading, carrying,
providing for the belligerents. Life there is bright
and lively; it seems the brighter and the livelier,
no doubt, to the traveller coming from the lands of
grim war. If one may judge by the press, the war
whith excites the greatest interest in Italy is that
between Finland and the Soviet Union. Yet both the
wars are of secondary importance to the unceasing
achievements of the Duce and the party. It is curious
that, having conquered Ethiopia, the Italians are de-
prived now almost entirely of coffee. All that the
newly-won Empire produces is used for export else-
where, to obtain foreign exchange. The cafds that
remain—and they are not many —produce a miserable
substitute; and the waiters openly recommend the
visitor to take tea or chocolate.
The three countries are agreed in warning their
subjects against talking politics and military matters
in public places or in public vehicles. Warning
notices are posted up here, there and everywhere.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Winner of the Caulfield Futurity
Stakes for the third year in succession,
defeating High Caste in time which cut
quarter of a second off Winooka’s course
record for seven furlongs. That was
Ajax’s reply on Saturday to critics who
contended that he was on the toboggan.
Three times winner of the great race
is a performance that has a good chance
of standing for decades, and Ajax’s mag-
nificent struggle with his younger oppo-
nent roused the crowd to wild enthusiasm.
A remark was overheard that the crowd
was one-eyed, that there was no such
jubilation when High Caste toppled Ajax
in the Orr Stakes and the St. George
Stakes, but such a charge was groundless.
Sentiment overcame all other considera-
tions, even backers of High Caste paying
tribute to a great horse, one who is now
holder of the five furlongs, seven fur-
longs, one mile, and nine furlongs records
at Caulfield. With winnings of £35,100
Ajax has passed Peter Pan to take
eighth position on the list of Australian
stake-winners. Ahead of him are Phar
Lap, Amounis, Gloaming, Limerick,
Heroic, Eurythmic and Windbag, but
there is every chance of his passing one
or two of those horses before he retires
from the turf after the conclusion of the
A.J.C. autumn meeting.
• ••••»
Harold Badger was criticised for his
handling of Ajax in the St. George
Stakes, but he was given a free hand on
Saturday. “Ride him as you think best”
was, in effect, his orders, and Badger
mapped out his own plan of campaign.
He could have been closer to Manrico in
the early stages had he desired, but
deemed it best to conserve his mount’s
brilliance as much as possible. He ran
to Manrico about a furlong from home,
and momentarily looked like having a
comfortable win, but High Caste received
a rails-run when Manrico veered out, and
got within half a neck of Ajax at the
finish. Badger considers that Ajax has
returned to his best form, and, if that be
so, it makes High Caste out to be one of
the greatest three-year-old colts seen in
many years.
Paradoxically, High Caste was lucky
and unlucky. As rider Ted Bartle stated,
he was baulked when first he went for
the opening, which eventually came just
too late. On the other hand, High Caste
would have been beaten more than half
a neck had he been forced to go round
Manrico and Ajax. Viewed from any
angle, however, he was great in defeat.
He conceded Ajax three lengths from the
home turn, and the fact remains that his
score is still 2-1 against the Victorian
champion.
Manrico scotched rumors that all was
not well with him by leading the Futurity
field until well in the straight, and battling
on for third money. With adverse reports
about Chatsbury, Manrico immediately
firmed to favoritism for the Newmarket
Handicap, to be run next Saturday, and
if drawn reasonably close to the inside
he will be very hard to beat. Manrico
has an unbeaten record at Flemington,
but will face a tremendous task with
lOst. if drawn on the slow side of the
track. With this horse and Pure Gold,,
trainer Jack Holt has an excellent double-
barrelled chance. Pure Gold was over-
shadowed by his stablemate in the
Futurity, but he was right in the firing
line at the top of the straight. He weak-
ened into fifth position at the finish, but
from a Newmarket viewpoint his per-
formance was quite satisfactory. In
that race he will meet Manrico 91b.
better.
Frequent reversals of form are testing
the patience of Melbourne backers, but
retrospective inquiries into the striking
improvement shown by Sir Grey and Dis-
tinction in winning their respective races
on Saturday would have revealed that
everything was in order at their previous
starts.
Sir Grey’s success in the Woodcliff
Handicap was one of the greatest shocks
form followers have received for years.
At Moonee Valley three days earlier he
had been well backed, only to finish
eighth of 10 runners in the race won by
Hathersage. That form suggested that
he had no chance in the stronger field
on Saturday, and it was not surprising
that a few punters raised their voices in
protest when he beat Round Up and
Valmiki to the judge. Enough money
was staked on Sir Grey to bring his
price from 25 to 1 down to 15’s, but
owner-trainer Ted Temby stated that he
did not benefit by one penny apart from
the prize-money. Temby added that he
went for a good win on his grey gelding
at the Valley, but let him run unbacked
on Saturday. Sir Grey is a lightly-built
fellow, and perhaps a drop of 91b. from
the weight he carried at Moonee Valley
contributed to his improvement. Although
a useful middle-distance performer, Sir
Grey has never been regarded as a
genuine stayer, but he battled on gamely
at the end of 11 furlongs on Saturday,
and worried Round Up out of the prize.
He is to be a runner for the Australian
Cup, 2| miles, in which he will again be
ridden by Temby’s apprentice, J. Purtell.
V.R.C. handicapper J. H. Davis decided
against increasing the grey’s original
weight of 7.2.
Woodcliff Handicap running advanced
the Australian Cup claims of Round Up,
despite his narrow defeat by Sir Grey.
The ex-Maorilander, who is trained by
Jack Jamieson, did the “bullocking”
work behind the tearaway Lady
Kooringal, who was so far in front and
apparently going so well near the five
furlongs that Bartle, on Round Up, could
not afford to take any risks. Result was
that Round Up hit the front entering
the straight, but, although he looked
all over a winner at that stage, his exer-
tions under the steadier of 9.2 told on
him right at the finish.
Round Up was a good stayer in M.L.,
and should be right at his top on Aus-
tralian Cup day. He should reverse posi-
tions with Sir Grey, whom he will meet
41b. better in the Cup, and, if any notice
can be taken of form, should again finish
ahead of Valmiki, Seven Fifty, Elanage,
Dark David, Tomito, Prince Sion, Son
of Aurous, Alarm, Lanarus and Com-
panion in the long race. Valmiki, how-
ever, ran on well in third place, while
Son of Aurous, a proved stayer, was
doing his best work at the finish, and
apparently is on the improve again.
Thirteenth of 18 runners in a division
of the Federal Stakes at Caulfield on
February 17, first in the second division
of the Alma Stakes on Saturday, sums
up the improvement made by Talking’s
half-brother Distinction in one week.
Luck at the start made all the difference
to him. Slow to move 'in the Federal
Stakes, of five furlongs, he was never
out of the ruck, but he was on the move
from his wide barrier position when the
tapes rose on Saturday, and, jumping
into his stride immediately, was one of
the leaders throughout the six furlongs.
Distinction’s starting price of 20 to 1 is
evidence that trainer Jack Holt and his
followers did not anticipate the improve-
ment, and, in any case, the colt might
have been lucky to beat Stage Law.
Latter finished only third, but struck
more than his share of misfortune during
the race. Distinction, who cost 750
guineas as a yearling, has raced only
four times for two wins, and seems sure
to improve, but it remains to be seen
whether he will improve to the extent of
being able to win the V.R.C. Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes next Saturday. His time on
Saturday was half a second slower than
that recorded by Sun Valley in winning
the first division.
Sun Valley’s success was preceded by
one of the biggest plunges associated
with a juvenile race for some time.
Twelve to one was laid against him in
odd places, but weight of money forced
his price down to 4 to 1. He finished
determinedly to cut down the pacemaker,
Knight’s Armour, on the post, and, from
a Sires’ Produce Stakes viewpoint, im-
pressed more than Cyden’s Son, who
finished third after having every chance.
It seems that Linkboy, also owned by
Andy Morrow, will be a better proposi-
tion than Cyden’s Son in that race. Sun
Valley cost W. V. and J. O. Manton 525
guineas as a yearling, and carries the
same colors as Salitros, who won the
A.J.C. and Victoria Derbies of 1920 for
W. V. Manton.
Instead of recent form having clari-
fied the Sires’ Produce Stakes position,
the race seems more open than ever.
Until a couple of weeks ago it was gener-
ally thought probable that Broadcaster
would start a warm favorite, and win.
Two failures at Caulfield have caused a
revision of opinion, but there was an ex-
cuse for his weakening at the finish of
Sun Valley’s race. He began well enough
from the extreme outside, but was forced
to race wide all the way, and that ac-
counted for his lack of dash in the
straight. There may be a different story
to tell next Saturday, when he will meet
Sun Valley on 171 b. better terms.
Tetreen’s return to form in the Hawks-
burn Handicap, in which he beat many
Newmarket candidates, suggests that
owner-trainer Eric Connolly might have
missed a good opportunity in failing to
nominate him for the Flemington sprint.
He ran nowhere in the Oakleigh Plate,
but revealed such improved form on
Saturday that at least he would have ad-
vanced considerably in Newmarket
quotations. Incidentally, it was his first
win since Connolly bought the Westralian
horse last autumn. There was not a
great deal of money on the course for
Tetreen, who made the pace to the turn
with Parodier, and battled on gamely to
win from Aurie’s Star and Kanuri.
Aurie’s Star’s performance impressed
many keen judges, who concede him a
good chance of winning his second New-
market with 21b. less than he carried into
second place a year ago. Kanuri also
drew attention to his chance of improv-
ing on his third in last year’s Newmarket,
but he will meet Aurie’s Star only on
the same terms as Saturday, when three-
quarters of a length separated them at
the finish.
A special padded bit being used to
counteract soreness resulting from a boil
which had burst in his mouth the pre-
vious day, Brazen Lad recorded a re-
markable performance to win the second
division of the St. Clair Trial. He lost
lengths at the start, and his backers
would have sold out cheaply during the
race, but rider Neville Percival did not
let up, and had the satisfaction of land-
ing him a narrow winner from Kaolin
and Landlaw’s half-brother Royal
Comet. Royal Comet, who has raced
only three times, will pay to follow.
Brazen Lad was brought to Melbourne
in company with Reading by trainer
Jack Cush, but Cush, who had tried
him to be a good thing, cut down his
commission because of his fears that the
boil would affect the gelding’s chance.
Brazen Lad was more impressive than
another Sydneysider, Marengo, trained
by George Price, in winning the first
division of the St. Clair Trial. Marengo
carried 171 b. more weight than Brazen
Lad, but, although he justified his odds-
on favoritism, it took him too long to
win after having enjoyed the box-seat
from the start.
Bully Hayes, winner of the Stanley
Steeplechase, probably will be sent to
Onkaparinga (S.A.) for the Great Eastern
Steeplechase, to be run next month. His
trainer, Jack Jury, who has Bully Hayes
on lease from Randwick trainer Pat
Nailon, has been in ill-health lately, and
he considers that the trip would have a
curative effect. In addition, he thinks
that Bully Hayes has a good chance of
winning the big race, even though he can
be rehandicapped for Saturday’s success.
Bully Hayes landed in front over the last
jump, and went on to win comfortably
from Great Bear and the favorite,
Nevizes, who weakened after getting to
the front about five furlongs from home.
* * * *
“Well, the drought’s broken at last,’’
I heard a bookmaker joyfully remark at
the conclusion of Wednesday’s racing at
Rosebery, when the seven winners in-
cluded five that started at double figures.
Their luck held at Moorefield on Satur-
day, six first favorites being defeated,
and a 15-to-l chance won the last race.
There was a fair attendance, even if it
may have fallen slightly short of the
secretary’s expectations. I cannot say
with definiteness that it did, but race-
course secretaries are generally difficult
to satisfy in that respect.
On the form shown at her two pre-
vious starts Progress did not appear to
have much chance of beating Novice in
the Three-year-old Handicap, but after
being last early in the piece she was
third to the latter and Beaucaire entering
the straight, and eventually won easily
from Novice. Cook was told to allow
Progress as much time as she liked to
find her legs, and it was due to that
rider strictly adhering to orders that she
did so well over the last three furlo*gs.
Miss Heroic cut Beaucaire out of third
money, and though the latter now looks
really well a return to his early two-
year-old form still appears far off.
The Juvenile Handicap was run in
two disisions, and no excuse was pos-
sible for Black Art’s failure in the first.
After going a furlong she was leading
from School Boy, with Valve also promi-
nent. Black Art shook off School Boy
entering the straight, but was unable to
withstand Valve’s challenge. Third place
went to the tiring School Boy, who was
closely attended by Welcome News,
Dawn Mary and War Trophy. Welcome
News was not well placed in the early
part, and in the straight “ran about” a
bit. He may do better at his next
attempt, and it will probably be the same
with War Trophy, a Harinero-Joan of
Arc colt trained by J. H. Abbs. Valve,
who is by Veilmond from Valdivia
(Valais-Wakeful’s Daughter), is held on
lease by Mrs. E. H. Herriott until Feb-
ruary, 1942, and is in L. O’Rourke’s
stable.
Backed from tens down to threes for
the second division, Loyal Lad was in
charge after going a couple of furlongs.
Approaching the turn Cape Amber
looked dangerous, but though he was
alongside Loyal Lad entering the straight
the latter went away from him again
over the last half-furlong. His Lordship
was third, with Genuine and Celebrity
next, but the race was little more than
a match between Loyal Lad and Cape
Amber in time a second slower than
Valve recorded in his division. Loyal
Lad is by Bullhead from Werrington
(Redfern-War Lass, by Cavalry, a son
of Carbine). Catalogued at last season’s
yearling sales, he was not submitted, and
is trained by E. F. Walker, for E. A.
Haley, who bred him. Cape Amber is
to be gelded and spelled for a few
months.
Gymkhana led throughout the Jumpers’
Flat Race, but though at the home turn
he looked like winning easily he scored
by only half a neck from Lasting, who
experienced a little bad luck in the
straight. The stewards were of opinion
that Robinson eased up too early on
Gymkhana, and severely reprimanded
him. No doubt the fact of being checked
made a difference, but it did not seem
to me that Gymkhana had much in re-
serve when the winning-post was reached.
Bogan Boy was second into the straight,
and finished third, while not one of the
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(By “SENTRY.”)
Pines Hurdle Race: Glenlonan,
1 ; Cheery Jack, 2 ; Imitari, 3.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Broad-
caster, 1 ; Linkboy, 2 ; Trueness, 3.
Newmarket Handicap: Unishak,
1 : Chatsbury, 2 ; Manrico, 3.
Victoria Steeplechase: Nevizes,
1 ; Dornford, 2 ; Great Bear, 1.
Centenary Cup: Gladstone, 1 ;
Maikai, 2 ; Cooranga, 3.
Brunswick Stakes: Tetreen, 1 ;
Old Serpent, 2 ; Courage, 3.
SECOND DAY.
V.R.C. St. Leger: Reading. 1 ;
High Caste, 2 ; Valmiki, 3.
(By “PILOT.”)
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Linkboy,
1 ; Trueness, 2 ; Halifax, 3.
Newmarket Handicap: Pure
Gold, 1 ; Manrico, 2; Magic
Circle, 3.
FOR ROSEHILL.
By “PILOT.”
Novice Handicap: Cryon, 1 ,
Vulpine, 2 ; Shane’s Castle, 3.
Juvenile Stakes: Valve, 1 ; Ken-
thelda, 2 ; Loyal Lad, 3.
Westmead Handicap: Bonny
Loch, 1 ; Merry Smile, 2 ; Petru-
chio, 3.
Club Handicap: Astounding, 1 ;
Gold Spark, 2 ; The Blizzard, 3.
Maiden Welter: Corolla, 1 :
Tinker Bell, 2 ; Majunga, 3.
Rydalmere Mile: Asnazu, 1 ;
Morning Gift, 2 ; Curosity, 3.


makes you always well-dressed!
THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC, which knows a good thing when it sees it, has given
unqualified approval to Gold Medal Serge. In 1939, nearly 38,000 suits of Gold
Medal Serge were sold and those suits are good to-day because every Crusader Cloth is
Guaranteed Never to Fade or Shrink. For business or social wear—daytime or evening—
a Gold Medal Serge suit is always correct. . .. Ask Your Tailor he has all the patterns.
GOLD MEDAL SERGE is a CRUSADER CLOTH—MONARCH Quality.
The name is branded in gold upon every three yards of cloth. ... Ihe
price for a suit of GOLD MEDAL SERGE is usually from £7/7/- to
£lO/10/-. Differences in price are determined by superior cut, workman-
ship and trimmings.
CRUSADER CLOTH is available also in Grey Mixtures; Plain and Fancy Greys;
Navy, Black, Brown and Royal Fancy Suitings; Tropical Suitings and Dress
Suitings.
l
(Trusafcer Cloth
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
others was doing sufficiently well at any
part to be a winning possibility.
Another “all the way win” was that
of Breeze in the Brighton Handicap.
Tel Asur was reasonably close to her
for five furlongs, but she then left him,
and the race was practically over at the
home turn. Cavalier and Hilarious tried
hard to bridge the gap, but had no chance
of overhauling Sawyer’s mare. Hilari-
ous, however, is coming on again, and
a middle-distance win for her in the near
future is a possibility.
• ••••*
Feminist was third for a long way,
and eventually finished fourth. She
should be right back to form by the
time the A.J.C. meeting comes round.
St. Constant, who was the class horse of
the field in respect of looks, was soundly
backed, but did not give his backers a
look-in, nor did Allunga. I have been
looking to the latter to win a minor
handicap, but up to the present those
racing men who contend his years are
against him have the better of the argu-
ment.
Plenty of racing evidently agrees with
The Kite. Good Morning did the early
pacemaking in the Moorefield Handicap,
but The Kite had matters all his own
way after he shot away along the back.
Nothing had a chance against him over
the final three furlongs, and though Val-
halla and Lord Valentine filled the minor
places there was no particular merit in
their efforts. Bonnie L. was nicely placed
nearing the turn, while Tickle, who
seemed sore, did not have a 50-to-l
chance of winning at any part of the
last half-mile. Plutus and Early Hope
looked well, but at the finish were among
the tail-enders.
Merry Smile drew No. 17 at the post
in the first division of the Flying Welter,
and that cost her the race. From the
middle of the field at the bottom of the
hill, she made a fast run that carried
her up to the leading division turning
into the straight, but she had to go wide.
Most prominent at that point were Spear
Arrow, The Kaiser, Brazandt and Cam-
sion.
A few strides from the post Merry
Smile had her head in front, but, finish-
ing the stronger, Überous beat her the
narrowest of margins, while the dead-
heaters Fernacre and Camsion were less
than a length away. Prior to this occa-
sion Überous was a long time out of the
winning list, but he has rarely run badly
at Moorefield. Owing to an arm injury
E. F. Walker, who trains Überous and
Loyal Lad, had not been on a racecourse
for five months prior to Saturday, so the
two gave him a pleasant “welcome
home.”
The second division of the Flying Welter
saw Politesse add to her failures. She
started from the outside, but was quickly
in front, leading into the straight from
King’s Park, Baldmon and Light Arch.
At the leger Politesse’s chance was still
excellent, but the fact of not having raced
for several months told against her, and
she could not stall off Baldmon, who had
been out of the winning list since last
April. Bradley has not improved since
he left Randwick, and Gilt Veil is not
back to her form. Avant
Tout, now trained by L. O’Rourke, was
well up at the finish, and I have an idea
he will be useful.
If all had gone well with Chatsbury
I would have unhesitatingly made him
my Newmarket selection. Leg trouble
affected him last week, and though he
had recovered sufficiently to do a gallop
on Sunday lameness at this late stage is
a disadvantage. Recurrence is possible,
though his trainer is said to be now
hopeful all will be well with him..
Manrico made a bold showing in the
Futurity Stakes with 9.13, but goes up
a pound, and, notwithstanding he has
shown a pronounced liking for Fleming-
ton, I expect him to be beaten by his
stable-companion Pure Gold, who has
81b. less than in the Futurity. In that
race he was prominent until inside the
last furlong, and it is improbable his
rider knocked him about when he found
him beaten.
Aurie’s Star, Pamelus and Rex Felt
strike me as having weight enough to
prevent any of them winning. Amiable
finished slightly ahead of Pure Gold at
level weights in the Futurity, but is giving
him 51b. on Saturday, and Magic Circle
and Graceful Mover may have brighter
prospects than the Lord Quex mare, who
has 21b. more than when fourth last year.
El Golea is coming on again, but may
not be quite at his best. Mildura, in
respect of weight, is better off than in
his recent races in Sydney and Mel-
bourne. He has been sprinting brilliantly
in his work, but unless he should happen
to be on the move when the barrier
rises there is the possibility of his being
a little too far back after going a quarter
of a mile for his chance to be a win-
ning one. Kanuri, third last year with
7.10, is up 121 b. against El Golea’s 71b.,
and Unishak, penalised 71b. for his Oak-
leigh Plate win, has 8.2, which is 91b.
more than when tenth a year ago. His
most recent form shows that he has
greatly improved.
The last winner with less than Bst. was
St. Ardent, 7.4, in 1929. Operatic (7.12)
is a smart customer, but nothing lower
down is impressive. With doubt attach-
ing to Chatsbury’s leg, Pure Gold
is my selection, though Manrico, Grace-
ful Mover, Unishak and Magic Circle
should at least flatter their backers.
Round Up ran up to his Maoriland
reputation in the Woodcliff Handicap.
Further racing is likely to improve him,
and as his weight drops 31b. he is de-
serving of full consideration for the Aus-
tralian Cup. Few have won that race
with as much as 8.13, but in his own
country Round Up proved himself up
to weight. When he ran second in the
1938 Auckland Cup he had 8.8, and at
the same meeting he subsequently won a
mile and a half race with 9.3. Sir Grey
may be troubled by the length of the
trip, and of the Woodcliff Handicap
runners, apart from Round Up, Valmiki
and Son of Aurous did more than most
to enhance their Cup prospects. A long
way out of it up to the turn, Valmiki,
with 21b. more than his Cup weight, put
in a good finishing run to gain third
place. However, a Sydneyite who saw
the race told me he was commencing to
look a trifle light and was not certain
whether he would improve.
Son of Aurous also came home well,
and though he is slow in finding his
legs he can afford to be well back in
the early part of a 2|-miles race. Lana-
rus, fourth in the Woodcliff Handicap,
did not run well enough to be selected
in preference to either Valmiki or Round
Up, and it is difficult, on Saturday’s
showing, to stand Tomito, Dark
David or Seven Fifty. The longer dis-
tance may help Dark David, but since
his arrival in Melbourne Tomito’s deeds
have not upheld the idea that his Perth
Cup win was of particular merit..
Elanage was fairly forward through-
put the Woodcliff Handicap, and the
best form ever shown by him was at
Flemington, when he won the Bagot
Handicap with 7.13 in 2.29 y for the mile
and a half. There was nothing attractive
in the form of either Alarm or Prince
Sion, and, to fine it down, it seems to
me that in the Woodcliff Handicap Son
of Aurous, Round Up and Valmiki did
most to put them in a good light for the
Australian Cup.
Marengo, if started, may find the trip
rather far. In any case, he seems over-
weighted. Cup candidates that were
non-runners on Saturday included
Pageant, Cooranga, Morvren, Mac Rob
and Gladstone. Before Cooranga left
Sydney S. Lamond told me she was doing
particularly well, and she has progressed
satisfactorily since going to Melbourne.
That is emphasised by the way she is
travelling in the betting market, and
though she has 61b. more than when un-
placed in the last Melbourne Cup it
seems certain she will play a prominent
part. I am writing before the declaration
of acceptances, and perhaps some of
those to which I have referred will drop
out. I am still pinning my faith to
Gladstone, taking the chance whether he
is a real stayer. An improving four-
year-old, with 6.12 he should have no
difficulty in holding a good position
throughout, and his light weight may
stand to him at the end. Son of Aurous,
Cooranga, Round Up and Valmiki are
a collection from which the minor place-
getters may come.
* * * *
Business on the Caulfield Futurity
Stakes tended to dispose of the idea that
heavy-betting bookmakers were, owing to
taxation, practically extinct down south.
At one period we used to hear a lot
that was favorable to Melbourne book-
makers. They were credited with will-
ingness to lay larger sums and at longer
prices than could possibly be obtained
in Sydney. For some time past, however,
there has been a change of tune, and
we are told that betting is light at most
Melbourne meetings, and if liberal odds
are laid about horses believed to possess
chances they are only for small amounts.
Even Melbourne bookmakers admit
there is more money at Sydney meetings,
and it is no secret that, if they could
manage it without inconvenience, some
would like to transfer permanently to
Sydney. Another worry for Melbourne
bookmakers is that with the average
punter the totalisator continues to grow
in favor.
* * * *
Gold Rod, who had worked well since
he went to Melbourne, finished last in
the Hawksburn Handicap. This sug-
gested that there was little use of per-
severing with him, but his racing days
are not over. It appears that he Struck


SAVE MONEY
ITS
THRIFTY
TO
INSTALL
NEW
\/
CHAMPIONS
I lit
£< 'Hfe
v\\
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring FUEL ECONOMY
Worn plugs waste fuel. Install
new Champions. They ensure
fuller combustion of the fuel.
Less carbon. More power and a
smoother-running engine. Fuel
lasts longer and you soon are
repaid the cost of the spark
plugs ... and more! Champions
actually save you money.
An Empire product—made in
Windsor, Canada V
MARINE and INDUSTRIAL ENGINES.
18 improved 1940 Models; \ H.P. to 170 H.P. in 1-,
2-, 4-, 6-, 8- and 12-cylinder types. Over 300 Engines
always in stock. Thousands of Invincible Engines
are in daily service in Australia, many of them for
over 30 years. Write for 16-page illustrated catalogue
to-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms: 53 North George Street.
Established in 1906.
INVINCIBLE
B
so much trouble after entering the
straight in the Hawksburn that McCarten
had almost to pull him up. It is probable
Gold Rod will race at Flemington dur-
ing the coming week, and he is sure to
do so at the A.J.C. autumn meeting.
* * * *
The winner of the Centenary Cup at
Flemington on Saturday is liable to be
rehandicapped for the Australian Cup.
Cooranga is engaged, and, if she should
win, a few additional pounds may be
added to her 8.5 in the Australian Cup.
That possibility may not prevent her
running, as her owner is not a heavy
bettor, and the value of the Centenary
Cup makes it a race well worth winning.
* * * *
Six horses started inside 20 to 1 for
last year’s Newmarket. These were El
Golea, who won at 9 to 4, Aurie’s Star
(second), The Trump and Unishak at
7 to 1 each, and Pamelus and Hamurah
at 12 to 1. Kanuri, who ran third, was
a 20-to-l chance. Unishak, who car-
ried 7.7, finished tenth of the 15 starters.
* * * *
Excuses were made for Ajax’s two pre-
vious defeats by High Caste, but I was
among the many who expected the St.
George Stakes result to be repeated in
the Futurity Stakes, in which High Caste
met the older horse the same as the
previous week. There was nothing in it
between them at the finish, and this
time excuses are made for High Caste on
the score that he did not get as good a
run as the chestnut. No certainty
attaches as to the race in which they
will meet at Flemington. Both are in
the King’s Plate and the C. M. Lloyd
Stakes, but if High Caste gets a severe
race in the St. Leger it may not be
thought advisable to run him against
Ajax, who will be fresh, at a mile and
a half two days later. In the circum-
stances the C. M. Lloyd Stakes may be
the next race in which they will clash.
Ajax will carry 9.1 to High Caste’s 8.6.
In the King’s Plate their respective
weights are 9.3 and 8.2, and, of course,
the difference may cause the longer race
to be chosen for High Caste. It is prob-
able a lot depends on the effect the St.
Leger has upon him.
* * * *
In their early Doncaster and Sydney
Cup double charts the books gave pref-
erence to High Caste and Ajax for the
first leg. They may be right, but I
should say the odds would be against
either starting. Ajax seems bound to
receive well over 10st., and that means
High Caste will also get a load. At
weight-for-age the difference between
them in March is only 91b., and, though
a great admirer of High Caste, I do not
take kindly to him for the Doncaster.
The weight record for a three-year-old
Doncaster winner is Valicare’s 8.9, which,
as the race was run in April, was 31b.
over w.f.a. The best for a colt is Sir
William’s 8.6 as far back as 1890. An-
other thing is that, if High Caste beats
Reading in the V.R.C. St. Leger, proba-
bilities favor his mission on the opening
day of the A.J.C. meeting being the St.
Leger. Until there are further develop-
ments he is a horse I would avoid as
the first leg of a Doncaster and Cup
double, especially as his price is short
with anything supposed to be a Sydney
Cup possibility.
* * * *
The form of Fearless Fox and Broad-
caster at Caulfield leaves room for doubt
as to Sydney’s two-year-olds being
superior to the Melbourne division. Bad
luck in barrier-draw or in running may
have had something to do with the
failure of the colts mentioned in their
respective divisions of the Alma Stakes,
but there is no getting away from the
fact that both were well beaten. Session
was also a failure, though backed for the
second division of the Alma Stakes in a
manner that suggested she had some-
thing of a mortgage on the race. In
a good position turning for home she
failed to run on.
P. Riddle expects Broadcaster to do
much better at Flemington, where the
track will suit him, but as Trueness has
shown to greater advantage than either
Broadcaster or Fearless Fox at her only
start since going south she may be a
better bet than either for the V.R.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes. Linkboy had
only 8.3 when he won his division of
the Federal Stakes on the opening day
of the Caulfield meeting, but as he ran
away from his opponents in for five
furlongs he reads like being a tough
proposition for anything from Sydney.
Sun Valley made a race record for six
furlongs in winning the first division of
the Alma Stakes, so he also enters into
calculations. Sun Valley did six fur-
longs in l.lly with 8.1, which was only
a quarter-second slower (than Tetreen
(7.8) recorded in beating a good field of
sprinters in the Hawksburn Handicap.
Halifax is another smart Victorian.
* * * *
Three-year-olds have not had marked
success in the Australian Cup of recent
years. Pendil won in 1909, Harvest King
in 1922, Carry On in 1931 and Sylvan-
dale in 1935, the last-named carrying 8.3.
If bookmakers’ betting lists can be re-
garded as a reliable guide, the prospects
of three-year-olds are not particularly
bright this year. At the time of writing
horses of that age still engaged are
Mac Rob and Valmiki.
* * * *
Shipping difficulties stood in the way
of Beau Vite visiting Australia this
autumn, but he is to be kept busy in
Maoriland during the next couple of
months. He is to run in the Autumn
Stakes at Taranaki on March 9, then
in the St. Leger and probably the Chal-
lenge Stakes at Trentham (Wellington)
a week later. The following week will
see him competing at Auckland, where
his engagements include the Great
Northern St. Leger. The two St. Legers
appear soft for him. By then he will
have earned the spell he is to receive
before again visiting Australia for spring
racing.
* * * *
A Wellington paper states that J. T.
Jamieson has bought a property of 250
acres at Pukekura. It is added that
Jamieson will probably keep his brood
mares there, as well as use it for spelling
horses after they have raced in Australia.
* * * *
Hyperion made the best sales average
of yearlings sold at auction in England
last year. Seven by him were disposed
of at an average of 2657 guineas ; Solario
was next, with five averaging 2374
guineas ; and then Bahram, with five at
an average of 2180 guineas. Only one
youngster by Vatout was offered, and he
made 3500 guineas. Vatout is the sire
of Genetout, who is at the St. Aubins
Stud, Scone.
* * * *
The sire with the greatest number of
two-year-old winners to his credit in
North America last season was Jock
(Colin-Kathleen), 16 of his progeny
accounting for 20 races. In money won
Black Toney (Peter Pan-Belgravia) was
an easy first. He had only one winner,
Bimelech, but that colt was undefeated
at his six starts, and earned $135,090.
Reckoning at the rate of $4 to £1 Aus-
tralian that would represent £33,772.
Next on the list of winning youngsters
was Andy K. with £A9902; and then
Straight Lead £A9822, Now What
£A8936, and Victory Morn £A7250.
There’s lots of money to be won in the
United States by a first-class two- or
three-year-old. Perhaps that fact may
yet tempt A. E. Cooper to breed a few
horses to American time. He is enter-
prising in his racing transactions in Aus-
tralia, and, as a breeder, there may be
a chance of America attracting him.
* * * *
Four horses each won over 135,000
dollars in America last year. They were
Challedon, nine wins, $184,535; Kayak
11., eight wins, $170,875 ; Johnstown,
seven wins, $137,895 ; and two-year-old
Bimelech, six wins, $135,090. At $4 to
£1 Challedon earned about £A46,136. He
placed his sire, English-bred Challenger
11., on top for the year, that stallion’s
record being 99 firsts, 75 seconds and
74 thirds, for £A78,865. Imported Sir
Galahad 111. was second with 110 wins,
127 seconds, 109 thirds, and £A70,250.
Wise Counsellor, with 151, had most
wins.
* * ■ * *
Some racegoers are simply irrepressible
in their search for information. They
would resent anyone questioning them
about their private business, but on a
racecourse they think nothing of asking
owners or trainers, with whom they are
only slightly acquainted, what they
think of their horses’ chances. Occasion-
ally they receive well-deserved snubs
from owners, but not often from trainers.
Some of the latter wish to avoid giving
offence, and others are hopeful of recog-
nition, either directly or indirectly, for
a successful tip about something in their
own stable.
* * * *
It is stated by a Wellington paper that
Moorsotis is likely to accompany Royal
Chief to Sydney. Moorsotis has changed
ownership, but is still trained by
F. Jones. Recent form does not suggest
he has improved greatly since the spring.
He won one race and scored a second
and third on returning home after racing
in Sydney, but at his last start he ran
nowhere with 7.0 in the Wellington R.C.
Summer Handicap, 1 mile 3 furlongs,
won by Beau Vite (8.13). He will need to
do a lot better than that to pay expenses
here. The distance of the race he won
was a mile. ■ • -
* * * *
Some of England’s time records cannot
be accepted seriously, this for the reason
that the starting-points are out of sight,
and timeists have to depend upon the
dropping of a flag to tell them the horses
are off. It is probable that the flag-
holder’s attention was engaged in some
other direction when West Wicklow was
credited with winning the Cesarewitch,
2£ miles, in 3.41 4-5 in 1929. The Aus-
tralian record is Marauder’s 3.47 J. A
winner of a mile and a half race over
the last mile and a half of the Cesare-
witch course was also credited with doing
2.23, but in that case it is also safe to
surmise that the flag-holder was looking
elsewhere when a start was effected.
* * * *
Bonny Loch, who had not raced since
the A.J.C. Derby, made a reappearance
at Rosebery last week. He has .neither
grown nor thickened to any marked
extent since the spring, but he is a stylish
colt. Although it was not to be ex-
pected he would be quite wound up,
he started at a short price. He jumped
away fairly but, failing to hold his
position in the first furlong, was not after
a winning possibility. Sharpened up by
his race he should be much better worth
backing when he next runs. Bonny Loch
had 8.2 when he ran third to Rod-
borough (8.7) and Speardale (9.5) in a
Flying Handicap at Rosehill at the com-
mencement of this season, so, in view
of his subsequent form, he was not badly
treated in last week’s lot with 8.5.
* * * *
Meyrick Good, in his “Memoirs” in
the London “Sporting Life,” gives his
impression of the value of jockeys’ tips.
In referring to the fact that he had
never missed a Derby Club luncheon
—inaugurated by the late Edgar Wallace
—at the Press Club, he wrote as fol-
lows: —
Steve Donoghue and Freddie Fox have
been the star performers at many of the
Press Club celebrations. They have
mounted chairs and given us their views
of the chances of their mounts. Other
jockeys have done the same, but I cannot
recall any of them tipping the winner of
the Derby.
* * * *
Queenslander Assegai was one of the
Flying Handicap field at Rosebery, but,
with 8.8, he had not been overlooked
by the handicapper, and did not play
a prominent part. However, as he is a
good stamp of horse, and has excellent
northern performances to his credit, he
will do better. Geebung was another
Flying Handicap runner of note, and,
as usual, moved in somewhat cramped
fashion when doing his preliminary.
There is nothing amiss with him, how-
ever, and though he does not appear
to have grown since early last spring he
has thickened considerably.
* * * *
Advertising tipsters continue to get an
uninterrupted run in England. They in-
clude a few women. In “Racing Up-
to-Date,” published by the Manchester
“Sporting Chronicle,” one, who styles
herself a “lady secretary,” claims to have
picked 60 winners out of 114 big races
in the last three seasons. Of her 114
selections only 17 were unplaced. Her
charges for cabling possible winners of
big races are interesting. The cost of
six big races (early cables) is £lO ; £lB
for 12, £3O for 24, and £4O for 40.
Clients in England are charged 20 p.c.
less. The surprising part is that these
tipsters, both in England and Australia,
should, at a comparatively low fee, be
so anxious to share their information
and judgment with the public. Why not
break the books themselves?
* * * *
As compared with those for this year,
there is a considerable falling-off in
the entries for England’s classic races
of 1941. There are only 211 in the
Derby, while those for this year’s race
totalled 345. The 1941 Oaks closed with
182 entries; Two Thousand Guineas,
182; One Thousand Guineas, 168; and
St.. Leger, 194. The falling-off is, of
course, due jointly to the abandonment
of the Doncaster yearling sales and
the war causing many owners to re-
trench.
* * * *
Totalisator betting is to commence in
New York in April, and that State’s
five tracks have signed installation con-
tracts with the American Totalisator
Company. Everything must be in readi-
ness for operation at the Jamaica track
in April, and this evidently put the Aus-
tralian and English companies out of
the running. The “Thoroughbred
Record” says that, owing to the war,
they could not guarantee installation as
early as required. The Julius machine
operates at Hialeah (Miami, Florida).
H= H= * *
Racing was resumed in France on Dec.
31. It is, of course, recognised that the
war has hit breeding societies very hard,
and while the 12 per cent, deduction from
the totalisator remains the same the
breeding societies will in future get 7 per
cent, instead of 4\ per cent, on Paris race-
courses, and 8 per cent, instead of per
cent, on provincial courses.
* * * *
Many authorities on breeding are
opposed to the progeny of mares more
than nine years of age. In the main they
may be correct, though some very old
mares have thrown good racehorses. In
such cases the sire has generally been
much younger than the dam. In horses,
however, as in human beings, consti-
tution counts, and some mares carry
their age better at 12 than others at


THRILLS S SPILLS!
888
mm
See the Wild
BRAHMA BULLS
At the Spectacular
ROYAL SHOW RODEO
Featured to thrill you . . . new,
breath-taking, daringly stirring
, , . you MUST see the Inter-
national Cowboys try to ride the
wild Brahma Bulls in the Royal
Show Rodeo—staged each night.
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MARCH 16 TO 27
10 DAYS AND 8 NIGHTS
six or seven. An English breeder in
Lord Derby is a great believer in young
mares. He holds that the best results are
obtained from those which have not
raced after they were three years, and
he can point to the fact that he has
bred some of his best racehorses from
very young mares.
Hi % H*
The war and financial difficulties
settled pony-racing at Northolt Park
(London) towards the close of last year,
but, at latest, strenuous efforts were
being made to get it going again, and
a resumption in April was reckoned
possible. At present many owners of
racehorses and ponies in England are
puzzled what to do with them.
* * * *
Women are not licensed as trainers in
England, but at least a couple supervise
the preparation of fairly big teams. The
difficulty is overcome by the head lad
taking out the necessary license. The
only woman to whom the Jockey Club
ever granted a license to train was Mrs.
T. Chaloner, whose husband rode Maca-
roni, the 1863 Derby winner, and five
St. Leger winners. At the age of 95
Mrs. Chaloner is still alive.
* * * *
When Tod Sloan was riding at his
best in England, opinions of some lead-
ing trainers in that country differed
greatly concerning him. Felix Leach,
who was Matthew Dawson’s junior
partner, went so far as to contend that
Sloan’s seat meant a saving of 161 b. over
a mile when the wind was scarcely per-
ceptible ; that with a fairly strong wind
against him the advantage was a few
pounds greater; and that in a high wind
it was as much as 341 b. That could not
well be regarded as other than an exag-
gerated estimate. On the other hand,
Richard Marsh declared that he “would
eat the horse if that sort of jockeyship
could win,” and Herbert Jones, who won
the Derby on Diamond Jubilee, was
expressly ordered to keep to the old
English style when taking the mount on
anything trained by Marsh. The latter,
however, lived to see short stirrups
adopted by most English jockeys of note.
* * * *
An American exchange says that as
little as four years ago dead-heats were
uncommon in that country. Until 1935
the record for a single year was 10, in
1908. In 1935 20 were recorded, but
the following year the number went up
to 115. There were 202 in 1937 and
264 in 1938, the spread of the photo-
graphic finish being apparently respon-
sible for the increase. Recently there
were two in one race, there being a dead-
heat for first place as well as for third.
* * * *
Asa rule the directors of the Chelten-
ham Steeplechase Company in England
give a dinner to the most successful
jumping rider of the season. It was not
held at the end of last year owing to the
war, but the directors of Cheltenham gave
T. F. Rimmell a silver cup in com-
memoration of his success.
M.Q. and Rafferty
One Lovely Punch
If Joseph Hall, Esq., could always be
counted on to joust in the gallant style
he has lately been exhibiting in the Leich-
hardt lists, he’d be worth setting up on a
prancing palfrey and taking round the
country for exhibition. Last week he
carried on the good work by felling the
lantern-jawed Victorian Harry Summers
with a right jolt worthy of a more
romantic name. It was a fair peach of
a punch, not only delivered with neat-
ness and precision but headily pre-
arranged.
It was delivered on Harry’s extensive
but deceptive jawbone shortly in the
second round. In the first Joe had gone
out from his corner, crouched and shot
a wicked left at Harry’s naval base.
Down came Harry’s arms in a protective
move that told Joe all he wanted to
know. Joe was in no hurry. His per-
formance throughout the round suggested
that he’d launch no major offensive this
side of next spring. No doubt Harry
retired to his corner quite happy. Cer-
tainly he came out for the next, and
last, round looking very confident; box-
ing extra-neatly—he’s a nice boxer —and
leading at Joe with everything, includ-
ing, unfortunately, his jaw.
It’s a jaw the like of which hasn’t been
seen at large since Billy Grime’s. Wil-
son’s Promontory is an inlet compared
with it. In times like these it should
have a lighthouse built on it and be lent
to the Empire. Evidently it excited Joe’s
most predatory instincts. There it was,
coming in ahead of Harry like the prow
of’ a battleship. Restraining himself, Joe
ripped some more down below. Avery
careful young man—only a very careful
young fellow could have so well retained
his looks. Now he was making a moral
of it that this beautiful jaw didn’t escape
him like a mirage. His patience lasted
for nearly a minute. Then temptation
overcame him, and he let Harry have
what that jaw had been asking for for
the past round and a bit. Harry bent
into a hoop, and Joe had a flying shot
at him as he fell, maybe not believing
that such a noble jaw could be so vulner-
able. He shouldn’t have worried. It’d
be a sort of honor to take a punch like
that one.
* * * *
News that Tommy Farr has been
“released from the RA.F.” because he
was “below the required medical stand-
ard” might mean any one of a dozen
things. As far as the R.A.F. is con-
cerned the mental requirements for it
seem to be nearer Master of Arts than
exponent of the Noble Art standard, plus
a very hale and hearty physique as well.
Anyone who’s had fights of the gruelling
sort Farr has been through would be
lucky if he could still measure up. Syd-
ney last year witnessed the sad spectacle
of a former top-liner who got into the
ring here and fought with his mouth wide
open. He took still more, of course. It’s
never a good sign, and pictures of Farr
show him like that. He could still be
all right for less fastidious branches of
the forces. Present scribe’s mate in the
early part of the last dust-up was a
pug who’d had the misfortune to tackle
Jerry Jerome when Jerry was just about
at his top. He was a good soldier, too,
and a decent bloke, but his faculties
wouldn’t have got him into a model
aeroplane club, let alone a modern
R.A.F.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
When my ship put into Auckland I
had a most interesting day’s play at the
Titirangi Club, home course of Alec
Murray, Maoriland’s open champion.
Situated in the hills near the city, it is
one of the prettiest courses I have visited,
as well as being a good test of golf.
Although only 6101 yards in length, it
plays much longer in actual fact, as
the atmosphere is heavy and the fair-
ways soft.
All the holes have names. Although
many miles from England I could
almost imagine myself back there again ;
the course clubhouse and surroundings
are such as may be found in the English
counties. Murray is a sound golfer.
Although not very tall he is a solidly-
built type, resembling H. W. Hattersley,
and, like the Australian amateur, drives
a long ball from the tees. Murray would
do well if he crossed to Sydney and
played more frequently with golfers of
his own class.
Like many Australian professionals, he
uses his wrists a lot, rolling over on
the ball with a restricted follow-through
when using iron clubs. On the back-
swing with the wooden clubs he swings
the club oveT the horizontal and plays
the bail with a slight draw from right
to left. His game is easy and effortless ;
he relies mainly on timing and snap of
the wrists at impact to give him his
length. Quite unlike the style of the
American players, Murray, who hails
from Scotland, has an old-fashioned air
about his game. Quiet and unassuming,
he is one of the most accurate golfers
with whom I have had the pleasure of
a game.
Titirangi, which is considered by many
to be the leading course in M.L., could
be made into a most difficult champion-
ship course. Having in mind the Centen-
ary golfing events the club last year
constructed many back tees and increased
the length from 6101 to 7250 yards, but
as the events were postponed the new
tees didn’t come into play. Undulating
fairways give the course many features,
including up- and downhill lies. One
has to keep fairly straight on Titirangi,
as the rough is heavy and the course
well timbered. Lack of many bunkers
is one of the main differences between
M.L. and Australian courses. What few
I saw on the course were very shallow
with hard bottoms, making explosion
shots difficult but enabling the ball to
be chipped out cleanly. From a bunker-
ing standpoint the course is weak; the
greens, while not large, could be im-
proved tremendously by an occasional
bunker or two. At present a slightly
inaccurate shot is not punished as it
should be.
Two-plateau greens stand out on the
course; these two putting surfaces are
uncommon sights, but at Titirangi their
presence puts a premium on bold play,
encouraging the high pitch-shot to the
flag. While the course is on clay soil,
it is not like some Australian courses,
in that the clay seems not so hard.
Although there are a couple of weak
holes, these are balanced by several
where even the “tiger” thinks twice be-
fore going all out for a par.
The par-four third hole of 364 yards
is a real gem; slightly dog-legged to
the right and uphill, with the green just
over a deep grassy dip. I needed a drive
and a No. 4 iron into a gentle breeze to
find the green. The fairway is tree-lined
on both sides, while the green is of a
two-plateau type.
The eleventh and twelfth holes would
be assets on any course. The former
measures 175 yards and is an island
green. From the tee the ball has to
carry over a ravine to reach the green,
which is the only well-bunkered hole in
the 18. A copy of a famous American
hole, it is my conception of an ideal
short hole. The twelfth, of 453 yards,
has been called after the club itself. A
gentle dog-leg to the left, its fairway
runs through dense scrub and trees. By
placing one’s drive on the right-hand
side of the fairway the green is opened
up for the long second shot.
The Maoriland open and amateur
championships this year are to be held at
the Middlemore Club, about 12 miles
distant from Titirangi, towards the end
of September, while the professional title
is to be decided at Napier. On what I
have seen of M.L. courses, English golf
architecture is most prominent. Over-
come the lack of adequate bunkers and
do away with the many flat greens, and
they would compare with the best over-
seas and Australian clubs.
* * * *
More than 20 years ago Sydney knight
James Murdoch gave the A.I.F. Cup to
be battled for by Digger golfers, and
with each year enthusiasm as to its desti-
nation waxes. In a field of more than
400 at Killara the 1940 event was spiked
by Light Horseman W. McAllister, who
finished five up for the round of 18 holes
—a stout effort. L. S. Duesbury, foot-
slogging doggedly, carried the Infantry’s
banner into second place, two strokes
away; his was the best gross score, two
down.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT "
(Formerly of the “Referee.”)
Don Bradman, W. A. Brown and W. J.
Johnson made an interesting selection
of The Rest for the patriotic match:
Bradman, Brown, Lee, Hassett, Rogers,
Don Tallon, Johnson, Waite, Ring, Scott
and Grimmett, with K. Ridings twelfth
man.
Batting is very strong, with two-left-
handers to add to the fun when O’Reilly
and Pepper are bowling. The bowling
is on the slow, tricky side, with three of
them supported by the wind-jammers of
Barrv Scott and the stock bowling of
Waite.
Sievers would have been a better
bowler than Waite, whose cricket, how-
ever, brings in more spice as the public
sees it. It would also have been interest-
ing to see Klose tried —as a bowler, de-
livering round the wicket.
* * * *
S.A. team in the West was very popu-
lar. Bradman (42, 209 and 135) gave
the crowds one rare spot of glitter. On
the last day of the first match he in-
tended to close at four o’clock. At 10 to
four he was 179 and at four he was 209
—3O in 10 minutes.
Eyres and McGill impressed S.A. as
opening bowlers—“nothing better as
openers in Australia” was the verdict.
Each swung the ball either way and kept
a steady length with it.
* * * *
Hector Oakley headed Saturday’s
scores in Melbourne with a neat 139 in
St. Kilda’s 9 for 307 against Fitzroy.
He was quick on his feet and enter-
prising. It was the only 300 total of the
day, and Oakley’s third century this
season. For Carlton v. Essendon Kin-
near contributed a nice 100. Hassett was
a stalwart for South Melbourne with 76
out of 211 against Hawthorn East. Lee
was out for 8, Miller for 5 and John-
son 16.
* * * *
D. Watt got 78 and K. Campbell 79
in building up an attractive 301 for Bris-
bane Colts —not quite good enough to
win, South having made 381. Don
Tallon, bowling for once, took 5 for 105.
Rogers contributed 92 of East Brisbane’s
196 against West. Cook’s figures were
4 for <r >.
* * * *
St. George still holds its lead over
Petersham for the Sydney premiership.
Against Randwick Saints won by 34 runs
on the first innings, needing 20 with four
wickets in hand to win outright at
“stumps.” Colt E. Fisher, with 42 and
45 n. 0., attacked like a seasoned star,
topped in each innings, and saved St.
George.
O’Reilly kept himself fresh by not
over-bowling, and managed 3 for 17 and
5 for 31 on a tip-top wicket. Bill has
taken 61 wickets for 501 runs. Chegwyn
top-scored for Randwick in both digs
73 and 48.
Pepper (Petersham) has taken most
wickets —64 at 12 runs apiece. A club
record, it eclipses that of former fast
bowler and Test umpire Jack Scott.
Pepper has also made over 300 runs.
Bruce Langsworth, who regularly con-
tributes 50 or so to Balmain’s total, got
his first senior-grade century (105)
against Paddington. J. Neilson, anew
man, put together a good 85, but it was
not sufficient.
R. Young, a recent addition to the
Marrickville eleven, made a breezy 117
when his side followed on against
Petersham. The consistent H. Lennertz
(86) helped him to stave off outright de-
feat.
Mosman won a queer game against
Glebe by one run. Leading by 54 on
first innings (199 to 145) Mosman at its
second try put on 24 for the first wicket.
It was still 24 when the fourth wicket
fell, slow-bowler Easton getting three.
At 8 for 58 Mosman closed (McCabe,
injured while fielding, did not bat). Glebe,
with 113 to make in 38 minutes, went
all out for runs. Skipper Stone got a
slippery 55, the Mosman fielders helping
with overthrows. The last batsman took
strike with half a minute to go, and was
out at 111!
* * * *
I’ve been asked how many Victorian
batsmen made two centuries in one
Sheffield Shield match against N.S.W.
Four: Vernon Ransford 182 and 110,
W. H. Ponsford 110 and 110 not out,
K. E. Rigg 100 and 167 not out, and, of
course, Hassett recently, 122 twice.
* * * *
British forces in the Palestine area in-
clude at least three Test players —Robins,
the English amateur, Maurice Tate, who
had forsaken county playing for cricket
writing, and Ray Robinson, of Sydney.
* * * *
Brown has again joined up with the
Q.C.A. A good thing for Queensland
cricket. Without him the Shield eleven
would have to start from well behind
scratch.
Backhouse was beaten in the Victorian
half-mile championship by Laurie Dett-
man, who finished 15 yards in front of
the Australian champion; time, lmin.
57sec. Jim Watt, racing over the last bit
against a strong headwind, won the 220
in 22.25ec.


ĺ
ļ
ľ
iWi
Commencing: Monday Next, MARCH 4
New Variety Revue, “EUCKY STARS,”
featuring: MARIE BURKE and
New Oversea Variety Acts.
Last Days WILD MAHONEY,
EVIE HAYES and Oversea Stars
in the Variety Revue,
“THE HAT TRICK.”
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Symphonic Fantastique”
Petroff as the haunted, tormented
young musician ; Toumanova in the fifth
movement when she was dancing like a
fury among monsters, witches, ghouls,
vampires and all the red devils of hell;
Osato enchantingly graceful at the ball;
Borovansky playing his imaginary flute
in the Grecian idyll; Belsky’s menacing
grotesqueries as the gaoler; the extra-
ordinary patterns of costuming brought
about by contrasts with the flaming
scarlet of the demons; the richness of
the decoration with its effects of sombre
sunset; the triumphant conclusion to
the Berlioz.
This, and much more, was all in “Sym-
phonic Fantastique” at Sydney Royal,
and it showed what magnificent enter-
tainment the ballet can provide when it is
given the right subject for dancing and
when it is free from artiness.
“Symphonie Fantastique” is a master-
piece of choreography with—in spite of
the seemingly discordant elements of
ancient Greeks, Shakspearean witches
and an eighteenth-century ball —a rare
unity. It is a nightmare representation
of the musician’s search for the un-
attainable beauty, and the passages of
gaiety or tranquillity in the midst of the
tragedy fit naturally into the framework
of the dream. It follows the mechanics
of nightmare with an exactness that,
would have sent Freud into ecstasies:
the sense of frustration symbolised in
the “beloved melody,” the sense- of doom
in the gaoler and executioners, terror in
the whirling monsters, frustration again
in the macabre ribaldry of the finale.
Curious that a faithful picture of the
sort of night children have after Christ-
mas dinner should make a powerful and
beautiful ballet—but it does.
Three light ballets, weighed against the
bad dream, made an excellently balanced
programme. “The Hundred Kisses,” a
charming little nothing at any time,
wasn’t any more than that this time.
“Pavane,” presented for the first time in
Australia, is pretty and dignified with-
out being remarkable for anything except
the costumes of the maids of honor, who
manage to look both colorful and grace-
ful with hips nine feet across. Lazovsky,
supposed to be a dwarf who begs from
the ladies, stole the show from them.
“The Blue Danube,” with Lichine all
the better for being more subdued than
usual, was the third lightweight, and
much the best of them.
*
“Giving the Bride Away”
This comedy, farce or three hours of
whirling whatnot is by the two Aus-
tralian playwrights who trade overseas
under the name of Margot Neville.
Presented to a packed house at the
Princess, Melbourne, on Saturday, it re-
vealed a plot so slight in structure that
it defied description. Its ingredients
include a young man (Charles Norman)
who has contracted a marriage of
convenience with a rich but unpre-
possessing and moronic heiress (Frances
Dillon) because his mother (Irene
Mitchell) wants a new sink in the kitchen.
Mr. Norman and his friend Arnold
Riches conspire together to palm the
prospective bride on to Bruce Carroll,
a cheerful new arrival from tropical
Africa who hasn’t seen a white woman
for 14 years and is in that state of
amorous impartiality peculiar to arrivals
from the tropics which is likely to make
him fall in love with the first blonde who
comes into his field of vision. Unfor-
tunately, his path is crossed by a dark-
haired mannequin (Pat Henry), and the
moronic party is snapped up by Cap-
tain Larsen (Eric Kuttner), a Swedish
seadog who turns up under the mis-
apprehension that his friend has been
kidnapped and is being held in bondage,
whereas he is locked in the conservatory
with the brunette.
In the meantime there is a side wager
for the audience in a mild love contest
between Mr. Norman and his friend
for possession of the person of a beau-
tiful dress designer, portrayed by the
appropriately named Nora Peachey.
In the second act the interest shifts
to a bedroom door behind which are
the moronic bride and the tropical gent.
Here Mr. Norman’s agitation becomes
terrific and the wisecracks are a hun-
dred a minute. In the third act the action
is shifted aboard Captain Larsen’s ship
Adine, where the veteran Austin Milroy
captures the laughs as a taciturn Finnish
seaman.
Present writer’s impression was that,
technically speaking, farce-comedy must
be much more difficult to write than
Shakspearean tragedy. The emotional in-
terest being nil, every line has to be a
winner. Charles Norman strikes one as
a nice human fellow who, as a leading
man, feels his responsibility to his col-
leagues intensely. On Saturday night he
was evidently obsessed with the fear that
boredom was round the corner, and
worked incessantly. Eric Kuttner, an
actor exiled from Germany, gave a rich
picture of a comic seadog. Lily Moore,
William Powell (with infant and Asta), Myrna Loy, Nat Pendleton and the
Cuban's offsider, together with knife, b-r-r-lud, etc., in “Another Thin Man,”
at Sydney St. James.
Carrie’s sister, was funny as a maid-
servant with a penchant for beeswax.
AT THE TALKIES.
“The Real Glory”
This current Sydney Regent offering’s
a fine action piece in the best Kipling
tradition, with a handful of whites de-
fending a lonely outpost to the last
couple of men against a bunch of sav-
ages and, of course, eventually beating
the daylights out of them. There’s
plenty of murder and death and destruc-
tion, as well as a cholera plague and any
amount of stoush for good measure.
It’s well directed by Henry Hathaway,
a specialist in vigorous action films,
with such as “Bengal Lancer” to his
credit; and it’s well acted by a string
of tiptop players, with Gary Cooper,
David Niven, Reginald Owen and
Broderick Crawford in the main roles.
Cooper, of course, is always capable,
whether playing comedy, drama or any-
thing else. Here, when he shoots a
savage or holds a hundred of them at
bay with a few sticks of dynamite, he
does it with the same easy naturalness
that seems to make simple history of the
most highly-colored fiction. Niven has
sufficient of Cooper’s ability to make an
excellent partner for him ; and Crawford,
a competent stage actor, completes the
trio of adventurers and adds another
good performance to his varied list.
Scene of the film is the Philippine
Islands about 1906, when Uncle Sam
needed an army there to exercise his
authority. Story concerns one small out-
post’s fight against a mob of native ter-
rorists who were raising the merry devil
throughout the islands. Cooper, Niven
and co. arrive to lick the local army of
natives into shape, first by making sol-
diers of them and, secondly, by ridding
them of an almighty fear of the raiders.
There are a couple of hair-raising assas-
sinations, tortures of the same quality
and any amount of adventure in the
jungles, culminating in a grand all-in
stoush.
Decorative appendages include Andrea
Leeds as the colonel’s daughter and the
superbly villainous phiz of the boss
brigand.
* * * *
“Another Thin Man”
And as far as we’re concerned they
can bring along a battalion of them!
This, it should be mentioned, is stated
without reference to any previous Thin
Man opus, present writer, by some un-
happy miracle, having missed any pre-
vious issue. Therefore, if anyone ups
and declares that this isn’t a patch on
the first Thin Man, or that it’s 20 times
better, that’ll be quite all right with us.
We’re taking this one simply on its own
legs as breezy American comedy, plus
crime, dog Asta and baby.
Seen at Sydney St. James, it makes,
along with a collection of shorts, one
of the diverting bills more often than
not typical of that house. Not that
there’s anything to it any high pur-
pose, or underlying theme, or moral, or
anything of that sort. But as pleasing
light entertainment it’s tiptop.
Of course, being a crime opus, it’s
marred by one of those unfortunate end-
ings. In this case, the ending has one
thing to the good—that the doer of all
the dirty work is kept well planted until
then. But it does mean that Mr.
Powell has to come forth and explain
everything in a somewhat involved public
address that seems to run out for 10
minutes, at least. However, about as
well as that sort of thing can be done,
Mr. Powell does it.
As for his sleuthing, it’s excellent of
the quietly cynical sort. Miss Loy plays
admirably beside him. This young woman
always turns in a good performance be-
side Powell, and seldom other than a
bad one beside anyone else. Dog Asta
hasn’t much to do but does that little
well, and so does the baby.
The moiders, sleuthing, etc., take place
in one of those English country mansions
the Pilgrim Fathers took to Hollywood.
Owner thereof is in a spot of bother,
having a Cuban blackmailer on his track.
So he sends for Mr. Powell, the greatest
detective in the country, whereupon mur-
ders and attempted ditto start happening
all over the place.
The film has, perhaps, as fine a col-
lection of screen scoundrels as it would
be possible to get together. They include
not only a dozen or two gangsters, but
also representatives of Uncle Sam’s
police, these easily beating the thugs for
low-down looks. That is, bar the Cuban.
His evil visage would win a beauty com-
petition in Tophet.
* * * *
“Four Wives”
A sequel to “Four Daughters,” this
current Sydney Century offering creates
the same tranquil domestic scene and
runs on in much the same strain. It has,
however, a few more genuine touches
than the earlier film, and whoever worked
out the central narrative of the piece
knows a bit more of psychology than the
average creator of film fiction.
The core of the film and the accurate
bit concerns a young widow who is
about to remarry. Her first husband
wasn’t mpch good to her and she had
little feeling for him, but when she dis-
covers she is to have his child she begins
raking up the past until, mainly through
sympathy, she has built a halo around
him. The second husband’s manner of
fighting that situation is, except for one
or two highly fictional and unnecessary
incidents, as logical and likely as the
situation itself.
The film’s weaknesses are in its build-
ing up of the idealistically happy domestic
relations between the four daughters and
their families. So much space is given
to that angle that, although addicts of
sentimental fare won’t complain, the film
sprawls out to a loosely woven and dis-
jointed narrative and runs on a good
deal beyond what should be its normal
running time.
Cast includes Claude Rains, May
Robson, the Lane sisters and Gale Page,
all of them well suited to their roles.
Eddie Albert, a newcomer to this com-
mentator, seems to be one of the most
promising young actors the screen has
offered for some time.
* * * *
“The Roaring Twenties”
For the 935,774th time Hollywood says
“crime does not pay,” this time at Syd-
ney Plaza with a gangster opus that is
considerably more ambitious than suc-
cessful.
The diminutive but forceful James
Cagney returns from war and drifts into
racketeering ; by hard work and devotion
to duty he rises to the top of the tree,
whence he is displaced by Humphrey
Bogart and sent to the usual sticky finish.
The film attempts to give itself some
national significance by including de-
pictions of the 1914-18 war, the Wall-
street crash of 1929 and an urgent,
dramatised commentary. But they’re all
superfluous and irrelevant.
* * * *
Artbursts.
J. Noel Kilgour, whose show at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, was opened
by Julian Ashton, is a graduate of the
Julian Ashton School, and studied land-
scape painting under the unrelated Will
Ashton. Nine years ago a Travelling
Scholarship took him to London; the
Royal Academy has accepted his pictures
and hung at least one of them “on the
line.” He returned to Australia last year.
The show —oils, water-colors, pencil-
studies —is full of pleasing work. There
is clever portrayal of character in “The
Old Waiter,” “Woman in Black,” “Chess
Players” and “The Whelk Stall.” An-
other good figure study is “Bayswater
Balcony.” There is a suave treatment
of boskage in various sylvan landscapes,
and “Snow in London” has some clever
painting in it. “Bank Holiday, Hamp-
stead Heath,” full of gaudy merry-go-
rounds and the like, copes neatly with
kaleidoscopic jangles of color.
Though the excellence of their crafts-
manship entitles them to respect, these
pictures show no particular individuality.
In a different category are “Canal Barge”
and “Engine Drivers Resting,” essays in
design so purged of unessentials as to
appear posteresque, but charming in
their grace of line and cleanliness of
color. There is also a personal touch in
“Paddington Baths Chimney” which ex-
tracts some beauty from a most un-
promising source.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL, SPRINGWOOD.
e '
\
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
Personal and Missing Friends.
Re Estate of Ernest Evans, Deceased.
EVANS, John J. (born about 1880, son of
John Evans and Mary McDonagh), or any
person knowing his whereabouts, is requested
to communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE.
14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, in connection with the estate of Ernest
Evans, deceased.
BULL, James, Junior, formerly of Cowra, or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, please com-
municate with GEORGE PILE AND CO..
Solicitors, Blayney, immediately. If nothing
is heard to the contrary it is proposed to make
application to the Supreme Court for leave
to swear to his death.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
A long time ago this Letter thought
she knew her Ibsen because a visitor
from Norway adored more than all
else to read the great playwright
aloud. But the images of “Peer Gynt”
having become a bit blurred, with
many more drama-lovers she went to
Beryl Bryant’s garden last Saturday.
The pjay started in daylight, about half-
past four. The action took place on a ■
high bank set with gum-trees, on a
smoothed-off plot below it to the right.
A pigeon-loft in between two rows of
seats was used as the millhouse roof, and
high on the slope among the trees was
glimpsed the hut of Solveig, ever wait-
ing for her wandering boy. In the high
windows of the house next door people
sat at gaze. But this was part of the
atmosphere. As afternoon turned to
dusky evening, the girls next door be-
came dryads in the trees on their own
side of the fence.
As the moon rose and the stars got
tangled in the trees, it became harder
than ever to be fully aware which side
of the stage was reality. Norman Max-
well, who was Peer, never once faltered
in his lines. He has a flexible voice, full
of light and shade and meaning. It is
second only to lohn Gould’s. Even Ibsen
must have liked his Peer. Dorothy Hem-
ingway was the scolding, loving Aase ;
Mea MacDonald a wistful Solveig. The
woman in green was Beryl Bryant. A
band of girls who were alternately wed-
ding guests, trolls and mourners changed
from part to part with dash and spirit.
Slim and graceful and altogether un-
athletic the hands of the two ladies in
“Pavane” seemed to weave the whole
pattern of old Spain, the mannered, the
grandiose. How wide and stately were
the skirts of black and gold, of pink and
silver, and what a pleasant age they and
their courtiers suggested—a sort of world
where “rounded little hills of ease divide
the pleasures of the day.” Sydney liked
this new ballet. Mrs. John Reid, of
Newcastle, was among admirers of
Tamara Toumanova in the “Symphonie
Fantastique.” Down in front Margaret
Salenger’s dark head arose over a flash
of cerise. Sky-after-rain blue was worn
by Mrs. Roy Buckland, the twinkle of
diamente raindrops here and there on it.
Among the army of white sisters Mrs.
James Dickson’s tall slimness was ad-
mired. Stewart Lake, a devotee of the
ballet from Melbourne, after having his
cake here is going to eat it again down
south. Mrs. Edgar McCallum (who was
Grace Lowe) was all “covered up,” which
is the latest style for evening frocks in
London and New York. Mrs. McCallum
comes from Boston, but, as she says, with
a good ’plane service that is practically
a suburb of New York. The black
jacket of her slimly-fitting frock was
emblazoned with a grape-leaf design in
gold, and about her neck she had one
of the new heavy gold necklets. With
her was Mrs. Wunderlich. As Mrs. A.
E. Grace passed to her place, her long
cape of mist-blue chiffons was one of
the night’s best effects. Regulars in-
cluded Mrs. Edye, Mrs. Lee and
Stephanie Edye. Press engagees of the
week being congratulated were Jo Fallon
and Judy Molesworth. Judy took her
congratulations all Roman-striped.
The Glad gallery opened on Wednes-
day of last week. Officially, it is known
as the Jamieson, but the Glad couple
(she was Helen Lindsay) looked so happy
over their new undertaking, and the long
windows look out on a terrace of flower-
ing pot-plants as blithe as a balcony
scene in Italian light opera, so the Glad
Gallery it will remain for this Letter.
The walls are faintly grey, and the land-
lord, the Feltex company, has laid down
a soft mole carpet. At the windows
there are off-white net curtains. The
walls are hung with luscious Norman
Lindsays. Mrs. Clement Chapman
arrived early and bought a picture.
Maybe living in the country suggested
her choice, “The Keepers of the Bull.”
Howard Hinton was another first-day
buyer.
Last week was hot, but even so the
caller at the Industrial Arts Club grew
enthusiastic over the woollen weaves, the
work of the members. There was a
white coat, hand-spun and hand-woven
by Marie Moneypenny, in which
some woman of charm will charm
even more. John Nicholls and Alfred
Ackland show some fine grey and wine
tweeds. One member has a pre-
monition that antimacassars are com-
ing back, and has woven a few sets in
blue and old gold and green and gold.
If you want an Angora scarf direct
from the bunny’s back, call on Alice
Wiles. Alice breeds her Angora, spins his
wool and then weaves it into scarves and
suchlike. Any housekeeper would like
Faith Box’s table mats and cot covers.
Jessica Booth, who specialises in English
and Scottish wools, turns out some smart
travel tweeds. Australian women are
growing keen over hand-woven materials.
Two things about them which appeal is
that a woman can have a dress length
of exclusive design, and that, though
hand-woven material may stretch, it
always pops back again.
Pioneer of the hand-woven wool dress
in Sydney was Mrs. Toby Browne. Lady
Gowrie last year became possessed of an
evening dress length, and now Mrs. R. G.
Casey takes one, in white and silver, to
America.
Among them the Grant Cooper sisters
touch on almost every phase of life in
Sydney. Tistie, the pretty girl in this
picture by Dayne, is a physical culture
teacher as well as a clever ballet dancer.
She has her Royal Academy of Dancing
(London) certificates to show she is a
qualified teacher of this art. A few
weeks ago she promised to adven-
ture into matrimony with Fred Bridges
McAlister. Sister Mabelle was awarded
the 0.8. E. for her work in the
cause of British settlers. Writing letters
to lonely, sad or sick emigrants from the
Old Dart is one of the duties she allotted
to herself years ago. She has written
literally thousands of cheering epistles to
migrants in our midst. Another sister,
Nelle, writes children’s books, while still
another is Mrs. C. J. Pope, wife of Cap-
tain Pope of the Navy. He is now busy
in unknown waters on the Navy’s lawful
occasions.
Charles Burchell, K.C., his wife and
daughter must have registered still an-
other good impression of Sydney at the
reception given to them by the Canadian
Women’s Association. This was held in
Florida, Rose Bay, whose stretching view
sweeps out to the Heads. Mr. Burchell,
who is Canada’s new High Commis-
sioner, has an easy manner and a quick
smile and does not appear mail-armored
in formality. Maple leaves brought by
Mrs. Halse Millet from her own garden
conveyed a flavor of home to the new-
comers. Canada’s Trade Commissioner,
Colonel Moore-Cosgrave, and Bishop
Pilcher were speakers who added a
sparkle to the day. Mrs. Burchell’s
small hat was high as to crown, and
wore a gay little feather. Her frock
was of burgundy lace. Daughter Ida’s
frock was darkly green. Mrs. Moore-
Cosgrave, Gloria Moore-Cosgrave and
Mrs. N. R. McMorran were among the
smartly frocked.
Back from the land of the Monroe
Doctrine, Sydney’s Linda Littlejohn
presents a smiling face and her
usual alert figure to her home town.
She has been away for a long, long
time, adding an easy-running creek of
words to the already immense river of
lectures that flows for ever throughout the
pleasant land of the Americas. On the
night of her arrival home she took the
platform in the Assembly Hall and told
Australia about America as she had
found it. She singled out the wife of
President Roosevelt for a special spray
of laurel. Earlier in the day (in fact,
she went direct from the ship to the
party) Mrs. Littlejohn had been enter-
tained by the United Associations.
Mrs, Harold Wheeler, organiser of
Narrabri’s “Naval Occasion” on March
9, wishes it known that the committee
is collecting junk, such as discarded
jewellery (real or imitation), handbags,
books, pictures. It is hoped to make the 1
Old Curiosity Shop a feature of the
affair.
Sheila Stark is about to add matri-
mony to her many accomplishments. One
of the most popular girls in hockev
circles, Sheila has played Inter-State
hockey for N. S. Wales. She is an expert
fencer, and was at one time on the staff
of the Swords Club. At present she
holds a job in the Physical Training De-
partment of the Y.W.C.A., and is also on
the staff of the Sydney C. of E. Girls’
Grammar, Forbes-street. Photograph by
Falk.
The Norman McLeods’ five-to-seven
music party last Sunday introduced the
newly-arrived Dr. and Mrs. Nemet to a
group of Sydney musicians. The doctor’s
subject is law, and his wife is a spark-
ling violinist who will be heard in a
programme of old Italian masters on
Easter Sunday night, through the A.B.C.
Darkly blue was the hostess’s afternoon
frock ; the thick corded ribbon about the
waist was the pink of rose crystal. Niece
Jocelyn Targett had a gipsyish air in her
jade-greens and rose-reds. Roses, zinnias
and bush flowers had been set lavishly
in great bowls and with artistic discern-
ment in slender vases. The mental and
emotional fare was music ; the merely
physical appetite was served with savories
of many lands, including those of Latvia.
Last week Gwen Griffiths became
Mrs. L. J. Dunkerley, of Wollongong.
Gwendolen Catharine was on the
“Woman’s Mirror,” and was indeed its
third “Franziska,” in addition to doing
work on its film pages. In her spare
time she was a bright amateur actress.
The Hermitage, Geelong (Vic.), was her
school.
Hats and frocks that had just got out
of Paris in time were shown at the Aus-
tralia last week to help Lady Gowrie’s
Red Cross campaign. As was to be
expected, war being in the air, styles
are more feminine than ever. That
is a psychological reaction. No husband
or sweetheart wants to come back from
the Maginot, the submarine or even
Ingleburn camp to find his best-girl
dressed as a toy soldier or wearing
the equivalent of what Mr. Walsh’s
Thomasheen James calls “a deep-seawater
pilot’s cap.” So black taffetas, long and
swinging, swirled their flounces. Grey, it
seems, will compete with black in the
fashionable woman’s wardrobe. Revers
of fur enrich topcoats. The long and
voluminous evening skirt is still with us.
An airliner brought the wife of Rear-
Admiral Crace, who is in command of
the Australian Navy, to Sydney last week.
For another six months or so her address
will be Park-lane Mansions, Rushcutter
Bay. In England the Crace home is in
Hampshire. Of the three sons, the eldest,
Allan, is a midshipman in the R.N. The
other two sons are still at school.
Dorothy, youngest daughter of Aubrey
Abbott, Darwin’s Administrator, has
splashed well into the news this
week with her engagement to Squad-
ron-Leader Kellett, who led his bombers
so efficiently to our shores some two
years ago. It is quite a romantic
affair, as young Dorothy met him on
that flight when he was a guest at the
Residency. The flying man, who has
been in our minds since he flashed down
over Heligoland, was prompt to renew
the acquaintance when the Australian
lass travelled to London —arriving, inci-
dentally, just after the “outbreak” —to
stay with sister Mrs. Colin Bednall.
The Egan-Minnett wedding links up
in more ways than one. Cricket and
football will now become relatives in
the first degree. To those who frequented
the Cricket Ground in the halcyon days
before 1914, Minnett was a name to
conjure with. Now the name of Egan
strongly represents football, Brian being
a star international of a few seasons
back. Minnetts have wandered into
the paths of law and medicine ; Roy
is now a Manly medico. The Egans
belong to the land in the good old
tradition. They staked their claim out
Warren way many a year ago. The John
Egans hold Kiamerin, and the Tom
Egans, the newly-wed’s grandparents,
Mt. Harris, where Charlie, Brian’s father,
now flourishes, having linked up the
family with another of the old stock
when he married Meta, of the Antill
clan.
A vivid portrait of Madame Lul
Gardo, dressed in pre-Soviet Russian cos-
tume, on her head a richly embroidered
and jewelled headdress, greets the visitor
to this Russian lady’s exhibition. This
is in Anthony Horderns’ Art Gallery,
and consists of exotic embroideries,
unique tapestries and dolls dressed to the
last detail as inhabitants, of high and
low degree, of those countries that seem
to have inspired much of the costuming
of the Russian Ballet. Worthy of a
Bakst decor is a coat of heavy off-white
linen, closely embroidered in opulent
reds and greens. An enviable shawl in
black is said to be one of the oldest in
the world.
The Russian lady, who has collected
her curios in many countries, proved that
besides being an author she has a voice
of dramatic quality. In her travels she
has collected something like 5000 folk
and national songs, and at the opening
she sang a programme of them. If the
songs in Russian and other multicolored
languages were as full of the sentiment
of their countries as was “Come Back
to Erin” then they were indeed well sung.
Annette Kellerman to her house
perched above Balmoral coo-eed all the
mermaids in her Olympic Pool show and
many of the committee of the pageant.
When Annette gives a party it starts in
the afternoon and goes on into the stilly
night. Girls began to park their hats
about three o’clock, and from then on-
wards guests arrived every few minutes.
A bright moment was the entry of Gladys
Moncrieff. Mrs. Ben Edye, sister Mrs.
Lee and Stephanie Edye were early
arrivals ; so were Mrs. Bruce and Mrs.
Ken Prior. Mrs. Sinclair Gillies and
daughter Brenda were there. Newly re-
turned to Australia Helen Macßobert,
the Frank Alberts, the Patricks, and
bushels of pretty girls with those hand-
span waistlines graced the party.
By half-past five tea was hustled off to
be replaced by drinks, and still later by
grilled chops for all. These were sus-
tenance for the husbands who had called
for their wives. Everybody sat about a
long board (formed by numerous bridge
tables) on the balcony, while the moon
silvered the waters, the stars looked down
and the searchlight raked the most
romantic corners of the garden.
Back from the pleasures and palaces
of Japan the Tom Walsh couple
were welcomed by a great rally
of admirers last week. The Blax-
land Gallery was the chosen spot,
and about the rows of long tea-tables
women were eagerly drinking in first
Adela Pankhurst Walsh’s speech (there
were 41 pages of script, roughly about
5000 words) and later, the heat being
what it was, cups of tea. The speech
was mostly eulogy of Japan, and Adela's
hosts in Japan must have been pleased, if
they had heard her, at her reactions to their
country. Something we might learn from
it is the error of denuding our slopes
of trees. “The mountains,” said Mrs.
Walsh, “are planted with trees right to
the very summit, consequently there is
not the problem of soil erosion. Mrs.
E. A. Thomas, of Chatswood, was the
secretary, and Miss Capel, of Roseville,
the treasurer of the party.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
w SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 8 of 1937.
BETWEEN DOLLY THOMSON Petitioner
And LESLIE PHILLIP THOMSON (also
known as Leslie George Thomson and
Lance Phillip Thomson) Respondent.
TO LESLIE PHILLIP THOMSON (also known
as Leslie George Thomson and Lance
Phillip Thomson) of Broken Hill in the
State of New South Wales.
take NOTICE that the said DOLLY
THOMSON has commenced a suit against you
m this Honorable Court and is applying for
dissolution of marriage on the ground of de-
sertion by you for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Twentieth day of May next and in the event
of your not so doing within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this 22nd day of February, One
thousand nine hundred and forty.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
D. R. HALL & CO., Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, 91 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 133 of 1940.
BETWEEN JOHN RICHARD ROBINSON
Petitioner
And RUBY IRENE ROBINSON Respon-
dent.
TO RUBY IRENE ROBINSON late of 55
Railway Street Petersham.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JOHN
RICHARD ROBINSON has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion by you in that you
failed to comply with the decree of this Honor-
able Court for restitution of conjugal rights
made on the Nineteenth day of December One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight in suit
No. 803 of 1938 AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the Twentieth day of
May One thousand nine hundred and forty and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application by you to the undersigned free
of charge.
DAIED this Twentieth day of February,
a.d. 1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
NEIL McTAGUE, of MESSRS. CLIFTON
R. PENNY & NEIL McTAGUE, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, 81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ROWLAND RENTON formerly of Perth
I l.s. 1 in the State of Western Australia
(h.s.J_ Butcher.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing
date the Twelfth day of July One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-nine has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia citing you to appear and answer the
petition of EDITH AUDREY RENTON of
489 Beaufort Street Perth in the State of
Western Australia Married Woman praying
for dissolution of her marriage with you ROW-
LAND RENTON. IN DEFAULT of you so
appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear
the said Petition proved and pronounce sen-
tence therein. AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you
are within SIX WEEKS from the date of the
publication of this Notice to attend in person
or by your Solicitor at the Central Office of
the Supreme Court of Westerp Australia at
Perth and there to enter an appearance in a
book provided for that purpose.
T. F. DAVIES,
Registrar.
FRED CURRAN, of the firm of MESSRS.
CURRAN & CORSER, of Nos. 37-39 Pad-
bury Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth, in the
State of Western Australia, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
To be advertised:
(a) “The Bulletin” published at Sydney
in the State of New South Wales.
One advertisement.
Melbourne
Chatter
Woollen coats and suits and new
season hats (with a forward tilt and
bunched at the back with ribbon that
often ended in long streamers) gave the
closing day of the Caulfield autumn
meeting the fashion note of which it
was cheated by the summery weather at
the opening. The more one sees of the
snood, the less one likes it. The modern
woman can get away with the nipped-
in waist and the hat of the ’sixties, but
she meets her Waterloo when she puts
her head in a net bag. Examples were
on view of color combinations that have
not been blended by the fashion experts
for nearly half a century. Vivid red
showed up on black, brown kept com-
pany with moss-green or dark blue,
robin-red joined forces with dusty-pink,
and old-fashioned magenta was intro-
duced in unexpected places. Mrs. M.
Cato, of Sydney, took the demureness
out of grey with purple accessories.
A spot of magenta brightened up
Valerie Purves’s outfit, and Iris Connolly
popped on a saucy bit of military-red
headgear, the color being picked up again
about the bodice of her black jersey
frock. Mrs. Geoffrey Cohen’s autumn
suit of nigger-brown had the coat seams
piped in dark blue, this piping effect
being a special feature of the styles.
Mrs. R. R. Thomas put silver fox on her
sleeves instead of her back. A black
satin frock worn by Dr. Lorna Bray
showed the new dropped and draped
waistline at its best, and her black felt
pillbox hat provided evidence of the
daring way colors are being blended this
season, being pink in front and blue be-
hind.
Summery frocks dotted flower-bord-
ered lawns on a warm, sunshiny day in
the middle of last week, when the
Moonee Valley race meeting provided an
excuse for filching an afternoon off from
patriotic service. No jockey in the saddle
flaunted a gayer combination of color
than did Mrs. Keith Halley, with biue,
green, red and yellow daisies in outsize
scattered about a white frock and her
hair tucked under a red net turban. Mrs.
Cecil Raphael struck another gay color
note by hanging a chartreuse-green (or
was it yellow?) sash on a pink skirt. Floral
frocks alsp helped to make things gay,
one of the brightest mixtures being aired
by Mrs. Tristan Buesst, who kept a
white cartwheel hat in correct position
despite the breezes. Mi's. A. G. Hunter,
who is as fond of horses and racing as
her sport-loving husband, wandered
around linked with Mrs. W. S. Cox, the
club secretary’s wife, and Mrs. W. Pulte-
ney Mein.
Riding habits of long ago, peg-top
skirts, the kind of evening frock favored
by Victoria the Good, bustle draperies,
the hour-glass figure and those volumi-
nous skirts worn by the women who sat
for Spanish painters in the seventeenth
century were all mixed up in the new
season’s styles presented at a Bourke-
street store last week. The models were
“inspired”—that was the word used by
the announcer over and over again—by
Balenciaga, the Spanish fashion designer
who fled to Paris when the machine-guns
were rattling in the land of his birth.
Perhaps the enforced exit and the grim
accompaniment may explain why Balen-
ciaga’s styles are as mixed as his country’s
politics. He adores stripes and broad
bold checks, vivid splashes of color and
fantastic designs. He confides that he
got the inspiration for topping a full and
flowing skirt, the color of burnt sugar,
with a green-spangled velvet bustle coat
from taking a good look at a tree. The
majority of Australians who saw this
masterpiece definitely preferred his utility
dinner frock of navy blue jersey.
As the Australia Comforts Fund drew
the first and second days’ takings the
show had a hearty social backing, Lady
Dugan taking tea with the Lady
Mayoress on the opening day. Mrs.
Walter Carnegie, looking cool, calm and
collected in black-and-white-dotted silk,
organised the affair. Joan Darling and
Mary York Syme were busy selling 300
tulips grown out of season by the Coles
Mayoral couple on their Olinda patch.
Judith Lavery and Eirene Angliss found
it no bother at all to make a good profit
out of selling programmes with one of
Balenciaga’s scarlet ladies blazing on the
cover. The mannequins did not have
things all their own way. Some of the
spectators were as smart as any figure
walking the plank. None of the model
winter hats could overshadow the head-
gear of Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh, who
sported a broad-brimmed straw in
natural color with the crown like an
inverted dice-box.
The coming and going that had been
shaking Sherbrooke to its very founda-
tions worked up to a crescendo at the
wedding of Margery Nicholas and Bill
Gluth, which took place in the garden
of Burnham Beeches, the home of the
bride. For weeks before the event
motors, lorries, bicycles, vans and every
kind of cart kept dashing in and out the
gateway marked “Tradesman’s En-
trance” in big gold letters. The florists
were working on the decoration scheme
seven days ahead, and months ago an
astrologer was consulted to guide the
bride in the choosing of a fine day.
Luckily for him the weather was all he
predicted, warm and sunshiny.
An improvised altar decked with bridal
flowers faced the garden where the
guests were seated, and amplifiers broad-
cast the ceremony. There were oodles
of frangipanni, white lilies and lily-of-
the-valley, but not one orchid. The
bride’s choice fell upon gardenias and
the old-fashioned stephanotis. A brace
of bridesmaids and a couple of matrons
of honor danced attendance on the bride,
all wearing similar frocks of hydrangea-
blue chiffon with crownless bonnets
finished with pink velvet streamers
and carrying muffs of pastel-tinted
hydrangea. In this group of four were
Mrs. Maurice Nicholas, Mrs. Curteis
Crawford, Miss Betty Webb and Joan
Ramsay.
The device that held Margery’s wed-
ding veil in position was more like a
toque than a bridal wreath. Her grand-
mother’s gift, a sapphire-and-diamond
brooch, gleamed at the neckline of her
close-fitting vellum-tinted wedding robe
of lustrous satin.
Pictured here by Dickinson-Monteath
is Joan Outhwaite, whose engagement
was announced a few days ago to Wil-
flam a’Beckett. His parents have a couple
G f homes, one in Toorak and the other a
lovely old property at Berwick. The
three Outhwaite girls, Joan, Pat and
Jenny, have all been trained to earn their
daily bread. Being blessed with a mathe-
matical mind, Joan turned her attention
to figures, and is well advanced in accoun-
tancy. In her leisure hours she is fond
0 f a spot of fancy work or a bit of knit-
ting. she is the eldest daughter of Mr.
arid Mrs. A. H. Outhwaite, lona-avenue,
Toorak, so the parents of the young
couple are within coo-ee of each other.
Wool is out to win. Once the
Cinderella of dress materials, today it is
making all other fabrics look to their
laurels. Combining lightness of texture
with artistic colorings and attractive de-
signs, wool nowadays bears no resem-
blance to its utility form of yesterday,
Taking advantage of its improved status
in the world of fashion, the Australian
Wool Board staged a mannequin parade
at the Australia and celebrated the
launching of an autumn collection featur-
ing day and evening frocks made of this
fabric in its latest guise. It was a semi-
private affair, enabling many of those
vitally interested to have a close-up of
the creations before they reached the
shop windows. As chairman of the
board Dalziel Kelly was host-in-chief,
and his lady gave him a helping hand.
As soon as the peaches with the
yellow interiors are ready for picking,
Myra Morris intends to make for the
Canning Country to gather material for
another novel. She will get her first
glimpse of the industry from her orchard-
ist sister, who is settled at Shepparton.
Myra has written about Victoria’s ranges
and coastlines and the Mallee, and now
she is going to try her hand at knock-
ing a human story out of one of the
State’s profitable industries. She had one
awful moment when engaged upon her
last novel, Dark Tumult, when she found
that her publisher in England was adver-
tising it while she was still writing the
story. This young Australian’s first
novel, Wind on the Water, has been
serialised for the radio, and will be put
over the air next month.
Myra is keen on writing short stories,
and confides that she would rather have
one book of short stories published than
half a dozen novels. She considers that
Australian writers have plenty of copy
in their own country, and they should
not hanker after writing about other
places of which they know little.
Enough gladioli to sink a schooner
were handed over after the last curtain
of “Giving the Bride Away.” The women
players were almost smothered with floral
sheaves. A valiant effort was made by
the management to impart a gala atmo-
sphere with mammoth mounds of the
brightest of flowers about the place, a
giant basket of variegated blooms tied
up with enough pink tulle to make a
bridesmaid’s frock having the star posi-
tion. More sheaves were showered upon
the authors, Margot Goyder and sister
Ann Neville, who shared a box with their
play partner, the English actor Gerald
Kirby. “Terrified” was how Margot
expressed her feelings before the show,
but she said “Thank you very much”
firmly and clearly when the call came.
“Giving the Bride Away” is more a
thing of cute lines and sly hits than
a play proper.' Irene Mitchell, loosen-
ing up after a day’s turmoil, captured
the biggest laugh in the show. The audi-
ence paid the Australian playwrights the
compliment of dressing a la premiere.
Mrs. Henry Rosenthal was all lit up with
a new kind of jewellery in clear glass.
Feathers made for festiveness. The
Linton lady’s ears were studded with
scarlet to match a ruffled feathered cape.
A boa of soft white feathers draped the
Fuller lady’s shoulders, and Merrie Hart
topped azure blue with a feathered cape
in the same tone. Amid all the
Edwardian coiffures and flower-decked
corsages it was quite a relief to come
across Joan Gullett in a simple vieux-
rose frock and untortured hair. During
the intervals Mrs. Garnet Carroll buzzed
about the foyer scattering invitations to
toast the success of the play. She had a
moment of excitement when she met the
wife of Squadron-leader Walters and
discovered she was the daughter of the
Vicar of Parramatta, who had christened
Mrs. Carroll. Mrs. Carroll’s brunette
coloring was effectively set off with a
soft white frock waisted with a dark
belt of Swiss peasant design.
Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Willey have taken
leave of their talented daughter Sybil,
winner of the Melba scholarship, and
wended their way back to Brisbane. The
family farewell was the last link in the
pleasure chain, and now the young
student has settled down to hard study.
As seen by the photograph, taken at the
Broothorn studio, the 1940 winner of
this musical prize has a radiant person-
ality and a good square chin to take her
over the rough places. The pilgrimage
to Melba’s grave took place on Saturday,
and Sybil was one of the many to pay
reverent homage to the famous songbird.
It was during the last war that Melba
became interested in the Albert-street
Conservatorium, and founded the Melba
School of Singing, leaving as her final
token a bequest of £BOOO to found a
scholarship.
Dust covers have been drawn over the
velvet settees in Government House ball-
room for the duration. The vice-regal
dais has been obliterated, a mammoth
sheet that displays the Red Cross motif
hiding its velvet and gilding. The ball-
room floor is covered with machines,
and the buffet where so many champagne
suppers have been served will now be
used as a canteen for the honorary
seamstresses. This branch of the Red
Cross service has been organised by Lady
Dugan, who got it into full working
order last week. During the last war
patriotic workers were satisfied with
mere treadle machines, but the world
has speeded up since then. Lady Dugan
has been able to install six power
machines and an electric buttonholer,
and also a device for rolling bandages.
The Bruche lady will help to make the
vice-regal leader’s duties a little lighter,
and Mrs. Lloyd Noad and Joy Armytage
will stand by the movement in a secre-
tarial capacity.
No sooner had Mrs. Sverre Lie ie-
turned from her seven weeks’ holiday
than she found herself caught up in the
excitement of trousseau-buying and wed-
ding-planning. Dagrun (“Daggi” for
short) Kaaten, her niece from Norway,
whose engagement to Desmond Cox was
announced at the beginning of the year,
decided to name the day. Mrs. Lie lost
no time in getting out the invitations,
and friends have been bidden to come
to Christ Church, South Yarra, on the
evening of March 7, and to toast the
young couple at Grosvenor after the mar-
riage service. Desmond is a lieutenant
in the R.A.A.F. The five-year-old son of
Mr. and Mrs. Lie will be put into page-
boy suit to follow his youthful god-
mother up the aisle,
Sverre Kaaten is coming from Sydney
to give his sister away, and Helen Grif-
fith, of Albury, has promised to wear
a bridesmaid’s frock in a color that will
harmonise with the blue gown of the
fair-haired bride. Daggi can put art into
craft in the making of gloves, but prob-
ably on this occasion she will be content
to wear a kid pair put through its paces
by a common manufacturer.


“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
in" radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting the
Australian equivalent of 3 American dollars
through “The Bulletin” Office, 202 George
Street, Sydney.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .. . 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
THE FLYING COLUMN
A Gift of 900 Machines.
“Aldis”: Britain is presenting 400 Fairey
Battles to the R.A.A.F. Because these
single-engined bombers are not quite suit-
able for the rapidly-advancing technique
of air war on the Western Front, it
doesn’t follow that they will be of no
use to Australia. Far from it. As trainers
they will be excellent material.
Carrying a crew of three and powered
by a Rolls-Royce Merlin engine, the
Battle knocks out 257 m.p.h. at 16,000 ft.
Range is 1000 miles and a disposable
load of 4125 pounds can be carried.
Armament consists of one fixed and one
free machine-gun. Construction is of
the stressed-skin type throughout, except
for the portion of the fuselage in the
region of the pilot’s cockpit, which is
a built-up structure of steel tubes. Bombs
are carried internally.
Other things with which the Battle
is provided are automatic pilot, radio,
photographic, night-flying and oxygen
equipment. The undercarriage retracts
backwards, but sufficient of the wheels
project below the wings and a landing
might be made while they are still in
the retracted position. Split-trailing edge
flaps extend from fuselage to ailerons,
being hydraulically operated by four
Lockheed jacks worked from either an
engine-driven pump or emergency hand-
pump. In fine, the Battles will be mighty
useful craft for the R.A.A.F., and will
give engineers some handy working ex-
perience on the Merlin engine.
With 400 of these still-formidable
’planes, with 500 more Avro-Ansons to
be given by Britain (according to Minister
Fairbairn Ansons have been successful
in combats with German reconnaissance
machines), with three lots of Lockheed
Hudsons delivered and an increasing
number of Wirraways available, the
R.A.A.F. is flapping its wings lustily.
American Fighter Types.
The Allison engine, built by General
Motors for use in fighter-type aircraft,
has American birdmen talking. It is
apparently the only liquid-cooled aero-
motor developed for military purposes in
U.S.A., horse-power rating being 2000.
Several makes of ’planes are Allison-
equipped, one notable in the single-
engined jobs being the Curtiss-Wright
P-40. This fighter appears at first glance
to have certain external features of the
Hawker Hurricane, Supermarine Spit-
fire and the Miles Master, but lacks the
perfect streamline form of the British
types.
A previous Curtiss fighter fitted with
the Allison engine was the P-37. The
Lockheed Co. produced a twin-engined
fighter with two of these 2000-h.p. units
known as the YP-38. Primary purpose
of this is to engage heavy and well-
armed bombers, and in this respect it
has a German counterpart in the Messer-
schmitt Mel 10. Speed is said to be
“considerably in excess of 350 m.p.h.,”
a claim that, judging by other Lock-
heed types, is probably well substantiated.
U.S.A. has another twin Allison-
engined fighter, known as the Airacuda.
In this design the engines drive pusher
airscrews, being mounted to bring the
airscrews below the trailing edge of the
wing. The makers of the Airacuda pre-
viously designed a single-engined fighter
with tricycle undercarriage, known as the
XP-39 The engine is placed amidships
and the pilot has an unobstructed out-
[ook (rm £ , he well . placed cockpit .
Other American warplanes of note are
Seversk y low-
wjnfc singl ’. engine ; sing i e - S eat mono-
p^ane wd h top speed of 350 rrvp.h.,
powered by a Pratt and Whitney radial
engine of high rating, and the latest
Douglas product, a twin-engined attack-
bomber. Outwardly the latter resembles
the Douglas airliners, but has a slimmer
fuselage and tricycle undercarriage.
Faster and Higher.
“D.8.K.”: Over 20 years the record
speed of aeroplanes has increased at an
average rate of 16 m.p.h. per year. The
limit seems undefinable. Maximum spee
“ Quick , get the fire-extinguisher, Gladys!”
of modern aircraft is over 500 m.p.h.
and under 600 m.p.h. If preliminary air
pressure could be reduced or a new
engine produced with a proportionately
greater power for its weight, still greater
speeds would be possible. But there is
nothing to forecast such progress ; theory
itself limits hopes by stating that man
cannot fly any faster, and that if present
records are to be beaten it will be by
only a few m.p.h.
The idea of getting into the strato-
sphere to increase speed seems at first
consideration to be the solution; but
there are obstacles. No existing machine
can give its best performance at strato-
sphere heights because of lack of oxygen.
For human requirements that lack can
be easily made up, but it is different
with the internal-combustion engine.
Oxygen is essential for the maximum
performance of its inner explosions and
for the maintenance of an even tem-
perature.
Therefore it doesn’t seem logical to
insist that the rarefied atmosphere of
high altitudes will make dizzy speeds
possible. Engineers of wide experience
maintain that it is impossible to exceed
500 or 600 m.p.h. with present engines,
whether at sea-level or high altitudes.
Altitude records are continually being
broken, but the limit is placed at 65,000
feet. Both speed and height depend
primarily upon the method of motive
power; and until some genius develops
the “atomic” engine of fiction man will
continue to fly somewhere within the
limits mentioned.
“Brasso”': Statements have been made
in the Commons that British ’planes are
going to Finland in quantity —l2O
fighters and 24 bombers are mentioned
—and Gloster Gladiators are known to
be fighting the Reds. But the Finnish
Air Force, though reinforced from
several quarters and fighting well, is
still outnumbered, and the increasing
nervousness of Sweden complicates
the question of sending sufficient
help. “Why not use aircraft-carriers?”
people ask. Because it would be too
risky, for one thing. The carrier is a
most vulnerable target for submarines,
being easily spotted at great distances
because of its high superstructure. And
even if carriers could be literally sur-
rounded by destroyers, the aircraft they
carry are usually Blackburn Skuas and
Fairey Swordfish: admirable craft for
Fleet Air Arm use, requiring little take-
off run, but not for the purposes re-
quired in Finland. For use against the
hordes of Red bombers the Finns need
Spitfires, Hurricanes, Blenheims, Wel-
lingtons and Whitleys. The use of such
’planes from aircraft-carriers is right out
of the question. The only way to get
them to Finland is to fly them there,
skirting the Scandinavian coastline: a
long, bleak, hazardous job. Finally,
there is the problem of skilled pilots for
advanced types of ’planes sent to Finland.
It takes time to train high-speed fighter
and bomber pilots, and the R.A.F. can’t
have many to spare.
* * * *
“Don”: If there is anyone who thinks
that Britain is not producing vast quan-
tities of formidable aircraft, a perusal of
“Aeroplane” is recommended as a tonic.
Two issues, Dec. 8 and 15, treble the
size of the normal issue, were devoted
entirely to aircraft-production. One
double-spread of photographs alone
shows the inside of factories in full blast
on machines of every category. As far
as the eye can see they stretch, line after
line of fuselages in various stages of com-
pletion. And these illustrations repre-
sent only a fraction of what is going on
in Britain’s production plants. Minister
Fairbairn’s gloominess is hard to recon-
cile with facts.
* * * *
“Aren-As”: A new French plant for
low-temperature tests of instruments and
personnel is interesting. Objects are
safety and comfort of pilots and testing
of instruments with regard to navigation
in the stratosphere. In this plant tem-
perature and pressure conditions occur-
ring during ascent can be produced pro-
gressively by artificial means. Special
refrigerating plant produces varying de-
grees of cold to enable the solving of
associated problems. Tests can be under-
taken up to an altitude of 34,000 ft., and
at this simulated height chronometers,
revolution counters, altimeters and com-
passes can be checked, as well as oxygen
masks and heated clothing. The plant is
also used for a series of tests on the
produced effects of ascent, descent and
changes of temperature, not only on the
instruments but on the circulation and
blood pressure of personnel.
The Air War Day by Day.
Feb. 20: R.A.F. ’planes bomb warships
in Heligoland Bight. One fails to
return ; “Vickers-Wellington shot down
by Messerschmitt fighter.” German
report.
Feb. 22: Two Heinkel bombers destroyed
by R.A.F. fighters. One shot down
in the sea off Scotland ; the other
crash-landed at St. Abb’s Head, Ber-
wick. Crew set fire to machine; one
wounded.
“One-pip”: In the formation of the
Sixth Division many militia officers hold-
ing junior rank were, despite active ser-
vice in the last war, ineligible for
appointment because of age. There are
chances now for militia officers and
n.c.os. through another avenue. Train-
ing depots for Sixth Division reinforce-
ments will be established in the Eastern
Command. A proportion of the train-
ing personnel will probably be retained
in the depots to deal with successive
drafts of reinforcements as they are
raised, but many of the junior officers
can expect to go overseas with reinforce-
ments as their training period is com-
pleted. There are numbers of “junior
officers with veteran experience whose
services should be valuable.
* * * *
“Mulga Bill”: The N.S.W. Dietetic
Association is criticising the tucker in
A.I.F. camps on the ground that it lacks
eggs, milk, butter and fresh fruit. “It js
not sufficient to provide eggs with break-
fast bacon—an egg a day is desirable’ :
and every soldier should have at least
three-quarters of a pint of milk a day;
also oranges and tomatoes and real whole-
meal bread. In fact, the cookhouse is
falling down on its job in failing to adopt
“the regimen accepted as standard-
worked out by Dr. McCollum, of John
Hopkins University, U.S.A.” Actually,
the food at Ingleburn, anyway, is good
wholesome bush tucker. It may not be
perfect, but any Digger who can’t wolf it
down and wish there was more after the
odd thousands of blanky miles on the
hoof which everybody is doing in the
camps during the present hardening pro-
cess ought to be sent home to mother.
The time may come when long prayers
will be said in certain trenches for a
return to the good old days of Ingleburn.


BAN ISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE ....
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. B21 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man*
hood. Price 10/6.
B2I
GLAND
TONIC
WRITE
TO-DAY
T.JONE se CO
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur short-
wave and experimental radio.
The Annual Subscription is the Aus-
tralian equivalent of 3 dollars 50 cents
American, acceptable at “The Bulletin
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
THE SERVICE MAN
“Moscow's Grim Warning.”
“Nobby II.”: A British naval squad-
ron has been reported off the northern
Finnish port of Petsamo, in the Varanger
Gulf, which lies between Norwegian and
Russian territory. Petsamo is “believed
to have been captured by the Russian
forces.”
The guilty consciences of Moscow have
developed an attack of jitters. Hence
what the Sydney “Daily News” calls
“Russia’s Grim Warning”:
We warn any enemy thinking of attack-
ing our sea frontiers that they will be
beaten and their ships sunk.
London is “full of conflicting reports
of the reasons for the presence of the
British ships.” The R.N. does not men-
tion its missions till they have been
fulfilled. An obvious reason for its
presence near Petsamo is prevention of
the passage of supplies from North
Russia and Russian-controlled ports to
Germany.
Petsamo is a nickel centre ; the mines
behind it were developed with British
money. Britons would be mugs if they
allowed Hitler’s brother-dictator to send
nickel from the neighborhood to Ger-
many, where nickel would be invaluable
in munition manufacture. The same with
consignments of iron ore from northern
Norway.
Commissar Kuznetsov, who controls
the Russian Navy, has flown to Mur-
mansk, which lies to the east of Petsamo,
on the other side of the Ribachi Penin-
sula. There is as yet no evidence that
this strategic move has frightened off
“any enemy.” The Stockholm “Afton-
bladet” says the Russian Navy is “in
a complete state of preparedness” and
“any interference with Russian shipping
will result in an armed conflict.” On
the eve of the outbreak of war “Afton-
bladet” was advertised by Berlin radio
stations as writing that “if Britain and
France went to war with Germany they
would be committing suicide.”
There are two views of the Russian
Navy. One is Commissar Kuznetsov’s,
and it was beautifully expressed by one
of his henchmen who feasted his eyes
on the cruiser Kirov, “one of the new
ships and what a beauty!”:
It is considered an honor to serve in the
Kirov When the Kirov sails, accom-
panied by new flotilla leaders and de-
stroyers, it is really a great spectacle, a
spectacle of a powerful squadron She
leaves a long stream of roaring waves in
her wake as she cuts through the waters
of the Baltic. It is as if the sea is angry
with the cruiser, enraged by her audacity
—how does she dare push forward at such
a speed?
This marvel of naval architecture is
“equipped with the very latest complex
and precise instruments which help to
steer its course, range its artillery and
direct the work of its torpedo tubes.”
And everything in her was “designed and
built in Soviet factories by dexterous
hands of Soviet workers.”
Jane’s Fighting Ships, the world
authority on such matters, coldly sets
it down that the Kirov was designed
by the Italian firm of Ansaldo. From
her outlines she appears to be a modi-
fied edition of the Italian Attendolo
class. Anyway, she is only an 8500-tonner,
and her fighting strength is less than
that of the Australia or the Canberra.
Opposed to a ship of the Renown or
Repulse class she wouldn’t survive the
first salvo of 15in. guns. Her own
guns are 7.1 in., if available information
is accurate. If it isn’t and her guns are
much bigger, she would be unfightable
by her crew —that is, by an ordinary
Western European crew.
She has, however, a specialised Red
crew that was “present at the birth
and contributed by their work to the
construction of this mighty ship,” a fact
which, according to Comrade Kruzhkov,
“explains their warm fondness for the
Kirov.” Their senior lieutenant and artil-
lery officer ‘ speaks of his guns with
fatherly tenderness,” and when people
refer to artillery “a smile appears
on his lips, and his gestures be-
come sharp and determined.” In 1931
he was “a miner at Pit No. 29 in
Rutchenkovo, Donbas,” and he is only 27
even now. The capitalistic serf in charge
of the artillery of H.M.S. Hood —with
five times the tonnage and ten times the
fighting power of the Kirov —had been
29 years on the job when he showed me
“our darned old drainpipes.”
Russia, of course, does not depend
solely on the Kirov for fighting power —
“there are many of them, these glorious
Soviet ships, the steel nurslings of the
Five-Year Plans.”
True. There are four old battleships
of pre-war vintage, one of which a few
years ago essayed the perilous voyage
from the Baltic to the Black. Her
captain could not get her back to Kron-
stadt until she was nearly rebuilt inter-
nally. H.M.S. Repulse, a 32,000-ton
“What do you reckon We ought to do with the blighter?”
“Tell Menzies Well swap him for a Wet canteen !”
battle-cruiser, recently steamed 25,000
miles in one war-time voyage.
The Red Navy would have difficulty
in standing up to the Argentine Navy,
much less the British.
Achilles Comes Home.
“Rastus”: Two hundred thousand
people welcomed Achilles when she re-
turned to Auckland, one of the con-
querors of the Graf Spee. In the last
war the R.A.N. drew its first blood in
the Sydney-Emden combat; the Graf
Spee affair was the first fight in which
a Maoriland ship had been blooded. The
Commonwealth can share Maoriland’s
glow of pride.
First-hand accounts of the battle
show how much more thrilling it was
than the inaccurate reports of Americans
on the spot made out.
Exeter—the size of our Australia and
Canberra but with two fewer Bin. guns
—Achilles and Ajax—variations of our
new Sydney, Hobart and Perth —were at
sea in the early morning. Captain Parry,
of the Achilles, was closing his early-
morning watch on the bridge with his
navigating officer. A ship was sighted.
“My God, it’s a pocket battleship,” Parry
exclaimed, and he wondered “where we
shall be in half an hour’s time.”
Stations were sounded. Alarms blared
all over the ship. Officers sleeping after
watch rushed to their positions in
pyjamas. Men shaving dropped their
razors; others dived wet out of their
baths. In four minutes they were in
action.
Stokers are the humorists of every
ship. “If this is one of the captain’s little
jokes, I don’t think much of it,” a stoker
said.
The fight was carried out with the
precision “of a practice shoot in the
Hauraki Gulf,” despite the gruelling
attack of the Graf Spee. She was “a
redoubtable foe, and the quality of the
German gunnery was excellent.”
Achilles got off better than the other
ships. Victory was due to the concise-
ness with which Commodore Harwood
visioned the odds, to the crisp order in
which he fought his battle, and to the
intrepidity of the command and ratings
of the lightly-protected cruisers, under-
gunned to tackle a ship with siin. armor
and facing 11 in. guns well handled, any
one broadside from which might have
sunk them out of hand.
Even at close range—four miles was
the nearest point—the 100-pound shells
of the two lighter cruisers would not
have been fully effective against the
German armor. Yet the ships closed, in
to that range and the Achilles was firing
all out for 80 minutes.
A day after the Empire was thrilled
by the accounts of the Altmark affair,
the Admiralty announced the loss of the
destroyer Daring with nine officers and
148 ratings ; and the enemy boasted that
the Altmark had been avenged. The
Daring, one of the 1932 vintage of de-
stroyers, was torpedoed while protecting
a convoy—exceptionally hazardous work
for which the Empire is eternally indebted
to destroyers. Six have been lost dur-
ing the war. One sank after a collision ;
three were mined and one was “mined
or topedoed.”
During the week February 11-18, five
British and 15 neutral vessels were sunk
by enemy action. It was the worst week
for neutral shipping since the war be-
gan ; losses of neutrals totalled 46,801
tons and British 39,276 tons. U-boats
never attack Italian, Japanese or Spanish
vessels, but obviously the enemy in his
ruthlessness hopes to terrify Swedes,
Norwegians, Dutch and Belgians into
ceasing to send ships to Britain and
France. That, as the Swedish Foreign
Minister has said, would have “fatal
commercial consequences” for the little
neutrals, and, cruel as their losses have
been, “fatal commercial consequences”
they won’t accept.
From September 3 to February 18
U-boats, minelayers, mine-droppers and
bombers destroyed 1,095,766 tons of
Allied and neutral shipping. Serious, and
altogether brutal; but sinkings in 1917
were far worse, and the Allies came
through.
* * * *
With the assistance of the Sydney
“Daily Telegraph,” “the greatest fighting
machine in history, the Russian Red
Army,” took Viborg on Feb. 19. Once
more the report was premature. At the
week-end “the greatest fighting machine
in history” was still miles from Viborg
and threatening to “smash the Manner-
heim Line” after three months of
fumbling attempts to reach it.
Around the Army.
XVI.
THE DISPATCH RIDER.
The usual instruction that he’d “better
make it snappy,”
The don r. deems superfluous as he
sets out on a ride;
For, truth to tell, the time that he’s par-
ticularly happy
Is when the throttle underneath his
hand is opened wide.
He bumps and bounces over roads; he
ploughs tjirough mud and gravel,
And if a tyre he sheds — well, can’t he
travel on the rim ?
And should he do his bike in, it’s a cer-
tainty he’ll snavel
Any substitute he sees, for what’s a
bike or two to him ?
To the rest of the army the d.r. is of
a race apart. When the two browns are
being tossed heavenwards from the kip,
the dense circle of anxious-eyed figures
that watch the flight will contain no man
with blue-and-white armbands on. Nor
will he be present when a brassy voice
is heard declaring that though you come
to his school in wheelbarrows you depart
in cars, or demanding to know what the
“mudhook” or “sergeant-major” has
done that nobody is having a few “dis-
asters” or “onks” on ’em.
In the dispatch rider’s abstention from
the Halls of Chance morality does not
figure. The explanation is that his wak-
ing hours, when he is not in the saddle,
are devoted to thinking, talking or doing
something to a gasket or the carburettor
so as to get the last ounce out of his
engine. He even dreams about bikes, and
when he gets shot he pulls from his
pocket and howls over, not his girl’s
photo., but one of an old machine
treasured in other days.
A queer bird, but he has his uses. Thus,
when coming out of the signal office
prior to his morning run to brigade or
corps, he will be casually approached.
“Eh, Ocker, if y’re passin’ near a can-
teen will you get us a coupla packets of
smokes? Some decent ones. You can’t
get anything in this dump. Oh, and two
tins o’ peaches if y’ don’t mind. And
if you’ve got enough room a tin of
coffee-an’-milk. I’ll let y’ have the Oscar
for it payday.”
Before he has slid away on his round
the d.r. will have enough orders to fill
a G.S. wagon. Naturally the whisky for
the mess receives priority.
Nothing arouses a d.r.’s hatred for the
enemy more than when, chugging along
a too-exposed road, he hears the smack
of a sniper’s rifle being fired, then a
sharp “ping,” followed by the feeling of
something cold running down his back.
That will be from the full bottle he was
bringing home.
A d.r., keeping a wobbly course,
lobbed back at D.H.Q. and reported to
the mess officer that a sniper got the
pack, producing as proof the shattered
half of a whisky bottle. Useless for the
eagle-eyed officer to point out that there
was no bullet hole in the canvas. The
d.r. smartly replied that it went straight
through the flap.
Ever striving for perfection in his iron
steed, a d.r. will keep changing it until he
attains his ideal of sweet running, high
speed and noisiest exhaust. Nor is he
narrow-minded as to the type of bike
he rides. He will make a detour of
several miles, especially if his own grid
has developed a bad “knock,” to get to
a Tommy Corps H.Q. Arrived, it is
a simple matter to park alongside the
machines drawn up there, to go inside
on some pretext, stroll out and, selecting
the best-looking bike, mount it and
calmly ride off under the eyes of a dozen
brasshats and perhaps even the startled
owner himself. After all, as he contends,
that is more efficient than waiting per-
haps weeks to get a new cylinder by
requisition.
Occasionally a d.r. will come back
from a long and arduous run to be in-
formed that an important document must
go to Corps H.Q. immediately. Jamming
it in his pocket, he sets off again wearily.
It will probably be teeming, and heavy
shelling of the road will force him miles
out of his way. Breaking a spring as he
hurtles into a hidden shell-hole, he will
abandon his bike, struggling the rest of
the way hastily on foot, in the best
traditions of his unit. As he staggers at
last, mud-caked, into H.Q. he hands in
his document. It is opened right away.
Then, as he turns to leave, he hears,
dimly, a voice:
“Hey, Dig, is this all you’ve brought?”
“All! That’s important enough, isn’t
it? The Brigade Major said it had
to”
“Square up! This is only the weekly
return of the number of unissued dixies
and chin straps in store!”
That’s what gives dispatch-riders such
a sour look.
S. W. K.


MASONITE NEWS
IN factories, homes and offices, you will notice that more and more
floors are constructed of Masonite Tempered Presdwood . . . the
steel-strong, wear-resisting board manufactured from Australian hard-
woods by a unique process. Such floors not only have a perfect
modern appearance but a practically unlimited life. They never wear
out; never lose their sleek, long-lived beauty of surface. Masonite
Tempered Presdwood can be used in its natural colour (a rich brown)
finished with non-slip wax, or stained in any desired colour. For
flooring. Masonite is sold ready beveled in two sizes . . . 23£ x Ilf
and 47 x 23j. It can readily be applied over existing floors.
Write for full details of Masonite Tempered Presdwood and its three
sister boards —Presdwood, Temprtile and Quartrboard De Luxe.
[Cane-ite Structural Insulation is now being produced in Australia.]
l
1
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD • PRESDWOOD • TEMPRTILE • QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide : — Perth MA4-40
If any illustration in The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Reorganised”
“Clayfield”: Brisbane’s municipal
structure has become a model of bureau-
cracy which student bureaucrats should
come from afar to study.
Its framework is rich in titles such
as “City Administrator” and “State
Liaison Officer,” and there are so many
chairmen of this and that that it is pro-
posed to form them into an “inner execu-
tive” —called “Establishment and Co-ordi-
nation Committee.”
Finance, Works, Health and Transport
and Electricity will each have its separ-
ate bureau. Works will function under a
Metropolitan Works Board, with a per-
manent head, G. H. Nelson, as chair-
man. And works and services are to
be planned “in the light of information
acquired by a civic survey.”
J. A Speedy, who was general man-
ager of the Works Department, becomes
joint secretary of an “Administration
Board” and a “Registration Board.” He
can be removed only with the approval
of the Government. The Registration
Board will control all licenses and per-
mits, land subdivision, arrears of rates,
remissions. The Administration Board
consists of the Town Clerk as Civic Ad-
ministrator, the Secretary and the City
Solicitor.
The Publicity Officer, about whose job
previously there was some murmuring,
has happily been found occupation in
“overtaking the lag for 15 years in the
compilation of city statistics and in the
preparation of annual reports.” He will
turn out a large book of statistics as
soon as possible.
Ordinances are pouring out of the
barrel like water over the Barron Falls.
A City Service Code, for the organisa-
tion and protection of the staff, is em-
bodied in a new one. It makes the Code
Napoleon seem a mere pup.
Council employees get first preference
in all promotions and new jobs. Com-
mittees may delegate their powers. All
appointments are to be subject to pro-
bation. An educational standard has
been established for juniors ; an age limit
—6s —for the oldsters. If he has luck
an ancient —after, of course, being vetted
by a committee —may be retained till he
is 66.
The, scheme has been drafted by a
State servant who is State Liaison Officer
—R. H. Robinson. The Opposition has
considered it. All its aldermen, who had
withdrawn from existing committees,
have agreed to act on the new ones.
Their main objection is to a provision
which makes it incumbent on the new
council to take all its outside labor from
the State Labor Exchange. Otherwise
their opinions seem to have been ex-
pressed by an alderman who said that
“the very fine set of ordinances” would
“shear the Lord Mayor of the powers
he has wrongly assumed, and clip the
wings of the works manager.”
The council itself is a bit like Samson
shorn.
Three Pioneers Gone
“Kaloa”: They were old New Guinea
hands. Bob Boyd passed a few weeks
ago. Bob went to Woodlark 40 years ago
to work the alluvial there, after manag-
ing a mine in Charters Towers. Then
he discovered the Umuna lode at
Misima, later the Quartz Mountain. He
had been to Australia only once since
1915. Mrs. Boyd, who had known what
it was to live with him in a six-by-eight
“Do you think they'll search us for contraband ?”
tent in 150 in. rainfall country, died a few
months before her lord.
Ernie Dover was the next to go—of
Japanese River fever at Wau Hospital.
His pioneer mate, William (“Shark-
Eye”) Park, who was with him as one of
the originals on the Morobe field in ’24,
followed.
Ernie was an advertisement for the
saying that you can’t judge the contents
from the bottle. He was of slight build,
and looked anything but strong, yet he
stood up to gruelling marches over the
ranges as well as any man who ever
padded them. He owned the rich Kor-
anga claim, but sold it too early.
“Shark-Eye” died in Vancouver. The
fixed and terrible glare with which he
petrified the local coon belied his nature ;
all the same, he was a determined fellow.
He was one of a little group that pene-
trated the terrible jungles of Morobe in
the “German time.” He was the first
man to find payable gold on the Bulolo
—in 1913.
The war held up his operations, but in
1921, after expropriation, he was back
again and getting good gold at Koranga,
which one of his earlier contemporaries,
Arthur Darling, had discovered.
That was the origin of Morobe field.
Park and a few mates kept their good-
luck secret for a long time. In 1923
there were about a dozen and a half
working, but dirt was not pay dirt unless
it carried about lOoz.
“Shark-Eye” was one of the few
pioneers who became rich and held on
to his wealth, but his years of hardship
told heavily on his health. He had lived
in British Columbia for a decade.
“Gain”: New Guinea’s contribution to
the second A.I.F. at present is a separate
unit with a separate uniform —brass-
buttoned shirt, leather belt, trousers
and A.I.F. hat. It consists of 55 hard-
bitten fellows. Average age is 25, aver-
age weight is 13st., and they include
everything from outpost patrol officers
to schoolteachers.
* * * *
“Dip”: The A.A.M.S. received a wel-
come surprise when Fanshawe Gosling
handed it a cheque for £l7l as,a contri-
bution towards the Flying Doctor Fund.
The fund—designed to provide the aerial
medico with a twin-engined ’plane is
now nearing £7OO. But it’s a sad state
of affairs when such a service has to go
to the public for funds.
* * * *
“Lid”: It might be a good idea to
close all Darwin pubs for the duration
of any strike. The latest dispute—be-
tween the contractor building a pub and
his employees—resulted in Darwin’s three
hotels being “declared black.” That was
on a Tuesday ; Wednesday was a thirsty
day, and a couple of pickets were just
prevented from cracking a bottle on a
pub verandah ; by Thursday the matter
was settled, and both parties adjourned
to bars to forget their arguments in
their cups. As strikes go in Darwin
it must be close on a record for a quick
settlement.
* * * *
“Nambung”: New Guinea has pros-
pects of establishing another industry
through the war —cocoa. The Germans
planted it a little before 1914, but most
of the trees were allowed to go to ruin
during the war period. A number of
planters in recent years, urged on by
the low price of copra, have been trying
to make the industry go, but without
great success. Now a demand has sprung
up overnight for New Guinea beans, and
the price has jumped to £3B per ton.
Annual production is 200 tons, and
the quality is equal to the best West
Indian. Now that the cool highlands,
very much like those of Ceylon, have
been opened up, somebody should have
a try with tea.
* * * *
“Q.C.R.”: The cyclone that raged
through the North centred between Cook-
town and Richmond, out near the foot
of the Selwyns. Mackay had ten inches
of rain in one day, its electricity suply
was shut off and local industry was at a
standstill. Finch Hatton beat the Mac-
kay rain record with 1380 points. Air-
lines were held up, telephones all over
the North were temporarily out of com-
mission. Parts of the countryside are lit-
tered with fallen trees. One fell on a
mother and her ten-year-old son at
Innisfail, and severely injured them.
The husband had a nightmare trip
over three miles of fallen timber to get
them to hospital. However, one of the
major tragedies seems to have been en-
shrined in a Brisbane paper:
A slice of the esplanade was bitten off
by the sea at Ingham, and a recently-con-
structed road was swept away.
When last heard of, the beach parade
at Boulia was intact.
“Marija”: Old Jimmy takes a fair
amount of listening to with his stories
of how things were when he was a boy.
And though the whisky—for which
I pay—may not be quite the rip-
roarin’ stuff it was in his day, I’d rather
not hear of its defects. Still Jimmy
has a lovely daughter, so on payday I
put up with the old fellow’s chatter dur-
ing the evening meal, and I’m usual!;
along there laughing at his jokes two or
three other nights a week. T’other night
I asked about his garden. “No good
at all,” he grumbled, “even though 1
water it two or three hours a day. The
water ain’t so good as it used to be!
No, these newfangled purifying systems
take all the good out of it!”


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
BRANDALERrS
iXW
SA
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BEAMDABKB * CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENG
little
more but
it's WELL
worth it/
.
o<
1
w®
i
ii
p
//?•••>
vs
Gin
mMMndon,
land
THE HEART OF A GOOD COCKTAIL
LTD. LONDON, ENGLAND ; C7 he latyeSt gin dtitillM in the woild
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice ( except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
bp addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
R.H.E.: Poets who recline under the old
gum-tree ’neath the silvery moon on a beautiful
evening in June ought to keep it dark... .M.R..
Nothing lifts it out of the ordinary.. • •
N.G.: Try elsewhere P.G.: “Undigested”
describes it accurately A.W.: A gallant
attempt... .J.W.: “Two for a Deener is one
for the w.p.b F.MacL.: The end’s feeble.
J.D.: Close E.T.: A women’s paper
might like it V.C.G.: There might be a par.
in it... .P.K.M.: That “do taste” is bad taste.
P.J.B.: Not much point in that catalogue.
L.F.: It stops before it starts P.M.W.:
Not funny P.T.: “Sea Fever’s” a common
complaint... .E.C.: Both miss... .G. 8.: True,
but rocky D.D.: “Simple Ambition” is just
that C.E.E.: Not a bad jingle N.R.L.:
“The Twister” made us giddy K.R.S.: You
chuck words about as though you were plant-
ing a paddock 8.R.D.: Hair-raising enough
to vegetate a bald pate, but it’s not for us.
B.F.Y.: Take away that “Bauble”....
C.N.G.: Its only merit is its brevity
F.8.L.: “This is my first stab at writing.”
You’ve made an awful wound... .C.M.L.: Call
in and see us sometime when we have a gun.
G.B.R.: “What would it cost to have this
story published?” The publisher’s reputation.
F.D.L.: Strangled “The Nightingale”....
F.S.H.: Funny for a while, but it totters to a
sad finish... .J.T.N.: “Our Canine Friends”
need a vet F.C.L.: You’ve much to learn
about mining C.D.F.: Beware of such a
“Midnight Interlude” B.G.N.: Even if there
is paper shortage it doesn’t justify that minute
scrawl on both sides of the page L.F.E.:
“A Hardened Criminal” is straining at the bars
of the w.p.b C.S.F.: It might stand a
chance in an Australian setting... .P.R.: “The
Shrieking Corpse,” or anything like it, is not
allowed on these premises... .F.H.: Other
people have said the same thing much better.
C.F.H.: Try the Tiny Tots’ Page
B.R.L.: “This came out of a bushfire.”
Couldn’t you have rescued something useful in-
stead? .... G.R.L.: Why not halve the quantity
of your output and double the quality?
B.G.H.: Interest too local... .F.G.S.: “A
Gentleman Swaggie” is still on the track....
P.B.S.: Tarzan belongs to E. R. Burroughs,
and we don’t want him, anyway... .H.R.S.,
K.R., J.P.R., C.D.C., H.T. and D.S.E.: Try
them elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.W.: At least we couldn’t fault the light-
ning-rod M.M.: Drunk now sleeping off
his jag in the w.p.b E.H.S.: You’re much
too heavy-handed an artist F.W.A.: That
grajned-surface board is unsuitable for fine pen-
work R.B.: That jest was doing the rounds
away back in the gay ’nineties... .M.T.: Afraid
you’re not cut out to be an artist.. . .B.S.:
You’ve a neat and tidy style, but very little
humor L.J.K.: No hope for those gruesome
objects done on brown cardboard... .L.G.:
About as funny as a painted emu’s egg
N.A.B.: The hawk-nosed gent, with the turban
was shown to the door... .F.D.: Found the
verbal battle between the penguin and the
pelican a dreary business... .J.M.: Take the
fat lady and her crumpled husband as far
away as you can B.J.H.: We have enough
British lions and Aussie ’roos about the premises
to stock a dozen zoos... .G.R.: All were
placed on the condemned list N.S.: The
only distinctive feature about it is the amazing
array of fancy stipples J.M.T.: A harsh
and ugly piece of work E.J.J.: Count it
among your youthful indiscretions A.B.J.:
You’ve picked up a few tricks, but not enough
to carry you through W.M.: It doesn’t bear
any likeness to the man we know by that name.
G.G.: There are 97 varieties of that gag
and all of them have been done to death....
W.L.: It almost crept in—try again.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Physiologue”: “S.G.” (B. 14/2/’4O)
is wrong in his statement that Dun-
donald’s plan for destroying Sebastopol
remains a secret. The cat got out of
the bag in 1908. The British official his-
tory of the Great War cites the “Panmure
Papers” published in London that year.
Lord Dundonald had been struck in
1811 by the potentialities of the fumes
of burning sulphur, and in 1855 propounded
a scheme for burning sulphur on a large
scale under favorable wind conditions
during the siege of Sebastopol, with a view
to rendering the Malakoff and Redan
works untenable.
The Dundonald plan was rejected as
contravening the laws of civilised war-
fare.
* * * *
“E.V.”: Dead in England just on his
90th year, Col. Rookes Evelyn Bell
Crompton, an old Royal Engineer
officer whose inventions have found
their way to every city in the
world. I remember seeing the old
fellow spring to his feet at a meeting
of the Institution of Automobile Engineers
a few years ago to claim the invention of
the steamroller in 1868. As a bridge of
the gap between the ages he must have
been nearly unique, since he served as
a naval cadet in the Crimean War in ’56
and won a C. 8., several mentions in
dispatches and the Queen’s Medal with
three clasps in the S’African war. He
was one of England’s greatest electrical
pioneers, a founder of the R.A.C. and a
Faraday medallist.
“M.A.”: On the Peace building at the
San Francisco Exposition are figures to
show that with the billions of dollars
spent on the 1914-18 war there
could have been provided a $3500 home
and five acres of land for every family
in Germany, Russia, France, Great
Britain, Australia, Canada and the
United States; a million-dollar univer-
sity and a five-million-dollar library for
every city over 200,000 in each of the
countries named; perpetual annual
salaries of $lOOO for 125,000 teachers and
125,000 nurses, with enough left over
to give every American family an elec-
tric refrigerator, a car and enough gaso-
line to run the car for a year.
* * * *
“F.S.”: A young artist in Melbourne
has a studio for which he pays ten shillings
a week, and he has 7s. 6d. left over to
live on. Every evening there comes up
his lane a well-dressed old gentleman
who has apparently taken all the stray
cats of the metropolis under his protec-
tion ; anyway, he carefully places a large
piece of meat and a tin of milk on the
ground and departs for the next lane.
The moment he has turned the corner
out of sight the artist rushes out and
grabs the meat and the milk, beating the
cats to it. As the meat isn’t always of
the highest quality, necessity has forced
him to make the best of it. Though he
may never become a distinguished
painter, he has learned to cook, and that
is something.
* * * *
“Kavkaz”: Ip a characteristically
vague and ineffectual talk, A.B.C.’s Pro-
fessor Roberts held forth on the now-
popular theme of an Allied invasion of
the Caucasus to cut off Germany’s access
to Baku oil. He doesn’t know the country.
I do. Twice in the early stages of the
Bolshevik revolution I travelled the
Batum-Baku route by rail. At one stage
the track reaches an elevation of
14,000 ft., and it winds through vast
mountain gorges and thick woods. Be-
tween the Caspian and Black Seas there
is the massive barrier of the Caucasus
ranges, across which the post-1920 pipe-
line must necessarily have been laid.
An approach to Baku through Iran by a
mightier Dunsterforce and/or a naval
campaign in the Black Sea present
the only possibilities. Whichever way
it is looked at, a campaign in the
Caucasus would be a grim undertaking,
and the climate is awful —blazing hot in
summer and away below zero in mid-
winter.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: G. J. Bonnor, the Aus-
tralian international cricketer of the
’eighties, was a splendidly-made blond
giant, though I suppose his beard would
have disqualified him from winning a
male beauty competition nowadays. But
was it really Ruskin who acclaimed him
as an outsize in magnificent manhood
(B. 21/2/’40)? lamin no position to
question it, but I can as easily feature
Bernard Shaw or Dean Inge sitting in
the stands at Lord’s or the Oval and
appraising the physique of men who hurl
a ball at three sticks or defend the same
with a fourth. Conan Doyle, however,
who was a cricketer, did single out
Bonnor for honorable mention in words
almost identical with those quoted.
* * * *
“Norther”: The bush has its red-tape
comedies, too. Uralla, a small town in
N.S.W. New England district, acquired
a water supply, and on a recent Wednes-
day the water was turned on to test the
new mains. It came too fast, spurted
through the pipe joints, washed out the
newly-filled-in trenches and flooded the
main street. Kids and dogs had a great
time paddling about, but because it was
the Wednesday half-holiday only the
turncock was available, and repair work
had to wait until next day, a fact which
pleased the juvenile citizens immensely.
*. * * *
“Lao-dah”: The other day J. T. Smith,
the Melbourne curator, said the lovely
Westralian flowering red gums were un-
suitable for street planting because you
never know whether they will grow big
or little or stick out this way or that
way. Possibly he thinks that a tree in
a street should behave like a lamp-post
and look like one as much as possible,
to ensure which they should be manu-
factured of stainless steel in a factory
and uniformly painted. Anybody who
looks along Collins-street can see for
himself that its pleasant appearance
depends on the fact that no two trees
are exactly alike and the patterns of
their shadows are prettily varied. More-
over, they change with the seasons, some-
times being bare and sometimes budding
and sometimes umbrageous, and when
the hurrying citizen perceives these
changes he feels a thrill and joyously
writes to the papers about it.
* * * *
“K. Ley”: How an Australian in Lon-
don heard the news:
My train pulled into Victoria and several of
us got out. A man in grey was walking along
the platform waving his arms with a breast-
stroke motion and crying “Take cover! Take
cover! War’s declared!” We regarded him
with some amusement and more pity, thinking
tEat he had cracked up under the tension.
Then railway guards approached and urged us
either to get back into the train or make for
some other shelter on the platform, saying
“War’s declared!” I listened, but couldn’t
hear anything, and a strange sort of stillness
swept over me. After sitting in the stationary
train for some time several of us got out and
went on to the street. There I entered a bus,
which moved off at a great rate, but hadn’t
got far before a traffic policeman blocked it,
waving his arms and shouting “Take cover!”
We tumbled out of that bus just as two
cyclists, dressed like Boy Scouts, rode by with
placards on their backs bearing the words
“Air Raid. Take Cover!” On my side of the
street was a line of stopped vehicles; on the
other side was a great crowd of people
jostling. I listened hard, but still couldn’t hear
any guns, bombs or ’planes. Somehow I was
over the street, through a door and down a
basement. Some people were crowded round
a window on the ground floor, and in a stem
voice I ordered them away. They looked at
me and obeyed without a question. After some
time I and several others became tired of being
there and went up. Eventually, after some
minor adventures, I got home. All the time
I had been listening. But there had been no
guns, no bombs, no droning ’planes. All
London had been led to believe, and expected,
a huge air raid within a few minutes of the
declaration. And all London has never stopped
wondering why it never came.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn _it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD.. Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; AV. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
Generai. Manager —D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, tms
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be, confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Country lad, N.S.W. (22), two years at car-
pentry and painting, wants opportunity to
learn a trade. Go anywhere. Refs: —6321.
Chemist, Sydney, over military age, 14 years’
commercial exp. last position, wants employ-
ment. Refs. —6323.
To buy numbers of “Blackwood’s Magazine ’
prior to 1933. —6318.
To buy copy of The Life of Lord Fisher
of Kilverstone, by Admiral Sir Reginald Bacon.
—6298.
Wanted to buy or exchange 16mm. films;
state length, subject and price.—6296.
Words of verse entitled “Murphy’s Brindle
Cow.” —6319.
Words of Henry Lawson verse relating to
a character, Oscar Arkman, the Finn.—63lo. ,
Words of Irish song “Must I Go Bound and
You Go Free?” —6276.
To get in touch with short-story writer willing
to assist in writing yarn around plot supplied.
—6297.
Information Sought.
I understand that “Who’s Who, 1940,” pub-
lished in London, has allowed Hitler to write
his own entry. Can you quote the entry? —
Entry reads as follows: Hitler, Adolf, head
of the German State since 1934, and Chan-
cellor of the German Reich since 1933 ; Com-
mander-in-Chief of the German Fighting Forces
since 1938; b. Braunau on the Inn, Upper
Danube, April 20, 1889, of an old Upper Aus-
trian and peasant family. Religion, Catholic.
Educ.: Secondary schools in Linz and Graz;
studied painting and architecture in Vienna;
settled at Munich in 1912 to study painting,
supporting himself as artisan in building trade.
Volunteer in German Army, 1914; wounded,
1916; gassed and temporarily blinded, 1918;
Iron Cross, first class and second class, Western
Front; after Revolution of 1918-19 devoted
himself to politics, becoming President and
Leader of the National Socialist German
Workers’ party; took part in rising of Nov. 9,
1923, and was sentenced to fortress detention
until Dec., 1924; refounded National
Socialist movement, Feb. 27, 1925; appointed
Chancellor of the German Reich by President
von Hindenburg, Jan. 30, 1933; member of the
Reichstag from March 5, 1933, became head of
the German State by law of August 1, 1934,*
confirmed by referendum of Aug. 19, 1934.
Publications: Mein Kampf, Vol. I, 1925, Vol.
11, 1927- Address: Wilhelmstr. 77, Berlin,
W.S. T.: 11 6191; Ober-Salzberg, Berchtes-
gaden, Bavaria.
* * * *
Warship losses (various classes of craft) by
the nations engaged in the war of 1914-18?
6342. . „
Battleships—United Kingdom 13, France
four, Italy three, Japan one, Germany one,
Austria three; battle cruisers—United Kingdom
three, Germany one; cruisers—United Kingdom
25, U.S.A. one, France five, Italy two, Japan
four, Germany 14, Austria two; monitors—
United Kingdom six, Italy one, Austria three;
destroyers—United Kingdom 64, U.S.A. two,
France 14, Italy 10, Japan three, Germany 72,
Austria five; torpedo boats —United Kingdom
10, France eight, Italy five, Japan one, Ger-
many 51, Austria four; submarines—United
Kingdom 59, U.S.A. one, France 14, Italy eight,
Germany 216, Austria eight; small craft
United Kingdom 27, France nine.
* * * *
To whom were Nobel prizes awarded in
1939?—6353. , .
Physics, Prof. E. O. Lawrence; chemistry,
Prof. A. F. J. Butenandt and Prof. L- Ruzicka;
medicine, Prof. G. Domagk; literature, F. E.
Sillanpaa; peace, no award.
* * * *
Names of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas,
and the year and place of first production ?
6228. , T
“Thespis,” Gaiety, 1871; “Trial by Jury,
Royalty, 1875; “The Sorcerer,” 1877, “H.M.S.
Pinafore,” 1878, “Pirates of Penzance,” 1880,
and “Patience,” 1881, at the Opera Comique;
“lolanthe,” 1882, “Princess Ida,” 1884, “The
Mikado,” 1885, “Ruddigore,” 1887, “The Yeo-
men of the Guard,” 1888, “The Gondoliers,
1889, “Utopia,” 1893, and “The Grand Duke,”
1896, at the Savoy—all in London.
* * * *
(1) Where do mirages occur, and what are
common forms? (2) Causes? —6325.
(1) In arid parts of Australia and other
countries in the form of lakes; in the images
of ships and icebergs, frequently seen as if in-
verted and suspended in the atmosphere. There
are also the Fata Morgana, seen in the Straits
of Messina, and “looming,” as witnessed in
mists or fogs. (2) Regarding visionary lakes,
the heating of the sand by the solar rays
causes the neighboring air to expand. When an
object is viewed across such an area two sets of
rays operate, and the object appears double;
it is the sky, like a shining lake, that is seen
mirrored in the sand.
* * * *
Should a man die without leaving a will, how
would the wife and family of young children
fare regarding his farm and any money or other
property, and what steps would the Govern-
ment take? 1 have heard it said that the Gov-
ernment can step in and take complete control
if it chooses. Is this so ? —6269.
If the man died intestate, that is, without
leaving a will, the widow, or one of the next-
of-kin, should apply for letters of administra-
tion. If no one else as available a Government
official known as the Curator of' Intestate
Estates takes over the duty of administering
the estate. The County Court Registrar
office is nearest to the abode of the deceased
will assist and advise in the matter.
* * * *
There is some land in N.S.W. that I have
fenced and paid rates on for the last 24 years,
and have leased, but it has no title or owner to
it. What steps should I take to place it under
Torrens title and register . myself .as the
owner ? —6252.
Write to the Registrar-General, Queen’s
square, Sydney, asking for information with
regard to bringing the property in question
under the Real Property Act (“Torrens”) and
the fees in connection therewith. The appli-
cant may personally carry out the requirements
of' the Act, but usually, especially where a
search has to be made, the matter is placed
in the hands of a solicitor. A local solicitor
could act through his agent in Sydney.
* * * *
(1) How could I join the mercantile marine
with a view to . becoming an officer? (2) Is a
premium payable, and how much ? (3) Age
limit, if any? (4) Qualifications? —6331.
(1) A candidate for a second-mate’s certificate
must produce evidence of four years’ sea ser-
vice as apprentice, cadet, midshipman, boy,
seaman (ordinary or A. 8.), boatswain or car-
penter ; and service in other capacities at sea
has been accepted in some instances. (2) Some
lines accept apprentices at premiums of £5O to
£100; midshipmen on regular seagoing training-
ships pay anything up to £2OO p.a. (3) None;
but a candidate for a second-mate’s certificate
must be at least 18. (4) Good eyesight, good
health and a fair education. The examinations
involve a thorough knowledge of trigonometry
(plane and spherical). The lad who has no
money to waste is advised to go as a boy or
0.5.; before his four years are over he will
probably be rated as A. 8., and during that
time he should save enough to take a thorough
course of navigation and nautical astronomy at
an academy.
* * * *
(1) Biographical details concerning James
Hebblethwaite ? (2) List of his published
works? (3) Where could I find criticisms of
his poetry? —6337.
Born Preston, England, in 1857, he entered
St. John’s College, Battersea, London, on a
scholarship and taught at English schools for
12 years. He then came to Tasmania, where
he became a Congregational minister and was
in 1900 principal of Queen’s College, Latrobe
(Tas.). Afterwards he became an Anglican,
and was vicar of D’Entrecasteaux Island until
his retirement. He died in 1921. A great deal
of his verse appeared in The Bulletin.
(2) Verse (1896), A, Rose of Regret (1900),
Meadow and Bush (1900) and The Poems of
James Hebblethwaite (1921). (3) See Nettie
Palmer’s Modern Australian Literature ; and
H. M. Green’s An Outline of Australian Litera-
ture. The Mitchell Library, Sydney, has also
clippings of articles concerning him written by
the late A. G. Stephens.
# * * *
How is skittles played? How are the scores
calculated, and what does a set cost ?— 6335.
The game is played in a specially prepared
alley, long and narrow. At one end nine cigar-
shaped wooden pins, about a foot high and
seven to nine pounds in weight, are set up
in the form of a square, with one angle towards
the player. He stands 21ft. from the nearest
pin, and throws a wooden ball called a
“cheese,” the object being to floor the pins in
as few throws as possible. He scores three
points if he knocks them all down with one
throw; two points if it takes him two throws;
one point if it takes him three throws; if after
three throws any pin is standing he doesn’t
score. There are other ways of scoring, such
as giving each pin a certain value. Any sport-
ing-goods dealer should be able to provide a
set, with rules, for about 30s.
* * * *
(1) 1 have a Ford VS de luxe sedan, late
1938 model, mileage 10,400. What is its most
economical driving speed? (2) The car has
been serviced and greased regularly by the local
Ford agents, including the 5000-mile check-
over of shock-absorbers. Speed is rarely over
40 m.p.h. over good roads—only 3000 in
country. I am informed that the shock-
absorbers must be reconditioned, and new : links
put in. Is this reasonable service? —6180.
(1) The most economical way to drive a car is
to maintain an even, regular speed. You would
probably find 40-45 m.p.h. the most economical
speed, but of course this could not be main-
tained in city areas. (2) Depends on the type
of country over which the car has been used,
and that’s difficult to assess or prove.
* * * *
How can I find altitude by (1) boiling ther-
mometer and (2) with a barometer? —6329.
(1) The boiling point of water is lower in
temperature the less the pressure of the air
—the boiling point is 221 deg. at 29.22 in. and
is only 187.5 deg. at 18in. Thus if you
know at what temperature water boils and
can determine the pressure at the top and
bottom of an ascent, you can compute the
height. The instrument used for this work is
called a hypsometer, and is a thermometer
with a boiling-point apparatus attached and a
note showing the pressure for various boiling
points. (2) Altitudes can be roughly deter-
mined by noting the fall in the barometer
readings with ascent. The barometer falls
(approximately) one inch in every ' 1000 feet.
For convenience an aneroid barometer is used
for this work.
*** " • *
Titles of books banned in Eire last year?-
6336. . .
Among publications reported as prohibited
in Eire were C. Norris’s Bricks Without Straw,
Somerset Maugham’s Christmas Holiday, Denis
.Wheatley’s The Quest of Julian Day, Sean-
O’Casey’s I Knock at the Door, Howard
Spring’s My Son, My Son,' Richard Church’s
The Stronghold, James Curtis’s They Drive by
Night, H. E. Bates’s Spell Ho, R. Lehmann’s
Dusty Answer, A. du Maurier’s The Perplexed
Heart and F. van Wyck’s Three Harbors.
* * * *
Particulars of fossil whale discovered in Vic-
toria last year by Dr. B. G. Pritchard? —6347.
Dr. B. G. Pritchard discovered and collected
from a cliff face in the older Tertiary rocks at
Torquay (Vic.) the greater part of the skull
of a zeuglodon whale belonging to a new
genus, Mammalodon. The find differs from
a previous one of the remains of a fossil whale
, discovered in the Tertiary deposits of Australia
in the small size and delicate build of the skull
' and of the teeth and their cusps. Dr. Pritchard
considers it to be a very early type of Tertiary
whale, “showing the closest approach to
descent from a mammalian type of ancestor.”
The rocks from which it has been recovered
haye been attributed to various periods ranging
from the Miocene to Eocene, but Dr. Pritchard
favors their Eocene origin;
* * * .*
Some particulars concerning the Hawthorn-
den Prize? —6364.
The Hawthornden Prize, for which books
do not have to be specially submitted, is
awarded annually to the author of what, in the
opinion of the committee, is the best bit of
imaginative work in prose or verse published
during the preceding 12 months by a British
author under 41 years af age. The prize is
£lOO. It was founded by Miss Alice Warrender
in 1919. The 1939 award was . made to
Christopher Hassall for Penthesperon.
* * * *
Blackberries have invaded my garden from
a near-by vacant allotment. How can I eradi-
cate the pest by • the arsenic-and-caustic-soda
method? —6334.
Spray the roots. with lib. of arsenic boiled
. with, lib. caustic soda and then diluted with
about five gallons of water. If the infested area
is small, and it is practicable to apply the solu-
; tion to each root with a brush, it is advisable
. to do so, •as the .arsenic will not thus affect
the soil. If not, spray lightly and the soil will
not be affected to any great extent. ,
*** * -
What is the cause of flowers failing to
color, the-blooms- coming out green? The soil
in my garden is loam, has been well cultivated
and liberally manured with-well decomposed
cow manure and artificial fertiliser {a 2-2-1 mix-
ture, added at the rate of 2oz. per sq. yd.), arid
the water supply is kept up. Greening has
persisted for three years. What's the remedy?
.—6245.
Cause is probably too much artificial fer-
tiliser. The ground should be given a good
liming and well worked to allow of aeration,
and given no artificial fertiliser for some time
to come. A reaonable amount of well-rotted
cow manure should do no harm.
# * * *
Particulars about the dollar-bird and its
habits ?— -6324. . i : \ ■
The dollar-bird (Eurystomus orientalis) is the
only representative in Australia of the family
known as rollers ( Coraciidce ). It has greenish-
blue plumage with a large . round , white patch
in the centre of each wing, very conspicuous
when it is flying. These patches are said to be
the origin of its name, as they look like silver
coins. The beak is very wide and red in color.
The bird occurs throughout northern and eastern
Australia during the summer, retreating north-
wards to. the Malay archipelago for the winter.
It is very noisy, with a peculiar clattering note;
its flight is remarkable, as it rarely flies straight
for any distance, but tumbles and twists in the
air. This peculiarity, w,hich it shares with the
rest of the family, _accounts for the name
“rollers.” The eggs, which are white, are laid
■in a hole'in a tree, generally near the extremity
of a dead branch, and the bird .is clever enough
to mislead searchers for its nest by flying into
other holes. -
* * * *
How to dress, salt and smoke Murray cod?
- 6340: "
; Behead and gut the fish, but leave the scales
on. Split it open as close to the backbone as
possible, lay out on a wooden bench and rub
dry salt into it. Turn and rub every day for
a week, drawing off any liquid which forms, so
that the fish remains as dry as possible. Smoke
for several hours over a clean wood fire, either
on a light wire frame or hung on clean poles.
The fire should be damped down so that there
is more smoke than flame.
*** * ■
Formula for a waterproof flexible cement
'suitable for cementing a patch on the leather-
covered cab of a coupe? —6249.
This paste is as good as any cement for
fastening a leather patch on to leather: Take
ilb. flour, powdered resin, i-table-
spoon finely-powdered alum, one tablespoon
powdered glue. Mix to a smooth, cream with
cold water, then boil, stirring constantly till
thick. Apply to the patch very thinly, put into
place and press firmly, leaving weight on till
dry. Give the whole a coat of leather varnish.
* ' * . * *
; (1 ) How to make‘two gallons of bungalow-
brown paint? (2) How to make two gallons of
paint as undercoat ? (3) How to make putty ?
—6326. - „ . r . • • - -
\ (1) Take 71b. red : oxide in oil, lib. burnt
turkey .umber in oil, ;31b. black in oil, i-gal.
raw linseed oil, T'gab boiled linseed oil,
terebine, turpentine. Quantities given
are approximate and would depend upon the
quality of the colors used. They should be
well mixed together, the liquids added slowly
during stirring so as to ensure amalgamation.
You could probably buy the paint as cheaply
ready mixed. (2) For an undercoat, omit the
boiled linseed oil, and increase the quantity
of turpentine d-gal. (3) Whiting should be
mixed with raw linseed oil to the consistency of
a stout pas§e..>
* * *
A simple method of oxidising brass military,
buttons ? —6215.
Immerse-article in a solution of 2oz. nitrate
of. iron, 2oz. hyposulphite of soda and one pint
of water. Wash and dry.
Brief Answers.
D.J.W.: Yes, and pays 7s. 6d. for each idea
accepted V.H.P.: (1) No agents of that
nature at present operating in Sydney. (2) Try
Playwright Advisory Board, fifth floor, Scott
Chambers, Hosking-place, Sydney... .H.F. :
Obviously the words are Fortis in arduiy
meaning “Strong in adverse circumstances ....
A.W.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural Dept. Syd-
ney, for pamphlet entitled “Housing Poultry
. ... J.M.K.: .U) Application should be made
to the Dept, of Labor and Industry, Sydney,
regarding the station-hands’ award in N.S.W.
(2) The'tax payable on the total earnings oi
£3 ss', per week is 2s. per week. (3) A married
man with one child would be taxable 2s. Id.
per week on earnings of £4 4s. per week. A
.rebate, however, is only allowable provided
the employee completes the form W.T. 16
(claim for dependants) and lodges same with
the' employer. Forms W.T. 16 are available
at all post offices....T.H.: (1) The ingredients
are not correct. (2) A mixture of dry color and
water would not do. When the water had
evaporated the powder would brush off or fall
away. (3) Remove as far as possible all traces
of the present treatment. Use dry oxide or
lamp-black mixed with turpentine to free brush-
ing consistency to give solid covering, and to
this add, by volume, 6 p.c. of terebine, which
would act as a binder. This mixture could be
brushed on and allowed to dry thoroughly,
when it should not readily rub off. .. .S.S.P.:
Write to the secretary, Sydney Chamber of
Commerce, 36 Grosvenor-street, Sydney....
G.J.M.: The burning of sulphur in a
shop for the destruction of silverfish and cock-
roaches is not recommended. The sulphur
fumes will have a -destroying action on the
materials and leather goods. Moreover, with
the shop stocked with materials the fumes would
not penetrate sufficiently to be effective. The
most effective method is to spray all crevices.
' openings, etc., with a liberal supply of a reliable
cockroach powder which retains its potency
for a considerable period. Cockroach powders,
as a rule, deal with the silverfish... .F.W.:
Cannot trace any such agents in Melbourne.
J.C.D.: I Was Stalin’s Agent, by W. G.
Krivitsky, published by Hamish Hamilton, Lon-
don. .. .A.H.B. : Write Registrar of Copyrights,
Commonwealth Bank Chambers, Martin-place,
Sydney K.M.: (1) You should, get in touch
with the Registrar of Sydney Uni., who will
advise fully as to the subjects necessary to
matriculate in dentistry. (2) The: only means
whereby you could qualify for registration as
a dentist is to attend the Uni. and graduate
in dentistry. (3) The prospects for a dentist
are good R.A.: The inquiry does not con-
tain sufficient information to enable the ques-
tions to be answered. Get in touch with the
local water-supply authority L.Y.: (1)
Albert Cotter died in Palestine on October 20,
, 1917, at the age of 33 years and 10 months,
while on active service with the A.I.F. (2) He
had no sons at the Great War. (3) He last
played in Test matches in 1911-12 in Australia.
M W.: (1) This-is a matter of fact for
the umpire to decide. The law of cricket pro-
vides that if in- playing at the ball the bats-
man hits down his wicket with his bat or any
part of his dress or person he is out. (2) It
is a matter for the umpire to decide whether
the wicket was broken by the striker in play-
ing at the ball. (3) Comes under the laws
•of fair and unfair play. An umpire could
be appealed to by- the wicketkeeper if a striker
is considered to be infringing this rule
R.F.: Write Sane Democracy League of Aus-
tralia, 12 Spring-street, Sydney. .. .W.G.F.: The
batsman is out... .W.E.H.: Origin unknown.
Oxford Dictionary describes it as “the feat of
a bowler who'takes three wickets in three suc-
cessive balls,* entitling him to a new hat from
his club” J.0.J.: (1) The Radio Amateurs
Handbook, by the American Radio RelaV
.League, 10s. 6d. (2) Television Theory and
Practice, by Reyner, 15s. Both obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney.... M.F. : tfl
When bush is in flower. (2) Dry on sheets of
paper in cool oven or in shade on hot days.
(3) Better to dry the trusses and then strip
off the leaves —the aromatic dried stems make
a pleasant deodorant when burnt
Aboriginal words for “corner” or “angle” are
Buddi, Durrandurai and Migganmiggin. None
of these seems suitable for the name of a
house G.L.H.: English magazines are
“Musical Times,” “Melody Maker,” “Musical
Opinion,” “Strad” and “Rhythm.” American
magazines are “Etude,” “Musical Courier” and
“Musician”... .R.A.M.K.: Write Sydney Tech-
nical College, .Harris-street, Ultimo, Sydney.. -
R.D.G.: (1) and (2) See Norman Lindsays
Bulletin 'illustrations to M. Barnard Elder-
shaw’s A House Is Built, published serially m
this paper in 1929 under the title of The
Quartermaster ... .N.R.C.: The number or
omnibuses operating in Sydney (city and
suburbs) in 1931 was 582, and in 1940 is 706-
The number of omnibuses operating in
was exceeded about February, 1938—P-M- :
.Write Anthony Hordern and Sons, George-
street, Sydney S.G.: The plug-and-feather
method is employed to obtain blocks of stone
for building purposes. Ordinary explosives are
required to some extent in the quarrying pr®
liminary to the use of the method.. .'.DJ-E-i
Write Australian Red Cross Society, -
Jamieson-street, Sydney P.A.D.: War,
and Women, by Wilfrid Saint-Mande, " a --
first published in April, 1931, and the book is
now in its 11th edition. The only other book
by this author, No Repentance, is now out ®
print. .. .A.L.S.: Exact particulars are required
before a search can be undertaken—A.C- :
Attendance at an art school would be neces-
sary ... .J.Y.: Advertisement appeared in The
Bulletin of June 7, 1939, and referred to |
Robert Young, born about 1883 at Oxted.
Surrey, England H.S.: Will consider them
if they are original and unpublished. Address
to the editor F.S.G.: Address to editor and
material will be given consideration—C-H--
Suggest advertising and canvassing second-hand
booksellers... .W.H.F.L.: Wpite Dept, of As n '
culture, Brisbane.


Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
&
5f
m
o
S'.
Heals , soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus oils and
their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or coal tar
derivative. Neither washes nor dries out. Does not stain fleece.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Wool Prices.
“Austral”: Under the auction system
some growers invariably complained
about wool prices. The trouble fre-
quently arose from comparisons of the
various lines. Sometimes the discrepancy
was due either to lot-splitting or some
particular tendency of the day s market
due to heavy orders for a certain type.
Every buyer in normal times works
to his own particular types. These are
based on arrangements with the mills
for whom he buys and his idea of the
spinning count of any particular type.
The appraisement scheme to a great
extent has altered that, but seemingly
there has been no attempt to co-ordinate
buyer-appraisers’ standards.
The table of limits now operating
lays down the divisions separating the
various types, but what is lacking is a
set of samples which could be regarded
as standards of the spinning quality and
length defined for each type. This was
done during the previous appraisement
scheme in 1916, and these types are still
to be seen at Sydney Technological
Museum.
An ex-Bradford buyer and a Con-
tinental would be most unlikely —if
working independently —to type a cata-
logue identically. The appraising system
recognises this but cannot alter the basic
facts, although by pairing such appraisers
and averaging results they get some-
where near the mark.
The variation in standards may greatly
affect prices. A 64’s warp type, for in-
stance, may fall into several subsections,
such as super, good and faulty, with a
margin of 2d. to 4d. per pound between
each. Two appraisers with different
training may not agree on the slight
degree of tenderness, for instance, that
may be encountered in parts of a lot of
wool. By reason of their placing the
same wool as two different types there
may be a difference of 3d. per pound
between their valuations.
Ascertaining the yield of wool is
purely a matter of experience, checked
with the only reliable test —how it scouts
out at the mill. Buyers usually specialise
on certain types, and become fairly ex-
pert in their own lines, but the margin
of error which is permissible there be-
comes magnified when the buyer has to
determine yield of unaccustomed types.
Cases have been known of a discrepancy
of 10 p.c. between buyer’s estimate and
actual scouring results.
The added importance of thorough
classing of the clip for appraisement has
been frequently stressed, and it will repay
every grazier to add a few bins to his
shed this year. Every pound of the
clip must pull its weight to give the
clip the highest possible average, and
this cannot be attained by making big
broad lines. Star lots bring as much
as big lots under appraisement, and the
only quarter likely to object to a clip
being cut up into more lines than usual
is the broker who has to catalogue and
find space on the showfloor.
To illustrate how a grower is likely
to lose money on a mixed line, take
a lot which contains mixed crossbred
and comeback ranging in spinning quality
from 50’s to 64’s and with a possible
variation of 15 p.c. in yields. That lot
will probably be appraised at the price
ruling for 50’s, the lowest type, and at
a conservative yield that will keep the
buyer on the right side.
If the price happens to be 12d. per
pound the grower gets only llid. The |d.
difference is deducted to cover the cost
of reclassing the wool to put it in a
fit state for accurate valuation. That
new enhanced price does not go to the
grower.
If you can’t class it in the shed send
it to a reliable firm for reclassing before
appraisement.
Purebreds in the Centre.
“Mookau”: Central Australian cattle-
men have had much encouragement from
the Adelaide show and market in recent
months, and several of them are taking
steps to improve their herds by .methods
“It won't be long now, Dave.”
which many another better-situated
breeder might emulate.
Edmund Brooks, of Buckland Park,
Two Wells (S.A.), has astonished a good
many cattlemen who have always re-
garded the Black Angus as a farm animal
only good for coastal conditions by an-
nouncing that he has had so much suc-
cess with the doddies in the outback that
he is establishing a breeding herd at
Lake Letty, near Marree. Hitherto a
good many young A.A. bulls have been
sent out from centres nearer the coast
and mated with Shorthorns in the in-
terior. The get turns out about 90 p.c.
hornless, good in conformation, quick to
fatten and splendid travellers.
Meanwhile E. and A. J. Hayes, who
have 2500 square miles near the Alice,
arc taking out polled Hereford bulls and
heifers from Cudgeena, Cudgewa
(N.S.W.). They will be the first polled
Herefords seen in Centralia. They have
a 2000-mile train journey in front of
them.
The season in the Centre, as in many
other districts, is as good as can be, and
grass looks to be assured for some time.
And when there is grass the time for
herd improvement has come.
Botulism in Cattle.
“Beefo”: In many districts where dry
feed prevails the absence of minerals in
the pastures is causing cattle to develop
a taste for the bones of dead animals.
If they continue chewing them cattle are
liable to develop paralysis in the legs
and a twitching movement of the jaws.
As the disease advances, patients stagger
when walking. In bad cases, the beast
weakens rapidly, and once it falls down
death soon follows.
Preventive methods will invariably
prove successful. Carcasses should
be burnt, and a salt or bonemeal lick
provided. Cattle should regularly be
moved from paddock to paddock. In
areas where botulism is known to be
prevalent, the use of a vaccine is recom-
mended —two injections at intervals ren-
der cattle more or less immune for life.
It’s easy enough to know when cattle
require minerals; they’ll try to chew any
bone they come across, and it’s hard to
drive them away from old carcasses.
These are the first symptoms of botulism,
and a lick should be provided straight
away.
Wheat, Ships and Mice.
“R Pub” • NSW had an average
, B : r~? •. N - b - w - had , a “
wheat yield this year of nearly 17 bushels
an acre, well above the normal 1
bushels. Central-west districts stepped
it up with averages ranging up to 19
bushels, and the figure was maintained
by a dry harvest season, an abnormally
low number of crops suffering from wind
or rain damage after ripening.
The estimated yield for the Common-
wealth is up again, to 210,450,000
bushels. Storage charges will be heavy
while dearth of shipping continues, and
steadily rising freight and insurance rates
will add ereatlv to the cost of the hie
, g y * g
harvest. , , „ .
Growers in long-fallow districts are
watching for rain, and when it comes the
scarifiers will go into the fallow while the
plough gets busy on lands for the 1941-
42 crop. It is only a few weeks to seed-
ing time, and, unless the shipping prob-
lem is eased in the near future, Aus-
tralia will find it necessary to prepare
more storage space for the 1940-41 har-
vest, as most of the present harvest will
still be in the country.
Loading space for the next three
months has been arranged to handle about
13| million bushels. That isn’t much out
of the 150,000,000 or so bushels avail-
able for export, and if congestion is to
be avoided next year there will have to
be a big increase in outgoing wheat
ships. Short of chartering neutral ton-
nage at excessive rates, Australia must
build her own bottoms.
Meanwhile from the Riverina come
reports of mice rapidly reaching plague
proportions. There are complaints that
protection of stacks is being held up
through delay in obtaining timber and
galvanised-iron for roofing and sides.
The Wheat Board should act at once,
remembering the disastrous damage done
by previous plagues.
Sub. Clover Strains.
“J. Want”: Sub. clover is so relatively
new a fodder that there is still need for
experiment in districts in which it has
not been acclimatised.
The Mt. Barker strain is the oldest.
It was first noticed by A. W. Howard
in 1889, but no seed was sold commer-
cially till 1906, and its development as
a regular pasture plant only really began
about two years after the last war. Mean-
whi|e> a thought , 0 be from seed
j nt roduced with rye grass 50 years ago,
ba£ j developed at Dwalganup (W.A.). It
was an ear iy variety capable of pro-
duction in 15in. rainfall country, more
suitable for dry areas than Mt. Barker,
which calls for from 20in. to 25in. In
1935 a Victorian strain, discovered a
few years earlier at Tallarook, was corn-
mercialised for the first time,
Mt. Barker strains mature to the
flowering stage in from 150 to 170 days
P w . a . g f n^’ A t^ie san }f at
Instltute (S.A.), normally from 99 to 105
days. The variation is largely according
to the earliness of sowing. Thus Dwal-
ganUp sown at the end of April was
available early in August; late in May,
towards mid-September. Mt. Barker’s
dates, with sowings at the same periods,


REGULATION
OFFICERS’ BOOT
A high-legged Military Cossack for the
use of mounted Officers.
Made in best grade Brown Calf and
Leather lined throughout, with stout
soles.
The leg of this boot is specially
cut to fit any type of legging.
Stocked in full sizes.
50
ļ
Abbey Boots are sent to all parts of Australia and the British Empire.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS. SYDNEY.”
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’Account Book
(Price £1),
including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations ~ 15
Sheep bought ~ 20
Wire netting „ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The>book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1940 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
ffuT&TtllefztiL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Every comfort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/o
Double Room, from
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/-
For rooms with Hot and Cold Water.
Single 1/- and Double 1/6 extra.
Modern a la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
“Grancentral,” Sydney
were early- and mid-October. Late sow-
ing hurries up Mt. Barker, but retards
Dwalganup slightly. These results apply
specifically to the Waite Institute (S.A.),
but they should run true in other locali-
ties.
One of the features of sub. clover is
its adaptability. The history of the plant
is really only beginning, but there are .
already strains and types available adapt-
able to all conditions of southern Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, and it is worth the
effort to find types which will suit the
North as well. It would be of immense
service to the stock industry ; particularly
in the North Queensland coastal region
and the more fertile sections of the Gulf
it should be well worth trying.
Hints for the Farm.
“Titre”: Sugarcane and its products
make good feed for horses. Mackay
Sugar Experiment Station feeds its work-
ing stock on a ration of 541 b. chopped
cane, 6lb. heavy molasses and 31b. lin-
seed meal. It would be hard to better
the results.
“Jayem”: For pastures on south-
eastern tableland country where average
rainfall is good, try on good soils a
mixture of 31b. of Phalaris tuberosa,
51b. of perennial rye grass, 21b. of white
clover and lib. of M.L. perennial red
clover per acre. If the soil is inclined
to be clayey, add lib. of English trefoil.
On soils inclined to dry out, sow 51b.
of Akaroa cocksfoot, 21b. of sheep’s
burnet, 21b. of M.L. perennial red clover
and lib. of ball clover per acre. On
poor soils sow 31b. of sub. clover and
31b. of M.L. perennial red clover per
acre, which, topdressed annually with
superphosphate, will improve soil fer-
tility sufficiently in a few years for a
sward of mixed grasses and clovers to
be established.
“Goulburn”: Get a cereal crop in
immediately the early maize is harvested
in N.S.W. dairying districts. If a pad-
dock which has filled a 100-ton silo with
maize is re-ploughed immediately and
sown with barley and vetches, it will
yield 100 tons of green fodder in winter
that will be ready to feed as soon as
the late green maize is used. Oats or
wheat can be grown instead of barley,
but the feeding value is not so good.
Sow tares, peas or vetches with the cereal
to provide the protein which makes a
well-balanced ration. Application of
super, will mean a heavier crop. Cut
the cereal-legume mixture, instead of
grazing, to avoid waste.
“Ess”: By leaving openings at irregular
intervals in contour banks South African
farmers seem to have improved their
erosion-control system. The openings in
a lower bank are not directly beneath
those in the bank above, so that when
the water reaches the gap and spreads
down the slope it is caught by: the lower
bank before it begins to wash the soil,
is led along to an opening, again allowed
to spread, and so on. Thus the whole
paddock gets a pretty good soaking from
a quick shower, the water not being held
back too much by the higher banks.
Land that does not obtain the full flow
from the gaps benefits by seepage.
“Yeno Ham”: From 46 crossbred
cows, run on 197 acres, F.- W. Snow,
Dyraaba, N.S.W. North Coast, received
more than £3OO in six months. When
the cows calved early in the season they
were grazed on Wimmera rye and red
clover. They went on to lucerne when
the red clover began to go off. During
the six months the herd never went short
of milk-producing fodders.
“Yarrunga”: Re fertilisers for potatoes
(B. 7/2/’4O), comprehensive trials have
been concluded on river flats on the
Lower Hunter (N.S.W.). Best average
yields were obtained from the applica-
tion of a mixture of 2801 b. super, and
931 b. each sulphate of ammonia and
potash, costing £1 10s. per acre, and
adding 31icwt. per acre to the yield. The
soils were representative of the coastal
potato districts. The price of sulphate
of ammonia has since advanced £2 10s.
and super. 10s. per ton.
Outback Occupations.
No. VII.
Poultry-farming.
A lot of people run away with the
idea that poultry-raising is a purely
suburban business and should be in-
dulged in by retired civil servants,
maiden ladies whose chances in the matri-
monial lottery are almost nil and Maltese
immigrants. Obviously, as wheat is the
main constituent of poultry food, the
place for the poultry is on the wheat
farm. Thus production is simplified.
You simply pour wheat into the poultry
run and collect the eggs.
At the same time it must not be
assumed that the more wheat poured in
the more eggs will come out. A hen is
only capable of so much, and though
she be literally buried to her neck in
wheat she will not do any more.
Production depends on four things:
Breeding, culling, feeding and eagerness.
The last is most important. You may
breed a hen from top-line stock, cull her
rigidly and feed her on the best, but un-
less she has that fine eagerness to be down
and doing she’s a liability, and her best
place is the pot while she’s still young.
If she’s old when found out, pop her in
the pot just the same, but be sure to
put in a bit of white quartz with her.
When you can get the fork into the
quartz, the hen is fit for the table.
There are several breeds of chook.
Most popular—in numbers, not affection
—is the White Leghorn. This is a rakish
type with a predatory eye and spring
heels that enable it to pass high fences,
rivers and men on horseback with ease.
Its color and characteristics make it easy
to find. Its pure white body stands out
in sharp contrast to the kitchen table, car
upholstery, young green peas and the
gloom of the underground tank —places
patronised by the best White Leghorns.
Still, the blankards are good layers and
make up in eggs what they cause in
eggsasperation.
There are Black and Brown Leghorns,
but as they are just as much trouble as
the other kind we needn’t deal with them
here. Should further information be re-
quired, write to the editress of any
Woman’s Supplement. She’ll know all
about flappers and old hens and what
they cackle about.
Orpingtons are large, comfortable
chooks that like to lie about in the shade
all day, drink a lot ami are inclined to
go on strike over little things. For this
reason they are more generally known as
Australorps.
Buff Orpingtons have nothing to recom-
mend them, except that they once in-
spired Kipling—or was it Doyle? You
know the line: “Last night a drunken
private of the Buffs, Tonight no moon
I see,” obviously a reference to the effect
of feeding Buffs on overripe molasses.
This isn’t to be regarded as suggesting
that ownership of a few Buffs will make
you a poet. Kipling probably wrote it
for chickenfeed.
There are many other breeds, of course,
such as Wyandottes, Cochin Chinas,
Bantams, Plymouths, Sussex, etc., but as
they are all just as much a nuisance as
the others the wise farmer will not find
it hard to make a choice.
All poultry experts insist on the value
of culling. This insistence is easily
understood because all poultry experts
are agreed that only an expert should be
allowed to cull. They come to your
place, talk learnedly about eyes, combs,
keels and line-breeding, separate the
approved fowls from the discarded and
depart. About 70 per cent, of your
flock has been stamped as culls, to be
got rid of at once. Your wife sniffs con-
temptuously and declares with an icy
positiveness that among the culls are her
20 best layers.
Now the best way to settle such an
argument is to install trap nests. These
are very clever inventions consisting of
a box with a spring door. The trusting
hen, inquisitively scratching round, sees
through the partly-open door some lus-
cious crushed maize. She enters. The
trap door slams. The indignant chook
finds herself confronted with a notice
that her freedom depends upon her
ability. The weight of a 2oz. egg on the
floor will release the door by an in-
genious arrangement of spring balances.
When the egg appears an automatic
stamp, working off an eccentric con-
nected with the door mechanism, imme-
diately brands the egg with the hen’s
name and number.
After a week of trap-nesting you con-
front the wife with convincing evidence
that the experts were right, get rid of
the culls, and go about with an air of
quiet triumph. After that the daily egg
output drops by about 20, and you avoid
the wife as much as possible.
Provide the fowls with good perches,
upon which they can sleep comfortably
at night. They’ll still roost in the trees
about the place and on the rafters in
the car shed, but you’ve done your part,
and if the decorations on the car roof
excite your rage it is much better to move
the car than disturb the hens. Nothing
lowers productive capacity more than
being chased round by a cursing man and
three dogs, and no hen can be expected
to do her best if her nightly sleep is in-
terrupted in this fashion.
Green feed is as essential for egg-
production as grain and mash. Prob-
ably the fowls will get all they need
from the vegetable and flower garden,
and one way to ensure them doing so is
to sow a small plot of lucerne and peas
near the fowlrun. By this means you
stop the fowls from wandering, being
always sure of finding them among the
lettuces and delphiniums.
Grit, too, is essential. Usually there
isn’t much of it to spare on a wheat
farm, the farmer needing most of it to
enable him to carry on. It can be bought
from the local store, but should supplies
fail grind up some old bottles and other
glassware, and your poultry worries will
soon be at an end.
Poultry-farming has its aesthetic side.
A. L. Gordon once condemned Australia
as a land of “songless bright birds,” but
he was a horse poet, and it is obvious
that he never heard a flock of hens sing-
ing in the morning while he was trying
to get a bit of sleep, otherwise he’d have
written something much more vigorous.
As for the financial side, don’t let any-
body kid you there isn’t money in poul-
try. In Sydney and Melbourne, to men-
tion only two cities, are plenty of men
making big money from eggs and table
birds. They have nice offices and big
staffs, play golf and enjoy the surf. Aye,
far removed from the sight of flying
feathers or cackling chooks, they prove
that there’s money in poultry. Why,
there’s even an Egg Marketing Board,
fully staffed, from chairman down to
messengers. Its job is to see that all
eggs are the same shape, or to keep out
pigeon fanciers, or to standardise the
proportion of chicks per acre or some-
thing—anyhow, it provides a lot of good
jobs, again proving that there’s money
in poultry.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4|d. per line; all others at
2Jd. per line.
Double pay for a Sydney man who is glad to be alive and in Australia.
Counting the Blessings
In England, Africa, Canada and India,
The Bulletin is the only journal from
which readers are able to obtain any-
thing like a comprehensive review of
Australian activities. Lest readers in
those lands should mistakenly assume
(from the 0.F.M.) that Australia is a
cesspit of political corruption, ineffi-
ciency, exploitation, decadence and
tyranny, I should like to present a few
of the blessings for which I am grateful
to Australia.
I am thankful for a system of govern-
ment that permits me to express my
opinions privately without being bunged
into gaol for them, and publicly without
any greater risk than being caught in
the eye with an overripe tomato.
I am grateful for a sufficiency of food,
clothing, shelter, books, music, tobacco
and good companions. Also for our
public parks, playgrounds and beaches,
which are the finest in the world and
free. I thank God for a country that is
so rich in natural resources that it is
able to support over 600 politicians, and
still thrive ; and for the A.8.C., which,
for the small sum of a guinea a year,
keeps me in touch with world affairs,
not to mention The Bulletin, which
guarantees this service by keeping the
Commission on its toes.
The security engendered by geographi-
cal isolation, coupled with Empire
allegiance, makes Australia the safest
country in the world to live in, and this
I number among my treasured national
possessions.
We have no ration cards, blackouts
or gasmasks. We were even told to
ignore the recent air-raid warning test.
We still eat real butter. We have so
much fruit and milk that we occasionally
have to throw the surplus in the ocean
to keep prices right. We’ll soon have a
40-hour week, after which we’ll agitate
for a 36-hour week. Some day we hope
to abolish State Parliaments —one of the
chief obstacles to further national ex-
pansion. On the whole, I think we do
very well. —W. Lynch (King’s Cross,
Sydney).
Careful Recruiting
Unless Australia adopts a co-ordinated
scheme of recruiting for the Army, Navy
and Air Force, many young men will
be so bitterly disappointed at one rejec-
tion that they may be disinclined to offer
themselves again for active service.
We have been told that 200,000 men
will have to be interviewed and tested
before the 55,000 picked men for Aus-
tralia’s part in the Empire Air Scheme
are selected. Most young fellows will
want to join that service. But while
those whose qualifications are not suffi-
cient for the requirements of the
R.A.A.F. will be rejected, no announce-
ment has yet been made that they will
be offered the alternatives of enlisting in
either the Army or the Navy. A man
who may not fill the Air Force require-
ments could possibly suit one of the
other services, if the same recruiting
staff was handling the three branches he
could be given the choice of taking an-
other job.
Reinforcements are to be enlisted for
the Second A.I.F. at the rate of 2400 a
month, evidently at the same time as
the Air Force recruiting scheme is in
progress. Much trouble, expense and
disappointment would be avoided if the
enlistments were all through the one
channel, giving men rejected on minor
points for one service the option of join-
ing another if they had the qualifications
for it. — Sam Square (N.S.W.).
Seamen and Soldiers
The men of the Royal Australian Navy
are amongst the smartest turned-out
servicemen that you could see anywhere.
They carry themselves well, they are
almost spotlessly dressed, and it is the
rarest thing in the world to see one of
them drunk.
It is quite common to see soldiers
drunk. Some of them are got up in a
filthy condition. They wander about with
their tunics undone, and some are even
hatless.
The sailors have no wet canteens on
their ships, and no one bothers about
that. Wouldn’t it be better to hold all
this enthusiasm for wet canteens in
military camps and give soldiers some
extra drill, and provide them with decent
uniforms? A few lectures on esprit de
corps and a few talks on temperance
should also prove serviceable. — Innis-
killing Dragoon (N.S.W.).
Country Doctors
We all know that N.S.W. medicoes are
being offeredTlOOO p.a. to practise in rural
districts where they are out of touch
with the latest methods of treatment,
where all “interesting” cases are speedily
removed—for the patient’s sake —to a city
hospital, where a medico must bid fare-
well to his dream of research, and
whence he finally returns rusty and a
back number. He is then scorned by
patients who like up-to-date treatment
for their illnesses.
There is another side to the story. When
one of these servants of the public de-
cides to marry at the popular age, he
hasn’t a union or a Jack Lang to do any-
thing about his salary of 30s. per week.
Thirty shillings houses, maintains and
clothes one wife and clothes and pro-
vides recreation for one overworked
R.M.O.
“Sandpatch” (B. 24/2/’4O), these rural
paradises with £lOOO hanging to them are
considered a reward for a six years’ night-
mare of study and ask-the-old-man-for-
money, followed by an R.M.O.’s crown
of glory and thirty bob. Not all medi-
coes are rich. Most of them are plain
men with brains.
I balance our thirty-shilling existence
against £lOOO p.a. and wouldn’t ex-
change. I want my husband to acquire
knowledge. He can do that only by
keeping in touch with clever men who,
for some curious reason, don’t go to
sparsely->populated areas, although the
bait is £lOOO. —M. Patient (N.S.W.).
Six solid years at least of the most
arduous whole-time study, with the
added expense thereto, entitles a quali-
fied medico to more consideration than
“Sandpatch” is willing to give to him.
A doctor’s worth to the community is
not reckoned in £ s. d., otherwise there
would be no flying doctors, research
workers and other ill-paid workers of
the profession.
After graduation the young medico is
entitled to the munificent salary of 325.
9d. per week as a resident hospital
doctor. That’s a salary that can be
earned by any would-be lawyer or ac-
countant during the whole course of his
studies. Bush stores are absolutely essen-
tial to the community, “Sandpatch”
asserts ; bush pubs also, and a benevolent
Government makes it worth while for a
bush doctor to follow in their wake.- -
W. E. C. (N.S.W.).
Sob Stories
It is not only in its accounts of gay
times available to the wealthy diner-out
in London despite the war that the
Sydney “Morning Herald’s” Women’s
Supplement has done a disservice to a
cause it champions (B. 14/2/’4O). For
many months past the Australian press
in general and the Sydney “Morning
Herald” in particular have given wide
publicity to the woes of German and
Austrian refugees. Since the outbreak
of war these woes have been even more
strongly emphasised than previously.
Radio serials have been written on the
theme.
Demands have been made that there
should be no restriction on the entrance
of these people to the Commonwealth,
and that they should be given privileges
denied to the ordinary immigrant. It has
been urged that they are deserving of such
special consideration because the Ger-
man Government has prevented them
from transferring their effects —in some
cases very substantial —and they are
therefore obliged to start life anew in a
strange land with only the slenderest of
resources.
Yet more than once lately “S. M.
Herald’s” Women’s Supplement has pub-
lished descriptions of the art treasures,
rare books and china brought to Aus-
tralia by certain refugee families. In
every case the owners have established
themselves in select suburbs. Among the
articles of furniture enumerated were
museum pieces of great value. Apart
from the worth of the collections, a tidy
sum must have been paid in customs
duties to get them into Australia.
The intelligent Australian, on reading
that refugees have such possessions, con-
cludes that the tales of Nazi spoliation
of Jews have been exaggerated.— Lyle
(N.S.W.).
Women
C. Halbert (B. 7/ 2 /’4O) berates the
spinster novelist who writes erotically
and the efficient women who take the
chair at meetings. Neither of these types
is intellectual. One may be able to
transfer her erotic yearnings to paper
and the other officiate at a meeting, but
neither so demonstrates the possession of
intellectual ability. The genuinely intel-
lectual woman is never found among
emotional exhibitionists or chairing
female meetings. Those who do per-
form these public chores are “clever”
women who are as big a curse as their
male counterparts who infest public and
journalistic life.
And what is all this about the “dull
domestic type” who is worth any bunch
of “neurotic careerists”? I once be-
lieved that sort of thing, and yearned
for the simple life in a simple suburb
among simple and solid things. But
I found more neuroses and more frus-
tration amongst the married women in
one suburban street than in my whole
career as a worker. Ask any doctor at
any of the big hospitals where women
flock in thousands what ails most of
them, and he will tell you, “Nerves, frus-
tration, repression.”
Take the atmosphere of most subur-
ban homes —the mean, narrow view-
points, the primitive prejudices, the bitter
backbiting, the almost religious horror
of original thought or frankness. Con-
sider the children, taught from infancy
to suspect their bodies, and with any
vitality of mind or personality stifled by
nice respectable teachings. Neuroses?
Suburban homes are alive with them.
Frustrations? The good domestic types
are riddled with them, frustrations and
repressions intensified because, secretly,
these women expect something different
and aren’t game enough to air their griev-
ances. Why? Because they came out
of good homes where to be frustrated is
to be normal and “decent.”
And women have no lien on neuroses.
I have met men just as sadly afflicted.
Modern conditions, the precarious econo-
mic system which may give us a job to-
day and fire us tomorrow, and a stupid
social system which limits human experi-
ence strictly to “good” or “bad,” are
responsible for the neurotic taint in all
of us. — Karenina (Q.).
The Voter
The Victorian Governor’s dissolution
of the Legislative Assembly, coming on
top of the Corio by-election, has let loose
a wave of political hot air over the Cab-
bage Garden. Before polling-day there
will be recriminations and windy prom-
ises, and the net result will be as usual.
Politics of one kind or another we
must have, but the type of politics we
suffer depends, in the last analysis, on
the degree of intelligence of the voter.
Australian politics have got beyond a
joke, but most voters still know little, and
care less, about them.
The only change which would be of
lasting benefit is a change in the attitude
of the voter to the responsibility of cast-
ing his vote. That change can be brought
about only by his education in the rami-
fications of the eternal political struggle,
in the significance and practical value
of the varying shades of doctrine, and
in the sacred duty of recording his vote’
with due regard to the welfare of his
fellow-citizens.
The study of civics should rank in
importance with the study of English
and mathematics. If a child learns next
to nothing about civics while at school,
what chance has he of acquiring the
requisite knowledge and judgment in the
period between leaving school and
achieving his majority? All that the
average voter knows about politics is
what he reads in the daily press, and
there he will read but one side of the
question.
Without a solid grounding in theo-
retical and practical civics, the voter is
unable to assess the merits and demerits
of any given shade of politics. As long
as that state of alfairs continues, we can-
not hope to see Australia governed to
the best advantage of the Australian
people.— Nairb (Vic.).
Psychiatry and the Law
That many of the offenders appearing
in the police courts are suffering from
warped mentalities is generally admitted,
and every day the importance and value
of the psychiatrist to the community are
becoming recognised and appreciated.
The law, however, is conservative and
wary of anything new. Take the case of
an accused, a habitual criminal, who
appeared before a N.S.W. country
trate. Assured by a psychiatrist whose
qualifications were above reproach that
the defendant possessed the mentality of
a child of 12, the P.M. refused to com-
mit him to prison. Yet later in the
week the same defendant appeared be-
fore a District Court Judge and was
handed out a twelvemonth sentence
for stealing. All of which is difficult
to reconcile.
The Courts cannot be expected to re-
gard the psychiatrist as a demigod
whose evidence is to be accepted with-
out query. The profession is new, and
deals with the most intricate of all
mechanisms —the human mind. There is
ample scope for misunderstanding and
deception, and there is the added danger
with criminal patients that they may
prove more cunning than stupid, and
even mislead the psychiatrist to false con-
clusions. We read of doctors being un-
able to agree as to the sobriety of per-
sons charged with driving under the influ-
ence of liquor—yet such a diagnosis
should be almost a routine matter. Ten-
fold worse would be the case of two
psychiatrists clashing in the court.
In the circumstances, therefore, Judges
cannot be blamed for treading warily and
refusing to accept everything the psy-
chiatrist may assert as absolute gospel
truth.— Ricardo (N.S.W.).
True Values
’Twas ever thus, “Bu” (B. 31/1/’4O).
Our follies are always considered in the
light of whatever rung of the social
ladder our feet are placed. Toleration
dwindles rapidly with descent thereon,
and almost vanishes when rock-bottom
is reached. There may be some sincere
people who see the individual irrespec-
tive of social perch or financial halo,
but they are too few to count.
As G. B. Shaw points out of the oldest
profession, “whether the prize is a yacht
and sables or five bob and a bottle of
stout, it’s only the payment differs.”
But there’s no solution to offer, from.
Plato to Shaw, unless it’s only to reiter-
ate —if we could cease to count in £ s. d.
we might get a truer perspective of the
other fellow. —L. Bush (Q.).
Radio
How many people really listen to the
radio? To most it simply forms a back-
ground to their lives. They switch it
on when they get up in the morning, and
it blares forth until closing time at night.
That most people keep the cursed things
on the one station all day seems suffi-
cient indication that they are not really
listening to if —no station could broad-
cast a programme as good as all that.
Confirmed radio fans there are who
study the weekly programmes as care-
fully as any punter studies his racing
guide, but most people don’t care what
comes out of the loudspeaker so long
as it is a noise. Apparently we are so
used to noise that the prospect of a noise-
less gap in our day appals us. Silence
leads to meditation, and most of us
prefer not to meditate. —N. J. G. (N.S.W.).
Radio Digest
What a breach of good taste it would
be if someone began to speak of dead
cats at dinner one night! Yet some radio
stations can do worse and get away with
it.
On one station at fourteen minutes
past seven, when I am usually eating my
sweets, a golden-voiced gentleman ad-
vises me to chew gum several times and


for long periods each day. “It helps
digestion,” he advises.
At 7.15 another gentleman advises me
to use a certain brand of toothpaste,
which will quickly remove “bacterial
mouth.” After a few minutes of music
yet another carefully-modulated voice tells
me that there are no throat drops quite
like the kind he is advertising for “sweep-
ing away germ-laden phlegm” from the
throat. By this time I am striving to
drink down my coffee with equanimity.
A few minutes before 7.30, just when
I have finished a good meal, a voice
counsels one to use a particular brand
of magnesia, because “it checks ulcera-
tion, neutralises burning excess acids,
restores normal digestion, and spreads
a protective film over the inflamea
stomach lining.”
I suppose it’s called the “dinner pro-
gramme.” —Ligouri (Vic.).
Obtuse Poetry
When we were in about our second
year of college, English masters used to
ram down our throats that it was good
for us to read certain rather obtuse
verse, “because it made us think.” Con-
sequently we started off through life with
a sneaking idea that anything with any
simplicity or simple beauty was all
wrong, that only the monumental and
the intensely complex had anything to
commend it.
We were, for instance, induced to be-
lieve that there was a special merit in
reading Browning, who, half the time,
didn’t have the slightest idea himself
what he meant. If we did happen to
discuss simple poetry it was usually with
the puerile efforts of Wordsworth at
absolute simpleness rather than sim-
plicity.
Only after we left school, too late
to argue on our own experience, some
of us found out that the obtuse verse
was written because the poet himself
didn’t know exactly what he wanted to
say or couldn’t say it exactly if he did.
When we groped for the meaning we
were groping not less than he was.—
Benn (Q.).
Henry Lawson’s Home
The most absurd notion I have heard
for a long time was the suggestion re-
cently made that Lawson’s cottage should
be bought by the State and maintained
as a memorial to Lawson. The very
same Lawson who was the lifelong, living
embodiment of the homeless man!
Only a trifle less foolish is the idea
to erect some useless obelisk at or near
the spot. It would be much more prac-
tical if some effort were made by all
these Lawson well-wishers to dam the
flood of imported syndicated tripe which
is pouring through the Australian press
daily, weekly and monthly. Then the
local writer might get a chance of living
by his pen and Henry Lawson might
have the satisfaction of feeling that he
had not been remembered in vain.—
Gerald Dillon (N.S.W.).
A.J.A. and Syndication
“Sam Square” (B. 21/2/’4O) is hereby
assured that the Australian Journalists’
Association is concerning itself with the
publication of syndicated articles and
pictures in Australian journals. It is to
hold a meeting to deal with the subject
at the N. S. Wales district office, 166
Phillip-street, Sydney, today (28/2/’4O).
—Adja (N.S.W.).
A Critic of Protected Articles
Knowing The Bulletin’s consistent
support of Protection, I am very pleased
that it links the important matter of
quality and price with the protection
given any commodity (B. 3/1/’4O). Some
few of us appear to have been voices
crying in the wilderness on this question.
We have no right to give anyone an
exclusive or protected right of exploita-
tion of the Australian market without a
definite guarantee as to the quality or
standard of the article made. If the
Tariff Board is unable to undertake the
task, a Standards Bureau should be set
up —say, in the Customs Department—
whose duty would be to determine from
time to time whether the protected Aus-
tralian article measures up reasonably to
imported or overseas standards. If it
does not, or if it has deteriorated, then
the industry should be subject to the
threat or penalty of having its protection
reduced or withdrawn.
Three years ago I had some new stock
troughs made of 22-gauge galvanised-
iron. Within 12 months they had rusted
through in many places, and they have
had to be patched and painted ever since.
The previous troughs were made of
similar Australian iron, and lasted 10
years under the same conditions of hold-
ing reticulated reservoir water.
In Westralia a farmer told me that he
had to replace a tank that had lasted 35
years. The plumber would not guarantee
the new one beyond five years. At Ren-
mark (S.A.) cables on an excavator lasted
exactly two days, as against 14 days for
British cables.
Industries have been given a blank
cheque as regards quality, and Australian
consumers of their commodities have
their costs loaded up with, first, a higher
price for the article and then an effec-
tive life thereof that is in many cases not
a fourth that of similar imported goods
or of goods produced here when protec-
tion was first given. This bears heavily
on our export industries, which have to
fight continually for a footing in over-
seas markets, and it is absolutely dis-
graceful.—A. W. Christian (S.A.).
As It Is Wrote
Turning through a current weekly I
came across these words —tru, nu, kleen,
weet, kwic and sno. American origin,
of course, and I sympathise with school-
teachers whose' cry is that it is hard
enough to teach or learn the English
language without this added difficulty.—
Pisces (N.S.W.).
City and Country
There may be some disadvantages in
living on a farm, but it’s a great place
for children to grow up. I saw some
of them during the school holidays.
They played with the dogs, with pet
sheep and foals; they went swimming in
the creeks and hunting rabbits in the
bush ; they walked miles to play games
of their own invention with the neigh-
bors’ children. Their parents let them
run wild and never bothered about them
except to fill them with good food when
they came home. They were tough, sun-
burnt, self-reliant little youngsters.
Then I saw a couple of children “en-
joying” their holidays in the city. They
moped about indoors most of the time
until the grown-ups got so fed-up that
they gave them money to go to the
talkies. They had to have money for
fares too (half a mile was too far to walk
in the heat) and money for ice-creams
to refresh themselves in the interval.
While they were away their mother
was in a constant state of apprehension
about the danger of accident. The girl
came home too incoherent with excite-
ment to tell us what she had seen, the
boy full of gangsterish slang and a deter-
mination to be a pugilist. They had
decided which picture they wanted to
see the next day, and the next, and so
on to the end of the holidays.—E. O. S.
(N.S.W.).
Populate Outback
Politicians and others often lament the
dying-out of the pioneer spirit, and stress
the necessity of populating this continent.
But it is generally overlooked that the
majority of those who carry on the tradi-
tions of the pioneers are virtually com-
pelled to lead single lives. Station-
owners and other employers in the out-
back seldom employ married wage-
earners. Consequently bushworkers do
not reproduce themselves.
In the N.T. it is particularly noticeable
that the number of married men in the
garrison, police force and Government
service has increased in proportion to
the accommodation, which of late years
has been provided on a lavish scale. Un-
fortunately, hardly any provision is made
for working men.
The raising of future citizens is just
as necessary if not as immediately
profitable—as the breeding of cattle.
Until this is realised, “the problem of
populating our great open spaces” will
remain insoluble. — Benedick (N.T.).
Developmental Roads
South Africa has set us an example.
Good roads have been made there by
clearing the undergrowth and putting a
grader over the suggested route, then
ploughing up the wheel-tracks to a depth
of 12in. and 18in. wide. The furrow is
then filled with rubble over larger stones
and topdressed with gravel, or gravel
and clay in suitable proportions if avail-
able.
A small section of road in W.A.,
copied from the South African idea, has
withstood the test of years of traffic.
District councils and roads boards could
do a lot for the convenience of the
settler in this way. — Ajax (W.A.).
Dress Reform
The reason that dress reform hasn’t
come to Australia happens to be the
very opposite to “Plain Bill’s” assertion
(B. 7/2/’4O) that there are few places
where independence of thought is more
widespread. I know of no country in
which the apathy of the people towards
reform of any sort is habitual and in-
stinctive to the same degree. It’s not that
we don’t feel the justice of the particular
reform; it’s simply an inherent, good-
natured laziness that prevents us from
taking the necessary practical steps to
remedy the complaint.
That’s why pubs close at six o’clock
and the Government tells us what and
what not to read. That’s why Mrs. Freer
made all the front pages and why we
waited longer than any other country
before we donned trunks. It also
explains syndication and the fact that a
politician can commit any sort of a
blunder or scandal and get away with
it by the simple process of keeping mum
until the babble dies down.
We want dress reform just as we want
a dozen other things, but I’ll be damned
if we’ll get a single one of them so long
as we yawn and leave it to the other
fellow to “make a goat of himself.” —
Scrutator (N.S.W.).
“Plain Bill” says “dress reformers will
always be at the tail of the hunt,” be-
cause Australian men draw the line at
being conspicuous.
I fail to notice anything so very
conspicuous about well-attired reformers.
Neatly-tailored apparel, whether the
trousers be long or short, does not at-
tract the attention “P. 8.” finds so
odious.
It is, incidentally, interesting to recall
that the first and greatest dress reformer,
Beau Brummell, set down , as an axiom
that the well-dressed man should be able
to walk down the Strand without turn-
ing a single head. That was Brummell’s
revolution in his own dress, too, although
the lush imagination of Sir Arthur Conan
Doyle has it that the Beau sought the
outlandish and garish in his reformed
dress. —J. B. (Q.).
Sanctuaries
M. Hodges, in his opposition to the
sanctuary at Badger Creek, Healesville,
Vic. (B. 7/2/’4O), protests too much.
The animals there are under the care of
a man without a rival in his knowledge of
native animals, and are living under con-
ditions which are a sincere attempt to
reproduce their natural environment.
That so many animals have bred there
indicates that conditions approach the
ideal.
The best protection our animals can
have is a sentiment in their favor, which
is now the case with the koala and the
lyrebird. That animals at Badger Creek
are “commercialised and exploited” is
a healthy sign of the growth of this sen-
timent, since people will not pay good
money to see things which they do not
wish to see. The sentiment aroused by
seeing delightful animals in almost
natural surroundings will extend to em-
brace all native wild things, and the
force of this feeling will compel the
boards of our national parks to make the
conservation of the animals in them effec-
tive rather than nominal. — Titun (Vic.).
Compulsory Saving
“Kingsman’s” plea for fairer methods
of raising the money necessary for war
(B. 14/2/’4O) makes me wonder whether
our war preparations included a close
practical study of the various ways and
means of obtaining additional revenue.
Certainly Australian State and Federal
politicians seem to have exhausted all
possible peace-time measures for bleed-
ing the taxpayer; but normal methods
are not adequate in time of war.
The Keynes plan of compulsory sav-
ing appears on the surface the soundest
scheme yet propounded. The application
of gradual reductions of wages paid in
cash (made up by savings certificates
redeemable after the war) would have
two very beneficial results. It would
provide ready money for the Govern-
ment for war purposes, and it would
force the wage-earner to cut down gradu-
ally expenses on luxuries and semi-
luxuries.
It is inevitable, if the war is to be paid
for out of national income, that luxury
industries must suffer, and to whittle
them down through the action of re-
duced spending power, and not directly
by taxation, would be the more accept-
able method.
Finally, after the war, redemption of
the savings certificates would increase the
public’s spending power at the very time
when encouragement for the revival of
peace-time industries would be desirable.
The compulsory savings plan would not
be easy to put into operation, but it
would probably prove most economical
and acceptable in the long run. , At any
rate, I’d more cheerfully accept enforced
thrift than staggering taxes. DJ.u.
(Vic.). __
The Acid
And now I’m going to put the acid
on the O.F.M.
I know I #labor under a multiplicity
of disarranged ideas, but I find n im-
possible to believe that hunger is delight-
ful, that oligarchy is democracy, that
plutocracy is self-government, that bond-
age is freedom, and that war is glorious.
I do believe in persecuting Commu-
nists, because it makes them savage, it
turns pink red, multiplies them, and
spreads the gospel generally.
I do believe rich men are anarchists,
because there is no law for them they
are a law unto themselves.
I know that idleness and hunger are
good for our sons, because it makes
them think straight and they’ve plenty
of time to nut things out. Whoosh
(Q-).
Dry Canteens
Further to “Pawang” (B. 24/l/’4O)
and his talk of drink for the soldier.
Does he know the Finnish army is
“dry”? Liquor of any sort is forbidden
to troops at the front. What do they
do their fighting on? Dinkum Demo
(W.A.).
More Beer
Why all the whining about wine in
the 0.F.M.? What’s wrong with beer?
The materials are all grown or made in
Australia, and the result as far as I
and all my cobbers are concerned is a
darned sight better than the sweet, sticky
concoction produced from the grape.
If they made a light beer with a low
alcohol content anyone could drink it
from the age of two up, and I know of
no better appetiser. I haven’t noticed
anyone rushing into the pub after a hard
day’s work and calling for a good cold
pot of wine.—A. H. H. (N.S.W.).
Churchill
The Bulletin seems to be suffering
from a Churchill phobia. I should like
to point out that his record did not
prevent Mr. Chamberlain from placing
him in the key position he now holds,
and holds to the evident satisfaction of
Parliament. Churchill was one of the
few realists in the days before Munich
who saw the inevitability of war.
According to The Bulletin and its
anti-Churchill contributors, every time
Mr. Churchill makes a speech disaster
on the sea follows. There have been
attacks on shipping by Nazi airmen and
submarines since the beginning of this
month, and Mr. Churchill has made no
recent speeches. —H. Rowbotham (Q.).
The Value of History
We, as a young nation, take too little
notice of the record of triumphs and
blunders upon which mankind looks
back. It should be our special care to
study and profit by the lessons of the past.
Civil wars, revolutions, careers of auto-
crats, struggles between kings and Parlia-
ments, epidemics and other momentous
happenings all have their significance
for us.
Every Australian, including the coun-
try’s administrators, should have a solid
understanding of the relation of the past
to the future. The result would be a
more ardent patriotism, a desire to defend
the priceless things we already enjoy, and
an urge to avoid even the remotely pos-
sible errors in planning the Australia of
tomorrow. Our position as a distant
island continent in the isouthern seas
does not entitle us to ignore the valuable
experiences of the Old World. — Arthur
Falk (Vic.).
Why Not?
One day I will start a business and l
will advertise my goods, not in the
ordinary way, but like this:
“I evade union rules, I sweat my
workers, I give them bad conditions
and worse wages, I ignore the Arbitra-
tion Court, I employ female labor
wherever possible, I dismiss males when
they reach the age of 21 years. There-
fore I can sell for less —buy my goods.’
For two days morality will triumph
and I will do little business. On the
third day shamefaced buyers will creep
cautiously in. About midday there will
be a rush, and at six o’clock a cordon
of police will be holding the crowd back
while squads of picked men try to drive
customers out. Within the week I’ll have
a branch in every large Australian town.
—Pip (Vic.).


Every Day a
Day of Opportunity
i Kay Vaughan
Mr. Compton Mackenzie
sayss —
“Pelmanism definitely cultivates the im
agination, and I do not hesitate to say that
there is nobody who would not benefit by a
Course.”
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Telman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality training. Of these over 44/100
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide
organisation of 40 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are in Fondon, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester
House, 396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne,
C.l, where it has been established for
30 years.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to The Pelman Institute.
Fiege - - 1930. Geneva - - 1933.
Nancy- - 1933. Paris - - - 1933.
Pelmanism is a real training. It teaches
many things, but its purpose is to train
qualities and attributes. This is em-
phasised by every one of the many
opinions and letters published in “The
Efficient Mind.” Copies of this book are
posted free. Write or call.
Pelmanism is an all-round train-
ing. It develops agreeably, smoothly
and without apparent effort all the
qualities implied in the term, “effec-
tive personality.” Of these, the
followirig are outstanding:
Observation Self-Confidence
Concentration Judgment
Decisiveness Initiative
Will-Power Social Ease
The Constructive Imagination
And a good memory for faces,
figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Develop the Constructive
Imagination
Opportunities are made or they come by chance. It is literally
true that no one knows what each day will bring forth, and every
morning we all face a waking period of 16 or 17 hours in which
conjunctions of time and place will give us opportunities of making
our lives pleasanter and more fruitful, of showing courage and
resource.
A suitable combination of conditions is actually created by
those who have a strong purpose supported by initiative and power
of original thought. Chance opportunities result from circumstances
outside the control of the individual and are useful to those with
quickened perceptions, the faculty of prompt decision and the
ability to make those movements that bring them and the circum-
stances together. >
If opportunity is round the corner and stays there We must go
round to meet it. If it comes round the corner to us we must
see it and grasp it.
The qualities needed to make the most of opportunities are
not confined to any type or class; they are inherent in every man
and woman. That is why society is always in a state of flux, some
going up and others going down. The more important of these
qualities are observation and quick perception, initiative, concen-
tration, self-control, judgment, decision, self-confidence and a good
memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, places and useful
data of all kinds.
Pelmanism develops these qualities. Half an hour a day of
attention to Pelmanism for a few weeks creates in normal people
those habits of body, mind and will that attract opportunity and
make full use of it.
Write for a copy of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, post
free, and examine fully the claims and the evidence that
Pelmanism is a sound and speedy preparation for taking advantage
of the opportunities of each day as they come. Be amongst those
who enjoy work and effort, looking upon them not as a struggle for
existence but as a means to greater power and influence.
The Pelman Institute
For the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and
Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market Street),
Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
NEW ZEALAND INQUIRERS: The Pelman Institute, with the approval
of the Reserve Bank, has made arrangements to meet the financial
restrictions and enable residents of New Zealand to enrol for the
Pelman Course of Training without delay.
IK
m.
Sir Herbert Barker,
England’s Leading Specialist in
Manipulative Surgery.
‘lt is impossible to speak too highly of
Pelmanism.”
Extracts from letters written by a few
of hundreds who have recently prepared
to take advantage of opportunity:
“I have made definite progress. Have
been made Secretary of the Company with
a rise in salary.”
—Accountant (Queensland).
■ “I have just turned 35 and feel with
confidence that I am in a strong position to
face the ever-existing struggle of life with
an eagerness and spirit for fight which 1
have never felt before.”
—Dentist (N. S. Wales).
“Pelmanism has completely changed my
mental outlook. I owe a debt of gratitude
to the Pelman Institute and to you
personally.”
—Electrician (N. S'. Wales).
“I feel that this lesson (on Inferiority
Consciousness) has been of immense value
to me. I have completely changed my
whole outlook on life.”
—Engineer (Victoria).
“I see and perceive things I never saw
or perceived before. My mental capacity is
greater than it was before my serious ill-
ness. My whole life and work is .a pleasure.”
—Civil Servant (Tasmania).
“Self-confidence, a lively interest and an
‘I can’ state of mind have enabled me to
produce tennis form that has surprised my-
self. The credit is due entirely to Pelmanism.’
—Public Servant (A.C.T.).
“This was the first public occasion on
which 1 had spoken. I went with the fixed
intention of making a success, and I am
pleased to say that I succeeded beyond ex-
pectation.”
—Police Officer (Victoria).
To the Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post free, a
copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME
ADDRESS
89
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
% m
TO “THE BULLETIN”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
i enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.;
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
"Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS,” by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra).
c°y
yy ,» v'
?X 0°
atf
e 5
»sy\*»
\\e
#'
# $ '
o 1
$
\$ S
.* .* . * -lAV’flOJ’
-


* t-
mmmm.
ill
PT^mp l E ED
y/A v 6%fc£Vv «
&2s.G r LBEY
fms
Aw^M-
sS
;s%
S',
2
«
ifii
m
wM
JHB
yvs
iMI
p/
M§pPp^;
WAmOM. I
%
7/
M
/ / / //
iSM
b=//^~
Hi
V/
m
m
n
,2
E§B
I
%
-g=
/«
IMS
7
Hi
Wl
tM
A
'/s
7
ze
■ ".v?
Ag&S
Sk^os'---'
7/
»,
ili
AS
7
ibz=.^
%
%
77/
7/
7
A
%
4irr
2?
■ 1
WM !::\
m
\
sti
m
A*
\M
SA
r'fe
»«
%
ill
:*
7c
HfM
7
l
a
" r< <tt/
7
i
*\, ''•^s3=
if
n
Hied
-Distil
jf
i*« f| '
//
btrf
.. ' t, V» I
£W 6 OIS.
AUSTRALIA
1* &
») f>
W
«.
£5
i/p
f/'<\ / '//-
iwwctTfffl
S 3 GIN fc
p/ife
I'.sfel
/P,
rs
:f . —<i
P
§
'4
M
cr
I .tfggja
ytitfete a <a*
, and Chemist
2- \
\
i M«
’rr
ri
c
4
*r
ik
k
\
Zr.
«&
wwmi
aftfieWis
vrO ** -i *?'&***s£ ''bt' b i° found an 1
V ■ A * ifollleJ Juniper Berri
\,||
I r t
11
ma^ e
•JT.
■V
■*/
zz
n
»i
i a
-»»
>r
V,
rX
C
•'2'rVt
G N
THE
