

X
as
> • v
9
1
mr* J
■
m
IX
:<<«
y§.
*s
#
#
the United Australia Party stands
FOR VICTORY -the only word that counts to-day
Everything that impedes the war effort must be
thrown overboard—now!
The Menzies Government calls all hands to the
task of helping it in its job of pouring out munitions,
growing food for the Empire, maintaining the fight-
ing services, building aeroplanes and making Aus-
tralia in every way as strong a force for victory as it
can be.
Labour has not only refused to join a National
Government; in the greatest crisis with which Aus-
tralia has been faced it has put politics first and
divided into factions.
United Australia Party candidates, on the other
hand, stand for co-operation between all classes. By
returning United Australia Party candidates you will
give the Menzies Government the co-operation you
want it to have—a parliament dedicated to the one
purpose of winning the war.
CANDIDATE S
ĥjkjkjklkl
The Bulletin
•‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3161.
Wednesday, September 11, 1940.
The Commonwealth Election
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


QRAHAME BOOK SERVICE.
London New York
BOOK IMPORTERS SUBSCRIPTION MANAGERS
Let us quote you the LOWEST AND
CORRECT rate for any Periodical or Book
published. Information gladly supplied.
SYDNEY OFFICE:
Prudential Building, Martin Place. 84241
Commercial^
Particulars Free to You!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, particulars of your
Home-Study Course in COMMERCIAL ART,
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 440
The Red Page
AMURRICAN-SIZE FABLE.
Once upon a time there woiked on
his old folks’ farm in Jefferson County,
N.Y., a poor boy by the name of Frankie
Woolworth. The more he woiked the
more he didn’t cotton on to that sort
of woik, what with having to get along
with one pair of cowhide boots a year,
his hands freezing to the pitchfork handle
on winter mornings, bending down pick-
ing up murphies till his back ached, and
only outraging the musical instincts of
the chooks with his durned tootling on
the flute. *
Even after he’d put up a picket fence
on both sides of the road to make the
old home look sort of pretty, he still
wasn’t satisfied. Not like the steady,
God-fearing old folk, or the folks before
them, who’d been tilling the soil for
generations. So one day, hitching the
old mare to the cutter, for the ground
was deep in snow, he drove off to Car-
thage (U.S.A.; not the other dump), aim-
ing to get a job as a counter-jumper.
But, though he called at each shop,
eagerly asking for woik, no one wanted
the tall country lad, and he returned
home, deeply discouraged.
There he might have remained ever
after, tootling on his flute and revealing
his flair for advertising and decoration
by putting up picket fences, if Daniel
McNeil hadn’t told him he could come
along and help on rush days in his store
at Great Bend, though he couldn’t afford
to pay him any wages, a kindly offer
which, of course, young Frankie accepted
with becoming gratitude. Then, all of a
sudden, a black cloud in the shape of
uncle Albon S. Mcßrier came along with
an offer of a farm job with wages, and
the family conference agreed that this
was young Frankie’s Opportunity. So
in deep distress Frankie confided in the
kindly storekeeper, who gave him a letter
of introduction to the proprietors of the
leading drygoods stores in Watertown.
There, on the condition that he woiked
three months for nothing, young- Frankie
found refuge from the awful threat of
farm woik, and gained Valuable Experi-
ence. So that, when he came to branch
out on his own, though there were ups
and downs, there was no power on earth
could stop him from eventually planting
throughout the length and breadth of
Gahd’s Own Country those famous
“nothing over” chain stores which, as
far back as 1913, could list just as mere
examples of turnover
27,576,000 pairs of hosiery;
12,000 gross of mousetraps;
130,000 dozen bottles of peroxide of hydro-
gen;
186 tons of hairpins;
144,000 dozen cakes of soap
and
3,000 gross of baby pacifiers—
an approximate condensed history of
United States and not only United
States civilisation. That same year
President Wilson pressed a button in
Washington: ‘'lnstantly 80,000 electric
bulbs in New York were set aglow ; and
from the blackness of the mild, moon-
less spring night there sprang into spark-
ling life the world’s tallest and most
beautiful skyscraper—the highest habit-
able structure ever reared by man.”
At first F. W. Woolworth had planned
to put up a structure of a mere twelve
storeys, perhaps sixteen ; but “it began
bothering him that his name should be
attached merely to the world’s second-
highest skyscraper.” The Woolworth
Building for which he finally footed the
bill—paying cash on the nail for every
bit of material, including such items as
17,000,000 bricks—ran to sixty storeys.
In short, young Frankie Woolworth had
by this time gotten himself to the top
of the world.
Maybe the rarefied air up there affected
him a bit; maybe his mind cast back
to the fact that Joseph Bonaparte, brother
of Napoleon and onetime King of Spain,
had built a home for his mistress, Anne
Savage, at the bend of Indian River, only
a few miles from Great Bend, where
young Frankie spent his boyhood. A
little farther away was Lake Bonaparte,
ex-King Joe’s hunting lodge, where Joe
and his followers used to float in a great
Venetian gondola, fishing and banqueting
and singing, and planning to
rescue Nap from St. Helena.
Maybe that planted the
notion. At all events, hav-
ing put up his Woolworth
Building, with, among other odds and
ends, its own electric plant capable of
lighting a city of 50,000 folk, and having
celebrated President Wilson’s opening of
it by shouting a dinner on the premises
at which “some eight hundred men,
prominent in the arts qnd letters, science
and industry, law and politics,” con-
sumed an unspecified tonnage of caviare
and green turtle soup, guinea hen,
terrapin and squab, amontillado, pontet
canet and Sunnyside port, and were pre-
sented with growing four-leaf clover
plants as souvenirs somewhere in the
thick of all this our hero’s thoughts got
tangled up with Napoleon. A friend in
the hardware fixed his thoughts that way
for keeps by writing to him: “I am
addressing the Napoleon of Commerce”!
Visiting Yurrup, he called in at Com-
piegne and had a look through
Napoleon’s Palace. “He, too, would
have an Empire Room, modelled on
Napoleon’s, and furnished and decorated
even more elaborately.” Yes sirree, yes
sirree, yes
The ceiling is cream white with embossed
gold decorations. Wall panels and wains-
coting are of Vert Campan marble from
the north of Italy with pilasters of dark
marble and Empire capitals covered with
gold On the west wall is an oil painting
of Napoleon in his coronation robes copied
directly from the picture at Versailles
The desk is 3ft. 9in. by 7ft. 6in. of
mahogany with gilt bronze mounts and
green leather top with hand-tooled gilt
edge, Empire design The inkwell was
bought in Paris and represents Napoleon on
horseback in bronze. A smaller figure of
Napoleon is a paperweight, 100 years
old Two large round-back armchairs are
copies of the famous Throne Chair in the
Palace of Fontainebleau.
To top it off, a lifesize bronze bust of
Napoleon posing as Julius Caesar. The
tale doesn’t stop at that, either. When,
in 1916, the stately Woolworth home at
Glen Cove was burnt down, his bedroom
on the second floor of the new place was
done Empire style, above his bed a copy
of the canopy over the throne of
Napoleon, and his bathroom “an elabor-
ate copy of one designed for Napoleon.”
It will be remembered that young
Frankie was given to tootling on the
flute; in John K. Winkler’s slapdash
biography of him, Nothing Over Six-
pence : The Fabulous Life of F. W.
Woolworth (Angus and Robertson), the
warning against tootling on the flute is
as striking as that against ever spending
a boyhood near the former residence of
ex-King Joe’s mistress. Able to magnetise
the small coin from the purses of his
country’s housewives till they flowed his
way like a Niagara of nickels and dimes,
he could never master the intricacies of
the flute. For consolation, no doubt, he
turned to the electrical reproducing
organ: in the home that was burnt down
he had a $20,000 specimen. The new
home, “wired for sound, contained among
other features a $lOO,OOO pipe organ with
unique storm effects, the most elaborate
ever installed in a private house.” The
thought of that, with “ducts cunningly
placed throughout the palacelike interior”
and its owner playing on it “sometimes
for hours, not stopping until he was
relaxed and easy in mind,” might make
some nervy folk shy off the flute, but
no doubt there are those who’d take
the risk, considering that the Woolworth
home also runs to “ten master bedrooms,
fifteen servants’ rooms, a garage for
eighteen cars, three housekeeping apart-
ments,” and heaven knows how many
head butlers to help the hero live sump-
tuously ever after.
Runyon's Old Man.
Runyon’s old man said he had noticed
that fellows who had dumb wives usually
cherished them much more than the hus-
bands of more intelligent ladies cherished
their spouses. Runyon’s old man said he
didn’t see why people should go round
praising up departed citizens who had
been no account when they were alive.
Runyon’s old man said some parents
were born parents and some weren’t
and he wasn’t.
Runyon’s old man said that most pro-
verbs were durned rubbish, and there
ought to be a law to stop anyone saying
everything happens for the best. Run-
yon’s old man said that it was no use
worrying about the country teetering on
the brink of the abyss because it always
had been. Runyon’s old man said that
97 out of 100 men were liars and women
sometimes exaggerated slightly. Run-
yon’s old man said he first discovered he
was getting old when he started leaving
the house with important buttons un-
done. Runyon’s old man said he quit
hating people because he found it was
bad for his stomach.
Runyon’s old man was taken by his
long white beard and heaved out the
window into George-street. A tram ran
over him.
Runyon’s old man, when you look into
him, is Uncle Sam: Josef’s illustrations
even make him look like Uncle Sam.
He’s like the wise old, crusty old, kind
old country doctor of the talkies; he
loves pie, American democracy and
babies. He is full of homespun “philo-
sophy,” meaning that he can pull a plum
of platitude out of any situation under
the sun.
Runyon’s old man is perhaps a natural
development from My Wife Ethel, which,
though extremely funny, was in its
essence a sentimental portrait of the
Average American Couple and a moral
lecture about the charms of marriage.
Drop 90 per cent, of the humor and
present all the sentimentality and moral-
ising of the 100 per cent. American rustic
bore, and you have My Old Man (Con-
stable ; Angus and Robertson). That’s
what comes of syndication: Damon Run-
yon’s a National Figure these days, and
a national figure has to be patriotic and
pure. Aw, shucks, Damon!
Australian Verses.
It’s only a couple of months since the
arrival of two books of verse, one from
Melbourne’s Bread and Cheese Club and
one from Adelaide’s Jindyworobak Club,
gave occasion for this page to mention
the good work those two lively literary
groups are doing. Both of them have
now come to light with another book,
the bread and cheese stalwarts with T. V.
Tierney’s Radiant Land and Other Verses
(limited edition of 200 printed by the
.Hawthorn Press) and the Jindyworobaks
with Rex Ingamells’s fourth sheaf of
poems, Memory of Hills (F. W. Preece,
Ltd.).
Each book is strongly stamped with
the hallmark of its group, Ingamells’s to
its disadvantage, for he was better read-
ing when he wrote his former sparkling
landscapes, simple and melodious enough
to have been published by the Melbourne
balladists. In an effort to intellectualise
his verse he has sacrificed a unique
lyricism for a very commonplace sort of
satire:
Can I thwart the subtle fiends —the
Hanging Up of Hats, the Pressing of
Buttons, the Inevitability of Rush, the In-
dispensability of Poise?
After all, Eliot himself, on the evidence
of his plays, has outgrown Prufrock, and
it seems a pity to resurrect him at this
date in Australia:
Coffee in dim exotic cafes at
extreme a.m.—post-mortem of the show;
or hostess viewing easy chair where sat
the celebrated Mr. So-and-So.
Ingamells is trying to say in his satire
that the Australian culture still centres
in the landscape rather than in the mush-
room cities. He makes that statement
far more effectively simply by writing
about the country, leaving the reader to
philosophise if he wants to. “The Swag-
men” is by far the best poem of the col-
lection :
The weeks old ash of a picnic camp
by the late light’s glow on dishevelled bark
starts in my mind to a sudden spark,
wakes for my ear a faint tramp ... tramp ...
The late light slants through the river gums
and the golden call of a magpie comes:
in phantom procession from run to run
the swagmen are crossing against the sun.
Like Memory of Hills, Radiant Land
and Other Verses is also, to its dis-
advantage, worried about the drabness
of the subbub in contrast to the beauties
of the wilds. When Tierney falls in love
with the whistle of the Gippsland train
because (in a good phrase) “ ’Tis like a
long-drawn coo-ee from some far Gipps-
land range,” that’s quite legitimate. But
why drag in the “drab suburban high-
ways” and the electric trains that don t
interest him? It’s too obvious a contrast,
too worn a mechanism for writing a
poem that’s not really meant to be about
the suburbs but about the countryside.
Tierney also has the fault of nearly
all these later-balladists, of sighing for
the good old days. He hasn’t —thank the
Lord! —an Old Bark Hut, but he has an
old bloke cussing the motor-cars and
remembering the good old bullock teams.
It’s ten to one that when the ancient
was driving his bullocks his opinion of
them would have blistered the paint off
a motor-car.
However, to tell a balladist to stop
being sentimental (apart from the fact
that a good many ballad readers like a
tear or two) would almost be to tell him
to stop writing. And then you’d miss
such gems of Australian humor as “Back
to Bangaloo”—about the ghost that drank
the celebration’s beer, and “Bill Barb-
wire’s Murray Cod” —it sank a sub-
marine—and “Rafferty Rides Again,”
which The Bulletin printed in Abori-
ginalities:
There’s a road outback that becomes a track
Where the hills dip down to the plain;
And on misty moonlit nights up there
The old inhabitants all declare
On his big black stallion (or was it a mare?)
Rafferty rides again.
These Melbourne and Adelaide en-
thusiasts have been putting Sydney to
shame in the matter of publishing verse
lately, but there are a couple of new books
due shortly. A collection of short poems
by Douglas Stewart, decorated by Norman
Lindsay and uniform with Slessor’s Five
Bells, is on the way with Frank Johnson,
and Angus and Robertson towards the
end of the year will bring out an
anthology of Australian verse edited by
Dr. G. Mackaness. Dr. Mackaness is
calling on about 250 poets, and, though
the older writers will be represented, the
anthology is intended to show what poets
have done in recent years. It’s a job
that’s long overdue.
Red-tape.
Although it’s mainly about the British
Army, and the humor (the articles are
reprinted from “Punch”) is largely that
sort of gentle playfulness that’s likely to
give Australians a pain in the neck,
“Isop’s” The Horrors of Peace (Methuen)
hits hard enough at the passion of every
army for red-tape to raise a grin or two
on this side of the world. The matter of
Inspection, for example, here applied to
a mythical new series of instructions for
army clerks:
Vol. 2 consists of regulations for carrying
out the periodical inspections of personnel
and material. This volume has been par-
ticularly carefully edited. With the excep-
tion of dictionary, nib and typewriter every
item given in the index is mentioned on
the appropriate page. The omission of
typewriter is regrettable, as differences of
opinion are certain to occur when machines
are laid out for Commanding Officer’s in-
spection. Are figs, to be on the right
and caps, on the left, or vice versa ?
There is much about the sort of letters
that pass from division to brigade—work-
ing up quarrels of the first importance
about the number on a war-dog’s collar,
the incomprehensibility of a cipher the
key to which is not permitted to be dis-
closed, and about Private Bull’s lost den-
tures and the urgent demand for “the
following replacements: 2 molars, tricus-
pid (rear rank); 2 incisors (to be oppo-
site numbers if possible); spare parts,
maxillary and mandible, 1 set.” Private
Bull’s losing his teeth was eventually con-
strued as a self-inflicted injury, and he
was ordered to appear before a Court
of Inquiry. There are also physical jerks:
With double knee bending and astride
jumping with chin pointing inwards out-
wards upwards and downwards on alter-
nate feet. . . HOP!
About the last third of the book satir-
ises non-military matters, principally—of
course —golf.
The Pronunciation of English in Aus-
tralia : Lecture by A. G. Mitchell, M.A.,
printed for members of the Australian
English Association. Mr. Mitchell sets
out to prove that the accepted theories
accounting for the Australian accent
climate, laziness, the Cockney hangover
and so on —are all wrong, with the result
that the only conclusion left for him to
draw is: “These differences are the result
of natural and inevitable sound changes
which are always taking place. Why
Australian speech is as it is I do not
pretend to know.” Saying that “every
man has a right to speak as he likes,”
he ignores the fact that it is desirable
for speech to be melodious ; a man has
only as much “right” to make an ugly
vowel sound as he has to deface a
beautiful countryside with old tin cans.
The attack on accepted theories is inter-
esting and is substantiated to some extent
by phonetics.
My Royal Past: Baroness von Biilop,
nee Princess Theodora Louise Alexina
Ludmilla Sophie von Eckermann-Wald-
stein (B. T. Batsford, Ltd.). A satire on
royal memoirs, and a good one. Only
flaw is that sometimes the author forgets
to parody and just imitates, and an
imitation of dull memoirs is as dull as
the original. Rib-tickling illustrations.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING" —plain facts, open dealing.
• THE SENIOR STORE'
w,
tl
mm
-41
ft
V
m
*\
/
5-:vJ
. v .:: ' :':
o
V
* //
, /Vfi
$
K
nyA . ,
Otf ot A eS s--
G ?
fco% 41
-\'Y\ e
**• Co
foO X
XS&& .toft
trv^o
«
o', £ O
o<.* 6C '
’§
e a*
o* e
s*"
\V\«
s*
ec'
*$&»•• iM*» W
\0 C
L^ e
„c 4 ®* e e*
„ co* 4o
ad e v, e a\^'
**l **** *««*•
***.
a tC
.W<*‘
at'
A**'
fit*
not'*
•T,t^ ; tc^T^> u r
?* e A.* 6 & * e e V ** 9 ’
c*
.WO'*
*c^
a<*
A oo
tOS-
§ B V<°' eC 'l V tCSSU u\ O oO° '
***.-•*> **
'.®-'S*“'*
• I** 3
*0
t det<* s ’
, *£» £> , 6
.»rY\-' ,v ».< »<«>« 1 c “s%*' ZV
x: eW° V 4
f AO , c>s
\.
1 A - 9’ 1 '
*yv > c
c*l*£» jS**^
o^°S>
_ 4\' v „i,v.<f c »« f' ~*«•
'I- .-*»*.** W l *, W« *..•••
fC* ,< "
*'TmA' s
$•
► '“.to o'*' *«" ,\r
*>' w vl c
AV ,*.
**«£»■’V.'‘'V''
YYo td
?>.
ww>;
a «; ete *
jCCO
*ll 6
-•• * « *o°?.
cV>
ta^ e
fco*
c*«f: co^
• A »®’
3X1 6
>*»
«1
<***
w
,o° v t
,tbl _ a n«
NOW-
v. tW ■ «,, «r'co->;«; - »o. >•.
» t< e *L to %* ****** vYo td
TP,
w°*
T^lSSt"
’**
**\ *a
a*o
A* e "
, 'll
's/ s tat l
aU fal
-G^ts.W
GeP S
4 fi° 0 .4 Si'flP 0
. aO a
'C<>O f
« n,v<^
rt«
\t °*
hs*
*sB
?*v ciS
V.O'N
yao^ s


A BANNER FOR SPRING
By CECIL MANN.
IT might be said
that in the ordi-
nary course there
are only two
seasons in the little
town and up and down the river. There is summer,
when the sun pours down, not in a blaze of fire but
like molten fluid, browning the grass along the ridges
of the cleared hills and ranges and heating bush-
fires into fury away further out, but also stirring,
warming and ripening the maize and cane, the
potatoes, pumpkins and melons, the bananas and
persimmons, and yet more various crops and fruits
that grow for the asking anywhere in this river-long
valley.
The other season is winter, distinguishable by
little more than that the days are only pleasantly
warm and have a winey sparkle, that there are frosts
on clear nights and wisps of mist afloat on the river,
that oranges are ripe on the hillsides, willows shedding
their leaves and budding again along the banks, and
poinsettias splashing backyards with their bursts of
crimson. The grass is cropped a little shorter or
bronzed a little by frost on the flats. Indigenous
trees are in full leaf, or so near to it that no one could
tell the difference. Sometimes bleak westerlies come
down from the New England ranges, but they are
foreigners and, properly speaking, shouldn’t count.
As for spring and autumn —if you had one of
those calendars which declare when these seasons
officially start, you might be able to pin them down,
though you would need to be quick. Those who run
stock or grow crops would be unconsciously aware of
them through the cycles of breeding and of sowing ;
but it is very doubtful if anybody, even the incipient
poet or two sure to be coming to bud up in the high
school on the hill, is ever really consciously aware
that spring is about to arrive, is here, or has been here.
And the same goes for autumn.
Therefore nobody was at all likely to notice that
the long banner flaunting out over the main street
from the narrow little top-storey window and cutting
extraordinary capers in the gusty breeze synchronised
with the arrival that morning of official spring. An
astonishing banner of narrow, crinkly paper, it swept
out of the half-open foot-wide window on the right
hand of Miss Broderick’s gaunt two-storey residence.
It was fifty feet in length if it was an inch, and there,
fast at the window end, it fluttered and cavorted, swept
down to the street level, flirted in mid-air, went soaring
up like a mad tail tethered to an earth-bound kite.
Johnny Fisher, cocky in his butcher’s apron,
smacked his mount across the ribs with the empty
basket when he sighted it swooping down and charged
after it, a grin and a burst of shouting splitting his
freckled face. Within feet of it, he saw the breeze
catch it and lift it aloft, and, fairly howling with
mirth, he gave a sudden jerk on the reins that sat
"Jus’ sharpenin' up Cleopatra's Needle in case any of them
paratroops arrive."
the old horse back on his hocks and made him leur
up like Pegasus inspired. Johnny kept his seat no
trouble to Johnny, who, in his sixteen years, had
literally spent more days in a saddle than out of one.
The old horse, only a butcher’s hack once more, broke
into a shambling amble and headed for the cornei
shop, with Johnny watching the banner over his
shoulder and shaking with laughter.
On the pavement outside the shop Deans the
Ideal Butcher was waiting for him in a bad tempei.
“Crikey, Mr. Deans, did y’ see that?” Johnny
spluttered out.
“Sure I saw y’ squat the hoss down on his rump.
To the hell wid y’, y’ brainless young pup. Take
him round and feed him, an consider y rsell fired. F r
two pins I’d tan y’r fresh young hide for y’.”
“Who wants y’r stinkin’ job?” Johnny dug his
heels in. “Y’ know what y’ can do with it, don’t
y’, and Thompson’s dead bull with it.” As he trotted
off he turned and made a noise over his shoulder
which was the last foul insult to the ears of Deans
the Ideal Butcher.
“The dirrty impudent young whippersnapper! ”
- Deans took his lank frame, the cataract in his left
eye, and a paddy that would not have disgraced the
most fiery of his forebears on up the street. What
had stung was the reference to Thompson’s dead
bull ; what spurred him on was the knowledge that
Johnny was aware of that transaction.
As he hoped and expected, he saw Fisher, senior,
sunning himself as usual on the seat just inside the
town park enclosure. At the same time he sighted,
what he had not seen before, the banner that had
been Johnny’s downfall. His thin chin jutted out
as he. gazed up at its fluttering acrobatics, his good
eye ran along its full length from sportive tip to
anchorage in through Miss Broderick’s little upstairs
window. Patrick Deans chuckled till his skinny Adam’s
apple danced up and down on his throat.
“Well, uv all things,” he spluttered to himself.
“Phwat,” he bellowed across the street to Fisher,
senior, “is it the Governor’s cornin’?”
“Must be the armistice,” Fisher, senior, mega-
phoned with his hand.
Pat Deans cast another grinning look aloft.
Then he looked steadily across at Fisher, and turned
and made back to the shop. Anyone looking at him
might have thought he had just met Spring in person,
or at least won a lottery. Through the gauze flyproof
doors he caught sight of Johnny. “Here, come here,
I want y’,” he shouted, going inside. “Y’ needn’t be
sackin’ y’rself, Johnny. Even if you are an impudent
young whelp, y’r father deserves better, and y’ know
well that Thompson’s bogged bull was boiled down
for tallow.”
“Sure, sure, Mr. Deans.” Johnny took another
animal by the forelock. “But I was thinkin’ of leavin’
y’ anyhow, Mr. Deans. Stacey’s offered me more
than I’m gettinY’
“I think y’re an unprincipled liar, Johnny. How
much more?”
Johnny added half a crown bonus for the “liar”
and made it seven and six.
“I still know y’re lyin’ to me, but y’ can stay on
here.”
“O.K. with me, Mr. Deans.” Johnny took off
his apron and went whistling home to breakfast.
FISHER, senior, sat on the park seat, watching the
long banner cavorting, zooming and twisting in
the breeze. He grinned at the sight. It struck him
that he was feeling extra well this morning. Not well
enough to laugh at the preposterous banner. Because
laughing started him coughing, he hadn’t laughed out-
right for something like fourteen years. He drew his
war pension, and sat in the sun. Dr. Branch, who
had been on Gallipoli, too, told him he was good for
a dozen years yet, but he knew he wasn’t. The piece
of shell had torn through his side and sent him spin-
ning clean off the duckboard into the French mud.
He grinned when he saw picture heroes and villains
taking shots in the body and standing up to them.
He knew the sort of devastating clout a shot gives
you ; like a kick from a horse.
From the ship off Gallip.
he had seen the figures of
men silhouetted against the
skyline on the morning of
The Landing, and seen them
topple over. It was not until
France that he knew what it
was like. He liked best now
to sit in the sun and think of
the green French fields and
cherry orchards, and the old
peasants harvesting the lumpy
sugar beet. But all that was
a long time ago, and here
was another war, and if it
lasted till young Johnny was
another year or two older
there would be another Pri-
vate John Fisher barging into
it, going off to music like the
pipes that used to meet them
after a day’s route march out
over the loose sand past the
Pyramids and pipe
them to life again
along the shining
white roads into Mena
camp. There’d be
flags flying all over Sydney to welcome them back.
Ex-Private Fisher grinned as the incredible banner
streaming out of Miss Broderick’s tiny upstairs window
took to looping the loop. Well, he mightn’t be there
himself to wave any flags, but he had no complaints.
His life had been fuller than most men’s ; it gave him
something to think back on, sitting in the sun.
Stacey, of Stacey’s Big Store, saw him in passing
and stopped on the footpath to remark, “How re
things, Fisher? By Jove, Miss Broderick must have
had twins. Did you ever see anything like it?
“Never felt better, thanks,” ex-Private Fisher said.
“It’s a beaut, all right. Bonzer day, isn’t it?”
“Wonderful. D’y’ feel like a run up the river this
afternoon? They tell me the perch are pretty good up
past the Knob.”
“If it won’t be putting you out.”
“Not a bit of it. I’ll pick you up here at two
o’clock —make it half-past. Don’t bother about any-
thing. I’ve got a spare rod, and Mrs. Stacey’ll cut us
some sandwiches, and I’ll pack a drop of rum in
case of snakebite. Glad to hear you’re better. Feelin'
pretty good myself today. By the holy smoke that
streamer’s a corker!” He took his panama off to
shade his eyes and watched it twirling about, dancing
up and down and from side to side, leaping and
turning.
“Now I wonder what the hell’s bitten him ?” ex-
Private Fisher asked himself, watching Miss
Broderick’s grotesque banner as Stacey, waving his
panama in his hand, went on up the street to Stacey s
Big Store. Hearsay told him Stacey wasn’t nearly as
starchy as he looked, but they stood almost at extreme
ends of the little town’s society. Anyway, it would be
good to have an afternoon up the river sitting on the
bank watching the cork bobbing.
Feeling unaccountably better than he’d done for
years, and somehow lighter and freer, he felt that he
might even knock off a bit of breakfast. The girls
coming along the street making for Stacey’s Big Store,
for Scudamore and Scudamore, solicitors, the new
chain store and the other main-street business houses
paused and gaped at the banner, looked at each other
with winks and giggles. A couple of loungers outside
Gillam’s Hotel stood with their heads thrown back
nearly twisting their necks off to follow its lunatic
sweeping, doubling and cavorting. The few others
he passed were looking up at it and laughing. He
heard Gepp, the bank manager, say to Scudamore,
“Well, I’ll bet it’s the only human thing the old bitch
has been responsible for in her life.” Scudamore said,
“And I bet she’ll weep at the extravagance.”
Dr. Branch was taking in some petrol at the
bowser outside Slant’s garage. “Hullo, Fisher,” he
greeted him, bending down his bony six-feet-three and
peering short-sightedly at him. “You’re looking fairly
good.”
“Feeling good, too, thanks, Doc. I was just telling
Stacey I never felt better in my life. Y’ just going
out?”
“Just coming back. Been out past the Knob.
Confinement case at this time o’ the morning! Poor
beggar. You know Nellie Sladen, that half-caste kid.
Passed out. Did Stacy go on to the shop?”
“Yes, Doc. She died, eh?”
“H’m.”
“Sorry to hear that. Not a bad sort, as they go.”
“H’m. Yes. As any sort at all go.”
DR. BRANCH sat at the wheel of his roofless car
without making to move off. His hawklike beak
down on the wheel, he stayed there staring at the road.
He had been out of bed since two that morning. A
couple of snapper which he had thought to throw into
the ice-box fastened on the right running board of his
ramshackle car still lay there on their thinning bed of
ice. Out there he had thought no more about them.
Tragedy was always ready to spring one on you in
these cases, but this had been something worse. It
had hit him personally, right where he lived.
“You make him do something for it, Doctor.
He will. He like me.”
Poor little beggar/ And Stacey —good God
Almighty!
He started the car and drove at a crawl along the
street. At the intersection he caught a glimpse of the
ridiculous banner fluttering out from Miss Brodericks
small upstairs window. He swerved over to the
gutter and stopped to look at it floating about at its
extraordinary length. A wry smile on his tight mouth
broadened to a grin.
“The old girl’s gettin’ giddy,” Hannan bawled out
to him from the front of his bootshop.
“H’h.” He sat watching its absurd frolic. The
end of it shot over and left a foot of its length hang-
ing on the bank’s upstairs shutters. As if feeling
freer it shot up into the air till it stood triumphant
on end. Then down it came again with a rush,
nearly hooked itself on the front of the car, and was
off again, fluttering absurdly. Some thirty or forty here
and there on the pavements were enjoying it, laughing,
talking, egging it on to wilder flights.
Dr. Branch’s thoughts ironed the grin off his face.
but they had suddenly lost most of their anger ana
bitterness. What was the use anyway? What couL
o Continued on next page.)


he do except tell Stacey what he thought of him? And
what the hell good would that do? Ursula and Bob
Stacey were as good as hitched. What could you do
with these young cubs? He himself had never learnt
what to do with Ursula. He had expected her to
grow up a recognisable counterpart of her mother,
They were nothing alike ; Ursula was an entirely dif-
ferent personality. She was bright and smart; had
brains of her own ; painted her fingernails, as they
were all doing now; treated him as a fogey. And
what did Stacey’s wretched affair have to do with
young Bob? Stacey had gone black—or as near
black as it was now possible to go on the river. It
stank, the whole damn’ thing stank. But Stacey
could deny it, or plead that he was only human. To
hell with Stacey ; he’d get the kid brought up some-
where himself. To the dickens with Ursula, too.
What right had he to go meddling about like an old
woman—like old cantankerous Miss Broderick, sitting
back as she was on half the wealth of the place, as
warped as an old shingle and as mean as dirt. He
looked up at the banner again, and burst out laughing,
ISS BRODERICK discovered the banner. She
'* * could scarcely credit her eyes. A wind through
the house must have caught at its dangling end, un-
rolled it and by some freak of nastiness sent it stream-
ing out to make her a laughing-stock. She peered
down through the half-open window and saw them all
staring up laughing at it. Her first impulse was to
pull it back in again. She was reduced to whimper-
ing self-pity. She picked out Dr. Branch sitting in his
car laughing. In her jumble of bitter thoughts she
realised that she wouldn’t be sitting beside Mrs.
Branch at the pictures that night, and she did want
to see Errol Flynn.
She tore the paper across the perforation, and it
whished out through the half-open little window.
Then she sat down where she was, and certainly she
did not look like an accomplice of Spring.
REMEMBER?
By A.C. HEADLEY.
“Was I Wearin' a hat last time y' passed?”
Remember that first fight, Joe?
Remember? All you had to do was take a
punch or two and there was a couple of
quid waiting for you at the finish. Two quid
for just twelve minutes’ fighting ; it made you think of
how much a man could make if he was able to fight
all day.
But all the time when you were in the dressing-
room you could feel your nerves getting tighter and
tighter until there was a hard lump in the centre of
your body. There were pictures of fighters around
the walls, and you began to be a little scared about the
way people were taking notice of you.
You couldn’t seem to get used to all the people.
You kept looking at me as if I could drag that weak-
ness out of your legs. You were too scared to look
across the ring at the other boy. The lights were too
bright, and you kept thinking that soon you’d be out
there in the middle, and every eye in the place would
be on you. The pain in your middle was interfering
with your breathing. Inside your gloves your hands
were cold and clammy. You wanted everything to
start, to finish, to be over, but no one seemed to be in
any hurry. The referee was leaning over the ropes
and talking to someone. Then suddenly he had you
and the other boy together in the centre of the ring,
and was saying things you hardly heard. You were
looking at the boy you were going to fight; his face
was flat and heavy around the jaw. He didn’t look at
you. His head was turned down to the floor of the
ring and you saw, too, the chunky lump of flesh that
was his ear. You walked back to your corner trying
to smile and look smart, but you didn’t make a good
job of it. You were worried about that hard lump in
the middle of your body. That was when I told you
that the boy you were fighting wasn’t much good.
There was a time when he had been good, but he’d
been fighting too long. That’s what I told you.
Remember, Joe?
Remember that fight? At the bell I just about
had to push you into the ring. You had the feeling
that your legs didn’t belong. The other boy came
straight at you ; you slipped his left, and brought your
right sharp to his body. That punch made you feel
better, more sure of yourself. He slipped away and
came back with the left again. You didn’t slip it this
time. It caught you high on the head. The way it
made you feel was that it didn’t hurt to be hit. It was
like being hit with a pillow. You began to feel con-
fident and moved in. You were smart with that left,
and you liked the way it flicked his head back. You
were so confident then that you kind of set yourself
for him.
You were ready for those lefts, ready to sink your
right hand in his body. You were thinking about the
money. Two quid for four rounds; it was money
from home. You began to move faster. You were
working with your feet. You made him miss a few
times and you heard the crowd laugh. You were
pleased with yourself and you didn’t want the crowd
to know you were hurt when he ripped that right to
your body. You tightened up and fought for a while
without breathing. You tried to fight as though it
hadn’t happened. That was what made you so tired
just before the end of the round. That was when he
caught you in a corner.
You were tired then, tired as hell. His punches
were thudding on you and it was somehow like drown-
ing. You wanted air. You had to have air. You
tried to fight your way out of the corner, but your
punches were slow and heavy. There was a salt
taste in your mouth, and your lip was warm from the
blood that was coming from your nose. The punches
didn’t feel like pillows any more. They were hurt-
ing, and there was no space in the hurt. You weren’t
thinking of easy two quids any more.
You were glad when the bell went for the end of
the round. You came over and nearly fell into the
seat. Remember the cold water on your head, and
the sponge that wiped the warm cover from your lip?
Remember how good it felt to have the towel sweep-
ing air into your empty lungs? You spat, and the saw-
dust in the box started a red growth. Where water
had touched your lips they were smarting. Even
with the wind from the towel rushing into your face
you were finding it hard to breathe. Then suddenly
you were all right and you started to fill your lungs
with great gulps. You felt better. The hard lump in the
middle of your body was gone. The buzzer went and
you didn’t even bother to watch me climb out of the
ring. You were looking across at the other fighter.
You were going to be smart again this round, but you
were going to be careful. You weren’t going to let
any more of his punches catch your wind.
Remember how the first punch in that round
caught you and doubled you back against the ropes till
you felt you were suffocating? You were trying to
make your lungs work, but they were dead. This
time you didn’t try to be smart and fight without
breathing. When he came, throwing punches, you
crowded in and rested your weight on him. That
was the clever way, stalling till you were ready to
fight. He tried to fight you off, but those kind of
punches didn’t hurt. They were smacking on your
arms and elbows.
You still weren’t ready when the referee divided
you. You came back and pressed your weight on him
again. You were starting to breathe. You could
hear the crowd telling the ref. to “make ’em fight.”
You were worried about that, but you weren’t ready
yet. Then abruptly you were in the open, and the
pain and tightness were gone.
You showed them then that you could fight. You
were picking him off with the left, and moving with
the punch to let your right crash hard into his ribs.
He was slow. Now there was a little trickle of blood
at the corner of his mouth. You rolled with his
punches and left their power in the air. You could
watch him now, and see the dead look in his eyes.
They were the kind of eyes that seemed to have no
seeing. There was something automatic about the
way he kept crowding in when your left was starting
to lift his head out of the hunch of his shoulders.
When you came back to your corner I told you
that you were doing well. Remember how bucked I
was? It sounded almost as if I was doing the fighting.
I told you about how good this boy, Wally Graham,
had been, how he had once fought the champ. That
made you more confident than ever. It made you feel
almost as if you were fighting the champ, and giving
him a licking. You went into the third round as
though you’d been fighting all your life.
Remember that third round, Joe? He came out
with a left, you picked it off your chin with a right
and ripped to the body. That punch hurt him, Joe,
hurt him the same way as he’d been hurting you. He
wanted air, Joe. He wanted to breathe, but you
weren’t going to let him. You poked his head back
and hit to his wind. He wasn’t blowing air through
his nose any more. There was no more air in him.
When he doubled with the agony of it you lifted his
head back, and the next time you punched your glove
was wet with blood. He tried to come forward into
a clinch, but you were too smart. Where your gloves
were hitting on his body you were leaving blobs of
blood.
He was easy to hit now. You could stand in
close and stab him back against the ropes. You had
him in a corner and you were hitting and hitting,
and his arms were getting too tired to lift. You could
hear the crowd around you going mad. It made you
hit harder than ever. It was the kind of fighting the
crowd liked, blood and punches and a man out on his
feet. You hit him hard and you wondered why he
didn’t go down. Your left glove slashed into his face
as the bell went for the end of the round. Remember
how you grinned at the crowd as you came back to
your corner? You didn’t need any attention from me
during that interval. You were feeling fresh and
strong.
Remember the last round, Joe? It was slaughter
while he stood on his feet. You had blood on you,
Joe, but it wasn’t your blood. You hit him with
everything and, in that dumb way, he kept coming
back and trying to get near you. He was trying to
keep some semblance of a guard, but it didn’t bother
you. You drew him on to your fist and smashed
punches into his dead face. Remember the knock-
out? You hit him and his arms dropped. He stood
straight in the ring. He fell so slowly that he hardly
seemed to be moving. Then he crumpled at the knees.
The referee started to count. You stood back watch-
ing him. You saw him trying to get up. His arms
moved and his body lifted a couple of inches. It was
all his strength. Abruptly he hit the canvas with a
little thud, and the fight was over.
Remember that fight, Joe? It was Wally
Graham’s last fight. He didn’t do any more fighting.
You saw him a couple of years later, and he was try-
ing to make a living out of selling shoelaces. When
you bought a couple of pairs it took him a long time
to count out the change. You told him to keep it, and
it didn’t seem to affect him one way or the other.
You could look at him and watch him trying to think.
His face was heavy, and his eyes were a long way
back in his head. The pence of the change you’d
given him didn’t make any difference to you. You
were fighting ten-rounders and making good money.
You looked at Wally and you told me that you weren’t
going to let the fight game get you like that. I told
you about the time Wally had fought with the champ.
Remember, Joe?
W OU’RE back in the four-rounders now, Joe. There
* isn’t much of a crowd, and the stadium feels loud
and empty. There’s a kid in the other corner. It’s
his first fight. Remember your first fight, Joe? You
sit there watching him trying to yawn. He seems
dazed by the lights and the crowd. He doesn’t look
at you. When you come to the centre of the ring your
head is tucked down at the floor while the referee
says the things you’ve heard hundreds of times. The
bell sounds and you move out of your corner.
In the third round there’s blood on his gloves,
and your arms are tired and heavy. A right takes
your wind, and you try to hang on, but he won’t let
you. He’s smart, Joe. You were smart once,
remember? You can feel your body going dead
from punches. At the end of the round your legs
don’t seem to work properly at the knees. The taste
of blood is in your mouth. You’ve got to win, Joe.
You come out hard and tight-strong for the last
round. You’re so tight that your punches are slow.
A left tilts your head back, and a right spins you off
balance. He hits you then. Once. What’s gone
wrong with your legs, Joe? It’s just like falling into
bed when you hit the canvas. It isn’t hard. The
canvas is nice and warm and friendly, but you’ve got
to get up. You push with your arms, but there isn’t
any strength in them. You’re very tired, Joe. It’s
easier to lie and think.
It’s funny' what you’re thinking about, Joe —shoe-
laces, just shoelaces. It makes you think you must be
getting punch-silly.


ROYAL
purple: para
./Itfo’d H£he<fWie mellcumeJSandJmuiiiet
THE CENTRE OF EMPIRE.
By the aid of that “child of
science,” wireless transmission
of sound, citizens in the re-
motest portions of the British
Commonwealth of Nations are
brought into a close association
with “the centre of Empire,”
as the Houses of Parliament at
Westminster have not inaptly
been described, when their
“radio machines” bring to their
hearing the musical and sonor-
ous cadences by which “Big
Ben” records the passing of
time. In these days of anxiety
but, it might be added, un-
wavering faith in the future, the
strong notes which come from
this wonderful “Town Clock”
provide, so to speak, a connect-
ing link telling that all will be
well. In this striking illustration
is depicted many of those phases
of human activity which con-
tinually surge around the
Mother of Parliaments. It was
close by upon the old West-
minster Bridge the present struc-
ture replaced, Wordsworth com-
posed his beautiful sonnet, after
contemplating the scene, “Earth
has not anything to show more
fair.” Had he been living to-
day, what an added wealth of
symbolism could be imparted
into the line, when the influences
making for freedom and human
progress, for which the British
Parliament stands, are challenged
by forces of destruction, but
find an Empire-wide people de-
termined to defeat each and
every upholder of reaction.
London, always great, never
appeared greater than when she
arose, as now, to defend to the
utmost all those rights the Par-
liament sitting under Big Ben
has declared the inalienable pre-
rogatives of the British race.


“FOR DE GAULLE AND FREE FRANCE!”
(Drawn in a hopeful spirit before some nark sent a cable saying French North Africa was running stiff.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971. „
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .) „ . . ,
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months. £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places
2d. per copy. United
America, 2d. per copy.
within the British Empire,
Kingdom via France or
To all other places, 4d.
THIS 50-50 ELECTION.
Candidates of all colors are directly or inferentially
campaigning under that most ambitious of all slogans
“Elect Me and I’ll Win the War,” and, broadly speak-
ing, that is what the issue amounts to. The inspiration
and hope of the elector must be that his or her vote
will be a contribution towards the national war-
winning effort. The ideal would be that each vote
could represent a shot fired at some palpable dud
opposing a good man, or at the worse of two duds,
irrespective of party, thus ensuring, whichever side
won the majority, or if neither won it, a final selec-
tion of the best men available for the tremendous job
that has to be faced. As it is, a good deal of voting
on these lines is likely to enter into the reckoning,
especially with those who have no hard-and-fast party
ties.
On the face of their proposals, and with other
considerations kept in mind, there is not much to
choose between the main ostensible rivals. On the
one hand, Mr. Menzies says in effect: “The Govern-
ment hitherto has performed prodigious feats in war
effort. Everything possible has been done, including
many things undreamed of even when the war broke
out. If returned, the Government will continue on
these lines. Its experience will give the proper stiff-
ening to the combined Government of veterans and
fresh recruits that will be available after the election,
and of the rival party if it is then willing. This would
be the best sort of Government possible for continuing
the job the present Government has carried on —ensur-
ing Australia’s safety, co-operating in war effort with
New Zealand in the Pacific and with Britain in the war
at large, equalising the burden all round so that the
war effort will be in the truest sense national.”
Mr. Curtin, in effect, says: “The Australian Labor
party stands inflexibly in support of the British cause.
To that end, the Government it has in mind must
make full use of all the productive and financial re-
sources of the country. Everything must go into the
common pool; the nation’s capacity must be mobilised
to the utmost efficiency to win out. Manufacturers
and businessmen must submit to direction in the
common effort; workers in every sphere, too, must
realise that the great effort that they are called upon to
make can best be made when it is guided along care-
fully-planned lines. The Government the Australian
Labor party has in mind will attend to that; will
further its known policy of improved air defences ;
will correct the leaning towards vested interests shown
by the present Government in financial, economic and
productive phases of the war programme ; will control
interest rates to minimise the monetary and capital
costs of the war, and nationally direct investments to
the same end ; will, in short, leave the existing Gov-
ernment’s war effort out of sight.”
There are other considerations, but the main issue
stands. The one outstanding question for decision is
which is likely to make the better war effort. It is in
the nature of things a wide-open question. Brushing
aside all electioneering pretences, whatever the Gov-
ernment has done —and what is claimed on its behalf
adds up to a tidy credit —it has done only what it
should have done: its most is the least that the com-
pulsion of events insisted on. Mr. Curtin’s rival show,
on the other hand, is unlikely to have done more, and,
in respect of the A.1.F., is likely to have done less. If,
during peace, either show had consistently stood on a
sound defence programme, this would not now have to
be said. But the fact, evident to the blind, is that
neither did anything about the country’s defences at
any time that was not, in the past, dictated by the tem-
porary popular mood of the moment, and, since the
war started, by the popular mood and pressing events
combined. Mr. Curtin, Mr. Beasley and the bright
returning Labor star Dr. Evatt have all attacked the
Government side on the score of past neglect of
defence. If there is one side that should be silent on
that score it is the Labor side (remembering 1929),
though on all sides in the past there has been neglect.
There is no sound reason for doubting that what-
ever Government has power will do its best to translate
the popular mood into action. The responsibility ot
office, with the events ahead which Mr. Men-
zies most ominously foreshadowed, will curb the wild-
est and spur the tardiest. Because such considerations
enter into the reckoning, this is Australia’s most open
election for many years. Party should be of practically
no account. It will not work out that way, no doubt;
but, with an element of sense and some luck, it could
easily produce a Parliament, and from that a Gov-
ernment, above the average. That is what the occa-
sion calls for.
Apart from this general aspect of “Elect Us and
We’ll Win the War” there are naturally some differ-
ences of outlook expressed in the policy speeches, but
even these differences are related to and conditioned
by the main Win-the-War appeal. One difference is
that, whereas Mr. Menzies appears to expect no sort of
war except a long war, Mr. Curtin envisages the possi-
bility of the war ending before the natural life of a
Government. Mr. Menzies asks for a mandate to go
ahead with the war effort, and that alone.
The prime responsibility of the new Parliament will be
to conduct Australia’s part in the most critical war in
history, to lead the people to a complete victory, and
to lay the foundations of a just peace.
On his policy speech, if the war ended as a result of
the winter of starvation that is predicted for Europe,
Mr. Menzies would require a new mandate. Perhaps
his omissions under this head and others may be
filled in before the election: they are understandable
enough, and do credit to his complete immersion in
the job on hand. Without active experience of that
job, Mr. Curtin is more ambitious on what a Govern-
ment should be able to manage in addition. “While
the immediate task is the successful prosecution of the
war,” the Government he has in mind is to increase
pensions (with definite promises); attend to relief
for primary producers affected by drought, fire,
flood and pests; improve methods for collecting data
affecting the fixing of the basic wage ; provide
for family allowances; and otherwise go ahead with
social legislation much as usual. If he becomes Prime
Minister Mr. Curtin might find that some or all of
these proposals, along with other promises, might be
conditioned more than he imagines by events ; but
the mandate he asks for remains a much more open
one than that, restricted to war effort, sought by Mr.
Menzies. The war could end tomorrow, and Mr.
Curtin could fairly go ahead; Mr. Menzies would be
under necessity to produce a social programme and
have it endorsed.
In one respect Mr. Menzies seems to stand on
much clearer ground than his rival. He declared that
the offer to form a national Government, with Labor
holding five or six seats and himself prepared to step
down from the Prime Ministership if that was a neces-
sary condition, remains open. Therefore, if the parties
were returned in roughly their present proportions,
Mr. Menzies would be able —provided the Opposition
then agreed, as it probably would —to select the best
Government possible from the Parliament. By the
same token, Mr. Menzies is virtually committed to
join in a national Government on invitation from the
other side. Mr. Curtin has no such commitments. If
his party were returned with a clear majority, men like
Mr. Menzies, Mr. Cameron and others could conceiv-
ably be excluded. There is one reason, and one only,
why such an outcome might not be an unmixed mis-
fortune. Despite the attacks on the Prime Minister,
Australia will hold to the opinion that a Government
from which Mr. Menzies was excluded, as well as Mr.
Cameron and others, would be by their absence short
of the best. So long as the Parliament included them,
however, their exclusion from the Government would
not necessarily mean that they would be lost from
Australia’s war effort. To accept otherwise is to
swallow the thesis that unless it once more emulates
Britain and has a national Government Australia is
doomed.
The tune-in-with-Britain outlook has taken such a
hold that even the magnificent performance the Navy
is putting up and the no less splendid and more spec-
tacular performance of the R.A.F. —a reflection purely
of the quality of their men —are credited to the fact
that Britain has a national Government. On the evi-
dence of American onlookers, Canada is putting up a
general war-effort performance second to none, but
there is no national Government in that Dominion.
Nothing could be more preposterous than the much
cultivated notion that, given any sort of national
Government, the war is as good as won. It has been
demonstrated since this war started that a vigilant
Opposition has its uses and value in war no less than in
peace ; and that applies not merely to the Opposition
led by Mr. Curtin. As an advocate for shipbuilding
and a critic of munitions production Mr. Beasley has
been very useful. A Parliament without any Beasleys
in it would not be a better Parliament. Parliament
remains the one place where speech can still be free.
No newspaper could have equalled the performance
of Mr. Beasley, since, for one thing, no newspaper
would have been given the facilities for inspecting
plants and the like which Mr. Beasley was able to
demand and secure. Clearly, free and competent
critics of the forthcoming Government will have their
value.
Voters will no doubt chew hard over Mr. Curtin’s
declaration that the extraordinary powers taken to
itself by the Government for the prosecution of the
war must be retained afterwards for “dealing with
post-war reconstruction.” It is one of the advantages
possessed by the party Mr. Curtin leads that a declara-
tion like that can be tossed off without fear of echo
answering “Fascist.” Another of its advantages is
that it could make shorter work of Communist inter-
ference with the war effort than the other side could
manage. Its purely electioneering advantages include
its promises of increased payments to wheatgrowers
and soldiers. Mr. Menzies had the wisdom to deal
with the wheat-bid in detail, promising nothing more
than a fair deal (Mr. Cameron, himself a farmer, aims
at “bringing about stability through diversification of
production”), and declining in any channel to com-
pete in buying votes. He showed poor judgment in
not mentioning the Digger-bid, even if he was leaving
that to the responsible Minister. Mr. Menzies is right
in holding that this election ought not to be fought on
any such issues, but there is no question that, as they
stand, they give an advantage to those prepared to do
the bidding.
A purely electioneering disadvantage of the Gov-
ernment is that its side has been in office for such a
long period. Some voters are sure to be guided by
the feeling that it is time the other side had a turn.
Against that, the Government performance in peace,
and especially since the war, is not a bad one. If the
charges made by their opponents can be refuted —and
the evidence of the tremendous war effort which every-
body can see for himself refutes most of those charges
—the general Australian sentiment could fairly be
that the Government’s achievements in the very
limited time deserved a fair reward.
Mr. Curtin has not strengthened his appeal, either
to Labor or non-Labor voters, by bluntly shutting the
door of office in the face of the other brands of Labor
competing with his own —“ ‘scab’ Labor parties” he
calls them. “The Beasley group,” he says, “has no
part in the Labor movement.” It is, nevertheless,
unlikely to be wiped out and it may return with its
present strength. The other N. S. Wales unofficial
Labor group (the Hands-Off-Russia crew) may also
bag one or possibly two seats. Mr. Curtin might be
in a position to require the support of the spurned.
Escaping embarrassing commitments in other respects,
he has gone over to confusion in this. One thing not
wanted at the moment is confusion. What is wanted
—and voters are likely to insist on it —is national
cohesion. However the programmes outlined in the
policy speeches are raked over, the one issue will stand
out. Australia’s job is now to return a Parliament of
the best men offering, in the hope that from it must
emerge, by one means or another, the best Govern-
ment possible. As far as party goes, unless either side
meanwhile strengthens its present position out of sight,
this is a 50-50 election. What is needed is the best
Government; that is needed ; and it has to be a Gov-
ernment recruited, like the troops who should be its
particular care, for the duration.
Nine Hours from Australia.
SINCE the days when whakrs , bushmen and miner s took
the searoad to Maoriland as casually as they moved
,*,, , „ .
about Australia, and statesmen talked about a g
island empire to be founded in the Pacific by the two
nations in concert, Australia and Maoriland have
drifted apart. Not far, but far enough in spirit for
certain minor reservations to qualify their personal
contacts - f ar enough in trade relations for an absurd
dj te about spuds and oranges to have persisted for
y * . ct ,*„ m , n i;t.
Mr - Menzies never made a more st t
utterance than his summing-up of the war policy w ic
Australia under any Government—must follow. In
his second point, if it came as a jolt to people who
have been led to think of the Pacific in terms of
America and Japan, he struck a true and deep note,
After providing for its own defence, the P.M. said,
Australia must,
subject to and consistent with the proper discharge of
that first duty, make such contribution as we can to
the safety of our sister and neighbor Dominion,
From the Maorilander’s point of view, the effect
would have been strengthened if Mr. Menzies, besides
offering to ass j st w i tb munitions and armaments, had
recogn i sed the help Maoriland, by its vigorous war
effort is g j, v j ng Australia A weak Maoriland could
eas ii y ’ be an Achilles’ heel to Australia, but the Gov-
ernment headed by Mr. Fraser isn’t letting that happen.
obviously Mr. Menzies realises a fact that has
hitherto been ignored on both sides of the Tasman,
two countries will stand or fall together,
. impossible to imagine Maoriland surviving if
eyer Aus P tralia m to an invader ; it is unlikely that
who conquere d Maoriland wouldn’t be able
t 0 defeat this country. When there’s a raider in the
Tasm they suffe r alike. The one sea-power pro-
t t them b J th from more serious danger s. Whatever
h in Europej they have a common destiny
to F^ ork out in [he Pacific, and the exodus from
£ is sure to succeed the war will give them
grea t importance sooner than they thought.
& T .. , ~ , ... r to
the meantime, both are lett g • ,
overseas without even a voice m ani Ijnpcna
Council. Fighting for Brita n t y g S
heir own existence, as well as the rest of it, but slavish
tumng-m-to-Britain, which means ri is p
IS f°°bsh and dangerous, war or no war.
Maoriland seems to be following Australia s
example in cultivating better relations with Japan an
the U.S.A. There’s talk of sending ambassadors o
both countries. Any such movements are all to t y
good, and all the sympathy Uncie Sam will extend 1
more than welcome. But too great a swing o
America, inviting American domination instead or
American co-operation, won t suit Australians an>
more than it will Maornanders. For all the n ■
Australians and Maorilanders hare so muc
common culturally and ideologically that they
sink their differences, and, though they honor tne
British tie, they don’t belong in spirit either to u p<-
° r America.
Between the fighting forces there are now, as there
were among the Anzacs, mutual assistance, mutual
respect and mutual liking. There should be more
public statements like that of Mr. Menzies to a
ledge and strengthen the sympathy between the hy
peoples—these days only nine hours apart from eac
other.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Gallant and Generous.
Already concerting plans with Canada for the defence
of North America, the U.S.A. is handing over 50
“over-age” destroyers to Britain in exchange for naval
and air bases in the Bahamas, Jamaica, St. Lucia,
Trinidad, Antigua and British Guiana, all of which
points are to be leased for 99 years, “free from all rent
and charges” other than compensation to private
owners. The U.S.A. is to receive also, “freely and
without consideration,” naval and air bases on Avalon
Peninsula, Newfoundland, and on the east coast of
Bermuda, likewise under 99-year leases.
Before the bargain was struck, the Secretary of
State at Washington reminded the British Ambassador
of Mr. Churchill’s statement that, if the waters sur-
rounding the British Isles became untenable, the
Royal Navy would in no event be surrendered or sunk,
but would be sent overseas for the defence of other
parts of the Empire. He asked whether he could take
this as representing “the settled policy of the British
Government,” and he was, of course, told that he
could. It will seem strange to all the King’s loyal sub-
jects that the Washington Government should require
such an assurance, but no doubt it felt that it had to
allay the fears of friends as well as to secure an argu-
ment against opponents.
In terms of finance, the U.S.A. is getting much
the better of the deal; but for Britain this is a trifling
drawback compared with the solid advantages it gains.
The Royal Navy needs more destroyers, and the addi-
tion of 50, old as they may be, will materially
strengthen it in the task which it has performed so
magnificently, and for which every Australian is its
debtor. And as a concrete expression of American
sympathy with the British Empire, the transfer must
have a profound effect on European opinion, in Italy
most of all. On the part of the President it was a
gallant and generous proceeding, considering that in
two months he goes up for re-election.
It has been suggested that Washington will now
make similar arrangements in the Pacific and adjacent
waters —with Britain for the use of the Singapore base,
and with Australia and Maoriland for leases of suit-
able strategic points in these Dominions. Unless the
situation in the Pacific takes a startling turn for the
worse, this doesn’t seem at all likely. It would mean
what even Americans favorable to Mr. Roosevelt
would denounce as “entangling alliances,” whereas
the existing arrangements with Canada and Britain,
even if in the latter case the consideration is warships,
are in conformity with the Monroe Doctrine. Nor
could Australia, for its part, accept any proposal
for leasing Australian territory without abandoning
the method of negotiation, by virtue of which, at the
invitation of Japan and “with the cordial approval of
the British Government,” it is sending the Chief Justice
to Tokyo as a friendly gesture, and, as he himself puts
it, “to exert all the abilities I possess in a most earnest
endeavor to preserve for Australians and their children,
and for all the peoples of the Pacific, both peace and
honor.” It greatly prefers this method to the methods
of wandering American reporters, whose reports are
often baseless and often provocative.
War and Peace Leadership.
“In my opinion it was the Prime Minister who should
have seen to it that, after so many months of war, Aus-
tralia was better prepared. The plain truth is that he
failed in his high trust. His qualifications in piping
times of peace and leisured plenty are admitted, but
when the blasts of war blow in our ear he is not the
man to lead Australia. Today England and Australia,
having been left unprepared or inadequately prepared,
have to sustain the tremendous thrust of nations which
are well organised and fully prepared.”— Dr. Evatt.
That is from an electioneering platform speech, not a
High Court judgment; therefore the speaker had the
usual license. People who are not platform orators or
party zealots are ready to admit that, considering that
the time available was measurable in months, the
achievement of a Government which had previously
been so neglectful of defence has been pretty good.
The whole trouble, as Dr. Evatt perceives, is that
both Britain and Australia were in peace-time left in-
adequately prepared. What should also be perceived
is that it is a direct result that the time for making
preparations was restricted to the handful of months
that have passed since the war started and, in Australia,
to those that may remain.
And whose fault is that? It is too easy a poli-
tical expedient to point out that in both countries a
non-Labor Government was in power when war broke
out, and had been for some time. It will not be for-
gotten that it was a Labor Government which, in
Australia, dispensed with the elementary and vitally
necessary precaution of compulsory national service,
wrecking the entire defence organisation of the country
in the process, or that it was a Labor party which,
in Britain—while demanding intervention in Czecho-
slovakia, China and Spain—resisted even rearmament
until rearmament was forced upon it. It may not be
so well remembered, but nevertheless it is fact, that
it was a Labor-led Government which, in Britain, sus-
pended work on the Singapore base.
Those two instances alone should be enough to
convince most people that, if it’s defence that’s in the
air, Labor has nothing to crow about. Neither, for
that matter, has non-Labor in either country. The fact
is that the good sense of the voting public in both coun-
tries was eclipsed for years by the delusion that a cackle-
house at Geneva represented an adequate defence.
It would be so much hot air for anybody to pretend
now that either country, during that lotus-chewing
period, would have accepted from any brand of Gov-
ernment a defence programme adequate to the present
requirements, the full extent of which only the disas-
trous events of the last few months have demonstrated.
To suggest that a statesman may have qualities
fitting him for leadership in time of peace and yet not
be the one to lead “when the blasts of war blow in
our ear” is to condone the very fault which in the next
breath is condemned. The qualities displayed. by Mr.
Menzies, and by the whole string of leaders since the
last war, did not include standing or falling on the
issue of this country’s defence. The fallacy is that
peace can be regarded as a static state, and that only
war is dynamic. Dr. Evatt —and not only Dr. Evatt—
should root this notion out of the pattern of states-
manship. Democracy as a whole should root it out.
Then defence would remain as live an issue in peace
as in war. It would be steadfast, not dependent on the
whim of politicians.
The Shipbuilding Industry.
Mr. R. H. Cross, the British Minister for Shipping,
has announced, very belatedly, that Britain will wel-
come the construction of ships in Dominion yards.
After the last war, ships were built at Cockatoo
Island, Sydney, then under the Commonwealth Ship
Construction Branch ; at Walsh Island, Newcastle, a
N. S. Wales Government concern ; at Williamstown
(Vic.); in S.A. by Poole and Steele, and in Queensland
by Walkers. The largest vessels placed on the stocks
were the 13-knot Fordsdale and Ferndale, 9800 tons
gross, which were built at Cockatoo Island. Most of
these establishments have been called into existence
again by the present war, and without any flourish
of trumpets B.H.P. is establishing fine new yards at
Whyalla (S.A-)- There are to be other enterprises of
the kind at Kangaroo Point, Brisbane, and on the south
side of the Yarra.
At Cockatoo, a private concern, operating with-
out subsidies and facing difficulties unknown to British
yards —which, for example, can call on specialist
firms for accessories —is already employing nearly
3000 men on a programme which is taking shape with
a rapidity which would do credit to any yard in the
world. Its greatest jobs are Tribal destroyers for the
R.A.N. —intricate 2000-ton craft based on a matter of
25,000 sheets or so of plans —and patrol vessels for
the Admiralty. Between times, it undertakes large
rush jobs which include everything from the internal
reconditioning of cruisers and liners to the construc-
tion and reconstruction of propellers. Given the
necessary labor, there is no reason why its work
should not be expanded considerably; no reason
either why all other yards should not be kept busy.
Man-power is the crux of the situation. Essential
to the building of a wider range of ships are rationali-
sation of skilled trades and diversion of large bodies
of skilled workers from non-essential industries to jobs
which are vital to our commerce and our security.
Expanded shipbuilding would mean considerable
expansion also of the steel industry. As things are,
the output of steel ingots has been increased from
1,200,000 tons to 1,600,000 tons in a single year, and a
much greater growth is practicable.
Private shipbuilding firms should be encouraged
to lay down a long-distance policy. Men should be
sent abroad in sufficient numbers to acquire experi-
ence in the established yards which deal with heavy
construction. In short, things should be so ordered
that the Commonwealth will never again have to
depend on Britain for cruisers and the like and on
overseas companies for the carriage of our produce
overseas.
Dirt Cheap.
While aspiring politicians affirm or deny that Mr.
Menzies is the man to lead Australia out of this crisis,
while German bombs rain down on English homes
and English youths play their deadly game in the skies
of Europe by day and night, while merchant ships
go down and half Europe lies beneath a conqueror’s
heel, while the Prime Minister of Britain assures the
President of the U.S.A. that the British Fleet will
never scuttle itself nor the Empire surrender while
there is a shot in the locker, you can be “thrilled —
entertained —amused” for fourpence.
Fourpence brings you “Picture-News,” “Aus-
tralia’s National Weekly,” with “one of the greatest
editorial programmes ever launched.” As the
“national weekly” it naturally brings you the dinkum
Australian stuff: Sensational new features ; startling
spy adventures ; Notorious Australian Crimes, No. 1 —
The Deeming Murders ; an amazing series of photo-
graphs, grim, tragic, dramatic, reveal for the first time
the horrors of ravaged Europe ; Hollywood stars in a
1940 “swimsuit” preview ; dozens of other sensations ;
and, most sensational of all, a 36-page free novel, This
Man Is Dangerous. Said man is illustrated ; he car-
ries a gangster sub-machine-gun and is described as
“hardboiled yet human, tough yet tender racketeer.”
There’s a thrill a minute in this “fast-moving, action-
filled masterpiece.”
If you don’t want to read, you can ponder on the
puzzle of how, at a time when other publications are
forced to cut down their size by newsprint import
restrictions and a week after the responsible Minister
announced that “no new publications will be permitted
at present,” “Australia’s national weekly” can yet find
sufficient paper for a free 36-page novel. You can
also marvel at the mentality that defines Australia’s
intellectual needs at the beginning of the second year
of the war as previews of movie actresses’ bathing cos-
tumes, a rehash of the Deeming murders, horror pic-
tures or Yankee gangster yarns, and you will wonder
that people should bother about a Menzies, an Evatt,
a Curtin when the country possesses a brain capable
of conceiving these “sensational new features.”
If not too bored or too entranced by the photo,
of some blasted English home, you will then seek
the identity of this brain. We could tantalise you by
refusing to reveal it, but we feel that no such light
should be hidden under any bushel. The brain belongs
to Sir-r-r Keith Murdoch, Director-General of the
Department of Information, and if you feel that here,
at last, is Australia’s man of destiny, write to our
Astrologist, who will send you his horror-scope and a
free reading by return mail —perhaps.
Uniforms and War.
“El V.”: Streets of Australia’s great cities have come
out in a rash of uniforms, mostly worn by the female
of the species. The main advertising issues of the
daily press are splashed with pictures of dainty
maidens done up in military tunics and leather belts,
with X-ray pictures of the underpinnings—OS and
XOS included —which combine with the outer shell
to make a sylphlike figure.
It is all good for the trades that cater for this form
of patriotism or vanity, but there are aspects of the
uniform disease which the military authorities might
consider.
That the most objectionable feature of the sys-
tems we are fighting was regimentation of large bodies
of young people in modified Boy Scout outfits, with
a view to the development of a militant and aggressive
mob complex, can be left out of the discussion. So
can the waste entailed in putting seven guineas a head
into clobber which might be used to buy things for
the fighting services. So can the unhealthy class divi-
sion which results from this sort of decoration. So
can the possibility that Communist and enemy-alien
women may case themselves in uniforms.
The poor youngster, eager to help in war work,
who cannot afford to pay seven guineas for form-
fitting tunics is debarred from activities in which she
might be a darn sight more useful than a lot of those
bright young things who pad the pavements uphol-
stered in green or yellow, with a marcelled kiss curl
peeping from underneath the saucy peak of a military-
looking cap.
Soldiers are uniformed for one reason only —to
identify them and preserve their rights as com-
batants. A soldier who fights without a uniform is
regarded by an enemy as a franc-tireur and is usually
shot out of hand. He even runs a risk of being shot
by his own side as a precaution.
What is to be the status of all these bedecked
female paraders? Are they to be considered as com-
batants? If a marauding bomber hovers over a city
street and sees a dozen of them on the pavement, is
it his duty to turn on the machine-guns? And if in
the process of plugging holes in the OS and XOS he
stonkers a few civilians in the neighborhood who have
not outfitted themselves with XOS or OS, can he be
shot if he comes down? He doubtless has orders to
wipe out enemies made obvious by their uniforms, and
the devil take the hindmost among any civilians who
get in the way.
In case of actual invasion all this bedizening is an
invitation to indiscriminate slaughter, of a lot of
females who need not be slaughtered and of a lot of
other people, not regimented, who get in the way.
There are some women’s services which are rightly
combatant; but the bulk of them are not. And I sub-
mit that no person should be allowed to wear a
uniform unless there is a vital necessity for it.
Another Border Incident.
Since dictators and others have taken to crossing
borders without warning, with consequent outbreaks
of violence, Australians have frequently thought how
great a pity it is that other parts of the world cannot
live within their borders as peacefully as do the peoples
of the Australian States.
All sorts of things contribute to these border dis-
putes. Strangely, or perhaps not so strangely seeing
that pork is regarded with some importance by war-
ring nations, pigs feature largely in the latest one.
So far as can be gathered from somewhat con-
fused reports, a town about 25 miles inside the border
of one State developed a pig market, which farmers
from across the border found attractive. The law
of the State containing the market town forbids
farmers from other States to carry their stock to the
market unless they pay a vehicle tax in addition to the
one they already pay in their own State, so the practice
had to be suppressed.
As farmers persisted in breaking this law, the
authorities blockaded the market town. They sent
transport and police officers to guard the roads from
the border against smugglers of stock.
But spies rushed ahead of the officers to warn
the smugglers, there was a hurried conference, and
300 pigs were unloaded from the foreign vehicles,
loaded into legalised vehicles and so carried to market
and sold. But more trouble arose when buyers from
across the border found themselves compelled to load
their purchases into “legal” transports and then un-
load and reload into their own vehicles at the border.
There have been appeals to the Governments of
both States to show a little commonsense, so far in
vain.
It happened at Wangaratta, a northern Victorian
town, and the Governments concerned are those of
Victoria and New South Wales.
Yet candidates for the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment, when asked about it, are assuring electors that
the time is not opportune for the abolition of State
Parliaments.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Ike Hollar”: He came to our flat to
mend a broken partition and proceeded
to show what could be done with a
remarkably restricted vocabulary. “Yes,”
he said, “I can fix that there. I won’t
need no more new wood for that there.
“ You're still too far from the kerb , Henry.”
I can use that there wood ; I’ll cut out
that there wood and fit that there wood
into that there. There’s enough of that
there to do that there.” He illustrated,
and spoke with triumph: “There! That
will fix that there.” When that there job
was done I felt glad that that there bloke
was as economical with timber as with
that there English of his.
* * * ■ *
“Phil Anthus”: Appearance of H. V.
Evatt’s biography of W. A. Holman re-
minds me of a yarn which Holman used
to tell. In his Premiership days he
visited Victoria and was entertained by
the then Governor, the hearty John
Fuller. At one stage in the proceedings,
with no waiter near at hand. Fuller
looked longingly at an uncorked bottle,
upon which Holman dipped into a
pocket, produced a corkscrew, and did
what was needed. Fuller stared in
astonishment. “Tell me, Mr. Premier,”
he said, “is it —er —customary for Minis-
ters in your State to carry corkscrews?”
Holman smiled blandly. “My dear Sir
John,” he confided, “in New South Wales
the corkscrew is regarded as a primary
instrument of government!”
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: A man unloading gear
alongside a high building in course of
construction in Sydney was killed in-
stantly when some bricks fell from some-
where above on his head. In the U.S.A.
most workers toiling where there is the
slightest danger of anything falling on
them wear a light steel helmet similar to
the army’s “tin hat,” It’s time Aus-
tralian workers were given similar pro-
tection.
* *• * *
“T. McNark”: A report of a gathering
of some members of one of the multitude
of uniformed female organisations spring-
ing up like mushrooms after rain claims
that “the girls enjoyed an informal dinner
in the cafeteria, at which they amused
themselves by guessing each other’s ages.”
When they get a little older the dears will
realise that this is no amusement. Such
encounters remind me of the bright young
man at a similar guessing contest who
looked the subject over and said “Twenty-
two and a virgin.” The subject floored
him with the retort: “You are half right.”
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: Imagine my astonishment
on dropping from the bus on a recent
Friday night to find the population of the
suburb —or such of it as was in sight—
reeling about the street. Even the owners
and assistants in the dozen or so shops
that serve us appeared to be under the
influence, wavering about behind their
counters or teetering on their doorsteps
like saplings in a gale. Scarcely credit-
ing what my eyes insisted on seeing, I
put a judicious question here and there,
but all I got was a bleary stare or a happy
grin. Where replies were made they were
unintelligible, and a strange feature of
the proceedings was that most of the
folk showed a definite reluctance to have
anything to do with me. Putting this
down to their natural reaction to the fact
that I was the only sober individual
among them, I decided to go home, when
who should come round the corner but
my own wife, as drunk as Chloe and
leading the largest Dalmatian dog I ever
saw. I expostulated with her, not so
much about her condition as about the
extravagance of purchasing such a pet,
which looked capable of devouring a
pound of steak a day. She gave me a
sickly grin and went dancing along the
street. A policeman appearing at that
moment, I invited him to explain the
cause of all this. His explanation was
absurd, but I had to accept it. All the
same, it’s a bit tough to be fined 10s.
for drunkenness just because everybody
else, including the police, goes on the
shicker.
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: I’m with “Scat” (B.
4/9/’4O) regarding flowery inscriptions
on tombstones, memorials and founda-
tion stones, and hereby cheer him up
with one of the simplest yet most im-
pressive I’ve ever seen. It’s in South
Head Cemetery, Sydney, and reads:
George Lambert, R.A.
Artist and Sculptor
1873-1930
“Single in Purpose.”
* * * *
“Lid”: Now that sumer is icumen in
I suppose the flapper press will again
treat me to acres of pictures of Sydney’s
surf-gods. Not that I’ve anything against
these boys personally—they know their
job and do it well, and a large propor-
tion of them is now in Palestine or
England. But what does insult my intelli-
gence is that the flapper press allows them
to hog its picture pages every summer —
not in recognition of the work they do,
but purely in gratification of its own lust
for displaying as many acres of bare flesh
as it can—while almost entirely over-
looking the excellent though less spec-
tacular work done by the Royal Life
Saving Society. The two bodies operate
on somewhat similar lines, but the dif-
ference is that the Surf Life Saving crowd
comprises the surf clubs along the N. S.
Wales beaches and gives no instruction
outside its own ranks, while the R.L.S.S.
is an educational organisation operating
throughout the length and breadth of
N. S. Wales. Actually, the N. S. Wales
branch of R.L.S.S. founded the Surf Life
Saving clubs —in 1907, the late Charlie
Oakes, then Colonial Secretary, granted
the R.L.S.S. £5OO in recognition of its
services in establishing surf clubs along
the N. S. Wales beaches. The good work
it has done since makes heartening read-
ing—every year it makes awards for
proficiency in the various spheres of life-
saving, and since 1909 annual awards have
grown from 620 to 16,431 in 1939-40.
* * * *
“Oiler”: Bright thought by Will Ash-
ton, director of the Sydney Art Gallery:
“Artists in Australia should be encour-
aged by the Government and by big
organisations such as banks.” I have it
on unimpeachable authority that no bank
will discourage any artist who wishes to
and really can draw—cheques.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: “El V.’s” reference to
Lord Strickland (B. 28/8/’4O) recalls my
one and only brush with that turbulent
gentleman. When compulsory military
training was introduced in the school
curriculum Strickland was Governor of
W.A., and I was the smallest and prob-
ably the most recalcitrant “private” in
the Scotch College (Perth) cadets. Came
the proud day for the school when we
were reviewed by his Ex. Passing be-
tween the hushed and tense lines with
P. C. Anderson, then headmaster and
0.C., he paused at me (my uniform fitted
where it touched and my glance, instead
of rigidly facing front, had caught his
twinkling eye). “Well, sonny, and how
do you like compulsory drill?” the Gov-
ernor asked benignly. “I don’t, sir,” I
replied sharply. Old “P.C.” looked dag-
gers, and Sir Gerald’s smile vanished.
“So you don’t like it, eh?” he snapped.
“Why?” “Because it’s compulsory, sir,”
I said. Sir Gerald passed on huffily. He
may have thought of a dozen good retorts
later.
* <* * *
“Gadgeteer”: Long ago Australia’s
Walter Murdoch, in his dry way, was
heard lamenting that no new religion
had come out of America for at least
a fortnight. It will doubtless cheer him
to know that new ideas are still plentiful
in that land of wonders, the latest being
revealed as Part 3 in a Nazi sabotage
war against the U.S. Part 3: “Bombing
of arsenals, munition plants, utilities and
aircraft factories with powerful bombs
disguised as lead pencils.” Fortunately,
we are assured, the G-men are aware of
the plot. So if the prof, happens to land
in U.S.A. he can’t blame me if he’s
pinched for carrying lead pencils.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: I have been privileged
to view a sheet of notepaper, apparently
supplied by the Y.M.C.A. to members
of the A.1.F., and not since I was a Boy
Scout, pure in word, thought and deed,
have I felt so exalted. Decorated in the
left top corner with the association’s
strange triangular device, the sheet utters
on the right, above the date line, the stac-
cato precepts: “Think Clean, Talk
Clean, Live Clean, Play the Game.” Then,
just where you’re going to begin with
“Dear Millie,” it reminds you to “Write
Home First.” Makes a man feel like a
mouse.
* * * *
“0.G.”: “Pooh!” said the nine-year-
old expert in purl and plain after she had
giggled over Unk White’s energetic knit-
ting ladies (B. 28/8/’4O). “They’re
cleverer than I am if they can make socks
on two needles!”
* * # *
“F.S.”: “Chloe,” a picture by a defunct
and forgotten French painter, has hung
for 32 years in the bar of Young and
Jackson’s in Melbourne. She has been
the inspiration of thousands of jokes and
smokeroom stories; bottles have been
flung at her shapely form by inebriated
persons, and on one occasion she was the
unwitting cause of police court proceed-
ings, a young religious fanatic having
bought a glass of lemonade and flung it
in the face of the lady with intent to
damage her complexion. Previous to her
acquisition by the pub she hung in a
gentleman’s study, and, as his house was
very near the street and she was clearly
visible from the roadway, he had to call
in the glazier so often that at last he kept
his blinds drawn. “Chloe’s” charms are
now to be displayed at Kozminsky’s in
aid of a war-work organisation, and a
sprat is to be charged to view her. So
now an aura of intense respectability
surrounds her, and the agitation she has
aroused during her long history can only
be explained on some environmental
theory.
jp * * *
“Hamer”: The poets of the kerb are
reaping a modest harvest from the war.
I saw one get rid of a handful of printed
slips containing verses headed “Hell’s
Monster” in a pub at threepence per
copy, besides acquiring some more beer.
One burning fragment of his effusion
(which he insisted on reciting) ran:
Heroic deeds of bold Dunkirk
Will teach you, louse, your plans won’t work,
And thou shalt be, when we shall win
Well kicked from Paree to Berlin.
Another threepennorth of poetry 1
picked up from a meek-looking cove on
a ferry wharf contained the remarkable
apostrophe “O thou pernicious mass of
loathsome culpability,” and went on to
declare that the said mass was to be
destroyed by “our navy’s brave agility.”
It gave me a fantastic vision of battle-
ships hopping in pursuit of a fleeing
Hitler in a sort of kangaroo procession.
* * * *
“D.E.”: The Young Digger in whom
I am most interested has had “a real
Turkish bath.”
All our mob went to Akka (Acre), and
in a very beautiful bathhouse we all took
the heat. The place was built in the
eighteenth century by El Jazzer. Inside
is a mass of domes with bay windows that
allow a strange light to filter through.
Halls and floors are of marble, as fine as
you would wish to see; and if old El
Jazzer could have come back to life and
seen a crowd of Australians running round
naked in his marble halls, getting rid of
some of the dust they collected in Pales-
tine, he would have had a fit.
Akka is a walled town —three walls and
two moats —and has a great gate, built
by the Crusaders, the ruins of their Church
of St. John (the floor lies under 30ft. of
debris and you see only the vaults), an
ancient convent (now a sweets factory), a
mosque, also built by El Jazzer (next to
the one in Jerusalem, the finest in the
country, with columns from ancient Tyre),
and two towers standing above the water
that are remnants of a harbor constructed
by the Phoenicians.
“El Jazzer” was Achmet-Djezzar, Pasha
of Syria, who, with the assistance of Sir
Sydney Smith and his two ships of the
line and Colonel Philippeaux and the
plague, stopped Napoleon at Acre. Jazzer
means “butcher,” and Achmet was all
that. But he was a game old savage,
and when the French effected a breach
and put the defenders to rout he per-
sonally rallied them, “flinging his own
pistols at the heads of the flying men,”
and, helped by English seamen, drove
Napoleon’s men back to their lines. The
siege lasted 60 days ; then Napoleon gave
it up and retreated first to Jaffa and then
to Egypt, pursued all the way in Syria
by “El Jazzer” and his Turks and “the
wild Arabs of the desert.” “I was robbed
of my destiny at Acre,” Boney said after-
wards, and old “El Jazzer” was the
principal robber.
SWORDS AND PENS.
The pen is mightier than the sword—
An aphorism (is it not?)
That’s often quoted and encored,
Though in what poet’s works it’s stored
Just at the moment I’ve forgot.
And in the end it may be so,
But there are times and seasons when
We come instinctively to know
The sword is mightier than the pen.
The pen is mightier than the sword —
A pleasant sentiment, of course,
But one that needs must be ignored
When facing a predacious horde
That knows no argument but force.
When Attilas are out for loot
And Alarics beset you, then
None, I imagine, will dispute
The sword is mightier than the pen.
The pen is mightier than the sword —-
We yet may see it so, but till
Some new Utopias are explored
And old ideas go overboard
I feel a deal of doubt we will.
In days like these, when half the earth
Shakes to the tramp of armed men,
Weapons, not words, must prove their worth,
The sword is mightier than the pen.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“ Haven’t I told you to deliver all goods at the back entrance?
“Spokeshave”: A Melbourne hostess
gave a party in honor of one of A.B.C.’s
foreign musicians. The musician’s wife
was also present. A politician from Can-
berra got into friendly converse with her.
After discussing the affairs of Europe
and the sad plight of little nations crushed
under the heel of Hitler, he shook her
hand and said: “Well, good-bye. Glad
to have met you. It helps me a lot to get
first-hand information, and if I can be
of any assistance to you just let me know.
By the way, what is your husband
doing?” “Mine husband?” said the lady,
looking puzzled. “Yes. What was he
doing before he came here?” “He was
blaying der biano.” “And what is he
doing now?” “Vhy, blaying der biano
on der goncert blatform.” “Glad to hear
it,” said the politician. “I’m always
pleased to hear of you refugees settling
down.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The times change quickly.
Recently attended an Anglican service in
which the liturgy was that “for use in
time of war,” everyone having a leaflet
printed not many months ago. There
soon came a prayer “for our Allies.” The
officiating minister there hedged a bit,
dropping in before it the words “those who
remain.” Then came a clause of modest
thankfulness for “the success which has
already attended our efforts and those of
our Allies.” This really did seem, now,
too much like sarcasm, and the last five
words sank without a trace.
* * * *
“Kerys”: A city businessman, elderly
and portly, had been suffering from in-
somnia for nearly a year. A lady friend
advised him to visit a clairvoyant, famed
among ladies for her ability to diagnose
and alleviate anything from a broken leg
to an attack of measles. The sleepless one
went to her secretly and was told that a
celebrated physician, long deceased, was
evincing great interest in his case, and
insisted that a wreath of arum-lilies worn
at night was the only cure, He scorned the
advice, but lack of sleep sent him again
to the seeress. She at once challenged
her client with not obeying instructions,
and told him that nothing else in the
world would alleviate his trouble. As he
had tried every sane remedy he was ready
to start on insane ones, and that night
he stole into his garden, clutched half a
dozen lilies, tethered them with a strand
of wool from his dressing-gown and
sneaked indoors again, wearing the chap-
let. Almost immediately he was snoring.
His wife, wakened by the unaccustomed
sound, arose softly and switched on the
light. The vision of her baldheaded spouse
crowned with lilies was too much for the
poor lady, and her hysterical shrieks
brought her daughters running to her
aid. They in their turn almost collapsed
with shock at the sight, but recovered
sufficiently; to ring for the family doctor.
Dad, sleeping peacefully, was unaware
of the commotion, and deeply resented
being roused to answer what he deemed
irrelevant questions in the small hours.
He stated his case with much acerbity,
adjusted his lilies, said he felt better than
he had for months and determinedly
resumed his slumbers. And that was the
end of his insomnia.
*,* * *
“C.Q.”: A man with a rapt expres-
sion came into the vast rotunda of the
Public Library in Melbourne. Com-
pletely ignoring the loungers, the sleepers
and the earnest students sitting around,
he rushed to the shelves dedicated to the
Grecian and Roman classics, eagerly
snatched at one volume after another,
ran his finger through it, put it back,
took it out again and finally selected a
huge armful and took them to a table.
Running through each immortal work in
a frenzy of investigation, he dropped it
on the floor; then he went to the shelves
for a fresh armful. The same process
was repeated with undiminished vigor
until a huge pile of discarded opuses had
accumulated round the feet of the
obsessed inquirer. “How unlike our own
professors!” murmured one Uni. student
to another. “Wish I only had one-half
of the enthusiasm that man has.” A
few minutes later a warder entered and
removed the zealous reader.
“Craiser”: An amateur
artist who paints because
he likes painting dropped
in at one of those clubs
which cater for the
literary, artistic and arty-
crafty fraternity of Mel-
bourne. He had his latest
landscape wrapped up in
brown paper .under his
arm, and was spotted by
a Collins-street physician.
“Let’s have a look at what
you’ve got,” said the
doctor. “I’ll buy it,” he
said, after a few minutes’
inspection. “Well,” said
the amateur, “I don’t be-
lieve in selling my pictures,
but as you like it you can
have it for half a guinea.”
The doctor was delighted
with his purchase. For a
joke, he asked the painter
for a brush, and scrawled
across it the name of one
of the best-known Aus>-
tralian painters. “I’ll just
try out what these blokes
know about art,” he said ;
took it into the bar and
showed it round amongst
his fellow - members. A
stockbroker immediately wanted the
masterpiece to add to his collection, so
the doctor put it up for auction, and
after some spirited bidding it was knocked
down to the man of stocks and shares
for ten guineas. “Now, to cap the trans-
action,” said the doctor, “I’ll introduce
you to the artist. He happens to be in
the building.” He went out and brought
back the unknown amateur. The stock-
broker was so annoyed that he beat the
canvas to pieces against a chair-arm.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Forty years ago a Ballarat
man went insolvent. He was declared
bankrupt, got an old-age pension and
went to Tasmania. Then he was left a
small estate and thought his troubles
were over. Unfortunately the trustees of
the estate could not pay the money to
him until his creditors were satisfied, and
the creditors could not be satisfied for
the reason that they were all beyond the
reach or need of human satisfactions,
monetary or otherwise, and “heirs
or assigns” weren’t forthcoming. They
had all predeceased the man who was
indebted to them. So the man’s state
was worse than his original one. Judge
Foster stopped the Law’s ears flapping
by giving the old man an absolute certi-
ficate of discharge.
* * * *
. “Cauboy”: The more concerts Mel-
bourne concertgoers are given the more
dissatisfied they become. Latest manifes-
tation of the phenomenon is the indig-
nant protests in the press about the
coughing at the recent Menuhin family
affair at the Town Hall. I listened care-
fully to that recital, and the thing that
impressed me was the extraordinary
quietness and concentration of the huge
assemblage while Yehudi and his sister
were playing. In view of the fact that
every second person in Melbourne at
the present moment has Pucka throat,
’flu, German measles or bronchitis, this
seemed to me remarkable. But between
the movements and at the end of each
opus a perfect tempest of snorts and
sneezes broke forth, which was instantly
stilled the moment Yehudi’s bow glided
across his fiddle and Hephzibah’s fingers
descended on the keyboard. This argues,
not lack of consideration for other
people, but unusual consideration. Any-
body who succeeds in strangling a cough
or a sneeze in the making is half a hero
and half a wizard.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: When the friend of the
artist knocked at his studio door it was
opened with extraordinary caution. “I’m
painting a nude,” said the artist, poking
his head out. “Oh, well, then,” said his
friend, “I can’t come in.” “Come in,
come in!” said the artist. “She won’t
take the slightest notice of you.” When
his eyes had become accustomed to the
concentrated light the friend stepped back
in amazement. “What on earth is a
cow doing in your studio?” he stam-
mered. “I’m doing a pastoral,” explained
the painter, “and I always like getting
my anatomical details right.” “But
where’s the nude?” inquired the other.
“Cows are usually nude, you idiot,” re-
torted the artist.
* * * *
“The Nark” attends a celebration:
Invited, per medium of my radio set, to
attend a demonstration in Sydney’s Martin-
place to mark the first anniversary of the out-
break of this war, I bolted a pie-and-roll and
galloped up to get a good position.
There was a platform fitted with loud-
speakers (the mechanical kind), flags, seats,
State dignitaries in overcoats and with noses
made red by the cold wind, and several ladies.
Facing this were a military band, a naval, mili-
tary and Air Force guard, and rank upon rank
of women in nicely-tailored and chromatic uni-
forms.
Outside all this, rows of those strong men
known far and wide in broad Australia as
John Hops. Outside them again struggled a
mass of ordinary citizens.
Feeling something like the bit of carrot in
the stew of a shearers’ cook, I bobbed about in
this restless mass, frequently submerged but
persistently being shot to the surface until
everything simmered down and I found myself
safe behind two ample ladies and in front of
three whispering gents. Thus, for a space, the
world stood still while the cold sought out
my bones.
Then, the band struck up “God Save the
King,” and Lord Wakehurst and his lady,
having in some magical manner got through
the outer defences, captured the citadel and a
good Aussie voice murmured in my left ear
“What’s doin’?”
“Kain’t tell what it’s in aid of,” replied a
Yankee voice, “but it’s a safe bet there’s
somethin’ tewit.”
“Cold, ain’t it?”
“Yair, Queensland’s where a man ought to be
this weath”
“Push along there, push along. Must keep a
way open. Push along.”
“There’s that John again. Why don’t he
keep quiet?”
A voice, that of Lord Mayor Crick, swamped
the discussion. It burst from the loudspeaker
in a wave, floated mysteriously off and returned
with doubled volume. Platitudes. “Power of
British Fleet —so we are gathered—much
pleasure —the Lord Wakehuroom-oom-oon.”
The Governor was up. “Your Grace —fighting
alone Royal Air Force are we down-
hearted?”
Not expecting this the crowd almost missed
its cue.
“Who’s that bloke?”
“That’s Mair. You know, the Premmear!”
A rather fruity voice beat and wavered and
swelled again. “Army—representatives of our
Navy Air Force gallantry the er er”
(he’d caught sight of the varied uniforms) —
“splendid women war workers.”
The band played “Advance, Australia Fair.”
Faint efforts were made to sing it. “God Save
the King.” The platform began to empty, the
troops to march away. Uniformed women
stepped past. Fully accoutred, Lieut .-Colonel
G. C. Somerville, whose address was once Galli-
poli, watches them with a fatherly eye. A
rude voice shouts “Everything but a Barmaids’
Battalion!” A middle-aged woman looks at
me with tear-filled eyes, obviously distressed.
“Could I help you? Is there” “Thank
you, sir, if you’d see me over the road.” We
set out. “Me brother,” she said, keeping her
head down —“me brother was on the Rawal-
pindi.”
“ Say , ‘Dear Gretchen—goot trip , haf arrived O.K. Otto.'"
SIR ORACLE.
“I have to send to England for a good review of
politics, literature and the arts. The newspapers of
Australia, taking them by and large, are only news-
papers. I look many days in vain for distinguished
writing, for a witty turn of phrase.” —Neville Cardus
in “S. M. Herald.”
Poor Neville Cardus! What intense affliction
You needs must feel on these benighted shores
Where you unload, with vehement conviction,
Selections from your literary stores
(Couched in your own inimitable diction)
On operatic and on cricket scores,
To find, bright hopes and expectations blighting,
We’re unaccustomed to distinguished writing!
Ovid, in exile by the cold and sleety
Black Sea, had much the same complaint as
yours.
Romewards he turned his face in sad entreaty
With wails on what a genius endures
When forced to live among the savage Gretas
And vegetate beside Sarmatian boors,
Where no one found appreciative praises
For sparkling epigrams or witty phrases.
Poor Neville! With an unexampled cargo
Of tropes and metaphors at his command,
Immune from editorial embargo
He covered cricket in this far-flung land,
And plastered Beecham with the high-flown
argot
That singularly few can understand.
Whether he dealt with arias or yorkers,
It seems he was but casting pearls to porkers.
His eagle eye can pierce beneath externals.
Lament with me, my brothers of the press,
The sheets that print our stuff are merely
journals,
Like radio-announcers more or less,
Shells that one cracks in vain for juicy kernels,
Rags that no qualities or claims possess
To rank upon the intellectual level
Required by such celebrities as Neville.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


10 for 9d...20 for I'6
E 1869
CRAVENA
Ijculi appieciak tkefa
eiddemama meM6f ~
ĥjkjkjklkl
PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
Lots of deposits are going to be lost on
September 21. Including the N.T. seat,
there were 338 nominations, and only
“Texas” Green, Labor member for Kal-
goorlie since 1922, was returned un-
opposed. Menzies has five opponents in
Kooyong, Nock has six in Riverina,
Mulcahy six in Lang (Stevens is one of
them) and Gardiner seven in Robertson.
Even Page has three in Cowper—more
than he ever had before, though he dates
from 1919 and his majorities have seldom
fallen below two to one.
There were some clever things in the
P.M.’s policy speech, and the audience
obviously considered that his happiest
effort was made at the expense of the
so-called Motorists’ Protection League,
which, whatever its origins, is making a
barefaced appeal for joyriders’ votes.
“The finest Motorists’ Protection League
in the world at present,” said Menzies.
“is the Royal Air Force.” Good, but re-
membrance of the noble services on which
the R.A.F. itself depends would have
made it better. “The finest Motorists’
Protection League in the world at present
is composed of the Royal Navy, the
merchant navy and the Royal Air Force”
—that would have conveyed the argu-
ment perfectly.
“The Beasley group has no part in
the Labor movement; in fact, it has
no reason to exist.” Thus Curtin at
Adelaide. He preceded these remarks
with a reference to the “calibre of the
Government that the Labor party” —his
Labor party —“will be able to form if
returned to power on September 21.”
He didn’t say what he proposed to do
if his party came back with, say, 36
members (out of 74) and the Beasley
group with four or five. The electors
are entitled to this information. In fact,
they have a right to know a lot more
about the Curtin programme than Curtin
has permitted them to learn.
Beasley, calling all Non-Coms.:
My colleagues and myself are opposing
Mr. Curtin because he called upon us to
sign a pledge to an A.L.P. executive that
was irrevocably committed to the policy of
“Hands off Russia.” We refused to sign
that pledge,
True enough ; and it was only when the
Non-Coms, had departed that Curtin
found he would have to deal with the
Hands-Off-Russia crowd. And then he
accepted Garden (Garden!) as his can-
didate for Cook.
Young Mr. Hughes, leader of the
Hands-Off-Russia “Labor” party, who is
giving £25 a “fly” in Reid (N.S.W.), has
had the gall to suggest that Australia
should ask Russia for a non-aggression
pact. Poland, Finland, Lithuania, Latvia,
Estonia and Rumania had non-aggres-
sion pacts with Russia.
Cameron, at Glenelg:
Beware of costless credit and other finan-
cial fads, and beware of those who would
make a new heaven on this old earth by
putting the note-printing press to work,
because if their theories are false a new
hell must follow.
Not bad for the man whom Sydney
“Sun” derided as never having shown
to less advantage.
Roosevelt is swapping 50 over-age
destroyers for naval and air bases in the
Bahamas, Jamaica, St. Lucia, Trinidad,
Antigua and British Guiana, all to be
held under 99-year leases; and for good
measure Churchill is handing over bases
in Newfoundland and Bermuda on the
same terms. As a war measure it is a
very useful exchange for the Old Man,
but for historical and sentimental reasons
the necessity is regretted. It looks very
like giving up old parts of the Empire
for ever.
Denied a copious supply of Big Men,
Sydney “D.T.” has been reduced to
running a couple of chaps from the
Constitootional Association, lawyers
both. One opposed Billy Hughes for
North Sydney when Hughes was out of
favor with the Bosses, and threw his
Homburg into the ring for Wentworth,
ex-Minister Harrison’s division, before
he was “endorsed.” He is dutifully pay-
ing out “Telegraph” twaddle as chin-
music. For part of the same electorate
the “Telegraph” claims to have put in
Robson, M.L.A., who is “diametrically
opposed to Labor principles and policies
—to me they are complete anathema
and they will never receive my support.”
Which doesn’t chime in with the “Tele-
“Mr. Stevens was hit with a tomato at an open-air meeting.”
“Hold on, boys! I remember a Warwick egg that hatched out the Commonwealth
police, but what can you do with a tomato?”
graph’s” explanation that it bought the
late “Daily News” because of its burn-
ing zeal to give Labor a Voice.
The Tamworth and Croydon (N.S.W.)
Assembly by-elections don’t suggest that
“great swing to Labor” of which so
much has been said. For Croydon, the
A.L.P. man, Weir, though supposed to
be assured of strong civil-service support
(now a barrister, he was president of the
Public Service Association), polled only a
thousand more primary votes than the
total thrown away in 1938 on Garry
Gordon, who had pulled out before poll-
ing day, though his name remained on
the ballot papers. And Weir got the
whole Labor vote, the Non-Coms, and the
Hands-Off-Russia group giving the by-
election a miss. Blind David Hunter
will succeed Stevens.
F. R. Lee, who was secretary of the
Associated Chambers of Manufactures
for years, is coming out for Fremantle
against Curtin. A good speaker and a
good mixer, he is as likely a candidate
as the U.A.P. could have got, and he
knows the electorate well. Before the
last war it was a soft snap for Labor,
but since 1914 Labor has won it only
four times. In 1925 and 1931 Curtin
was beaten by old Bill Watson, and but
for Watson’s temporary retirement in
1928 he would almost certainly have been
whipped again. And his 1934 majority
over Mrs. Cardell Oliver was only 1028
in a poll of 48,874. Lee, though Curtin
doesn’t underrate that young man, is not
causing him the worry that Watson and
the lady did.
Reckoning in the four members whom
death has struck down, the state of
parties in the House is U.A.P. 25, C.P.
16, Curtin Labor 27, Non-Com. Labor
5, and Independent C.P. I—he1 —he (Wilson,
of Wimmera) generally votes with Curtin
Labor. Therefore, the Ministerial parties
can’t afford a net loss of more than three
seats, and they are vexed with doubts
about Barton and Macquarie (N.S.W.),
Maranoa (Q.), Adelaide and Grey (S.A.)
and Darwin (Tas.). On the other hand,
they expect to regain Wakefield (S.A.)
and Ballarat, are fairly confident of
Wilmot (Tas.) and Griffith (Q.), and have
at least a fighting chance in Werriwa
(N.S.W.). They profess to see signs of
a reaction against Labor in both Queens-
land and Tasmania. In more than one
State there may be shocks for both sides.
“Giving Australia leadership” once
more, Sydney “Telegraph” published a
series of double-column front-page
articles inviting Big Men to save the
country by standing for the House of
Reps., and urging men not so big to
work for the Big ’Uns if they felt diffi-
dent about standing themselves. Not till
last week did it mention how many Big
Men (the Cream of the Nation) it re-
quired ; and when it became specific little
men laughed.
On September 21, the Australian people
will have to choose 94 members for the
House of Representatives—one in every
75,000 of our population.
Anyway, it got the date right.
“S. M. Herald” has been stung into
an acknowledgment of “the disfavor into
which State Parliaments have been fall-
ing, particularly in N.S.W.” Granny, it
seems, was assured that the Sydney Gov-
ernment would alter its divorce law, par-
ticularly in the direction of making
lunacy a ground, as it is in Queensland.
Discovering, no doubt, that this would
jeopardise votes, the Sydney Government
“decided to defer changes in the divorce
law until the Commonwealth has made
reforms in which it has sole jurisdiction,”
which, if there is such a thing as “sole
jurisdiction,” may be never. “Injustice,”
“cruelty,” “archaic” and “indignation”
are some of Granny’s words for the law
and its spineless administrators, and it
looks as if the Old Lady will become a
one-Parliament woman yet.
It is instructive to learn, on the author-
ity of Neville Cardus, that “musicians
who are coming to the end of their tether
in London” are often heard to say “Well,
thank God, there are always the colo-
nies,” and that “the average Englishman
refers to this day to Australia as one of
the colonies.” And, of course, the Eng-
lish politician, who has been everybody’s
mug in Europe, from Stalin to Carol,
treats Australia in the same spirit.
Neville’s ingenuous admission coincided
with the arrival in one of “the colonies'
of a mob of internees and prisoners of
war from Britain. It is to be hoped that
the English politician will be good enough
not to regard this concession to Father
Bull as the equivalent of accepting a
renewal of transportation.
As it appeared in Sydney’s most vener-
able morning paper:
Speaking in support of Mr. McCall, the
Federal Attorney-General, Mr. Hughes, said
“This is a win-the-win election.”
There is many a truth wrapped up in a
misprint.
All over Australia farmers are dis-
covering that divided control of agricul-
ture is largely responsible for their
troubles and js hindering the application
of remedies. Teasdale, president of the
Westralian Primary Producers, has be-
come a convert to Commonwealth con-
trol. Cameron, opening the Country
party’s campaign at Glenelg (S.A.),
pointed out that, though “diversification
of production” is the only thing which
can “insure the future of 40,000 or 50,000
farmers who depend on wheatgrowing
almost exclusively”—having been told by
State Governments that nothing else was
necessary—the Commonwealth Govern-
ment cannot in the present shape of
things plan and carry out the requisite
production policy. It “must work through
the State Governments.” Next time
transfer of powers is asked for, farmers
won’t be on the provincial side.
Though the isolationists are furious,
the President had a first-class precedent
for striking his bargain with Downing-
street without reference to Congress. He
referred to the thing as “the most im-
portant action for the reinforcement of
national defence which has been taken
since the Louisiana purchase.” The
parties to the Louisiana purchase were
Jefferson and Napoleon, who, for a mere
£3,000,000 English, sold-a million square
miles of country now comprised in the
States of Missouri, Arkansas, lowa,
Minnesota, North and South Dakota,
Nebraska and Oklahoma and most of
Kansas, Colorado, Wyoming and Mon-
tana. The most successful land deal any
democratic ruler ever made, and Jefferson
concluded it without consulting Congress.
It would be interesting to know how
much English money has gone west back-
ing Carol, of Rumania, Carol himself
nearly went west last week when one
of his devoted subjects shinned over the
palace gates and went looking for him
with a pistol. The King thereupon bolted
for Switzerland, leaving his son to be
king of what is left of Rumania, In his
retirement he may console himself by re-
reading the panegyrics of English.ad-
mirers after they made the sudden dis-
covery that he was not really “Carol the
Cad”—especially the one that Churchill
wrote last year telling the world what a
wonderful fellow Carol was.
[For matter referring to the Commonwealth
election, responsibility is taken by J. E. Webb
and Cecil Mann, 252 George-street, Sydney.J


OUR EMERGENCY LIFE-SAVING SQUAD.


POPULAR
“ROOM ONLY” TARIFFS:
Singles—s/- to 10/- per day
Doubles —8/- to 18/6 per day
Suites, Family Rooms, etc.
Full Catering Services.
VICTOHIiV
V 3-3
MELBOURNE'S
MOST POPULAR HOTEL]
Next Town Hall,
Little Collins Street,
S. D. HORNE-MANACER
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WILL SHARE PRICES STAY UP?
FACTS AND FIGURES FOR THE INVESTOR
September Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Hubert Clifford, who got into the
London news by composing a symphony
while taking refuge in an air-raid shelter,
is a clever young Bairnsdale (Vic.)
musician who made a name for himself
in Melbourne with his compositions and
conducting before London called him.
He was educated at the Melbourne
University and the Albert-street Con.
and studied composition under Fritz
Hart. Soon after his arrival in London
he was selected to conduct the most
famous school orchestra in England—
Beckingham. He has also wielded the
baton for the London Philharmonic
Society.
Cecil N. McKay, reported to have pre-
sented Lord Beaverbrook with £5OOO to
buy a Spitfire, is the son of the McKay
who founded the harvester concern at
Sunshine, Vic., which even before the
last war was exporting Australian har-
vesters as far afield as the steppes of
Siberia. He was born at Ballarat and
educated at Scotch College, Melbourne,
and he is the managing director of the
business that has a model town connected
with and named after it. First-hand in-
formation of what the Air Force is doing
in England must have stimulated the gift.
McKay is an ex-chairman of the Asso-
ciated Aero Clubs of Australia.
The man with the pipe and the reflec-
tive expression here caught by Counihan
is Major-General John Northcott, who
was acting-Chief of the General Staff in
Melbourne between the time of the Can-
berra air disaster and the appointment of
General Sturdee. Maj.-Gen. Northcott
was born at Dean, outside Ballarat, and
attended Grenville College. Then he had
a go at academic honors at the Univer-
sity of Melbourne, but before that in-
stitution could draw him to itself he got
caught up in the army, and in 1908 he
became a professional soldier. He went
from the Speck to the last war as adjutant
to the 17th Battalion, and was afterwards
at Camberley. In 1936 he was attached
to the Imperial Defence Committee ; he
was dispatched to U.S.A. and Canada on
Commonwealth Government service, and
MAJOR-GENERAL NORTHCOTT.
in 1938 he became Director of Military
Operations and Intelligence. Deputy
C.G.S. in 1939, when General Squires
became ill Northcott stepped into the
“acting” position, to resume it again when
Brudenell White came to his untimely end.
Commander H. J. Buchanan, awarded
the D.S.O. for gallantry at Dunkirk,
where he was one of the last to leave,
was born in Melbourne, son of a father
who served in the 57th Battalion in the
1914-18 war. H.J. went from Scotch
to the Naval College at 13, served in
several ships of the R.A.N. as gunnery
commander, and was later transferred to
the R.N. His ship, the destroyer Valen-
tine, was damaged and beached after an
air attack when Hitler overran Holland.
Among Australian authors who have
found their way into khaki is Ernest
Wells—he is a sergeant in an A.I.F.
infantry battalion. Wells, whose histori-
cal novel Hemp was a local best-seller
five or six years ago, is a native of Albert
Park, Melbourne, but has spent most of
his life in N. S. Wales. It was intended
that he should go as a youth into the
R.A.N., but he was rejected because of
defective eyesight. Educated at Fort-
street (Sydney) High School under
A. J. Kilgour—he went there on a
bursary—he entered the N.S.W.
public service. Resigning, he studied
for the Bar. Within recent years he
has devoted himself almost exclusively
to literary work. Brave Music t Dirk
Spaanders and Bubble Galleon are
among some of his other books. He
is a good speaker and debater, and in
the world of music is recognised as a
competent critic.
James Coombe, dead in Perth at 59,
was one of two S.A. brothers who
went to the West and made money.
He had an interest in Greater Union
Theatres. His brother Tom lives in
retirement in Adelaide, comforted by
a title.
A man wno played a part in the
introduction of a new word to the
English language has died in Bris-
bane, aged 91. David Glasgow Craw-
ford, a vet. by profession, was fore-
man of the gang of Ulstermen who
reaped and harvested the crops of
Capt. Charles Cunningham Boycott in
1880. Subsequent reprisals made
it advisable for Crawford to migrate to
Nova Scotia, and thence to Newfound-
land, where he became a friend of Wil-
liam MacGregor, once Governor of Q.
and then Governor of the bluenose
colony. Eventually Crawford joined a
brother who was a Presbyterian parson
in Queensland. The Boycott medal, com-
memorating the episode in which he
shared, was one of his possessions.
Dead at Norfolk Island, aged 87,
George Parkin Christian, last male sur-
vivor of the transferred Pitcairn Islanders.
He came to Norfolk in 1856 as a child
of three. The only remaining member
of the original party is Mrs. Marienne
Selina Buffett, who was three weeks old
when she left her native Pitcairn, and is
now 84.
Melbourne University can boast that
five of its graduates are blind persons.
Three are B.As., and one of these also
holds the Diploma of Education. The
only two blind people in Australasia to
hold the degree of Bachelor of Music
got it in Melbourne. Another, Arthur
McKay, is well on the same road, and
this year won his second Ormond Exhi-
bition. They were all trained by the
R.V.1.8.
Retiring, though still young at 64,
Alexander Mackie has been Professor of
Education at Sydney University since
1910 and principal of Sydney Training
College since 1906. Born in Edinburgh
in 1876, he took his M.A. with first-class
honors at the University in that city, and
later became lecturer in the University
College, Bangor, and at Edinburgh Uni-
versity before coming to Australia in
1906. “The little stranger,” as they used
to call him, is a small, fair Scot and one
of the most popular figures in the edu-
cation world. N. S. Wales teachers are
raising a fund to commemorate his ser-
vices by establishing an annual travelling
scholarship for a teacher.
A businessman has been aptly chosen
to act as Chancellor of Melbourne Uni-
versity during John Latham’s sojourn in
Japan. Knight Lennon Raws, the new
appointee, is chairman of Nobel (A’asia)
Ltd., and is attorney for Imperial Chemi-
cal Industries in Australasia. He is the
son of an Adelaide parson and was born
62 years ago in England.
Commodore G. C. Muirhead-Gould,
who became Commodore -in - Charge,
Sydney, a few months ago, joined the
R.N. in 1904, was promoted to com-
mander in 1924 and captain in 1931. His
service during the 1914-18 war was
mainly at sea, but in 1915 he was in com-
mand of a naval armored train in France
and Flanders. He was naval liaison
officer with the White armies in Russia
(Black Sea area) in 1919, naval liaison
officer with the Shanghai Defence Force
COMMODORE MUIRHEAD-GOULD.
in 1927 and naval attache at Berlin from
1933 to 1936. While in command of
H.M.S. Bluebell in China in 1926 he
captured the Sunning pirates. His
decorations include the Distinguished
Service Cross and several foreign orders.
Dapper little Joseph Post has laid down
the baton to enter an officers’ training
camp. He is a graduate of Sydney Con.,
and so successfully mastered the oboe that
the great Verbrugghen took him on tour
with his orchestra. He has wielded the
baton over Brownlee, Kirsten Flagstad,
Guila Bustabo and other A.B.C. importees.
He was the first man to conduct Alfred
Hill’s Maori opera “Tapu.”
Manager of the stock department of
Elder Smith in Adelaide, a past president
of the Liberal and Country League, and
ex-chairman of the S.A. Stock Salesmen’s
Association, Lieut.-Col. Harold James
Copley has become deputy commander
of the R.S.L. Volunteer Defence Corps
in S.A. under Raymond Leane. Gallipoli,
Egypt and France saw Copley with the
Light Horse, and later in the militia he
commanded successively the 18th and
9th Light Horse and the 6th Cavalry
Brigade. In business he first served with
Goldsbrough Mort and later managed
Fischer and Copley before going to
Elders. Black Rock, near Orroroo, was
his birthplace 53 years ago.
Rex Whaddon Parsons, the new prin-
cipal of the S.A. School of Mines, is
Adelaide-born, and his M.Sc. degree was
R.W. PARSONS.
conferred by Adelaide Uni. He started
work as a telegraph messenger, but gave
this up to study at the school over which
he now presides. Served in the 1914-18
war in Syria and Palestine as an officer,
then worked for electrical firms in the
U.S.A. Since his return to Adelaide in
1921 he has been instructor in electrical
science at the School of Mines. He’s
46, plays tennis and has a part-time war
job as controller of emergency communi-
cations (A.R.P.).
The new Rhodes scholar in S.A., Wil-
liam Andrew Noyes Wells, seems to be
just about the type the founder was look-
ing for. Young Wells, born in Penang,
plans to get back to the F.M.S. on either
the administrative or the legal side after
the war and Oxford. Since his parents
moved to Adelaide when he was a child,
he has been at Queen’s, St. Peter’s and
the Uni., taking first-class honors in each
law subject he has touched. Useful at
various sports, too.
When the little Victorian State school
at Won Wrong, down Yarram way, got
back to work after the holidays it was
without a Jeffs on the roll for the first
time in 63 years. A Richard Jeffs was
on the first roll, and second and third
generations followed. Until this month
there were eight Jeffses at school, but
the family has moved to other parts.
Its head is B. R. Jeffs, who had a finger
in most local pies during his life in the
district, including a term as Alberton
Shire President.
Should the question “Have you ever
heard of W. P. Bishop?” be put to
an adult South Australian he would
invariably reply ruefully in the affirma-
tive, for “Bill’s” name is always much in
memory at this time of the year. Born at
Adelaide 46 years ago, Bishop joined the
Audit Office in 1911 and served there,
except for some years with the A.1.F.,
until he was appointed Commissioner of
Taxation in 1936. He is as likeable a
commissioner as ever stung a man for
a tax.
From London: Robert Helpman,
never quite appreciated in Adelaide, his
native town, is steadily going ahead here.
Recognised now as one of the finest male
dancers, and this without putting on a
Russian name, he has just surprised by
a new turn. His evening’s work now con-
sists of ballet at the Vic.-Wells, followed
by a rush to the Ambassadors for imper-
sonations of fellow-players, raids permit-
ting.


-w~
Hl*" /
the r l
hdCaP stan )
to*
ĥjkjkjklkl
ĥjkjkjklkl
ĥjkjkjklkl
they’re blended better
—that’s why they are the
Empire’s favourite cigarettes
10 for 6" • 20 for I'-
ALSO FLAT AND ROUND FIFTIES AND HUNDREDS
Capstan Special Mild . . . Red Packs
Capstan Medium .... Blue Packs
Capstan Full Strength . . Brown Packs
817-9.40


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: “Talkin’ of quick wit,” re-
marked Dan, “I’m workin’ one time for
a cocky who’s always havin’ rows with
his wife. One night I’m in bed in me
hut readin’, when me door’s pushed open
an’ the boss comes in pantin’ an’ bangs
it shut an’ bolts it. ‘Keep her out,’ he
bleats, ‘she’s after me with an axe.’ A
few seconds later there’s a bang at the
door, an’ his missus yells t’ be let in.
There’s a winder at the back of the hut,
an’ I signal the boss t’ hop through it,
which he does. His missus yells t’ be let
in agen. ‘He ain’t here,’ I tell her. ‘Yer
a liar,’ she yells ; ‘l’m cornin’ in,’ an’
there’s a bang on the door, which bursts
open, an’ in she staggers, wieldin’ a Plumb
in a hamlike fist. She looks round for
him, then peers under me bunk. ‘Yer
hidin’ him in here somewhere,’ she yelps ;
‘l’ll soon find out,’ an’ makes a grab at
me bedclo’es. Just as she does her hus-
band walks in the door lookin’ sorta
pained an’ horrified. ‘So this is how yer
carry on when me back’s turned,’ he
says. ‘l’d never’ve thought it of yer, Aggie,
an’ after thirty year o’ marriage, too.’
‘But’ she starts. ‘To think,’ he goes
on, lookin’ sad now, ‘l’ve been harborin’
a vampire, deceivin’ her lorful mate while
she lavishes her affections on the hired
menial, an’ him such a queer-lookin’
cuss, too,’ he added, I thought unneces-
sary. Then, gettin’ reel dramatic, the
boss says I must go. I’m a snake in the
grass or somethin’, an’ when his strife
goes crook about it he says it’s her pro-
tectin’ her lover. She’s almost bustin’
with unsaid words, but he stalks out, with
a wink at me on the blind side. She
never come within coo-ee of me hut
after that, and we both got a bit o’
peace.”
* * % *
“Odd P.”: The first blokes to enter
the eastern whipstick (B. 4/9/’4O) gener-
ally did so in a crowd, picked a spot for
a settlement, made a centre and then
radiated out from it. It was different in
the West, where isolated parties sought
gold. Though frequently bushed, the
easterners seldom left their bones there
because it is dead easy to follow a man’s
or horse’s tracks in that sand unless heavy
rain intervenes. The search party could
track him or the bushed could back-
track himself. My argument with “Hay
St., Perth” concerned simply his conten-
tion that the sun is always a good guide,
one of the greatest fallacies of blokes
who assume they can never be bushed.
By the time a man realises that he is
slewed, it’s not much use to him if the
sun does show him the points of the
compass—he can’t be sure which direc-
tion leads to the camp.
H* * # *
“Me, Too”: / always worked alone as
a kid when rabbit-hunting, and “City
Bloke” (B. 4/9/’4O) should be interested
in my system. Where one of his young-
sters walked and ran round the sitting
bunny while the other snuk up and
clouted it with a waddy, I simply walked
steadily round and round. Some of the
underground jumbucks were tougher
than others, but generally after 15 cir-
cumnavigations 1 was able to walk calmly
to the dead bunny, which had screwed its
own neck trying to watch me circling.
* * * #
“Old-timer”: Quicksilver Ted and
Calico Charlie arrived at Jeparit races
armed with five sweat wheels. As soon
as the crowd began to gather Quicksilver
set up a wheel and began to beat up
business, Calico being at the other end
of the crowd with another wheel and
folding table under his arm. There was
only one copper on duty at the meeting
and he knew Quicksilver. What is more
important, Quicksilver knew him. After
a few turns of the wheel the copper
approached. “Close that thing up or I’ll
“Blow y'r wife's appendix! Get on with the game."
bust it over a post,” he ordered, adding,
as Quicksilver knew he would, “I don’t
want t’ pinch y’, but I won’t have illegal
games here.” Quicksilver folded up the
joint, but had it running again ten
minutes later. Within five minutes the
cop had seized the wheel and was making
for the nearest post, Quicksilver expos-
tulating humbly. Bang went the wheel,
and the copper threw the pieces on the
ground. Half an hour later Quicksilver
was at it again with another wheel. Soon
the copper had demolished it, Quick-
silver delaying the process as much as he
could. After this the cop took to shadow-
ing Quicksilver about the course. By
the time the fourth wheel had been
smashed the meeting was nearly ended,
and so was the Law’s patience. “Once
more,” he warned, “and in you go.”
Quicksilver tried to dodge away from
him, but the copper stuck to him like a
burr to a blanket. If he hadn’t been so
interested in Quicksilver he might have
stopped Calico, who, while Quicksilver
was keeping the Law busy, raked in well
over £lOO with the wheel he operated at
a safe distance from shadowed and
shadower. Thus is evil genius rewarded.
* * * *
“George”: “When yer kicking round
the bush y’ don’t have to go far to meet
some Alick,” remarked Jim the Whistler.
“I’m on a hay-carting job down the
Lachlan last harvest when Pete was
roped in as gate-opener. That was just
about his limit. Breaking camp one
morning, I told him to have a good look
at the load to make sure it hadn’t shifted
or else he’d be picking up bags of chaff
right through to Condobolin. I come
back from the store half an hour later,
but there’s no sign of Pete. Knowing
he’d turn up in his own good time, prob-
ably covered with bee-stings, I settled
down for a smoke. But just as I’m cut-
tin’ me plug I hear a noise like a snake
in a haystook, and out came Pete’s head
from the middle of the load. ‘What the
hell do you think you’re doing?’ I asked
him. He rubbed his nose and mumbled,
‘Well, Jimmy, the outside bags looked all
right to me, but I thought I’d make cer-
tain the ones in the middle were jake.’ ”
* * * *
“Groper”: I am glad “Carapace’s”
lugger boys found the idea of turning a
turtle in the water the joke of their
young lives (B. 14/8/’4O), so here’s a
few more ideas on the subject. Is it
possible to right an overturned dinghy?
If clothes-hampered, feeble-swimming
whites can do that—and it has been done
scores of times in maritime history—a
couple of powerful amphibian blacks can
get a turtle over. And don’t forget that
the shelly bloke is a pretty sound sleeper ;
and they catch him asleep. Once the
turtle is over it is helpless unless it can
get a good grip on the water with its
flippers; the niggers see that it doesn’t.
Further, the north-west abo.’s idea of
life-saving is for two men to get along-
side the drowning person, each slip a
hand under the drownee’s armpit and
so give support while they take him to
safety. So strongly can these blacks tread
water that white men have been brought
ashore by their diving boys even during
a tearing cyclone. And if they can do
that with a twelve-stone white amidst
waves running fifty feet high they don’t
find it much trouble keeping a turtle
on its back on a calm sea during the
few minutes’ wait for a boat to arrive,
* * * *
“Murrinji”: If the Condamine bell
was made only of black sheet iron
sweated together with spelter (B.
14/8/’4O), what was there in it to crow
about? Such a bell would give only a
thick tonk, tonk, like any other old cow-
bell. There were hundreds of such bells
doing duty on this continent long before
ever a forge lit up on the Condamine.
Even the ’Ghans brought better-sounding
bells with the early camels from India.
The bells I had shown to me as genuine
Condamines were made of saw-blade:
the big whip saws of the old pit-saw days,
discarded by the score when the steam-
engine and the circular saw came along,
And they weren’t welded, they were
riveted. And being of high-grade steel
they gave a high-pitched note that car-
ried twice as far as that emitted by the
dull sheet-iron bell. But perhaps by the
time business had worked up to the
making-them-by-the-dozen stage the sup-
ply of old saws had run out, though the
name and the reputation held good.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Despite “Colbun’s” sight
of sperm whales off the N.S.W. coast
(B. 14/8/’4O), I’m still taking odds
against ambergris being found on Aus-
tralian beaches. That £2OOO slab picked
up on the Speck may have drifted thou-
sands of miles. I can cut half Australia
out right away. Take a line from Dar-
win to Fowler’s Bay near the head of
the Bight—that’s half the coastline of this
continent —well, I’m anxious to hear of
any ambergris ever having been picked
up on all those thousands of miles of
beaches. I once thought I had some, but
analysis proved it to be merely a species
of bitumen. Sperms are absent from
the mentioned section of sea, and prob-
ably precious few around the other half,
though they may be increasing again
after the massacre by Yankee and other
whalers of last century. The same gentry
pretty thoroughly combed the south and
west coasts for sperms ; among all the
cetaceans taken during the past 20 years
there is no record of anything but baleen
—which is why I don’t go prospecting
for ambergris.
* * * *
“Tarranong”: City folk striking a
verse-yarn like “The Man from Snowy
River” are apt to doubt that a horse
carrying a rider can overtake and turn
the wild free horse of the ranges. Have
seen it asserted that it was a matter of
feed ; the ridden horse, being chaff- and
oat-fed, was thus able to run the wind
out of the grass-fed wildling. But just
as often the ridden horse is also only
grass-fed. The secret lies in the hooves.
The horse’s hoof is a nail, of the same
nature as the nail of the human finger or
toe. And, like the human nail, it grows
continually. The shod mount has its
hooves pared down to take the shoe,
so that it really runs on its toes like a
dancer. With the wild horse, especially if
ranging over soft ground, the hoof grows
until it may become actually cumbersome,
slowing down pace, just as would happen
to a foot-runner starting in a race wear-
ing a pair of blucher boots. On Westra-
lian sand-plain country I have seen the
hooves of strays and runaways grown to
an extraordinary length. Once struck a
couple of mules that had been running
wild for years. So long were their hooves
that they had turned right under for a
length of over six inches, the animals
appearing as if wearing rough boots. A
man could have run them down on foot,
* * . . * *
“Nagheer : Artists in war-camo flage
can B et some useful hints from lns^f. s -
Some species of hairstreak butterflies
have tabs and eyes on their wings whic
when the creatures are at rest make
tail-ends look more like a -lead than e
real head. A pouncing bird always snaps
front the front at the head of its msec
P re Y> so that the effect is to provide only
a piece of surplus wing for the attacker
and a flying start for the intended victim,
Several Queensland moths when at res
show an apparent head at each end, the
bogus one a decidedly savage-looking
piece of mimicry. The male of the ig
handsome bent-wing moth ( Leto stacyi),
whose six-inch larvae spoil a lot ot pn-
prop timber in the Newcastle (N.S.W.)
district, goes one better still. When it
alights for its daytime sleep the silvery
markings and raised eye-spots on its
wings and body fold into a pattern closely
resembling the head of a large and very
alert-looking lizard, extremely unsafe for
any average bird to tackle.
CAMPBELLTOWN.
By lantern-light we harnessed, while yet their
shadows dark
Lay under sleeping oak-trees by drowsy Bossley
Park;
And took a rutted roadway that, from Cow-
pastures cool
And belts of virgin timber, turned off at
Liverpool
To join the southern highway; where once in
village carts
And buggies, gigs and phaetons drove on with
hopeful hearts
A cavalcade forgotten, which never will go
down
Again by hills and hollows to sleepy Campbell-
town.
Pale stars had slowly faded. An old moon
risen low
Was riding wan and lonely above the eastern
glow.
In farmyards near and distant, and on the
wind’s breath borne
Went greetings to the sunrise from briar and
whitethorn.
Rosellas, gaily feathered, and lories rose in
flight;
Along the mossy fence posts perched robins
red and white.
A brown hare ran to cover; high on a tall
green tree
A mottled magpie carolled his tuneful sym-
phony.
A click of flashing horseshoes and crunch of
burnished tyres
Made pleasant travel-music. The smoke of
early fires
From cottage chimneys rising our vision back-
ward drew
To pioneering pictures when that red road was
new;
When paddocks—turned to pasture —were fur-
rowed, and the stooks
Of ripened grain were gathered behind the
reaping hooks,
Ere patient teams could carry, by bend and flat
and hill,
In dusty, slow procession a harvest to the mill.
Those ways of leisured going had changed, as
changed in turn
Our ways, who drove that morning through
Minto. Ingleburn
And other dozing hamlets which happen up
and down
The many hills and hollows that lead to Camp-
belltown.
VICTORIA.
E.J. BRADY.


“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow got a
job with what he reckoned to be the
tightest and nastiest cocky in South Aus-
tralia He even chipped Mat about tak-
ing too long to lace up his boots in the
morning, and was so tight that if oil
oozed from the axle-boxes of the plough
he scraped it off into a tin. Mat needed
a few quid, and he stuck it out without
saying much. Just when the cocky
thought Mat was going to stay on, and
was secretly jubilant in his nasty way
because the big fellow was a good
worker, Mat announced his departure.
“Strike me!” whined his boss, “how do
y’ ever expect to get on, chuckin’ up
good jobs? You’ll never have any friends
or any money goin’ on like this.” “Well,”
said Mat civilly, “I ain’t noticed any
crowds o’ friends gatherin’ round your
place so far.” Stung, the other retorted,
“You’d be surprised t’ know just how
many friends I have got round here.” Mat
thought this over. “Dessay I would,” he
said, “an’ I bet there’ll come a day when
they’ll be right behind you, practically
the whole distric’, t’ show what they
think of y\ I won’t be here t’ see it, but
I’d like to be, ’cos I reckon your funeral
will be the most joyful event this distric’
ever went t’.” The cocky was still fight-
ing for words as Mat shouldered his swag
and headed for the road.
* * * *
“Belar”: Re “8.H.5.” (B. 28 /8 / ’4O)
and wombats near Wakool (N.S.W.), I
have seen wombat holes in the plains
country around Condobolin, but mostly
I’ve come across them in hill districts.
Wombats move about a good deal and
appear to possess the chameleon’s method
of camouflage. In grey soil the wombats
are grey ; in red soil, red. Sometimes a
group of them will include both colors ;
and after an alarm I’ve seen a grey
youngster in the pouch of a red mother ;
so it must be Rafferty rules when the
young ones dash for cover. Though
wombats are timid, I’ve seen one with
which an old hand got friendly that
would let him scratch its back. Their
bad eyesight makes them appear stupid.
If you stand very still with legs wide-
spread over a bush track a wombat will
pass between your legs.
* * * *
“Formic”: After looking on at many
battles of ants, in which armies were
arrayed against each other, I’m prepared
to back the little black cove to beat any
"Sing me to sleep , sergeant-major! Tuck me in my little Wooden bed."
“Does he buck?"
"No, but 'e's got an awful hiccup!"
of ’em. He’s got the keener degree of
courage and the greater dash that spell
victory in the end. Consider the red
meat-ant and the little black. When
Darky gets perched behind Ginger’s ears
and starts chewing into his neck, then
all the weight and strength of the bigger
fellow is of little avail. A dozen black
’uns may die, but they get their man in
the end—and that’s the stuff that wins
wars. And even after he’s been killed
the black fellow fights on. Repeatedly
I’ve seen a head and chest only of a black
biting savagely, snapping at what it could
grip. And when those jaws took hold
they held, though there was only the will-
power and no muscular effort to direct
them. As for those big yellow ants with
horns like scrub cows —well, the pug-
nacious nigger can oust a nest of them
without raising a sweat. Those fellows
trade solely on their ferocious appear-
ance ; and that doesn’t go far when up
against an opponent who is a fighter to
his mandible tips.
H* '•*
“Aratta”: Dad glared, savagely at the
self-possessed-looking individual alighting
from the car. “Good morning,” said the
visitor complacently, “if you can spare
me a few minutes I have something I am
sure I can interest you in. I am repre-
senting” “Excuse me a minute,”
interrupted Dad, “I got somethin’ to
attend ter urgent. I’ll see yer direckly,”
and he walked off quickly. Presently he
came back ready for action. “I ain’t
wantin’ anythin’,” he said, “so it ain’t
no use wastin’ yer time an’ mine.” But
the visitor had heard that one before,
and as Dad moved away he fell into step
beside him, bringing his verbal artillery
into action. They were passing the open
doorway of a large shed when Dad
paused. “Goramighty! ” he cried in
horror-stricken tones, peering in through
the doorway. The visitor looked, too,
and, letting out a squeal of terror, raced
to his car, jumped into it and sent it
tearing to the main road. Dad watched
him till he was well on his way, and
with a grin walked into the shed and un-
tied a life-sized dummy hanging from a
rafter at the far end of it. “It never fails
t’ get rid of them sorta blokes,” he told
me after I had witnessed the hurried
departure; “an’ they never open their
claptraps to a soul ’bout what they’ve
seen fer fear of bein’ roped in fer the
inquest.”
* * * *
“N7Y”: The African fodder plant,
introduced by a late part-owner of Car-
andotta (W.Q.), spreads slowly but surely
on the Georgina. It’s a fine fodder plant,
a distant connection of the acacia family,
and it has thorns which make our
Queensland mimosa feel like blunt pins
by comparison. I’ve had the spike of
the fodder plant go clean through the
sole of a boot when walking over a fallen
bough. They’re up to 4in. long and
tough as steel. Horses, cattle, sheep and
goats carefully nibble the leaves; but
the camel just takes a spray of the thing,
thorns and all, and chews it with a con-
templative look in its snaky eye that
ignores those spikes as if they weren’t
there.
* * * *
“Swanlo”: It was a cold, bleak after-
noon, with a cutting wind off the sea.
Not a fish to be got. The sandbank at
the river-mouth was crowded with gulls,
probably a thousand of them. They
looked tucked up, their stomachs prob-
ably being as empty as our fishbags.
Suddenly they stirred, cawing low in
alarm, milling and weaving, some rising
and flying in a thin cloud only a few
feet above water. Glancing skywards
we beheld Mephistopheles. With a 3ft.
wingspan he hung
black as crepe
against the sullen
sky—motionless. The
five level - pointed
wing - feathers that
denote the eagle tribe
spread out like so
many fingers. Was
he choosing a meal
from among the agi-
tated gulls or merely
observing to find if
possible one that had
recently fed, so as to
swoop down and
compel the victim to
disgorge the fish for
which he himself no
doubt hungered?
Deliberately he made
his survey, now
swinging round in a
slow circle, now
hanging motionless
again. But not once
did the widespread
wings flap. By won-
derful skill in gliding
he made his moves
or hung, balanced
against the wind,
like a string-held
kite. Calmly he com-
pleted his survey;
and decided, evi-
dently, that he was
not to dine. With
slow circles he swung away to the north,
turning again and again to look back,
all the time wings motionless, the wind
doing his work. As the pirate faded from
view, the relieved gulls
settled down again to
that family squabbling
and bickering charac-
teristic of their tribe.
* *
“Gryllus”: Today we
know that spring has
indeed come. From the
topmost branches of the
tall grey gum a tiny
merry song trilled down
through the quiet air as
a brilliant scarlet sprite
flashed amongst the
white flower clusters. It
was a bloodbird, or, by
a title better befitting
its gallant beauty, a
crimson honey - eater.
The rich shining scarlet
of head, neck, breast
and back shone in the
lenses of the binoculars,
jet-black wings and tail
etched against them in
vivid contrast as it
turned and twisted in
eager search for honey
and pollen. Tiny as
they are, those wings
have carried the sprite-
like being of beauty for half a thousand
miles and more from the northern scrubs
and ti-tree swamps where it spends the
winter months. Three tiny wives, destitute
of the rich hues of their lord and master
and clothed in sober brown, followed his
leadership—an unusually small harem for
those bravely-attired sheiklets, but in that
long journey there must have been many
perils for such small folk. Nor are all
those perils yet passed. These first
arrivals will journey on far to the south-
ward, and it will be well into September
before later comers from yet further
north will settle here to assume their
family cares and to remain until the
shortening days of early autumn warn
them that it is again time to set out for
tropic warmth.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: It was a wet afternoon
in more senses than one in Brady’s bar,
and Windy Johnson started to blow
about the number of persons bearing his
name who had got into history, begin-
ning with Ben of that ilk. The school-
master chipped in, “But Ben Jonson
spelled his name differently, without any
h.” “Don’t care,” answered Windy. “The
old cow probably didn’t know how ter
spell at all, them donkey’s years ago.
Spellin’ wasn’t ’ardjy invented then. Look
at Shakspeare. I read in the paper that
his right name was Bacon.” The school-
master subsided into dazed silence. Windy
took another pull from his mug and went
on, “There was Doctor Johnson, what
wrote the English dictionary ’undreds of
years before Webster ever thought of
doin’ it. An’ there was Major Johnson,
what brought down the tyrant Bligh in
Sydney.” The schoolmaster revived suffi-
ciently to remark that the major had a t in
his. “Rot!” said Windy. “Tea wasn’t
’ardly invented then. Useter drink beer
in them days. Then there was Jack
Johnson, world’s ’eavyweight champion,
even if he was a bit on the dark side.”
A hoarse voice came from the corner
where Joe McSozzle, ex-sailorman, was
taking a nap on the floor. “An’ that
there wowsher uv a Pusshyfoot Johnson
wot kep’ me from gettin’ any deshent
booze when I wus on a ship tradin’ ter
America. I’d be ’shamed ter be related
ter the cow.” That punctured the John-
son lecture.
* * * *
“Bugs”: “Edjudina’s” doubts about
tough Dick Smith’s toes (B. 21/8/’4O)
may be dispelled if he remembers that
some wound infections trouble man only
when in a state of captivity. A barked
knuckle acquired in a heavily-manured
garden may end in tetanus, while a real
gash earned in the wilderness will heal
up without first-aid or with only the
ancient ointment of spittle and clay. Were
it otherwise no abo. would survive the
unprofessional treatment he receives at
birth or the macerations and amputations
to which he is subjected at adult initia-
tion. When black brothers or sisters
glamorise by means of raised seams on
their flesh they have to take a lot of
trouble to make the “waves” permanent,
otherwise the yards of mutilation would
simply disappear without trace. Civilised
conditions foster scores of germs that
have to be fought with aseptic and anti-
septic treatment. The good earth, un-
trodden by man, horse or sheep, can be
used to plug a fair-sized hole in a vessel
of human clay. The same hole, in a city,
would require all the care of a skilled
surgeon, complete with sterilised gloves
and instruments. Germs of course have
no color-bar, but in their absence Dame
Nature, though not double-certificated,
is a wonderful healer. All the same, I’d
like to have Dick Smith’s formula for
possible future reference.
ON THE WAKOOL.
It’s September on the Wakool;
Hear the magpies’ joyful carol,
Hear the bush canaries singing,
Hear the drover’s horse-bell ringing,
Hear the glory of the morning in the
chorus of the plains.
See the parrots’ jewelled colors,
See the young wheat, green and growing,
See the morning sunlight glowing,
See the urgent pollen-gleaners in the
wattle’s golden rains.
It’s September on the Wakool,
Smell the tang of horses, cattle,
Smell the good warm scent of shearing,
Smell the stump-fires in the clearing,
Smell the freshness of the evening as
the western splendor wanes.
Feel the restless stir of darkness,
Feel the pulse in plover-crying,
Feel the warm wind beating, sighing,
Feel September on the .Wakool burn
like fire along the veins.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


SERVICE
IHE Service that The Trustees Executors
& Agency Company Ltd. affords in the cap-
acity of Executor and Trustee is not only
sympathetic and personal, hut also prompt
and efficient.
The Company has had over 62 years’ exper-
ience in estate administration, and offers expert
advice on all matters pertaining to trusts.
Charges are fixed and moderate.
Continuity in the administration of a Trust
is assured hy the fact that the Company is
a corporate body. It cannot die or leave the
country. It “Goes on for Ever.”
Full information will he afforded if you will
kindly write or call.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £957,320. .
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
R. O. Blackwood. D. Stuart Murray. John Fordyce.
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. Sir Eennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman).
W. D. Stewart. R. T, Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M4383. 86371.
THE EASY-
SHAVING
RAZO
For perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor —fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two years,
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle VS/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 15/6
Blade size 2in.
ALL POST FREE.
Guard to convert the Plum into a safety razor
3/6 extra.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ĥjkjkjklkl
ĥjkjkjklkl
4?
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYUNKY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1930.. 162,726 6 p.c. = 139,508 23,218 415,930
1931.. 112,756 4 „ „ 93,005 19,751 435,681
1932.. 119,427 4J „ ~104,631 14,796 450,477
1933.. 126,243 5 „ „ 116,257 9,986 460,463
1934.. 149,489 6 „ „ 139,508 9,981 470,444
1935.. 149,651 6 „ „ 139,508 10,143 480,587
1936.. 149,312 6 „ „ 139,508 9,804 490,391
1937. . 173,003 7 „ „ 162,759 10,244 500,635
1938.. 182,927 7 „ ~162,759 20,168 520,803
1939.. 201,610 74., „ 174,385 27,225 548,028
1940.. 182,815 64 „ ~151,134 30,681 578,709
The year’s results disappointed share-
holders. During the 1914-18 war profits
expanded enormously ; there was never
any doubt about which way earnings
were moving during that period. This
time the Commonwealth Government,
with recollections of the Great War
shipping profits, has gone to the other
extreme, and the 95.-per-ton-per-month
charter rate (subject to adjustments later)
is much below the figure of 25 years ago.
Costs have risen meanwhile.
One reason for the Adelaide’s increased
profits during the Great War was that
it enabled the co. to put its large surplus
tonnage to highly remunerative use. This
time it had little or no surplus tonnage,
and Commonwealth requisitionings have
been a nuisance rather than an advantage.
There is now a shortage of cargo tonnage
in the inter-State services.
In its annual report the co. makes no
complaints. It mentions that its two
inter-State liners, the Manoora and
Manunda, have been taken over. The
only passenger ships now in its own con-
trol are Gulf and Port Phillip steamers.
Including the requisitioned vessels, the
co. had passenger tonnage totalling 25,000
and cargo tonnage of 51,500.
Passenger traffic fell off on the Aus-
tralian coast during the year, and though
cargo bookings were as much as the
reduced services could handle the posi-
tion generally was at sixes and sevens.
The coal strike was costly, wages of
crews rose 10 p.c. because of war risks,
and insurance rates lifted. Freight rates
have been allowed to go up 10 p.c.
Efforts are being made by some ship-
owners to get a further increase. The
Federal Prices Commissioner has been
very firm in most cases of charges for
essential services, however; the idea
seems to be that where reasonable (even
if reduced) profits are shown there is
no great cause for outcry.
The Adelaide co. is partly an active
shipping co. and partly an investment
concern. Its fleet in normal times repre-
sents the biggest passenger, cargo and tug-
boat service on the coast, which it serves
from Fremantle to Cairns. It has long-
standing cargo contracts with the C.S.R.
The book value of its steamers, wharves
and plant (£1,393,658) is less than the
present replacement cost of passenger
vessels alone, which represent about a
third of the fleet’s tonnage.
Outside its shipping activities the co.
has a variety of investments. This com-
parison of balance-sheet figures gives
only a vague idea of their extent:
1935. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital .. £2,325,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
•Sundry creditors . . 74,236 107,417 103,616
Provident fund .. 239,656 132,942 90,218
Steamers, properties,
etc. .. ■ . . 1,322,532 1,560,255 1,607,365
Shares in subsidiaries 136,500 136,500 136,500
Stocks and stores. . 42,729 54,452 66,888
Book debts and in-
vestments . . 408,520 620,347 596,960
Consols, cash, etc. 1,279,089 834,972 772,345
The £772,345 in Consols, deposits, etc.
(down £62,627), bring in some income
and represent a replacement fund for the
fleet. Last year it was drawn on lightly
for progress payments on a new 1500-
ton passenger and cargo motor vessel.
Shares in subsidiaries remain unchanged
at £136,500 ; with shares in other cos. and
sundry debtors (whipped up together at
£561,333) these outside holdings include
interests in J. and A. Brown-Abermain
Seaham (526,000-odd £1 shares), which
paid 5 p.c. in 1938-39, but which was
affected by the coal strike in 1939-40, in
the Waratah Tug and Salvage Co., a
holding with Birt and Co. in Newstead
Wharves, Brisbane, and an equal interest
(49,998 shares to begin with) with Hud-
dart Parker, Union Steam, Orient Steam
and Holyman’s in Australian National
Airways.
From all these interests and others the
co. claimed a net profit of £149,315 last
year (to June 30). That was after an
unexplained increase of £15,000 occurred
in insurance account and £18,500 in
repairs and renewals reserve. The “Wild
Cat” has no hesitation in including these
with the claimed earnings, and thus
figures the year’s result at £182,815, a
drop of £18,795. The div. was reduced
from 7| p.c. to 6\ p.c., and £30,681
(against £27,225) went to reserves, which
now visibly appear at £578,709. It is the
opinion of some people that the co.’s
reserves in one respect resemble an
iceberg—that there are more of them
below the waterline than above it.
From the long-term viewpoint Adel-
aide scrip is essentially a sound invest-
ment. At 30s. the yield is 4.3 p.c. on a
6£ p.c. div. basis. It is likely that heavy
provision for war-time taxes was made
before arriving at last year’s profits, and
later on coastal shippers may get more
than 9s. a month for requisitioned ton-
nage. If they do it will probably come
as a bonus after the war. Even if 9s.
is the final word Adelaide scrip should
repay holding when the war is over.
W. R. Carpenter and Co.
To Rc— Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 43,680 8 p.c. = 23,866 19,814 108,765
1931.. 37,713 8„ „ 24,133 13,580 122,345
Inner reserves disclosed, £86,000 .. 208,345
1932.. 33,631 8 p.c. = 24,133 9,498 217,843
1933.. 34,105 8 „ „ 24,133 9,972 227,815
1934.. 36,391 8„ „ 24,133 12,258 240,073
Renewal reserve disappears, £28,075.. 211,998
1935.. 43,685 10 p.c. = 39,600 4,085 216,083
Investment reserve disappears, £10,000.. 206,083
1936.. 68,079 8 p.c. = 47,362 20,717 226,800
Superannuation fund, £2500 .. .. 224,300
To inner reserves, £19,469 .. .. 204,831
Share premiums, £10,375 .. .. 215,206
1937.. 100,585 9 p.c. = 60,616 39,969 255,175
Superannuation fund, £3OOO .. .. 252,175
To inner reserves, £30,535 .. .. 221,640
Share premiums, £61,250 .. .. 282,890
Written off investments, £61,250 .. 221,640
1938.. 111,373 10 p.c. = 74,000 37,373 259,013
Superannuation fund, £2OOO .. .. 257,013
To inner reserves, £lO.OOO .. .. 247,013
Share premiums, £12,250 .. .. 259,263
Written off investments, £12,250 .. 247,013
1939.. 115,281 10 p.c. = 76,250 39,031 286,044
Superannuation fund, £2OOO .. .. 284,044
To inner reserves, £lO,OOO .. .. 274,044
1940.. 115,904 10 p.c. = 77,500 38,404 312,448
To inner reserves, £25,000 . . .. 287,448
Considering the rapid expansion of the
business of recent years, war conditions
might have been expected to hit this 26-
year-old island-trading, shipping and air-
ways, etc., co. harder than they have. Still,
the building has been upon carefully-
prepared foundations, and the co.’s activi-
ties are now so varied and widespread
that it is not nearly so dependent on
copra prices as it was. A couple of years
ago the chairman said that the co. did not
look for revenue from the purchase of
copra, which it regarded merely as a
medium of exchange.
Still, copra is an important factor in
spending power in part of the area in
which the co. operates, and copra stocks
are accumulating owing to lack of ship-
ping facilities. This is likely to hit some
of the co.’s subsidiaries, operating in the
Fiji and Gilbert groups, more than its
own New Guinea activities, which appear
to be the backbone of the business. Two
of the subsidiaries traded at a loss last
term, but this was more than offset by the
undistributed profits of others. Although
the British Government took over the
ships of the U.K.-Pacific line operated
by W. R. Carpenter Overseas Shipping,
this offshoot was able to buy two more
vessels, which are now making hand-
some contributions to the pool. The
original ships of the line were bought very
cheaply, especially by present-day stand-
ards. Also, the Commonwealth Govern-
ment took over some of the aircraft em-
ployed in the co.’s Sydney-New Guinea
service; but this Government-subsidised
section of the business continues to
operate satisfactorily, the chairman says.
Southern Pacific Insurance, another off-
shoot, keeps on expanding ; it paid 7 p.c.
last term as against 6 p.c. the three years
before. No hint is given as to how the
co.’s pup in Britain, W. R. Carpenter
and Co. (London), Ltd., is faring—it was
formed a couple of years ago to handle
the business of the group at that end.
After paying all exes., including taxa-
tion, and allowing £15,867 (down £2646)
for depreciation, etc., and making an un-
specified provision for bad and doubtful
debts, the declared net result (£115,904,
up £623) was equal to 14.9 p.c. on aver-
age capital, compared with 15.1, 15, 14.9,
11.5, 11.4, 12 and 11.2 p.c. back to 1933.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c., and of the
£38,404 that remained £25,000 was slipped
under the blanket, making the amount
publicly dropped into inner reserves over
the last half-dozen years no less than
£145,279. This and the robust earning
power of capital, together with the dis-
closure of £86,000 of inner reserves in
1931, suggest that assets can be taken as
well worth their book value.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1931. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £301,067 £673,500 £775,000 £770,000
Liabilities . . 7,333 104,287 152,278 169,885
Shipping property 16,075 ) „ „
Freeholds, plant, etc. 750 j u 47,761 387,350 326,61 S
Investments, etc. 118,114 393,100 527,686 528,693
Stocks . . 1,238 101,612 104,434 75,541
Debtors, etc.. . 261,774 168,955 208,926 309,014
Cash, etc. . . 45,460 55,210 23,666 54,017
Including investments, the year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£798,580) was £86,146. The net re-
duction in the book value of the co.’s
own freehold and shipping property, etc.,
was £60,732, though no sales are reported.
Stocks were down £28,893, and debtors’
balances, etc., increased by £100,688,
most of which was advanced to sub-
sidiaries.
The co.’s position is a very strong one,
financially and otherwise, and, barring
the outbreak of large-scale hostilities in
the Pacific, it seems likely to remain a
satisfactory dividend-payer.
The market prices the f.-p. pound
shares at 355. 6d., as against 425. a year
ago. At the lower figure the return is an
attractive 5.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Visibly the net tangible cover is 275. 7d.
per pound of paid capital.
Sargents, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Rc— Rc —
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 26,766 10 p.c. = 26,697 69 68,216
Unexplained reductions in reserves,
£10,238 57,978
Loss.
1931.. 5,087 Nil 52,891
Unexplained reductions, £1582 .. 51,309
1932.. 1,293 Nil 50,016
Unexplained reductions, £21,083 .. 28,933
Profit.
1933.. 3,505 Nil 3,505 32,438
Written off, £13,396 19,042
1934.. 9,319 21 p.c. = 7,292 2,027 21,069
Taxation, £5OOO 16,069
1935.. 18,100 5 p.c. = 14,583 3,517 19,586
Share premiums, £1403 .. .. 20,989
1936.. 30,019 8J p.c. = 25,213 4,806 25,795
1937.. 33,538 9 ~ „ 26,881 6,657 32,452
1938.. 36,871 91 „ ~ 28,375 8,496 40,948
1939.. 37.121 10 „ „ 29,868 7,253 48,201
1940.. 21,319 8 „ „ 23,895 45,625
Reorientation of the old policy of
property purchase largely on borrowed
funds, and steady improvement in
economic conditions, which meant growth
of employment and wage lifts, long since
enabled Sydney to eat this co. out of
the worst of the troubles which beset it
a decade ago. Shareholders had a steady
15 p.c. for the five years to the close
of accounts in 1929, followed by 10 p.c.
for the next term. Then came a three-
years’ drought, broken in 1934 with
p.c. The distribution continued to rise
by annual steps to 10 p.c. again for the
year ended June 30, 1939, when the
chairman counselled shareholders to be


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
ARE YOU GETTING CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
Filter
Cylinder
GUTHRIDGE,
GEORGE ST,
MHPEROOWN,
SYDNEY,
Manufacturers
If you are having trouble with
your water supply, either for
household or industrial purposes,
we can help you. We manufac-
ture water filters of all descrip-
tions. Our ABBOT pressure and
drip type filters used throughout
the Commonwealth and the East.
Our pressure filters used for Butter
Factories, Ice Works, Cordial
Factories, Hospitals and wherever
pure water is required.
F I
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
1 ESTABLISHED 1834
I ™ e ill
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
LONDON OFFICE;
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank Ltd.,
Barclay’s Bank Ltd., National Provincial Bank Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South
Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED.
£l7 invested
gave his widow
£444
AT 34 years of age John Moseley Cudaway became a
member of the A.M.P. Society and arranged that
he should pay a premium to the Society at the
rate of £1 a month. For this the Society undertook
that, on his death, it would pay his widow £444. He
expected, of course, to live till he was 70 or more, but when
he had paid £l7 in premiums (which was last month) he died.
His widow received £444.
Another instance of high return on money invested: In
1929 a lad, aged 12 years, was assured by his father for £lOOO,
the father’s idea being that he would pay the lad’s premiums until
he could pay them himself, and that the lad could thus have the
benefit of the lower-age premium for the rest of his life. The
young man died unexpectedly last month. Only £134 had
been paid in premiums, but the Society paid £ 1 1 82 to his mother.
Here is how another policy doubled: In 1903 a member of
the Society, aged 38, assured his life for £5OO. Last month he
died, and his widow received £lO7B, the policy having grown,
with bonuses, to that sum.
Imagine how you can cover your risks of life and death
by A.M.P. policies! There is no sounder investment in all the
wide world, even for the rich man I For rich man, and man of
small means, alike, an A.M.P. policy is a shield and buckler.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send you an experienced
man to talk over with you your opportunities to invest in A.M.P.
policies. If you prefer, and will ask for it, a copy of ’’Peace
of Mind” will be posted to you.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PI IT STREET, SYDNEY.
Sir S'amuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout All States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
content to “stay on that rate for some
time to come.”
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts war has created a new
set of conditions. But these didn’t affect
the co.’s turnover, which continued to
expand, thanks partly to continued popu-
larity of its pies and the fact that A.I.F.
camps have been mostly in and around
Sydney, where the co. has 44 branches
and three pleasure grounds. Five new
branches were opened during the year and
three old ones were closed. Also, one
of the subsidiaries, Tate’s Tea and Coffee
House, went into voluntary liquidation ;
the loss (undisclosed) was covered by
“provision made in the accounts over the
last two years.” All the new branches
are reported to be showing satisfactory
results. There was, however, a sharp con-
traction of £15,803 in net earnings, owing
to a steep climb in costs which couldn’t
be offset by increasing selling prices. Here
the greatest increase was in the tax burden
(£19,359, up £9483), which can be ex-
pected to get proportionately heavier be-
fore it becomes lighter.
The £21,319 of profit claimed was 7.1
p.c. on capital, compared with 12.4, 12.3,
11.2, 10, 6.2 and 3 p.c. back to 1934.
A couple of points were lopped off the
div., reducing it to 8 p.c., the final being
at the rate of 6 p.c. p.a., and the none
too substantial reserves were tapped for
£2574 to pay 8 p.c.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure:
IQ9Q IQ.QF; laqq 1040
Capital . . £272,050 £291,666 £298,682 £298,682
Mortgages .. 289,750 130,228 127,669 127,744
Overdraft . . 30,665 21,220 12,929 23,799
Sundry cred.* 51,278 49,358 50,107 72,230
Freeholds .. 576,428 297,426 292,584 296,527
Leaseholds . . 12,536 6,861 13,099 20,173
Plant, etc. .. 95,325 94,500 97,334 112,982
Stocks .. 29,431 5,788 12,780 19,781
Cash, debtors,
etc. .. 25,788 41,072 42,355 48,474
Shares in other
cos. .. 1,988 77,348 94,372 79,105
* Including provision for taxation.
Most of the growth of £22,123 in the
amount coming to sundry creditors was
provision for taxation. The contraction
of £15,267 in shares in other cos. reflects
liquidation of the subsidiary. To meet
the cost of opening new branches, etc.
(reflected in a growth of £3943 in free-
hold, £7074 in leasehold, £15,768 in plant
and £7OOl in stocks), £10,870 was added
to the overdraft. With one exception the
subsidiaries traded at a loss, provided for
in the accounts. Excluding shares in
other cos., the excess of outside liabilities
over more or less liquids increased by
£19,948, reaching £155,518.
Plant and equipment are reported in a
high state of efficiency, and the co.’s
charges to customers were increased as
from July 15 last. But competition has
lost none of its edge, and costs continue
to climb. The market, doubtful whether
8 p.c. can be maintained, prices the
pound shares at 225. 6d. as against
275. 9d. a year or so ago. At the lower
figure the return is 7.1 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 235. in net
tangibles.
Hill 50 (W.A.) has a grievance. It
sought to borrow £15,000 from the State
Government to cover portion of the cost
of plant extensions, and as it had paid
£5591 in Federal gold tax and £lll,OOO
had been allocated by the Commonwealth
Government for encouragement of gold-
mining in the West, it thought the loan
was assured. Co. got a body blow when
told that its very favorable position didn’t
justify any financial assistance being
given. It argues that as the Common-
wealth grant was allocated for the pur-
pose of helping mineowners to install
plant for increasing gold production it
was surely entitled to some. This in-
formation was given shareholders at the
annual meeting, as was also a glowing
report from the manager which included
a statement that the shoot was 120 ft. wide
and of 6.4dwt. value at the 300 ft. level.
The board has been empowered to
borrow up to £15,000 upon such con-
ditions as it thinks fit.
* * * *
There was some whooping at Kalgoor-
lie the other day over a report of a
“good development” in the Kalgoorlie
Enterprise mine, in which Boulder Per-
severance holds a 70 p.c. interest and
manages. Perseverance manager wouldn’t
confirm the report, and told the local
paper that any statements on develop-
ments in the property would be made
direct from London by the directors.
Years ago, when under different control,
the Perseverance was the only important
gold-producing property at Kalgoorlie
where independent mining engineers were
refused admission and newspaper mining
reporters told to get out. Then, after the
local editor had clamored for some time
for the workings to be “flooded with the
sunlight of publicity,” they were thrown
open to allcomers. There were few
callers.
* * * *
Dumb for a year or more, Leonora
Central (W.A.), through its acting chair-
man, speaks again. Shareholders are told
that a tributor who two years ago started
to make “a serious attempt to get the mine
into production on a satisfactory basis”
has succeeded beyond anticipations. “Not
only has he equipped the property down to
the last detail, but he has proved the ore-
body to be payable over a width of about
150 ft. for a very great length, and there
is an excellent chance of production on
a large scale.” Strange as it may appear,
this information has not caused any local
excitement. Balance sheet at Sept. 30,
1939, showed debit balance £25,876 and
cash in hand £36. Statement of receipts
and expenditure at July 31, 1940, shows
that 8000 Coolgardie Brilliant shares
realised £417.
* * * *
From London:
Lord Horne told shareholders who gathered
together on July 17 that the date at which sub-
stantial New Broken Hill production could be
commenced depended on the rate at which de-
velopments could be advanced. This might be
retarded, he said, by shortage of labor through
services in the forces and other war work.
It was also dependent on the method adopted
for the joint working of 'the lode in the Zinc
Corp. and New B.H. leases, a matter to which
managing director Billy Robinson had been
and was giving attention. Information avail-
able from the Zinc Corp.’s eminently satis-
factory operations and the location of payable
ore at the boundary and at 1000 ft. south thereof
all appeared to confirm the forecasts made
when New B.H. was formed. Continuation
of the zinc lode in New B.H. had already
been established, and exploratory boring was
being continued. The most important work
in hand was the development of the Zinc
Corp.’s lead lode through that co.’s new main
shaft, from which the south drives on the
deeper levels would be extended into New B.H.
Of these the south drives on the Nos. 14 and
15 levels were being advanced in high-grade
ore.
* * * *
Gas has twice been noticed in the bore,
says Freney Oil (W.A.) in its half-
yearly report, but it was not considered
necessary to interrupt drilling to test these
occurrences. The report adds that lower
ferruginous series indicated on Dr.
Wade’s geological maps and a glacial
series below have been penetrated. The
drill, according to a later report, had
since passed through medium to hard
grey sandstone and was down nearly
3000 ft. Parts of the borrowed Common-
wealth Government drilling plant are
blamed by the management for “con-
siderable trouble and costly delays.”


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
11l
ill
111
in
i ; *
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
"METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does lie possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experlenca
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL 11. DOYLE
Directors - .
F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman)
A. E. BOND
SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
F. W. HIXSON
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
“Film stars marry near midnight.”
—Film guff.
At least they wouldn’t have so long to
wait till morning to institute divorce
proceedings.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Tobacco manufacturers in England may
shortly cease boxing cigarettes.”— Cable item.
They’re probably too busy wrestling
with the paper shortage.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Fur Trader’s Smart Gallop.”— Turf heading.
Perhaps a customer found out the
Russian sables were rabbit.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Coursing authorities object to owners naming
their dogs after politicians.” — Coursing note.
After all, give a dog a bad name
4* 4* 4* 4*
“One of my earliest memories is laughing as
a child of five at the way the clown fell at
a circus. It delighted me when he heard my
laugh and fell again.”— Women’s paper.
Even at five years a girl is delighted
when a man falls for her.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Human troubles oft find a parallel in insect
life.”— Nature note.
The rental problem oft occurs where
least predicted. For instance, slugs are
only snails who’ve been evicted.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Sticklers for Accuracy.
“On Sept. 21 the Australian people will have
to choose 94 members for the House of Repre-
sentatives —one in every 75,000 of our popula-
tion.” — Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
Continuing, the paper contended that
fewer Senators in Canberra’s Legislative
Assembly would make for greater effi-
ciency in that House of Review. Senator
Gander, whose work as Minister for Agri-
culture had been subjected to much criti-
cism, would have to be replaced by a
stronger man. The present leader of the
Government in the Queensland State
Upper House would be an ideal man
for that portfolio. His work as P.M.G.
in the northern State’s Legislature proved
him to be well fitted for such an admin-
istrative job. He was merely wasted in
his present sphere.
If the Government were returned, the
“D.T.” went on, Mr. Hughes’s natural
talents would make him an ideal Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer. That would
leave Mr. Thorby free to take over the
more important post of Chief Secretary.
Canberra’s present Cabinet strength of
22 would have to be increased in the
incoming Ministry to 24 to allow inclu-
sion of the three new Ministers whom
the Premier (Mr. Fadden) proposed
to appoint if returned to office. Dur-
ing the expiring Parliament’s seven-
year term the Opposition occupied the
Treasury benches without distinction, and
it could not be expected to form a Parlia-
ment to guide the country through such
troublous times. What was wanted in
Government today were men who had
had big business experience. An ideal
man for inclusion in the new Govern-
ment would be one, say, who had attained
eminent success in mining and news-
paper ventures. He could give the State
the leadership it so badly needed —erudite
and well-informed leadership, such as the
“D.T.” had given and would continue to
give.
5 K.
“ There's something funny about George these days.”
“Bed always figures largely in the life of an
inebriate.” — Medical writer.
Naturally, seeing that he comes home
three sheets in the wind.
“American films have been weighed by the
public over many years.”— Talkie blurb.
And in many cases found wanton.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Of the 2000 million years age of the earth,
man has occupied it for less than 1,000,000
years.” — Broadcast.
And, all things being as they are, it’s
just as well.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Dog Breeder Sells Stud.” — “Sun.”
The tykes have often had us pretty
low, too, but our stud was never worth
more than 2d.
4* 4*
Troubles never strike you singly. It’s
after you marry.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She knitted in such a sweetly domesticated
fashion that he immediately fell in love with
her. magazine.
Fragment.
Only a woman’s hair,
Long and fair and slender;
Light as the spider’s silken lair,
Soft as a moonbeam tender.
For such as this, 1 ween,
The knights of old once battled;
When lance met lance in tourney keen,
And sword on buckler rattled.
And yet it makes me swear
At our confounded “slavey” —
For I’ll be hanged if I can bear
Such relics in the gravy !
CLEM LACK.
Run Down.
“His illness made him very irritable; and
whenever his wife visited him in hospital he
would pick faults in her clothes, her make-up
and even her mode of speech.”— Court report.
No doubt she’d never need to win
The views of his physician :
’Twas always clear that he was in
A critical condition.
T.W.N.
The Same Ending.
“Christmas cards. Australian firms ready to
supply needs.” — “S. M. Herald.”
No sentiment that’s alien but a theme
that’s pure Australian we shall get, and
we’ll be spared “hillbilly” rhyme. And
the “Greetin’s! Hi-ya, stranger?” which
have been a printed danger every Christ-
mas will be out of sight this time. There
will now be dinkum Aussies, showing
sheep in pretty possies ; kookaburras and
some wallabies, of course. While for
“comic” Christmas greetings there’ll be
pictures of bush meetings with an out-
size hairy draught the favorite horse.
They will have a home-made flavor
which we’ll very gladly savor; but in
one thing they’ll be like the cards of
yore: when the festive spirit leaves us
and the thought of Christmas peeves us,
we can rip them up like those that went
before.
ELM.
Sings’ Song.
“Sing v. Sing.”— Divorce list.
The song is ended. Sing is sick of Sing
And Matrimony’s jingle.
And Discord having rung Love’s ting-a-
ling,
The Sings’ll soon be single!!
PERCIVAL.
Though plain, he thought she was a purl,
And called her his “pet lamb” with
sighs.
Of course, he never dreamed the girl
Some wool was pulling o’er his eyes l
T.W.N.
A Nightmare Muse.
“Cannon were used in the percussion section
of the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra for a
rendition of Tschaikowsky’s ‘lBl2 Overture.’”
—Cable.
Russian music is like that, and it’s
getting worse.
Tschaikowsky was a product of the
comparatively quiet early-Russian school
who were content with taking violent
death, disease, salt-mine tortures and
other pleasantries of life under the Czars
for their themes, and who relied for
sound effects on ungreased wheel-
barrows and the whistle of falling knouts.
He scored “Eugene Oniegin” on coarse
sandpaper to get the best harsh effects
for his woodwind ; the charm of the
closing chords in his “Francesca da
Rimini” is due in no small degree to the
effects he got in introducing a crosscut-
saw hacking through 24G galvanised-iron,
which, blending perfectly with the rattle
of buckshot in a tin cylinder, harmonised
with the series of discords from the
massed double-basses to produce as nearly
as possible the rage of the frustrated
Duke Malatesta.
I It was when Tschaikowsky launched
into the writing of military music that he
started something, and his “1812 Over-
ture” marked the beginning of a new
musical era. The heavy sound effects
which the composer was rendering popu-
lar fell somewhat into official disfavor
when, during a command performance
of his great new work before the Grand
Duke Joe, his percussion leader forgot
to substitute a blank shell for the ordi-
nary sort in the field-gun and blew four
first-violins and an oboe-player to blazes
and shot the dais from under the Grand
Duke and his entourage.
But the musical principle of heavy sup-
port for orchestras had been established,
and later Russian composers sought to
improve on Tschaikowsky’s technique.
In 1902 Ilyitch Nottospeakov leaped
to the front rank of composers, and even
beyond it, when he wrote his famous
“Dirge Symphonique.” To get the right
amount of “soul” into his melodies,
Ilyitch, a political prisoner who had just
been liberated after spending 58 years
chained to his barrow in a Siberian sand-
soap mine, drank a quart of lysol before
setting to work on his score.
The symphony opens with a long, slow
movement —the adagio loco —a corpse
train with octagonal wheels crawling
across a deep gorge. The second phase
is a moto sostenuto, with a volley of 6in.
howitzers to indicate that the line has
been dynamited by anarchists. The third
movement, the rondo capriccio, opens
with 2000 mincing-machines being turned
as broken glass is fed into them. This
signifies the lament of the moujiks as their
captured anarchist friends are being
thrown alive into pits of quicklime.
With the rise of industrial development
Russian music was revolutionised with
the rest of the country. Serge Jumpinski
turned out his first great work during
the Second Revolution. It is natural
then that Serge was more revolutionary
in his ideas than his predecessors, and in
his “Roadside Concerto” the principal
instrument is a concrete-mixer.
The piercing screams of the 5.30 a.m.
starting whistle usher in the opening
movement, the andante cantabile, and as
the metal screenings are poured in a
tremendous clattering denotes that the
collectivised steamroller has fallen in
halves. Follows the roar
of engines as hundreds of
cars packed with O.G.P.U.
members search for the
saboteurs.
The most celebrated
composer thrown up by the
U.S.S.R. in recent years
is —or was Dimitri
Prpbodsk, who received
his musical education as a
forge assistant in a Mos-
cow iron foundry. At two
years of age his inherent
musical genius was recog-
nised when he belted into
his father’s iron watch
with a hammer.
Struck by the beautiful harmonies asso-
ciated with his work, he wrote a sonata,
dedicating it to “Dogface” Joe. The
Commissar for Heavy Industry imme-
diately commissioned him to produce a
musical work noisier and larger than any
written by any bourgeois composer. He
did.
It is known as the “Symphonique Bang
Bang.” It is played by 32 players—seven
steamhammer operators, 18 boilermakers,
three brass-sheet panel-beaters, two over-
head crane manipulators, a riveting
machinist and a scrap-iron stacker.
The work was given its premiere in
the great Comradeski iron works at Nijni-
Novgorod, the composer conducting.
After the opening allegro movement a
member of the official party of Govern-
ment guests came up and spoke to the
conductor, who, not being able to hear
what he said, roared out to him to send
a postcard.
At the end of three hours every window
in the city was broken and all bird and
animal life within a radius of 10 miles
wiped out. As the great work came to a
close an O.G.P.U. agent came up and
told the conductor he was under arrest
for sabotage and wrecking. But Dimitri
never heard it—he had been stone deaf
since the opening notes of his opus.
He was liquidated next day. But
Russian music marches on! A new com-
poser, Abitoff Iznutski, has recently come
under notice. He is experimenting with
a sonata for 5000 aero engines. It
promises to be a big thing.
BO.


THE HOME OF AN ISLAND INDUSTRY
In the far-off Outer Hebrides,
despite the turmoil of war, the high
standard of craftsmanship
associated with Harris Tweed is
being jealously maintained. The
women of the islands and
such men as are not required
for the Services are
carrying on the best
traditions of
the industry.
m
m
...; ; I
•• v*: v : &£•?
•:?: : r¥
HARRIS TWEED
TO protect the interests of the islanders and to guard against
imitations of spurious origin the Harris Tweed Trade Mark has been
registered by order of the Board of Trade. All tweed which bears the
Harris Tweed Trade Mark is made to-day in exactly the same way as
before the war. The mark, stamped on the cloth itself, is a definite
%
assurance that the tweed has been made entirely
in the Outer Hebrides, the home of Harris Tweed,
from pure Scottish Wool and has been handwoven
at the homes of the islanders.
Look for the mark on the cloth, and in the
case of ready-made garments, look for the label
of the Harris Tweed Association, which is a
guarantee that the garment has been made from
stamped Harris Tweed.
LOOK FOR THE MARK ON THE CLOTH
LOOK FOR THE LABEL ON THE GARMENT
Issued by The Harris Tweed Association Limited, 5 Coleman Street, London, E.C.2
Business,Rollery,Etc.
MaorHand’s Way of Doing It
New Zealand has been of great in-
terest to onlookers ever since a radical
Labor Government took over about the
time the world was recovering from
slump. That Government’s activities, of
course, have been of even greater interest
to Maorilanders. It may be recorded
that the almost childlike belief of the
original members of the Savage Govern-
ment in the efficacy of economic novelties
for the betterment of the M.L. people,
lured on by “mug’s luck” for a while,
has suffered many hard, rude shocks
since. Following extravagant spending
early in the piece, default to Britain in
payment of interest was only prevented
by Britain’s firm benevolence. Capital
flowed out of the country fast, and mil-
lions of pounds’ worth of Australian
shares were bought. Since then a lot
of the wildness has gone out of M.L.
Labor, and, though the 40-hour week
still operates, other signs of radical
bias grow fewer with experience, though
war has forced the idea of a compulsory
loan scheme on the Government.
It is true that socialisation of finance
and industry has gone a long way in a
short time. But Communists and the like
are a trial to the Government’s patience
now. Minister for Health Armstrong
answered a critic the other day in these
terms:
The argument that the money for the war
can be obtained from the rich could be
better employed in countries other than
New Zealand, where there are not so many
poor and not so many rich. The national
income is more equitably divided than in
any other country: the average wage of the
males over 16 years of age is £5 a week.
If the rich alone were taxed, the amount
required would not be obtained. More-
over, the workers of New Zealand are, in
proportion to income, let down more lightly
and the rich are taxed heavier than in
any other country.
Mr. Armstrong then expressed resentment
at a remark that Government members
“were no better than Tories.”
Taxation, always solid under Labor’s
rule, has been availed of additionally
since war broke out. During the year
to March 31, 1940, it was £27 4s. Bd. a
head, compared with £l9 14s. lOd.
three years earlier. By the Budget in-
troduced on June 27, at present, includ-
ing social security and national security
taxes, there is a first tax of 2s. in the £
on all income. This applies from basic-
wage-earners to companies. Ordinary
income tax, plus a 15 p.c. loading for
war finance, works out at 2s. in
the £ on the first taxable £lOO of earned
income. That is 4s. of direct taxes
altogether. On earned income over £3BOO
the all-in rate is 15s. lOd. in the £. (Up
to £3BOO, each £lOO bears a separate,
increasing rate of tax.) On unearned
incomes the rate rises (also in steps
of 3d. per £lOO, plus, 33 1-3 p.c.) from
ss. lOd. on the first £lOO to 20s. sd.
on income over £3BOO, subject to the
proviso that the maximum rate shall
be 17s. 6d. The exemption rate for
general income tax is £2OO. The company
rate rises from 4s. 10|d. to 12s. Id. in the
£. Cos. paying the maximum rate will
have to earn more than p.c. in order
to pay 5 p.c. divs.
A war-time measure compels State
undertakings to pay income tax. Excess
war profits ar« to be confiscated.
Dealing with the War Budget, exemp-
tion from death duties has dropped from
estates of £lOOO to those of under £2OO.
Maximum duty rates (operating at
£70,000) range from 50 p.c. in the case
of near-of-kin bequests to 60 p.c. for
more distant beneficiaries.
Within Maoriland £17,750,000 is to be
spent on defence during 1940-41 ; it is
aimed to raise all this by taxation. Over-
seas the outlay is to be £1?,750,000, and
accommodation for this will be provided
for the time being by Britain, if neces-
sary.
In order to meet most of the
£ 7,750,000 of internal expenditure, in
addition to the general rates of tax and
death duties being lifted, the 15 p.c.
super tax being levied and the national
security tax of Is. being imposed, sales
bas been lifted from 5 p.c. to 10 p.c.
to make up, apparently, for the
drain of war’s cost on the Government’s
general finances and for any under-
estimates of war expenditure, it is pro-
posed to raise compulsory loans.
1 his loan scheme visualises “invest-
ments in national security.” It aims to
m brace the rank and file through
savings-bank schemes, but the large in-
vestor, if he still exists in M.L., is sought
too:
The Government regards these loans as
contributions from the material assets of
those with property and should accordingly
be free of interest for a period of three
years or until 12 months after the con-
clusion of the war, and thereafter for
10 years at a rate of interest not exceeding
2\ per cent. In this way the Government
proposes to raise within New Zealand
not only the money required to be ex-
pended in this country, but also some
portion of the amount necessary to meet
expenditure abroad, thus relieving, so far
as is possible, the drain upon the re-
sources of the British Government.
In 1939-40 the public debt increased
£19,000,000. The 1940-41 estimates pro-
vide for £15,000,000 of internal borrow-
ing for public works, including, appar-
ently, the compulsory loans.
Amidst considerable controversy, wage
rates, including time and piece wages,
overtime, etc., were lifted 5 p.c. in the
middle of August. Money wages in
March this year were the same as 12
months earlier, and were 14.1 p.c. higher
than in 1926. The cost of living was up
only 1.6 p.c. compared with 1926.
In seeking a 10 p.c. rise in the basic
wage, the workers claimed that the cost
of living had gone up 10.6 p.c. since the
last Arbitration Court pronouncement in
September, 1937. After consideration
a majority of the Court decided that a
5 p.c. increase in wages would restore
their purchasing power to the high level
established in 1938, subject to the ls.-
in-the-£ war tax, which is to be a charge
against living standards.
By reason of drastic import restric-
tions, including severe petrol rationing
that has had wide effects on transport,
the Maoriland overseas trading, position
has improved sharply. There was a
favorable commodity balance of
£19,790,000 last year. Some critics say
it isn’t as good as it looks, for the reason
that Britain has paid up early for many
of its war-time purchases. Here are the
official figures, with comparisons:
Twelve
Months Excess of
Ended Exports. Imports. Exports.
June, £ (N.Z.). £(N.Z.). £ (N.Z.).
1938 .. 61,920,000 57,543,000 4,377,000
1939 .. 57,891,000 56,500,000 1,391,000
1940 .. 65,859,000 46,070,000 19,789,000
All the values are for commodities only, specie
being excluded.
The average annual balance on this basis
over the past six years has been
£9,300,000; for 12 years, £10,000,000.
For external debt services, etc., Maori-
land requires about £12,000,000 a year.
In order to build up external cash
reserves and encourage subscription to
cheap war loans, the Government has
power to commandeer all securities in
overseas countries, including Australia.
This move has made the Ministry heartily
detested by a large number of investors,
in which the South Island particularly is
prolific. (There are seven Stock Ex-
changes in M.L.) They have suffered
many blows, but this is regarded as about
the last straw. The trouble is that many
Australian stocks were bought at higher-
than-present prices. It remains to be seen
whether Australia will permit the whole-
sale transfer of funds across the Tasman,
except, perhaps, to offset cost of pur-
chase of B.H.P. steel, etc.
The M.L. statistician computes that the
aggregate of private incomes in 1938-39
was £185,500,000, and the value of goods
available for consumption, adding im-
ports and deducting exports, at
£134,000,000. He figures that incomes
have risen £61,000,000 since 1935-36, and
that goods available for purchase have
increased only £34,000,000. On these
calculations the Government appears to
be basing its assumption that the
Dominion is capable of bearing heavy
taxes without any appreciable drop in
the standard of living. Ordinary taxation
already takes £30,100,000 in M.L., while
war taxes now call for an additional
£14,120,000 a year.
As to the basic principle of war finance
Mr. Nash has said:
Of the £17,750,000 which will have to be
raised within New Zealand during the cur-
. rent financial year, not less than £14,120,000
is estimated to accrue from special war
taxation. The choice between taxation and
borrowing is not .as it is often represented
to be —a choice between putting the burden
on the present generation and putting it
on the future.
We cannot fight the war with men or
munitions or materials of any kind which
are to be produced after it is over. We
can only fight the war with men and
materials that are with us now, or are
produced before it ends.
This view is precisely the same as
that taken in the Commonwealth and
in Canada.
An almost gay atmosphere prevailed
on Australian ’Changes last week, in Syd-
ney particularly. On Thursday, follow-
ing Hitler’s expressions of rage about
R.A.F. bombings, widespread and sub-
stantial rises took place. Broken Hill
Prop, kept steady at 435. 9d., but other
stocks of quality registered sharp in-
creases, in many cases ranging from 5
p.c. to p.c. of the par value of the
scrip. Sydney industrial share-price
index went to 124.82, compared with
107.52 in June. As an example of the
general tone of the market, Australasian
Paper new ords., which sold as low as
21s. 6d. in June, changed hands at 30s. 9d.
last Thursday. A check to the buoyancy
very soon seemed inevitable, though
many good stocks still gave a favorable
yield.
* * * #
Felt and Textiles has declared a final
div. on ord. shares of 5 p.c. for the half-
year ended June 30, making 10 p.c. for
the full year, payable October 1. Half
of the div. is from income derived from
sources outside Australia. A preliminary
survey of the figures discloses, “subject to
audit and some probable minor readjust-
ments,” a net profit for the year of not
less than £150,000. “This improved result
has been largely occasioned by the full
utilisation of the new capital,” and it has
been decided to make a further issue of
314,624 £1 ords. at par, one new share
for each two ords. now held. On ’Change
the co.’s old shares sold as high as
41s. 3d. following the announcement.
When all the new scrip is paid up capital
will be £1,183,871, of which £240,000 will
be 6 p.c. pref. money. Investors at last
week’s price who take up their rights
should get slightly less than 6 p.c. on
their money when the new scrip is fully
paid. On earnings at last year’s level
there would thus be no difficulty in
maintaining 10 p.c. ord. divs. The co.’s
growth has been phenomenally fast; as
a public co. it has so far had no reverses.
* * jK *
The petrol problem grows “curiouser
and curiouser.” Iraq, the oilfields of
which have been developed principally
by British and French capital—the British
pipeline reaches the Mediterranean at
Haifa in Palestine and the French leg of
it finishes at Tripoli, in Syria—has re-
cently reduced its output. Iraq Petroleum
Co. explains:
Immediately after the entry of Italy
into the war the company decided that it
was necessary to restrict output. This
decision was due to the difficulties of mar-
keting crude oil, having regard to the fact
that owing to transport and refining diffi-
culties a substantial part of the markets
previously supplied was no longer available.
Oil was struck near Kirkuk in October,
1927. The output of the co. has aver-
aged 4,000,000 tons of crude oil annually
(the capacity of the pipeline) for some
time, and it represents almost the entire
output from Iraq. Iraq Petroleum
started looking for oil in the Middle
East back in 1911. In 1925 the Iraq
Government signed a convention with
the co., later revised ; this now provides
for a 75-year right of oil-exploitation
over 32,000 squax'e miles around Bagdad
and Mosul, east of the Tigris. Anglo-
Iranian Oil (through D’Arcy Exploration)
owns 23J p.c. of the shares, Royal Dutch
Shell owns 23| p.c., a French co. owns
23f p.c., an American group also 23| p.c.,
and Participations and Investments, Ltd.,
controls 5 p.c. of the shares.
It may possibly be difficult to get ship-
ping facilities via Suez, but there should
be no trouble about foreign exchange so
far as Iraq petrol is concerned. The
office of Iraq Petroleum is in London, its
capital is in sterling and Lord Cadman
is chairman. Iraq gets a minimum of
£400,000 in gold annually by way of
royalty. Even at the present price of gold
that is less than ss. per ton sterling on
recent output.
* * * *
The retail prices of food and groceries
for July were 1.7 p.c. higher than for
July, 1939. That is for 30 cities and
towns throughout the Commonwealth.
Compared with August, 1939 —the last
month before war’s declaration—the rise
has been 1.9 p.c. The figures include
meat. They indicate the effectiveness
of the Commonwealth’s price-control
measures, and point to the co-operation
of most Australians in fighting this war
with commonsense. The financial side
of our war effort has been handled
capably, officialdom as well as the Com-
monwealth Bank in this instance figuring
more prominently than politicians.


UNCABLED ADITIONS
U.S. DEPENDENCE ON BRITAIN.
[Countering anti-British propaganda, the American
historian James Truslow Adams, in the article here con-
densed from the American “Mercury” (August), describes
the far-reaching extent of United States dependence on
Britain and advances reasons why his country must
back Britain to the utmost.]
Recently there has been in the U.S.A. a marked
increase in propaganda directed against the British
Empire. In spite of the obviousness of its sources it
may be having some effect. Therefore it is important
to consider, as fairly and dispassionately as we can,
what the role of that Empire has been in the past and
what it is today.
What have the English been and what have they
done for the world, more than a quarter of whose
population is now included in the Empire? They
developed, for one thing, the finest instinct for self-
government which any race has ever shown. As we
trace their history down for nearly a thousand years
we discover them groping steadily toward learning
how they can manage to combine orderly government
with the freedom of the individual. These appear to
be their deepest instincts, and appear so increasingly
as the sands of the centuries run out.
In England, in spite of many anomalies and dis-
cordant elements inherited from the past, one is im-
pressed by the sense of law, order and impartial jus-
tice combined with a wide range of personal liberty.
It is not simply that, from Magna Charta down, free-
dom of speech, thought and press has been increas-
ingly insisted on and protected, but that, while
demanding rights, the Englishman has not
forgot, as an individual and citizen, his duties.
Two incidents may illustrate the point. 1
have heard agitators at Hyde Park corner on
their soapboxes demand the abolition of the
monarchy while a policeman stood patiently by
to see that they were not molested. That was a
right. On the other hand, when Britain was on
the edge of bankruptcy and the Government
asked, not demanded, that people pay taxes six
months in advance, there were long queues wait-
ing at the tax offices before opening in the
morning. That was duty. It is this retention
of the sense of duty, combined with insistence
on rights, and the general social cohesion and
co-operation, together with responsible Parlia-
mentary government, which have been perhaps
the chief fruits of England’s history and her
contributions to the world.
It is the result of a long, slow process, and,
like the different civilisation of France, is
something extremely precious which the world
cannot afford to lose. There have been set-
backs, but from my studies I believe that Eng-
land has done, through herself and her expan-
sion, more for human liberty than any other
nation.
Until the last generation, too late, her
failure in Ireland was continuous and ghastly.
I have always granted that. India is a different
and very complex story, but my judgment is
that in the last two centuries the Indian people
as a whole have greatly benefited by the peace
and order which England brought to them.
The problem of Indian self-rule, with which
England has been honestly wrestling, is almost
insoluble for Indians themselves, owing to the
fact that there are about 600 different native
States and that the vast peninsula contains a
welter of several hundred million people of in-
numerable races, religions and castes, who
cannot be left wholly to themselves without drifting
again into the old anarchy.
It is significant of both the animus and origin of
the present propaganda against England that, although
stress is constantly laid on the mistakes and crimes
which have been committed in the past in Ireland and
India, nothing is said of the development of freedom
of life and thought in England itself, or in the great
Dominions of Canada, Australia, New Zealand and
South Africa, or in the innumerable colonies, or in
our own United States, which originally derived its
ideas of government and personal liberty from the
Mother Country. Counting ourselves, there are today
between six and seven hundred million people out of
the world’s population of two billion who are sharing
the benefits of English ideas of liberty, law, justice and
personal freedom. That, for a people who were con-
temptuously said in the days of Queen Elizabeth to
inhabit “only half an island,” is a staggering achieve-
ment.
The Empire is not an empire in the old Asiatic or
even Roman sense. It is a brotherhood of free men
and States united in various stages of complete inde-
pendence by the belief in liberty under law, and the
best answer to those who see in British rule only an
oppressive yoke which people are anxious to throw
off is that which has been made by the offers which
have come from every quarter of the globe, except
Ireland, from savage African chiefs and Indian princes
to the great Dominion of Canada, to come to the aid
of the brotherhood in its hour of peril.
Throughout its history, the United States has been
integrated with the British Empire in a peculiarly inti-
mate way. The Empire has been the greatest political
factor the world has known. The United States is the
richest and strongest single nation today. The rela-
tions between these two organisations are of enormous
importance to each and to the world, and have always
been different from those existing between any other
two peoples. In spite of the huge infiltration of foreign
races into America, the peoples of the United States
and of the Empire are linked by language, institutions,
literature, business, outlook on life, and in a thousand
ways as no others are. The entire North American
continent, above the Mexican border, is divided
between us, the Empire occupying territorially the
larger part. The fact that the 5000 miles of boundary
line between Canada and the United States is utter y
undefended by either nation is a fact of extreme sig-
nificance. It means that war is practically unthink-
able between the Empire and the States , and that,
in turn, meahs that there must be an extraordinary
community of interests.
That is, and has always been, the simple fact.
For a century and a half we Americans were part
the Empire and spoke of England as home. We
fought England and won independence, but our Revo-
lution was only an episode in the long struggle for
liberty which the British had been carrying on. They
did not then show the broadminded magnanimity
which they had learned by the end of the Boer War,
and we ranged ourselves among their enemies in then
struggle to save Europe from the tyranny of Napoleon.
But our genuine interests, particularly of business and
commerce, still remained bound up with the Empire.
Not only did we count chiefly on capital borrowed
from England to develop our country in our period of
rapid expansion, but today our stake in trade and in-
vestment in all parts of the Empire, notably Canada,
has become enormous. Moreover, the British became
the bankers of the world. We tried to after the World
War, but found we did not understand the game, and
we are still dependent, for the thousands of subtle
financial threads on which world commerce depends,
on the Empire.
“Christian Science Monitor,” U.S.A.
THE REAL GIBRALTAR.
There is another hnmensely important fact: the
British Fleet. If we have transacted business all over
the world in an ever-increasing amount with the help
of the British banking system, we have also done so
under the orderly control of the seas by British naval
power. To an extent which many of us do not realise
we have carried on our daily life and business (as have
also the British Dominions) protected by the shield
and bulwark of the British Fleet.
That power, in friendly hands, has alone made it
possible for us to protect the Americas. It is not too
much to say that there has been scarce a moment since
we promulgated the Monroe Doctrine that we have
not had to depend on the British Fleet and the British
control of the seas to enforce it. Control of the seas
has alone prevented the attempt of some European
nation to penetrate South America, and that control
has gen .England m(maces
us in the New World Through the conquest of Den-
for example? o'f GreeXnd DutTaufanaS
the Dutch West Indies. What keeps her, as yet, from
utilising them? The British Flee,.
According to figures published in the United
States “News” there are already 236,000 Germans in
the Argentine, 10,000 in Uruguay, 20,000 in Paraguay,
200,000 in Chile, 900,000 in Brazil and smaller
numbers in other South American countries with
coastal and airplane bases. We have learned how
Hitler works. We do not have to wait for the war to
reach the Americas and the Monroe Doctrine. It is
here now. The only thing that allows us still to sleep
in such peace as we can is, again, the British Fleet,
The only thing that allows our Government to warn
the Third Reich and Italy—as it did on June 19—to
keep hands off the American possessions of their vie-
tims is the continued existence of the British Fleet.
If the Nazi-Fascist States surround us in the New
World, it will mean ruin for our economy and per-
haps revolution for our political system. Nothing less
than the freedoms which have been gained for us by
a thousand years of British history and the efforts of
our forefathers is involved in the threat. It behoves
those Americans who are now writing against the
British Empire to ponder these things, if they are
honest; because that Empire, if we do not fight for
ourselves, is all that stands between that threat and
our reasonable prosperity and accustomed liberty.
The present conflict is not simply one of the old-
fashioned wars for trade, dynastic ambitions or terri-
tory. It is a war to the death against a way of life
which is also the American way —against everything
that has hitherto, without our fully realising it, made
life worth while for us. If we, too, become Nazi
slaves it will be because we have forgot the lesson
the British have learned: that you cannot expect for
ever to enjoy rights unless you accept duties.
U.S.A. and the Far East.
(Condensed from a New York “Times” article by
Hanson W. Baldwin.)
With Britain fully occupied in Europe, the only
nation that can now influence the course of Far
Eastern history is the United States, and its partici-
pation in the affairs of the Far East is—and must be—
directly affected by what happens in Europe. In cold
practical terms the position of the United States
fleet is the measure of U.S. ability to influence the
course of events in the Orient. It has been based on
Hawaii since the last annual manoeuvres.
If Britain should be defeated, and the fleet—
to provide greater security for the Atlantic should
be moved to a more central position at Panama,
or into the Caribbean, the strategic position of
the United States in the Pacific would not be
affected, but U.S. ability to influence events
in the Far East—which in the last analysis
depends upon ability to exert strength in the
Far East —would be.
In the Pacific the Continental United States,
in fact the Western Hemisphere, seems virtu-
ally impregnable by reason of geography as
well as of defences to serious assault. But
just as it is difficult for the U.S. to be attacked
in the Pacific, so it is difficult to project U.S.
might to the Western Pacific. And the Philip-
pines and Guam lie in the Western Pacific,
squarely in that area over which Japan claims
hegemony. Guam is 3300 miles from Hono-
lulu ; Manila is 4700 miles from Honolulu;
both Guam and the Philippines lie behind a
screen of Japanese islands that would make a
fleet advance through these seas hazardous
and the problem of supply difficult.
Guam is virtually without defences ; the
Philippines are in the same situation as the
Netherlands Indies, Australia and New Zealand
—capable of putting up a stout resistance to
any attempt at invasion, but not strong enough
to influence —except in their own islands the
course of history in the Far East. The U.S.
Fleet, based on the Philippines, could provide
that strength, but it may be needed in the
Atlantic, and base and garrison facilities in
the Philippines and air protection are inade-
quate for the support and protection of a large
naval force. .
Here, then, is the position. The U.S. is
supreme —beyond a doubt and probably beyond
challenge —in the Eastern Pacific. It has in-
terests —territorial, political, economic in the
Western Pacific, but its base there is inadequate
to support the fleet more than briefly, even
if the fleet could be sent to the East. On the
other hand, there are no vital interests in the East
that demand protection; sources of rubber and tin
there are not absolutely indispensable ; stock piles are
now being built up synthetic rubbers and Bolivian
tin can make the U.S. independent of the Far East.
The U.S. does not absolutely require the products of
the Far East. It is more or less invulnerable, so long
as it holds the bastions of Hawaii, Alaska-Aleutians,
Panama, to serious assault, whereas Japan, engaged
in a long-drawn-out, exhausting war, faces an uncer-
tain Russia to the north and strongly held colonial
empires to the south, and needs United States products.
Proposed New Europe.
o Condensed from a London Times article.")
Inexorable events have thrust into the background
the discussions about war aims which were so popular
in the first months of the war. Nevertheless, the
British will to victory is still bound up with the con-
viction that victory for our arms will point the wav
to a new social and international order in Europe.
One of the hardest, yet most certain, of the lessons
of this war has been the bankruptcy of the principle
of neutrality as practised by weak and relatively un-
armed European States. Britain abates, and will abate,
nothing of its traditional support of the right of small
nations to pursue and cherish, in security and inde-
pendence, their own way of life. But the conception
of the small national unit, not strong enough for an
active role in international politics, but enjoying all
the prerogatives and responsibilities of sovereignty,
has been rendered obsolete by modern armaments and
the scope of modern warfare. The freedom and self-
government of national communities in Europe wil
need other defences and a broader foundation in the
future.
Economics reinforce the same lesson. Europe
can no longer afford a multiplicity of economic units,
each maintaining its independent economic system
behind a barbed-wire entanglement of tariffs, quotas,
exchange restrictions and barter agreements. Pro
ably the gravest error of the last peace settlement was
that it encouraged disintegration at a time when in-
tegration was already the crying need. The new order


in Europe must seek to create new ties, not to dissolve
old ones; to build, not to break up.
This is the truth which lies behind projects like
the United States of Europe or Federal Union. The
utility of these particular slogans may well be open
to question. “The United States of Europe” suggests
a transatlantic analogy which has little or no applica-
tion to modern Europe. Federation is a complicated
constitutional form of proved value in certain condi-
tions. But those who live under federal Constitutions
are as keenly conscious of the shortcomings as of the
blessings of federation ; and these shortcomings tend
to become more, not less, apparent in the contem-
porary world.
The problem of the new European order is, after
all, the problem of every political oganisation: how to
combine individual liberty with the authority neces-
sary for social cohesion. In the new Europe nobody
wishes to iron out the diversity of peoples into a stand-
ard pattern of disciplined uniformity. But the anarchic
tendencies of laissez-faire are as obsolete internation-
ally as they are in domestic politics. Some measure
of pooled resources and centralised control is neces-
sary for the survival of European civilisation.
This concentration cannot be achieved by power
alone, but only by the creation of common loyalties
and by a sense of common values. It is here that
British war aims are sharply distinguished from those
of the dictators, here that the struggle takes the form
of a basic moral issue. Nazism and Fascism, being
particularist doctrines, are sterile. They cannot create
common values. All that Nazism can offer as the
moral foundation of a European order is submission
to the authority of the German superman.
Over the greater part of Western Europe the
common values for which we stand are known and
prized. We must beware of defining these values in
purely nineteenth-century terms. If we speak of
democracy, we do not mean a democracy which main-
tains the right to vote but forgets the right to work
and the right to live. If we speak of freedom, we do
not mean a rugged individualism which excludes social
organisation and economic planning. If we speak of
equality, we do pot mean a political equality nullified
by social and economic privilege. If we speak of eco-
nomic reconstruction, we think less of maximum pro-
duction (though this too will be required) than of
equitable distribution. The attacks of the dictators on
“pluto-democracy” are an effort partly to exploit the
impoyerishment they have created and partly to con-
ceal its causes. The plea is grotesque enough, es-
pecially in the conclusions which the dictators seek to
draw from it. But the persistence of these attacks and
the purpose which they are intended to serve abroad
may remind us that the problem of the new order is
social as well as international. The new order cannot
be based on the preservation of privilege, whether the
privilege be that of a country, of a class or of an
individual.
Roosevelts Opponent.
[Last week’s “Uncabled Additions” included some
brief personal information about Wendell Willkie, the
U.S.A. Republican candidate for the Presidency; the
further information here given is condensed from a
“Scribner’s” article by Hamilton Basso.]
Wendell Lewis Willkie, standing six-feet-one in his
socks, presents a problem to those who would put him
into a political category. Put him in the standard
“big business” suit and he bursts at the seams. Dress
him in the conventional “Republican lounge model”
and he pops the buttons from his vest. Get him into
“Liberal” slacks and jacket, as worn by the New
Dealers, and his wrists and ankles show. The political
tailor can only conclude that Wendell Willkie’s
measurements are all his own.
Jeffersonian Liberalism, which looks suspiciously
upon excessive power, maintains that the granting of
too much authority to any Government will by the
very force of circumstances result in the creation of
a monolithic State whose rulers would seek inevitably
to perpetuate themselves in power, is the brand of
Liberalism that Willkie espouses, even though some-
times it has been difficult to determine whether he
views it as a philosophy or as a convenient club to
help in his fight against the New Deal. Yet it appears
to be neither bogus nor staged. Even those who have
no interest in furthering the Willkie boom admit
that he means what he says. He says it, apparently,
out of conviction, background, training—and a sense
of dramatic values as keen as that of Roosevelt.
All four of Willkie’s grandparents were emigres—
fleeing Germany after the unsuccessful revolution of
1848. His father and mother both taught school
and later practised law together. They settled in
Elwood, Indiana ; one of those towns out of which
have come so many approximations of the “typical”
American—the shrewd, sharp, dry-humored philo-
sopher who sits on 'a biscuit-barrel and reduces
national issues to terms of corn, hogs, cattle and
weather.
Graduating with top honors in 1916, Willkie
joined his father in the practice of law. In his first
case he argued for the dissolution of an injunction
which had forbidden a labor union to picket—and
won. Marrying the town librarian, Edith Wilk, while
he was in an officers’ training camp, Willkie went off
to France, where he became a captain of artillery.
In France he also let off considerable Liberal steam by
defending private soldiers brought to court-martial for
as ° ns he considered trivial or absurd. Returning to
the States, he got a job in the legal department of the
firestone Rubber Company and he and Mrs. Willkie
moved to Akron.
Throughout the years he lived in Akron, Willkie
irf Ve t B ° od . imitation of a young man in a hurry—
though he still ignored the standard rules for business
success. He found it hard to part with his old army
pJ!f ] COat ’, fo , r one thing, and this, together with his
aretess clothes and unkempt hair, gave him the name
withtK r °t S Bill Borah ” He fought a running battle
th the Ku Klux Klan at a time when to do so in
th ni y Was to declare yourself an undercover man for
e Vatican. He was an active Democrat, became a
national delegate in 1924, and he kept on voting the
Democratic ticket as late as 1932, when he contributed
$l5O to the Roosevelt campaign fund. Having once
called Mr. Roosevelt “one of the country’s greatest
Presidents,” today he is nominally a Republican and
wishes he had his $l5O back.
By 1929 Willkie was one of the leading figures of
the Ohio Bar. It was in 1929 that a utilities client
of his firm, Commonwealth and Southern, offered to
triple his salary if he came to New York as the cor-
poration’s co-counsel. Triple is triple in any man’s
language and Wendell Willkie fully understands the
vocabulary of dollars and cents. He moved his family
to Manhattan.
Willkie today, as a Presidential candidate, is hav-
ing the time of his life. He is the country boy who
made good and he knows it —even though he insists
that the attention he is receiving is the result of a trend.
The American people, he believes, are swinging back
to “business,” to “free enterprise.” He does not think,
however, that such a swing, stretched to its limit, will
permit business to go back to the ’twenties. The
public will insist on social controls.
“No single reform instituted by the New Deal,”
he says, “or for that matter any group of reforms,
would keep American business down. But the attitude,
the intangible hostility toward this most fundamental
part of our economic system, has made it impossible
any longer to act in a free and enterprising manner.”
This, of course, has been said before—and by
Republicans. What makes it different when Willkie
says it is that it is part of a larger statement —a point
of view that condemns the follies of certain types of
business as vigorously as it condemns what Willkie
considers the follies of the New Deal. He has had
the courage and the rare commonsense to say some
of the things about business —and out loud —that every
thinking citizen of the republic knows to be true.
Whether Willkie will one day reach the White
House is anybody’s guess. He has declared openly
and forcefully: We want Roosevelt for our opponent.
We want no other. We want him to run, so we can
prove that the country has had enough of him.
J. Bull’s Defences.
[Here condensed are reports on Britain’s defences by
American observers, the first by the New York “Post”
representative in England.]
On the English south coast heavy blockhouses of
reinforced concrete, innumerable small posts and bat-
teries of heavy guns form integrated shore units which,
with assistance from the fleet and air force, should
baffle an attack of any kind. If the Germans landed
at these points, which include some of the most acces-
sible and attractive landing places along the south
coast, they probably would be thrown back before they
even got ashore. Landings in other places would be
difficult because of cliffs and shoal water, and even
they would be subject to heavy artillery barrages and
strong crossfire from light automatic weapons.
One small district provided an excellent example
of what can happen to a seaside resort when the tocsin
sounds. For weeks this place has been stripped of
sunbathers and other civilians and given over to the
army. Troops and officers who went through the
Flanders battle and who have a healthy respect for
German tanks and dive-bombers have been in charge.
With the assistance of a small army of workmen they
have done just what they wish they could have done
before they had to face the Germans the last time. To
complete the picture they have received weapons
which they did not have in Flanders and they have had
the active assistance of the fleet and the air force.
From a point slightly out to sea, the whole scene
looks virtually as it did before the army took over.
Actually, the placid waves which lap the beach are
full of mines, innocent looking jetties are loaded with
TNT and there is not a building in sight which is above
suspicion. Even the sand is full of hidden machine
and anti-tank gun nests. Beyond them in the dis-
tance are big guns and howitzers, some out of sight
and others so well concealed that you can’t see them
half a mile away when you know their positions.
This sector of the coast and others like it enjoy
a degree of autonomy strange to the British army. The
young lieutenant-colonel in charge has been allowed
to use his own commonsense in preparing to defend
his own area, and where he has not been formally
allowed to do so he has done so anyway. He and his
under-officers and men know every house and bathing
hut in the battalion area, and they know who is respon-
sible for defending every foot of shore and near-by
water. They went through intensive dive-bombing in
France, and instead of pooh-poohing its effectiveness
they have made certain they will not be smashed by it
if and when it comes. They expect a reign of horror
and are ready for it.
* * * * *
(From a report by a New York “Times” representative.')
All over the country old and young men are
organised into home defence units. One sees them
on golf courses squinting along rifle barrels, gazing
skyward for parachutists and drilling in the long
summer twilight with ancient rifles or broomsticks.
This island fortress now is defended by 2,500,000
armed, trained men, including tough fighters from
Australia, New Zealand and Canada. It is the largest
army ever assembled here for defence of the home-
land and is steadily growing larger with new conscripts
being called up almost bi-weekly.
Defences do not cease at the beaches, for the
lesson of depth was learned in France. Barricades,
tank traps, land mines, fortifications of all sorts ex-
tend far back from the sea, and an enemy landing
from speed boats or flat-bottomed boats not only
would get a hot reception at the foreshore, but would
have to fight every mile of the way to London.
There is great confidence that the army is more
than a master for any force that Hitler could land
here, even if the mighty ships of the home fleet failed
to blast an expeditionary force out of the water on the
way or destroy them in landing. Likewise there is
confidence in the ability of the R.A.F. to defend the
country from air attack. Quantitatively, it is ad-
mitted, Germany and Italy have the upper hand, but
qualitatively British fliers and machines have shown
superiority.
At the outbreak of the war, or indeed last winter,
a siege of this island citadel would have been a more
serious threat than now. Then stores of vital foods
were light, while now tremendous reserves have been
built up and distributed around the country at strategic
spots to be doled out to a people prepared for iron
rations even if communications are disrupted.
Naturally, it is recognised among the nation’s
leaders that the war cannot be won by mere resist-
ance to attack. However, they are convinced that
Britain can hold out longer than Nazi Germany with
her heterogeneous company of undigested, unhappy
subject peoples from Poland across the Low Coun-
tries to the shores of Brittany. Sooner or later, they
believe, Hitler’s Lebensraum will begin erupting. That
is the moment for which they are preparing.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
When the square mileage of the Ruhr region, in
which Germany’s war industry is chiefly concentrated,
is compared with the territory of England, Wales and
Scotland over which British war industry is spread, it
will be seen that, if air power were equal, Germany’s
job of coverage would be much wider and, therefore,
much to her disadvantage. That fact is pertinent
when coupled with increasing evidence of individual
R.A.F. pilot and ’plane superiority over the Germans.
It all adds up to a distinct possibility that the Blitzkrieg
might backfire if any such supply of ’planes is ob-
tained by England from the United States as Lord
Beaverbrook predicted. Further signs of Germany’s
growing concern about her oil supply and indications
that Italy is not getting along so well and probably
won’t get along any better now that she has had to go
vegetarian are other factors which make it look as if
the battle of Britain is no pushover. And that’s
cheerful news in a hot and harried summertime. — New
York “World Telegram.”
* * * * *
In August, 1939, the Air Ministry bought a large
piece of land used for market gardening and fruit-
growing. One item was £l5OO for a crop of turnips.
By November “more than half the turnips had been
pilfered.” The Air Ministry suggested that the occu-
pier should collect the rest. The occupier replied that
he had no right to do so. “On February 26, 1940,
the settlement was concluded which involved a pay-
ment of £l5OO for these turnips.” By this date the
“entire crop had been pilfered.” —• Manchester
“Guardian”
****:#
In addition to apparent co-operation between the
two Governments in the matter of Turkey there are
other indications that the Nazis and the Soviets are
still on good terms. Recently Germany opened three
new Consulates in Soviet territory. Two of these are
in European Russia, and Turkey is the only other
country allowed this privilege. All other foreign Con-
sulates throughout western Russia, including the
American, were closed in 1937. In return, the Soviet
Union is opening three new Consulates in Germany,
at Konigsberg, Hamburg and Vienna. Another
smaller sign of the collaboration between the two
nations is that, for the first time since Hitler came to
power, the Soviet Union is being represented at the
Leipzig Fair. Thus far the Russians have not been
averse to taking bribes from both sides, getting what-
ever territorial concessions they could from Germany
and relying on the British to meet these concessions
with economic appeasement. — New York “Herald-
Tribune.”
* * * * *
The “Sozialistische Warte,” a monthly publica-
tion of the illegal Social-Democratic party of Ger-
many, publishes a letter from one of its correspondents
describing a typical street scene in an agricultural town
in Wtirtemberg. The Gestapo agents have brought
a group of Polish workers to the market-place for the
local farmers to choose laborers, in accordance with
the Nazi slave-labor system. The Poles, men, women
and orphaned children, are grouped together; they
cannot speak German and there are no interpreters.
The farmers go among them and choose them like
cattle chiefly because of their muscular strength. Some-
times a farmer will choose a worker who is married,
and another farmer will choose this man’s wife. The
Poles make frantic attempts to explain their relation-
ship and plead desperately that their families should
not be separated. The farmers are often moved by
the appeal, and are willing to choose other laborers,
but the Gestapo agents do not allow that. Most piti-
ful scenes, reminiscent of the worst times of ancient
slavery when brothers, husbands, wives and sisters
were separated at the will of the slave-owner, are
enacted. According to the Nazi law, the Polish slave
workers are not allowed to eat at the same table with
the German farmers who employ them, nor even to
drink a glass of beer at the same bar. One often sees,
therefore, groups of Poles standing like dogs in front
of the entrances to the public houses, waiting for their
masters to come out. — London “New Statesman.”
* * * * *
One activity Nazis in the U.S.A. have found it still
profitable to pursue—encouraging, principally by
means of Communists, “fellow-travellers” and anglo-
phobes, the anti-interventionist sentiment. Thanks
largely to the unsatisfactory economic condition of the
United States, and the consequent large unemploy-
ment, the youth of the country have been fertile soil
for discontent. To the Nazis here, who care little
why America stays out of the war provided only she
does stay out, this has been a golden opportunity,
of which they have been quick to take advantage.
They have filtered into Labor and Communist organi-
sations, with the double design of keeping alive iso-
lationist spirit and of fomenting disorders, if not pro-
ducing actual sabotage, in key industries.—New York
“Times.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Secretary H. Evans and his committee
anticipated a crowd of nearly 20,000 at
Canterbury, but were probably well satis-
fied with approximately 14,500. A little
while ago it was suggested that if there
was any falling-off in the patronage of
Canterbury the club might have to reduce
its prize-money. That undesirable hap-
pening is evidently still a long way off ;
in fact, it will not surprise if there is an
increase, instead of reduction. First-class
horses will always draw the public, and
five of the best at present trained in this
State contested the Canterbury Stakes.
In addition, the Guineas field included
several Derby candidates.
The Canterbury Stakes provided a
great finish. After going three furlongs
Flying Knight was nearly a length ahead
of Reading, with Beaulivre about two
lengths further off, followed by High
Caste, who, however, was not striding
out with sufficient freedom to please his
backers.
Reading had Flying Knight’s measure
at the straight entrance, where Beaulivre,
who had to make his run outside, moved
up to them. When fairly in the straight
Reading was clear of Beaulivre, but a
furlong from home the latter was level
with the Moorefield horse. After a sharp
tussle Beaulivre took the lead, and 50
yards from home it seemed almost certain
he would win by at least a neck.
However, the race was far from over.
Reading hung on so gamely that a few
strides from the post he was overhauling
Beaulivre, and, from the stands, no defi-
niteness attached to which had won.
However, Beaulivre received a half-head
verdict. High Caste, who made up
ground towards the finish, was two
lengths away, and, after being last into
the straight, Beau Vite also came home
strongly. Flying Knight, after showing
all the early pace expected, was last.
Cook said Reading tried to savage Beau-
livre just before reaching the judge’s
box, and that that cost him the race.
Munro did not agree, being of opinion
the horses were actually at the win-
ning-post when Reading attempted to
grab Beaulivre.
Beaulivre and Reading looked as if
there was very little room for improve-
ment in their condition, while in order to
bring him to his best High Caste may
stand a little more racing than either.
In his preliminary his action was slightly
cramped. Beau Vite can also be im-
proved, but it is doubtful whether it is
so with Flying Knight. He is a light-
barrelled colt, and already gives the im-
pression of being thoroughly strung up.
It was the general opinion that Ensign
would not see out the nine furlongs of
the Canterbury Guineas, but his pace
stood to him. McMenamin rode him
very quietly behind Panchio and John
Halifax for the first five furlongs. Then,
moving him up sharply, he closed on the
leaders approaching the turn.
Before reaching the straight entrance
he had John Halifax beaten, and then
ran up to Panchio. A furlong from home
Ensign was in charge, but Tidal Wave
was so rapidly making up ground that
there appeared a possibility of his catch-
ing Ensign. The latter tired, but the
winning-post saw him a half-head in
front of Tidal Wave, who, as in his other
recent races, was slow in finding his legs.
Chatoona’s fourth was good enough to
give him a winning chance in a handicap,
while His Lordship also ran fairly, but
though there was backing for Our Barney
his showing did not suggest he had made
much improvement since last season. He
was nicely placed for six furlongs, but
lost ground in the straight. Patrician’s
indifferent effort was an unpleasant sur-
prise for his connections, and though it
was thought Tunisia might stay he did
nothing to uphold that idea, nor did he
display pace.
Jazbeau, who looked in perfect condi-
tion, had an easy win in the first race of
the afternoon, the Highweight Handicap.
Samurai, the only one really to pace it
with Jazbeau, ran wide entering the
straight, leaving the latter to score from
the late-coming Chiswick, while Jocular,
in third place, ran on better than in his
recent races. My Friend, who was near-
est the place-getters, is coming on, but
Bruce Wood, Beau Mari and Spargo did
not show form of any account.
Vergure, favorite for the Flying Han-
dicap, flattered his backers by coming
from an outside position at the barrier
to take the lead before reaching the first
turn, but 9.3 pulled him up. Creditor
had his measure soon after turning into
the straight, and he, in turn, was settled
by Mohican, who was third rounding the
bend. Mohican ran so well at Randwick
the previous week that his win was not a
surprise.
Tel Asur, who was prominent through-
out, dead-heated Vergure for third, but,
as bearing on races in the near future,
their form was no better than that of St.
Constant, who may not be long in return-
ing to his best. His last win was with
9.3 (minimum 7.0) in the A.J.C. Final
Handicap, 1| mile, in March.
As a three-year-old Cable Boy won a
race at Canterbury, and, now five, -he
registered the second win of his career
in the Turf Club Handicap. Yours Truly
and Gimme did the pacemaking, leading
into the straight from Cable Boy and
Mischief. The last-named was in charge
at the distance, but was outstayed by
Cable Boy. Pantler finished fairly in
third place, while Yours Truly, stopping
badly in the final furlong, beat only
Diamante.
The strong support accorded Round
Up was a surprise. He did not justify it.
Hard ridden before going a mile, he was
never a winning possibility, and, as he was
carrying 41b. less than his Metropolitan
weight, he will have to improve to win
even a minor handicap.
Bookmaker J. Mandel has had a
number of minor placings with his horses
of late, but in the Campsie Handicap
Shem gave him a winning turn at a long
price. Royal Sceptre led from the start
to the home turn, with Shem in attend-
ance. Getting to the front a little less
than a furlong from home Shem did not
after appear in danger of defeat, though
Old Serpent, in second place, ran on
better than usual. Tickle was third, with-
out ever quite looking a winner, while
Light Dragoon lost a little ground
through swinging away slightly at barrier-
rise, and was never dangerous. Buzzal
is not as good as he was, and Kurrawid
and Plutus are seemingly still a long way
from striking their best form.
Mandel disclaimed backing his horse
to any extent, but one well-known
backer snapped up a lot of the money
going at long prices. He gauged the
horse’s chance much better than the
owner. Nevertheless, recent form did
not say a great deal for Shem’s prospects.
It may be hard to believe, but Aurie’s
Star, eight years old, burdened with 10.2,
and with his rider sitting against him at
the finish, smashed the Australian and
Maoriland record for six furlongs when
he won the Whittier Handicap at Flem-
ington on Saturday. He was clocked
officially to run the distance in I.B|, as
compared with the Maoriland record of
1.9 2-5, shared by Silver Scorn and Dark
Flight, and the previous Australian best
of 1.9}, held by Regular Bachelor.
As Aurie’s Star won by only a length
and a quarter from All Veil, with Hilton
half a length away third, and Adherent a
fairly close fourth, all four horses must
have smashed the previous record. That
in itself caused many experienced race-
goers to doubt the correctness of the
electric clock, but a strong wind helped
the field down the straight six, and, with
the track lightning-fast, the Flemington
curator remarked early in the day that
he would not be surprised if a record or
two were broken. At any rate, Aurie’s
Star goes down in the records as having
given the greatest exhibition of speed
ever witnessed in this part of the world,
and, with two Oakleigh Plates and a
Newmarket to his credit, his tremendous
pace cannot be questioned. The old geld-
ing obviously is as good as ever, and it
says a lot for his hardiness, and also for
the ability of trainer R. Sinclair, that his
last eight races have yielded six wins,
a second and a third. Winning weights
in four of those races ranged from 9.11
to 10.2.
Aurie’s Star won with something in
reserve, and, if he could be depended
upon to run a mile right out in first-class
company, the Cantala Stakes would not
be difficult for him with 9.1. There is
that doubt, however, and, although on
Saturday he met Hilton 151 b. worse than
Cantala terms, the latter is a proved
miler. Hilton won the Toorak Handicap
with 9.4 last year, and, for a horse who
subsequently ran second with 9.4 to Mil-
dura (8.0) in the Newmarket, is nicely
treated with 8.13 in the Cantala. Hilton’s
race on Saturday was his first since the
autumn; he made up a lot of ground
over the last furlong, and is certain to
benefit from the run.
Bookmakers have laid so heavily
against Gladynev in doubles ending with
fancied Melbourne Cup horses that they
cannot afford to take much risk with
the Maorilander. Historian, however,
ousted that horse from Caulfield Cup
favoritism after his brilliant win in the
Heatherlie Handicap. As winner of the
Malakoff Stakes at his previous start,
Historian was nicely handicapped with
only 31b. more than his Caulfield Cup
weight, and he made the most of it. Dis-
appointed when going for an opening in
the straight, he soon placed the result
beyond doubt once the run did come his
way. As he has raced only three times
since a spell, further improvement seems
certain. Historian is one of the most
improved young horses in Melbourne,
and, having the ability to hold a good
position from the start, while keeping
plenty in reserve for the finish, he should
be an ideal Caulfield Cup proposition.
Landlaw, meeting Historian 41b. worse
than Caulfield Cup terms, was beaten
two lengths, and, as his run had ended
on the post, Historian may be the better
proposition in whichever of the big races
they meet. Apart from the winner, no-
thing impressed more than Rex Felt. He
met Historian 51b. and Landlaw lib.
worse than Caulfield Cup terms, and,
but for striking a little trouble during the
race, and having to go wide on the turn,
might have made the finish more inter-
esting. Coming home soundly, he would
have beaten Landlaw for second money
in a couple more strides, and obviously is
an improved stayer. Before tackling the
Cups, however, Rex Felt will be given
an opportunity to prove his worth at
Randwick. He has been sent to Sydney
in company with his stablemate Fur
Trader, a Derby candidate, and it is pro-
posed to run him in the Epsom, He
might go well in that race with 8.5, but,
on latest form, his best chance appears
to lie in the Metropolitan with 8.1, or
111 b. less than he carried on Saturday.
Hard-luck stories were possible for
several Cup candidates that ran in the
Heatherlie. Carpentier, ridden by V.
Hartney, forced Historian on to Tidylus
near the five furlongs, Tidylus struck the
running rail, and, in turn, interfered with
Rex Felt and True Flight. Hartney was
suspended for a month, and, unless he
lodges an appeal and is successful, will
be out until midnight on October 6.
True Flight, carrying 41b. more than his
Caulfield Cup weight, was unable to over-
come the check he received, but he fin-
ished strongly in sixth position, and has
not lost caste. Barametric rattled home
at a great rate to beat all except the
place-getters, and John Dory, with 151 b.
more than his Caulfield Cup weight of
6.7, shaped rather attractively in fifth
position. He ran into trouble near the
half-mile.
Ajax, starting at 9 to 2 on after open-
ing at 6 and 7 to 1 on, gave a taste of
his real class in beating El Golea and
Maikai in the Memsie Stakes. A horse
of lesser calibre would not have recov-
ered from the misfortune which befell
him at the start. Badger, not anticipating
a start, checked his mount at the precise
moment the tapes lifted and Ajax, swing-
ing side-on, lost about four lengths.
Badger did not attempt to force matters
subsequently. He allowed Ajax to run
along at his leisure, and was content to
wait behind the three leaders, Tragopan,
Amiable and El Golea, until they straight-
ened for the run home. No inside run
forthcoming, he was then forced to take
Ajax to the outside. The slow pace early
helped Ajax to overcome his misfortune
at the start, but he settled down to his
task gamely once he saw daylight in the
straight, and, although El Golea did not
give in without a strong fight, Ajax prob-
ably could have beaten him by a little
more than the official margin of a neck.
Big punters who can afford to “buy”
money on Ajax do not want to experi-
ence too many such shocks, but Badger
stated after the race that the thought of
possible defeat did not enter his mind
at any stage, that his mount was always
going well. At the same time, Ajax will
not be able to concede starts when the
Sydney and Maoriland stars arrive in
Melbourne. His win on Saturday in-
creased his earnings to £39,425, taking
him past Limerick, and elevating him to
fourth position on the list of great Aus-
tralian winners. Only Phar Lap,
Amounis and Gloaming are ahead of
him, and, if, as many good judges antici-
pate, he goes through his spring cam-
paign unbeaten, he will pass Gloaming
(£43,100) before he begins his summer
respite.
While Ajax put an unexpected “kick”
into the Memsie Stakes, the real feature
of the race, from a spring handicap view-
point, was the good form shown by the
Melbourne Cup favorite, Maikai. Latter,
having his first race since the autumn,
looked a greatly improved horse, and his
showing consolidated his position at the
top of the Cup quotes. He was behind
Ajax when the barrier rose and, last into
the straight, did not really warm to his
task until the race was as good as over.
He was running on strongly at the end
of the nine furlongs, less than a length
behind Ajax, a fact which caused one
of Australia’s greatest judges of race
form to remark “You can’t get away
from him as the probable Cup winner.”
Damocles, debarred from contesting
the Derbies because his dam, Slavonia,
was not returned to the studbook, out-
stayed several Derby candidates over the
mile of the Warriston Handicap. He
finished determinedly to win decisively
from Dark Felt and the Ascot Vale
Stakes winner Industry, who conceded
him only 31b. and, on looks and form,
might develop into one of the best stayers
of his age. By a sprinting sire, Great
Legend, who was racing as late as last
season, Damocles is trained by C. A.
Goodfellow for Mesdames N. Falkiner
and T. Rutherford. He is eligible for the
Caulfield Guineas, and is also engaged in
the two Cups. There has been support
for him already for the Caulfield Cup.
Victor Plumb hoped to win one or both
Derbies with Halifax, but the Christophei
Robin-Bareena colt was fatally injured
during the running of the Warriston Han-
dicap. Starting equal favorite with two
others, he held a clear lead at the half-
mile, but faltered and dropped back at
the end of another furlong, where
Quixotic accidentally got on his heels.
Dismounted after passing the winning-
post a bad last, Halifax was found to
have severed his off hind tendon, and was
destroyed. He cost 400 guineas as a
FOR RANDWICK.
(By “PILOT.”)
Hurdle Race: Blackie Miller, 1 ;
Valhalla, 2 ; Generous Gesture, 3.
Novice Handicap: Scientist, 1 ;
Gas, 2 ; Pan Pipe, 3.
Tramway Handicap: St. Con-
stant, 1 ; Tel Asur, 2 ; Mohican or
Denis, 3.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap: Bel Oiseau, 1 ; Nightbeam, 2
Pinero or St. Andrew, 3.
Chelmsford Stakes: Reading, 1 ;
Buzalong, 2 ; Lucrative, 3.
Spring Handicap: Gundagai, 1 ;
Old Rowley, 2 ; Bristol, 3.
Welter Handicap: Snow Queen,
1 ; Climax, 2 ; Breeze, 3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
By “SENTRY.”
Boomerang Welter: Judean, 1 ;
Burrabil, 2 ; Manurere, 3.
Corroboree Maiden Handicap:
Grand Tour, 1 ; Anteros, 2 ; Dollar
Bill, 3.
Moonee Valley Stakes: Sir
Richard, 1 ; Sun Valley, 2; In-
dustry, 3.
Mount Cotterell Steeplechase:
Jangler, 1 ; Deckard, 2 ; Cantland, 3.
Budgeree Handicap: True Flight,
1 ; French Legion, 2 ; Pantoon, 3.
Nulla Nulla Handicap: Pure
Gold, 1 ; Hilton, 2; Celeris, 3.


Public Notice.
No. 1 WHEAT 7 POOL, 1938/39.
* S e -k y given that the Board will
Th Third Advance of One Penny
aronirpH rt^in | S P* d -) P er Bushel on all Wheat
fmB toc and incluc icd in the No. 1 Pool
September, ea i9°40 S Whea ° ° n Wednesday > llth
AUSTRALIAN WHEAT BOARD.
j mnnrt „ t TI . C. J. PERRETT, Secretary.
p r '!(• This notice does not refer to Wheat
eason acc l u ' rcd by the
HIGH AND LOW . . .
>5
K
;//////
w,
71
ALL MEN OF SELF-RESPECT USE
GILLETTE
It isn’t the kind of job you’ve got but the way you
do that job that earns your country’s gratitude and
your enemy’s respect. And talking of respect, you
will find among these men who do a job with their
whole hearts whether their work is wildly exciting
or deadly dull a personal self-respect that manifests
itself in many ways. For example, most of them use
the Gillette way of shaving. They find it rapid and
efficient. Yet for all that efficiency it is quite the
most economical shave there is. All ranks can afford
it (and even a Vice - Marshal cannot get a better one
by spending more).
• GILLETTE SETS 2/6 to 45/- • BLUE GILLETTE BLADES 5 for 1/6
S> V
&
G* iEITE
°4
Managing Agents :
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
yearling. Plumb later refused an offer of
£5OOO for him.
Although Landlaw disappointed Lou
Robertson in the Heatherlie Handicap,
that trainer won the divisions of the
Doona Trial with Royal Comet and
Alpine Maid. All three are raced by C.
Robbie, and the two winners were piloted
by W. Elliot. Latter has taken little time
to regain his stride after two serious
accidents, and it was his dash in forcing
Royal Comet through a narrow opening
between Lord Syce and the rails, at the
turn, that enabled Landlaw’s half-brother
to win. Colignan eventually ran him to
a head. Royal Comet, a four-year-old
entire, was got in France by Asterus, and
is from the imported mare Wireaway.
His engagements include the Cantala
Stakes and the Caulfield Cup, and,
although he only just scraped home in
Trial company on Saturday, he has raced
only five times, and seems certain to
improve.
Royal Comet was always a hot favorite,
but Alpine Maid, an imported mare by
Bosworth from Alpine Rose, eased from
sixes to fifteens before being backed
down to 7 to 1. She may have been lucky
to beat the favorite, Corredor, who was
continually disappointed in trying for a
run in the straight, but she herself had
to race wide after being cut out at the
start. Alpine Rose has raced only three
times, and will improve. French Legion,
another importation, finished strongly to
run third under his steadier of 9.0, and
will do better over a distance farther than
a mile.
* * * *
It will take the Chelmsford Stakes
and Rosehill Guineas to give us a really
outstanding candidate for the A.J.C.
Derby. It cannot be claimed that the
Hobartville Stakes and Canterbury Stakes
have done so. Perhaps Lucrative should
have won the former, and Tidal Wave
the latter, but the fact remains they
didn’t, and, as a rule, it does not pay to
go out of your way excusing beaten
horses.
Lucrative has yet to be tried beyond
seven furlongs, but, though breeding is
not against his getting a mile and a half,
others with good prospects on that score
have failed in Derbies, notwithstanding
they had previously done well up to eight
or nine furlongs. Among exceptionally
brilliant horses, Woorak, Mollison and
Collarit are cases in point. Despite his
defeat Tidal Wave redeemed himself to
some extent in the Canterbury Guineas.
He finished best of the lot in that race,
and should again get home ahead of any-
thing he beat. The fact of being a slow
beginner will not tell against him at a
mile and a half, and that distance was
within the compass of his sire, Tiderace
(son of Fairway), and his dam, My Own
(daughter of Lord Quex).
Randwick may also suit Tidal Wave
better than Canterbury, and the 1400gns.
chestnut at least gives Mrs. C. C. Gal-
braith the chance of being the first lady
to own an A.J.C. Derby winner. If he
should run in the Derby Ensign can have
little chance against Tidal Wave ; and I
doubt whether Flying Knight is a poten-
tial stayer. Meeting the best of the older
horses on Saturday he scarcely lasted five
furlongs, and, though it will be easier
when opposed to horses of his own age,
the selection of Flying Knight as a
probable winner at a mile and a half
would savor of optimism.
At the close of last season Pandect
received mention as a Derby chance, and
he gave the impression he would stay.
He finished strongly when second to
Lucrative in the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes, but was beaten two and a half
lengths by the latter. He did not get a
clear run in the Champagne Stakes, in
which he was fourth, but, as he again
finished behind Lucrative, who gave him
101 b., the result left him with a lot of
leeway to bring him level with that colt.
Pandect is credited with having done
well since the autumn, but whether that
is correct will be proved by the way he
acquits himself at Randwick on Saturday
next. Omitting those which may yet
come over, the Derby candidates that
appeal most at present as likely to get
the mile and a half are Lucrative, Tidal
Wave, John and Trueness, though, as
bearing on the last-named’s prospects, it
must be added that of recent years fillies
have not greatly shone in A.J.C. Derbies.
Apart from Pandect and Lucrative,
who are here, there is no certainty at
the time of writing whether there will
be many Victorian representatives. Sir
Richard appears to be a definite runner,
likewise Fur Trader, but so far as
N.S.W.’s probable starters are concerned
it seems as if only owners’ optimism
will cause them to exceed half a dozen.
The last two meetings in Sydney have
not been productive of marked change
in the Epsom outlook. Heavy backing of
Reading in Epsom and Metropolitan
doubles of which he was the first leg
naturally caused him to shorten for the
mile, but though he ran a great race
against Beaulivre in the Canterbury
Stakes the latter is still favorite.
Reading’s backers hold that if he had
not misbehaved himself almost at the
winning post there would now be a new
favorite for the Epsom, and on figures
there is nothing between him and Beau-
livre. He will meet the latter 21b. better
than last week.
At Canterbury Reading was in front
of Beaulivre when the field settled down,
and was really going more comfortably
than the latter at the three furlongs.
Then Beaulivre raised pace that enabled
him to head Reading in the straight, but
a few strides from the winning-post
Reading was actually doing the better.
There was not more than 21b. in Read-
ing’s defeat, but G. Price believes Beau-
livre will be better suited by Randwick
than Canterbury. That being so, Beau-
livre should again prove Reading’s
master.
Both are good beginners, and it is
bound to have some bearing on the re-
sult if Beaulivre draws close in and
Reading wide out, or vice versa. Many
racing men hold that positions at the mile
post at Randwick do not make much dif-
ference, but, though I have seen widely-
drawn horses win Epsoms and Don-
casters, it is reasonable to suppose that
the advantage is with a smart beginner
starting close in.
High Caste was a trifle disappointing
at Canterbury, but there is the possibility
of a mile suiting him better than six
furlongs. Nevertheless, I am not
enamored of his chance of beating
Beaulivre or Reading. Next to those
two Early Bird’s win at Victoria Park
did most to bring her into notice for
the Epsom. She did not beat a high-
class field, but, in addition to accom-
plishing her task in good style, has a
weight she can handle.
Mohican’s win with 9.0 (minimum 7.3)
at six furlongs at Canterbury was scarcely
Epsom form, nor was that of Vergure.
They respectively met Tel Asur (dead
heat for third) on 81b. and 71b. better
than Epsom terms. With his light weight
of 7.5 Tel Asur should run well, but
may not be sufficiently brilliant to win.
Beau Vite figures in the first dozen in
the betting lists, but, no matter what he
may accomplish in longer races, an
Epsom win by him with 9.6 would upset
my calculations. Anyhow, the Colin
Stephen Plate, also run on the first day,
is more likely to be selected for him.
Fancied horses in Mildura, Geebung,
Buzalong and Radical did not run
last week, but are doing well, and may
be tested next Saturday. Rex Felt has
shown form in Melbourne. However,
backers who have most reason to be satis-
fied with themselves are those who com-
menced doubles with Beaulivre or Read-
ing.
* * * *
With 9st. Reading is weighted up to
his best in the Metropolitan, but he has
shown such good sprinting form at his
last two starts that, if he can stay even
as well now as when he won last season’s
Derbies and St. Legers at Randwick and
Flemington, he is bound to give his
backers a great run. He did not shine
against the older horses last autumn, but
it is doubtful whether he was compara-
tively as good then as in the spring.
Beau Vite finished ahead of him in the
Melbourne Cup, but unless Beau Vite
comes on considerably before the 7th of
next month he will be unequal to con-
ceding Reading 41b. at a mile and five
furlongs. I look to the big Melbourne
handicaps to give him a better chance
of a win than either of those at Rand-
wick. Beau Vite was running at a dis-
tance short for him at Canterbury, but
he did not enter into calculations as a
possible winner at any part. Another
couple of furlongs would not have made
a great difference, and though Maoriland
critics were of opinion that he would
prove himself a much better horse than
last year that is not yet certain.
Opinions must differ in racing, but if
Beau Vite meets Beaulivre in a mile
match race at Randwick on Red Cross
Day backers will pin their faith to the
latter. If Ajax were taking part in the
proposed race it would be a big draw,
but a match between two Maorilanders
is unlikely to add greatly to the attend-
ance at Randwick on Red Cross Day.
The fund would benefit more if the £lOOO
prize-money were donated to it without
bothering about a race that might not be
of special interest.
Cable Boy had a comfortable win at
11 furlongs in fast time at Canterbury,
but though he is now talked of as a light-
weight possibility for the Metropolitan
he may not possess sufficient dash for
that race. There is bound to be a large
field, and, as he is not a good beginner,
he may have to do a lot of hard work
over the last half-mile in order to win.
It is generally inadvisable to be too pro-
nounced where racing is concerned, but
after their defeat by Cable Boy it is diffi-
cult to say anything favorable concern-
ing the Metropolitan prospects of Mis-
chief, Round Up or Yours Truly,
Pantler, who is of the wiry type, and
has not developed to any marked extent
since last year, plugged along into third
place, but as he carried only 61b. more
than his Metropolitan weight it was not
a run that tended to bring him into
greater favor for the Randwick race.
Beaulivre continues to receive support
for the double, but if he wins the Epsom
it will trouble him to succeed in the Met-
ropolitan with a penalty. Buzalong is
prominent in the quotations, as is Gun-
dagai. Mosaic is moving up, but not-
withstanding that he is the winner of two
Sydney Cups I question whether he can
put up a weight-carrying record in the
Metropolitan. The Barb (two miles in
his day) and Rebus share the winning
record with 9.10, and Mosaic has a pound
more.
Six furlongs by Aurie’s Star in I.B±
with 10.2 at Flemington on Saturday justi-
fies the query whether the electric clock
“missed a step” or whether the official
whose duty it is to stop it at the finish
was not overanxious. Though electrically
started, the clock is stopped by hand.
A quarter-second off a sixffurlong record
is something of account, but a second and
a quarter is hard to accept. Flemington’s
previous best was Regular Bachelor’s
Aurie’s Star won so easily that it
seemed as if he could have knocked some-
thing off his time. As it was, All Veil,


Hilton (last at one stage) and Adherent
must all have got well inside Regular
Bachelor’s record.
What made Aurie’s Star’s time all the
more remarkable was that Ajax took
1.53£ for the nine furlongs in the Memsie
Stakes, and, with the exception of His-
torian’s 2.3 —a second outside the course
record —for a mile and a quarter, times
for the other races were not out of the
ordinary. Aurie’s Star’s figures may have
been correct, but they are always like to
be regarded with doubt.
So far as the A.J.C. Derby is con-
cerned, M. McCarten’s first success dates
further back than any other jockey who
will be riding in that race next month.
His first win was on Ballymena in 1923,
and since then he has been successful on
Ammon Ra and Theo, the three, like
himself, being Maoriland-bred. He has
had some disappointments on warm
favorites. Veilmond, at 9 to 4, looked
good for the 1930 Derby, but was
bowled over by the 10-to-l chance,
Tregilla. Blixten, at 7 to 4, was beaten
by Hall Mark and Deputy Ruler, and
Gold Rod, at 7 to 4 on, was similarly
placed, as was Hua, 7 to 4. This year
McCarten may be on another favorite.
Other jockeys who will be riding in the
Derby are Munro and Bartle, and pos-
sibly Knox, whose recent form has been
excellent. Munro has had three and a
half wins—Hall Mark, Nuffield, Reading
and Allunga ; Bartle two —Tregilla and
Avenger; and Knox, one and a half —
Talking and Homer. S. Cracknell, who
is still riding, won on Rampion.
* * * X
Some of America’s leading clubs are
going in for more distance racing than
in the past. At the Westchester Racing
Association’s meeting at Belmont Park
(New York) in October there will be a
2i miles handicap, of $50,000. At the
same fixture there will also be a mile
and five furlongs race, and another of a
mile and a half. At Santa Anita in
March the Santa Anita Handicap, \\
mile, will again be SIOO,OOO, but the
value of the San Juan Capistrano Handi-
cap, \\ mile, h as been increased to
$50,000. It is said that many American
trainers are averse to preparing horses
for distance races —too much trouble is
the objection—but it will be worth their
while in future.
H; He sfc ❖
Early Bird stands out as the mare with
the best chance of success in the Epsom
Handicap. She finished strongly to win
the Rosebery Flying Handicap with 9.2,
and though the time was not out of the
ordinary, and she narrowly defeated Irish
Sea, it was a performance that warranted
Early Bird holding her position in the
Epsom betting. The extra furlong and
a half will be in her favor. At three
years she won four times at a mile and
once at six furlongs, but though last
season she was second in a mile race, the
Brunswick Stakes, her best deeds were
at longer distances. She had 8.3 when
she won the V.R.C. Autumn Handicap,
against 21b. more in the coming Metro-
politan. Presumably all her racing prior
to the Epsom Handicap will be in sprints,
but if she fails in that she will be worth
following at middle distances.
Capris got an Epsom Handicap, on
protest, but the last mare actually to
finish first in that race was Maximize
(7.7) in 1906. Last year Delmestor was
second with 8.7, and two years earlier
Evening Mist was similarly placed with
8.4. A little mare named Djin Djin,
who had raced at “pony” meetings in
Sydney, was the first to break 1.40 in
an Epsom Handicap. She did 1.39£ with
8.9 in 1894, against the previous best of
1.40 by Bungebah (7.10) and Dare Devil
(6.12).
* # * #
In one respect it is questionable
whether old-time trainers compared with
those of the present day. It is often sur-
prising the rapid improvement some now
make in their horses in a week or a
fortnight, and the betting market rarely
points to its being unexpected. I am not
an upholder of reversal-of-form inquiries,
but it is not surprising that racegoers
become somewhat restive when they see
horses badly beaten one day and then
win at a comparatively short interval
when strongly fancied. Possibly satis-
factory explanations could always be
made by those associated with them, but
they generally have the luck to escape
questioning.
* * * *
Some years ago there was an outcry
against bookmakers racing horses. Un-
called for, in my opinion. Bookmakers
will own horses, and it is better they
should be nominated in their own names
than in those of dummies. If a book-
maker runs a “dead ’un.” he takes the
risk of losing his livelihood, and, as that
is something to be avoided, it is generally
safe to back a bookmaker’s horse if, as
I have already stated, he is not hiding
behind some dummy in its nomination.
Furthermore, many bookmakers get a
lot of pleasure out of owning a winner,
if only of a small race.
* * * *
Adios had his first run for his new
owner and new trainer, D. L. Burke,
in the Flying Handicap at Victoria Park
last Wednesday. Drawn near the rails, and
weighted at 9.2, it seemed as if a repeti-
tion of the form he displayed at Rose-
hill in January would have gone close
to making him a winner. On that occa-
sion he won a seven-furlongs handicap
with 9.10, Early Bird running third with
8.13. Adios looked well last week, but
his old dash was entirely missing, and,
though he met Early Bird on level terms,
was never dangerous. As Adios is bound to
be dropped for his failure, he should, if
he strikes his form of early in the year,
have no difficulty in winning a race or
two.
* * * *
Challedon —son of English sire Chal-
lenger I who so greatly distinguished
himself in America last year, added an-
other valuable race to his record at
Hollywood Park, Ingleside (Cal.), at the
end of July. In the Hollywood Gold
Cup, 1| mile, he had the steadier of 9.3,
but that did not prevent him from win-
ning comfortably from Specify (8.5) and
Can’t Wait (8.3) in 2.2, a track record.
There were 11 runners, these including
Kayak 11. Challedon was a 7-to-2 chance,
and first money was $36,200, second
SIO,OOO, third SSOOO, and fourth $2500.
Challedon, with $293,435, is eighth in
America’s winning list, Seabiscuit being
on top with $437,700. He won 34 of
the 89 races in which he ran.
3: * * *
There is naturally a deal of speculation
as to what became of France’s bloodstock
after the German occupation. An Eng-
lish paper states that M. Boussac’s horses
in training, including Djebel (Two Thou-
sand Guineas winner) got as far as Bor-
deaux in June, but nothing was subse-
quently heard of them. It was believed
that Boussac’s mares and foals in Nor-
mandy had been secured by the Ger-
mans. These included the great mare
Corrida.
* * * *
Gladynev has weakened in the Caul-
field Cup quotations, but it is doubtful
whether that should cause his early
backers for “two-Cups” doubles to
abandon hope. It is improbable that he
has been really heavily supported, but,
taking a line through his form against
Beau Vite at a difference of only 101 b.
in the Wellington Centenary Cup, 1|
mile, the books were justified in selecting
him as their favorite. As I have men-
tioned previously, Gladynev is a medium-
sized horse, with nothing special in his
appearance, and I think that has caused
some recent Melbourne visitors to Syd-
ney to report unfavorably concerning
him. It did not surprise Randwick train-
ing track frequenters when he ran last
at his first start in Sydney. Not a great
deal had been asked of him in his work,
and since then he has sharpened up. It
is too early to condemn him, and per-
haps it might still be wise to assess him
on his Maoriland form.
* * * *
A two-year-old race, the Futurity, at
the Arlington Park (Chicago) meeting
carried $47,470, of which $34,470 went
to the winner, a grey-roan colt named
Swain. The breeder received SISOO. The
track was fearfully heavy, and that was
supposed to have a great deal to do with
the failure of the hot favorite. Attention
(Equipoise), to run anywhere in 1.13 4-5
for the six furlongs.
* * * *
Totalisator turnover for the 30 days’
racing ending at Arlington Park (Chicago)
was $11,758,956, which, at the present
rate of exchange with Australia, would
represent about £A3,375,000.
¥ 4* *l*
One of America’s best horses of this
year is G. D. Widener’s four-year-old
Eight Thirty. At Suffolk Downs (Boston)
last month he won the Massachusetts
Handicap with 9.0, and in running the
nine furlongs in 1.49 equalled Seabiscuit’s
record for the track. First money was
$46,550, second SIO,OOO, third SSOOO,
fourth $2500, fifth $1250. As there were
only 11 starters nearly half the field
received substantial prize-money.
* * * *
After racing was abandoned in Eng-
land some owners kept fairly large teams
in work in hope of a resumption. J. Y.
Rank sold some of his moderates, but
still had 30 horses in training at the end
of July. Fred Darling was going on
with Pont l’Eveque in the hope there
would be a substitute St. Leger, but,
though that was announced to take place
this month, it is doubtful, in view of the
fierce bombing that is going on in Eng-
land, whether there will be adherence to
that idea. Some of the leading papers
are strongly opposed to it. S. Donoghue
still had a team of between 30 and 40,
and J. Lawson 25 at Manton. Three of
the horses Lawson proposed to run in
a substitute St. Leger were owned by the
late Sir Abe Bailey, but the latter’s death
would cause a change of plans. Racing
was going on the same as ever in Ireland
at the commencement of last month, and,
notwithstanding horse meetings were
ruled out, dog-racing was continuing in
London and elsewhere in England.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Bennell v. Dundee
Jimmy Dundee, who holds the N.S.W.
title, strayed from the lightweight ranks
to engage Australian welter champ.
Hockey Bennell at Leichhardt, and more
than once had Hockey wondering what
the devil had hit him.
Anyone forming an opinion of Hockey
in engagements of this sort would be
grievously misled. The lad from over
the Bridge takes ’em lightly, not to say
flippantly, showing his best only when
the title’s at stake. Hence young Brander
lately knocking him cold in a round or
two, and then, with the title up, Hockey
making Brander look easy.
Hockey’s latest appearance was nearly
a repetition of that first Brander scrap.
After two rounds during which Hockey’s
thoughts were palpably elsewhere, Jimmy,
in the third, nearly outed him. A short
right flush on Hockey’s jaw started him
wobbling on his pins, and he got through
only by hanging on with the clamlike
grip of a middle-aged flapper. He came
out and fought the fourth so well, how-
ever, that terrier-minded members of the
sparse attendance made sniffing noises,
these increasing when, in the fifth, Jimrqy
had him groggy again. But whatever the
sniffers had in mind it wasn’t a rat:
from here on Hockey improved, and was
so far ahead at the finish that the boos
which greeted the decision in his favor
could be put down only to bitter dis-
appointment.
Most interesting occurrence of the night
was the showing of one Mick White in
a prelim, to the Bennell-Dundee affair.
Mick, hailing from Victoria, beat a fairly
smart lad, Wally Patience, by technical
k.o. in two rounds, making his record,
it was stated, six fights for as many
knockouts. Scrapping at 9.2, he bears
a close ring resemblance to Lew Edwards,
wears trunks he might have pinched off
Jack Carroll,- and, if he can take it as
well as he can give it, should get some-
where.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
{Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
During the Chicago open championship
I partnered Lawson Little, the open
champion, and Ed Oliver, who, after
tying with Little and Sarazen in the open,
was disqualified for starting too early
in the final round. These golfers
provided an interesting contrast in
the manner of obtaining their scores.
Their different methods of play, neither
of which can be termed orthodox, are
very effective, and, what is equally im-
portant from the spectator’s point of
view, very spectacular.
At Chicago Little returned 287, the
score registered at Cleveland in the
open, while Oliver did 288. From the tee
these players hit a very long ball. Oliver
rarely drives less than 250 yards and
generally is around 290 to 300 yards.
Little’s driving is of a much lower trajec-
tory, as the open champion relies more
upon topspin to get his length.
While Little uses a fairly closed stance
on the tee, with his right foot about three
inches behind the left, and plays the ball
just inside his left heel, Oliver has
the more commonly-used open stance —
exactly the opposite to Little, with the
left foot opened out slightly toward the
hole; the ball, however, is played from
the same spot as Little’s. From the point
of view of style Little swings slightly
more inside going back than Oliver, and
similarly comes down to the ball from
the inside-out; this gives his ball a
tiny draw or pull. On the other hand,
the 245-pound butcher-boy from Hornell
swings his club in a wide arc, keeping it
on the line of flight both from and to
the ball as long as possible. Oliver, heavy
as he is, stands about five-foot-six; he
has the most unathletic figure of any
golfer I have seen. He is rotund and
vigorous.
• •••••
By reason of his build Oliver finds
it necessary to use a fairly restricted
backswing and to rely upon his strong
hands and forearms to whip the club-
head down to the ball; this he does in
no uncertain manner. On his backswing,
which is slightly slower than Little’s,
Oliver has very little turn of the hips,
the hands and wrists doing the major
part; but on the downswing he uses
his body more than the open champion.
Many Australians will recall the way
Craig Wood, who visited us in 1934,
always turned his hips toward the hole
when hitting the ball. This style is also
very marked in Oliver’s swing ; he uses
his body effectively in all his shots in the
same way as Wood. Oliver’s right side
gets well in behind the ball and takes
an active part in following through after
the ball has been struck. This peculiarity
is by no means a body-sway, but merely
a full turn of the hips toward the line
of flight.
Little does this, too, but not to the
same extent. His body turn, both back
and forward, is a much less restricted
pivot. Both players stand well into the
ball and possess fairly upright swings; in
fact, Oliver is very upright. Unlike many
of our own Australian professionals, these
players have tremendous length with their
brassies and spoons. With the No. 2
wood Oliver and Little get just as far as
they do with their drivers. They hit the
brassy shots on the upswing, getting both
carry and topspin on the ball. When it
comes to the iron play Oliver has the
tendency to fade the ball slightly to the
green, while Little favors a tiny draw
or hook. Watching two such great pro-
fessionals at work, one sees two different
ways to hit these most important second
shots to the greens.
Oliver slightly opens the club-face and
fully cocks his wrists ; this, combined with
his wide arc in the backswing, gives the
ball good height and a faint cut which
pulls it sharply when it lands on the
green. Little, a more aggressive iron-
player, stands a little to the right of the
flag, and pulls the ball back on to the
flag with his draw. This shot is the result
of his slightly-shut club-face, and is
extremely useful on windy days, when he
plays the ball more toward his back foot
and punches it away low in flight.
Many average golfers could learn much
from the way these two stars hit down
on to the ball and well through it. With
the iron shots, where crispness is an essen-
tial, the ball must be hit on the down-
swing, and in doing this the handicap
players usually dig into the turf instead
of concentrating upon hitting the ball first
and taking the divot after the ball has
been struck. Oliver and Little both take
good-size divots when they hit their iron
shots. On the soft American fairways,
with their clover lies and softer grasses,
the players have been forced to hit down
on the ball more so than when the ball
lies on firmer fairways. Oliver and Little
advise all golfers to hit down on the ball
with their irons.
Footbraw!
Under a hot northerly on a sultry
day, 45,000 turned up at M.C.G. to see
Essendon, playing in a semi-final for
the first time for many years, prove too
good for Geelong by 13-14 to 10-14.
The ’Dons were on top almost from
the first bounce, keeping the play wide
and open with long, driving kicks. Gee-
long forwards crowded too much and
spoiled golden chances with ridiculous
short passes. Both sides were deficient
in teamwork.
All through the piece Geelong was
badly bothered by the “no-drop” rule, and
by half-time its barrackers’ voices had
taken on that note of sarcasm which
presages lost hope. The team made
changes in position, but still crowded
play while the ’Dons scouted on the
flanks and gathered up the crumbs.
Four goals behind, Geelong threw
itself at the Essendon goal in the last
quarter in a series of mad, wild, con-
fused attacks. Time after time the scene
looked like a massed wrestle with no
holds barred, and time after time that
absurd short passing put the ball into
the defenders’ hands. The ’Dons were
almost out on their feet, yet Geelong
failed to profit except to reduce the lead
by a goal.
Next Saturday Melbourne will meet
Richmond, and the losers will play
Essendon on the following Saturday.
Essendon will be glad of the spell.
Matthews, of South Melbourne, and
Fothergill, of Collingwood, tied in the
voting for the Brownlow medal, and the
Permit and Umpire Committee, unable
to make up its mind wnethei to gt' e
two medals or have the winners toss tor
it, passed the riddle on to the League.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £30,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,500,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
TO BE CAREFREE
ABOUT CAPITAL...
YOU can be happy and secure by
investing your savings in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES
which are backed by the shares of 20 of
Australia’s leading companies, held by
the Custodian Trustees of the Trust:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write or ’phone to-day for informative
Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of
the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
ARTBURSTS.
’
One-legged Goddesses
Endeavors of Melbourne C.C. to em-
hellish the Fitzroy Gardens have had
many vicissitudes. The council dotted
them with replicas of classic Greek
statuary, but small boys knocked off the
noses and other extremities, and the sight
of so many one-legged goddesses scandal-
ised the city fathers. Diana and her
faun were reconditioned, but the faun
mysteriously turned into a goat, and the
city fathers gave it up in disgust and
ordered the removal of the statues. Their
absence gave the umbrageous vistas of
the park a dreary look, however, and
Leslie Bowles, the Melbourne sculptor,
was commissioned to execute another
Diana. She is made of Italian bronze
and is in rapid motion, with her skirts
flying behind her and with two dogs
attendant on her. But her skirt looks as
if it had been pleated in a factory and
her hair crimped in a beauty parlor.
**. * *
Mclnnes Memorial Show
The wide array of work in the
memorial exhibition of paintings by
W. B. Mclnnes at the N. S. Wales
National Gallery emphasises the painter’s
merits.
Mclnnes, of course, was never very
popular with the arty. He could draw
and he could paint, and wasn’t backward
in demonstrating both talents. He had
the gift, as a portraitist, of producing
something that delighted the sitter and
yet had to be admitted by the sitter’s
enemies as a clinking good likeness. A
modern theory, widely held, is that good
craftsmanship and true art are incom-
patible. Mclnnes was a splendid crafts-
man. He could paint texture (see the
portrait of Mrs. Dale); hands (see the
portrait of Miss Collins); he could do
a sunburned forearm without making it
look a gum-bough (see his self-portrait,
No - 10 ); he had an unerring eye for
P ose an d color scheme, and his still-life
accessories were always painted with
sparkle. Add to this that Mclnnes’s
Scottish caution usually saved him from
attempting to outrun his limits, and it
will be seen that it wasn’t sufficient to
sa Y he had a formula to dispose of all
his pretensions. There never was a
portrait-painter from Velasquez down
to Augustus John who hadn’t a formula,
Mclnnes the landscapist had a quality
all his own. For all the incisive quality
of his portraiture, he had with sylvan
scenes a delicate touch. Syd Long is the
only Australian artist who can approach
the charming color pattern in “The
Bathers,” and there are few more satis-
factory skies in all the wide field of
Australian landscape than those Mclnnes
put on canvas. And there are not more
than three Australian painters, alive or
dead, who could fill 10 sq. ft. of canvas
with a handful of ducklings and get away
with it as successfully as Mclnnes did.
He had his off days (witness “John
Batman” and “The Empty Cradle”), but
taken all in all he was a big figure in
Australian art.
* * * *
Society of Artists’ Show
The outstanding exhibitors in the oils
section of the Society of Artists’ show
at the Education Department Gallery,
Sydney, are Norman Carter (whose
portrait of P. G. Taylor is outstanding),
Norman Lindsay (represented by one
head) and Dattilo Rubbo, whose work
both in portraiture and landscape shows
a forward surge. Margaret Preston ex-
ploits a new style, decorative and effec-
tive ; Lloyd Rees sees the Australian
landscape through grey glasses ; William
Dobell approaches nearer and nearer to
his presumable exemplar, Modigliani;
H. Badham paints what he sees in
“Corner Pub” and “Last Boat” with
intensity and fidelity. A Westralian
newcomer, Harold Vike, paints scenes
in Perth with great lucidity. One
of Adrian Feint’s miracles of neat-
ness and precision (a flower piece) has
caught the eye of the N.S.W. Gallery
Trustees. Roland Wakelin, Arnold Shore
and Grace Cossington Smith keep the
flag of freedom flying. Best nude in
the show is one by Freda Robertshaw.
In water-colors John Eldershaw, Maude
Sherwood and Albert Collins are at their
best; Daryl Lindsay’s style becomes more
and more distinguished, and an Italian
sketch of his goes to the N. S. Wales
Gallery. Frank Medworth is a prolific
exhibitor in a style the keynote of which
seems to lie somewhere between irony
and frenzy. Hans Heysen’s memory is
perpetuated in several characteristic ex-
amples. Kenneth Macqueen explores the
architecture of clouds with astonishing
results.
The pastels of Desiderius Orban have
charm, and a drawing, “Peter Tansey,”
by Nora Heysen is as good a portrait as
any in the show. Among the sculptors
A. Fleischmann’s work is notable. Frank
Lynch’s head of A. G. Stephens under-
lines that critic’s aggressiveness.
* * * *
Jean Appleton’s show of oils at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, consists of
quiet impressions of sylvan scenes in Aus-
tralia and abroad with a few flower pieces
—all rather tasteful. Some drawings are
pleasant, all save a nude which suffers
from elephantiasis.
AT THE TALKIES.
“The Ghost Goes Home”
Frank Morgan is the spook in this
Sydney Capitol offering. He’s man-
ager of a small-town pet-shop, nagged
by his missus, ridiculed by the town,
and burdened with several indolent
hangers-on. An old chap in “Oss-
stralia” decides to give half a mil-
lion to the town in memory of his boy-
hood spent there and sends for Morgan
—his school time cobber—to advise him
how the oof should be spent. Morgan
misses the boat, which is sunk on the
way to Sydney, and returns home to find
his family thriving on his insurance,
most of Which has been spent, and which
has to be returned now that he is still
alive and kicking. Subsequent ingredients
include luv and the uncovering of the
scandalous doings of the town’s leading
citizen. Cast includes Billie Burke, Regi-
nald Owen and Harold Huber, none of
them quite up to standard, but very
funny notwithstanding.
“The Light That Failed”
First-class acting makes the screen ver-
sion of Kipling’s story, seen at Sydney
Prince Edward, a good entertainer.
Ronald Colman as the artist who sacri-
fices his art for easily-earned applause,
Walter Huston as a British war corre-
spondent in the earliest days of the pro-
fession and Ida Lupino as a cheap
Cockney street wench all do thoroughly
good jobs. There’s reasonable adherence
to the book, particularly in the repro-
duction of the Kipling dialogue.
* * * *
“My Love Came Back”
Fair portion of classic music, larger
proportion of swing, girl-boy-elderly-lover
mixup, mistakes and misapprehensions,
plenty of laughs and a sprinkling of
sentiment. Charles Winninger, Eddie
Albert and Spring Byington pinch the
show. Absurdity of highbrow musical
conductor being won over to swing—“I
vill do ut, for you und Mendelssohn.”
On the same bill is “George and Mar-
garet,” acted by an English cast, and one
of the funniest pictures in sight.
Both pictures from Warner Bros.;
both make Sydney Century a laugh
centre.
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Time of Your Life”
A lively new show at Sydney “Tiv.,”
with Gladys Moncrieff and Don Nicol
illustrating the difference between old
stuff that is evergreen and old stuff that
is merely old. In fine voice the Gladys
turns on a batch of typical numbers,
bringing the house down with a finale of
“Land of Hope and Glory.” On the
same bill, a most amiable magician who
nonchalantly smokes his thumb.
* * * *
Melbourne’s homage remaining un-
abated, good houses are rolling up for
“l Maiesty > ,f° r mt f
have Wl J ed h
cal d iction o£ a g House of Lords m _
vaded b fairi and musicall the com .
pa is as flne a ’ a Jc w b y as b ht
tog eiher for a long time
&
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
SJ.C.: “Blitzkrieg’s” a dud C.8.K.:
Landscape’s too level... .H.C.8.: If and when
you drop all your ifs and whens you’ll score
again... .V.L.: Better, but you can’t say “Let
my contrition be my best ability”....
D.A.W.: If you must “aspire to wondrous
hues” don’t forget the preposition... .H.M.C.:
Portrait of Hitler as devil’s spawn lacks fire....
V.M.D.: Portrait of H. as noxious weed pleas-
ing but prosy... .E.T.: All right then; four
lines of what the devil said to him:
And take this parting gift from me,
A tinder-box and bag of coal.
Now go, and make your own damned hell,
Where none can pity your lost soul.
S.C.: Give it to the girl H.R.: Try the
children’s page of a daily J.T.: Should
appeal to an Elk or Oddfellow G.M.L.:
“After listening on the fadio to ‘I Heard a
Forest Praying’ the poet felt called upon to
embark on some exalted lines of his own in
keeping with the words of that beautiful song.”
Woodman, whang that radio... .John H.:
Watch the clichds... .A.C.G.: Enter, Henrietta:
The Universe is dull
And Life’s a fetter.
No happiness can gull:
The World is dull
And Life’s no better.
No happiness can gull,
And yet—
There’s Henrietta.
T.I.P.: It would be better if you wouldn’t
ween... .R. 8.: Thanks. Your Muse has a nice
face, but she doesn’t bite... .P.K.: “What
Price Glory?” A tuppenny stamp, if you want
it back... .M.R.D.: “Stray Lamb” still stray-
ing. .. .8.R.F.: Took those gentle grafters and
booted them one by one down the front
stairs.. . .L.D.R. : “A Humorous Dissertation
on Railway Trains” evoked one smile and 17
yawns... .G.R.W.: So the rats ate the chickens
and cats ate the rats and dogs ate the cats; we
left when we came to the cannibal farmer....
G.R.P.: Away with your haunted castles and
poetic ghosts... .8.R.D.: Sad, terribly sad. 1..
L.T.8.: Your sense of humor needs washing.
. ...M.R.8.: Old as last year’s eggs....
D.C.R.: Only a par. in it 5.8. C.: “Writ 4. 1
in a mood of black despair.” Take it away,
it’s infectious... .J.R.8.: True stories don’t
always make yarn. 8.G.R.: When the old
man draws wistfully at his pipe and sighs
“Ah, what might have been,” we discreetly fade
away... .G.H.M.: A. C. Headley has covered
the same subject in much better style
N.G.R.: “The Eighth Murder” remained a
mystery even after your explanation F.8.R.:
Much as it hurt us, we had to turn “Poor
Orphan” away... .L.C.M.: You’ll never get
anywhere with that fantastic stuff.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.F.: Wide of the mark A.8.P.: Gags
belong to London “Punch” of three decades
ago E.L.: You won’t get far with that
crazy style... .P.L.: About as amusing as a
family crest W.D.: What the old soldier
said to the military copper is too lurid for
print H.E.: You’re better with the pen than
with the brush... .W. 8.: No vote for your
win-the-war candidate A.M.: It never stood
a chance... .E.G.P.: The signpost is the only
well-drawn object in the picture... .R.W.: The
Irishman, the Scotchman and the Yank will not
be permitted to brawl in our pages....
... .W.H.M.: Parson who bribed a small boy
with a pea-shooter to keep the congregation
awake is an old friend S.R.: No landing-
space for your winged kangaroo... .E.H.8.:
Can’t judge from copies; try us with some-
thing original G.H.: A labored joke and
a down-at-heels drawing M.A.: Subject is
too grim to laugh about 8.D.: Chances
of getting into print this side of 1950 are very
remote.


ECZEMA
Sensitive people feel eczema
acutely. The continued irritation,
the unsightly eruptions and the
uncertainty where the trouble will
next spread makes them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema is not due to dirt, but to the fact
that certain skins react badly to various
forms of irritation (internal or external)
and poor general health increases the
liability.
Since there is a great tendency for eczema
to spread and to become chronic, early
local treatment is imperative, and the best
salve for this purpose is DOAN’S Oint-
ment. It penetrates to the true skin
the inflammation lies, is antiseptic and
healing and quickly allays the irritation.
DOAN’S Ointment is also good for other
itching skin complaints and for the relief
of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but, be sure
you get DOAN’S.
DoansOintment
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
We are in the second year of war.
That we could have turned that corner
with bugles blowing is a matter for which
we must thank Heaven, fasting. Under
Heaven, the Navy, the Army and the Air
Force —the winged warriors that battle
in the sky that you and I may walk free
upon the earth —deserve a laudate or two.
In Martin-place last week the passing of
the first twelve months was marked by
a rally of all the services. Flags were
brave in the breeze. The National
Anthem and “Advance, Australia Fair!”
flung their challenge to the foe. Lord
and Lady Wakehurst, both in khaki, were
there. Adding to the array of uniforms
about 500 women war-workers paraded.
Here were W.A.N.5.,. Flying Girls,
V.A.Ds., Signallers, St. John Ambulance
workers, Transport Girls, girls of
C.U.S.A. and girls of C.E.N.E.F. And let
no man think they did not know their
jobs. Lord Wakehurst made the speech
of the day, quoting Pitt; Premier Mair,
too, and Mayor Crick were heard.
Sunday was the perfect setting for the
War Veterans’ Home at Narrabeen. In
the near distance the Lakes burned tur-
quoise and sapphire, and, beyond, the
Pacific tossed its sun-drenched blue be-
fore the heat haze blurred the color. The
English soldiers who had come out guard-
ing the war prisoners, marvelled at the
beauty. The gardens were heavy with
the scents of carnations, stocks and roses.
Only the avenue of young red gums (and
drought conditions have to be remem-
bered) was not at its best when the Gov-
ernor-General arrived to open the Wil-
liam Cope Memorial Block.
William Cope fought in the last war,
and from his will the board of manage-
ment received over £l4OO, which started
it well on the way with the new wing,
which has cost £3OOO. Now the veterans
can have their tooth troubles eased in
the most up-to-date dental surroundings.
The Women Teachers’ Hut Club raised
the money for the dental room. The
kitchen equipment given by Mr. and Mrs.
Wilkinson (he’s a first A.1.F.-er) is the
last word. The main ward, which will
accommodate six bed cases, opens on to
a deep sun porch, and was furnished by
the Granville sub-branch. The three
single rooms in this block have been
fitted out by Mrs. Bell Mitchell and the
Women’s Loyalty League, aided by funds
from a concert arranged by Mrs. Richard-
son and Miss Porter, of Hurstville.
The Women’s Auxiliary, which runs a
bright little kiosk, served tea to Sunday’s
callers for a very small charge. It’s a
pleasant haven, this Narrabeen home,
where a man can sit with his dreams,
or do a little fishing in the lake, or try
' his hand at gardening (if he feels like
it), or join in a game of bowls or billiards.
About 2000 cards were sent out for Sun-
day’s function. Seemingly, judging by
the continuous stream of cars along the
road, all the invitations had been
accepted.
On Sunday an Empire prayed—not as
an Empire, but as men and women and
childien who put their trust in God.
Sydney went in supplication to church
and kirk and chapel. In the afternoon at
open-air gatherings thousands of his sub-
jects again prayed for the cause of their
King, which is their cause. And as the
prayers rose each thought on the little
corners of England he knew. This Letter
saw the river on Henley regatta day,
laughing and carefree, saw a rhododen-
dron hedge at Cambridge burning into a
day without blemish, the rose walk at
Purley, so close to Croydon, poor streets
at the back of Smithfield markets where
children played happily enough in front
of rows of terrace houses. Do children
play there carefree now?
One hundred and fifty hockey girls of
the Woollahra Park players dined at the
Allora one night last week, keeping up an
old yearly custom. These dinners are
great fun. As well as giving new hockey
players a chance to get friendly with
members of the council, they bring to
light all sorts of unexpected talent. Last
Thursday, after the tables, bright with
miniature hockey sticks tied up with red,
white and blue, had been cleared, the
Wychela (old Sydney High girls) pro-
duced an opera. One member of the
group had written the book, another the
music. There were six leading parts and
a chorus of 20. The main theme of the
story was hockey. The rafters of the
Allora seemed to laugh, too, at the clever
skit, and the merriment surged up the
stairs and bowled like a hoop down Pitt-
street. Members of the council included
president of N.S.W. Women’s Hockey
Dr. Marie Hamilton, Mrs. F. J. Davy,
Dorothy Friend and president of the
Woollahra Park section Mrs. A. L. Holt.
Another joy of the night was the film in
color taken on Mrs. Holt’s recent jour-
ney through England.
The blue eyes and dark hair of Dr.
Helen MacDonald help to make even
more pleasant the wards of Lewisham.
Helen, eldest daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
Alex. MacDonald, of Ascot, Brisbane, is
one of the resident medicals of the famed
hospital. Before taking her medical
degree in Sydney she graduated in arts
at Brisbane University. All Hallows, of
the northern capital, was her school.
Youngest sister Jean is a medical student
in Brisbane. Freeman photograph.
If Mr. Casey stays long enough in the
U.S.A. there will hardly be an able-
bodied male subject of Uncle Sam who
hasn’t had a whisk around Australia. An-
other group of amiable Americans, guests
of the Commonwealth, opened their
eyes wide over Sydney last Wednesday,
looked over the sheep-trimmed pastures
of a prize station on Thursday, took in
Canberra and Melbourne, and then
winged on to Darwin and the Orient.
They were dined by the Government,
and on the afternoon of their arrival the
Department of Information wined them
between five and seven at the Australia.
Before the party the visitors were sight-
seeing, taking photographs and playing
tennis —the last to help them limber up
after their flight.
Cornelius Vanderbilt Whitney was the
leader of the party. They say he is as
rich as his name. He is smoothly sun-
browned ; and at the party his suit was
brown, and so were the tips of his white
shoes. His tie was a deep blue with white
scrolls, and it might have been Yale or
Harvard or just what he had. He is
chairman of Pan-American Airways.
Vice-president of the United Press C. J.
Randeau had a nice smile and good grey
tailorings. He was in a group knit to-
gether by Dave Yaffa’s fun. America’s
Trade Commissioner Zapf and his wife
were a friendly pair. Mrs. Albert Doyle
was with her Consul husband, and was
one of the smartest wearers of black.
Mrs. Randolph Kidder, also of U.S.A.’s
Consular group, wore large gilt buttons
on her trig little jacket and a white bird
(maybe a fledgling dove of Peace) in
the front of her hat.
The Percy Spenders were the host and
hostess. Her furs were rich and deep
cocoa in tone. Dame Mary Hughes’s
frock was of grey woollen fabric. Knight
Tom Gordon and his wife were there ;
so were the Charley Lloyd Jones couple.
Air Commodore Cole fairly clanked with
decorations ; A.B.C. chairman Cleary and
general manager Moses and his wife were
among the guests. James Van Norman
and Fletcher Bowron, both of Los
Angeles, Stephen Royce, E. O. McDon-
nell, Paul C. Paterson and Harold Gatty
were others of the upstanding young men
visitors.
John Masefield should have been in
St. Stephen’s, Macquarie-street, last
Saturday. In the declining light of a
lovely early-spring day he would have
seen a bridal party gathered from a most
charming corner of the garden of Aus-
tralian girlhood pace up the aisle (Joan
Mackinlay, the bride, in shell-pink satin,
cousin Lesley Turner in ice-blue satin
and cousin Madge Artlett in pale-pink
satin, with coatees), to be joined by young
men who would have reminded him of
the Australians he saw on Gallipoli and
commemorated in prose that will outlast
his verse —“Paddy” White, the bride-
groom (6ft. 3in.), Frank Treatt (6ft. 2in.)
and Garth Mackinlay (6ft. 4in.), with
Bob Lowe (6ft. 2in.) hovering about as
usher. And after the simple and solemn
Presbyterian service the Poet Laureate
would have heard The Bulletin’s
favorite meenister, Rev. D. P. Macdonald,
war-wise (he was an Old Digger) and
with sensitive features and a beautifully
modulated voice, tell the young people,
as pastor, friend and townsman (they are
all from Mosman), that the only hope for
this distracted old world lies in a return
to the ancient fundamentals: religion,
marriage, the family and the home. Mrs.
Swift, who was Gladys Fimister, sang
nobly in the church and the Forum Club,
where the reception was held.
Mrs. Arthur H. Moverly is president
of the Randwick branch of Air Force
House Association, and naturally her
energies at the moment are directed to
raising shekels, doubloons and even trey
bits to help this club for young airmen.
A card party at her home in Cowper-
street, Randwick, last week raised a neat
cheque; and the dance (for the same
cause) at the Kensington Bowling Club
on the fourteenth should emblazon and
embellish it. Ring FX3285 for bookings.
Mrs. Moverly is the wife of the local
M.L.A. Montgomery Dunn photograph.
Don’t stand on ceremony, as in
“Lady Precious Stream,” was the keynote
of the Society, of Artists’ opening last
Friday. There were no vice-regals, no
political bigwigs to make the prelude-to-
purchase speech. Instead Mrs. Alleyne
Zander, whose job is with the Royal
Academy in London, read a longish
speech, her points mostly ones which
have been touched on before. Of course
she stressed the one about England know-
ing us for our wool and cricket rather than
for our art. Well, we’ve all heard and,
alas! realised that before. But it can’t
be too often said. Mrs. Zander was
brisk and crisp. The coat of her black
suit opened over a white satin blouse.
Her hat, a tuft of white flowers, was worn
straight over the brows.
Wal Taylor, who was managing the
show, regarded Adrian Feint with a
beaming eye. All of Adrian’s exhibits
had been snapped up before the doors
opened. Lord Lurgan was an early
sampler of the art wares; and Howard
Hinton bought Charley Lloyd Jones’s
“Caretaker’s Cottage” for his Armidale
Teachers’ College. But where was the
much-sung caretaker’s daughter? Out
taking a walk among the scenery, it may
be supposed.
William Dobell’s Cyprian was admired
by all the men, and not so popular with
the women. Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar,
her black velvet cape weighty with silver
fox, talked to Mrs. Bertie Kelly. Mrs.
Bertie and Mrs. Clement Chapman wore
the widest-brimmed hats in the room.
The McKelvey lady sported a blue veil
with her tiny gem sailor, which was
banded in blue. The Crookston family
from Camden was interested in the por-
trait of Jacqueline Crookston—a cloud
of red hair in high relief against her
white riding suit. Also taking a long
look at this were Hugh McCrae and
daughter Mrs. Norman Cowper, whose
husband is busy on his election cam-
paign.
Margaret Preston’s pictures were
surrounded by friends. Maude Sher-
wood, Enid Cambridge, Dorothy Thorn-
hill and Jean Appleton were women
artists noted ; so were the Harold Abbotts.
Mrs. Erik Fischer left her ballet students
for half an hour to gaze at art in a stilly
form. Jocelyn Zander, who will study
art in Sydney for some time, was among
the ardent. Jimmy MacDonald from the
Melbourne Gallery was among the
warmly greeted. Violet Roche brought
renewed memories of Maoriland. Mrs.
Gregory Blaxland’s cherry-red hat was
admired. Also there were Mrs. John
Fairfax, Mrs. Vernon Coles, Florence
Birch (in her favorite blues) Mrs.
McEvilly Jordan and flying man Captain
Taylor, whose portrait by Norman
Carter was warmly praised. Mrs.
Searight and Miss N. Veitch were two
of the many whose entrance shillings
went to help the Red Cross.
Ella Caspers came back to Sydney’s
concert platform last week after a silence
of eight years. But, of course, up in
Taree, which is her home, she sings all
the time like a deep-throated bird. Ella’s
voice has lost nothing of its smooth, rich
quality, and she still sings “There Is a
Green Hill” in such a manner as to stir
fervor in the most lymphatic. The
Assembly Hall was crowded, and Father
Dunlea’s Boys’ Town will benefit. Ella,
who looked like a Shakspeare heroine
in her sweeping black velvets, was aided
and abetted by pianist Marie Ormiston,
violinist Norma Cox, Reg Willoughby,
Walter Kingsley, Elizabeth Vidler and
Ellis Price. Three small boys from St.
Charles’s, Waverley, opened the concert
with melodic pipings.
The Independents, at their theatre in
Miller-street, North Sydney, are present-
ing a play by Gwen Meredith, the group’s
secretary. “Ask No Questions” is the
title, and it is a comedy, its cast consist-
ing of 15 women. Gwen has had several
of her plays successfully produced by
amateur groups. Independent supporters
are reminded that every second Monday
is club lunch day, and that the city
address is Fifth Floor, State Shopping
Block, Market-street. Director Doris
Fitton also asks this Letter to remind
members to keep their knitting needles
bright with use. All garments knitted by
the Independents are forwarded to Lon-
don by the Royal Empire Society.
Just when his admirers were giving his
picture a fond look over, David, winner
of the Sydney Cup of 1923, died, and
went to the Heaven that awaits all good
triers. The exhibition of sporting prints
and trophies in which David and other
celebrities of the turf are doing their bit
for the Red Cross was opened by Lady
Wakehurst, whose speech brought to
light the old quip “On the turf and under
the turf all men are equal.”
This Letter, hoping to propitiate Fate,
salaamed three times before the photo-
graph of the great Tattersall. There he
is standing grave as an image, his hand
on a studbook. His hat, rather like an
old-time Quaker’s, has a buckle on it.
Then there’s the saddle made famous by
both horse and rider, Carbine and Bob
Ramage. That was lent by Bobby Lewis.
Many of the trophies and pictures recall
to memory that fine sportsman Spencer
Brunton.
The Cheeke family is represented by
Clove, Judge Cheeke’s horse, winner of
the first A.J.C. Derby, 1865. There is
Marvel, that once beat Carbine; also
Phar Lap, Peter Pan and Desert Gold and
a string of beauties. There are also
pictures of early Australian racecourses
with gentlemen in tall hats and ladies
in bonnets and dolmans, creatures ot
the Vanity Fair of their times. Campbell
Jones and Theo Marks, who arranged
the show, acted as guides to Lady
Wakehurst on the opening day.
Artist Jean Appleton, back Irom
studies in England and France, has hung
a show of her paintings in the Macquarw
Galleries. Douglas Dundas, who was
to have made the opening remarks,
prevented by a bereavement, so John
Moore performed the little ceremony. A
bright-red patent-leather bag cheered
Jean’s navy suit and hat. There was a
bright-faced group of friends to congratu-
late Jean on the sale of two pictures, even
before the show opened. Every bod.
remarked on artist Dorothy Thornhills
hat—an uplift creation in black exotic
straw. Jean’s mother, great-aunt and
cousin were in the company. Mrs A-
Shorter, in a pale-blue frock, long '
coat and pale mauve hat, suggested m
summer dusks.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1368 of 1940.
BETWEEN FLORENCE MAY POULTON
Petitioner and
ROBERT LESLIE POULTON Respondent.
TO ROBERT LESLIE POULTON formerly
of Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that the said FLORENCE
MAY POULTON has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Twenty-ninth day of
November next and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this fourth day of September, a.d.
1940.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, JOHN COR-
CORAN & CO., Solicitors, 2 York Street,
Sydney.
Notice to Next-of-kin.
ALL PERSONS claiming to be next-of-kin of
ELIZABETH STANNARD, late of Westport, in
New Zealand, Widow, Deceased, are requested to
communicate with the undersigned immediately,
when they will learn something to their advan-
tage in connection with the estate of the above-
named deceased, who was the daughter of
EDWARD DOYLE and JULIA DOYLE, late
of Sydney, New South Wales.
COTTRELL & LOVELL, Solicitors, West-
port, New Zealand.
Legal Notices.
IN THE MATTER of “The Trustee Act 1908”
Section 74 and
IN THE MATTER of the estate of ELIZA-
BETH STANNARD late of Westport in
New Zealand Widow Deceased.
PURSUANT to an order made by a Judge of
the Supreme Court of New Zealand on the
20th day of August 1940 NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN that all creditors next-of-kin and other
persons having claims against the estate of the
above-named deceased person who died at
Westport on the 14th day of October 1931
and Probate of whose will and codicils was
granted by the Supreme Court of New Zealand
at Westport on the 11th day of November
1931 are hereby required to send in full par-
ticulars in writing of their claims to the Execu-
tors ANTHONY CRISPE COTTRELL and
HENRY LOVELL at the offices of their
Solicitors MESSIEURS COTTRELL AND
LOVELL No. 5 Brougham Street Westport
New Zealand not later than 42 days after
the last publication of this notice on the
25th day of September 1940 after v/hich period
the Executors will proceed to distribute the
assets of the deceased among the persons en-
titled thereto having regard only to the claims
and demands of which they shall then have
had notice.
DATED at Westport, New Zealand, this
23rd day of August, 1940.
COTTRELL AND LOVELL, Solicitors,
Westport, N.Z., Solicitors to the Executors.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
IN THE MATTER of an Agreement for Sale
dated the 21st day of July 1916 made
betweeen CO-OPERATIVE ESTATES
LIMITED of the one part and JOHN
BLOXAM PURTON of the other part.
BETWEEN CO-OPERATIVE ESTATES
LIMITED (in liquidation) Plaintiff
And JOHN BLOXAM PURTON Defen-
dant.
TO JOHN BLOXAM PURTON late of Court-
ney Street New Town in Tasmania.
TAKE NOTICE that an Originating Sum-
mons has been filed in this Court by the above-
named Plaintiff directing you to appear and
answer the claims set out therein viz.:
1. it may be declared that the Plaintiff
is entitled by virtue of the abovemen-
tioned Agreement for Sale to an equitable
charge upon the lands and hereditaments
comprised in the said Agreement for Sale
(being Lots 171 and 172 on a certain sub-
division plan filed in the Lands Titles Office
and being portion of the lands comprised in
Certificate of Title registered Volume 234 Folio
21) for securing to the Plaintiff the sum
of £216/8/10 being the balance of principal
and interest calculated up to the Ist day
of July 1940.
2. That in the alternative it may be declared
that the Plaintiff is entitled to a Vendor’s
lien in respect of the said lands and heredita-
ments by virtue of the said agreement and
non-payment of the purchase money.
3. That the said lands and hereditaments may
be sold with the approbation of this Honorable
Court to enforce the said equitable charge
or Vendor’s lien and that all necessary and
proper direction may be given for carrying
out such sale; and that the conduct of the
sale may be committed to the Plaintiff.
In default of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the Court
will proceed to hear the said claims proved and
pronounce judgment in respect thereto AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the pur-
pose aforesaid an appearance must be entered
at the Registry of the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania Macquarie Street Hobart on or before
the 2nd day of November, 1940.
(1.5.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
Melbourne
Chatter
Sunshine and warm weather gave a
good kick-off to Tin Hat Day, another
Flag Day with wheels (frowned upon and
banished from the streets for the last
Red Cross Day), lucky dips, stalls and
tin-hat buttons. It was organised by the
R.S.L. war service fund, working in con-
junction with the Comforts Fund—thus
the old Diggers were helping the new
ones. An innovation was the air-raid
warden’s post, which, springing up the
day before, had everybody guessing. It
looked then very much like the real thing
in entrances to air-raid shelters.
Passers-by watched the Parks and
Gardens lorries draw up loads of
sandbags, the erection of a cypress
hedge (they imagined to make the
place more presentable to aesthetic
eyes) and the digging of a hole under the
pavement. Lots of people went home
that evening thinking that excavations
had been made under the whole Town
Hall, and that an air-raid shelter was an
accomplished fact in the city. On Tin
Hat Day the mission of the warden’s
post was realised, for admission within
the cypress hedge was by silver coin.
Even the persistent and inquisitive
couldn’t see much through the branches
without paying their mite. Sightseers
were frequent throughout the day.
A meeting that went with a swing was
that held at Mrs. Russell Clarke’s house
with the object of forming an auxiliary
committee to work for the maintenance
of Navy House. Those at the meeting
displayed a sense of humor, and yet got
through their jobs in good time and in
a businesslike manner. Lady Colvin and
Mrs. Humphrey Clegg enjoy a joke as
much as anybody, and there was bright
repartee over suggestions for the name
of the auxiliary, until, much to the em-
barrassment of the Admiral’s wife, the
title “Lady Colvin’s Auxiliary” was car-
ried unanimously. Suggestions were
varied, and even the frivolous ones got a
hearing. There were backers for “Sea-
spray,” “Mermaids,” “Nelson” and “Lady
Nelson,” though the last-named by a
natural trend of thought suggested “Lady
Hamilton” and “Emma’s Emissaries.”
But for cool thinking and co-operative
ability the beauteous Emma, by all ac-
counts, wouldn’t have stood a chance
with our Admiral’s wife.
Down at “Deb’s Dell” there were
several fixtures last week to help defray
ingoing costs. The cafe has been recog-
nised by the powers-that-be, and the Gov-
ernment has promised that when the first
big batch of children from England arrives
here they will be taken to the Dell for
a welcome to warm their hearts, a pic-
ture show, ice-creams, hundreds and
thousands and lemonade. The cafe will
open in October with teas and coffees
and lunches first, so that the amateur
waitresses will become accustomed to
their routine ; then, when they are slick
on the job, dinners will be introduced.
The Wine and Food Society has booked
the cafe for a dinner on the 26th. It will
be a testing point, but the staff means to
rise to the occasion. Professional
waitresses have generously offered to help.
Last week’s parties were an American
tea (“bring a gift and buy a gift”), a
kitchen-tea and a bridge party. The
kitchen utensils looked like doing good
service. A duplication can always be
put in a lucky dip on some future date.
Mrs. Simon McLennan and Mrs. O. F.
Phillips organised the bridge afternoon,
relinquishing for the time being their
favorite bridge for a game of solo that
allowed for occasional interruptions.
Backstage helpers who toed the line with
a will in the glitter of the stainless-steel
xitchen included Mrs. Campbell Jones
and Mrs. Mac Knox, both “pearl-diving,”
as they say in the A.I.F. Mrs. Lawrence
Friend, an attractive young brunette, was
getting her hand in at serving tea.
Citizens of Hong Kong of a few months
ago would have been surprised at the
paity last week in Connibere Hali for
Hong Kong evacuees, for the wives of
the Navy, the Army and civilians didn’t
remain in tight, segregated little groups,
they mixed, or at least they started to
h? 1 ?’ Aether freely, while upstairs their
c udren had the time of their lives play-
ing Chinese checkers and listening to
Y W -C.A. helpers. One small
£ i ot live made a beeline for the piano,
where she entertained an admiring group
with innumerable tunes with one hand.
The party was a gesture of welcome from
the Y.W. to the new arrivals. There’s
a hospitality committee, with Mrs. A. C.
Tregonning as chairman, and a rest-
room in the Y.W. premises has been put
at the disposal of the Hong Kong people
from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. daily. The Y.W.
also offers service in the matter of advice
about housing, schools, medical and
dental attention, etc. Mrs. Tregonning s
committee also spent two entire week-
ends honeycombing the suburbs, inspect-
ing accommodation, and members have
regretfully come to the conclusion that
Australian city-dwellers are not family-
minded, for “No children” is a too-com-
mon injunction.
Three young English boys, fitting off-
spring of their attractive mother, Mrs.
Dougal McDougall, have arrived in Mel-
bourne to swell this city’s growing child-
hood population. It is only a year since
Mrs. McDougall returned to England
after a former visit to her friends and
relatives here. She and her boys are
staying with her mother, Mrs. A. E.
Ramsay.
The youthful influx also includes Juliet
and Dione Sherbrooke, whose pride is
in the Navy—father commands the Cos-
sack and was decorated by the King the
day before the children sailed for a
quieter country in the care of a nurse
they are very fond of. Their mother
has remained in England. Mrs. Leila
Armitage, of the Travellers’ Aid, was on
deck with words of welcome.
Herewith a Spencer Shier portrait of
blonde Phyllis Timmins, who becomes
Mrs. Selwyn Bates at St. John’s on the
afternoon of September 18. Phyl, who
is the younger daughter of the Arthur
Timmins couple, of Landale-place, will
be attended by her sister, Mrs. David
Alsop. The ’groom-to-be is the youngest
son of the late Edward Bates and of Mrs.
Bates, of Toorak.
A Sydney artist, Mary Edwards,
arrived in Melbourne with 36 of her
colorful and characteristic paintings,
which were shown on the top floor of
the Assembly Hall. In spite of J. D. G.
Medley keeping his date to open the
show, the first afternoon was a matter
of empty spaces —which goes to show
that the Melbourne picture - viewing
public must be wooed with publicity,
with individual invitations and with tech-
nique. Although the name of Mary
Edwards is well known in Sydney,
although she had violets by the bushel
picked out on the violet farm to give the
pleasant but little known gallery an air of
festivity, although a Navy House money-
box was at the door, the opening day was
sparsely attended. Later on things were
much more cheerful, and Sir Winston
Dugan was among the visitors.
Miss Edwards’s paintings at this show
are all souvenirs of her last trip to Java
and Bali. Among purchases which she
brought home with her from these islands
were several pounds of black rice, which
she says is delicious when cooked the right
way with plenty of brown sugar but very
little water. But the Customs didn’t take
to the rice in a kindly manner, and for
the last six months there has been
wrangle, Customs v. Edwards, in progress,
which was wound up the other day with
a draw. Each took half the contents.
Miss Edwards found her share had gone
mouldy.
Miss Edwards’s generous gesture for
Navy House was the outcome of her love
of ships and the sea. In charge of the
Navy box on the first day was Mrs. F. R.
James, busily knitting socks for sailors
and wearing a joyous smile at her recent
mail and snapshots from her first-lieu-
tenant husband, who’s away at sea. In
the snap he and an equally cheery-look-
ing officer are wearing shorts and their
“Mae Wests,” anti-aircraft gadgets which
blow up like balloons.
A sextet of artists, W. A. Dargie,
P. G. Moore, R. M. Warner, Percy
Watson, Colvin Smith and Max Ragless,
are running a choice little show at the
Athenaeum, which was opened by George
Sutton, Tail-wagger in Chief, in the glory
of a major’s uniform. He’s attached to
the “Intelligence,” and parries any sug-
gestions from his pals that an Intelligence
officer does not necessarily mean an in-
telligent one. He says he’s been asked
to open about 40 shows, and this is the
first one to which he has succumbed. The
instigator was P. G. Moore, who exhibits
among his interiors marigolds and
almond-blossom and the Sutton features,
full face.
Among those who heard the opening
speech was a brother dog-lover of Major
Sutton, A. L. Latham. Interested spec-
tators in the work of younger brother
painters were John Longstaff and Daryl
Lindsay. Present likewise was Mrs.Dargie,
whose portrait was exhibited by her hus-
band, who also showed several pictures
of great interest and a self-portrait,
arresting although he has libelled himself
with the russet tint of the nose.
In Athol Shmith’s portrait is Danise
Hoban, who is one of the ticket secre-
taries for the Unnamed Players’ produc-
tion this evening (11th) in Central Hall,
“The Passing of the Third Floor Back,”
for the Silver Junk Fund. The show had
its first night in the provinces at North-
cote, which experiment proved interest-
ing. The play was put on for the Mel-
bourne Hospital Fund, and Northcote
rose nobly to the occasion, for it liked
the play and was sympathetic to Jerome
K. Jerome’s symbolical meaning. Other
recent Unnamed Players’ patriotic efforts
were performances of “Mr. Pirn Passes
By” in the Malvern and Camberwell
Town Halls for the Red Cross and Com-
forts. Parts of importance in “The Pass-
ing of the Third Floor Back” will be
taken by Russell Foreman, who is the
Stranger, and Vera Keech, who's the
little slavey Stacia. Mrs. Maie Hoban,
who is Danise’s mother, is the producer.
Mrs. Angus Robertson, who used to
be tennis champion Esna Boyd, has ar-
rived in Melbourne from her home in
Scotland, plus two children and much
Scottish war-work experience. Two years
ago she joined the Civil Nursing Reserve,
and completed the long and thorough
course which embraces practical work in
hospital wards. She also belonged to the
Women’s Voluntary Service, which
meant that mending day came three days
a week. Before being returned to the
troops their laundry passed through the
hands of W.V.S., which sewed on buttons,
mended semmits (i.e., singlets) of the
Scottish laddies, darned their socks or
replaced worn ones with new pairs.
Mrs. Robertson (her husband is chief
of the Observer Corps for the district
around Dunfermline) was also interested
in the land girls, being one of the super-
visors and liaison officers who interviewed
girls and their employers. As well as
providing the girls with uniforms the
Government also gives them a month’s
free tuition at an agricultural college.
Scottish people mourn the passing of the
kilt, which is being replaced throughout
the country by khaki battle dress, but in
Scotland, as in England, the spirit of the
people is amazing. Even young children
help, running messages after school and
collecting waste products in their push-
carts.
Mrs. Robertson has not played tennis
since war broke out, but until the war is
over she is likely to hold both the hard
and grass courts doubles championships
of Scotland, for she was successful in
1938, the last year the tournaments were
held. At present she and her children are
at the Windsor with her father, J. A.
Boyd, and sister, Dr. Alva Boyd.
“Chloe” in oils and “Diana and Her
Hounds” in brass were unveiled within
a few days of each other. To do honor
to Diana a lilypond has been built in the
Fitzroy Gardens. Not that the goddess
and huntress sees much of it; her back
is towards it and to the conservatory, at
her left is Cook’s cottage, before her
green sward and waving poplars.


>*
•vsn
%
Ay
m
?*/.
%
C o/,
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
SAVE MONEY
it's m
WTHRIFTY*
install
NEW
CHAMPIONS
m
v*z**
*Xi*
rm
.....
£5
W'/t
■ ■:- ■
CHAMPION
Bring
MORE SPEED
Learn a lesson from the race
drivers. They choose Champions,
the spark plugs with the
proven ability to give every
engine the strong hot sparks
that bring out its best speed,
power and fuel economy. In
racing and in every-day driv-
ing, Champions are winners!
An Emoire nroduct—made in Windsor, Canada
SPARK
PLUGS
THE FLYING COLUMN
Savage Raids on London.
“Ek D.”: Though the air war is
destroying life and property wherever it
rages, the greatest havoc has been caused
in places of little military value which
have been taken unawares. In a suburb
of Rotterdam 30,000 people of all ages
suffered a fate not unlike that of the in-
habitants of Pompeii.
Ramsgate would have fared as hor-
ribly if it had not been well provided
with deep shelters. As it was, accord-
ing to Mr. Churchill, 1000 houses and
shops there were wrecked. Knicker-
bocker, the American correspondent,
says the bloodthirsty job was done with
500 lcwt. bombs which were dropped by
50 bombers inside 44 minutes, and that
actually 1222 buildings were laid waste,
but only 28 people were killed and 45
injured.
When Knickerbocker wrote, Folkestone,
the English Channel port for Boulogne,
had had six of its normal 47,000 inhabi-
tants killed and 150 houses wrecked. In
Portsmouth 100 were killed in a single
raid, when bombs landed on a crowded
cinema and on ill-protected air-raid
shelters filled with women and children.
Dover, on the other hand’ had lost only
six killed and 12 houses destroyed in six
raids.
Last week small numbers of bombers
were sent over the Channel, guarded
by large numbers of fighters, to keep
off Hurricanes and Spitfires while pro-
miscuous slaughter was in progress over
London and other cities. But a bag of 12
Jaguars was made by a single squadron
of Spitfires.
R.A.F. raiders, because of the long dis-
tances traversed, cannot have the German
advantage of fast-fighter protection, but
they have proved well able to look after
themselves, and losses of Whitleys and
Wellingtons are few. This is all the more
remarkable because many raids on Ger-
many carry the offensive straight into the
heart of the Siegfried Line defences.
Last week the R.A.F. was hanging its
washing all over the Line. Its operations
were diversified with visits to Berlin,
where it dropped bombs in the heart
of the city. The raiders started a huge
fire near the great Lehrte station, which
lies across the Spree on the west from
the Tiergarten, bearing about the same
relation in position to the main shopping
and official centres as Central Station
does in Sydney. Moabit in the same
region—the court centre of Berlin —was
attacked and, well to the north, Tegel
railway station was bombed. It.is the
traffic channel of the great Borsig and
other arms and munition factories.
Spandau in the outer western and Pots-
dam in the south were visited. This last
raid of a busy week occupied 165
minutes.
During the same week Mr. Churchill
and Hitler made speeches Hitler on
Sept. 4, the P.M. on Sept. 5. The Fiihrer
was not at his best, but he sounded angry
enough to be in earnest when he re-
marked that for three months he had
waited for the Englishers to cease the
nuisance of nightly bomb-throwing in
Germany. Now, he said, the Germans
would give their answer: —-
If the British throw down 5000 pounds
of bombs, we wilt throw down 375,000
pounds—yes, 500,000 pounds. If the
British attack our cities we will simply
erase theirs. We will call a halt to the night
pirates. The hour is coming when one of
us will break up, and it will not be
Nazi Germany.
Fie claimed that he would determine the
hour when the war would end and when
he would compel the Britons to substitute
General Fact for their allies, General
Winter, General Hunger and Field-
Marshal Bluff. .
Mr. Churchill said air-raid casualties in
Britain numbered 1075 killed —627 men,
335 women and 113 children —and 1200
seriously wounded. He added that the
German attempt to dominate the R.A.F.
had proved very costly to the enemy,
who had lost three machines and six
pilots for every British machine or air-
man destroyed. He declared that, while
the Germans exulted in having shot down
1921 British ’planes in August, actual
losses had been only 558, and only 800
houses, out of a total of 13,000,000 in the
U.K., had been damaged beyond repair.
The danger of invasion, he said, was not
past, but if attack would have been diffi-
cult in June, it would be far more diffi-
cult in September.
On Saturday the Luftwaffe made a
furious attempt to carry out Hitler’s
threat. Using hundreds of machines it
struck at East London, where docks,
warehouses and works lie along both
sides of the river from the Tower
Bridge to Tilbury, where Queen Eliza-
beth’s forces assembled to repel the
armada, Gravesend and beyond.
This area presents a vast target hedged
in by teeming suburbs in which dock
workers, shipyard men, seamen, munition
makers and their families live in hundreds
of thousands. No attack could be made
here on any neighborhood without whole-
sale killing and maiming of humble
people, clustered in Erith, Woolwich,
Greenwich, Bermondsey, Rotherhithe,
Blackwall, Limehouse, Barking, Wapping,
Shadwell and the Isle of Dogs and the
City itself.
The dock areas in size are beyond
conception to anybody who has not
seen them.
Tilbury alone has well over 500 acres,
and in the bend of the river on the
south by Rotherhithe, the Surrey Com-
mercial Docks cover as great a space.
The West India Docks on the Isle of
Dogs run to nearly 300 acres, opening
into the Blackwall and Limehouse
reaches. Outward beyond the River
Lea are the 200 acres of the Royal Vic-
toria and Royal Albert docks, and these
are only part of the total. Underneath
is a labyrinth of river tunnels, electric,
sewer and water mains.
Throughout the whole of the hours
of darkness on Saturday night and Sun-
day morning four-engined Domiers and
Junkers in the 20-ton classes flew in
double-squadron spearhead formations
of 24, dropping huge quantities of metal
and explosives from Tilbury to the City.
For eight hours waves of raiders flew up
and down, and the detonations of their
bombs shook the foundations of the
deepest shelters miles away in western
London.
The greatest fires since the Great Fire
of London blazed into the sky, but were
got under control. People emerged
from eight-hour shifts in the shelters
into a smoke-wreathed dawn, to find
their homes mere heaps of rubbish.
Here stood smoking the bare walls of
a hospital, there the remains of a theatre
and the tumbled ruins of big industrial
flat buildings. Where mains had burst
water was ankle-deep in the streets.
“Reprisals for British night attacks on
non-military objectives” was the official
enemy excuse for the atrocities, and the
chief of the German Press Bureau “pre-
dicted” that “the climax of this war is
near.” “A million kilogrammes of
bombs,” the communique went on,
“were dropped on harbor and indus-
trial areas,” and “quaysides, merchant-
men, docks, warehouses, power-, water-
and gasworks, arsenals, factories and
traffic communications were hit.” And
the raids, it was asserted, extended to
places stretching from the south-east
coast to Liverpool and Manchester. The
British Government admitted that the
Midlands had been heavily raided.
The British report on the damage done
in London was that it was largely non-
military, but there can be no question
that the dislocation was immense, and
that all the Middlesex area on Sunday
morning was covered by a smoke
canopy against which flames were still
reflected in the east. And when mil-
lions of weary but indomitable people
had emerged from their shelters (one, in
East London, suffered a direct hit which
took a heavy toll of helpless people) the
Air Ministry announced that 400 persons
had been killed and 1300 to 1400
wounded, while 99 German machines
had been brought down and 35 more
were not expected to reach home.
Fighters accounted for 74 machines and
lost 22. The enemy admitted the loss
of 26 ’planes but claimed to have brought
down 94 British machines.
A Port of London official declared
that, while docks have been considerably
damaged, the port is not immobilised,
the principal berths are intact and the
loss of food is not severe. Services will
be maintained.
It is offensive war reduced to its lowest
common denominator one in which
most of those who are slaughtered have
never raised a finger to harm a fellow
human being and who themselves have
always held war in horror.
But all over England the bugles of a
score of nations sound in the camps.
A.A. guns point their long muzzles to the
sky and cough as the shadows of the
black Junkers slide over the browning
beechwoods and the dried-off gorse of
southern England. Squadrons of fighters
catapult into the sky.
And all the time convoys stream into
ports with supplies. Railways and canals
are full of loaded traffic. Munition fac-
tories hum as thousands of shell-making
machines each throw off a six-incher
every 40 seconds or a shower of bullets
which will presently load the Brownings.
Every shipyard resounds to the deafen-
ing racket of the riveters helping to rear
up another million tons of naval ship-
ping. And in village churchyards they
bury the charred corpses of murderers
of women and children who have fallen
out of the sky.
Goring, it seems, has been entrusted
with “the task of attacking the heart
of the British Empire,” and the Berlin
official newsagency threatens that
“London wifi be bombed with millions
of bombs while British night raids con-
tinue against non-military objectives in
Germany.” A million bombs a year means
2739 a day, 114 an hour, two a minute —
the Luftwaffe will need to speed up con-
siderably.
The Air War Day by Day.,
September 3: British bombers con-
tinue raids on Germany and on gun-
emplacements along French coast. Ger-
mans report further bombings of aero-
dromes in Britain, causing several fires ;
also incendiary attacks on harbors,
armament factories and other objec-
tives ; “62 British and 10 German
machines shot down.” British estimate
numbers at Germans 25, British five.
R.A.F. announces attacks on electric
power station at Genoa, Bosch factory
at Stuttgart, Bayer explosive works
near Cologne and other points, as
well as French port of Lorient and gun-
emplacements at Cape Gris-Nez. Italians
try to bomb Malta but are driven off.
September 4: Hitler announces that
“hundreds of thousands of bombs will
drop on England every night from now
on in retaliation for British night raids
on Germany.” Raid on Berlin —the sixth
in ten days—round midnight, closing
down radio stations and keeping air-raid
shelters occupied for two hours. Enemy
admits that isolated bombers pierced
inner ring of defences, dropped bombs
in the Tiergarten, and hit army stores
in n.-w. suburb without much damage.
R.A.F. reports starting of fires in
the Black Forest and the Lunenburger
Heath, between Hamburg and Hanover;
also in forests outside Berlin. German
High Command declares that bomb
dropped on workers’ suburb in north
German town killed 18 civilians. Claims
hangars, aerodromes, ammunition stores,
docks, shipyards and factories damaged
in Britain. Air Ministry reports scattered
raids, mostly at night, over wide areas,
including London, causing casualties and
fires. Machine losses for day 54 Ger-
mans and 11 British —five R.A.F. pilots
safe.
Italians admit loss of two ’planes during
R.A.F. North African raid. They claim
to have brought down seven R.A.F.
machines co-operating in naval and air
attack on Italian Aegean bases, and to
have carried out five massed counter-
attacks against the R.N., the R.A.F. and
a convoy, “seriously damaging” four
vessels and shooting down five further
R.A.F. machines against a loss of two
Italian.
September 5: Fiercer and more wide-
spread German attacks. House of Com-
mons adjourns on a warning. Biggest
attack yet on London area, setting fire
to works and causing damage. A church
demolished and flat-dwellers killed when
100 bombs drop in one section of city.
Further raids on Germany and France
by R.A.F. German casualties in British
raids, 39 machines ; British, 20 machines
(11 pilots).
September 6: R.A.F. attacks Calais-
Boulogne coast for 80 minutes, and at
night raids heart of Berlin; buildings
fired near the Lehrte station and in
adjacent Moabit; fires started and power
station and railway yards damaged. Ger-
mans declare military damage slight;
admit three killed, 20 injured, and
claim to have brought down isolated
R.A.F. machines at Hanover and Dort-
mund. Raids on other parts of Germany,
Belgium and northern France.
Raids on England continue; bombs
dropped in London suburb south of the
Thames; streets closed to traffic; 30
families homeless; some killed and
injured.
September 7-8: Heavy German forma-
tions totalling 500 giant bombers attack
London dock area in an eight-hour raid
lasting from 9 p.m. Saturday till 5 a.m.
Sunday. Widespread fires and damage
to docks, water mains, gasworks, build-
ings, etc. ; 400 dead, 1300 wounded.
British estimate of German casualties,
99 machines certain and probably
another 35 ; 22 British. Germans report
having raided numerous aviation, manu-
facturing and port centres from Channel
coast to Liverpool; heavy raids in
Midlands admitted. Smaller raid on
Sunday ; eight German and three British
machines down.
Italian raids on Malta, Mersa Matruh,
Haifa and Suez Canal; enemy claims to
have started large fires at Haifa and to
have damaged two steamers and a cruiser.
Malta is now facing six air raids per
day on an average. Announced that up
to September 8 Germany has lost 3842
’planes, Italy 128 and Britain 1177.


Position Vacant.
The Bulletin has an opening for an
accountancy student, intermediate standard,
aged 18-19, for training in financial journalism.
Apply by letter, Staff Manager, “The Bulletin,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
FIT
a*?
USTRALIAN. EVERY PENNY OF
WAGES ANO DIVIDENDS REMAINS
IN AUSTRALIA.
AVAILABLE AT ALL LEADING GARAGES AND TYRE DEALERS
THE SERVICE MAN
Destroyers from Uncle Sam.
“Nobby II”: The R.N. gets a hand-
some addition to its light flotillas in the
50 destroyers handed over by Uncle Sam
in exchange for long-term leases of naval
and air base sites in Newfoundland,
Bermuda, Jamaica, St. Lucia, Trinidad,
Antigua and British Guiana. The need
for them should be a lesson to Britain
and the Commonwealth never again to
commit follies such as the Washington
Treaty and destroy useful vessels. Aus-
tralia had five destroyers of the same
age and size as these, and a knot faster,
but after growing moss at their buoys
off Garden Island they were turned into
scrap iron.
Uncle Sam’s exchange vessels are the
1100-ton flush-deck, four-funnel type built
around the end of the last war. Oil
burners, they carry—mostly—four 4in.
and one 3in. A.A. guns, and four triple
21in. torpedo tubes. With a maximum
speed of 35 knots, they are useful escort
vessels, and E-boats and U-boats are dead
meat for them.
Though Britain has a fleet in being
which in most types, except submarines,
is stronger numerically than all the rest
of the world’s navies, leaving out the
U.S.A.’s, and has about a million tons
on the stocks (including two 42,000-ton
battleships), she can do with the de-
stroyers.
The more destroyers the safer the
convoys, the wider the submarine hunt,
the bolder naval policy in general can be.
The widespread nature of the war lays
vast African and insular coastlines open
to attack, and with overwhelming
superiority of light forces the R.N. will
be able to keep many enemy destroyers
locked up in their main harbors, while
surplus R.N. ships not needed for warder
duty or escort can be used to harry at
their own sweet will.
Mr. Menzies has remarked that the
acquirement pf the new ships may be the
turning point of the war. It may well
be, even if it does nothing more than
accelerate the destruction of submarines.
Though attention is concentrated on
the air war, the effective damage done
in attacks on British and neutral convoys
is more serious than anything so far
achieved on land by bombers. The aver-
age weekly loss of merchantmen by
Britain, her allies and neutrals from the
outbreak of war to August 25 was 52,000
tons, a total for the 51 weeks of 2,652,000
tons ; but of this 1,153,000 tons has been
sunk since May 27. The Germans, of
course, claim to have inflicted far heavier
losses ; their reckoning of ships sunk in
the week ended August 25 was 183,000
tons. The Admiralty’s estimate of the
tonnage of enemy shipping sunk to Sep-
tember 2 was 1,196,000 tons, including
273,000 tons Italian and 32,000 tons
neutral seized by Germans.
It has been brought home to Australia
again by the disappearance early in
August of the small French vessel Notou
on her way to Noumea that safety lies
only in constant and thorough patrol of
adjacent seas.
The Italian Mystery.
“D.E.”: There are curious reports
from Europe—and not from Europe only
—that Italy is manoeuvring for a separate
peace. It seems a very remote pos-
sibility at the moment; but extraordinary
things have happened in this war and
things as extraordinary may happen. We
have seen an old ally and coddled pro-
teges turn dog on Britain ; we may—
who knows? —yet see an ancient friend-
ship, based on ideals and interests held
in common, prevail over an unnatural
and vamped-up enmity.
Englishmen who know Italy have all
along believed that the war against the
British is disliked by great sections of
the people. Some even hold that the
absence of war fever amongst steadygoing
elements too important to be ignored ex-
plains the very cautious and dilatory
measures of the Government —a Govern-
ment whose country is so poor that it
cannot possibly sustain a long war. In
the course of three months the Italians
have undertaken a serious offensive only
in British Somaliland ; and that may con-
ceivably have been for considerations of
prestige. The Italian Air Force has done
little, and, except for an occasional sub-
marine raid, the Italian Navy has been
on the defensive throughout.
Last week it came out that soldiers and
airmen, Australians among them, were
arriving in the Middle East in “a con-
tinuous stream of convoys,” one of the
convoys being “the largest to move
anywhere since the war began”; and
that “the effective strength of our
eastern Mediterranean Fleet” had been
“virtually doubled.” Among the re-
inforcing units were “some of Britain’s
most powerful warships,” and in a five-
day passage through the Mediterranean
they were unopposed. Unopposed also
“Have her checked over , sergeant—she seems a little unresponsive.”
were recent naval and Fleet Air Arm
attacks on the Libyan port of Bardia and
the island of Scarpanto in the Dodecanese.
Our own H.M.A.S. Sydney took part in
the bombardment of Scarpanto.
The Stunt Press recently found a simple
explanation of this queer inactivity—
the Italians have no stomach for war in
any form against an enemy who can hit
back. To show that they were rotten
sea-fighters one paper dug up an account
of an action fought in 1859. Another
described how “the inglorious sons of
the ancient Romans” were running away,
“real fighting” being beyond them,
whereas “give Italy a nice little job of
back-lane murder, a pleasant assignment
of assassination, and the dagger comes
out at once.”
This is not the language of the men,
Britons and Australians, who have come
to grips with the enemy. Nor was it the
judgment of Lloyd George, no friend to
Fascist Italy, as set down in his memoirs
of the last war. The old P.M. wrote:
No one has ever cast a doubt on the
bravery of the Italian soldier. Should a
doubter exist, let him visit Italian battle-
fields, and the last remnant of his scepticism
will be shamed out of his heart. No one
but brave men and extremely brave men
could have stormed those gigantic fastnesses.
An Australian bluejacket who took part
in an action against three Italian de-
stroyers has recorded that “one kept her
guns firing when she was absolutely
enveloped in flame.”
It lit up the sky for miles around, and
explosions were occurring all over her. I
was admiring this amazing scene when three
great torpedoes hurtled past our ship.
How anybody could have been alive to
fire them had me beat.
Forty-seven Italians were rescued when
the destroyer sank, which she did a few
minutes after the three torpedoes were
fired. “Many were very badly wounded,”
and two died on the way to port.
The survivors were treated like guests of
honor, and everybody is the best of friends.
They have got the recreation-room to them-
selves, are up on deck nearly all day, are
supplied with plenty of smokes, have the
same tucker as ourselves and join in our
sing-songs in the fo’c’sle. In all they’re a
pretty decent lot of chaps.
This spirit has by no means been con-
fined to one side. A member of the crew
of a sinking British destroyer has given
an account of how he and his mates were
rescued by an Italian warship, which
they cheered when she came alongside.
Unlike knights of the fountain pen and
paladins of the padded bench, the men
in the fighting services neither hate nor
despise this enemy. The officers and the
men of H.M.A.S. Sydney buried the
captain of the Bartolomeo Colleoni
with full naval honors, and when Balbo
crashed to his doom in Libya the Aus-
tralian-born Sir Arthur Longmore had a
letter conveying the respect and regrets
of the R.A.F. dropped in his lines.
Unfortunately British official propa-
ganda has been as bad in these wars as
British official information. When the
Italians came in and it may be sig-
nificant that President Roosevelt, who
had been trying to keep them out,
was astonished as well as indignant
—the egregious Mr. Duff Cooper
descended to the sort of taunt in which
Sydney papers have indulged (“the dis-
graceful flight of the Italian Army at
Caporetto... .there will be an increase
of the number of ruins for which Italy
has long been famous”), and was sharply
rebuked by the Labor “Daily Herald.”
Other members of the Government must
consider that anti-war feeling really exists
in Italy and is capable of being usefully
exploited ; anyway, in leaflets dropped by
R.A.F. ’planes on Turin and Milan, the
Italians were reminded that Germans
were their traditional oppressors, and
that their liberation was “achieved only
when their forefathers rose in arms
against the tyrants and chased their hated
enemies, Germans, from Piedmont and
Lombardy.”
In this war, which you do not want,
Italy is a vassal State of Hitler. Are you
in the war for a greater Italy? Not at all.
You are in the war to make Hitler stronger,
to enable him to exploit the Italian
people.
The British Empire is ready for
anything that Italy may do. But if
there is the remotest chance of
manoeuvring it out of the war—and
here Americans, particularly Mr. La
Guardia, the Mayor of New York, can
do, and are doubtless doing, some ser-
vice—it should be grasped and exploited,
even if Mr. Duff Cooper and Stunt Press
editors have to be gagged in the process.
“The largest convoy on the seas since
the outbreak of war” has landed thou-
sands of soldiers, airmen and technicians
and thousands of tons of war material
in Egypt. The men include units from
Australia, India and Ceylon.
* * * *
“Nobby II”: The crew of H.M.A.S.
Sydney will have some great stories to
tell when they come home. She has been
on continuous patrol for two months,
almost every day marked by incident.
Pictures of the Colleoni battle show the
devastating mess which Sydney made of
that ill-fated ship. The Colleoni was
holed in two places in the hull above the
waterline, once through the fore- and
once through the after-magazine—mag-
nificently accurate shooting, as clean a
job as was ever done in naval warfare.
The forward magazine
had blown out under the
A and B turrets, taking
the forecastle clean off
the forward bulkheads and
leaving the ship unable to
anchor. The big runs
were torn out of the fore
turrets, the rear turrets
destroyed, with one six-
inch gun hanging over
the end of the quarter-
deck. Her ensigns were
down, the foremast gone,
the yards torn off her
aftermast, her after-
funnel damaged, her
bridges on fire.
* * *
The first shipload of Germans and
Italians from Britain —some internees,
others prisoners of war —arrived in Aus-
tralia under guard of a “Q” regiment
commanded by Lieut.-Colonel W. P.
Scott, who has had three brothers killed
in the present war and two others cap-
tured by the Germans. The ship was
attacked while in convoy after leaving
England, and two torpedoes passed under
her without doing any damage. The guard
—one of its officers, Lieutenant J.
O’Neill, is a V.C. of 1914-18 —was drawn
mainly from the Royal Norfolks and the
Suffolk Regiment, and gave Australians
their first glimpse of British battle dress.
During the voyage there were disturb-
ances between Germans and Italians, and
Lieut.-Colonel Scott remarked that “we
had our moments.” Two of the prisoners
died from natural causes and one jumped
overboard. The cargo was handed over
to armed Australian troops and entrained
for secret camps.


Gut ttf-
THE “CHAMELEON” ROOM
5 m
1
m
L
Famous as he is for startling transformations, even
the chameleon hardly compares with Cane-ite, the
modern STRUCTURAL insulation. Old, dingy walls,
stained, cracked ceilings can be covered quickly
and inexpensively with Cane-ite. You can have your
entire home modernised; rescue a disused room;
transform basement or lumber room into a delightful,
attractive guest room, study or recreation room. In
addition when you renovate and decorate with
Cane-ite, you insulate permanently against heat,
cold and noise.
Cane-ite is made in Australia. It is strong, durable,
white-ant-proofed. Made in three and four feet
widths in boards up to 12 feet long. Write now
for full information.
Masonite, "The Wonder Board of 1000 Uses", is proving
particularly popular for office and factory partitioning.
STRUCTURAL INSULATION
INSULATION FROM HEAT
i
- V- rr'cV
INSULATION FROM COLD
/C
\H r mm
INSULATION FROM NOISE
z
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD., (BUILDING MATERIALS DIVISION)
Sydney . Melbourne . Adelaide . Brisbane . Perth CA.21.40
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George s Tee., Perth
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
ri„ iWine Itc fasa
rhe Union Wins Its Case
“0.T.”: Without threats the A.W.U.
succeeded in obtaining from the Queens-
land Industrial Court a 2s. increase in
the shearing rate —to 40s. per 100.
Workers on sheep and cattle stations con-
trolled by respondents to the award are
to get £3 a week and keep.
C. G. Fallon, secretary of the old
union, had marshalled facts and argu-
ments that obviously impressed the Court
with their clarity and soundness, among
them that the sheep population of
Queensland was the highest ever recorded
and that fleece-weight average was likely
to be the same. The Court concluded
that the British wool price was a payable
one and that woolgrowing in Queensland
was “an industry of average prosperity.”
All the same, it would not hold that
the industry was exceptionally prosper-
ous, and put down the increase in sheep
to reclamation of prickly-pear country —
400 new sheep-raisers having taken up
land there and more coming into opera-
tion through subdivision of large hold-
jngs.
P. A. Brown, secretary of the United
Graziers, pointed out that three-fourths
of the growers ran an average of 5000
or fewer sheep ; the Court estimated
the net profit from 5000 head at present
wool prices as about £4OO per annum.
Accepting the graziers’ contention that
their improved position followed a long
period of adversity and that they had
not yet had time to overtake losses, the
Court remarked that, whereas the basic-
wage reduction during the adverse period
totalled 13 per cent., shearing rates had
gone down 28 per cent, below the highest
rate of £2 ss. a hundred and 20 per cent,
below the prosperity rate of £2 a hun-
dred. This, in the Court’s opinion,
looked very much like an equality of
sacrifice in hard times, and it held that
employees should at once share in any
improved conditions.
As for the graziers’ plea that antici-
pated increased taxation would render
them unable to meet any increase in
wages, the Court refused to transfer to
employees’ wages any liability for such
taxation, though it agreed that it would
be proper to take into account taxes in-
curred in earning profits when determin-
ing capacity to pay. The Court had to
assume that the Parliaments—all seven
of ’em —would impose taxes equitably.
It may privately have had its own
thoughts about multiple taxes, and if it
did it very properly kept them secret,
the Bench of an Industrial Court being
no place for expressions of that kind of
opinion. The graziers should get on to
their members about these taxes.
The Court did not overlook the
fact that a war was raging, and rather
grimly remarked that, though there had
been, and would continue to be, losses
of valuable wool cargoes by enemy
action, it would be the British Govern-
ment and not the woolgrowers which
would bear those losses.
The judgment should cause some hard
thinking in the rank-and-file of other
unions, particularly those whose leaders
have bamboozled them into believing
that their best bet is the strike-weapon
and/or the leadership of J. Stalin. The
A.W.U. is a pattern for every decent
Australian worker, and the back-country
at least should thank its stars that the
title Australian Workers’ Union means
what it says.
“Lid”: Darwin’s latest troubles con-
cern the mysterious disappearance of
silver money. A few weeks ago, when
the shortage was first noticed, £lOOO
worth of small change was sent up from
the South, but that, too, vanished, and
the three banks have been swapping their
small change several times daily until
they can get some more coin. Chinese
are blamed —they usually hoard what-
ever coin they can for a month or two
before the Chinese New Year —but the
large amount of silver paid to soldiers,
seamen and airmen is at least a con-
tributory cause.
“Philp”: The disappearance of silver
coins in Darwin reminds me of Jonathan
Morris. Jonathan used to run a hash-
house-cwra-dosshouse-cw/TC-picture-hall in
Kalgoorlie. The price of admission to
his Sunday-night shows was “a silver
coin,” and in 99.999 per cent, of cases
the silver coin was a threepenny bit.
Fed up with the parsimony of his patrons,
Jonathan set out to corner all the thrip-
pences in Kalgoorlie. He did, too, for a
time, but the banks beat him. Bowelless
concerns, banks. •
Mayor of Brisbane at one stage. His
hobby is cows, centred in a nice littie
Jersey herd at Maleny and presidency
of the Jersey Herd Society. In case you
think that’s something, we still have
Adolph Feez, a solicitor since ’B5, and
P. O’Shea, who beats Robinson’s time by
a few months.
* * * *
“Checker”: Sydney —I never can re-
member what part of N.S.W. that place
is in—is to receive a visit from Miss
A.1.F., who was born Amy Huggins, who
belongs to Toowoomba and who, as Miss
Post Office, raised £8912 of the £19,784
got by a competition for patriotic funds.
There was a fairly strong field in the
event, which carried a free trip to Sydney
and other prizes for the winner, and its
success has inspired plans for another
effort to raise cash. If you blokes m
The Bulletin are all eyes to behold our
“If’s a record! We held his breath for ten minutes .”
Private James Weir, a Darwin A.I.F.
man in England, tells the story of his
travels:
We had a very enjoyable trip over. The
last week was anxious, but we were well
guarded, and no subs, or mines were seen and
but one lot of wreckage—all that was left of
a merchant ship. We all had a great time in
London on our first leave. Everyone here
seems cheerful and intent on winning the war.
Factories, mines and munition works are work-
ing 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Union
rates and rules have been discarded, also
political differences. Naturally all food sup-
plies are rationed, but no one is going hungry.
Nothing at all is wasted. Of course the
troops grumble a bit, but that’s a soldier’s
privilege. Tobacco is fairly expensive, beer is
ninepence a pot and it takes some getting used
to. Everyone is waiting for the Australian
mail. We get no Australian news at all in the
newspapers, and there’s hardly any broadcast.
Very little has been seen of the English summer.
We have nothing but cold winds and rain. So
far Jerry has not bothered us with any raids,
though he has been close at times. Unde-
fended towns and merchant ships are more in
his line. All the boys are in good health and
training hard.
* v * * *
“23-4”: Toowoomba, the attractive
little Darling Downs city, is in the news
with the claim that for July it cost less
to live there than in any other of the 34
Australian cities on which the Common-
wealth Statistician bends an investiga-
tional eye. Strangely enough, Warwick,
in the same district, took the low-cost
prize in the previous month. Nobody
seems to know why these places should
achieve such distinction, particularly as
Toowoomba’s rent ratio is slightly above
that of the State. So far as the larger
cities are concerned, it could be insinu-
ated that their citizens have not only to
support themselves but also a variety of
egg, milk, meat and pancake boards, but
insinuations are no good to statisticians.
* * * *
“Poi-Poi”: The North has a drastic
effect on the health of southern Aus-
tralians who come up here. What with
tropical summers, humidity, cyclones and
hard yakka, life becomes one long battle
against dissolution. Take Mrs. Jane
Meise. She was born in Hobart (Tas.),
moved to this terrible place and —well,
it’s happened. She’s passed out at 100,
her eldest child being thus thrown on the
world at the tender age of 75.
* * * *
“McTort”: You blokes down south
can kick up a fuss about Evatt —were
busy congratulating Nicol Robinson, who
has just completed 50 years as a solicitor
of the Supreme Court of Queensland.
Actually, he began his legal career at
Maryborough in ’B5, being admitted as
a solicitor at Brisbane five years later,
when Sam Griffith led the Bar. Robinson
shared in a couple of partnerships, and
finished up practising for himself, being
Amy you’ll have to wait —the poor girl
broke a fetlock while dancing, and is
still on crutches.
* * * *
“Balander”: Something like a de-
parture for the front took place in Bris-
bane when wives, sweethearts and other
impedimenta gathered to farewell 60
M.R.C. road-workers who left on the
mail train for a 1450-mile rail journey
to Mt. Isa, where trucks picked them up
for the 650 miles to their section of the
Birdum-Alice defence road. Altogether
1145 toilers will lay the road, plans for
which envisage construction at the rate
of 4\ miles a day and completion before
the next wet season at a cost of £200,000.
The Army is to co-operate by taking
charge of the messing and camp arrange-
ments —this to give the A.A.S.C. a bit of
practical experience and as part of the
speed-up tactics. D. D. Smith, Common-
wealth resident engineer at the Alice, is to
join the fun. N.T. award rates are to be
paid the road-workers, who get free trans-
port to the job and a free mosquito-net
each. With such a mob loose in the Centre
on Sundays, there’s likely to be trouble
for the local rabbit, and swi-up schools
may flourish.
* * * *
“Rumper”: The buffalo-fly pest is
buzzing round again in the Gulf coun-
try, and some cattlemen are losing sleep
over it. Queensland’s chief parasitolo-
gist, Dr. F. H. S. Roberts, has set up
headquarters at Normanton, and is
traversing the fly country pretty thor-
oughly. He hopes to get a line on the
beastie’s home habits and love life and
to report back to the Agricultural Min-
istry. While Roberts is circulating round
the Gulf, another expert has gone to Can-
berra for a confab with Commonwealth
entomologists on the subject. Among
them all-well, here’s hoping, though the
blowfly is still chewing large pieces of
sheep in other parts despite a vast amount
of research, words, work and pastoral
cussing.


■
s m
g|g
m
■
HP
SBBS
..........
; 8
:■ ®
5 :
Captain James
PIMCi
New Member of Government Senate Team
Sailor - Shipmaster - Businessman - Grazier - Sportsman
Born in Scotland, Captain Janies Ronald
Patrick ran away to sea at the early age of
twelve. At the outbreak of the first world
war Captain Patrick joined the Royal Navy.
For meritorious service he was promoted in
1917 to Lieutenant-Commander. In 1920
he was promoted to Commander. His elder
son, to-day, is a Lieutenant-Commander in
the Royal Australian Navy. His younger
son is a Staff-Captain in the 9th Brigade of
the A.I.F.
On his retirement from the Navy Captain
Patrick founded the Patrick Steamship
Company, of which he is Governing Direc-
tor. From one small steamer the Patrick
Steamship Company has grown to a fleet
of four modern cargo vessels trading be-
tween Sydney, Melbourne, Newcastle and
Brisbane. These ships transport 12,000 tons
of Australian merchandise weekly. Some
two thousand men find employment at the
Patrick wharves, offices, and on board
Patrick vessels. The daily wages bill
amounts to approximately £l,OOO.
Has an- intimate knowledge of marine affairs
and conditions in the Pacific
Captain Patrick’s long association with the
sea and all matters pertaining to the Navy,
and the merchant service, is of paramount
importance to the farmer, the grazier, the
importer and the exporter. There is not a
man on either side of the House with the
knowledge of trading conditions, here and
overseas, which Captain Patrick possesses.
Such knowledge will be invaluable both
during the war and in the years immedi-
ately after the war, when one of our chief
problems will be the re-organisation of
overseas trade.
An intimate personal association with the
Pacific and the East —of foreign affairs and
trading conditions in those all-important
zones of interest —more than ever stress
Captain Patrick’s value to the nation at this
time.
A man, too, with a strong sense of civic
responsibility, he is one of the few Aus-
tralians who, in the years preceding the war,
urged and worked for defence prepared-
ness. As the Rt. Hon. W. M. Hughes said
on September 4th at Five Dock: "The
Senate has something coming to it.”
This, then, is Patrick the man —at your
service, in the service of Australia.
H ° Wto ca styou , v
f ° r **
alG °vemmen t
SJOEIH
® ABBOTT
saass
VOTE Will
B[ informal
PATRICK SAYS - form a National Government " WIN THE WAR
Authorised by J. S. K. Madennan, 135 Pitt St., Sydney


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esa. •
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receivin''
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking bus’iness
O.S.K. LINE
OSAKA SYOSEN KAISYA
BUSINESS MEN AND TOURISTS
should travel by
NEW, FAST MOTOR VESSELS
to
JAPAN, SOUTH AMERICA and AFRICA
Also Special Round the World Trip
European Cuisine and Accommodation
For Particulars, Fares, etc., apply
BIRT AND COMPANY (PTY.) LIMITED
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
8W1421.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
on The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
1 o avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
Ybe , selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady (19), Sydney, University night
student in arts, can type, office experience, seeks
position in small city library.—Blso.
Lady, Sydney, seeks position as reception
clerk, library attendant or as part-time organ-
iser.—Bl6B.
Lady, capable, dependable, would take charge
gentleman’s home during owner’s absence. —
8069.
Gentleman, Sydney, invalid, journalistic, pub-
lishing and secretarial experience, seeks posi-
tion, full- or half-time. Willing worker, honest,
sober. —8167.
Freelance black-and-white artist, Sydney,
contributor to illustrated weeklies, seeks com-
missions advertising art work. —8169.
Man, 39 (reject), £3OO capital and heavy-
duty truck (producer gas), seeks business open-
ing.—8063.
To get into touch with a writer who will
give instruction by post in par.-writing, etc.,
for a moderate fee.—Bo74.
To get in touch with reader who can supply
good sound quandong seeds or stones suit-
able for necklaces. Quote price per 100, plus
postage.—Blos.
To buy The Vanishing Horsemen, by A. E.
Yarra. —8131.
To buy Summer Time Ends, by John Har-
greaves.—Blo6.
Words of verse entitled “Old Sydney” be-
ginning:—
I see the busy miles of quay, the harbor’s shining
mystery.
—BOB2.
Words of verse beginning:
If God were pleased to satisfy my every whim.
—8166.
Words of poem published during the war
of 1914-18 beginning “It was seven bells
in the middle watch on the good ship Saucy
Kate.”—Blo9.
Copies of magazines published by A.I.F.
units in camps in Australia or abroad or on
transports. —8135.
Information Sought.
Average heights and weights of males in the
United Kingdom ? —Bl4l.
The average heights and weights of men in
the United Kingdom have been tabulated as
follows (the weights include clothing, which
is generally calculated at one-twenty-fourth of
the whole): Scotsmen, average height sft. B£in.,
average weight list. 111 b.; Irishmen, sft. Bin.
and lOst. 131 b.; Englishmen, sft. 7£in. and
list, lib.; Welshmen, sft. and list. 41b.
* * * *
What is sea level? How determined? Does
it vary at, say, opposite ends of the Panama
Canal or at widely-separated points ? Is it
influenced by varying barometric pressure and
temperature ? —BO2l.
Sea level is determined by observing the
height of the sea each hour over a period and
taking the average of these heights. It is
usually regarded as necessary to use a period
of at least a year. The mean sea levels at
opposite ends of the Panama Canal differ by
about Bin. The height of the sea is influenced
by barometric pressure, an increase in pres-
sure of lin. corresponding approximately to a
lowering of water height by about Din.
* * * *
Changes in relative positions of Australian
States as gold producers since the discovery of
gold in 1851 ?— 8157. *
With the exception of the year 1889, when
its output was exceeded by that of Queens-
land, Victoria maintained its position as the
chief gold producer for a period of 47 years,
until its production was surpassed by that of
Western Australia in 1898. From that year
onward Western Australia has contributed practi-
cally half, and so far as the last 10 years are
concerned nearly four-fifths, of the entire yield
of Australia.
* # * *
History of the Sydney Zoo before it was
moved to Taronga Park, Mosman? —Bl66.
In March, 1879, the Zoological Society of
N.S.W. was formed, with Walter Bradley as
president, for the acclimatisation of songbirds
and useful game. A sum of £5OO was collected,
the Government giving £1 for £1 subsidy, and
pheasants, California quail, and several species
of songbirds were imported and liberated. In
1880 the society was reorganised as the Zoo-
logical and Acclimatisation Society, and a
depot was established at Moore Park, laid out
as zoological gardens, and opened in 1884.
The area of the gardens was gradually extended
to 11 acres as the collection of animals and
birds increased. In 1916 the collection was re-
moved to Taronga Park, a site of about 58
acres.
* * * *
(1) What must be done before the Common-
wealth Constitution can be altered ? (2) How
many proposals to alter the Constitution have
been submitted to the electors, and what have
been the results? —8160.
(1) According to Section 128 of the Consti-
tution, any proposed law for the alteration of
the Constitution must, in addition to being
passed by an absolute majority of each House
of Parliament, be submitted to a referendum
of the electors in each State, and must further
be approved by a majority of the States and
of the electors who voted before it can be
presented lor Royal Assent. (2) So far 18
proposals have been submitted to referenda,
and the consent of the electors has been re-
ceived in three cases only, the first in relation
to the election of Senators in 1906, and the
other two in respect of State Debts—one in
1910 and the other in 1928.
* * * *
Meaning of the term “cause celebre” ?
8139.
A term used to signify any lawsuit of great
public interest or importance apart altogether
from any question of legal principle, e.g., the
Palmer poisoning case, the Tichborne claimant
case, the “Hansard” libel prosecution, the Drey-
fus case, the trial of Madame de Steinheil. The
expression Causes Celebres, according to
Wharton, was the title of a series of reports
collected by Gayot de Pitival of decisions of
interest in the French courts in the seventeenth
and eighteenth centuries.
* * * *
Average annual amount of rain and number
of days on which rain fell in Canberra and
each of the six Australian capital cities ?
8068.
Canberra, average amount of rainfall 23.15 in.,
average number of days on which rain fell 94;
Perth, 34.73 in. and 121 days; Adelaide, 21.15 in.
and 124 days; Brisbane, 44.77 in. and 126 days;
Sydney, 47.44 in. and 152 days; Melbourne,
26.04 in. and 140 days; Hobart, 24.05 in. and
153 days. Averages have been arrived at over
varying periods.
* * * *
A few particulars concerning William Brodie,
a Scotch criminal? —Bls4.
He was born in Edinburgh, the son of a
cabinetmaker who was a member of the town
council; he succeeded to his father’s business,
was a deacon of the Incorporation of the Edin-
burgh Wrights and Masons, and a city coun-
cillor. He early acquired a taste for gambling,
and frequented a low gaming-house. In 1786
he became leader of a gang, the other mem-
bers of which were George Smith, Andrew
Ainslie and John Brown, which committed a
number of burglaries in 1787. In 1788 they
broke into the Excise Office, and, though they
escaped undiscovered, Brown turned King’s evi-
dence, and Brodie was finally arrested in Am-
sterdam, and hanged. To the end he kept a
good reputation among his fellow-citizens.
* * * *
(1) Names of the Poets Laureate of Eng-
land and the dates they held office? (2) How
many of them are represented in the first
edition of Palgrave’s “Golden Treasury” ?
8149.
U) Samuel Daniel (1599-1619), Ben Jonson
(1619-37), William D’Avenant (1637-68), John
Dryden (1670-88), Thomas Shadwell (1688-92),
Nahum Tate (1692-1715), Nicholas Rowe (1715-
18), Laurence Eusden (1718-30), Colley Cibber
(1730-57), William Whitehead (1757-85), Thomas
Warton (1785-90), Henry Pye (1790-1813),
Robert Southey (1813-43), William Wordsworth
(1843-50), Alfred Tennyson (1850-92), Alfred
Austin (1896-1913), Robert Bridges (1913-30),
John Masefield (1930 to date). (2) Daniel,
Jonson, Dryden, Cibber and Wordsworth.
* * * *
Is deafness hereditary ? Should catarrhal
deafness constitute a bar to marriage? —7976.
Certain forms of deafness, particularly that
known as otosclerosis, are hereditary, and if
there is a history of the complaint in the
families of both parties to a marriage the
chances of its recurrence in the offspring are
considerable. Deafness which follows ear
trouble acquired after infections of the ear
{e.g. after the ear inflammations which are
often the sequel to scarlet fever) is not trans-
mitted to offspring.
* * * *
What kind of a boat is a coracle ? —BO5B.
It is a skiff with a slight wooden frame,
covered over with hides, and made watertight
by a coating of tar and pitch. Caesar de-
scribes the coracles in use among the Britons
of his day, and history speaks of a seven
days’ voyage by missionaries in 878 from Ire-
land to Cornwall in a coracle made of two and
a half skins. Coracles were oval in shape,
about 3ft. by 4ft. in size, there being room for
one person only. The rower propelled himself
by a paddle. This kind of canoe is still used
on the River Severn and in Clare, whilst light
boats, very similar, are built for crossing the
lakes on the way to Klondike, after the passage
of Chilkoot Pass, Alaska.
* * * *
Is the Clutha, M.L.’s largest river, among
the 50 largest rivers in the world, judged by
the daily volume discharged into the sea? —
7923.
The Clutha discharges 2,000,000 cub. ft. of
water per minute. This, taken in comparison
with Murray and Buchan’s table of 18 of the
largest rivers of the world, would place M.L.’s
river among the first 50.
* * * *
Titles of some guidebooks dealing with
Palestine ? —BO7l.
Baedeker’s Palestine and Syria, Guide to the
New Palestine (Zionist Information Bureau,
Jerusalem), Cook’s Traveller’s Handbook to
Palestine, Syria and Iraq, Elston’s The Travel-
ler’s Handbook for Palestine and Syria, Rey-
nold-Ball’s A Practical Guide to Jerusalem and
Its Environs.
* * * *
A few biographical details concerning Pearl
Buck, writer of novels about China, arid a list
of her books published during the past 10
years ? —8066.
Pearl Buck, the third American and the first
American woman to win the Nobel prize for
Literature, was born in Hillsboro, West Vir-
ginia (U.S.A.), in 1892. She attended Ran-
dolph-Macon Woman’s College and Cornell
University. Her middle years have been
largely devoted to China. From 1921 to 1931
she taught at the University of Nanking, and
at the Government University of Nanking also.
The first fruit of her wide and sympathetic
knowledge of China was the fine novel East
Wind—West Wind (1929), but The Good Earth
(1931) was the book that won her a wide in-
ternational public, was awarded the Pulitzer
Prize, and has been successfully filmed. Her
publications since 1931 include Sons (1932),-
The First Wife and Other Stories (1933), All
Men Are Brothers, a superb translation of the
Chinese picaresque classic Shui Hu Chuan
(1933), The Mother (1934), A House Divided
(1934), House of Earth (1935), The Exile and
Fighting Angel (1936), This Proud Heart (1938)
and The Patriot (1939).
* * * *
Cost of Parliamentary government, Common-
wealth and in each of the six States; also cost
per head of population ? —BOB6.
Latest figures are for 1937-38 and are as
follows: Commonwealth, £564,096, Is. Bd. per
head of population; N. S. Wales, £260,873,
Is. lid. per head; Vic., £133,879, Is. sd. per
head; Q’land, £130,417, 2s. 7d. per head; S.
Aust., £109,937, 3s. 9d. per head; W. Aust.,
£106,808, 4s. Bd. per head; Tas., £48,909, 4s. 2d.
per head. Departmental costs not included.
* * * *
Brief particulars concerning the Linnean
Society of TV. S. Wales ? —BOBO.
Foundpd in 1874, the soundness of its present
position is due to the benefactions of
William Macleay, who during his lifetime and
by his will endowed the society to the amount
of £67,000, which has been increased by
judjcious investment to over £BO,OOO. The
society maintains a research bacteriologist and
offers annually four research fellowships in
various branches of natural history. The
library comprises some 14,000 volumes, valued
at about £7OOO. Sixty-three volumes of proceed-
ings have been issued, and the society exchanges
with some 234 kindred institutions. The ordi-
nary membership at the end of 1938 was 186.
* * * *
From where in England can birth, marriage
and death certificates be obtained? —8062.
Certificates of births, deaths and marriages
can be obtained at the General Register Office,
Somerset House, London, on payment of fees
amounting to 3s. 7d., English currency (when
application is made by post the charges are
ss. Id. English currency). They can also be
obtained from the registration officer having
the legal custody of the register book contain-
ing the entry of which a certificate is required.
Certificates of marriage can also be obtained
from the incumbent of the church in which the
marriage took place, or from the Nonconfor-
mist minister where the Marriage Act (1898)
applies.
* * * *
To keep the humidity from affecting my piano
here in the tropics, l keep two small kerosene
hurricane lamps burning inside it. Is there any
less troublesome method? Could lime be used?
—7994.
Silica gel will remove 1.7 grains of moisture
per pound of gel for a period of eight hours.
After that it must be heated for four hours at
a temperature of about 425 deg. F. Next to gels,
charcoal is the best known absorbent. Coco-
nut charcoal properly prepared may be used in
the same way.
* * * *
Adjoining my Sydney property is a garage with
a wide roof, the downpipe from which dis-
charges water on to vacant land on their
property. When heavy rain falls this water
floods my property (being on a lower level)
and causes me serious inconvenience. Is the
adjoining owner obliged to prevent water from
his property from entering mine, and, if so,
what steps can I take to compel him to remedv
the position?— Bll9.
If the overflow in question adds materially
to the natural flow of water from the property
in question you have a claim against the owner
of the garage for any damage done to your
property by such overflow. You might call
the attention of the local council to the matter
and ask for a report by its inspector of
nuisances.
* * * *
(1) Can a property in N.S.W. at present in
husbands name be transferred to husband and
wife as joint tenants ? (2) Would the survivor
become, without question, sole owner of a
property so held, irrespective of the fact that
there are other claimants to the estate, said
fot-'"—m9 beinB alreCldy adec l lla tely provided
(1) You are not clear as to what constitutes
a joint tenancy. It is constituted where an
estate is acquired by two or more persons in
the same property by the same title. They take
as joint tenants among whom there is a unity
of title and of time in the commencement
of their title. (2) In the event of the death
of one of the two tenants the property vests
in the survivor.
* * * *
I have a copy of Mary Hannay Foott’s
Morna Lee and Other Poems” (second edition •
fs°ued?—S] 4s° Whe>l WaS thC firSt edition
tJ/ T he vo , lum £ y°u possess contains a reprint of
-fu PeHcan Builds a " d Other Poems
t Ioo5) with one omission and 13 additional
poems. No copy of the first edition of Morna
Lee can be traced, and possibly it does not
exist, as the wording of the preface to the
second edition seems to suggest that it is to be
regarded as the second edition of Where the
Pelican Builds.
* * * *
(1) Who is the present world’s lightweight
champion boxer? (2) From whom did he win
the championship? (3) How long was Benny
Leonard lightweight champion of the world?
(4) Where is Leonard n0w? —7936
. 0) Lew Jenkins, of Texas. (2) Lou Ambers
(3) From May 28, 1917, till he retired unde-
feated in 1924. (4) In New York.
Brief Answers.
A.A.: Write N.S.W. Chamber of Manufac-
turers, 12 O’Connell-street, and Mort's Dock
and Engineering Co., Balmain (N.S.W.)—
M.F.: Write Commonwealth Statistician,
Federal Bureau of Census and Statistics, Can-
berra, A.C.T L.J.K.: Consult the Building
Inspector, Randwick Municipal Council, Town
Hall, Randwick (N.S.W.), and be guided by
his advice E.T.F.: (1) The Bulletin put
out “Steele Rudd's” early works published in
book form. His later works and revised editions
of his early works were published in book form
by the N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Sydney. (2) Try
Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney... .E.0.K.: See “The Epic of Dun-
kirk” published in the “Uncabled Additions”
pages of The Bulletin, July 10, 1940....
G. : Military authorities in Perth may pos-
sibly supply details of his military career
C. : Stories should be original and have an
Australian, Maoriland or South Pacific Islands
setting. For preference as to subject matter
and treatment see recent issues. Stories should
be no longer than about 4000 words, and pay-
ment is made on acceptance at the rate of
£2 2s. per column of 1100 words... .B.B.: (1)
The condition is due to inflammation, with
subsequent blocking of small vessels in the
limb. (2) and (3) Best plan is to continue the
present treatment, but (4) do not resume active
work until the ulcers are healed. (5) The swell-
ing will cause little trouble of itself, but it is
important to avoid all chances of injury. (6)
The pills will do no harm —and no good.
C.L.: Write Fred Sissons, secretary, Ber-
magui Big Game Anglers’ Club, Bermagui
(N.S.W.) V.M.F.: Names of the Dionne
quintuplets are Emilie, Yvonne, Cecile, Marie
and Annette... .M.D.: The frontiers of the
Lebanese Republic are the Nahr-el-Kebir in the
north, the frontier of Palestine in the south,
the coast in the west, and the heights of Anti-
Lebanon in the east. Beirut is the seat of
government M.M.: The Black Flag or
“Jolly Roger” was the flag flown by pirates;
first used in the Caribbean Sea in the days
of the buccaneers. You cannot have a night
“on” the Jolly Roger—“under” is the word.
Men dress as pirates, ladies as Spanish belles
—no special programme has been laid down.
.... J.M.: The wearing of such dress at evening
functions is quite in order, and the present war
has not affected the custom... .L.D.E.: Write
Gordon and Gotch, Melbourne... .D.C.: See
Vol. XI (“Australia During the War,” by
Ernest Scott) of The Official History of Aus-
tralia in the War of 1914-18, pages 465-66
D. : (1) Impossible to give accurate figures,
since, as the New South Wales Official Year-
Book states, “It is not considered that notifi-
cation [/.<?., under the Venereal Diseases Act,
1918] is fully effective.” Many cases treated
in private are not notified, but those recorded
by the public hospitals (5160 in 1936) are a
fairly reliable index as to the incidence of these
diseases in the community. (2) The simple in-
flammation (balanitis) commonly occurring in
dogs is merely a superficial inflammation and is
in no way related to the gonorrhoeal infection of
human beings... .8.C.: Advisable to reduce
your consumption of bread, potatoes, fatty
foods and sweets. The diet list you give seems
more than ample for one following a somewhat
sedentary occupation; and it does no harm to
leave the dining table while still feeling a little
hungry. No space here to prescribe a full
regimen for weight-reduction; read Your
Health and Your Diet, by Maurice Fishbein
(Whittlesey Home Health Series) A.W.:
These statements have not yet been corrobo-
rated by veterinary authorities; the most ex-
pensive bitches still insist on producing mixed
litters in spite of such treatment R.H.P.:
The term “amatory nerves” is unknown to
medical science; sexual function is largely
controlled by complicated nervous mechanisms
in the lumbar portion of the spinal cord; the
act of sneezing is governed by the action of
cranial nerves... .R.G.8.: Your only alternative
is to subject yourself to tests for color-vision
by an oculist... .J.R. The vagus is the tenth
cranial nerve, and exercises an important con-
trol over the action of some of the vital organs,
particularly some of those in the digestive
system, and the heart. Irregular action of the
heart is a common sign of vagal disorder
H. : (1) and (2) All sickness cannot be pre-
vented by eating only the “correct vital foods,”
and Hay’s claims have long ago been proved
to be extravagant. (3) The diet of the Coco-
vores is quite adequate for good nutrition in
normal circumstances, and healthy people could
thrive on it; but to say that it will cure all
diseases is gross exaggeration... .R.L.8.: There
are certain forms of deafness which are heredi-
tary and which, in the sufferer, become worse
with the passage of time. But there are other
varieties of defective hearing to which neither
of these disabilities applies. The whole problem,
both as to the patient herself and any of her
children, rests entirely upon an accurate diag-
nosis as to the nature of the deafness... .N.F.:
Why Gather Moss? by George Clune (7s. 6d.).
... .L.W.: Prefer that you should write direct to
the artist care of this office... .D.F.R.: He
is a British-born subject A.J.D.: Angus and
Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street, and G. Tyrrell,
281 George-street—both Sydney G. 8.: Write
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Asbestos House,
York and Barrack streets, Sydney... .A.J.M.:
Pleased to consider any contributions
D.M.K.: See latest editions of either The States-
man’s Year-Book or Whitaker’s Almanack.. ■ ■
F.T. and H.S.W.: See the Penguin Political Dic-
tionary.


FEED
WHILE PASTURES ARE SO DRY
oJajL-GxJL- Cm
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
On our phosphorus deficient soils all stock must have Tri-cal-os Bone
our to provide essential minerals for winter production. Tri-cal-os
supplies phosphorus and calcium in the form which all stock most
digest and assimilate. Regular feeding of Tri-cal-os prevents
e cie ncy diseases and bone troubles, increases the milk yield, ensures
early maturity and maintains good all-round condition . . . Tri-cal-os
has a guaranteed minimum content of 33% phosphoric acid and 40%
lime-—the mineral matter that stock need most for production.
in\o Pa Vi culars f rom Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O Box
V3 s"’ 5 "’ Melbourne; G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide;
G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
cfre/
m
o
£
Heals , soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
3? Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Maoriland’s Agricultural Plan.
“J. Want”: Agriculturally Maoriland
rates as one of the best organised coun-
tries in the world. There is almost com-
plete co-operation in policy among
farmers, based not on committees but on
the efforts of individuals.
Australian farmers are guided by six
State Agricultural Departments, several
Commonwealth and State marketing
boards and a whole battalion of primary
producers’ bodies. The result is that there
are at least a couple of dozen rural plan-
ning schemes and no laying down of
general principles. The Maoriland plan
is aimed not only at meeting war-time
conditions, but at making farms self-
supporting and getting the most out of
the soil and the stock which it carries. Its
marketing schemes are separate.
The details of the plan might easily be
adapted to Australian conditions.
The growing of additional areas of sup-
plementary fodder crops—rape, turnips,
chou moellier —for more adequate feed-
ing and carrying of stock and the im-
provement of carrying capacity are advo-
cated. Next comes conservation of sur-
plus grasses for hay and silage against
lean periods. The increase of cheese pro-
duction from 15,000 to 20,000 tons is
aimed at; also the steady maintenance
of the butter output.
It is planned to produce 10,000 addi-
tional tons of bacon by persuading every
dairy-farmer to carry more pigs of
baconer weight, and with this scheme is
linked the production of 20,000 to 30,000
tons per annum of feed barley for pig-
raising in North Island “to avoid the
importation of considerable quantities
from Australia” (which could easily use
all its own barley for pig-feeding). A
minimum price of 3s. 6d. per bushel,
sacks in, has been guaranteed.
It is planned to raise maize acreage
from 7600 to 11,000 acres —for use as
stock and poultry feed.
Lamb production is to be kept up to its
present level. Ram improvement and in-
crease of wool output are cardinal points
in the programme to be carried out by
ram selection and culling.
The beef policy is framed to see that,
while chilled beef is off the export market,
chilled-beef types do not disappear to the
detriment of general quality of the post-
war export market. Pulp-egg export is
to be developed during the period when
whole-egg export is not possible.
The scheme provides for the growing
of 300,000 acres of wheat for home con-
sumption. The Maoriland “Agricultural
Journal” comments:
This will conserve Australian funds, and is
an objective which should be easily attained
provided farmers make the necessary effort
to break up more land which requires re-
sowing ultimately in good pasture. Our
average wheat acreage is in the vicinity of
240,000 acres, so that a leeway of 60,000
acres has to be made up.
Then, 14,000 acres of linen flax are to
be grown and processed. Finally, there
is to be an effort to “increase to the
utmost the growing of grass and clover
seeds,” in addition to making the
Dominion self-supporting in other small
seeds —rape, turnips, mangolds, etc.
There is nothing showy about the plan.
It is clear-cut, and if it does not pay im-
mediate dividends it undoubtedly will in
the near future, laying down as it does a
constructive method for permanent ex-
pansion of output and for getting the
most out of every acre of the limited
farming areas on which 80,000 M.L.
farmers make their livings.
T . MalW
ine iviauee rroDiem.
.heKetß/H/S/^) 6 " " 8 ’ “
T ~ r , .
Twenty-five years ago I worked on a
Mallee farm. Since then I have paid fre-
quent visits to the same area, the last a
week ago. The change in the country
from when I first knew it can only be de-
scribed as dreadful. Yet the position is
not hopeless. Here and there are farms
which show that a reasonable living can
be made from this class of country with-
out letting the soil turn to drifting dust,
The first step must be the provision of
scrub shelter belts, and in this respect
“Give us a hand, mister —Vs got somethink stuck in ’ees nose."
Broken Hill has already shown how the
native trees and bushes can be brought
back if strips of ground are fenced to
keep stock and rabbits off them. Many
school playgrounds and cemetery en-
closures in the Mallee also provide object
lessons in regeneration of native sand-
binding and wind-breaking flora. All
those wattles, mallees and bushes grow
from seed which is easy to collect, scatter
and harrow in along the fenced-off wind-
breaks. They will all grow where the
first hot winds of summer would shrivel
up anything else.
If left alone, the cleared and cultivated
Mallee soils will grow nothing but in-
edible daisy bushes, together with near-
useless capeweed and silver grass. But
annual topdressings of super.—as little
as 501 b. per acre —make the so-called
“wild” clovers grow. Then fertility is
built up. After a few years of this treat-
ment —provided, of course, there’s no
overstocking—the land will carry nearly
a sheep to the acre if some hay is grown
and hand-fed to the stock in autumn.
I know Mallee farms where limestone
outcrops or high sandhills have compelled
their owners to leave a portion of their
land uncleared. Those farms don’t find
drift anywhere as bad as it is on those
which are open paddocks.
I also know farms where wheat-
growing has been abandoned and nothing
has been done save to topdress and run
sheep. As most Mallee farms are 1000
acres in extent, or larger, this gives at
least a living. Drought is always liable
to come along, but against this you can
set the fact that a good season in the
Mallee is good, especially as regards feed,
and the grass mower and the haystack
are the best of drought insurances.
Points for Pig-raisers.
“Pappamosca”: One of the best means
of producing healthy pigs is to raise your
own stock for feeding.
A basic necessity in keeping pigs
healthy is to realise that they are really
cleanly animals. Good lighting and
drainage, warmth in winter and coolness
in summer, a dry floor all help to keep
disease out.
All floors should be concrete and
should be laid down over an insulating
layer of coke breeze or brick rubble or
some other material which will prevent
earth absorption of heat. Over the in-
sulator lay oiled paper, which will pre-
vent the cement on top from oozing into
it. The concrete should then be laid at
least a couple of inches thick. For
comfort, add a top layer of bitumen over
the cement floor.
Each pen should have separate drain-
age into a main channel. All drains
should be regularly disinfected.
Pigs give a better response to feeding
than other animals, and conversely they
suffer more from underfeeding.
Sows should not be allowed to run on
pasture when farrowing; but see that all
pigs have green fodder in their diet. For
young pigs a good start is vitally impor-
tant. Creep feeding is essential to
success. Feed twice a day; give the
youngsters at each meal as much as they
can eat of a sound grain mixture a
typical one is four parts pollard, four parts
barley meal and one part meat meal. And
make green stuff available. They will
get this themselves if allowed to run on
pasture for a little while every day. They
should be weaned at eight weeks, and feed
should be carefully checked and
measured until they weigh 70lb. or
thereabouts.
Watch cod-liver-oil rations carefully—
they should be high grade. But, in any
case, green grass will provide the oil
vitamins just as readily as oil itself. Both
vitamins A and D are important in the
feed —the former protects from colds and
pneumonia and vitamin D prevents
rickets. If oil is given, joz. per day is
enough for the unweaned pig, and loz.
afterwards. With suckling pigs it is a
good plan to give the oil to the sow.
Watch mineral feeding, which is im-
portant to the pig as a fast-growing
animal. The M.L. Agricultural Depart-
ment recommends a mixture of 251 b.
each ground limestone and bonemeal or
super., 51b. common salt and jib. iron
phosphate. It is hard to improve on.
Half a pound per eight pigs in the trough
daily is enough, but, if fed in the ration,
use a teaspoonful to each young pig and
a tablespoon to grown animals.
Avoid overcrowding, have an isolation
pen for the sick, don’t forget the sun-
light cure and make the lives of the
animals regular with reasonable exercise.
It all entails hard work and constant
watching, but these are the only recipes
for producing any healthy class of mar-
ket animal.
Oats on the Coast.
“B. Lar”: A test with oats on the
Clarence (N.S.W.) showed that for
similar areas dolomite has some advan-
tages over lime in production for grain
or hay.
The trial plot was in three sections,
one treated with lime, one with dolomite
and the other left untreated as a check.
The ground was ploughed and harrowed
in the middle and end of March.
Algerian, Mulga, Sunrise, Buddah and
Belar were sown on each plot on April 2.
By April 26 Buddah was ahead of the
others. By May 30 the order was
Buddah, Mulga and Belar, all close to
one another in height and density.
Buddah had drawn further in front by
June 19, but Algerian was pushing on.
One June 22, nearly 12 weeks after
sowing, part of the crop was cut and
weighed to find out the amount of feed per
acre on the first growth. On dolomite
the figures were: Algerian, 16 tons
4cwt. 121 b.; Buddah, 14-12-53 ; Mulga,
14-11-78; Belar, 14-11-78; Sunrise,
12- On lime, same order: 12-19-32,
13- 14-0-100, 9-14-52, 10-16-8. On
check plot: 6-9-72, 8-12-96, 12-10-54,
13-8-10, 12-8-3.
An analysis of figures and perform-
ances showed the advantage of dolomite,
that Sunrise is the least suitable variety
for that country, and that Algerian is the
best grazer, with Buddah and Mulga as
the best hay crop.
Permanent Pastures.
“Wundi”: Do not deep-plough when
putting in pasture plants or grazing
lucerne. At 3in. to sin. there is no risk
of bringing clay to the surface. Wheat
technique suits pasture work, and there
should be ample fallowing. After the
land has been broken up, it should be
left until there is rain.
A tyne cultivator will lift the grass sods
and break up lumps, and a harrow will
prevent the formation of a crust. The
general aim is to obtain a well-tilled, firm
seedbed not too deeply worked, though
depth will have to be regulated if weed
growth is heavy after prolonged rain.
When the bed is damp and firm with a
coating of mulch on top, the field is
ready for seeding. Prepare late in the
year. The ground should be ready in
February. In cold areas, February is a
good month for a start; elsew'here March,
April and May are the months to sow.
Districts unusually cold call for spring
planting. They also call for extra bed
preparation.
Seeds should be mixed with fertiliser
and put in through the manure box of
the wheat drill or fertiliser distributor.
Mixing should be done a full day before
sowing, and during sowing the mixture
should occasionally be given a good stir


WOOLPACKS
Best Quality—Full Weight 11 lib.
Product of British Mills.
BIG STOCKS
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
5/- f.o.r. SYDNEY; 5/3 f.o.r. BRIS-
BANE; 5/6 f.o.r. ROCKHAMPTON;
5/8 f.o.r. TOWNSVILLE.
Per pack, in bales of 50.
Book now and be sure of supplies.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
Bowen St. (off Ann St., near Fire
Brigade), BRISBANE.
LEARN HOW TO INSTAL, MAINTAIN AND SERVICE
PRODUCER GAS
ĥjkjkjklkl
These cuttings from the daily press show how
Producer Gas is replacing petrol everywhere.
Charcoal Stations
To Grow Like
Petrol Pump Depots
yesterday.
PRODUCER GAS'FOR i
FARM ENGINES.
Interest in
Country.
.. Interest l* hern. ?I OREE Sunday.
Ih« development o/ rh»*n^!!? Wn 10 kforp e lr
of driving engine* ~t h produwr -ru method
JJi 1 the success supplies.
* 0 toy l» ttne ” duttt* *» r
■*£ *Bf Saft^sSSf a )
w »»tJv° «liw» «"'
FARMERS AND STATIONARY
ENGINE OWNERS!
Producer Gas will considerably reduce the
tost of farming in Australia, but if you are
going to take full advantage of this new eco-
nomical power you MUST understand your
subject. There are no weighty textbooks to
wade through in the Kingsford Smith Col-
leges’ course, and you are taught by an
easy system of instruction sheets and dia-
grams. No high educational standard is
needed to follow the course.
OUR EXPERIENCE WILL HELP
YOU—USE IT NOW!
The course includes coaching by Producer
Gas experts, specialising in this work, and
as Kingsford Smith Colleges are under the
same direction as the well-known Diesel
Engineering College and the College of Civil
Aviation, you receive the benefit of the latest
and most up-to-date methods of technical
training. Students of these Colleges are
now holding down well paid positions all over
Australia, and what has been done for them
can be done for you, but it is up to you to
make the first move.
HOW TO CONVERT AND
MAINTAIN YOUR OWN
PLANT AND VEHICLES
The Kingsford Smith Colleges’ course is
the quickest, most thorough method of
obtaining the knowledge you need to enable
you to convert and maintain your own plant
efficiently. Everything is made clear by
simple, easily-followed diagrams and instruc-
tion sheets. The Kingsford Smith Colleges
course is an essential for every Stationary
Engine Owner, Farmer, Truck or Tractor
Owner, Garage and Service Station Man. It
is a practical course for practical men.
YOU CAN BECOME A
PRODUCER GAS EXPERT
In every neighborhood there will be wonder-
ful opportunities for those who learn about
Producer Gas Engines early, to make big
money installing and servicing Producer Gas
units.
The simplified Home Study course at Kings-
ford Smith Colleges makes it possible to
gain a thorough knowledge of Producer Gas
Engines in your spare time at home. Scores
of our students are already making big
money in this field, but for every one em-
ployed there are hundreds of openings. This
easy-to-follow course covers every phase of
the subject—manufacture, installation, con-
version, service, and the production of char-
coal. Send that coupon off now while you
think of it.
i
BIG MONEY
FOR THOSE WHO
GET IN EARLY!
ĥjkjkjklkl
[f you want to be
the first trained
man in the Produ-
cer Gas field in
your district, send
the Coupon with-
out delay.
KINGSFORD SMITH COLLEGES
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Please send me particulars of your Producer Gas Course.
NAME ...
ADDRESS
B. 11-9-40.
A
fT'f 5e
sags
■wti.
sn
m
MS
tj: :
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Water Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 11/- Double Rooms from 15/*
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room —All Meals a la Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
to assure that distribution has not been
affected by the jolting.
Seeds —including lucerne —should be
lightly brush-harrowed over, or covered
with an ordinary harrow turned upside
down. And a roller helps.
Avoid cover crops in areas in which
the rainfall is under 20 inches. Above
that level, lucerne in particular may pro-
fitably be put in with wheat at 401 b. to
451 b. per acre. The one sound exception
is in the planting of sub. clover in dry
country, when a straw covering will help
to germinate the sub. clover seed and
protect the seedlings when they penetrate
to the air.
Drought in N. S. Wales.
“Ghanam”: As I write N.S.W. is going
through one of the driest periods in its
history. The Agricultural Department
declares that, unless rains fall at once in
wheat districts, widespread crop failures
are inevitable.
Many stockowners in the northern cen-
tral districts have attempted to feed off,
but the ground is so dry that stock have
pulled the wheat clean out of the ground.
In sheep areas on the outer belt, sheep
are in fair condition, but nearer to the
coast extensive hand-feeding is necessary.
In some places, grass and herbage are
gone.
Parts of the coast have had good falls,
and a few areas further inland —the
Parkes district and East Riverina in-
cluded —are holding out well, but most
of the State needs several inches of rain
before the end of September to save stock
and grain. The far South Coast is in a
particularly bad way, and artificial feed-
ing is the rule on almost every dairy
farm, while lack of rain has made soil
preparation for summer crops impos-
sible. Those districts which have gone in
for fodder conservation are reaping their
reward.
To Stop Erosion.
“8.C.”: D. V. Wilson, of Boggabri
(N.S.W.), believes that chequerboard
ploughing reduces the amount of soil
blown off grazing paddocks in a dry
season.
Drought makes bare patches and allows
sun-scalding of the unclothed ground in
dry pastures that have not received rain,
the surface soon crumbles under sun-heat
and the wind begins to lift it in little
scurries of dust that reach storm dimen-
sions when the September gales come.
Wilson crisscrosses his furrows about
6ft. to Bft. apart. They serve a double
purpose: holding the water and making
it soak in when rain does come and
arresting the drift of fine soil and grass-
seed along the surface.
Where possible and when there is a
reasonable chance of an early break in
the weather, it mightn’t be a bad idea to
drop lucerne or other pasture seeds in
the furrows.
Best way to avoid damage is care in
stocking, so that grass is not eaten right
out. A drought-stricken paddock with a
film of dry grass over it will respond
much quicker and stronger to rain than
one that has been eaten as bare as a
board.
“Bundalinga”: When G. Hooper
bought Talbingo station, Tumut (N.S.W.)
district, about three years ago, the only
fat stock sent off the property were a
few cows in summer. Now fat sheep
and cattle are marketed in winter, the
change being effected by pasture improve-
ment. One 48-acre paddock, sown with
perennial rye grass, subterranean and red
clovers, carried the equivalent of 3| sheep
per acre from March to July, 1939.
Spelled for two months, the paddock then
fattened 26 cows and 85 crossbred
wethers in nine weeks. Hooper has top-
dressed 1000 acres with 951 b. of super-
phosphate per acre annually, leaving a
percentage of each paddock in the natural
state to provide roughage.
“Ghanam”: The C.S.I.R. has decided
that sheep ticks can be cleaned out in
one season by judicious shearing to re-
move the pupae, with a single non-
arsenical dipping off shears. But a couple
of dippings, the second after a three-
weeks’ interval, will make the position
safer. Ticks can be clearly seen on shorn
sheep, and they are always on the wool
well out from the skin. The dipping
should be done immediately after the
sheep are shorn.
“X.R.”: N.S.W. has produced another
10001 b. butter cow in a 365-day test —
Belgrave Aviatrix, owned by Miss P.
Sales, of East Gresford. The animal is
eight years 11 months old and produced
23,142.51 b. milk, with the high average
of 4.9 b.f., which at 18 p.c. reduction
works out at 11321 b. butter. Aviatrix is
a twin to a well-known bull, Belgrave
Airman.
Outback Occupations.
No. XXXIV.
JUDGING AT THE SHOW.
It begins with a letter from the local
show secretary inviting you to judge the
draught mares. In a thoughtless moment
you accept. As the mailman disappears
up the road you get a feeling of dismay.
How does one judge mares? What are
the points of excellence? What should
one look for in a good mare?
Suddenly you remember that book on
horses and go to the bookcase. It isnt
there. You ask the wife about it. She
doesn’t remember ever having seen it.
Neither do the boys. In a bit of a panic
you consider writing to The Bulletin
Service Department, but remember that
the show is next Wednesday, and that
you can’t very well enter the judging ring
carrying a red-covered journal.
After tea you take a walk down the
horse paddock and look closely at the
mares. Old Dolly is in good nick, and
Blossom looks rather well. You prac-
tise judging them. But you get the points
all mixed up and find that, under your
system, Blossom tied and Dolly was first.
Obviously that’s no good.
You go back to the house and push
the back door open. The door weight
on the first floor catches your eye. It is
the missing book. You pick it up and
turn hurriedly to the relevant page. Every
chance you get you study that book right
up to show morning, and then you plant
it in the car.
You wander round the showground in
a lost, absorbed fashion, your thoughts
full of what you’ve read about withers,
tightness of skin, shape of hindquarters,
gait, fetlocks, width between the eye,
shoulders and so forth.
Sid Jordan, your neighbor, hails you.
“Hey, Jack, just the cove I’m lookin’
for. Come an’have a drink!” You and
Sid make for the booth. “Y’ know, Jack,”
says he, “I’ve never seen a poorer lot
than the draught mares they got here
today. Except for one, a big mare with
a near front stocking and a diamond
blaze, I wouldn’t have ’em at a gift.
“No?” says you, calling for more drinks.
Just then you see the show secretary. He
is making furtive signals. You mutter
an excuse to Jordan and hurry away,
making a roundabout course to the sec-
retary’s office. He’s trying to look as
busy as a bee.
“Oh, Jack,” he says, “if I was you 1
wouldn’t be seen too much with that
Jordan cove. He’s got a mare in the
class you’re judging, and some of the
others might”
You nod and go out, determined that
mares with near front stockings and
diamond blazes are suspect. “Him,” you
mutter to yourself, “trying t’ put it over
me!”
Twenty minutes before the time to
judge the mares you retire to the car,
fish out the book and take a refresher
course. Then you make for the ring,
your blue judge’s ribbon fluttering in
your lapel.
Three mares are being led round. A
small crowd is hanging over the fence.
You feel every eye boring into you as
you slip through the rails. “Blast it,”
you think, “I’ll have to give that Jordan
third prize after all.” You refuse to
look at the crowd, but you can pick out
Sid Jordan’s tan boots among all the
black ones. Flash little cow.
You call a mare in from the parade—
a black. You try to examine her teeth.
She makes a quick snap and you jump
back, knocking over the ring steward and
falling over him. The chestnut lays her
ears back and lets go with both heels.
The crowd laughs. You catch an urgent
whisper from Jordan and ignore it.
On your feet again you call the chest-
nut. Warily, ready to spring for your
life, you run a hand down her flank and
near hind leg. She pulls back with star-
ing eyeballs and lets go again. > Her at-
tendant swears and gives you a black
look. “Take her easy, why don’t you?”
he snaps.
“Don’t talk to the judge or I’ll dis-
qualify you,” the ring steward yells. The
black tries to bite the chestnut’s left ear
off, the chestnut rears and backs against
the rails. That part of the crowd falls
back and someone cries “Why don’t they
break the blanky thing in?”
You look at the ring steward. He
looks at you. “They oughter be disquali-
fied for intractability,” he says.
“Eh?” you remark.
“Intractable, that’s what they are,” he
says.
“Mine ain’t,” says a voice. It is
Jordan. His mare, a nice animal, is stand-
ing quietly. You’ll be darned if he’s
going to win it.
“Disqualify the lot, intracta —inacta—
what you said,” you tell the ring steward,
and hurry away.
About half an hour later the loud-
speakers round the ground are asking
you to come to the secretary’s office. You
go. Some of the show committee, the
horse ring steward and Jordan are there.
As you enter, Jordan jumps up, fire
in his eyes and stabs a finger at you.
“Him a judge,” he shouts scornfully. “He
couldn’t judge scores. My mare was
quiet all the time an’ the best of the
three, an’ he knows it.” He works him-
self up. “Just because he’s got me set
or somethin’ he disqualifies her. Him
a judge! Ha, ha, ha, it makes me laugh!'
You’ve had enough. The whole show
has been a trying strain. “Sid Jordan
tried t’ influence me before the judgin'.’
you shout. “I never wanted t’ judge the
blasted prads, anyhow. An’ if this flam-
in’ show committee don’t know enough
t’ keep buckjumpers and brumbies out o’
its ring, well it oughter have its brains
brushed. Keep y’ flamin’ show! An
if you want fight, Jordan, y’ can blank)
well have it, you schemin’ ”
Jordan leaps for you and you swing a
haymaker which misses him and mows
down the show president. Then the
committee grabs you and holds Jordan
back. You get outside and make for the
car, knowing that you’ve got a feud on
your hands, and that within an hour the
whole district will be ringing with the
news of how you bowled the show presi-
dent over.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4|d. per line; all others at
2Jd. per line.
Names and addresses must be published in the case of letters touching on the
Commonwealth election.
Perhaps the N.S.W. matron given pride of place this week has generalised too
sweepingly from a personal experience; but she has written a most arresting human
document.
Bargain Rate
Of course there’s a bargain rate for
babies (B. 28/8/’4O). If you enter any
of the large maternity hospitals as a
public patient you’ll have to pay only
two shillings or let the clerk peep at your
dole ticket every pre-natal visiting day,
and the actual confinement —everything
thrown in—will cost only the price of
the bonus.
But you’ll be delivered in a public ward
containing other patients in labor. Your
accoucheur will be either a raw medical
student or a rawer trainee picked to
demonstrate to about two dozen others
—and learners have to make their mis-
takes. An experienced medical man may
be there to look on. A sister or mere
charge nurse supervises, explaining the
various developments as though she were
elucidating clauses of Magna Charta.
Towards the end the patient may get a
sniff of a mask which does little to
relieve the final pangs.
And on the other side of the wall the
cashed-up patient in privacy is attended
by her own medical man and given a
mask reserved for private wards. She
isn’t conscious of more than the early
stages of labor, and wakes, to quote her-
self, “hours after the whole thing’s over.”
I’ve had a pretty tough initiation in
public, and soon will have a Repeat
season. But don’t expect me to double
my output —I’m leaving the private
patients to do the noble thing as regards
this birthrate. They can manage mater-
nity with all the frills that the modern
system demands —daily rests, special diet,
no heavy work for three months after-
wards, adequate help with the family.
I’ve got to be back at the washtub within
the fortnight, even though my house
doctor warns me that in a few years’ time
I’ll be helping to fill the hospitals where
big internal operations are dealt out to
those women who received too little
attention during confinements and worked
too hard before and immediately after-
wards.—Bungarrer (N.S.W.).
“As You Sow”
I am old-fashioned enough to believe
what W. Lynch (B. 21/8/ ’4O) says is an
age-old fallacy—that all virtue is re-
warded and all vice punished. Heaven
and hell are not the only clearing-houses
for virtue and vice. The actions of a
people, whether good or bad, are always
reflected on the individual; thus empires
and individuals are punished or rewarded
according to their behavior. A broad
view of the world’s history reveals this,
as there are many monuments of civilisa-
tions and empires whose decay was
brought about by moral laxness ; certain
historical figures who strayed from the
straight and narrow also ended up in
grief. Napoleon was one, Hitler will be
another.
“W.L.” is complacent if he believes that
such vices as social injustice, graft, arti-
ficial birth prevention, etc., may be prac-
tised and tolerated with impunity. The
results of these practices are manifest.
A healthy fear of hell would do much
to improve our social systems as well as
our nervous systems. G. K. Chesterton
said that once men used to get things
on their consciences, and later they got
things on their minds, but now men
get things on their nerves. —J. Sobbi-aski
(N.S.W.).
Religion
This war, and particularly the psycho-
logical conditions which helped to pro-
duce it, are the consequences of material-
-1SI?\ m e Philosophy which, for so many
nrilhons, has’robbed religion of its valid-
ity. Lenin’s dictum that religion is the
opiate of the people can be true only oc-
casionally and even then only of any
arrogant and selfish religious group. In
road terms it is a pernicious fallacy,
it e , su P^ r hcial logic of materialism with
s emal of an after-life has blunted the
f° r many, and has com-
P them by sheer weight of its intel-
lectual arguments to repress their instinc-
tive belief in, and desire for, an after-life.
The materialists who thought that the
decay of religion would pave the way for
an Age of Reason in which people would
behave on the basis of faultless logic, were
mistaken in their calculations. The view
that persons convinced that they had no
hope of an after-life would be too reason-
able to endanger either their own lives or
those of others was equally fallacious.
Instead of regarding a mortal life of three-
score years and ten as too precious to
risk, mankind has been more logical than
the logicians and treats it as too insignifi-
cant to preserve. This is no more than
we would expect in the terms of Freudian
psychology, which states that a violent
emotional tendency usually springs from
a repressed emotion of a contrary nature.
Thus the instinctive yearning for im-
mortality, repressed, produces a violent
“You get more distance this Way.”
antagonism to life, its importance and its
preservation. The cure cannot be any-
thing but a return to religion and a belief
in an after-life, which can alone clothe
this life in significance and value. Our
problems admit of no materialistic solu-
tion, because they arise not from the
nature of the external world, but from
the thwarting and warping of the human
spirit.—l. G. M. (N.S.W.).
Keep Criminals Out of the A.I.F.
I am wondering if “Edro” (B.
14/8/’4O) is serious when he recommends
that prisoners should be released to help
win the war. As an ex-Digger who
suffered from the petty thieving of that
type of soldier, and who had a close
relative sandbagged and killed in France
(he was lieutenant in a Victorian bat-
talion) by some of those gentry who were
adrift, I say emphatically keep them out.
The only man that I knew to desert
from the line was a noted Queensland
criminal whom we picked up at Durban.
—2320 (W.A.).
Wasteful Giving
In country towns especially the average
citizen is constantly being dunned for two
bob for this and that from social leaders
who are members of half a dozen “war”
committees. Lots of this money is going
not to the ever-deserving Red Cross but
to the purchase of unnecessary goods for
boys in camp in Australia. Some lads
who went away from my town (Bunda-
berg) were overloaded with sweaters,
socks, cigarettes, etc., and it is a fact that
many of them, although they have been
in camp for some weeks now, have never
used the contents of those parcels. Nor
will they ever—apart from the cigarettes.
The money to pay for these unnecessary
goods comes from the pocket of poor
old struggling John Citizen, who cannot
refuse Mrs. Kafoops’s request for offer-
ings because he has to go on living in
the same town with her —if he refused
she would probably label him as a Fifth
Columnist. Waste should be strongly
discountenanced in war-time, and is not
this constant and unnecessary “giving
utterly wasteful? —S. C. W. (Q.).
The Diggers
A remark about the obligation of the
country to the Old Diggers sets me pon-
dering, and I find Australia not guilty
of neglect of its fighting men.
My personal experience after returning
on the Devon in the first few weeks after
we had skittled the Kaiser was two
months’ leave on full pay with a first-
class railway pass all over Queensland ;
a free ticket for the same period to a
leading racecourse ; a free course at a
vocational school if I needed it; a job
waiting in a new profession, offered by a
man who wrote to me in France before
I left the trenches, and who did not know
whether I was a gaolbird or an angel;
free passes to picture theatres while in
uniform ; finance from patriotic funds if
needed to start me in business ; five bob
knocked off my board weekly because of
my overseas service (and no argument
would induce the landlady to miss this
pleasure); a loan of £6OO offered by
the State Government to put me on the
land and a lifetime to pay it back at
nominal interest; a grant from patriotic
funds of £25 towards furnishing a house
when I married, and a gratuity of more
than £l3O in the form of a bond bearing
interest to finish it. The furniture firm
refunded the interest when the bond was
cashed at the end of the period.
When the wedding came off the parson
smilingly handed me back the envelope
containing his fee, explaining that he
never accepted a fee from a Digger. And
since then I find boards of directors ex-
tremely willing to extend preference
where possible to a Digger for a job, on
the principle that they are reliable, and
that they deserve one, anyway.—M. M.
(N.S.W.). v
Hand “Pozzy” (B. 21/8/’4O) a stripe
for his stand against “A.8.F.” and others
and their sneers against the Old Digger.
Most tradesmen serve about five years
learning their trades, working 44 hours
a week. The Diggers were on the job
day and night for anything up to 4\
years, and were undoubtedly fighting
craftsmen when the war ended. Those
of them who are fit, given a few weeks’
refresher course, would furnish the
nucleus of a splendid fighting machine.
As a kid-soldier in the 1914-18 picnic, I
well remember the nerve-soothing influ-
ence of the older men, especially when
crouching for hours under one of Fritz’s
strafing barrages.
Whether this par. cops any of The
Bulletin’s farthings or not, I have to
admit that one of my reasons for buy-
ing the paper during my periods off the
dole is its quiet kindliness to the Old
Diggers. In all its years of violent criti-
cism, it has never uttered a harsh word
against the Old A.I.F. — Torch (N.S.W.).
Cheaper Radio for Soldiers’ Wives
We are quite pleased with the Is. a
year reduction on our wireless license,
but a better idea would be to grant con-
cession rates for soldiers’ wives. The
radio is now a necessity to us in the
country, not a luxury, as we and our
youngsters can knit and do other work
more quickly and cheerfully whilst listen-
ing to the news per wireless. Here is
my humble suggestion. Let the soldiers’
wives have their licenses for 55., or, better
still, free, so that they can give their money
saved for extra comforts. We can buy
more wool and knit more, and send The
Bulletin to our soldiers. — Soldier’s
Wife (Vic.).
Private War Budget
There is an old axiom, what you waste
(or spend) you cannot have. “Midnight
.Son” (B. 14/8/’4O) owns up to spending
30s. 6d. per week of his £4 on luxuries
and non-essentials (his girl, sports,
smokes, presents, drinks and holiday
fund) and wonders why he has nothing
left for books and making provision for
marriage. Actual living expenses and
taxation cost him 41s. 6d. and Bs. goes
into savings.
If his girl friend is a worthy future
helpmate she would encourage him to
increase his savings to 255. per week—
£6s per year—and retain Is. for books
and 2s. for holiday fund. The balance
of 10s. 6d. a week is a goodly sum for a
young man preparing for marriage to
spend on his girl, sports and luxuries.
A home-buyer without dependants and
receiving the basic wage should be able,
with savings and rent received, to wipe
£4OO off the cost of a £6OO home within
six years. If he then married and settled
in the home the complete purchase could
be made in another four years by instal-
ments costing less than rent.
If “Midnight Son” wishes to better his
position in life he will find it calls for
frugal ness and thrift. He can’t have his
cake and eat it. — Daylight Son (N.S.W.).
For the Aftermath
While new Ministries and departments
are springing up overnight, consideration
might be given to the appointment of,
say, a Minister for the Aftermath. His
would be the Herculean job of seeing
that the great body of inoffensive men,
women and children get a fair deal when
the world recovers its senses.
It is hoped that the present madness
will die down sooner or later; and then
the people may face a period of want
and misery perhaps even worse than that
which followed the war of 1914-18.
If it is economically impossible, as we
are told sometimes, to avoid depression
after war, then the Minister’s job would
be to. try to convince the average citi-
zen that, after hundreds of miyions of
pounds have been made available readily
for spreading death and destruction, a
few millions cannot be found for con-
structive works which would provide use-
ful employment. I think the latter task
might be the more difficult —and danger-
ous.— H. K. (N.S.W.).
The Unemployed
There is a serious flaw in Ned Her-
bert’s scheme (B. 28/8/’4O). Many thou-
sands of Australians depend for their
livelihood on the class of employment
to which he suggests those militia-
men should be diverted when their
three months’ period of training con-
cludes — road-building, land reclama-
tion, afforestation, etc. Soldiers have
often been used to perform such works
of public utility in newly-settled coun-
tries, where most of the people are on
the land and labor is scarce. Australia’s
trouble is not shortage of labor but lack
of sufficient work for all.
Despite the thousands who have joined
the A.I.F. and the R.A.A.F., the heavy
Government war expenditure (a great
stimulus to many classes of business) and
the establishment of new industries to
provide goods formerly imported, there
is still considerable unemployment. It
would be greatly increased were Ned
Herbert’s suggestion adopted.
Apart from its effect on unemployment
his scheme is unjust. Recruitment of a
compulsory labor army only from militia-
men who were out of work or engaged in
dead-end occupations would amount to
class discrimination—a thing odious to
Australians. To give the devil his due,
Hitler devised a better scheme when he
instituted the German Labor Army. All
young men of a certain age had to serve
in this body, irrespective of their social
or economic circumstances. —A. D.
(N.S.W.). v
Britons, Not “Pommies”
The time seems ripe for a revision of
our mental attitude towards the
“pommy.” Much has been said about
the unsuitability of “Dad and Dave” skits
for English consumption. It seldom
strikes the critics that it is the “pommy”
element in the play that is indigestible.


We can afford to laugh at ourselves. Few
people enjoy being made a figure of fun
by others.
It has become a fixed idea in Australia
that the imported Englishman is con-
siderably lower in the scale than the
Aussie in “action, faculty and apprehen-
sion,” the evidence in the war news to
the contrary notwithstanding.
In the near future we are likely to have
within our gates many strangers from
the provinces and cities of the Old Coun-
try. Their speech will seem quaint to us
and ours will seem queer to them, but
the sooner they are made to feel at home
and accepted as members of the same
breed the better will it be for all con-
cerned. While we applaud the strength,
tenacity and intelligence of the British
Bulldog in its own backyard it is scarcely
reasonable to tie a tin to its tail when it
ventures on our side of the fence and still
expect the tail to keep on wagging.
For some time to come we shall want
every friend we can find in the world,
but old friends are best, and more or less
comic gibes are not the best means of
keeping t-heir affection. Let’s think of
the English as mates rather than as
“pommies,” and together we may suc-
ceed in keeping Australia free from immi-
grants of a less desirable kind. — Fair
Go Aussie (S.A.).
Undeveloped Resources
People who talk glibly of building up
a great British population here after the
war to strengthen our hold of Australia
against invaders should consider carefully
just where they are going to put the extra
people. Take, for instance, S.A., which
might be thought one of the more under-
developed States. Its area is 243 i million
acres. Of that area 100 million acres are
entirely unproductive, not because no one
has bothered about seeing whether they
could be developed, but simply because
they are hopelessly arid and waterless.
Then there are 109 million acres under
pastoral leases. None of this would be
capable of closer settlement. Carrying
capacity is from 10 to 50 sheep a square
mile. The State’s settled areas are
crammed into 34i million acres —about
one-seventh of the total area —and even
these include some that were pushed out
too far into areas of uncertain rainfall for
wheatgrowing, necessitating the present
marginal-land evacuations. Of the sur-
face area of lakes and lagoons, 1\ mil-
lion acres are salt water and only 224,000
acres are fresh water.
I’m not a calamity howler, but I do
like to face facts. Marvels have been ac-
complished by irrigation and country
waterworks, but their scope is not un-
limited. Other States are in a similar
position# Would we have to fall back
on the Northern Territory for our vast
development? —A. J. L. (S.A.).
Getting the Most from the Land
In N.S.W. you will find river flats
capable of producing bumper crops being
used for grazing a cow or two. The owner
has so much land at his disposal that he
can afford this waste. Farmers know
that they could produce more from their
land, but they will not employ extra labor
and will not invest extra capital to do
so. In these times, when the country
should be producing as much as is pos-
sible, these landowners should be given
to understand that they must either use
their land to the best advantage or else
allow someone else to do so. —W. P. T.
(N.S.W.).
More Wheat
No matter what Governments or other
authorities may say it would be a serious
mistake to limit wheat-production in Aus-
tralia. Drought does quite enough in that
direction without deliberate birth control
in this very important industry. A sur-
plus is secure insurance against a pinch
here, and may be of inestimable value to
other parts of the Empire if the war is
fong-continued. The storage of wheat in
silos is far more useful than the accumu-
lation of gold in vaults.
Overproduction of wheat is a long
way off yet, and, if anything is to be
learned from the war, first and foremost
should be the rational distribution of the
necessities of life. Money and markets
must be found for this purpose. Bread
is the staff of life, and in a largely under-
fed world to talk about restricting pro-
duction is nearly the limit in absurdity.
Gee up, Dobbin!— Fitzjay (N.S.W.).
That Literary Fund
Why the Commonwealth Literary
Fund should be called upon to subsidise
lectures on Australian literature delivered
in already well-subsidised universities is
a puzzle to the average writer, who
mostly had a vague idea that the fund
was created to lift poverty-stricken
scribblers out of the slough of despond.
As in S.A. (B. 14/8//40), £lOO has been
granted in W.A. for the financing of 10
lectures. And, as in S.A., the gentlemen
nominated to deliver the said lectures are
each one in a well-paid, mostly Govern-
ment, job.
What the Australian writer really needs
is a clamping down on the flood of cheap
syndicated stuff that still pours in despite
the war and the need for conserving
dollar and sterling exchange.—W. C. C.
(W.A.).
There may be some truth in the con-
tention that the truest and best in litera-
ture springs from bitter experience, but
at least one authoritative voice has been
raised against it.
Quiller-Couch, in his lectures “On the
Art of Writing,” says:
What are the great poetical names of
the last hundred years or so? Coleridge,
Wordsworth, Byron, Shelley, Landor,
Keats, Tennyson, Browning, Arnold,
Morris, Rossetti, Swinburne —we may stop
there. Of these all but Keats, Browning,
Rossetti were University men; and of these
three Keats, who died young, cut off in
his prime, was the only one not fairly
well-to-do We may prate of democracy,
but actually a poor child in England has
little more hope than had the son of an
Athenian slave to be emancipated into that
intellectual freedom of which great writings
are born.
That’s pretty definite talking by one
who wasn’t quite ignorant of the subject,
and although it was said in England 27
years ago it could too easily be applied to
Australia today.— Upagum (S.A.).
“Suitable for Adults”
Suburban picture theatres depend
mainly on children to make up their
Saturday-afternoon audiences, yet in my
suburb youngsters are not catered for
apart from an occasional thriller serial.
The rest of the show consists of the cur-
rent programme, which is quite frequently
labelled “Suitable only for adult audi-
ences.”
After seeing kids patronising moving
dramas of ungoverned sex because there
was nothing else on for them to see, I
tackled the showmen on the subject.
One admitted that it was too much
trouble to arrange a special programme
for children; the other said he was only
the manager of the theatre, which be-
longed to a chain, and consequently he
was unable to do anything about the
children’s matinees.
It would be interesting to find out how
much the kids’ weekly sixpences mean to
suburban cinema theatres. One method
would be to get clergymen and teachers
to forbid children to see pictures suitable
for adults only, naming both the pictures
and the theatres where they are scheduled
to appear.— Jay Cee (N.S.W.).
Radio Advertisements
Add to the growing pains of life the
excessive amount of advertising put over
by certain sponsors of sessions. Without
being personal, there are at least half
a dozen five-minute sessions on the air
today in which half the time is devoted
to the product and the other couple of
minutes grudgingly allotted to a gramo-
phone record.
One of the best-known quarter-hour
features is ruined because the announcer
opens with an absolute barrage of sales
yap, and doesn’t let up until the listener
is bludgeoned into knowing the name of
the product, the several thousand advan-
tages to be derived from same —and what
to do with his change.
Do sponsors realise the harm they do
themselves when they try to ram the pro-
duct down the public’s throat? I men-
tally blacklist everything that shouts and
blusters on the family set; and I cock an
appreciative ear towards the sponsor who
informs me quietly —and briefly—of the
advantage of his product.— Scrutator
(N.S.W.).
Sydney’s Water
Sydney water restrictions drive home
the weakness of Australia’s greatest city
in the event of air bombing or sabotage.
The State Government should assist
householders to install tanks wherever
possible. Water from tile roofs is good
enough for cooking, sinks, bathrooms
and gardens, and would insure the met-
ropolis against an emergency. Some dis-
tricts have plenty of galvanised-iron
roofs, too.
The amount of water which runs into
the harbor after a storm is heart-breaking.
—Blurt (N.S.W.).
Who Is Wrong?
If you’re a lighthearted, light-fingered
cove and your eye lights on a swanky
looking bag in the front or back of a
parked car, what are you going to do
when you find the car door is unlocked?
—Exactly.
Now you open the bag and find it
belongs to a doctor. It contains numer-
ous phials and bottles, the contents of
any of which might blow your head off.
Next day radio and papers warn citizens
and children in particular against testing
any of the drugs that they might find
thrown away from the stolen bag.
And if you are caught you’re fined or
gaoled. But the doctor gets off scot-free.
Why? If a man left a time-bomb ticking
away in Martin-place he’d be treated to
a free ride in the first P.D. car.
There’s too much of this “doctor’s bag
of drugs stolen” business. If car doors
won’t lock the doctor should carry the
bag with him or pay a well-deserved fine
for negligence which could easily have
fatal results. —E. (N.S.W.).
Adulterated Food
Colbert had the right idea. His edict
on the dyeing of cloth gives a good idea
of his methods. Specimens of bad cloth
were to be exhibited with the name of the
delinquent. A second offence was to be
censured at a meeting of the guild to
which he who committed it belonged. The
perpetrator of a third offence was to be
tied for two hours in a public place with
a specimen of his faulty product tied
to him.
As a result of such strictness the quality
of French goods became renowned
throughout Europe.
Equivalent methods of punishment
could with advantage be instituted today.
If an Australian shopkeeper, convicted
of selling adulterated food, were to have
his name and offence broadcast over the
radio stations in his State and flashed
upon the screen of every picture theatre
where it would be likely to harm him, it
would not be long before convictions for
adulteration of food were practically un-
known here. —Tom (N.S.W.).
Officialese
The versatility of Britain’s Primfe Minis-
ter is not yet exhausted. He has entered
the fray on yet another front by demand-
ing a war-time economy of words in
official pronouncements. “Say what you
mean and mean what you say” is his terse
order, and for once his policy and that
of The Bulletin are in perfect harmony.
The typical German sentence has been
likened to a dog that plunges into a
turgid stream of words and comes up on
the other side with the verb in its mouth.
The English language, freed from cir-
cumlocution, idiomatic and direct, is good
enough for the man who handles a trowel
or a mace with equal ease.
“Bless his mealy mouth! ” said Carlyle
of an orator who employed language to
conceal thought, and so saying made his
own meaning quite clear. “Up, Guards,
an’ at ’em!” said Wellington, and he was
obeyed, even to the missing letters.
The soldier is no longer bearded like
the pard and dolled up in shako and
scarlet coat. This day he does his duty
in gas-mask, tin hat and chaste khaki.
The official must also doff his literary
epaulets and gold braid and suit the
word to the action, “sudden and quick.”
The Ten Commandments are an excellent
example of how an official document can
be boiled down, but the application of
the idea to Buzfuz and Bumble in this
era of ink is revolutionary. O. K. (S.A.).
These Boards
May I suggest a few boards which
might be worth while?
1. A bqard to supply silencers to poli-
ticians.
2. A committee to abolish Parliaments.
3. An investigator to see if “Hansard”
is really worth anything.
4. A series of researchers to ascertain
whether seven Governors are necessary
when we have seven allegedly responsible
Governments. —Draco (W.A.).
Political Consciousness
What horse-racing is to the average
Australian politics are to the Dutch
South African. While the Australian
considers a political meeting an adequate
excuse for adjourning to the pub, in S.
Africa any meeting within 100 miles
causes farmers to abandon even the most
urgent jobs in the hope of a few political
rockets, which they are quite prepared
to light themselves. In fact, there was a
stormy election not so very long ago
when some districts resorted to lead-
piping and bicycle chains to settle ideo-
logical differences.
This acute political consciousness and
the use of lethal arguments have their
obvious disadvantages, particularly at
times such as the present. On the other
hand, Australian politicians would prob-
ably adjust their socks a good deal more
carefully if there was the prospect of a
few really stormy meetings with the elec-
tors in the offing. How many of our more
malodorous cases of —shall we say? the
politically inexplicable distribution of
positions and public works would have
happened during the last couple of de-
cades if the people concerned had known
there was an even chance that an annoyed
body of three or four hundred men would
drop in one morning just to see where the
smell was corning from and who was
causing it? —B. C. (N.S.W.).
Blots on the Landscape
In China, I believe, the pagoda is part
of the prevailing scene. In India, the
temple or the mosque. In certain parts
of Australia it is that very un-pagoda-
like little building which, so imperti-
nently and so obtrusively, stands up,
gaunt, naked and unashamed, in the
backyard. You never see a creeper round
it. There is no disguise of any sort.
There it stands, shouting out to all the
world its necessary purpose.
I need hardly add that I live in one of
the outer suburbs of Sydney which is
unsewered. Why, I don’t know. We
have piped water, communal gas and
electric light, but no sewerage. You see
some fine houses about, with all sorts oi
fancy windows and fancy doors and
fancy fronts and fancy backs. But there
is nothing fancy about the little house at
the back, and no attempt at disguise.—
C. (N.S.W.).
War Against Silk Stockings
A disproportionate part of the feminine
dress budget is swallowed up by that
ephemeral extravagance the “sheer” silk
stocking. Every scrap of real silk in its
composition, and probably the bulk of
its other components, must be imported
at cost of exchange and shipping space.
I would suggest that women make
patriotic sacrifice and wear lisle, cotton,
wool or any of the long-wearing service-
able hose that are offering and conserve
exchange. It is not much to ask!
Further, there seems to be a real open-
ing here for a salvage drive. Stockings,
hardly worn, are discarded by the thou-
sand because of a ladder or visible snag.
Surely the material possesses some value,
and is capable of being unravelled and
woven again?— Peter Penguin (S.A.).
Betting and Poverty
I used to think I could pick a Com-
munist first go, but now I’m blowed if I
can tell which shell he is under.
The other day one of our first-flight
legislators asked a meeting of trade-
unionists if it was right that 6 p.c. of the
population of Britain should control most
of the material wealth of that island. Of
course it isn’t right, but the speaker did
not explain who was to blame or how the
balance could be adjusted. Perhaps I
can answer the rhetorical question,
though I’m not a political economist.
Once upon a time I was one of a mob
of navvies slinging muck for Smith and
Timms. We were paid monthly on Satur-
day at noon knock-off and were all
equally rich for about an hour.. Before
10 p.m. of the same day roughly 6 p.c.
of the population of the camp controlled
most of its material wealth, including
one or more double-headed pennies. The
camp was shifted as the job demanded,
but the monthly two-up carnival ran
true to form.
Now I ask you, fellow-workers, was it
right that a few members of our com-
munity should have each a roll like a
steamer’s funnel while the masses—my-
self among them —were so impoverished
that they had to borrow bobs or beg for
subs, in order to sustain a bare existence?
Of course it wasn’t right, but who was to
blame? Certainly not S. and T., though
they were hard taskmasters.
A glance at any English sporting paper
will prove that the people who are now
so bravely defending their liberty and
ours are as mad over “sport” as we are.
Not being all navvies, they are not re-
stricted to the two-up school for their
amusement, but they get rid of their
wages just as quickly by betting on any-
thing and everything that is beyond their
control, from lotteries to football.
As free-born British subjects they have
a perfect right to do so, and the Parlia-
ment that tried to stop them would go
out for a duck, but why put all the blame
on the “money barons” for widespread
poverty and none on the pennies that
take the wrong turning and the horses
that fail to get there first?— Still Punt-
ing (S.A.).
Sense of Values
In the daily press on the same day one
advertiser offered a reward of £2 for
return of a fox-terrier pup that had
strayed. Another, the Commonwealth
Government, stated that the first person
to report a mine stranded on a beach wilt
receive £l, If the mine is more than t' u
miles from the coast and is delivered to
the authorities the finder will receive
This item does not say if the relatives col-
lect the fiver should the mine explode
while it is being delivered. However, in-
prepared to leave this business of search-
ing for stray mines to the professions
beachcomber and I’ll stick to the busin
of looking for stray dogs—it s safer an
more profitable.— Eureka (N.S.W.J.


Lady Heebie.
(Miss Lillah McCarthy.)
“Pelmanism makes
you do yom best, and,
moreover, makes your
best better than you
thought it possible
to be.”
m
w
Mr. Compton
Mackenzie.
“ Pelmanism, defi-
nitely cultivates the
imagination, and I do
not hesitate to say that
there is nobody who
would not benefit by a
Course
The Baroness Orezy.
“Pelmanism has
meant to many just
the difference between
a life of mediocrity
and disappointment
and one of prosperity
and triumph.”
iii&i
ml
Sir Herbert Barker.
“Benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured by all who will
follow the directions
given in the Pelman
Course. It is impos-
sible to speak too
highly of it.”
m
■ m
Sir Arthur Quiller-
Couch.
King Edward VII.
Professor of English
Literature at the Uni-
versity of Cambridge,
England, writes —
“ The Pelman Course
gave me practical hints
which, if they had
come my way in youth,
would have saved me
more time and labor
than I can reckon.”
Pelmanism
is the
Accepted Scientific Method
of Training Mind,
Memory and Personality
Pelmanism deals with fundamental personal attributes and qualities
which, when developed, establish mental and physical health, increase
resistance to the pressure of outside influences, and make possible adjust-
ment to conditions that might otherwise destroy happiness and success.
Fortunately the qualities are inherent in every normal man or woman.
The most important are
Self-Confidence
Concentration
Decisiveness
Self-Control
Judgment
Will-Power
Tact
Initiative
Social Ease
and a Good Memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and
useful data of every kind.
PELMANISM is so universally success-
ful largely because it sets out to train
rather than to teach. It knows that,
according to the nature and the strength
of the individual’s habits of mind and
will, so are his personal efficiency and
his standing with his fellows. If these
habits are good he will be strong and
successful in his undertakings.
A Doctor writes: “Pelmanism has shown
me how to observe instead of merely seeing.
That alone is worth the price of the course.”
A Clerk writes: “I have been able to get
a definite aim, and have abolished drifting.
I feel happier and better in myself. I can
concentrate much better. I am losing my
horrible self-consciousness.”
A Salesman reports: “Results gained—a
healthier state of mind and body, more self-
confidence, a better memory, a feeling of
ability and keenness in business, a desire
always to employ my spare time to some use
and a systematic style of working.”
A Secretary writes: “I am forming
good habits and choking bad habits. I have
more self-control or self-reliance. I enjoy
life more. I feel better physically and men-
tally. I am easier to live with. Ido not
brood.”
A Nurse writes: “Fits of depression are
far less frequent, and these are soon over-
come. Certainly much happier.”
A Musician writes: ‘‘l have a brighter
outlook on life, and I am not as apt to
become easily depressed as formerly. I realise
my aim, and have more self-confidence in
my work ”
A Shorthand-Typist writes: “I have
energy enough for two, and the will to carry
out to the finish that which I pursue.”
A Draughtsman writes: “When I
started the course I was suffering from
severe worries. I have completely got over
these.”
A Motor Mechanic writes r “I now
gratefully realise that without a sound know-
ledge of the principles as set out by the
Pelman Institute we cannot hope to make the
best of ourselves. I myself have overcome
Shyness, Lack of Confidence, Mind-wander-
ing."
A Teacher writes: “Increase in my
powers of Concentration and Memory. In-
crease in Self-confidence. Great interest in
people and in my surroundings.”
A dank Officer writes: “Self-conscious-
ness has given place to Self-confidence. I
am able to work harder and concentrate
more.”
A Builder writes: “I have developed
confidence in myself and a broader outlook
on life. My life has changed from a listless,
drifting one to one of purpose. I now have
a mental and bodily health I did not have
before.”
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential
communication; we have no outside representatives
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
There are over half a million
I'elmanists, of whom more than
44,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
The Headquarters of the I* elm an
Institute are in London.
Pelmanism is approved by the Army
Council in London. 160 Admirals
and Generals and nearly 100,000
other ranks have taken the Felman
Course.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions,
and enables residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training- without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
ms
Dame Sybil
Thorndike.
“Pelmani&m gives a
mental . clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees oxyportuniti.es
and uses them rightly . v
Dr. I. W. Norwood.
D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind - training, A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility. It teaches
that man has the key
to his own oar ear.”
3
Lord Baden PowelL
“No man—no matter
how educated, or what
his age, or what his
profession—who seri-
ously takes up the
Course, can go through
it without improving
himself."
£
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanism is valu-
able to all men and
women . . . the re-
sults endure. Habits
of mind are formed
which are of the very
highest value in life.”
To the Telman Institute, 3 Gloucester House.
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
;IT . me > £ree and post-free, a copy of
‘lhe Efficient Mind."
Name
Address
103
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ĥjkjkjklkl
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
‘‘THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
Banjo Paterson s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDT AKERS,’ by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra)
. c°
&
&
$
&
0^
0^
G*‘
*P
,1 S® 0?
•\\ e *
#■'
t s ‘
o 1
o°,
3^
# \»
..'* .*’ A
■ °
.•’* to


“THERE’S NO NEED
TO FEEL SEEDY!”
I'H:
v- y££
>tfO
•SR***
It
Iv
<. ’■ ,' j
Product of Holland.
=r *•-*-»«
THIS __
ATIC ALCOHOLIC BEVERAOE| L
Eiiwmifactured exclusively in Holland, amt;
B warranted not only pure from every .njurg 5
isnsrproperty and ingredient, kut it is also at: ~
jJif brst possible quality..
**Etrtre attention of Ag«»u».and Purchase____
itnTrvfted to the SiKnafWvnJcl aodress rmr
to the iitle of this ArontJUjt: p
saaie Co. dial, embojseil* tip the sides j£ =
tr —ittilt* as protection tig&iiist inferior r*
n-lrmtis imitations • •••
£>OT*fEROAM
Sfind every .ittempt at infriirgemont "ill IE =
httyscriil'iiii-wdiiml thy uif ringers vi(p.iuu- rr -“-
NET: 1 PINTS FI. OZS.
pusncDtc' i
% '
V f . .
• T
The way to feel fit and well every day is to
take a daily glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps—it sends
a rich glow of health right through the system.
It invigorates cleanses the kidneys and
purifies the bloodstream.
Wolfe’s Schnapps contains medicinal properties
found in no other spirit and is highly
recommended to tone up the system. Take it
hot with lemon at bed-time and you will wake
bright and fresh in the morning.
WOLFE'S
JCHIUAPPS
MAKE YOUR MONEY FIGHT —BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
W.S.3d.F.P.
