

V|
ssaiaviM
>*>*> muffin
* * e l°!P e U e 4i
suone + 5 6u|4seDpeojg
* *ipjeossy
ojruaejnuew ssapji/y^
ssDiAjag uiej6ejn43j c ]
* * *s9D|ajss 4jej3j;y
sasiAjeg 6u;4sespeojg
9 3 I A J 9 £ Jj| : j
331AJ35 eaumg
SdlLJs 04 031AJ99 SS9|9Jiyy\
93IAJ9CJ
93|AJ9$ SS9[9J|yV\ Uie9g
S3IAIAIA3V TMlf
nmsaatii
ssaiauiM
NVITVHASnV
am jo
svLzavzi
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3125.
\An
Wednesday, January 3, 1940.
Moscow’s Millions of Mugs
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Posi as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S CHRISTMAS CATALOGUE
Packed with the best books of the day.
Also gift stationery. Post free anywhere.
Write for one nowf
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George St., Sydney.
Ijy I
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bt lletin.
*,, , f I , V,
My Name .
My Address
S.B. 340
-V
The Red Page
WRITERS AT WAR.
It may be that they' are feeling the
pinch, or perhaps it is only that they
are feeling. At all events, whole bat-
talions of Literary Names are wading
into the thick of the fray in English
newspapers, hatching out war aims, lay-
ing down peace aims, attacking Hitler
and Goring and each other, concocting
panaceas warranted to make peace ever-
lasting-letting themselives go with fine
assurance on problems *which, in the ordi-
nary nature of things, tthey leave to poor
oafs at the Foreign Office.
* * * *
Mr. Wells is rather a special case —
one who has turned almost wholly away
from the exacting business of literary
creative effort to the; (for him) more
congenial occupation of concocting cure-
alls for the world’s Ills. On the ink-
splashed front of what Mr. Lloyd
George, testily impatient, has called
“this sputtering war,” Mr. Wells is both
a veteran and an inveterate warrior. He
points the largest possible calibre in
polysyllabic Big Berthas:
If we are to have a real, effective federa-
tion of mankind, a genuine attempt to
realise that phase of world-wide plenty and
safety that we have every reason to sup-
pose attainable, then we have to discuss
simply and sincerely and work out plans
for the polite mediatisation of monarchies,
the competent pooling and socialisation of
the natural resources rand staple industries
of the world, the revision and extension of
our universities and other knowledgeable
organisations, and the establishment of a
world-wide rising level of common educa-
tion.
Mr. Wells is to be admired for the
ease with which he; does this sort of
thing. All the world is a classroom, and
all its conglomerate races and nationali-
ties, with their countless creeds and
religions, customs antd taboos, idiots and
geniuses, are so maruy uniformed school-
boys creeping to good master Wells’s
ever-open seminary. The Japanese are
trundling along to learn something about
the mediatisation of their monarchy ; the
Yanks are coming to hear about the
pooling and socialisation of the national
staple industries of the
Stfifih and Mussolini and their
frespec'U'Vje aire there eager to be
in a general federation
df;.,rn’fpkitfT':,
Good fuck, good master Wells! In
your twentieth reincarnation maybe this
wretched world wild be worthy of you;
will then be static, as devoid of human
emotions and passions as the face -of
the moon. All this harsh, dynamic fury
which animates the coarse human race
today will have been sterilised out of
it. All these millions of tongues babbling
in their ten-thousand varieties of gib-
berish will be talking some pure and
polite language like the Clinic’s English,
and understanding each other, and you,,
too, Mr. Wells.
* * * *
Mr. Shaw, though he has stuck more
to creative effort than Mr. Wells—to
say nothing of the extreme politeness
due to him for his having bestowed on
Australia through Mr. Gregan McMahon
the honor of first production of his plays
anywhere outside Britain —is also barging
headlong into the war business, letting
off salvos of the somewhat clearer
roaring the grand old lion prefers. His
war aims are the quintessence of Shavian
simplicity: Stop shouting foredamned
nonsense and call the foredamned thing
off. He suggests a conference and selec-
tion of the right sort of men to attend
it;
Let the ignorant public have its favorite
brands of blether and bunk from the Par-
liamentary celebrities by all means; but
such stuff cuts no ice in conferences of
nations with guns in their pockets.
Nations with guns in their pockets are
presumably as eager for such a conference
as he is, find as ready to listen to reason.
As for that somewhat enigmatic quantity
Herr Battler and Battler’s supposed plans
for further annexations, Mr. Shaw thun-
ders down from the topmost cloud above
Olympus: “Had we not better wait until
he tries to do it and then stop him with
Stalin and Roosevelt at our back?” From
which it may be presumed that all that 1
Stalin’s country and Roosevelt’s country
are in fact now doing and not doing
is not what it seems, but just Joe’s and
Franklin D.’s efforts to get a place for
themselves in the niche of
immortals sacred to Mark
Twain.
Edinburgh University stu-
dents thought so highly of
Mr. Shaw’s proposals for
going along and having a heart-to-heart
chat with Battler that they offered to
support him as a “Stop the War” can-
didate, to which Mr. Shaw, with innate
modesty, replied that he was, after all,
only an octogenarian as yet.
* * * *
Another illustrious Irish playwright,
Mr. Sean O’Casey, is also piped into
the arena to the tune of Mr. Shaw’s
theme song. Mr. O’Casey enters
mounted on a handsome bull: “Our
first war aim ought to be at an immedi-
ate peace.” But it might be a mistake
to regard these examples as proof that
legend had hitherto maliciously libelled
a naturally pacific people. Mr. O’Casey,
at any rate, demands “Peace at once
and then war—war to throw down the
barriers to keep us from the practical
things being done in the U.S.S.R.”
among other whimsical desiderata.
The _ God-sent wisdom of the English
governing classes is over and done with;
away with them; peace abroad and war
at home against these things, here and
now.
Perhaps it should be added that both
Mr. Shaw and Mr. O’Casey were heard
to the foregoing effect before their idol,
J. Stalin, had sent some 400 ’planeloads
of culture to Helsinki. Perhaps that has
made a difference. And again, perhaps.
* * # *
Mr. Robert Graves, who wrote that
somewhat premature masterpiece Good-
bye to All That, leaps lightly into the
lists again to lay into the Boche with
fresh enthusiasm. “The only way that
one can think of the Germans now as
a nation,” he says, “is as one thinks of
a violent mental case struggling with
ambulance men on the way to the padded
cell and strait-jacket.” His long obser-
vation of them—and he had a pretty
close-up view before Goodbye, etc. —
has led him to conclude that as a nation
they suffer from schizophrenia (split per-
sonality). When the German is being a
German he’s one of the best; when he’s
being a Boche he’s an uttah boundah.
Therefore, Mr. Graves to this strong
purpose:
When all is over, when the maniac is
overpowered and turns suddenly feeble in
our grasp, we must remember the previous
courses of the same illness and not be de-
ceived. The joke is that the collapse will
inevitably be presented in Germany not as
a military defeat but as a spiritual victory.
The German, with tears in hjs eyes as at
the end of the last war, will proclaim his
victory over the Boche, and even expect to
be congratulated. Then we must say to
him kindly: “Yes, yes, you are all right
now.” But we must be careful about ever
again allowing him to have a weapon in
his possession or even any domestic article
that could possibly be turned into a
weapon. »
And perhaps, in lieu of a deserved
literary pension, the author of Goodbye
to All That could be fitted with the job
of Head Keeper of the Cutlery.
*.* * *
Another veteran of the last war to
turn up in this voluble tourney is Mr.
John Brophy, who, with that most indus-
trious of expatriates Eric Partridge, com-
piled Songs and Slang of the British
Soldier, .1914-18 —and a mighty diverting
book, too. Mr. Brophy isn’t con-
cerned with this present war except
as it might serve to enlarge the soldiers’
serviceable vocabulary. He mentions
that anti-aircraft guns are no longer
called “Archies,” but fails to say what
they are called. He does better with
’planes:
Air Force pilots used to call their aero-
planes “buses,” but now, 1 understand,
they dislike to hear them spoken of as
“machines,” still less, after the American,
as “crates” ; the correct term of endear-
ment is “ship.”
But where on earth has Mr. Van Winkle
Brophy been taking a nap that he should
list “scrounged” among new terms?
It and “scrounge,” “scrounger,” etc., were
among the commonest words used in
the A.1.F., maybe because the Diggers
could hardly have got along without an
expressive word for that sort of thing.
* * * *
Mr. Humbert Wolfe let this be a
lesson to all bards —is Permanent Under-
secretary to the Ministry of Labor!
Enter Mr. Wolfe among the war-
aimers, full of hope and not without
ambition:
The war aim is to produce a world in
which all men are persuaded that war
destroys not only the material but the
spiritual value of life.
All men seems to indicate a fair bit of
spare-time persuading, don’t you think,
Mr. Secretary?—especially if you sit
down for a while and think of only just
one or two of them. Still, poets have
a license. They are more inclined to re-
gard it as establishing their bona fides
for making weighty pronouncements on
foreign affairs than for making poetry ;
no doubt there will be people unfeeling
enough to suggest that this will not be
the most tragic of present happenings.
Be that as it may, Mr. Louis MacNeice
having come out with the impressive
announcement, “I have not yet decided
what I think about this war,” it surely
could not have been mere coincidence
that Hitler immediately left for Berchtes-
gaden with a frightful headache. Mr.
Cecil Day Lewis, for his part, has con-
sulted his Muse and announced: “Our
first war aim should be the abolition of
the profit-system,” a slogan that should
ensure the appearance on the field of
battle of every housewife in the world.
* * * *
Interval here to allow the ladies to
joust.
Enter Mrs. Naomi Mitchison on her
favorite Red charger, hotly pursued by
Miss Rebecca West astride a warhorse
that was formerly of a beautiful Parlor
Pink color, but whose coat has faded
astonishingly since Herr Stalin came to
the forefront as a dealer in white
elephants, selling his best friends pups
as a sideline.
“Stalin’s a cad!” shouts Miss West
indignantly.
“Ooh, you big fibber!” retorts Mrs.
Mitchison.
Time’s up, ladies.
* * * *
Reverting a moment to the bards.
Though the advertisement, “Lost, one
good poet; likely to be found seated on
a cactus writing about a cathedral,” seems
overdue, and though nearly all the rest
have deserted to the ranks of the minor
demagogues, one or two are doing
their best to urge a somewhat spavined
Pegasus into the murky fray. One effort:
Behind the blinds the silence amplified
Is rumor wrung from roaring hearts.
The flesh defines itself in simple death.
We gnaw like mice at life, as small.
The searchlights punch the sky to plaques of
light,
And make a vast aquarium
Where whale and luminous minnow share one
world,
And drive the darkness downwards, deep.
And there, as in the coffin, shadowless,
In dreadful leisure lie the old,
Sad, God-forsaken dreamers, of their dreams
Bereft, too desperate in prayer.
Ah, God! The tongues of evil in the guns
Wait curled for evil gnats; the dark
Is evil, and all things that move therein.
Shall we again deserve the sun?
It would, of course, be an abhorrent
way of here saying farewell to the bards
to suggest that 20 guesses as to the
authorship of that verse would bring forth
20 different answers—in other words, that
standardisation and the belt-conveyor sys-
tem are not restricted to producing
tanks ... However, farewell.
* * * *
Clear the entire tourney ground for
the triumphant entry of one of the
staunchest warriors who ever did his
bit under one flag today and another
tomorrow —m a strictly literary sense,
of course. Good old Beverley! Mr.
Nichols has been digging in the garden
for signs of that detestable and noxious
weed, the snob plant. He gallops
breathless into the arena flourishing aloft
a find so staggering that the assembled
ladies all curtsy to him and pelt him
with little flowers:
In future [runs an Army order which
Mr. Nichols has discovered] officers who
are invited to join the various clubs which
offer them hospitality—country clubs, golf
clubs, tennis clubs and the like—will only
be allowed to do so on condition that they
first assure themselves that similar invita-
tions will also be issued to the men.
That order, says Mr. Nichols, “is even
more significant than it looks. It is not
too much to say that it is the greatest
step towards practical socialism that
any country has ever taken.” Dear
Beverley.
* * * *
And shall we have a professor, just
for the sake of tone? Professor Walter
Starkie, who wrote Raggle-Taggie— and
a jolly good book, moreover. Prof.
Starkie holds the singular position of
Professor of Spanish at Dublin Univer-
sity. But let another hand unveil the
hobbled warhorse whereon sits the
learned Prof, gazing ferociously over
his charger’s tail, full of fight:
Not only did Professor Starkie assail
British and French Ministers as bellicose
old men heartlessly dispatching youngsters
to their doom, but he deplored the behavior
of the American Government and Congress
in lifting the embargo on the export of
war materials. The audience saw no in-
consistency between these sentiments and
Professor Starkic’s laudation of Italy and
Fascism, with its essentially militarist
philosophy.
As against that, take Mr. A. A.
Milne, author of When We Were Very
Young and Now We Are Six, galloping
full-tilt into the arena and crying out
loud that the war should be directed
against all dictators, presumably Kemal
Ataturk’s successor among them.
* * * *
Mr. H. V. Morton appears as a com-
paratively unbelligerent jouster, now
following in the steps of departmental
heads in search of heroic exploits to lay
beside the morning toast of countless
fellow-countrymen. Opening of typical
breakfast with Mr. Morton:
This morning I am able to give you a
pen picture of that mysterious and exciting
organisation— l the Postal Censorship Depart-
ment.
H= * * *
Mr. Priestley, author of The Good
Companions, in a companionable spirit:
I would, myself, begin by taking inter-
national affairs out of the hands of experts
and Foreign Office mandarins and securing
some representation of ordinary decent
people everywhere.
That is very thoughtful of Mr. Priest-
ley, and it’s to be hoped that he will
keep in mind the more favorable com-
ments on products of his varied genius
which have no doubt appeared on this
page from time to time. But, with the
numbers of potential applicants offer-
ing, he might have to restrict his choice
of new Foreign Office staff to British
Authors, and even then there might be
a heavy casualty list of those killed in
the cr.ush.
As the handful paraded here indicate,
they are both very loud and very
numerous in the land. And these are
only the lone-hand jousters, charging
singly. They are given also to charging
in mass formation, as many as 17 of
them in a body. One such group in-
cludes James Avery Joyce, Clive Bell,
Vera Brittain, J. Middleton Murry,
H. M. Tomlinson. Their refrain:
To end the present anarchy of rival
sovereign States full scope should be
given for the free expression of national
' culture within a federal constitution.
* * * *
After all of which it should really
come as a surprise to nobody if an
urgent Army order is issued prohibiting
private owners of machine-guns from
blazing away at the clouds for practice,
lest they should accidentally bring down
the entire hierarchy of Contemporary
British Authors.
World Outlook (Nicholson and Wat-
son). Reprint of six public lectures given
under the auspices of the University of
London. Sir Frederick Wyte gives a
lucid account of America’s attitude
toward European affairs, from Washing-
ton’s advice to stay out of them,
which has passed into the national blood-
stream like a tenet of faith, till to-day.
In “Republican France,” H. Wickham
Steed spends most of his time upon an
analysis of the French Revolution .of
1789, to which he adds some reflections
on the French character:
Politically the heart of a Frenchman
may be on the Left, but his pocket is
always on the Right, and in point of fact
most Frenchmen have a pocket.
C. J. S. Sprigge describes Italy, the
country most deeply affected by the last
war. He says that at the signing of
the Armistice there were a million de-
serters from the Italian army. There is
a sympathetic study of Imperial Japan by
A. Morgan Young. The Japanese, he
considers, are suffering the natural dis-
tortion of a people thrust too fast along
a road that is alien to them.
My Friends the Baboons: Eugene N.
Marais (Methuen). The author of The
Soul of the White Ant in these post-
humously-published papers observes his
friends in their native haunts in South
Africa. “In no species of animal is
greater interest being taken at present by
scientific investigators than in apes.” He
holds that the Australian parrot reputed
to have gone from bad to worse, acci-
dentally acquiring a taste for mutton
while just stealing a little wool to line
its nest, is a shining innocent compared
with his friends the baboons, who, from
killing lambs for the milk the little
creatures had drunk, have become cold
lamb addicts, killing and skinning their
catch before eating. From that their
taste has widened to embrace pork and
poultry, and it would presumably sur-
prise nobody if they one day thought of
taking a helping of 'the S’African Prime
Minister himself.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING" — always.
'THE SENIOR STORE”
Wmm «.-" “ ' A-:y
1 ' aT
dinne r at
Nr*’-
-
HR3S
iliflFW
t -Vsj
m
eighj
» •
X*
«.*B*
SS&s
MSS
» -.'
: >S'»x-y, > 4iyss4&x4<&-----'' < ’
RH
esse MAJOR
COOKERS
HEAT STORAGE
iaS-'fjjti ' ’ t • i ; . v . 11 /;;{/
FOR MODERN KITCHENS
Anyone can be an expert with the "Esse" Heat
Storage Cooker. It will produce excellent baking
results, because it is one of the most dependable
Cookers made. The "Esse" gives you new com-
pactness to save floor space, new economy to
reduce fuel bills, new labour saving features and
extra strength. The "Esse" Premier with auxil-
iary oven is designed for larger residences
and it burns ordinary gas coke continuously,
thus daily re - lighting is eliminated. At
Anthony Horderns'. PRICE £175/-/-
OTU/nxAy
AS NEW AS TOMORROW
The "Esse" Minor Heat Storage Cooker provides delicious cooking and has
larger ovens, boiling and simmering space than supplied in any other
Cooker designed for kitchens of modest proportions. Burning ordinary gas
coke continuously, the "Esse" Minor provides an efficient and economical
method of cooking which reduces expenditure on fuel by several pounds
annually. At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE £lOO/10/-
Smaller models also available. Prices from £75
m
is*
m
■
mi
%
LUE NOZZLE
BOILING PLATE ft HEAT ACCUMULATOR
BOLSTER OR COVER FOR retaining
HEAT
FUEL HOPPER
i , ■
{
.
23
• Domestic models fitted
with Thermostat heat control.
• These cookers are also
available with hot water unit.
The COMPLETE COOKER
The illustration at the left points out the principal technical features of
the "ESSE" PREMIER Heat Storage Cooker. The fire never comes into
direct contact with the oven sides or with the food. The right amount
of heat is distributed to each part of the Cooker by controlled radiation
and conduction, and is retained by heavy insulation. The indestruct-
ible Heat Accumulator is of immense thickness. Only the best materials
are used, and the design of the Cooker contributes to its hard-wearing
qualities. The insulating material is enduring and the "ESSE" Cooker
throughout is built to give permanent, efficient service.
DEMONSTRATION DAILY IN THE KITCHENWARE DEPT.-
GROUND FLOOR—PITT STREET. Dooklet Sent on Request.
• "Esse” Cookers —Lower Ground Floor—Pitt Street. Delivered free only within our,
delivery area. Installation extra, according to locality.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
'Phone M 2401
Day or Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C G.P.0., Sydney


BACK FOR GOOD
BY GAVIN S. CASEY.
THE train hammered its way inland even more
slowly than usual, because it was so full of
people ; but it was pretty much a picnic occa-
. sion, and nobody worried overmuch about a
little discomfort. There were few who weren’t on
holiday, and people running into others they knew
in the corridors and dining-cars all asked the same
question. “Going up for the races?” they sqid. “It’ll
be a big meeting.”
They swapped reminiscences and boasted that
they hadn’t missed one of the big inland race meetings
for years. I don’t know how they passed the time at
the first-class end, but in the second-class carriages
they drank bottled beer and told yarns, and got out
packs of cards and upended cases to play on, and
smoked till they were husky, and sang a bit when
they’d drunk enough. They were all pretty happy,
with good clothes and enough money to buy what
they wanted to keep them merry, even if they weren’t
all millionaires.
“Going up for the races?” they asked me in the
carriage.
“No,” I said. “I’m going up for good.”
“Well, you can have it for mine,” said someone.
“There’s nothing I enjoy more than a trip up for the
races, but when it comes to a place to live gimme
the coast every time.”
All of them were jumping to the conclusion that
I was going up to a job, and it made me feel bad.
When the train had pulled out of the station, with
Annie waving and the kid goggling after it, I’d felt
sure I was going up to a job, even if I hadn’t found
out what the job was. But after a couple of hundred
miles over the ranges and through the wheatbelt, with
nothing to do but think and watch other people having
a high old time, I wasn’t so sure. I’d been out of
work so long that it sometimes seemed I’d always be
out of work.
When night came I didn’t have to worry about
not having a sleeper, because, of course, there weren’t
any in our carriage, and everyone else was in the same
boat. They all said that they’d been too late to book
one, and they took it for granted that that was how
it was with me. But it was awkward before that, when
the stewards came down the corridor yelling “Last
call for dinner. Last call for dinner.” All the rest of
them licked their lips and shrugged themselves out
of their seats and into their coats, and went along to
the dining-car. I went, too, but I only spent half an
hour out on the platform, smoking and watching the
dusky bush whiz past, and breathing the gusty air
that was sucked between the carriages. I went back,
looking as well-fed as I could, and filled myself up
with two fourpenny pies at the next refreshment-room.
There were chaps in the carriage I’d ordinarily
have talked to a good deal, but that evening I did
more listening. I wondered about Annie and the kid,
and for a while I wished a bit more of my life away,
wanting the journey over, wanting to get into things,
trying to lift us all out of the mud. But I was fright-
ened of getting there really, for I was afraid I wouldn’t
be able to do anything when I did arrive. I felt
miserable, and cold and uncomfortable, and jealous
of all the others in the compartment. I listened to the
talk fade away into mutterings and grunts and sleepy
requests to put the damn’ light out and go to sleep,
and after a while I went off myself, wedged upright
on the seat, with the steel of the wheels and rails
pounding away beneath me.
In the morning I was stiff in the limbs and dirty
and crumpled, but there was warm inland sunshine
flooding over low, flat scrub, and it was a familiar
part of a boyhood that hadn’t been too bad at all, so
it cheered me up a bit.
“’Struth!” said a bloke who was leaning through
the window. “It’s niggers’ country, ain’t it?”
“Wouldn’t feed a bloody rabbit!” agreed some-
one. “How’d y’ like to do the trip on foot, like they
had to in the early days?”
I felt indignant, though they were right enough,
really. But it was the country I was brought up in,
and it seemed all right to me. I could remember
times hunting and fossicking in the scrub that I’d en-
joyed better than any of the fun I’d had down in the
city, where if you shake off the streets you only find
farms and motor roads and kiosks with signs that say
“Teas. Fresh Eggs. Home-made Jam” ; and when the
train pulled up at the little inland towns I watched
the old codgers that sucked at their pipes beside the
line, and thought to myself that in the city no one
could be so old and so disreputable and still as inde-
pendent and in a strange way dignified as these old
blokes. I felt hungry and keen to arrive again after
a slush around in the little lavatory basin, but when
we were only a few miles from the end of the trip,
and everyone was collecting clothes and baggage and
fussing about, I got nervous. Then before I was ready
we were swishing through the outskirts of thfe town,
and I could see the old familiar skyline of dumps and
poppet-legs and the main buildings of the place
through the window.
The platform of the long station slid itself sud-
denly beside the train, and the mob made such a rush
to be on to it that you’d have thought they only had
a minute to make it before the engine started again
and took them to Brisbane or somewhere. I climbed
down, and there were some familiar faces in the crowd
that was there to meet friends, but, of course, there
was no one there particularly to meet me. I thought
of Annie and the kid again, and said to myself that
anyway I’d be there to meet them when the time came,
and it would be a great day for all of us, and then I saw
Phil Dyson shouldering his way along the platform,
For a moment my heart hammered a bit and I
had wild ideas that Phil might have got word some-
how that his old cobber was coming back for good,
but I soon remembered how long it was since we’d
hung around together, and dumped that notion. But
I was still glad to spot him, and while I was trying
to catch his eye I was thinking that perhaps it was
luck right at the start. When I’d left the town and
gone knocking around in -various places, Phil had
stayed there, and now he was fairly well up in it,
working for the warehouse that gets the lion’s share
of the mines’ business,
“Hello, Phil,” I said.
“Well, Bill! ” he yelled, sticking out a hand. “It’s
good to see you again. Up for the races, I suppose?”
If he’d started any other way it would have been
better. I was eager to get in right with Phil for his
own sake, but also for a more urgent reason. I had
a lot to tell him, to get his help and support, but the
station wasn’t the place to blurt it all out.
“No,” I said. “I’m back for good, Phil.”
“Well, that’s better than ever,” he said. “Who
are you with?”
“I’m not with anyone,” I explained, feeling un-
comfortable. “I’ve got to find somewhere.”
“Y* picked a lousy time,” said Phil, looking reflec-
tive. “The place’s always dead for a month after
the races. You ought to know that.”
We stood looking at each other awkwardly for
a moment. I thought I could feel Phil getting further
away from me. I could feel him getting ready to
sidestep any appeal I might make for help, and the
thought of it made me hot and angry. Low as I’d
come, I thought, I wasn’t a small-town “head” who
only had a welcome for his old cobbers when they
“ Don't do over thirty for the first hundred miles—she ain't run in yet.”
came back with well-lined pockets for the races. It made
me feel pretty peeved to guess that he’d be getting a
snigger out of seeing me, the one who had been too
ambitious for the town, coming back to it for a living.
“Well,” I said, “I’d better get along.”
Yes, said Phil. I gotter pick up some pack-
ages. See you later.”
He went along towards the van, and I went out
to the street, feeling pretty bad. I thought of how
Phil and I had been cobbers at school, and how we’d
started working together, and combined for flapper-
chasing, and been practically inseparable from when
we were about twelve until I left the town. I thought
of what a slim chance I’d have of finding anyone
else who’d be on my side if he wasn’t, and I felt
pretty miserable going up the street with a bag in
each hand.
n -1 HE town hadn’t altered, but I saw for the first
time how dirty and how small it was. The shops
were old-fashioned, and the restaurants and cool-
drink bars that had looked palatial when I was a kid
were dingy little places that depressed me. Then I saw
another chap I’d gone to school with, Chook Martin,
helping another bloke to lift barrels off a brewery lorry
in front of one of the pubs. I’d never liked Chook,
who’d always had a thick head, but had had enough
muscle to bully us a bit when we were all at school,
and it gave me a bit of pleasure to see him doing a
bullock’s work in the hot sunshine. It made me feel
a bit more cocky to see that there was someone who’d
stayed in the town and hadn’t got so far by sticking
to it. He didn’t notice me, and I didn’t attract his
attention. He’d only ask me if I was back for the
races, I thought.
I plodded on, heading for a street that was half
full of boarding-houses, and when I reached the
Bonanza grillroom Tony, the Greek that runs it,
came out, and gave me a stupid sort of pleasure by
recognising me, in spite of all the years it was since
Phil and I had been in the habit of spending most
of our pocket-money on fish suppers in his dump.
“Hello!” he grinned. “How you goin’, young
feller?”
“All right,” I lied, because my plan didn’t include
telling all my secrets to Greeks that ran hash-houses.
“You back for d’ races, eh?” said Tony.
“No,” I said, deciding to tell the lot at once, now
I had to. “I’m back for good. I’ve got no work and
I’ve got to find some, see?”
“Oh, well,” said Tony, “dat won’t be no trouble
to a smart young feller like you what’s well known in
the town.”
But I noticed that he didn’t wait to yarn any
longer, as I thought he would have if I’d still been a
possible customer. I spat in the gutter, and wished
it was in Tony’s eye, and lugged my bags another
three hot street blocks, and managed to book in at
one of the crowded boarding-houses by telling the
landlady I was back for good, without telling her that
if I didn’t find work in a fortnight I wouldn’t be able
to pay my board.
The house was one of those places designed to fill
miners with food at regular intervals, and supply them
with something softer than the ground to lie down
on when they’re full of beer. It had a good table, and
nothing else that was good, and all I could get till
the race-carnival rush was over was a bed on the
verandah and a sixth share of a ten-by-twelve room.
I chucked the bags under the bunk, and sat on it for
a while, and felt lousy, and wondered who’d be the
best of my dad’s old friends to start tackling for a
job. I thought how much easier it would have been
to take help from a cobber like Phil had been before
he’d come to know that there were two sorts of people
in the world, and that those who weren’t his sort
deserved all they got.
Then I went down the town again, but I was too
discouraged to look up anyone or go searching for
work. I thought about Annie a good deal, and wished
I was back in the little house we owed all the rent on.
I met a few people I knew, and one and all they said
“Hello, Bill. You’re back for the races, I s’pose?”
And, one and all, they seemed to get fidgety when I
told them I was back for good, though now I reckon
half of it was imagination. Anyway, it made me sick,
that and watching busy, prosperous people surging in
and out of the pubs and business houses, and holiday-
makers parading the street. I felt desperate, and
already sure that coming back was a bloomer. Then
the afternoon shift came in from the mines, noisy
and thirsty and full of confidence, as well-paid work-
ing men have a right to be. And then it was after
twelve o’clock, and I ran into Chook Martin again. \
T WAS going to dodge him as he came charging
* along the footpath, still in his working clothes but
ruddy and polished from his knock-off wash, but he
was too close, and, anyway, I thought I might as well
put up with a bit more of it, and perhaps Id get
thicker-skinned. . ,
“Well if it ain’t old Bill!” he roared, pretty ami-
ably. “Come and have a drink, you old sinner ”
It was a bit of a shock that he didn t make the
usual question his first one, but I guesse it wou
come later. I’d been doing without the sixpence worth
of beer that I’d needed all day for the s f the
money, but I wanted it badly, and though I felt guilty
I followed him in. I’d let him buy one, and then give
him the news and not bother to return it to t mug
I thought, but I knew I wouldn ‘ d °^“ deraer
riuh th ;r;o S od d °:n rS d P 3 re and restful, us pubs
(i Continued on next page)


always are, and it put a bit of kick back into me,
though I knew I shouldn’t be spending money that
way. I wouldn’t stand too much cheek from the
draught-horse I was with, either, I thought.
“Y’re up for the races, I s’pose?” said Chook,
living up to expectations. “Christ! I’ll be lucky t’ see
a race. I got a job in the bar at the course for the
main day, an’, b’lieve me, y’ haven’t got time to
scratch yourself out there.”
“I’ve got plenty of time to scratch myself,” I
said pretty sourly. “Only no dough to go to any
races. I’ve been out of work for six months, and I’m
back for good, looking for a job.”
“Hell!” said Chook. “Six months! Spliced, too,
ain’t you?”
In the mood I was in I was waiting for him to
start getting nervous, like everyone else seemed to
have done, and when he didn’t I got a shock. I
softened a bit, and when I did a little of what was in
me came out with a rush. Not how I felt, of course,
but some of the details of my state of affairs, and
how Annie and the kid were still in the city, and
that sort of thing. It was out before I could stop it,
but as soon as it was I was ready for Chook to start
nodding his head sympathetically and fidgeting to get
away. If he had, I’d have done anything from crack-
ing him one to going back to the hash-house and
cutting my throat, but he didn’t.
“Cripes! ”he said, as if he meant it. “We’ll have
to put an end t’ that. Will y’ go underground?”
“I’ll go anywhere where they swap money for
work,” I said.
“Well, the old man might be able to fix some-
thin’,” he said. “Though he probably wouldn’t be
able to manage it straight away. Where y’ stoppin’?”
“Clayton’s,” I said.
“Y’ better come out to our place in a few days,”
offered Chook. “There’s generally room for a little
’un, but I can’t make it now, ’cause we’ve got Liz
and her kids up from the farm for the races.”
I was remembering what I’d thought about Chook
when I’d seen him juggling the beer-barrels earlier in
the day. I was seeing that he’d changed in ten years
as much as Phil had. I was feeling ashamed of myself,
and I was feeling glad and relieved and optimistic
again.
“Christ, Chook, you can’t do all that,” I stam-
mered. “I can manage along all'right for a while.”
“Don’t be silly!” grunted Chook. “Even if the
old bloke is a shift-boss it’ll take him a while, mind
y’. You’ll find somethin’ better to do with your dough
than give it to old Ma Clayton.”
I bought another drink, and my hand was shak-
ing with relief and excitement. I was admiring rough
old Chook, and feeling a bit humble about myself,
and forgiving him for all the things he’d done to me
when we were kids. We talked about old times and
the chaps we’d known, and Chook bought a doch-an-
dorris, and I poured it into me without it tasting bitter
because I couldn’t afford to buy another one. Chook
laughed, and I laughed, too, and as we yarned I
realised that Chook would be juggling beer barrels for
the rest of his life, but it didn’t make me feel superior.
\ WHEN I walked home it was dusk, and the town
* was bright with electricity, and didn’t look dirty
or old-fashioned. Even the boarding-house was show-
ing its best side (the table), and I did it justice, and
joined in the talk of the hungry crowd that ate there,
and talked plenty, and already felt like one of them.
After the feed they all rushed off to women or
pubs or gambles, and the house was deadly quiet,
except for rattles in the kitchen and a few ancient
codgers grunting and muttering over cards in the
common room. I felt impatient, but I didn’t feel
lonely. I got out my writing pad and started a letter
to Annie. At first it was hard, because so much had
happened in the day, and it had all been so different
from what I had expected. I thought of how I’d told her
of the way in which Phil and one or two others would
rally round and help me when I went back to the old
town for good, and it was hard to start the letter
right. But after a while my pen ran easily, and time
slipped away, and by bedtime I had as big a letter
as I’ve ever written.
Before I turned in I read it through, and it was
as optimistic a letter as anyone has ever written, too.
Phil wasn’t even mentioned, and it was full of Chook,
who I’d never even told her about, as far as I could
remember. It might puzzle her a bit, I thought, but
it would cheer her up for certain. It might give her
an idea of Chook that was too grand for him to live
up to when they met, I thought, but then I thought
that Chook could live up to any idea, provided the
person who held it had sense enough to see through
a dungaree coat and a rough-and-ready manner, and
I went to bed content with the whole show.
OUSTED
BY LES ROBINSON.
THE struggle was fierce and incessant. It lasted
several years. In far too sanguine moments I
imagined that, in the long run, I should prevail.
The insects and their staunch, rank and formid-
able ally, the surrounding vegetation or greenery,
however, were determined from the first to get rid of
me, and I must say that, though infuriating, the way
they went about it was worthy of unstinted admiration.
They were so patient, so methodical, so painstaking.
They opened the campaign in the most unobtru-
sive fashion. Peaceful but furtive penetration was an
important part of their plan. “Just a few insects,” and
“Only to be expected in the hot weather,” I would
murmur to myself whenever I happened to notice one
or two beetles, perhaps, crawling about the floor.
“Well, they’re outside, aren’t they?” I’d mutter when
I caught sight of ants busily ascending and descend-
ing a doorpost in the bright morning sunshine, or
scurrying up and down the walls. And they were out-
side — then. But what escaped my observation was
that they were, slowly but surely, pursuing a policy
of encirclement; creeping daily nearer and nearer ;
taking up strategic positions in the aged fabric of my
abode and consolidating them by establishing lines of
communication and building nests, all such skilful,
well-organised, tireless, speedy, concerted and con-
cealed activities having as their ultimate objective not
the mere sharing of a bush apartment with its human
occupant, but annexation and monopolisation, over-
whelming, perpetual, militant and ruthless.
At the first hint of spring and with a unanimity
that suggested it was in response to a prearranged
signal, they burst in upon me from all directions. I
thought the beetles were the worst, though the Bogong
moths were even more numerous, if that, indeed, was
possible, and they, too, were in the habit of scrambling
in my hair and whiskers and among the bedclothes.
But throughout the summer I was destined, without
cessation, to be subjected to the mass onslaughts of
heaps of other insects which, as yet, were unborn or
had not emerged from wherever they had camped
during the winter months.
Wasps flicked their wings savagely close to my
ears; crawling, flying and hopping creatures clicked
their mandibles, rasped on their hind legs, made the
strangest and most disconcerting sounds. At times it
sounded, indeed, as though my head was filled with
overwound clockwork which had suddenly broken
loose from restraining cogs.
I was always hungry. I never had enough to eat.
The insects not only needed but took nearly all the
food. They knew my mealtimes, all these audacious
and predatory insects, nor did it make any difference
whenever, in an attempt to eat alone, I changed them.
In order to avoid being late they found hiding places
and established observation posts near the table. Sugar
ants and those vicious little meat-eating brutes even
built nests in a few of the cracks it contained. I was
obliged, in self-defence, at last to eat off an upturned
packing-case in a corner of the room. It did not take
them long, however, to pick up my trail, and thence-
forward they kept me on the move, knowing full well
how demoralising that can be.
They even used dry leaves as rafts or pontoons
for ferrying themselves across the kerosene in which
the legs of the safe and those also of the bed were
immersed. If I left the milk-jug uncovered, took my
eyes off my teacup, shaving water or soup there would
be a plonk as a large and fat spider, a centipede or a
praying-mantis sometimes fell from the rafters into
one of them or other. Spiders in
particular did this so often, and
without caring, apparently, whether
it was likely to prove fatal or not,
that they must surely, I think, have
been members of a suicide club and
in the habit of drawing lots to de-
cide which of them should be next
on the register of the “death-drop.”
Unknown to me, for their ac-
tivities are, of course, noiseless,
millions of termites had, for a con-
siderable time, been very busy in-
deed demolishing the rafters and
flooring boards. A rafter crashed
down one night, missing me by
inches only, and the head of the
bed subsided, not long afterwards,
until it was touching the floor, be-
cause the legs at that end of it had,
I discovered in the morning, left
the room.
There was a large bull-ants’
nest near the front doorstep.
Although I had been stung a few
times I thought it was perhaps my
own fault; that I deserved to be for
not looking where I was treading or
going. Though ferocious and bel-
ligerent, like all their species, these
Gulosa would refrain, I foolishly
imagined, from molesting me with-
out provocation. There is, I must
admit, a likelihood that, occasion-
ally, since they were in the habit of
frequenting the path, a few of them
were trodden upon, but the injuries
thus inflicted were accidental of
course, as such highly-intelligent in-
sects should have realised. But the
bull-ants, too, much redder than
usual because boiling with rage, all
swarmed out and attacked me sav-
agely. A horde of other noxious
insects, some few among them with
“What are you doing on Tuesday, Ivan?"
the justification of being carnivorous perhaps, but by
far the greater number out of pure spite, also swooped
upon me and inserted their stings where it was con-
sidered likely they would penetrate the furthest.
The surrounding vegetation also coveted my abode
and was no less determined to compel me to relin-
quish my tenure of it than the insects were, but I was
some time, unfortunately, in finding this out.
“If it were not for those vines,” I used to say to
myself, “such a decrepit shanty would have fallen down
long ago. So I not only watered and manured them
but encouraged them all I could, with props, wire-
netting and string, to ascend, thicken and expand.
They seemed to clamber and spread without undue
haste in the daytime, but at night, I began to notice
at last, the celerity with which they did both was not
only perturbing but offensive. It became difficult for
me to open the windows —even to see out of them.
Innumerable trailers seemed doing their best as well
to prevent me from opening and shutting the door.
Thus hindered and impeded, more and more every
day, I became exasperated and attacked them all
viciously with shears and a sickle.
How bitterly I then regretted my purblind folly
in assisting them to get such a hold. For every branch,
tendril or runner I hacked off, several others, larger,
longer, thornier and imbued, apparently, with an even
greater amount of tenacity, intrusiveness and vigor of
the crassest kind, appeared, as though summoned
urgently, to, as it were, avenge, by impeding and
scratching me more than ever, all the mutilations and
severances I inflicted.
There were so many knot-holes in the ancient
edifice which was my abode, such a plethora of chinks
and crannies, that it was easily invaded, and, there-
fore, not long before lengthy sprays, rather like barbed-
wire, except, of course, that, being alive instead of
static, they were much more virulent and aggravating,
began struggling with tangled and thickly-massed cob-
webs for P ossession of the rickety, ant-eaten rafters,
Nor did k seem more than a little While either before
P ositively gigantic sprays or “tentacles” dangled down
from , lhem as '*! ou ? h f ’ shing for ” e ' .
Long pallld shoots> l e T* mg “ appeara "? :
mammoth asparagus, pushed their way upwards
between the dank and disintegrating flooring boards,
Then came the sweltering morning when I woke,
w fth a vague feeling of discomfort, to find something
coiled round my neck. Thinking that it might be a
sna k e , I remained perfectly still for a few minutes.
Not longer though, fortunately, for I no sooner per-
ceived that the attempt at strangulation was being
ma de by one of those green, dangling and dastardly
“tentacles” than I perceived also that the bull-ants,
after a certain amount of exploration no doubt, had
found the bed. In battle formation a large number of
them were advancing swiftly towards me along the
quilt.
Realising the futility of further resistance, I hastily
thrust my few valued possessions into a cardboard
box and went.


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
'JiiMvf'uihe mellcumeJSxmdJmiqiiet
Upper—High Street, Whitechapel, 18 39.
Lower —Petticoat Lane, 1939 .
When “slumming” was popular
some years ago, Whitechapel was one
of the chief sections of London
wherein the devotees of this not par-
ticularly ennobling craze indulged
their whim. Few parts of the metro-
polis have a wider fame than White-
chapel, the credited headquarters of
“countryless” Israelites, and the
centre of much that is least pleasing
in the social-economic system of
today, while, at the same time, more
or less a hive of industrial activity.
Few visitors to London depart with-
out “seeing Whitechapel,” and it yet
presents sights in their way unique.
In pre-railways days its main
thoroughfare, High-street, was the
chief coaching and other vehicular
channel to the Eastern Counties. The
district was inhabited by a class dif-
ferent and superior to its now per-
manent denizens, but those were in
times prior to the advent of hordes
of persecuted Jews from Central and
Eastern Europe. They poured in
over a long period of years in prac-
tically a never-ending stream, until
the locality became largely a Jewish
settlement pure and simple. What
High-street looked like in 1839 the
illustration will convey some idea.
Near the entrance to the municipal
district of Whitechapel in Aldgate
High Street once stood Whitechapel
Bars, commemorated after by a
couple of dwarf granite pillars. Here
is Petticoat Lane, officially designated
Middlesex Street, the Mart of
Hebrew dealers in old clothes, chiefly
but not exclusively. Petticoat Lane
has assumed a position in the lan-
guage quite apart from its topo-
graphical significance. London has
many and varied sights for the
stranger within her gates, but none
more so than Whitechapel is still
able to offer, and Petticoat Lane
especially, on a Sunday morning.


HER TURN NEXT, BUT WHEN?
“Will they let him hog the limelight all the time?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch (Aus.). Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
MOSCOW'S MILLIONS OF MUGS.
In the Sydney Domain on Christmas Eve, soldiers
in uniform grabbed an “Australian” Communist flag
from a platform and burned it. The flag is a cheeky
blend of the blue ensign and the hammer-and-sickle,
that device being substituted for the Union Jack, and
in these days to flaunt it in a public place above
turgid glorifications Of Russian policy, punctuated
now and then (though not from the platform) by
hissed references to “five-bob-a-day murderers,” is to
go looking for trouble.
But daily-newspaper reports notwithstanding, the
trouble that occurred that Sunday was of a mild
description. As soon as it began, male Communists
made themselves scarce, the platform being left to a
chairwoman and a woman speaker until the noise had
died down and half the soldiers had gone away. There
were present at least as many police, civil and military,
as either soldiers or Communists, and they threw an
impenetrable cordon about the platform. The only
casualty was a uniform, which was cut by a wild old
fellow with a razor blade ; the only punishment was
a fine, inflicted on the wild old fellow.
This is not to say that there won’t be repetitions
of the “riot” on a more serious scale if Communists
go on flying their rag and proclaiming their devotion
to Stalin and their hatred of “British Imperialism”
where crowds gather. In all the military camps bitter
feelings have been aroused by Moscow’s betrayal of
the democratic cause, and by that crowning infamy
the invasion of Finland ; and, to the men of the
Second A.I.F. especially, the hammer-and-sickle has
become a symbol for low cunning, treachery and
cowardice. These sentiments are shared by the general
community. No man likes to feel that he has been
“had,” and no man, undeceived at last in dangerous
times, will react mildly to the spectacle of knaves set-
ting a trap for him as if nothing had happened. And
that is what clumsy Moscow agents are trying to do.
The Communist performance in the Domain
seems to have been a Stalin birthday celebration.
Unless Stalin can pluck the flower victory out of
the nettle danger, and that very soon, there may never
be another; dictators who fail to deliver the goods
rarely last long. Whatever fate befalls him, he will
never pull the wool over the eyes of English-speaking
communities again. But, alive or dead, his place in the
history of charlatanry is unique and secure. In rela-
tion to English-speaking communities, he is the cham-
pion impostor of all time. For years he had the loan
of millions of legs.
The Georgian’s success with trade-union spouters
and writers is intelligible enough. Brought up on a
bookish diet of French Revolution and socialism, these
worthies saw in him an impersonation of the features
that most appealed to them in both. Mixture of
Robespierre and Carnot, foe of all imperialists, suc-
cessor to Lenin, dictator of the proletariat, ruling
over 180,000,000 devoted comrades on pure Marxian
principles—wasn’t Stalin grand?
In this spirit devotees made an annual pilgrimage
to Moscow, saw what they were permitted to see and
came back believing what they wanted to believe. Now
and then a returned pilgrim who had been incautiously
allowed to see too much was heard to murmur that
Stakhanovism was indistinguishable from speeding-up,
and that in the rewarding of commissars and donkey-
workers the maxim “from each according to his ability,
to each according to his needs,” was not strictly fol-
lowed ; but these faint notes of criticism were soon
suppressed and forgotten. Pilgrims and non-pilgrims,
trade-union presidents and secretaries, editors of and
contributors to Labor papers, Labor politicians of the
Left and even ex-Labor politicians of the Right com-
bined to assure the workers that Stalin’s U.S.S.R. was
the richest, happiest and strongest country in the
world ; happiest, because it had the best system of
government and the most equitable distribution of
wealth ; strongest, because it possessed the first among
air forces and the mightiest army that ever was.
The really astonishing thing about Stalin’s career
as champion legpuller is that so many of the intel-
ligentsia should have been taken in. Certainly he had
the service for years of a clever propaganda depart-
ment, with world-wide ramifications, whose exertions
were aided by a multitude of Left Wing writers, pub-
lishers, artists, film-makers, radio play-fakers and
talkers and university professors, but these influences
would not alone have sufficed to gather such multi-
tudes of middle-class people in his net. That achieve-
ment dates from the admission of the U.S.S.R. to the
League, from which it was expelled last month. It
made ruffians “respectable.”
For the 1934 Geneva manoeuvre France was
chiefly responsible, though Britain gave it active sup-
port. It is significant now to remember that the only
opposition came from Switzerland, Holland, Belgium
and the representative of the Irish Free State, who
dryly questioned whether a country whose doctrine
was (and is) that “religion is the opium of the people”
was “likely to act in a Christian spirit.” Even then
the admitted party was working up in Spain the agi-
tation which was to result in a ghastly civil war. In
Australia only The Bulletin recalled that the Soviet
world-revolution programme was unchanged, and that
Communist “policy” for Australia, adopted in 1931
and officially approved at Moscow, was “to withdraw
from the British Empire, and establish a workers and
farmers’ republic and a Soviet form of government
in firm political and economic alliance with the
U.S.S.R.”
The following year brought “sanctions” against
Italy and Mr. Litvinov’s first performance of the col-
lective-security part, though Britain did everything and
his medley of republics nothing. After the “sanctions”
fiasco came the Spanish civil war. Here Moscow inter-
vened surreptitiously, and the French Communist
party openly, on the side of the “democratic Govern-
ment,” and Mr. Litvinov paid out a lot more collective-
security chin-music. By this time he had become such
a hero, and his Government such an object of adora-
tion, to English-speaking middle-class mugs, and re-
sentment at Italian and German backing of the
Nationalists (substantial in the former case) was so
great, that intervention became a popular cry in Britain
and even in Australia. The leader of the British Labor
party, visiting Spain to cheer on the “democratic
Government,” as did a number of his followers, ladies
and gentlemen, and the Dean of Canterbury, even
allowed his name to be given to a Red battalion, part
of a polyglot mob of ill-trained militiamen brazenly
advertised as “the finest fighting force the world has
ever seen.” From the disaster that intervention would
have been the Empire was saved by the Conservative
leaders’ fidelity to Empire interests and their know-
ledge of Spanish history and the Spanish character.
But Australia, as well as Britain, became familiar with
the spectacle of ladies and gentlemen of the profes-
sional classes going on Communist platforms and
painting affecting word-pictures of Spanish “demo-
crats” cursing Chamberlain and dying.
Meanwhile, large numbers of middle-class mugs
were roped into Leagues Against War and Fascism and
the like. Left Book Clubs sprang up in all the Aus-
tralian capital cities. To Societies for the Promotion
of Cultural Relations with Soviet Russia, started in
one case by a university professor, bishops sent not
only blessings but subscriptions. The cry for inter-
vention was heard again when the Nazis marched into
unresisting Austria, heard louder when an Oriental
shindy, the origins of which are still obscure, broke
out in China, and heard louder still when Hitler gave
Czechoslovakia the choice of ceding the Sudetenland
or accepting war, and told Britain and France that if
they came between him and his design Germany would
fight them, too. For such a struggle they were peri-
lously unprepared, and, unlike Russia, Britain had no
alliance with the Synthetic Republic; nevertheless,
millions of mugs demanded war and believed Litvinov
when that accomplished liar said that if France and
Britain had stuck to Czechoslovakia Russia would
have swarmed in with big boots on.
Britain and France being powerless to prevent it,
Czechoslovakia was dismembered by Germans, Hun-
garians and Poles. Six months later, in flat repudiation
of Hitler’s pledge to Mr. Chamberlain, the Nazis
grabbed Czechia and set up Slovakia as a separate
“State.” There followed the Anglo-French pledges to
Poland and Rumania, the British overtures for a Rus-
sian alliance, the Russo-German pact —eternally dis-
graceful to both parties and arrived at even while a
Franco-British military mission was in Moscow by
invitation —the German war with the Poles, the Rus-
sian thrust at the dying Slav Republic, the British and
French declarations of war on Germany and the Rus-
sian invasion of Finland —that “lightning” campaign
which has already lasted five weeks, and which has
shown the world that the Mighty Soviet War Machine
of thousands of newspaper articles and radio mono-
logues is slower and clumsier than the Russian Steam-
roller that rolled to its doom in 1914.
While the disastrous negotiations with Moscow
were dragging on, Australian newspapers, professors
and radio commentators proclaimed, with the Com-
munists, that the Soviet was Mighty and, allied with
France and Britain, would prevail. One continual
roar to this effect came from “national” stations. Their
chief “commentator” insisted that Mr. Eden should
be sent to Moscow to clinch the business; and Mr.
Eden intimated, not obscurely, that he was only wait-
ing for the necessary instruction. One of the Sydney
morning papers clamored, not only for a Russian
alliance against Germany, but for extension of the
instrument to the Far East. Its senior contemporary
threatened Japan with Russian bombing of its naval
stations. In a letter addressed to the chairman of
a public meeting, a former Chief Justice and
Governor-General urged Australian Government sup-
port for alliance with “that great and powerful nation
Russia.” The same gentleman had already likened
the Red wharf strike at Port Kembla, designed to
embroil the Commonwealth with Japan, to the affair
of the Eureka Stockade.
It is amazing, and not a little disturbing, that
there should have been so much ignorance, credulity
and blindness to the true interests of Australia in
such quarters. Had these worthies had their way,
this country would now be at war with Italy, and
probably with Japan, and possibly with Spain, and
whether the Russians made a show ot fighting Ger-
many or—what is far more likely—betrayed the allies
by signing a separate peace, millions ot Finns, Swedes,
Norwegians, Danes, North and Latin Americans now
praying for our success would be praying tor the suc-
cess of our enemies.
War Lessons for Australia.
There are lessons for Australia already in this war.
They should be noted now and put on record foi
future guidance, before the thing breaks loose as it
must if present peace efforts fail —smothering all clear
thinking in the confusion, and conditioning people,
as the strain more and more presses down, to hearken
to cranks hawking, their gold-brick substitutes for
adequate defence.
One heartening lesson is that the day of small
nations is not yet altogether done with, provided they
have the will and the means for defending themselves.
The stand made by the Finns can perhaps be easily
exaggerated: they are fighting there in twilight, and
not so much of that; it is practically Arctic winter;
and their enemy—in the words not of any hostile
critic but of Stalin himself—have long been such in-
glorious fighters that they have been “beaten by the
Mongol khans, by the Turkish beys, by the feudal
Swedes, by the Anglo-French capitalists, by the
Japanese barons.”
Nevertheless, Russia’s population is anything up
to 180,000,000, Finland’s about 3,700,000; and the
stand made by Finland has surprised the world. With
a population about half that of Australia, it has held
and even driven back the allegedly “invincible” Red
Army. It has had the advantage of effective natural
defences, but Australia’s natural defences are not
the world’s worst, though Australians have a vast
country to defend. Australians would have nothing
to give away in any comparison as fighters, and they
could be better equipped than Finland is with ’planes
and guns.
Finland’s greatest advantage when war was forced
on it was compulsory national service. It meant that
the organisation for immediately employing the entire
available man-power was there in being. It meant also
that the men called upon to defend their country were
trained fighters. Without these advantages of com-
pulsory national service the Finns, despite their gal-
lant fighting quality, would almost certainly have been
soon overrun, even by such a force as the Red Army.
Another small country to provide a lesson on the
same lines for Australia, though without so far being
called upon to fight, is Switzerland. There, also, com-
pulsory national training provided the organisation in
being which made possible a defence effort beside
which Australia’s has looked like amateur bungling.
On August 29, when war began to look certain,
Switzerland was able, within six hours, to have all its
frontiers occupied by the Frontier Defence Force,
about 80,000 strong. General mobilisation began on
September 2, and before the telegram was received
next day announcing that Britain was at war with
Germany all Swiss army units —500,000 in all —were
at their appointed places. More than a month later
the Second A.1.F., still short of strength, was being de-
scribed in one and another of Australia’s assorted Par-
liaments and elsewhere as a “ragtime army,” the
appearance of the men “an insult to the old and the
new A.1.F.” ; “on a hot day the troops wore overcoats
arid were without arms” ; “prisoners of war were better
equipped.”
Mr. Menzies has shown signs that he, for one, has
learnt something from the wretched unpreparedness
of Australia when the war came. As well as the
increase in defences that can be bought, he has re-
introduced a modified form of compulsory national
service, which will no doubt have to be made more
general. If it had not been scrapped by the Scullin
Government, the organisation would have been in
being here, as in Finland and Switzerland, and the
war effort, instead of a clumsy bungle, would have
been correspondingly as easy and admirable. It was
so in 1914, when the First A.I.F. was got together
inside a month. By what has the appearance of a
miracle there has been more time to get ready in this
war, and it has certainly been needed. There would
be no such time in any war in which Australia was
attacked: the job for Australia’s statesmen is now to
make finally sure that time would not be needed in
future. Now is the time to do it, when something of
the need is evident to everybody.
The P.M.’s strongest claim to the title of states-
man —in a setting overrun by provincial politicians—
is perhaps his expressed realisation of the fact that
Australia is a Pacific nation and must shape its policy
to accord with its destined future as a Pacific Power.
He has said:
Little given as I am to encouraging exaggerated
ideas of Dominion independence and separation which
exist in some minds, I have become convinced that in
the Pacific Australia must regard herself as a principal,
providing herself with her own information and main-
taining her own diplomatic contacts.with foreign Powers.
To carry this statement of policy to its logical
end, Mr. Menzies should have added that there is no
hope of Australia fulfilling that destiny unless this
country is first of all provided with permanent means
of adequately defending itself. The certainty of Aus-
tralians fighting for their country to the fast man and
the last shot will never be in question. The danger
is that, when the war ends or is called off, Australia
will be allowed to slip back into the luxury of de-
fencelessness in which it was caught napping four
months ago.
Mr. Menzies will pass on: a worse happening
may be the passing also of his vision of Australia as a
Pacific nation, with both its own destiny and its own
peculiar needs in the Pacific. This war, if it is fought,
will be fought mainly in Europe, and the attention of
Australia will necessarily become more and more
closely focused on that continent. When the war


ends and peace is being arranged the chances are that
interest will be focused there almost exclusively. Mr.
Chamberlain has already given out in his most recent
statement of “peace aims” the “establishment of a
new Europe a Europe with a new spirit in which
the nations which inhabit it will approach their diffi-
culties with goodwill and mutual tolerance.” All to
the good, if it can be accomplished, since Britain’s in-
volvement in war means that Australia is involved
also ; but nothing there of Australia’s peculiar prob-
lems. Mr. Chamberlain envisaged also a Europe in
which armaments will prove obsolescent, and no
doubt the mad armaments race on the European scale
will have to be stopped somehow. But when it comes
to that discussion Australia’s peculiar position and
problems should not be overlooked. This country is
not in the least likely to attack any other country, but
it needs to be so defended permanently that it can
always stand alone in its own defence if necessary.
That should be kept in mind when it comes to the
scrapping of armaments.
Meanwhile, compulsory national training and ser-
vice-essential in any plan for the adequate defence
of Australia —should be here and now established
beyond the reach of anyone who may succeed Mr.
Menzies. Now is the time to see to this, while the
need for it is evident to everybody—unless they are
completely blind, even to the A ustralian Labor leaders
who, on their pronouncements, are committed to scrap
it again at the first opportunity.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The League and Its Friends.
The League wound up its 1939 proceedings by expel-
ling Russia. The Russian delegate went home. M.
Avenol, the secretary-general, left his palace in Geneva
for Paris, accompanied by a train of experts, to “for-
mulate centralised plans to aid Finland.”
It shows what a hardy lot the Finns are that they
are ready to ask and receive League help. The League
merely has to vote in favor of a small nation and it
becomes certain that presently some large, hectoring
Power will be sitting on the neck of the object of
League sympathy and oppressing it to the point of
extinction.
The time has come when Britain and the
Dominions should withdraw from the League and let
it collapse. The Commonwealth this year is “up for”
£42,000 as a contribution to the League, £1200 for
representation at the Assembly, £380 for the Perma-
nent Mandates delegate and £1250 for the Inter-
national Labor Conference, besides £100 for the
League Union —Tasmania gives that show £200.
The Union is distributing in pamphlet form a
report of a debate by Professor Bailey and Mr. W.
MacMahon Ball, of Melbourne University. Said Mr.
Bailey: —
My general picture of the world after the war is
still blurred. I am alarmed, however, by the theory
of the necessity for the restoration of the independence
of small nations, for I believe that that has been one
of the causes of the failure of the League. I do not
see any permanent solution of the situation in Europe
short of something that one can only call federal, in
certain regions especially.
The emphasis on “independence” was Mr. Bailey’s.
And Mr. Ball said “I agree with you about the small
nations.... The League Union should stand for re-
ducing the importance of every frontier.”
Somebody else would agree also. Hitler would
be glad to have a federation of most of the nations
of Europe, all of them with “the importance of their
frontiers greatly reduced.” Capital of federation,
Berlin.
"Refs. Essential."
“O.T.”: A Sydney Anglican clergymen has protested
against the habit of applying to the clergy for certifi-
cates of character, irrespective of whether the appli-
cant is known to the man of God or not. The fault
lies with employers, Government and private, who
insist on the production of these unconvincing
testimonials.
All that the employer should want to know is
whether an applicant, if young, seems reasonably
healthy and intelligent, and, if mature, whether he is
fitted by experience and record in past jobs for the
one offering.
Character is a matter of opinion. There are many
whose ability and capacity for work cannot be
doubted, but whose character is often such that they
are unpopular with workmates. Some drunkards are
splendid workers and popular fellows, possessing such
pleasing natures that all except the narrow-minded
overlook their weakness. On the other hand, some
plausible wowsers are inefficient timeservers in their
jobs.
All that can be said of the most promising pupil
that ever left a school to seek work is that he is most
promising. No person can foretell the sort of charac-
ter he will be by the time he reaches maturity, nor
the sort of worker.
The adult job-seeker is often armed with refer-
ences that overstate both his working capacity and his
heart of gold. For the most part, if he has held a
previous job for any length of time and is leaving
it because of some legitimate reason that does not
reflect on himself, no reference other than that is
necessary. If he has been sacked for loafing or mis-
conduct, the person who gives him a reference praising
character or ability is guilty of fraud.
The reference system keeps far too many good
men out of jobs. Efficient and conscientious, imbued
with personal pride, they find themselves competing
with others armed with sheaves of references from
clergymen, politicians, aldermen and Js.P., things
which never made a good worker and far too often
are mendacious descriptions of their possessors.
"Conventions."
“El V.”: If I were head of one of the many Infor-
mation Departments which dot the Empire, I should
have made more capital out of Britain’s restrained
attitude in the Graf Spee business.
International behavior in these matters is gov-
erned by the Hague Conventions.
The first was convened—at Russia’s instance—in
January, 1899, and met at The Hague from May till
July that year. Twenty-six States were represented,
and Nicholas of Russia proposed that for a fixed period
there should be no increase of the effectives of the
military and naval forces or of military and
naval budgets. Germany spragged that idea, but
agreed with the rest to the establishment of a tribunal
for the settlement of international disputes by peace-
ful means. Two of the great Powers —Russia and
Britain —had imminent war on their hands.
The Germans immediately began to build up their
navy. The meeting, however, agreed to prohibit the
use of gas and poisons, to limit the lethal weapons of
war to those which would inflict a minimum of suf-
fering, to forbid the use of expanding bullets.
Various agreements defined the rights of neutrals,
fixing their responsibility to belligerents and the obliga-
tions of belligerents to respect neutrals. They prohibited
the destruction, without warning, of unarmed mer-
chantmen, and of all merchantmen in any circum-
stances in which those on board could not be conveyed
to safety. They excluded mail from capture, unless it
were national war mail, debarred coastal shipping not
engaged in actual war from capture or destruction
and —for five years—prohibited “the launching of pro-
jectiles and explosives from balloons or from the air
by other similar means.”
In 1907, some of the provisions were revised, but
44 nations this time reaffirmed the rest and some more,
and prohibited the use of the air for bomb-dropping
till the Third Hague Peace Conference. It hasn’t
come off yet.
, Germans broke almost every agreement the
moment the Great War arrived. Against the conven-
tions, they dropped bombs on civilian populations,
bombarded “undefended towns, villages and dwell-
ings,” laid mines which had no military or naval pur-
pose and under conditions which did not render them
innocuous when detached from their moorings or
when they had been afloat more than an hour, sank
ships without warning, captured mail, fired on or tor-
pedoed local fishing boats not engaged in military
operations, bombed civilian populations from the air,
made use of poison gas and even flame-throwers.
Two months ago the Germans sent a detachment
to neutral Dutch soil and killed a neutral Dutch officer
in order to capture a couple of Englishmen who lived
at The Hague. Russia confiscated private property in
Poland. And the German policy has been intensified.
Helpless ships carrying not only men but women and
children are being bombarded with torpedoes from
the air.
Still, it is a matter of pride for every Englishman
that Britain’s agreement subsists and its humanitarian
outlook persists, no matter what other parties may do.
German invasion of Holland to capture British sub-
jects might have laid down a precedent for invasion
of a Uruguayan harbor to drag out the Spee, a ship
which had acted piratically (though her crew merely
carried out orders), and which had destroyed, illegally,
British property and undefended British lives.
German atrocities against ships in general might
have offered the temptation to sink the Bremen. A
German U-boat commander would have been ruined
had he missed a similar chance with the Queen Mary.
Minelaying in the Thames estuary might have led to
a mine blockade of the approaches to Germany, which
are easier to close in that way than the approaches to
Britain.
But a clear conscience is worth more, morally
and practically, than any victory gained through
wanton slaughter and refusal to recognise the rights
of neutral nations and of individuals.
No Australian will regret the rigid British attitude
on these matters or be less sure of victory for ourselves
and our ideals because our leaders refuse to follow
cruel and shocking examples in breach of agreement.
Bad Coins and Practices.
In Sydney some weeks ago a middle-aged Government
tram-conductor was placed in the dock on charges of
having made 75 counterfeit florins and having had
coining instruments and counterfeit coins in his pos-
session. Two constables said they had seized the
articles in his house at Redfern. Accused’s story was
that he had found them in a room which he had sub-
let to a man who left without notice, and that he had
intended handing them over to the police, but had
been advised to wait for some days in case the tenant
returned. While he was still waiting, the two con-
stables arrived.
He was found guilty of having had the coining
instruments in his possession, being acquitted on the
other two counts. The trial Judge imposed sentence
of 23 months. An appeal was lodged on three
grounds: (1) The evidence disclosed no offence; (2)
the verdict was against the weight of evidence, and (3)
the sentence was too severe. “Too severe! ” sakl the
State Chief Justice, in dismissing the appeal; “I am
surprised that the application is not by the Crown to
increase the sentence. Coining offences are most
serious ; they strike at the root of the currency system.”
They do more ; they injure most those who can
least afford to be taken in. That is true also of another
class of offence which is treated with strange leniency
in N.S.W. —the stealing of letters containing valuables.
A case of this kind was dealt with in Sydney on the
day the tram conductor’s appeal came up, “a tem-
porary postman” pleading guilty to having “stolen six
letters, the property of the Postmaster-General.” The
usual “penalty” was imposed; that is to say the thief
was bound over.
In the last annual report of the P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment it is mentioned that during 1937-38 19,853 letters
were “reported missing” and that “13,162 could not
be traced.” Making a liberal allowance for the care-
lessness and casualness of correspondents this seems
a large number, and it is difficult to dissociate it
altogether from the fact that the blots on a decent
calling who pinch letters containing postal notes, bank-
notes and the like, probably intended for people in
desperate need, are —in N.S.W. anyway —punished
merely with the loss of their jobs.
Nowadays the bureaucratic idea seems to be that
Government employees are entitled to privileges and
concessions which people not in Government employ
are denied. Apparently the tram-conductor with the
“coining instruments” could have got good money for
bad from his own Government if he had planted
stumer florins on it with discretion. In the N.S.W.
Auditor-General’s list of “debts due to the Crown
written off” in 1938-39 is this little lot: —
Road Transport and Tramways Department—
Unnegotiable coins £637 16 3
Cash losses of conductors 22 2 6
Main Roads Department—
Unnegotiable coins 48 5 6
Railway Department—
Unnegotiable coins 99 18 11
Tickets and cash lost and stolen .. .. 180 11 7
If associated bank tellers, who handle a great deal
more money than tram-conductors, railway ticket-
sellers and toll-collectors and at much greater speed,
take unnegotiable coins or “suffer cash losses” they
have to pay out of their own pockets.
A Difference in Miles.
From B. M. Wade, M.L.A. for Barwon (N.S.W.): —
Referring to the proposed Inverell-Guyra railway
(B. 20/12/’39), please revise your geography. The
distance from Inverell to Guyra is 58 miles, not 120
as stated, and the estimate is £800,000.
The Bulletin got its figures from a State Cabinet
announcement published in “S.M.H.” on 12/12/’39:
It was stated in Ministerial circles last night that
it would cost about £5,000,000 to construct a railway
from Inverell to Guyra. The distance is about 120
miles.
Though this paper knew that the distance by road
was a good deal less than that, it accepted the Minis-
terial statement as published, having no idea of the
route instructions given to Transport Minister Bruxner.
Guyra-Sydney, 387 miles, plus 120 = 507 ; Inverell-
Sydney, 509 miles. And the “about £5,000,000”
didn’t seem so fantastic seeing that Glenreagh-Dorrigo,
43 miles, cost, “including rolling stock,” £1,384,300,
and Unanderra-Moss Vale, 38 miles, £1,629,300-
losses in 1938 were £77,900 and £38,900 respectively.
On Moree-Inverell (95 miles) there were losses of
£23,600 in 1937 and £24,900 in 1938. Another corre-
spondent, R. E. G. Cunningham, says Moree-Inverell
doesn’t pay because “nearly all passengers come from
Sydney to Glen Innes and thence to Inverell by car.”
Remonstrating with The Bulletin, he makes these
points: (1) At Guyra the railway has already climbed
the New England range; (2) the country from Guyra
to Inverell presents no engineering difficulties; (3)
75 p.c. of it is held by small landowners ; (4) “for a line
from Inverell to Guyra, from Guyra to the Dorrigo,
and so to the sea at Coff’s Harbor —not Grafton, which
can never be a port—there is a desperate need.”
Mr. Wade is the C.P. member who threatened to
deprive the Mair Government of his vote. But he is
no one-Parliament man, it seems. “An arterial rail-
way fed by roads and a deep-sea port is what we want,”
he writes.
If we can’t get this from our State Parliament, what
chance would we have from a single Federal Parlia-
ment whose representatives came from Wyndham to
Cape York and Wilson’s Promontory? When we get
a State Parliament that is not a fraud we will get our
railway.
The people of the N.S.W. north coast, the north, and
the north-west have so often been fooled by the poli-
ticians that they have united in one big body to demand
a railway to the coast to connect with a deep-sea port,
leaving the point of connection to an expert committee
to define, and they are going to have it.
However, “we have decided to rest on our oars
while our country and Government deal with the
dangers that beset us.”
But I will vow there is no honesty of purpose behind
the present proposal, which is calculated to draw
another red herring across the track. The fooling of the
people of the north will yet cost some Government a
headache.
It’s going to cost a lot of Governments their
existence. Add the rest of Australia to “the people
of the north,” and it is evident that only under one
national Government can thie “fooling” be stopped.
In South Africa railways and harbors are under
national control. If they were under national control
in Australia, neglected outports and inland districts
could at least get a hearing on grounds which Big-
City Governments never consider.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Ente Marid”: The police reported
that it was Canberra’s quietest Christmas
foT years. Then it must have been ex-
tremely quiet. I spent one Christmas there.
I walked from Civic Centre to Parlia-
ment House at 10 a.m. without seeing
a soul. I walked to the top of Red Hill
and saw a gloomy civil servant working
in his garden. I drove round the town,
and near the Molonglo Bridge I met an
ancient tramping and asked him if he
would like a lift. He shied as if he had
been stung, and when I looked back he
seemed to be counting his money. I
started for Goulburn, and near Lake
George a car pulled up and signalled.
It was full of youth and beauty with
all the marks on it that yesterday had
been Christmas Eve. Every lady seemed
to be clutching a bottle and every gentle-
man his head. Now, at last (I thought)
our giddy capital will see some bright-
ness. The driver accosted me: “Ishthisa-
way ter Gunning?” he asked carefully.
“No, you’re nearly in Canberra,” says I.
“Nixsh on Canberra,” said the driver, a
sort of fear coming into his eye, and as
I hurried on I saw him following and
heard one of his fair companions sing
as she waved a beer bottle. I have always
regretted that I put him on the right
road. I should have liked to see a beer
bottle waved to music in the main street
in Canberra.
* * * *
“S. Piel”: In common with others of
my calling I’ve been called many things
by police prosecutors and indignant
Beaks, and like others I’ve frequently
been envied for some of the titles
bestowed on me by such narks. But never
have I attained to the glory bestowed on
a colleague in Adelaide. With a total of
over half a hundred convictions under
various aliases, he faced an admiring
Court while the prosecutor conferred on
him the hitherto-unheard-of title: “A
good, all-round inter-State criminal.” I
have lived in vain.
« * * *
“Craiser”: The executor of the will
of an elderly spinster who died in Mel-
bourne recently leaving £lOO a year to
any person who would maintain her two
cats, Bibsie and Peter, in the way they
had been accustomed to was besieged
with letters, telephone calls and personal
inquiries from individuals who were pre-
pared to observe the conditions, one of
which was that, as the cats didn’t like
children, children must be eliminated. It
then turned out that the felines had de-
parted this vale of tears 15 years pre-
viously and their owner had forgotten
to alter her will. Devotion to cats is not
confined to old maids. Thomas Hardy s
first wife kept a crowd of them, and,
although he was a genius, he had not
the faintest notion how to cure her of
her obsession. Mrs; Hardy died when
her husband was 72, leaving him 37
specimens of her favorite animal.
* * * *
“Oran”: A visiting politician hands
the palm for quick-wittedness to a
N.S.W. M.L.A. not usually credited
with extreme mental alertness. He was
escorting the visitor along Macquarie-
street to his parked car when the usual
aggrieved constituent buttonholed him.
To the nuisance’s surprise the M.L.A.
hailed him heartily. “Ah, my dear Blank,
how are you? Still living at Rose
I’m staying near there myself. Here’s
my car—jump in.” The voter jumped
in with alacrity, expecting to have a good
long run in which to air his complaint.
“Smith,” said the M.L.A. to his chauf-
feur, “drive Mr. Blank to his home at
Rose Bay.” Before the astonished pas-
senger could protest the car was off, and
the two politicians went on their way in
peace.
* * * *
“Brevis”: When a Sydney Sunday
paper advertised that it was going to
print a hitherto unpublished story by
O. Henry dealing with life in Australia,
that ingenious writer’s admirers snorted
with indignation. Porter was never in
Australia, they said, and in all his 250
or so of yarns had never cast a scene
outside the Americas. But study of
the story shows that it might quite easily
be an early O. Henry. In gaol, and in
his N’York pub-crawls, Porter met men
from all the Seven Seas and was a good
listener. The yarn published last week
in Sydney about the rabbit plague and
the conjuror who nearly got lynched for
“ Remember , you must always keep the elbow in a straight line with the shoulder !”
nroducine ’em from a hat in myriads
£ \ JL Hpvpr mpchanism of the
majority of O Henry short Tories, but
is comparable with those very early yarns
abouTTram robbers and other adven-
tarous cusses-a terse yet flowing style,
and a sure touch.
* * * *
“Short S.”: After the arrival of the
Australian flying men in England three
of them were taken to the 8.8. C. micro-
phones to broadcast their impressions to
a waiting world. They showed that these
confounded colonials have not lost the
love of springing traps that distinguished
the Anzacs. Their speeches ended, one
of them silkily asked if the listeners
would care to hear their war-cry. Cer-
tainly. All over Britain ears waited for
some wild aboriginal yell, anxious to
compare it with the oft-heard Maori haka
cry. Then it came—“Whacko! ”
* * * *
“Amicus Curiae”: A legal problem
that doesn’t seem to have cropped up
before in Australia was presented to
Justice Halse Rogers, sitting m criminal
jurisdiction in Sydney. Charge was
attempt to murder, and the Crown’s case
was that the accused sent a flask of
poisoned whisky through the post,
addressed to a man, and that a woman
drank some of the whisky and became
violently ill. The Judge asked if 'here
were any evidence of motive, and the
Crown Prosecutor replied that it would
be suggested that the whisky might not
woman, Z
position" il a S would h M sent
poisoned chocolates to X, and if these
were stolen by Y, who ate them and
suffered disastrous consequences. Was
there an attempt to murder Y? Crown
Prosecutor replied that there was, but
the Judge obviously was not convinced,
and suggested that a safer charge might
be the committing of an act that en-
dangered human life.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The cruellest of hoaxes pre-
ceded Melbourne’s Christmas murder.
The victim was found by the side of a
lonely road near Ferntree Gully with a
bullet wound in the head, having appar-
ently been shot by some person so unex-
pectedly that the shock jerked a cigarette
butt out of his mouth. He was carrying
Christmas presents to the house of a
relative where his five children were stay-
ing, and he was trudging along buoyed up
by a message from his wife, from whom
he had been long estranged, which
promised reconciliation. The message
was a hoax.
* * * *
“Tosh”: Give a politician a chance
of a little free publicity and he’s at it
like a rat up a pump. I was on a secre-
tarial job at Federal Parliament House
when it was in Melbourne. A caricaturist
asked me if I thought I could induce
a few Senators to leave the chamber for
a minute or so while he made a draw-
ing of each of them for his paper. I bet
him ninepence that, so far from my
having to persuade them to come out,
if one were called it would not be long
before nine out of ten would follow. I
sent word in by a senior attendant and
got one noble Senator to come. He was
drawn and went back. Within less than
three minutes two others came along,
quite casually, of course, and entirely
ignorant of the presence of the black-
and-white man. Inside an hour 25 others
had fortuitously happened along and sat
for their portraits. Even with six of the
36 Senators absent from Melbourne, I
won my bet with something to spare.
* * * *
“Gilsull”: Due for a twenty-first
birthday on February 29 next is the
unfortunate Frederick Stanley in “The
Pirates of Penzance,” first produced in
the ’seventies. Frederick was born on
February 29 (leap year), year not stated,
but apparently circa 1852 since he sings
to Mabel: “In 1940 I of age shall be,
I then shall return and claim you; I
declare it.”
y * * *
“Erua”: Old Sam, town nuisance in
a M.L. backblocks hamlet, was caught
in the act of ransacking the landlady’s
room in the town’s leading pub, was
collected by the Law and hoisted into
a sulky to be driven to the nearest lock-
up, about 10 miles away. A con-
stable drove, and Sam and he chatted
affably as they travelled. Presently Sam
revealed that his swag, parked in the
back, contained four bottles of the best.
Some hours later the townsfolk of
that still town saw a sulky driven zigzag
fashion up the main street, with a large
constable asleep and Sam hailing the
police-station and announcing he was the
prisoner. “Theft’s one charge, gennelum,
said Sam to the astonished staff who
turned out to receive him. “Tha’sh me.
T’other is being drunk on dooty. Tha’sh
him.”
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Marriage in haste has
proved costly to an Adelaide woman.
Her husband had obtained divorce from
a former marriage, but, instead of wait-
ing for the regulation three months after
the absolute decree, had a wedding only
two days later. Three months after that
he was killed in an accident. And now
the Courts say that it was not a “lawful”
marriage, that she and her child are not
dependants under the Workmen’s Com-
pensation Act, and that the £6OO agreed
as compensation must all go to de-
ceased’s son by the former marriage. “1
should be glad for this view to be held
wrong,” said the Judge candidly.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide’s “greatest drown-
ing mystery” will have to remain so.
With a youth missing, and a body found
in the Port river, unrecognisable, the
police secured evidence from relatives
that it was dressed in the boy’s clothes,
and on the other hand from the doctors
that it must have been dead much longer
than the three days he had been miss-
ing. Coroner Blackburn has now offi-
cially accepted both, saying “There must
be an error somewhere. Evidence as to
the accuracy of which I entertain no
doubt whatever shows that the lad was
seen alive up to the night of March 17.
If I accept the medical evidence, which I
am informed accords with all authori-
tative literature on the subject, I am un-
able to say that the body found on March
20 is his. I therefore find that a male
person whose identity is not established
to my satisfaction came to his death by
drowning.”
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: Long the suburb’s shock-
ing example, he appeared after Christ-
mas sober, clean and shaven. Up and
down our street the news ran like wild-
fire that he had been got at by some
reformer and persuaded to cement his
good resolution by signing the pledge.
Early on New Year’s Eve, spick and span,
he departed for the city. Early on New
Year’s Morn, maculate and awry, he fell
over the picket fence at the corner, fought
a fierce one-rounder with a hydrangea
bush, then pillowed his head on a water-
meter and burst into ribald song. A few
once-a-year roisterers gathered round,
and, after helping his downfall by sundry
applications of spirituous liquor,
solemnly wound him in a sheet borrowed
from a near-by house, carried him to the
reformer’s home, and, having laid flowers
and an empty bottle on his breast, laid
him gently on the verandah. Later, a
dawn-prowling milkman suddenly stood
stockstill on the reformer’s path, then
backed carefully away.. Later still, a
milkless reformer, coming to the front
gate with an empty jug, investigated and
turned the hose on the body. It woke
with a yell, struggled out of its sheet
and vanished in the direction of Bogan
Gate. Thus our street settled down to
1940 with everything normal.
STEVE.
Must talents so arresting, gifts so rare
Be left, their right to exercise denied,
To waste their sweetness on the desert air
Of unappreciative Sydneyside?
Must he, who Noo South Wales did erst
bestride
Like a Colossus, take a final leave
Of greatness —into nothingness to slide?
What is Australia going to do for Steve?
Has stately Canberra no place to spare
For brains with tireless industry allied?
What bursts of sturdy patriotism there
This fallen Humpty-Dumpty might provide!
Our leaders come and go, whate’er betide,
Like shooting stars the summer skies that
cleave;
Still, some to reappear are certified.
What is Australia going to do for Steve?
He’s still an M.L.A., we’re well aware,
And doubtless draws his screw with pensive
pride;
But what a humble bushel, I declare,
’Neath which the light of statesmanship to
hide!
Still in his prime, supremely qualified
For topnotch jobs, o’erlooked fie needs must
grieve,
Who ranked so long our counsellor and
guide,
What in the dickens can be done with Steve?
Our Csesar once, his was the fate to share
Of Julius, you’ll readily perceive,
Stabbed in the back by those he reckoned
square.
So this becomes a national affair:
What is Australia going to do for Steve?
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“An important announcement, list’ners! All officers and men from the
squadron are to report on board their ships immediately !”
“El V.”: The accuracy of our press
was never better exemplified than in its
report of that Sydney Domain soldier-
Communist rumpus. Two flags were fly-
ing over the Communist platform, large
enough to be seen half a mile away. They
have flown there at every meeting for
months. One was a full-sized Australian
blue ensign, the Union Jack in the
corner excised and replaced by the red
flag with yellow hammer and sickle of
the Soviet Union. This flag the soldiers
pulled down and burnt, leaving a Red
flag in the hands of a woman. Granny
“Herald’s” eyesight was so bad that
she saw the A.I.F. men tear down
“a blue-and-gold flag, claimed to be the
Eureka Stockade emblem.” Labor’s
“Daily News” saw the reft banner as “a
red flag with a blue Eureka Stockade
ensign attached to one corner and Soviet
hammer and sickle in the other.” But
Sydney’s “D.T.” did not depart from its
normal custom of seeing red. “A red
flag” it saw torn down.
* * * *
“S. Piel”: Professional rattler-jumpers
will eye with envy the exploit of a couple
of Goulburn (N.S.W.) lads during Christ-
mas. Broke and a bit tired of the town,
they jumped a train heavily loaded with
passengers and rode openly in the crowd
as far as Moss Vale. After a 'conference
with the stationmaster there they were
allowed to return to Goulburn, still
without paying fares, and with a loaf
of bread and 2s. they had acquired en
route. They are now at home again, and
there is to be no prosecution. One is
three years old, the other four.
* * * #
“Chevroford”: There has been a
rumpus over the houses being built
in various Melbourne suburbs by the
Housing Commission. Zwar, M.L.A.,
said they were no better than cowsheds,
and Premier Dunstan and others went on
a tour of inspection. The only criticism
brought against the erections by these
architectural authorities was one by Mr.
Dunstan, who said that he disliked the
low-pitched roofs, giving no reason. Aus-
tralian affection for the high-pitched roof
is a prejudice which has cost and is
costing the country a great deal of money.
The first builders in Australia liked it
because it gave space for extra rooms
as families increased without having to
increase the height of the walls. But the
building has to be a fairly big one to
start with to make use of this feature,
and to put a high-pitched roof on a small
cottage is a waste of good tiles and
timber,
* * * *
“F.S.”: It is an unwritten law of Vic.
country newspapers that criticism of local
musical talent should be confined to a
lavish use of such adjectives as “magni-
ficent,” “outstanding” and “splendid.”
But recently the readers of the paper in a
Mallee township, when they opened their
weekly issue, were electrified to find a
long critical review of the school break-
up concert, in which the achievement of
each performer was subjected to analysis
and particularly destructive comment was
levelled at the playing of a violinist re-
garded as the budding Menuhin of the
district. Within half an hour of publica-
tion the schoolmaster was knocking at
the door of the editor’s sanctum.
“Who wrote this?” demanded the
infuriated pedagogue. “I did,” said
the editor calmly. “I’ve been 20
years in the Education Department,”
said the schoolmaster, “and this is the
first time there has been any adverse
criticism of my concerts in a country
newspaper.” “Perhaps this is the first
time there has ever been an editor on a
country paper who knew anything about
music,” said the editor, handing him a
sheaf of cuttings of criticisms of city con-
certs in which he had played as member
of a quartet.
* # * *
“C.Q.”: A party of artists, several of
them bearded, were having a Christmas
Eve jollification in a studio in Collins-
street. The sounds of revelry floated
down to the pavement, where stood a
sergeant asking what of the night of the
constable on the beat. “You’d better go
up and see what’s doing,” said the ser-
geant. The constable climbed the stairs,
knocked at the door and was immediately
overwhelmed by the heartiest greeting he
had ever received in his
constabulary ex p er i-
ence. After having
made a thorough and
intimate inspection of
the keg and satisfied
himself there was no-
thing deleterious in its
contents, he rejoined his
superior officer. “You
took a long time,” said
the sergeant. “What
was it?” “Only a party
of Seventh Day Adven-
tists having a night off,”
explained the John
Hop, with a flash of
inspiration.
“Pitcairner”: You have to go away
from home to learn things about your-
self. The day after I arrived in Sydney
from Pitcairn the “Daily Telegraph” in-
formed the world that, owing to a severe
deluge in August
which destroyed
crops and food trees,
we Pitcairners are
starving. When ships
call on us we row
out and beg for
food. Next day the
“Pitcairn Famine”
had, it seemed, be-
come a matter of
national concern,
and plans were afoot
for “evacuating the
starving inhabitants”
(I should have
thought it kinder to
fill ’em up). “It it
pitiful,” said a Fed-
eral Minister named
Perkins, “to see these
poor people in such
a plight.” To which
my reply is “Rats!”
On Pitcairn there is
no famine. Our
chances of getting
groceries, always a
bit uncertain, are a
bit more so since the
N.Z. Shipping Co.
cut us out of its
itinerary, and we’re
a bit short of flour,
tea and condensed
milk. That shortage
has nothing to do with the alleged deluge
of August, and anyway the rains haven’t
stonkered our food supply. We’re not
starving; we don’t beg for food. As
ever, we’re willing to trade fresh fruit
for cash or groceries, and that’s all there
is to it.
* * * *
“Colonel B’s’t’r”: As to queer hobbies,
a lady of. my acquaintance dips vege-
tables and fruits into lacquer of suitable
tints, thereby making lasting and intrigu-
ing table decorations when flowers are
short. Another makes “coalie-flowers ’
by pouring a mixture of ammonia, salt,
red ink and other ingredients over a
lump of coal or coke. In a few days it
sprouts a queer-looking pink growth
which puzzles botanically-minded visi-
tors. An American’s weakness is invent-
ing nonsense machines. His latest
triumph, composed of cigar-boxes,
cotton-reels, hairpins, a skewer and a
few lipstick tubes, is described by him
as lively, fast, noisy, complicated and
accomplishing absolutely nothing. He
calls it “The Talking Woman.”
* * * *
“Getsaphead”: Medical lore points
the way to an effective war weapon.
What about reviving Poison Damsels?
The P.D. is well entrenched in Eastern
folklore. She is a girl, herself immune
to poison, bringing death to all with
whom she comes in contact. In some
cases one look from a P.D. is fatal, in
others the fatality lies in a touch or em-
brace. Some are just natural-born P.Ds.,
others have the poison thrust upon them
by being nourished on a poisonous diet.
The great Alexander w&s nearly done-in
by one of them. An Indian ruler sent
her as a present, but some of Aleck’s
wise old men identified her as a P.D.
on sight. The emperor had her beheaded
and cremated, so that she would not
leave any poison behind.
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: A Sydney man who had
reached the age that loves to knock
about in leisure moments in old clothes
was unexpectedly promoted and got a
considerable salary rise. His wife took
a sudden interest in his appearance, and
made him buy natty sports clothes for
knockabout wear. He stood it for a
while, but his own comfort and the sly
glances of male friends sent him to resur-
rect the old clobber, only to find that
his wife had given it all away. There
was a bit of a row, and it dawned on
him that she was scheming to foot it
with the best in the suburb. He spent
five minutes in solitary thought, then
went away. Next day, after returning
from work, he appeared in a pair of new
dungarees and a flannel singlet and
paraded ostentatiously up and down the
street. She gave in on the second day.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Melbourne’s uproar against
horse-sausage has brought out numerous
statements about French liking for prad-
meat, but in reality it was, prior to the
siege of Paris in 1870, as little fancied
there as it is in England today. During
those four months Parisians ate 50,000
horses and would have eaten a lot more
had they been available. They also ate
dogs (15s. each), cats (155.), rats (2s. 6d.),
mice (Is.), sparrows (Is. 6d.), and all
the animals at the Jardin des Plantes Zoo
except the skunks, together with most
of the snakes. Contemporary accounts
describe rat-pie as a real delicacy, cats
as much better-flavored than rabbits,
and dog as resisting all efforts of the
most expert chefs to render it even
palatable in any shape or form. Eng-
land needn’t be sniffy about horseflesh
—the “Pussy’s Butcher” shops in the
poorest London area don’t cater for
cats only, even if the cat’s-meat men
do. Both sell horseflesh only.
* * * *
“K.P.”: Fifteen years ago medical
science hailed radium as the most hope-
ful agency yet discovered for the treat-
ment of cancer, and immense sums were
spent in making it available for use. Aus-
tralia’s contribution was £lOO,OOO. Inci-
dentally, the Curie couple, its discoverers,
never made a cent out of it. Now Dr.
Leonard Hill, an English authority on
cancer research, has challenged its value
as a modern method of treatment, and his
views, though criticised as extreme, are
cautiously agreed with in general prin-
ciple by other British authorities.
Radium’s many indisputable successes are
not denied, but the difficulty of accurate
dosage as compared with modern X-ray
methods has already led to steady decline
in its use. Nevertheless it has been of
immense practical benefit, and even
should it be supplanted by more man-
ageable methods its use in cancer will
remain as one of the great medical dis-
coveries of the century.
* * * *
“Mayo”: The ups and downs of art!
Years ago a school in a M.L. city had
two youthful artists as pupils. The more
promising of the two married early, gave
up the idea of an art career and went
on the land ; the other went to Europe
and was fairly successful. Thirty years
later the emigre came back and revisited
his old school. While waiting in the
headmaster’s room he recognised a small
painting on the wall, and remembered
that both he and his friend had, as
parting gifts, painted a scene for their
old head. He wondered where the other
picture had gone and, liking his own
early effort, whose excellence surprised
him, offered the current headmaster five
pounds for the sports fund in return for
it. No sooner said than done. “It’s
very fortunate for us,” said the H.M.
enthusiastically. “We had a companion
picture to this, but much better, much
finer. It was the work of a real master.
He was once a pupil at this very school,
and has had great success abroad. We
sold it to a collector some months ago,
and though it was unsigned he gave
us twenty-five guineas for it. This one
you want was painted by a farmer.”
“Was it you Wot ordered a bag of coal, mister ?”
THE NEW YEAR.
“We cannot tell what the New Year will bring.
If it is peace, how thankful we shall be. If it
brings a continued struggle, we shall remain un-
daunted.”— The King’s broadcast.
The Old Year left us a world in travail,
With armies massed for the slaughtering,
But none may the tangled skein unravel
To tell us what will the New Year bring.
Here is the curtain beyond all mortal
Power to pierce or vision to see;
What waits us back of the keyless portal
We must face untroubled, whate’er it be.
The Old Year found us in sore disquiet
At stark aggression and faith forswore:
It left us plunged in the storm and riot,
The whirl and woe of a wanton war,
With the bursting bomb and the cannon-
thunder
Drowning the peals wherein church-bells ring
Their Christmas message. And now we
wonder,
We wonder what will the New Year bring.
What may his wallet be holding for us?
Ah, could we only our choice express,
With what whole-souled fervor for peace we’d
chorus,
Based upon justice and righteousness,
For peace when the wrongs of the weak are
righted
And brutal violence counts no more.
But, failing that, we must stand united
For all that the New Year holds in store.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


CRAVEN A
..ate so
E1868
10 for V>
20 for 1/6
ľ
SPECIALLY
PREVENT
THROATS
MADE
POLITICAL POINTS
Somebody has recalled the P.M.’s
“short statement in regard to manufac-
ture of motor-cars” (H. of R., May 17 ;
“Hansard,” p. 418). He.laid down five
“general principles,” and this was the
third:
The Commonwealth Government is not
able to grant a manufacturing monopoly
to any single company.
And now it has granted “a manufac-
turing monopoly” to A.C.1., otherwise
Australian Glass. May statement and
December concession will take a lot of
explaining away.
Conscription split Australian Labor in
1916 and finance in 1936. Finance and
conscription may rend Maoriland Labor
this year. J. A. Lee, whose idea
is that “there could be no greater lunacy
than financial orthodoxy,” was appointed
Parliamentary Under-Secretary to Nash,
the Finance Minister, to keep him quiet;
but he wouldn’t keep quiet, and “the
appointment was terminated.” It is now
predicted that he will walk out of the
Easter conference and start a “socialist
finance” and anti-conscription party. Lee
is a sort of Maoriland Anstey, but more
pertinacious.
Tommy White, M.H.R., had no
illusions in December about the A.B.C.
“Weakling”:
It is an unwanted journal, and from its
appearance is weakly from the start. It
will use up more of the Commission’s
immense income and may prevent an excuse
for not reducing the license fee —£1 Is.
in Australia; 10s. in England.
The member for Balaclava should make
it his business to ascertain (1) the amount
of “Weakling” paper wasted to the end
of December; (2) the amount of money
refunded to advertisers ; (3) the amount
of money spent in all forms of adver-
tising ; and (4) the excess of expenditure
—all expenditure —over income.
D. B. Copland, Professor of Commerce
at Melbourne University, member of the
State Economic Committee, Common-
wealth Prices Commissioner, radio com-
mentator, newspaper contributor and
writer of books —generally one a year —
has become a State Savings Bank Com-
missioner. He is still Commonwealth
Prices Commissioner, and as such has
sanctioned rises in the price of kerosene,
oils and tea. Victorian politicians’ atti-
tude to the prof, has for ten years been
a mixture of admiration and awe.
And still they gazed, and still the wonder
grew
That one small head could carry all he
knew.
There is a reference to Kisch in the
latest of the Krivitsky articles to reach
Australia (“Saturday Evening Post,”
4/11/’39). It is preceded by a short
history of “Max Hoelz, the Communist
Robin Hood who conducted a guerrilla
war against the Berlin Government” and
was “killed by the Ogpu” :
I met Hoelz for the first time in 1932
at Moscow at the apartment of Kisch,
the German Communist writer.
In Australia he was “the famous Czecho-
slovakian writer,” and he denied being
a Communist until Reds cheered him in
the Sydney Domain. Then vanity over-
came prudence and he gave the Red-
front salute. Actually he and Krivitsky
are Jews.
Ginsberg, alias Krivitsky, who peached
on his old pals, was a general in the
Red Army. To become a general in the
Red Army you apparently don’t need
to know how to fight or to lead men;
it is sufficient if you prove yourself a
worthy propagandist, white-anter and
organiser of strikes. Krivitsky com-
placently details his services in the 1920
war against Poland:
We organised a strike in Danzig to pre-
vent the landing of French munitions. I
travelled to Warsaw, Cracow, Lemberg,
Silesia and Vienna organising strikes. I
organised a successful strike in the Czech
railroad junction of Oderberg. “Railroad
workers,” I wrote in a leaflet, “you are
transporting on your line guns to slaughter
your Russian working-class brothers!”
It throws light on the performance of
the Red Army and its generals in Fin-
land.
Eminent N.S.W. lawyers are protest-
ing against the recent stamp-duties legis-
lation on the ground that some of the
clauses are incomprehensible and some of
the imposts punitive, and that the general
effect will be a large instalment of what
Lord C.J. Hewart called “the New
Tyranny.” But powers as excessive have
been delegated to officials in Victoria,
though there the taxes are not so mon-
strous.
A Victorian investment co. challenged
a valuation of land and shares (£106,000)
and an assessment of duties (£5300),
penalties (£2650) and interest thereon
“On a visit to the Western front Hitler . put his foot on French soil for the first time
since 1917.”
“I think I go home now, Hermann, is it not?”
(£2590) made by the Collector of Im-
posts, appealing to the Full Court. Judg-
ment was to the effect that no appeal
is allowed by the Stamps Act except by
way of a case stated by the collector ;
that the facts stated by the collector must
be accepted and that no evidence may
be called by the taxpayer. In other
words, what the collector says goes. He
is the final, indeed the only, authority.
There seem to be more Country
“parties” in Victoria than there are
Labor “parties” in N.S.W. There are
a “United” Country party, divided into
two factions, a Liberal Country party
and Senator Gibson, who still calls him-
self Country party, though he broke
away to run for the Senate on the U.A.P.-
C.P. ticket and beat the “United” can-
didates hands down. One of the
“United” factions is led by Premier
Dunstan and the other by A. E. Hock-
ing, sometime member of the State
Savings Bank board, whose friends say
he put Dunstan where he is and has been
repaid with rank ingratitude.
Christmas was gingered up for the
Agrarians in Victoria by H. L. Simpson,
“chief president” of the “United” organi-
sation. Simpson resigned from the direc-
torate of the “Countryman” on the
ground that it had mutilated a message
he addressed to the faithful. The deleted
passages referred to “the recent differ-
ences within the party,” differences
which “evidently developed from dis-
satisfaction within the Central Council
because Ministers would not concede to
Central Councillors the right to inter-
fere with them in their wider field of
public duty.” Hocking is boss of the
Central Council. Simpson is a Dunstan
man.
From Stalin’s March address to the
Eighteenth Congress of his Communist
party, miscreants having alleged that
“purging the organisation of spies,
assassins and wreckers” had “shaken the
Soviet system”:
In 1937, Tukhachevsky, Yakir, Übore-
vich and other fiends were sentenced to
be shot. After that the elections to the
Supreme Soviet were held, and 98.6 per
cent, of the total vote was cast for Soviet
power. At the beginning of 1938 Rosen-
goltz, Rykov, Bukharin and other fiends
were sentenced to be shot. At the subse-
quent elections 99.4 per cent, of the total
vote was cast for Soviet power.
There were more elections last week, and
“Soviet power” got all the seats and
nearly all the “votes.” At Moscow 99.81
per cent, of the “electors” voted, 98.99
p.c. for the “official candidates.” The
odd 0.82 p.c. will get what the other
“fiends” got in due course, if not sooner.
“Finland,” the “Age” says, “is gallantly
aiding the cause of the Allies by defend-
ing her existence and turning to valuable
account the assistance being rendered by
her countless friends in Europe, Britain
and America.” Correct down to the
word “existence” ; but at the end of a
month of heroic fighting against odds
precious little “assistance” had been “ren-
dered by countless friends in America.”
Though thousands of mugs went from
the U.S.A. to fight for Stalinists, camou-
flaged as “democrats,” in Spain, there is
no word of even one armed American
volunteer reaching Finland. Yet most
of the journey can be done by air, and
the Red blockade of Finland is a joke.
At a touching little before-Christmas
ceremony at the Town Hall, Melbourne,
Forests Commissioner Galbraith pre-
sented Lud Mayor Coles with a walking-
stick. Made out of the timber of a tree
that was partially destroyed in the bush-
fires last January, the gift was in recog-
nition of the £265,327 citizens contri-
buted to relief for the victims. Another
January is here, and only the luck of an
exceptionally wet November may prevent
a repetition of the fires. There is still
no central authority, and the Melbourne
Government (in which there are no Mel-
bourne representatives) continues to pin
its faith to a multitude of departments
all miraculously working together in a
crisis. The only thing they shared in
common last time was the capacity to
blame one another after the worst had
happened.
This paper is tired of hearing from
people who ought to know better that
the Great War was fought in vain. The
N.S.W. president of,the A.N.A. is the
latest to raise the mournful cry:
The sacrifices which we will be called
upon to make this time will, it is hoped,
not be, as they were in 1914-18, fruitless.
Why fruitless? The Empire went to war
primarily to save Belgium and to prevent
a hostile military Power from grabbing
Antwerp and the Channel coast. Both
objects were attained. In the process
Metz, Strasburg and other conquered
parts of Alsace-Lorraine were regained for
friendly France, and the enemy was de-
prived of colonies in
which he would have
been a permanent
threat to Australia,
Maoriland and S’Africa.
In short, the soldiers,
airmen, bluejackets and
merchant seamen of
the King did the job
they set out to do. It
is not for this genera-
tion or any other to
say that their labors
and sufferings were
“fruitless.”
Westralia is proud,
with reason, of the
university founded by
John Winthrop Hackett,
“the only free univer-
sity in the Empire,”
but country people
have shared little in the
direct benefits, and are
sharing less. Boyle, of
Avon, who was chair-
man of a Select Com-
mittee on education,
said when the educa-
tion vote was under
consideration: “The
university is practically
reserved for children in
the metropolitan area.
We discovered that 77 per cent, of the
youth that went to it came from within
12 to 15 miles.” This, of course, is in
keeping with the spirit of State politics,
the everything-for-the-city spirit.
When Casey goes to Washington,
Corio should be safe for a good man —
young preferred. Casey’s majorities were
10,688 in 1931, 9983 in 1934 and 6675
28,845 to 22,170 last time. He did
better than he anticipated. Ozanne won
Corio for Labor in 1914 and Lewis in
1929, but those have been the party’s
only successes in 25 years
“When I was an officer of the C.I.D.
I brought ten murderers to justice.”
Opening sentence of a Perth “Sunday
Times” article by Harry Mann, who,
when he gave up detective work, became
M.L.A. for Perth. The strange part is that
the catcher of ten murderers (six were
hanged) is against capital punishment.
His article indeed is an argument for
“giving greater scope to Judges in the
matter of insanity and mental deficiency,
and greater scope to Judges in their direc-
tions in this regard.”


THE NEW RECRUIT.


Si
IMPROVED EMPIRE MODEL WILKINSON
SAFETY RAZOR with double stropping gear,
strong frame, and new blade holder. This is
a self-stropping Razor, without removing the
blade from the frame.
No. 10 —Complete with Strop and 5 Hollow-
ground Blades, in Oak Case. 19/6.
No. 7 —Same as above, with 2 Blades. 15/6.
Extra Blades (packet of five), 7/6 per pkt.
Postage, 3d.
QUALITY CUTLERY
l
No. 2 IMPERIAL, MODEL ROLLS SAFETY
RAZOR. This Rolls Safety Razor has one hollow -
ground blade, a honing device on one side and
stropping on the other. Thus it enables you to
keep the blade always keen and ready for use.
50/-.
POST
FREE
FOR
CASH.
4A.NONrCR
42—BAKER’S STANDARD RAZOR, Best Quality Full
Hollow-ground Black Handle, fin. Blade. Each, 12/6*
W. JNO. BAKER
PTY.,
LTD.
3 Hunter Street
Sydney
PERSONAL ITEMS
Richard Gardiner Casey, Minister for
Supply, is to be Minister to Washington.
Casey is 49 and comfortably off. Just
home from taking a degree at Trinity
College, Cambridge, when the last war
broke out, he joined Bridges’s staff, was
interpreter at the surrender of the Emden,
served on Gallipoli and in France, won
the D.S.O. and M.C., and had two terms
as liaison officer between the Common-
wealth and the Foreign Office. Then he
won the Corio seat in the House of
Representatives, becoming Assistant
Treasurer, and for a brief time Treasurer
and Minister for Development. He is
just back from Britain and the Western
Front.
Tucker was lucky to get a sitting shot
at A. J. Pickett, sec. of the Winemakers’
Association of Victoria. In his 70th year,
Pickett is one of the most active men in
A. J. PICKETT.
Melbourne. His father was in the
English wine trade for 50 years, his
great-uncle for 53, and his brother,
who is six years older than himself, is
still with Joseph Travers, one of Lon-
don’s leading merchants, whom Pickett
left in 1901 under engagement to John
Connell and Co., of Melbourne. Later
he took over an importing agency, but
the growing fame of Victorian wines
turned him into an exporter. When
the Victorian Health Act was passed
he became its first inspector, but was
kicked out as too old, and has since been
a thorn in the side of the Cold Tea
party as secretary for the Victorian
winemakers. A keen controversialist,
he is a poor advt. for prohibition, for
he has been a moderate drinker of the
grape for 50 years and an ardent ad-
vocate of Australian wine for 40.
Arthur Blackburn, a quiet lawyer who
fought valiantly in France and earned a
V.C., and who is now City Coroner of
Adelaide, sees his son (St. Peter’s, St.
Mark’s and the Uni.) get the Rhodes
scholarship. The youngster plans his
career as militia, possible overseas ser-
vice, Oxford when available, then law
and politics. On the organising side he
has been editor of the Uni. magazine,
president of the Arts Association,
treasurer of the Theatre Guild and col-
lege librarian, etc. A lightweight, he has
a fair record in sport.
S. H. K. Spurgeon, commander of
H.M.S. Echo, who won the D.S.O. for
his exploits in the North Sea, belongs
to one of the best-known Australian
naval families. His father was Paymaster-
Commander C. H. Spurgeon, who entered
the R.N. in 1892, and was later on the
staff of the C.-in-C. at Portsmouth and
in the Mediterranean. He came to join
the Australian Navy Office just before
the last war. Two sons joined the R.A.N.,
both upstanding young officers of fine
character. Until last year S.H.K. was
N. S. Wales D.N.0., attached to
H.M.A.S. Penguin at Garden Island,
while A.H., his brother, disported himself
with the R.N. When A.H. returned in
1938 and became C.O.S. attached to
H.M.A.S. Penguin, S.H.K. went abroad
to the command of the Echo, a Javelin-
class destroyer built in 1934. His person-
ality and enterprise artd his gift of hand-
ling men mark him out for high com-
mand in the R.A.N. before he is finished.
Prince Shehab el Din Hussein, who
looked in on Sydney during a world tour,
piloted his own ’plane when he became
the first of the Faithful to make the
Mecca pilgrimage by air. A relative of
the royal family of Egypt, he relaxes
with tennis, golf or horseback riding.
English conductor Sir Thomas
Beecham, who is booked to visit Aus-
tralia in June, stands with Mendelssohn
and Meyerbeer in the small category of
notable musicians who were bom
wealthy. He is both a baronet and a
knight, the baronetcy inherited from his
father (proprietor of Beecham’s Pills),
who died 23 years ago, and the knight-
hood earned in his own right in 1916 as
the foremost British conductor. He first
conducted in London at the Queen’s Hall
in 1905, and his success was immediate.
Seven years ago he formed the superb
London Philharmonic Orchestra. He has
had a great deal of experience with
opera and ballet, but is also the foremost
British interpreter of Mozart, Brahms
and Beethoven. Like Toscanini, he is
often brusque and impatient, intolerant
of anything short of perfection.
R. R. P. Barbour, the new Warden of
Melbourne Uni., chosen from 40 appli-
cants, moves from Adelaide, where he
has been for ten years as head of St.
Andrew’s and Uni. lecturer in philosophy
and ethics. He is no stranger to Vic.,
having formerly had some years at Gee-
long Grammar, and he was the 1920
Queensland Rhodes scholar. He has
played cricket for Queensland, lacrosse
for Oxford, hockey for S.A. and tennis
for all three.
A leading commercial man of Adel-
aide is dead, J. R. Fowler, at 74. He
inherited the headship of the wholesale
provision co. bearing his name, and was
also on the board of the Bank of Adel-
aide and of the A.M.P. Society, a mem-
ber of the Rhodes scholarship selection
committee, and prominent in all Uni.
affairs on the commercial side.
Daryl Lindsay is the exception of the
Lindsay family. He was the only one
not to commence with a literary or
artistic career. He began work in a
bank, threw it up for jackerooing, and
successively became a pastoralist, a
shearing overseer and a soldier.* After
the Great War, in which he got a com-
mission, he took up art as a profession
at the age of 30, did a course at the
Slade in London and then returned to
Victoria and settled down to country life
at Baxter, in the Mornington Peninsula,
interspersed with painting and exhibiting
in the city.. Then he became interested
in the ballet, sketched it in London and
during its Australian season, gained much
attention for his shows of paintings of
ballerinas, and followed his subjects
back to London. He is still the
exception, inasmuch as he has just
landed the job of curator of the art
museum and keeper of the prints at the
National Gallery, Melbourne. He must
be the first of the family to fit himself
into the role of a Government official.
Sir Walter Russell, keeper of the Royal
Academy gallery in London, was one of
his recommenders.
Cyril Legh Winser announces his com-
ing retirement from the steady job of
private secretary to the Governors of
S.A. For some 25 years he has been
confidential adviser in succession to Gov-
ernors Galway, Weigall, Bridges, Hore-
Ruthven (Gowrie), Dugan and Barclay-
Harvey. Before he left England he was
a county cricketer, and he has represented
S.A. at golf on countless occasions.
Three Inglebys of the current genera-
tion, William, Robert and Rupert, are
off on something like a treasure hunt to
New Caledonia in the 35ft. ketch Volita.
Poet Bernard Ingleby, forerunner of these
adventurers, was offsider to Clement
' Wragge, the eccentric Queensland
meteorologist; when Wragge died he
left Ingleby his diaries, and these are
the source of the information which has
sent the younger Inglebys off on their
adventure.
“W.E.F.”: Years ago the late Ted
Sorenson had several MSS. awaiting deci-
sion in The Bulletin office, and dropped
a further bundle in one morning. Half-
way down the chairs, he was called back
and asked to wait. Presently a boy
brought out “a parcel from Mr. Archi-
bald.” Ted carried it home in a de-
pressed condition, thinking that his efforts
of months past had been returned. When
he opened the parcel he found enough
copy paper to last him six months. Archi-
bald had noticed that his contributions
had been typed on the blank side of all
sorts of printed matter.
Gerald Michael O’Dea, of Adelaide,
recently elected president of the Gas
G. M. O’DEA.
Association of Australia, was born at
Jamestown, S.A., 56 years ago and
educated at St. Peter’s College. He is
g.m. of the S.A. Gas Co., and has
served as president of the Australian
Gas Institute. He used to be one of
S.A.’s crack tennis players; nowadays
he’s a keen golfer.
COL. K. A. McKENZIE, G.S.O. (I),
First Division, Second A.I.F.
It is nearly 40 years since Will H.
Ogilvie, a verse by whom appears in
this week’s Aboriginalities pages, left
Australia to return to his native Scot-
land, but, despite his threescore years
and ten, his handwriting is as bold as
ever and his verse as musical. Ogilvie was
only 20 when he landed here with the
idea of sampling sheep- and cattle-
station life in all its phases, and stayed
11 years. He roamed “from the Warrego
to the South Head light,” and, like a
brother-poet, Harry Morant (“The
Breaker”), whom he once castigated in
verse, he was an accomplished horse-
breaker. His first contribution to The
Bulletin was a piece of verse called
“Beyond the Barrier,” published on
April 21, 1894, over the nom de plume
of “Glenrowan.”
One of the best-known figures in Syd-
ney swimming circles, C. E. Griffiths,
has retired from his job as manager of
the Domain Baths, after 31 years of it.
He holds the distinguished service medal
of the R.L.S.S., of which he has been
a member for 50 years, and founded the
Metropolitan Swimming Club, whose
members he coached to championship
status. His daughter Ida and three sons
are all first-class swimmers.
A fighting parson, H. G. Hackworthy,
moves on again. He began with war
service, earning a commission and the
M.C.; then trained for the Baptist
ministry at Melbourne University and
Theological College. Started work at
South Yarra (Vic.), had some years in
England, has been at Hobart for the last
10, and now moves to North Adelaide.
Allegedly the biggest art collection
ever to have been brought to Australia
was due in Sydney concurrently with
the opening of the Russian Ballet, and
under the stewardship of H. Tatlock
Miller. It is an “art for theatre and
ballet” exhibition, and to show what lofty
talent has been lavished on the ballet
the artists represented include Epstein,
Augustus John, Paul Nash, the ex-Adel-
aidean Eric Gill, Charles Sims and Dame
Laura Knight. Tatlock Miller is the
Geelong printer who for many years
published art works at his own expense,
and edited that unusual magazine
“Manuscripts” in the interests of younger
devotees of the Muses.


1
Ln
N
mmsii
as sunshine
through the
clouds of
ill-health...
4
URAL TONIC
brings welcome LASTING RELIEF to sufferers from
hue i
ĺ
ļ
MB. B. HUMPHBEYS.
"Completely Restored
to the Best of Health”
PRESTON, VIC.
20th July, 1939.
Dear Sirs, —I was crippled with RHEUMATISM. My
nerves were affected, and I began to lose weight.
A friend of mine was good enough to advise me
to try Hutuwai. The result was amazing; I began to
sleep better, my nerves improved. The pain vanished.
lam completely restored to the best of health. There
are no signs. of my former aches and pains.
—Yours faithfully, ROBERT HUMPHREYS.
HUTUWAI TONIC CONTAINS THE JUICE OF VALUABLE HERBAL PLANTS. These
plants have remarkable health-giving properties. HUTUWAI IS ALKALINE! Since
Hutuwai Tonic was first introduced to the Australian public thousands have written to
express their sincere thanks for the remarkable benefits they have received. Read and
consider the letters printed below . . . testimony such as this must give definite proof of
the marvellous health-restoring qualities of Hutuwai. Well, then, when there is Hutuwai
why suffer? The pain of Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Neuritis, Kidney Trouble,
Sciatica, Blood Pressure and Nerves makes you look old before your time . . . the agony
is registered in your face; your eyes lack sparkle, your step loses its briskness . . . you
lack enthusiasm . . . snap out of it! Break free from these age-giving, pleasure-robbing
bonds . . . benefit from the experience of others . . . drink Hutuwai. Health is Life!
Hutuwai is Health! Take Hutuwai . . . the tonic that
contains Herbal Plant Juices ... and Live!
"All the Pain Has Gone”
BRISBANE, Q’EAND,
22nd August, 1939.
Dear Sirs, —My leg became very swollen, the pain was very
severe and distressing, and I could not put my foot to the
floor. One day I saw your advertisement for Hutuwai Tonic,
and immediately sent for a large bottle.
After having taken only eight bottles of Hutuwai Tonic
all the pain has gone, my leg is no longer swollen and I
am able to walk without any assistance.
—Yours sincerely, (MRS.) S. W. TYLER.
m y
•, • j
MRS. S. W. TYJLER.
Get rid of those
stiff joints and that
tired feeling . . .
drink Hutuwai.
w
ľ
MBS. !L. SMOOTHES".
"Hutuwai Gave Me New Life”
WOOEEOONGABBA S 3,
BRISBANE, Q’EAND, _
11th August, 1939.
Dear Sirs, —Your woderful tonic, Hutuwai, has done wonders
for me. It has given me new life. I suffered from Rheuma-
toid Arthritis and my hands, shoulders and my legs, in fact,
all my joints, were terribly swollen and I suffered severe pain.
My friends had to lift me in and out of bed.
But thanks to Hutuwai Tonic my neighbors and friends
are astounded at the change. lam able to walk about without
assistance.
—Yours faithfully, (MRS.) E. SMOOTHEY.
"My Neuritis
has completely
Vanished”
CAMFERDOWN, N.S.W.,
2nd June, 1939.
Dear Sirs, —Before taking Hutuwai I was a constant
sufferer with NEURITIS and was confined to my bed
suffering excruciating pain. After taking the first two
bottles I could feel the pain gradually leaving me.
Thanks to Hutuwai my Neuritis has completelj
vanished and I am quite well again.
—Yours sincerely, A. DEMPSEY.
m
MB. A. DEMPSEY.
Read these letters, each a human document of
praise for the health-restoring qualities of Hutuwai.
wmmm:
ŀ
"I Lost That Dreadful
Depressed Feeling”
SURRY HILLS,
SYDNEY.
3rd March, 1939.
Dear Sirs,—l was told that all I could do was to huihl up my health
and overcome my NERVES; so I got a bottle of Hutuwai and with
that one bottle I began to improve. I was able to eat and sleep,
and I lost that dreadful depressed feeling;
Yours very gratefully,
(MRS.) E. LUCK.
•».
■H
WmSmi
MRS. C. DAVIS,
"Hutuivai Worked
Wonders for Me”
SOUTHPORT, Q.
14th August, 1939.
Dear Sirs, —My nerves were in a dreadful
state; the children could do nothing right
and I was always at them, and 1 was ready
to cry at the least little thing.
I thought I would give Hutuwai a try.
It worked wonders for me. I now feel a
different woman.
I shall certainly recommend it to any-
one who is in need of a good nerve tonic.
Yours gratefully, (MRS.) C. DAVIS.
(Pronounce HOO-TOO-WY)
The Best Tonic on the Market.Jt contains the Juice of Hutuwai Herbal Plants
TONIC
LARGE
BOTTLE
A 1(1
“/ w
Also in
3/-Size
INCLUDING VALUABLE DIET
CHART FREE.
Sold and Recommended by
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: New Year’s Day in a
Victorian Mallee town, and the place full
of farmers, runners, horses, bookies and
spielers for the annual sports and races.
Quicksilver Ted and Sweating Charlie,
armed with everything from the Under-
and-Over-Seven to an elaborate sweat
wheel, found the going tough. Both cops
seemed to have a violent dislike for them,
and, no matter where they set up the joint,
within a few minutes a John would
appear. Out at the course it was the
same. They even paid a wandering beer-
hound to stage a brawl at one end of the
ground, but one John went to that while
the other stuck to Edward and Charles.
Then word hit the course that a local
townsman had blown his head off with a
shotgun, and the Force had to go and see
about it. As a mark of respect races and
sports were abandoned, but the dis-
appointed sports were promptly catered
for by the two battlers. By the time the
Law returned the sports had had their
day and Ed and Chick had most of their
cash. Which accounted, no doubt, for
the magnificent wreath at the funeral
which bore the unsigned inscription: “To
our best friend, from two grateful
mourners.”
* * * *
“Yarri”: “Talking about soil erosion,”
said the man from the mulga, “I had two
miles of fencing laid flat last summer —
not blown over, mind you ; the soil was
blown away from under the posts till
they toppled over.” “You were lucky,”
said his friend. “One of my fences was
buried under sand in duststorms, and
I had to erect another fence on top of
it.” “That must have been my blitherin’
selection dumped on your fence,” said
Mulga. And that, in part at all events,
is what really happened, an experience
that is all too common in the wind-swept,
tree-denuded corner west of the Darling.
A sheepyard that cost £5OO was buried
in two years—the upper stratum of an-
other man’s sheep-walk blown off and
yarded.
* * * *
“H.F.H.”: The smiling stranger at the
little shanty pub tendered a cheque in
payment for his grog. “Sorry, young
fellow,” said Mrs. Bung. “I’d like to
cash it, but we’ve been warned about
forgers. A woman has to be careful.
Of course, if you have some means of
identification it will be all right.” The
stranger thought for a moment. “Per-
haps this will serve,” he said carelessly,
drawing a photograph from an inner
pocket. Carefully she compared the
original with the reproduced likeness,
then: “H’m, it’s you all right,” she said.
“I’ll cash it!”
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: For patient, tireless effort,
few of man’s activities can equal Binghi’s
tracking of a plain turkey (Australian
bustard) that is feeding far out on a tree-
less plain. The “hatter” is generally a
male bird, 4ft. high and perhaps 201 b.
in weight—a wary fowl that is always
suspicious of a man on foot. The abo.
gets down on his hands and knees hun-
dreds of yards from the quarry ; where
the grass is short he flattens on the ground
like a huge goanna and laboriously crawls
over the intervening space, taking obser-
vations only through the stems of tus-
socks. To render himself less conspicu-
ous he first rolls in mud and then in
broken dry grass; and with a tussocky
headgear he looks like a moving bull-
ants’ nest. He aims to get within close
range behind the bird. Then, while its
head i§ down, he springs up and rains
boomerangs and throwing sticks at the
surprised turk.
* * # He
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Britain’s food-
economy preliminaries have revived an
ancient industry the preparation of
smoked meats other than ham or bacon.
“Secret Sandwiches for the Secret Ses-
sion,” as proclaimed by notices over the
bars at the Houses of Parliament, turned
out to be made of macon, a new name
for smoked mutton, a very ancient pro-
vender indeed. It was a stock item in
the commissariat of Julius Caesar’s troops
and, with apple-pie and a jug of beer,
the basis of Queen Elizabeth’s favorite
breakfast. Our old friend Dennis has no
monopoly of the material required for
good ham and bacon. Dugong beef can
be converted into better bacon than any
pig ever gave his life to produce. In
outback Tasmania smoke-cured wombat
hams have been regarded as bush deli-
cacies for more than a century past, and
very good they are.
* * * *
“Darken”: Re the teeth as a trans-
mitter of sound-vibrations (B. 13/12/’39),
here’s an old dodge we use where I work:
To tell if tar, liquor, water, etc., are mov-
ing in a pipeline we clench a coin between
our teeth and hold it on the pipe. This
method beats the ear hollow.
* * * *
“Ex-Vic”: Anyone strolling down
Leibig-street, Warrnambool (Vic.), a
couple of week-ends ago would have
wondered at the general absence of Homo
sapiens, young and old. Half the popu-
lation was down on the Hopkins, where
a shoal of what we Cabbage Gardeners
call salmon trout had come in. Old-
timers swore that nothing like it had been
seen before ; the area covered by the fish
was estimated at 10 acres. With all sorts
of baits and lines the locals hopped in,
and next morning any raiding seaplane
from an enemy cruiser could easily have
located the town by the smell of fried
fish that rose to the blue heavens.
* * ♦ *
“Ex-Mister”: Paddy the Wanderer,
Maoriland’s famous travelling dog, has
ended his last journey at Wellington. A
big Airedale-Irish terrier cross, grave and
sedate in mien and holding himself aloof
from other dogs, acknowledging no
owner or master, Paddy lived for 10
years as the welcomed community guest
of transport workers on sea or land.
When the wanderlust waked he would
take a passage in any ship or vehicle he
fancied, but always made Wellington his
home port. For sea travel he chose only
ships on M.L. or Australian articles, and
on land the vehicles of his waterfront
taxi-driver friends. To round off his ex-
periences they subscribed his fare for the
first flight ever made by a dog in Maori-
land. Among other unusual dog-know-
ledge, Paddy was fully aware of the
dangers of city traffic and would never
cross to or from the wharves until the
green light showed.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: With the conversion
of so much commercial motor transport
to military use the Australian horse is be-
ginning to assert himself. The first bolt
seen in Ipswich (Q.) for years capsized
a fruit-cart and seriously damaged its two
occupants. A few hours later another
wrecked an ice-cart and put the carter in
hospital. Next day one defied the traffic
lights in Brisbane and nearly collected a
traffic cop. Spreading northward, the
new craze for self-assertion induced a
Gympie moke to shatter its attached
butcher’s cart in a wild street charge.
Then a Rockhampton prad fled with a
milk-cart and, after scattering dairy pro-
ducts for a mile, ran over an aboriginal
and finished up in the river. Now comes
the news that a western shire councillor
has been attacked and seriously bitten by
a horse with whom he wasn’t even ac-
quainted. It really looks as if something
will have to be done in the horse-quelling
line before one breaks into a caucus
meeting and savages the chairman.
* Hi * *
“Tension Nut”: Bananalanders won’t
have it that “Double Dee’s” old Westra-
lian (B. 6/12/’39) put up a performance
out of the box ; in proof of it they would
cite Jimmy Gibb, who in 1910 rode a
pushbike from Minnie Downs to Milo
—lO7 miles—and that same day shore
there 100 sheep with the machines.
* * * *
“Bayley St.”: One of the first things
discovered in the vicinity of early Cool-
gardie was a convict’s brogue shoe. Un-
mistakable were hobnails in a broad-
arrow pattern. York, 300 miles distant,
had been the nearest convict depot. Had
some poor devil nursed the illusion that
it was possible to get across to New South
Wales? Did the mate to that shoe also
lie in the bush, cast aside when its owner
was running mad in the agony of thirst?
Out from Coolgardie, 150 miles, lies
Edjudina. Early prospectors there, push-
ing out into virgin country, found the
skeleton of a white man; —flat-domed
skull, defective teeth. Another absconder?
How far he had got on his illusory path
to freedom! Such poor wretches could
never free their minds of the picture of
their homeland, with water everywhere ;
they had no conception of the parched
hell that blocked their way of escape.
Aeain, Coolgardie was discovered Sent.,
1892 ; Hannans, June, ’93. Pushing out
for Hannans, swampers came on ancient
"I got a 'angover, Waiter, so bring me a pint."
lease-pegs at The Bluff, not so far out.
Lids of meat-tins carried a date, scratched
on, Oct. 2, 1888. In the rotted remains
of a camp lay two skeletons ; near by
were rusted tools. Discoverers of Cool-
gardie well ahead of Bayley and Ford.
Who were they? How did they die?
There never was, and never will be, any
answer.
* :S * *
“Turk”: Ten weeks after her late hus-
band became the chief item on our com-
missariat, Mrs. Gobbler, without further
conjugal relations, brought to light four
chirping chicks. Up went the cry, “What
are fathers for?” However, before
wholesale slaughter commences, let me
offer a possible solution: that the eggs
were laid within a few weeks of Mr. G.’s
demise, and, protected by long grass and
cool weather, remained fertile for Mrs.
G. to incubate.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Speaking of the intense
absorbed heat of Australia’s, red soil,
“Dominic” (B. 29/11/’39) remarks that
even the iron-hard feet of the aboriginals
are sometimes unequal to standing the
temperature. Does he know that in the
Kimberleys, particularly around Hall’s
Creek way, the natives had actually in-
vented shoes. Two kinds were used, one
a sandal—a mere sole of tough bark,
laced to the foot with hair string. The
other was much more elaborate —a sole
of woven bark, woven-hair uppers and
hair-string laces. Quite an orthodox pat-
tern. Hats, too, were, and are, known
among the Kimberley tribes, though the
weaving is primitive. First, ribs of tough
rushes are bent, down over the crown on
both sides and out flat to the rim, the
whole dozen or more being tied together
at the apex of the crown. In and out
through this framework tough grass or
pliant rush is woven, the final round of
the rim being finished off with a strong,
neat plait. Not a bad hat, not bad shoes.
Clad thus, and in nothing else, a well-
developed Kimberley damsel was a sight
—well, certainly not for a Mr. Spooner!
* * * *
“Arachne”: While riding my mare
through old-man gidya country in W.A.
I noticed she was stumbling into things,
running into trees, behaving as if she’d
lost the use of her eyes. I dismounted to
have a look at her. S’elp me goodness,
she was blinded by an impenetrable
veil of spider-webs from cheek-strap to
cheek-strap. The presence of countless
thousands of webs —the occupants are
quite harmless —is a phenomenon which
occurs at certain periods in this district.
ss: * * Jk
“Bad Australian”: Somebody has been
pulling “Wandi’s” leg about the lyre-
bird’s nest (B. 6/12/’39). It is anything
but “a huge structure,” considering the
size of the bird ; nor is it built entirely
of sticks. Small sticks are used as a kind
of foundation, but the greater part of the
nest is composed of bracken tips, moss,
stringybark, grass and other fibrous mat-
ter. There is no platform in front for
“taking off and landing,” and the bird
doesn’t fly straight from the nest when
disturbed. She emits a startled squeak,
drops to the ground and disappears like
a shadow in the surrounding bracken
and undergrowth. As to the “skin of a
large snake artfully twined across the
front awning,” the bird is just as scared
of snakes as any other denizen of the
wilds, and, anyhow, her nest has no
“awning” to drape the skin on. I have
never seen a nest built “fairly high in
the fork of a tree”; they are mostly
built at the base of the fronds of an
old-man ferntree. The architecture of
the nest requires the use of several side-
supports, which are rarely found in the
fork of a large tree. Queerest location
for one that I’ve struck was in the end
of a hollow log.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: The Garcia mystery (B.
13/12/’39) isn’t the first tragedy among
white people on the pretty little island
of Aureed in Torres Strait. In August,
1834, the master, surgeon, two ship’s boys
and five passengers drifted ashore there
on a raft from the wreck of the barque
Charles Eaton at Detached Reef, among
them Captain and Mrs. D’Oyley, of the
East India Company’s service, and their
two small boys. All were massacred by
the natives except the four boys. Willie
D’Oyley, aged two, and John Ireland, one
of the ship’s boys, were traded to an old
Murray Islander named Duppar for a
bunch of bananas each. Duppar took
them to Murray Island, treated them
kindly and handed them over to Captain
Lewis, of the rescue ship Isabella, in July,
1936. Willie, then four, could speak only
the island dialect, and under the name
of Uass was the pet of the islanders. He
returned to England, and eventually be-
came an army officer in India. Lewis
brought back from Aureed 17 skulls of
murdered Europeans, that of Mrs.
D’Oyley identifiable by its long fair hair.
There is a monument to them in a Sydney
cemetery.
LIFE’S RIDE.
There was sun on the spur
When the heart was young,
And hot blood a-stir
And the world far-flung.
There was joy in the beat
Of the hoofs on sod;
And the scent was sweet
Of the turf they trod.
When Adventure appeared
At our bridle-hand
No danger was feared,
No risk was banned.
No day was too long,
No goal too high,
And we went with a song
As the years went by.
’Twas a rose on the bridle
When Love would smile,
And th 6 reins hung idle
For mile on mile.
Now the last camp calls
And the white stars gleam,
And the proud footfalls
Die down like a dream.
Scotland.
WILL OGILVIE.


“Take no notice of them blokes , choom. You'll be jist like one of us in
no time."
“Wang”: Dad and Mum were sitting
listening to the wireless. Came the voice
of the announcer: “The next item is a
song entitled ‘On Vesuvius Slopes,’ by
the famous Italian tenor Tomcatini. As
usual, this wonderful singer interprets the
theme of the song with great feeling,
giving a masterly and realistic rendition
of his subject. Though he sings in Italian,
listeners will have no difficulty in follow-
ing Signor Tomcatini —his artistry is so
perfect.” A piano struck up a few bars,
then the famous tenor broke into action.
Mum pretended to be impressed, but
Dad was patently bored by the effort.
“No difficulty!” he growled. “Gora-
mighty, I’d unnerstand a howling dingo
better!” Then suddenly the tenor gave
utterance to a series of piercing shrieks.
“By cripes!” said Dad, with sudden en-
thusiasm, “I spoke too soon, Mum. The
announcer bloke wus right ’bout that
Eyetalian bein’ realistic. I unnerstand
that bit all right, don’t you?” “I can’t
say that I do,” replied Mum. “What’s
it mean?” “It’s easy,” said Dad. “Lissen
t’ him now.” A veritable storm of an-
guished shrieks came over the ether.
“Hear that?” cried Dad enthusiastically.
“That Vesuvius volcaner has boiled over
and scalded the coot!”
* * * *
“Dunea”: Having made an orphan of
a tiny wallaroo, the boss compounded
his felony by turning the late parent
into a mat for the bedroom floor. But
he didn’t count on our being awakened
each morning by a four-o’clock visit
from young Joey, who slithers the thing
in all directions while nosing for the one-
time pouch homestead. Love —or hunger
—dies hard.
* * * *
“No. 1”: Either modern drovers are
becoming more skilled and humane in
their handling of beasts or their dogs
are improving in intelligence, for nothing
is commoner than to meet a horseman
who is destitute of whip when behind a
mob. Old-timers would have preferred
to be surprised without their strides.
They knew all about whips, too, despite
the fact that an odd dandy resorted to
the services of professionals on occasion,
or to an unmanageable 16-strand plait
for show. The art of making a whip
demanded imagination and a steady hand
for cutting out the strands from the hide
to leave a belly that had not to be re-
inforced with a lump of leather, after the
manner of this machine-age. Again,
while anyone can plait four strands flat,
weaving in the round is intricate and
easily forgotten. Unkindest blow of all
is the sight of crackers for sale in a
saddler’s window, which I noticed the
other day. The game is evidently up
when modern youth knows nothing of
even the elementary art of whipping a
strand out of a horse’s tail and perform-
ing the simple double-plait necessary to
produce the only cracker that is worth
a damn outside a circus performance.
* ' * * *
“Tired Tim”: Nowhere in the bush
is the truth of the cynical adage “Thrice
blessed is he who gets his fist in fust”
more convincingly demonstrated than in
man’s encounters with the death-adder,
both parties being equally susceptible to
the lightning stroke of unprovoked
aggression. It is protective coloring,
immobility and general insignificance
co-ordinated with its arch-enemy’s pre-
occupation with other things that make
the little fury dangerous. A camper on
a creek, waiting for the billy to boil,
noticed one a foot in length sunning
itself beside his tent. Desirous, in the
interests of curiosity, of securing the
specimen intact, he first held it down
with a billet of wood, then pinned it
there by pushing a table fork through
the reptile’s skull. It hardly so much
as quivered. It might have been a dif-
ferent story had the belated one been
up early in the half-light gathering sticks.
* * * *
“Solitude”: One of the new rousie’s
jobs was to run-in the horses each morn-
ing. This consisted merely of going part-
way across the paddock and putting the
dog round the bunch, when they would
all gallop at breakneck pace for the
home yards. Daily
the new hand would
strike for the nearest
tree or fence at each
round-up so as to
escape the mad rush.
When the boss ob-
served his activities he
tried to show him the
error of his ways.
“Don’t be a fool,
man. Stand quite
still. Don’t you know
that a galloping horse
will never run you
down? They’ll swing off soon’s they see
you.” It took several days and much force-
ful reiteration before the rousie would
accept the idea, but finally he decided to
try it out. Blanched and trembling, he
stood quite still before the onrushing
bunch, which split and raced on each
side of him —all but one grey, which bore
straight ahead and knocked him flying.
He was a very sore man when he picked
himself up, and, limping to the yards, he
informed the world in no uncertain terms
what he thought of the boss’s theory,
horses in general, and half a dozen grin-
ning fools chucked in. Belligerently he
approached the grey. Then he paused,
stared, waved his hat at the horse, and
stared again. The old grey was stone-
blind.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: I think “Booraby” (B.
6/12/’39) makes the aboriginal much
too self-educated in his list of arts and
tricks supposedly learned from the bush
and the creatures thereof. Actually most
of what our untouched abos. knew was
only knowledge common to primitive
races the world over. Fire-making, for
instance. Both the saw and the drill
methods had world-wide use. The ancient
Britons employed at least one of them. So,
too, did the Aurignacian man of South-
ern Europe. Likewise the modem Pata-
gonian and the Terra
del Fuegan. Spear-
making, net-making,
tricks of hunting—
such things were once
part of a world-wide
culture, much as the
radio, car and ’plane
are to-day. Sharing
such Stone-Age cul-
ture our abos. some-
how got stranded on
the far southern con-
tinent, and instead of
pursuing progress, as
did most other races,
really went in for a
cult of negativism —
which means that, in-
stead of battling reso-
lutely with a hostile
environment, they
sought compromise,
indulged in birth-con-
trol on a large scale.
Constant inter-tribal
war also assisted in
keeping numbers down, thus eliminating
the necessity of increasing food produc-
tion, the first progressive step. Under
such a culture there is little doubt
that our abo. has actually retrogressed.
Take eugenics. Where among the tribes
that have made contact with the white
man was to be found the brain-power
capable of devising such an elaborate
system?
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: When are fish hungri-
est? Recent investigations in Scotland
show that herrings taken in spring and
summer have quantities of food in the
gut, but that in winter most are empty.
Growth and fat-storage occur only in
summer, and during winter the fish live
on the body reserves thus created. This
corresponds with observations on large
sharks at Taronga Park Zoo, Sydney,
which averaged 401 b. of fish diet monthly
in hot weather, but from May to August
did not eat more than 101 b. monthly. On
the other hand, the great shoals of sea
mullet migrating northward along the
south Queensland coast from May on are
ravaged by hungry sharks, tailer and
other predatory fish. The mullet them-
selves subsist on their internal fat dur-
ing the migration. The same thing
occurs with the pilchard and sardine
shoals further north. In Victoria the
yellow-eyed mullet bites ravenously in
the winter, but not at all in summer.
* * * *
“Arev”: Bill Muldoon’s apple-trees
had borne well, and Mrs. Muldoon had
made good use of the fruit. She laid in
stocks of apple jelly ; she baked apples,
boiled them, made apple pies and turn-
overs, apple sponges and apple puddings.
Bill began to feel heartily sick of apples
in any shape or form. He could not
complain, however, for he was always
instilling into his family that the farm
produce must not be wasted. He would
come up from the paddock for dinner,
“I think We got the right mixture now!”
only to smell the aroma of cooked apples
above that of the meat dish. Bill began
to wish he had not been so insistent
upon the home-grown food. When sale-
day came he decided upon a change of
diet. “Think I’ll go along to the sale
to-day,” he announced at breakfast. “I’ll
get away early and have a bite in the
township.” At the pub Bill ordered roast
beef and settled down to enjoy his dinner.
Around him early diners were relishing
huge servings of plum pudding. Bill
hurried through the first course, then
rubbed his hands as he gave the order
for dessert. “Plum duff and plenty of
it,” he said, and smacked his lips in
anticipation. Shortly the waitress re-
turned. “Sorry,” she said, “plum pud-
ding’s off, but I’ve brought you an extra
large serving of apple pie.” When Bill
got home a pudding-cloth was drying on
the line. His wife caught his inquiring
look. “I know how fond you are of
apples, but we’re all tired of them. So
I took the chance while you were out
to make a plum pudding for the family! ”
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: The day was a scorcher, and
Jack Riggle, with heavy swag up, was
sizzling where not a tree was visible.
Seeing a buggy gradually taking shape
behind him, he dropped the bundle.
Taking off one of his boots, he tied a huge
bandage round his foot. When the buggy
overtook him he was limping slowly over
the hard clods of a rutted road. “What’s
the matter with your foot?” asked the
driver, easing up. “Think it’s pizened,”
said Jack. “Dunno how I’m goin’ to
get over this plain.” “Hop in,” said the
other ; “I’ll soon get you over it.” Old
Jack’s face wrinkled in smiles of appre-
ciation as he settled down on the soft
cushions. “I’m a doctor,” said the driver
as they rocked along. “I’ll have a look
at your foot as soon as we get to the
creek.” Jack, a bit scared, thanked him
in an abstracted manner. When the
creek was crossed, the driver turned aside
into a clump of bushes. “I’ll have a
sluice here,” he said, “but first of all let
me have a look at that foot.” “I’d better
have a wash first,” said Jack ; and while
the doctor went to the creek he grabbed
his swag and sneaked off into the scrub.
Next day he called at a station, and
was staggered to find that the boss was
the doctor of the buggy. “Why—l
thought you were a doctor!” he stam-
mered. The other grinned at Jack’s
boots. “I’ve seen crook feet on the road
before,” he answered.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Oddly perverse are the
ways of the sea. Across the mouth of
nearly every W.A. river a dry season sees
a wide sandbar form, blocking all pas-
sage to the ocean. Impatient of such
a trade-and-industry-hampering obstruc-
tion, local authority many times has
sought to dig a channel, opening the bar.
All the implements of dam-digging would
be set to work, gangs of shovelmen,
horse-drawn scoops, and quite a respec-
table canal cut. To ensure a final sweep-
ing flood the sea end would be barricaded
with sandbags, to be breached with dyna-
mite when the highest available tide
should be at top. Then (theoretically) a
torrent would pour through, enlarging the
channel and once again restoring com-
munication with the sea. But, oddly,
such a thing never came to pass. Every
expensive experiment met the same re-
sult : within a few minutes of the breach-
ing of the sandbag wall the opening again
would be choked with sand washed in
by the tide that should have enlarged
the breach. Sandbars just cannot be
opened against the will of the sea. But
let the right moment arrive, and the sea
itself will cut a breach, sometimes within
a couple of chains of where man ex-
pended so much futile labor. Have seen
a man-made channel lie dry for years, a
monument to futility: then, by a whim,
the sea selected that exact spot and came
tearing through, cutting a channel ‘a hun-
dred yards wide in as many minutes.
Again, I have seen a wide sandbar opened
with no more than the heel of a man’s
boot: the flood-waters of the locked-in
river banking feet above the outer ocean
and needing only the tiniest flow to start
a cataract. Inside half an hour that bar
was breached a quarter of a mile wide.
ALONG THE BLAND.
There are roads that climb the mountains,
There are roads that flank the sea,
And roads the crowded cities know,
But none of these for me.
My road is a quiet road
Across a quiet land
Where level lie the open plains:
The road along the Bland.
There are roads of rose and hawthorn,
There are roads of ice and snow,
And roads that part the jungle ways-
To none of these I’ll go.
My road sees the grey box bloom,
It bears the sun-burned brand
Of shadow-dappled afternoons,
The road along the Bland.
There are roads to fame and fortune,
There are roads to crown the just,
And roads of conquest call the brave—•
Well, take them, if you must.
My road is a humble road,
Though every mile is grand,
For nothing really matters on
The road along the Bland.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ; Orwell Phillips,
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay s
Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES THROUGHOUT
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age? If the answer
is “No” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family,’ and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD..
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria- A.C.A. Building, 118-120 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building. 270 Queen Street, Brisbane
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. Georges Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The T. and G.
These are the initials by which the
Australasian Temperance and General
Mutual Life Assurance Society, Ltd., is
known throughout Australia and Maori-
land, where it has been writing policies
for the last 63 years. It is one of Aus-
tralia’s five big mutual offices, and is a
sound, healthy and progressive institu-
tion, paying regular and satisfactory
bonuses. It continues to gather more
Industrial than Ordinary premiums, and
the business in each department has
stepped along in this way over the last
decade:
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’29 1,480,462 240,043 530,073 710,346 6.817,430
Written off premises, £4900 .. .. 6,812,530
To contingency fund, £7300 .. .. 6,805,230
’3l 1,701,929 281,880 759,152 660,897 8,133,911
Written off premises, £49,327.. .. 8,084,584
To contingency fund, £29,597.. .. 8,054,987
’32 1,652,870 306,856 784,224 561,790 8,616,777
Written off premises, £24,776.. .. 8,592,001
To contingency fund, £24,776.. .. 8,567,225
’33 1,716,881 304,768 759,425 652,688 9,219,913
W’ritten off premises, £25,000.. .. 9,194,913
To contingency fund, £5OOO .. . . 9,189,913
’34 1,855,750 284,463 789,567 781,720 9,971,633
From Accident branch, £5000.. .. 9,976,633
Written off premises, £12,500.. .. 9,964,133
To contingency fund, £12,500.. .. 9,951,633
'35 2,048,039 304,532 791,521 951,986 10,903,019
’36 2,252.513 341,548 760,221 1,150,744 12,054,363
’37 2,455,024 380,343 817,855 1,256,826 13,311,189
’3B 2,672,551 381,388 867,986 1,423,177 14,734,366
Written off premises, ' £10,000.. .. 14,724,366
’39 2,870,889 390,033 972,094 1,508,762 16,233,128
Written off premises, £10,600.. .. 16,222,52 S
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £
’2 9 2.143742 7 662,3 6 9 799,0 08 682,0 5 0 7,2 92.567
Written off premises, £5lOO .. .. 7,287,467
To contingency fund, £7700 .. . . 7,279,767
’3l 2,188,137 601,797 929,514 596,826 8.355,748
Written off premises, £50,673.. .. 8,305,075
To contingency fund, £70,403.. .. 8,234,672
’32 2,108,142 677,116 .893,413 537,613 8,772,285
Written off premises, £25,224.. .. 8,747,061
To contingency fund, £25,224.. .. 8,721,837
’33 2,135,912 679,27 G 743,168 713,468 9,435,305
Written off premises, £25,000.. .. 9,410,305
To contingency fund, £45,000.. .. 9,365,305
’34 2,257,022 677,400 632,513 947,109 10,312,414
From Accident branch, £5000.. .. 10,317,414
Written off premises, £12,500.. .. 10,304,914
To contingency fund, £12,500.. .. 10,292,414
’35 2,436,215 709,995 555,123 1.171,097 11,463.511
’3O 2,627,311 755,398 857,907 1,014,006 12,477,517
’37 2,824,455 798,805 1.070,236 955,414 13,432,931
’3B 3,010,170 836,831 1,224.800 948,539 14,381,470
Written off premises, £10,000.. .. 14,371.470
’39 3,116,960 859.400 1,428,7.31 828,769 15,200,239
Written off premises, £10,600.. .. 15,189,639
International developments, lower export
prices, a dry spell in many parts
of Australia, the shadow of mounting
taxation and what is happening in Maori-
land affected the new-business figures of
all the big Australasian life offices during
the last 12 months. The contraction in
the amount of new business put on the
books by theT. and G. in the Ordinary and
Industrial sections combined (£14,055,357)
was £605,827 —Ordinary (£8,516,271)
down £248,567 and Industrial (£5,539,086)
down £357,260. In the Accident branch
policies assuring £5,123,481 (down
£1,172,394) were written.
Although the rate of expansion was
less pronounced than in the previous
term, the business continued to make
very satisfactory progress. Excluding the
Accident branch, assurances in force at
the end of Sept. (£90,026,598) were
£4,934,491 more than a year earlier. In
the three departments combined
£4,741,794 (up £195,932) of net premiums
was gathered, and interest, rents, etc.,
turned in £1,408,137 (up £111,060). Total
income was thus £306,992 better at
£6,149,931, of which £2,340,742 (down
£43,995) was added to the assurance
funds, raising them to £31,593,453 —
Ordinary £16,222,527, Industrial
£15,189,639 and Accident £181,287. In
addition, there is the fidelity and con-
tingency fund (£564,511, down £4B),
returns from which also help to swell
the surplus available for distribution
among policy-holders.
These surpluses in the two life depart-
ments over the last four years compare
as follows:
1936. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Net surplus:—
Ordinary .. £465,129 £469,895 £533,511 £567,886
Industrial . . 344,972 378,174 410,551 366,957
Total . . £BlO,lOl £848,069 £944,062 £934,843
The amount available last year showed
an improvement of £34,375 in the Ordi-
nary branch and a contraction of £43,594
in the Industrial section. The slip was
due to the growth of Industrial endow-
ment assurance and the actuarial liabili-
ties thereunder. The actuary recom-
mended that £421,729 of the Ordinary
and £284,526 of the Industrial surplus
be distributed as reversionary bonuses.
The balance in each section is reserved
and/or carried forward against possible
war contingencies. If events prove that
these balances are not required, they can
be released for distribution at a later date.
The office values its liabilities under
policies on a stringent 3 p.c. net premium
basis. Last year the gross return on
mean funds, including the fidelity and
contingency reserve, was £4 12s. 6d. p.c.,
approximately the same as for the
previous term. After deducting taxation
(£103,099, up £10,799), the net effective
rate of interest was £4 6s. p.c. There is
thus a satisfactory margin between the
actual rate of interest earned and that
which it is assumed the funds will turn in.
Another encouraging feature of the
latest accounts is that exes, (excluding
taxes) took only 15.8 p.c. of net pre-
miums, including consideration for an-
nuities, in the O.D. as against 16.5 p.c.
In the I.D. exes, on the same basis ran
and 18.2 p.c. for the two preceding terms,
away with 33.5 p.c. of the net premiums
as against 33.6 p.c. and 34.3 p.c. in 1938
and 1937 respectively.
Assets, which total £32,416,132, up
£2,094,375 over the twelvemonth, are in
this form: —•
Public 1938. p.c. 1939. p.c.
securities ..£17,882,793 59.0 £18,004.831 55.5
Loans . . . . 9,430,332 31.1 10,932,507 33.7
Freeholds . . 2,547,028 8.4 2,835,300 8.8
Cash, book debts,
etc 461,604 1.5 643,494 2.0
Last year £122,038 was added to public
securities, £1,502,175 to loans (mainly
mortgages on house property, etc.) and
£288,272 to freeholds. The growth in the
last-mentioned item partly reflects exten-
sions and improvements to head-office
premises in Melbourne. Of recent years
the board has given a lot of attention to
loans on mortgage, etc., which accounted
for 33.7 p.c. of the balance-sheet total
when the books last closed as against
24.5 p.c. four years earlier.
Jt is too early yet to say exactly what
effect war will have on the business. The
board has decided that war and aviation
restrictions on policies in force at Sept.
25 last shall be removed in the case of
those who volunteer for active service,
irrespective of the arm of the service to
which the person assured becomes at-
tached. Speaking generally, the effect of
war upon mortality is to concentrate
deaths at the younger ages. In this con-
nection the actual loss to an office must
be measured not by the amount paid in
claims but by the difference between the
actual strain (which is the difference be-
tween the sum assured and the reserve
held in respect thereof) and the expected
strain. Much, too, will depend upon
what happens in connection with costs,
interest rates, taxation and security values.
At the moment, indications are that
policy-holders can expect maintenance of
satisfactory but less handsome bonuses
than those which have been paid of
recent years.
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
f Dividends ■, Nominal
Year to Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929. .102,922 8000 12 p.c. = 60,000 34,922 235,541
1930.. 74,795 8000 9 ~ ~ 45,000 22,795 257,336
1931.. 52,077 8000 8 „ ~ 40,000 4,077 261,413
Specific reserves written off, £2369.. 259,044
Unexplained additions, £4079 .. .. 263,123
1932.. 45,800 8000 8 p.c. = 40,000 260,923
1933.. 56,958 8000 8 „ ~ 40,000 8,958 269,881
1934.. 63,856 8000 10 „ ~ 50,000 5,856 275,737
1935.. 65,208 8000 10 ~ „ 50,000 7,208 282,945
1936.. 79,563 8000 12 ~ „ 60,000 11,563 294,508
1937.. 97',490 8000 12 ~ ~ 60,000 29,490 323,998
Goodwill written off, £118,074.. .. 205,924
1938.. 98,717 8000 14 p.c. =* 70,000 20,717 226,041
1939.. 90,089 8000 14 „ „ 70.000 12,089 238,730
* Subject to goodwill, £118,074, until 1938.
War has not yet had time to make its
mark apparent in the accounts, the latest
lot being ruled off to Sept. 30; but
maintenance of the div. at 14 p.c. would
appear to indicate the board’s confidence
in the outlook. All that can be actually
said at the moment is that the co.
has made the most of its opportunities
of recent years and is now better
equipped, financially and otherwise,
to grapple with whatever difficulties may
arise than at any time since it took over
the scattered G. and G. organisation some
19 years ago.
“Gordon and Gotch” is a byword in
the wholesale-newsagency and advertising
business throughout Australia and Maori-
land. Newsprint, printers’ requisites and
fancy-goods make a handy contribution
to earnings, but most profitable sphere
of operations is probably distribution of
both local and overseas periodicals, etc.,
importations of which have been around
the million-pound mark of recent years.
Probable effects of disturbance of British
publishing activities and shipping difficul-
ties, together with the necessity to con-
serve dollar exchange, are not clear at the
moment, but the chances are that the co.
will continue to render a satisfactory
account of itself to shareholders, though
rising prices promise to produce certain
falling-off in the physical volume of news-
print turnover.
In the year ended Sept, last trade in
the first (summer) half was slacker than
customary ; but it was brisk in the winter
months, gross earnings for the year
(£174,115) moving up £2424. Exes., how-
ever (£84,026), swallowed £11,052 more,
including an extra £7057 grabbed by the
taxgatherer. The net result (£90,089, down
£8628) was nevertheless still an attractive
16.4 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
18.1, 17.8, 14.3, 11.4, 11.1 and 9.7 p.c.
for the half-dozen preceding years.
In addition to the visible £238,730 sup-
port for capital, considerable inner
strength is believed to be tucked away
in some of the assets:
Sept.,’34. Sept.,’3B. Sept.,’39.
Paid capital.. .. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Liabilities . . . . 105,147 124,665 131,354
Freeholds . . . . 205,554 192,885 194,894
Leaseholds . . . . 19.683 16,800 16,28,j
Plant, fixtures, etc... 33,833 30,452 31,618
S-toek 193,718 190,980 209,931
Book debts .. .. 252,732 338,321 360,468
Investments, cash, etc. 200,439 274,165 204,40 l
Outstanding feature there is the lift of
£18,951 in stock, accompanied by a
growth of £22,147 in accounts owing,
which suggests that the latest result has
been conservatively stated. The move-
ments were financed by going outside for
a further £6689 and drawing upon cash,
etc., for £19,734. At £209,503 cash and
public securities alone were still equal to
Bs. 4d. per ord. share when the books
were ruled off, while the more or ’ess
liquid surplus (up £14,675) stood £93,476
in excess of paid capital.
The £600,000 of capital is in 100,000
8 p.c. prefs. (preferential for dividend
only) and a half-million ords. Since the
beginning of 1939 the ords. have fluctu-
ated between 575. 6d. and 435. in the
market. Now around 465., the pound ords.
have lately been attractive to investors.
The price appears to allow for a couple
of points cut in the div., yield at that
figure being 6.1 p.c. on the basis of last
term’s distribution, or 5.2 p.c. if the rate
falls to 12 p.c. Net tangible backing (all
shares) is 275. lid.
Taubmans, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Sent.. Profit. . Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 24,892 8 p.c. = 20,939 3,953 102,956
1934.. 53,162 15 „ „ 39,261 13,901 116,857
Unexplained addition, £4 .. .. 116,861
1935.. 60,124 174 P.c. = 45,806 14,318 131,179
Specific reserves disclosed, £18,120.. 149,299
Share premiums, etc., £18,310 .. 167,609
1936.. 71,350 174 P-c. = 53,058 18,292 185,901
Reserves capitalised, £56,981 .. 128.9-0
Unexplained additions, £17,984 .. 146,904
1937 84 214 174 p.c. = 69,802 14,412 161,316
1938" 81 574 174 „ „ 69,802 11,772 173,088
1939'.'.' 87,709. 16 ” 68,8.19 23,890 196,978
To contingencies, £12,500 .. .. 184,478
The chipping of li p.c. off the div.,
reducing it to 16 p.c., can be taken as
an indication that the outlook is less
promising than it was a year ago. Net


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383.
86371.
ARE YOU GETTING CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRTCES
no
Filter
Cylinder
FI
If you are having trouble with
your water supply, either for
household or industrial purposes,
we can help you. We manufac-
ture water filters of all descrip-
tions. Our ABBOT pressure and
drip type filters used throughout
the Commonwealth and the East.
Our pressure filters used for Butter
Factories, Ice Works, Cordial
Factories, Hospitals and wherever
pure water is required.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, H asset and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals.
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
Notice.
The Producers’ Co-operative Distributing
Society, Limited.
NOTICE.
NOTICE is hereby given that the FOUR-'
TEENTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of
Shareholders in THE PRODUCERS’ CO-
OPERATIVE DISTRIBUTING SOCIETY,
LIMITED, will be held at the SOCIETY’S
HEAD OFFICE, QUAY and VALENTINE
STREETS, Sydney, on THURSDAY, 25th
JANUARY, 1940, at 2.15 p.m. sharp.
BUSINESS:
To receive Directors’ Report and Balance
Sheet as at 30th September, 1939.
To elect Directors.
To elect Auditor.
To transact any other business that may
be brought forward in accordance with the
Rules of the Society.
DATED at Sydney the 15th day of Decem-
ber, 1939.
By Order of the Board,
G. GASKIN,
Secretary.
Profitable Investment
For Every Man
With "Peace of Mind"
added tp the profit.
THE man who owns his own home is a
* wise man, but he always has the need
to watch the amount invested in it.
A member of the A.M.P. Society said
lately that he had made only two kinds
of investment in his life: (1) he had
bought a house and (2) he had invested
in some A.M.P. policies.
He said that in 1910 he had paid
£llOO for a house, but, owing to changes
in styles of architecture and other in-
fluences, it was now' worth only £950
at the most.
On the other hand, in the same year,
he had begun to invest less than 10/- a
week in his first A.M.P. policy, for £lOOO.
To date he had invested a total of £B2O
in that policy, but w r ith bonuses it would
now r be worth £l7BO to his estate; this
apart from the other policies he had
added from time to time.
Own your own home, by all means,
but build up your assets with A.M.P.
policies. A.M.P. policies never depre-
ciate. They enable men to create re-
serves that make for peace of mind and
security. Ask the nearest A.M.P. office
to send a man to talk over YOUR
risks with you. He will discuss them
with you in confidence. If you prefer,
a copy of a new book, “Peace of Mind,”
will be posted to you on request. Start
the New Year W'ith Peace of Mind. Write
today.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
TO BE CAREFREE
ABOUT CAPITAL .. .
• V
Follow the hundreds who have
invested small and large sums in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
W rite for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.V, G.PO., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: 85294
earnings were £6135 better at 22 p.c.
on capital as against 20.4, 21.1, 23.5,
22.9, 20.3 and 9.5 p.c. back to 1933.
That includes a net addition of £5335
to specific reserves (£23,962), which the
“Wild Cat” believes to be genuine profit
and treats accordingly. The year’s allow-
ance for depreciation was £4783 (up
£986), and the provision for taxation
(total amount not specified) was £5OOO
heavier.
The £23,890 put on the shelf lifted
the visible lay-by to £196,978, of which
£12,500 has been earmarked for con-
tingencies. In a manufacturing business,
however, much depends upon what is
spent on plant (the chief earning asset)
and charged to takings before arriving
at net profit. Taubmans’s earning power
suggests that the plant is thoroughly
up to date and worth more than
its book value. Over the last seven
years shareholders have averaged 15.5
p.c., sweetened with £56,981 of bonus
scrip (one for six) about three years
ago.
The co. is in the paint- and varnish-
manufacturing business. The main fac-
tory is at St. Peters, near Sydney, there
is another at Wellington (M.L.), branches
have been established at Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth, and a con-
trolling interest in L. G. Abbott and Co.,
Adelaide, was bought about three years
back. Outstanding feature over the last
half-dozen years has been the quick ex-
pansion of net earnings, which stepped
up from £24,892 in 1933 to a peak of
£87,709 last term. Turnover picked up
with the revival of building and home-
and flat-renovating and expansion of the
motor-body-building, furniture, electrical,
leather and other trades that use the
co.’s products.
The tendency of war influences will
be to retard turnover for a while, at
any rate —and rising costs and increased
taxation will bite into takings, while com-
petition and Government price-fixing
will make it difficult to pass on all the
rise in costs. Still, there was a wide
margin between last year’s earnings and
distribution, the co. has an able manage-
ment and an extensive goodwill, of which
no account is taken in the books, and
finances are comfortable. Much will
also depend upon what happens in con-
nection with the co.’s supply of neces-
sary raw materials from overseas. At
the moment appearances are that 16 p.c.
for the current term will not prove
beyond reach.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it: —-
1933. 193 5. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £261,740 £261,748 £398,867 £398,867
Sundry creditors 44,336* 62,750* 41,907 45,837
Freeholds . . 98,463 102,739 123,515 123,595
Plant, etc. .. 44,882 39,821 51,422 51,093
Stocks . . 88,187 96,205 138,942 145,976
Debtors .. 123,415 78,345 71,811 82,579
Investments .. 64,874 169,061 265,916 265,467
Cash, etc. . . 3,608 2,225 2,143 6,876
* Including contingency reserves.
Last term £10,768 was added to debtors’
balances and £7034 to stocks. Excluding
investments, which are mainly shares in
subsidiaries, the year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£189,594)
was £18,605. The subsidiaries netted
£29,639, or 9.4 p.c. on their aggregate
capital of £313,767. The Maoriland co.
registered a record output and profit.
Last year the price of the parent’s
pound shares, covered by 295. 4d. in
net tangibles, fluctuated between 565. and
495. 6d. in the market. Immediate re-
turn at the lower figure is 6.4 p.c. on a
16 p.c. div. basis.
Proved and probable ore of King Island
Scheelite, Bass Strait, is estimated at
75,000 tons above the 90ft. contour. On
this basis, assuming 6s. lid. a ton profit
(last term’s experience), current ss. 6d.
market for the 45.-paids includes about
3s. 4d. a share for prospects, which take
in 100,000 tons of “possible” ore below
90ft. With wolfram fetching an average
of 635. sd. Aust. per unit, the co. earned
£9592 (9Jfd. per share) in the year to
Oct. 31, and divs. of 6d. a share have
been paid. Production was 167£ tons
scheelite concentrates, assaying 72 p.c.
wolfram, from 27,670 tons ore. The
mill-feed averaged 0.85 p.c. wolfram, but
recoveries were only 60 p.c. Still, that
was a 50 p.c. improvement on the initial
term’s experience, and little better need
be looked for, the chairman says. In-
cluding taxes and cost of shifting 36,366
tons of overburden and waste, all-in exes,
ran to 20s. lid. per ton of ore treated.
With the mill now handling 650 tons
p.w.—expected to be lifted to 750 tons
this month —the figure may be lowered
in the current term. A re-treatment plant
to handle current and the old 1917 co.’s
tailings is being put in.
* * # *
The opencut at the Newcastle Colliery,
Blair Athol (C.Q.), has assumed record
proportions for Queensland. Power-
driven scoops are ladling the coal out
of a 60ft. seam like so much butter. It
is now in a position to supply the whole
of the fuel requirements of Central and
North Queensland, if that were permitted,
but quota regulations must be observed,
and only new markets can be looked for
as a reward for the directors’ enterprise.
It is a good bunker coal, and formerly
sold as far afield as Maoriland.
• * * *
Mines outside the Golden Plateau are
making some useful contributions to
Cracow (C.Q.) production. Big bodies
of quartz are available, but it’s a case of
trimming the crushings and discarding
the low-grade stuff. Roma North lately
crushed 190 tons for lOdwt. standard
gold per ton; in this show there are
quartz faces that will not go over 3dwt.
The Orange Creek Syndicate also had
a satisfactory crushing, 310 tons return-
ing a shade over the lOdwt. standard,
and at present a 6ft. lode is keeping
plenty of feed up to the battery. On the
short intermediate level driven from the
South stope, Rose’s Pride’s shoot has cut
out, however, the last 18ft. of quartz
dropping to a couple of ’weights. The
Dawn is crushing 200 tons from a reef
2ft. wide, and the western lode on the
Golden Mile is being vigorously pros-
pected.
Hs * * *
Lake View and Star (W.A.), in broad-
casting its latest annual estimate of ore
reserves and average working costs,
talks of 2,623,200 tons of positive,
553,100 tons of broken and 488,500 tons
of probable goldbearing rock —in all,
3.664.800 tons, averaging 5.56dwt. a ton,
which is reckoned a conservative compu-
tation. A year ago the estimate was
75.800 tons less, but a pennyweight
higher in grade. Costs at 20s. 0.22 d.
compare with 20s. 9.84 d., the reduction
due to mechanical savings underground,
which, despite increased wages, were the
means of reducing sloping cost by
9d. a ton. A rise in costs seems certain
this year, the price of most mining
requisites having gone up, while the mine-
owners have to pay the industry allow-
ance to workers on the Commonwealth
Bank price, and not the net amount re-
ceived for their gold after the Federal
gold tax has been taken off. The ques-
tion is again being asked, How long, with
a yearly ore-extraction of roughly
700,000 tons, will the Lake View leases
last? Twelve months ago the late J. A.
Agnew reckoned its minimum life would
be 12 years. General manager Joe Thorn
was prepared to extend the period by at
least three years. To illustrate the diffi-
culty of accurately estimating the life of
a goldmine, Agnew instanced the Sons of
Gwalia, another Westralian producer,
remarking that over 40 years ago its ore
reserves were barely four years ahead of
the mill; now it is nearly six years, not-
withstanding that a seven-figure tonnage
has been treated in the interim. Thorn
also cited the Boulder Perseverance,
which years ago was considered to have
come to an end ; yet it has produced
much wealth since, and today ranks
among the big goldmines in the West.
* * * *
Rothsay (W.A.) will soon be gone but
not forgiven by disappointed share-
holders and some creditors. Stripping
of the surface plant is proceeding,
machinery is being carted away to the
nearest railhead and the residents of the
near-by township are clearing out.
* * * *
Satisfied with data obtained from
diamond-drilling and geological survey,
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie has decided
to put more money into the Adeline
group, which adjoins the north end of
the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile. Exploratory
work will first be done in the country
osuth of the Orotava shaft, which is
next on the west to the Croesus Pro-
prietary lease, North Kalgurli’s second
golden string, and which is known to
have the continuation of the Croesus
Prop, ore-channel.
* * * *
Last year Spargo’s Reward (W.A.) was
handicapped by want of finance, and
practically carried on from hand to
mouth, according to the co.’s chairman.
To buy and erect plant about £6OOO was
obtained on debenture, but £lO,OOO was
really wanted. Since June 1, however,
there has been a working surplus (to
Nov. 30) amounting to £3500, and liabili-
ties have been reduced by £3OOO. Loss
last year was £5226. Development at
300 ft. is said to be “pleasing.”
* * * #
Golden Mile Block 45 has moved from
Kalgoorlie to Ballarat East (Vic.) and
taken an option over the Little Wonder
there. For a time it claimed to have
more than a little wortder in the West,
but, owing to one dem’ thing after an-
other in the shape of disappointments,
it changed its opinion and gave up.
London investors were invited to come
in but didn’t.
* * * *
Consolidated Gold Areas (W.A.) has
pledged the White Hope property, Hamp-
ton Plains, to raise funds to complete
stope preparation in the show and to
finance further operations at the Blue
Spec mine, Pilbara, pending the flotation
of the Blue Spec Co. Holders of C.G.A.
scrip will receive priority of allotment
of one Blue Spec share for each four
shares held in C.G.A.
* .* * *
Lady Shenton and First Hit, both of
Menzies (W.A.), held meetings in Perth
last month. Shenton shareholders agreed,
on the recommendation of the board, to
offer the power- and treatment-plant for
sale and, if sold, to utilise the proceeds
in the working of any mine option and
the purchase of other plant suitable for
the requirements of the particular
property. The most important thing
done at the First Hit roll-up was approval
of the payment' of a final threepenny
dividend.
From London: Publication by several
South African goldmining cos. of the cost
per ounce of gold recovered instead ot
the customary cost per ton of ore
crushed is apparently connected with the
Union Government’s promise to recon-
sider its maximum gold price (150 s.
p er ounce) should there be any
appreciable rise in working costs. The
South African authorities, it is said, are
no t likely to be influenced by the method
c f stating the costs ratio, but will prob-
ably be influenced by (1) a substantially
advancing price in machinery and sup-
plies (explosives, cyanide, steel drills,
etc.), and / or (2) an increase in the cost of
living necessitating an addition to labor
charges.


THE GREATEST FRAUD OF ALL TIME
Disliking revolutions, and believing
that English-speaking peoples are capable
of working out their own destinies in
their own way—and that has never been
the way of mass robbery, slaughter and
destruction— The Bulletin has for 20
years conducted a little war of its own
with the party of revolution in this
country. As tar as numbers go it has
never been much of a party—certamly it
has never had a Communist member in
any of the seven Parliaments-but by
white-an mg trade-unions and exploiting
industrial discontent, often warranted, it
has done a considerable amount of mis-
chief. And all along it has had patrons
and supporters at universities, among
writers and artists and in Government
teaching bodies, as well as on trade-union
executives. The contempt of these per-
sons for The Bulletin was ferocious.
According to the tales they told, the
U.S.S.R. was ruled by supermen, and
Russian socialism—so called because it
was invented by a German Jew—and the
Soviet form of government were destined
to conquer the world. More especially as
the supermen had established an army
and an air force that could whip capi-
talist Europe with one hand and capital-
ist Asia with the other, being composed
of proletarian fighters who could walk
through any number of imperialistic
serfs. So long as these stories had only
a limited circulation they did little
damage, but five years ago they began to
reach a wider public, strangely credulous
of the military claims.
In an evil day for the world, Europe
particulaily, the U.S.S.R. was admitted
to the League. There followed the for-
mation of Popular Fronts in Spain and
France, and attempts to form others in
other parts of the world, Australia in-
eluded. Stalin became a hero to the
flapper press. Multitudes of people who
should have known better wrote and
spouted about his devotion to the cause
of democracy and about the invincible
forces at his disposal. As all the time he
was meddling in League politics, besides
maintaining Communist parties every-
where—Finland excepted—this became
dangerous. The Bulletin materially in-
creased the number of its enemies by
. . . . . • , , J
pointing out, in many articles and para-
graphs, that it was dangerous, and that to
expect military miracles of the Russians,
* ere lQ S ?. b l a , dly be f‘“ in ,he WarS ° £
1904-05, 1914-17 and 1920, was as idiotic
as to expect Stalin, a Georgian with a
wild history, to practise the sentimental
British liberalism of a sheltered little
Sydney professor.
Professors, editors, radio commentators
and others who were pro-Stalin five
months ago are now leaping on their late
idol. Having never been one of the
idolators, The Bulletin is not joining in
the exercise. The subjoined extracts are
from its articles and paragraphs on the
now-exploded Russian superstition—there
were, of course, many more.
T,. T ~ , ~ tto a u
The League which the U.S.A. aban-
doned on the world s doorstep 15 years
ago has perpetrated its cardinal piece of
folly in admitting Soviet Russia. Admis-
sion means, among other things, that
Australia is bound to “respect and help
to preserve the integrity and indepen-
dence” of the vast territories in Europe
and Asia of a Government which has
not changed at all, and whose Molotov
proclaimed only a year ago that “the
victory of world Bolshevism is growing
nearer with giant strides.” It is the nega-
tion of all sanity, and a final reason why
the British Commonwealth of Nations
should retire from the chattering Geneva
convention.—3 /10/’34.
Should the Australian Commonwealth
accept war with Germany for the sake
of Czechoslovakia? “Yes,” says the
Sydney “Morning Herald.” “Yes,” says
the Sydney “Daily Telegraph” ; “Britain’s
security is bound up with the Czecho-
slovakian republic.”
The Czechs have an alliance with the
Russians, but the Allies are separated by
the mass of unfriendly Poland. Within
the lifetime of men who can remember
the Crimean War, the Russians have
cracked up suddenly three times, and it
is all too probable that the Czechs, out-
numbered and in a decidedly unfavorable
military position, would crack up even
more suddenly.
War for Czechoslovakia? War for the
U.S.S.R.? War for Red Spain, for Red
China? What sort of destiny do these
people propose for our Pacific countries?
Where do they think they are living?—
24/8/’3B.
Mr. Chamberlain’s great efforts for
peace may yet succeed. If they fail he
can still save the Empire from the black
disgrace and peril of an alliance with the
anti-God Republic. With the Czechs’
arrangements with the anti-God Republic
the Empire is not concerned. For the
Empire an alliance with the anti-God
Republic would mean division and the
alignment of Italy, Japan, Poland and
Hungary on the other side.—2B/9/’3B
A t amount of whist|i in the
graveyard came from professor B s . Pro .
tessor zimmern pointed out “Germany's
|ack of allies ... F .. Russia> .. declared t £ is
authority .. will be with F ; ance d G ,
Britain ”—5/10/’3B
' ' '
The thanks of all Australians are due
to Mr. Chamberlain for having, among
? t |? er things, spared them the danger and
a .Bolshevik alliance. What the
Mighty Soviet War Machine would have
amounted to as an ally was shown when
t stop the Poles from grabbing
Jesc “en. 12/10/38.
Lord Winterton, who is Chancellor of
the Duchy of Lancaster, has infuriated
all Reds and Pinks by revealing that, so
far from Warning Germany, in asso-
ciation with France and Britain, Russia
“did not offer to help in the Czech crisis
—it made only the vaguest promises he-
cause of its military weakness.” The
Minister will now have learned what it is
to be abused by Reds through the post,
That was this paper’s experience after
it was here printed that “the French
don’t want to fight, the Americans won’t
fight and the Russians can’t fight.”—
19/10/’3B.
There will be no conquering march of
Communists over a world torn to pieces
by imperialistic wars. The Mighty Soviet
Machine has been shown to be as
j ncapab le of conquest as the Russian
Steam Roller proved to be in i 9 14.—
Tgno/’3B
The Australian Communist party has
treated itself to an expensively printed
set draft resolutions which are to de-
termine future Australian policy. Defence
1S to he taken from the hands of Fascist
reactionaries, and foreign policy is to
be based on collective security,
This congress draws attention to the
e reat danger of counter-revolutionary war
against Soviet Russia, the best defender of
the interests of progressive humanity. We
declare that if the Workers’' Fatherland is
attacked it will be the duty of every Com-
Tupponer? of peace, ,y to gua“antefS S e vie-
tory of the Red Army over the Imperial-
ists.
But why should Australians “guarantee
victory”? So eminent an authority
as Sydney “D.T.,” of “positive-action-
against-Japan” notoriety, assures the
wor ld that “the Russian army of today
w jn certainly be no less effective than
t he Russian Army of 24 years ago.”—
19/10/’3B.
XT , _ . A x „ ~ .
, Nov , e "? bel . ,he b,rlb-
cay ° the U.S.S.R., and as such it was
celebrated by writing men lady politi-
cians, dilettantes and professional agi-
’ throughout the wo F ld .
_ r
Tew of the heroes who made the
revolution were present at the anniversary,
Temn, Sverdlov, Dzerzhinsky, Zinoviev,
Bukharin and a dozen more who were in
the front line are dead-bulleted, for the
m ° st part, by comrades. Trots y an
others are in exile with prices on their
heads. There is unceasing liquidation
°* men an u of policies,
Plans and planners come and go. The
Red Army itself has a new lot of leaders,
the old lot having been found to be
“Trotskyist wreckers and Fascist spies,
It may still be capable of defending Rus-
sians against Russians, but for its boasted
striking power Europe and Asia alike
have recently exhibited boundless con-
tempt.
After 21 years the U.S.S.R. is a col-
lection of alleged Republics run by
Asiatics for Asiatics. In its outlook on
t he rights of individuals and on the sanc-
tity of human life, it stands somewhere
between the Europe of King John and
that of Henry VIII. No organisation
since the world began has expended so
much money or so much effort in adver-
tising itself and its alleged virtues as the
Russian Communist party. No organi-
sation has shown such anxiety to
“liquidate” other peoples’ politicians and
rulers, blow up other peoples’ cathedrals,
destroy other peoples’ Constitutions. .
Wherever it has established itself for-
midably—in Hungary, Italy, Germany,
China, Spain, Czechoslovakia—Corn-
munism has brought civil war, desolation,
dissolution or—for itself and its dupes—
defeat. It is hated and despised by demo-
cratic little Finland above all. In Fin-
land to be a Communist is to be an out-
law.—l6/11/ ’3i^.
It has been a bad year for Communism
and for the sort of trade-unionism that
has come under Communist influence.
Moscow and its panegyrists —the most
blatant of whom are American reporters
and English writers of books boomed by
Left Wing Clubs —perpetrated acres of
mush about the Might of the Soviet War
Machine. The impression left in impar-
tial quarters is that the Red Army would
be hard put to it to beat the Salvation
Army.
Communists in the Australian Miners’
Federation brought about another coal
strike. They promised the faithful a
speedy triumph, and alleged that they had
£250,000 of “credits” to keep the strike
going. After a week or so they were
looking for the easiest way out.
Reds also organised a boycott on goods
consigned to Japanese ports. It failed,
but there has been an encore of the idiocy
at Port Kembla (N.S.W.). An embargo
on all exports of metal to countries whose
forms of government Reds don’t like has
been suggested. It would be an indus-
trial sentence of death to Port Kembla,
Newcastle and Broken Hill.
Perhaps Western Europe and the
democracies that are derived from it will
never have real peace till Communism is
outlawed, as the Finns outlawed the
Oriental superstition.—7/12/ ’3B.
Advanced trade-union bosses hate
Germans, Italians, Japanese, the Cham-
berlain Government, the Lyons Govern-
ment, the Australian army and Broken
Hill Prop. They love Stalin, the Red
Army, the Red Air Force, Chiang Kai-
shek, Negrin and Benes. Under the im-
pulse of these hates and loves, and egged
on by good people who demand the grati-
fication of their League sentiments and
don’t trouble to count the cost, the ad-
vanced gentry have worked up another
wharf boycott— at Port Kembla (N.S.W.)
this time.
To stop trading with a country is to
quarrel with it. No Government worth
its salt can allow an insignificant minority
to involve it in such a quarrel.
Communists lose all their strikes and
all their boycotts and all their wars. —
14/12 / ’3B.
A Russian alliance is suggested once
more. We had one in 1914, when the
Russians were much stronger in man-
power than they are today and had not
dissipated their strength by the summary
execution of half their leaders and
myriads of subordinates ; and in 1916 we
saw the Russians crack up ; in 1918 we
were fighting them at Archangel and
Murmansk. Japan was on our side then,
and convoying Australian troopships. If
we entered into another Russian alliance,
Japan would be on the other side. —
22/3/’39.
There followed the “Shaking Hands
with Murder” article, which not only
brought down on The Bulletin’s head
the unmitigated wrath of Reds and Pinks,
but gave offence to old friends whose
good opinion it valued. “Shaking hands
with murder” was the expression used by
British Conservatives of the Churchill
brand when it was proposed merely to
trade with the Red Republic.
“The French, the British Liberal and
Labor parties, the Gingerbeer Group of
Conservatives, the League of Nations
Union, the ‘News-Chronicle,’ the Syd-
ney ‘Morning Herald,’ the Sydney
‘Daily Telegraph’ and the band of
American reporters who gather so much
of the foreign ‘news’ have had their
way. The Chamberlain Government has
agreed to enter into a military alliance
with Soviet Russia.” So the article began,
and it proceeded thus:
The Russian alliance, it is claimed, is
a logical consequence of the change in
foreign policy which had for its first step
the guarantee to Poland. Perhaps it is,
but at this distance it looks equally use-
less and even more dangerous. So far
the change in foreign policy has produced
nothing but trouble and manifold possi-
bilities of more trouble.
And now Britain is, in effect, guarantee-
ing the immense possessions of Soviet
Russia, some of which are quite modern
acquisitions. Undertaking to protect a
Power of unknown military strength,
whose Government has in the past 18
months shot half its generals; a Power
given to cracking up suddenly and mys-
teriously, as it did in the wars of 1854-
55, 1904-05, 1914-17 and 1920; a Power,
moreover, which is hated throughout
Europe, hated by the democratic neighbors
who know it best, the Finns and the
Swedes, and most of all by Nationalist
Spain. And entry into this alliance will
bring the world no respite from the mad
armaments race, which, apart from its
other deadly possibilities, threatens all the
Powers with bankruptcy. Rather it means
that the two groups of allies will go on
arming harder than ever. —31/5/’39.
To the dazed astonishment of Russian-
alliance politicians, professors, editors
and pickers-up of foreign “news,” Mos-
cow has rejected the British offer of a
defensive alliance. Molotov banged the
door on the British proposals, though
some of the Russian-alliance gentry are
sure that it will be opened if Mr. Cham-
berlain goes down on his knees and
knocks. To get the U.S.S.R. into a
peace pact, the Allies must guarantee “all
the countries on its western border,” and
they object to being guaranteed.—7/ 6/ ’39.
“We stand for peace,” quoth Stalin’s
mouthpiece, “but we must be careful.”
Hitler has got Stalin scared stiff. —
7/6/’39.
There was never any doubt about the
attitude of Finland. The Finns won’t
even allow a Communist on their terri-
tory. They are regarded with special
favor by the Americans, and to force
a guarantee on them would impair the
fine impression made by the visit to the
King and Queen. So the Chamberlain
Government has to be very careful about
Finland. It has to be even more careful
about Spain and Portugal.—l4/6/’39.
The Stunt Press in Australia and
Britain has been all for an alliance with
Soviet Russia. Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph” has become so enthusiastic that
it proposes “the extension of the Anglo-
Russian pact to Eastern Asia.” It would
be a crime against Australia to ■ the re-
motest posterity.—l2/7/’39.
Isaac Isaacs wants official Government
support for an alliance with “that great
and powerful nation” Russia, and Isaac
Isaacs likened the Communist-inspired
Port Kembla effort to embroil this
country with Japan to the struggle at
Eureka. Pity he wasn’t in the gallery at
“the opening of the N.S.W. Conference
of the Communist party,” but he can
read all about it in the “Workers’
Weekly.” There he will find that one of
the principal speakers was “Jim Healy,
general secretary of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation.” Jim Healy was
fresh from the A.C.T.U.’s National-
Register-boycott conference, and full of
it. Comrade Sharkey, “Chairman of the
Central Executive of the Communist
party,” contrasted “the Mighty Soviets,
confident of protecting themselves, with
the ramshackle British Empire.”—
26 / 7 / ’39.
British and French military staff
officers are to go to Moscow to
talk with the Soviet military chiefs, who-
ever they may be since the last purge.
Does the party to the proposed alliance
really possess great military force, and
would —or could —it fight?
The June Memorandum of the Imperial
Policy Group devotes a special study to
the Mighty Soviet War Machine of
flapper-press fancy. It reports that
Russia’s capacity to manufacture muni-
tions in time of war is not commensurate
with the size of the army; that the
supply of heavy artillery is inadequate ;
that Red Air Force production is rather
slow, its reconnaissance machines rather
poor and its heavy bombers out of date ;
that if war came the army would be
handicapped by bad rail and road com-
munications, by the defective education
of officers —before the purge, only 15 p.c.
of the colonels and about half the senior
officers had passed through military
academies —and by the effects of the
purge. In that 1937-38 horror three mar-
shals, 68 senior generals and 312 junior
generals and brigadiers were shot, and
the morale of the U.S.S.R., both military
and civil, has been greatly undermined.
Many experts hold that Russia could not
stand the strain of war, and that if Stalin
ever dared to order complete mobilisa-
tion the armed forces would be occupied
not so much in dealing with the enemy
as in setting up a new regime in Russia.
Others believe that in any event chaos
would result. —9/8/’39.
Under the very noses of a press which
saw salvation for the democratic world in
a Russian alliance; unknown to the
Foreign Offices of Britain and France,
which, at the invitation of the Stalin-
Molotov gang, sent a military mission to
Moscow ; unknown to the mission itself ;
unknown even to the German people, two
faithless dictators arranged to become
Comrade Ad and Nazi Joe.
Such of the Russians as are not of
Asian or Eurasian origin—as is Stalin
himself —are Slavs. The Czechs are
Slavs ; so are the Poles. Despite their
abandonment of the Czechs, it was hoped
against hope that the Moscow gang
would do something for Poland. When
the Berlin communique came out, the
“Workers’ Weekly” was describing
Goring as “a Fascist beast of prey and
{Continued on page 30.)


HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Every comfort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from .. .. .. .. 5/6
Double Room, from 11/-
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/-
For rooms with Hot and Cold Water:
Single 1/- and Double 1/6 extra.
Modern a la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
“Grancentral,” Sydney
SMOKE-OH!
A boudoir is a place where a woman
used to attend to the things that she now
does in a restaurant.
*F «F *F *F
“Two heads are better than one.”
Especially on the coins used in two-up.
*F *F *F *F
“Stage impersonator is keen amateur pilot.”
—Theatre mag.
Take-offs would be easy for him.
•J* *2* *2* *2*
“Hear what your own voice sounds like.”
—Recording advt.
This will be a novelty for married men.
•F *F *F *F
“In Australia outdoor living is possible
the year round.” — Women’s paper.
Neglect to pay your rent and it’s even
likely.
■F *F *F *F
“Swastika on penny. ‘Propaganda,’ says
Premier.” — “S.M.H.”
It’s risky to leave your mark on a
copper.
•F *F *F *F
“The crowd cheered as the injured riders
remounted their cycles.”— Press report.
Where there’s a spill there’s hooray!
•F *F *F *F
“He was a soldierly sort of person who
would command attention anywhere.”
—Extract from novel.
Except in a cafe.
•F *F *F *F
“There are many cookery rules that the new
housewife must learn.” — Women’s paper.
The tin commandments.
•F *F *F *F
“Is the missionary necessary?”
— ‘‘World’s News.”
Yes, for black-and-white humorists.
Slight Miscalculation.
The celebrations had been rather pro-
longed, and he found himself clinging
to a telegraph pole with little hope of
progress. “Cops’ll lumber me!” he mut-
tered. “Mush get taxi!” He waved his
arms frantically at passing cars, but they
all swept by. He grew more and more
agitated. “Taxshi!” he screamed.
At last a car pulled up and he lurched
towards it with a gasp of relief. Strong
hands were just in time to grab him as
he stumbled on the running-board. “For
heavensh shake, take me home before
the copsh get me!” he cried.
By the time the Black Maria had
moved off again he was snoring con-
tentedly on the floor.
Nat.
•b *b *F *F
“Man over 40, tall, dark, healthy, sweet
personality, got everything but money.”
— “D.T.” agony column.
And modesty?
»F *F *F *F
Politicians live on the fatheads of the
land.
•F *F *F *F
Open to Argument.
“War Can Be Won on Home Front.”
— “Woman.”
Yes, and battles can be lost in the
backyard, too. Let a bloke risk the gas-
money on something that falls in the
hurdle race, leave the tomahawk handy
”Y’ know, captain, this reminds me of an excruciatingly funny story”
and let her ladyship charge out from
the laundry sector with the glint of
battle in her eye, and I’ll bet his nibs
reaches the front gate first and streaks
past Murphy’s at the double seeking the
nearest neutral frontier.
I remember coming home from camp
on leave three sheets in the wind and
with a couple of golden-blonde hairs
clinging to my tunic. One glance at the
offending contraband was sufficient pro-
vocation for the enemy to commence
hostilities without a preliminary warning
note. All I’d learnt about shouldering
arms or fixing bayonets was of no avail,
during that sortie, and the grand old uni-
form, though not actually disgraced,
needed pressing afterwards.
No, you can’t kid me that wars can
be won on the home front. My fighting
weight is Bst. 101 b., and the wife’s is
12st. 91b. Then there’s an armory of
three flatirons, three brooms, two mops
and one axe and a trained-to-the-minutc
ma-in-law in reserve.
P. M.
“Winter lasts from December to April and
freezes all Finland’s 00,000 lakes.”
— “A.B.C. Weekly.
Gets right down to zero, so to speak.
•F *F *F *F
“Misfortunes seldom come singly.”
— Women’s paper.
We’ve noticed that with our relations.
•F *F *F *F
“Bustles are coming back.” — Fashion note.
They were never in front.
•F *F 4* *F
“The War, Day by Day.”
— “S. M. Herald” regular heading.
“The Day, War by War” might be
more appropriate at present.
•F *F *F *F
“Two barristers were chased out of the surf
by a shark.” — News item.
A most flagrant breach of professional
etiquette.
*F *F *F *F
A man without a single idea is less
boring than a man with only one idea.
“An article must be meaty if it is to be
accepted ” — Editor’s note.
Yet even though it may provide food
for thought it will probably be taken
with a grain of salt. And, of course, it
must be red meat, not tripe ; something
really juicy into which an editor can sink
his teeth. It must also be well dished up
so that he won’t have to chop it about
too much.
But it’s a tough proposition to get any-
thing into print, make no bones about it!
D. J. W.
Anti-aggression Pact.
I’ve dreamed about a girl like you ;
I long to make you mine for ever.
And those dear eyes of tender blue
Affirm that you’ll be faithless never.
But, darling, let’s pull on the reins
And hold this glorious impulse steady ;
For, after all, the world contains
Enough infernal strife already !
T.W. NATHAN.
Race Results.
“Aitchem,” said Maria severely, “I
think it disgraceful that you should be
able to throw money away on betting
when if I ask you for a little extra
you”
“I haven’t,” I interjected shortly.
“You must have,” said Maria in-
cisively. “You’ve done nothing but talk
about horses for the last week and”
“I have?” I exclaimed. “What about
that thing Slowhoof you backed?”
“Yes, but think, if it had won I would
have received a hundred pounds for my
ten shillings! Of course, it didn’t win,
but it should have. A strange black cat
came into the house that morning and
I stroked it; and the night before I
dreamt that a black horse with a jockey
in red with white spots won.”
“But Slowhoof”
“Oh, don’t be a fool, Aitchem!” said
Maria sharply. “Don’t you know that
dreams go by the contrary? So when I
found that Slowhoof was a chestnut
horse and its rider would wear blue with
yellow arm-bands, I thought it was right.
And then I put my bodice on inside out
as I was dressing ; everybody knows that
is lucky. I don’t know what could have
happened to Slowhoof; but everybody
knows what these jockeys do. And see-
ing they’d have to pay 200 to 1 if it
won the bookies”
I laughed nastily.
“It hadn’t a dog’s chance,” I said.
“Oh!” sneered Maria. “If you know
so much about horseracing why didn’t
you show a little enterprise and back
the winner? Tom gave you the tip,
and if you had been like other men are,
prepared to take a chance like a sports-
man, we would have had some money
today instead of my having lost”
But I’m not biting. As a matter of
fact I had a bit of a spin on- the win-
ner, but Maria, who would think she
could spend the winnings much better
than I could, is not going to know about
it.
She’s only pumping me to find out.
That’s one of the race results.
H.M.
Of Mendacity.
“There is a shortage of yarn and mending
material in Germany.”
When Nazi chiefs their garments rend
And show the world their naked sins,
They use —and make a shoddy mend —
Synthetic yarns that Goebbels spins.
W.S.B.
Harvest.
When we two faced the altar
We only had each other.
But now our little nest is filled —
We’ve got your blessed mother.
PATON.
On the Scales.
“Overweight sopranos now find great diffi-
culty in getting ‘placed’ in opera. Modern
audiences demand beauty of form and face as
well as ability to sing.”
—Signora Annunciata Garrotto.
And a good thing, too! I only wish
they’d wakened up to it years before
when / was on the operatic stage.
I’ve played opposite a Gilda whose
body in the bag took four strong men
to carry to its place on the stage ; Mar-
guerites whom no device short of a
powerful hydraulic lift could have got off
the ground in the Resurrection Scene ;
Carmens who weighed considerably more
than the bull, and Delilahs whom even
Samson couldn’t have shifted.
In those days the tradition of
embonpoint among female singers was
inviolate. No impresario would even
look at a coloratura unless she had three
chins, a bust of 65 inches or better, and
a face that would put the spotlight out
of action. Still, it was no joke having
to sing against the mirthful shrieks of the
audience as a mountain of fat, breathing
stertorously, endeavored to simulate the
last agonised moments of Violetta as the
heroine of “La Traviata” was expiring
from galloping consumption. The only
consumption the soprano was suffering
from was the seven-course feed she’d
knocked over a couple of hours before
the opera commenced.
I well remember a performance of
“Cavalleria Rusticana” at La Scala. As
the company’s leading tenor, I had the
part of Turiddu, stage lover to the wilful
Santuzza, played by Gottalotta Beefonna.
Whenever she gave a trill of what she
hoped was sweet girlish laughter, her
16-stone would shake like a blancmange
in an earthquake. Before letting herself
go it was arranged that she make for
a part of the stage specially reinforced
for the purpose and which was faintly
outlined in chalk for her guidance.
Apparently some overzealous stage-
cleaner had been at work, for when
Santuzza, heartbroken at the renewal of
my affection for her rival Lola, broke
into her storm of lamentations, she
picked the wrong spot, and, with a pierc-
ing shriek, she disappeared among a
rending of timbers. They had to lower
the curtain while a block and tackle
was rigged to get her up again.
But operatic sopranos of the old school
were tough, mighty tough, in a test. It
needed only a noggin of olive oil as a
reviver, and a brush-down, and a few
minutes afterwards, to the audience’s
hysterical cries of “Viva!” she was lash-
ing into “Voi lo sapete.”
It was only after this number, when
she was down on her knees pleading for
me to give Lola up, that I realised some-
thing was wrong —she couldn’t get up.
Sotto voce, she urged me between notes
to pull her up. I went sft. 2in. and
1151b.,-and under the pretence that we
were embracing I yanked madly at her.
I might as well have tried to toss Tom
Lurich over the ropes. As she got frantic
and the audience restive at the long-
drawn-out scene, she raised her voice to
make her adjurations to me heard above
the orchestra, which was negotiating a
double fortissimo passage. As the din
ceased suddenly with a clash of cymbals
an angry female voice bellowed on, cut-
ting into the awful silence: “Pull harder,
you little runt!”
Again the stage hands had to corAe to
the rescue, and it was with considerable
trepidation that I came to the scene in
which, pretending reconciliation, she was
actually plotting revenge. In this she
had to sit coyly on my knee as I was
recklessly drinking wine.
As she flopped down on a limb that
Nature had intended for the taking of
no more weight than that of the daintiest
wisp of femininity, I tautened my muscles
to take the strain. Then I felt the leg
sag, and the terrific effort of preventing
its collapse had me sweating under the
eyes. Worse still, she was sitting on a
loose buckle of her corsets; two days
later I could still have put a watch in
the indentation it left in my leg.
I suspected this treatment was profes-
sional jealousy over the encore I had
got for my Drinking Song, for she
stayed on my knee longer than was neces-
sary. Narked, the last shred of chivalry
dropped from me. I interrupted my part
of the duet we were doing like this:
“Bianca co me fior di spino get up you
hippopotamus mi tolse di giaggiolo.’’
To which she replied savagely:
“Turiddu ad essi if you had knees in-
stead of io non santa allor bony knobs
you could take it a casa voi tutti.”
When at last she did rise, and with
assumed gaiety pulled me up, I put my
weight on the leg that had gone “dead”
and went down like a polled ox. My
understudy had to take my part during
the ten minutes it took to massage it
back to something like normality.
Coming to the final scene, I had to
fling her off in a rage. Instead, when I
flung myself at her I bounced off. Then,
as we both tried to come through a door
together, we got stuck. Thoroughly fed
up by now, I roared above the orchestra;
“Breathe out, you blasted goat, so as I
can get past.” As I struggled to free my-
self angry shouts of “Basta! Basta! ”
came from the volatile audience. I
might still have been there if I hadn’t
jumped on her foot, and as she took a
breath to tell me off I squeezed out.
I swore after that I’d never play oppo-
site any soprano this side of a walking
skeleton, and I haven’t. .
BO.


\
y
IBs'';
k
M i
MB
6i 11
s f
[
"
v
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Castiron Monopoly, with Blessing
In mpst parts of the world the motor-
car industry has been developed by
engineering skill and organising ability.
Olds, Dodge, Ford and Chrysler are
the names of men as well as motor-cars ;
so are Rolls and Royce, Morris and
Riley, to name only a few English in-
stances, and to leave out Continental
cases altogether.
In Australia it is proposed by the
Federal Government to leave the making
of motor-cars in the first place to money,
monopoly and expediency, and to see if
engineering ability will follow. Aus-
tralian Consolidated Industries has the
money, is promised the monopoly, and the
sluggish Federal Government invariably
relies on expedients to solve its prob-
lems. Having been awakened from
its torpor by the realities of war, Can-
berra has decided in a great hurry that
the manufacture of car engines and
chassis within the Commonwealth would
not only help to cut down our excessive
imports from non-reciprocal America,
but would also assist in the development
of the country.
The Government has called for help
to Australian Consolidated Industries,
that problem to Protectionists (and The
Bulletin is a traditional believer in fair
Protection) better remembered by many
under its old name of Australian Glass.
There are a number of people in Aus-
tralia who are not prepared to shower
bouquets in the direction of Australian
Glass, believing that they would be much
better off had the glass industry— : as it
stands —never been established in Aus-
tralia. In that extreme view they may be
wrong. But if they simply take the view
that bottles and glass could be made and
sold profitably at under the rates charged
by Australian Glass they are undoubtedly
right. Earnings of A.C.I. as per last
accounts for nine months’ manufactur-
ing, plus a full year’s divs. from sub-
sidiaries, represented more than 33 p.c.
flat on the old ord. capital of Australian
Glass.
Old Australian Glass shareholders in
a writing-up of capital early in 1939 re-
ceived 15 A.C.I. shares in exchange for
each four A.G. ords. Thus the 38s. paid
for A.C.I. ords. lately is equal to over
£7 for each old A.G. £1 share. On the
expanded capital the present div. is 7 p.c.
p.a. Subsidiaries work in structural steel,
metal stamping, axes and other tools,
plastics, fibre packages, food-preserving,
etc., and there are interests in paper
manufacture and building board.
To this wealthy and embracing A.C.I.
organisation Canberra is proposing to
hand a castiron monopoly of motor-car-
engine manufacture for at least five years.
It is making use of the National Security
regulations in order to do so, in. itself
a breach of faith with the people.. In
brief, these are the terms on which A.C.I.
has been asked to operate :
A bounty of from £3O to £2O per engine;
the existing tariff; safeguards against
foreign cos. setting up in Australia; pro-
hibition of capital issues by possible local
competitors; promises of Government
custom; a broad assurance that “the Gov-
ernment will do its best to limit the produc-
tion of motor-cars and -trucks to the pro-
posed co. for five years.”
So far as the programme has gone, it
seems that A.C.I. has promised to find
£250,000. That isn’t a lot of money
to a concern like A.C.1., which has a
paid capital of nearly £4,000,000 and
“He's letting me use the free air till I get rid of me cold!”
reserves of £2,670,000, and loss of the
entire quarter-million wouldn’t affect
the huge earnings of the glass
portion of the business one iota. Total
earnings over the past two or three years
have exceeded £300,000 p.a.
Motor-car manufacture is a great em-
ployment-giver, and Australia, a land of
distances, will want more and more
motor-cars and aeroplanes as time goes
on. Also, the occasion appears to be ripe
for the beginning of car production, pro-
vided petrol, supplies keep coming for-
ward. But we must not forget that an
ill-conceived beginning to an industry
may. be worse-than no beginning at all.
Actually, the way the whole matter
has' been handled' by ' Canberra is a
knockout. The protection offered to
the venture is astounding. According
to a daily paper, a factory site on
the Parramatta River, Sydney, is
under consideration ; if it is chosen “the
N.S.W. Government is prepared to con-
struct a railway and provide wharfage
accommodation. It may also consider
a reduction in registration fees for users
of the car.” But no guarantee of price
or quality, so far as this paper knows,
has been given by A.C.I. to Parliament
or the people.
The Statistician
It’s a pity Australian statistics are
somewhat behind-hand, as a rule, when
they are published, because they are
prophetic of the future as well as in-
dicative of the past. Far too little notice
is taken of them by the shapers of our
economic destiny.
The Commonwealth Statistician (Dr.
Roland Wilson holds the office at present)
collects the most useful and compre-
hensive figures, but he relies in many
instances on State officials to supply the
original statistics, which he tabulates and
combines, giving particulars for each
State and the Commonwealth. Often
the more important information is sent
out in preliminary statements to the press
each month.
For those interested in purely busi-
ness statistics a monthly review is pub-
lished, the information being often no
more than a month or so old.
The next step is the preparation of
a quarterly summary of Australian
Statistics published in Canberra and sold
through the Commonwealth Sub-
Treasuries (at the head office of the
Commonwealth Bank in each State) at
a shilling a copy. These quarterly
summaries are full of information
for those interested in the cost of
living, the state of employment and the
state of trade. They are just as in-
teresting to those concerned in the
national finances, the nation’s vital statis-
tics, and the waxing or waning in pro-
duction from the land industries.
The special value of these quarterly
summaries is that they come out reason-
ably soon after the end of the period
to which the statistics relate. Thus the
summary for September quarter, 1939,
published in early December, gives
migration figures up to the end of Sep-
tember, overseas trade figures, banking
statistics, wholesale prices, unemployment
and cost-of-living figures to the same
period, and the national-debt as at Sept.
30. Other figures are mostly to June 30.
Each year a splendid volume, the
Commonwealth Year Book, condenses
these figures, gives a written explanatory
introduction to the tables, and adds a
wealth of further information touching
on history, climate, constitution, legis-
lation and arbitration. Among the Com-
monwealth Statistician's publications it
is something of a battleship amidst the
cruisers. Its latest information is
usually upwards of six months old, but
its scope is very wide. Published at 55.,
it runs to over 1000 pages as a rule,
and must be one of the cheapest books
in the world for its size and usefulness.
The Australian Stock Exchanges closed
for 1939 with the average return avail-
able from Consols, including redemption,
at £3 15s. per cent. In September the
rate went to above £4 Is. 3d. per cent.
Since then, with a big defence pro-
gramme in view, the Treasury has been
stiffening the bond market by buying
Consols. Also, the increased revenue
from wool, butter, etc., now coming in
has provided a tonic for the financial
position generally, and the banks are
more flush with money. Under the
National Security regulations the Com-
monwealth has been given power to
divert money from ordinary industriai-
co. development if it so chooses, and the
fact that old and new cos. have to seek
permission to raise share-capital in itself
is a check to new investments outside of
Government loans. It looks as though
the Commonwealth will be on the market
soon for the first instalment of its
£46,000,000 loan programme for 1939-40,
offering 3f p.c., or perhaps a little more
if a redemption premium goes with it.
A wide, sweeping campaign under which
small investors will be specially asked
to help is indicated.
* * * *
We have all heard at some time or
another someone denouncing the present
money “system” and suggesting that its
removal or substitution would result in
the emancipation of mankind from finan-
cial slavery, etc. The removal of the
“system” temporarily might, indeed, be
the most educative thing the world has
ever known. Do away with money,
establish an elaborate system of book-
keeping to record the value of what one
person owes another, dealings among
each other, and the value of each man’s
production and surplus, and one might
begin to see the entire substance of trade
unobscured by the shadow that thinking
in terms of money invariably throws
over it. That is, if the bookkeepers were
ever able to cope with the contract.
One would also begin to see that trade
and speculation bring their own inherent
problems problems for which money
cannot always be blamed. Money is a
convenience, which naturally has dis-
advantages of its own. As it facilitates
trade it facilitates speculation. But specu-
lation is the fault of man, not of money.
Lately we have had the Commonwealth
Bank pointing out that its entire “credit
resources,” as they are in the habit of
being called, are impotent to do more in
the matter of assisting defence than the
labor of our men and women working on
our available materials is able to do. In
other words, labor and materials are the
substance, finance the shadow. Finance
represents organisation ; if good organi-
sation, trade goes on steadily and well :
if bad, we have booms and slumps. But
finance doesn’t create trade ; trade and
industry create finance.
* * * *
Mining shares have had a mixed
market of recent weeks, the influences
at work being as varied as anything else.
At the head of the list, Barrier shares
have been mostly dull, the spurt in
prices following the lifting of limits on
the London Metal Exchange being re-
pented when full realisation of the effect
of war-time sale contracts and maximum
internal metal prices came to speculators.
A notable exception has been New
Broken Hill Consolidated, not yet pro-
ducing, but the development of which
recently has shown results better than
previous expectations. Mt. Lyell, the
Tas. copper show, has behaved in much
the same way as the producing Barrier
cos.; the price it may sell its products
at # has been fixed in Australia, and
should it ever manage to work up to>
an export surplus, the price has already
been fixed by the British Government
by arrangement with the co.
Goldmining shares have fared in the
market according to their individual
prospects, though the increased price of
gold, less the gold tax, has had an overall
influence. Loloma, the Fiji concern dealt
with in B.’ 27/12/ ’39, has lifted sharply
to a record price for recent years, 30s.
being paid before the close of ’Change.
Emperor has spurted up to I4s. —without
any very obvious reason —while Mt. Kasi,
another Fiji concern, has recovered to
55., the best price for a long period.
Fiji hasn’t so far decided to grab extra
taxation from the increased gold price.
Arahura and Kanieri keep firm and
active, while Ngahere, operating in the
same part of Maoriland, is coming along
at a run now. Golden Plateau, in
Queensland, is sought after, but Mt.
Morgan is dull because of continued
overburden difficulties and high costs.
New Occidental, often subject to opera-
tors’ influences, has been firm recently.
Placer has risen to the best price of the
last couple of years, but Bulolo hasn’t
responded so well. Westralian stocks,
strangely, have firmed least of all.


!£4to
st. Stanislaus’ College
Bathurst
A Catholic school for boys in the bracing
climate of Bathurst.
Complete Secondary Course.
Conducted by Vincentian Fathers.
Apply to THE PRESIDENT.
Telephone: Bathurst 39.
r.
w mm
>
mm.
wm
■
A Mes senger-
TO PAY YOUR ACCOUNTS !
A current account is an extremely trustworthy messenger
to run your financial errands—one that will go anywhere
—in the city or in the country. It takes the exact money
in each case, saves much walking, and waiting, and
eliminates the risk attendant upon the carrying of large
sums of cash. The cheques afford the safety of a receipt
for each amount paid, while the butts, with their details
of expenditure, serve as a record of payment and are
a positive aid in budgeting. Ask for full particulars
from the nearest Office or Branch of the National Bank.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
(Incorporated.inVictoria)
73-16-" I
Factory Growth
There has been a great deal doing in
the manufacturing section of Australian
industries these past few months. New
factories are going up almost all the
time, but lately there has been the special
stimulus given by war, which has accel-
erated the demand for defence equip-
ment, cut off some of our overseas sup-
plies as a result of actual physical
difficulties of importing, and cur-
tailed our overseas buying because of
Britain’s need of foreign funds. It has
been in circumstances such as these
that Australian factories have t always
shown particular forward development.
During the Great War the first big step
occurred, and in the depression, when
we had a very shrunken overseas income,
the second. Now a third step is on the
point of being taken, though it is too
early yet to say whether jt is going to
be a big step.
Factories have been, and will continue
to be, a great factor in Australia, help-
ing to balance up the periods in which
our export income is low, and always,
so long as they are soundly con-
ducted, tending to develop the country
in new directions. Up to the present
our factories are not in excess of re-
quirements.
In giving employment factories create
further customers for themselves and
others. They are a very valuable balance-
wheel in our economy, as they can be
made to respond to our own resusci-
tation methods during a depression. Our
export trade has to depend on the resus-
citation of the whole world in order to
recover from a slump.
New manufacturing ventures that were
on the way some time began production
during 1939. Associated Pulp and Paper,
making writing-paper and fine printings
at Burnie (Tas.), reached full production
last year. The pulp mill of Australian
Paper Manufacturers at Maryvale, in
Victoria, began work in the third quarter.
Commonwealth Rolling Mills is now
turning out steel sheets at Port Kembla,
B.H.P. and Australian Iron and Steel
have stepped up their capacity at New-
castle and Kembla respectively, and
B.H.P.’s South Australian plant is being
pushed ahead.
The first Wirraways were put into the
air by the Commonwealth Aircraft Corp.
last year. Carpet Manufacturers, pioneer-
ing a new industry in Sydney, turned Out
its first products. Numerous lines of less
important manufactures are also being
introduced to this country, European
refugees in some instances being respon-
sible.
Soon other new industries of import-
ance will be under way in Australia.
Newsprint mills in southern Tasmania
should start this year, B.H.P.’s tinplate
works may come into the picture before
long, aluminium is to be turned out
near Sydney, and tuna-canning is to be
started by Cam and Sons, of the same
city.
Rapid expansion has taken place in
the cotton industry. Canvas, duck and
tyre-cord, under protection of new duties
or bounties, are to be manufactured by
Bradford Cotton, Davies Coop and per-
haps others. H. B. Dickie, Ltd., the
Melbourne manufacturer of towels, has
a much greater market for its products
since war broke out. And so on.
After the shock of depression knocked
factory employment down to a low level
in 1931-32, swift improvement carried
the number of those in jobs to the highest
point ever recorded in March, 1938.
From that time forward, until the out-
break of war, there was an almost con-
tinuous decline.
In this falling-off the drop in prices
for our export income, which started in
1937 and continued until the war, played
a large part; landmen had less to spend,
and the effect of this reduced spending
was very wide. At the same time money
wages rose steeply; the Reddaway
award, which added 6s. a week to wages
in 1937, was based on “prosperity” con-
ditions that were rapidly disappearing.
Caught between the pincers of inflating
costs and falling incomes, many fac-
tories found the going harder in
1938-39. For the first time in five or
six years some public cos. showed re-
duced profits.
Complete factory statistics, unfor-
tunately, are a long while coming to
hand. Latest available are those to June,
1938. Up to that time the value of out-
puts had continued to expand, as the
last column in this table shows:
Export Index of Value of
Price Money Factory
Index,* Wages.* Output.f
1932 .. 566 1639 £291,645,000
1933 .. 616 1584 304,797,000
1934 .. 653 1590 330,134,000
1935 .. 656 1609 365,210,000
1936 .. 805 1635 414,688,000
1937 .. 923 1704 451,829,000
1938 .. 699 1795 499,200,000
* Calendar year, t Year to June 30.
The first and second columns indicate the
increasing strain imposed by economic
conditions off balance—export prices fall-
ing, wages rising, but the wage-earner
no better off, because his wages are based
on living costs. For a few years during
the recovery period stability in our costs
gave us great industrial strength, shown
by the growth in factory outputs, which
were on the way up before export prices
showed much recovery. This we have
lost, and now we are relying on the arti-
ficial stimulus of war to help us out. Help
us out it may to some extent,'but infla-
tion' in costs must be checked if we are
to avoid a nasty reaction when the
stimulus starts wearing off.
Throughout the Commonwealth fac-
tories began to take on extra hands dur-
ing October. In N. S. Wales during
November factory employment touched
a new high record, and, though other
States weren’t so well to the fore, im-
provement was general, if varied. In
N. S. Wales there seems to have been a
particularly sudden response to the effect
of higher wool and butter prices and the
"forced industrial activity asked for by
the Defence authorities.
The table in this article shows that the
index of export prices fell from 923 in
the 1937 calendar year to 699 in 1938. In
May, 1939, the index dropped further,
to a low of 649. By October it had risen
swiftly to 796 —over 22 p.c. This rise
may not be quite all it seems, but, com-
paring the October index with the same
month of 1938, the lift still amounts to
nearly 15 p.c.
Provided our costs allow us to take full
advantage of the extra income we are
now getting—the money-wage index had
risen to 1842 last June —Australian
industry should start to expand again
on all sides. Jobs create more jobs,
and, though the direct result of
war itself is to stimulate factories
where men and materials are avail-
able, an increased income coming to a
country from its exports of land pro-
ducts adds a special fillip. But there are
obvious dangers as well. A boom in
costs, internal prices, etc., can disorganise
industry and kill prosperity as quickly as
our economic fortunes seem to have
changed for the better. And, in any case,
we are going to be involved in great waste
during this war. Taking the cost of such
waste into account, it may make some of
our Stock Exchange and Arbitration
Court “prosperity” look like hocus-pocus.
Until the outbreak of war unemploy-
ment in Australia was on the increase.
The smallest percentage of unemployed
in our midst since the depression was
8 p.c. in the March quarter of 1938.
From that point onwqrd, with the excep-
tion of a slight recovery in the final
quarter of 1938, the position grew worse,
until 10.4 p.c. was the ratio for the Sep-
tember, 1939, quarter. It is necessary
to go back nearly three years to find a
figure as bad as that, though it is nothing
when compared with the 30 p.c. of June,
1932. From preliminary figures now
available, it seems that since the outbreak
of war the number of idle people in our
midst is diminishing . again, True, the
number of men under arms and in train-
ing may have to do with this, but it is
perhaps significant of actual increased
industrial activity within the Common-
wealth that factory employment shows a
sharp increase for October, and general
employment in N. S. Wales for the same
month has improved. The stimulus given
by war, partly by the cutting-off of over-
seas manufactures and partly by the
special need for war materials, is becom-
ing evident. The extra cash coming in
from war-time produce sales to Britain
is also a factor.
* * * *
Goldmining continued to expand in
1939, and the Commonwealth’s produc-
tion of the metal should exceed the 1938
figure of 1,590,406 fine oz. It is doubt-
ful, however, whether the 1916 total of
1,665,8160 z. will be reached, which is
the only figure during the past 23 years
to exceed the 1938 production. But,
in value, Australia’s recent annual gold
outputs go back further than 1916 in
order to find an equal. The 1938 value,
at an average of £8 16s. 2d. Australian
an ounce, was £14,012,414. During the
first eight months of 1938 the price was
about £9 ss. an ounce, and since the out-
break of war it has risen to £lO 12s. 6d.,
of which 16s. 3d. is taken by the Gov-
ernment. Before 1929 gold was valued
at £4 ss. an ounce in Australia, and on
this basis no year nearer than 1906 had
a gold production worth over £14,000,000.
It was in 1903, the heyday of Westralia’s
Golden Mile, that a peak value of
£16,302,000 was recorded, though in the
early rushes at Sofala, Ballarat and
Bendigo many diggers never disclosed
their winnings, which probably exceeded
the figure of 1906. In 1940, if produc-
tion of the yellow metal does not even
exceed 1,600,0000 z., the value will be
the highest ever recorded, provided the
price does not drop below the present
£lO 12s. 6d. per fine oz.
At 3.95 dollars to the £ sterling, the
exchange rate between London and New
York last week was the nearest to the
carded rate of 4.03 dollars that it has
been for many weeks. The strengthen-
ing, oddly, began about the time the Graf
Spee was battered into Montevideo
Harbor. At 3.95 dollars to the £ sterling
gold is equal' to £8 17s. 6d. sterling in
New York, the equivalent of £ll Is. 10d.
Australian. London and Australian offi-
cial rates are £8 Bs. and £lO 12s. 6d.
respectively.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan’s figures are still dis-
appointing. During the four weeks to
Dec. 13 estimated working surplus was
£10,475 —£5683 lower than for the pre-
vious month. “Power limitation” caused
a loss of 38 hours’ milling time in both
the sulphide and oxide mills. Even so,
costs were higher, partly because of an
increased amount of overburden handled.
* * * *
Mt. Isa’s exportable output of lead and
zinc concentrates has been sold to the
British Government for the duration and
three months afterwards. Delivery will
be taken at Townsville, and prices will be
on the basis of £l5 Is. 3d. sterling, f.0.b.,
for lead and £l5 sterling for zinc. The
average price is about £lB 15s. a ton in
Australian money —the same as is being
paid for Broken Hill lead and spelter.
* * * *
During November the average price
of food and groceries throughout Aus-
tralia (30 cities and towns) fell half of
one per cent, compared with the previous
month. Potato prices fell in N.S.W.,
Queensland, South Aus. and Westralia,
but rose in Victoria and Tasmania.
Onions were cheaper in all States. Sal-
mon prices rose, while sugar was reduced
in Tasmania. Bacon was dearer in
N.S.W., and the eggs that go with it
were dearer in Victoria and W.A. Meat
was up in N.S.W. and Queensland,
showed little change in Victoria and Tas-
mania, and dropped in price in S.A.
and W.A. Compared with November,
1938, the cost of food and groceries for
the same month of 1939 was 4.5 p.c.
higher. But it is pleasing to see that
so far there has been no quick rise in
the cost of living following the outbreak
of war.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
IN GERMANY TODAY.
[The “Spectator” commented that it had been a
long time since any newspaper articles aroused so much
interest as the series by Oswald Garrison Villard pub-
lished in London “Daily Telegraph.” The latter news-
paper introduced the author as “an American writer
of authority, who was born in Germany and has recjpLly
spent a month in that country.” A small extract
one of the articles “appeared in “Uncabled Addition,
(27/12/’39); here now given are extracts from three
other articles in the series.]
One cannot be in Germany long without feeling
that there is a vital power at work. It is impossible
to question the fact that the organising ability de-
veloped by the Hitler Government is beyond anything
that has so far been seen. On every hand there is
evidence of the amazing creative urge of the Nazi
revolution. It manifests itself in innumerable ways,
perhaps the most striking being the reconstruction of
Berlin itself.
Other observers besides myself have been puzzled
to whom to attribute the magnitude of the under-
taking and the speed of accomplishment. It seems to
be beyond any other explanation than that it is a mass
achievement, however great the impulse which may
have been given by Hitler ; that this is all another
phase of a human overturn which began on Aug. 1,
1914, and the end of which no man can foresee.
The dreadful pity of it is that this great awaken-
ing, if such it is, has been so thoroughly misdirected
and that it has progressed over the bodies and souls
of innumerable human beings and has been inimical to
everything that Anglo-Saxons think worth while in life.
*****
Communism
Economists have long pointed out that the twi-
light zone between the Soviet and Nazi totalitarian sys-
tems was steadily decreasing. Both have been alike
from the start in their bloodthirstiness, the brutality
of their power, their ruthlessness.
The proletarianising process was plainly at work
when I was previously in Berlin in 1931. Now I found
myself involuntarily saying again and again as I
walked the streets: “This is Russia, and not Berlin!”
The shabbiness of the clothing suggests it, the
drabness of life ; the high boots worn by so many
women; the pale, unhealthy color as well as the
gloomy sombreness of the masses. It has been a level-
ling down, not up, so far. A lifelong friend said to
me when I declared that German Communism would
be complete in five years: “What are you saying?
It is here now.”
In shaking hands with Stalin and releasing the
Communists from the concentration camps Hitler has
debarred himself from continuing the persecution of
German followers of Lenin and Marx. He cannot
send Germans to prison any more without trial merely
because they advocate the very same thing for which
his Russian partner stands. The Adlon Hotel in
Berlin is, as I write, full of Russian officials and the
employees of the various Russian Commissions.
If no alliance with Russia had come to pass,
the inevitable development of the war would still have
driven the country rapidly along the lines of Com-
munism.
If anyone should point out that even in the last
war there was great interference with private busi-
ness, yet the Government did not continue in that
direction to any serious degree after 1918, the reply
is that the governors of Germany after the fall of the
Kaiser were right-wing Socialists and not advocates
of totalitarian doctrines. Moreover, there was no
such currency situation as exists today.
I have seen a very careful study of the present
methods of Nazi domestic finances from the pen of
a neutral observer in Berlin. He thinks that if the
Germans do not sustain a military defeat and if there
is no unexpected collapse, they will be able to finance
themselves, so far as their internal needs are con-
cerned —this without reference to the question of pur-
chasing abroad. Should the Nazis win, he thinks that
they will simply cancel a large part of the debts owed
to their own people, a proceeding that would hardly
please the managers of the banks, insurance companies
and other financial institutions that are now loaded up
with Government promises to pay.
It is the realisation of these dangers, in addition
to those already enumerated, that makes the German
businessmen the most ardent advocates of an early
peace to be found in Germany.
* * * * *
Problem of Finance
The great outstanding question to be answered is:
“How can Germany get the necessary foreign currency
and gold to pay for the things that she must have?”
One hears a great deal said about secret hoards
of gold and the extraordinary skill with which the
barter and exchange system is carried on. But no one
whom I saw believed that Germany could give Russia
sufficient of what Russia wants to make unnecessary
large payments in currency. Russia’s own finances are
not too easy, and no one believes that Stalin’s sudden
love of the Nazis is such that he will give them what
they want on credit or for nothing, especially as he
knows that, if the Allies win the war, the Nazi Gov-
ernment will collapse.
The harder the German Government struggles
with the problem of financing the war the more it will
be compelled to dominate and control industrial life.
*****
Opposition to Nazi Policy
No person with an inquiring mind can be in Ger-
many long without being surprised at the number of
people who speak out openly of their opposition to
the Hitler regime.
There will be the inevitable temporary response
to the patriotic demands to present a united front and
not let the enemy think that there is a division. But
the differences will be there none the less, and will, I
believe, result eventually in the defeat of Hitler within
the Reich. Men cannot feel as deeply as did the
working men I talked with about the war and get over
that sense of wrong because the enemy is at the doors.
I became convinced that the Nazi High Com-
mand suffers from divided counsel and sharply diverg-
ing policy. In no other way is it possible to explain
the fumbling and uncertainty of the Government. It
is true that a strong group has been urging the in-
vasion of Holland, but strong forces within the Ger-
man army and within the Foreign Office are opposed
to any move that would again offend the moral sense
of the world, and especially rouse the United States.
I doubt very much whether Ribbentrop and his
policies are really approved by the bulk of the per-
manent officials of the Foreign Office and the Diplo-
matic Corps. I have no doubt that if this statement
is read in Berlin it will promptly be denied, and so
will my belief that a large section of these officials
would be the happiest men in Germany if they should
hear that the Allies had consented to discuss terms
of peace based upon the setting up of a small Czech
State, free and independent, and of a Polish State
without Danzig and the Corridor.
Hitler, however, is far from being in actual danger
of dethronement. Many who dislike the things that
he does and the Nazi system still have an admiration
for him personally. They admire his personal courage,
or his ability as an orator, or the simplicity and
probity of his life, or the way he gets things done.
They think him a mighty administrator who resurrected
Germany overnight, and built a magnificent army
before the Allies woke up to the fact. They would
probably not fight for him if the army took over, or
“Le Populaire,” Parts.
“Well, what shall we do?”
“That depends. What haven’t they said we might do?”
a sudden monarchist movement were to come to pass,
but they would be slow indeed actually to move against
him.
As long as he is with them, and does not com-
mit them to too desperate undertakings, the army will
work with him and under him. The test will come if
things go wrong, if there is steadily growing unrest
and dissatisfaction among the people, if the longing
for peace becomes vocal, both at home and at the front.
* * * * *
Peace Prospects
No queries have been put to me since my return
from Germany more often than this one: “If, as you
report, the German people are so overwhelmingly in
favor of peace, why do they not begin to make their
influence felt? And what can we British do to help
them to demand it?” The answer to the first ques-
tion is easy enough ; the second extremely difficult.
In a dictatorship the whole objective of the ruler
is to prevent the expression of opinion, not to encour-
age it, and when, as in Germany, the dictator controls
every organ of propaganda, every means of informa-
tion and communication, it must be obvious that he
will not be responsive to public opinion until it
becomes so overwhelming and insistent that he finds
he must yield to it, perhaps to the extent of losing his
dictatorship. As 1 have said before Hitler is far from
facing any such crisis, and his deluded people must
continue for the present to remain without influence
upon the conduct of their Government.
It must never be forgotten that those are ruthless
men in control in Berlin. They will compel their
people to accept their rule as long as they can pos-
sibly make them do so.
As to the second question —what can the British
and their Government do today to strengthen the
forces making against Hitler and for peace the most
important thing today is to offset the anti-British
propaganda, and to persuade the German people that
the British are neither fiends in human form, as now
represented to them, nor bent on destroying the
German people.
To do this must necessarily be extremely difficult,
but I am greatly encouraged to believe that it can be
done by the admirable recent address of the Prime
Minister, his renewed statement of the primary war
aims of the Allies and his announcement that after
they are achieved the Allies’ first desire “would be to
establish a new Europe ; not new in the sense of tear-
ing up all the old frontier posts and re-drawing the
map according to the ideas of the victors, but a
Europe with a new spirit, in which the nations which
inhabit it will approach their difficulties with goodwill
and mutual tolerance.”
Mr. Chamberlain’s statement of immediate war
aims should be printed at once in leaflet form, to-
gether with a specific promise—if French assent can be
obtained —of a general conference, to be called after
the war, to work for the Prime Minister’s peace aims:
a sane and just adjustment of boundaries ; “full and
constant flow of trade between the nations” ; self-
government free from interference from the outside so
long as a country does not become a menace to its
neighbors, and the abolition of great armaments.
Moral, military and economic disarmament
must be “sold” to the Germans if they are to be per-
suaded that the Allies’ war objectives are not the de-
struction of the happiness and life of the German
people but an earnest desire to remake Europe into
a livable continent.
These leaflets should be given the widest possible
circulation in Germany and neutral countries ; they
would eagerly be seized upon by multitudes, and would
find an echo in the hearts of those Germans who still
believe in the decencies of human society, as I can
testify. It would be idle to attempt to prophesy how
far the contents of such a leaflet would carry ; I can
only say that on the basis of my recent experience I
know of no other one thing that would do more to
offset that anti-British propaganda and make the
German people realise that an honorable peace is
theirs to be had for the asking if they would but force
their Government to accept the Allies’ terms.
In discussing in Germany, especially with busi-
nessmen, the question of an early peace, I stressed
three obvious obstacles: (1) The prevailing belief in
England that there will be an economic or spiritual
collapse in Germany within six months or a year ; (2)
the refusal of Hitler to give any indication that he will
discuss the reconstitution of Poland and of a Czech
State ; and (3) the vital question of German guarantees
that the peace treaty will not be torn up as soon as
Hitler thinks it safe or desirable to do so.
I found among the Germans little opposition to
the proposed reconstitution of a Czech and a Polish
State —not the Polish and Czech States as they were,
but none the less free and independent States. The
third question brought out only the suggestion that
there might be an international guarantee of the new
States by a few countries, the belligerent nations and
some neutrals,.
As to the first point, it was remarked to me that
if the hoped-for internal collapse comes, the German
people will of their own volition remove Hitler, but
that if he should remain the British might have to
treat with him and to work out adequate guarantees
at the peace table.
What possibility is there that Hitler would accept
the constitution of a Polish and a Czech State, even in
modified form, to say nothing of Austria? There is
very little chance indeed at present. I can only report
that I came away from Germany with a distinct im-
pression that such a solution would not be unaccept-
able to some officials.
The question is simply whether, in time, some of
the generals and some of the Foreign Office officials,
backed by a growing popular resentment against the
war and its hardships, will not move the Fiihrer to
yield on these points. No one can answer- that now
any more than anyone can tell us whether and, if so,
when the internal collapse will come.
Many of my friends in Germany, both Americans
and Germans, were of the opinion that attempts to dif-
ferentiate between Hitler and the people would arouse
resentment, would strengthen the Fiihrer and would
not necessarily do away with Hitlerism.
They declared that it would be the part of wis-
dom if the British Government refrained from making
the retirement of Hitler personally the sine qua non
of peace negotiations. The Americans particularly
declared that to direct a drive against Hitler would
arouse sympathy for him, and would be portrayed to
the Germans as a most reprehensible effort to inter-
fere in their internal affairs, to prescribe their form
of government and to say who should rule them. It
would be interpreted as the beginning of another effort
to dictate a peace. It would without question, they
think, steel the fighting opposition to the Allies, and
might even confuse the real issue—Hitlerism —by in-
jecting into it the personality of Hitler.
It is true, of course, that in the last war the Allies
and the United States similarly tried to differentiate
between the Kaiser and his people, but the Kaiser was
never personally as popular as Hitler still is with most
of the members of his Nazi party.
Meanwhile Germany goes on its way, uncertain,
confused, tortured, and thereby giving the lie to the
assertions of its false leaders that this is a nation born
to rule, and intended to dominate its Continent.
The mystery of the extraordinary German men-
tality is no nearer solution. How to harness the tre-
mendous ability and power of this people to the ser-
vice instead of to the menace of humanity remains the
problem upon the just solution of which depends the
fate of Europe.
Policies of Italy and Spain.
[The writer of the article here condensed from the
“Contemporary Review,” Robert Sencourt, has made
a Special study of Italian and Spanish policies, and was
one of the few who were right about the Spanish civil
war at the time.]
The secret of the Spanish situation is the key
to the situation over most of the Continent. The
Spanish war was a war of two totalitarianisms; one
was Sovietic and materialistic.; the other was Spanish
and spiritual. And this difference between Christianity
and atheism affected them in every detail of their


systems. Mussolini had also sponsored a religious
revival, and worked ip closer and closer collaboration
with the Church. The tragedy of the Hitler move-
ment, which began with some sympathies with reli-
gion, is that its leaders have worked in closer and
closer collaboration with the schemes of atheistic
Moscow—of that Moscow which, having failed to
win Spain or France, turned its cajoleries after
Munich to Ribbentrop, Himmler and Hess.
There can now be little question that Hitler’s
seizure of Prague was arranged by Moscow through
the atheistic General Sirovy, who had always had close
affiliations with Moscow. From that time on Hitler
worked in closer and closer collaboration with Mos-
cow. Early in June, according to the diplomatic corre-
spondent of the Manchester “Guardian,” the German
Ambassador in Moscow took back thither from Berlin
the draft of a treaty. Early in August the arrange-
ments were completed, and it was to hear this that
Count Ciano was summoned to Berchtesgaden on
August 12. The idea of Italy joining with Germany
and the Soviet to overrun and enslave Poland struck
Ciano, as it must strike almost any Italian, as being
far too dangerous. Far from being any use to Italy,
it definitely menaced her.
Italy was in no way bound: her military alliance
did not oblige her to act suddenly in one case after
another for objectives always and only German. And
she had long since seen that the Eden-Mussolini quarrel
had been as unfortunate for herself as for England.
Two practical considerations weighed strongly in
Italian calculations. Firstly, the treaties with Greece
and Turkey gave the British Fleet a strategic position
in the Mediterranean which Italy would find embar-
rassing. Secondly, the improvement in anti-aircraft
artillery proved that even a great air force could do
little against a powerful navy. It was found that
there was no longer anything in those strategic argu-
ments with which Mussolini had made so much play
in 1935. On the other hand, the hardly-won Empire
of Abyssinia would be sacrificed at once. Besides,
Italy had exhausted her financial reserves. Up to the
last moment the Italians worked for peace, as Sir
Nevile Henderson gratefully noticed in the case of the
Italian Ambassador to Berlin. In the days preceding
war Mussolini tactfully resisted Hitler’s obstinate pres-
sure, and, when the war broke out, the Italians de-
clared that they would take no part in a war where the
issues were purely German.
The Italians had two main objects in view: (1)
Not to be overpowered by the Moscow-Berlin axis
(2) a support of all those Danubian States whici
might be threatened by Moscow or Berlin. Their ole
support of Hungary was renewed: their new friend-
ships with Yugoslavia, Turkey and Greece were all
established on a new basis.
So much could be done without coming to logger-
heads with Germany. Italy had no wish to engage
in war with the dangerous Power overhanging her
frontiers ; also, she had to face the fact that 30 per
cent, of her trade went to Germany. If that market
were to be closed, her machinery would stop. This
is a fact which the Allies have to keep in constant
view in all their plans with or for Italy. She must
have adequate markets. And because Italy has to
keep in good relations with Germany, her press cannot
express the warmth of her feeling for Paris or London.
But the diplomats in these capitals received sufficient
assurances to make them care very little if Signor
Gayda says something on the other side.
A continuous factor in the situation has been
that Mussolini has never been absolute. In the mon-
archy he has retained a conservative force of balance
which never forgets the tradition of Italian diplomacy.
The other, not less important, is of course the Holy
See. The Vatican is at present working in very close
collaboration with the Italian Government, and the
Pope makes no secret of his sympathy with Catholic
Poland or his horror at the advance of Bolshevik
paganism. This also affects Spain. It was frequently
stated in English papers that the Moscow pact had
lost Germany the friendship of Spain ; but it is easy
to exaggerate the change it made then. Spain never
had the slightest intention of taking sides, against
England. That was entirely out of the question. Her
exports to England were essential: in a war the British
Navy could control her exports to Germany.
Besides, even had she desired it, Spain had no
resources left for resistance. Every ounce of her energy
has been taken in the difficult work of recuperation,
and, apart from all that, since all her petrol comes
from Standard Oil, she was dependent on good rela-
tions with the British Navy. Even with France her
relations have steadily improved.
Nevertheless, there is a difference in the ex-
pressed views of Spain and Portugal. Portugal’s
abhorrence of the Moscow-Berlin combination is
express and definite. General Franco advocates peace
between Germany and the Western Powers so that
both should combine against Moscow. “The irrup-
tion of the Soviet into Europe,” he said in a press
interview on October 2, “has opened very serious
dangers for the whole of Europe. The Western Poweis
should not hesitate to settle their differences, for it
is certain that Germany should constitute the main
barrier to the orientalisation of Europe.” If this phrase
could be broadcast in Germany it would be the best
piece of propaganda that the Allies could produce.
It sums up the attitude of the Mediterranean
Powers and their desire that a conservative force in
Germany should arise to separate her from Moscow.
This idea also voices the instincts of their national
life in their new zeal for corporate institutions and
their old adherence to Christian tradition. But it
affects their diplomacy for different reasons. Stalin s
pact with Hitler discredited Communism all over
Western Europe. Spain and Portugal can now ignore
it But Communism gains in Eastern Europe, and
especially in Bulgaria. Italy, therefore, must watch
from day to day. Not only are the interests of Italy at
stake, but those of the traditions and civilisation of
Europe. Italy therefore takes an open stand in favor
of peace.
South Africa and the War
ooum >\rrica ana me W ar.
l“The writer of the following,” says “World
Review, from which the article is condensed, “is an
Afrikaans-speaking political journalist who cannot be
•accused of being temperamentally pro-British.”]
“Is South Africa loyal?” is a question frequently
put to South Africans these days. The Afrikander
usually replies that he is loyal—to South Africa. He
knows no other allegiance; the homes of his an-
cestors are sentimentally and geographically remote,
The South African of British descent understands the
question differently. “Of course!" he says. “1 have
, , u 11 u i i , r- • „
ahvays been and always shall be loyal to the Empire.
e is no less a good South Afncan for that, but his
loyalty to South Africa is not exclusive like that of
his Afrikaans compatriot.
When Britain entered the war General Hertzog
at once introduced a motion affirming South African
neutrality. The result was a split in the Government
ranks. Hertzog's supporters number 67 Ms.P., all
Af,:izo«rioe , u-i o . , oc p ,1 i
Afrikanders, whi e Smuts has 85 followers, about
ree-quaiters of thern British.
General Smuts s first step on taking control was
to declare a state of war with Germany. At the same
time he announced that South African troops would
“Daily Mail," London.
“What, me? No, I never TOUCH goldfish!”
not leave the Union. Martial law has not been pro-
claimed, but Defence Force regiments (militia) have
been brought up to full strength and the annual train-
ing period has been extended. Emergency regulations
for the control of supplies, prices and war-time pro-
duction have been promulgated, and a relatively small
number of enemy aliens have been interned. Except
for the declaration of a state of war and the intern-
ment of enemy subjects, however, the Hertzog Gov-
ernment could not have done less.
The Government split on a controversy of long
standing. According to Hertzog the Crown is merely
a personal link between the various member-States of
the Commonwealth. Moreover, it is “divisible.” Hert-
zog claims that the King of England has a separate
personality as King in each of his Dominions. British
South Africans and supporters of General Smuts have
never accepted this theory of the divisibility of the
Crown. They maintain that if Britain (with which
they have racial and traditional ties) is at war, all
the Dominions, including South Africa, are automati-
cally, even if passively, at war, too. The Dominion
Parliaments, of course, must decide whether they wish
to abandon this “passivity” and take an active part
in the war.
Actually the question of neutrality is not the real
issue at all. The Hertzogites have abandoned racial
reconciliation, which was making encouraging pro-
gress, an increasingly liberal outlook, a sound labor-
capital policy ; they have swallowed the pill of re-
publicanism, which Hertzog had so bitterly con-
demned, anti-Semitism, segregation of the native and
colored people, a totalitarian regime hostile to
“foreign” capital and trade unions alike.
Why? Because of an irresistible urge towards
Afrikander unity. And in spite of the danger that
the “unity” movement may degenerate into an attempt
to impose upon South Africa an Afrikander hegemony.
The first objective of the Nationalists would be
to secure for the Union a Constitution similar to that
of Eire ; they would probably not go as far as De
Valera in diluting our relations with the rest of the
Commonwealth. Should they come into power —and
the likelihood is not at all remote —they will seek to
abolish the Governor-Generalship, appeals to the Privy
Council, etc., but this will not materially alter the
present situation. The “neutrality” issue is nothing but
a bargaining counter ; they hope that while the Com-
monwealth is otherwise engaged they will be able to
get away with their real objectives. They would bar-
gain away their “neutrality” for these aims.
What British South Africans and Afrikanders
have most to fear has nothing whatever to do with
Commonwealth relations or Republicanism. Fascism,
totalitarianism within our own borders, is our great-
est danger.
The Afrikanders, still individualists, and most
undisciplined ones at that, have taken an extraordinary
liking to Nazism. They think “discipline” will do
them and the country good. They also want to keep
people “in their place”'—the Blacks and Colored, the
“foreigners,” and not least that useful scapegoat the
Jew. Most Afrikanders have a friendly feeling for
Germany and do not readily believe anything deroga-
tory about the Nazis. They have high standards of
decency, but German propaganda, so very much more
efficient, accommodating and attractive than demo-
cratic propaganda, is busy all the time, and unfortu-
nately goes uncontradicted. Party politicians trade
on this ignorance and credulity.
It cannot be long before the Afrikander’s eyes are
opened to Nazism. As for the question with which
this article opens: there will certainly be no active
hostility against the Democratic Alliance; indeed,
many national-minded Afrikanders will still join the
battle for Democracy. Finally, the problem is not
whether South Africa is loyal, but whether all South
Africans can be convinced that the only community
of interest we have in the world today is with the
sister-States of the British Commonwealth of Nations.
Britain’s “Silent Revolution.”
(W. J. Brown, general secretary of the Civil Service
Clerical Association, in London “Daily Express”)
Wars sometimes end in revolution. This war is
beginning with one —a silent revolution in the distri-
bution of incomes, in the incidence of prosperity and
adversity, as between classes of society, sections of
classes and individuals.
Ultimately the six millions a day already being
spent on the war can only be found in one way—
by a reduction in the standard
of life of the whole people.
But inside this framework of
a generally lowered standard
of life there are great con-
trasts of fortune both as be-
tween classes and within
classes.
In the first month of war
the cost of living increased by
6} per cent. The figure for
the second month will show a
further increase of at least as
much. This does not affect
those whose wages are regu-
lated on a sliding scale, but it
must bring great hardship to
the thousands in receipt of
unemployment assistance and
statutory unemployment pay,
the old-age pensioners and
the widow pensioners, the
pensioners from the Army
and the Navy and the civil
service.
Then there are the mil-
lions of workers in public
and private employment
whose wage arrangements
take no account of rises in
the cost of living. Among
these are some of the lowest-
paid workers in Britain who
come under the trade boards —a piece of machinery
which functions very slowly—and the 700,000
employees of the State and municipalities.
Plainly, if the cost of living is to go on rising, all
these categories will, unless something is done, slide
back in their standard of life in relation to the wage-
earners in the first two categories.
Much greater contrasts in fortune are to be found
in the business world. In the switch-over from a pre-
war to a war-time economy the munition and arma-
ment makers are doing very well. So are the ship-
builders, airplane makers and machine-tool makers.
So, too, are the coalowners and big oil and petrol
concerns. In short, those industries most closely asso-
ciated with the production of war necessities. But
there are snags about their position too —income tax,
Defence Contribution Tax and the probability that
there will be a supplementary levy on increased per-
sonal fortunes, either at a later stage of the war or
at its end.
As against these well-favored areas, there are
tragic cases of loss. Thus, the little local garage
proprietor has had a knockout blow. Rationing of
petrol heavily reduces his petrol sales, and the diffi-
culty of getting petrol leads a large proportion of his
customers to lay up their cars, so that his repair work
also shrinks. It would be interesting to know how
many petrol stations throughout the country there
are “up for sale” at the present time.
Road-houses, which are a product of the motor-
car age, have been very heavily hit. Shopkeepers have
been injured in areas from which evacuation has taken
place, but they have benefited in reception areas.
Restaurants, so far as their evening trade is concerned,
have been very heavily hit by the black-out. So far
as their midday trade is concerned, their fortunes are
dependent on their locality.
Public-houses have experienced very mixed for-
tunes. Some publicans have told me that their tak-
ings are heavily down because the black-out leads
people to stay at home rather than risk the dangers
of darkened streets. On the other hand, some have
told me, especially in country towns, that the general
gloom has had the effect of bringing people to the
saloons for light and social intercourse.
The fate of seaside boarding-houses or hotel
proprietors has been governed by their whereabouts.
On the East Coast towns the war fell with catastrophic
effect before their short summer season was ended.
There will be scores of towns on the East Coast which
before long will find the problem of collecting rates
and maintaining municipal services an impossible one
without Government aid.
On the other hand, if you were in Devonshire or
the North Wales coast, for example, you might have
found yourself presented with a twelve months’ season
instead of the usual three or four months. Or you
might have found your hotel commandeered, your
carefully gathered staff scattered and your furniture
and equipment thrown on to the streets. And you


would not yet have received a penny by way of
compensation!
In short, there is no end to the sudden reversals
of fortune, the sharp changes in income distribution
and in the levels of income, which are going on within
the general framework of war-time social conditions.
Wholesale Soviet Obit.
[From Stalin, by Boris Souvarine (published by
Seeker and Warburg). M. Souvarine’s book was
reviewed on the Red Page, 27/12 / ’39.]
From Stalin’s circle there have disappeared in
1938 the majority of his close auxiliaries, well-known
Stalinists ready for anything, members of his Polit-
bureau, of his Central Committee, of his Control
Commission, of his Council of Commissars, of his
Executive Committee of the Soviets, of his Council
of Labor and Defence: Rudzutak, Postyshev, Petrov-
sky, Chubar, Akulov, S. Kossior, Eikhe, Antipov,
Bubnov, Krylenko, Unschlicht, the brothers Mezh-
lauk, Yakovlev, Janson, Soltz, Lomov, Sulimov,
Miliutin, Kaminsky, Pashukanis, Rukhimovich, Khin-
chuk, Liubimov, Arbuzov and how many others, not
to mention the assassinations, the suicides, the punish-
ments already stated [in the course of the book; this
lot is on p. 634], Five Presidents out of seven of
the Executive of the Soviets, and almost all the mem-
bers or candidates; the People’s Commissars in the
approximate proportion of nine out of ten. And to
disappear under Stalin means to perish suddenly in
a cellar or to waste away slowly in an unhealthy
climate. Of the directing staff of the party formed in
Lenin’s lifetime, there remain, twenty years after
October, only Trotsky in Mexico and, in Moscow,
Stalin.
There have perished or disappeared without pub-
licity in 1938 almost all the eighty members of the
Council of War constituted in November, 1934, to
assist the Commissar for Defence: besides the nine
leaders already inscribed on the roll of death, Generals
Alksnis, Kashirin, Bielov, Dybenko, who had pro-
nounced the death sentence on their comrades, fol-
lowed by Marshals Yegorov and Bliicher, Generals
Savitsky, Smolin, Velikanov, Ozolin, Gorbachev,
Hekker, Sukhorukov, Kuibyshev, Tkachev, Khripin,
Pomerantsev, Mezis, Apse, Bokis, Admirals and Vice-
Admirals Orlov, Victorov, Sivkov, Muklevich, Ludry,
Kireyev, Kojanov, Dushenov, Ivanov, Smirnoy-
Sverdlovsky, followed and accompanied by thousands
of other officers of all ranks. A man with no poli-
tical past, a former secretary of Stalin who had
become Assistant Commissar for War, Mekhlis, in
concert with Yezhov, ceaselessly pursues the bloody
purge. It is estimated in the U.S.S.R. that have
been more than thirty thousand victims in the “Red"’
Army and Navy —red with the blood of “his” fol-
lowers shed by Stalin.
There have perished or disappeared all the chief
leaders and deputy-leaders of the G.P.U., following
their chief: Agranov, Prokofiev, Balitsky, Messing,
Pauker, Trilisser, Zakovsky, Slutsky, Deribas, Mol-
chanov, Mironov, Leplevsky, and even former Chekists
in retirement, Peters and Latsis ; with them the major-
ity of their colleagues, many of their subordinates.
There have disappeared, after the two Assistant Com-
missars of Foreign Affairs, the ambassadors, pleni-
potentiaries or Consuls-General Yurenev, Bogomolov,
Arossiev, Davtian, Rosenberg, Antonov-Ovseenko,
Tikhmeniev, Jakubovich, Bekzadian, Arens, Brodov-
sky, Podolsky, Ostrovsky, Asmus. Two have saved
their honor with their lives by remaining abroad,
A. Barmin and W. Krivitsky, the latter in the service
of the Commissariat of War.
There have disappeared, by a supreme irony of
fate, the large majority of the members of the Com-
mission of “the most democratic Constitution in the
world,” and those of the Commission for the revision
of historical textbooks, admirers of Ivan the Terrible.
There have disappeared almost all of those who estab-
lished the Five Year Plans, theoreticians and experts,
industrialisers and collectivisers, policemen and execu-
tioners, the directors of the principal industrial and
agricultural “giants,” and inaugurators of the greatest
new undertakings, the Commissars for Industry, heavy
and light, and for Collective Agriculture. There have
disappeared all the statisticians, Ossinsky, Strumilin,
Kraval at their head, whose faked calculations have
long served as the basis for Stalin’s fictions and
deceits.
There have disappeared the last survivors of the
Communist International, proscribes of their com-
rades, self-seeking flatterers of “the glorious pilot of
the world October”: Helen Stassova, Pyatnitsky, Bela
Kun, Eberlein, Remmele, Warsky, Waletsky, Dombal,
Borodin and the majority of the mediocrities who
were carving out a career in the Bureau of that cor-
rupt and parasitic institution.
There have perished, for the most part executed
after so-called trials in camera, or have disappeared
in the course of this interminable Saint Bartholomew
of Communists, the rulers of all the pseudo-federated
Republics: those of White Russia, Goloded, President
of the Council, Diakov, Benek, etc., People’s Commis-
sars ; in addition to Cherviakov, President of the
Executive, and Generals Üborevich and Bielov ; those
of the Ukraine, Bondarenko, President of the Council;
Sukhomlin, Vice-President; Zatonsky, Rekis, etc.,
People’s Commissars; in addition to Chubar, Liub-
chenko, Yakir already mentioned; those of Uzbe -
kistan, Akhun-Balayev, President of the Executive;
P. Khodjayev, President of the Council, and his two
brothers, etc.; those of Tadjikistan, Chotemor, Presi-
dent of the Executive ; Rakhimbayev, President of
the Council; Imanov, Kaktyn, Shirinov, etc., Vice-
President and Commissars ; those of Turkmenistan,
Aitakov, President of the Executive; Atabayev, Sak-
hatov, President and Vice-President of the Council ;
Atayev, etc., Commissars ; those of Khirghiz, Isakov,
President of the Council, and his principal Commis-
sars ; those of Karelia, Arkhipov, President of the
Executive ; Bushuyev, President of the Council, etc.;
those of Transcaucasia and Azerbaijan, Mussabekov
and Efendiev, Presidents of the Executive; Rakh-
manov, President of the Council; Safarov, Sultanov,
Ibrahimov, Husseinov, etc., Commissars; those of
Armenia, Ter-Gabryelian, President of the Council;
Mamikonian, Kalantarian, Shakhnazarian, etc., Com-
missars in addition to Khandjian.
We must make special mention of Georgia,
fatherland of Stalin, Ordjonikidze and Yenukidze,
where a “man with no political past,” L. Beria, has
mown “in large armfuls” for his lord and master.
After B. Mdivani, former President of the Council,
and Okudjava, Toroshelidze, Chikhladze, Kurulov,
Kartsevadze (socialist) and G. Eliava (bacteriologist),
who were executed in July of the year of terror, there
were Mgalobishvili and Agniashvili, President and
Vice-President of the Council; Metvereli, Abashidze
and about ten of their colleagues, Commissars ; then
Gogoberidze, another former President of the Coun-
cil ; Kirkvelia, Kavtaradze, Commissars; S. Eliava,
L. Gueguechkori, the socialists S. Davderiani, G. Mak-
haradze ; finally Orakhelashvili, former President of
the Council of Transcaucasia. In Adjaristan: Lorki-
panidze, President of the Executive, G. Ramishvili,
“De Groene,” Amsterdam.
DUTCH NIGHTMARE OF A STRANGE WAR.
E. Megrelidze, G. Laguidze and half a dozen other
Commissars. In Ossetia: Togoyev, President of the
Executive; Maurer, secretary of the party, etc. In
Abkhazia: Nestor Lakoba, President of the Executive,
and his two relations, Michael and Basil, besides a
dozen Commissars. Nestor Lakoba, accused of homi-
cidal intentions with regard to Stalin, was actually
the author of the pamphlet “Stalin and Khashim, ’ in
which he celebrates “the greatest man of a whole
epoch, such as history gives to humanity only once
in one or two hundred years/’ the “genial leader, un-
shakable and made of steel, our dear and beloved
Stalin.*’
Uncle Sam in China.
(Condensed from a “Contemporary Review” article by
Lancelot Forster, Hong Kong.)
In China for 25 years the influence of the United
States from a cultural and social point of view was
dominant. China was moulded by this American
philosophy which determined the character of her
growth.
A survey of the educational institutions in China
which expressly stood for American ideals shows them
scattered over the whole country. The national uni-
versities of China for the most part are or were staffed
by Chinese graduates who have sat at the feet of
American professors. The Chinese scholars who guided
China in her initial efforts to come into line with the
West were men like Hu Shih and Chiang Mon-lin
men who sat at the feet of Dr. Dewey in Columbia.
Dewey came to China in 1923, and provided the
framework for educational development on national
lines. Madame Chiang Kai-shek, who has done more
than any woman to mould opinion in China, and more
than most men, is a product of Wellesley College in
the United States. St. John’s University, Shanghai,
under Dr. Hawks Pott, the American president, poured
out a steady stream of social and political leaders for
China.
The question arises whether America did not com-
mit a great wrong in giving the impression that the
whole of the United States had sponsored the move-
ment and would steer the country safely through the
infant stages of political development, seeing that the
character of the teaching implied the active protection
of the powerful tutor-nation. Without that guarantee
the system imposed was dangerous.
The result of this contact with America was that
the mind of young China was conditioned in a setting
that had little or no relation to the actual requirements
of China. America has 3000 miles of ocean on one
side, and 4000 on the other, and can pursue
her course without serious distraction on account of
enemies. Neutrality or freedom from foreign entangle-
ments is the keynote of American political life. Hence
Americans devote all their energies to the solution of
social problems, and emphasise the civilian rather than
the military side of national life. The young Chinese
student was nourished on these same doctrines.
It was a matter of considerable importance that
the Chinese students should have been made to realise
the necessity for national solidarity, good organisation
and the need for providing for national defence. This
was not done, nor could it be done, and yet the
antagonism in China against the Japanese found a
sympathetic response in the U.S.A. It is because this
atmosphere of the educational institutions in China
was considered by the Japanese to be anti-Japanese
that a special effort was made to destroy them.
It cannot be too strongly emphasised that it is
American culture that is being destroyed in China.
It is the democratic outlook acquired in the States and
applied in China that the Japanese are definitely
eliminating. Britain is losing for the time being her
trade, but nothing else. In commerce she is dominant
among the Western Powers in China, just as in the
same way America is or has been dominant in the
cultural sphere. The United States clearly indicated
to China that she had no further interest when her
Ambassador informed Wang Ching Wei, then Foreign
Minister, that America’s economic interests
in China were so small that his country
would not take any steps to oppose Japan.
After the interview Wang Ching Wei said
to his colleagues that the statement was
the most disappointing and least expected
of any that he had heard.
Wang Ching Wei, a personally
ambitious man, but not corrupt, is the most
outstanding politician in China today. He
is no lover of the democracies, and firmly
believes that China can make the best deal
with the powerful neighbor near her coasts,
rather than with Western Powers which,
from a great distance, support China’s
claims sentimentally, but can do nothing
practically.
Disciplined Democracy.
(Condensed from an article in London
“Economist.”)
It is now dangerous blindness, when
workable democracy is seen to be a sine
qua non of both peace and prosperity, to
think of it merely in terms of unrestricted
individual liberty. We can no longer afford
a state of political affairs in which theory
is out of line with unavoidable practice.
The French have realised this. The French
Government rules by plenary powers, re-
newed periodically by Parliament. There
is no outcry that this is dictatorship. It is
rather democratic government doing its job
for the community, not halted and hampered by tne
fear to assume the necessary authority lest the rights
and privileges of individuals should seem to be out-
raged.
It is precisely this lesson, that democratic govern-
ments no less than dictatorships must always have
plenary power in posse, without sacrificing their demo-
cratic and representative character, which needs to be
learnt nowadays. There is no restrictive penumbra of
individual rights that can never be touched by govern-
ment in administrative matters whatever the circum-
stances. There is no limit to the powers of ruling which
can and should be taken by a Government which has
been freely chosen by the people and can be fully and
openly criticised by any opposition. There is only
the fabric of a fair judicial system to be retained
always intact —the right to swift trial in open court
by recognised processes, and only for breaches of a
known law.
These, in fact, are the only safeguards that
modern democracy needs —the perpetual right of the
people through their representatives to change the
Government if they are dissatisfied, free speech, free
criticism, free opposition and protection by impartial
courts against capricious oppression. However power-
ful the Government may become, so long as these
safeguards are maintained it is democratic.
A disciplined democracy differs in another way
from a dictatorship—in its objectives. The aim of
democratic government, both economically and poli-
tically, is to create the conditions for an abundant
life. The means to that end must be to control and
curb the sectional interests which direct economic
activity and ceaselessly press upon the political system
to subserve their narrow claims. The true test of
democratic policv in the economic sphere is whether
it places the interest of the community of individuals
before the interest of individuals.
The counter-cry to these views is that they mean
the very totalitarianism we are fighting against. To
conscript the individual citizen for national service, it
is said, to restrict the rights of property or to inter-
fere with the direction of economic affairs by busi-
nessmen, is to travel the Nazi road. The riposte is
invalid. It is only because Britain is an island that
it has hitherto lacked a system of conscription to
embody the clearly democratic idea of universal
service to the community. It is only because British
politicians and pundits have been myopic and obsti-
nate that they have failed to admit what the course
of events has in fact realised, namely, that, in the
complex economy of the twentieth century, some form
of order and organisation must be imposed by the
State, if the community of individuals are not to
suffer as they did under feudalism or in the dark
days of the early Industrial Revolution. It is only
organised and disciplined democracy that can be effec-
tively democratic ; and if peace by democracy is a
prime war aim it is this that must be taken to heart.


SPORTING NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The fact of six horses being equal
favorites at 8 to 1 for the Carrington
Stakes shows how open backers reckoned
the race. Yet it was won quite easily by
Delmestor from an outsider in Talkalot.
Delmestor is not a big mare, but, making
light of her 9.7, she had the pacemakers,
Diogenes and Petruchio, beaten a furlong
from home, and from that out there was
no doubt as to the result. It was a sur-
prise when Talkalot did so well at six
furlongs, but an even greater one was to
see Diogenes fighting Petruchio for the
lead right into the straight. He died away
at the finish, but he now enters into cal-
culations for other open races at ordi-
nary meetings.
A. E. Cooper went for a good win on
Petruchio, but, though that horse showed
he retained his earlier pace, he was beaten
into third place. As racing is bound to
improve him, he should not be long in
compensating for this failure. As I
thought probable, the early pace bothered
Grey Derby, and he also struck a little
interference, but, among the fancied divi-
sion, nothing did worse than my selec-
tion, Diamond Wedding, who never got
farther forward than the middle of the
field. Caesar and Denis, as usual, were
slow to get going, and the race was prac-
tically over when they started to show
up. Bradford and Anne ran much below
expectations, and six furlongs at Rand-
wick in a good field would seem beyond
Reception.
When Delmestor won last season’s Car-
rington Stakes she had 8.13, and her
recent win with 9.7 makes her about the
best sprinting mare in Australia. Green-
line won two Carrington Stakes, but not
in succession, there being an interval of
three years between his successes.
K. Stuart, who races and trains Delmes-
tor, must thoroughly understand her, as
she has rarely run a bad race. Her pedi-
gree, though good, is not exactly fashion-
able. She is by Polymestor from Deltis,
by Wallace Isinglass from Courtesy, by
Paddington. She cost only 45 guineas
as a yearling.
Sedunum has been a good money-
earner for C. O. Battye at Randwick. His
win in the Denman Handicap was his
sixth at that track, and, inclusive of
minor place-money, the return has been
over £3400. As he has won elsewhere,
Sedunum is probably the most profitable
horse raced by Battye since Tregilla. His
recent form had not been out of the ordi-
nary, but, with Munro as his rider, he
was backed for the Denman Handicap in
a fashion that suggested he was nearly
at his best again.
That summing-up was correct, as,
though Binnia Hero looked a winner half
a furlong from home, Sedunum’s finish-
ing run was too much for him. Loom-
bah, who did most of the pacemaking,
led into the straight from Rodborough,
John Peel and Sidcup, and it was not
until the leger was reached that
Sedunum’s backers flattered themselves
that they had a reasonable chance of
landing their money.
Old Rowley, who was at the rear of
the field, in company with Bristol, at the
seven furlongs, was a close third, and
promises to be as good as at any pre-
vious time. Curiosity, who showed up
at the finish, was fourth, while John Peel
again dropped out some distance from
home. No excuse was possible for him,
as he had a perfect position all the way
to the home turn. His two runs last week
did not favor him as a staying possibility.
Gimme did sufficiently well to give him a
chance of scoring a suburban win, while
Sidcup again weakened at the finish, and
Pen Name’s saddle slipped. Bristol, as
usual, was slow in finding his legs, and
at no stage gave his backers any hope.
Rodborough’s favoritism for the race
was something of a surprise. In a strong
field he had 101 b. more than he carried
in the Villiers, and, though he once won
at a mile and a quarter at Randwick, he
then had only 7.12. In Saturday’s race
he was well placed to the straight en-
trance, but the last furlong stopped him
completely. When Rodborough won the
corresponding race a year ago, Sedunum
was a close third with 9.2, and, carrying
an additional 21b., met the former 81b.
better last week.
At one period of his career Spearbine
appeared a broken-down horse, but M.
Laidlaw has done well with him, and
as he made a mile and three-quarters
hurdling record for Randwick when he
won on Saturday he is probably better
than at any previous time. Always
prominent, he took the lead in the
straight, and scored nicely from Lockslea
and Berrima, though, if a flying paper
had not scared Glaucus and caused him
to run right off the course at the three
furlongs when leading, the result might
have been different. At the finish Glaucus
was running on again, and, as he is only
four years old, he is likely to develop
into a really good hurdler. King Otho
was going easily in second place when
he lost his rider, but it was too early in
the piece to say how he would have fared
if he had escaped mishap.
In the Juvenile Stakes Many Ways ran
another good race, but though she was
with Session in the lead entering the
straight the latter’s pull in weight told
at the finish. Our Barney, after meeting
with a check early in the piece, was a
fair third, while the particular disappoint-
ment of the race was Sobersides. How-
ever, he was squeezed back last soon
after barrier-rise.
Whatever chance Dawn Mary may
have possessed was settled when she ran
off the course at the turn, and she did
well to finish seventh or eighth. She
has been unlucky at her last two starts,
but as she is dropping in the weights
a win for her may come in due course.
Roxford again ran fairly, while Spun
Wool also showed improvement. Tidal
Wave (Tiderace-My Own), who cost
1450gns. in Wellington last January, did
nothing to greatly flatter his owner. Hall
Mark had runners in John Redmond
and Schiehallion, and the latter showed
pace early in the race.
Session is owned by P. Miller, who
breeds more yearlings than anyone else
in Australia, but Broadcaster and Session,
who have done most for him this season,
are by Marconigram, who is not at his
stud. This is merely another instance
of the luck attaching to breeding.
High Rank was the winner of the
Novice Handicap a long way from home,
and, with 9.0, ran the same time that
Leeds (8.10) put up in the following
race, the Pace Welter. Padua improved
upon his recent efforts, but, though he
tried to win all the way, had no chance
against the winner, whose success showed
to what extent bad luck in running can
tell against a horse. Early last month
John Peel gave High Rank 221 b. and
an easy beating at a mile. John Peel
would have stood little chance against
him on those terms on Saturday. Mab-
son and Fay B. both finished well enough
to make them worth keeping in mind for
a similar class of race.
As a yearling High Rank cost 575gn5.,
and, though one might look to Chatham’s
progeny more for speed than staying
ability, High Rank’s efforts have sug-
gested the possibility of his getting a
distance. He is out of Christmas Lily,
who is by Comedy King from Oracular,
by Orme. High Rank’s half-brother, Noel
Soldat, was a good horse over a short
course, while some of Christmas Lily’s
half-brothers were fair stayers.
When Leeds was beaten by Miss
Pentheus in the first division of the
Encourage Handicap on the opening day
of the A.J.C. meeting he gave the im-
pression that a mile would have suited
him better than six furlongs. He proved
it was so in winning the Pace Welter
on Saturday, when he finished too
strongly for Valhalla and Flaring in the
Pace Welter. Valhalla was unlucky in
running, but in any case I do not think
he could have beaten Leeds. The latter’s
two previous wins in Sydney were at
a mile, and in one he was in receipt o)
only 21b. from Gilltown, who ran second
In finishing third in the Pace Weltei
Flaring ran his usual honest race.
Glorious, who was always prominent,
was fourth, attended by Progress. Apart
from the winner, nothing finished better
than the latter, who is evidently going
to act up to her two-year-old promise.
Black Fern and Fiddler ran fairly, but
though there was backing for Breeze she
did not do as well as in her previous
races. Lithgow was outclassed. Leeds
is by Rossendale from Princess Delight,
and therefore a brother to Bradford. He
is a year younger than Bradford, and
though not as brilliant may prove a
better stayer.
* * * *
Boxing Day demonstration against
Plymouth Hoe notwithstanding, Mel-
bourne race crowds can “take it.” Con-
siderate was beaten out of a place when
an odds-on favorite in a field of six at
Ballarat last Thursday. There was not
a murmur from the crowd when he re-
turned to the enclosure after having
beaten hot favorite Bursary in the Wood-
leigh Handicap at Mentone on Saturday.
Considerate’s form was a striking re-
versal, but nobody was more surprised
or upset about his Ballarat failure than
owner J. S. Dunbar, chairman of the
Victorian Club. Dunbar, who is not a
big bettor, supported his colt at the
country course, but cut his commission
down on Saturday, when Considerate
started at 7 to 1. Only explanation he
can advance for the colt’s failure on
Thursday was the flintlike track. He
says that the going was as hard as iron,
that Considerate has “a bit of a leg,” and
probably favored it on the hard surface.
All of which was bad luck for backers,
too, for had Considerate not run at Bal-
larat he would probably have been
favorite for the Mentone race. His
fourth to Mac Rob, Sir Romeo and Lord
Walla at the previous meeting on this
track would have entitled him to that
position.
Reference was made in The Bulletin
recently to a probable bright future for
apprentice Tom Griffiths. This 18-year-
old lad, who weighs 7.2 fully dressed, has
been showing good form lately, but he
eclipsed all previous efforts by landing a
hat-trick at Mentone, the last Melbourne
meeting of 1939. He won the first three
races on Madame Coue, Considerate and
Owen Roe, and was fourth on Miss Burn,
his only other mount of the afternoon.
Only one of the three winners was trained
by his master, Steve Murphy, ample evi-
dence that outside owners and trainers
have been quick to realise the ability of
this up-and-coming youngster, whose
tally after Saturday was 11 winners in
the metropolitan area and five at country
meetings. Griffiths, who hails from Bal-
ranald (N.S.W.), is a nephew of former
well-known jockey Pat Egan, is a level-
headed lad, and success is not likely to
affect him. His performance on Satur-
day was not a record for an apprentice,
Steve Murphy recalling that Harold Skid-
more, when apprenticed to him, piloted
four winners in one afternoon at Men-
tone.
Next Oaks Stakes is 10 months off, but
Dr. C. N. Raphael already is visualising
success in that race with Madame Coue,
a filly he races in partnership with his
wife. Dr. Raphael has paid high prices
for several of the horses he races, and has
never paid less than the 55 guineas he
gave for Madame Coue, who returned
£l5O in prize-money for her easy win in
the Beaumaris Handicap at Mentone. The
filly comes from a galloping family, being
a half-sister to Prairie Moon (winner of
the Oaks), San Carlos and My Boy (also
raced by Dr. Raphael), but evidently the
fact of her being by Outpost did not
appeal to yearling buyers. Outpost, by
The Night Patrol, raced with some success
in Adelaide and Melbourne, but he was
not a “fashionable” sire. In Madame
Coue he sired a smart galloper in his
first season, and his stock should be more
in demand at the next yearling sales.
Backed from 9 to 2 down to favoritism
at 3 to 1, Mac Rob staged another of his
remarkable Mentone performances to
win the Summer Handicap. Mac Rob is
a Mentone specialist, his last three wins
having been recorded on this course, and
on each occasion his backers would have
sold out cheap at the home turn. Satur-
day’s performance was his most amazing
of all. He was last, fully 25 lengths be-
hind the tearaway Lady Kooringal, at
the half-mile, and was still last, about
20 lengths behind the pacemaker, begin-
ning the turn into the straight. Once
straightened up for the run home he
stretched out in earnest, passed horse
,after horse, gained the upper hand after
a short struggle with French Legion, and
beat the latter half a neck. A three-
year-old Parenthesis-Llamrei colt trained
by Harry Gabell for R. Mclntyre and H.
Robertson, Mac Rob is a notoriously
slow beginner, and will not take hold of
the bit until he has travelled about six
furlongs. Then he puts all his heart into
his work and refuses to give in.
Task of going straight from maiden to
open company success was just beyond
French Legion, but his close second to
Mac Rob in the Mentone Summer Han-
dicap augured well for his future. This
imported French horse, trained by Dick
O’Donnell for O. K. I. Tyson, is a
stayer with a future. Losses on French
Legion probably were regained later in
the day when Atticus, who races in the
same interests, dead-heated for first with
National in the Talgarno Welter, start-
ing at 10 to 1. Atticus adds to the num-
ber of horses whose ability on the flat
has not been affected by a course of
hurdle racing.
Melbourne’s last race of 1939, the
Talgarno Welter at Mentone, was chock-
ful of excitement. Not only did the
dead-heaters, Atticus and National, equal
Manrico’s course record by running the
seven furlongs in 1.25, but people who
watched the finish from the grand-
stand side of the judge’s box were of
opinion that Atticus had won. Their
angle favored Atticus, who, ridden in
behind on this occasion, made his run
on the outside of the field. Spectators
on the opposite side of the winning post
thought National had got there. National
was ridden by Ossie Phillips, who had
booked to leave for India recently, only
to be informed almost on the eve of his
departure that it would be advisable to
cancel the trip for the time being.
Instead of a big pay-out on Cumulus,
Mentone bookmakers were unlucky not
to be good winners over Kerfils in the
Sorrento Handicap. Kerfils, a 10-to-l
chance, made the running and seemed
to be. going particularly well when she
ran wide and lost a good deal of ground
at the home turn. She battled on gamely
after becoming balanced again, but
Cumulus beat her in a finish which
looked closer than the official half-neck.
Cumulus, however, recorded a good per-
formance. Usually a smart beginner, she
dropped a long way out of her ground
early, and backers who sent her out
favorite at 6 to 4 would gladly have sold
out at a big discount when she was still
behind four horses on the bend. Forcing
a passage between the leaders, Cumulus
hit the front inside the last furlong and
went on to record her third win from
her last four starts.
Owned by Eli Phillips, who won a
Grand National with Jullundur over 20
years ago, Owen Roe made a one-act
affair of the Mentone Rosebud Trial
Handicap. He went to the front early,
held a clear lead entering the straight, and
won decisively from Aerostat and the
favorite. Con Burn. Owen Roe’s form
was an improvement on his effort at Wil-
liamstown at his previous start, but the
rails position helped him on Saturday.
He jumped away smartly and missed in-
terference which prejudiced the chances
of several other runners.
International is one of the most dis-
appointing horses Jack Fryer has had in
his stables for years. The ex-Maori-
lander was once expected to win a Caul-
field Cup, but apparently has slipped to
such an extent that in the Mentone
Summer Handicap he received weight
from and was beaten by every other
runner. Fryer was very keen on his
chance, too, but International was never
a likely danger. Fryer is becoming exas-
perated with him, and says his next race
probably will be over hurdles.
Another ex-Maorilander, Saki, trained
by M. T. McGrath, drew attention to his
immediate future by running third to
the dead-heaters, National and Atticus, in
the Talgarno Welter. Saki, who was
bred in Victoria, being by Eastern
Monarch-Ingodina, was having only his
third race in Melbourne, and, always
well placed, was in front close to home.
He is likely to improve, and McGrath
can be depended upon to place him to
advantage.
* * * *
The books beat the tote in more than
one race at Randwick on Saturday. Not-
ably so in connection with Sedunum in
the Denman Handicap. His starting
price in the ring was 6 to 1, and the
machine return was slightly less than
4 to 1. Delmestor, too, was more popu-
lar on the tote than with the books. With
the layers she closed at 8 to 1, and her
tote backers received slightly less than


7to 1. The books also beat the tote by
a small margin in connection with Leeds,
but Session’s £27 14s. 3d. for ss. adver-
tised the machine.
* * * *
John Peel’s showing in the Summer
Cup was a shock for his backers. On
his form in both mile races he won it
seemed certain he would play a promi-
nent part for a mile and a quarter at
least. He did not do even that, though
he had a perfect run for the first mile,
never being further back than fourth.
His owners were unpleasantly surprised,
as the effort put him in the light of a
non-stayer. On breeding he should
at least stay as well as his half-brother
Ammon Ra, though a mile and a half
was every bit as far as the latter liked.
Malagigi did much better than John
Peel, but, as usual, hung out a bit, and
scarcely looked a winner at any time
in the straight. Backers of Bringa
had no reason to be on good terms
with themselves when he was last at
the seven furlongs, but one thing that
gave him a chance of making up his
leeway was that the field was not strung
out.
He really ran much about the same
as last year, when I thought he should
have won instead of finishing third. The
time was the same, 2.46 i, and I heard
the comment “Won because the field
was made up of poor stayers,” and per-
haps that was not wide of the mark.
Own Folk did well to get a close third,
but minus his 41b. overweight Bringa’s
stable-companion Santa might have just
won. Hurdler Winning Post did much
better than anticipated, while Young
Crusader with 7.7, against the 8.11 he
carried when second a year earlier, was
last.
* * * *
In Tattersall’s Cup at Randwick
on New Year’s Day Loombah carted the
field along for the first mile, leading
Santa, Rodborough and Binnia Hero. At
the “five” Malagigi was moving up, and
continued the run to take the lead when
they turned for home. With a furlong
to go Binnia Hero joined Malagigi; they
raced head and head for 100 yards before
Binnia Hero got a neck advantage, held
to the judge. Topweight with 9.2,
Sedunum, who had narrowly beaten
Binnia Hero over two furlongs less on
Saturday, was third, over a length away.
* * * *
The Chisholm Handicap at Randwick
was a race that might easily have ended
differently. Jazbeau won, but it looked
as if he should have been beaten by the
dead-heaters Jocular and Denis. The last-
named drew No. 1 on the rails, which
in itself was a disadvantage for him, and
tended to his being one of the last two
when the field settled down. He had
not improved his position at the half-
mile, and then, when he did start to
move up, his rider got hit in the eye by
a clod of earth. Jocular failed when
he attempted to get through on the in-
side in the last furlong, and, though Jaz-
beau ran a game race, his owner had
reason to say to himself when his horse’s
number went up on top: ‘‘Well, my
Christmas luck is not so bad.”
* * * *
A little while ago it was thought Dark
Elegance was unlikely to win beyond five
furlongs, but, as in her last two races
at that distance she was going away
from the followers at the finish, it is
certain she will have little difficulty in
getting six furlongs, and possibly seven.
She will, of course, run unpenalised in
the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes, but she
has an additional 71b. in the Champagne
Stakes. That, however, will carry her
up to only 8.7, and she made light of
8.5 in the December Stakes.
Rylstone and Fearless Fox, the
minor place-getters in the December
Stakes, are good, without being first
class, but both impress me as colts likely
to be comparatively better at three than
two years. Pan Pipe is another that age
should benefit. Five wins and a second
from six starts have returned Dark
Elegance’s owner £2475, and if he thinks
he has Australia’s best two-year-old filly
up to five furlongs he has good grounds
for that belief. Her form makes it re-
grettable that her sire, El Cacique, died
a little while ago.
Trainer F. T. Cush is worried over
Dark Elegance’s unhappy knack of jump-
ing the crossing in the straight at Rand-
wick, but the chances are she will grow
out of it. At Epsom (Eng.) tracks for
vehicles run across the course at various
parts and loose grass is used to cover
them. Sydney trainers would appreciate
something similar at Randwick.
* * * *
In the first three days at Randwick
each of the principal races went to rep-
resentatives of different sires, which
means less likelihood of there being a
rush for the progeny of any particular
horse, to the neglect of others, at the
coming autumn sales at Randwick. Rod-
borough (Villiers Stakes) is by Veilmond,
Bringa (Summer Cup) by Silverado, Del-
mestor (Carrington Stakes) by Polymes-
tor, Santa (Holiday Handicap) by Mar-
conigram, Dark Elegance (December
Stakes) by El Cacique, Sedunum (Den-
man Handicap) by Sion, Rival Hit (A.J.C.
Handicap) by Winning Hit, and Jazbeau
(Chisholm Handicap) by Brazen. Two-
year-old winners in Rylstone, Chatoona
and Session are by Hall Mark, Chatham
and Marconigram respectively.
* * £ S
The W.A.T.C. stewards put up a record
for keenness in connection with the
Perth Cup on Saturday. Allegations that
batteries were in use caused jockeys to
be searched, some while they were at
the starting-post. The investigations
were resultless. The Cup was won by a
25-to-l chance, the four-year-old Tomito,
who is by Inchaquire, sire of Allunga.
The three-year-old True Flight (The
Buzzard-Even Keel), who was favorite
at 2 to 1, was second, and Meadow Line
(25 to 1) third. True Flight had won
the W.A. Derby very easily. He is Even
Keel’s first living foal, and the latter is
a half-sister to Old Rowley.
+ * * *
The rich “straight six” Standish Handi-
cap at Flemington on Monday attracted a
field of 19, Chatsbury winning well from
Ramdin and Kanuri. The hedge, reputed
to favor horses drawn on the inside in
six-furlong races, had been removed.
Chatsbury started from 14 barrier posi-
tion ; the place-fillers were a little better
drawn, respectively eight and nine.
Pamelus dwelt slightly under his 9.10
steadier. Smartest away were Bow Tie
and Aspire, with the inside running, but
Chatsbury was always well up and had
drawn away to a clear lead with a fur-
long to go, and held it comfortably.
Lady Kooringal had her customary-
role of pacemaker in the Bagot Handi-
cap, but was never more than two or
three lengths out, with the ultimate win-
ner, John Wilkes, and Plymouth Hoe
always handy. With two furlongs to go
John Wilkes passed the pacemaker and
won well from Plymouth Hoe and
Ortelle’s Star, who came into the picture
with a late run on the rails in the straight.
Jfc * *
Cackle and Rivette provide striking in-
stances of how some horses improve and
others remain at a standstill. These two
mares dead-heated for first in the Bala-
clava Stakes at Caulfield on August 5,
“Spring to it, my man — Were gaining on him ."
Rivette carrying 8.9 to Cackle’s 7.3, but,
while Rivette has gone on to success in
the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups,
Cackle has not won another race.
Several horses have failed to do any-
thing of account subsequent to success
in the Melbourne Cup, and if she does
any further racing Rivette may add to
the number. The 9.4 allotted her in the
Bagot gave a fair idea as to her future
treatment in handicaps, and she has
yet to prove that she is up to w.f.a. form.
Failure of horses subsequent to the Mel-
bourne Cup is often referred to as a
“hoodoo.” That is scarcely correct. A
Cup win naturally causes handicappers
to be careful and allot horses a little
more weight than they can handle. In
addition, they may also be short of w.f.a.
form, which also stands in the way of
further success.
* * * *
Synagogue has not repeated his Aus-
tralian form since going to India. At
Calcutta last month there was some
money for him in the Wellesley Plate,
\\ miles, for which Finalist started at
5 to 2 on. There were nine runners,
and, while Synagogue carried 8.7, the
lowest weighted of the other eight had
9.6. Finalist won as he liked by six
lengths, while Synagogue, though fourth
three furlongs from home, finished
second-last. W. Scanlan rode him.
Baqlava beat Finalist in the King-
Emperor’s Cup at a mile at the Calcutta
meeting, but in the Viceroy’s Cup last
week the latter again proved himself
the best stayer in India. It was almost
a repetition of the form shown in the
Wellesley Plate. In that, Finalist won as
he liked from Spot Barred and Terror,
while in the Viceroy’s Cup the last-
named turned the tables on Spot Barred.
Finalist is owned by the Maharajah
Scindia of Gwalior, and as H. Jones was
on the horse in his previous races it is
safe to assume he rode him in the
Viceroy’s Cup.
sp * * *
Maoriland horses have had a fair
innings in w.f.a. races in Australia this
season, and with Beaulivre as a repre-
sentative there is bound to be a further
addition to their credit account in the
autumn. The maximum Caulfield
Futurity Stakes penalty is 201 b. and,
despite his numerous wins, I doubt
whether Beaulivre has incurred it.
Ajax has, and will carry 10.7, with which
weight Eurythmic was successful. If
Beaulivre is all that his performances
suggest Ajax will be troubled to beat
him if he meets him at any disadvan-
tage on the w.f.a. scale.
It is understood G. Price is to have
Beaulivre, and, if all goes well with Spear
Chief, that trainer will play a strong
hand in w.f.a. races. With Ajax, Royal
Chief, Spear Chief, Beaulivre, Mosaic,
High Caste and Reading among the
probable competitors, autumn w.f.a.
racing should be of particularly high
standard.
* * * *
In France the war has caused such a
big reduction in trainers’ charges to
owners that there is very little in the
business for them. In November trainers
had agreed to accept a little over ss. a
day per horse, and stable lads wages
were cut down considerably. Since then
arrangements have been made for more
racing in France, and that, of course,
would mean an increase in trainers fees.
$ * * *
Fred Archer had a good record in
English Derbies and St. Legers. He won
the Derby on Silvio (1877), Bend Or
(1880), Iroquois (1881), Melton (1885)
and Ormonde (1886). His St. Leger win-
ners were Silvio (1877), Jannette (1878),
Iroquois (1881), Dutch Oven (1882), Mel-
ton (1885) and Ormonde (1886). In Aus-
tralia R. Lewis has the record in Vic-
toria Derbies, with wins on Maltster,
Hautvilliers, Sylvanite, Alawa, Wolawa,
Carlita, Furious and Trivalve. He rode
eight V.R.C. St. Leger winners, but in
that race was beaten by T. Hales with
ten. The latter won in successive years
on Matchlock, Trident, Abercorn, Volley
and Dreadnought.
Few Australian trainers
go in for weighing horses.
In America more im-
portance is attached to
that feature, and some
clubs help trainers in that
respect. The Miami
Jockey Club has recently
erected a large platform
scale adjacent to the
Hialeah Park stabling
area. It is sunk to a
depth that places it at
ground level, is six feet in
length and has a scale
capacity of 3000 pounds.
Such a scale should be of great use to
trainers, as it will enlighten them as to
the weight at which any of their horses
show their best form. At the St. Aubins
Stud in N. S. Wales there is a similar
scale.
* * * *
Horse-breeding must be a greater
hobby with women in Maoriland than in
Australia. There are 24 contributors, to
the catalogue issued for the yearling
sales to be held at Trentham (Welling-
ton) on Jan. 17. Among them they are
offering 38 youngsters, which, in a cata-
logue of 221, is a fair proportion. Mrs.
R. Carrington, with nine, has the strongest
numerical representation. Hunting Song
and Baffles (Blandford-Waffles) are the
sires of her lot.
* * * *
The Liverpool Grand National is un-
likely to be run at Aintree this year
owing to the war, and it is said Newbury ,
and Gatwick are the only other courses
likely to be considered by the National
Hunt stewards. During the last war the
Grand National was run at Gatwick,
an easy course. I have walked round
Flemington and Aintree, and the former,
even when stiffer than at present, was
soft by comparison with England's
premier steeplechase course.
* * * *
An English writer says the Cesare-
witch came into existence in a curious
way. Among the visitors to England at
the time of Queen Victoria’s coronation
was the Grand Duke Michael of Russia.
During his stay he attended some im-
portant race meetings, and was so im-
pressed that before he returned to Russia
he sent £3OO to the English Jockey Club
with the request that some race might
be instituted to commemorate his visit
The Jockey Club gave the money to a
new handicap which, out of compliment
to the heir to the Czar, they named the
Cesarewitch Stakes. The first winner
was an Irish-bred mare named Cruiskeen,
who was ridden by a cross-eyed jockey.
* * * *
A rule recently passed by the Eng-
lish Jockey Club was that blinkers should
be put into the scales and included in
the jockey’s weight, and that “rings”
would not be allowed in the scales either
in weighing-out or weighing-in.
* * * *
During the period of the last war
many young women took positions as
stable-hands in England, and no doubt
it will be the same again. Some will also
supervise the training of teams. J. M.
Clayton, who is Sir Victor Sassoon’s
racing manager, and McVittie, who trains
for him, have joined the Army, and Miss
Jean Clayton, who is also the owner
of horses, is now supervising the train-
ing of Sir Victor’s jumpers. She is the
only woman in England doing so under
National Hunt Rules, as, though Miss
Norah Wilmot controls a big stable, she
is interested only in flat-racers.
* * * *
In his recently-published book Epsom
and the Dorlings the Rev. E. E. Dorling
says the original founder of the Grand
Stand Association was a man named
Bluck, who, noting the uncomfortable
conditions in which visitors to Epsom
were forced to watch the races, leased
an acre of the Downs with the intention
of erecting a stand.
His reputation was bad, and, fearing
that under his control Epsom races would
lose all the prestige that had been gradu-
ally won since the founding of the Derby
and the Oaks nearly 50 years earlier, a
committee of management was formed
which, after great difficulty, induced Bluck
to sell his lease for £750.
Thus the Grand Stand Association came
into being. The first stand cost nearly
£14,000. The present one, completed 12
years ago, cost a quarter of a million
pounds and accommodates 20,000 people.
In 1883 the entire cost of the Epsom
race meetings was £1403. Nowadays the
two race meetings held in the year cost
the Grand Stand Association from £60,000
to £70,000.
* * * *
Cillas, winner of the 1938 French
Derby, ran in the Kingsclere Plate, \\
miles, at Newbury on November 15.
With Challenge and Tout Change his
only opponents he was a 13-to-8-on
favorite, and at one part of the race
he looked such a certainty that 10 to 1
was offered on him. Tiring at the end
he finished third, Challenge (7 to 2)
winning from Tout Change.
* * * *
There was a substitute race for the
Middle Park Plate at Newmarket in
November. It was the Middle Pane
Stakes, and the value to the winner was
only £775. The winner was the French
colt Djebel, owned by M. Boussac, and
ridden by E. C. Elliott. He scored easily
from Tant Mieux, who carried the colors
of his new owner, the Maharajah of
Kolhapur, who gave £7OOO for him.
Djebel is a lightly-built colt of ordinary
appearance, and owing to the Duibar 11.
cross in. his pedigree is not eligible for


“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting the
Australian equivalent of 3 American dollars
through “The Bulletin” Office, 252 George
Street, Sidney.
MARINE and INDUSTRIAL ENGINES are stocked in 18 sizes:
-J-H.P. to 170 H.P. in 1,2, 4,6, 8 and 12 cylinder models.
All Spare Parts always available. Write for illustrated Catalogue
to-day.
Invincible Motors Pty., Limited, 53 North George Street, Sydney.
Established in 1906.
the English Stud Book. Since Djebel
has been in England Donoghue has been
looking after him. Donoghue is now
going in for training jumpers as well
as flat-racers.
* * * *
The vote for the legalisation of the
pari-mutuel was carried by an over-
whelming majority in the State of New
York, notwithstanding that a lot of
money was put up by the machine’s
opponents. In New York City the vote
was 7 to 2 in its favor. Saratoga was
the only city where the vote was against
machine betting, and that was believed
to be on account of the possibility of
a new order of things bringing into
existence another racing club which
might clash with Saratoga.
It is anticipated the take-out from
investments will be 10 per cent., of which
5 per cent, will go to the State. Senator
Dunnigan reckons the State will receive
an annual revenue of £A2,500,000. He
certainly looks for a tremendous turn-
over, but, according to one racing
authority, it is practically certain it
will reach £A46,000,000 he expects
£50,000,000 —for the 184 days raced in
the State. If that computation is nearly
correct, Senator Dunnigan will not be
wide of the mark. It is said that on New
York courses one bookmaker’s business
ran into nearly £A2,000,000 last year.
There are now 22 States in which
the pari-mutuel is the legal medium of
betting on racecourses.
* * * *
It is reckoned that the steeplechaser
Ferrans, who died recently in England,
ran more than 500 miles in his races.
He was 17 years old, and was racing
this year, winning at his last two starts.
He won 33 races, and was placed in
more than 100 others. Ferrans was
retired several times, but never did well
when turned out. He thrived immedi-
ately on again being put into work. It
was said he appeared to miss the excite-
ment of the racecourse.
* * *
While I am not an opponent of short
stirrups, in reason, there is no doubt that
method is still overdone by some Austra-
lian riders. At the start they balance
themselves by aid of the horse’s mouth,
and that is one reason why it is not un-
usual to see some competitor’s head go
up in the air at barrier-rise.
Bearing on this it is interesting to read
what Fred Archer said as far back as
1884. He commented as follows:
You can’t set a horse going at once if
you have a tight hold of his head. You
often see a jockey at the post in a five-
furlongs race pulling at his horse, as
nervous as he can be, watching the starter.
The flag falls, and he lets go of the reins,
but his horse is not ready to slip off at
his best pace.
I've always got my horse ready to go,
not pulling at him, and then, when we do
start, I’m at full speed at once. If you
watch, you’ll often see that some jockey is
off a couple of lengths before me, but
if his horse was not just ready he does not
keep his advantage.
It’s a great mistake to knock a horse
about, and I know that a few years back I
was a severe rider. I have learned better
by experience. I rarely hit a horse more
than twice in a finish now, and I rarely
or never have rowels to my spurs.
You can hurt a horse almost as much
without, if you want to, but it is bad
policy to do so.
* * * *
Summer Cup running further exempli-
fied how difficult it is at times to follow
form. At Rosehill a little over a week
earlier Bringa and Santa were in the bet-
ting for the December Handicap, 11 fur-
longs. Kurrawid won, with Santa second,
and Bringa was fourth of the seven
runners. Kurrawid won as a result of
outstaying Santa, met him 121 b. better in
the Summer Cup, and could not get near
him. Kurrawid gave Bringa 121 b.
against 201 b. at Rosehill, and was among
the well-beaten lot at Randwick. Yet
many backers would always have horses
run the same, and cannot realise that it
is almost impossible. It would be bad for
the books if they did.
* * * *
“The bigger the field the greater the
certainty” is an old racing axiom, and it
proved correct in connection with the
Cesarewitch, run at Newmarket in
November. The distance was reduced to
2 miles 24 yards, and there were 35
starters. Favorite, at 7 to 2, Sir A. Butt’s
four-year-old mare Cantatrice 11. was a
winner over a furlong from home, and
scored by four lengths. The second
favorite was at 10 to 1, and nothing else
was shorter than 16 to 1. It was a good
day for D. Smith, who rode Cantatrice
11., and won the opening race on the
same owner’s Paprika.
* * * *
Catalogue did not run into a place in
the Auckland Cup, but that he should
have been favorite with 9.3 did not say
much for the quality of the field. In the
original handicap Round Up and Yours
Truly (both now being trained at Rand-
wick) were respectively weighted at 9.3
and 7.11. Flood Tide had 8.3, and
Wotan 8.0.
The winner, Cheval de Volee, carried
8.0, Royevrus (second) 7.10 and Sly Fox
“Henry, leave' that silly thing alone an' open this tin of sardines.”
(third) 8.1. At his two starts previous to
the Cup Cheval de Volee was unplaced,
so it is probable he paid a substantial
tote dividend. The time, 3.25 3-5, though
not a record for the race, was fair. Cheval
de Volee is by Vaals, who has done well
as a sire in Maoriland, his winners in-
cluding stayers and sprinters.
* * * *
Gordon Richards’s hobby is pigeon-
racing, and he has over 60 birds. Several
of these are good winners, and have flown
700 miles from the Continent. Many are
now going to France, where they will be
used in war service. Writing of Richards
reminds me that, after attempts running
over several years, he won his first race
at Thirsk in November. On the first
day of the meeting he was unsuccessful,
being on four seconds, and he must have
been wondering whether his luck at
Thirsk would ever change.
* * * *
In the way of winning form few
winners of a good race have had less to
recommend them than Bringa (Summer
Cup). Seven years old, his previous wins
were a Welter Mile at Menangle, Novice
Handicap at Gosford and Park Stakes at
Canterbury Park. He is by Silverado
from Puntana, by Buckwheat from Irish
Jig, by Maltster, and his owner has
always had belief in him as a potential
stayer. Bringa finished fifth with 6.9 in
the 1938 Australian Cup, and last season
was third in the Summer Cup and second
in Tattersall’s Cup. He is better than his
appearance would suggest, as he is a
rather ordinary-looking brown gelding.
* * * *
Ireland is going in for something big
in the way of steeplechasing. It is giving
£3OOO for a steeplechase at Leopardstown
in January. The distance is 4 miles 250
yards, and it is anticipated it will attract
all the best steeplechasers in England and
Ireland, and some from France. From a
spectacular point of view the course
makes stronger appeal than Aintree.
The English Jockey Club is optimistic
as to the future, arrangements for the rac-
ing fixtures for 1940 being almost normal.
Conditions for races for 1940, 1941, 1942
and 1943 have been published. All next
year’s classics are to be run as usual, and
the Ascot Gold Cup meeting is down for
June 18, 19, 20 and 21. The Gold Cup
added money will be £5OOO, with a trophy
of £5OO. There will be the usual £25 for-
feit and the £lOO sweepstakes.
* He * #
In England clubs are entitled to charge
bookmakers five times as much as the
general public for admission to race meet-
ings. At the Stockton meeting in
November the committee decided to
forgo the charge, and the bookmakers,
to show their appreciation of this action,
took up a collection for various funds.
They collected the difference between
what they were actually charged and what
they could have been charged and dis-
tributed the amount among three
funds. In the circumstances they deserved
a good day, but the attendance was in-
different and most of the winners were
well backed.
* * * *
A Maoriland computation of De-
faulter’s earnings makes them £11,285,
the result of 21 wins, one second and
one third. He has been four times out
of a place. Defaulter and Ajax are never
to meet. The former will not visit Aus-
tralia in the autumn, and, according to
present intentions, the latter will have re-
tired by next spring. However, if all goes
well with Spear Chief he may be a for-
midable opponent for Defaulter, and such
younger horses as High Caste and Read-
ing may take a deal of beating in weight-
for-age races up to a mile and a half.
Gold Salute’s owner is hopeful he will
also enter into calculations, but consider-
able improvement will be necessary to
take him up to High Caste and Reading.
* * * *
C. S. Howard must be accounted one
of America’s luckiest owners. Seabiscuit
went wrong at the commencement of this
year, but Howard had a splendid sub-
stitute in the South American-bred horse
Kayak 11., who won the Santa Anita
Handicap and has gone on winning,
Chaffedon was too good for Kayak 11. in
the Pimlico Special on November, but
a week later Kayak 11. won the Bowie
Memorial at the same track, doing the
mile and five furlongs in 2.44 2-5. The
value of the race was £A2465, which
made Kayak ll.’s earnings for the year
£A42,700. At that he is second to Chal-
ledon, £A46,130. Kayak ll.’s stable-com-
panion Seabiscuit did stud duty this year,
but has again been put into training in
the hope that during the coming season
he may improve upon his record of two
seconds in the rich Santa Anita Handi-
cap.
If there is one man in America who
more than another has the good wishes
of thousands of children, it is Col. E. R.
Bradley, of Idle Hour Stock Farm, and
owner of last year’s champion two-year-
old Bimelech. During the recent festive
season Bradley made his annual gift of
£A2500, to be applied to Thanksgiving
and Christmas celebrations at orphan
homes and other children’s institutions
in Kentucky. Only one condition attaches
to the gift—it is that the money is to be
used for no other purpose than to pro-
vide Thanksgiving and Christmas dinners
for the children, and to buy them toys
and other things likely to give them
pleasure during the holidays.
The “Blood-Horse” says that when
Bradley’s filly Bit of White won the
1921 Louisville Cup he gave the prize
to the children’s homes. The Louisville
Cup was never run for again, but
Colonel Bradley continued his gifts. In
the four years from 1928-1931 inclusive
he held a one-day race meeting at Idle
Hour Stock Farm for the same charitable
purpose; in each of the other years he
has given at least £A2500. The four
charity meetings raised £A2650 ; in other
years Colonel Bradley has given a total
of £A32,500.
* * * *
There was not a jockey in England last
year who repaid following at a fixed
stake of £l. Despite his 155 wins
G. Richards cost his followers nearly
£lOO, and D. Smith (Blue Peter’s jockey)
did even worse, his admirers being £l2O
out of pocket a fortnight before the close
of the season. Nevitt, who was nearest
Richards in the winning list, was another
who gave backers a poor run. They
paid about £l5O for their faith in him.
Up to the time the latest papers left
England few jockeys had made engage-
ments for 'next year. Owing to the
war owners scarcely knew how they
stood, and naturally had no desire to
make contracts which would be dis-
advantageous. Richards, who has gener-
ally started each season with three or
four retainers, was among those who, up
to the end of November, had not made
any arrangements for this year.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Joe Wallis saved Joe Hall from worse
at the Rushcutter Bay Stadium when he
declared the cullud import Johnny
Hutchinson the winner in the eighth
round without bothering about the count.
Hall was on the canvas, which he had
hit heavily on various occasions in the
seventh, and he looked to have had
enough. He arose protesting that he
was still full of fight, but he’d have
almost certainly gathered a frightful wal-


drug addict, a hypocritical monster who
dares to write that the Poles possess the
rule of the cudgel.” Gunther, the Ameri-
can reporter, informed the anxious world
that “an escape clause” would be written
into the pact. Escape clause there was
none ; the text showed that the Mighty
Soviet was definitely aligned with Ger-
many and debarred from association with
any nation opposed to Hitler’s policy, no
matter how predatory that policy might
be.—3o/8/’39.
The Russians sold their allies in 1917,
and in the last month they have
sold everybody—British, French, Poles,
Rumanians, the League, Chiang Kai-shek
and Communists and Parlor Pinks
throughout the world. Their treacherous
treaty with Hitler was the signal for war
to be let loose. While their brothers the
Poles were putting up a fight, they kept
their hides safe. When Poland was in
its death agony, they tore up their 1932-
45 non-aggression pact with it and sent
an army across the frontier. Compared
with Stalin, Cain was a gentleman. —
29/10/’39.
The spectacle of a big bully pitching
into a small fellow who never harmed
him outrages the feelings of every ob-
server with a spark of manhood in him.
Presented on a tragic scale in Finland,
it has excited almost universal abhorrence
of and contempt for the criminal and pity
and admiration for the victim. The
bubble of Red Army and Red Air Force
invincibility has been pricked already.—
13/12/’39.
“The U.S.S.R. is no longer a member
of the League.” This was declared at
Geneva last week by votes of the
Assembly and the Council. A few re-
marks are called for from bishops, deans,
novelists, magazine writers, Feminist
Leaders and other members of League
Unions and Leagues Against War and
Fascism, who had such a passion of ad-
miration for dear Mr. Litvinov when Lit.
was performing at Geneva, but they have
all been struck dumb. 20/12/ 39.
loping if it had been allowed to go on.
Up to the seventh Hall fought a lot better
than when last in Sydney.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia )
There is more in the game of golf than
meets the eye of the casual observer. To
the beginner, the more he learns of the
royal and ancient game the less he seems
to know. Many players improve rapidly
for some time, and then suddenly fail to
make any more headway.
Study of many of the leading
golfers in Australia and overseas has
emphasised that three essentials in all
good golf strokes are control, balance
and timing. Once a player has a clear
understanding of these, unless he is a
cripple he should play good golf. For
many years I had one thought in my
mind, and that was to hit that white ball
“good-and-hard” and forget anything
else. Following this principle I began
to lower my scores. Then, one season, I
failed to improve as usual, and I won-
dered why. It was not till my game
began to acquire the three before-
mentioned vital features in 1935 that I
felt I was on the right track.
In dealing with control I can only
write of my own experience of this elu-
sive quality. Control is the sensing
through the two-hands-as-one of what
you are doing with the clubhead.
Most golfers are in the dark as to
what their clubhead is actually doing at
various points in the swing. Your hands
are the only contact you have, and
they must control the club. When
one hears the remark, “The club
looks part of him,” it is invari-
ably applied to the greatest of golfers.
During the playing of a championship a
close observer can generally tell how good
a player is when he sees him handle a
stick. The grace and ease of a swing
brand a player immediately. A be-
ginner usually looks awkward when he
swings, for he lacks both control and con-
fidence.
Control comes from a constant
handling of the club. This fact is
shown "by the smooth swings of
some pf our leading professionals. W.
Bolger (N.S.W.) and Martin Smith (Vic.),
because of regular practice and play, are
a delight to watch with their “oiled”
swings. Both these players possess
artistry and versatile stroke-making that
place them among the few with all three
essentials I have mentioned. On the
other hand, N. Von Nida, a forceful
player compared with Bolger and Martin
Smith, has solid balance as his founda-
tion ; this, with correct timing, gives him
amazing length for his size.
Balance is the giving of the body to the
swinging of the club. A player should
not restrict too greatly his natural
action. When he brings the club to
the top of the backswing his body will
have to turn, and part of his weight will
shift to the right foot, otherwise he will
be in a strained, tense position, and he
will also be pulling against, the natural
action of his body, thus losing sense
of balance in the shot. While I have
been frequently criticised for my un-
orthodox methods, balance has been a big
factor in assisting me to more accurate
golf. Guilty of dipping slightly into the
ball prior to the impact, my supple swing
has, fortunately, the balance needed to
strike the ball correctly. The club
generates a certain amount of force as it
is swung around the body, and any strain
would naturally work against this, cutting
down the speed of the clubhead as well as
throwing the player off balance.
Timing is a factor difficult to describe.
It is the correct combination of the brain
and muscles, control and balance work-
ing in accord. Alan Waterson, the
New South Wales amateur champion,
is a splendid example of timing.
Only a midget compared with most of his
opponents, he still is up with them from
the tee by successful co-ordination of
these factors. Nearly all small men who
are good players have developed their
timing to a high degree. While many of
the big-hitters are powerfully built men,
it is surprising how very little behind
them are the tee-shots of the player who
times well.
A perfectly-timed shot will travel many
more yards than one which has not been
timed so well. Timing is extremely diffi-
cult to acquire. It works hand-in-glove
with control. If one is controlling the
club, his timing will be good and he can
readily feel any small errors through the
hands. One of the best ways I have dis-
covered to restore my timing is to take
a slower backswing, with the left heel
kept a little closer to the ground on the
swing. Above all, it is well to remember
that the club must be swung with a feel-
ing of restraint. The speed the restrained
club sets up will drive the ball as far as
any forced slash.
* * * *
It was pleasing to see H. W. Hattersley
return to his best form in several games
at Manly during the holidays. His 70 in
the Medal and an approximate 68 in a
four-ball event show that he is back to
the form that made him one of our lead-
ing amateurs. After a spell on his return
from abroad, Hattersley found that his
game needed a good deal of practice and
play, but didn’t have the keenness to
work on it. Recently, however, he has
put in plenty of hard training, and has
followed it by playing regularly.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT."
(Formerly of the "Referee.”)
The triumph over N. S. Wales
was one of Victoria’s finest achieve-
ments for some years. Only 84
runs ahead when the sixth second-
innings wicket fell, the Victorians were
up against it. But Barnett and the giant
Sievers (29) battled with determination
and enterprise to set N. S. Wales 202
to win. No great task on paper, on the
field it was different. Sievers got rid of
Fingleton l.b.w. first over. . Then Scott,
clapping on real pace, broke up the big
guns (Barnes’s run-out helping), until five
were down for 30. Chipperfield then rose
to it, as he often does, but his l.b.w. for
68 signalled the end —beaten by 72. As
in Sydney last season, Scott’s fast bowling
(4 for 35) was a match-winner.
Greatly, heartened, the Victorians
tackled Don Bradman’s eleven on
Friday. Their 289 for five wickets
was the outcome of splendid bat-
ting, and on Saturday, when they
ran it to 475, they laid open weak-
nesses in the S.A. bowling. The new
men, Miller (108) and Beames (104).
combined respectively the soundness of
a Woodfull and controlled aggressive-
ness. Hassett’s 92 was sound and
stylish. The little fellow is finding it
difficult to notch the century —89, 83 and
92 now in a row.
The South Aus. slow leg-spinners,
Grimmett (2 for 136) and Ward (1 for
98), tried like heroes, but a perfect wicket
and enterprising and able batting made
their task disheartening. Feature of
the outcricket was the success of new
speedster G. Burton, who gathered in
5 for 99. Few new bowlers have made
so good a start on so good a wicket. A
clubmate of Bradman and Grimmett,
Burton gathered in 27 wickets at 25.66
in club matches last season.
In 59 years Victoria has never been
beaten by South Aus. after opening with
a total of over 400 or more. But at the
end of Saturday, with Bradman (52) and
Badcock (41) dug in and only two out
for 212, there was no certainty that the
old chapter would be continued.
On Monday Badcock (58) left early,
but Bradman went on undismayed.
Hamence (20) and Whitington (41) stayed
with him for a time, runs coming
steadily. The Victorian total was passed,
with the champion still batting like a
machine —220 then.
* * H<
Three distressing defeats shrank the
Queenslanders’ stock on their tour of the
south. Nevertheless, the second innings
at Adelaide saw them rise to best form
to end at 377. The example of Brown
in mastering the slows and running to
156 in the second innings after a modest
20 had good effect on Don Tallon (70),
Rogers (50 and 49) and Baker (52). But
the Queensland bowling sadly missed the
pace, length and flight of another Ron
Oxenham. S.A.’s win was its tenth
in succession against Queensland.
Beaten in two days by an innings and
130 —such was Queensland’s experi-
ence in Sydney. The collapse was
solely due to O’Reilly. Hitting on a
length and forcing the batsmen into de-
fence from his first ball (he was first
change at the southern end), he kept on
the spot with a little break both ways
and subtle changes in pace and flight.
His 8 for 23 and 6 for 22 on a first-
rate wicket approached the miraculous.
Six of his eight first-innings victims were
bowled and a seventh l.b.w. In the
second innings he laid the leg-trap. Here
Mudge brilliantly caught Brown, and also
held an easier one from Baker, who
batted like a star for 51.
Brown started like a Trumper, pulling
a short fast ball from Lush in lordly
style, and off-driving another, both to
the pickets. But he then edged a half-
volley from the fast bowler to Chipper-
field in the slips. He was purely defen-
sive in the second innings, and played
into O’Reilly’s hands.
For N. S. Wales (379) Barnes (119)
broke away from the nineties-bogey. Full
of spirit in his drives, he was always in
search of short runs. Mudge (78) and
Lush (54), recently returned from Eng-
land, were breezy. Mudge looks the sort
to play the role once held by H. L. Col-
lins. Before leaving to join Cahn’s team
he had made good by scoring 76, 59, 46
and 39 against Victoria; he’s a more
matured batsman now. Lush, a keen,
hard driver, is chosen mainly as fast
bowler, but did not drop into a true
length.
R. Rogers, Queensland’s hard-hitting
left-hander, has been highly consistent
without running into the century so far.
He opened with 45 and 45 against N. S.
Wales, followed with 53 and 49 against
Victoria, 49 and 50 against S.A., and in
the return with N. S. Wales in Sydney
had no particular luck in putting together
18 and 18.
Everything pointed to a record gate
for a Queensland match in Sydney. The
£502 taken on Friday is the record for
that day with Queensland playing in Syd-
ney, but the collapse of the visitors and
a wild gale on Saturday kept the attend-
ance down, a little over £5OO being again
taken, or £lOOO for the two days. In
Melbourne, after a small Friday crowd,
just on 30,000 attended on Saturday, the
splendid showing by Victoria and the
prospect of seeing Bradman being mag-
nets.
. . . . • ♦
The N.S.W.C.A. suggested early in the
season that Sheffield Shield receipts should
be pooled. S.A. interposed with a heart-
less veto. Now, N.S.W.’s first Sydney
match has proved a horrible flop finan-
cially. The association’s loss of its New
Year holiday crowd is put down at £5OO ;
caterers claim that they lost another £3OO
and the Tramways £350.
* * * *
The 553 for four wickets S.A. put on
against Queensland is the highest one-
day score ever seen in Adelaide. The
Australian record belongs to Victoria.
When the thousand was topped against
N.S.W. in Melbourne 12 years ago 573
were made in one day. Highest in Syd-
ney was 564 40 years ago, when N. S.
Wales put on 546 and Tasmania 18,
Trumper contributing 292 not out at
about 70 runs to the hour.
THE OLD BLUE MOUNTAINS
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
WHILE lecturing in Australia
nearly half a century ago David
Christie Murray stood on the
extremity of Echo Point at
Katoomba (N.S.W.), gazing out over the
great blue-green abyss below his feet,
Years afterwards he related in London
“Referee” how he had marvelled at the
tremendous volcanic activities that
brought such a stupendous gorge into
existence—how awed he had felt at the
contemplation of the titanic forces that
rent the earth asunder and piled it into
such shapes of massive grandeur as were
displayed in the vast valley.
That traveller was mistaken, for vol-
canic action had nothing to do with the
shaping of those great gorges. Time, sun-
light, frost and trickling water were the
architectural agencies that carved the
chasms in the sandstone and shale, and
the process of their carving was so in-
finitely long as to be almost mconceiv-
able in the mind of whoever stands on
their rims and contemplates their lm-
mensity and age.
The > first records of the area of East
Australia now covered by the Dividing
Range are more than 600 million years
old. Where they are now was once
a wide expanse of ocean, the nearest diy
land a continent to the west whose rem-
nants are to be found in the Mac Donnell
Ranges, Yorke’s Peninsula and Tasmania.
During periods amounting to somewhere
about 200 million years the sedimentary
rocks forming the Blue Mountains were
laid down in this waste of waters and
after vast ages elevated above the surface
so that marine beds are visible in them
to-day, over 3000 feet above sea level,
They had been put together at the
bottom of the ocean, raised above its
surface, submerged again, and finally
elevated to their present height. Then
began the carving and shaping of the up-
lifted rocks
Charles Darwin, viewing the Blue
Mountains a century ago, suggested that
the valleys may have been formed by
subsidence. Darwin’s idea has had small
support from geologists, who are satis-
fied that running water has been quite
capable of carving them into their present
outlines. It might, indeed, have been that
during long periods of the sculpturing of
the Blue Mountains the rainfall was much
heavier than it is to-day.
The notion that these enormous ravines
must have required violent convulsions
j n the earth’s crust for their formation is
w holly unnecessary. If the rocks on all
sides of tbe va n eys be examined no
breaks in the strata are to be discerned,
such ag would have been inev itable re-
gubs of violent disturbances. And in the
watercourses at the bottoms of the gorges
th£ beds of rock actual i y join, which they
wou]d not do if the sides c f the ravines
had been torn apaft> j t j s abundantly
evident tbat the various outcropping
§trata must haye been con ti nU ous right
across the valleys, being removed by
sQme means t hat did not disturb the
underlying beds. What were these
mgans? N othing but running water,
eyer SQ s j ow j y carv ing and scouring
a the rocks and un d er mining the sides
of t £ e va i leys until they had cut through
thousands of feet to the present depths
ey gorge and ravine running down-
ward f he tableland.
ben t he amount of wear and tear that
w " en T, tn oiv „ thpm their
h as been necessary to giv
present aspect is considered we are con-
fronted with a tale of infinitely long ages
nearly as impressive as is the vast his-
tory of the Blue Mountains from their
first elevation out of the seas in a dim
past hundreds of millions of years ago
to the present day. It is impossible to
think of Australia as “a new country
when you look down into any of the greqt
gulfs that give the old Blue Mountain.
the most striking features of their scenery.
As a matter of fact, it is one of the oldest
earths sticking out of the seas.


ľ
ŀ
'www&w.m
yw. A
AFTERNOONS ONLY:
Pantomime “f'INDKRELLA.”
EVENINGS: VARIETY REVUE.
Will Mahoney and Stars at Both Shows.
AFTERNOONS ONLY:
Pantomime “MOTHER GOOSE.”
EVENINGS: VARIETY REVUE.
Salaci’s Puppets & Stars at Both Shows
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
Films of 1939
Everything considered, films for 1939
were good and a shade above the pre-
vious year’s average. By some peculiar
feat of mismanagement good films
seemed to arrive in batches, each of
which preceded and followed a filmic
drought.
Continental (mainly French) films were
introduced to Sydney at the beginning
of the year and, to date, there hasn’t
been a real dud among them: Holly-
wood and London studios, however,
have a much wider market to cope with
than the French studios. Two things
characterise the French films so far seen
—their constant naturalness and realism
and the efforts of the artists to make
each film an individual artistic achieve-
ment. Good drama can depend a lot
on those factors, and French films have
included the two best dramas of the year
—“Grand Illusion” and “Mayerling.”
Over 300 Hollywood and London
films come to Australia every year, and
the 1939 supply included good drama,
sincere and well-acted tragedies, fine
boisterous action films, entertaining
melodrama, and fast, highly-polished
comedies.
Elisabeth Bergner accomplished the
most skilful acting for the year in
“Stolen Life,” an American (Paramount)
film made in England. Miss Bergner
played the dual role of twin sisters and,
later, of one sister
masquerading as the
other. There was
never a shade of false-
ness throughout her
performance, and the
two distinct but out-
wardly identical char-
acters were never con-
fused for a moment.
In “Goodbye, Mr.
Chip s,” another
American (M.-G.-M.)
film made in England,
Robert Donat turned
in the best character-
isation of the year
with a sincere and
finely-etched portrait
of an English school-
master from the age
of 21 to 80 or so.
Donat, with Rosa-
lind Russell, also
made a very good fist
of “The Citadel,”
from A. J. Cronin’s
novel. Bette Davis
did her best work in “Dark Victory” ;
George Brent also managed well in the
same film and better still in “The Rains
Came”; Merle Oberon and Laurence
Olivier appeared very successfully in
“Wuthering Heights” ; Charles Boyer and
Irene Dunne established themselves as
the best romantic team of the year in
“Love Affair,” though their second
appearance in “When Tomorrow Comes”
was a little disappointing. Basil Rath-
bone featured well as Sherlock Holmes
in “The Hound of the Baskervilles.”
Cedric Hardwicke and Lionel Barrymore
ventured into the supernatural in “On
Borrowed Time,” an arresting film
wherein Barrymore reduced the world
mortality rate to nil by cornering Death
(Hardwicke) in an apple-tree and hold-
ing him there at pleasure.
There were a few “discoveries,” but
the sum of their talents generally
amounted to posing and pretty faces.
Ingrid Bergmann, who made her first
appearance with Leslie Howard in “In-
termezzo,” was the only newcomer to
show any definite promise. She has
beauty, vitality and ability, and should
get somewhere if Hollywood doesn’t
“glamorise” her. Bill Holden, appear-
ing currently in an excellent screen
adaptation of Clifford Odets’s play
“Golden Boy,” may be another possi-
bility.
Incidentally, Sydney saw two plays and
the film adaptations of them. The
Minerva Theatre opened with “Idiot’s
Delight” on the stage, and it was shown
later as film at the St. James with Norma
Shearer and Clark Gable taking the leads.
Earlier in the year “The Women” was
put on at Sydney Royal and brought the
wowsers out in full force. The screen
version followed later in modified form
with Norma Shearer, Rosalind Russell
and Joan Crawford all doing good work.
Really tophole comedies, such as the
1938 offerings, “The Awful Truth,”
“Bringing Up Baby” and “Merrily We
Live,” were rare. Best of them was prob-
ably “The Young in Heart,” with Billie
Burke and Roland Young at their best;
and “You Can’t Take It With You,” an-
other riotous job with Lionel Barrymore,
Mischa Auer, Edward Arnold, James
Stewart and Jean Arthur. Both films
appeared at the beginning of the year,
and for several months there was a run
of light inconsequential stuff. Ginger
Rogers brought the comedy standard up
again in “Bachelor Mother.” Close on
her heels came the excellent Charles
Laughton English comedy, “The Beach-
comber.” Laughton turned in two more
capital characterisations in “St. Martin’s
Lane” and “Jamaica Inn.”
Australia’s three films were all
comedies. “Mr. Chedworth Steps Out”
brought Cecil Kellaway back home for
a while and revealed a capable little
songstress in Jean Hatton. George Wal-
lace, John Dobbie and a greyhound en-
joyed themselves immensely in “Gone
to the Dogs.” The latest production,
“Ants in His Pants,” will be reviewed
here next week.
Gangsterland provided Hollywood with
three excellent melodramas —“King of
Alcatraz” (Lloyd Nolan and J. Carrol
Stroheim, Fresnay and Gabin as seen by Frith in the French film
“Grand Illusion,” this page’s pick as the best film drama of the year.
Naish), “King of the Underworld” (Kay
Francis and Humphrey Bogart) and
“Ambush” (Gladys Swarthout, Lloyd
Nolan and Ernest Truex). Action was
given free rein in “Dawn Patrol,”
“Gunga Din,” “Stagecoach,” “Union
Pacific,” “Man of Conquest” (a success-
ful comeback for Richard Dix), “Captain
Fury,” “Only Angels Have Wings” and
“Beau Geste.” Some good rousing stuff
—“Heart of the North,” “Dodge City”
and “The Four Feathers” —was enhanced
by technicolor, and other less exciting
fare—“ Kentucky” and “Jesse James”—
was made bearable by it.
Henry Fonda, who was cast to support
Tyrone Power in “Jesse James” and Don
Ameche in “The Life of Alexander
Graham Bell,” showed that he’s a class
above both of them in “Let Us Live”
and “Young Mr. Lincoln.” The latter
film showed some respect for history ;
others that didn’t were “Suez” and
“Stanley and Livingstone.” Historical
matter was also delved into with varying
effect in “Juarez” (Paul Muni’s only and
rather disappointing appearance for the
year) and in “Sixty Glorious Years” and
“Nurse Edith Cavell.”
Musicomedy for the year was poor,
“Sweethearts,” a technicolor production
with Jeanette MacDonald and Nelson
Eddy, being the only one worth a cracker.
“Song of the Plains,” with the same
couple, was an f.a.q. job, but “Broadway
Serenade,” with Jeanette and Lew Ayres,
was sheer punishment.
Mentioned last on this list only because
they belong to a class of their own are
three of the most entertaining films of
the year. They can best be described as
technicolor novelties, and their success
might be an indication of what is forth-
coming for 1940. Filmed “Mikado, with
an American warbler and a cast of pedi-
greed Savoyards, was a winner, as were
Disney’s “Ferdinand the Bull” and
M.-G.-M.’s lovely pantomime, “The
Wizard of Oz.”
STAGE AND CONCERT
Russian Ballet
De Basil’s Ballet company, back at
Sydney Royal, has new faces, and many
of the familiar ones —including Baro-
nova, the particular success of the last
visit —are missing.
On Saturday night the company opened
traditionally with “Les Sylphides,” beau-
tiful as ever, but danced with the tense-
ness often noticeable on a first night,
lacking the light and delicate touch the
Chopin dances require. In ballet tradi-
tion, too, was “Aurora’s Wedding,”
placed as the final item on an opening
programme. Tamara Toumanova danced
Baronova’s part as the princess. Satis-
fying, deft, accomplished ; not, perhaps,
with the wistful appeal of Baronova, but
with a sureness and force of her own.
Riabouchinska’s dancing of the Blue
Bird was the finest of the evening. All
her work was outstanding, and she
appeared in all the ballets ; to her dainti-
ness of touch she has added surprising
emotional and dramatic strength.
Her dancing in “Paganini,” Fokine’s
fantasia on Rachmaninoff’s “Rhapsody
on a Theme by Paganini,” seen for the
first time in Sydney, was an emotional
triumph. The “Paganini” has an amaz-
ing power. It presents the writhings of
the violinist’s tortured soul violently and
passionately.
* * * *
A crowd at the Melb. Town Hall
witnessed a memorable performance of
“Messiah” conducted by Bernard Heinze.
The massed choruses of the Philhar-
monics, supported by the Symphony
Orchestra, produced some wonderful
finales. A connoisseur of great oratorios
compared this performance to one he
heard at the Albert Hall, London, when
the leading singers were Ada Crossley,
Edward Lloyd and Charles Santley. Now
that Prof. Heinze has got his material into
such good order he ought to enlarge his
repertoire a trifle. Some years ago a
fine oratorio, “Death and Life,” by
Gounod, was performed in Melbourne,
and no harm would be done by its
revival.
* * * *
J.C.W. made its appearance in its his-
toric role as producer of superlative
panto, at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, with
“Aladdin.”
Unfortunately the production seemed
more like an attempted holdup of the
Christmas spirit of forbearance than a
determined effort to lure the younger
generation from the talkies.
Principal boys aren’t expected to sing
like angels, but it ought to have been
possible to find a lass who combined the
considerable physical attractions of Cath
Esler with a voice a little nearer the Flor-
ence Young standard, Renne Esler was
equally inconspicuous as the Princess,
and John Stacy was a wishy-washy Wishee
Washee. The comic business between
the Widow Twankey and Abanazar was
in the competent hands of Rex Dawe
and Sydney Wheeler, but it lacked
robustness.
* * * *
“Alice in Wonderland,” at Melbourne
Comedy, passes muster.
The whole show was in the hands of
Minnie Everett’s Lilliputians, and the
kiddies carried on bravely through a
full-length, full-dress pantomime in which
one sometimes caught a fleeting glimpse
of Lewis Carroll. Alice was played by
June Hillyer, a little blonde who had
caught something of the air and manner
of the storybook Alice. John Edwards
as the Mad Hatter threw himself into
the part and all over the stage, and was
the big noise of the show. He showed
talent as a comedian.
* # * *
Melbourne Apollo has a pantomime
in the afternoon and in the evening is
principally Mo. Mo’s subject matter is
the same as of yore, but his public finds
ever-fresh charms in his refined and
elegant terminology, his unexpected turns
of wit and the liquid laughter with which
he accompanies his innocent banter of
his fellow-workers, who include Scotty
McKinnon and Sadie Gale. Also on
the programme is Wong Toy Sun, a
silent “Celestial” who produces hens,
roosters, white rabbits, pigs, girls and
oceans of colored paper from hats and
other receptacles. Reno’s Wonder Dogs
justify the adjective, if it is an adjective.
Artbursts.
Collection “J.” of the Empire Art
Loan Collections Society, at present
resting in the National Gallery of N. S.
Wales, purports to represent “twentieth
century British Art,” but since Art is
long and what is honest and beautiful in
it becomes the heritage of generations of
painters the show, no matter what the
dates on the pictures, represents almost
every tendency of importance in British
Art in the last hundred years.
It is a well-arranged, well-lit show,
covering a considerable variety of styles.
Well-known names are plentiful. Orpen,
who seems to have been the last British
painter to achieve success without dis-
guising the fact that he could draw and
paint, shines out notably. His portrait
of Mrs. Valentine Fleming (a much-
painted lady—Charles Sims, R.A., has
another version of her) glows like a
flame; “In the Dublin Mountains,” a
study of caravanning gipsies, is every-
where delightful. Augustus John, whose
fame mostly rests on tongue-in-the-
cheek gaucheries, is at his amusing best
in a caricature portrait, “F. H. Orittal,
Esq.” R. D. Greenham paints Elisabeth
Bergner with green face and hands.
Duncan Grant’s “Dora Morris” has flesh
that throws green shadows.
First-class straightforward portraits
are from the brushes of Francis Dodd,
John Duncan, Prof. F. Brown, Phil Con-
nard, H. J. Gunn, Neville Lewis and
Sir Walter Russell, but there is nothing
in these to teach the best*Australian
portraitists how to paint better, nor to
give them other new ideas. A picture
that did breed a lot of imitation is Stanley
Cursiter’s portrait study “Black, White
and Silver” —flat black background, girl
in white satin, breakfast table furnished
in white china and silver—a big canvas
painted as carefully as a miniature.
Some of the stuff is the sort of big
canvas which R.As., with an eye to re-
production in pictorial weeklies, used to
do 40 years ago, such as Sir George
Clausen’s boy scaring birds and Sir
Walter Russell’s carefully-painted beach
scene. Luke Fildes has his follower in
R. Gemmell Hutchison (represented by
“Bairnies, Cuddle Doon”). A. J. Mun-
nings continues the long line of jolly
hunting pictures.
An impressionist who has the root of
the matter in him is Paul Maze. His
“Shed in Chelsea” is worth more than a
passing glance. Well-known eccentrics v
such as John Nash, W. R. Sickert and
Matthew Smith (whose favorite mediums
appear to be raspberry jam and sump
oil) are adequately represented.
There’s a panel of surrealist paintings
—six of them—representing various de-
grees of pseudo-insanity. A foreword
in the catalogue says this sort of thing
“has attracted so much attention and
secured so many adherents and admirers
that it seems desirable to show them to
lovers of the fine arts.” But it’s a sad
necessity.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
S 3
ar
B
! SP\
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
CRAMMAR SCHOOL FOR GIRLS
★
Forbes Street, Darlinghurst,
RIVER ROAD, GREENWICH,
AND MOSS VALE
Day and Boarding School
For Girls of All Ages from Sub Primary to Leaving
Certificate Honours.
The schools are ideally situated, excellent cuisine,
qualified mistresses, good examination results. The
school of Moss Vale is in 382, acres, with special
facilities for hockey, tennis and riding.
Apply to Headmistress at Schools
Grammar
ijnuae
The School has a Boarding Side, established in 1927,
conducted under the direction of the Trustees by
a School House Board. Early application for 1940
is essential. Apply for Prospectus to: —
THE HEADMASTER ,
COLLEGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Nineteen hundred and forty, by the
grace of God, greeted Australia without
a bomb. But if you had been revelling
in King’s Cross you’d hardly have known
the difference. Sirens, hooters, loud-
speakers, police whistles and the fire-
works made devastating din. Too much
for some of the dwellers, apparently,
who dashed cold water on the flames of
merriment, with occasional tomato and
egg variations. This Letter likes the story
of the family of refugees who made a
giant apelstrudel and stood at the corner
of Springfield-avenue and Darlinghurst-
road presenting slices of it to passers-
by. Thousands gathered in this unique
bit of Sydney, and there was much gaiety,
singing and dancing and laughter, as
well as the joy of sterner stuff which kept
170 police on the job. There were dances
in all the city ballrooms. They began
after midnight, and mostly went on to
bacon and eggs a.m. There were mid-
night screenings in many of the picture
theatres. Luna Park erupted in dazzling
fireworks.
And here comes the Ballet again to
greet 1940! From Russia, from France,
from Hungary the ballet dancers come,
and this friendly invasion of the Royal
filled that old-established theatre with the
strong wine of mixed nationalities. And
so the first night of the season was excit-
ing and vibrant. The dreamlike “Syl-
phides” was as grace before the meat
of the Paganini fantasy, and the butterfly
brilliance of “Aurora’s Wedding” the
golden liqueur that topped off the bill of
fare. Long before eight o’clock the foyer
was crowded. Women glittered along
on a stream of diamonds of the first
water and other sparkling ornaments
from which the diamonds had been com-
pletely liquidated. Some women arrived
as spangled as the gipsy queen. Direct,
from the beach came the women the
suntan of whose backs was still criss-
crossed from the straps of their swim
suits.
New Year greetings and kisses were
exchanged. Ernest Lashmar bowed over
and kissed the hands of his women
friends. E. J. Tait, Harald Bowden and
Claude Kingston held levee. Smiles
everywhere showed that the house and
the bookings were real money. A white
frock with a tropic pattern in deep blue,
gardenias in the hair and a white necklet
gave Mrs. Byron Wrigley a Hawaiian-
nights look. With her father, E. J. Tait,
the dark little Mrs. de Basil and the
glitteringly fair Nina Verchinina she
made a group at the entrance to the
circle.
There was the pleasant Salenger family
—Patricia, Barbara and Margaret—glow-
ing-eyed over the grace of Riabouchin-
ska. Near-by teen-olds Jessica Chard
and Helen Bruxner plotted finance as to
the rest of the season. Margaret Long-
worth, Margaret Dovey, Stephanie Edye,
Mrs. F. J. Davy, Brenda Dunrich and
Mrs. C. V. Walker found they loved the
ballet more than ever. Mrs. Roy Buck-
land and a white satin frock were a
really hip-hooray partnership. A scarf
of cobweb fine old lace was noted as
Ruby Adams passed. Florence Bennett’s
party of 14 included the joyously-
acclaimed Gladys Moncrieff. White was
Mrs. Sep Levy’s frocking, and white were
Mrs. John Faviell’s georgettes. Mrs. A.
E. Grace’s feather cape was dark lilac,
her moire frock blue. Mrs. Eva Wunder-
lich mingled cyclamen and gold. Among
the night’s handsome were Nan Garvan
and the Hugh Denison couple. A party
backstage and the new frocks of the girl
ushers—powder-blue taffeta with bustle
bows—added to the gaiety.
From the lady in lucent white who
suggests an Edith Wharton heroine to
Elisabeth Bergner (a round white turn-
down collar on her black frock), who
is straight-out Elisabeth Bergner, the
exhibition of Twentieth Century British
Art has some beauty in it, and here and
there some good clean fun. Everybody
wasn’t out of town last Friday when
the show was opened by the National
Gallery’s president, B. J. Waterhouse.
Crowds of people we all know mooned
about the parquet court in which the
pictures hang a little moodily. Probably
they are brooding as to when they will
regain their places in the stately homes
of England. At least their enforced stay
will save them from being parcelled out
as wedding presents to Neptune’s
children.
A lady who interested the female vision
last Friday was Mrs. Valentine Fleming.
Women openly or covertly studied her.
What has she besides the outer shell of
beauty which drew both Orpen and Sims
to paint her?
Sydney Ure Smith, knight Francis
Anderson, Howard Hinton, Harry Tighe
and Dr. Beazley were some of the male
art-minded at the opening. Women artists
predominated, and Dora Janet’s black
frock with its bustle bow looked as
though it had just got out of France in
time. Barbara and Helen Lane Mullins
and Ruby Adams, as elegant as a Marie
Laurencin subject, Mrs. Jean Moreing
(bringing her famed smile and a hand-
bag with a gilt knob, almost as large as
those worn by a bedpost), the artist
MacKenzie sisters, Hera Roberts, Lute
Drummond, the wife of Gallery Director
Will Ashton, Will himself, Ethel Ranken
and the Francis Anderson lady were
among the visitors.
Mrs. Alan Kippax (and Australia
doesn’t need to be told who her husband
is) is busy these war days at the Royal
Empire Society’s rooms, where comforts
and clothing are being packed for the
women and children of England. The
babes who get these garments will not
look as though dressed in ‘Landed-
downs.” Everything is brand-new,
daintily stitched, smoothly knitted. It
took Mrs. Kippax three or four weeks
working out the sizes of the children’s
dresses and suits. Now each pile is
marked according to the age of the in-
tended young wearers. Another clever
touch is the sleeve of the pullovers.
Made for the longer arm, it can be
turned back in a neat cuff effect if a
shorter-armed Jenny or Johnny finds it
too close to the knuckles.
Janet, a small daughter of determina-
tion and unimpaired lungs, prevented a
really heart-to-heart talk with tenor
Lawrence Power on the day he arrived
with his wife, the dark-eyed Annunciata
Garrotto, to do an Australian tour with
the A.B.C. Opera is their meat and
drink. They have sung with such artists
as Lily Pons, Grace Moore and Flagstad
in Chicago. Of the small, emotional
Lily Pons, whom the writer of this Letter
met and talked to in London, Mrs. Power
tells that she always carries a scrap of
the Metropolitan Opera House curtain.
She tore this off on the night of her first
appearance and her great triumph. Grace
Moore is really lovely, Mrs. Power says.
Skin, eyes and hair are perfect, and, of
course, she just grows diamonds by the
acre since her record-breaking film “One
Night of Love.” Mr. and Mrs. Power
sang for several seasons at the New
York Hippodrome. Opera at popular
prices filled this vast house month after
month. The husband and wife, who have
sung together in opera hundreds of
times, first met when she was Mimi and
he Rudolfo in “Boheme.”
N. S. Wales Premier Mair graced the
marriage of son Sandy with his presence.
Like her ’groom, the bride, Sacie (Sally)
Davis, belongs to the border town of
Albury, and there the wedding was the
big flutter of Boxing Night, first at St.
David’s kirk and later at the George
Hotel. Her Limerick lace veil, made over
two hundred years ago, and the pearls
given to her by her bridegroom’s mother
were the most-talked-of items of her
array.
Sydney has 14 new young women doc-
tors. They can take out all the works,
dust them off and rearrange them as in-
stalled by Nature. Mary Gwenyth Lusby,
the attractive girl in this Montgomery
Dunn picture, is one of the 14. She's a
product of Sancta Sophia within the
University.
As merry as locusts in the sunshine
citizens of Sydney took to the bush and
the beach for their Christmastide. Palm
Beach had its usual complement of be-
ginning millionaires, their vagabondage
all tied up with land-ownership and villa-
begetting. They are the Baccardis of the
surf ; the beer pleasantry go where the
fares are cheaper. Lovely Manly shared
its blue waves and its pines with twenty
thousand holiday-makers. Coogee glowed
a golden crescent for thousands more.
Bondi, the robust, gave Homeric wel-
come to millions, or so it seemed.
Gorgeous girls, upstanding men and
surely the loveliest children in this wide
world laughed and enjoyed the days.
Mother was pleased, too, with the cool
breezes that helped keep the provisions
fresh for the two and a half days when
shops were closed.
With thirty-nine thousand nine hun-
dred and ninety-nine others, this writer
dashed out to Randwick, the purse open
for a stream of gold from the tote. A
Christmas present of Clifford Odets’s
Golden Boy seemed a direct tip for a
ten-bob flutter on Brazen Boy. There’s
nothing to say against Brazen Boy ex-
cept that he came fourth. Everybody,
even those of us without a five-shilling
share of her hooves, cheered and waved
Dark Elegance as she laughed her way
to victory, yards ahead of everything
else in the December Stakes.
There were an absence of vice-regals
and a Christmas-present look about the
assemblage of veils, handbags, gloves
and posies of flowers. Men and women
sat on the grassy lawns before the stands.
White hats were in the ascendant, and
skirts went all swing or pleats. There
was a smart girl in black, the downward
brim of her hat almost entirely of
something that looked like gelatine, but
was probably glass. There were girls
whose hats were red, white and blue;
and there was Barbara Salenger, her hat
a pink rose resting on its green leaves.
Men in khaki, some with bare knees
(they’re not Scouts, some are Scotties)
escorted girl friends. Everybody looked
at Jean Weekes’s black peaked hat —
quite a military swagger about it. Mrs.
Walter Burfitt’s hat was buttercup, and
her black ensemble had touches of the
same gold. Patricia Salenger’s frock was
closely patterned with dancing figures ;
June Chamberlain wore blue to match
her eyes, and mother’s black frock blos-
somed into a bodice that was almost
entirely coffee-colored lace.
This seems the right season to retell
this story of goodwill to man. To one
of the big “warphanages” in Hankow
four little Chinese war orphans were
brought by train. They were dirty and
starved, and almost naked. But in this
new home there was no shortage of
steaming rice for their wooden bowls ;
there was warm water to wash in, there
were tidy clothes for each. One day the
four little boys suddenly disappeared.
There were searched for high and low
throughout the city, but no trace of them
could be found. Policemen searched.
Everybody joined in the hunt, but it was
no use.
Then, to the surprise of the guardians
of the orphanage, one day the four re-
turned bringing with them 17 other little
boys—as dirty, starved and ill-clothed
as they themselves had been. Where had
they run off to? “Oh,” they said, “when
we saw the kindness, the food and the
clothes here we thought of some other
boys far away who were without rice and
without homes, so we went to get them
that they might share our good fortune.”
That seems the perfect application of the
lesson of Christmas.
This story is told in a letter to boys
and girls across the ocean from the wife
of General Chiang Kai-shek. This has
been printed, and a copy or two of the
book have just come to Sydney. The
writer has a simple and direct style, and
she makes the picture of these 18,000 or
more homeless youngsters a very vivid
one. She shows them at play, busy eat-
ing up their rice and going to bed at
night by the light of vegetable-oil lamps.
When the parents of these orphans are
spoken of, the word death is not men-
tioned. They are said to have mounted
the back of a dragon and to have gone
into the skies for a long and peaceful
sleep.
Singing girl Constance Pickworth,
about to return to Sydney from travels
abroad, gives a good picture of war-time
London in her last letter, which was
written in December:
The lunch-hour concerts at the National Art
Gallery (denuded of all its pictures) are a
tremendous success. At today’s concert,
which I have just come from, the artists were
Elena Gerhardt, Myra Hess and Lionel Tertis.
It was a Brahms concert, and there Was only
standing room 30 minutes before the concert
started. These “one-hour’s-music-for-one-shil-
ling” concerts were arranged for the worker’s
pleasure, but London has found them so en-
joyable that the toiler who arrrives at one is
lucky if he finds standing room. A buffet
where sandwiches, sausage rolls, milk and
coffee are served does a roaring trade both
before and after the performances. It is dark,
now, by half-past four, but Londoners armed
with torches crowd the theatres and streets the
same as in the good old days. We seem to
be developing cat’s eyes. Have just seen
“French for Love.” The cast includes Delysia
and Athene Selyer.
News of Dorothy Helmrich is that she
is still her cheery self in spite of chang-
ing London. Dorothy is ever the good
friend to Australians. She gave a fare-
well party to Elise Steele. Others from
sunshine land at the party were Con-
stance Pickworth and pianist John
Simons.
“Grammar’s” beloved headmaster,
Herbert Stanley Dettmann, died sud-
denly on New Year’s morning at his
home in Gordon. This is a sorrow to
a wide circle of old pupils and friends.
H. S. Dettmann was kindly, witty and
wise, and his scholarly attainments were
of the highest. A Bathurst boy, born in
October, 1875, he was a product of Syd-
ney High, Sydney Uni. and Oxford.
Adelaide University knew him as acting-
professor of classics, and Auckland as
professor of classics.


IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble Is
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of
over 3 pounds of waste matter. When the
kidney tubes become tired, bladder passages
are often scanty and difficult. Instead of
being filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
up. Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the same
quick relief they have been giving millions
for many years. If backache is bothering
you due to tired kidneys, try DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
Legal Notice.
TO HAMILTON JOHN LIPSETT and
THOMAS LORNE JAMES LIPSETT,
brothers of PHYLLIS JANE LIPSETT,
who died in New Zealand on the 17th
May, 1939, and to any child or children
of the said Hamilton John Lipsett and
Thomas Lome James Lipsett or either of
them, and to all persons claiming by,
through or under them.
PURSUANT to an order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are hereby
called upon to send in to the undersigned on
or before the 31st March, 1940, your claims
to the estate of the abovenamed Phyllis Jane
Lipsett deceased, failing which the said estate
will be distributed amongst those entitled
thereto disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 13th day of
November, 1939.
The Solicitor,
Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Melbourne
Chatter
War-time responsibilities made little
difference to the Christmas and New
Year holidays. Those people who are
well endowed with this world’s goods
speeded beach- or mountainwards in their
supercharged cars; those on the basic
wage made the best of a bottle of beer.
Every hospital had its party, and the
nurses gave up some hours of their busy
lives to decorating the wards. The
children were not forgotten, and many of
their toys will be running on all wheels
well into the new year. The shops coun-
teracted the dry-rot with sales. Those
who have any money left after their
orgy of Christmas shopping are being
lured into town with bargains bright and
early every morning.
The community absorbed its time-off
like a sponge sucking up water or liquid
of a more festive nature. The A.I.F. got
Christmas leave, and a lot of dashing
young lads were round and about for
the New Year holidays. The return to
work after both week-ends was made
without enthusiasm but with hangovers
and sunburn. There is a story being
told of a small village well known to
bathers, yachtsmen and those who like
fishing wherein a visitor of a day or two
taught the local population to drink half-
in-halfs of rum and beer. The town
was first disorderly, then collapsed alto-
gether. The next morning to a man
it was up before the local magistrate,
and the witnesses were also on the mat.
The case was dismissed in bulk.
No sooner had the fatted calves been
killed and eaten, the turkey wings bran-
dished, the ham bone given to the dog,
the blue flame on the brandy sauce burnt
out and the cracker bonbons pulled than
the New Year arrived with more festi-
vities and if possible more hangovers.
The infant year’s proximity to a Sunday
night presented a problem, but by no
means an insurmountable one. Theatres,
picture shows, cabarets and Luna Parks
started off on their programmes with the
New Year bells and a tirade of whistles
punctually at midnight, their patrons
being in a receptive mood to start off
with as a result of oft-assuaged thirsts.
Travel offices announce that the Vic-
torian population has moved around as
much as usual over the holidays. For
the numbers that went over the borders
into other States there came visitors
from N.S.W., S.A., Tas. and a few from
as far away as Queensland and W.A.
Hotels in holiday resorts are taxed to
provide accommodation needed, and,
though the big crowds have packed up
for home, camping areas are still occu-
pied in all the favorite spots and in those
lesser-known hideaways which it takes
an exploring instinct to discover.
Throughout the actual holidays the area
under canvas was larger than usual.
While the majority of people are holi-
daying on the mountains or beside the
sea within a couple of hours’ coo-ee
of Melbourne, members of the C. V.
Robertson family are taking their vaca-
tion further afield. They are among the
oysters, the fishing and the boating at
Mallacoota. Though the simple life is
only a stone’s drop from out any of their
many y/indows, they have all mod. cons,
laid on in their outsize country home.
Mrs. Robertson and daughter Jacqueline
(who has interspersed fishing with trips
to town to play in the South Yarra
tennis tournament) recently returned
from England with more accessories for
sunrooms and summer wardrobes, their
own and those acquired by Mr. Robert-
son and sons Bob and Ken. Among their
guests for the New Year were Colin
Stansfield, Lindsay Cust and Tom Power,
Captain and Mrs. Edgar Johnston rose
to the occasion nobly when Captain
Johnston’s medico brother Alfred all in
one sentence introduced his youthful
fiancee, Leslie Elphick, and announced
that the wedding was to be in three days’
time. Thereupon, almost out of thin
air, Mrs. Johnston produced a celebra-
tory luncheon at her home in Sandring-
ham following on the morning ceremony
at All Souls’ C. of E. around the corner,
also bridesmaid apparel for her school-
girl daughter Wendy. Wing-Commander
A. Hepburn was best man. The groom,
W j youngest son of the late Mr.
H. J. Johnston, of Perth, prac-
tised medicine in Wiluna for seven years
and has joined the A.I.F. His eighteen-
year-old bride, who has been studying
music at Melbourne Conservatorium for
the past year, comes from the same
Westralian mining town.
Once more in Melbourne is Mrs.
Atholl Fleming (Broothorn photograph),
who is a daughter of the Robert Best
couple. She is accompanied by her hus-
band and small son Robert. The last
time Mrs. Fleming arrived in Australia
it was as the blonde young actress
Phyllis Best, a member of Dame Sybil
Thorndike’s co. She was married in
Sydney at the end of the season and
accompanied her husband back to Eng-
land, where her life since has been rather
more domestic than theatrical. Her hus-
band is well known for his dramatic and
radio activities, and he has also done
television.
Deserting their home town of Bendigo
Grace Connell and Eric Cohen came to
Melbourne to be married on the terrain
of the ’groom’s old school, Scotch Col-
lege. The Rev. J. A. Barber officiated
in the Littlejohn Memorial Chapel. The
bride, who is the younger daughter of
Mr. Alex. Connell, of Melbourne, and
Mrs. Grace Connell, of Bendigo, recently
celebrated her twenty-first birthday and
has inherited her mother’s dowry of good
looks. A home in Bendigo awaits the
newly-married couple on their return
from honeymooning.
Professor J. Turner, of the University's
Botany School, has joined the ranks of
the Benedicts. His young English bride,
Kaye Jones, arrived in Australia just in
time for Christmas, bringing with her
a white wedding gown, with which she
wore a tulle veil, orange blossom and a
bouquet of frangipanni and water-lilies
one afternoon last week at Christ
Church, South Yarra. Like her husband,
she is a Cambridge graduate, and she
also has specialised in botany. Jocelyn
Priestley attended in a pastel-green frock,
with pink roses in her hair and in her
posy. After the ceremony introductions
and congratulations were spoken at Dr.
and Mrs. Charles Kellaway’s home in
Malvern. Among the guests was
Elizabeth Schofield, who came out from
England on the same ship as the bride.
Both girls were travelling alone, and
enjoyed their voyage the more for each
other’s company.
Good news for the New Year comes
for author sisters Ann Neville and
Margot Goyder in the shape of a cable
from England about the continued suc-
cess of their new play, “Giving the Bride
Away,” which they wrote in collabora-
tion with Gerald Kirby. In the cast are
the Test-cricket fans of the film “The
Lady Vanishes,” Basil Radford and
Naunton Wayne. Next door to St.
Martin’s Theatre, where “The Bride” is
providing comedy in plenty, “The Little
Revue” is being produced by Cyril
Ritchard, who managed some Christmas
leave to join his wife, Madge Elliott,
playing principal boy in one of the Man-
chester pantomimes.
Mrs. Neville and Miss Goyder, whose
pens collaborate as “Margot Goyder,”
were distinguished by having t\yo plays
running in London at once during war-
time. “Heroes Don’t Care” has since
gone over to France. The premiere of
“Giving the Bride Away” was in Man-
chester early in October, and was the
first first-night of any play since the war
broke out. A season in Edinburgh,
with excellent houses in spite of a
time of air raids, and a tour of pro-
vincial towns preceded the London open-
ing. Mrs. Neville and Miss Goyder
will go to Sydney early in January to join
their sister, Mrs. W. A. Morrison.
Authoress Mary Mitchell is home again
after another interesting journey abroad,
which no doubt will provide her with
more material for more books. She is’
now at work upon her fifth novel. Owing
to the war, Miss Mitchell missed Sweden,
much to her disappointment. She would
have met kindred spirits there, for she
had timed her visit to coincide with the
P.E.N. Club Conference. She would have
represented the Melbourne P.E.N. One
of her most pleasant memories of 1939 is
of a holiday in Brittany when her travel-
ling companion was her sister Janet, also
a well-known writer. During the last few
years Janet has held the responsible posi-
tion of warden at Ashburne Hall in Man-
chester.
Popular Dagrunn (otherwise Dargie)
Kaaten has announced her engagement
to an Englishman, Desmond Cox, son
of Mr. and Mrs. W. P. Cox, of Palmer’s
Green, London. He has enlisted in the
A.1.F., is a lieutenant in the R.A.A.,
Sixth Division, and his job of work at
present is at Victoria Barracks. Of his
four years spent in Australia he has been
in Melbourne six months. The war might
make him an Australian by adoption.
On her marriage Dargie, who is the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Kaaten,
of Kongsginder, Norway, may decide to
become a British subject; she has lived
in this country for six years. Her brother
Sverre Kaaten and his wife returned to
their home in Sydney from America just
in time for Christmas and motored over
to Melbourne for the New Year to share
in the general rejoicing over the engage-
ment at the Sverre Lies’ house party at
Mt. Martha. Miss Kaaten’s photograph
is by Athol Shmith.
Back in Melbourne as attractive and
unspoilt as when she left here five years
ago is Marjorie Stedeford. As a singer
of light music, the blonde Marjorie has
done very well in contracts with the
8.8. C. and stations Luxembourg and
Normandy. She is now under engage-
ment to the A.B.C. Quite frankly she
admits that, although she gets down to
a job hard when she’s on one, she doesn't
like work very much. Neither has she
ever been a cabaret siren, though she’s
had her chances. Her hobbies are swim-
ming and lying in the sun, golf, tennis
and riding. She learnt to ride in Eng-
land, and is to be seen regularly on the
tan since her return to Melbourne. She
enjoyed innumerable trips from London
to Paris by air, usually in private ’planes.
Last July she went to the U.S.A. for
19 days —for fun and not work. It took
the sight of a signed contract with the
8.8. C. to convince Uncle Sam’s emigra-
tion authorities that the blonde contralto
with the British passport did not mean
to get herself a job in the musical world
of America. She returned to England
by the Bremen last July. Whether the
ship was “riddled with spies” or other-
wise, it provided her with a Swedish
table-companion who in an expansive
moment told her that the Russian-
German pact had already been signed.
Marjorie’s first singing teacher was her
uncle, Alfred Pallette, who died last year,
aged 87. When he got used to the idea
that his clever niece had slipped through
his fingers regarding his ambition for her
in the church choir and meant to have
a footlight and radio career, he resigned
himself to the inevitable. Though he
never said very much in praise of her
records, he was sometimes discovered
playing them over when he thought he
was alone in the house.
Elizabeth Schofield is being welcomed
home by her parents, Canon and Mrs.
J. A. Schofield, of All Saints’ Vicarage,
East St. Kilda, and by her many friends.
She went abroad for a holiday, but when
the opportunity of some work came her
way she didn’t let it slip through her
fingers. Elizabeth, who is an Old Gram-
marian, has an arts degree, and acquired
some teaching experience in Victoria.
Her teaching in England consisted of
summer terms at a school in York where
the Dalton plan of “No Rules, No
Penalties” is working smoothly. She
doesn’t commit herself as to her opinion
on how the method would act if applied
to independent and self-confident young
Australians, but adds that a great deal
of research and experiment is necessary
before success can be achieved in it.
Her subjects were history and geography,
which she taught throughout the school.
All classes had only one lesson a week
in each subject. She also coached the
girls in tennis and swimming.
Another new experience for this young
Australian was a camping study holiday
with some of her pupils in Wales. The
girls learnt geography by climbing moun-
tains and tracing the courses of rivers
on foot and incidentally collecting healthy
appetites and enjoying ten days of per-
fect sunshine without a drop of rain.
Miss Schofield also travelled on the Con-
tinent and became acquainted with Italy
in the company of a party of university
students. A Russian prince led the party,
which after doing its duty nobly absorb-
ing knowledge of history and old build-
ings entered into the carnival spirit of
the Lido with much enthusiasm.
Dr. Sara Gundersen, who is lecturer
in bacteriology at the Melbourne Uni-
versity, recently returned from travels
which included a month spent in Finland.
All her impressions of this country but
one —the fierce and hungry mosquitoes
up near the Arctic —were favorable. She
found the courtesy of the people most
helpful. Bus conductors offered to carry
her luggage; intelligent young women
guides came forward in the hotels to
offer information ; trains, buses and hotels
provided maximum comfort for mini-
mum cost; the scenery was interesting
and often beautiful, and there was a fine
modern hospital in Helsinki. As a scien-
tist she found her visit to this institution
absorbing, but she also appreciated its
artistic aspect, its pastel color-schemes
instead of plain white. The fate of the
hospital, since the war, is unknown.
Dr. Gundersen speaks both Swedish
and Norwegian, which she learnt from
her parents. She travelled by a small
ship up the coast of Norway, around
North Cape to the terminus of the steam
route, where she boarded a bus for a
three-days’ journey over one of the most
northerly good hard roads in the world.
She was interested in the bath-houses
which seemed to be attached to each
Finnish dwelling. The principle is similar
to that of a Turkish bath. After a bath
the hardy Finns plunge into the nearest
icy-cold lake. Dr. Gundersen heard no
talk of war or politics while she was in
Finland.
She returned to Norway just as war
was declared. Owing to shipping stop-
pages, she found she was unable to get
over to Copenhagen to visit a famous
serum laboratory, neither could she
cross to England to collect her heavy
luggage. Eventually she managed to
travel to America and return home by
Panama with little more than a couple
of suitcases. Dr. Gundersen fortunately
has a sense of humor, and philosophically
remarked that her loss (she hopes it is
only temporary) was not such an incon-
venience as a similar experience several
years ago. On that occasion her trunk
was supposed to have been put on board
at Marseilles, but it failed to turn up,
and she had to face a journey home with
clothes packed for Switzerland and not
the Red Sea.


BRANDAUERA
S 'k
m
6c.v
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANIUOKR * CO. Ltd.. BIUMINOUAM. ENU
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
Si
*r
fi r, c • ,f in °6/ e . ( ‘
c * 7?'*6 9 c/*'i
.,
• e 6
•// Se.
H>/<°'
T.JONES E CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
THE FLYING COLUMN
First R.A.A.F. Men in England.
“Aileron”: The 10th Squadron
R.A.A.F., the first Australian unit to land
for service in Europe, arrived in Britain
during Christmas week. The news set
me recalling what happened in 1914.
Then the first four Australian officers
to qualify as pilots were within a fortnight
of finishing their course when war broke
out. There were in the Commonwealth
two instructors from Britain, Petre and
Harrison, the latter Australian-born and
afterwards a group-captain R.A.A.F. The
first air expeditionary force consisted of
a half-flight sent to Mespot —Petre in
command, and for companions Williams,
who rose to be chief of staff of the
R.A.A.F., and Tommy White, M.H.R.,
who spent most of his war as a prisoner
at Afion Karahissar and other spots. With
them were 37 non-commissioned officers
and rankers, who were scratched together
and trained hurriedly at Broadmeadows.
Equipment consisted of two repair-
shop lorries built at Newport railway
works. They arrived in Basra in May
and June, 1915, and found the Indian
Air Service —two officers, two European
and four Indian mechanics —waiting for
them.
The combined force possessed two
Maurice Farman Shorthorn ’planes,
bought with money presented by the
Maharajah of Gwalior, and one Farman
Longhorn. Their first armament con-
sisted of casual rifles (which they some-
times forgot) and 21b. infantry bombs.
The 1939 version of a pioneer R.A.A.F.
detachment comprises all trained men,
with years of flying and flying fitment
in its various branches behind them.
They go to take over a squadron of nine
of the largest battle machines in the
world —21-ton Short Sunderlands, which
had been ordered by the R.A.A.F., and
would by this time have been at their
temporary base at Port Moresby if war
had not broken out. They are fighting
versions of the Aotearoa, which will
serve the Tasman route when the Aus-
tralia-M.L. mail service is established.
Their speed is four times that of the
old Farmans. They can carry four tons
of bombs and transport 30 fully-equipped
soldiers. Their two turrets, fore and aft,
and two gun platforms carry gun arma-
ment stronger than that of a medium-
sized gunboat in the last war, and they
have a devastating rate of fire on all arcs.
The squadron, 193 strong, will be at-
tached to the British Coastal Command,
of which Williams now holds the admin-
istrative command. '
Exit Anthony Fokker.
“Zedo”: Dead, at 49, Anthony
Fokker, the Dutchman who did more
than any other man to develop the aerial
craft of the last war and large com-
mercial aircraft afterwards.
When the last war broke out, Holland
having offered the young man no oppor-
tunities, Fokker went to Germany. He
was already a world figure in aviation
and the German Government was back-
ing him.
His big chance had come in 1912,
when his monoplane, which was sup-
posed to be automatically stable in the
air, won the Russian military trials. It
was a remarkably modern bus for its
time, first of the real low-winged craft
with a real fuselage, but so tiny that
it could be transported in a case 16ft.
by 16ft. Its main planes were not
warped ; it had no ailerons; its stability
came from the sharp dihedral angle of
the planes and its very high centre of
gravity. It was simple to fly, with no
controls except a vertical elevator lever
and rudder pedals. A woman, Madame
Golanschikov, flew it in Russia and
established a world’s altitude record.
And, with 50 h.p., it could climb 500 ft.
a minute, attain the breathless speed of
56 m.p.h. and remain in the air a couple
of hours.
In September, 1915, the first real
Fokker fighters were in the air, and they
were a shock to the Allies. They were
an improvement on the French Morane
and, strong enough for diving, pioneered
the swooping hawk tactics which be-
came standard with the Germans. More-
over, Fokker had invented the method
of firing through a tractor propeller.
The arrival of the British F.E.2bs.
swept the Germans off the front, and
from then onwards British machines
held the ascendancy.
After the war Fokker moved his
factory to Holland and was in the van
in innovation. I saw him give his first
demonstration of the slotted wing in
England about 15 years ago. It did not
detract from the remarkableness of his
performance that a British machine —a
“I tell you he said the bathroom Was the first door on the left.”
Handley Page, if I remember rightly-
appeared and more than duplicated his
antics.
With the development of United States
commercial aviation, Fokker shifted his
main activities to U.S.A. There his
influence for years was dominating in
the big-machine arena. He developed
the large, high-wing, three-engined
monoplanes with speeds which, in the
mid-twenties, were phenomenal; and
others were quick to copy him.
The bus in which Wilkins flew across
the North Pole was a Fokker. After-
wards it was reconditioned and Smith
and Ulm flew it across the Pacific.
It lived through a long course of world-
beating adventures to see Douglases and
Boeings and the modern giants of Im-
perial Airways in the air, as well as
helping to establish the first inter-capital
commercial air services in Australia.
Then it was retired to the national
museum.
There are still many 10- and 12-year-
old Fokkers lumbering about the skies.
Fokker was a mqdest, friendly chap,
in build not unlike Kingsford Smith. He
gave one the impression of not being
strong. He remarked to the writer many
years ago that he would not be surprised
if one day Australia were the world’s
aerial centre. “You have magnificent
men,” he said, “and plenty of room,
which is the main thing.” His one
grouch against this continent was that its
climate was too equable. “You need
a tough climate to make tough aero-
planes, as you need tough conditions to
make tough men,” he said.
Heligoland Mystery.
“Amatol”: The official reporting of
what one newspaper called “the greatest
air battle ever fought” left very much to
be desired.
The action took place on Dec. 18. The
first British official news stated that
R.A.F. bombers, seeking enemy warships
in Heligoland Bight, encountered wave
after wave of German fighters, but
brought down 12 Messerschmitts, seven
of our bombers being unaccounted for.
The Germans replied that they had lost
two machines, the British 34.
We were then told from Britain that
there were not that many British
machines engaged. Again: “It is now
thought that more Messerschmitts were
brought down than the 12 previously
verified.” Another interval, and then:
“It is now known that the total number
of aircraft engaged was not less than
130.”
And so the story was told, but not
the complete story. It seems that flights
of Wellington bombers in close formation
were, before they reached their objective,
assailed by swarms of Messerschmitt type
MellO’s ; more formidable jobs than the
Melo9’s ; “destroyer ’planes.” They are
twin-engined fighters bristling with aero-
cannon and machine-guns and capable of
terrific speed. Against heavy odds for-
mation was kept, and one lone rear
gunner of a Wellington accounted for
five Messerschmitts, one after another.
His ’plane returned safe, though the
’plane was badly knocked about.
One of the mysteries is why relatively
slow-speed bombers went out on such a
job without a strong escort of fighters.
If the very gallant raiders were accom-
panied by Spitfires, Hurricanes or similar
craft, the Ministry of Information has not
mentioned it. Operational radius of Spit-
fires and Hurricanes puts Heligoland well
within range. If the bombers did that
job unaccompanied by fighters, above and
below, it is a wonder that any of them
got back unscathed, manned, though
they must have been, by the gamest of
pilots and crews.
“R.1.P.”: Mention of reverent burial
for Nazi airmen (B. 27/12 / ’39) recalls
to mind a corner of Suffolk (England)
where, on June 17, 1917, a Zeppelin was
brought down in flames. Sixteen men
perished in her. Their bodies are buried
in one grave in the little churchyard at
Theberton, and 16 square tablets of stone
tell their names. The inscription honors
both the dead and the men who put it
there. It reads:
Here Are Buried
16 German Airmen, Crew of Zeppelin L. 48,
June 17, 1917.
Who art thou that ; judgest another man’s
servant ? To his own master he standeth
or falleth. —Rom. xiv, 4.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Air organisation moves fast.
Five years ago it was a struggle for any
air company to keep going. Now it is
proposed to found a Chamber of Civil
Aviation in Sydney. Some organisation
is needed to fight for better aerodromes
and equipment, better flying conditions
and better training of pilots, and to
ram it into the noddles of Ministers that
air organisation must be kept moving
to be ready for the peace.
* * * *
“Dee-Kay”: Since U.S.A.’s cash-and-
carry ruling aerodromes have been built
with one half in U.S.A. and the other
in Canada. ’Planes, flown by American
pilots, land on their side of the ground.
Canadians throw ropes into U.S.A. and
with horses or mules pull the machines
across into Canada. After that neat way
of keeping within the law, the American
pilots walk over, get into the machines
and fly them away to the Canadian
delivery point.
* * * ale
“Aldis”: Finland is putting up a
better show in the air against the flocks of
bombers and other craft the Reds have
at their disposal, but will need plenty of
that much-talked-of outside help. Three
years ago the Finnish Republic had only
one aircraft factory, owned by the State.
It produced the Tuisku, a two-seater ad-
vanced-training biplane. Aeroplanes of
foreign manufacture known to be used
by the Finnish Air Force include the
Aero 25, the Blackburn Ripon, the Bris-
tol Bulldog, the D.H. Moth, the Fokker
C/VE, the Gloster Gamecock and the
Junkers W 34, all obsolete for air war-
fare of the present-day type.
* * * *
“E.D.”: United Airlines, which is
about Uncle Sam’s biggest air-passenger
carrying co., has opened an office in
Sydney. Its representative, E. H. For-
rest, says his company
is extending its opera-
tions to Australia and
will find work for a
number of Australians.
It is a good thing to
see U.S.A. and other
countries taking an
interest in the Aus-
tralian air trade, but
it is a better thing to
see air trade to and
from Australia closely
controlled by British
and Australian inter-
ests. The Common-
wealth Government
should insist that the
air business does not
get into the same posi-
tion as shipping. Any
arrangements with
U.S.A. air companies
must be completely
reciprocal—Australian
interests to have pre-
cisely the same rights
in U.S.A. as the
U.S.A. companies are
given here.
“Aileron”: Inside the boundaries of
an aerodrome a British pilot made turns
with a Messerschmitt at 300 m.p.h. This
doesn’t look as if it is a wing-dropper or
awkward to manoeuvre. Underrating a
dangerous enemy is a poor game.
* sj: * *
“Aldis”: Italy has set up a new world’s
height record for seaplanes of 40,700 ft.
Pilot was Col. Nicolas Mauro ; time,
lhr. 58min. This particular record was
held by U.S.A. ; Lieut. A. Soucek gained
a height of 38,550 ft. at Washington, D.C.,
in- a Wright Apache biplane. There is
no information as to the type of seaplane
used by the Italians.
The Air War Day by Day.
Dec. 24: R.A.F. bomber attacked 13
German war vessels, including two
destroyers, single-handed, near Ger-
man coast. Direct hit observed on
stern of destroyer.
Skirmish between two R.A.F. ’planes
and two Dorniers over North Sea. No
casualties.
Dec. 26: First R.A.A.F. men arrive in
England to man Short Sunderlands of
Coastal Command.
Dec. 27: Two Heinkels sighted at great
height over Thames estuary. No action.
Dec. 28: Reconnaisance by R.A.F.
machines over north-west Germany.
One failed to' return.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £28,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,200,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
*
m
a
&
X-
s\'' N
Take one minute now to sign
an application for life assur-
ance with the Equitable Pro-
bate and General Insurance
Co., Ltd. You will save your
wife and family many years
of hardship should you be
taken from them.
BE PROTECTED
EQUITABLE
PROBATE AND
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD
Head Offire—37l-373 Oiieen St.. Brisbane.
Wlngello Mouse. Angel Place. Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
THE SERVICE MAN
The German Plan.
What is the enemy’s game? Why
didn’t he attack on the Western Front
in September and October, when superior
forces were at his disposal (and, accord-
ing to Minister Gullett, are still)? Why
has he allowed the Allies so much time
to build up their armies and air forces
and increase their outputs of weapons,
munitions and supplies?
Obviously his arrangement with Mos-
cow was designed to save him from a
war on two fronts and beat the blockade,
as well as to increase the pressure on
the neutrals. Even the permitted invasion
of Finland, barbarous and horrible as it
is, has contributed to that purpose, served
by the enemy’s own merciless torpedo-
ing, bombing and mining of neutral
shipping. But, supposing he contemplates
immense attacks on land and in the air,
why has he stayed his hand so long,
seeing that every day of inaction means
death for multitudes of his own men
when battle is finally joined?
The Imperial Policy
Group discusses these
questions in a Memoran-
dum issued on October 27.
Premising that the Magi-
not Line is “a magnificent
piece of military engineer-
ing” and that the Allies
have a “well-thought-out
strategical plan,” it pro-
ceeds :
After a searching study of
many reports We have come to
the conclusion that Hitler is
working to a plan much more
subtle than many people sus-
pect.
The German General Staff
assume that the Allies will not
violate the neutrality of any
Power and that the Siegfried fortifications
are impregnable. They also assume that the
Allies will not commence aerial warfare in the
west of Europe....
The Germans argue that equality between
belligerents neutralises the usefulness of the
respective Air Forces. They reckon that if
they start bombing in the west they will only
still further alienate world opinion. More-
over, they will lose a very large number of
their aircraft and pilots and suffer as much
damage from our counter-measures as they
would inflict upon us.
The idea is that the Siegfried Line and the
Air Force and certain neutral countries provide
an impenetrable defence behind which a mobile
force of, say, 70 divisions can be used how
and where Hitler may want. His policy is to
strike at local objectives behind this screen.
This calculation has been worked out to
the last degree. The Germans argue that if
the Allies attempt an offensive in the west it
will still not require any vast effort or number
of men to hold the Siegfried Line, and that if
the Allies employ the air weapon the Germans
will simply drop bomb for bomb and that
neither side will advance its interest by the per-
formance.
German policy is, therefore, to maintain the
defensive in the west and continue a series
of local offensives in the east, as and when it
may suit, eventually striking at the central
arch of British imperial defence in the Near
East. If that could be achieved successfully,
the Germans believe that they would attain
all their ends without the disaster, as great for
them as for anyone, of a major war in Western
Europe. ■ , . _
But this is not all. In the meantime Germans
believe that French resistance can be worn
down, not with gunfire but with boredom.
The policy of driving a wedge between Paris
and London has been in operation for some
time. The most dangerous phase has yet to be
reached. Difficult psychological moments have
come and gone. ,
Since the collapse of Poland, France has
been keyed up to expect a general offensive in
the west. Germany believes that when this
offensive fails to develop and St. Luke’s summer
turns to autumn, and autumn into winter, the
French will get more and more bored. They
will have six million mobilised with nothing
to do.
If we play our cards properly and Germany
does indeed maintain a purely defensive action
in the west and the scene of action moves
steadily eastwards, an opportunity will come
in the fullness of time for the British and
French armies to display once again their mag-
nificent fighting qualities. In the meantime
they must on no account allow themselves to
fall a victim to Germany’s plan that we should
become bored with the war before it starts.
That is a trap which must be avoided.
Both Russian and German eyes are turned
to the Near East, where vital British interests
lie. A strategical stand ought to be taken up
on Turkey and Greece, with Syria, Iraq, Pales-
tine and Egypt in the background.
Events are moving so swiftly that no time is
to be lost in making the fullest preparation for
a stand in the Near East. Much will depend
upon the adequate organisation of communica-
tions, supplies and a pool of reserves upon
which to draw for reinforcements. No doubt
India, Australia, New Zealand and the British
Africas can make a special contribution here.
It was suggested in B. 15/12/’39 that
the enemy might be relying on war-
“We Want to change this rifle , sarge. It's got an'ole in it."
weariness to bring him a cheap victory.
It has been stated in unfriendly as well
as friendly quarters that there is a big
Allied army command by Weygand,
Foch’s right-hand man, in the Near East.
Professor Roberts’s idea is that Hitler
“will begin an all-in assault early in Feb-
ruary. ...a general attack by sea, land
and air... .a hitting out in all directions
irrespective of national frontiers.” Won-
derful man, Roberts!
On Thursday of last week a U-boat
torpedoed a 31,000-ton battleship of
the Queen Elizabeth class west of
Scotland. Four ratings are missing and
presumably killed, but the ship reached
harbor under her own power. Most of
the Q.E. class ships have been recon-
ditioned during the past few years and
given additional anti-torpedo protection.
* * * *
At the end of 1939, and in the fifth
week of the “lightning” campaign, the
unconquerable Red Army was making
no progress in Finland. In the previous
week its drive across the “waistline,”
from the Kutno lakes towards Uleaborg,
had been turned into a retreat, and,
though other attacks are expected in this
quarter, the Finns will not have to rely
wholly on their own resources —foreign
volunteers are at last arriving in some
force. In the north, “suicide companies
have cut the Murmansk-Leningrad rail-
way at several points. The Moscow story
is still that the Finns are only fighting be-
cause they are pressed into the ranks
by “the brutal murdering thug Manner-
heim.” He must be a remarkable old
man.
* * * *
“Moturoa”: Infantryman Des Reid
was home on final leave, and
swarmed round him. Said one, But,
Des, why haven’t you got stripes on
your arm like some of those other
fellows?” “Spare me days,” replied
our hero without batting an eyelid, this
is my third-best uniform. The one 1
fight in is covered with stripes.”
“Evvet Effendim”: The Turks have
had bad luck in suffering a widespread
earthquake in some of their busiest
towns. The area lies to the west of the
Kisil Irmak, the great river which sweeps
down through the centre of Anatolia
from the Black Sea. It is a land of
mountain and high plateau, fairly densely
populated, and between the bigger towns,
whose population runs up to 100,000,
dotted with typical mud villages. No
worse time for them could have been
chosen for a disaster., Winter is at its
height—a bitterly cold winter torn by
winds off the high snow mountains to the
east and the Russian steppes across the
sea to the north. And within a month
the thaw will begin, and for the still
largely Mohammedan population of the
rural districts suffering will be accen-
tuated by the religious fasting which
comes with Ramadan. During the last
war a lot of Australian prisoners were
interned at Yozgad in the region affected.
Around the Army.
VIII.
THE BATMAN.
He spits and rubs and polishes
The leggings, belts and golishes
(Well, that’s how HE pronounces it;
it serves, too, for a rhyme).
He’s never shy of bar-money ;
He strives for ease and harmony—
By instinct and tradition he objects to
overtime.
In habit he’s gregarious,
His duties multifarious.
Like Francis in old Falstaff’s inn, his
motto is “Anon.”
The officer importunate
Soon finds that he’s unfortunate —
No dingbat worth his salt would, in
his parlance, “drag him on.”
There is a vast difference between a
dingbat in the British Army and one in
the A.I.F. The choom, though officially
designated a batman, is really an “officer’s
gentleman.” Officers’ gentlemen, soaked in
the Jeeves tradition, vie with one another
in seeing how many “sirs” they can
insert in a sentence when addressing their
lordly charges; they are the perfect
exemplars of a deference that is almost
reverential.
The Aussie dingbat, on the other hand,
is a stout upholder of that democracy
which the world is once again in the
throes of being made safe for. At the
beginning of the partnership he may
deign, as a concession to discipline, to
fling an inconsequential “sir” into his
conversation at long intervals. But when
he gets into his stride it’s “Here’s yer
shavin’ water, Chiller,” or “It’s no use
me cleaning yer boots to-day, Harry—
it’s raining like hell.” And it will be no
time before he is lending his boss a few
“onks” to tide him over till the ghost
wanders, for a “ding” is never broke.
This perpetual flushness is a mystery
that has never been wholly explained.
Certainly a dingbat never needs to buy
cigarettes, unless his boss is one of those
depraved creatures who smoke “Gyppos.”
If he is, the wearing-down process is in-
stituted. Every time the dingbat comes
into the tent, billet or dugout he sniffs
disgustedly and makes sarcastic remarks
about camel by-products and unwashed
Gyppos. Eventually, unless his officer
is particularly pigheaded, he’ll wean him
off these vile smokes on to Virginians that
the ’bat can also puff.
He never needs to buy whisky, either,
though a natural antipathy to drinking
with the flies saves the officer’s supply—
at least, some of it. If he does have a
pull at it he is alway meticulous about
replacing with water the exact quantity
of pure spirit he has extracted. He hates
to hurt his officer’s feelings, more
especially if his superior is in the habit
of surreptitiously marking the bottle.
It is the aim of every hard-head bat-
man to pick an officer much the same
height and weight as himself, and having
similar measurements of hat, neckband
and socks. After all, there is no sense
in picking a boss whose spare singlet
he can’t wear when his own are chatty
or in wearing his own holey socks when
half a dozen good ones are at his disposal.
Dingbatting to a one-pip artist may
be a bit more free and easy, but the limi-
tations of his wardrobe render it less
desirable a job financially than, say, to
a brigadier who sports a couple of
valises chock-full of first-rate clobber.
Thus this scrap of dialogue, picked up
in the brig.’s hang-out, can be most illu-
minating:—•
“I say, Edwards, I can’t find those
good kangaroo-skin kneeboots of mine
anywhere nor those Fox puttees I had sent
over. Have you seen them about lately?”
“Ar, they went west the last time we
were in the line. I dumped ’em off the
G.S. wagon at advanced H.Q. alongside
your valise, and a 5.9 lobbed fair on
’em. You’re a bit stiff.”
That a cobber of the dingbat in an-
other brigade, who has recently cleaned
up the crown-and-anchor school, has just
gone on leave resplendent in a fine pair
of officer’s kneeboots,
while the said dingbat’s wad has been
considerably enlarged, may be, of course,
pure coincidences.
On the other hand, a strong quixotic
strain is often apparent in those who
administer to the personal needs of per-
petually impecunious “loots.” It is no
uncommon thing for a junior officer who
has confided to his batman that the mess
p,oker school has washed him up, and
that his strides are nearly threadbare, to
wake up one morning and find on his
bed a beautifully-tailored pair of gabar-
dine riding-breeches, and no questions
asked. Coincidentally, the colonel of a
near-by unit might be roaring his bat-
man up for losing a pair of riding-
breeches he’d had made in Bond-street.
A dingbat who has a flair for scrounging
is a pearl to be treasured.
One of his duties is to wait on table,
when his turn on the roster comes round,
at the officers’ mess. But you’ll never
see him, after the table has been cleared,
sitting down with the officers’ cook and
having his meal. He doesn’t take a risk
that a few visitors may lob unexpectedly
at the last minute and he’ll miss out on
the good things. So he has his full issue
beforehand, just to make certain, as he’d
tell you, that the food is really fit for a
gent, to eat.
S. W. K.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
M
?1
3b
m
33
33.1$
53 li
m*
iUI
llfei
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street. Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from. . 12/6
’Phone: M 4 14 1 (10 lines).
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WAR AND INDUSTRY
AUSTRALIA’S CHANGING ECONOMY AND THE
EFFECT OF WAR ON FINANCE.
A FULL BUDGET
OF WAR-TIME FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENTS, BALANCE-
SHEET REVIEWS AND MINING INFORMATION.
December Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED .
Published by The BulkUn Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all State,
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EICHT
Fires in Country Towns
“Q.C.R.”: Unique in the world is the
small inland Queensland country town.
Its houses, on the average, are built in
the shape of painted wooden boxes with
pine partitions. The partitions are full
of resin. A corrugated-iron roof takes
the first impact of the sun. Beneath it is
a pine ceiling.
The houses are raised off the ground
on stilts, a tribute to the efficiency of the
white-ant. At the back of each house, on
stilts, too, is a 400-, 1000- or 2000-gallon
tank. Quiet evenings are made sonorous
as householders tap the rungs of the tank
to see how much fluid is left.
Underneath the lower floors, if there is
space, there may be a few temporary
rooms in which the unwanted detritus of
living is piled.
Shops and hotels are much on the same
plan as houses, except that they are not
so high off the ground, but they are
always high enough to give plenty of
draught underneath for a good fire.
Above and below, in fact, most dwell-
ings, except those which are wholly con-
structed of corrugated-iron, are made to
burn.
Climatic conditions, too, are made for
burning. Off the coast when the
November and December heat beats
down, it is surprising what a carelessly-
thrown match will ignite.
Queensland has had two fires in this
kind of town within the past month, and
a serious fire in Pomona (N. Coast) a
little earlier. One, in Mt. Morgan, wiped
out much of the main shopping centre.
There was no piped water to help fire-
fighters—merely the futile tanks behind
the shops. Yet Mt. Morgan is more than
50 years old, and has at times had over
5000 people in it, and the mine has
yielded more than £15,000,000 worth of
gold.
Goomeri, a little timber and dairying
town, 171 miles from Brisbane and 60
miles from Gympie on the Kilkivan line,
was not so lucky. There were 23 guests,
beside licensee, wife and staff, in the 18-
bedroom “Grand” Hotel when fire broke
out at 3.30 a.m on December 23.
Some had arrived to spend Christmas
with relatives. Many on the second storey
of the wooden building were trapped
like rats. One young mother of 24 threw
her baby to rescuers before the flames
killed her. The licensee was rescued but
died. His wife was burnt to death. The
nine known to have perished included
the local telephonist, a barmaid and two
young men of 25.
The main portion of the building was
of local ironbark, a peculiarly inflam-
mable timber giving a fierce heat. After
the fire started in the upper storey, it
was only a few seconds before it was a
mass of flames. There was no efficient
fire-fighting apparatus in the town, and
onlookers could do nothing as they stood
in the street with the screams of the dying
ringing in their ears.
The telephone exchange next door was
put out of action, so that medical help
from other towns was delayed.
It was one of the most shocking fire
tragedies a Queensland country town has
seen.
The Government should take it as a
signal that the time has come for an all-
round overhaul of fire precautions
throughout rural districts, particularly
where water supply is short.
Meat and Hides
“El V.”: Queenslanders interested in
the arrangements for the sale of meat
and hides to Britain are growling
horribly, and with reason.
Meat is being sold f.0.b., and the
British committee refuses to accept Aus-
tralian weights. In other words, a London
body determines poundage, and this
country is not represented on it. More-
over, while there is little advance on pre-
war prices, the freight rate to Britain
is Id. sterling per pound ; the old rate
was id. Australian.
As for hides, Queensland has a State
Control Committee, consisting of two
dealers or shippers, two tanners and two
agents ; no exporters. There is a substan-
tial difference in price according to the
class of seller.
Brisbane registered meatworks get
6yd. per pound, cuts included, for ox
“Break it down, Ma. Wot’ll the neighbors think ?”
hides; and 6d. for cows. Nobody is sure
what a registered meatworks is. Meat-
woiks don’t have to be licensed to carry
on business. Exporters who are so un-
lucky as not to own a meatworks receive
only to sfd. per pound for hides,
even if they are graded with the best of
the meatworks hides.
Why there should be any disparity is
a mystery ; but it is easy to see what the
effect will be. Private exporters will have
to pay smaller prices to their grazier cus-
tomers. They will naturally desert them
and deal direct with the meatworks.
Meatworks in Queensland virtually
mean Vesteys and Swifts. The hide-
export trade will be divided between
them.
When the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment finds time to tear itself away
from its long vacation, one of its first
moves should be to appoint a select com-
mittee to go into the question of con-
tracts for Australian produce.
“Zedo”: The Darling Downs, first
touched by Allan Cunningham in 1827
and first settled by Patrick Leslie and
his brother and one or two others,
appropriately opened its centenary cele-
brations at Warwick with the sixty-
seventh gathering of the Caledonian
Society. Leslie was of the family of
Scott’s “Bloody Rothes.” His stamping
ground was at Canning Downs on the
outskirts of Warwick. His party came
overland in 1840, and he was soon
joined by an adventurous lot of young
bloods from the British Upper Ten —
Arthur Hodgson, an Etonian; Gilbert
Elliot, descendant of the hero of
Gibraltar, who was in line for a Scottish
baronetcy and who abandoned a good
job as A.D.C. to Governor Gipps when
he was asked to buy the Government
House butcher’s meat; Henry Stuart
Russell and others. Later importations
were a flood of young Scotsmen —
McDougalls and MacPhersons and
MacLeods. The Downs has always
maintained a certain aloofness from the
rest of the State, and developed its own
culture round its stately station homes
and busy cities. It has slipped latterly
in influence, but time was when it was
the hub and centre of Queensland, held
up politically by Hugh Nelson, Arthur
Morgan, the Grooms, Barneses and Jim
Tolmie; culturally by Steele Rudd and
Essex Evans and a musicianly band
who for years made the Austral Festival
at Toowoomba one of the great musical
events of the Australian year. It re-
mains, however, one of the richest and
most forward-looking agricultural dis-
tricts in the Empire.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: They still grow them
plucky in Australia’s Awful North.
Frank Gurran, a 20-year-old railwayman,
dived into a creek near Mackay and was
seized by an Bft. shark which inflicted
frightful injuries on his legs and feet
in two attacks. Rescued by a mate, he
smoked and joked to the ambulance men
about the fine Christmas holiday it would
give him. At Mackay hospital his right
leg was amputated below the knee, and
several fellow-employees volunteered
blood for transfusion. • His sense of
humor still survived. Told that the
shark had been killed, he reckoned that
he had got the best of the scrap, and
went to sleep. But his injuries were too
dreadful, and death came six days later.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Bundaberg, the home town
of Bert Hinkler, has a family thai can-
stand up in scholastic records to the rest
of Australia. The eldest brother, Colin
Courtice, won the Byrnes Medal for the
highest pass in the Queensland junior
University examination, the Ran
Memorial scholarship for the most men-
torious first-year medical course and a
Rhodes scholarship. He now has the
letters L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S. after his
name. His younger brother won an open
scholarship to Queensland Uni. and the
Raff Memorial scholarship, and has taken
his B.Sc. with honors. The elder sister
went to the University with an open
scholarship and took her B.A. with
honors ; the younger has won an open
scholarship to the University with the
highest girls’ pass in the University
senior examinations.
* * * *
“Gain”: The Japanese are in negotia-
tion with Canberra for the extension of
their air service from Nippon to Palau,
just north of New Guinea, to Australia
via the Mandated Territory. Palau is
1400 miles from Moresby and only about
4\ hours’ flight from the northernmost
Australian territory in the Admiralty
Islands. It will be harder to prevent the
establishment of the connection while the
M.T. remains under League supervision,
but the problem will be easier to settle
now than at some future time. The fact
that it has arisen and may be followed
by other applications from foreign
nations for the right to connect with the
Commonwealth through New Guinea
gives an additional reason for the com-
plete annexation of New Guinea. It is
pretty certain that the Japanese would
not allow the extension of Australian air-
lines to Palau. In their once-mandated
islands they follow the policy of
“Japanese rights for the Japanese’ in-
stead of our policy of “the Mandated
Territory for German missionaries,
Yankee oil-borers and miners, and good
luck to all-comers.”
# # * *
“Mataranka”: Dux of Darwin public
school last year was Mavis Moo. Noreen
Wong was second, Edward Chin third and
Ray Chin fourth in the senior class. In the
next grade, the four prizes went to Ken-
neth Moo, Stella and Phillip Lee and
Leslie Yuen. A homely-sounding John
Jones slipped into second place in the
next class with a Lee, a Fong and a Chin.
Yuen Fah was top of next class, and a
Chin shared the remainder of the honors
with two British kids. After which
Rudolph Gum, Florrie Moo, Mary Chin
and Nadia Kasianov stepped forward. It
was a relief to find Douglas Campbell
topping Grade 2, even though Douglas
and George Holtze were closely pursued
by Rosina Que Noy and Iris Chin. The
higher classes set the average of white
Australian success in scholarship for the
rest. The Convent school provided a
little variety. Its dux for 1939 is Mary
Nakashiba.


CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINT
Monthly sailings across the Pacific to
CANADA U.S.A. EUROPE
via
NEW ZEALAND AND SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
by R.M.S. "Aorangi" and R.M.S. "Niagara"
Uiit the View Zealand Centennial Exhibition !
NOVEMBER, 1939 TO APRIL, 1940
Only 2\ Days from Sydney by the Luxury Liner
“A W A T E A”
14,000 TONS 23 KNOTS
SPEED AND SAFETY SERVICE GAIETY
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY 59 WILLIAM ST., MELBOURNE
STOP Him
WITH A BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCER
SAVE
80 %
On Fence Costs!
No farm can be considered com-
plete to-day unless it is equipped
with an electric fence. It isn’t
only that it saves 80 p.c. on the
cost of ordinary fencing, but it
actually teaches animals to respect
all wire fences, and soon cures the
most persistent fence-breaker of
the habit. Think what this
means in fewer injuries from barb-
wire cuts to . valuable stock and the
saving in cost of repairs to
fences.
Temporary or permanent pad-
docks, subdivisions, shade en-
closures, laneways, breeding or
exercise pens, fodder storage
enclosures, market gardens,
orchards, &c., can be fenced off
and made stockproof wherever
and whenever you want them—
at trifling cost—and with little
trouble.
One charger controls 25 miles
of stockproof fencing, and one
man can fence up to 20 acres
a day!
£9 / 9 / -
GUARANTEED FOR 5 YEARS
Complete with 50 Insulators
and Battery. NO EXTRAS.
BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCE CHARGER
TR
TheNetv and Improved
BIG SIX
See it at
DANKS'
Bourke-st.
Showrooms
Call or Write for Descriptive Folder.
Victorian Distributors:
Of \o
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: M2381.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: M6505.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally
C.8.C.: “Interludes” are twopence a dozen
H.R.B.: “Homeless” still L.R.D.: At
least you’re game enough to own to the author-
ship... F.D.J.: “There’s a Fire at the Farm.”
We put it out... .S.G.R.. People don t talk
like that, nor, we suspect, do they think like
that H.R.J.: There’s no harm in trying,
provided you don’t do that sort of thing again.
V.R.O’N.: A brighter finish might get it
through here; you might place it elsewhere
without alteration 8.5.8.: It would need
better writing than that to make a game of
marbles exciting... .D.F.E.: There’s promise
, , r_ „„„„ ,_ llt
of a good yarn in the first four pages, but
you lose it 8.R.W.. Sorry, but you cant
fly “The Red Flag on these premises....
C.S.C.: Pleasant, but colorless G.H.R.:
Not very pleased to meet “An Old Acquaint-
ance” T.R.G.: You explain it perfectly
with “I hear that you want Australian short
stories, so I am submitting this. It is hardly a
short story, nor is it Australian, but”
PRC - “Admission” denied TJE • Written
F.R.S.. Admission denied... .j.j.c,. . w
with “an American device which automatically
gives plots for short stories.” Out!
C.N.8.: That old swaggie has worn out several
w.p.bs. in his time D.C.8.: Cut it by half
and drop a few of the incidental characters,
G H A.: You’ve lost the story in a volume
of description.... L.E.W.: They’d all make
Abo pars J.D.: Keep “Song of the
St
S& i~'
K.T.: “The rippling lilt of laughter has been
heard many times before S.R.P.: Let your
Muse rest till she’s over her Christmas jag.
L.F.: Yours was the fifteenth “Hymn of
Hate” in three weeks; it rated fifteenth also,
M.D.: No place here for mottoes in verse,
M.A.: The wishes stirred the editor to a
fervent “Amen”: —
I salute you, it’s Xmas, old top.
The Bulletin never go flop.
jq ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
1U fORRFSPnNnFNTS J
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.K.: You ended 1939 with one of the
worst efforts of the year... .P.M.P.: Those
Cockney urchins belong to a forgotten day.
F.T.C.: It couldn’t pass our first line of
defences... .R.M.C.: The maiden is shapely
b , ut ( witless... .G.B : Reminds us of the
sketches we scrawled on the blackboard during
teacher , s absence ... . L . F . : Hands look
jjke meathooks and legs like broomsticks
: Put those Santa Claus gags aside until
early next December P.P.: Drawing over-
crowded with non-essentials and humor as fiat
as last week’s unfinished beer J.H.: You
don’t need encouragement so much as a long
course of training. M.D.: Plight of female
schoolteacher beneath home-made shower 1 n
move a muscle in our face... .T.P.W.. One of
tbe oldest of the level-crossing wheezes
. Matron will not paddle in our pages.
A.H.: Effort to present Hitler as a Christ-
mas pudding was one of the season’s failures.
. ...E.T.: Not the first time we have gazed
upon that deep-sea diver and mermaid
R.R.: All the figures look as though they were
run through a mangle... .C.A.: Couldn’t see
the humor for signposts and labels ... -A.N W.:
"al firsj ™ S Se“eap-ye«' jote;
J?fr-KSU TexieS
doesn > t get any brightef... .M.J.: Art Editor
p ut tbe box j n g kangaroo to rest in the first
rou nd K.W.: Jacky’s retort was made as
far back as 1891 N.C.8.: Your passion for
drawing toy balloons makes us suspect that
you can draw little else.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
When the counter-revolution comes
to Russia, Molotov will be one of the
first out of the country. He has more
to fear than any other Stalinite when the
Muscovite throws off the yoke and goes
on the rampage—for his wife built up the
Soviet Perfume and Soap Trust.
* * * *
Under sentence of expulsion from
Switzerland should it violate the neutral-
ity of that country, the League is now
threatened with insolvency. At the be-
ginning of 1939 it budgeted for an expen-
diture of 20,426,200 gold francs, of which
2,092,987 were to be found by the
U.S.S.R., 1,259,000 by Italy, 935,100 by
“ Some’ow you look diff'rent from
other girls, Margaret .”
China, 890,633 by Spain and 712,506 by
Poland ; the U.K.’s share was 2,404,720.
Now Moscow and Italy are out, Spain
may follow Italy, Poland, China and
Czechoslovakia can’t pay, Bulgaria prob-
ably won’t, and Albania has been swal-
lowed up.
* * * *
Main political assets of John Nance
Garner, candidate for Democratic
nomination at next year’s Presidential
election in the U.S.A., are the nickname
“Cactus Jack” and John J. Lewis’s de-
scription of him as “a Labor-baiting,
poker-playing, whisky-drinking, evil old
man.” Against these may be set his age
—he’s 71—and the fact that he’s Vice-
President, a synonym for political
oblivion, save only when the President
obligingly dies in office. A Texan lawyer,
Garner was a Representative for his
State from 1903 (twice Speaker) till he
became Vice-President in 1933. Though
loyal to his party he’s a very lukewarm
New Dealer, and if elected may be ex-
pected to put the brake on the majority
of Roosevelt’s social-uplift projects.
* * * *
“Nobby II.” : A lot of press drivel has
been published about the Graf Spee
business. Consider the story of how her
Captain Langsdorff disguised her as
H.M.S. Renown. The Renown is one of
the three longest fighting ships in the
world— She is exceeded in size
only by the Hood (860 ft.) and approached
by the big aircraft carriers (786 ft.). She
has a huge full-width forebridge tower,
a double fore turret and after single
turret of 15in. guns, two funnels and
other features which stand out like a tee-
totaller in a public bar. The Graf Spee
was 185 ft. shorter, had a single funnel,
a narrow fighting tower, no rear mast
and only a single fore turret of big guns.
She and the Scheer were almost iden-
tical. There was nothing else on the sea
like them in silhouette except the French
Dunkerque, and she has two fore turrets
of big guns. Disguised as the Renown,
the Spee would have looked very much
like W. M. Hughes disguised as Bob
Menzies.
* * * *
“Tovarish”: Ribbentrop has been
decorated with the Order of Lenin and
the medal of a Hero of the Soviet Union.
The latter carries the red star of inter-
national socialism and the hammer and
sickle of Bolshevism among its emblems.
It should look fine beside the swastika.
* * * *
“El V.” hears some echoes:
If Goring has sent out a peace feeler, as
suggested by some of the cables, he must
have been frightened by the tone of other
German speeches. Each of the official Christ-
mas messages broadcast (there were three)
needed only the substitution of “Stalin” for
“Hitler” and “Soviet Union” for “Germany”
to make them acceptable on any Communist
platform. Von Brauchitsch, the c.-in-c., was full
of adulation for the Fiihrer. He added that
Germans were fighting for the existence of
civilisation and that “one of our enemies, one
across the Channel, in authority, has just de-
clared that the objects of the capitalist
Powers are to destroy Germany and annihilate
our people and our culture.” Hess—“my ex-
cellent Maurice” to his chief—became hysteri-
cal in the best Russian manner about his
Fiihrer. He thanked God for sending Ger-
mans such a man at such a time; that
such a man had been sent, when the capitalists
of the world wished to destroy Germany,
showed that the cause was just and the Lord
was with them. The hatred of Capitalism for
National Socialism, he said, was due to the
fear of the plutocratic Powers that the desire
for the benefits to workers conferred through-
out the Reich by National Socialism would
spread to their own workers. But, he said,
Nazism and the German people were uncon-
querable. Greeting overseas Germans, he said
that the Westwall “does not end at the Dutch
border. It extends to wherever a German
ship can sail the seas or a German aero-
plane take the air.” Hess promised that the
Fiihrer would secure a “lasting peace guaran-
teed by the invincible strength of the German
nation.” The German High Command was
even more proletarian. It fumed against Eng-
land, which it held responsible for the war,
Jews and capitalists; and it painted a picture
of the Fiihrer hobnobbing with the Gross
Deutschland regiment, and presenting gifts to
the men of the A.A. batteries and pillboxes.
* * * *
“Centaur”: May one who was there
or thereabouts amend slightly the story
of how General Tom Bridges heartened
retreating troops with a tin whistle (B.
6/12/’39)? It was not just because the
men were tired —all our infantry were
that on August 26, 1914—but because
the C.Os. of the two battalions believed
they were surrounded by the enemy that
they did not move from the village to the
rear along with the rest of the divisional
infantry when the order was given to con-
tinue the retreat from Mons. When
Bridees with a oatrol of the 4th D.Gds.,
village the C.Os. were ask-
ing the mayor to convey their surrender.
We heard all about it that night while
we were carrying the officers and men of
the battalions on our gun and ammum-
tion wagons to help them catch up with
the rest of the retreating infantry. I
rode alongside the wagon on which the
C.O. of one English battalion was sitting
and tried to cheer him up, but he would
not be comforted He had reason be-
cause a few days later both he and the
C O. of the other battalion were
The man I met joined theFrenchForeg
Legion and made good, being subse-
quently reinstated in the Bri X
with the rank of major. I never heard
what happened to the other C. •
anyone might have made the mistake
they did on August 26 because our me
was most irregular and in places we dove-
tailed with the Germans.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A'CORN SILK to your
corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Males, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, tins
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking husiness^
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
' The-service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion'in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of, selection and rejection is reserved.
‘ Wanted to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, Sydney, good appearance and manners,
requires position as receptionist or social
organiser. Has had journalistic exp.; able to
type.—s7B3.
Young lady (19), Sydney, University night
study, typist, learning shorthand, requires posi-
tion in city office. —5777.
Exp. young lady teacher (1.c.), primary sub-
jects, languages, art, piano, elocution, violin and
all commercial subjects, wants position. Some
social life required. Refs. —5754.
By elderly man, retired schoolteacher, N.S.W.,
position as caretaker. Willing to go anywhere.
—5772.
; Young advertising man, conversant office
routine, experience signwriting, display, etc.,
knowledge of journalism, urgently needs light
job in western Q’land or N.S.W. for health
reasons. Wages not important if living ex-,
penses assured.—s77l.
To buy Barron Field’s First Fruits of Aus-
tralian Poetry . and Charles Tompson’s Wild
Notes from the-Lyre of a Native Minstrel. —
5788.
! Words of verse beginning:
If I were a god like you,
And you were a man like me.
—3744.
Work wanted ifi country or city by kitchen-
man-useful (45), hospital and guest-house exp.
Active, clean, sober. Refs. —5745.
Information Sought.
Who wrote the poem beginning:
if I should die, think only this of me:
That thene’svsome t corner of a foreign field
That is'*for ever''England. . .".
—5792. -
1 The poem, entitled “The Soldier,’’ was
written by Rupert Brooke, and will be found
in his Collected Poems.
* * * *
In the case of a divorce -where the Judge
liaS made 'an order for alimony,<does that
order stand good for the lifetime t of the
divorced wife no matter how she may ‘miscon-
duct herself after the order has been made? —
5749. z •• . ...
No, the Court may on the application of
the one-time husband modify or discharge the
order for alimony. »
* * * *
My wife and I have a joint account ..in a
branch of the Commonwealth Bank, and in
addition'to cash deposits and interest'we lipid
jointly a number of Commonwealth bonds.
In the case of the death of either of us, does
the survivor take the lot? —'5765.' ’ ’
Yes, a joint account implies joint, ownership,
and where there is joint ownership.between two
persons the whole rests in the survivor on the
death of the other. ' '
* * •. * 1 *
A landowner in Australia leaves for England.
Before doing so lie instructs an agent to sell
some portion of the land for him. The agent
does so, but be fa/e he can arrange the trans-
fer to the • buyer (B) he in turn .sells to a
second, buyer (C). What about the certificate
of L title 3—5760.
The‘two‘-transfers-may be avoided by the
land being transferred by the original owner
to the buyer C by direction of B, the inter-
mediate buyer. By this means two transfers
are avoided.
•* * * *
In the case of a blo.ck of flats, who is re-
sponsible for the payment of the electric-light
account T- —5753.
The owner of the flats is responsible, and if
payment of the accounts, is. not settled within
the prescribed time the supply may be discon-
tinued. In some cases a separate meter, regis-
tering the electricity used for all purposes, is
provided for each flat land a separate statement
rendered to the owner of the block, who, col-
lects from his tenants their individual accounts.
* * * *
Is it possible in the event of leaving Aus-
tralia permanently to take out capital to the
extent of about £4OOO 5692.
In terms of the National Security (Monetary
Control) Regulations a person “shall not, except
through the bank or an agent of the bank and
except in accordance with such conditions as
the board determines, take or send money to
any place outside Australia.’’ In view of this,
you should make inquiries at your bank.
v** * * -
A man bought a house for £3BO and. pays
rates and taxes on it. How *much rent is
he allowed to charge according to Vic. law? —
5717.
Not aware of any fixed scale, but the rent
should be “a fair rent,” and jthis would be
determined by locality, value of house and
land, etc. A rough-and-ready principle is
sometimes applied that ah owner should have
a clear return from his property of 10 p.c.
p.a. to cover rates and legitimate wear and
tear, etc. —but this must not be taken as law.
* * * *
Some particulars regarding the English
artists (1) H. M. Bateman and (2) “Fougasse”.?
—5735. ’ -
(1) Son of Henry Charles Bateman, he was
born at Sutton Forest (N.S.W.) on Febru-
ary 15, 1887. Educated at Forest Hill House
School, England, he studied drawing and paint-
ing ait the Westminster and New Cross art
schools and in the studio of Charles van
Havenmaet for several years; commenced
drawing for reproduction in 1906, since when
he has contributed humorous drawings to most
of the leading English weeklies and monthly
magazines. He has designed many theatrical '
posters. Publications include Burlesques, A
Book of Drawings, Suburbia, More Drawings
and Considered Trifles. (2) “Fougasse” is the
nom de plume of Cyril K. Bird, who was
born in 1887 and educated at Cheltenham
College. He was a civil engineer before he
took to art, and served as a lieutenant with
the Royal Engineers. His publications include
A Gallery of Games, Drawn at a Venture,.
P.T.0., E. and 0.E.. Fun Fair,' Aces Made
Easy and You Have Been Warned.
* * * *
Titles of books of verse published by (1)
Charles Hqrpur, (2) Adam Lindsay Gordon; -
(3) Henry Kendall, excluding broadsheets and
cantatas, and (4) Henry Lawson, while they
were alive '/ —5778.
(1) Thoughts (1845), The, Bushrangers (1853),
A Poet’s Home (1865) and The Tower of the
Dream (1865). (2) The Feud (1864), Ash- ■
taroth (1867), Sea Spray and Smoke Drift
(1867) and Bush Ballads and Galloping Rhymes
(published on June 23, 1870, the day before
he died). (3) Poems and Songs (1862); The
Glen of ■ the White Man’s Grave (1863), The
Bronze Trumpet (1866), Leaves from Australian
Forests - (1869), Songs ■ from the Mountains
(1880) and Orara-(1881). (4 ) Short Stories in
Prose and Verse (1894), mainly prose, 16 pages
verse, In the Days When the World Was Wide
and Other Verses (1896), Verses Popular and
Humorous (1900), Children of the Bush (1902),
mainly prose, When I Was King and Other
Verses (1905), The Rising of the Court and
Other Sketches in Prose and Verse (1910),
largely prose, 42 pages verse, The Skyline Riders
and Other Verses (1910), A Coronation Ode
and Retrospect (1911), For Australia and Other
Poems (1913), My Army, O, My Army! and
Other Songs, Songs of the Dardanelles and
Other Verses (1916) and Selected Poems (1918).
* % V #
(1)- Personnel of the Playwrights’ Advisory
Board, Sydney ? (2) When was it formed and
what are its objects?, (3 ). Does it insist that
authors receive royalties for plays produced?
14) Has it been successful in securing, the pro-
duction of Australian plays'? (5) Address of
its secretary ? —5797. ,
(1) Leslie Rees’ (chairman), O. D. Bisset
, (vice-chairman), Muriel Brown (secretary-trea-
surer), Dymphna Cusack, Lute Drummond,
May Hollingworth, Beatrice Tildesley, Victor
Arnold, S. Elliott Napier and Sydney Tom-
holt. (2) The board was formed in November,
1938, with the primary object of securing pro-
Australian' stage plays. It invites
the submission of plays for criticism and advice,
and also reads them for a small fee (2s. 6d.
per long play and Is. per short play). (3) A
basic aim of the P.A.B. is to obtain royalties
for Australian authors, free of agency charges.
(4) It has been responsible for the produc-
tion of full-length plays by Betty Roland,
C. Shepherd and G. Landen Dann, and is. at
present arranging for the production of plays
by S. LOcke*Elliotteand Gwen Meredith. It
has also sponsored the production of one-act
plays by Dymphna Cusack, Louis Esson,
Lionel Shave, Betty Roland and Sydney Tom-
holt. (5) Fifth Floor, Scott Chambers,
Hosking-place, Sydney.
! r * •’* ■ ■ * * ,
• How can I~ change my surname by deed
poll ? Must . legal documents be signed by
original. or, new ‘.name ?—5116. i
The correct and , usual - course is to have a
deed poll drawn, up by.a solicitor and deposited
with'the Registrar-General (Births, Deaths and
Marriages branch), Sydney.' The, registration
fee is 2s. 6d. or thereabout, arid the solicitor’s
fee-about’a guinea. 1 .The change of name
should be advertised in at least one newspaper
circulating in the district where the person re-
sides., When-these, steps have been taken legal
and all'other documents may be signed under
the changed name.
*j* * *
I shall have a small estate to dispose of
in the event of my death and am about to
make a will. What worries me is the appoint-
ment" of an executor , for I don’t like the
idea of putting the burden on the shoulders
of , a relative or friend. What about the N.S.W.
Public Trustee —does he take up these small
matters ? —5770.
Any person may appoint the N.S.W. Public
Trustee as the executor of his will, and he
cannot decline' to act on the ground of the
small -value ,oL the The will may be
deposited 'with him in a sealed packet. Charges
do not become payable until the will has been
actually proved'and the assets realised.
* * * *
What does the silver drummer feed on,
where is it to be found and is it a tasty table
fish ?— 5757.
The silver drummer (K. sydneyanus) is
common round rocky reefs in the neighbor-
hood of Sydney during the warmer parts of the
year,, when the rocks between tide-levels are
covered with a brown seaweed ( Wildemania )
. upon • which it feeds. When this dies off
■ during tire'winter months, most of the drummer
likewise disappear, perhaps migrating into
deeper water, though young examples are
occasionally taken throughout the year. They
also feed upon shellfish and crabs, but are so
fond of the weed that, if handfuls of it be
thrown into the water, they will rise to it
with avidity and partly expose themselves above
the surface. They .are captured by line-
fishermen with hooks baited with the seaweed,
but most of those marketed are caught in
nets. The silver drummer attains a length
of over 30in.; smaller specimens are tasty
table fish, but the larger examples are- almost
worthless as food unless specially, treated.'' It.
ranges from N.S.W. to south-western Aus-
tralia and M.L.
* * * *
To what genus does the cat-bird belong?
How- many species are there in - Australia, and
what is their coloring ? —5762.
The genus Ailurcedus contains the cat-
birds, so called because their notes, resemble
the mewing of, .cats; r They? frequent: tropical
scrub country, feed on jungle fruits, and build
bulky nests in bushes, not far from the ground.
Their two or three eggs are cream-colored
without markings. They are not known to
build any sort of bower. The two Australian
species are the green cat-bird (A. crassirostris )
of eastern N.S.W. ' and the spotted cat-bird ( A.
melanotus)of north-eastern Queensland; a
third species is found in New' Guinea. They
are bright green -above and yellowish-green
below, spotted all over with white; they, have
very stout .bills. , . . ; \
*** . *
What happened to • the .“Radio News” section .
of The. Bulletin ? —5734.
It was .suspended ...because of the cancellation
of experimental radio facilities for the dura-
tion of* the war.
* * * *
Have any improvements been made in dry-
cell type radio valves in the last - two years ?
—5740. :
Latest information from U.S.A. shows four
new types. They- are all 1.4-volt filaments
but call for a maximum plate -voltage of only
45. All 1.4-volt valves previous to these
new types use 90 volts on-the : plates. The
new types are IRS converter, IT4 I.F. ampli-
fier, ISS audio amplifier and IS4 power ampli-
fier. They are- not yet available in Australia.
■** * *
(1) A few details concerning the , Eucla
artesian water basin and (2) how much salt in
water 'can stock stand. ?— 5751.
(1) The Eucla or Nullarbor Basin lies along
the shores of the Great Australian Bight, ex-
tending 400 miles east from Israelite Bay and
about 200 miles' inland. Its area is about
74,300 square miles, mainly. Tertiary limestones
resting upon what are probably Cretaceous
marine beds. The water is for the most part
sub-artesian, a saline quality being'struck at
200 ft. and a much fresher quality below that
depth. In some cases,"as in the Madura bore,
2000 ft. deep, the water rises, to the surface.
(2) It has been found That horses thrive on
water containing ;loz. of salt to the gallon, while
cattle can stand and sheep 2oz. —even
3oz. in a dry, season.
*-* * *
1 am playing pianoforte accompaniments for
a saxophonist, i l have ’to read from his music
and I find I have .to transpose it down one
half-tone. Will I have to do-this every time l
meet a B-fiat tenor sax., or, is my player’s
instrument unique? Some time ago T saw‘an
accompaniment for a B-flat tenor sax., - and it
was a full tone lower than Jhe sax.’s music.
Is a half-tone the rule —or is this saxophonist’s
piano wrongly pitched? —s73ll
The routine for-transposition with the pianist,
reading. from the single-line melody the saxo-
phonist is playing is for the pianist-to read a
tone lower. The piano should be tuned to
the correct pitch, and to arrive at .it .the* pitch
of the saxophone must be tested —it may be in
high pitch C 540 or low pitch C 522. The saxo-
phonist should play his B .natural -to the
pianist’s A, or D natural to the pianist’s C, the
saxophonist ’ making the necessary adjustment
to bring these notes into unison by altering the
position of the mouthpiece. Great- care must
.be exercised by the player that he is playing
a true musical tone.
*. * * • * >
Some particulars concerning Sir Charles Fre-
mantle, after whom Fremantle \W.A.), is
named ?— 5799. . -
Born in 1800, he was the second son. of
Admiral Sir'T. F Fremantle, a companion of
Nelson in most of his , great exploits. He
entered the navy in 1812, and-saw active ser-
vice as-a. midshipman at the blockade of New
Orleans in 1814. In 1828, when in command
of HJVLS. Challenger, he was ordered to pro-
ceed to the Swan River to take formal pos-
session for the British Crown of “all that part
of New Holland which is not included in. the
territory of New South Wales.” He arrived
on April 25, 1829, and on May 2 hoisted the
Union Jack on the south head of the river,
where Fremantle now stands. Capt. Stirling
and other officials, together with the first band
of settlers, reached Swan River on June 1,
and the Challenger left there on .August 28 for
India. Fremantle served with distinction
during the Crimean War, was made rear-admiral
in 1864, became commander-in-chief at Devon-
port, and died in 1869.
* * * *
Some particulars regarding “Jane,” who con-
ducts the Women’s Hour from the Melbourne
studios of the A.B.C.? —5766.
She is Pressy Preston (Mrs. Reg Wykeham),
the actress, and besides being “Jane” is
“Emma,” the radio character of the broadcast
session “Emma and ’Erbert.” She was on the
stage for years, and toured Australasia with
the Dion Boucicault Co.
. ... * * * - *
My. wife and 1 have each a little income
from property. Has she [any claim over ,my
property, and have I any ‘ claim ,over hers ?
5739. .. ' ' ' --- ‘ • ; ..
•Under the N.S.W. Married Women’s Property
Act a- 'married woman is capable of holding,
acquiring, or disposing of any real or personal
property as , her separate estate. Her property
is not liable for her husband’s debts, and her
earnings in any occupation, apart from her
husband’s, are her own without any control of
the husband. A wife, on the other hand, has
no control over her husbafid’s separate estate.
It is, however, his duty to maintain her, provide
a home for her and furnish her with the
necessaries of life. The law is practically the
same in all Australian States.
Information Supplied.
5419.—Babinda (Q.) was so named,from the
creek on which it stands, which was named
in 1881 by W. H. Pettett, who owned land in
the vicinity, after a station he took up near
Nymagee, N.S.W., in the '’severities. —E. C. P.
* .* * . •• •. *
5509—1 n respect to Mark VI. and Mark VII.
.303 service-type cartridges for the Lee Enfield
long rifle, the case, percussion cap rind cupro-
nickel bullet jacket are identical. The Mark
VI. bullet is blunt-nosed, weighing -215 grains;
the Mark VII. is sharp T pointed, and weighs
174 grains. With the former, the propellent
is Cordite Mark I.; with the latter, a nitro-
cellulose compound. Experiments have demon-
strated that nitrocellulose compounds have con-
siderably less: harmful effect on the barrel than
Cordite Mark I. Length of barrel has no bear-
ing on the .wear of rifling. Using Mark VII.
ammunition is more likely, to prolong the life
of the barrel than when Mark VI. ammunition
is used.—A. S. S.
Brief Answers.
E.K.: Write Director,'National Art Gallery
of N. S. Wales, the Domain, Sydney... .M.G.:
(1) , and (2) Write Curtis Brown, 6 Henrietta-
street, Covent Garden, London. (3) Publica-
tion often follows production; less often the
other way round. (4) In most important
countries excepting the U.S.A. and Russia....
H.F. : C. J. - Dennis’s “Australian National
Anthem,”- beginning “Fellers- •of Australier,
blokes an’ coves ian’ coots,” appeared in The
Bulletin :of . December 12, 1912 G.K.:
Write Dept., of Labor, Pretoria, Transvaal,
South Africa... .8.L.M.: Write Naval Staff
Office, Beach-road, Edgecliff, Sydney... .L.G.:
Cannot determine suitability without inspection.
Forward a few samples to the editor... .A.C.:
The only legislation that appears applicable in
either State is that directed' against the dis-
posal of goods; wares, etc., - by -lottery whether
with or without consideration “by means of
any game either of skill or of chance.” How
far this, may apply * to the competitions you have
in mind must be left to your own judgment.
....A.J.C.: The verse was written by Harry
Morant (“The Breaker”) and appears in The
Bulletin Reciter, obtainable from the N.S.W.
Bookstall Co.. .. .J.M.A.: Write Arthur Yates
and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney... .J.M.:
The preparation has been off the market for
years..J.J.C.: Write Department of Lands,
Melbourne.. . .W.S. : Karl Liebknecht was killed
in January, 1919,. in Berlin, while on his way
to Moabit Prison. He was shot, probably by
the police, who said he tried to escape. Rosa
Luxemburg was killed on the same journey.
Georgi, Dimitrov was charged with complicity
in the burning of the Reichstag in 1933 and
was acquitted. He is now in Russia. Thal-
manri, -imprisoned in Germany after the round-
up of Communists in 1933, is stated variously
to have been released and to be still in gaol.
The German authorities have denied his release.
. ...A.L.: Yes, The Bulletin is always pre-
pared to consider original short stories, with
an Australian setting, up to 5000 words. Stories
are' preferred typed; should be addressed to the
editor and stamps enclosed for return in case
of rejection... .W.P.: There is no mention of
his boxing from 35 to 45 years ago in any
available American or Australian record book,
so he could not have been regarded highly as
a pugilist,in those days... .H.J.C.: (1) No in-
formation is available as to what new indus-
tries are to be established in N, S. Wales during
1940. (2) Districts in N. S. Wales likely to
be most benefited by production of war
material's during 1940 are Newcastle, 1 metropoli-
tan area of Sydney, Port Kembla and Lithgow.
... .J.J.F.: (1) Sworn valuators in N. S. Wales
were originally appointed by the Registrar-
General under the Real Property Act. (2)
Membership of the Commonwealth Institute
of Valuers is regulated by ability either
to pass the examination of the Institute Or to
cdrhply with certain by-laws which will enable
the prospective member to attain membership
without examination. .. .J.K.: No information
regarding the depth of the depression called
the Devil’s Pool off the Irish coast, but there
is no ocean depth so great that it cannot be
sorinded by means of the Sonic depth-finder.
. ...J.F.T.: Knight Thomas Ewing died in
Sydney on September 15, 1920, aged 63. His
widow’s .Sydney address is that of her daughter,
Mrs. Darcy Johnston, Buckingham-street,
Killara (N.5.W.).. - .K.C.: Bernard Shaw
married ,/in 1898 Charlotte Frances Payne-
Townshe-nd.. J.S.C.: Before any action could
be taken;in the matter an investigation would
have to .be made. Perhaps the police could
assist' the .man. He might inquire at the Central
Police Court office, Sydney. There is a Legal
Aid .Office in Sydney, Queen’s Square, but it
applies only to persons not worth £5O, exclud-
ing tools of trade, necessary furniture and
wearing apparel. Some, general information
might, however, be obtained from the office
that would help him A.W.8.: Write Secre-
tary, Air Board, Defence Department, Mel-
bourne E.S.N.: (1) No maker of baking-
powder tells anyone how he makes it, and all
formulas are, secret. For home-made “rising”
mix lib. bicarb, soda with lib., tartaric acid
(smaller quantities in proportion). (2) That
spray is not on the market. • Coopers make
several excellent sprays. Ask your storekeeper
for one of the non-poisonous derris-dust mix-
tures. . . .C.R.Y. : Not easy to make at home,
and you are advised to keep to lines on the
market, especially as ingredients. are father
expensive. . Formula: Powdered tragacanth
gum 10 grains, rectified spirit of wine
2 drachms, glycerine 2 drachms, rosewater to
6oz. Pour alcohol into a dry bottle before
adding the gum; after'that dissolves add other
ingredients in order given... .G.C.H.: There
was a village called Klein Nessau near Thorn,
which reverted to Poland in 1918. It is at
present under German occupation. Any person
born there before 1918 who did not live
permanently in Poland after the Great War
would be considered a German subject, unless
he applied for Polish citizenship E.P.T.;
Write Under-Secretary, Dept, of Defence, Mel-
bourne N.G.: Get in touch with the Safety
Engineering Dept., Manufacturers’ Mutual In-
surance Co., 14 O’Connell-street, Sydney
J.C.M.: Overland Sydney, Ltd., of 252 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, is the distributor for
N.S'W. of the Willys-Overland. Handbooks
are available at 3s. 6d.


Costs less and goes further
C/ /CA " Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
is the best mineral supplement for sheep, cattle, pigs,
etc. It supplies calcium and phosphorus in the most
reliable form—pure, wholesome, palatable. Tri-cal-os
contains over 70 per cent, tricalcic phosphate and
the minerals normally present in bone.
All particulars from
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, N.S.W.
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
l
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus oils and
their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or coal tar
derivative. Neither washes nor dries out. Does not stain neece.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sheep Rugging in S.A.
“Gumeraka”: Results of rugging trials
recently, completed at the Waite Agri-
cultural Research Institute (S.A.) are in-
teresting. A station line of four-tooth
Mutooroo wethers was used, 20 being
covered with jute canvas rugs after shear-
ing in 1935, a similar number forming
a control group.
At no period during the trial was the
difference in weight between the rugged
and unrugged sheep great enough to be
worth recording. For two years there
was no significant difference in the weight
per head of greasy or of scoured wool
between the two groups. In 1936 a
difference of 2.6 p.c. in the clean-scoured
yield of fleece wool and first pieces in
favor of the rugged group was noticed,
but there was no difference between the
second pieces or belly wool. The 1937
clip showed even less variation.
The general appearance of the wool
indicated that the rugs were responsible
for keeping out dust and dirt, but in-
creased the percentage of grease in the
wool. Valuations, based on prices ruling
at September sales in Adelaide, returned
16s. a head in 1936 for the control group
and 16s. Id. per head for the rugged
sheep, and in 1937 18s. and 17s. lOd.
respectively.
The mean growth rate of the wool
of the rugged sheep was 8.59 millimetres
a month, and of the control group 8.63
millimetres a month —the difference here
being insignificant. The results suggest
that advantages from rugging are likely
to be confined to areas where the value
of the clip is lowered by dust and burr.
The Argentine—and Here.
“Mookau”: British exporters of Short-
horn bulls to the Argentine complain that
at this year’s Palermo sales only four
animals out of 56 reached four-figure
prices, and the average was a mere £506
sterling all round, as compared with £534
last year. Though A. J. Marshall got
£5600 for one of his offerings in 1937,
£1823 was top price this time—for a
Balthayock sire.
In Australian terms even the present
Palermo prices are fabulous. Five hun-
dred guineas for a bull would be head-
lined in the press as outstanding in any
recent year, and four-figure prices are
now only dreams. Yet there is little
difference in quality between the average
Argentine sires and the best Australian
bulls. But the Argentinians have realised
that good bulls are as essential to success
in the meat business as good rams are in
wool production. Here, except with Brice
Henry and a very few of his kind, the
cattle business is still run on Wild West
lines.
Pigs and Wheat.
“Cubawa”: Wheat fed to pigs will
return well above the export parity.
This does not mean that all the surplus
wheat can be fed to pigs at a profit, but
it does mean that many a wheatgrower
faced this season with the need to store
wheat on the farm would find that Dennis
could help solve his problem.
Wheat on its own is not enough for
pigs, which need to graze as well. Too
much wheat also means too much fat.
Lucerne, oats, rye, maize make good
grazing crops, and pumpkins, sweet pota-
toes, artichokes, together with the usual
waste foods on the farm, go to make a
good ration and keep the pigs growing
well.
Pig-raising should be planned as part
of the farm economy for the future.
Pens can be set up on a slope well away
fi*om the homestead, and so constructed
as to provide natural drainage, shelter
from bad weather and coolness in
summer.
There i? a big demand for lean pig
meats, both here and for export.
New Wheats.
“Ben Cubbin”: J. N. Barrett has tried
out some new wheats at Edgeroi (N.S.W.).
The rust-resistant Fedweb sown along-
side Ford about mid-May and given a
quick hit by the sheep in June headed a
“Can't get me brakes fixed till after me next pay.”
««
a few days ember- re , ~,
rust and very #ght leaf rust, though the
Ford had a little of both Fedweb .had
the advantage of very much shorter stravv,
and thus withstood bad weather ■
Harvesting <?on dlt i°ns were far from bad,
but a lot of the Ford went down,
Barrett found, too, that the Ford beat
the Fedweb when both were cut back
by frost or eating-off. Early stalks_ died
and suckers developed. Secondary heads
from the suckers of Ford filled well, but
the Fedweb heads were small, and though
the crop was as dense as the Ford the
yield was lower,
Eureka, an earlier maturer, showed
great resistance to rust. It is stiffer-
strawed than Pusa, and Barrett believes it
m ay replace the latter to some extent,
Frost damaged both Eureka and Pusa
S o much that no true comparison with
Ford was possible. Barrett is satisfied
that the new wheats will play a big part
in offsetting the losses from summer
rains in northern N.S.W., but adds tn
caution is necessary.
Linseed in N. S. Wales.
“Wandi”: With the new demand for
local linseed, caused by the war, fresh
attempts to grow the crop are likely.
Unless varieties can be acclimatised the
effort is waste of time.
Linseed thrives only in cold climates.
If a strain could be developed suitable
for Australian wheat lands, it would
mean a big thing to wheatgrowers, since
the same machinery is applicable to both
wheat and linseed.
A number of attempts were made a
couple of decades ago to grow linseed,
but it was found that land which would
give 25 bushels of wheat would not turn
off more than four or five bushels of lin-
seed, and for flax' the growth was hope-
less, rarely giving more than 18in. of
fibre. Yanco irrigation area did better
than any other district, but its seed yield
was only 14 bushels.
Beating Skeleton Weed.
“R. Rina”: A Temora (N.S.W.) farmer,
W. Giles, has turned into a revenue
producer a pest that seemed likely to
put him out of wheatgrowing. Some
years ago he found that skeleton weed
was defeating his wheat on a 3600-acre
block. During the past three seasons
he has taken off heavy crops—3o bushels
an acre this year from 1200 acres —and
has carried 2000 breeding merino ewes.
Wheat is sown on the paddocks every
third year, alternative areas being selected.
Stubble is not burned, but is allowed
to rot and provide a cover for heavy
growth of ball clover which comes away
quickly on the well-supered paddocks,
Fallowing is done with a special mould-
board plough that does not turn the
sod right over, thus allowing the clover
to progress and later to set seed. In
late spring the land is well-cultivated
with a spring-tooth scarifier, then heavily
stocked with sheep. This heavy grazing
is kept up, with the result that the skeleton
weed is kept short and forced to grow
continuously, a factor that apparently
puts a severe strain on its root system.
Sheep are kept grazing on the weed
and clover until just before sowing time,
when the land is well disked. Then,
making sure of a moist seedbed, Giles
sows quick-growing, strong-strawed
wheats such as Bordan and Bencubbin.
Success of the system is proved by the
fact that he expects to increase sheep
(ecateThe itvy
the M°ws would check crossbred sucker
The three-year rotation might be con-
sidered rather short, but it has been
found that the clover goes back rapidly
after the first year, and would need top-
dressing to sustain its vigor. This, Giles
believes, would not be as profitable as
the system he has adopted, which not
only keeps the weed down and gives him
a good return from sheep, but allows the
next crop of wheat to take advantage
of the nitrogen the clover has built up
in the soil before the greedy skeleton
weed can get at it.
Giles thinks the system would be as
successful on small areas as on large, but
insists that sufficient weed must be carried
to punish the weed severely throughout
the fallow period after the year of clover
growth.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bundalinga”: Effects of mineral de-
ficiency are accentuated when a cow
calves. One symptom is bone-chewing,
which indicates a need of lime. Give a
bone-chewing cow bran and chaff, and
provide a lick of sterilised bonemeal and
salt, put out in separate containers where
she can always get it. Consumption of
the lick will be heavy for the first few
days. Annual topdressing of pastures
with superphosphate and lime will over-
come mineral deficiencies.
“Pappamosca”: Teach orphaned pigs to
drink by standing them in a shallow dish
of milk. Once they taste the milk there
will be no trouble. Start them on cow’s
milk (whole) fed warm and as fresh as
possible six times daily. After three
weeks begin a gradual change to sepa-
rated milk and to three feeds daily. When
a start is made on separated milk, pro-
vide a trough containing 90 p.c. of dry
meal—pollard, bran, maizemeal or wheat-
meal—and 10 p.c, of meatmeal. Give the
youngsters all the water they need,
“Mullengah”: There is no really satis-
faCfory treatment for pigs affected by
round worm. Best plan is to clean up
SOU rces of infection. Pigs pick up worms
f rom tbe excreta of other pigs. To de-
stroy tbe eggs> spr ay yards and pastures
with a solution of lib. of bluestone in
a ga fi on of water (10 gallons to 100
square yards). Spell the sprayed areas
for as long as possible. Remember, wet
yards and pens favor development of the
parasites.
“Rom”: H. B. Roberts, who runs a
R omne y Marsh flock near Maleny, on
B]acka]i Range (QJ> is wit h
the breed’s. Reduce under
lambing, and from a cross with western-
bred merino ewes 85 p.c. R.M. ewes,


I
4HB
Mi
L
*
3248.
ĺ
We don t wish to brag about our Footwear, but this Boot is really worth
mentioning. Double Soles, Water-resisting Ooze Calf Uppers, reinforced
Elastic in sides and Leather lining throughout. ,
Stocked in full and half sizes and in wide and extra-wide fittings.
Price 49/6 in Brown.
“// it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, 53 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM—APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It—Automatic Overflow—Does Not
Require Emptying—Over 900 Sold—Shell Co., 64 Repeat Orders; Bank of N.S.W., 15.
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated. Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
1
ļ
mm
r
Many troops in Australia's new army will not only sleep in
Masonite huts, but will mess from tabletops of j-inch Tempered
Presdwood. These well-designed, collapsible and transportable
mess-tables—topped with tough, steel-strong, smooth. Tempered
Presdwood—afford another example of Masonite's versatility.
The four Australian-made Masonite boards can help YOU, in
countless ways. For building week-enders, garages, furniture,
toys for "tiling" kitchens, bathrooms and modernisation work
generally "These Wonder Boards of 1,000 uses" provide the
inexpensive, durable and easy-to-erect answer.
Ask for details of CAN E-IT E. the modern Structural Insulation Board
aII H
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD • PRESDWOOD
TEMPRTILE • QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. {Building Materials Division)
Sydney — ; Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth MASB-9
ffie fyxtllelz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
THE KING’S SCHOOL
PARRAMATTA
Founded 1831.
m
■ ■
* '
*
~ - «■“
First Term, 1940, begins
February 7th.
H. D. HAKE, M.A.,
Headmaster.
sjTf
M
EYE LOTI
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
«. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., King St., Sydney
with seven months’ wool, cut a 61b. aver-
age fleece. The Romneys have been
there two years.
“Goulburn”: When D. B. Reid took
over Evandale, Moss Vale (N.S.W.), the
, , . ) .. L. ,
pastures were almost unproductive. First
step was to cleai out the rabbits. The
whole property of 3000 acres was then
topdressed with lcwt. of super, (lib. of
sub. clover and |lb. of white clover mixed
in) per acre. Then 2cwt. of lime per acre
helped to bring back natural grasses and
clovers. Swamps were drained and sown
with white and strawberry clovers and
lotus major, and now produce a large
bulk of feed. Selected areas were sown
with 41b. of perennial rye grass, 21b. of
sub. clover, 21b. of cocksfoot and lib.
of white clover per acre. In less than
a year 200 crossbred lambs and 500 fat
wethers, all in prime condition, were sold.
Reid aims to produce six fat lambs per
acre yearly. He grows 230 acres of
crops and runs a herd of Aberdeen-
Angus cattle.
“Sepoy”: Though Ghurka was again
far and away the most popular wheat
in Victoria this season, its total acreage
fell away, Ranee (including the 4H
strain) and Bencubbin gaining much
ground. The Ranee-4H mixture was
third in popularity in the Wimmera, and
second in the Mallee and northern dis-
tricts. Bencubbin was fifth in Wimmera
and the north, and third in the Mallee.
There was nearly four times as much
land under Bencubbin and Dundee as
three years ago and nearly three times
as much under Bobin.
“Cub”: Suggested that the holdup in
the delivery of N.S.W. wheat to silos was
brought about by the speed at which the
harvest is taken off. It wasn’t. The main
causes were lack of ships to take wheat
from terminals, lack of bags to allow of
storing at sidings, inability to get wheat
away from country silos because there
was nowhere to take it, a heavy crop
coming in almost simultaneously. Con-
gestion has occurred in previous years—
though not to the same extent —and some-
times because of a similar combination
of some or all of these things.
“Mookau”: Six years’ research on
contagious abortion has at least got some
way towards solution of a problem which
costs Australian cattle-growers at least
a couple of millions a year. Periods of
infection of pastures and calves from in-
fected cows have been settled along with
bull infection frequency. A standard test
has been adopted and a special strain of
bacillus has been imported from U.S.A.
for vaccination tests with young calves.
If this succeeds most of the trouble is
over. If it does not, there is still a long
road to travel before c.a. can be effec-
tively dealt with.
“Cow Time”: Two Scots —Cargill and
Keith—now own the Commonwealth stud
piggery, founded by the Federal Govern-
ment at Canberra. The pigs, mostly
Large Whites, are run in the open, im-
proved pastures being used for rotational
grazing. Barley, rape, lucerne, corn,
sorghum and artichokes are grown on
80 of the 115 acres. Weaners are fat
when taken from the paddocks to be
topped off on wheat, pollard and bran —
the only folders not grown on the place.
The stud proves the contention that it is
not necessary to rely on dairy by-products
to raise pigs.
“Pappamosca”: N. S. Wales Agricul-
tural Department has ordered from Eng-
land a sectional model of the ideal pig.
It’s proposed to exhibit the model at
shows, together with photographs of live
pigs, dressed carcasses and separate cuts.
The Danish example might be followed
with profit—there, replicas of the ideal
pig are given as prizes at shows and in
pig competitions.
“B. Rann”: There is. hope of reducing
the cost of grasshopper poisoning, accord-
ing to Tim McCarthy, N.S.W. entomolo-
gist, who, recently returned from the
U.S.A., says that over there the mixture
is three-parts sawdust and one of bran,
with no molasses. McCarthy’s tip should
be worth investigating, grasshopper baifi
ing being fairly expensive.
“Zedo”: A good deal more could be
done in eastern districts with velvet beans,
which are an important crop in the maize
districts of S. America and S. Africa.
They will grow on land not suited to
cowpeas, and under equal conditions
will give 25 p.c. better growth. The
bean is a great stayer as winter grazing,
and will stand up when almost every-
thing else goes. In U.S.A., it is sown
with maize—two rows maize 3ft. apart,
one of velvets sown six weeks later. The
maize is pulled before the beans are ripe
for grazing. A good idea in dairy dis-
tricts is to let the pigs follow the cattle
as cleaners-up. The beans produce a
meal more digestible than wheat bran,
but whether it is practicable to raise seed
for meal depends on acreage yield and
the price of grain. At present it would
hardly pay, but as a winter pasture and
soil-improvement proposition along the
north coast of N.S.W. the plant should
be in the front rank.
“Old-timer”: Reports coming in from
the N.S.W. wheatbelt indicate a mice
plague. Back in 1917, when heavy rains
caused the biggest flood white man ever
saw in the Murray and its tributaries,
Victoria and Riverina had big crops.
They also had a record plague of rice.
Floods did not stop the grey hordes,
which appeared on both sides of the
Murray. The damage done to stacks
was enormous, and clothing, saddlery and
upholstery also suffered. Gangs of men
were employed to kill mice, and the
dead were carted away from stacks
in drayloads. About a mile east
of Tapalin vineyard, 50 miles up the
Murray from Mildura, where the road
crossed a low hill, we one day saw the
river coming oyer the hill in a slow, dark
tide. Closer inspection showed it to be
a flood of living mice. The local cats
were soon surfeited, snakes and goannas
did their best, and men destroyed thou-
sands with roller-traps, water-pits and
poison, but this hardly made a gap in
that colossal army. For days they over-
ran the place, eating fruit, clothing,
chickens and even nibbling at humans
whc slept in mice-riddled bunks. Then
we arose one morning to find the eternal
rustling silenced, the endless movement
still. The plague had gone on overnight.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.')
(1) What chemicals are used to kill trees or
stumps to a point where they can be
burned? (2) Another method that leaves the
stump rotten so that it can be knocked to
pieces with a hoe? (3) Where can I find out
how rawhide is prepared, and how it is put
on an American saddle-tree? (4) The best way
to poison ironbark saplings up to six inches
in diameter? —5405.
(1) The use of explosives combined with stoving
method of burning is recommended practice
for land-cleaning operations. Bore several ljin.
diameter holes into the stump at an oblique
angle to a depth of approximately half the
diameter of the tree, put in two to three ounces
of saltpetre, fill cavity with water and finally
plug securely. After two weeks, remove plug
and fill hole with kerosene and plug again for
further week, after which the stump may be set
alight in the usual way. (2) Bore holes as in
the previous method, then put in 2oz. each
hydrochloric and nitric acid and plug securely.
These acids are extremely corrosive. Care
should be taken not to mix them but to add
them in the order stated. (3) Get in touch
with either S. Sliney or M. J. Gallagher
and Sons, of Kedron, Brisbane (commer-
cial tanners), and with Butler Bros., Queen-
street, Brisbane. (4) To destroy sapling
growths up to 6in. in diameter, apply
arsenic pentoxide solution, using 21b. to the
gallon of water to the freshly-cut section of
the small growth and around the frill cut of the
larger growth. A. pent, is poisonous. Care
should be taken in its use, and all stock
removed during and for some time following
the treatment. It is obtainable from the
Poisons Section, Lands Department, Brisbane.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
In future, the contributor placed first will be paid at the rate of 4|d. per line;
all others at 2Jd. per line.
For obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are severely sub-
edited.
For a spirited defence of canned music a Queenslander is awarded double rates.
“Canned” Music
I never feel so grateful for “canned”
music as when I think of the old-
fashioned musical evenings when you sat
round the drawing-room, deterred from
all misplaced levity by the stern visage
of Mr. Gladstone glowering down at you
from his honored place on the wall, and
heard the same old items given by
performers whose artistic imperfections
had b&en familiar to you from the cradle.
Have you forgotten the sweating agony
that was yours as Tosti’s “Good-bye”
gave place to “Thora,” and “Asleep in
the Deep” was followed by “The Mid-
shipmite,” with “Papa’s Letter” and “The
Graves of a Household” sandwiched in
to give sprightliness to the entertainment?
Those days are over, thank goodness,
and nowadays, by an intelligent manipu-
lation of the power-switch, we can have
music without misery in our leisure hours.
Why should the word “canned” be used
as a term of opprobrium and contempt
when it is the only means by which we
can escape the noises of inexpert subur-
ban performers, and have music of the
best quality served regularly to us?
“Canning” has raised the general level
of musical appreciation, widened the
range of its enjoyment, opened the sealed
book of the classics. Sound reproduction
is already good and wili go on im-
proving. Give me good canned music
rather than mediocre personal perform-
ances—every time. — Anither (Q.).
“Anither” is D. Shanks, Montpelier-
street, Wilston, Brisbane, Q.
Relishing the War
An odd remark passed to me by a lad
has set me thinking. We were both walk-
ing along a beach when he saw a steamer
close in, and suddenly exclaimed: “Oh,
boy! if I only had a torpedo.”
There was no doubting the implica-
tion. You bloodthirsty little beggar,
thought I. And it was then I began to
wonder.
Don’t we all like our meat raw? For
instance, consider this war. Don’t we
prefer reading the reports of actual con-
flict rather than the diplomatic
wranglings? Open your morning paper
and, mark my word, you’ll go first for
the headlines of sinkings or battle-front
reports. Of course, we prefer our side
to be coming home, but even a report of
a severe reversal often rouses our blood.
It’s a fact that many were disappointed
that an all-in scrap didn’t immediately
result just before the Munich Pact of ’3B.
We are told of citizens during air raids
who scorn the safety of shelters in order
to watch the aerial combats above, quite
heedless of their own danger. They don’t
want to “miss the fun”!
Most of us must confess that when kids
we relished reading authentic war books.
If they were illustrated with fighting pic-
tures, all the better, especially if the pic-
tures were actual photographs.
It might be thought that now the fire-
works have actually started our weekly
papers would offer something as a dis-
traction ; but not on your life! South
Australian papers, especially in their
magazine sections, devote all their space
to war articles. It’s topical, apologises the
editor. Certainly their sales haven’t
fallen off. —G. S. Shepherd (S.A.).
Military Pomp
The other day I saw a newsreel which
featured a review in a garrison town.
One thing I particularly noticed (and
people for yards around remarked on it)
was a stiff-legged officer prancing round
with a sword held, point up, in front of
his nose. We ridicule Hitler and his
satellites for going on like a lot of silly
kids. Why don’t we look nearer home?
—Dinkum Demo. (W.A.).
“Stand Back, Please”
When troops are leaving any country
there is always a lot of public enthusi-
asm. People who do not know per-
sonally even one soldier come out in
force and line the route of march to
cheer and show their appreciation of
the boys.
That is as it should be, but at the rail-
way station gates the public should stop
and only those to whom the soldier has
allotted his special tickets should enter
the platform.
When the S.A. division of the Second
A.I.F. left recently the crowd was so
huge that the porters could not cope
with it and the platform tickets were not
looked at. The crowd just surged
through the gates. Soon the platform
was packed to overflowing. Relatives
didn’t get near enough even to shake
hands. When the train moved out many
elderly women were seen departing,
crying, their farewell parcels still in
their hands. They had not even seen
their husbands and sons. - A Mother
(S.A.).
A New Year Homily
During the last war the Cold Tea party
succeeded in doing to the soldiers what
they couldn’t do so thoroughly to
civilians. In the result there was a grand
display of hypocrisy and nonsense. The
dry canteen was in operation at Broad-
meadows in Victoria, but anybody who
visited the camp could call for a drink
without the slightest misgiving. The
beer was not always good, and the wine
was frequently pinkie, but if the quality
was not all it might be the quantity was
magnificent. Sly-grog shops flourished
in the neighborhood, and dealers had no
difficulty in entering the camp with full
supplies. But nothing was learnt from
this lesson.
Tea and coffee, both imported articles,
can be obtained in Melbourne at any
hour of the day. The idea of washing
down a plate of oysters for supper with
tea is just as revolting to some people as
the spectacle of citizens drinking a glass of
light Australian wine with their dinner in
an open-air cafe in Collins-street would
be revolting to others. The people who
are revolted at the idea of wine-drinking
in open-air cafes think that if the cus-
tom became general in Melbourne it
would be the ruination of the people.
They never ask themselves whether it has
been the ruination of the French, the
Spaniards or the Italians.
Even the publicans share the Cold Tea
party’s belief that wine is of the devil.
I remarked one day to a publican in
Footscray that it was very nice to go to
the charming cafe in the Fitzroy Gardens
and eat a plate of cold meat and salad
in those beautiful surroundings, but it
was a disgusting thing that you had to
wash it down with lemonade, tea or
coffee. As far as I was concerned a glass
of wine would be ever so much nicer.
“Wine!” he shouted. “You want a lot
of wine-drinkers in those gardens. Why,
you want to ruin them!” “But you sell
wine,” I said. “Why do you sell it if
you think it does harm to people?”
Three centuries of Puritanism have
completely muddled up our thinking on
the subject, until even publicans feel they
are conducting a wicked business. You
can buy chocolates in a theatre in the
evening, but you can’t buy cigarettes or
tobacco, and you would be run in if you
were a party to the sale of a glass of
Australian burgundy, claret or chablis.
It has never been proved that Australian
burgundy or chablis is one whit less
delicious than French wine or one whit
more toxic. The French, who, after
all, are our Allies, are a very fine people,
and there is less drunkenness in France
than there is in Australia.
Now that there is a war on and one
man in 20 has become, as Shakspeare
said, a petty, pelting official, and there
is an army to play with, there are greater
opportunities for tyrannising over other
people than ever. And petty tyrants will
not refrain from tyrannising when they
get the opportunity.—L. L. (Vic.).
Wet Canteens
Dry or wet canteens, is it? When I
was in Liverpool camp during the 1914-
18 affair it was a dry camp and it was
a good one. A few months later I was
in a wet camp in England, and three days
after payday our lives were made miser-
able by the constant begging of the ones
who liked wet canteens. Similarly, they
were a nuisance for three days after
payday drunk every night on Lloyd
George’s beer. —J. R. Lewis (Q.).
Non-Swimmers in the Navy
It sounds incredible that with all the
opportunities afforded by a sea-girt con-
tinent like Australia there are men in
our Navy who have never learnt to swim.
One would think that on enlistment the
vital question “Can you swim?” would
be put to each recruit. Evidently that
is not so. Consider the N.S.W. Amateur
Swimming Association’s offer to teach
naval men how to swim.
Just imagine recruits for the Australian
Light Horse Brigades being accepted, and
it later being discovered that the only
horses they were ever “on” were those
they backed at Randwick or Flemington!
— Aussie (N.S.W.).
Apples and Prices
“Pip” (B. 13/12/’39) would like to
teach the orchardists how to market their
apples. I’m prepared to give him his
chance. I have an orchard in the heart
of the Huon (Tas.) fruitgrowing district.
Estimated crop for next season is 5100
bushels of following varieties: Cleopatra
2000, Jonathan 1100, Granny Smith 800,
Democrat 700, STP 500 —a good line
altogether.
Should the Commonwealth Govern-
ment continue with its scheme to “assist”
the growers by compulsorily acquiring
the crop at 2s. a bushel for three-fourths
of it —the balance cannot be disposed
of but must be tipped—l will give “Pip”
£l5O to take over my orchard for the 12
months. He is to pay all expenses and
receive all the proceeds from the crop. If
he accepts the offer I will just about halve
my loss for the year.
It is anticipated that the Tas. growers
among them will lose £500,000.
“Pip” would like to buy apples at
3s. 6d. a bushel. Well, here are the ex-
penses of marketing apples in Melbourne
and Sydney between September and
January:—
s. d.
Case, wrapping material, cost of
packing 2 0
Cool storage .. .. .. ..16
Freight, cartage, commission .. .. 2 3
r Total 5 9
This allows nothing for loss through de-
preciation in cool store, and nothing for
the shopkeeper. And don’t forget his
loss through depreciation of an extremely
perishable article.
Taking ss. 9d. from 3s. 6d., you will see
what “Pip” would give the grower for
his efforts in producing the fruit. I
wonder if “Pip” has the faintest idea
what it costs to produce a case of fancy-
grade apples. He certainly has every-
thing to learn about the cost of marketing
fruit, but should at least know, without
needing to be told, that outside their
season apples and pears are as much a
luxury as any other sort of fruit.—J. J.
Freeman (Tas.).
Fruit Markets
“Pip” (B. 13/12/’39) exhorts fruit-
growers to put their products on the
market at bedrock rather than hold out
for luxury prices, but, nosing round the
markets, I’ve found that the trouble is
generally at the marketing end.
Big buyers get in and buy in large
quantities to keep the average retailer
out of the market. The fruit is then
bunged into cold storage and kept there
until the price goes up. The big retailer
has facilities the producer hasn’t, and he
isn’t the only one at it either. The com-
mission agent handling the lines often
dabbles.
In one case I know of, the commission
agent bought oranges at 3s. 6d. to ss. 6d.
and boasted that he didn’t sell a single
case under 14s. 6d. They were sold on
the street at a dead loss to the fruiterer.
-J. B. (Q.).
Drink More Fruit
Why not a “Drink More Fruit”
campaign?
Recently I discovered, by chance, a
most delectable beverage (produced in
N.S.W.) labelled “Pure Apple Juice,” un-
fermented and without preservative. It’s
the best soft drink I’ve ever tasted, and
its health-giving properties are un-
doubted.
Australia exported during the first six
months of 1939 5,000,000 cases of apples
to the U.K. and Europe. Present con-
ditions will not allow a continuance of
that trade, and there will be a tremen-.
dous surplus.
In these remote parts we are paying up
to 3s. 6d. per dozen for apples, and by
the time they reach us they are generally
rotten. The apple juice will keep indefi-
nitely, so why not turn the apple surplus
into a refreshing and healthy beverage?
—’T. H. M. (Q.).
Philosophers with a Difference
I grant that “T.E.P.” (B. 20/12/’39)
correctly defines philosophy as “an at-
tempt to provide a synthesis embracing
all knowledge.” I object when he asserts
that “ ‘R.C.’ is confusing philosophy as
a whole with his particular theories.”
Why my “particular theories”? My
particular theory is metaphysics—an
established (and the oldest, it should be
added) branch of philosophy. And all
metaphysicians have a special license.
Voltaire said that “metaphysics constitute
the romance of the mind. In metaphysics
we dream pleasantly.”
Not that I was actually dreaming when
I wrote “My Value of Philosophy.” I
was propounding philosophy as it ap-
peared to me —a self-confessed metaphy-
sician. Admittedly I was propounding
the impossible science of that which is
beyond our senses, but what odds? And
even if I do insist that philosophy is .1
mixture of stoicism and complacency,
am I not entitled to my own opinions?
But let me quote Buckle: “The meta-
physical method consists in each observer
studying the operations of his own mind."
His own mind, mark you!
“T.E.P.,” as far as I can judge, is what
is commonly termed a “natural philo-
sopher.” That is, he examines con-
ceptions such as force, energy, motion,
life, etc., and forms his own conclusions.
Therefore he verges perilously close to
being a materialist. How, then, can he
interpret and condemn the propoundings
of a self-confessed metaphysician, “a poet
who has lost his vocation because he is
searching for something above facts”?
“T.E.P.” also insists that “every philo-
sopher of note must perforce have been
a sceptic in that he refused to accept the
theories of his day,” etc. I say “Rats!”
Scepticism doubts, and often denies, the
possibility of knowledge. How, then, can
your true philosopher be a sceptic? A
critic, perhaps, because instead of deny-
ing he distrusts, and distrust leads to in-
vestigation. And philosophy, in a nut-
shell, is nothing else but an effort to
acquire knowledge—by investigation.
No hard feelings, “T.E.P.” Wouldn’t
it be a cow of a world if we all thought
the same?—R. Conquest (Q.).
“Seek Wisdom”
At this time of the year, when so many
young people, both at schools and at the
university, are being rewarded for their
efforts to acquire knowledge, one wonders
what use it will be to them and how
much of it they will apply to the human
side of life outside their halls of learning.
Lord Tweedsmuir —John Buchan to a
large number of people—said in an
address to the students of Glasgow Uni-
versity that the acquisition of knowledge
was one thing, and not the most impor-
tant thing, at a university, and the prob-
lem was how to use that knowledge for
the benefit of themselves and their fellow-
members in the university of life.
The Acting-Professor of Surgery at the
conferring of degrees at Sydney ’Varsity
recently said to the young doctors that,
although they had acquired a certain
amount of knowledge, they had yet to
acquire wisdom, wisdom being quite a
different thing.
It is often to be noticed that a uni-
versity graduate adopts a very “superior”
attitude towards a layman. He thinks
he is a race apart, and that anyone who
has not had the same course of training
as he has had simply does not count.
A course of such training is a very good
thing, but only so far as it helps the
trainee to realise the human side of
things. It is regrettable that so often
a learned person is so lacking in
commonsense and practical understand-
ing of simple things. Cecil Rhodes, I
imagine, was trying to improve this state
of affairs when he wanted his scholarship
winners to be able to play games; and
John Winthrop Hackett had the same
idea in mind when he chose as the motto
of the University of Western Australia
“Seek Wisdom.” —B. B. (N.S.W.).'
Try Laughing
None of the numerous Italian “colo-
nies” scattered throughout Australia are
really models on which an ideal Aus-
tralian community could be based. Their
standard of living generally is foreign
to us, and their treatment of their women
is irreconcilable with our conceptions of
woman’s place in the home. Their chil-
dren we consider to be overworked, and
we view with disfavor the spectacle of
women and girls toiling barefooted in
market gardens.
But, despite the burdens under which
they toil, they never seem to forget how
to laugh. Giuseppe, returning after a
hate-maddened pursuit of a ravaging
dog, ceases his angry mutterings to laugh
uproariously at the spectacle of an old


hen turned head over turtle by a legs-
ensnaring hayband. Martha, who has
brought ten children into the world in
quick succession, laughs her fat way
through middle- and old-age. The kids,
taking advantage of each lessening of the
parental severity, learn to laugh un-
restrainedly.
There’s a lesson in it for us if we have
the wit to learn. I think the secret lies
in the fact that Giuseppe is concerned
almost exclusively with the cares of to-
day. The future holds few worries for
him. The joys that come his way are
not obscured by the troubles that may
or may not.
I’m not advocating vacuous laughter
or rowdyism, but a return to some of the
old social customs of 20 years ago might
be a lead in the right direction. — Gravel-
snatcher (W.A.).
Australian Writers
“Freelance’s” indictment (B. 13/12/’39)
applies almost without exception to Aus-
tralian newspapers. It’s almost impos-
sible to obtain from them that common
courtesy without which no other form
of commercial enterprise could hope to
survive.
This curious attitude of studied in-
difference towards inquiries about sub-
mitted MSS. is incomprehensible. In
nine cases out of ten such communi-
cations are ignored or answered after
undue delay, sometimes in insulting
terms. Nothing could do more to kill
Australian literary ambition.
There can be only one excuse —the sys-
tem of handling correspondence in edi-
torial departments is deplorably ineffi-
cient. Otherwise, it would seem that
editors just don’t give a damn for con-
tributors. And the Australian writer has
a hard enough row to hoe without hav-
ing to contend with this depressing and
unnecessary obstacle. — Andile Tellem
(N.S.W.).
Just after the death of Professor
Masaryk I put in a lot of rapid research,
working all hours, to turn out a decent
informative item. Weeks later it was
returned to me with an editorial note to
the effect that it hadn’t been used
because the paper had already published
copy about Masaryk. By that time my
article had lost half its value.
Worst of my trials is to have an article
“borrowed” by a paper as a theme for
a staff article. I submitted an article
to a monthly dealing with a particular
prison farm. Next month the magazine
carried a staff article covering prison
farms throughout Australia. Some of
my copy was in it and the rest was taken
obviously from departmental published
reports.
The A.J.A. once tried to secure a rul-
ing under which copy held more than six
weeks had to be paid for. The move
failed.
Is it any wonder that some men with
stories to sell and the ability to write
won’t even look at the freelance game
however “flat” they are? They prefer
canvassing the dailies for odd half-days
as “casuals.”— Reporter (Q.).
“Clanny” (B. 6/12/’39) impels me to
speak of the kindly consideration given
by some overseas journals to Australian
contributors. Having special knowledge
of certain trading conditions, I find no
difficulty in contributing to overseas
journals devoted to these interests, as
widely distributed as London, Newcastle,
Chicago and Portland. Not merely para-
graphs are accepted, but substantial
articles are taken and very good rates
are paid. — Bill Ding (W.A.).
“J. 8.” (B. 20/12/’39) says that if Aus-
tralian literature is to flourish it must
do so on a world-wide basis, and that
syndication has its advantages.
Would he say the same of, say, im-
ported sausages? Supposing sausages
were brought into the country at such
a cheap rate that they could be retailed
at about a halfpenny a pound, would the
home sausage manufacturer beam and
say, “The public is getting the best, and
1 must compete with all-comers if my
sausage business is to flourish on a
world-wide basis”?
Australian writers are no more afraid
of overseas competition than are any
other of our workers. All they ask is
that they be protected from the dumping
of imported work at next-to-nothing
prices.
Let Australian magazines pay A.J.A.
rates for all work published and our
writers will hold their own against any
competition, provided it is fair com-
petition.—Arev (Vic.).
Neglect of Poetry
Poetry (B. 20/12/’39) should never be
taught. The proper way to instil it into
children is to order a large consignment
of poetry-books from the bookseller and
then leave odd copies lying about in
odd corners of the home. Preferably they
should be inscribed “For Adults Only.”
Then you would find that all the books
will be eagerly lapped up by all your
sons and daughters.
But never pretend that you know any-
thing about it. If a youngster asks
“What’s an elegy, Dad?”, you must at
once turn pale, look confused and say,
“I’ll tell you about that when you’re old
enough to understand.”
All my family are most enthusiastic
about the Australian poets. Long ago
I brought home one evening a complete
set of Australian poets and hid them in
the refrigerator. Then, one by one, I
sneaked them into odd hiding places—
under cushions, at the back of the radia-
tor, inside the radio cabinet, etc. Before
long they were discovered, and had been
moved up to various bedrooms and were
being hidden elsewhere.
Then came the questions, furtively and
shyly, “Dad, what’s Henry Lawson?”
And I would turn pale, shudder and
say, “Hush, Eustace, your mother might
be listening.” Now I hear them reciting
Australian poetry all over the place. I
hear bits of it coming out of the bath-
room, out of the pantry, out of the
lumber-room. That’s the way to teach
them poetry. Pater Unfamilias
(N.S.W.).
This Gloomy Hole
What’s wrong with our Australian
press? Instead of proclaiming that Aus-
tralia possesses one of the most equable
climates in the world, our newspapers
persist in painting such a harrowing scene
that overseas folk must conclude that
Australia is a place utterly unfit for
human habitation.
In summer, our dailies complain of
unbearable heat and bushfires, dust-
storms and droughts, scorching winds and
glaring mirage. In winter it’s the ravages
of sleet and snow, icy winds and driving
rains, with an occasional disastrous flood
thrown in for good measure. When not
howling about these things, the dailies
switch on to some other chronic ailment,
mostly forgetting to touch upon our
gravest and greatest evil —the profes-
sional politician. Whatever criticism may
be aimed in that direction mostly falls
upon the chap whose political activities
happen to conflict with their own views
and aspirations.
Obviously, only a fool would attempt
to deny that Australia is not at times
afflicted with some disadvantages, but
only a fool would magnify them to repre-
sent the complete scene. Why try to dis-
credit Australia? Why not tell the world
of her manifold advantages?— Spencer
(N.S.W.).
“Penny Dreadfuls”
I can still remember the avid glee
with which I devoured the contents of
imported “penny dreadfuls” as a boy,
and I am surprised that Australian
papers of this type are noticeably rare.
Imagine the colorful, adventurous tales
that could be woven about the bush-
rangers and mailcoaches, the aborigines,
the gold rush of the ’fifties and the deeds
of the Diggers that would appeal to
young Australia. These stories would
probably tell them far more, and in a
vivid fashion which lads do not easily
forget, about our native lore than our
education system has done.
I have heard say that these “penny
dreadfuls” are harmful, but they could
scarcely be more injurious than comic
strips and other syndicated trash served
up for the consumption of adults. —
Crusader (N.S.W.).
“Buy Australian”
If newspapers are expected to keep to
the slogan “Buy Australian,” why not the
radio, too? It has just as much influ-
ence as, if not more than, the daily or
weekly paper and more scope in which
to exercise it.
Many radio serials sponsored by firms
advertising are American gangster thril-
lers. If these were banned by the radio, it
would mean employment for more Aus-
tralian actors, and a relief to us to hear
the good old Aussie language again.
Through the radio and cinema our
Australian individuality is merging into
American slang and mannerisms.
Listening to the plays on the various
stations, I noticed that out of every six
only three were written by Australians.
Judging from the short stories and articles
in The Bulletin and other papers they
have not far to go for literary talent.
And why is it that, every day of the
week, we are importing comedians,
singers, dancers, boxers, wrestlers, etc.,
and paying them enormous salaries and
feting them like Roman nobles? Our own
artists may not be as famous, but they've
never had the chance nor the same
amount of money spent on them. — Wirli
(N.S.W.).
Men’s Clothes
May I once again raise a plea for
reformation of male clothing?
These summer days I envy the flappers,
young and old, their sensible ideas of
dress—the big V under their chins, the
length of light silk stocking, the general
looseness of their garb.
Should any O.F.M. crusader arise, I
suggest a bonfire of those monstrosities
the collar and tie, and that abomination
the vest. And when they have been
consumed, keep the fire burning with all
tight-fitting singlets and underpants. Then
we might evolve some sensible dress for
men.— Uramao (M.L.).
Australian Talkies
Recently saw an American film about
a good little girl’s virtues influencing 20
nasty little brats until they all re-
formed. She cleared up some matri-
monial troubles, sweetened a sour old
maid and made two young people fall
in love. The picture closed with the
little pet surrounded by the beneficent
results of her actions.
The whole opus was on the mental
level of a five-year-old, but it was
boomed by commercial radio four or
five times a day and seriously offered
as adult entertainment.
Australia imports thousands of feet
of this cinematic rubbish every year.
Why can’t sufficient financial backing be
found to work up a motion picture in-
dustry here? We have experienced
writers with original ideas, we have
many amateur and professional tech-
nicians, and we have the actors and
actresses. —C. L. (N.S.W.).
Advertising Railways
I am constantly being confronted with
posters urging railway travel on fhe
public, and I am just as constantly read-
ing of huge deficits in connection with
railway finance. Why on earth doesn’t
the Railway Commissioner subsidise
some enterprising Australian
produce a really interesting railway
guide?
I’ve never read anything as dull as the
ordinary railway guide. Apart from a
series of timetables there’s really nothing
in it. But consider how interesting a
railway guide could be made if every
month it included good short stories,
lively verse, some readable articles about
Australia, and lots of handy information
as well. You’d take it to bed with you,
and people would subscribe regularly for
it.
A railway guide should be something
that one would feel happy to take on a
journey. But who’d bother with the
railway guide as it is? If I didn’t know
what time the train left I’d rather go to
the station and wait than pay 6d. for a
guide.— Traveller (N.S.W.).
Developmental Transport
N. S. Wales country railways have
again presented taxpayers with a bill for
two million pounds, being the financial
loss on the year’s operations. Time was
when our country proudly pointed to its
many miles of railway as an evidence of
progress and wealth; but so great a
burden have they become now that we
regard them as a serious liability.
The railway has been superseded by
road transport, and for years now little
extension has been made to country lines.
At the same time we are compelled to
notice that .no great extension has been
made in the development of the country
beyond the rail termini. In days gone
by the railway was the backbone of
development. Wherever the railroad
penetrated mountain, forest or plain,
settlement, commerce and industry fol-
lowed. Now that rail extension is no
longer possible, what is to provide an
adequate substitute? There are still areas
of excellent country too isolated to be
brought under anything like their pos-
sible production. Are they to be aban-
doned to the dingo and the rabbit?
Road-motor transport, while superseding
the railroad, has not been able to main-
tain the railroad’s developmental value.
A surprising reflection when we remem-
ber that the road-motor transport beyond
the rail terminus is usually in the hands
of private enterprise. In this field, private
enterprise has not been able to supply
anything like the equivalent of the old
Government railway. In so many cases
we find a ramshackle lorry carrying
passengers, mails and goods of all de-
scriptions, and taking all day to do what
the train would do in a couple of hours.
Or, should there happen to be a more
up-to-date car for passengers, it still runs
to a haphazard timetable more suitable
to the standards of last century than
this. In fact, the old stagecoaches could
show “mail-cars” many points.
What is needed is a systematic service
with a variety of vehicles where neces-
sary, running with the same precision
and dispatch as the railway transport
does, keeping rigidly to a timetable and
working to a set scale of freights and
charges.
The failure of private enterprise to
supply this need is due to the road.
Roads are not up to the standard for
such a service. Private enterprise has
no control of the road. Even if it could
arrange to improve the road to the
adequate standard, it could not obtain
sole right of use. But why should not
the Railway or Transport Department
organise a rail-and-road co-ordination
service which, by supplying systematic
and up-to-date transport, would stimu-
late settlement of the isolated parts, and
so revive the progress of the country?—
G. A. B. (N.S.W.).
New Year Resolutions
Menzies: Yes ! I resolve to sink my
ego and invite the Cameronians to wear
the same tartan as ourselves. By so doing
we present a united front to the Oppo-
sition. We also help the sale of our
wool to manufacture the extra tartan
necessary for the larger family. With a
“wee drap” our friendship will be
cemented.
Cameron : I resolve to change my
medical adviser. I’ll make friendly over-
tures to Menzies during recess, and will
not stick out for too many Cabinet seats
for my followers. In fact, I’ll convince
my party that we are to govern the
country for the good of the country—
not only the Country party.
Curtin : I resolve to lead a virile
Labor party and to return to the same
high ideals that actuated Fisher and co.
I realise ’tis necessary (and better) to
defend Australia in Europe than on our
own shores. I’ll apply the gag to quite
a few of my “Bolshie” followers, and
will offer sound constructive criticism
when and where necessary. Argus
(S.A.).
Letters of Marque
“Merchant Jack” (B. 13/12/’39) errs in
saying that Tetters of marque were
issued to merchant ships “to enable them
legally to engage the enemy.”
All old-time merchant ships carried
guns and defended themselves when
attacked by a vessel they had a chance
of beating off. Letters of marque were
issued to enable merchant ships to take
prizes. In effect, such craft became pri-
vate ships of war, and were actually
called that in the seventeenth century,
though later the name was shortened to
privateer. Any ship, not a warship, that
captured other vessels without having ob-
tained a letter of marque was liable
to be treated as a pirate.
Up till the mid-nineteenth century
privateering was practised by all mari-
time nations, and many a fortune resulted
from it. The great French privateers-
men of the Napoleonic period (1795-
1815), such as Jean Duterte, Lameme and
Surcouff, caused more trouble to the
British Navy than did France’s regular
warships.
In 1856, all the naval Powers, except
the U.S.A. and Spain, agreed to the
abolition of letters of marque.—Sur-
couff (N.S.W.).
One for Our Nob
After years of constant reading it
occurred to me to set down a list of
things that make The Bulletin’s face
go red: —
Cullud boxers.
Communism.
The A.B.C.
Lunatic jokes.
Nootrality.
Prohibition (including dry canteens).
Kid film-stars.
Cronk news.
Society-guzzling photos.
State Parliaments.
And the paper still has a slight contempt
for tennis, though it’s no sissy game
now.—D. V. K. (N.S.W.).
Perjury-
In many law cases the stories told by
opposing witnesses are in direct contrast,
and every assertion of one side is met
with a complete denial from the rival
camp. Even the most obvious facts and
statements are vehemently rebutted.
Mistakes can be made, of course, but
a good deal of evidence that smells
strongly of perjury is often passed over
without a murmur. Machinery to deal
with perjurers exists, but a prosecution
is seldom launched. Disregarding the re-
ligious and moral aspect, it is difficult to
see why even suspected attempts to defeat
the ends of justice are so lightly con-
doned and tolerated. If perjurers are
not effectively discouraged by salutary
means, our whole law system is faulty.
It will be a sorry day for justice and all
it represents if the accomplished liar,
encouraged by official indifference, pre-
vails over the upholders of truth.—
Ricardo (N.S.W.).


ľ
lAuly Keeble.
Lillali McCarthy.)
“Pelmanism makes
you do your best, and,
moreover, makes your
best better than you
thought it possible
to be.”
m
m
Mr. ___
Mackenzie.
“Pelmanism
nitely cultivates
imagination, and
not hesitate to say that
there is nobody who
would not benefit
Course, }>
m
1
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanism is valu-
able to all men and
women ... the re-
sults endure. Habits
of mind are formed
which are of the very
highest value in life.”
m
Sir Herbert Barker.
“Benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured by all who .will
follow the directions
given in the Pelman
Course. It is impos-
sible to speak too
highly of it.”
m
m
Sir Arthur Quiller-
Couch.
King Edward VII.
Professor of English
Literature at the Unir-
versity of Cambridge,
England, writes —
“ The Pelman Course
gave me practical hints
which, if they had
come my way in youth,
would have saved me
more time and labor
than I can reckon,”
ŀ
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
“AT EASE IN THE WORLD”
In this happy phrase used frequently by Prof. James, “the world’*
means the place in which a man lives, the things he uses, the people he
meets in his work and in his social activities. If a man, or a womap, is at
ease in this world of his immediate surroundings and his existing
acquaintances, he is likely to stand ready and confident in any circum-
stances, and be unabashed in any company. Pelmanism builds up the
inner substance that makes men and women “at ease in the world.”
The Usefulness of Pelmanism
Pelmanism is useful in all the affairs of life. That is its outstanding
recommendation to those who wish to make the best of themselves in
their occupations, in all their recreations, and in their social and cultural
relations.
Every line written in the Pelman Course is directly applicable to
some aspect of human life and conduct. The intention of word
in the Course is to make clear to men and women the means by which
they can develop their powers to the fullest extent so that they can live
more happily and be more successful—so that, on the one hand, they
will make and use occasions for profit and advantage and, on the other
hand, be at ease in any company. Both conditions are necessary to
complete self-respect and a full life.
The student is not left to make the applications himself. An
experienced and sympathetic instructional staff shows him, in exact
detail, how to apply the principles of Pelmanism to his own circumstances
and aspirations. Thus every Pelman Course is an individual course.
Over and over again our correspondents say, in effect, “I feel that this
Course was prepared for me, and me only.” Substantially this is so, for
the instructional notes and letters of advice are entirely personal to the
-individual; they are for him, and him only.
In “The Efficient Mind” this characteristic of the Pelman Course
is mentioned in most of the letters published. We shall be happy to
send copies of this 76-page book to any reader of “The Bulletin.” All
correspondence is regarded as confidential.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality.
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
■
-***”
Dame Sybil
Thorndike.
“Pelmanism gives a
menial clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportunities
and uses them rightly.'’
ł
Dr. F. W. Norwood,
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind - training. A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility. It teaches
that man has the key
to his own casreer.”
—% -'H.yu'Tsa
m
■
Lord Baden Powell.
“No man—no matter
how educated, or what
lus age, or what his
profession—who seri-
ously takes up the
Course, can go through
it without improving
himself.”
SKS
The Baroness Orczy.
“Pelmanism h a s
meant to many just
the difference between
a life of mediocrity
and disappointment
and one of prosperity
and triumph
There are over half a million
Pelmanists, of whom more than
40,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to the Pelman Institute.
JAege - - 1930. Geneva - - 1933.
Nancy- - 1933. Paris - - - 1933.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin” a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion ; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
To the Pelman Institute. 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me,- free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
106
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
*
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
i enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
“Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS,” by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
5d. extra).
sty*.
vV
i>y co
e >
e
\C
.»
$ V
#'•’
o*
A $S
5?
.•** *
..••'a# 10


G
N
l
Wr-
r *
BhHXwXv'vX;.'
me,.
vi ™
L
t
Fir ip
E
88g&g;:¥
rr;“
*T?AC
D
E
5^
a
fH
/
<i>
T
T
M
\>
Jgs
r/l
\\a^
\0
W 3
v\0 V
\s°
;«sfe
N V
Vv»
I
&
6^
®3
«§
/vf
.o<°
■*\r>
o!
*■«
m
%v-
-ssss
S&
£
WOLFE S SC
Now, perhaps more than at any
other time of the year, Wolfe’s
Schnapps plays an important part
in maintaining good health. Its mild
tonic action and unique medicinal
properties provide that little help
and correction so necessary to keep
the system functioning normally
through the trying summer months.
Cool and cooling, possessing all the
distinctive flavour and aroma of
genuine Schiedam Schnapps, Wolfe’s
is undoubtedly the most beneficial
and pleasing of summer drinks. Yet,
at the same time, it is more than
this for in character and con-
stituents Wolfe’s Schnapps is essen-
tially a Health Drink.
WOLFE’S
czzflrcmahc tSzfwclam
SCHNAPPS
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN
l
