

.
' £
Hil
i|;.S ",
1111
1111
F rEE- __ tfee gecre e asve BecaUS e it ®
««r ;?-« r
*B.'t.«; ,# Ct fi" our
fTblt C. 0.» y" . . . the swnd
■•‘"••I
I#
•• will 1115111111
I wli MMi
* pip
• v Hlis *s£ £| ?sl
,' '>?/' \ 'y>' X', ,> i
' ' '■;</?- fi/lllll' -
~ , ss '• 4-•■ •* ■ >:<:«*\ ••:
jjjggl :||| II
?x
;':i' ;: ’ : ’ ; :I;
« T/VJ* S *v f ft\l y° ur
P '°j U« C.O.* ,H. >
*" 4b '
■.
I '"' i>
WMwimM
I'll
lilli;'^
Ixl
: : :
V'" @£;
: ''s? 1
ARRANGEMENTS. . .
You can now draw two months’ ration
tickets (December and January) but
tickets will not be issued at Post Offices
from 16th December to 14th January,
inclusive. Take your holiday ration
tickets to the C.O.R pump and gain the
benefits of Australia’s only petrol-benzol
blend.
m
111111111
lIWIWI
|||||l||:
i 1 m lIS M i| ■ 111l|§ m
s%' v ' / ■• •. ; s
■ :
4t' V § ' , ' f, - :
sa'j, s, , < ■■
fl i Ims
u :r.'■.:
lilliii
SLi
/
* LIMITED (Commonwealth Government anti
Anelo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.) C193/FC/PB
The Bulletin
•‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3174.
Wednesday, December 11, 1940.
The Yanks Are Coming (Oh Yeah, Oh Yeah!)
Price 6d.
Registered- at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Stortl Writing
tJ VU1 Vi at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S’.B. 340
The Red Page
"N.Z. BEST POEMS."
Three of the last poems written by
Robin Hyde, all of such fine quality that
her death seems more incomprehensible
and more regrettable than ever, are a
pleasant surprise in the 1940 New
Zealand Best Poems (H. H. Tombs,
Ltd.). They open as lively a collection
of verses as the series has ever published.
C. A. Marris, the editor, is lucky in
that he has a number of poets of assured
ability on whom to call each year,
and that each of those poets is suf-
ficiently individual in style and outlook to
give the anthology both strength and
variety. There is no writer in this col-
lection who seems to tower head and
shoulders above the others, making the
book a - one-man show; there is no
“school” of New Zealand poetry to
make the volume, like the usual English
production, a set of exercises in a con-
temporary manner. The editor’s taste
is catholic; he doesn’t insist on the
observance of any particular fashion of
technique or philosophy, nor on what is
specifically “New Zealand” (there are
two good poems about China and one
about Australia).
The result is an ideal anthology both
for enjoyment and as an indication of
what New Zealanders are doing in
poetry. Authoritative and handsomely
produced, it is doing valuable work,' for
each year it saves from • the scrapheap
at least 30 of the good poems Maori-
ianders produce. Without it, numbers of
worth-while verses would probably never
see print at all, for year after year the
anthology makes its acknowledgments
only to “Art in New Zeaiand” (published
by the same house) and to The Bulletin.
As in Australia, the dailies and other
journals, if they are doing anything a:
all for poetry, are doing it the harm o
publishing rubbish. It’s a great pity tha
Australia, too, doesn’t run to such a
annual anthology; with Slessor, Fitz
gerald, Furnley Maurice as a nucleus
should be every bit as worth while a
Maoriland’s.
Items in this Best Poems that hav
appeared in The Bulletin are Ev
Langley’s lovely impression of Australia
“Native Born,” three poems by Dougla
Stewart and Arnold Wall’s “Old Man
•and Child.” Other poets represented who
have contributed - to The Bulletin a
different times are Robin Hyde, J. R
Hervey and C. R. Allen. ‘
Wall’s poem shows his acute sensibility
and his supple technique at their best:
Upon those heights he stood
Where now stands the child,
In soul unsullied, undefiled;
But he must go down, down,
By heath and field and hallowed wood —
Where the blackbird in the thicket, the lark
in the sky,
Gambols of lamb and foal,
Spoke to his soul —
Down, down,
On to the hard-fisted town,
And herd and struggle with his kind,
And lose the limpid mind.
Now with toil and pain
Back, back he’s climbed
To the heights again;
The stained soul and begrimed,
Soiled with sordid cares,
Is washed in mountain airs;
Across a gulf they talk,
The grandchild to the man, childhood to age
In one language,
Not known to midway folk.
Which, besides being a most attractive
lyric, is a solemn reproof to all of us
who pronounce “langwidge” as a near-
rhyme to “sandwich.” Wall has another
poem, “The Rainbow Foot,” of the same
quality; he has seen trees glorified ai:
the foot of the rainbow, very much as
W. H. Davies saw the world made magi-
cal when “a rainbow and a cuckoo’s
song came together. A third poem
The Last Gift,” is one of Wall’s lighter
verses, neat enough but conventional in
sentiment.
Ali three of Robin 'Hyde’s verses
deserve quoting in full. One is a
memorial to Katherine Mansfield, ana-
lysing and approving her exile from New
Zealand:
Oui little Darkness in the shadows sleeping
Among the strangers you could better trust,
Right was your faring, wings: their wise hands
gave you
bieedom and song, where we had given dust.
Dust is a thing of roads and cattle, rising
When beasts and men are driven home to fate.
In China Robin Hyde observes the
coolie, who “carts a world along” and
“carts a war” ; who lives and dies humbly
and is forgotten, but whose simple en-
durance- breaks the enemy armies.
Men seldom see him as their broadest river
And burnt in the immortal tiles for 'ever.
The third poem, “The Native Grass,”
written in exile, is full of pride in her
own country, love for its
wild landscape:
Man-high, sharp as a spear,
Speaking a barbarous tongue,
Edging and sheering back
In the riven pride of the young—
That is my own land’s grass,
And there her songs are sung.
Two poems by Charles Brasch, the
nearest in style to the contemporary
’English mode, both well deserved their
inclusion. One, a sonnet about man
waking in the night to find “a tremor
shakes alt certainties” and feeling himself
on the brink of some revelation, some
great decision born of his fear, ends with
a line as effective in its simplicity as
Hopkins’s sonnets of despair:
But heaviness falls again ; then §Jow
The fatal dawn, twisting, distorting the clue
And I am spent, spent and for nothing spent.
His second verse, “Parting After Wine,”
reads like a dream poem: it is not at
all clear who is parting from whom, or
why or where they are parting ; yet the
scene is clear, the farewell strangely mov-
ing:—
He rides like one asleep who urges
By the simple ease and grace of his seat
His grave horse forward among the stones,
And where the black cliffs lean to meet
Disappears, not turning once.
Paula Hanger, somewhere among the
mountains of Tibet, reports that
devils leap with bells of silver strung
Around their brittle ankles, and the mould
Is ebony and still as Dromar’s tomb.
t And W. W. Bridgman, pondering upon
“The Age of Gold,” writes:
I could but wonder as I walked
What curious alchemy was this
That caught a face, but seemed to miss
All that was fine and live within
The hearts and minds of men; for gold
The very light itself was sold,
And none dared look beyond. I went
Amazed at what the day had done —
Something had happened to the sun.
A few of the poems, though pleasant
enough pieces of verse, were hardly worth
.preserving between book covers, but
there isn’t enough mediocrity to affect
the book as a whole. It is a pleasure
to read it and a pleasure to see it con-
tinuing in the war years.
"Sailormen’s Ghosts."
Some of the most interesting spots in
Australia, historically and otherwise, lie
masked—or protected—behind exteriors
which would frighten off even an abo.
Houtman’s Abrolhos off Geraldton, on
the Westralian coast, are no exception,
and Malcolm Uren, in Sailormen’s
Ghosts (Robertson and Mullens, Mel-
bourne), records his first impression of
Pelsart or Long Island, the main island
of the group, as “an island that rimmed
the horizon from end to end and was
so flat that the ocean on its eastern shore
could be seen. Virtually shadeless, obvi-
ously infertile and depressingly grey in
general appearance,” with “a corrugated-
iron hut standing out like a monolith on
a parched flat.”
With three companions (not forget-
ting the “Bird Bloke,” “a potato-grower
from a distant s.-w. corner of the State”
and a collector of birds’ eggs seeking a
sea-eagle’s egg, who, with uncanny
accuracy, timed his visit to the island to
coincide with the brief laying period of
the bird, and in less than 24 hours col-
lected two eggs, then returned to his
potatoes), the author stayed long enough
to correct -that first impression. The
“Abrolhos form the greatest rookery of
sea-birds in Australia, and... .perhaps
afford suitable breeding-grounds- for a
greater number of species than any other
distinct or limited spot in the world.”
On part of the island the visitors had to
tread warily to avoid crashing through
into the subterranean nests of mutton-
birds or treading on the nests of terns.
Gulls, of course, were there aplenty,
noddy terns, a nest o'f osprey chickens
and the six-foot-high nest of the sea-
eagle which had been raided bv the Bird
Bloke,
Fascinating coral formations in helio-
trope, bright blue, royal purple and deli-
cate pinks evoke the thought that
“Nature was never more prankish than
when she presided over Western Aus-
tralia. She secrefed the world’s richest
mile of gold in a hungry, arid desert....
the wonders of an extraordinary caves
country in the forests of the south-west
the colorful creations of the coral
insect in a grey, forbidding reef, thirty
miles from a not very attractive coast-
line.” Fish abound on most of the West-
ralian coast, and the visitors had little
trouble in hauling them" in (photos, to
prove it), and, though beer didn’t flow
from the rocks, there were oysters
enough to' stock a dozen fish-shops.
Uren’s main interest lies in the his-
torical associations of the islands. When
Phillip II of Spain overran Portugal and
tried to cripple Dutch maritime power
by preventing them from trading at
Spanish ports, the Dutch were forced to
turn eastward, a'nd, in 1602, the Dutch
East India Company was formed. The
ships of the company at first rounded the
Cape of Good Hope and then crept up
the coast of Africa to India. In 1611
Hendrick Brouwer, after rounding the
Cape, was blown east for some thousands
of miles. He then sailed nothwards, and
the trip from Amsterdam to Batavia took
him seven months instead of the usual
twelve. After that most of the company
ships followed Brouwer’s course, and i
1617 Frederick Houtman, sailing easi-
wards from the Cape, sighted “a leve ,
broken country with reefs all round it
which became Houtman’s Abrolhos.
The Abrolhos comprise four groups
North Island, the Wallabi Group, th
Easter Group and the Pelsart Group, th
latter bounded on its western side by
long reef, on which a good deal of his
tory has piled itself. On September 13
1842, the barque Ocean Queen, bounc
from Launceston to Bali, was wrecked
on the Abrolhos. In 1908 the Windsor, “ou
of Fremantle with sandalwood ; Chinese
crew, English officers and engineers,’
finished her career on the reef. On
December 16, 1879, the Ben Ledi, bounc
from Sydney to Calcutta, was wreckec
on Pelsart Island. On the night o::
March 3, 1878, the small schooner Marten
came to the same fate. On June 14, 1861
the Cochituate, bound from Melbourne
to Singapore, was wrecked on the island
On June 9,1728, the Zeewyck, bound from
Holland to Batavia, met her end on the
reef outside the Abrolhos. There is
story to each of the disasters, and, back
ing himself with diligent research, Urcn
tells them well.
But the wreck of all wrecks and the
incredible things that followed concern
the Batavia. She had sailed from Texe
for Batavia with two other ships of the
Dutch East India Company under Com
modore Pelsart and piled up on the
Abrolhos in 1629. She struck during the
night, and many on board, thinking their
end was near, broke into the wine, anc
a drunken orgy set in ; next morning the
few officers who were sober had to get
as many as possible ashore to two smal
islands. The -castaways had insufficient
food and water, so Pelsart, with Adrian
Jacobs, master of the Batavia, and crew
set out in a small sloop in search of
water and, finding none, decided to sal
for Batavia. During the three months
they were gone a grim chapter of Aus-
tralian history was written. When the
wreck of the Batavia broke up one of
those who got ashore to one of the
islands was Jerome Cornelius, as nasty a
piece of work as ever inhabited a pirate
novel. Before the disaster he had been
plotting to seize the Batavia and go off
on a career of piracy, and on the island
his ambition had in no way abated. He
gathered a gang around him, murdered
all those on the island who didn’t fit
in with his plan, kept what women they
wanted for their own convenience, and
planned to seize whatever ship returned
to rescue them. The only obstacle was
the survivors on the other island, over
whom a soldier, Webbye Hayes, had
assumed command. In a series of assaults
on his island Hayes was the winner and
managed to capture Cornelius. Mean-
while Pelsart had succeeded in reaching
Batavia, and, returning in another Com-
pany ship, was warned by Hayes of the
mutineers’ intentions, captured the bunch
of them and dispensed summary justice
to the ringleaders.
About half of Uren’s book is taken
up with the story of the Batavia, and it
makes arresting reading. The author has
labored earnestly to secure historical data
both in Holland and Australia, and he
uncovers a good deal that, if not new, is
not widely known and certainly interest-
ing. At the conclusion of his story he
questions whether Pelsart Island (Lieu-
tenant Lort Stokes on one of his survey-
ing voyages in H.M.S. Beagle named the
island in 1848) really is the Batavia’s
graveyard, and suggests, on good grounds,
that Gun Island, also in the Pelsart Group,
was the scene of the mutiny and massacre.
Uren’s writing is bright and readable.
On his way from Perth to Geraldton,
en route for the Abrolhos, he touches
informatively on New Norcia, the
Benedictine community about 82 miles
north of Perth, and on the “circle of
stones” mystery which is supposed to
hold the secret of the whereabouts of
a fortune in guilders lost from a Dutch
ship in the seventeenth century. He con-
cludes —and js probably correct —that the
stones are merely the result of some by-
gone. abo. doings. Altogether his book
reads like the account of a tiptop holiday
and is almost as good as one.
Sidelight on the Diggers .
Any writer with a conscience against
serving up commonplaces must‘shy like
a startled horse at the name of Hitler
these days; it’s doubtful whether there
is a new thing to be said either about tha
gentleman or about democracy. Esme
Wingfield-Stratford, with his conscience
working overtime, conquers the problem
in his Crusade for Civilisation (Rout-
ledge ; Angus and Robertson) by stating
flatly that his commonplaces are novel-
ties ; that it was high time somebody
pointed out that this is a war of the
spirit, that Nazism (or Prussianism) is
vile, and that the British hatfe a long
and valuable tradition of freedom.
The millions to whom that isn’t news
won’t find -much of interest until the
closing chapters, where there are a plea to
America to enter the war and an ex-
amination of the possibilities of the post-
war period. Wingfield-Stratford hopes
for a revitalised League of Nations
operating by goodwill ; he realises the
impracticability of an “internationa
police force” and of Federation.
Most interesting of all is his startling
revelation of the spiritual forefathers ol
the Diggers. “Can we not this time,’
he asks, “borrow our slogan from that
of the quaint and long-forgotten Puritan
community called the Diggers?”:
To conquer them by love, come in now; come
in now;
To conquer them by love, come in now;
To conquer them by love, as it does you
behove,
For He is King above, no ppwer is like to
love,
Glory here, Diggers all!
It’d make a nice theme-song for the
recruiting depots!
The Earthly Paradise: C. S. Forester
(Joseph). To America with Columbus
and more particularly with Don Narciso
Rich, and a rich character he is. Very
well told piece of above-average enter-
taining fiction.
My Name Is Million (Faber). Per-
sonal-experience record of an unnamed
Englishwoman who went through the
horror in Poland. It sprawls somewhat,
but every line of it is convincing. Adds
another poignant document to the heaping
mountain of evidence on German ruth-
lessness.
Everyman’s: Bombs or no bombs they
still come out, latest additions Cecil
Chesterton’s History of the United
States, Vol. IV of Browning poems and
plays (1871-1890), and selected Plays for
Boys and Girls, edited by John Hampden.
Everyman’s titles now total 966.
Loss of Eden: Douglas Brown and
Christopher Serpell (Faber). Labelled
“A cautionary tale.” Fantasy of the
present hectic times, presented in the form
of a document dug up during excavations
on the site of the former city of Welling-
ton, M.L. Lightly done, with'a good
leaven of humor. For those who like
plenty of sugar round their pills, and who
wouldn’t read direct statement at piece-
work rates.
World’s End: Upton Sinclair (Laurie).
By following the experiences of Ameri-
cans abroad in Europe, the author makes
a characteristic comment on the affairs
of the Mad Continent. Though longer
than recent novels by this writer and in-
clined to sprawl about, it’s a better-
managed piece of fiction than he has
turned out for some years ; it’s still,
of course, soapbox fiction.
The Lone Monarch: Guy Boustead
(Bodley Head). George 111 ; his long
fight to break the power of the Whig
oligarchy ; “a king who served his country
more truly than many to whom historians
have been kinder.” Though without dis-
tinctive quality of style, well written and
the book handsomely turned out.
Tasmanian Reader; Grade III: (Edu-
cation Department, Tasmania), Exactly
why this jolly little tome was sent in for
review is not clear, but The Bulletin
can confidently recommend it to any of
its readers who happen to be in Grade
111 in the Tasmanian primary schools. It
has verve and elan, and there is a refresh-
ingly large amount of Australian material
keeping company with Alice-in-Wonder-
land, Dick Whittington and the other old
friends. There is also a poem of the
late Lord Tennyson’s in which one line
consists of the sonorous monosyllable
“Hum!”


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —truth in everything
“THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
dsf
162N36.
162N38—Egg Cup and
Spoon, A 1 quality, sil-
ver plated on nickel
silver, plain design.
Price 6/6
sdf
162N36 Child's Mug,
A 1 quality, silver
plated, on nickel silver,
plain design with lines,
gilt inside finish .. 13/6
162N35.
162N35 ChUd's Bowl
and Spoon, A 1 quality,
silver plated on nickel
■silver, diameter of bowl
4|in Price 12/6
162N37.
162N37 Child's Mug.
A 1 quality, silver
plated on nickel silver,
all plain design on
base, gilt inside finish.
Price 16/6
162N8.
162N8 Tea Strainer and Drip
Stand, A 1 quality, silver plated,
all plain design. Price .... 5/-
162N10,
162N10—Tea Strainer and Drip
Stand, silver plated, neat
pierced design. Strainer on
plain stand. Price 4/6
mm
162N9.
162N9 Teapot Stand, silver
plated, A 1 quality. Diameter
sfin., pierced design. Price, 7/6
162N24—Teapot,
A 1 quality, silver
plated, modern
plain design.
Capacity, 2 pints.
Price 27/6
162N25—Teapot,
silver plated, A 1
quality, plain de-
sign. Capacity, 2
pints. Price 30/-
Covered Milk Jug
to match.
Price 17/6
Covered Sugar
Basin to match.
Price 17/6
162N17 Entree
Dish, A 1 quality,
silver plated,
plain, oval
shape, with neat
beaded mount
and handles,
length 12in.,
width 6-4-in., 40/-
162N27.
162 N2 —Butter Dish and
Knile. silver plated,,
shell design, with glass:
inset. Price 4/6
162N19 Cake Server
and Fork, A 1 quality.,
silver plated, length
lUin., width 5-jin. Fork
has white handle.
Price 16/6
162N27 Hot Water Jug, A 1
quality, silver plated, neat
plain design. Capacity, 2
Pints. Price 37/6
162N28 Shaving flflug and Brush.
A 1 quality, silver plated on nickel
silver, plain design, gilt inside finish.
Price 22/6
• Electroplate—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W.
and seaports in the Commonwealth.
162N24
162N25.
162N17.
162N18,
162N16 Cake or Sandwich Dish,
silver plated, plain, with side
handles, length 13in., width s?in.
Price 13/6
m
PS
162N32.
162N32—Souvenirs, silver plated on
nickel silver, with Koala, Sydney
Coat of Arms, or New South Wales
Coat of Arms.
Bottle Opener Price 4/-
Paper Knife. Price 4/G
Serviette Ring. Price 5/6
Shoe Horn. Price 2/6
Oo
‘
a
Mr
162N26
162N26 Tea Set, 3 pieces, AI
quality, silver . plated, plain design
on feet, white or black knobs. Capa-
city, 2 pints. Price, set .... £5/15/-
163N1
12
I!
TO
7
m
163N1—Kitchen Wall Clocks, reliable 8-day,
lever movement, with s£in. glass-covered
dial. In ivory or ivory and green lacquered
case. Price 30/-
163N2.
i 1?
10
163N2—Alarm Clocks, reliable 30-hour move-
ment, in 4in. square case, on base, with
alarm button on top. Colours: Ivory, green,
black or brown. Price 12/6
163N3.
9^<C
CLOSED J
163N3 "Travalarm" Clocks, a compact
travelling alarm clock, with folding back
and shutter over face, luminous hands and
figures Made by the Westclox Co. Black.
Price 32/-
Ivory. Price 36/6
■I
★ BOYS AND GIRLS
Sail to Santa 9 s Castle aboard the
"Bounty” and receive a surprise
"All aboard the 'Bounty'." calls her Captain. The
ship's bell rings . . . the anchor is weighed . . •
and the "Bounty" sails out to sea on her journey
to Santa Claus' Magic Castle. Santa Claus is
waiting with a SPECIAL SURPRISE GIFT for
every boy and girl. Santa is at his Magic Castle
in Santaland every day at these times: Monday
till Thursday, 9.30 a.m. till 1 p.m., and 2 p.m. till
5.15 p.m.; Friday, 9.30 a.m. till 1 p.m., 2 p.m. till
6 p.m., 7 p.m. till 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 9.30 till noon.
et
The Toymaker”
A WONDER PANTOMIME
FOR THE CHILDREN
The Toymaker makes the most beautiful toys, which come to
the most spectacular children's Christmas Entertainment yet,
derns'. ADMISSION FREE, Twice daily, 11 a.m. and 3 p.m.
6 p.m. Fine Art Gallery—Fourth Floor,
life and dance in
at Anthony Hor-
Fridays also at


DISTURBING, PRICHETT?
"All right , then, but stop crying!”
By M. CASSON.
HE was striding along the pavement when a drab-
suited figure detached from the approaching and
passing stream and swerved over. Automatically
Prichett’s protective defences adjusted themselves
to meet the appeal and repulse it. But a couple of yards
away the swerved approach straightened out; thin
lips,' barely opening, let “Good day!” out of one
corner, and the blocky figure had gone by.
It was only as if someone who knew him had
passed close to exchange a friendly greeting. Or so it
must have seemed to anyone noticing it. But
Prichett, with a memory for faces one of the number
of things on which he prided himself, was quite cer-
tain he had never seen the face before in his life.
“The ass must have thought he knew me.” There
was something more to it, though. In some vague way
it pricked his conceit. Though there hadn’t been time
to notice the face closely, the impact on his mind was
of something somehow offensive and unpleasant.
Further, it took him completely by surprise ; he almost
said “Good day!” himself.
A blind man was tapping with his stick. Prichett
thought: “He wants to cross the street; plenty about
to help him.” Two yards on to the tramlines, and his
thought process wanted to know why he hadn’t taken
the blind man’s elbow ; didn’t he always get a certain
conscious pleasure out of helping one of those fellows
across? Now a youth had taken the blind man’s
arm.
As he stepped out of the lift and went through
the clittering of typewriters and bass obbligato of cal-
culating machines, the girl who’d be called in to take
his letters'noted that he didn’t take his hat off. He
was in a temper. The office-boy, sidling out from the
maple-shining sanctum, where he’d been leering over
the pictures in the couple of special press books on
Prichett’s table, asked “What didger do t’ Pork?”
“H’h,” the girl mumbled, and went on typing, with
an ear co'cked for the bell.
Prichett didn’t ring at once. The windows were
open, and a warm wind was lazing in. He took off his
homburg and coat, hung them on the maple stand,
and stood looking down into the street. There a
fruit-barrow was a patch of yellow, one of its pushers
bawling out “Bananers, sixpence a dozen,” the other
keeping a lookout for the police.
Prichett went back to his table and pressed the
bell, taking a handful of change out of his pocket.
When the girl at once came in, he said “Here, go down
to that barrow and get me sixpence worth of those
bananas.”
“Me, Mr. Prichett?”
“Of course you. Here’s the money!”
“Yes, Mr. Prichett.”
She took the coin and went out, thinking “The
stingy swine, what does he think I am?”
Prichett went back to the window, and watched
to see her chasing along after the barrow The spec-
tacle was highly agreeable. He saw it as taking that
much too aloof young lady down a peg or two. When
she returned, red in the face, and bumped the bag on
the table’s grain-leather top, he felt all right again.
The heat went out of his bad humor ; his ego settled
down, satisfied.
“Thanks, Miss Allen.” He looked at her plump-
ish cheeks, smiling. “I shouldn’t have troubled you,
should I?”
“Oh, that’s quite all right, Mr. Prichett.”
“Right, then. I’ll just take a run through some
of this mail. I’ll let you know when I want you.”
Tilting back in his chair, he chuckled ; not that
the episode occurred to him as absurd, any more than
the ridiculous fruit, spilling out from the paper bag,
struck him as comic. The fruit probably came from
the same part that he’d come from. They and that
part of the earth didn’t owe him anything. Between
them, they’d started him on the road here. Blackwood
had nothing to complain of, either, though he’d been
tossed out since. They’d both cleaned up pretty well
over the railway deviation. Blackwood’s foreknow-
ledge and . . . what was the old girl’s name again?
Seymour, that’s right. He’d got her stretch of scrub
slopes for a song. Cut three-quarters up into banana
blocks, cleaned up more for every one of them than
the whole lot cost, hung on to the other quarter and
put a manager on to run it. These might even be off
his own place.
He was feeling his completely assured self again
when he pressed the bell, and when the girl came in,
sat down and crossed her legs, with the pad on her
knee, he felt that it was good to be alive and know
what he wanted and feel sure that he could get it.
A S he went down the street an hour or two later
*'■ nothing was further from his thoughts than the
piffling little incident that had thrown him out of gear
earlier in the day. Again the swerved approach, slight
nod, thin lips, barely opening, letting “Good day!”
out of one corner.
Prichett took a sharp look at him: square, sallow
face ; tight mouth ; flat nose, twisted, been broken
once ; small, deep-set eyes. As he saw it, a bad-look-
ing face. A nasty, malignant expression which struck
his ego with something like physical force. But still
unfamiliar ; and he was certain that if he’d seen it
before he’d never have forgotten it.
Trying to conjure up some explanation that would
shake it off his mind, he saw a policeman harrying
a pair of barrowmen, also with a load of yellow fruit.
He tarried to watch them. Always interfering wittf
somebody, bullying and damned impudent. The
police all over.
Following the yellow-heaped barrow, they went
on up the hill. His sense of direction, a trifle astray,
was that they were going north. Long time now since
he’d been up that way; not since he subdivided, and
sold his pinchbeck estate agency as well. Ma Seymour
was as old as her own hills. If she’d sat pretty she’d
have cleaned up ten thousand. She’d been dead some
time. No old man Seymour ; only two sons. Five
thousand apiece.
No ; he knew them all right, or well enough. He
envisaged their horsy faces —vague ; but, no, nothing
like that fellow at all. Of course, he’d never seen
him in his life.
Certainly it wasn’t Uhler. He’d never seen Uhler,
but he’d seen his photo. She joked about him and
the motor gadget invention he’d taken over to America.
“And ven he comes back, ve rich. Ven he comes
back! ” Quaint little thing ; pert; pretty. But one
day Stacey chipped him about her, so it had become
public; property. You couldn’t expect to
keep anything secret very long up there.
Anyway, that was five years back.
Uhler returned, of course without having
made a cent out of his gadget; but he’d left
before that. She’d rung him up one day
when she was down for a trip.
What the devil had gone wrong with
him? The fellow was no more like Uhler’s
photo, than the cop coming back down the
street, holding himself as if he’d just done
something wonderful. Coming on across
the street, the policeman glanced up at him.
He returned the look, carelessly. They had
nothing on him, anyhow . . . unless they
caught that damn’ fool in Peru, or wherever he was.
His name hadn’t even been mentioned. Even so, it’d
be better to have another few years over and done
with. Better, too, if Blackwood suddenly passed out.
Nothing surer than that he’d blab if they got on to
him. Somebody like that fellow who’d spoken to him
would be the one to do it. A face like that’d do
anything.
A girl, tripping up the couple of steps, brushed
against him. He smelt a whiff of perfume ; turned
and stared after her as she quickly merged in with
the crowd posting the afternoon mail. He felt jolted
back to earth. What in the name of heaven had come
over him? Getting jittery or something ; as bad as the
rest of them. Next thing he’d be thinking there was
someone behind him, following him. That detective
yarn, with the detective who got on the murderer’s
nerves by just keeping on following him round.
He went inside and wrote out a telegram. The
clerk knew that the horse had been scratched, but
giving racing information wasn’t his business. With-
out comment, he took the telegram and tossed back
the ninepence change.
Well, that was another parcel of those damn’
shares unloaded. He’d held them too long for safety
as it was. Might have been safe to do it the ordinary
way, but he wasn’t taking any chances.
With that off his mind, his thought process, func-
tioning better, agreed that Blackwood should be in the
club about now. Blackwood was a fool. Drinking
himself sodden. Dangerous. One of these days he’d
drop down dead, but he might leave it too long.
Coming out the wide entrance he heard the news-
boys yelling something about Germans. Uhler was
German ; she, too, of course. There he was, turning
that silly confounded business over again. What on
earth was the matter with him! Looking down now
from the top of the steps for him. Square face .. .
thin mouth . . . piggy little eyes. Uhler’s nose wasn’t
broken. Might have had an accident, though. What
rot was this! Different cut of a fellow altogether.
He felt, knew, that there was somebody standing
just behind him. So they’d got on to his part in the
swindle. Where could he have slipped?
Turn and face the d., and be done with it? They’d
twist that into an admission.
With an effort he got hold of himself, and stepped
on to the pavement.
“Hey, Jack! ”
He knew the voice and the laugh. Blackwood,
three-parts shot.
“Come on up to the club,” Prichett said grimly.
“I want to have a word with you.”
Ahead, the stocky drab-grey figure swerved over,
approaching them. The thin lips, barely opening, let
“Good day!” like a snarl out of one corner.
“Good day, Simmo,” Blackwood said as the
stocky figure straightened and went by.
“D’you know that chap?” Prichett asked quickly.
“Who? Simmo? Hang it all, you know him,
don’t you? Australia’s White Hope, when Australia
had White Hopes.” Blackwood laughed beerily.
“Let it be a lesson to you, Prichett. Stick to real
estate. Healthier for your top-piece. But I’d thought
you’d have known Simmo. Always goin’ up an’ down
this street barkin’ ‘Good day.’ Harmless old bug.”
In the club Prichett ordered whiskies. “Make
’em doublers.” He went jauntily to the desk and put
through two ’phone calls, the second to the theatre;
front row dress circle ; yes, they’d do nicely, thanks.
Blackwood was already settled in his usual leather
chair. A couple more and he d be asleep. Harmless
old bug. Nearly as bad as that Simmo fellow.


THE GOLD STEAL
By TED MAYMAN.
SANDVILLE was first
amused and then a little
grieved when Mick Doherty
was convicted of “having
been in the possession of gold-bearing ore
reasonably suspected of having been stolen or other-
wise unlawfully obtained” and sent for six months
tc a distant gaol, for the truth behind the gold
steal going on over at the Consolidated had been
common gossip in a hundred pub bars. Mick’s was
just another hard-luck story of being found out.
j T began when the old Consolidated reopened as the
* New Consolidated. A modern treatment plant had
been installed, a staff of experts was engaged and
scores of men were taken on.
Strangely enough it was a good mine. Even the
local inhabitants had faith in it. It had a good his-
tory and had given small fortunes to several syndi-
cates which had known how to work it, for it was a
patchy lease, with very rich veins running through
the oxidised. Owing, however, to a mis-shuffle of
reports in the London office the plant was to treat
tremendous tonnages of low-grade deposits. There was
consternation amongst the heads when the error was
pointed out to them. Anxious groups of mining
experts were seen about the lease advising one another
as to the best thing to do. In the meantime it was
decided to continue underground development.
Mick Doherty came across from his worked-oiit
lease next door, forsaking his old second-hand ten-
head of stamps in search of a job.
“You know the lease well, eh?” asked the general
manager. “Good, you can start underground straight
away. When we do start to crush we’ll want the best
stuff we can get to make up the leeway.”
Mick found his work both interesting and re-
munerative. It was a pity, he thought as he un-
covered a particularly rich seam on the footwall of
the two-hundred-foot level (and hastily covered it up
again), that the mine plant was not running and such
nice-looking stuff should not see the light of day for
some time in the unknown future. While the g.m.
spent the day in the mine office with furrowed brows
dispatching apologetic letters to London regretting the
postponement of production for this and that reason,
Mick spent his shifts picking over the better-looking
specimens and smuggling them past the platman and
the shift boss in his crib bag and stowing them over
in the old battery on his own lease. And it was soon
noticed around Sandville that Mick was doing pretty
well for a wages man.
One Saturday afternoon the platman, off shift and
picking his teeth near the pub door, knitted his brows
in dawning suspicion as Mick drew grandly up to the
gutter in a brand-new car. He took Mick firmly
by the elbow and steered him into a quiet corner of
the bar for a confidential chat.
It was not long afterwards, when the platman sent
his wife for a trip to the East and commenced build-
ing a new house, that the shift boss com-
menced to take an interest in the level that
Mick worked, and shortly found existence
less of a burden when he came in with Mick
and the platman.
One day, to everyone’s astonishment,
the underground manager, finding time
hanging heavily on his hands on the sur-
face, went underground. He found the
three ringleaders, with a couple of offsiders,
having the time of their lives in the level’s
“Jeweller’s Shop.” After a hastily impro-
vised display of anger and wrath, in which
he threatened the entire shift with the sack
and gaol, they adjourned to the pub to
drink it over.
The underground manager was of very
great assistance to the syndicate. Especially
when he brought in the general manager,
who in turn brought in practically the entire
mine staff.
In spite of a princely salary the g.m.
was generally waiting for payday with the
eager anticipation of the lowliest bogger on
his mine. And so, within a few months of
its opening, the New Consolidated was pro-
ducing solidly.
Urged on by a stimulating co-operative
spirit and magnificent bonuses machine men
drove their drills into the narrow rich lodes,
perspiring truckers shoved their cargoes of
ore to the plats, willing engine-drivers
jerked the loaded skips to the surface, where
waiting truck-drivers wasted no time in
threading their way across to Mick’s battery.
Managers, bosses, foremen, boggers, worked
with a vigor and good will unsurpassed.
Day and night, twenty-four hours a day,
stopping only to clean up the plates, the
ten-head of stamps on the lease next door
came down on good rich, red-brown New
Consolidated ore.
day a long luxurious car with a city number-
plate swung smoothly up to the mine office. Out
of it climbed a stout, pink-faced gentleman with
yellow gloves, grey striped pants, stick and bowler hat
who coldly demanded to see the g.m. The office
boy was hurriedly sent across to Mick’s battery to
fetch the g.m., who sneaked furtively across the Con-
solidated lease to the back of the office and then swag-
gered out to meet the newcomer.
The g.m. stared at the card the visitor thrust
at him. “Yes. Mr. MacDonald, of course, but I
don’t quite get the position.”
Isaac MacDonald squared his shoulders and gave
the g.m. a glare that would have tripped a goat. “I am
the shareholders’ representative of the New Consoli-
dated. Two months ago in London there was an
extraordinary general meeting, where, as you might
well imagine, shareholders were extremely dissatis-
fied with the way their mine is being run. As one of
the larger shareholders I was elected to make an inde-
pendent inquiry into conditions out here, and estab-
lish the reason why production has not yet com-
menced, why not one ounce of gold has been won
from the New Consolidated.”
“I Want to draw out couple pound, laad, if ’ee can spare un ?”
The g.m. reeled back with a
startled cry. This was rank libel.
His pride as a mining man was
hurt. But he realised his rather
delicate position. A word back to London and all
would be lost. He stared a moment at the large,
grey steel vats and enormous bins that made up the
silent plant of the mine, then to his ears came the
low, steady crumble-crum-crum of Mick Doherty’s
battery far away on the next lease.
It was a tense moment. He felt that this was
the turning point of his life. Honesty, after all, was
the best policy. Only by telling the truth could he
extricate himself. In a subdued voice he asked Isaac
to follow him, and with lowered shoulders and drag-
ging footsteps told Isaac everything as they set off to
Doherty’s battery.
T T was MacDonald who suggested to the g.m. that the
whole affair should be put on a more businesslike
basis. For Isaac was completely swept away by what
he saw. Mick Doherty found himself talked into sign-
ing a transfer of his mining lease and selling his ten-
head battery and sundry plant all for the good of the
cause. A simple soul, he had watched, bewildered,
the Frankenstein of his own creation grow in such
all-embracing circles until now he was only a very
minor cipher in the game. Knowing what a dud lease
it was he was mildly surprised to learn that it was to
be floated as a mining company.
Isaac MacDonald was very pleased with the suc-
cess of his quick float. Shares in the Consolidated
(New) South Extended did not come before the
general public. The g.m. got a few, and the under-
ground manager, but most of them were privately sub-
scribed by Isaac and his small group of larger share-
holders in London.
Altogether things were in a most satisfactory state
in Sandville. The larger shareholders in the New
Consolidated who had bought into the South Extended,
though they got nothing out of their first investment,
reaped very rich profits from their second, which had
practically none of the heavy overhead expenses of
the Consolidated. The g.m. and his fellows felt much
safer. There was no need now to smuggle their ship-
ments furtively away for sale through devious
channels. It was now a straightforward affair through
the banks.
Everybody was happy. That is everybody except
some obscure suburban shareholder who had invested
his money on first-hand information that the New
Consolidated was a really good mine. He wrote a
bitter letter to the chairman of the board insisting
that things were very much amiss with the mine.
Cables flashed backwards and forwards from London
to Sandville, until at last, in self-defence, the g.m. put
the matter in the hands of the local constable.
T” HE constable flung himself into the
breach with admirable solicitude, and
reported the matter in exaggerated detail to
his superiors. Immediately two city detec-
tives were sent up to Sandville. The town
quivered with excitement.
The detectives wasted little time. The
day after their arrival the g.m. and Isaac
were seen entering the hotel in their com-
pany. It was a fairly lengthy conference,
and at times voices were raised in angry
altercation.
From the g.m. and the shareholders’
representative the chase led to the under-
ground manager, who was seen emerging
from the bank with rather a long face in
their company, and from there to the shift
boss and the platman.
One afternoon as Mick Doherty came
up with a pocketful of richer specimens for
the Berdan pan over on the Extended he
suddenly found himself pinioned from
behind and his wrists swiftly handcuffed.
A FTER Mick’s arrest life went on con-
Y tentedly for all concerned with the New
Consolidated. The irate shareholder in Lon-
don took a quiet pride in the fact that
through his vigilance a malefactor had been
brought to justice. The chairman of
directors found his story of the dramatic
arrest of a desperate gold thief on his mine
in the wilds of Australia had a wide and
attentive audience at all his clubs. And the
city detectives were promoted.
Even Mick Doherty, who was naturally
annoyed when arrested, was immensely
pleased and a little overcome by the public
farewell Sandville tendered him. Sandville
gave him an encore when he returned.
THE SONGS OF PEACE.
If all the songs of peace were marching songs,
Beating a rhythm of achievement out,
Aspiring or triumphant, as belongs
To courage manifest or trampled doubt,
We might have found our best accomplishment,
Nor wasted us in weary discontent.
Because the songs of peace too often died
In travail of our discord, and complaint
Went whining through our weakness and our pride,
Our deeds were feeble and our thinking faint,
And out of little done and nothing thought
We made ungrateful peace a thing of nought.
If we have found our courage with the drums,
And we grow used to boldness and are strong,
How shall we hold them in the peace that comes,
And make each song of peace a marching song ?
Ourselves upon the hazard, striving sore,
Move on in progress as we move to war ?
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
tfolt < Wm*cfWie mellcumeM ancllvuquef/
LONDON IN THE EARLY CENTURIES.
It may be accepted as a truism that for many years to come London, particularly on its historical side, will provide a subject
for study among many in all parts of the world, but particularly those who reside within the Empire of which it forms
the centre. What it appeared like in 61 b.c. and in the year a.d. 1400 has already been observed. Now it, or a part of
it, may be seen as depicted in an old print of the seventeenth century. The view is taken from the Thames, looking towards
Westminster, the Abbey and Westminster Hall being clearly discernible. Geoffrey of Monmouth, a famed Welsh historian and
priest, who in the twelfth century wrote the “History of British Kings,” relates that, a century and a half before Christ, London
was “encircled with walls” and “graced with fayre buildings and towres by King Lud, who also builded the strong gate on the
west part of the Citie, afterwards called Ludgate, and changed the name of Troy Novaut (New Troy) into Caer Lud.” It was
held that fiEneas, the son of Venus, went to England 1008 years b.c., and built London, naming it Troy Novaut. It is thus
understood how certain early chroniclers claimed the Trojans as its founders. In a memorial presented by the Lord Mayor
to Henry VI in 1429, this account was employed to prove the “great antiquity, precedence and dignity of the City of London,
before Rome,” etc. This memorial is among the archives of the Tower. The fact is not disputed that London was one of
the earliest towns formed in the island by the ancient Britons. Whence comes the name London? Various etymologies have
been advanced. Tacitus calls it Londinium; Bede, Lunden-ceaster, according to King Alfred’s translation of the passage.
Other appellations given to it by the Saxons were Lundenberig and Lundenwie; Camden thought it might be from
Lwyn or Lon, the Gaulish term for a grove, and Din, a City, or “the City in the Grove.” Owen, who wrote so learnedly
on Welsh archaeology, considered it to be derived from Llyn, a lake or broad expanse of water, and Din, a town. The
relations between the Mother City of the Empire and her “children” throughout the British Commonwealth, always close,
will in the days ahead be more intimate. The fires of adversity she has been called on to endure and the noble bravery
displayed during the trial have made her an object of deep affection and pride to all in whose veins runs British blood.


The Bulletin
Vol. 61—No. 3174.
Wednesday, December 11, 1940.
CHINAMAN’S LUCK.
“The American Government is granting huge loans to China.”
“Nutt in' for you, J.B., except cash-an’-carry. You see, you’re officially at war and that guy ain’t.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
THE YANKS ARE COMING
(Oh Yeah, Oh Yeah!).
Though Mrs. Roosevelt felt impelled to tell one of
those noisy Youth Conferences that she “hated to
hear them say ‘The Yanks aren’t coming,’ ” the youths
were evidently nearer the truth of the matter than the
First Lady was, and much closer to it than gullible
wishful thinkers outside the U.S.A. had been over the
past several hectic and wordy years. That brand of
wishful thinking, like the pro-Soviet brand, has the
lives of a cat. The two brands commonly run in
double harness: where the notion that Soviet Russia
is both a great fighting machine and a potential British
ally survives all shocks, there also will be found sur-
viving the most extravagant of wishful thoughts re-
garding United States participation in this war.
There has never at any time been the ghost of
a good reason for such faith in Soviet Russia, which
has always exemplified those Communistic tenets of
pious pretensions and shabby performances on which
its whole structure is built. There has been a much
better excuse for the wishful thinkers’ harboring their
fanciful notions regarding the U.S.A. There can be
no question that, during the several years before the
heat and bad feeling being then generated everywhere
at last came to a head and exploded, the principal
export from the U.S.A. was loud and violently ex-
pressed denunciation. Neither was there ever any
doubt about what countries the blessed term
“aggressors” designated in that spate of provocative
utterance, which frequently turned to angry abuse.
From when President Roosevelt, at Chicago in
October, 1937, made his “famous” speech on “quaran-
tining the aggressors,” an open war of words was
waged between the President and leading New York
newspapers on the one hand, and Goebbels and his
controlled press on the other. It says enough for the
nature of what emanated from America at that time
to allow that the U.S.A. won that war easily.
The word war reached its height of resounding
fury at the time of the German vengeance pogrom on
the Jews in November, 1938. The American offensive
was launched by the President: “The news from Ger-
many has deeply shocked public opinion in the United
States” ; he himself “could scarcely believe that such
things could occur in twentieth-century civilisation.”
Mr. Roosevelt ordered the American Ambassador at
Berlin to return home ; in Britain the United States
Ambassador, Mr. Joseph P. Kennedy, busied him-
self in official discussions which led newspapers to
hoist such then familiar headlines as “U.S. Desire
for Early Action.” The reactions in New York, as
represented in the then leading U.S. export, were in-
comparably more angry than anything heard anywhere
else, and from then on the pot of American anti-Nazi
feeling simmered hotly. It still shows signs of a
simmer, but mostly it is a very lukewarm pot these
days.
While it was spluttering at its fiercest, the wishful
thinkers in Australia and Britain had their liveliest
innings. Sydney “Telegraph” published characteris-
tically misleading leaders under such characteristic
headlines as “America Wants to Help Us Save Civili-
sation.” “It has been suggested,” the “Telegraph”
declared, “that his [President Roosevelt’s] purpose is
to force Britain to choose between continuing her
‘appeasement’ of Germany and surrendering American
support.” This sort of twaddle was then the com-
monest of currency in quarters which accepted that the
policies of nations regarding war are to be judged by
political and press utterances in time of peace. It
passed all the more readily because the wishful
thinkers who hawked it had no monopoly of ignor-
ance regarding the U.S.A. The U.S.A.’s foreign white
stock is greater than England’s total population;
Irish-born Americans and their children far outnumber
Eire’s total population ; the British Empire’s Jewish
population is round about 720,000, compared with
New York City’s 1,765,000. Just as significant is the
fact, which has become better understood since the
war started than it was before, that isolationism is no
mere catchcry, but the main foundation-stone of
American policy. If all those American speeches and
press articles which inspired such wild wishful think-
ing are raked over, it will be found that even the most
provocative—or, as so many believed, promising—of
them are to some extent qualified by expressions of
the fundamental isolationist sentiment.
The war has done nothing to that sentiment so
far except underline it. That remarkably reflective
American organisation the Gallup Institute, which
seeks to discover and publish prevailing American
public opinion, showed at the beginning of the war a
44 p.c. return in favor of the U.S. entering the war on
the Allies’ side if their backs were against the wall.
Subsequent surveys showed progressive shrinkings in
the percentage ; by the time the war was seven months
old it had shrunk to 23 p.c. Today, when there is
nothing hypothetical about the backs-to-the-wall con-
dition, it would probably be next to nil. Mr. Roose-
velt’s victory in the Presidential election, hailed by the
wishful-minded in Australia and elsewhere as, to quote
one exuberant leader-column, “a blow to the Totali-
tarian Powers, equal in severity to a great defeat in
battle,” was not won without specific assurances that
American aid to Britain would continue to be “short
of war,” that America’s manhood would not be called
upon to fight.
Perhaps, in the case of the U.S.A. as in the case
of Soviet Russia, nothing will cure wishful thinkers
of their extravagant dreams. Their hopeless state is
revealed in the eagerness with which they pounce on
and exaggerate the slightest sign from either country
which seems, or can be made to seem, favorable to
their romantic fantasy. But if anything could cure
them of the notion of an America hogging for “action”
—not against Germany only—the latest chapter in the
career of Mr. Kennedy should perform the miracle.
Mr. Kennedy, appointed Ambassador to Britain
in 1938, took an early opportunity to scatter some
manna to the wishful. “In. some quarters,” he said,
“it has been interpreted that our country would not
fight under any circumstances short of actual invasion.
That is not accurate, in my opinion, and it is a dan-
gerous sort of misunderstanding to be current just
now.” Mr. Kennedy rose to greater heights at the
time of the Nazi pogrom, expressing feelings for which
he expressed the fear that he would lose his job, and
exclaiming “Oh, how I wish I could say more! ” Hav-
ing seen Britain taking the bombing at its worst, Mr.
Kennedy returned to the U.S.A., was photographed
smiling with his smiling family, and was interviewed
by the Boston “Globe,” which represented him as
insisting that “democracy is finished in England” and
“national socialism is coming out of it,” adding:
It isn’t that England’s fighting for democracy. That’s
the bunk. She’s fighting for self-preservation, just as we
will if it comes to us. I don’t draw any line on how
much aid. It is a practical question of judgment, how
much to send. It is a question of how long England
can hold out. If she collapses soon, then stop.
Mr. Kennedy’s next step, after the usual somewhat
muddled denials, was to resign his post as Ambassador
to Britain, and dedicate himself to “the greatest cause
in the world today—keeping the United States out of
war.”
There could be no criticism of any of this if
nothing conducive to high expectations had not gone
before it. For, though it is the wildest sort of wishful
thinking to go on expecting “action,” it was no evi-
dence of easy gullibility to have had higher hopes of
Uncle Sam than have been realised. Even the “aid
short of war” that has been given would seem to have
been greatly exaggerated. With the war then a year
old, it came out that American exports of ’planes to
Britain in September totalled only 136, with another
68 for Canada and one for Australia. And the further
the exchange of 50 over-age destroyers for bases in
the Atlantic falls into historical perspective, the more
that will look like a hard one-sided bargain, amount-
ing to the sale of bits of the Empire under desperate
compulsion.
That the position for the Empire would be
desperate but for America’s unlimited moral and
limited material backing goes without saying. But the
facts should not be burked on that account. The facts
are that the promise in American words before the
war was Gargantuan and the performance has so far
been comparatively Lilliputian. One lesson to be
gathered is that words uttered in time of peace, how-
ever bold and plentiful, are very far from being trust-
worthy pointers to active policy in time of war.
Another lesson is that the romantic interpreters of
such bombast should henceforth be treated with wide-
awake suspicion. One other lesson is that which is
being learned in many other ways as well —that self-
reliance is not the least important of virtues.
Hitler's Worst Mistake.
A Great War caricature that sticks in the memory
was one of a grim Scots soldier who was being rallied
by trench-mates. “What wad ye do,” he retorted, “if
Scotland were to mak a separ-r-rate peace?” The idea
of the staunchest and stubbornest of peoples coming
to terms with the enemy struck the public for which
the character was drawn as irresistibly comic ; and
such would be the case had it been first published in
1940.
But, fantastic as it seems, there is ground for
believing that Hitler is trying in his ghastly way, to
play off other national groups against the English, and
not merely in Eire.
Certainly he is concentrating his fury on what a
Scottish Prime Minister once called, unfortunately for
himself, “the predominant partner.” Early in the war
sporadic attempts were made to bomb the Forth and
Tay bridges, but since the Blitzkrieg began, while
London, Liverpool, Ramsgate, Dover, Plymouth,
Coventry, Bristol, Southampton and other English
cities and towns have suffered horribly, there has been
noticeably little bombing of Wales, less of Scotland
and none of Ireland. Though the Clyde is a most
important centre of the British war effort, and though
along with other parts of the U.K. it has become far
more accessible than it was before the conquest of
the Low Countries and France, it has had no nights of
horror such as English citizens have had to endure
again and again. Glasgow, Edinburgh, Dundee, Aber-
deen, Paisley and Greenock have been spared these
atrocities. London sojourners wishing to escape the
bombing and having the means to get away go north
to Scotland as the safest part of the island.
Hitler no doubt heard as soon as the N.Y.
“Times” did that the Duke of Buccleuch, the Duchess
of Gloucester’s brother, had been removed from his
post as Lord Steward of the Royal Household, evi-
dently on the ground that he was against
the war. It is no mystery that the only M.P.
who has been interned is the Scottish Captain
Ramsay—incidentally, he was severely wounded in the
last war and is a son and grandson of distinguished
soldiers —and that the only leader of a peace group in
the Commons is another Scot —James Maxton,
member for a Glasgow division. Last week the 8.8. C.
clumsily announced that it had cancelled an arrange-
ment for a broadcast performance by the Glasgow
Orpheus Choir because the conductor, Sir Hugh
Roberton, is a pacifist. No doubt there are other
people in Scotland and people in other parts of Britain
who consider that British foreign policy has been
mistaken ; but it doesn’t follow that any of them
would stoop to playing the Nazis’ game.
In all the wars of the past there were peace parties
in Britain, and in every case the leaders were eminent
men. Bolingbroke and Swift were against the wars of
Marlborough; Charles James Fox led the opposi-
tion to the war with the first French Republic;
Bright and Cobden raised their voices against the
Crimean war; Campbell Bannerman and Lloyd
George denounced the second Boer war; John
Burns gave up his place in the Asquith Cabinet
rather than support the last German war and Ramsay
MacDonald was an active pacifist.
It was not in the nature of men like Fox and
Campbell Bannerman to let their pacific sentiments
dominate them to the extent of assisting the enemy in
any way, nor is it conceivable that a Buccleuch, a
Ramsay, a Roberton or an Admiral Domvile would
be guilty of constructive treason, even if they have
fallen under the displeasure of the authorities. Neither
is it in the nature of the Scottish people to be con-
ciliated by a suspension of barbarism in their favor
while the English are suffering—and bearing the suf-
ferings with a fortitude which has extorted world-wide
sympathy and admiration. Rather would it increase
their grim determination to see this war through, as
they saw the last war through.
Hitler knows something of British history, but
nothing of the psychology of the British peoples. He
pefsuaded himself that the Dominions would contract
out of the war or give their Motherland only half-
hearted support, and he calculated that Britain would
react to defeat on land, the loss of the Channel Islands
and the horrors committed by his bombers and
U-boats in the manner of the peoples he has over-
come or overawed on the Continent. He has com-
mitted no greater blunder.
"London Can Take It."
If enough Australians see the Department of Informa-
tion film “London Can Take It” there will be no need
to worry any more about this country failing to realise
there’s a war on or failing to realise the full horror
of the thing Hitler has let loose upon the world. This
sober, powerful understatement of London’s ordeal is
by far the most telling piece of propaganda the war
has yet produced.
It is telling, first of all, because it is all true.
Here is London in the afternoon, the people hurrying
home early to take refuge from the blackout and the
bombers. There are devastated buildings here and
there, sometimes a whole street wiped out, hardly an
unbroken pane of glass to be seen, but the city’s sky-
line —the dome of St. Paul’s and the lovely Gothic of
Westminster —is unaltered. Nelson is still high on
his column in Trafalgar Square.
The dusk deepens, the commentator says quietly:
“Jerry is a bit late tonight.” Then the drone of the
bombers is heard, anti-aircraft guns bark into action.
The commentator says that the sound effects are not
faked. They are what make the film so impressive;
all the while, as the camera peers into shelters where
anxious men and women lie awake on improvised beds,
where an old man tosses in a hammock and where
(surely as pitiful a sight as the world has ever seen)
children are sleeping peacefully, the drone of the
bombers goes on. There are the whistle and shriek
of a falling bomb, flashes of the guns belching flame,
studies of the heroic firefighters and rescue squads
going about their tasks. Then there’s daybreak, the
“wail of the banshee” for all-clear. Londoners take
stock of the damage and the deaths and go to their
work again.
Nowhere in the film is there a touch of that
jazzed-up sensationalism, that loud-mouthed cheap
denunciation of the enemy that has been the war-
effort of neutral Hollywood. The American reporter
who acts as commentator speaks as quietly and
solemnly as the film is solemn. The horror of some of
the scenes London must be witnessing is suggested,
never shown in brutal detail —which is as it should
be, for restraint is part of the English way of life.
But it needs very little imagination to conceive the
underlying horror. There are some thoughts that
must occur to anyone who sees the film: that, although
“London can take it,” it is taking a terrible thing .
that the bombing cuts both ways; that Britain will
never again, despite the idealists and the idiots, dare
to be weak in armaments. Above all, it will make the
audience rack its brains to find a word that could
describe the men and the system that could coldfi.
and deliberately let this thing loose on Poland and so
on the world.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Compromise at Canberra.
When Mr. Curtin introduced his Budget-postponement
amendment and Mr. Menzies accepted it as “a chal-
lenge,” it looked as if the Parliament elected on Sep-
tember 21 might be the shortest on record. This im-
pression was strengthened more than once during the
alarums and excursions which followed, especially
when Mr. Curtin, having agreed to compromise on the
income-tax exemption, soldiers’ pay, old-age and
invalid pensions and other disputed features of the
Budget—the compromise had been arranged at
Advisory War Council meetings—was trying to get a
party majority for the alterations. He got one at last,
but even some of his supporters asked for more. More
was refused, and Mr. Curtin did not press the claim.
Instead he withdrew his postponement amendment,
and, barring accidents or caprices, the Budget, as
altered, will go through.
The Government emerges from the confused con-
test a bit stronger in prestige, though not in votes.
For the present, at least, it is independent of the
caprices of Mr. Wilson, of Wimmera, who was last
heard assailing the defenceless scenery with hoarse
cries about “deflation” and “the vital question of
banking and monetary reform.” Mr. Curtin’s position
is weaker, for his Caucus majority was very small,
and Dr. Evatt, who led the malcontents, has now
loomed up as a formidable rival. Moreover, although
Mr. Curtin seems to get on well with Mr. Beasley at
Advisory Council meetings, his party and the Beasley
group have drawn further apart. The Beasley group
wants to come back into the fold, but only on its own
terms, and its terms include immunity for Mr. Lang
and his followers at the N.S.W. Assembly election.
So while Mr. Beasley was manoeuvring at Canberra
he had one eye on the situation there and the other
on the faction fight in Sydney. When there was no
chance of a Curtin Government being formed, the
Beasley group offered to support one. It will now pro-
ceed to exploit Mr. Curtin’s “compromise with the
enemy.”
Indeed Mr. Curtin can look forward to being
attacked by all the N.S.W. Labor factions ; and there
were at least three when they were last sorted out.
Some of the factionists can never forgive him for
being a Westralian, just as some of the N.S.W. U.A.P.
members can never forgive the P.M. for being a Vic-
torian. But plain people will give the leader of the
Opposition credit for having been reasonable at the
Advisory Council, courageous in Caucus and unselfish
throughout. Had he been intent only on his own
advancement, he could have become Prime Minister,
but he refused office without power, knowing that the
country would pay the price in political turmoil and
an arrested war effort.
And now, perhaps, this sixteenth Parliament of
ours will get on with the war. It has still time to
give a good account of itself, but it has made an
inauspicious beginning.
"No Imperial War Cabinet."
The mild Stewart succeeded the mild McEwen as
Minister of External Affairs, and, like his predecessor,
has taken to retailing old stuff with the air of an
astronomer announcing the discovery of a new planet.
After the first of these dissertations, Mr. Curtin said
it was “useless to present a statement on external
affairs unless the House is given an opportunity to
debate it” —he was too kind to say that the statement
itself was useless. Mr. Rosevear wanted to know why
the Minister had made no reference to H.M.A.S.
Australia’s part in the Dakar business, and why the
House had not been permitted to discuss it. The
Minister promised that an opportunity for discussion
would be given ; but, though nearly a fortnight has
elapsed, discussion there has been none.
Meanwhile Senator Keane suggested that the Aus-
tralian warships serving abroad should be recalled to
protect shipping in Australian waters or on Australian
trade routes. To this course there are obvious objec-
tions, one of which is that H.M.A.S. Sydney and other
warships are doing a very good job for Australia in
the Seven Seas. Moreover, it is vitally important that
Admiralty control of naval operations should be pre-
served. All the same, the Australian Government
has a right to be consulted about all phases of war
policy, and to suggest that if H.M.A.S. Australia is
not needed in the Mediterranean or the Red she
could do more for the common cause in Australia than
in West Africa, protection of shipping being of greater
moment than furtherance of the plans of General
de Gaulle. Her employment at Dakar draws increased
attention to the need for Australian representation in
an Imperial War Cabinet and on the War Council.
This need has been recognised by some English-
men. Presumably answering these gentlemen, Sir
John Anderson, Lord President of the Council, de-
clared that “constitutional difficulties stand in the way
of creating an Imperial Cabinet in the fullest sense of
the term.” What constitutional difficulties? Sir John
Anderson did not mention them, and if Dominion
status is all that it is cracked up to be there can be
none. The Minister proceeded to assert that “the War
Cabinet of the last war,” though it “included very dis-
tinguished Dominion statesmen,” was “not an Imperial
War Cabinet.” On that point he flatly contradicted
Mr. Lloyd George, and the former Prime Minister
should be heard from.
“Let us review the meetings of the Imperial War
Cabinet,” wrote Mr. Lloyd George in his Truth About
the Peace Treaties.
Between March 20, 1917, when it first met, and
December 31, 1918, it held altogether 48 meetings. In
addition to these full meetings, Dominion representatives
were placed on practically every important committee
and discharged important functions in helping the War
Cabinet to investigate special subjects. After the
Armistice, the Imperial War Cabinet was immediately
called together to deliberate on the proposals for peace.
In the Lloyd George book the Imperial War Cabinet
is mentioned scores of times. After the Armistice it
was consulted on every question that arose, from the
hanging of the Kaiser to the Italian claims. During
the two most critical war years, “the Prime Ministers
of the Dominions,” sitting at “the same table with
British Ministers on equal terms at the Great Council
Chamber of the Empire,” had been treated as equals.
The meetings were no formal and perfunctory make-
believe Sanhedrims of the elders and chief priests to
give an appearance of consultation. There was a genuine
discussion of all questions of policy bearing on the
direction of the war, and decisions were taken which
affected the conduct of the war and the settlement of the
peace. But the Victorian attitude of Britain’s hegemony
still lingered.
Unfortunately it lingers stiff, and Sir John Anderson
is its spokesman. It should not have been tolerated
at any part of the present war. What was done in
1917-18, when Britain had a multitude of allies, should
be insisted on now when nearly all Britain’s allies are
exiles, and when the Dominions have grown in stature
and strength. Britain itself would stand to gain by
Dominion representation in an Imperial Cabinet and
on the War Council. There are stiff British politicians
who need to be reminded that Europe is not the world.
A Tax on Books.
A 5 p.c. sales tax has been clapped on “books,
pamphlets, leaflets, periodicals, magazines and printed
music,” and professors, schoolmasters, students,
writers, publishers, booksellers and general readers
are objecting so strongly that Parliament will find it
difficult to ignore them, however set on scrambling
into the haven of recess.
The common novel or fictional magazine may,
with some warrant, be regarded as a taxable luxury
in war-time. Many novels and magazines, however,
are of value to the community, and so of course are
educative and informative books and periodicals. To
put a tax on these is indisputably to tax knowledge.
Books were already dear in Australia. Only
people on the higher-income level can afford to have
a modern library. Journalists, teachers and others who
must have reference books frequently find it a strain
on the pocket to buy them. The genuine lover of
literature is often in the same boat.
It might have been too much to expect a Treasurer
beset with difficulties to see that making knowledge
dearer is scarcely likely to bring victory any nearer.
All the same discrimination between necessary and
unnecessary publications is the least that can be ex-
pected. Moreover, the tax comes at the worst time
for the Australian publishing industry, which was
beginning to make some headway.
A tax on lottery prizes would bring in twenty or
thirty times as much as the tax on books, and it would
impose no hardship on anyone; but there has been
no mention of that.
Simple as A.B.C.
A.B.C. rushed to defend itself against what it terms
“propaganda.... inspired by the fear” that it is
“giving listeners too much for their money and may
reduce the profits of those people who are in broad-
casting merely for the money.”
The “exposure” was published in the “A.B.C.
Weakly,” and a lot more listeners’ money went west
advertising it in daily papers. It was asserted that the
A. is a “co-operative society.”
You the listeners are members. Of the license fee
you pay, the Commission receives 10s. a year. That
amounts to £616,500. It is this sum for which the
A.B.C. is responsible. It is your trustee.
Plain humbug. In co-operative societies, the share-
holders share in the profits and management. They
are entitled to know the remotest detail of finance. The
operations of co-ops. are supervised by a State regis-
trar ; and trustees are legally liable to be held to
account for every penny they handle. A.B.C. holds
that it is not accountable to anybody —“co-operative”
shareholder or not.
In this very article, when defending its expendi-
ture, all A.B.C. is prepared to tell listeners and
taxpayers is that its administrative costs “are 12 per
cent, of its expenses and its programme costs 88 per
cent.” Listeners and taxpayers are expected to take
its figures for granted. Comparing its 12 per cent,
with 8.8.C.’s 33 per cent., A.B.C. fails to say that
B. carries all the mechanical and plant costs here
carried by the P.M.G.’s Department. Yet it chides “B”
stations for not giving more information:
In a report issued by Australian Federation of
Broadcasting Stations, it was stated that capital invested
in commercial broadcasting is £500,000, direct employees
of commercial stations approximate 2000, amount paid
in talent fees is £25,000, salaries and wages £500,000.
It is “estimated that the B-class stations through-
out Australia have a gross revenue of £1,500,000.”
And A.B.C. thinks that the propaganda against itself
“boils down to a charge that it spends too much
money on programmes.”
Not exactly. Much of the charge against it is
that it wastes too much money on the wrong pro-
grammes, and it writes its own condemnation in quot-
ing the figures for “B” stations. Its own stations
have their revenue guaranteed and payable in advance.
They give no credit, have no bad debts and pay no
income taxes ; nor, in employing entertainers, are they
subject to stringent award rates. Yet competitive
stations which receive no license fees and pay taxes
are able to raise more than £1 per listener per year
in competition against this Government monopoly.
“There remains the ‘A.B.C. Weekly’ ”:
How can the A.B.C. justify expenditure upon this
project? First of all, it is the Commission’s objective
to make the journal self-supporting. At the moment it
is not. That is the normal experience with a new
newspaper project.
The “normal experience” for papers like the “Weakly”
is death. Any privately-owned paper which had
reduced its advertising rates just on 50 per cent., and its
circulation guarantee from 300,000 to 49,000, and that
in less than a twelvemonth, would no longer be of
interest even to a bankruptcy court, especially if it
admitted that it had lost £37,000 in seven months —
and that with no income taxes to pay.
The Fire Menace in Victoria.
“Nakhoda” : Although the bushfire season is approach-
ing after one of the driest years on record, Victorian
politicians are stiff indulging in the same old muddled
thinking that preceded the 1939 holocaust. They
cling to the dangerous assumption that bushfires can
be prevented, and in the result insufficient attention has
been given to rescue and salvage work and the whole-
sale provision of dugouts.
I was less than 200 yards from the spot where
one of the worst blazes started in 1939. It was in a
well-settled, cultivated district, where the timber was
relatively scanty. There were brigades and beaters all
over the place trying to make it a local conflagration.
But the wind was blowing at 90 m.p.h., the tempera-
ture was 115 in the shade and you couldn’t recognise
a house at 20 yards distance.
When that fire got out of hand nothing on God’s
earth could have stopped it. It ran a couple of miles,
jumped the River Yarra, roared four or five miles
through an orchard district, linked forces with an-
other furnace blast coming from another direction and
descended on Warrandyte, wiping that township out
so quickly that it was past and gone and eating
up country miles away almost before the population
could get to the river.
Short of a State blackout of all fire-lighting during
the summer, no law, however well policed, could
prevent innumerable blazes starting up all over the
country, given the necessary conditions. And there is
at least one day every twelvemonth which provides
these conditions. But it is possible to reduce damage
to a minimum, and it could be made impossible for
loss of life to occur if a sufficiently rigorous system of
patrols, provision of dugouts and compulsory evacua-
tion were instituted.
A Near Thing.
A crisis developed in a section of the N.S.W. Taxation
Department the other day. A telephone message came
in to say that some person had observed two bundles
to faff from a passing motor-lorry, had examined them
and found them to be taxation papers for the years
1932, 1933, 1934, 1935.
There was a flurry of excitement. The thought of
such things lying about the road shook the depart-
ment to its foundations. It was no time for half
measures. With commendable promptitude orders
were snapped out and eight (8) officers were rushed
to the scene in taxi-cabs. Some people might have
used buses or trams or even another motor-lorry, but,
thank Heaven! the civil service isn’t so feeble-minded.
Out piled the eight (8) searchers, each eager and
willing to do his duty. They quartered the locality,
their eagle eyes missing nothing that looked like paper,
from tram tickets to the advertisement section of the
Sydney “Sun.” Along streets, through lanes, over
vacant lots, peering over fences and invading the local
dog kennel went the eight (8) until at last “the officer
in charge was satisfied that every document had been
recovered.”
Then back they came triumphant, the eight (8),
sure that nothing had been missed, presumably in the
taxi-cabs that rushed them forth. Stiff, in higher
circles a doubt existed. Somebody might have missed
a sheet, some low person out there might have found
one and retained it as a souvenir, or curio, or evidence
or something. So next day another search was made,
this time by a lone prospector, and blowed if he didn't
find an honest woman who had found some old returns
in her garden.
Meantime, an importunate press, its eager news-
hounds hot on the trail, was being told that “periodi-
cally obsolete papers were sent to the paper miffs
for repulping. A heavy tarpaulin was placed over each
lorry to prevent the bundles faffing, and three officers
accompanied each load to ensure that the secrecy of
the documents was maintained. The documents were
kept under surveillance until the bundles were placed
in the repulping machine.”
Obviously the sending of a mere three (3) officers
with each load isn’t good enough. Keeping a careful
watch to see that nobody should hold up the lorry,
open the bundles and examine them in the hope of
finding something that could be used perhaps as
blackmail or in evidence against the Taxation Depart-
ment definitely engaged the attention of the three (3).
They couldn’t be expected to see the bundles faff off
in transit. Nor, when that honest unknown telephoned
the department, could the three (3) or their lorry be
torn away from the surveillance at the miffs to go back
and seek what, through no fault of theirs, had been
lost.
Some nasty-minded people have since been heard
asking what the whole affair cost and whether this is
a sample of that departmental economy the Premier
has been talking about since the war broke out. But
such people should be ignored, or interned, or have
their taxes increased.
There is no truth in the rumor that the State
Cabinet is to consider the creation of a special corps
of officers for the finding of things lost from Govern-
ment lorries in transit. All the same, it seems rather
cheeseparing that only three (3) officers should accom-
pany each lorry, while the paucity of numbers and
taxi-cabs engaged in the search is little short of being
positively dangerous at a time like this.
If somebody had read one of those sheets, or
some of them had fallen into alien hands, the effect
might have been disastrous.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Pitt-street”: This new habit of the
Sunday papers of writing of events in
a queer clipped jargon pinched from
magazines of the “Cavalcade” and
“March of Time” type ties a poor old
plain Englisher like me in knots. Read
this on Sunday, December 1:
But once yearly Cambodia’s king retires
for 30 days’ meditation, cancels all official
functions, sees only his 100-odd wives.
End of month king emerges into public
life, looking remarkably serene.
Now what does the fellow mean, or have
I a low mind? However, on coming
across this:
Thailand claims from Indo-China neigh-
boring territories of Laos, in north, Bat-
tambang, Cambodia, in south. These
territories racially are Indian part of
French Indo-China, form main dividing
line between Far East and India.
I decided that the writer, instead of
punching his message home with brevity,
was becoming verbose. Got it down
briefer, decided send Bulletin, object
buy beer, like this:
Thailand claims Laos, Battambang,
Cambodia. These Indian part French
Indo-China, divide Far East, India.
Editor use, send cheque, relieve drought.
* * * *
“D.E.”: What is the correct pronuncia-
tion of “Roosevelt”? I have heard radio
announcers make it “Rohzfelt,” “Rohz-
velt,” “Roozfelt” and “Roozvelt.” Con-
sidering its derivation from the Dutch,
shouldn’t it be “Rooz-uh-felt”? That
was what we old buffers called the first
President of the name, just as in our
day the first president of Standard Oil
was “Rock-uh-feller” —not “Rockfeller,”
the universal radio pronunciation now.
These matters are of some importance to
minor poets. I remember a spirited bit
of verse beginning “If I were Rocke-
feller,” pronounced as a quadrisyllable. I
suppose if it were dug up and submitted
to one of our modern editors it would
be rejected on the ground that the first
line of each stanza didn’t scan.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Noel Coward’s far-famed
capacity for ingratiating himself with
people failed him in Melbourne or the
Department of Information had mal-
advised him as to the propensities of Aus-
tralian pressmen. At the press interview
at Menzies’ he was as courteous and
affable and politely evasive as any English
gentleman who has ever pulled the legs of
our local snobocracy; but a row of
glasses and whisky decanters glittered on
the sideboard and the eyes of the press-
men drifted in their direction as they did
their duty and jotted down the platitudes
of Mr. Coward. They patiently waited to
be offered the customary snifter; but
they were doomed to disappointment.
A Department of Information official
entered and with that tact and delicate
humor for which the department is noted
shouted “It is time they were kicked out,
Mr. Coward! ” So the Fourth Estate was
bundled out into the passage drinkless.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Many people who are old
enough to remember the Parnell Commis-
sion of 1888-89 must have recalled, when
reading a recent N.S.W. breach-of-promise
case, the method by which Sir Charles
Russell bowled out Pigott the forger on
one essential point (B. 4/12/’4O). Besides
asking Pigott to write his own name and
that of a certain Patrick Egan, he gave
him four other nouns to transcribe —
“hesitancy with a small h” (a subtle bit
of craft, that), “livelihood,” “likelihood”
and “proselytism.” One’s memory grows
a bit treacherous after half a century, but
I have always thought that Pigott gave
himself away by his faulty and pre-
sumably habitual spelling of “prosely-
tism” as well as “hesitancy.”
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Dammit, can’t
something be done to stop these health
cranks from bleating at us to drink more
milk? A little in a cup of hot tea is all
very well, or, better still, mixed with a
third of its volume of O.P. rum ; but
I’d as soon eat a raw chop as drink
unboiled milk. The cranks say boiling
destroys the vitamins, but there are other
things to be considered than vitamins.
Some German chap once calculated that
the daily consumption of milk in Berlin
included 3cwt. of manure. Maybe it
explains Dr. Goebbels ; but I don’t like
manure in my beverages. Also, milk-
men are never boiled, much as I would
like to see it done to our peep-o’-day
can-crasher.
This “phony war”!
“Iconoclast”: “Dick Tafone” (B.
20/11 /’4O) is right in saying that the
“Times” is either ignorant or rude in
ignoring the title of doctor gained by
Hugh Dalton, M.P. Dalton took his
M.A. degree at King’s College, Cam-
bridge, whence he entered the London
School of Economics with the Hutchin-
son Research Studentship. He received
his degree of Doctor of Science from
London Uni. for his thesis on “Causes
°f Inequality of Incomes, and especially
their relation to inherited wealth.” In
the 1914-18 war Dalton for four years
served with distinction on more than one
battlefront. Sydney University admitted
Dalton to the degree of Doctor of Science
ad eundum gradum in 1938, on which
occasion the Dean of the Faculty of
Economics used these words: “Where-
fore, Ml Chancellor, I present to you, as
distinguished scholar, soldier and states-
man, Edward Hugh John Neale Dalton,
Master of Arts in the University of Cam-
bridge, Doctor of Science in the Univer-
°f London, member of Parliament,
f° r the. degree of Doctor of Science in
University of Sydney.”
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Te Aroha (M.L.) has
been celebrating the sixtieth anniversary
of the discovery of gold in that mineral-
springs district by Hone Wherepahu.
Before then Maoris had appeared to take
no interest in gold-getting, but Hone had
evidently done some prospecting. As
the Warden knew there would be a
tremendous rush to peg out claims, he
announced in the local newspaper that
the date would be November 25, and that
a gun would go off at the time, but it
wouldn’t be before 9 a.m. This saved the
crowd the fag of waiting up all night.
The Warden fired off the gun sharp at
9 a.m., and there were half a dozen
Maoris among the peggers.
* * * *
“K.P.”: Infantile paralysis is waking
up to its warm-season activity in Aus-
tralia, and State politicians will soon be
bleating once more for prevention of
entry by children from the hotbeds of
disease on the other side of the border.
Except perhaps for isolation of suspected
early cases nothing whatever can be done
about it. Nine times out of ten the first
symptoms are so slight and indefinite
that they attract no particular attention.
Preventive serum treatment has proved
useless, and the unidentified infective
agency is so widespread that infection of
non-immunes is practically universal.
Luckily only about four per cent, of the
infected develop any serious or per-
manent paralysis, five per cent, more may
show temporary interference with mus-
cular movement, rather less than one per
cent, die, and in 90 per cent, of cases the
disease runs its whole course in a few
days of slight indisposition.
Me * s|c *
“Cauboy”: “Oxmead” (B. 27/11 /’4O)
misses the point with regard to Sir
Thomas-Beecham. His methods were bad,
inasmuch as he succeeded in antagonis-
ing most people. But if he fulfils his
declared intention of writing a book of
a hostile character about this country, its
people and manners, the only important
thing is whether what he says is true
or untrue. If it is true, then he may have
harmed himself by using wrong tactics,
but he will have done the country a
benefit, however rudely he says it.
There was nothing he said, as far
as I know, about our musical snob-
bery and indifference to artistic
values which hasn’t been said by
Australians— The Bulletin included —
with much more vehemence. Unless
Australians are a pack of flunkeys, most
R P f the , ho " sst
handling of a Beecham to the bored
politeness of a Coward. Beecham paid
us the compliment of believing that musi-
cally wc could do better; Coward’s atti-
tude is contemptuous. Consequently the
playwriting young gentleman is being fol-
lowed all over the country by a horde of
social snobs, the same crowd that is so
annoyed with Sir Thomas because he
wouldn’t let it cuddle up to him.
* ■ .* •
Craiser : Melbourne National Gallery
director MacDonald, breaking into the
Beecham-caufra-man-m-fte-street ccntro-
off Sir Thomas as a conductor.” Maybe,
but they’re both on the top shelf. A
musician who served under both conduc-
tors informs me that Sir Thomas is a
lamb beside the Italian, but that they are
alike in their attitude to music. A flat
note gives Toscanini such an excruciat-
ing feeling that he has to eliminate it
at whatever cost to himself and the
players, and they put up with any amount
of harshness and rudeness from him
because he makes them feel his imper-
sonal interest in the problem and to that
degree themselves become impersonal,
When lesser conductors try to imitate
Toscanini all they convey is an ambition
to appear ruthless, and. their orchestras
resent every bit of coercion on their part
as readily as they accept Toscanini’s. Our
A.B.C. conductors are for the most part
nice, pleasant, polite young men who are
liked by their orchestras, but they don’t get
such good performances as Beecham and
Toscanini do.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: A Melbourne authority on
voice culture to the unsuspecting
“Argus”:
The Oxford accent is simply due to a
stiffening of the muscles of the larynx in
speaking, and is possibly acquired by un-
conscious imitation by the speaker of that
used in the community in which he moves.
Mr. Menzies and members of his party
undoubtedly speak in the Australian
manner, though some members of the
Labor party unconsciously drop into the
Oxford accent from the cause I have men-
tioned.
That accounts for Eddie Ward and
Rowley James speaking just like chaps
from Balliol. They acquire the accent
from the aristocrats of the pits and
wharves among whom they move.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: Costs of attempts to raise
the foundered Kakariki in Port Phillip
now exceed £20,000. Captain Harrison,
the first contractor, sank £10,274 in nine
months’ operations. A. E. Geddes, the
new contractor, is several thousands out
of pocket, but stands to win £15,500 if
his method of external and internal
buoyancy is successful. The only other
way of clearing the channel is to carve
the obstruction up like a cake and
remove it in sections. Experts reckon
that this would run away with £20,000
of anybody’s money.
“C.Q.”: The
self-reliant Austra-
lian! A solemn
procession of two
—a boy of five and
hi s four-year-old
brother —arrived at
the door of a
country doctor
pushing their sister,
an infant of three,
in a pushcart. “The
bed fell on her and
hurt her,” they ex-
plained, and they
gravely sat in a
row reading books
in the waiting-
room for an hour
as the doctor was
absent. When he
arrived and put her
on the table it
turned out that one
of her legs was
seriously fractured.
“She’ll be all
ri g h t,” said the
elder youngster.
“She’s to u g h.”
After the leg had
been set and put in
plaster the doctor
took the deputa-
tion home in his
car, and elicited
the information
that the father had
gone to the war, the mother was in
hospital and a sister, aged 13, had sent
them along with the patient because she
had twin babies to look after!
* * * *
“PS.”: Touching a recent short
Bulletin symposium on the use of the
word guts, did anybody notice Noel
Coward’s use of it in an A.B.C. broad-
cast? Hoping that we would learn
several lessons from past mistakes and
the present war, he said “Let’s pray with
all sincerity and all our guts to profit by
it this time once and for all.” I’m
willing, if Mr. Coward will demonstrate
how one manages supplication with one’s
guts.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The main ganglion of Mel-
bourne’s A.R.P. system is a specially
located room. Here an officer, by
turning a switch, can get into in-
stant touch with 55 metropolitan
police stations, 10 patrol-cars cruis-
ing anywhere in the city or suburbs, 60
light cars, the Electricity Commission,
fire brigades, ambulances, docks, rail-
ways and hospitals, and at the same
time start all the air-raid sirens in the
city blaring and send a signal to the outer
suburbs which will start the suburban
sirens going. There is an emergency
power plant to run the set if the ortho-
dox one is interrupted. A trial of the
sirens on Armistice Day produced the
deepest three-minute silence in local his-
tory. Everything has been thought of
except air-raid shelters. So citizens will
be all keyed up and nowhere to go.
THE OLIVE BRANCH.
“Mr. Curtin said that the Beasley-Lang group of
Non-Communist Laborites had been given until
December 31 to return to the A.L.P. without penalty,
and to continue their membership as though they
had never broken away.”
Come back! As a chance it’s the last you’re
E’er likely to get, I’ll engage,
You lambs who have strayed from the pasture,
You birds who have flown from the cage.
For aims of your own you have striven,
And wrought us much mischief, alack!
But, comrades, ’twill all be forgiven
If you only come back.
You have turned to false gods—you must
know it —
Like the Israelites often of old.
Are you ripe for repentance? Then show it
By hastening back to the fold.
The sliprails are down to admit you;
Complete absolution you’ll earn,
Of all that is past we’ll acquit you
If you only return.
Come back to our arms! But remember
The terms that we offer are clear;
They lapse at the end of December,
The close of the month and the year.
Although you have cloven and cleft us,
By heeding our call you will learn
You’re the same as though never you’d left us
If you only return.
Return, and your welcome will rather
Resemble the Biblical one
Which the lovingly tolerant father
Accorded his Prodigal Son.
Come back, and the veal will be roasted,
I’ll bet, for a notable snack,
And your healths will in bumpers be toasted
If you only come back!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Must you make all that noise when you kiss a girl , Prendergast?
Remember this IS the Silent Service .”
“Mac Hoots”: If I were a maiden of
16 (which God forbid) my hero in this
war would be Sydney “Sun’s” war corres-
pondent James Aldridge, whose personal
adventures in Greece are given far more
prominence by his own modest pen than
the general progress of the campaign.
“Dodging bombs, shells and bullets,” the
“Sun” introduced one of his recent dis-
patches, “he watches like a movie .image
a Greek bayonet charge at the fleeing
Italians, and finally, under continuous fire,
is himself hit by a small piece of shrap-
nel.” Reading on, one followed Mr.
Aldridge as he drove along a bomb-
pocked road, walked for two hours in a
ravine, climbed a mountain, crawled up
another hill, crept slowly forwards on his
stomach till he could hear the Italians
talking, hid in a ditch, crawled out of
the ditch, retreated down the hill, crossed
a river under continuous rifle-fire and
finally had his arm pierced by the small
piece of shrapnel. All this is a very fine
account of Mr. Aldridge’s day, and I
don’t doubt that Mr. Aldridge is having
a fine, exciting war. But I don’t really
care very much whether he spends his
time dodging bombs, shells and bullets
or whether he stays home and waggles
his legs in the bath. I would like one of
these correspondents to describe the war
to me.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. Parliament, before its
adjournment, was nibbling at an English
idea, new to Australia, for checking law-
suits against probate of a will on the
ground of undue influence or lack of
“testamentary capacity.” The plan is that
anyone making an unusual will that may
mean future trouble can go to the courts
forthwith, state his reasons —instead of
leaving them to be guessed at when he
is not there to explain—and get them
declared sound for future reference. The
trouble is that any person making that
kind of will is the sort most unlikely to
seek the limelight. On the other hand,
any reputable lawyer, if instructed (as
sometimes happens) to prepare a will
that he feels to be unjust, might be glad
to have it investigated forthwith.
* * * *
“0.P.”: Somebody (it may have been
Hartley Grattan) said Australians would
panic if a sudden invasion of their cities
was made. Being a good Australian, I
duly scoffed at the notion, but now I’m
not so sure, since a person with a pre-
dilection for pranks went round a few
Sydney streets early one morning recently
banging on doors and shouting “Air
raid!” The residents couldn’t get into
the street quick enough; some stayed
long enough to shove a few things in a
suitcase, and for a few moments there
was panic on a small scale. Then a large
car containing large men arrived, and the
alarmist was run in. Apparently it didn’t
occur to any of the scared to wonder
whereinell the raid could come from.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Melbourne has its moments.
A party walked into a pub, walked out
with a nine-gallon keg of beer, put it in
a waiting car and. vanished.
Room D 24, Russell-street head-
quarters, was informed, and a
few minutes later came news
of a wild spree in Fitzroy
Gardens. The patrol sallied
forth and collected three men
and three females just as the
dregs were running out of the
barrel. The drinkers must
have made good use of their
lime.
* * *
“F.S.”: Go into any draw-
ing-room in Toorak or East
Malvern, and you will find the
artists being discussed are not
Harold Herbert, the Rowells,
Streeton and Meldrum, but
Matisse, Utrillo and Picasso.
The more distortion there is
in a picture the more chance
it has of being hung in a Mel-
bourne drawing-room. The
other day I knocked on the
door of a businessman I know.
When he shouted “Come in!”
what I expected to see was
what I had seen a hundred
times before —a rolltop desk
littered with papers, an old
cane chair, dingy oak panel-
ling, and on the tattered wall-
paper an etching by the late
Victor Cobb and a water-
color by Hilder. I stopped
paralysed with astonishment.
He had had an interior decora-
tor in, and the room was a
blaze of light and color, glit-
tered with glass and steel fur-
niture, and the walls and
ceiling were lined with satiny silky
oak. On the glass-topped table were
a blotter, an inkpot and a few other
gadgets all arranged with mathematical
precision, and if there had been the butt
of a cigarette in the modernistic ashtray
it would have looked profane in those
surroundings.. “What do you think of
my Modigliani?” asked the man of
affairs, pointing to a reproduction on the
wall of that notorious artist. Hanging
beside it was a painting by one of our
younger modernists depicting a young
lady whose features had broken their
tether and were wandering all over a
countenance as blue as Reckitt’s and as
flat as the Nullarbor Plain. “I picked
that up dirt-cheap at an exhibition,” he
explained. “As an investment,” he added.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Arthur Dickson Wright,
the London surgeon, told the Royal
Society in London the other day that
surgeons were now confident. that they
had conquered the wound question by
the new method of leaving wounds open,
but had to confess that they were still
beaten by the shock problem. This is
the problem Freud and the other psy-
chologists dealt with so successfully
during the last war. They produced
amazing cures by bringing up into the
patient’s conscious mind the festering
experience which he had relegated to his
unconscious. This was just as revolu-
tionary a procedure in the mental realm
as the new method of dealing with phy-
sical injuries. Wright declares that the
success of the new surgical method was
confirmed when a batch of 60 seriously
wounded men arrived from Dunkirk, 15
of whom were apparently doomed to
death and 15 facing amputations. Only
two died, and there were no amputations.
But Freud’s success was just as spec-
tacular.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Since the new taxa-
tion put up the cost of beer, Brisbane
has developed a race of bar-going mathe-
maticians who argue long and bitterly
that Bung is being allowed to do his
faithful patrons in the eye. The increased
tax is 9d. per gallon ; the new public-
bar prices are 7d. for the 12oz. pot and
44-d. for the Boz. glass. Toffs in private bars
pay an extra 2d. a glass, but we workers
allow that Bung has a right to sock the
rich. Even the fact that 240 z. of beer
from glasses comes out cheaper as
compared with the pot-suction method
does little to allay the dark suspicion that
it’s just another dirty trick of the flamin’
wowsers.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: The rambling old
School of Arts building in Pitt-street,
Sydney, which is likely to go soon, used
to be the meeting-place of the Woman-
hood Suffrage League and the Anti-
Womanhood Suffrage League. There
were several clashes. Antis trying to
disrupt a suffrage meeting were driven
out under the flailing of parasols
by militant amazons, and the argu-
ment was continued in Pitt-street until
the police arrested three of the bat-
tered men. A worse shindy occurred
when the Antis held a rally which the
suffragists countered by calling upon all
women to come along and pick out their
husbands. The meeting faded away under
a mass attack with umbrellas and hat-
pins—and half a dozen of the gentle
creatures brought cops with them with
warrants under the Maintenance Act.
When the antagonists fell into the street
the crowd outside also took a hand.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: “Pawang” (B.
20/11 / ’4O) errs widely in describing my
former friend and teacher Eugene San-
dow as “a consumptive weakling at 20,
doomed to an early death by the doctors.”
Nor was it any “necessity to overcome
his disabilities” that made him an author-
ity on physical culture. Some such line
of guff was put out in the magazine which
he was once supposed to run, but even
in his schooldays in his native Alsace he
won prizes for physical development and
gymnastics, and in early manhood was a
noted professional wrestler and weight-
lifter. In crude muscular strength he was
far from being “the strongest man who
lived in recent times,” as “P.” maintains ;
Sergeant Heffernan, of the Victorian
Police Force, repeated and excelled every
one of his weight-lifting feats, and none
of them stands as a record today. And
that much-boomed system of physical
development was evolved by a London
doctor. But the Sandow system and the
Sandow boom did an immense amount of
good work in improving white-man phy-
sique and physical stamina throughout the
world for many years, and paved the way
for the better systems of today.
“ Cripes , they must've used me overproof !”
THESE HATS.
“Hats have never been more insouciant, never less
related to things either of earth or heaven.”
— Woman’s Letter, B. 4/12/’4O.
Times change, and with them we. How baldly
true
The Latin line that first we came to know
In distant schooldays! Modes and fashions,
too.
How irresistibly they come and go,
Full many a style becoming comme il jaut
That once would have occasioned pitying
smiles.
But when was period like ours to show
Such utter recklessness in women’s tiles?
Men’s range in headgear grows from day to
day
More cramped and limited, beyond a doubt.
Straws, it would seem, have ceased to be O.K.
And dashing Panamas are up the spout.
Soft, sloppy felts are pretty well about
All that is left to roof our upper flats.
But every social function blazons out
Some startling novelty in women’s hats.
They skip, according to the wearer’s whims,
From topknot crests and microscopic crowns
To those amazingly umbrageous brims
One finds in mushrooms upon rain-swept
downs.
Their color scheme embraces blues and
browns,
Shades green as leeks and red as golden quids.
What matter if it raises artists’ frowns,
The sheer insouciance of women’s lids?
They’re like to nothing on the earth below
Or in the vaulted skies above. And that’s
Perhaps the fact that lends an added.glow
To weird experiments in women’s hats.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


%
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
m
10 for 10d.—20 for 1
E 1866
MADE
SPECIALLY TO PREVENT !
POLITICAL POINTS
Menzies is still P.M. and Curtin still
leader of the Opposition, but both gentle-
men had an exceptionally trying week.
Curtin’s experience was the more
exhausting, for he had not only to argue
with Menzies but with two dissatisfied
groups in his own party, whereas Bob's
sole domestic trouble was a brush with
young McCall. In the end Curtin, having
secured some concessions, withdrew his
Budget-postponement motion (the “chal-
lenge”) and the crisis was over —till the
next.
“In ten days you will be Prime Min-
ister,” said Evatt to Curtin when that
gentleman, wayworn but confident,
reached Sydney on September 11 to do a
spot of electioneering. Meeting and
prophecy were recalled with chuckles at
Canberra when the interesting pair were
having their first tiff.
Whether the wealthy are being suffi-
ciently slugged or protected and whether
the worker is being sacrificed or asked
to pay equitably seem to be the only
questions that interest Canberra poli-
ticians when they discuss the war Budget.
Nobody has anything to say about the
poor old middle-class, which is getting it
in the neck all ways, and, as usual, takes
it with little more than a low grumble.
Long ago a Westralian Attorney-General,
Nanson, was accused by Perth “Daily
News” of having given “an exhibition of
personal spleen” in a speech defending
his suspension of the Police Commis-
sioner of the period. Himself an old news-
paperman, Nanson sued for libel, and
was awarded £275 damages. Now Justice
Angas Parsons has decided that Sydney
“D.T.” did not libel its aversion Cameron
when it asserted that “spleen” had
prompted his opposition to the appoint-
ment of its boss Theodore as Co-ordi-
nator of Works. “The Court held that
it was fair comment, even if defamatory,”
exulted the “D.T.’s” Sunday issue.
Queer features of the Cameron-“D.T.”
case was that it was heard in Adelaide,
where the “D.T.” is scarcely known, and
that the “fair comment” was based, not
on “D.T.” reports, but on information
supplied by reporters on other papers.
Also this appeared in the summing up
(“D.T.” report):
In March, 1939... .Theodore was
sounded, on behalf of Mr. Lyons, by Mr.
F. Packer, managing director of Con-
solidated Press, as to whether he would be
willing to accept the position of co-
ordinator of national resources for defence.
Staggering indeed considering that
Lyons (and Fenton) resigned from the
Scullin Cabinet on Feb. 4, 1931, because
Theodore had been restored to the Trea-
sury on Jan. 29.
An Independent Labor peace-confer-
ence motion has been rejected in the
Commons by 341 to four —six, including
tellers. It can scarcely be dissociated from
Scotland’s strarfge immunity from bomb-
ing, although men like Maxton,Kirkwood
and McGovern are above suspicion of
having had secret communications with
the ruthless enemy. Attlee replied for the
Government (Churchill did not speak)
and has been criticised on the score of
his refusal to mention war aims.
After swiftly passing a litter of un-
flonsidered tax bills, the Sydney Parlia-
ment has gone into recess “for Christ-
mas.” Strange that it hasn’t occurred
to these State politicians that by appoint-
ing a few more boards and commissions
they could stay in recess and draw their
pay in peace—while the going is good.
Hollway, the new U.A.P. leader, was
welcomed at a Ballarat conference of his
party, and cheered when he said that
Governments should encourage the shift-
ing of industries to suitable places remote
from the capital. Not meaning to refer
to Hollway, Senator Leckie remarked that
a man doesn’t jump into Parliament a
fully-fledged statesman. All the same,
these State Premiers give a very good
imitation of fledglings the way they
gather in the Canberra nest and open
their beaks for whatever they can get—
and keep them open.
Australia has paid in various ways
for the deliberate neglect of its politi-
cians to substitute one income tax for
the multitude of conflicting and overlap-
ping imposts, and it is going to pay a lot
more. The war having made confusion
Worse confounded, a swarm of new tax-
gatherers is to be put on to collect the
Canberra tax, and that means more rent
as well as more salaries. In Sydney a big
firm of accountants has had to move out
“Events are moving towards an all-party Government under Labor leadership.”
— Dr. Evatt.
“Hey, that belongs to Labor.”
“Who’s Labor? You, Curtin or Beasley?”
of the Savings Bank building to accom-
modate some of the new additions to
the taxation staff, and the Government
has had to find new quarters for it and
pay all removal and re-establishment
costs.
Being about to shut up his useless shop
for several months, Mair proposed the
usual conference of Premiers and
Treasurers to discuss uniform income-
tax rates. Supposing the improbable,
which is that anything good could have
come of such a conference, the obvious
time for holding it was when the Six
Encumbrances were in session and in a
position to pass enabling laws; but
Forgan Smith and Playford had already
shut up their useless shops before Mair’s
idea occurred to him. Uniformity could
and should be brought about by
the Commonwealth Government under
national-emergency regs., and if the
Encumbrances didn’t like it they could
lump it.
Gandhi was never anti-British, and it
is deplorable to read that a hundred of
his followers have been arrested for
“civil disobedience” and sentenced to
terms of imprisonment running to 18
months. They include the Congress party
leader, the leader of the Opposition in
the Central Assembly, “four former
Premiers, 11 former Ministers and five
Speakers or Presidents of provincial Legis-
latures.” It has been hopefully suggested
that Churchill could make an end of the
agitation by offering India immediate
Dominion status, but to do so he would
have to eat his words.
Amery, of the Ginger Group, is now
at the India Office. It might be a good
thing to recall the hated Hoare, though
that target for every Stunt Press writer’s
invective seems to be doing an excellent
job in Spain.
Though the alleged National Travel
Association can do nothing for any sub-
sidy these days, it is to get £B3OO out of
Commonwealth taxes in 1940-41, and in
one way and another the League, if dis-
coverable, is to collect £35,000. And
“entertainment allowance to High Com-
missioner” still figures at £1250. Whom
he is to entertain isn’t stated—rats
perhaps.
To the annoyance of a lot of the boys
in Macquarie-street, Sydney, Bridges, a
Lang man, unexpectedly won a Leg.
Council seat, and some of them exploded.
O’Sullivan (McKell Lab.) demanded that
the bar should be closed during such
events —“hotels in electoral districts have
to close during a by-election.” Shannon
(McKell Lab.) wanted the Premier to do
something about a reference to bribery
and corruption. McKell declared that
his party had been robbed by a dirty
trick. Matthews (Lang-party secretary)
denied it, and pronounced the McKell
candidate (McAlpine) a disqualified
starter. McAlpine saw the thing he tried
to get into as an “anachronism.” If there’s
one thing State politicians shine at it’s
performances like these.
From June, 1932, to June, 1940, the
number of salary- and wage-earners em-
ployed by the Tasmanian Government
rose from 4906 to 8321. The increase
was actually greater than the increase of
Tasmanian population from June, 1932,
to June, 1936 —3340. It is in the main
a result of showering the Hobart Gov-
ernment with Canberra grants.
The 170-odd British subjects who had
to leave the Baltic States when Moscow
took control have reached Australia.
They all say they were glad to get away,
and a woman from Estonia described
that country as a little paradise till the
Russkis swarmed in ; then the inhabitants
found that Communism was another
name for misery. The Corns.’ first act
was to grab all the food they could lay
their hands on.
Explaining a bill to co-ordinate State
and Federal collection of taxes by instal-
ments in Victoria, that State’s Premier
said a joint stamp would be issued, bear-
ing the imprint “Victoria.” Only one
deduction, he said, from salaries and
wages would be necessary. Cheerful
sort of person, Dunstan. He imagines
that paying several taxes at once is better
than paying them severally.
Melbourne Milk Board is conducting
another of those useless “inquiries.” Its
chairman, J. T. Packer, said he was
afraid children of poor families might
not get sufficient milk if the retail
price were increased. They don’t get
enough now. That may not be Packer’s
fault. All the same, his board’s decision
to allow a small reduction to purchasers
of more than one quart at a time is no
good to poor families. Milk might be
cheaper if it didn’t have to support all
hands and the cook as well as the
producer.
Russia moves —backwards. It has gone
back to a six-day week and an eight-
hour day, and Moscow already proclaims
the results wonderful. A few remarks
on the subject by Mr. Thornton, of the
Ironworkers, might be appreciated by
that union.
Introducing a bill to amend the N.S.W.
Companies Act to .enable companies in
British countries to move their domicile
to his State, Treatt, the unnecessary
Minister for Justice, claimed that “no-
thing but benefit could accrue to N. S.
Wales.” Such companies would “become
liable to N.S.W. laws” and —yes—
“N.S.W. taxation.” At that there
was a stunned silence ; and then some
nark must go and mention the Great
Boulder.
According to Queensland Treasurer
Cooper, derision of State Parliaments
mostly comes from people “suffering
from a touch of sour grapes.” Well,
seeing that State politicians give them-
selves rises in screw for spending a few
weeks each year in session, during which
they generally delegate their jobs to some-
body else, ordinary blokes who have to
work hard all the year round for what
they get can be pardoned for “sour
grapes.”
State elections are due next year in
N. S. Wales, Queensland and South Aus-
tralia. State electors are addicted to
changing their Governments in unquiet
times—during the depression the only
Premier who weathered the storm was
McPhee in Tasmania. If Senate voting
is repeated, Mair will go out in N. S.
Wales and Forgan Smith should in
Queensland ; but somehow Senate voting
never is repeated in Queensland. State
electoral boundaries are such that Fog-
horn could win hands down on a minor-
ity vote.
N. S. Wales has still another board,
the Youth Welfare Board this time. It
is to try to direct the young in industry,
stop dead-ends and do other things likely
to keep youthful hands working. Its real
job, of course, like that that of most
other boards, is to relieve well-paid poli-
ticians (they fix the pay themselves) of
a bit of work.
Leacock, the humorous and philosophic
Canadian professor, has some kind words
about Australia in his latest book. “The
Commonwealth,” he says, “has a won-
derful unity of situation, culture and in-
terest,” and he sees in progress an “evolu-
tion of central power” which “seems
eminently admirable”:
The States may well subside to mere
areas of dignity, chief centres of cricket
and of academic life in college.
And “subside” to this destiny they
should; but they won’t until they are
pushed.


HIT. AND MUSS.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Around 5 p.c. Annual Yield
with Safety
Your investment—even as little as £2o—in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
gives you an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies yielding, at
present prices, around 5 % per annum. Moreover, your investment is
definitely safeguarded by Custodian Trustees: Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd.
Now is your opportunity to share in the increasing activity of Industrial
undertakings. Write for Booklet No. 1, post free, on request to the
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Telephone: 85294.
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Stanley Argyle was just on 73 when
he died, and he had been leader of the
Victorian U.A.P. for 10 years. Thomas
Tuke Hollway, his successor, is only 34.
Member of an old Ballarat family, and
grounded at Ballarat College, Hollway
was called to the Bar at 22, and at 26
was M.L.A. for Ballarat. In the process
of years he has made a doubtful seat
safe, and if he can induce Victoria to
accept Ballarat’s estimate of him he may
be Premier before he is much older.
Cain’s subservience to Dunstan is making
A.L.P. branches increasingly restive.
James Barrett, Melbourne’s leading
medical knight and ex-Chancellor of
its University, recently married, his bride
being a sister of Prof. Bernard Heinze,
Ormond Professor of Music, and herself
an accomplished ’cellist. The bridegroom
has musical interests, too, but on the
administrative rather than the playing
side. He has crowded an amazing
amount of public activity into his life-
time, having been a leading Collins-
street surgeon, lecturer on the Special
Sense at Melbourne University, consult-
ing oculist to the R.A.N. and a medical
lieut.-col. in the last war, where he got
a whole string of decorations for his
organisation of the health of Diggers in
Egypt. He never misses a big public
concert, and if he is seen in the street he
is almost sure to be hurrying from open-
ing an art show to a sitting of a charit-
able board.
J. R. Elliott, newly-appointed Profes-
sor of Classics at Hobart, is the son of
the late W. J. Elliott, for many years
chief inspector of secondary schools in
N. S. Wales. After an arts course at
Sydney Uni., the Woolley Scholarship
took young Elliott to Cambridge, where
he shone in classics and archaeology. He
has held lectureships at Melbourne Uni.
and Victoria College, Wellington (M.L.),
in recent years.
One of the busiest men in Adelaide is
Frank Hugh Harrison, who has recently
added to his responsibilities as acting-
Mechanical Engineer of S.A. Railways by
accepting a seat on the State Munitions
F. H. HARRISON.
Board. He was born at Port Augusta,
and entered the S.A. railway service as
a boy. A Commissioner’s scholarship
took him from the School of Mines to
Adelaide Uni. in 1919, and in 1926 he
became works manager at Islington. He
is 41 ; hobby, game-shooting.
If big ships ever begin to slide off the
slipways into the waters of Port Phillip
it will be largely due to the persistence
of Thomas Sydney Nettlefold. As presi-
dent of the Australian Industries League,
he has been badgering the State and
Federal Governments for years with an
offer to build merchant ships in Mel-
bourne, the only condition being that
straightout orders for any size of ship
up to 10,000 tons are forthcoming. T. S.
Nettlefold was born in 1879 at Baden,
in the Speck, and was educated at Hobart.
He is a director of the Goliath Cement
Co. and a dozen other subsidiary enter-
prises, and is a member of the Mel-
bourne City Council.
Gone on his last flight, Pilot R. Robin-
son, of the Macßobertson-Miller Avia-
tion Co., who, as pilot for the Flying
Doctor at Wyndham, made a name for
himself for skill and daring that is talked
of from one end of the North to the other.
He arrived at the nor’-west base from
Perth in 1935, and made over 100 medical
flights. Piloting Dr. R. J. Coto, he flew
800 miles over uncharted country between
Wyndham and Granites to succor an
injured miner. Robinson died at Darwin.
Wool business in S.A. suffers a loss
in the sudden death of Arthur Vivian
Crase, assistant manager of Bennett and
Fisher’s wool department. Crase was
associated with many wool companies,
including the Loan and Mercantile
Agency (when it operated in S.A.),
Strachan, Cheadle and Co. and Dalgety’s.
In 1919 the firm of Crase and Cheadle
was merged with Bennett and Fisher, and
Crase was appointed a.m. of the wool
department. During the frequent visits
he paid to all parts of S.A., Crase came
to know all those associated with the
wool industry. He was 73 at the end
Dead after a short period of
retirement, Rev. Clive T. L. Yar-
rington was for two generations
rector of St. Clement’s, Mosman
(Sydney). A good preacher and an
industrious parish visitor, he watched
the infants he baptised grow up,
marry and have families of their
own. Balmoral icebergs will miss
his rotund figure, for every morning
in any weather he took his early dip.
Members of both Houses of the Vic-
torian Parliament were surprised recently
at the appearance in the press galleries
of a young woman reporter. She has a
political background, being the grand-
daughter of A. A. Billson, for over
quarter of a century M.L.A. for Ovens.
Hunter White, who recently retired
from the A.J.C. committee, owns the
Havilah merino stud at Mudgee
(N.S.W.). Havilah was founded by
N. P. Bayly, who was managing the
Lawson estates at Mudgee, in 1835. He
used some of the Lawson sheep, which
were descended from King George Ill’s
Kew flock. Havilah and its merinos were
purchased by the late H. C. White in
1881, passing to the present owner in
1904. Hunter White has gone in for a
lot of pasture improvement. He was one
of the founders of the Devon breed of
cattle in Australia, and kept that section
going at Sydney Royal shows for many
years. Active management of the cattle
and sheep studs is now entrusted to cap-
able son Peter.
Gone into well-earned retirement in
Melbourne, William Cooper, who, as
founder and secretary of the Australian
Aborigines’ League, served the cause of
vanishing Binghi during most of a long
lifetime. During his incumbency the
full-blood black population of Vic-
toria has dwindled to fewer than a dozen,
and the sight of one now would cause
a sensation in the streets of Melbourne.
Cooper’s mother was a full-blooded
aborigine.
Frank Tennyson Perry, who is No. 1
man in munitions control in S.A., is
president of the State Chamber of
Manufactures, vice-president of the Asso-
ciated Chambers of Manufactures of
Australia, president of S.A.’s Metal In-
dustries Assoc, and Iron Trade Em-
ployers’ Association and vice-president of
the S.A. Employers’ Federation. He holds
the reins of Perry Engineering Co.
Liberal and Country League members
evidently thought he had enough jobs, as
they voted him down in a Leg. Council
plebiscite last month. But he formerly
sat in the Assembly.
William McKie, the Collingwood-born
organist whom Melbourne City Council
didn’t know how to keep, is doing well
in England. After giving an invita-
tion recital at the commemoration
of St. Michael’s College, Tenbury,
he was presented with a fellowship
of the institution. The quiet little
musician, who has been organist
at Ely Cathedral and Radley and
Clifton Colleges, was Organ Scholar
at Worcester and Clarke Scholar
at the Royal College of Music. The
lunchtime concerts McKie inaugu-
rated in Melbourne are so popular that
flocks of citizens miss their pie-and-cup-
o’-tea in order to hear them.
It is 20 years since Victorian Parlia-
ment first saw the sturdy form of Albert
Arthur Dunstan, member for Korong
and Eaglehawk and Premier for the last
PREMIER DUNSTAN, of Victoria.
5J- years. Dunstan doesn’t share the
prevalent opinion that State Legislatures
should join the dodo, and is fond of
pointing proudly to the fact that he has
passed 600 “measures of reform” and
has balanced his Budget, which is more
than they could do in N.S.W. He began
in Eaglehawk, and, after five years as
C.P. member, started the Country Progs.
Then he broke with Labor and joined the
Argyle Ministry as Lands Minister. He
has six children, is jovial and stout, and,
though he has been called everything
under heaven, is universally liked.
William Artlett was chief traffic man-
ager of the Commonwealth Railways at
Port Augusta (S.A.) till his recent death
at 63. He joined the N.S.W. service
as a boy in 1893.
Australia’s oldest military chaplain,
G. W. Kendrew, had an 81st birthday in
Adelaide the other day. He first became
a chaplain in 1901 and went abroad with
the A.I.F. in 1914. English-born, he holds
a high opinion of the Digger—both the
1914 and 1940 vintages. Kendrew re-
cently spent 60 days in camp with a
militia unit and is Chaplain-in-Chief to
Brigadier-General Raymond Leane’s
R.S.L. Corps.
J. J. Liston, here depicted by Challen,
is a man whose philanthropic hand is
difficult to escape from, as many an
impecunious artist found when its owner
J. J. LISTON.
was good-humoredly running the recur-
rent Vic. Liquor Referendum campaigns
for the Trade. Now, as chairman of
Blarney House, the club for A.I.F. men
suggested by General Blarney, J. J. Liston
is in charge of a voluntary show which
provides accommodation weekly for 300
A.I.F. men when on leave in Melbourne.
He has a wide variety of other interests.
He is president of the Vic. Football
Association, chairman of the Williams-
town R.C. and president of the Sports-
men’s Ward of the Prince Henry Hospi-
tal. He was Mayor of Williamstown for
seven years and a Melbourne city father
for ten, missing the mayoralty in 1931
by only one vote —a supporter forgot to
sign his ballot paper. Liston was on the
Metropolitan Town Planning committee
for seven years. Hails from Ireland and
landed here when 14. Has one son in
Palestine, and another, admitted to the
Bar last week, is president of the Univer-
sity Students’ Council.
Died on Saturday, a few days before
his eightieth birthday, William Stuart,
who could claim to be the leading master
builder of Australia. Born in Scotland,
he came to Sydney as a young man, and
in partnership with his brother James
founded a business that thrived and ex-
panded till it owned its own joinery and
quarries and had 1000 men on its payroll.
Among the big buildings Stuart added
to Sydney’s skyline are Union House,
the Commercial Bank of Sydney, the
“S.M.H.” building, Scottish House and
Kyle House, and a dozen others. The
Stuart activities went as far afield as Mel-
bourne, Adelaide and Brisbane. Stuart
was a firm friend of industrial arbitration,
and had few labor troubles. Among
many other charitable gifts he endowed
the William Stuart Ward at the Children’s
Hospital, and he did most of the building
of the ward without making a cent of
profit.
“Burra” : Almost exactly 100 years ago
died Thomas Moore, whose bequest of
the whole of his large fortune to the
Church of England led in 1856 to the
foundation at Liverpool (N.S.W.) of
Moore College, the first Anglican Theo-
logical College in Australia. Moore’s
magnificent home with its spacious
grounds became the residence of the prin-
cipal of the college, the Rev. W. Hodg-
son. In 1889 the college was transferred
to Sydney and was set up in the old
rectory of St. Stephen’s, Newtown.


NO THANKS
fcf raf/rer Aaye
50 Reef Capstans'
m
\V^
&
%
m
X
il
&
SJir
\
*Y.
7
f
m
\ >
u
'w
\
7
ipfr'
m
o
a
J
■
A
y
AA
■
V
a-
Red Capstan Cigarettes for Christmas
Gifts are available in Flat 50’s as
illustrated.
Also round 50’s airtight tins.
Medium and Full Strength also
available in flat and round fifties.
Better Give
c r
they’re blended better
928 E-11.40


ABORIGINALITIES
“Aratta”: Hearing angry voices com-
ing from behind some bushes down by
the creek, where Dave and the three
hands were supposed to be working, Dad
crept stealthily forward to investigate.
Peering through the foliage he saw Dave,
firmly gripped by one of the hands, fac-
ing Choom, who was held back by the
other hand. The restrained contestants
were hurling abuse at each other. For
several minutes Dad stood there listening
to the verbal combat; then he presented
himself to the quartet. “What the hell’s
goin’ on here?” he roared. “Dave an’
Horace here wanted t’ fight, an’ we’re
stoppin’ ’em,” replied one of the hangers-
on. “What the devil for?” bellowed Dad.
“Let the blighters fight if they want ter.”
“Eh!” cried the astonished hand. “Yer
don’t mind ’em fightin’?” “No, I don’t,”
gritted Dad. “I reckon it’d be more pro-
fitable t’ me if they did, ’cause if they
have a scrap I’m on’y losin’ the services
of three men while they’re doin’ it—them
an’ one o’ youse as referee ; as it is the
whole four o’ you are doin’ nothin’.” “Yer
Tithmetic’s rotten,” said Dave. “The
fourth bloke’d be in it, too. He’d be
keepin’ nit t’ see if you was cornin’.”
* * * *
“Tumbe Munda”: The occurrence of
disastrous droughts immediately before
and after a bumper season (B. 13/11/ ’4O)
may appear peculiar ; so also is the coin-
cidence —if coincidence it is—that the
three worst droughts of the century oc-
curred in 1902 (Boer War), 1914 (World
War) and 1939-40 (present uproar).
* * * *
“Portrab”: “Dungeness’s” town-crier
of Innisfail (B. 13/11/ ’4O) is not the last
of his species in Australia. Joe Woods
has been Ballarat’s town-crier since 1887.
His first license (£1 p.a. then) was taken
out 53 years ago, and has been unfail-
ingly renewed. He has rung for the
Miners’ Turf Club all that time. Joe at
84 is hale and hearty and still “cries”
with gusto. All important happenings
were once the subject of his tireless voice,
but nowadays circus proprietors, politi-
cians (in fact and hope) are occasional,
and auctioneers his regular, clients. No
Ballarat auctioneer would dream of con-
ducting a sale without retaining him, for
it’s an old Ballarat custom. Joe lost an
arm in 1887 —the reason for his change
of avocation from miner to town-crier—
but his sound right arm swings steadily
the bell (his fourth) which is Joe’s pride
and joy.
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.”: The old bush songs seem
rarely to be sung now —or even remem-
bered. Such soulful ballads as “The Old
Bullock Dray,” “Bold Jack Donahoe,”
“The Wild Colonial Boy,” “Paddy
Malone,” “The Dying Stockman,” “The
Old Keg of Rum,” “Billy Barlow in Aus-
tralia” or “The Old Bark Hut” —where
is the bush mouth-organist who can
“vamp” to those refrains? Some of
those songs have been in existence for
well over 100 years, composed at a time
when our population was a most curious
mixture of highly-educated and ignorant
people ; books and papers were luxuries,
so ballad-making came into vogue, just
as it had done in Britain and Europe cen-
turies before. “Banjo” Paterson once
published a collection of old bush songs,
but it is doubtful whether their preserva-
tion in print has done much to keep them
alive. Cars and canned music have
pushed them into oblivion.
* * * *
“Chink”: When Tarawingee Joe told
“Bad Australian” (B. 27/11 / ’4O) that he
“ ’ad a little plant fer extractin’ euchre -
liptus ile,” he was merely being pedantic
in regard to one of our staple products.
The proper bush pronunciation is “eupa-
clyptus.” Old Herb, of Dead Horse
Gully, made that clear to me many times
in the old days. “Great stuff, that eupa-
clyptus,” Herb was wont to say. “Doesn’t
matter wot yer’ve got—anythin’ fr’m a
cold to a sore toe —eupaclyptus will fix it.
Yes, by gully, it will!” It was Herb, too,
who assured me that every right-thinking
fellow should marry in the early twenties
so that when he was in the fifties his sons
would be grown and able to look after
him. He himself, a grizzled bachelor,
regretted that he hadn’t figured that out
sooner. “But,” quoth I, “there seems to
me a catch in your plan, Herb. If your
sons married in their twenties they would
buzz off and leave you, and you would
be no better off than if you hadn’t mar-
ried at all.” Herb scratched his mop of
hair. “By gully,” he said, “I ’adn’t
thought uv that!”
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”: It may be, as “Flight”
proclaims (B. 27 /11 / ’4O), that the plain
turkey sometimes eats the young of other
birds, but it’s absurd to argue that the
stately big fellow follows grasshopper
hosts merely to get at smaller birds. Actu-
ally, ornithological records galore bear
witness to the value of the turkey as a
gourmand among grasshoppers. On the
credit side of the ledger, too, is the reso-
lution of the tribe as snake-routers.
“Jacob,” a domesticated bustard who
took charge of a station homestead in
W.Q. some years ago, used to make a
specialty of snake-hunting. His tech-
nique was to grab a smallish Joe by the
“An it Was only the other day you Was grumbling about the Water shortage."
midriff, bash its head on his horny feet,
and then swallow the reptile whole. After
each meal he meditated profoundly, and,
if he reached the conclusion that the
snake was not as dead as it should be,
he simply disgorged it and resumed the
bashing process. “Jacob” was more
cautious with larger specimens. He liked
a trifle of assistance for those jobs. Ac-
cordingly, on spotting a hefty snake he
would croak loudly and execute a war
dance, and when a charge of shot blew
off the head he would promptly swallow
the wriggling remainder.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat reckons the
meanest bloke he ever struck was on the
road from Coonabarabran to Baradine
(N.S.W.). The big fellow was humping
the knot along it when a stringy-looking
cove in an ancient motor-truck came by.
Mat asked for a lift and was rather un-
graciously granted one. That road plays
a sort of tig with the railway, each cross-
ing the other every mile or so for the
first ten miles and dodging each other
round the hills. The truck reached the
first crossing as a mixed train puffed
slowly by. Truck and train met at every
other crossing, the driver sitting silent,
watching the train pass. After a bit Mat
said, “Hey, are y’ playin’ trains or some-
thin’?” The other looked at him and
said, “Me missus is on that train. Every
year 1 give her a train ride. It keeps her
from broodin’ too much. I drive her
into Coona and she has the trip home.”
“Why don’t you travel with her?” Mat
asked, holding down his astonishment.
“What?” ejaculated the other. “An’
pay two lots o’ fares? Reckon we’re
overdoin’ this holiday business as it is.”
* * * *
“Boll”: I accord respect to “The 0.D.”
for his feat of locating bardi grubs in
trees by the sound of their chewing (B.
9/10/’4O). My late grandfather was
similarly gifted, and earned a high repu-
tation as a weather prophet for his ability
to hear thunder the day before the storm.
However, a prophet has only to slip
once, and grandpa lost this eminence
through misinterpreting . a stomach-
rumble of our pet canary. It was in the
drought of ’O2 that grandpa made his
name. He was a station overseer in those
days before he saved enough money to
buy a farm and work for the Govern-
ment. He was playing hazards at the
time, or rather the station-hands were,
because grandpa knew by the sound which
number would be on top when the dice
left the box. “Listen,” he said suddenly.
“Zug - zog, zug - zog, zug - zog ... three
hundred an’ twenty-nine of ’em. That
flamin’ jackeroo said there was three
weeks’ water at the Nine-Mile, an’ arf
that mob’s bogged!” Investigation
proved him right, although jealousy
resulted in criticism of his estimate,
some claiming that the 329th was
only a calf. At only 92 grandpa sank
into a decline, down which, judging by
his last words, he imagined himself to
be driving a bullock team.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: A quite moderate
hailstorm has set the younger fry of these
parts marvelling at a few holes in tanks
and iron roofs, and me wondering what
has become of the much heavier visita-
tions which, up to 20 or so years ago,
were regular spring features in this area
of s.-e. Queensland. This one contri-
buted nothing much bigger than a hen-
egg. The old-fashioned article ran to
jagged fist-sized lumps which often
knocked down and sometimes killed
horses and cattle and caused the human
wayfarer to streak for the nearest shelter
at his best pace. Crops and orchards
would be levelled or stripped—l’ve seen
a crop of bananas knocked to pieces in
a few minutes —and drifts of ice several
feet deep bank up against fences or build-
ings. One reads occasionally of heavy
hail in other parts of Australia —a Vic-
torian wheat area suffered recently—but
for some reason, for which I am
extremely thankful, this particular stretch
of country seems to have given up the
habit. Has the Council any explanation
as to why?
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Harry and Bob, slightly
timeworn boundary - riders, got on
remarkably well—while at Prungle. Once
in the town on their annual fortnight,
however, the two were apt to get a few
beers in, recall the slights and offences
of the previous 50 weeks and get into
holts. Generally their fights ended when
the mounted trooper lumbered them, and
they returned to Prungle with the bad
blood drained away, ready for another
50 weeks of amity, or, at least, tolerance.
But when the drought came it tested
them, as anybody who has had to share
the company of another man in isolation
through a drought will appreciate. Which
is why Long Tom, camped on the tank
near Prungle hut, on the way through
with starving sheep, became apprehensive
late one night when high words came
from the hut, followed by a shot. Long
Tom heaved himself from his bunk and
reconnoitred the hut. There was a light,
there were still high words, then two
more shots. Then the door flew open
and a figure sped out and vanished in
the scrub. Another shot in the hut. A
second figure backed out, holding the
lantern. “Hey!” called Long Tom from
the cover of a belar log. The figure
dropped the lantern, which went out.
Deciding to wait till daylight, Tom re-
treated to his camp, got a blanket and
went off into the scrub. Next morning,
expecting tragedy, he approached the hut
warily, to find Harry and Bob, hale,
dragging the furniture outside. “You
blokes getting a divorce?” asked Tom.
“Divorce be jiggered!” grunted Harry.
“There’s two flamin’ black snakes in that
hut somewhere. We tried t’ shoot ’em
last night but they got away. We had
t’ spend the night in the scrub. Come
an’ help us locate the flamers.”
* * * *
“E.H.S.”: Many years’ bush experi-
ence prompts me to affirm that the king
parrot is not a flock bird —at least, not
in the sense indicated by “Pick” (B.
27/11 /’4O). I have seen many large
flocks of white cockatoos and Blue
Mountain parrots in Gippsland and the
coastal districts of N. S. Wales, but never
more than eight or ten king parrots in a
flight. The “whistle of the king parrot
rings through the mountain ravines” not
only at seeding- and harvest-time, but all
the year around. With the exception of
an occasional stray the king parrot is
rarely seen away from the mountains.
“P.’s” assertion that at certain periods
of the year the king parrot, one of our
rarest birds, arrives at the Dromedary
Mountain in such multitudinous numbers
that “the landscape is a vista of green
and red from the plumage of the birds
that cluster there in mobs” is a fine piece
of imagination, but as a serious contri-
bution to the subject no statement could
be more misleading.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Before “James W.”
waxes dogmatic on natural history sub-
jects (B. 6/11/ ’4O) he should digest this
fact: Nature never gives any of her
creatures a feature or an organ without
some definite purpose in view. Thus the
lance of the stingray is definitely for
defence. Not in shallow water, where
the ray may be seen mopping up small
fry, but in the deep, to which the ray
necessarily goes after finishing its
meal. In the midwater the shark hunts,
and he seeks to catch the ray by the head.
He can move quicker than the ray, and so
occasionally dines. The ray’s strategy is
to dive for the bottom, where he glues
flat and no shark can lift him. In this
dive downwards the ray presents the
shark with its lance —and no shark is silly
enough to bite at a ray by the tail. And,
despite “J.W.’s” assertion that the state-
ment is “silly,” the shark swallows small
rays, sting and all.
TWO SADDLES.
Two saddles hung on the rail,
Festooned with strap and thong —
Somehow the sight of them
Fills my heart with a song;
With a song, and the breath of plains
That the noon sun turns pearl-white,
While the pink and lilac hills
Shake in the milky light;
Thrills my heart with a laugh
And a voice of long ago,
When two of us sat in the shade,
And our saddles hung just so 1
Then the billy boiled in vain,
And both of the horses strayed
While we dallied with eager dreams —
And forgot all else, in the shade.
. . . Though it’s half a lifetime back,
And I thought I’d forgotten the tale,
The years swing back at the homely sight
Of saddles hung on a rail.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


“Brig.”: A bank manager in a Queens-
land town, a self-acknowledged expert
on all things from fat-lamb raising to
prickly-pear clearing, is satirically known
throughout the district as “Counsellor.”
Recently he volunteered, with serene con-
fidence, to buy a bull for a trusting client.
He approached old Mac, a cattle-station
manager with over 40 years’ experience;
who he knew had some for sale. “Now,
of course,” explained “Counsellor,”
“there are bulls and bulls. I personally
prefer one with a bold front,” and pro-
ceeded to give Mac a lecture on the sub-
ject, finishing up with “and what charac-
teristics do you like in a bull?” “Well,”
drawled Mac, “a bold front might be all
right, but there is one thing I like in a
bull above all others.” “What is that,
Mac?” came the verbal rise to the bait.
“I like one,” said Mac earnestly, “with
a nice low voice that won’t frighten
the cows.”
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Whatever may be caus-
ing fish scarcity in southerly Australian
waters to east and west (B. 20 / 11 / ’4O) the
giant mackerel season in N.Q. came in
with a mighty rush and is keeping it up.
Boats working out from Townsville,
mostly to the Bramble and Trunk Reefs
at the inner end of Palm Passage, have
been making record catches. From 12
to 14 tons are sent to the Brisbane fish
market weekly, and a large local demand
among northern towns and districts is
also supplied. One boat brought back
65001 b. from a three-day trip, 167 fish
being taken on the first day and over
500 in two days. Another secured
50001 b., a third 20001 b., in one day, and
yet another a weekly average of 50001 b.
for three weeks.
* # * *
“Petermann”: One of the puzzles of
earth erosion in the Centre is where all
the dirt has got to. Flogging across the
gibber plains one sights the residual hills,
low truncated cones, stone-capped, which
on their crowns represent a former sur-
face level of the whole country, the
plains below having been reduced to
their present level by wind erosion. The
average height of such hills is between
20ft. and 30ft. Now 25ft. over millions
of acres represents billions of tons of
earth that has been transferred elsewhere.
A lot of it has gone to build the Depot
Sandhills, which used to offer an almost
impassable barrier to wheeled traffic on
the way to Alice Springs. These hills
run for hundreds of miles east and west.
They certainly contain millions of tons of
sand. Then the river beds. Take the
Hugh, a tributary of the Finke. Boring
has revealed a depth of 600 ft. of sand.
Probably the Finke in many places could
show a similar depth. Such depths rep-
resent ancient gorges, cut in the days
when the MacDonnells were snowcapped
and the Centre’s rivers ran full streams.
Now the sand has filled the gorges to the
level of the plain. Such depths explain
why the Finke, no matter how great the
flood, never nowadays reaches Lake Eyre.
But the puzzle still remains why so
much of the eroded material should have
been dropped in the one place, the Depot
Sandhills.
* * * *
“Salt-tan Bill”: Wandering sea beaches
and river-ways I have been entertained
by the various fish-spears or gidgies with
which the average city bloke comes armed
for the impalement and capture of his
hoped-for holiday feeds. Mostly it is
a single rod, flattened at the end and
barbed, making a harpoon almost big
enough to fasten on to a whale. Again,
some, like a recent Abo. contributor, pin
their faith to something like a stingray
lance, which he claims makes the best
fish-spear ever. Maybe so for dealing
with the outsizes in flounder and sun-
fish, which give an area in square feet
as a target. But to transfix the mullet
or the pilchard on the wing one needs
something finer and with a bit more
spread. My most effective fish-spear
was made by Jimmy Pannikin, the
material being mainly the ribs of an old
“Hey, mister, Tony's an Eyetalian, so e oughter be on soatch."
umbrella. This gave nine points, filed to
sharpness and barbed. Shot into any
sort of a passing school such a spear
never fails to bring in a catch. Some of
Jimmy’s forefathers had the same idea,
only they used a multiplicity of wooden
points, fine and barbed, and bound on
to the spear shaft with hair string and
blackboy gum.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: I decided that frogs must
have a chameleonlike quality ; and to test
the theory dropped a brown “bully” in
the well with his green brethren. For a
week I kept a close watch, but after the
first day the brownie was missing. Con-
vinced that my discovery was proved, I
was preparing to announce the revelation
to the teacher next nature-study lesson,
when the dad hauled from the well a
bucket of drinking water with a very
dead frog floating on top. He walloped
me when I owned up, and thus was a
budding scientist lost to the nation. But
I’d still like to know what caused that
death ; and why are the frogs different
colors anyhow?
* * * *
“Merrangbaur”: “Women an’ fishin’
don’t mix,” said Bert the Barman. “Me
an’ Shandy goes for a ’oliday down the
Gippsland Lakes, an’ of course we gets
pally with some of the fishermen at the
Entrance, an’ they offers to take us out
with ’em. Shandy can’t keep ’is flamin’
trap shut, an’ a widder stayin’ at the
same ’ouse wot’s got ’er eye on the old
coot worms ’er way into the party. Y’
should ’ave seen the look on them fisher-
men when they sights ’er! Anyway, they
takes us out over the bar an’ gets to
work. These ’ere perfessional blokes uses
a net wot they piles careful like on
a platform on the stern, so they just 'as
to ’eave in one end an’ the motion of
the boat does the rest without snaggin’
the net. We just drifts around for a bit,
an’ after askin’ a lot of silly questions
wot no one won’t answer this woman
gets the ’uff an’ drags out ’er knittin
Them perfessionals is pullin’ away steady
at the oars, an’ me an’ Shandy’s enjoyin’
ourselves doin’ nothin’, when one of the
local blokes lets out some ’orrible curses.
‘Break it down,’ ses Shandy, ‘there’s a
lady aboard.’ ‘Lady be blistered!’ ’owls,
the bloke. ‘Look wot the cranky ol’
’en’s done!’ We ’as a look, an’, ’struth,
she must ’ave picked up the wrong stitch
or somethin’. She’s gone an’ knitted a
couple o’ yards o’ flamin’ net into the
comforter thing wot she’s makin’!”
* * * *
“Anthropo”: A common idea about
Binghi is that in his primitive state he
went around stark naked, absolutely in-
different to the elements. Many of the
Peedong types, living in the arid Centre
and north of Capricorn, did, but they
were definitely inferior. The higher type,
represented in the east by the long-
extinct Port Phillip tribes and in the west
by the Bibbulmun nation, had a definite
trend towards clothing and shelter. Kan-
garoo-skin cloaks were universal, some
of them being quite voluminous, at times
three or even more big boomer skins
sewn together. Wrapped in such a
“bowkka,” the abo. was as well clad as
the Highlander of yesterday. At night
the woman’s cloak went on the ground,
the man’s serving as a bedspread. Picca-
ninnies? They snuggled up between the
legs of their parents. Wet weather meant
the building of a wurlie —merely a lean-
to of scrub, mostly ti-tree torn from a
handy thicket. But a well-constructed
wurlie was practically rainproof. The
abo. knew, too, how to keep a fire going.
In the West two dry blackboy trunks
would be placed side by side, a fire lit
at one end. Covered over with sheets
of bark such a fire kept alight through
the wildest storm. So, with fire, shelter
and covering, Binghi during the wet season
needed only food to make him content.
"What dost mean by it, sleepin' underground? This edden London !”
“Old-timer”: Bill and
Darkie shared a hut on
Tapalin. On the Saturday
Darkie, “a fellow of infinite
jest,” went to town and the
local dance. Remember
that. On the Sunday an
awful-looking yellow mon-
grel appeared near the hut
with designs on Bill’s prize
kelpie Lass. Bill loaded his
old s.b. gun, got close to
the mong and let fly. The
mong took to the scrub.
Amazed that he had missed,
Bill tied Lass up and put
the gun away. Darkie got
back that afternoon, and
Bill told him about it.
Darkie suggested that Bill’s
shooting eye had lost its
sharpness. Bill grUnted. On
the Monday the yellow dog
reappeared. Bill sneaked up
to within 20ft. of it and let
fly again. Again the mong
bolted. Amazed, Bill asked
Darkie if it were possible
for a hound to have a
charmed life. Darkie jeered
at him. Bill went about very puzzled for
the rest of the day. Tuesday afternoon
brought the persistent canine back. Bill
cleaned the gun, looked long and care-
fully along the barrel, loaded and went
forth to slay. Again—well, the mong
was still alive, off somewhere in the
scrub. Bill gave himself an eye test, won-
dering if he had acquired double-sight or
something. Twice more the mong ap-
peared and twice more the maddened
man shot at it without a score. Bill went
to town on the Saturday, marvelling
greatly. There he heard all about Darkie’s
prank of rolling shot over the dance floor
on the previous Saturday, bringing down
the prancing couples, and with a wild
light in his eye he went looking for his
mate.
* * * *
“Atrax”: High above the summit of
Mt. Monda, some 12 miles from Heales-
ville (Vic.), what is claimed to be Aus-
tralia’s biggest living tree rears its giant
crest after centuries of storm and fire.
Sixty years ago Baron von Mueller
described it and its huge neighbors in
Australian and European scientific jour-
nals. The neighbors mostly perished in
the great forest fires of 1913, other bush-
fires in 1926 and 1939 destroyed or
killed the rest of them, but the giant
mountain ash survived and throve. Some
years ago attempts were made to popu-
larise it as a tourist attraction, but the
lonely colossus did not welcome tiny
visitors who would carve their ignoble
names on him or boil billies against his
vast butt. He enlisted the sympathy of
the bush spirits of bewilderment, and so
many inquisitive homunculi got lost in
the search for him that such expeditions
were actively discouraged. A skilled
Healesville bushman set out with a friend
to visit him and died after they had been
lost for days in the snowbound forest
gullies. Since then the Monda giant has
been vested with something of a sinister
reputation, and few care to invade the
seclusion in which he broods alone over
the centuries.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Much has been written
about the flight of the flying-fish, but
the common garfish of Westralia’s
northern waters can put up a pretty good
show along similar lines. On a very
hot day, with a flat sea, thousands of
gar may be seen swimming around, many
with their heads half out of the water
as though trying to cool off in the air.
They never take a bait at such times,
no matter how tempting. Seems also to
be the mating season, for couples, evi-
dently on affectionate terms, may be seen
cruising around among all the other
thousands, as completely oblivious of out-
siders as any pair of human lovers. But
it is when a stiff wind is raising a choppy
sea that the gar puts on its star turn.
Such a wind also stirs up the undersea
cannibals, bonito and a score of others.
Pursued, the gar leaves the water but
does not rise. Using its tail as a pro-
peller, it just skitters along the surface
much in the same manner as when a
flat stone is thrown as a “skimmer.” A
hundred yards may be covered in this
way. Sometimes a whole school will be
in flight at the same time. Oddly, the
gar in flight seems to have no sense of
direction ; anything in the way is bashed
into. An anchored lugger may bring
a score to a sudden end. Others will
even be so panicky as to bash into rocks,
sometimes into the cliffs that fringe much
of the deep water of the north-west. But
they never make the mistake of landing
on a beach. Fish evidently have an
instinct which warns them of the
approach of shallow water.
THE HAPPY ISLE.
There’s a place where super horses run,
Where gory fights are always won;
Where mighty feats of strength are done
And shearing records made.
No rider there is ever thrown,
A tiny pumpkin’s never grown,
While stupid dogs are quite unknown
—ln the pub verandah’s shade!
No cocky’s cow is nearly dry;
No dogger’s bullet goes awry;
No ghost-yam isn’t “dinky-di
To doubting protest made. .
A place where blokes tell bosses straight,
And five-foot cod are merely bait;
Where brains evolve a better state,
With beer in fountains laid.
There patriots seal Hitler’s fate,
There every liar “tells you straight,
And every ziff “woz Lawson’s mate
—ln the pub verandah’s shade.
N.S.W.
B. A. KER.


PROTECT THAT WHICH YOO HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
say
stcoPjL
Security
Economy
Service
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henrv Braddon. K.B.E. (Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell,
K.8.E., M.L.C. ; James Kidd; Colin A. Sinclair, M.L.A. ; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
Mining Notice.
GIBRALTAR GOLD MINE (ADELONG).
THE above mining property, leases, dumps,
mine and plant for sale, including £4OOO worth
of machinery, or, alternatively, to let on tribute.
Full particulars from the Secretary, Box 129 CC,
G.P.0., Sydney.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting t
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists,
—Advt.
v * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 122 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Advt.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
Added to Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1930.. 02,299 10 p.c. = 50,000 12,299 703,72 c
Payment to reinsure American
risks, £75,000 628,723
1931.. 75,467 10 p.c. = 50,000 25,467 654,190
1932.. 89,353 10 „ ~ 50,000 39,353 693,543
1933.. 103,358 10 „ „ 50,000 53,358 746,901
1934.. 105,067 10 „ ~ 50,000 55,067 801,908
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 ... 551,968
From hidden reserves, £50,000 .. 601,968
1935.. 102,837 8 p.c. = 60,000 42,837 644,805
1936.. 130,648 10 „ „ 75,000 ) rn P . a „ Qr ....
Staff bonus, £5OOO { 50,048 695,40 J
1937.. 126,284 8* p.c. = 63,750 62,534 757,987
1938.. 150,500 9* „ ~ 71,250 79,256 837,243
1939.. 143,764 10 „ „ 75,000 68,764 906,007
1940.. 137,289 10 ~ „ 75,000 62,289 968,296
“The fullest provision has been made
for all known and outstanding liabili-
ties” is the laconic comment of an able
and cautious board on the year’s opera-
tions.
The business continued to expand
—it is spread throughout the Com-
monwealth and Maoriland, extends out
over the Pacific and to Southern Asia
and Britain as well. The agencies at
Paris, Rotterdam and Antwerp have, of
course, been eliminated from the list
owing to the fortunes of war. Still, the
co. gathered £14,517 more in net pre-
miums than in the previous term —gross
premium income isn’t broadcast. Also,
interest and rents, etc. (£73,321), moved
up £4816, making total income from all
sources £19,333 better at £816,630.
Further, the loss rate (down about
18s. p.c.) was one of the best the co.
has experienced:
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Claims. Expenses.! Rate. Rate.
1895. . £40,681 £28,703 £13,058 70.7 p.c. 32.1 p.c.
1915.. 240,849 118,126 81,098 49.0 „ 33.6 ~
1930.. 774,560 485,040 306,804 62.6 „ 39.8 „
1935.. 497,893 245,325 203,809* 49.2 ~ 40.9 ~
1936.. 541,736 268,948 200,908* 49.6 „ 37.1 „
1937.. 610,979 324,500 221,573* 53.1 „ 36.2 „
1938.. 691,771 364,631 239,487* 52.7 „ 34.6 „
1939.. 728.792 381,557 271,976* 52.3 ~ 37.3 „
1940.. 743,309 382,520 296,822* 51.4 ~ 39.9 ~
* Excludes taxes, etc., on returns from investments
£10,577. 1935; £BO9B, 1936; £8593, 1937 ;
£10,938. 1938; £16,755, 1939 ; £20,895, 1940.
t Including contributions to staff fund.
It was the sudden spring of £24,846 in
exes, that was responsible for the con-
traction of £6475 in net earnings. The
expense rate (up about 525. p.c.) was
the heaviest since 1935. Exes, were
made up of “charges” (£243,299, up
£16,525), taxes and maintenance
(£47,017, up £7928) and a contribution to
the staff fund (£6505, up £392).
Net return on capital was 8.5 p.c. from
underwriting (£63,968, down £11,291)
and 9.8 p.c. from interest, etc., making
18.3 p.c. in all, compared with 19.1, 20,
16.8, 17.3 and 13.7 p.c. back to 1935. The
div. was kept at 10 p.c., and, unless
something very unexpected happens, it
doesn’t seem likely to be interfered with
—for the present, at any rate.
The market expresses its opinion of
the business by pricing the pound shares,
visibly backed by 455. lOd. in net tan-
gibles, at 545. At this figure the return
is 3.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
investor who looks for 4\ p.c. on his
money counts on a 12 p.c. distribution.
The co. is strongly ribbed:
, 1939 v 1940 ,
p.c. p.c.
Gov. securities ..£1,106,243 49.7 £1,115,890 44.2
Municipal sec’ties 62,929 2.8 62,929 . 2.5
Deposits, cash,
sundry debtors,
etc 781,918 35.1 1,045,283 41.4
Premises.. .. 276,094 12.4 302,636 11.9
Total assets ..£2,227,184 100.0 £2,526,738 100.0
Liabilities* . . 533,670 770,942
Net assets ..£1,693,508 £1.755,796
* Including provision for contingencies.
The year’s growth in net assets was
£62,288. After allowing for the final
div., policy-holders could see net tangibles
equal to 231 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums, or over 80 p.c. more than is
usually considered adequate..
Goliath Portland Cement Co. (Tas.)
e Dividends
Net Pref. Re-
Sept., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
1930.. 15,261 5,292 Nil 9,969 7,805
1931.. 12,806 9,383 Nil 3,423 4,382
Loss on sale of assets, £28,534 .. .. 32,916
1932.. 20,258 11,447 Nil 8,811 24,105
1933.. 28,204 22,894 24 p.c. = 6,396 25,131
Tangible assets written down, £40,752.. 65,883
Reserves.
Capital written off, £85,285 .. .. 19,402
7 p.c.
1934.. 37,543 10,016 10 p.c. =17,057 10,470 29,872
1935.. 45,102 10,016 15 „ ~ 25,586 9,500 39,372
1936.. 48,204 10,016 12* „ ~ 21,321 16,807 56,239
1937.. 09,003 10,016 15 ~ ~25,586 33,401 89,700
Reserves capitalised, £85,263 .. .. 4,437
Reserves disappear, £24 .. .. .. 4,413
1938.. 51,794 10,016 11.8 p.c.=30,381 11,397 15,810
1939.. 60,601 10.016 15 ~ ~ 38.375 18,210 34.020
1940.. 55,063 10,016 14.3 „ ~36,776 8,871 42,891
This low-cost Tasmanian producer of
cement has a virtual monopoly in its
home State ; but its main outlet is in
Victoria, where it competes with Aus-
tralian Portland, and it has a footing in
the keenly-competitive N.S.W. market
and elsewhere. Capacity over 100,000
tons p.a., the co.’s works at Railton,
near Devonport, are alongside good
shale, clay and limestone deposits, and
cheap power is provided by the State
hydro-electric supply.
A deserving but unprofitable venture
into the oil-shale business sent early results
askew, but with a lengthening demand
solid progress has lately shown up. Since
1933 the ords. have averaged 13.3 p.c.
without difficulty, as well as had £85,263
of lost capital restored.
Last term, after cutting depreciation
from £30,000 to £25,000 and allowing for
minor reserve adjustments, net earnings
fell back £10,938 to £55,663. That
mainly reflects a price-cut in the trade,
uncontrollable increases in shipping
freights and other outgo, and the louder
call of the taxgatherer. Demand, the
main thing, was “well maintained.”
State expenditure was certainly reduced,
but the slack was taken up by Common-
wealth defence spending, which promises
to remain at a high level.
Allowing for the prefs., the £55,663
was 17.8 p.c. on ord. capital, compared
with 22.1 and 16.3 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding terms. A penny was chipped
off the ord. bonus, making the full
distribution Is. lid. per share.
A feature of finances is the fine
accumulation of liquids. Over the last
half-dozen years depreciation allowances
of £160,000 and more besides have all
been invested outside the business ; the
balance of retained earnings has taken
care of plant and other expansion:
1934. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £295,266 £313,663 £398,926 £398,926
Overdraft . . 2,896
Sundry creditors 8,250 9,346 9,966 8,273
Freehold, leases,
iplant, etc... 300,390 256,915 209.913 189,699
Stocks . . 22,179 23,010 49,798 48,522
Rook debts . . 42,833 79,755 76,215 61,112
Cash, etc. . . 45 83,830 134,880 184,551
Shares in other
c <w 1,900 2,000 17,000 17,000
Last year’s addition to cash and public
securities was £49,671, and the more or
less liquid surplus moved up £34,985 to
£285,912 sufficient to repay the
£143,092 of prefs. and still leave 11s. 2d.
per pound of ord. capital.
The market pays 245. 9d. for the ords.,
as against 265. a year ago, the immediate
yield being 7.7 p.c. ; the 7 p.c. prefs.
show 5.2 p.c. at 275. Visibly, the backing
is 15s. 7d. and £3 Is. 9d. respectively.
Plant is “in first-class condition through-
out” ; that should mean much in the
difficult days ahead, when there is also a
possibility of shipping, apparently satis-
factory as yet, becoming a problem.
George Farmer, Ltd.
, Dividends
Net Pref. Towards Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 15,456 4800 10 p.c. = 9,000 1.656 16,220
1931.. 14,962 4800 10 ~ „ 9,000 1,162 17,382
1932.. 12,503 4800 8 „ „ 7,200 503 17,885
1933.. 8,211 4800 6 „ „ 5,400 15 896
1934.. 12,377 4800 7 „ „ 6,300 1,277 17’173
1935.. 5,859 4800 2£ „ „ 2,250 15 982
1936.. 4,682 4800 Nil is’B64
1937.. 178 4800 Nil 11’242
1938.. 4,973 4800 Nil 173 1R415
Surplus sale Consols, £69 .. .. 11 484
1939.. 5,443 3000 2* p.c. = 2.250 193 11’,677
From tax reserve, £203 . . . . 11,880
Lass sale fixed assets, £77 .. .. Il’so3
Loss.
1940.. 1,424 Nil 10,379
Until those in the trade decide to bury
the pigsticker it is hard to say what the
future holds for this once-prosperous busi-
ness. A couple of 10 p.c. divs. were
followed by one of 15 p.c., another of
25 p.c. and three of 20 p.c. to the close
of accounts in 1926. From this point,
at which a one-for-two bonus-scrip issue
was made, earnings have persistently
slipped. Aggressive competition is the
trouble ; and this does neither those en-
gaged in it nor the public any good in the
long run.
After a three years’ drought, the ords.
got 2\ p.c. for the 1939 term, thanks
partly to the return of £60,000 of 8 p.c.
pref. capital, gathered in 1919, when the
present co. took over George Farmer’s
Ballarat ham- and bacon-curing busi-
ness. But there has been no let-up in
this trade war, despite the outbreak of
international hostilities. During the 12
months covered by the latest accounts the
co. had to bid up for pigs, while selling
prices for bacon and other of the co.’s
products were cut to the bone, making it
impossible to show a profit on trading as
well as difficult to hold business. After
allowing £lB2l for depreciation, the loss
on trading was £1424. That reduced
the lay-by to £10,379, or 2s. 4d. per pound
share.
Finances are still comfortable:
1935. 1937. 1939. 1940
Paid capital. . £150,000 £150,000 £90,000 £90,000
Liabilities . . 2,309 0,104 9,215 9,535
Premises . . 44,457 44,457 43,707 43,817
Plant, etc. . . 28,707 27,583 25,102 23,503
Stocks . . 20,180 24,012 18,147 21,544
Rook debts . . 22,709 24,435 19,514 20,107
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 57,738 48,835 8,311 S7B
To carry an extra £3397 of stocks only
£320 was added to the outside debt. The
year’s shrinkage in the more or less liquid
surplus (£33,054 = 7s. 4d. per share) was
£3703. Among other things, much de-
pends upon the efficiency of the plant, on
which £1594 more was written off than
was spent last term.
Sellers recently asked 13s. 6d. for the
f.-p. pound shares without attracting
buyers.
Sungei Bidor Tin, Kampar (F.M.S.),
had a highly successful initial term. In
ten months the co.’s efficient dredge dug
3,124,000 c.y. at an average cost of
for 741.3 tons t. 0., or 0.531 b. per c.y.
Profit was £107,861 Aust., of which
£12,541 was written off preliminary exes,
and establishment, £30,000 was ear-
marked for depreciation and depletion,
and shareholders received £24.000 in two
shilling divs. Another £24,000 has gone
out since the close of accounts. Bore
value of ground dug was 0.411 b., so that
the recovery was 129 p.c. W. F. Md-
Kenzie selected 32,000,000 c.y., estimated
to average 0.5171 b. A. C. Perry had
previously bored 29,000,000 c.y. to
average o.Bllb. Gold—nearly £lO,OOO
worth of the stuff was won last
year—is proving a useful sweetener.
It should not be lost sight of, however,
that the co. has already dug a tenth of
its property ; also that its present assess-
ment (525 tons p.a.) is likely to prove a
snag when restriction commences to
operate again. There are 240,000 f.-p.
15s. shares out, for which the market
pays 345. 6d. Dredge cost (A£ 137,000)
must be considered moderate for a
300,000-c.y.-p.m. affair.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Opening-up of substantial
pay-ore in Tindals and official reports of
promising developments in old Bayley’s
Reward (Phoenix) mine have made opti-
mists hopeful of better days for Cool-
gardie (W.A.). In the early days the
drawbacks to a number of shows there
were summarised by a wily expert thus:
(1) Gold shoots when found, although
sometimes rich, are narrow in extent, often
not aggregating more than 200 ft. to a
mine and, in a number of cases, split
into several shoots.
(2) Average value of the ore, even in
the shoot, is low-grade, but picked speci-
mens and assays often give high results.
When values in the mass appeared high,
so were costs.
(3) Country rock is extremely hard, and,
as the shoots dip rapidly, more and more
dead work has to be done at each level to
reach the payable ore.
(4) The ground is often severely faulted.
From the surface the Tindals ore-bodies
were big and low-grade. High assays were
rarely reported, and there was never sus-
picion of the tonnage being reduced to
give higher average values. As for
Bayley’s, the gold was there in lumps
to shallow depth, but not deeper down,
and has always taken finding. Some
early Coolgardie managers never
bothered to charge up the cost of de-
velopment. They reckoned all costs on
mining and milling only. Driving neces-
sary to reach the shoot was mentally
written off. They advised their boards
that a certain block of ore would yield
a profit of so much. It was mined and
milled and in some cases the sum men-
tioned (or thereabouts) was made. But
they omitted to state that the cost of
reaching the ore offset nearly the whole
of the profit. Those were the days!
* * * *
Tindals Gold Mines, Ltd., broadcasts
that no income was received from the
subsidiary co. operating at Coolgardie
for year ended Dec. 31, 1939, but
further advances were made to it before
production commenced amounting to
f A 4950, and the total sum so advanced
now aggregates £A221,399. The operat-
ing Co., Consolidated Gold Mines of
Coolgardie, began production in May,
1939 ; for the seven months to Dec. 31,
1939, a profit of £A21,304 was earned.
Ore reserves have been rechecked and
now total 402,254 tons of 4.Bdwt. aver-
age value. Towards the end of 1939 it
was decided to increase the capacity of
the treatment plant from 5000 tons to
7500 tons a month. This work is now
being carried out with Government finan-
cial assistance.
Small but so far successful First Hit
Gold Mine (W.A.) reports a rise of nearly
£lO,OOO in profit (to £27,518) for the year
ended Oct. 31. Four threepenny divs.
were paid. Cash and bullion total
£18,770, compared with £14,037 previous
balance day. Total costs last year aver-
aged 695. 10.46 d. per ton, an improve-
ment of approximately 2s. 3d. Ore re-
serves are estimated at 22,775 tons, which
puts the mine nearly three years ahead
of the battery and “offers prospects better
than those that existed a year ago.”
* * * *
Four of the smaller Westralian gold-
mining set, Princess Royal, Emu, Dundas
and Central Gold, have just issued their
yearly accounts. Princess, which re-
cently acquired an option at Marie’s Find,
on the Yilgarn field, has £3209 cash,
investments valued at £lOOO, and a prop-
erty “favorable for development.” Emu
has £B5B in hand after an unsuccessful
search for wealth, and an itch to find
something worth having. Dundas has
£1159 cash, investments valued at £3050,
and a firm belief that sooner or later it
will get a turn-up. Central Gold’s profit
last year from mining at Cox’s Find, near
Laverton, was £3271, and it now has
£6467 in the bank. Ore reserves in Cox’s
Find, in which it holds a quarter and
Western Mining Corp. a three-quarters
interest, are estimated at 41,700 tons of
11.6dwt. grade. Last year 11,363 fine
ounces, valued at £109,705, was extracted
from the “Find.” Prospects of perma-
nency at depth are thought by some to
be doubtful.
* * * *
October return from New Gympie
(Q.) was 150 tons for only 3dwt. gold
per ton. It remains very low, but coarse
free gold has since been reported from
two different faces on No. 6 reef. In
the north intermediate drive this 6in. reef
ran into darker slate and prospects in the
dish improved, some coarse gold being
taken out. No. 5 reef, in sandstone and
grey slate, does not sound so good.
* * * *
A good copper show has been opened
at Mt. Spencer, in the Mackay (C.Q.) dis-
trict. Chief ore recovered so far is
bornite, so the trial lot of 20 tons sent
to Chillagoe for treatment should not be
under 20 p.c. copper. Bentley and party
are opening up the lode ; one stope is
showing a 6ft.-wide face.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
G. 5.8., G.R. (and others): See B. 4/12/’4O,
p. 21. The shares represent an interest
in a well-conducted forestry proposition, plus
over £900,000 of liquid assets, but no one is
competent to guess at probable profits. Divs.
are still a long distance off. There is no regular
selling market for the shares, though dealings
are carried on here and there at prices showing
fairly wide differences... .J.H.C.: Private com-
panies are a closed book; but a search at the
Registrar-General’s would reveal capitalisation
and directorate... .M.J.P.: No recent infor-
mation; rather shaky when last heard of
W.H.P. and H.A.K.: No open market, but the
secretary may be able to find a buyer for you;
not possible at this stage even to guess what
return, if any, holders are likely ultimately to
get.


A RECORD
-OF-
SER VICE and PROGRESS
Head Office: Melbourne.
THE ANNUAL REPORT FOR 1940 SHOWS CLEARLY THAT THE
T. & G. IS IN THE FOREFRONT OF LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
THE Society is noted for its service to Policyholders, and places great
emphasis on the prompt settlement of Claims. During the last financial
year over £2,851,000 was paid to Policyholders, equal to an amount of
£9500 every working day in the year.
'T'HE popularity of the Society is shown by the fact that during the year a
large number of existing Policyholders, in addition to new members,
purchased protection for themselves and their dependants by effecting
153,710 new policies assuring £14,018,284.
EVEN more convincing evidence of the esteem in which the Society is held
is afforded by the total Assurances in Force, which has increased
to £94,796,778.
T'HE Assets now total more than £34,687,000, which are held in trust
* for the Policyholders. They are, and have always been, invested
in first-class securities, and this has earned the T. & G. a reputation
for financial stability.
T'HE amount invested in Government securities in Australia and New
* Zealand increased during this year by £967,566. The policy of the
Board is to contribute, to the limit of the Society’s capacity, to the successful
flotation of the various Government War Loan issues.
THE T. & G., being a purely mutual Society, does not make “profits,”
* but for the past financial year it showed a surplus of £939,727, the
greater portion of which is to be distributed to Policyholders in the form
of reversionary bonuses, the balance being used to strengthen the Society’s
reserves against unforeseen contingencies.
A POLICY WITH THE T. & G. IS A PLEDGE OF SECURITY
PLUS SERVICE.
PURELY
MUTUAL.
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life
Assurance Society, Ltd. (Incorporated in Victoria).
NO SHAREHOLDERS.
SOCIETY
mm m mm H I ;


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAI, PAID IJP £4,730,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITA! 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
all classes of banking business transacted
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.L.C.;
Sydney Sampson. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 81361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
“The beautiful gems listened on her bosom.”
— “D.T.”
They had to, of course. What can a
mere gem do to stop a woman talking?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Your lucky star is ?”
—“Sunday Sun” astrology.
“Set,” growled the pessimist.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The A.B.C.’s ‘Out of the Bag’ programme is
becoming increasingly popular with the public.
—Radio paper.
Except when it lets the cat out con-
cerning the £37,000 loss on its weekly.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The art of cooking is no load to carry.”
— Woman’s paper.
This cannot be said for all the finished
articles, however.
“Wealth, however acquired, receives homage
everywhere.”— Political speaker.
Profit gets honor in any country.
4. 4* 4* 4*
“The Ministry for Information was always
looking for defective methods of countering
German lies.” — “Sun.”
It seems to have found them.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Nasty demonstration when Hash came first.”
—Racing gossip.
The same thing happened at our
boarding-house last week.
“Australian fishermen have much to contend
with, and bad weather is not always their
principal difficulty.”— “World’s News.’
“Jonesy called me a Dago mongrel. I'm NOT a Dago, am I, dad?"
“American Debutantes Want to Buy Spit-
fires.”—“D.T.”
Any offers for the wife?
>I« ►!« ►£• 4*
“Radio sets are booming.”— Trade advt.
Especially the one in the flat above us.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“There has been a definite improvement in
films over the last 10 years.”-— Movie critic.
Bunk! They haven’t got any shorter.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Old Favorite.
“There are some things that money cannot
buy for a child.” — Woman’s paper.
You buy him bricks, you buy him
tricks, and to the flicks he goes. You
buy that train and model ’plane, but cold
disdain he shows. He dodges snares like
teddy-bears, and only stares with scorn
at cricket bats and woolly cats and cow-
boy hats “as worn.” You spend great
sums on things like drums, but each plan
comes a thud. Before your eyes, with
joyous sighs, he’s making pies from mud.
Elm.
4* 4* *b 4*
“When planting dahlias, surround the tubers
with sand. This helps to keep them healthy
and makes lifting much easier when it is time
to take them up.”—5 CL gardener.
A better idea is to mix a little Portland
cement and some fine gravel with the
sand ; add water. Before it sets, insert a
small iron rod with a ring at the top end.
All you have to do to lift the tuber is
to take the ring and pull. After that
simply break away the cement and sand
and there’s your tuber all ready for next
year. An even easier way to have them
lifted, especially if they are champion
dahlias, is to plant them just inside your
front fence.
Parrotter.
4* 4* 4« 4*
You Need a Nose for It.
It isn’t every day that a city the size
of Sydney sees great flocks of musk ducks
coming from the Blue Mountains and
carrying their young in the beaks as they
make for the tramway sheds of the east-
ern suburbs. So I rang up one of those
daily newspapers that pay you half a
note for unusual news-items and I said
“It isn’t every day that a city, etc.,” and
a cold voice said “Sir, whoever you are,
when you see the tramway sheds of the
eastern suburbs flying over the Blue
Mountains to get way from the musk
ducks, that will be news and you can
collect your half-nicker—but not before.”
MB.
* * * *
Powder Puffs.
“Girl wanted, bravest in Sydney, willing
to be fired out of a cannon.” — “Herald” advt.
Some of our big guns in business know
that girls are capable of going off pop
without the assistance of a cannon.
All the same, the girl who takes on
the job of being fired from a cannon is
no squib.
What a splendid thing it would be if
opposing armies caught on to the idea
of firing glamor girls at each other!
Provided, of course, the army could be
persuaded against cuddling the ammu-
nition.
D. McM.
Cries of “Shame!”
“Admiral Sir Andrew Cunningham intends
to ‘act offensively’ in the lonian Sea.” — Cable.
Sir Andrew, though a belted knight,
Is far from genteel or polite,
Italian admirals agreed.
No gentleman could take delight
In hunting for a vulgar fight
With others of superior breed.
In fact, Sir Andrew in their sight
Was an offensive chap indeed.
So while the wan and wasted ghost
Of their Benito’s former boast
Whispered the deeds they might not do,
Along the Adriatic coast
A shocked and quite vociferous host
Of Fascist officers and crew
Acclaimed this Cunningham the most
Offensive sailorman they knew.
P. M. L.
Victory!
Bella was disappointed. She had
chosen this holiday resort feeling certain
that a girl with her looks and figure
couldn’t fail to attract attention among
the masculine visitors.
But competition had proved fierce.
There were actually more girls than men
at the place, and most of them had looks
and figures almost as good as Bella’s. She
went down to the beach in her yellow
bathing-suit and waited. Nothing hap-
pened. The beach was full of other girls
in bathing-suits, all as brief as Bella s.
She went on to the tennis-court. All
the other girls’ shorts were as short as
Bella’s. At the dances all the other
dresses were as daring as Bella s.
Now, for all her anxiety to have a good
time and to capture an escort for her-
self, Bella was a thoughtful miss, so she
went to her room one night and con-
centrated.
Next morning Bella walked along the
beach, the cynosure of all eyes, male and
female. She disposed herself gracefully on
the sand, observing from under her lids
that three young men were obviously try-
ing to beat one another to get to her.
She smiled, a slow, warm feeling of
triumph coming over her. “Originality,”
murmured Bella, “can always gain a
point.”
She was fully clothed.
M8.
Diplomacy.
Ah, why should we row without reashon,
Pink wombat and blue polar bear ?
I wish you the joysh of the seashon!
I want to be friendly, I shwear!
Sho give up those looks of defiansh,
And both be good fellowsh and laugh.
Then lesh form a triple alliansh
And shtrangle the purple giraffe!
T. W. NATHAN.
Expert Knowledge.
“Isn’t it amusing the way single women
make suggestions to married women regarding
the management of their husbands?”
— Woman’s paper.
“No, Mrs. Blurber, I’m not married.”
“Really, dear! But you look worried.”
“My shoes hurt, and tight shoes are
almost as bad as a tight husband. Is
your husband mean?”
“You’ve no idea. Allows me only one
hat a week and two bridge parties. I
haven’t met you before, have I? Well,
I don’t mind telling you, as a perfect
stranger, that Herbert drives me mad.”
“Well, Mrs. Blurber, let me tell you
how to manage him. When he won’t
give you a fur coat threaten him you 11
leave. You’ll get the coat. When he
says a fiver will have to do you for
housekeeping instead of six, run up a
bill for ten and charge everything to him.
You’ll get your six from then on. When
he brings you a bunch of roses, be sus-
picious. When he brings you per-
fume” —
“But, good heavens, he never does!
By the way, my dear, who are you?”
“Oh, maybe I shouldn’t mention it,
darling—but I’m his secretary.”
EVE.
There wasn’t rqin, there wasn’t hail.
No angry clouds had formed.
He brought home bottles drained of ale,
And these he blithely tried to scale —
’Twas then his missus stormed.
E.
Diary of a Foreign Correspondent
Who Tells.
Tuesday, 22nd: Saw the German Am-
bassador leaving the Yugoslav legation
in Athens arm-in-arm with a tall, dis-
tinguished-looking foreigner who ap-
peared to be someone high up in the
Yugoslav diplomatic service. By the hope-
less, glum look on the tall man’s face it
was obvious that the Nazi threats to
wipe Belgrade out of existence if Yugo-
slavia refused to allow unhindered pas-
sage to the Axis armies had succeeded in
intimidating him. My splash story of the
massing of huge Axis armies on the
Yugoslav border, backed by thousands
of Stuka dive-bombers to repeat the
Flanders Blitzkrieg and roll up the Greek
army from the rear, is sure to go over
big in the States.
Wed., 23rd: I thought it would work.
In my last dispatch on the work of the
Greek mountain batteries in the capture
of Korea (I wrote it one day in the
American Club when things were a bit
dead), I Told All. How I had to crawl
down icy ravines clad only in sandshoes,
white shorts and athletic singlet so as
to render myself invisible against the
snow ; how, on reaching the front line, I
gave a platoon of the famous Greek
Evzon troops a hand carrying ammuni-
tion up to the forward guns; how I was
allowed to take pot-shots at moving
columns, and how I hacksawed a
notch in the breech for every
lorry I sent sky-high. Since the
publication of that story “direct from
the battlefield,” I have been billed
as the “famous war correspondent,” my
stuff is syndicated in 47 countries, and
I’ve had a salary boost of 80 bucks per.
Thursday, 24th: Saw Von Spoopen-
heimer leaving the Foreign Office this
morning looking very bad-tempered.
When I nodded affably to him he just
looked straight through me, yet he must
know who I am. Guess he’s wild with
me for spilling the beans about German
pressure on the Yugoslavs. But he was
looking mad as he came out of the F. 0.,
signifying that Metaxas must have re-
buffed him. My disclosure that Hitler
offered Metaxas Malta, Palestine, Tur-
key in Europe and a share in the Suez
Canal, all of which Metaxas stoutly
rejected with a reiteration of his deter-
mination to push on until he had con-
quered Italy, is sure to make a sensation
when it hits the headlines.
Friday, 25th: Cost me 26 dollars for
grog today, but it was worth it. Snoop-
ing around the waterfront I got a Greek
sailor in tow. Set them up for him and
he was sure ready to spill all he knew. I
was lucky to strike as interpreter another
guy with a beautiful thirst who used to
be waiter in a Soho cafe. The sailor
swore he was aboard a Greek destroyer
which was patrolling the Adriatic, and
which got to within a cable’s-length of
the big Italian base at Bari. There he
saw the three remaining Italian battle-
ships hauled up on land and camouflaged
to look like a spaghetti factory. He
said a captured Italian admiral told his
captain they’d be safe there till the end
of the war. Boy, when my story
breaks on the front page of the old
Cincinnati “Oboe” won’t these other
press guys be narked!
Bo.


\1
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agent: A. L. Frost, Esq., Launceston.
GUARANTEED
FOR TWO
FREE SETfSHG—a
■till
\
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. All
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/8
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 15/8
Blade size 3in.
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Razor Guards, 3/6 extra.
& AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Compromise
After a week of bickering and party
squabbles, in which the Labor factions
showed clear inability to deal with
national problems, a “compromise” was
effected in the matter of Canberra’s war
Budget. Perhaps the excuse for Labor’s
obstruction was that, in spite of the
obvious commonsense of the general
Budget terms, it does not believe in the
ability of the Menzies Government to
do its job after the money is raised.
There are many aspects of our partici-
pation in the war that would call for
explanation in other circumstances. But the
nature of Labor’s demands did not indi-
cate that any constructive thought was
behind them, except in the case of com-
pany-tax criticism. It Was just a matter of
“Gimme, gimme, gimme! We want to
look after our own voters at any cost.”
By the compromise the most note-
worthy change in the original Budget pro-
posals has been the raising of the
income-tax exemption rate from £l5O to
£2OO, making it the same figure as in
Maoriland. (Formerly it was £250.) A
new concessional deduction is payments
made to dependent mothers. A select
committee is to be appointed to discuss
the proposed “high-profits” company tax
and to report within a week. Labor’s
objection here was not in regard to the
extent of this tax, but rather that it didn’t
hit the big cos. hard enough as compared
with small cos.
Another concession by the Govern-
ment is the allowance of 7s. a week to
the wife of any member of the services
who has children. The old-age and
invalid-pension standard rate is to be
raised from 20s. to 215., and the rate is
to be made variable in accordance with
the cost of living.
The Commonwealth is to provide
£1,000,000 extra for wheat-farmers, more
specifically for drought relief.
“To permit an investigation of the
questions which have arisen in respect of
central bank credit and subsequent
control, the War Council will, as soon as
possible, confer with the Commonwealth
Bank and the Treasury.” It is very un-
likely, of course, that the Government
has failed to consult the Commonwealth
Bank on this matter already.
Apart from these amendments, the
Budget proposals stand as before. Some
revenue will be. lost as a result of the
raising of the income-tax exemption rate
to £2OO ; how much it is hard to say be-
cause the effect will spread through the
entire income range. Its incidence, how-
ever, will not vastly alter the Budget
figures.
The wheat concession is fixed at
£1,000,000; the rise in pensions may
mean less. The allowance to service-
men’s wives and children should be less
again. In order to see what will happen
to the general Budget appearance it is
necessary to look at the original figures:
InHand,Taxa- Borrow-
-1/7/’4O tion ing Total
(£mil.). (£mil.). (£mil.). (£mil.).
War expenditure—
In Australia .. 28.0 65.0 50.0 143.0
Overseas .. 43.0 43.0
Civil expenditure.. 85.0 5.6 90.6
Totals . .£28.0 £150.0 £98.6 £276.6
A rough guess would suggest that
£2,500,000 would cover all the new ex-
penditure and that the same figure would
more than allow for all loss of tax
revenue. Thus balancing the Budget
has been made more difficult to the
extent of under £5,000,000. It isn’t a
big change in the character of a scheme
in which a total outlay of £276,600,000
is involved, £150,000,000 of it being
raised by taxation.
The amazing thing about the Budget
discussions has been the inability of all
Opposition speakers and some Govern-
ment men to take a large-scale view of
the war effort. The gross ignorance dis-
played by some critics of the “pay-as-
you-go” principle has been positively
astounding. It has been eagerly abetted
by some rag-shop newspapers. The
credibility of wearisome debaters on
the “miracles” to be performed by
credit manipulation suggests that go-
getters with perpetual-motion machines
and similar schemes for which finance is
necessary should establish themselves in
Canberra and never leave the place,
except to canvass readers of the Syd-
ney “Sun” occasionally. Labor members
should be easy game, especially if a
Royal Commission’s report on the pro-
jected scheme were available. Even if
condemnatory on the whole, there are
always some passages that can be mis-
represented by a go-getter.
Claiming that he had been excluded
from the company’s offices, that the staff,
including the secretary, had been dis-
charged, and that the co.’s banking
account had been improperly operated
on, John C. Mackay, managing director
of Producers’ Oilwell Supplies, Ltd.,
sought an injunction in the N. S. Wales
Equity Court last week. In an affidavit
Mackay said that Senator Thomas Arthur
and Malcolm M. Beattie, directors of the
Oilwell co., had on October 10 held a
board meeting (without giving previous
notice), and next day had sacked the
staff and shut out the managing director,
changing all the locks on the office doors.
With the aid of a locksmith, said Mac-
kay, he entered the office and found that
personal and confidential papers and
scrip for 15,000 shares had been re-
moved. His solicitor asked for them
back, and was told that they wouldn’t
be returned until examined by the co.’s
auditor and the police. The police had
never inquired into the papers, Mackay
stated. A day or two later he and an-
other director named Ryan had held a
meeting, at which Arthur and Beattie did
not attend. Resolutions were passed
expunging the Arthur-Beattie decisions
of Oct. 10, and Patton, the secretary, was
appointed a director. Later, a meeting
of shareholders in Melbourne passed a
resolution removing Senator Arthur and
Beattie from the board. The Court was
informed that Arthur and Beattie con-
tinued to control the business in Sydney,
had appointed Ryan as controller in Mel-
bourne, had issued a hew prospectus and
had operated on the co.’s banking
account. In the original flotation Max
Steinbuchel, an “oil-producer,” had been
issued 1,250,000 fully-paid 2s, shares. The
Court granted an interim injunction
restraining, until Dec. 6, Arthur and
Beattie from excluding Mackay and
Patton from the co.’s office, from operat-
ing on the co.’s bank account, and from
removing any books or documents from
the premises.
* * * *
Much of this talk about deflation and
the need for credit expansion is the wish-
ful thinking of people who haven’t
wakened up to the fact that it is a tough
world, and that the British race survives
because of its toughness; some of the
talk is self-interested propaganda. But
“those who have ears to hear” can get
an idea of the “productive” limitations
of credit expansion by studying the case
of Australia’s great steelworks, the
B.H.P. Here is a concern turning out
a product for which there is any amount
of purchasing power. The co. has not
at any time over the past five or six years
lacked the “credit” necessary to build
up its. undertaking either. It has, in
fact, been expanding the productive capa-
city of its plant and that of its subsi-
diaries for the past decade. Yet the
B.H.P. is unable to supply with prompt-
ness all the demands being made on it
for steel. Some steel products are being
rationed, and in other cases deliveries
are behind schedule —material for Table-
land Tin’s No. 2 dredge, for example.
It is just not possible for “credit” to do
anything more to expand B.H.P.’s output.
Expansion has to come from planning
and efficiency on the production side
first; money and credit matters trot along
behind. Certainly some other types of
cos. capable of further expansion may be
hindered by Jack of money, but if they
are doing an essential job they should
have no difficulty in getting the credit.
A sound, necessary proposition creates
its own credit to a large extent.
* * * *
This “full use of the Commonwealth
Bank’s credit resources” that Curtin,
Spooner, etc., have been talking about —
what does it all mean? Most political
talk about credit and its expansion is
sheer ignorance. Some is humbug for
the ears of the ignorant. A small pro-
portion is sense. Credit is time —time to
pay. It may be a guarantee to a pro-
ducer and all having dealings with the
producer that a financier will see that
the producer’s debts are met when due.
Eventually the financier will want his
debt or guarantee liquidated, too. , Not
merely money, but money’s-worth, is in-
volved all the time. Credit without
money’s-worth is hocus-pocus; it is like
a title-deed to land where the land has
been engulfed by the sea. Expansion of
credit by the Commonwealth Bank in-
volves one of two things—repayment by
the person or body to whom the credit
is granted, or non-repayment, in which
case the extra credit “chips” put into
circulation form a general tax on all
who use them as representing money’s-
worth. As the absorption of materials
for defence represents a tax on our pro-
duction it also represents a tax on in-
comes ; it is best acknowledged as such
without disguise such as “credit expan-
sion.”
* * * *
Heavy war taxes mean that most in-
dustries, especially those useful for
defence work, will be employed exten-
sively by the Defence Department,
that some “luxury” factories that can’t
be converted to defence or essential work
will be slack, that civilians, having been
solidly taxed, will have less to spend and
the Defence Department more, and that
the wide stream of business activity be-
tween manufacturers and the Govern-
ment will draw into itself portion of the
many and varied streams hitherto flow-
ing between manufacturers, distributors
and civilians. • Some distributors will
retain their rights as middlemen even in
handling military equipment, but they
will be mostly of the wholesale type.
Retailers seem bound to be affected in
varying degrees, though the increase in
employment and production that is
occurring will to some extent counter the
new restrictions on distribution. Under-
neath all this redistribution of trade and
activity is the knowledge that the country
as a whole is working at high pressure.
* * * *
In 1937 a young English economist
named Reddaway advised the Federal
Arbitration Court to add a “prosperity”
loading to the basic wage ; this eventu-
ally took the form of a 65.--a-week in-
crease. Some of the 6s. was soon
absorbed in rising living costs, but more
than half of it stuck, with the result that
the living standard of the wage-earner
was lifted about 5 p.c. Today that posi-
tion prevails; real wages are about a
shilling in the pound better than in 1935
and 1936. The proposed Federal defence
taxes for a man on £4 a week worked out
at less than 6d. in the £ ; on £5 a week,
still less than a shilling in the £. And
yet a shameful lot of obstruction was put
forward by pains-in-the-neck on both
sides of the House with regard to the
Budget taxation proposals. It is hard
to believe that Australian wage-earners
really wanted to shirk the portion of the
job that was allotted to them.
* * * *
A shareholder in the Southern Star
Fire, Accident and General Insurance Co.
has written in asking about his invest-
ment. He enclosed a balance sheet. The
name of the co. is the most imposing
part of it. The accounts show paid capi-
tal to be £52,891 in 106,119 10s. shares,
mostly paid up. Of this total 20,000
shares were issued otherwise than for
money ; they were taken in 1925 by the
Southern Cross Assurance Co., which
launched the float. In the early years
extravagance was the management’s
chief sin, and, though the drift has slowed
down lately, over the last 11 years losses
have far exceeded profits. In that period
£8797 has been added to paid capital ;
some shares have been forfeited ; outside
liabilities have risen from £21,519 to
£30,557 ; reserve for unexpired risks, now
£8515, compares with £8972 11 years
ago ; “goodwill, £35,213,” now appears
as “flotation promotion” at the same
figure ; establishment account figures at
£51,490, against £34,723. P. and 1. debit
at June 30 last was £2C32. Total tan-
gible assets then stood at only £3192
against £30,557 of creditcis, apart from
unexpired risks and shareholders’ capital.
Apparently the chief creditor is a for-
bearing one ; it used to be the Southern
Cross Co., which reinsured its accident
risks with the Southern Star. The Star
co. may serve some purpose as a re-
insurance office, but from a shareholder’s
viewpoint the position looks hopeless.
Even on last year’s experience, when the
handling of £23,832 of premiums and
£402 of commissions yielded a net profit
of £66, a miracle (or some very choice
reinsurance risks) would seem necessary
in order to remove the ghastly appear-
ance of the co. in shareholders’ eyes.
m # *
The way Robert W. Gillespie, presi-
dent of the Bank of N. S. Wales, puts it:
It cannot be stressed too strongly that the
economic side of waging war is not funda-
mentally a matter of money, but of physical
factors, men and materials. Steel, guns, aero-
planes and ammunition are the products, not
of money, but of labor, skill, science and raw
materials. Success depends on organising the
available supply of labor and resources to pro-
duce the maximum output of the things required
for war. Money is merely one of the means
used to achieve this end.
Although money is subsidiary, its proper
management is immensely important. It repre-
sents claims on the productive effort of the
community which now have to be redistributed.
Its value, or the quantity of goods which money
can buy, intimately concerns every person in
the country. Within limits, its value may change
without adverse results. In fact, a slight fall
in the value of money, which is the same thing
as a rise in prices, can be beneficial sometimes
in stimulating business activity. But a severe
fall in the value of money, or inflation, when
carried too far, has disastrous results. It en-
courages profiteering by small groups, and in-
flicts suffering on the middle and working
classes. It provokes uncertainty and destroys
confidence.
Some people distrust bankers’ talk. But
truth is here very well expressed by
Mr. Gillespie.
* * * *
Holeproof Hosiery has built a new
factory in White Horse-road, Deepdene
(Melbourne), at a cost of about £13,500,
and it has trained a staff of 150 opera-
tives from residents of the suburb. The
factory is of the modern type—cafeteria
for the staff, rest-rooms, gardens, etc. The
co. has been very successful in recent
years, and it pays 10 p.c. ord. divs. from
adequate profits. There is still some un-
certainty about continuance of raw-silk
supplies, but apparently no insuperable
difficulties have so far arisen. At 235.
the co.’s ords. yield £8 15s. per cent.
* * * *
Davies, Coop & Co., the Victorian
cotton-goods factory (with branches in
N. S. Wales and South Aus.), is offering
50,000 new ords. and 50,000 new prefs.
to finance a fresh venture, Davies, Coop
Flax Industries Pty., and provide addi-
tional funds for Davies, Coop, N. S.
Wales, Ltd. The ords. will be offered to
the co.’s present ord.-holders in the ratio
of one for 10 ; the prefs. will be offered
to pref.-holders in both the parent and
N.S.W. pup on a one-for-three basis.
* * * *
Nearly 15,000 acres of linen flax have
been sown in Maoriland. It takes 90 days
from sowing to harvesting. Retting tanks
and other equipment for obtaining the
fibre are being got ready. The immediate
aim is to supply linen fibre for Empire
aircraft, but in the more distant future
some attempt may be made to produce
linseed.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
THE SOVIET RECORD.
[ltems here condensed expose the folly of the Parlor
Pink policy of “wooing the Soviet,” followed by
Britain and America, despite the unsurpassed Soviet
record of double-dealing and worse, its positive part
in starting the war, and its shabby military performance.
The first item is New York “Post” comment on
Molotov’s visit to Berlin.]
This is a good moment for a review of Russia’s
role in the war. Since Dictator Stalin said “We
support those people who have become the
victims of aggressions in their fight for independence,”
here is what has happened: Negotiations between
Russia and England for guarantee of Poland col-
lapsed. The Nazi-Soviet pact of August 23, 1939,
assured Hitler of peace in the east, and left him free
to begin his war. A second Nazi-Soviet agreement, on
September 29, 1939, divided Poland between the two
dictatorships and laid “guilt” for the war upon Eng-
land, formally styled the aggressor.
Negotiations for a “trade treaty” with England
were begun by the Soviet, but in December, 1939,
came the invasion of Finland. The Soviet ports of
Murmansk and Vladivostok were opened to German
shipping. Turkey reached an accord with England,
and Russia thereupon withdrew most of her represen-
tatives in Turkey. In March of 1940 Russia promised
to leave Bessarabia untouched ; in May she warned all
countries against “adventures” in the Balkans ; in June
she took Bessarabia and the three Baltic States.
Another period followed in which Russia again
carefully built up the hope of closer relations with
England ; she won a major point in securing Sir Staf-
ford Cripps as Britain’s Ambassador to Moscow. This
hope became so strong that the “Post” felt itself
compelled (October 16, 1940) to warn: “If a sudden
Russian move hurts Germany, well and good, and we
may accept it, as we would accept a storm in the Eng-
lish Channel which prevented a Hitler invasion. But,
no matter what step Russia takes, we dare not con-
struct the theory that the Soviet Union has, after deep
thought, decided to become a friend of democracy.”
Now, with Turkey shaken, a Germany thwarted
in the invasion of England may have the back
door to the British lifeline opened for her by
Russia in the Near East. We do not, at this writing,
know the terms of the coming Russian-German agree-
ment. We know, from the record, that the time is long
past when Russia could be considered even a potential,
or accidental, friend of the democratic cause.
*****
(From an article by William Philip Simms in New
York “World-Telegram.”)
Stalin has long conspired to bring about a con-
flict in which Germany and Britain, Italy and France,
Japan and the United States would be involved, but
which would leave Russia out.
Even at Geneva Moscow’s role was chiefly as a
troublemaker. She tried to involve England, France
and Italy over Ethiopia. In Spain she did her utmost
to pit Britain and France on one side against Ger-
many and Italy during the civil war.
In 1938 she tried it again over Czechoslovakia,
claiming afterwards that if Britain and France had
gone to war against Germany she, Russia, would
have honored her treaties with both France and
Czechoslovakia and come in on their side. Subsequent
events have given rise to grave doubts regarding her
sincerity. Instead of coming to the aid of France
when Poland was invaded, she joined hands with the
Nazis and took half of Poland for herself.
To make Stalin’s dream come true, all that re-
mains is for Japan and the United States to enter the
fray. Which is exactly what Germany and Italy also
want. War between the United States and Japan
would remove the latter as a menace to Russia for
decades to come —a menace which has been a Russian
nightmare ever since her defeat by Japan in 1905.
War between the United States and Japan, Germany
believes, would also put an instant end to the Ameri-
can help to England. Unprepared for war, America,
in Nazi opinion, would be forced to conserve for her
own use every gun, ’plane and ship she possesses or
can build.
*****
(From a New York “Post” article by Ludwig Lore.)
Finland showed up the military weakness of the
Red Army and Poland the overpowering strength of
Germany’s murder machine. Britain’s air force can
withstand Hitler’s air war, but the Red Army would
be crushed in a serious combat with Germany’s per-
fectly trained millions. If the German general staff
decided to go to war against Russia, it would have the
Ukraine within two weeks or less. On that all neutral
military experts are agreed.
Nor is its military weakness the only danger that
confronts the Soviet dictatorship. At least as serious
is the general disaffection of the masses, who are
weary of their unending material misery. Prof. Hog-
ben, who paid a visit to Russia recently, says in his
book, Author in Transit: “Soviet socialism is not a
planned economy of abundance. It is a community of
poverty.”
This impression is borne out by a cable to the
Chicago “Tribune,” dated Helsingfors, Nov. 6, which
states that “the future of the inhabitants of the former
Baltic republics of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia,
which have been absorbed into the U.S.S.R., is becom-
ing more and more ugly. The German legations are
the only diplomatic representations still functioning.
They have been overwhelmed with petitions of thou-
sands of Estonians, Latvians and Lithuanians and
even many well-educated and formerly well-to-do
Jewish families, seeking permission to join the last
groups of Germans being repatriated to Pomerania.”
A prominent American consular official who was
stationed in Warsaw until some time after Hitler’s
conquest of the former capital assured me recently
that poor Jews who fled from German-occupied
Poland to Soviet Poland when the Fiihrer entered War-
saw returned a few weeks later. They found life in
Russian Poland so unbearable that they preferred
the degradation of existence under the anti-Semitic
Nazis to starvation in the U.S.S.R.
Russia will stay out of the war because she can-
not fight, because her military weakness and her dis-
organised economy would mean certain defeat.
* * * * j *
Workers in the “Workers’ Paradise”
(Condensed from a Manchester “ Guardian” article.)
There is a small school of thought that objects
to co-operation between the trade-unions and the
Government and that protests loudly at every
measure to secure that man-power is used to the
best purpose for the conduct of the war. This school
forgets to draw attention to the interesting example
the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics is setting
to the world. Not only has it lengthened working
hours in all industries —not merely munition indus-
tries—but it has introduced measures of labor disci-
pline that resemble closely those of Germany and
have no parallel in this country.
Not much has been said about them in the British
Communist press—for obvious reasons —but the
—New York "Journal and American.”
SAVORY!
(The Russian Red Bear licks its chops in antici-
pation of the feast it will have if —and when —
Europe is cooked by the blaze of war into a
tender enough morsel for Communism to
devour.)
Moscow press has been less silent. Take hours first.
At the end of June it was decided to abrogate the
most important item in the Russian labor code, the
seven-hour day, which had been laid down as the
aim in 1929 and had been embodied in the new
Constitution of 1936. It was announced that indus-
tries working a seven-hour day should work eight,
that those working six hours should work seven, that
all office employees should work eight instead of
six hours, and that instead of the six-day week (with
its day off in six) there should be a reversion to the
Western seven-day week with Sunday as a day of
rest.
This is, of course, a severe setback, but the State-
controlled press regards it as “a great industrial re-
form.” Great is the power of propaganda. Remark-
able figures are being published of the increase in
output the longer hours secure. It has apparently been
overlooked that, according to the Soviet statisticians,
the reduction of hours from eight to seven also pro-
duced a large increase in output.
The Russian Central Council of Trade Unions
in its manifesto described the existence of “floaters
and shirkers” who
take advantage of the patience of the Soviet State, shift
from plant to plant, undermine labor discipline, are
unwilling to work honestly, and assume a negligent
attitude to the fulfilment of the demands established by
law and approved by the people.
The Central Council graciously asked the Supreme
Soviet to deal with the shirkers. So now no worker
in State or public employment may leave his employ-
ment without the permission of the manager. If he
leaves “arbitrarily” he must be brought to trial and
made to serve from two to four months’ imprison-
ment. If he does not report for work “without valid
reason” he can be punished by “correctional labor at
his place of work for a period not exceeding six
months, with a deduction not exceeding 25 per cent,
of his wages.”
No one has suggested that we should adopt these
pleasant methods here, even although they are sancti-
fied by the practice of “The Land of Socialism. It
is not irrelevant to keep the Russian example in mind
when the Communists and their allies try to stir up
trouble because, with infinite safeguards and after
consultations with the workers’ trade-unions, the
British Minister of Labor calls for some sacrifices of
men’s right to dispose of their labor as they please
regardless of the national interest.
“Chamberlain’s Great Mistake.”
[As seen by New York “Daily News.” Floods of
anti-Chamberlain stuff poured out in cables to the end;
very little of this kind of comment ever appeared there.
Representative of a good deal of U.S. comment on the
late P.M., it is also representative of a good deal of
American opinion on the war.]
By his “surrender” to Hitler at Munich Cham-
berlain won for the Allies an extra year in which to
get ready to fight. Had he chosen to fight for Czecho-
slovakia then, England and France would probably
have lost even more teeth than Hitler knocked out of
their mouths after the war finally got going.
If the Allies didn’t make the most of the year of
grace that Chamberlain won for them, Chamberlain
can hardly be blamed for that. After all, he was head
of a democratic Government. Hitler, Stalin or Musso-
lini can order a whole nation to rearm, disarm, sit up
or lie down, and the order is obeyed without argument.
A Prime Minister or President in a democratic coun-
try has to let all sides be heard. That is the great
danger to us remaining democracies in this totalitarian
storm which is sweeping so much of the world —that
the dictatorships can act while the democracies are
debating.
The great mistake of Chamberlain’s life, we be-
lieve, was his eventual consent to Britain’s declaration
of war against Germany on Sept. 3, 1939. He con-
sented against his better judgment. He was prodded
into it by the taunts and diatribes of Britain’s war
party, heading up in Winston Churchill, Anthony
Eden and Alfred Duff Cooper. Still, Chamberlain
was head of the British Government, and he might
have held out longer.
It had been known since Aug. 24 that Russia and
Germany had signed a non-aggression pact, meaning
Russia would at least not be on the Allied side and
might be on the German side in case of war. That
would have been a signal for British diplomats of the
older, realistic school to pull in their claws, make some
kind of dicker with Hitler, and get busy lining up some
more allies. Not so with the new school. They could
have settled for Danzig, at least to the extent of win-
ning themselves some more time to make ready for
war. Instead, they went to war.
R.A.F. Million-mile Patrols.
[Some details of the extraordinary achievements of
the R.A.F. Coastal Command have already appeared in
“Uncabled Additions.” The article here condensed from
London “Times” gives later and even more remarkable
information, and, incidentally, pays a high tribute to
the Australian squadron.]
The R.A.F. Coastal Command covers an area
extending over the whole North Sea, from Norway to
the north-west coast of Germany, over the Low Coun-
tries and France, right down to the Mediterranean,
nearly 1000 miles out into the Atlantic and as far
north as Iceland and into the Arctic regions. Since
war began, Coastal Command flying-boats and land-
craft have flown the almost incredible distance of
19,000,000 miles —equivalent to about 782| times
round the world.
This year alone its aircraft have escorted approxi-
mately 1300 convoys, made up of more than 30,000
ships. In the whole war period so far Coastal Com-
mand has guarded and guided between 90,000,000 and
100,000,000 tons of shipping. Exhaustive searches have
made possible more than 150 attacks on submarines,
many of which have been sunk and others crippled
and put out of commission. Now there are always
plenty of aircraft available for this work, but in the
early days, before production had really got going, it
was not often possible to spare enough flying-boats or
land ’planes to maintain an adequate patrol.
The German submarines “fell for” a monstrous
piece of bluff. “Scarecrow patrols” were made by all
sorts of training and communications machines flown
by auxiliary pilots, and they did not carry anything as
lethal as a revolver! Submarines did not wait for
them to finish their businesslike-looking swoops before
they had made emergency crash dives, remaining sub-
merged for hours while ships steamed unmolested into
port, “protected” by, perhaps, a Tiger Moth. This
little joke was kept up throughout the winter until
supplies of the proper type of aircraft became avail-
able.
Of the Coastal Command ’planes the Ansons have
been one of the great surprises of the war. Designed
as reconnaissance machines, they have shown truly
remarkable ability as fighters, largely owing to their
power of manoeuvre and the competence of their pilots.
Those who have seen these machines patrolling con-
voys during an attack have commented on their un-
wavering work. Many thousands of feet above the
ships a grim battle may be raging between R.A.F.
Fighter Command Spitfires or Hurricanes and the
Junkers and their Messerschmitt escorts, but all the
time the Ansons carry on as though nothing was hap-
pening. Up and down the line of ships they fly, keep-
ing a constant lookout, and the first attempt at dive-
bombing means trouble for the Junkers. Many a
mightier foe has crashed to its doom through under-
estimating the “sting” of these sturdy machines.
The Short Sunderlands have done and are doing
a magnificent job. They are the giants of the R.A.F.


The military version of the Empire flying boats, they
weigh 25 tons when loaded, have a crew of from
eight to twelve and a range of about 1700 miles. They
can hold their own against any enemy—two or more
at a time, if necessary. The Germans have a whole-
some respect for them, and it is a pilot of more than
average courage who would dare to tackle one un-
aided. With their guns sticking out at all angles, they
seem to be able to fire in any direction. Because of
their bristling armament the Germans call them
fliegende Stachelschweine (flying porcupines). Often
Sunderlands are 16 hours on a single patrol, most of
the time out of sight of land. Before they set out a
special clock is set, with a red mark showing the time
they must be back. Nearly always they are home
again to the minute.
One of the best flying-boat units in the Command
is the Royal Australian Air Force squadron, which has
its base in the West of England. It started operating
at the beginning of the war because of a lucky co-
incidence. Just before September, 1939, some officers
had come from Australia to take delivery of six Sun-
derlands which were destined for service “down
under.” When war broke out the plan was changed
and pilots and machines stayed here. At the beginning
of this year the Commonwealth Government sent over
the staff for the maintenance of a complete squadron,
and in the late spring it became an independent unit.
In July the Australian squadron put in a number of
flying hours which may well stand as a record for all
time. It has never been rivalled before or since. This
squadron has enjoyed notable successes in fights with
all sorts of enemy aircraft. It operates chiefly over
the Atlantic.
The American-built Lockheed Hudson has proved
an unqualified success. Most of the squadrons equipped
with them have now totalled 1,000,000 miles ; one has
flown more than 1,500,000 miles. Since the capitula-
tion of France and the threat of an invasion of Britain
the work of Coastal Command has increased tremen-
dously. There is no sphere of aerial activity in which
it cannot and does not play an important part. It
could well adopt the slogan “If you want a job done
we can do it.” Even when the outside world hears
nothing of its work its aircraft are scattered over thou-
sands of miles of sea and land, helping to bring Britain
food, fighting would-be invaders and hampering the
enemy in all it seeks to do.
Singapore Ready.
(Condensed from an article by London “Times”
Singapore correspondent .)
The foresight of those who, 20 years ago, decided
to establish a great naval base at Singapore has never
been more apparent than it is today, when the base is
the cornerstone of British strategy over a wide area in
East Asia, the western Pacific and the Indian Ocean.
The defences are in perfect trim and fully prepared
for any emergency.
It is not always realised that Singapore is much
more than a naval base, although that is its primary
function in the scheme of Empire defence. It is
no less important as an air base, while the troops
and fortifications which defend the naval and air
bases make it a fortress of the first order.
Less has been heard in recent years of the sup-
posed “menace” of Singapore to the Japanese Empire.
The Japanese have evidently come to realise that a
base which is as far from Yokohama as Gibraltar is
from New York could not seriously threaten their
home coastline. That it could be used to very good
purpose in operations in the China Sea and beyond
cannot be doubted.
A naval base is never really “completed,” since
changes in naval practice are always making new
demands on a repair and refitting station, but the
Singapore naval base is complete in the sense that
it can carry out all the tasks assigned to it. Since
the King George VI graving dock, one of the biggest
of its kind in the world, was officially opened two
years ago work has been continuing at the base
unceasingly. Much has been spent in finishing the
workshops in the dockyard area, improving the facili-
ties for warships using the base, increasing the accom-
modation available, and providing the Admiralty with
a powerful and up-to-date radio station.
Singapore is not so well known to the outside
world as an air centre, although some writers have
suggested that it may one day become even more
important for its air strength than as a naval station.
Be that as it may, the Royal Air Force is at present
busy in all parts of the Malay peninsula. There are
several Service aerodromes on Singapore island, and
the civil airport, one of the most modern east of
Suez, is also at the disposal of the R.A.F. Up country
the R.A.F. has available both its own aerodromes
and those originally built for civil purposes. Malaya
is not a large country, but is very well provided with
aerodromes, from Alor Star and Kota Bahru in the
north to Singapore in the south, and these provide
the R.A.F. not only with good operational centres but
would naturally be invaluable in facilitating the dis-
persal of the air forces attached to the R.A.F. Far
East Command.
From Singapore the R.A.F. looks out across the
South China Sea to Hong Kong, and south-east to
Borneo and Sarawak, west to Ceylon, and south to
Port Darwin and Australia. Its duties in war-time
would be similar in some respects to those of the
Coastal Command in Great Britain. The Sunder-
land flying-boats for reconnaissance work are well
known in Singapore, as are the Blenheim bombers.
Singapore is immensely strong in fortifications.
The coastal batteries have tremendous range and
protect all sea approaches to the naval base. The
advantage held by land batteries in an encounter with
warships was shown in the Norwegian campaign, and
there is every reason to believe that any hostile vessels
approaching Singapore would receive a very warm
reception. The garrison includes British, Indian and
Malay soldiers. The defence of the “back door”
approaches to Singapore via the east coast presents
a special problem, and training in “jungle warfare”
tactics has been given to all the units likely to be
affected. The jungles are one of the natural defences
of Singapore, for, although there is no virgin jungle
on the island, the approaches to south Malaya through
Johore, and many square miles of country farther
north, are covered with thick wooded territory through
which a hostile force could not hope to advance.
Vested Interests Back Britain.
o Condensed from a New York “PM” article by
Selwyn James.)
Relatively little attention has been paid to the
hopes and fears of Britain’s industrialists, financiers,
aristocracy and landed gentry. In this, perhaps the
greatest siege in the Empire’s turbulent history, they
stand to lose the accumulated wealth of centuries.
Inspired, perhaps not by the same passionate love
of tree thought and tree action as England s little men,
they nevertheless stand staunchly behind Europe s last
democratic barricades. A cursory glance at the huge
Tory stake in the British Empire should be convincing
enough evidence of the high improbability of appease-
ment. Great Britain has for years been dependent for
her vast wealth and the second-highest standard of
living in the world on resources, markets and financial
interests in her possessions overseas.
Typical of British control in Empire enterprise is
the fact that 72 Conservative Ms.P. in the Commons
are directors of companies operating on soil over
which the Union Jack waves. The gigantic monopoly
concern of Lever Bros, and Unilever, Ltd., controls
the greater part of the soap and margarine industries
of the Empire, owns interests in 300 associated com-
panies, including controlling interests in Canada, Aus-
r
—New York “Daily Mirror.”
“I JOOSTA WANTA PET-A DA POOS KITTY!”
tralia. South and West Africa. The company has an
issued capital of £67,000,000 and Clement Davies,
M.P., is a director.
With an estimated total of over £400,000,000 of
British capital invested in India and Ceylon, there
seems to be little chance of a let-up in Britain’s fight
against the mouth-watering envy of Hitler. British
industrialists, including 12 Conservative Ms.P., are
directors of companies interested in banking, insur-
ance, rubber, tea, gold, manganese and railways. In
addition, there is a much larger number who are
shareholders in Indian companies.
Trinidad, erroneously believed to be one of
Britain’s less important possessions, produced 63 per
cent, of the British Empire’s total oil output in 1936.
Three Ms.P. and a few score financiers, who sit in
their offices in London, have a direct interest in pre-
venting Trinidad from falling gracelessly into the
hands of Nazi invaders. Three oil companies own
nearly 100,000 acres of oil-bearing land. They have
built pipelines, refineries, a fleet of tankers and have a
distributing centre in England. The companies are
rich. They pay large dividends every year.
One of London’s heaviest moneybags is the Union
of South Africa, the world’s biggest gold and diamond
producer. Nearly every company is registered and has
its head offices in London. Nine Conservative Ms.P.
are directors of gold and diamond mining firms, and
Sir Ernest Oppenheimer is chairman of De Beers,
which controls the diamond output of the world. He
is also a director of 36 other companies in South
Africa, and a director of the British South Africa Co.,
next in importance to De Beers. The tremendous
wealth in the Union, held largely by shareholders in
England, has undoubtedly prompted the companies
concerned to fight every inch of the way to ultimate
British success.
All in all, 35 Conservative Ms.P. in Britain hold
43 directorships in business enterprises in the self-
governing Dominions. In addition, banks, insurance
and finance houses represented in the House of
Commons by directors hold blocks of Dominion stock
and financial interests in railways and shipping lines.
British capital invested in Canada and Newfoundland
amounts to over £440,000,000 and in Australia and
New Zealand over £650,000,000.
A Colonial Development and Welfare Bill, sup-
ported by the majority, recently introduced in the
House of Commons is obviously designed to furrow
out every last ounce of energy to aid the war against
Hitler. Promoted by British industrialists, the bill
symbolises determination to fight on at any cost.
British money to the extent of over £1,500,000,000
is invested in South America, where 15 Conservative
Ms.P. hold directorships. There is not the faintest
odor of appeasement by Britain towards German trade
infiltration. A British economic mission is on its way
and is scheduled to visit every South American
Republic. British propaganda has been stepped up
since the outbreak of war, and such goodwill moves
as a reduction in grain freight rates on British-owned
railways has added to Argentina’s already pro-British
sentiment.
Appeasement is not quite dead in England. It
still wriggles from time to time. There are still
influential personalities at large who are married to
Hitler’s policies and believe they can “deal” with
Der Fiihrer before their property is destroyed. But
they are a minority among British industrialists.
Dragnet Digest.
('General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources .)
While most legal business, in both branches of
the profession, has dwindled to almost nothing, soli-
citors, at any rate, are being kept much busier than
usual over one not very lucrative activity, the making of
wills. The reasons are obvious. — London “Spectator.”
*****
All French attempts to please Germany by the
trial of former French statesmen are ridiculous and
will be of no avail. Even if France adopts a new
social organisation and becomes a corporative State
no one will be deceived, least of all the Germans.
France has not changed. Beaten and defeated, she
already thinks of revenge. — “Popolo d’ltalia”; quoted
in “World Review.”
# ifc ❖ *
Republican France is only pretending to be dead.
The real slogan of the present regime is “La
Republique est morte, vive la Republique.” It is in
reality, like the former regime, a Radical Socialist
Republic. Already in the new France mysterious
threads are reaching out towards England. A few
persons want to come to an understanding with the
Fiihrer, but the great mass of the people have not
realised that the armistice is not peace and that
penance must be done for past sins.— “Boersen
Zeitung” ; quoted in “World Review.”
*****
A form of enterprise for the relief of hardship in
the poorer parts of London is the tea-and-sandwich
canteen. In these days when the routine of domestic
cooking is upset by raid warnings and other factors
these canteens are immensely popular wherever they
have been set up. Near one of the largest London
shelters on the Surrey side is one that is open in the
afternoon until dusk and opens again at 5 a.m. Women
workers, mostly voluntary, spend all day cutting sand-
wiches, buttering buns and making tea. On their way
to the shelter in the afternoon men, women and
children flock into the canteen for a snack or to take
some food to the shelter with them. In the morning
they come back for an early breakfast after a scarcely
comfortable night. The food is sold at cost price or
less. A large mug of milk for the children or of tea
for adults, one penny; a large meat or cheese or
salmon sandwich, one penny —these are typical prices.
The people cannot speak too highly of the canteen,
which, they say, has solved most of their food prob-
lems. — Manchester “Guardian” London correspondent.
*****
It is lucky for America that Herr Hitler’s theory
of race and racial purity is bunk. Otherwise a glance
at the list of names drawn in the draft [compulsory
service] in New York would lead to the conclusion
that America is lost because there is no American
race. Look at them as they stand: Yuen Chong-
chan, of Chinese origin, at the head, followed by a
Tierno, a Farruggia and a Stazzone, all, obviously, of
Italian ancestry ; then a Silverberg and a Weisblum,
presumably of Jewish origin ; and after them such
names as Axelrad, Karachinsky, Michaelides, Farkas,
Diaz and O’Rourke, representing the sons of Sweden,
Russia, Greece, Hungary, Spain and Ireland, not to
mention others with names of German, French, Yugo-
slav, Polish, Lithuanian and Dutch origin.— New York
“Herald Tribune.”
*****
To the majority of Spaniards Gibraltar is, at the
most, a dream ; for many it is not even that; for
others any change would constitute a graver danger
than the existing situation. In 1940, as in 1918, only a
tiny group of irresponsibles or mercenaries in the pay
of Germany and Italy could think or wish the con-
trary. Gibraltar, without England, would not belong
to Spain, but to other Powers whose hegemony in
Europe would mean the death of Spain as a nation,
just as so many other nations have died. — Luis
Araquistain, one-time Republican Spain’s Ambassador
to Paris, in a “World Review” article.
* * * * *
Installation of hammocklike bunks hung in tiers
from steel uprights has been commenced in a few of
London’s underground shelters and gives indication
of better days to come. But, by and large, overcrowd-
ing and lack of proper sanitation and cleansing present
crying problems that spell real suffering to the old
and feeble. The fragrance of a monkey house is to be
found in a sort of storeroom beneath the railway
tracks —similar, unfortunately, to a number of others.
Here some 300 sit erect on straight-backed chairs in
a stifling atmosphere, with no ventilation. The roof
leaks and the floor’s only paving is dust and dirt.
Lavatory arrangements are woefully inadequate.— New
York “Herald Tribune” London reporter.
*****
Russia has been allotted several million dollars’
worth of vital U.S. machine tools, and U.S. aviation
gasoline is still getting to that country. For the first
time since 1935 the U.S.S.R. is buying huge quanti-
ties of U.S. cotton, though Russia had a surplus this
season of more than 1,000,000 bales. It is therefore
reasonable to assume that Germany is getting indirectly
from us through Russia urgently needed supplies
which Germany can’t buy directly from us. — New
York “Daily News” letter.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
Pilot is on holidays, but will be back next week.
Melbourne-owned horses cannot win
even one of their own minor Cup races.
Visitors accounted for the Melbourne,
Caulfield, Moonee Valley, Williamstown
and Mentone Cups, and Fearless, owned
in Sydney, justified his 11-to-8 favoritism
for the Epsom Cup, run at Mentone on
Saturday.
Fearless has stood up to hard work
and racing in remarkable fashion. A
lightly-framed chestnut, he has been
“up” for about a year, but on Saturday
he beat Keelie and Fearnought in time
which equalled Harford’s course record
for 10| furlongs. Not many open races
have been run over this distance in the
last year or two, Harford’s time having
been recorded in a restricted race ; but
rain fell steadily throughout the running
of the Cup, and the track was affected
accordingly.
At the time of writing owner Mac
Sawyer had not decided the immediate
future of his horse. He was uncertain
whether to take him back to Sydney,
where he himself trains Fearless, or leave
him in Melbourne under Steve Murphy’s
care. Fearless is engaged in the Summer
Cup at Randwick, but it is considered
unlikely that he will contest that race.
Fearless was always a warm favorite
on the strength of his good showing at
the Valley a week earlier, but he had to
be ridden desperately by Vic Hartney to
grab a half-head win in the last stride.
Keelie looked all over a winner when
he shot through on the rails at the turn
and established a clear lead, but he weak-
ened right at the finish. This pair, Fear-
nought, who finished third, and Rambler,
who made all the pace but tired into
fifth position at the finish, had the race
to themselves from the start. It was a
day of close finishes for Sawyer, as later
he received news that Breeze, whom he
owns and trains, had dead-heated for
first at Randwick.
Sawyer believes in giving his horses
light seasons at the stud. He won races
with Kagal and Mitsui after they had
done stud duty, and intended to mate
Fearless with several mares last season;
but plans had to be scrapped.
Keelie is one of the gayest deceivers
in Melbourne, and it was unfortunate for
owner Victor Plumb that he should strike
Fearless on the very day his imported
horse consented to put his heart into his
work. Keelie won the corresponding
race last year with 8.10, as against the 7.7
he carried on Saturday, and would have
won again had the distance been the
same —half a furlong shorter. It was no
consolation to his owner to realise that
Keelie was a winner half a furlong from
home on Saturday.
Punters are a long-suffering race, but
some protection should be afforded them
when a horse is withdrawn after it has
been in the starter’s hands. They lost
their money “cold” after Laveur had
been kicked while lining up for the start
of a Steeplechase at Flemington, and at
Mentone many were again denied a run
for their money after Manawatu had been
injured before the start of the Manum-
bar Handicap. Manawatu dashed through
the tapes, somersaulted, injured himself
and his jockey, S. Ralph, and was
declared by the club’s vet. to be unfit to
run. Stewards permitted his withdrawal,
but as he had been called into line there
was no refund of bets. Backed at 8 and
10 to 1, Manawatu had supporters for
£2OO to £2O (twice) and £2OO to £24, while
on the tote he had backers for £llO 15s.
for a win and £126 15s. for a place.
Stewards have discretionary powers to
declare bets off or to make an order con-
cerning the settlement of bets when a
horse is withdrawn after the time for
scratching, but before it has been called
up by the starter, and punters consider
that it would be only fair to extend their
powers to deal similarly with cases such
as Laveur and Manawatu.
Several months ago owner Ned
O’Dwyer intended to retire Magic Circle
to the stud, but his decision to give her
another season on the racecourse has
had happy financial results. Backed and
beaten at Moonee Valley a week earlier,
Magic Circle was the medium of a plunge
which forced her price from 7 to 1 down
to second favorite at threes for the Mor-
dialloc Stakes on Saturday. Her chance
looked more like 30 to 1 when she
was ahead of only two horses rounding
the turn, but she dashed through to take
the lead about half a furlong from home,
and battled on gamely to win by a head
from 10-year-old Kanuri. Magic Circle
has been a rare bargain at her yearling
cost of 55 guineas, and further success
should come her way before she retires
to the stud next season. O’Dwyer stated
on Saturday that she would probably have
a spell before racing again.
Old Vienna, who is owned by ex-
Lord Mayors Luxton and Coles, drew
attention to his immediate future by a
promising third to Magic Circle and
Kanuri. A rank outsider, he was one
of the leaders throughout, and, as it was
only his second race since a spell, will
improve. Old Vienna was a smart gal-
loper last season, winning juvenile races
at Moonee Valley and Williamstown.
Saki, favorite at 5 to 2, ran on well,
fifth, after losing his position near the
three furlongs, and a seven-furlongs race
should suit him nicely.
Steve Murphy and his jockey Vic Hart-
ney are on the crest of another winning
wave. They were associated with the
success of Fearless in the Epsom Cup,
while Murphy completed a double with
St. Fervent in the second Parkdale Welter
division, in which riding was restricted
to cross-country jockeys. St. Fervent
gave Murphy his ninth metropolitan and
provincial win in less than a month, and
Hartney’s success on Fearless was his
fifth in succession, his sixth from his last
seven rides and his ninth from his last
19. Bookmaker-owner Eddie O’Brien,
one of Murphy’s patrons, has also been
in luck lately, having won three races
with Pannade, two with Florin and one
with St. Fervent.
St. Fervent was very lame in the near
foreleg after he had beaten the pace-
maker, Beaufiler, in the last stride, and
it may be some time before he races
again. He has had tendon trouble for
months, and it is remarkable that he
has lasted so long. Sold cheap after he
had broken down, apparently hopelessly,
after his second to Cuddle at w.f.a. at
Caulfield in the autumn of 1936, tried at
the stud and subsequently gelded, he
made a comeback with three successive
country wins earlier this year. O’Brien
bought him after the third of those wins,
won first-up with him at Ascot, and has
won two more races since. Now eight
years old, St. Fervent was backed from
5 to 4 against to 10 to 9 on on Saturday.
Fort Regal showed by his third that
there is still hope for him. Now five years
old, he appeared to be the makings of
a champion when he ran second to Nuf-
field in the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes,
and a five-figure offer was refused for
him after that race. He has been hard
to train during the last two seasons, and
P. Quinlan’s perseverance with him de-
serves reward.
Our Boy, one of the most versatile
horses in training in Melbourne, finished
brilliantly to win the first Parkdale Welter
division. Last at the half-mile, and seem-
ingly hopelessly placed at the turn, where
Gold Token had a long lead, he caught
the pacemaker about half a furlong from
home, and beat him easily. Beaustone
was only a moderate third, but a slow
start did not help him. Our Boy seems
likely to be better than ever this time
up, and further success on the flat should
come his way before he races over hurdles
again. He started slightly less fancied
than Ouverte on Saturday, but the latter
was beaten out of a place after appear-
ing to have had every chance.
N.S.W. studmaster Percy Miller had
two runners, Silver and Binker, in the
Murray Handicap, and the former upset
the Fort Garry applecart by easily beat-
ing the odds-on favorite. Punters wanted
nothing but Fort Garry, with the result
that he firmed from 6 to 4 against to
10 to 9 on, with 10 to 1 bar one on offer
at barrier-rise. Silver, who eased from
sixes to tens, was untroubled after lead-
ing into the straight, Fort Garry, who
had every chance, just beating Floretle
for second money. Florette, a Veilmond
filly, showed a lot of pace, and should be
cheap at her yearling cost of 60 guineas.
Silver’s form was an improvement on
his previous efforts, but, as Jack Holt
points out, all his other races had been
up the straight at Flemington. Obviously
he appreciated racing round a turn on
Saturday.
Silver cost Miller 700 guineas as a
yearling, and on breeding he should be
able to gallop. He is a brother in blood
to the Victoria Derby winner Lucrative,
both being by Gay Lothario, and out of
full sisters. Miller’s other representative,
Binker, trained by W. Duncan, shaped
well enough in sixth position to indi-
cate that he will pay his way. Leo James,
a 90-guineas colt by John James, showed
up fairly well in fourth position, ahead
of Eolian, whose rider was reprimanded
for not riding her out at the finish. Eolian
may not have filled a place, in any case,
but place-bettors commend the stewards
for looking after their interests in this
respect.
Counsel recorded an attractive per-
formance to win the Manumbar Handi-
cap for three-year-olds. A furlong from
home Naiad seemed likely to give book-
makers a 100-to-l result, but Counsel, last
at the five furlongs, threaded his way
through the field to beat her comfortably.
Star Boarder was never farther back than
third, and ended in that position. Coun-
sel’s form was an improvement on his
display in open company at Moonee
Valley a week earlier, but, according to
his trainer, he was struck by some object
during that race. One of his eyes was
swollen and inflamed afterwards. A
gelding by Law Maker from Open Mind,
Counsel is likely to develop into a useful
stayer. He lost condition during his
winter spell, but his trainer built him up
again by breaking raw eggs into his daily
feed ration. Recent wins in the Wood-
end Cup and Manumbar Handicap show
that Counsel has thrived on the treat-
ment.
T. Ryan, one of five brothers riding
in South Australia, made a special trip
from Adelaide to pilot Duralium in the
Cheltenham Hurdle race. Duralium
started slightly less fancied than Bonnie
Laddie, but, while the latter lost ground
at almost every jump and pulled up
badly, Duralium led practically through-
out to win easily from Roist and Big
Swell. Duralium cost 1400 guineas as a
yearling, but was a failure on the flat.
He is paying his way in his new sphere,
however, his last four races having yielded
two wins over hurdles and one in a
Jumpers’ Flat.
* * * *
Having shivered at Rosehill a few days
earlier, Sydney racegoers should have
enjoyed the first blaze of summer on the
opening day of the Warwick Farm
December meeting, held at Randwick.
After the rains the sun raised a heat-
haze across the flat, and the grass on the
going, which looked long to begin with,
seemed to sprout another inch during the
day. To preserve the track for the big
meeting just ahead the false rail was in
use, and by way of further precaution
the hurdles for the first event were set
up along the outside rail. This arrange-
ment presently had the unusual merit of
providing onlookers with something to
laugh at, however little disposed to mirth
they may have been before the day was
over. There were eight events and as
many beaten favorites.
With the jumps thus placed the hurdle
race developed into a running tussle on
the part of the horses, wanting to cross
to the inside rail, against what must have
appeared to them as sheer wilful pig-
headedness on the part of their riders,
who knew that to skirt a jump thus was
to be out of the race. At the first jump
a brown gelding with the ominous name
of Larwood displayed the stubborn
determination both of his namesake and
of his breeding (being a son of Back-
wood, who won a Melbourne Cup at his
second attempt) by running off and
careering along the forbidden going. At
the next jump Grocer, a son of Green-
grocer, and ridden by Optimism masquer-
ading under the name of H. Paton, per-
formed likewise. Paton brought him
back and made him take that jump and
the next one, but when at the next he
ran off again Paton decided that the chase
was hopeless, a conclusion in which
Grocer’s backers (if any) were four
jumps ahead of him.
Meanwhile Forestage (another to keep
up Backwood’s good name for determina-
tion) had also run off; Gold Pan had
added variety by hanging in ; Four All,
attempting to run off, had crashed into
the fence and thrown his rider; and
Bigga (a son on the maternal side of
Nuf Sed) had fancied he could get rid
of a rider enjoying the name of J. Kelly
merely by throwing him. Kelly remounted
and kept him company over the remain-
ing obstacles.
That left four of the ten starters taking
an active part in the event, and as Ti
Trol was having a private struggle with
his rider most of the way, and Battle
Star also seemed to fear that the stewards
would be down on him for running wide,
only two of the ten —the second favorite,
Guardsman, and the favorite, The Winger
—were left to have it out. They finished
with three-quarters of a length between
them in that order, Battle Star arriving
some time later in third place.
After that hectic prelude all present
settled down to serious racing. Ridden
by McCarten, Beau Port, the dark grey
colt by Beau Pere-Grey Port who cost
2200 guineas, was always a short-priced
favorite for the Maiden Nursery Handi-
cap for colts and geldings, run at a shade
over five furlongs. Some time after the
rest had gone down the straight he was
brought out on to the track as ostenta-
tiously as a woman wearing a 2200-
dollar fur, or as a w.f.a. champion at
least. Officials on their grey ponies
shepherded him, McCarten sat him like a
rajah, and he himself pranced with cost-
price consciousness. He looked burly,
but he is naturally a big colt, and, being
trained by G. Price, was probably in
better racing trim than a critical eye
might have judged him.
In that respect no fault could be found
with Skerries, who beat him a head in a
desperately-ridden finish. The tall bay
colt by Caithness-Dusky Queen, trained
by N. Quigley for “W. Biey,” was a pic-
ture of racing condition. In gameness
and galloping ability he justified the
promise of his two two-year-old trial wins
and his fifth at each of his subsequent
starts in the good company of the
Breeders’ Plate and the Canonbury Stakes.
McMenamin, who was in particularly
good form, winning on three of his four
mounts, including the Nursery double,
was seen at his best on Skerries in the
two parts of a race in which he specially
shines —the smart start and the hard-
ridden finish. He had Skerries well away
with Gregory, who began smartly from
the rails, and they led Beau Port to the
turn. By then Gregory (who was in
need of the run, and will win presently)
had had enough, and Skerries came away
pursued by Beau Port. With a furlong to
go Beau Port was up with him. Before
they reached the post Beau Port had his
head in front, but McMenamin got
another effort out of Skerries.
Ron Rico (Tippler-Mardora), who had
been hopelessly left at his only other start
(in the Macarthur Stakes at Rosehill),
came with a promising run to take third
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
By “SENTRY.”
Delamere Trial Hurdle: Winter-
set, 1 ; Suzaire, 2; Grand Time, 3.
Mallacoota Handicap: Reg, 1 ;
Leicester Square, 2 ; Eolian, 3.
Pembroke Trial: Livingstone, 1;
Contact, 2 ; Olorus, 3.
Lincolnshire Handicap: Cushla
Machree, 1 ; Pamelus, 2 ; Aspire, 3.
Ascot Cup: Pannade, 1 ; Keelie,
2 ; Counsel, 3.
Berkeley Welter: Prince Ronald,
1 ; Denis Girl, 2 ; Montaza, 3.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Maiden Hurdle: Windjammer, 1 ;
Lasting, 2.
Nursery Handicap: Kingsdale,
1 ; Linemond, 2.
Corinthian Cup: Tyrannus, 1 ;
Captain Gore, 2 ; Lithgow, 3.
Dundas Handicap: Feminist, 1 ;
Rodborough, 2 ; Marengo, 3.
December Handicap: Sedunum,
1 ; Malagigi, 2.
Carlingford Mile: Pierce, 1 ;
Veiled Witch, 2 ; Bestop, 3.


I .
■M
m
■: '
*
MV
••My" ;#
w
$1
V--- '•■'x'
»
*
•.
v .;.
Develop a single
line of thought
in tyres and
keep your money
in Australia....
/I IJ ST BA LIAS C HAM PI
money. Another to show promise was
Prince, a neat-looking bay colt by
Cheveley Lad from that good little mare
Salamander. Brox (Roxburgh-Attached)
should also be worth keeping in mind on
his run.
The fillies’ division gave McMenamin
a less strenuous ride on a rare sort of
winner for him —one starting at 20 to 1.
This was the obviously-named and nice
style of chestnut filly Red Wendy, by
Peter Pan-Literature. Having, so to
speak, won the previous race at both ends,
McMenamin won this one at the start.
Though almost on the extreme outside
of the field of 18, Red Wendy shot well
clear - as the barrier rose, and, though
Stainless (Man’s Pal-Monoxide) drew
level as they took the turn and stuck on
well in the run home, Red Wendy was
going away at the finish.
The winner’s performance was game
and good, but La Junta (Melfort-
Woorambie), who had beaten the rest of
the field at Rosehill as easily as Cradle
Song beat her, looked a decidedly unlucky
third. Crowded back early, she did not
get clear galloping space till they were
well into the straight. She was ridden by
the diminutive Mulley, who claims a 71b.
allowance. Blue Metal (Metallurgy-Blue
Tress) was a very handy fourth.
Perhaps out of respect for the going,
which did not cut up much, but was
sluggish, no fewer than nine of the 11
starters in the Flying were sent out with
apprentices up, and far and away the
best of them, J. Thompson, won it. His
mount was the hitherto unlucky Maori-
lander, Pen. A four-year-old bay horse
by Acre from a dam of the same name
as one of Australia’s best sires, Windbag,
Pen had run a good race at Rosehill on
the previous Saturday. There he had
led, had been passed clearly by Valve, but
had come again gamely. Unable to match
the early pace of Sir Regal, The Elk and
Roxford in the Randwick field, Thomp-
son nursed his mount along in about
fourth or fifth place, getting him through
and clear with a furlong to go, Pen lasting
it out well to hold off Red Thespian by
half a length.
On the strength of his dazzling finish
at Rosehill Red Thespian was always
favorite. He unwound another splendid
finish, and if these two runs have done
the old fellow any good he should be
thereabouts at a distance more to his
liking. Pen, starting at eights, ran the
six furlongs 17 yards in 1.12£, not bad
time on the dull track. After making the
running, Sir Regal was a respectable
third.
The three place-fillers had all run good
races at recent starts, supporters of each
having had fair grounds for hard-luck
stories. In that respect Pen has had a
career of his own, ill-luck having dogged
him ever since he crossed the Tasman
a couple of years ago. In the meantime
few horses racing in Sydney have been
in places so often and so rarely success-
ful in winning. A feature of his most
recent runs has been his improved stick-
ing quality. Always a smart horse in
a field, it was proved on Saturday that
he can come from behind, and, unless
he now lapses into another of the place
sequences which have followed his rare
successes, he should be capable of win-
ning in good company at seven furlongs,
perhaps even at a mile.
Postman, the only other runner with
recent sound form, was a creditable
fourth, after being twice checked. Del-
mestor looked in need of a run or two,
and the same goes, even more so, for
Geebung. Both were always well back,
though Delmestor, who lumps heavy
burdens extraordinarily well for her size,
improved a little in the straight.
The smallest field of the day contested
the Milperra Handicap, over about \\
mile. It was remarkable only for the
downfall of another favorite —Valhalla —
and the bold showing of Malagigi. After
Blinky Bill had ended his customary role
of pacemaker to the turn, Malagigi, who
had started to move up six furlongs from
home, came on strongly for a while
longer. Having his first run since his
poor showing in the Metropolitan, he
was soon beaten, but it looked a more
than useful performance from a summer
meeting viewpoint. Valhalla was the first
to put settled to his account, but Val-
halla’s finish lacked dash and he was
easily beaten by the suburban performer
Early Hope. Yours Truly was a moder-
ate third, without having looked likely
at any stage. Bristol loafed at the tail
of the field all the way.
Rosehill form proved sound in the first
division of the Encourage Handicap, in
which Rodrigo, who at Rosehill was
beaten half a head by the superb horse-
manship of J. Thompson on Veiled
Witch, won by a three-lengths’ margin
which could probably have been doubled.
If horsemanship could have again turned
the trick Thompson would have again
managed it. As it was he kept Tyrannus
in hand for a swooping finish, which was
duly unwound, though without threaten-
ing the winner. In the second division
Thompson had the mount on Tom’s
Pick, but that hot favorite caved in
badly after flattering his supporters to the
leger. He was certainly interfered with
there, but looked well beaten at the time.
In winning nicely from Merton and La
Capitana, Merrimba gave trainer Jack
King a deserved turn of luck.
Though Willie Green, winner of the
Farm Welter Handicap, started at only
7 to 1, no fewer than four other of the
eight starters were preferred to him *in
the betting. As is usual when the books
are having the best of it, odds all day,
despite the unvaried downfall of favorites,
were kept cramped, the rank outsider in
the main event being at a beggarly 14 to
1. Mandowie, ridden by “last race Cook,”
was a false favorite in the last event, the
other places being taken by Opportunist
and Überous respectively. Tusculum,
standing back when the barrier rose,
trailed the field to the turn, from where
he made another of his strong finishing
runs to wind up a close fourth.
* * * *
The crowd at Randwick on Wednes-
day was so scant and the betting so thin
that it had to be presumed that those
present and those who stayed away were
alike laboring under the taxation handi-
caps. Without being a crush, there was
some improvement on Saturday, when the
run of beaten favorites received a check
or two; three good colts—Kingsdale,
Yaralla and Rimveil —performed right
up to their sterling looks; that dandy
mare Feminist turned in a run which
Staked her a fair sort of claim in the
Summer Cup field, and one or two other
runners revealed interesting form from
the point of view of the summer meet-
ings.
The opening race —the Nursery Handi-
cap, run at a shade over five furlongs —
saw the first of the day’s favorites, and
the first of its specially attractive colts,
safely home. This was the smallish but
solid and compact brown two-year-old
Kingsdale (Andrea-Rippendale), who had
won with a large gap of daylight behind
him on the muddy track at Rosehill the
previous Saturday. The books summed
up on his mortgage-chance at Randwick
by offering the extraordinary odds of
16 to 1 bar one. Those who laid 9 to 4
on Kingsdale may have had their qualms
in the running, but he landed the money
with a performance even better than that
he had given at Rosehill. On this occa-
sion he got away slowly, was five horses
back when they had gone a furlong, and
was giving away a fair amount of start
as they took the turn. The way he then
cut down the field, took the lead and held
it to the post stamped him definitely a
good colt.
Kingsdale was called on to give the
rest, except one, anything up to a bit
over a stone. He seemed to find his 8.10
a trifle troublesome in the fast early
stages, but when it came to stretching
out he did the job gallantly. The simi-
larly burdened Gold Strand, a very likely-
looking chestnut colt by Portofino-
Rolvan Queen, had anything but the
best of the handicaps. Gold Strand was
weighted on his moderate third in the
Canonbury Stakes, in which he was over
six lengths behind the winner. On the
other hand, Kingsdale, who had missed
the Canonbury, had the same impost for
recently winning by six lengths on the bit.
Gold Strand was again third, after
having to carry his load at a fast pace
all the way in making the running with
Pickpocket. He headed the Piccadilly
colt as they rounded the turn, and was
leading and looking a possible winner
nearing the leger. When Knox there
brought Kingsdale alongside him, Gold
Strand was no match for that strong gal-
loper, and was also passed by Lawgiver, a
bay colt by Law Maker-Gallantic, who
revealed possession of a strong finishing
run.
Subsequent form of runners who did
well in the Canonbury Stakes emphasises
Kingsdale’s quality. Skerries, who
finished two horses behind Gold Strand
in that event, performed splendidly in
defeating Beau Port on Wednesday. It’s
Funny, who beat Gold Strand a head for
second money in the Canonbury, won
well shortly afterwards. On Saturday
the Canonbury winner, Mannerheim,
carried 9st. to victory at the Q.T.C. meet-
ing at Ascot, Brisbane.
Good as Kingsdale is he is unlikely
to go as far as the Kirkham Stakes winner,
Yaralla. A truly magnificent golden-red
son of The Buzzard-Even Keel, the
Breeders’ Plate and Kirkham winner has
all along shown great form singularly
early for one of that sire’s progeny.
Before winning those two races he had
already won three two-year-old trials,
and is therefore now a winner at all of
his five starts. In appearance and style
of galloping he comes somewhere in
between Phar Lap and Ajax, however he
may measure up to them in quality later.
He hasn’t the great bounding strides of
the record stake-winner, nor has he yet,
of course, Ajax’s majestic looks, but he
is nevertheless a powerful galloper out
of the ordinary, and in looks he would
already take the eye wherever he was
saddled up.
The Kirkham Stakes, only a three-
horse event to begin with, became only
a two-horse event when Final Victory, a
brown Phaleron Bay colt whose bad
barrier manners even G. Price hasn’t
been able to remedy, gave the others a
furlong start. It was probably expected
that the exceptionally smart Double
Remove-Golden Lullaby filly Cradle
Song, with her 121 b. advantage, would
get a break in the early stages, but,
though she led, she could not shake the
colt off. He headed, her after they had
gone a little over two furlongs, and in
the straight came right away, to win in
the hollowest fashion by four lengths.
The Kirkham five furlongs 14| yards
took lmin. 2|sec., but it was not a fast
track and the rim never looked anything
but a work gallop for Yaralla. Manner-
heim covered his five furlongs on Satur-
day in lmin. lsec., and it was subse-
quently given out that he would be sent
to Sydney for the December Stakes on
Boxing Day, when he would come up
against Yaralla.
Horses who linger at the barrier are
best left strictly alone, but if Price can
do anything with Final Victory in that
respect the colt will pay his way. When
he did get going, he stretched out in a
sweeping style over the middle couple of
furlongs that denoted more than useful
galloping ability. He finished up canter-
ing in 20-odd lengths behind Cradle Song.
The third good colt to show out, giv-
ing a performance of perhaps more im-
portance in view of the racing just ahead,
was Rimveil, who could hardly have run
a better Villiers trial. Fresh from the
successful foray his connections made on
Melbourne to win the Batman Stakes
with him over the Villiers distance, the
son of Veilmond-Rima not only won the
Three-year-old Handicap carrying top
weight of 9.8, giving the other eight
starters about a stone and upwards, but
he looked as if the run would, if any-
thing, improve him. He should be in
just about perfect trim a couple of weeks
hence.
Rimveil won by a full two lengths,
running the mile and 27 yards in 1.38,
which was good time on the day, and
no doubt could have been a little im-
proved on. He looked the winner from
when they had gone a furlong, Bartle
there bringing him up handy to the pace-
maker, Vallesano, moving into the lead
as they turned for home, to win very
easily. War Trophy and honest little
Rodrigo filled the places.
Rodrigo had been scratched from the
earlier Trial Stakes, in which he had
looked to have an outstanding chance.
The winner was Buckshee, a five-year-old
son of Windbag. Buckshee was well
back in the big field early, but plugged
on throughout, to win going away.
Veiled Witch ran another sound race,
finishing well to cut Cryon out of second
money.
Rimveil comes down to 8.2 in the
Villiers ; Feminist, who carried a cour-
tesy weight of 9.7 in the Camden Handi-
cap sprint, has 8.1 in the other leg of the
big double. She was officially placed
seventh in the Camden, but at that was
not more than three lengths from the
winner. She had finished strongly from
last at the home turn, and in another
stride or two would have been a very
close fourth. She took the eye as being
surprisingly forward in condition, even
allowing that the Cup is only a couple
of weeks away, whereas Malagigi, who
went well on the opening day, looked
in need of racing. Malagigi, however,
has hitherto shown that a mile and a
half is as far as he likes, and might be
best suited in Tattersall’s Cup over that
distance on New Year’s Day. Feminist,
as well as having a 31b. advantage over
him in the Summer Cup, will be further
suited by the extra furlong. Feminist
has won twice at the Cup distance at
Randwick, including the 1939 Metro-
politan, in which she carried 7.11, only
41b. less than her Summer Cup weight.
In winning the Camden narrowly from
Pierce and Waireka, Adios showed re-
markable improvement on his eighth to
Postman at Rosehill. Though burdened
with 9.12 and well back early, Adios
came with a powerful run to cut down
Postman in the last half-furlong and hold
Pierce off by half a neck. Waireka, half
a head away third, led in the early stages,
gave way before the turn, and then came
again—a good run. The run of Pierce,
a four-year-old son of Pantheon, was
even more promising. He came from
even further back than Adios with a
splendid finishing effort. Postman, fourth,
looked to be possibly nearer the outside
than the inside rail at the turn, and yet
had charge at the leger. Moreover, he
faltered at the brown crossing patch
thereabouts, which patch was also to con-
tribute to the defeat of Marengo later on.
Dewar’s remarkable run of success re-
ceived a check in the Warwick December
Handicap, and no great wonder. His
8.11 represented a rise of 121 b., with an


sd
Sole Agents: JOUBERT Q. JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
BEST*
BRITISH
BLADE
SAVE MONEY
9
ITS
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
ore an aid to
SAFETY
Good acceleration is a definite
aid to safety. Ability to dart
swiftly out of danger may save
your car from an accident.
Install Champion spark
plugs. They keep your car at
its peak performance. And
Champions save you money
in fuel economy. .
An Empire product—made in
Windsor, Canada
v '-s:
increase of two furlongs to be covered.
In the circumstances, his very moderate
performance could be excused. He made
heavy going of his burden all the way,
looking a foregone loser at all stages.
Sticking to the rails as they turned for
home, with apparently little chance of get-
ting through even if he had been equal
to doing so, he showed a glimpse of his
quality in the run home to finish third to
Bronze Flight and Kurrawid, who were
meeting him at a considerable advan-
tage on Summer Cup weights. Dewar,
who is certainly capable of much better
than this run would suggest, comes down
to 8.3 in the Cup.
A protest entered on Kurrawid’s behalf
recalled that there was a time when it
may have been upheld, which is not to
suggest that it should have been. The
trouble, which occurred inside the last
furlong, was virtually identical with the
occurrence in the Metropolitan that was
awarded to Oro on protest against the
winner, High Cross. The difference in
decisions was all the more pointed by
the fact that, whereas Oro on that occa-
sion did not look to have the slightest
chance of beating High Cross, Kurrawid,
in very similar circumstances, was rapidly
running down Bronze Flight, who had
seemed to take his running, and would
have beaten the winner in another stride,
instead of being beaten a long head. The
stewards, under the chairmanship of
J. Donohoe, making his debut in that
capacity, ruled that Bronze Flight was a
clear two lengths in front when taken to
the rails. On that reckoning, though it
looked less, the decision could not have
been otherwise; but precedents are
awkward things to have about the place.
The last race —a shade over seven fur-
longs at welter weights—saw the favorite,
Marengo, most unluckily beaten. When
making a good run, and looking like
overhauling the leading pair, Marengo
leapt the foot track between leger and
stands, and, as well as thus being put off
his stride, did not take kindly to Thomp-
son’s hard riding, and ran about, finishing
a length behind the dead-heaters, Asnazu
and Breeze. Even so, it was a good run
from the point of view of the Villiers,
in which Marengo has a year on Rimveil
and receives 21b. from the three-year-old.
* * * *
Most interesting entrant for Moonee
Valley’s meeting next Monday is the
“raffle colt” Winston. He was presented
by A. G. Hunter, who offered to buy him
back for 500 guineas if the holder of the
winning Red Cross ticket preferred cash
to the horse—sales yielded £4400. The
Windbag colt will be raced by Hunter
and G. R. Nicholas.
Hunter and Nicholas have become
partners in the ownership of several
horses. Horses owned by Nicholas were
previously raced on lease by C. Robbie,
but Hunter has given Nicholas a half-
interest in Throttle (third in the Oaks)
in exchange for a half-interest in Posi-
tron. Nicholas has owned several useful
horses, including Landlaw, and has many
attractive foals by imported St. Magnus
at his Shirley Park Estate stud, Woodend.
f * * *
Victorian owners and trainers are con-
cerned at the reduction of prize-money
by some metropolitan and provincial
clubs. Many allow that the heavy tax-
increases must have a serious effect upon
racing, but all agree that stakes should
not be cut until the game begins to feel
the pinch. Meantime, attendances remain
at a high level, despite gloomy
prophecies as to the effect of petrol ration-
ing, and three “near-to-Melbourne” clubs
sold out of racebooks at recent meetings.
Owners and trainers are not complaining
against stake reductions by leading clubs
which race for patriotic purposes, but
until decreased attendances show defi-
nitely that racing is feeling the strain
there seems no real reason why minor
clubs should prune their stakes. After
all, these clubs are not run on a pro-
prietary basis.
* * * *
Spring results revealed the paucity of
good horses owned in Melbourne, and
even the absence in Maoriland of Beau
Vite will not make things much easier
for them in w.f.a. races next autumn.
High Caste and Beaulivre still stand in
the way, even if Ajax strikes top form
and Lucrative develops as anticipated.
Great hopes, however, centre in Dhoti.
The English horse created a good impres-
sion by his second to his stablemate
Aurie’s Star when making his Australian
debut at Moonee Valley in August, but
unfortunately he received a kick and was
placed aside. That performance in-
dicated the probability of his reproducing
his good English form, and the enforced
spell has done him the world of good.
He has returned to Sinclair’s stable, and,
to be trained as a sprinter, his principal
missions will be the Futurity Stakes and
the Newmarket.
* * * *
Good judges are emphatic that J. Pur-
tell is one of Melbourne’s best riders, but
results in the metropolitan area this
season reveal that his winning average is
less than 10 p.c. That, however, is not
a true reflection of his ability. Experienc-
ing the inevitable run of “outs” earlier
in the season, he was riding at his top
again when stewards recently stood him
down for a month. Further, his per-
centage suffers by reason of his handy
weight. Able to ride a little over 7.0,
he does not decline mounts that have
little or no chance of success. Another
leading jockey, E. Preston, at 7.5, rides a
lot of forlorn hopes; otherwise his
metropolitan average would be better
than something over 8 p.c. Leading
jockey H. Badger had ridden p.c.
metropolitan winners until Saturday, as
against the 28 p.c. of N. Creighton, whose
weight limits his opportunities. Creigh-
ton is unquestionably an accomplished
horseman, and, still sticking to percen-
tages, he leads Sydney jockey D.
Munro as far as Melbourne is concerned.
Munro’s 29 rides during the spring car-
nival yielded a winning average of
25.8 p.c.
* * * *
Titan, the latest English horse to arrive
in Australia, will probably be raced by
his new owner, F. W. Hughes, before
retiring to the stud. The only son of
Hyperion in Australia, Titan is a fine type
of chestnut horse and impressed good
judges who saw him before he went into
quarantine. He was a good performer
in England, and if he acclimatises well
should be a valuable proposition for
Hughes, who races more extensively than
any other owner.
* * * *
Recent arrival in Melbourne of the
Sydney jumpers Jack Mac and Dartbrook
indicate that Sydney owners have
awakened at last to the fact that there
is not so much difference now between
hurdling standards in the two cities. Also
that prize-money in Melbourne makes a
hurdler a much better proposition. All
cannot be Cheery Jacks or Valhallas, but
those horses have shown that the battens
have no terrors for proved brush
hurdlers. Pace is essential in brush
hurdles in Sydney, and ability to be in
or near the lead counts just as much over
hurdles of any description as in a flat
race. Cheery Jack led over the last mile
and a half of the G.N. Hurdle, and
Valhalla led throughout his two hurdle
races at Flemington this spring. Inci-
dentally, both are . still useful flat
gallopers, and their southern form sug-
gests that Masterpiece, one of the most
versatile horses in Sydney, would be a
success if given a trial in Melbourne.
* * * *
Melbourne hurdling form has not been
as good this year as in many previous
seasons, but there is material for im-
provement next winter. Our Boy, Atticus,
Kevastar and Bureaucrat are a credit-
able collection, and the first-named prob-
ably would have been hard to beat in the
G.N. Hurdle had not an injury sustained
in winning the Port Phillip Hurdle neces-
sitated his withdrawal. That mishap
might have been a blessing in disguise.
Our Boy was comparatively inexperi-
enced at the time, but, all going well, he
will be a seasoned jumper next July.
Cheery Jack, now trained in Sydney
again, may be given sufficient weight to
prevent a second G.N. Hurdle win, but
the G.N. Steeplechase would provide him
with a good opportunity. A natural
jumper, it is unlikely he would be
troubled by fences, and the conditions
of the race stipulate that he could not
receive more than 12.7.
* * * *
Ballarat Cup winner Royal Jubilee
adds to the many well-known performers
who have struck top form after a light
stud season. Remarc, winner of the Wil-
liamstown Cup, served a few mares in
Westralia, and Royal Jubilee, seven years
old, is already the “daddy” of a yearling
filly and a colt foal. A black by Beau
Fils from Divine Lady, Royal Jubilee
has been recognised for some time as
one of the best welter horses in Mel-
bourne. His record-breaking win in the
Ballarat Cup incidentally improved the
remarkable average of rider A. Bailey in
that race. Bailey has had only four
mounts for three wins.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
C Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
and touring the United States .)
One of the stranger sights on Ameri-
can courses is to see players bending
down on the fairways and teeing-up their
ball. This custom —as “winter rules” —
began when players found the lies very
poor in cold winter months and early
spring. It has no official approval,
but nevertheless it is nation-wide, and
has become a definite part of American
rolf.
When I first encountered it I was
puzzled for a few holes; then my
partner informed me that it was the
thing to do. The custom has spread so
much that some of the newer players tee
their ball up wherever they are, regard-
less of whether they are in a hazard, the
rough or on the fairway.
Teeing one’s ball up even on the fair-
way is a tremendous advantage. I have
found that after becoming used to the
habit it is hard to play shots from where
they lie. One of the elementary rules of
golf states that “The ball shall be played
from where it lies” or a penalty of some
sort is added to the score. Not so
long ago I competed in a 72-hole open
tournament at Greensboro, North Caro-
lina, where the committee ruled that
owing to the course being covered with
snow, the competitors were allowed to
tee-up their ball anywhere on the course
except in a hazard. This extraordinary
ruling was really uncalled for, as, apart
from a few pools of casual water and
spots of snow that dotted the fairways
at infrequent places, the lies were just
the same as they would be had a heavy
shower of rain fallen.
Getting used to playing under “winter
rules” is not good for golfing, as it makes
ordinary lies ever so much harder to play
than they actually are. They represent
a temptation that I find hard to push
away, but if I became used to such con-
ditions and played them at every oppor-
tunity I would soon find my champion-
ship play affected—it would upset my
mental outlook seeing the ball in an
indifferent lie and knowing I couldn’t
move it up to a better lie. From my
observations, I would say “winter rules”
would make most players who couldn’t
break 100 return from 95 to 96, while
those who score around 90 would find
86-87 their normal score. This differ-
ence is quite an important one, and has
done a great deal, in my opinion, to
give many U.S. golfers the idea that the
rules are of minor consideration.
Compared with British and Australian
players the Yankee is very backward in
his knowledge of rules* I really believe,
on experience I have had, that a good 30
per cent, of all American golfers are not
aware there are any more rules in golf
than those local ones on the back of the
score-card, and, of course, the famous
“winter rules” —“bung rules,” as I term
them. Even in the open championship
every year watchful officials are forced
to disqualify one or two of the country’s
best players found to be unwittingly
breaking a rule they should be fully
acquainted with. I have played with
several “names” in golf that have broken
minor rules on the way round ; yet all
this is done quite unintentionally. The
“hand mashie” is commonly used among
the average and longer-handicap golfers
on the crowded public courses; it is
usually used by a player after he has
had several unsuccessful attempts to get
his ball out of trouble. Its meaning is
obvious —he picks up his ball and throws
it on the fairway to save his time and
that of players behind.
In regard to “winter rules,” however,
the clubs encourage their players to use
them, as it speeds up the play as well as
making the game easier and more
pleasant. Prominent notices on first tees
state that “winter rules” are in force even
on competition days, so one can realise
how Jones did his 50 net last Saturday
and how many more he would have been
had he played the ball where it lay.
Maybe all handicap players should tee
up. They undoubtedly find golf an easier
and more pleasing game, and as they
have no championship thoughts, merely
wanting exercise and recreation, “winter
rules” may be the solution.
M.Q. and Rafferty
“Snow”: Recently listened to a discus-
sion between old-time boxers and trainers
upon what they considered the most
effective stop for a straight left. Opinions
were diversified: it could be slipped,
ducked, sidestepped, blocked and pushed
aside with the right glove, accord-
ing to the degree of cleverness of the
opposing boxer, but in the main the sum-
ming-up was to the effect that, with the
blow properly delivered straight from
the shoulder and with the full weight of
the body behind it, the opponent’s dial
generally did the stopping, and those
present mostly bore mute testimony to
the fact. All declared it the hardest
punch in the game to block, and be-
moaned the fact that it was now among
the things forgotten.
Ins and Outs
McCool’s emergence as an all-rounder
of parts was one of the few interesting
features of N.S.W. v. South Australia at
Sydney. The youngster made 90 and
39 n. 0., bagged 2 for 2 with his
slows —he has an extraordinary style —
and took a brilliant catch in the slips.
Pepper’s 77 and 35 were lively, and he
bowled pretty well. N.S.W.’s first innings
yielded 402 (Barnes 108), and when S.A.
failed to make more than 148 (Hamence
41, Badcock 38), the match became
merely an exhibition, and a rather dreary
exhibition at that. McCabe closed the
second time with seven down for 167,
then S.A. was outed for 48 (O’Reilly
five for 11). But the Central State has
two promising youngsters in Leak and
Roberts.


CHRISTMAS BULLETIN.
The Christmas Number of “The
Bulletin” will be out next week
(Dec. 18). Kylie Tennant, winner
of the S. H. Prior Prize, Gavin
Casey, Katharine Susannah Prichard,
Henrietta Drake-Brockman, J. H. M.
Abbott, Cecil Mann, A. C. Headley
and Douglas Stewart contribute
stories, and Australian art is worthily
represented. Sixty-eight pages for
sixpence, and interesting from
cover to cover.
SBB
i
J
KPu
# definitely part of the festivities!
The Popular Brownie (Price 8/9)
and every other Brownie
is sure of a warm welcome. . . .
Modern Folding Models, too; in
an extensive range see them.
Add to
the fun
with
KODAK
HOME
MOVIES
sd
What other present
costs so little —yet
gives so much? Give
a KODAK and your gift
will truly embody the
Christmas Spirit. $ $
See the fine display at
your nearest Kodak Dealers
FREE!
WRITE FOR LATEST
PHOTOGRAPHIC BOOKLETS
• OF ALL KODAK DEALERS AND
KODAK(A'asia) PT Y. LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Launceston, Toowoomba, Townsville,
Rockhampton, Cairns, Newcastle, Ballarat.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“March of Time,” Newsreels, Etc.
Australians, who are as quick to spot
the bloke who only talks fight as they
are to recognise and respect the bloke
who only talks when he’s forced to and
then acts as quick as he talks, have, in
recent newsreels and “March of Time”
films, had a good opportunity to witness
both examples.
There must be few who can equal the
“March of Time” people when it comes
to talking fight. While John Bull was
still striving earnestly to be at peace with
Artist Frith presenting The Great Levante with the Order of XXX for
pouring six quarts of beer, five nob biers of whisky, four glasses of port,
three glosses of champagne , two cocktails and one small measure of milk,
all from his one magic kettle — “How’s Tricks, at Sydney Royal.
the world, the “March of Time” boys
were talking fight as long and loud as any
alcoholic bluff artist. For a time, per-
haps, they may have had an audience.
The commentator bellowed assertively
and authoritatively and infused into the
pictures any meaning he chose. No-
body bothered to contradict him. Then
John Bull had to fight and, character-
istically, said little about it. It might
have been thought that, like any decent
bloke, the “March of Time” people would
have. shut up talking about a fight in
which they weren’t pulling their weight.
Far from it; they’re still talking as loud
as ever. Their latest effort, “The Ram-
parts We Watch,” talks about principles
and fighting for them for well over an
hour. It talks, particularly, about Uncle
Sam getting into the last war to
defend the way of living dear to him ;
it also says that the same way of living
needs defending again. But that’s all it
does say.
Meanwhile, thoroughly showing up the
“March of Time” efforts as a lot of talk,
other English and American newsreels
show John Bull fighting for that same
way of living. Recently “London Can
Take It” paid tribute to the Londoners
for the manner in which they are going
through the fierce hell of Nazi raids,
their calm, heroic acceptance of them and
their equally fierce determination to beat
back the attackers. Another newsreel, “A
World in Flames,” showed John Bull
managing the impossible in getting his
men out of Dunkirk under terrific enemy
fire ; and also getting his men back from
Norway while enemy ’planes bombed his
transports. Other newsreels have shown
his young men hurling themselves into
the sky and tearing down Nazi bombers ;
some films, taken from the fighting
’planes themselves, have shown the
British pilots practically cutting the thin
black shapes of the enemy ’planes to
pieces in the sky. Still more films have
shown the Dominions —Canada, S’Africa,
Australia and Maoriland —pouring out
everything they have to help the old man
in the tremendous fight he is putting up.
Meanwhile, the “March of Time” goes
on—talking.
“Sky Murder”
Nick Carter and Bartholomew the bee-
man, a modern sleuthing firm modelled
along the lines of Sherlock Holmes and
Watson, are in action again, this time at
Sydney Capitol. Walter Pidgeon, as the
d., mixes sleuthing with philandering, but
manages to retain sufficient interest in
the former to hound down a gang of Nazi
propagandists let loose on Gahd’s Own.
Donald Meek, as in one or two previous
films of this series, steals the show as
Bartholomew. Support earns special
mention in recognition of its amazing
title—“ Love, Honor and Oh Baby!”
* * * *
“Dance, Girl, Dance,” at Sydney Plaza,
is all about a couple of bewchus chorines,
one of whom aspires to pure dance, while
the other clings to the leg shows and
hopes for a fleshpot at the stage door.
Pure-dance lass is forced to stooge for
the other to keep herself alive, is cut
out of marrying millionaire by the leg-
show lass and finally finishes up in the
arms of pure dance and Ralph Bellamy.
Leg-show minx tosses millionaire back to
his former missus and returns to dis-
playing her limbs in the music halls.
Probably a moral in it for chorines.
Maureen O’Hara and Lucille Ball as the
two wenches are not hard to watch.
* * * *
Hoyts have added to their string of
movie houses in Sydney a newsreel
theatrette, the Globe. It is a comfort-
able little theatre, most commendable
features being the barnlike airy spacious-
ness of its single-deck interior and a
screen mounted well above the audience,
giving everyone an exceptionally fair go.
Luxurious pews, of course, are taken for
granted. Located next door to the Plaza.
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Children of the Moon”
It was a grim theme Gregan McMahon
presented at Melbourne Comedy on
Saturday. A flying major makes a forced
landing on a rockbound coast, is succored
by the only family living on it, and,
while he is mending a dislocated shoulder,
falls in love with the beautiful daughter,
proposes in mid-Victorian fashion and
is accepted.
It slowly develops that he has landed
among the moon-mad Athertons, among
whom the belief that they come from
the moon and must return there has been
hereditary for generations. The major’s
prospective father-in-law is back there
already, having run his car over the cliff
at the full moon. His fiancee’s grand-
father is moonstruck also and spends his
time making astronomical observations
of dubious authenticity through a tele-
scope placed on the terrace. The girl
concludes that the curse is descending
on her and that all is over between her
and the major. The major decides that
life without her would be unendurable,
gets his batman to start up the engine
of his ’plane, takes the girl aboard and
zooms off with the last of the moon-mad
Athertons.
As far as Martin Flavin, the play-
wright, is concerned —not to mention the
family doctor —Freud might never have
existed, but his melodrama is worked out
well and there is a striking portrait of
the mother, whose possessiveness makes
her, if anything, a trifle madder than the
rest of the family. It was admirably
portrayed by Nancy Ford. Margaret
Reid was effective as the daughter. As
the loony grandfather Gregan McMahon
was as competent as usual, and Frank
Tennant had the thankless task of being
the romantic lover who is struck by
Cupid’s dart in a domestic lunatic
asylum.
* * * *
“Private Lives”
Everything ran to schedule in Marie
Ney and Alec Coppel’s presentation of
the Coward opus at Melbourne King’s,
Miss Ney duly broke the gramophone
record over the head of Hal Thompson,
they smashed the furniture together and
had a willing rough and tumble, followed
by another between Jane Conolly and
Richard Parry that was equally willing.
People are like that, and Mr. Coward
makes no bones about it.
A real and pitiful situation is adum-
brated between the husband and wife
who have been divorced only to be
brought together by the long arm of
coincidence on the verandah o£ the hotel
w | lere - dle y are to S p end the first night
°f ttle ' r respective second weddings with
£resh ners But its £eet are stuck
jn quicksand o£ Mr coward's
method, and it can only wave its arms
about d a titive ma ' ner .
The impressive speed of the production
and perfect rehearsal did not hide the
that the play is very long-windet
and that the authors stage technique is
really academic. The ending is only
surprising because a convention is ex-
pected different from the one Mr. Coward
has invented,
* # * * *
Choral Music at Sydney Con.
Sydney Con. plans its subscription con-
cert programmes a year or more ahead,
an( i variations from the schedule grow
wider as the seasons creep along the
year. For the seventh and final concert
of the 1940 series only one scheduled
item was retained—Kodaly’s “Psalmus
Hungaricus.” Other items of an all-
choral programme were Elgar’s “For the
Fallen” (a setting of Binyon’s well-known
fines), Brahms’s “Alto Rhapsody” and
“Eight Russian Folk Songs” (Liadov),
Soloists were Edward Smith and Dorothy
Helmrich. The orchestra fared better
than the choir in all items. The Kodaly
number was sung as if indeed it were a
liturgical psalm rather than a fiery invo-
cation. Elgar’s fine requiem, too, could
have been given more point. However,
the Brahms was enjoyable and the simple
Russian music was sung quite prettily,
Dr. Elgar Bainton, as conductor, was
worthy of a better choir.


A REALLY GOOD PRESENT!
tm
THE
"KEMP
JUNIOR"
CHILD’S
SADDLE.
£6/18/9
(COMPLETE)
Made of Best Quality
Kip, the seat has no
seams and the panel
has leather points
down sides.
N.S.IF. Freight on Saddles paid for cash
with order.
Many other Children’s Saddles, Spurs,
Saddlebags and -cloths, Safety
Stirrups, Pony Bridles, etc.
Send for Saddlery Catalogue — Free.
VALTHER & STEVEMSOMItd:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM
6AM
6KG
6GE
Perth .... 500 watts
Northam. . 2000 watts
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
Geraldton 500 watts
St. George's Hse., St*, George's Tee., Perth
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, Etc., Insuring with
Any Insurance Company not Registered
in New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-192/.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associa-
tions being owners, trustees or agents for an)
goods or property within the Sydney rffe
District, and every other Fire District in tne
State of New South Wales to which the hire
Brigades Act, 1909-1927, has been applied, m
respect of which premiums are paid to a
insurance company not registered in the State,
are hereby notified that they are required to
send to the Board of Fire Commissioners o
New South Wales returns showing the amoun
of such premiums paid by them in respect o
the said property to such insurance companies
during the year 1940. .
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1941; sub-
ject to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day tor
every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the pro-
portion of the premiums properly chargeable
in respect of the Fire Risk during the time such
property was in any Fire District under tne
Sciid. Act
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales. H M WEBB
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-192 .
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they a
required to send to the Board of Fire Commit
sioners of New South Wales returns showm=
the total amount of the premiums received o.
or due to such companies m respect o fnsK
against fire during the year ending 31st Lecem
ber, 1940, within the Sydney Fne District a
every other Fire District in the State o
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Ac,
1909-1927, applies; less any part ot suu
premiums actually paid by way. of reinsurance
to any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act. . - . r _ tlirns
The time appointed for receipt of the return
is on or before the 31st January, 19 ,
ject to a penalty not exceeding Five p
for every day of default. re-
Forms upon which to make the req ,
turns may be obtained from the untogei
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissi
of New South Wales. M WEBB;
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretar).
Sydney.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“23-4”: These Australians! A youth
charged with driving a motor-car illegally
was so young that he had to appear
before the Children’s Court in Brisbane.
But he was wearing A.I.F. uniform.
* * * *
David Rose McConnel, passed over at
Toowoomba (Q.), aged 86, was the mov-
ing spirit in introducing technical educa-
tion to Queensland. Son of David
Cannon McConnel, founder of Cress-
brook station, he was born in Edinburgh,
came to Queensland as a boy, and spent
“S’pose y' know wot this noo taxation means, Ma. It means we'll ’ave t' cut out all lucksheries.”
his early years on the family property,
Recognising the value of technical edu-
cation to a young and rapidly developing
country, he underwent a course of study
and training in London and California,
devoted himself to the foundation of the
Brisbane Technical College, and was its
director for many years. Although then
well over 60 he served in the 1914-18
war as a hospital orderly in France, and
afterwards managed an agricultural col-
lege in Albania for some years. Five
years ago he established a kindergarten
in Toowoomba, and was keenly inter-
ested in its work to his last days.
* * * *
“Norther”: A consignment of 800
gallons of frozen fresh milk is to go to
Singapore from the Downs Co-op. at
Toowoomba. The milk is to undergo
severe tests, and will then be frozen into
solid blocks in four-gallon tins for dis-
patch. On arrival it will be thawed out
for sale. Milk is a scarce commodity in
the Malaya outpost, which has experi-
enced a big population increase through
war and evacuation, and there seems to
be some chance of working the idea up
to bigger proportions.
“Old Chid.”: Dress reform for men
has once more bitten some prominent
personages in Queensland, including the
8.M.A., Director-General of Health
Cilento and sundry professorial lights. A
demonstration is set for December 16,
and demonstrators are practising by
appearing coatless on the streets and
when keeping engagements. A bit of
opposition has cropped up from tailors,
but a B.M.A. committeeman swore that
if tailors wouldn’t make coat shirts he
and others would go to the dressmakers.
“A lovely idea,” was how the Town and
Country Women’s Club viewed it, prob-
ably with some notion of getting the
old man to appreciate dressmakers’ bills,
and one suggested sockless male feet pro-
tected only by sandals. This, too, seems
to be ulterior, darning socks being a
never-ending job. The stunt has duly
received publicity in the flapper press,
and various blokes have asserted their
determination to deprive male Queens-
land of its coat in summertime. All the
same, I’m willing to bet we’ll still be clad
in the same old gear a month or so
hence.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: Boorum, an ancient North
Queensland abo. with a tremendous
faith in the power and ability of the local
mounted trooper, was very much upset
when shown some artist’s sketch of a
hand-to-hand fight between Italian and
Greek soldiers. The bayonet is shown
in action, and there are ’planes over-
head, with bombs bursting near by and
a shattered building or two for effect.
Boorum studied the picture closely, and
went away plainly worried about it.
When he called for his rations that day
he struck a new policeman, and was in-
formed that the former incumbent had
enlisted and gone abroad. Boorum now
expects to hear of peace any day, being
convinced that his hero has gone over
to put a stop to the row with the same
efficiency with which he formerly stopped
local dust-ups.
* * * *
“Kewer”: Four Lismore (N.S.W.) men,
making home from a fishing trip to
Moreton Bay, were travelling by car
down a hill when they rounded a corner
slap into the result of a cloudburst which
had hit the corner at the same time. In
a minute the car was in six feet of wild
water. Three of them got out, but the
rush of water jammed the driver’s door,
and it looked as though his number was
up. Then the water slewed the car round,
his door opened and he shot out to safety
on the crest of the flood. Meantime, near
Yatala, about 25 miles south of Brisbane,
a car containing seven people was push-
ing slowly through shallow water on the
road when it suddenly went in deep. The
engine stopped, it was night and the
water rising. The driver used the self-
starter to move the car, but it went deeper
until it was nearly right under. One man
grabbed a baby and got from the roof
of the car to the girders of a railway
bridge. Others fought their way out
against the flood. Then they heard a
voice in the darkness, “Won’t somebody
save me?” Two men waded towards it
and found an elderly man in a small car
almost submerged. They got him out,
and then discovered nine other cars stuck
in the water. No lives were lost.
* * * *
“Dip”: After many years “drastic
steps” are being taken “to protect the
aboriginal and half-caste population” of
the N.T. Bush abos. are to be removed
from Darwin and Alice Springs to their
own districts, stricter supervision of com-
pounds and reserves is promised, and
“heavier penalties” are to be imposed on
toughs who muddle natives with liquor
or drugs. The moves, though belated,
are in the right direction.
“Creswell”: Three years ago a lugger
of the Broome (W.A.) pearling fleet dis-
appeared during a cyclone and was given
up as lost. Recently a roving ’plane saw
the lugger pulled in at a small unin-
habited island off the n.-w. coast. It
had been freshly painted, was loaded
with filled sacks, had sails in good order,
and the registration number was un-
mistakable, but there was no sign of life.
The flying men ieported their discovery,
but were told that the lugger had been
written off long ago. They flew back
to have another look at the boat, but for
all they could find it might have dis-
appeared off the face of the earth —or
sea. Come on, you fiction writers!
* * * *
“Lid”: Roy Edwards, the Darwin
aviator who took over the flying part of
Dr. Fenton’s job when Fenton enlisted,
has had a busy week. In the course of
three days he flew Dr. Catalano 300 miles
to Delamere, a V.R.D. out-station, to
pick up a man who had been injured
by a truck; travelled over 200 miles
to the Maranboy tinfields to take a
dying man to hospital, and carried
Dr. Catalano 300 miles to Wynd-
ham (W.A.) to attend a captain of the
Macßobertson - Miller flying concern.
Before they returned to Darwin there
came a call to Tipperary station, 100
miles away, to bring in the owner’s sick
wife. It’s a great job these men are
doing.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
The Muse aroused: —
H.W.A.: —
When the Nazis are held a disgrace
And a scape is made of theiy savior,
Can we hope that this thoroughbred race
Will abandon Germanic behavior?
M.E.H.:
Said Musso—the mucker —
“We kick up damn’ fuss,
Mein Fithrer —some jackals
Steal spotlight from us.
Those newspaper devils
No mention our name;
They give to those kangaroo Aussies
The fame.”
R.McI.:
Don’t grouch, soldier boy, when the road is rough,
When your bed is hard and the meat is tough;
It won’t always be that way,
Things’ll be better some day.
M.A.C. and J.E. (“Agent, F.W.K.”):
Sending us juvenilia is a waste of our time
and your stamps E.G.: Panegyric on
Nimmitabel, Bemboka, Kameruka, Numbugga,
Bega, Terraganda, Jellat Jellat, Tathra, etc., is
more dutiful than beautiful... .G.V.R.: Just
the thing for a greeting card A.L.H.: Crude.
J.D.: Does the last line mean that “the
Brown Land” is weak? ... .400524: Good idea,
but too sketchy S.W.: It doesn’t begin to
be a poem L.R.D.: Sarcasm isn’t wit....
J.J.: Flimsy F.C.L.: Where on earth did
you get the idea that Maorilanders are of
“Scotch and Maori cross”? L.F.8.:
Not a bad jingle R.G.M.: No, but it has
its moments... .G.A.8.: Rocky... .H.H.: Tut.
G.M.D.: “Tale of a Calf” is a cow of a
poem L.8.D.: Suggest you sell both your
clubs and your typewriter G.K..J.: “Have
you heard of a primitive land?” Yes. “Have
you lolled a morn on a coral shore?” Ah!
“Have you heard a churinga’s weird roar?
No. “Has the haze of a desert ?” For the
love of Mike stop asking questions!....
G.N.: Small boy who blinded his dear old
grandmother with a peashooter was
smothered in the w.p.b N.R.D.: Not for
us... .J.R.: Can’t spare the time or the money
to visit you to find out how the Pyramids were
built—even if “it has been a mystery ,for ages.”
N.G.T.: “I know my style is rather philo-
sophical, but there you are.” Where?....
D.W.L.: We might be able to give a ver-
dict if the yarn were legible... .D.L.T.: An
antique... .F.C.S.: “The Curse of Alcohol
sent us out for a stiff reviver... .8.D.T.: For
Heaven’s sake don’t tell any Russians that that
is “modelled on the Russian style”— C.D.L.:
Sincere enough, but you only touch on it....
C.K.R.: Not quite up; come again.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.M.: Those freaks are on their way home
T.L.T.: With solid practice for another 15
years or so you might make the childrens
pages R. 8.: You’ll never do any good with
those microscopic drawings. Open out and
spread your figures... .Frank M.: Perspective
is all to blazes; the train would need to have
expanding bogies... .S.R.: Jest wobbly; sketch
horrific K.L.: The policeman’s leg appears
to sprout from the middle of his diaphrajpn.
M.B.: Draw it without the pea-soup fog.
. ...C.L.: We’ve seen faces like that on flat-
head, but never on middle-aged men.


I
ill
:V '
* S' Urn
__JPI
■■l
111
illlifili
SHi
■
■Mi
% ft />■
W '- Mk'-.
? i#fl
;:
■H
iiiiii
lllllf:; , > s W
H
MM
iiiiiPiilliiiil
“.And the everlasting hills
Changeless watch the changeless heaven.”
—Charles Kingsley.
You can have Confidence
in the changeless quality of . . .
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED SYDNEY.
ISCCI
lISES
lIN
m
yi
This is the old Tudor Inn which
is featured on the distinctive
label of Tuchers Old Tudor
Whisky.
Remember! When call for
whisky— insist upon
TuckeTs Old Tud
or!!
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED SYDNEY.


5
Newington
College
for Boys Stanmore, N.S.W.
Recognised for three-quarters of a century as one of the leading educational
institutions of New South Wales.
A Great Public School with a distinguished record in the realm of education
and the field of sport.
Newington aims to produce Citizens—to inspire boys with ideals of public
service and to equip them to realise those ideals. The careers of old boys,
eminent in the community, attest the soundness of this educational objective.
Newington is ideal for situation and possesses unexampled recreational
facilities in its own grounds. Its domestic equipment is complete and takes
care of boys of all ages, from preparatory school to university.
Wyvern House, the most modern Preparatory School in Australia (opened
in 1938), offers home comforts to young boys, with fullest opportunity for
entrance to the senior classes.
New Term commences 11th February, 1941.
-ill particulars may be had from P. R. LE COUTEUR, M.A. ( Melb . et Oxon.).
Telephone: LM5355.
MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
OF BACKACHES
iTtis 013 Treatment Often Brings
Happy Relief
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may ba
clogged kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
or filters which strain the waste and acids
from the blood. A healthy person should pass
3 pints a day and so get rid of 3 pounds of
Waste matter.
If your kidneys don’t work well, this was.e
stays in the body and may become poisonous
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss or
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. Fre-
quent or scanty passages with smarting and
burning are further evidence that something
is wrong with the kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait I Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . •
used successfully the world over by millions
of people suffering with backache and other
kidney disorders. They give quick relief ana
Will help flush out the 15 miles of kidney
tubes. So be sure you get DOAN S BAU*.
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The sun shone down on the men of
the A.I.F. and the Air Force as they
marched through the city streets on
Friday, Red Cross Day, to the Town
Hall, where from a red-carpeted dais
the Governor, Lord Wakehurst, took the
salute. And there in a place of honor
amongst Australia’s generals, naval com-
manders and Air Force officers was the
Consul-General for Greece, Dr. Emil
Vrisakis, his Consular dress thickly
braided in gold. The route was lined with
cheering crowds, and the men from
Darwin, in their summer uniform with
their raincapes swinging from the shoul-
ders, came in for a special cheer.
After the salute had been taken the
Mayor and Mayoress entertained in the
Mayor’s reception-rooms. To this Lady
Wakehurst wore her Red Cross uniform,
the Mayoress a tan blouse with her white
suit. Mrs. Vrisakis was white from her
hat to her handbag.
From before seven o’clock in the morn-
ing girls sold buttons, and for the first
time there were stalls in Hyde Park. If
it hadn’t been for the huge red cross at
the entrance and the same symbol on
stalls and helpers, a stranger passing by
would have thought a country fair was
being held. Vegetables and flowers were
grouped round the base of the Archibald
Fountain, and here girls in peasant
dresses, long, gaily-printed skirts, white
blouses and with handkerchiefs tied over
their tresses, sold their wares. Levante
did a roaring trade handing out glasses
of beer to the thirsty from his magic
kettle, and the hobby-horse racecourse
all day long had its ring of admirers.
In Martin-place the crowd was so
dense it was almost impossible to force
a way through. Here the voice of the
spruiker was loud and insistent. The
Noah’s Ark in the centre of the road
was perhaps the most popular lucky dip.
Among the prizes was a jade necklace
valued at £5O. Mrs. Vrisakis hoisted the
Greek flag over her stall. Women made
gramophone records to send overseas to
their husbands, sons and sweethearts, and
the censor found there was very little
work for him to do.' Every housewife
went home hoping that she was the
winner of one of the many Christmas
hampers—turkey alive or dead was the
inducement offered by one seller of lucky
numbers.
Noel Coward’s “My Own Matinee”
will be a Christmas box to the Lord
Mayor of London’s fund for war victims.
Mr. Coward, who is London-born, wrote
to Sydney Mayor Crick asking if he
might arrange this show on the after-
noon of December 23 at the
Theatre Royal for his “home town.”
Mr. Coward will sing, will thread the
whole together and give the toast from
“Cavalcade” against a background of
seeming London fog through which will
be seen hundreds of soldiers singing
softly as they march to the strains of
“It’s a Long Way to Tipperary.” E. J.
Tait and Harald Bowden are working
out the details. Mr. Coward has picked
his own cast. On the bill will be Mar-
jorie Gordon and Edwin Styles as the
spicy Red Peppers ; Marie Burke, Marie
Bremner and Strella Wilson will sing, and
there will be bits of Gilsullivan opera and
“Aladdin.” Guinea seats are already
selling as ice-creams would in Hades.
The “Seasonal Party” given by Mr.
and Mrs. S. Kikuchi at Cranford, their
home at Edgecliff, kept the host and
hostess busy for over an hour greeting
their guests. Mrs. Kikuchi wore the
national costume of her country in a
shade of softest blue ; her obi was an
exquisite affair in mauves and blues and
pinks. The three reception rooms that
ran the whole length of the house had
their connecting doors flung wide, but,
even so, it wasn’t long before many of
the guests slipped out to the coolness
of verandah and garden. It was on the
verandah that friends of the hostess
served oden, direct from a hot plate.
This dish is composed of bamboo shoots,
radishes, soya beans and fish stewed in
a Japanese wine sauce.
There was a profusion of flowers. In
contrast with the huge bowls that were
filled with blooms, upstairs on the land-
ings was shown the restraint that is a
feature of Japanese flower arrangement.
Here was one grey, shallow, traylike
porcelain dish filled with water and
pebbles, the holder in the centre con-
taining about three spikes of gladioli.
Another immense green bowl held just
a branch or two of leaves. The art of
flower arrangement takes six years to
master, so one of the guests mentioned.
It is one that must be learned by every
girl before she gets married, and is the
finishing touch to her education.
This is the way to win a war: Approxi-
mately 14,000 garments have been sent
to mothers in England from the babies’
kit branch of the Anzac Fellowship of
Women in Sydney. This has been made
possible by the kindness and unselfish
labor of Australian women and school-
girls. A large box of cleverly-made toy
animals, the work of the girls of the
Auburn Domestic Science School, has
been sent as Christmas cheer to the little
people of Britain, who will love the
cuddlesome koalas, the kangaroos and
puppies and forget, for a time at least,
the tragedy of war. The thoughts of
the elderly are with the beginning citi-
zens there. A dozen lovely singlets were
knitted by a lady of 89. Another of
91 sent a hot-water bag and well-knitted
cover, her own handiwork. Children
in our charitable institutions, blind or
maimed, unmindful of their infirmities,
have knitted delightful sets of woollies
and sent them with messages of love and
good cheer to the babies.
Here is Mrs. V. A. Bailey, wife of the
Professor of Experimental Physics at
Sydney University and hon. secretary of
the Lady Halse-Rogers committee. As
this committee works for comforts for
University men in the A.I.F. and in
N.S.W. camps, as well as for the Uni-
versity Regiment, it is its job on Satur-
day to look after the tea-drinking at the
Exposition of Medical and Allied Sciences
to be held at that seat of learning.
Mrs. Bailey is a Maorilander, and before
coming to Sydney studied music at the
Auckland College. N. R. Wilson is
the organising secretary of the exposi-
tion, which is being put on by the labora-
tory technicians of Australasia. The
Uni. Patriotic and the Lord Mayor’s
Fund benefit.
The Red Cross Papier Mache Depot
on the top floor of Edward Arnold’s at
113 Oxford-street sends out an SOS for
more helpers. At present there are about
300, and between 50 and 60 work each
day from 10 in the morning until 5 in
the afternoon. But even this number
of daily workers is not able to make up
sufficiently quickly the stocks of bowls,
trays and splints that Miss L. E. Arm-
strong, the hon. director of the branch,
wants to have ready before our soldier
sick start arriving.
The work is fascinating, but cannot be
hurried. From 10 to 12 layers of paper
go to the making of each article, and
each layer is made up of narrow torn
strips of paper, which are pasted in posi-
tion on the mould. When finished the
article is dried in the sun and then var-
nished. The result is a shining, enamel-
like surfaced article that can be used
to hold hot or cold water. In addition to
being mere water containers, they can
be used in electric treatments.
In the three months of the depot’s
existence 1000 articles have been made.
Many of these have been supplied for
ward use in hospitals and convalescent
homes. It was from the depot that foot-
baths were sent to the camps at Cowra
and Bathurst. A supply was also sent
to the quarantine station when our small
boy and girl visitors arrived from Britain.
A request comes from the Chief
Warden, N.E.S., Mosman. He wants
equipment for a first-aid post. And
now the military authorities (Victoria
Barracks) are taking most of the output
for distribution in military camps and
hospitals. The immediate problem is
the making of 1200 ashtrays urgently
needed by the Red Cross. Miss
Armstrong learned all about this work
at the Kensington War Supply Depot
which was started during the iast war.
Hospitals found the enamel-like surfaced
ware so satisfactory and the demands
have been so great that the depot has
been kept busy all the years between.
Opened last Monday by Attorney-
General Manning, the fascinating toy-
land which the hands of the women
cricketers of N.S.W. have contrived.
This turns the shop at 453 George-
street into joyland for Sydney’s
small citizens, and promises to be one
of the favorite ports of call for Santa
Claus. The Christmas shop represents
months of unremitting work by the girl
cricketers, who have shown patience and
skill in this their latest war effort. The
toys are to be sold for the benefit of
the bomb victims of England. Every
one of these toys that is cuddled down
in bed by some Australian babe will
mean warm clothes, strengthening food,
and more comfort for some English
child.
A word, too, about the 250 beautiful
gift boxes made by Mrs. E. A. Thomas,
the president of the Cricket Association.
These are so gay they would tempt any-
one to buy them, and then buy presents
to put into them. The Clarence River
girl cricketers are having a similar toy
shop in South Grafton on December
14. The proceeds will help to swell
those from the Sydney shop.
Captain Patrick de Burgh, A.A.M.C.
(doing a special course in pathology and
tropical medicine for the A.1.F.), is en-
gaged to Elizabeth Rowland, only daugh-
ter of Lieut.-Commander Rowland, R.N.,
captain of the ports of Newcastle and
Port Stephens, and Mrs. Rowland, who
was one of the Wrights, of Armidale.
The Rowlands have had a station,
Morunda, out of Armidale since he
returned after the 1914-18 war. Captain
de Burgh is the only son~of Mrs. Allan
Clunies Ross, of Woollahra.
Of the three forces, all of which
entered the table-setting competition
opened by Marjorie Gordon in aid of
the Sydney Hospital, the Army was the
only one that stuck to the orthodox.
It was easy to see from Mrs. Crace’s
table that her life was bound up with
the sea. On it were exotic-looking fish.
Large white shells, with long slim strands
of red flowers that looked like red coral
flowing from their depths, stood at each
corner. The large shell in the centre was
wedged firmly between an anchor and
a wheel. The necessary blue was given
by the mats. Over the Air Force buffet
supper table was a parachutist just about
to land in the midst of a flying squad.
Mrs. Elink Schuurman’s idea for a
children’s party table included a fairy-
story tablecloth, a centrepiece of glass
on which stood numerous small animals,
and shells to hold the ice-cream. The
table-napkins were folded into a boat
shape ; each plate was a different color
and this matched the cushion on the
chair in which the visitor would sit. But
the one in whose honor the party was
sat at the top, and her chair was decked
with flowers.
Margaret Dovey, daughter of the W.
R. Doveys, of Vaucluse, looks at you
from this Norton Trevaire photo-
graph. Margaret, who is in her
second year of Economics at the Uni.,
still finds time to get in a good deal of
war work. She is a member of the
University V.A.D. On Friday she was
one of the helpers at the flower stall
situated at the foot of the fountain in
Hyde Park.
For the second time within a few weeks
the Roland Fosters gave a party in aid
of the Journalists and Artists’ Ambulance
Fund. This was a Sunday-evening do,
and Christmas bush and gladioli and
a hostess in a frock of white crepe pat-
terned in candy-striped lame provided
just the right background for a musical
programme which should have pleased
the most exacting critic.


WOLAROI COLLEGE
1
ta
ORANGE, N.S.W
(Registered as a Secondary School
under the Bursary Endowment Act
of 1912.) Day and Boarding School
for Boys.
Preparatory to Leaving Certificate
Standard.
Professional, Commercial and Agri-
cultural Courses, Woolclassing, Farm
Mechanics.
BOARDERS have every comfort in building fitted with all modern
conveniences. Excellent Climate . . . 3000 feet above sea-level.
Liberal Diet; Wolaroi has its own Jersey Herd, Poultry and Vegetable
Garden.
Illustrated Prospectus will be forwarded on application to:—
STANLEY G. BROWN, M.A., B.Sc. (Principal).
’Phone: ORANGE 689.
NEW TERM COMMENCES Uth FEBRUARY, 1941.
Personal and Missing Friend.
WOULD REID WILFRED HENDERSON,
last heard of in Sydney, please communicate
with his mother, MRS. WM. HENDERSON,
of Wardsville, Ontario, Canada, now 1163 Hall
Avenue, Windsor, Ontario, Canada?
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
(in divorce).
TO LESLIE THOMAS last heard of at Devon-
port in Tasmania.
TAKE NOTICE that an answer to a peti-
tion has been filed in this Court endorsed with
a notice to you to appear and answer the
charges in the said answer of WALTER
BRAMICH of Rocky Cape in Tasmania Farmer
praying for a dissolution of marriage In de-
fault of your so appearing you will not be
allowed to address the Court and the Court
will proceed to hear the suit and pronounce
judgment in respect thereto AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid within thirty days after the date
of this publication an appearance must be
entered at the office of the Registrar of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street
Hobart in Tasmania.
(Sgd.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
Melbourne
Chatter
Anti-climax of the Zooie Ball was the
rain, but even then adventures of the
evening were not over. Time to go home
produced evidence that petrol-milkersi
had been snooping in the vast parking
paddocks, so that the Boy Scout help of
Fred Tupper was much appreciated. He
happened to have a reserve tin handy,
and his grateful beneficiaries got them-
selves home with resolutions to get locks
on their tanks as soon as possible.
Prelude to the Zooie do was the north
wind, which blew away on the previous
day the marquee over the dance floor.
When the cloudburst happened round
about 10 p.m. the thousand present scur-
ried for shelter and would have made the
most of keys to the monkeys’ cages or
the lions’ dens had they been available.
Most of the animals were not at home
for the evening, for their houses were in
darkness, but some storks viewed pro-
ceedings with mild interest, and a wom-
bat padded up and down his garden path,
nose and eyes on the ground and
thoughts anywhere but on crazy human
beings in the vicinity.
Mrs. Russell Martin was among the
many who discovered the disadvantages of
shrinkable materials, for briefer and
briefer grew skirts as the rain poured down.
Dancing was not abandoned, for the floor
was rubbed over fairly satisfactorily
when the rain stopped. Mrs. Dannie
Reddan (just returned with husband Dan
from an out-of-doors holiday at Heron
Island) carried an outsize doll and wore
upon her finger an ornamental ring,
spoil from one of the wheels. Mrs. Pat
Cahill, who operated one of the novelty
lucky-chances, was congratulated on the
prowess of young daughter Elizabeth, a
blue ribbon champion of the week’s
Light Horse Gymkhana at Moonee
Valley. Eric Pearce and Max Ready
were spruikers of sterling calibre who put
their personalities over at one of the
wheels. Their voices next morning were
but ghostly whispers.
Fast upon the heels of one meeting
mayoralty convened in the Town Hall
Council chamber, there followed another.
Mrs. Beaurepaire convened the first,
which concerned the “Peter Pan” season.
Leaving early to open the Children’s
Hospital fete, the Lady Mayoress left
the threads of proceedings in the hands
of Mrs. Isobel Green, handsome and self-
possessed in all black. The Lord Mayor
took the head of the table for the second
meeting, which turned out to be just a
feeler for a very ambitious project—a
Queen Carnival to be held next year.
Fred Armytage, who was elected hon.
organiser, looks like being the right man
in the right place, for his pleasing per-
sonality goes with the sort of brain which
can absorb sheets full of notes and figures
and arrange them into something easily
digestible by an ordinary lowbrow intel-
ligence. His analysis of the project
covered two sides of a large blackboard.
As plans are at present there will be ten
queens: of Manufacturing, Fashion,
Commerce, Land, Public Utilities, Public
Services, Transport, Licensed Victuallers,
Sports, Amusements. It is aimed by this
means to raise £50,000 for the Red Cross
and Comforts.
The marriage took place last week at
St. John’s, Heidelberg, of medical knight
James Barrett, ex-Chancellor of the Uni-
versity, to Monica Heinze, daughter of
the Benjamin Heinzes and sister of the
Ormond Professor of Music. After the
ceremony came lunch at the Heidelberg
home of the bride’s parents, after which
the newly-married pair left for Mt. Martha
and Flinders. They are due back in a
week or two at the Barrett home in
Lansell-road, well known for its garden
colony of kangaroos and koalas.
The lass of tender years who wears a
white hair-ribbon and an expression that
betokens great expectations is Gloria
Mellody. She’s only 17, but already has
secured the interest of discerning critics
by her dramatic talents. She played
Juliet in the National Theatre’s produc-
tion of “Romeo and Juliet” and will be
Peter in “Peter Pan,” which the N.T. will
produce at the Princess on December 16
and 17 for the Red Cross and Comforts.
Regarding publicity for the season, which
is going to be a three-star entry in the
lives of the small fry in the audience,
132 secondary schools are circularised.
The country children, too, will soon know
that Peter, Wendy and Tinker Bell are
coming to town, for the Vic. Railways
magnanimously agreed to distribute a
couple of hundred posters in prominent
positions. Gloria’s photograph is from
Spencer Shier.
Debt-reducing for the Free Kinder-
garten Union takes place next Saturday
at Mrs. H. F. Creswick’s home, Yarrien,
in Albany-road. The party is wrapped
up in the tinsel of a fete and tied up
with frivolous bows of a glass-blower
(trust the Americans on the committee
to think up an untried novelty), tennis as
played in 1840 and dancing upon the
sward by sweet and dewy youth in grand-
mother’s gowns, lent by Mrs. Gordon.
If methodical campaigning means any-
thing, indications point to good profits
for every stall and the shelter of each
beach umbrella.
Harley Malcolm will umpire the tennis,
ancient and modern, and Helen Sage and
J. Sweeting will quiz it with lorgnettes
while wearing sports wear out of the
family album. Harry and Nell Hop-
man, Mrs. J. Wardell (erstwhile Dot
Stevenson) and George Bicon will court
death and destruction in the 1840 match.
If the girls don’t trip over their long
skirts and the boys split their tight
trousers, they still have throttle-holds
upon the neck to reckon with, also general
hysteria caused by laughing during strenu-
ous movements. The match will be
followed by a contrasting modern four-
some, played by Mrs. Peter Bolton,
Thelma Coyne and two junior boys.
The stalls will provide all kinds of
Christmas gifts and fancy goods. Ye
Olde Preserving Pan will have jams and
pickles and copies of prized and precious
recipes at 3d. per leaflet. • Mrs. Cres-
wick’s rhubarb jam wherein the rhubarb
is dried in the sun will be one of these.
Mrs. Geoffrey Walker is cutting her sil-
houettes, and Mrs. Russell Barrett and
Mrs. Tom Graham will have prizes of
quality in their dip. A cream-and-jam
Devonshire tea will be obtainable ; < so
will drinks, milky and fruity. Donation
from treasurer Willie Mcßeath is an
insurance policy against Jupiter Pluvius.
If the worst happens the fete will take
place within doors.
Last week’s spate of art produced in
sequence Aileen Dent’s oils at the
Lyceum, opened by legal specialist Anna
Brennan, Alan Bernaldo’s water-colors
at Kozminsky’s, and an assortment by
the Forty Seven Painters, where all
degrees of modernists’ tastes were con-
sidered, at the Velasquez.
Miss Dent’s show comprised portraits,
flowers and landscapes. Subjects present
in person included Professor John Gillies,
Madame Gregor Wood and C. N. Mac-
Kenzie, thinly disguised as “a Melbourne
Scot.” An absentee whose portrait was
also shown was Mrs. Denis Creal, who
is more or less in the thick of things in
England, where Denis is doing a good
job in the R.A.A.F. At the show Mrs.
Creaks sister, Mrs. Freeman Lavender,
represented the family. Prof. Gillies just
managed to make the opening before he
left for Sydney, taking with him his well-
loved fishing-rods. May he return with
good stories of good catches!
Alan Bernaldo divides his show into
flowers and horses-and-landscapes, with
the addition of two portraits and a coupie
of etchings. Portrait subjects took the
militant shape of Col. W. W. Whittle
and the six-feet-four-odd of Edwin
Rechner. Bernaldo loves horses (particu-
larly the honest draught who works for
his living and expects nothing in return
but his feed), and has painted wool teams
and potato wagons, horses drinking and
splashing through creeks, and landscapes
of Yea and the Goulburn Valley. These
days he travels by caravan, sometimes
with an artist pal from S.A., Tom Bone,
which is luxury compared with his mode
of getting around a few years ago. Then
Bernaldo and Bone had a motor-bike
apiece, and thus they dashed around Tas-
mania with their painting kit bumping
along behind.
In Dickinson-Monteath’s portrait is
Lorraine Butler, who did her bit on the
lucky-dip committee for the Children’s
Hospital fete held in the hospital grounds
last week.
Feeling small as a blushing schoolgirl,
so she said, and looking decorative as
ever in white turban, white sharkskin
suit and yellow check coat, Marie Ney
was late for two afternoon appointments,
both of which were bazaars at which she
made opening speeches. The first date
was the Women Artists’ effort at Ola
Cohn’s studio in East Melbourne. The
second appointment, for half an hour
later, was at the Children’s Hospital. It
was the second day of the hospital
fete, and Miss Ney’s patronage was
much appreciated. This two-day fete,
for which all the auxiliaries worked with
a will, brought in the highly satisfactory
sum of £676. The Malvern auxiliary’s
special donation of £52 was a nice wind-
fall.
Miss Ney produced her verbal note of
excuse. It was all due to rehearsals —
the day before the opening of the new
show, an alteration here, another one
there, another run through a jagged scene,
etc. Time just doesn’t mean a thing to
a producer on the job.
Presiding effigy at the Ola Cohn studio
affair was Miss Cohn’s Pioneer Women
commission, destined for Adelaide.
Catherine Hardess’s marionette show was
popular; so were cacti, jams and jellies
and fancy goods, to say nothing of ice-
creams, for the temperature popped up
to over a hundred. Among the toys
Mrs. Clive Stephen went modernistic, her
blue pigs running to exaggerated snouts
and concentrated bodies.
The Red Cross parties’ drive exceeded
the most expectant dreams of the opti-
mists concerned. Well over £BOOO is
assured, and there is even a chance of
the books showing something very near
£lO,OOO on final auditing. As many as
2160 hostesses registered parties. The
only stipulation was that one pound
should be guaranteed from each party,
but not one hostess was content with this
minimum. Many fivers came in from
mild little efforts in working-class
suburbs. Two-thirds of the parties were
held in the country, so the effort was
State-wide. The dos were all kinds,
dances, bridge, music, tea, cocktail, bring-
a-gift-and-buy-a-gift, treasure hunts and
scavenger hunts and bug parties. These
last turned out to be pencil-and-paper
efforts, each player adding a leg or a
tooth or whatnot, creating thus monsters
which, if unrecognised by biologists, go
down well in a festive gathering of lesser
mortals.
Noel Coward’s froth and bubble,
“Private Lives,” prologued by “Ways
and Means,” gave Saturday’s first-night
audience at the King’s a good laugh now
and then and no bothersome provoca-
tion towards brain exercise, for the
characters in the plays don’t matter two
hoots. Drones, with nothing to do but
eat, drink, steal one another’s wives,
husbands’ money or perfume, they move
ecstatically through life on a bubbling
stream of back chat —amusing in small
doses but bilious in large ones, but a
chance for decor and clothes that Bill
Constable and Mavis Ripper made the
most of. Marie Ney let her head go in
her curtain-speech, especially about the
gowns and hats of Mavis’s design. But
for one saucy get-up worn by Jane
Conolly and a red velvet slacks outfit
upon young Cath Duncan “Ways and
Means” was all fluffy pink nighties and
a devastating boudoir gown of brocade
with wasp waist and magnificent
shoulders.
In “Private Lives” Jane wears tweeds,
emerald-green and tailored, and stays
in them for her honeymoon and after-
wards, but Miss Ney looks the goods in
two stunning evening gowns. And
although it doesn’t particularly suit her
to be a tomboy she was O.K. for the
romp-on-the-floor scene in a pyjama get-
up of burgundy satin striped in white.
The audience wore its thinnest clothes,
fanned itself during the show, and sucked
squashes through straws in the intervals.
Cool as anyone was Mrs. Bessemer Clark,
in white, with low decolletage and jewel-
green sash and shoulder straps. Sister
Hersey was there with husband John
Langley, in dove-grey dinner jacket.
Geoff Hillis was among the white-coated.
On tap also were Pat and Betty Grey,
the Stuie Hancocks, lan Potter, Mrs. Ron
Forbes, in brief green jacket and figured
frock, and sister Cecil Tait, in all-white ;
also Mrs. R. Sheffield, in white, with
emphasis on jewelled pockets and a pro-
boscis upon her turban.
Among private parties arranged for
Noel Coward was one given by Mrs. R.
G. Casey at her Collins-street flat.
Among the guests were the Priminister
and Mrs. Menzies, Air Chief Marshal
Burnett and Miss Burnett, Commodore
Boucher and his wife, the Erie Dick-
overs, F. W. Jandreys and Arthur
Bishops, Captain and Mrs. Paul Henry,
Colonel J. de C. Boyes and Major and
Mrs. Dermot Casey.


Se
UIUA
•*?*
Hi IK
vt
*
o
: Q
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous arid
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS' con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
mm
MW
T.JONES SCO
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
THE SERVICE MAN
Black Days for Italians.
“Ek D.”: Having expelled the last in-
vader, the Greeks continue to carry the
war into Albania, of which Victor
Emmanuel III has been “king” since
April 14, 1939. The fighting has been a
fierce hand-to-hand business, conducted
in the old-fashioned Balkan way with
bayonets, with rocks hurled down on un-
suspecting craniums and with sniping
from goat tracks. But Greek progress
has been steady and exhilarating to all
lovers of freedom.
On Dec. 3 the Greeks captured
Premeti, towards the centre of the Italian
line, and on Dec. 6 they took Santi
Quaranta after street fighting. When the
Italians quitted the port it was in flames,
and a half-submerged destroyer was left
in the harbor. Santi Quaranta was the
southern debarkation point for Italian
troops. A military road runs up the
seaboard to Valona, and in their pro-
gress towards that port the Greeks have
pushed on to Delvino. What is more
important, they have occupied Argyro-
kastro, the main Italian base in southern
Albania.
Another bad week for the enemy was
marked by another change of command.
The first C.-in-C. on the Grasco-Albania
front was General Brasco. It has been
asserted that he committed suicide ; any-
way he was superseded by General
Soddu. Soddu also disappeared, Marshal
Badoglio, Chief of the General Staff,
going over “in person” to “reorganise the
army.” A week was enough for Bado-
glio ; he resigned as Chief of the General
Staff, and, by all accounts, 40 staff officers
resigned with him.
There followed the resignations of
Admiral Cavagnari, the Chief of the
Naval Staff, and of General de Vecchi,
in command in the Eastern Mediter-
ranean. Maybe the Taranto business cost
them their jobs ; but a B.B.C. man sug-
gests that all the changes have been made
in deference to Hitler. Anyway, the only
senior commander who remains is Mar-
shal Graziani in Libya, who has been
inactive for weeks.
Meanwhile, the R.A.F. has been
pasting military objectives in north
Italian towns and cities, particularly
round Turin, Italy’s greatest war indus-
trial centre. Popular demonstrations
against the war with Greece are reported
to have occurred at Trieste, Venice,
Milan and Florence —the last a home for
British exiles for 250 years.
The job of the new general commanding
in Albania is one which nobody would
envy. He will have to operate in a small
space, in which, though it is favorable to
mechanical warfare, he will be dependent
on sea communications which the R.N.
and the R.A.F. are harassing, and on fac-
tories which the R.A.F. is systematically
battering. Even if he should come to the
point of advance against the Greeks
again, terrible ranges, every day becom-
ing more mired and snow-clad, face him.
And every week the Greeks can expect
greater assistance from Britain, and they
have now been promised help by Presi-
dent Roosevelt.
The Albanian Oils His Gun.
During the centuries of Ottoman
ascendancy the Turks were rarely com-
fortable in Albania, and it has been a
very unlucky venture for the Italians.
Under the Pact of London they were
to have “Valona, the island of Sasseno
and surrounding territory of sufficient
extent to assure defence of these points” ;
and, conditionally on their coming out
of the war with the Trentino and Istria,
together with “Dalmatia and the Adriatic
Islands” (which they didn’t get), they
agreed to Albania being divided up
among Montenegro, Serbia and Greece,
with “a small autonomous neutralised
State” in between.
Pact of London notwithstanding, the
Italians proclaimed a protectorate over
all Albania in June, 1917. They issued
the proclamation at Argyrokastro, which
has now been taken by the Greeks.
The Austro-Hungarians had in the
meantime occupied Northern and Central
Albania. Never on cordial terms with
the Italians, the French, who had sent
troops to Albania, retaliated by proclaim-
ing “the republic of Koritza” at the
town of that name, which has become
a Greek prize in the present war. The
French soon saw fit to abolish the
“republic,” but they held Koritza till
May, 1918, when they handed it over to
the Albanians.
French and Italians composed their
differences so far as to fight the Austro-
Hungarians. They were not very success-
ful until Austria-Hungary gave up the
fight, though Italy alone had nearly
100,000 men in Albania. “The difficulties
of communications and the ravages of
malaria,” the record says, “made pro-
longed operations nearly impracticable.
Moreover, many of the natives were
hostile”:
Under Bairam Tsuri, an unsurpassed
guerillero, Albanian bands harasssed the
Allied lines of communication, which ran
from Santi Quaranta to Koritza and
Salonika.
When the Austro-Hungarians gave in the
greater part of Albania fell under the
occupation of Italy, and with Italy’s per-
mission “a new national provisional gov-
ernment” was set up. One result was the
appearance of an Albanian delegation to
the Peace Conference, but nothing came
of it. In the meantime
The Italians lost their initial popularity.
They treated the local authorities with
scant courtesy and seriously hampered the
independent working of the Central Gov-
ernment. In these circumstances fighting
broke out between Albanian irregulars and
the Italian troops, which had been greatly
reduced in numbers and were suffering
badly from malaria. The Italians accord-
ingly concentrated within certain strategical
areas, and a new and more representative
Albanian Government was formed. Four
Constitutional regents were simultaneously
appointed—two Mussulmans, one Catholic
and one Orthodox.
But this arrangement did not satisfy
the Albanians, and in 1920, under Bairam
Tsuri, they again attacked the Italians,
capturing many important positions and
pressing them hard within the Valona
areq itself. Thereupon the Italians, hav-
ing lost their appetite for war, signed an
agreement (Aug. 2, 1920) recognising
Albania’s independence and agreed to
withdraw all the troops. The Albanians
celebrated their independence by falling
on the Serbs, who had advanced on
Tirana, and “after some severe fighting
drove them back to their original posi-
tions.” In January, 1921, Albania was
admitted to membership of the League.
Eighteen years later, having become a
kingdom, Albania was annexed by Fascist
Italy. This time the Italians met with no
resistance, possibly because the Albanians
didn’t consider King Zog worth fighting
for. But 20 months of Italian occupation
haven’t changed the character of the
people. The Albanian remains what he
has been throughout history, a fierce,
intractable fellow, handy with knife and
gun, and never so happy as when he is
taking pot-shots at invaders, irrespective
of nationality. Though the cables
haven’t specifically said so, he must be
giving the Italians heaps of trouble. And
the malaria that scourged them in 1917-18
is still a danger, for they haven’t had
much time to apply the preventive
measures they have taken with consider-
able success in Africa.
U-boats Hunt "in Packs."
“Nobby II”: Everything is in favor of
U-boats in the Atlantic these winter days,
and they are doing serious damage. They
have advantages denied them in the last
war; above all, aerial sea patrol by
bombers which can be as dangerous as
they themselves, and which can cover
wide areas of sea and warn them of
approaching destroyers. Also, new types
of engines give them a better range—
some new U-boats are fitted with hydro-
gen and oxygen propulsion plants.
The Germans have, too, bases along
Biscay. And they have a propaganda
department of great inventive powers. If
German claims were true, there would
not be much British shipping left.
According to the Statesman’s Year-
Book, U.K. shipping before the war,
excluding fishing vessels and other small
craft, exceeded 14,000,000 tons. Build-
ing for a few years before the war aver-
aged nearly 1,000,000 tons p.a., and
1,250,000 tons was planned for 1940. By
August this year 9,000,000 tons dead-
weight of foreign ships had come under
British control —5,500,000 tons from
Norway, 3,500,000 tons Dutch. There
was another million of seized Danish and
acquired French vessels and 1,250,000
tons of neutral chartered vessels —in all,
about 25,000,000 tons.
Average German sinkings of British,
Allied and neutrals since the outbreak of
war have been 63,900 tons —the average
is steadily rising. In the week to Novem-
ber 25 75,560 British and 12,415 tons
of Allied went to the bottom.
The Germans claimed to have de-
stroyed 118,000 tons. A week later they
were boasting that U-boats were hunt-
ing in packs, and the Mackay Radio,
New York, reported having heard dis-
tress signals from six vessels in mid-
Atlantic on one day. Berlin followed this
with the allegation that U-boats had
tackled a convoy and sunk 15 merchant-
men of 110,000 tons and the auxiliary
cruiser Caledonia, 17,000 tons. It having
been pointed out that they had “sunk” the
Caledonia on a previous occasion, they
admitted their mistake. They modestly
mentioned two other freighters, making
their total claim for the day 160,000 tons.
Next day they trumpeted the destruc-
tion of 31,500 tons by a single U-boat,
while a German ’plane was represented
as sinking a 4900-ton vessel in a convoy
640 miles off the Irish coast.
On Dec. 8 they claimed that two
U-boats had sunk four merchantmen and
a tanker totalling 29,000 tons —no posi-
tions given.
Italy, not to be outdone, cheered for
the sinking of a British destroyer in the
Atlantic. The only destroyer which the
Admiralty admits having lost was
H.M.S. Hardy, which ran ashore in Scot-
land in thick weather.
While this is going on, Britain is not
asleep. Apart from operations in the
Mediterranean, there has been some busy
work by the R.A.F. Coastal Command
off Norway, where one German ship
was sunk by a direct hit. Five German
craft in all were sunk during the week,
and Lorient, the U-boat base on the
French coast, had a bad battering.
The sea-struggle threatens to be as grim
as it was in the last war, and it will prob-
ably be solved as it was then. In 1915,
1916 and 1917, total sinkings were about
10,000,000 tons, to which had to be
added ordinary shipping losses through
acts of God and decay. British ship-
yards then, as now, were capable of
handling about 3,000,000 tons of con-
struction per annum, but a lot of this
had to be seconded for naval purposes.
During the three years—to October,
1917 —Britain, with belated help from
U.S.A., constructed about 5,000,000 tons
of ships, and the rest of the friendly
world about 1,000,000 tons. So that
there was actual leeway among the
Powers fighting against Germany and
neutrals of 5,000,000 tons. It must be
remembered that the withdrawal of Ger-
man and Italian shipping from general
trade also affects the general transport
condition of the world.
At the end of 1917, there were only
21,500,000 tons of ships available for
the world’s general trade, against
tons in 1914, though much of
the tonnage taken over for military pur-
poses—Britain commandeered 10,000,000
tons —helped on the side. In six
months of 1917 th_e Germans sank
over 3,000,000 tons, but hastening con-
struction and added precautions and
more destroyers beat the game, as the
same measures, plus increased aeroplane
patrols and raids on U-boat bases, will
beat it this time.
Already, 60 ships have been ordered
from U.S.A., but they represent only
three weeks’ sinkings, and nothing is any
good save a world-wide effort by the
Empire and her friends.
Speed is doubly the essence of the
contract, because of a factor which did
not operate in the last war. Ships are
bigger than in 1914, when there were
only 130 over 10,000 tons in the whole
world.
War on the Doormat.
“Nobby II”: War came closer to Syd-
ney than ever before in history when a
small cargo boat was blown up off the
N.S.W. coast with a loss of seven lives,
including those of the captain and first
mate. Four men were hurt badly enough
to be sent to hospital, and, with the
remaining uninjured nine, had a very
narrow escape from death.
The vessel was off the N.S.W. coast
about 5,25 p.m. on December 5. The
sea was relatively smooth, though with a
long roll. The captain was in his cabin;
the third mate held the bridge.
Suddenly the stern of the vessel seemed
to blow up. There was no time to take
to the boats even if they were intact. In
three minutes all that was left of the
ship was a whirlpool of wreckage in
which survivors struggled for a hand-
hold on floating bundles of plywood, and
the pigs which had been part of the
cargo swam round squealing in terror.
There was no panic. The 13 survivors
kept together as well as possible, watch-
ing one another and waiting for rescue.
In a few minutes they saw a flying-
boat hover over them. It was an
R.A.A.F. patrol amphibian which had
taken off a few minutes before the
accident and had been attracted by un-
explained smoke on the horizon. Because
of the swell, it was not able to approach
the wreckage, but it taxied into a shel-
tered position and brought rescue from
a passing ship with its Aldis lamp.
There had been reports on December
4 of a ship acting mysteriously outside
Sydney Harbor. At midnight the port
was closed until the vessel’s identity was
established.
The sea was scoured after the disaster
and Sydney and Newcastle were closed
again. And in the evening there were
published at Canberra new regulations
governing the ingress and egress of ships
on the Australian coast, and the sun/ey
of their cargoes and other vital points,
and establishing national control over the
whole of the 397,000 tons on the coastal
register.
The P.M. and Minister for the Navy
were assailed by a flood of questions in
Parliament, some of them worthy of a
ten-year-old schoolgirl. It is not a matter
in which Ministers can do much on the
instant. Several minesweepers are being
built. Some ships are to be fitted with
paravanes. Patrol is being intensified and
extended. Port entrances are watched.
The job is a highly technical one which
can be left to the R.A.N., whose primary
duty, as Mr. Hughes remarked, is to safe-
guard the Australian coastline and cities
and trade, and to escort Australian troops
overseas. The use of cruisers is a matter
of placement. An auxiliary cruiser is just
as effective against the type of raider
likely to be operating in the Pacific and
Indian Oceans as an Bin.-gun ship. The
place of the heavy cruisers is in the
narrow seas near enemy coasts.
Whatever the R.A.N. is doing, it won’t
talk and it won’t answer stupid ques-
tions. But it can be taken for granted
that it is active. The German Official
News Agency declared early in the week
that the Admiralty had commandeered
the 16,810-ton Canadian liner Empress of
Russia at Hong Kong, intending to turn
her into an auxiliary cruiser, and that
other liners would be requisitioned for
the same purpose.
On Dec. 7, another vessel suffered—
this time off the S. Australian coast. A
British overseas cargo ship was the
victim of an explosion, and she began
to sink by the head ; but her bulkheads
held and, in the calm sea which prevailed,
she proved towable. Sixty of the crew
were put ashore in lifeboats on an island,
and the captain and 19 others remained
on board while the ship was taken in
tow by two salvage tugs. St. Vincent’s
Gulf, Spencer’s Gulf and Backstairs Pas-
sage were closed, though about the same
time Sydney, Newcastle and Port Kembla
had been reopened for traffic.
There certainly is a raider—perhaps
more than one —operating in the
southern oceans. The raiding operations
have been going on for some time. And
though the Admiralty keeps its mouth
shut news occasionally is heard which
lifts the veil a little.
A member of the crew of s.s. Haxby,
which, while on her way to Texas from
Greenock, was captured and sunk by a
raider, after having been fired on with
four concealed 6in. guns, said that her
captor, flying the Greek flag, laid mines
230 miles off Maoriland in June. On
June 18—the day before the sinking ot
the Niagara —she captured the Nor-
wegian freighter Tropic Sea off the
Maoriland coast, refuelled her from the
tanker Winnetou and transferred the
British seamen and a prize crew to her.
Captain Arundel, of the Haxby, sa>s
he and his crew were to be taken to
Bordeaux in French occupied territory.
The Tropic Sea was taken round
the Horn, but 200 miles off Finisterre, on
Sept. 3, H.M S. submarine Truant—one


KITCHING’S
GIFTS IN LEATHER
4
A
Handy
Little
Combination
LADIES’ PURSE AND NOTECASE.
In fine quality Morocco and Pinseal leather at
7/6, 10/6, and 13/6.
TOBACCO POUCHES.
fsd
Quality counts! Between reflective puffs of
weed the mere male will regard
these Pouches with pleasure.
In Crocodile Leather .. 257-
In Pinseal 16/6 and 18/6
FREE DELIVERY ALL SUBURBS and
Initials are stamped at 1/6 extra.
C. E. KITCHING Pty. Ltd.
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
near Wynyard Station. 8W7133.
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
b
'S
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and Nw Zealand.
of the very latest and largest models—
stuck her periscope up. Straightway the
German crew of the Tropic Sea ordered
all hands to the boats and blew the
vessel up.
Then a Sunderland arrived, and she
and the submarine arranged the rescue
of all hands. The Germans became
prisoners.
Relatives of passengers on another
Norwegian ship, the Tiranna, which dis-
appeared on her way from Sydney to
Mombasa, have heard of their friends
as captives in a German concentration
camp.
Fight Between Auxiliary
Cruisers.
“Nobby II”: Raiders are not having
things all their own way. On Dec. 5 the
auxiliary cruiser Carnarvon Castle, a
20,000-ton Union Castle liner, which
used to be the largest passenger ship in
the London-S. African run until the
Stirling Castle was built in 1935, picked
up a German ship off the S. American
coast and dropped a shell across her
bows. At 8.5 a.m. the German, without
any warning, opened fire.
Luckily, the Carnarvon Castle’s crew
was at action stations, and a straddling
match began in which shooting on both
sides was accurate. The German was at
a considerable advantage. She carried
at least two Bin. guns—remarkable arma-
ment for a converted merchantman —and
her silhouette was low, while the Car-
narvon Castle has the usual high sides
and superstructures of the big passenger
ship. By adroit handling, Captain Hardy,
D. 5.0., got into position and hit the
enemy fairly amidships, putting her guns
on one side out of action and forcing her
to tack to bring other guns to bear.
Carnarvon Castle was hit 22 times ; but
the Germans were glad to draw off to
the north, after firing two torpedoes, a
gesture which shows how far the two
ships had closed in.
The British ship, to which the damage
was superficial, did not continue the
chase, being short of ammunition, but
steamed for Montevideo. On the way,
she picked up H.M.S. Enterprise, which
has 33 knots of speed against the maxi-
mum of 20 knots likely in any raider —
Carnarvon Castle had only knots.
Enterprise also carries an aeroplane.
The German, apparently a Hansa
Lloyd merchantman, seemed to be
settling down by the stern as she dis-
appeared behind a smokescreen, so that
her days are almost certainly numbered.
The Carnarvon Castle had on board
22 Germans, whom she had taken off
the Brazilian ship Itape. She transferred
them to the Queen of Bermuda after the
fight. The Brazilian Government has pro-
tested against Britain’s stopping of
Brazilian ships, but the R.N. was within
its rights under international law.
British cruisers have been very active
in the West Indian station zone. Two
German merchant ships—the Idarwald
and Rhein —which left Tampico (Mexico)
on Nov. 30, have been picked up by
cruisers off Cuba.
Not So Much Blitzkrieg .
“Aileron”: Whether because of cli-
matic or political reasons, there was not
so much Blitzkrieg last week. Londoners
had nights when they enjoyed complete
immunity, and on the evening of Dec. 7
there were no raids over Britain at all.
Bristol, Portsmouth and Birmingham
were all raided, as Southampton—its main
street destroyed and 370 casualties re-
ported—had been on the previous Satur-
day. But these attacks were not nearly
so severe as previous ones.
The weather was bad on all fronts
from Egypt northward, but it did not
deter the R.A.F. From Assab in Eritrea
and Graziani’s lines in Libya to Turin,
from Turin to the North Sea, it carried
on its work night after night. Turin’s
royal arsenal and the Fiat works were
battered, as also was Valona, and a
destroyer taking off Italian officials at
Santi Quaranta was rendered unsea-
worthy. Victorious Greeks entering the
port found it hull down and listing.
The worst battering was reserved for
the submarine and naval bases at Lorient
(France) and Brest and the range of
German aerodromes in France, Belgium
and Holland. And a great ironworks at
Diisseldorf was completely opened, as
with a tin-opener, to make a furnace for
one of the largest conflagrations the
Coastal Command has seen.
No. 3000 Falls.
“Aileron”: The R.A.F. celebrated a
red-letter day on December 2 by shoot-
ing down the 3000th German ’plane defi-
nitely known to have been destroyed over
Britain since August B—a8 —a Messerschmitt
110 over Folkestone.
Another 500 are believed to have
crashed. The Air Ministry doesn’t make
a claim unless it has the carcass of the
victim.
The achievement is amazing. German
losses over Britain alone in four months
were much greater than the whole front-
line strength of the R.A.F. a couple of
years before the war.
R.A.F. losses were 839 machines and
414 pilots ; and the machines were mostly
single-seater fighters, comparatively easy
to replace. The bulk of the German
machines brought down were bombers
carrying substantial crews. The dispro-
portion of machine losses is certainly
immense, though it does not represent a
great deal in a year’s construction of,
say, 2000 machines a month, which most
authorities take as being the level of
German building.
German loss of personnel is more
serious. It cannot be less than 7000 —
a blow under which any aerial nation
might stagger.
The Germans now are taking every
step to conserve both machines and man-
power—chiefly by following R.A.F. raid-
ing technique and by the use of armor
and more speed.
The results were seen in October. For
each of the previous two months the
Luftwaffe suffered the destruction of just
on 1100 machines. October losses were
only 245.
There is, however, a counter for every
evil, and the R.A.F. soon began to find
it in the use of 37mm. cannon in
place of the rifle-calibre machine-guns,
in intensified A.A. fire and some other
improvements.
In November 583 German ’planes were
shot down over England against 121
British. British losses increased by only
11 over the previous month, German by
338.
Certainly, German raiders concentrat-
ing on a few individual cities have done
savage injury to civilians and property
and historic buildings, but it takes more
than the smashing of shops and dwell-
ings, picture galleries and churches to
win wars.
It becomes more and more patent that
modern fire-power and mechanisation
result in the stalemate of land armies
belonging to countries separated by sea.
Even when land forces succeed in get-
ting a foothold on foreign soil the result
has so far always been the same in this
war.
When concentration of sea-power be-
comes necessary or expedient, Britain is
in complete control. This was proved in
the face of overwhelming German man-
power and mechanisation in land and air
at Dunkirk. But it did not enable the
B.E.F. to remain in Norway, Belgium
or France.
Italy succeeded in getting forces into
Egypt and into Albania, but the positive
results so far must be disastrously patent
even to Rome. One of the features of
the autumn war has been that only
Britain, because of its mobility, has had
a sure choice of objectives. The RAF.
and the R.N. at will have pounded Italian
ports, Italian battleships at sea (when
caught up with), invasion ports in France,
German naval bases, military barge con-
centrations, railway junctions, oil supplies
and munition works. Superior personnel,
better-trained, with long tradition of
experience behind it, is the essence of
the success of this policy.
Would Germany waste a single bomb
on civilian property if it had even a long-
distance chance to wipe out the R.A.F.
or a tithe of it by direct attack?
The areas blasted in London, Coventry,
Birmingham and Bristol are vastly
greater than those covered by half the
aircraft factories in Britain. It would
have taken fewer bombs to destroy the
British shipbuilding industry than it did
to devastate Coventry—if the Junkers and
the Dorniers could have got near the
vital works where battleships rear their
unfinished prows into the sky.
In terms of war, a division or so of
British troops killed from the air would
mean more than all the civilians whom
German raiders will mangle in a twelve-
month, but military casualties have been
almost nil in Britain. It is only civilians
whom the Germans can kill.
No U-boat would waste its time on a
merchant ship if it could destroy a battle-
ship. But Germany knows that any
large-scale attempt, naval or aerial, on
the R.N. would result in disaster to the
attackers.
Aerially, Britain is certainly making
great headway. The average balance of
’plane losses in its favor since the be-
ginning of the Blitzkrieg has been
roughly 500 per month. And John Bull
has the benefit of American construction.
What it is at present is a secret. As far
back as May 25 G. W. Wynne, speaking
for the Anglo-French Purchasing Com-
mission, declared that 2000 American
machines had been delivered to the Allies
since the beginning of the year.
Italy, for its part, has proved a bitter
failure in the air. If the Italian Air
Force were a serious factor there would
be little or nothing left of Greek towns
and not much of Alexandria and the
Suez Canal.
The chances are that the aerial war,
terrible as it is, has only just begun. As
yet, expansion of effort is governed not
so much by machine numbers and arma-
ment as by the supply of trained man-
power. It takes much longer to make a
capable airman or air gunner or a ground
crew than it does to build the largest
bomber in Europe.
When the trained men of the Empire
Air scheme begin to go into the front
line in large numbers, there is certain to
be a big extension of British effort. Then
the Germans will learn with a vengeance
the truth of Nelson’s saying: “Only num-
bers can annihilate.”
Britain cannot nearly have reached
capacity in construction, without allow-
ing for the efforts of Canada, Australia
and U.S.A. In 1918 J.B. turned out
27,000 machines and more engines, and
was hull-down ahead of Germany. And
it will be well on in next year before the
swelling tide of trained man-power begins
to flow into the ranks on a sufficient
scale.
Unless the Central Powers collapse in
the meantime, 1941 is going to be a year
which Europe will hate to remember.
The Air War Day by Day.
December 2-3: Casualties in week-end
raids on Southampton, 370. Bristol
again savagely attacked; also East
Anglia and South Wales, but no night
raids on London.
R.A.F. bombs Naples and Augusta, a
Sicilian naval port; also Valona
(Albania), where fire started, ship hit and
Italian fighter brought down. Three
Italian aircraft destroyed on Santi
Quaranta front.
December 3-4: Birmingham raided for
90 minutes —damage mainly dwellings,
with several churches and schools. Raids
on South Wales and s.-w. England. Two
bombs hit London convent in which 100
sheltering; children among the dead.
R.A.F. ’planes raid Rhineland railway
centres.
Germans report heavy bombers
attacked British aerodromes, camps and
armament factories. They admit raids
by “isolated” R.A.F. machines on Ger-
many—“casualties slight, damage nil.”
R.A.F. and Greeks continue to harass
Italians from air ; Greek fighters shoot
down three Italian ’planes. Italians admit
loss and claim six Greek ’planes de-
stroyed; also assert that Italian ’planes
torpedoed two enemy cruisers in Suda
Bay (Crete).
R.A.F. raids Kassala (Sudan), heavily
attacking motor column and machine-
gunning troops.
Dec. 4-5: Light raid on London, but
heavy bombing of Midland towns. Few
casualties but fairly heavy damage in
one Midland city.
R.A.F. bombs Dtisseldorf and other
centres in West Germany and Turin fac-
tories (Italy). Germans report three
British and three German ’planes down ;
Italians, that only carpet factory at Turin
was hit. Chief Turin objective was
royal arsenal, also Fiat motor and ’plane
works; numerous fires started.
R.A.F. reports “a large number of
Italian ’planes [Greeks say 10] shot
down in fierce battle over Albanian
lines.” Retreating Italian troops sys-
tematically bombed and two direct hits
scored on destroyer in Santi Quaranta
harbor. Destroyer found by Greeks half-
submerged.
December 5-6: Heavy raid on Ports-
mouth ; London has quiet day—only two
alerts. Fourteen German raiders shot
down ; British lose one machine. R.A.F
bombs chemical works at Eindhoven (Hol-
land), several aerodromes at Amsterdam
and Haamstde and in France, and sub-
marine base at Lorient.
Greeks bomb Italian barracks at Tep-
pelena.
U.S.A. releases 20 “flying fortresses”
to R.A.F.
Dec. 6-7: Heavy raid on Bristol,
number of casualties, some fatal, and
considerable damage to property ; light
raids elsewhere. Further hammering of
German aerodromes in occupied terri-
tory by R.A.F.
Bad weather restricts Egyptian opera-
tions. R.A.F. bombs large motor con-
centration near Assab, Eritrea.
R.A.F. bombs Valona, despite adverse
weather, and hits Italian ship off coast.
Dec. 7-8: No night raids on Britain,
while Londoners waited for 400th attack.
Small sporadic day raids on south coast.
R.A.F. again attacks Dusseldorf, Ant-
werp, Dunkirk, Calais, Boulogne, and
numerous aerodromes in Belgium, Hol-
land and France, naval shipyards and
docks at Lorient and Brest. Four
machines missing.
Further harrying of retreating Italian
forces in Albania.
Dec. 8: Air raid on London, declared
by Germans heaviest since September;
“poosest and most fashionable suburbs”
bombed.
Members of Franco-Italian armistice
commission killed when ’plane carrying
them crashes between Rome and Turin ;
Generals Pinto and Pellegrini among the
dead.
R.A.F. bombs Castel Benito, near
Tripoli (Libya), wrecking hangars and
destroying at least eight grounded ’planes.
Two Italian ’planes brought down over
Bura, Kenya.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’CORN
qILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain or
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
SILK at 6d. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GRIMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James.Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. C3LG ‘
General Manager —D. S. FORBES . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 147 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Males, also, representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest faeilitres for the transaction of all general banking business.
BRANDAUERrS
%
CiC.V
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDA.BKR * 00, Ltd, RIRUXSOHAM. EH®
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletii
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin t<? hand.
lo avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Mechanic (dental), exp. in prosthetic work,
seeks permanent situation, Brisbane. Refs. —
8862.
Breeder of Siamese cats wishes to get in
touch with another breeder. —8855.
To buy two copies of Brown’s Bible Dic-
tionary.—8863.
To buy instruction book for 1930 Studebaker.
—8861.
To buy, with or without music, songs “Work,
boys, work and be contented” and “The girl
with the dreamy eyes.”—8864.
To exchange Grove’s “Melody of Hope
Reverie” for “Grand Fleet Waltz” or “Silent
Watch Mazurka” —all out of print.—8716.
Information Sought.
(1) Are there prospects of employment in the
aircraft industry for a person graduating from
an aviation school? (2) Are there any bar-
riers—age, unions, for example? (3) Which
Sydney aviation school is preferred? (4) What
are the wages for skilled aircraftmen? —8653.
(1) Yes, for qualified men. (2) Unions re-
quire men over 21 to receive at least the basic
wage and, if qualified ground engineers, the
award rates. It should also be noted that
ground engineers’ licenses are not issued to
persons under 21. (3) In Sydney the syllabus
of the College of Civil Aviation has been
approved as supplying the theoretical know-
ledge necessary to pass the written portion of
ground engineers’ exams., besides making
available some practical experience. (4) Wages
for a licensed ground engineer range from £5
to £6 10s. a week.
* * * *
Which was the larger vessel, the Leviathan
or the Majestic ? A few details of the latter ?
—8874.
Actually the Majestic was the larger vessel,
but the Leviathan had the greater gross ton-
nage. Both boats were built in Germany as
the Vaderland and the Bismarck. After the
war they changed flags, the former going to
U.S.A., the latter to Britain. The Americans
reconstructed the Vaderland (Leviathan) and
added new cabins, in no way altering her size
but increasing her gross tonnage, which is
calculated on a basis of space within a ship.
The Majestic was 956ft. in length, beam 100ft.
and depth 112ft. Gross tonnage 56,551 and
powered by turbine engines of 100,000 h.p.,
driving four screws.
* * * *
What is the difference between nominal and
effective wages ? —8869.
The Commonwealth Year-Book states that
“wages are said to be ‘nominal’ when they
represent the actual amounts of money re-
ceived in return for labor, and are described as
‘effective’ or ‘real’ when expressed in terms of
their equivalent purchasing power, that is, their
purchasing power over some definite composite
unit or regimen the cost of which can be
ascertained at different times.”
* * * *
How often is a census taken? By the States
separately or by the Commonwealth ? —8870.
The first occasion on which the census of the
several Australian colonies was taken on the
same date was in 1881. Later the Common-
wealth Census and Statistics Act provided for
the enumeration being dealt with from one
centre instead of by each State separately.
Under the Act the first census for the Com-
monwealth was taken in 1911 and the second
in 1921. The third census should have been
taken in 1931, but, owing to the depression, it
was taken two years later in June, 1933.
* * * *
The year of formation of each Australian
State into a separate colony? The present
area of each ? The length of coastline ? —8867.
N. S. Wales, 1786, 309,432 square miles,
700 miles; Vic., 1851, 87,884 sq. m., 680 m.;
Q’land, 1859, 670,500 sq. m., 3000 m.; S.A.,
1834, 380,070 sq. m., 1540 m.; W.A., 1829,
975,920 sq. m., 4350 m.; Tas., 1825, 26,215
sq. m., 900 m.; A.C.T., 1911, 940 sq. m. The
N.T. was formed into a separate territory in 1825
and transferred to the Commonwealth in 1911;
its area is 523,620 sq. miles and coastline 1040
miles. The six States with their included
territories were federated under the name “Com-
monwealth of Australia” on January 1, 1901.
* * * *
(1) Where are the principal mines producing
alumina for the manufacture of sheet aluminium
situated? (2) Where other than in Greenland
is cryolite found? (3) Is cryolite the only
flux needed to purge the rock of its alumina
content? (4) What is the landed cost of im-
ported aluminium at present? —8712.
(1) The commercial ore of aluminium is
bauxite. In order of their importance, the
principal bauxite-producing countries, not
including Russia, are France, U.S.A., Dutch
Guiana, British Guiana, Hungary, Italy and
Yugoslavia. Minor quantities are produced
in the Dutch East Indies, Greece, North Ire-
land, India, Rumania, Spain, Australia and
Germany. France produces one-third of the
world’s bauxite, U.S.A. one-fifth, Dutch Guiana,
British Guiana and Hungary each about one-
tenth, Italy one-fifteenth and Yugoslavia one-
twentieth. (2) The only three commonly-known
occurrences of cryolite are in Greenland,
Colorado and Russia, Greenland being the only
place where the mineral occurs in commercial
quantities. (3) Asa flux and solvent used in
the manufacture of aluminium, cryolite is meet-
ing competition in the form of artificial cryolite,
made from sodium-carbonate, bauxite and
fluorspar, or from their derivatives which supply
sodium, aluminium and fluorine. (4) Current
price of English aluminium landed in Aus-
tralia is £145 10s. per ton.
* * * *
/ read recently of an iceberg 25 miles long
and 800//. in height. Do you think this
likely?—Mil.
Yes. Several icebergs 1000 ft. in height have
been recorded, and also bergs 1200 ft. and
1500 ft. high. One was observed breaking off
in the Antarctic 50 miles by 50 miles, or
2500 sq. m. in area. The ship Margaret Gal-
braith recorded having passed an iceberg 70
miles long, and one of 100 miles was passed by
whalers in 1931. In 1854 a huge berg appeared
and caused considerable trouble in the trade
routes midway between Capes Horn and Good
Hope. It was 60 miles x 40 miles x 300tt.
* * * *
What is the origin of the idea that oysters
should not be eaten in months without an
“r” ?— 8876.
The months without an “r” —May to
August—are the oysters’ breeding-time, when
the young are retained in the gills of the
oyster, thus making them unfit to eat. Making
the breeding period virtually a closed season
conserves the oyster supply.
* * * *
Brief facts concerning biography and work
of Francis Ormond, Victorian philanthropist
of last century? —Bß6s.
Ormond was the son of a merchant captain
who settled at Port Phillip in 1842. He was
born at Aberdeen, Scotland, on November 23,
1829, educated in Liverpool and brought by
his parents to Geelong. Here he first tried
commercial life, and then became a squatter.
This occupation brought him great wealth, which
he determined to spend on the encouragement
of education in Victoria. Among his gifts
and legacies for this purpose the principal
were more than £IOO,OOO to Ormond College
within the University, £20,000 to endow the
chair of music at the University and £II,OOO
to the Melbourne Working Men’s College.
His will further provided large sums for hospi-
tals and asylums at Melbourne, Geelong and
Ballarat. He died in France during a visit to
Europe on May 5, 1889. From 1882 till his
death he was a member of the Vic. Leg.
Council.
* * * *
Some particulars of the Boulder Dam on the
Colorado River in U.S.A. ? —BB6B.
It is the highest dam in the world, situated
in the Black Canyon of the Colorado River;
completed March 1 last, about five years after
it was started. The dam rises 726 ft. above bed-
rock, and can raise the level of the Colorado
584 ft. Length along the crest is 1244 ft., width
at the top 45ft., and at the bottom 660 ft. A
total of 4,400,000 cub. yds. of cement was used
in the construction of the dam and other works.
The reservoir formed by the dam is called Lake
Mead, after Dr. Elwood Mead, Commissioner
of Reclamation, who died during the construc-
tion period. Lake Mead is the world’s largest
artificial lake —it has a capacity of 30,500,000
acre-feet, is 115 miles long, and eight miles
across at the widest point. The dam is used
for regulating the river, flood control, silt con-
trol, improvement of navigation and for hydro-
electric purposes.
* * * *
Why is it that a Dutchman cannot take up
land in Australia during war-time? —B632.
There is no Commonwealth legislation which
places an absolute bar on Dutchmen residing
in Australia from acquiring land therein.
However, the National Security (Land Transfer)
Regulations require that the consent of the
Attorney-General of the Commonwealth shall
be first obtained before any contract or agree-
ment is entered into for the sale of land or the
lease of land for a term of more than five
years to a subject of a country in enemy
occupation. The Netherlands have been de-
clared to be such a country.
* H= * *
(1) What is meant by the terms overvalued
and undervalued currency? (2) Are the effects
of an over- or undervalued currency the same
as would result from lowering or raising the
tariff? (3) When a country is off the gold
standard, what useful purpose does the gold in
the bank vaults serve ? —8626.
(1) An overvalued currency is one which
buys less than a second currency when the two
currencies have a fixed relative exchange value.
An undervalued currency would be “the second
currency” previously mentioned. (2) High in-
ternal costs produce overvaluation of currency;
low costs or currency depreciation produce
undervaluation. (3) The gold strengthens ex-
ternal credit, as it can be released to pay
foreign commitments if necessary.
* * * *
Brief biography of the Lord Mayor of Adel-
aide?— 8875.
He is Arthur George Barrett, born at Gee-
long on May 7, 1895, and educated at Mel-
bourne Church of England Grammar School.
He went to S.A. in 1913, enlisted in 1916, and
served in Belgium and France with the 2nd
Australian Siege Battery. Asa lieutenant he
was transferred to the 3rd Squadron Australian
Flying Corps, and returned to Adelaide in 1919.
He entered the Adelaide City Council as coun-
cillor of the Robe ward in December, 1931,
and represented that ward until June, 1937,
when he resigned to contest the Mayoralty.
He was elected by a large majority, and again
in 1938, 1939 and 1940.
* * * *
Instructions for playing solitaire? —8857.
Solitaire is played on a round board with
33 holes on its upper surface. In each hole
is placed a marble. The player takes away any
one marble and moves into its place any other
separated by one from the vacant hole, re-
moving the marble skipped over from the
board as with men at draughts. The object
is to take all the marbles but one in this
manner, leaving that one in the hole rendered
vacant by the first move.
» v * *
Any information concerning a photographic
process known as Platinotype ? Instructions
for printing by this process ? —8849.
Platinotype is a printing process in which
iron and platinum salts are used. The pictures
obtained are in pure platinum and are abso-
lutely permanent. The paper as sold is of a
yellowish color on the coated side. This is
placed under a negative in a printing frame and
exposed to daylight until all details are just
visible in a brownish tint on the yellow ground.
The image is developed by placing the print
in a solution of potassium oxalate (1 in 6
approximately) or in a developer prepared by
the makers of the paper. This gives perfect
black tones. A different paper is supplied for
sepia tones and is developed in a hot bath of
oxalate solution 10 parts, saturated solution
oxalic, acid one part, used at 150 deg. to
160 deg. F.
* * * *
(1) Would the carob-tree (Ceratonia siliqua )
grow in the Longreach district of Q’land on
black-soil country ? (2) How to raise trees
from seed? Germination seems difficult. (3)
Where to procure seeds ? (4) Any books on
this subject? —B67B.
(1) It is probable that the climate of Long-
reach would suit the carob bean, which is
compared by various authorities with the orange
and loquat in its climatic requirements; it is
native to Mediterranean countries, where it is
said to grow in practically any soils that are
not stiff clays or are waterlogged. While
it is eminently a dry-climate tree, summer irriga-
tions or rainfall are stated to aid development,
hasten fruiting and increase yield. At Long-
reach occasional waterings may be necessary
during the early stages of growth. (2) The best
method of germinating the seed is to soak it
for three to four days in water or until it
begins to swell. Incidentally, the seedlings
transplant with difficulty, and rarely survive
injury to the taproot; best results are obtained
by sowing in pots or perforated tins and trans-
planting as yearlings without disturbing the
roots. (3) Seeds can usually be obtained from
any Botanic Gardens. Sydney supply has been
exhausted by recent heavy demands. (4) No
books dealing specifically with the carob bean
are known, but an excellent article appears in
L. H. Bailey’s Standard Encyclopaedia of Horti-
culture and a paragraph in Mueller’s Select
Extra-tropical Plants. Carobean, Ltd., Pitt-
street, Sydney, publishes a pamphlet on the sub-
ject. An article, “The Algaroba or Mesquite
Tree in Central Queensland,” in “Queensland
Agricultural Journal,” November, 1928, should
be of interest.
* * * *
How does the husband’s income affect the
wife’s application for an old-age pension, there
being no other source of income to the house-
hold?— 8679.
The Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act pro-
vides, in the case of husband and wife, except
where they are living apart pursuant to any
decree, judgment or order, that the income
and property of each shall be deemed to be
possessed by both in equal shares. The Act
also provides that a pensioner’s income, in-
cluding pension, shall not exceed the sum of
£B4 10s, per annum. Board and lodging pro-
vided a pensioner or her husband is regarded
as income and is assessed at the rate of £32 10s.
in each case. A man may have a net income
of £65 per annum, including board and lodg-
ing, without his wife’s pension rate being
affected.
* * * *
I have a 22-volt Delco lighting plant. When
running it is heard on the telephone (party
line), probably also on the wireless. How can
1 cut the interference out without lowering
efficiency of plant ? —8664.
First steps are to see that the generator com-
mutator is smooth and the brushes well bedded;
also that the ignition contacts are in good
condition; replacing them, if necessary. To
reduce radio interference, connect a 2 x 2
microfarad condenser across the brushes, earth-
ing the centre point on the frame of the machine.
A ,smfd. x .smfd. condenser should be connected
across the ignition points, again earthing the
centre point to the frame of the machine. A
spark-plug suppressor should be fitted between
the end of the high-tension lead and the spark-
plug terminal. In some case it is helpful to
connect the frame of the machine to a piece of
pipe which has been driven well into the
ground, and the surrounding earth kept moist.
It is not desirable to have the generator mains
and the telephone wire running parallel and
close to one another.
jft V
Method employed to polish terazzo or syn-
thetic marble ? —8766.
This is kept a close secret by the makers,
but wax furniture polish or similar polishes
are effective. On black and brown surfaces
good boot polish put on sparingly and polished
by hand cannot be beaten; on large jobs it
can be done with wax and machinery-driven
polishers. To clean terazzo before polishing,
mix two parts baking soda, one part powdered
pumice and one part French chalk. Rub over
the surface and wash with soap and water.
* * * *
(1) I have a number of blackwood trees
(green) ranging from 12 in. to 24 in. thick, and
from 20 ft. to 60 ft. in length of log. Is it likely
I could find a buyer for them? (2) What is
approximate value of a log 30 ft. long and 15 in.
in diameter? (3) What is best way to dispose
of timber? —8691.
(1) It would be difficult to find a buyer.
There is a limited demand for this timber at
present, and the Melbourne market is supplied
with high-quality, large-sized logs from Tas-
mania. Timber merchants state that they re-
quire logs over 2ft. in diameter. (2) No
quotation possible. The logs seem to be too
small to meet present market requirements.
(3) Offer the logs for sale to John Sharp and
Sons, Lorimer-street, South Melbourne, or Chas.
Rouch, Ltd., 23 Peel-street, West Melbourne.
* * * *
(1) From whom did Tommy Burns win the
world’s heavyweight boxing championship? (2)
How many times did he fight Philadelphia Jack
O'Brien? (3) Where is Burns now? —8715.
(1) From Marvin Hart, Jim Jeffries having re-
linquished the championship. (2) Three times.
(3) Vancouver, 8.C., where he conducts a gym-
nasium.
Brief Answers.
H.C.: Pears’ Cyclopcedia (4s. 9d.), for
general information, and Chambers’s Twentieth
Century Dictionary (12s. 6d.), both obtainable
from leading booksellers, should meet your re-
quirements W.C.: If your equipment is of
P.M.G. pattern, terminals are plainly marked
for earthing and for dry-cell connections....
F.A.S.: There is a very small market for
papain in Australia. Cannot suggest any
firms interested. Nothing known here as to
prices... .H.W.: The commission which con-
sidered coalminers’ pensions was set up by the
N.S.W. Government. Its report has not yet
been issued M.McA.: Designing hand-knit
wear is a profitable occupation when one can
find a market. The best way to set about
selling original designs is to wait on firms
which sell such wear, but there are many de-
signers and few customers. Try the big depart-
ment stores.... M.T.F.: Adelaide is named
after Queen Adelaide, consort of William IV.
...M.T.G.: St. Paul’s Cathedral was built
1675-1710 at a cost of £747,660. “Great Paul,”
the bell in the s.-w. tower, weighs tons.
M.T.H.: The oldest Indian books are
reckoned to date from about 1500 b.c. They
are written in Sanskrit... .M.L.S.: A skull
of Neanderthal man was discovered in the
Guttari cave at Monte Felice Circeo, about 60
miles south of Rome, on February 25, 1939,
by Dr. A. C. Blanc C.D.: The Hawaiian or
Sandwich Islands form a Territory of the
U.S.A. and consist of a chain of 20 islands
in the N. Pacific Ocean. The total area is
6435 sq. m., and the population (1939) is
414,991 M.T.D.: Nauru is administered
under mandate from the League of Nations by
Great Britain, Australia and M.L N.H.T.:
George VI succeeded to the throne on Decem-
ber 11, 1936, and was crowned at Westminster
on May 12, 1937... .L.T.8.: N. S. Wales
carries more pigs than any of the other States.
Latest available figures are: N.S.W. 356,765,
Vic. 285,259, Q’land 282,941, S.A. 66,647, W.A.
64,598, Tas. 43,067, A.C.T. 417, N.T. 388....
N.T.R.: The Tasmanian Year-Book says that
“Tasmania represents an extension of the south-
eastern portion of the Australian continent, its
separation having been caused in recent geo-
logical times by the flooding of a low-lying
portion now represented by Bass Strait”....
M.L.T.: Latest figures are for 1938, when 14
people in Australia died from snakebite
H.M.R.: In 1937 antimony production in Aus-
tralia was 144 tons in N. S. Wales, 295 tons
in Vic., one ton in Queensland and 565 tons
in Westralia... .P.T.L.: The Hawthornden Prize
consists of £IOO and a silver medal awarded
each June to an English author under 41 for
what is judged to be the best work of. imagi-
native literature published during the previous
12 months T.N.G.: There were in Australia
in 1937 approximately 13,078,356 cattle, in-
cluding 3,368,899 dairy cattle... .L.T.8.: Sir
Ernest Shackleton died on January 5, 1922, on
board the Quest while on a scientific voyage
to the Antarctic... .H.P.R.: On March 1, 1940,
132 battalions of the Blackshirt Militia were
embodied in the divisional units of the Italian
Regular Army... .N.R.L.: The present Rajah
of Sarawak is H.H. Sir Charles Vyner Brooke.
He was born in 1874, and succeeded his father
in 1917... .N.R.D.: There are about 11 rupees
to the Australian pound... .M.G.R.: Write to
Houghton and Byrne, Bridge-street, Sydney, for
information regarding the elimination of cock-
roaches. .. .B.G.S.lnformation not available.
. ...C.G.R.: No, Perth is about 12-miles from
Fremantle and connected by bus, train and taxi
services. The bridge over the Swan River at
North Fremantle was recently reconstructed....
J.H.R.: No information available here. Write
to the Director, Meteorological Institute of the
Hebrew University, Mount Scopus, Jerusalem.
G.E.W.: The firm seems to have gone out of
business. Send MS. to Angus and Robertson,
Sydney R.C.A.: There is no known method
of softening rubber billiard-table cushions when
they have hardened... .G.A.C.: Write to the
Registrar-General, Wellington, N.Z.... .E.F.S.:
If the document you signed was a valid agree-
ment and complied with the provisions of the
Book Purchasers’ Protection Act, you cannot
cancel the order but are liable to pay the price.
M.J.D.: The jockey was N. Creighton
H.P.S.A.: No. The payments already made held
you covered against the insured risks up to the
time you made the last payment... .E.N.T.:
Question much too vague... .S.F.R.: Poem too
long to copy; see Collected Poems of Robert
Service in any public library... .J.A.F.: Infor-
mation not available; consult files of any city
daily newspaper... .W.P.1.: Write to the
S. African Tourist Bureau... .T.E.G.: Dr.
Maloney was born in West Melbourne on
April 12, 1854. No record of the other matter.
A.R.E.: Write to the station you were
listening to.


QUITS
LYS
&
ROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
>'»< >, - -v*x*v<-:vc<v
'/' <^^3
* ~~
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPEC
FY "LYSAGHT ’S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Woolgrowing as a Business.
“Bungaree”: It’s no good any longer
assessing a man’s wealth by the extent
of his flocks. More important is the
return per acre. And that doesn’t mean
stocking a property to the limit of what
it will carry in a good season ; many
graziers have found that by reducing the
number of sheep on the property they
are producing more and better wool.
Much of the success in sheepbreeding
depends on what goes down the animal’s
throat. Recent experiments with sheep
ranging from fine-woolled New Englands
to strong-woolled S. Australians have
proved that the quantity of wool a sheep
produces depends on the amount of pro-
tein fed to it. There is a limit, of course,
but sheep can be relied on to regulate
this amount.
Different types of sheep need varying
amounts. Strong-woolled wethers on
restricted diet grew a hunger-fine wool
corresponding to medium-fine quality
(66’s). Similar sheep on a full bulk and
protein diet grew a robust fleece of
almost 56’s quality, and the weight of
wool produced was two and a half times
greater than that of the protein-starved
sheep.
Sheep can exist for an astonishingly
long time on practically no feed at all if
water is available and if they are strong
to begin with. This is because they are
drawing on body reserves of fat and pro-
tein, but ii has been proved that during
this starvation period there is no wool
growth at all.
Experiments on growing sheep from
the lamb stage gave significant results.
One group was kept on full rations and
the other on a limited supply of feed.
Comparisons over a four-month period
cover liveweight, weight of wool grown,
wool-fibre diameter and length. Starting
off on an even basis, the well-fed lambs
increased their average weight from 241 b.
to 411 b., while the others showed an in-
crease of only 21b. per head. In wool
weight, the full-ration lambs cut just
twice as much and their wool-fibre
diameter increased considerably, while
the other sheep showed a decrease. In
length of staple, the well-fed lambs were
nearly 30 per cent, ahead in four months.
For the greater proportion of sheep-
owners adequate feeding is even more
important than breeding. Breeding and
feeding must go hand in hand, but while
the former can give the material to work
on with a larger number of wool-fibres
to the square inch, only an ample quan-
tity arid selection of food will cultivate
the utmost length and robustness of those
fibres.
Handling the Kurrajong.
“Narine”: The kurrajong is one of the
loneliest trees of the bush and one of
the most useful. Apart from its leaves,
green when everything else has gone, its
bark produces large quantities of tough,
light fibre, suitable for hat plaiting. In
any other country kurrajong would be
planted for this alone.
Kurrajongs grow anywhere along a
belt 300 or 400 miles inland from the
coast. They will stand up to droughts
which will murder any other timber.
Seeds should be sown in September in a
well mulched gnd thoroughly dug seed-
bed. They should be pressed in thickly
in rows six inches apart, and seedlings
should presently be thinned out to about
three inches apart in the rows. Beds
should be kept moist, but not too wet.
At a year old the young trees are moved
to a nursery-—they should then be about
two feet high. In the nursery they are
left for about six years and then moved
to a permanent site.
While in the nursery all lower branches
are taken off as they appear, training the
tree to one trunk. Hand cultivation
hastens growth.
When putting kurrajongs out per-
manently they should be sawn off to a
six-foot stump, all leaves and shoots
being removed. Dig round the tree, chop
off the lowest part of the taproot with
a sharp axe so that the bark does not
come away, and remove part of the lateral
“Think I'd better get Sarah an make it a family group."
roots. The hole to which it is transferred
should be not less than the same depth
as that from which it was removed. When
the tree is in put the soil back and water
often, giving the water plenty of time to
soak in. A second series of waterings
should be given after three weeks if there
is no rain in the interval.
Shoots should begin to appear about
a month after final transplanting. In
planting round fences there should be
an interval of 25ft., which means 211
trees to the mile. Cultivation for a time
helps growth.
It takes about three years before trees
are really fit to lop for fodder. And
lopping should be done sparingly—don’t
barber a tree like a convict. Take off
a small portion of the leaves of each
tree. Then follow with other sparing
clips. At seven years the trees should
run from 15 to 20 feet high.
H. S. Henley, Bassett Downs, near
Cowra (N.S.W.), is one of the few farmers
who have developed a standard method of
kurrajong production. At present he
keeps about 3000 trees, young and old,
going along.
Appraisement.
“Graz”: The Central Wool Committee
may have justifiable reasons for rushing
appraisements, but some growers feel
they are not getting justice. The quality
and condition of wool do not vary
from year to year to the extent appraise-
ment prices suggest. A neighbor recently
got 2+d. more than last year, while an-
other, with a better-grown clip than his
previous one, is down 7d. on the top
line. In neither case was there any
change in sheep or get-up of the clips.
Crossbred wools were appraised early,
and results so disappointed growers that
they complained of being sacrificed to
the benefit of merino growers. Yet Vic-
toria, with a much larger proportion of
crossbred than N. S. Wales, averaged
12.31 d. to early November compared
with only 11.39 d. by N. S. Wales.
Queensland and W.A. are not noted for
quality wools, but are above Ma State
with 12.15 d. and 11.77 d. respectively.
Wheat and Rye.
“Ben C.”: In the Molong (N.S.W.)
district, with its assured rainfall and deep,
rich soil, mixed wheat and sheep farming
is a proved success, and is considerably
aided by the use of Wimmera rye-grass.
The rye is sown with the wheat, spreads
well and is re-scattered when ripe by the
header going through the wheat. It keeps
weeds down and in autumn gives the
sheep on the stubble a fairly substantial
undergrowth of green feed.
Cole Bros, sow the rye at to the
acre through the manure box. After the
crop the paddock is grazed for a year,
then fallowed, making a three-year rota-
tion. Under this system the soil usually
requires little working to make ready for
the wheat crop. This has been going on
for six years, and now it isn’t necessary
to sow any more rye for a while—it’s all
over the place.
The brothers are trying sowing sub.
clover at 21b. an acre with wheat, and
their first lot appears to be doing well.
Grazing oats are going into the wheat
rotation and there is a useful lucerne
patch. From this combination of fodders
come some of the finest Romney-merino
fat lambs the State produces.
Bordan on Top.
“C. Real”: Not only did Bordan show
out against the popular wheats in the
central part of the N.S.W. wheatbelt
(B. 27/11 / ’40); it took the first three
places in the R.A.S. championship in the
area and six of the 15 district competi-
tions. The champion crop was grown by
S. Barber at Baldry. His winning Bordan
may yield 15 bags an acre, the others
from 10 to 14. This against competitors
relying on Bencubbin, Ford and Dundee.
Down on the southern slopes, Boorowa-
Young-Temora to the Murray, Bordan
won second place, losing to a Bobin crop
by one and a half points, though
estimated to outyield the competition
crops by a bushel an acre.
Bordan is another successful South
Australian evolution, coming from a
Bearded Rieti x Ford x Dan fixation. It
is to join the N.S.W. list of recommended
wheats next year. Harry Stening, the
N.S.W. wheat expert who judges most of
the R.A.S. contests, says it is a shade
later in maturing than its Ford parent,
has strong straw and stands up slightly
better than Ford. It carries large, bold
ears, has a very high yielding capacity
and, though not expected to withstand dry
periods, has done so this season with
credit. There is some evidence, too, that
it might resist rust better than Ford,
though more experience is needed.
Millers like Bordan, its baking quality
being slightly better than Ford. It needs
good conditions and gives its best yields
when sown early on well-fallowed land.
In the parts of N.S.W. where it did so
well this season the drought was scarcely
felt, except that on some portion of the
southern slopes crops copped out, many
of them around Wagga being cut for hay
and many more yielding a pinched sample.
Barber’s crop was in a district that
looked like the Promised Land compared
with the rest of the wheatbelt.
It was in much the same sort of
country that Freudenstein Bros., of
Young, grew Bordan that was second
to a Bobin crop at distant and
fertile Brocklesby, on the Murray, grown
by Severin and Sons, who always seem
to be among the champions.
“K. Me.”: C.S.I.R. experiments on the
effect of flystrikes on body and fleece
weights show that small strikes which do
not upset the constitution cause little in-
jury. But severe strikes caused grown
sheep to lose up to Bylb. in weight. The
mean drop in fleece weights for a mob
of 305, out of which 179 were struck,
was 50z., or a loss of £l6 per 1000 sheep
with wool at 12d. per pound. Severe
strikes on 46 C-class sheep caused a loss
of lib. each in their fleeces. The per-
centage of tender wool among C-class


AUSTRALIANS
WILL NOT
LIVE IN CHAINS
The fight for freedom is
on —and the most vital
of all munitions is
money. Put your money
into the fightl Let your
savings help to speed
the onward drive to vic-
toryl Money is the
fourth fighting force.
Subscribe now to the
Freedom Loan—through
any Bank, Money Order
Post Office or Stock-
broker.
&
W
■jfjsm
sk
IN THE
A
\
ft
v- X
Ms everything
in tnne for
dx
&
~vi
Let radio furnisli a link in the complete
chain of Christmas cheer
Efficient valves mean brighter entertainment,
complete harmony and the utmost enjoyment
for all the family
anish discord from your radio with
RADIOTRON valves
1 N vV
Amalgamated Wireless (A/sia), Ltd.,
47 York Street,
SYDNEY.
Australian General Electric Proprietary, Ltd.,
93 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Ltd.
For Inflamed Eyes am
SOLD EVEHYWI
H. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., Kj
Eyelids
HERE
ina St- Sydney
H
THE COMFORT OF A SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Matter
is dissolved, rendered sterile and overflows into the
Fully Guaranteed (7 Years Against Corrosion).
NO SMELLS, FLIES OK GERMS.
REPEAT ORDERS PROVE SATISFACTION.
The Commonwealth Government has mteo
bought 97 more and the Hunter District Hater
soil.
Board 13 more.
PRICE, £l7/9/6,
including sales tax and crating.
Write Desk B for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.VV.
.
struck sheep was double that of the next
highest lot. The trials again demonstrated
the comparative immunity of sheep
plain breeched either by nature or by
use of the Mules system.
“Bundalinga”: T. Laurie and Son,
Glenetive, Oxley Island (N.S.W.), have
subdivided their 138-acre farm —all of
which carries improved pastures —into
paddocks of two to five acres, making
perfect control of growth possible. With
small paddocks long rest periods between
grazings are possible, pastures produce
more and are less susceptible to damage
from overgrazing. Super, is used every
year, and pastures are harrowed after
every grazing to distribute animal drop-
pings. Fodder reserves include pasture
hay made from perennial rye grass, pas-
palum, red and white clovers.
“Kyamba”: With the drying-off of
clover pastures an attempt to arrest a
rapid milk yield decline by feeding low-
grade honey to dairy cattle has proved
remarkably successful in S.A. By damp-
ening oaten chaff with diluted honey the
cows have responded with a much-
increased yield, although the chaff led
alone failed to arrest the decline. One
pound of honey to three or four cows per
day is being fed.
“Graz”: For two years Bathylus albi-
cinctha, an Australian sap-feeding bug,
has been attacking St. John’s wort with
good results in the Tumbarumba district
(N.S.W.). Recently bugs were liberated
on patches of St. John’s near Mudgee.
“F air m i 1 e”: “Bundalinga” (B.
13/11/ ’4O) is off the mark when he says
that Kikuyu grass does not seed. It has
been seeding here in s.-e. coastal Queens-
land for years, and the seed is fertile.
At almost any time of the year, drop-
pings can be found containing seedlings,
and these, if left undisturbed, will, in hot
weather, strike down through the sward
of paspalum and establish themselves. If
“Bundalinga” cares to get in touch with
me I will be pleased to send him seed-
lings.
“Balander”: On the Darling Downs
wheatmen have been selling their crops
as hay to dairymen at around £2 a
ton, which gives the wheatman about £4
an acre —a cheaper and quicker return
than grain gives at 24 bushels an acre.
The dairyman gets good, well-headed hay
at a price far below what it would cost
him to bring in from outside.
“Wester”: C. H. Barter, a share-farmer
with just on 600 acres under wheat
near Cumnock (N.S.W.), fitted a gas-
producer to his tractor at a cost of £llB.
There was some slight loss of power,
but it was used for fallowing, for sowing
the crop, and is now drawing the header.
Charcoal costs Is. 3d. a bag, plus freight,
from near-by centres. Fuel costs for cul-
tivation and sowing ran out at about £l5
for the area. Formerly it was nearer
£l5O. Barter expects to save as much on
harvesting costs.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Is the Moss Vale district (N.S.W.) suit-
able for pig-farming ? (2) What type of country
is most suitable ? (3) Are pigs grazing animals
if allowed sufficient room? (4) What is the
best type of pasture in this case? (5) What is
a reasonable number to run to the acre ? (6)
What is the best breed of pig for the Moss Vale
district? (7) What crops should be grown for
fodder conservation? (8) What is the minimum
number of acres from which one could reason-
ably expect to make an annual income of £2OO
from pigs ? —8754.
(1) Yes. (2) Practically any type except desert
and barren rock. (3) Yes. When run for com-
mercial purposes their grazing should be
limited to small areas. They should not have
to “run themselves poor” looking for some-
thing'to eat. Grazing in itself isn’t sufficient.
There should be concentrated foods, and the
grazing should offer them a chance for exercise
as well as obtaining greenstuff and roughage.
(4) In the Moss Vale district it is possible to
vary the pastures. Tucerne, the clovers and
rye grasses offer satisfaction, but the pig is
not so much a pasture-grazer as a rooter;
therefore root crops should have a place in the
scheme. These root crops should be allowed
to mature and then the pigs turned in to root
them out. (5) It isn’t a question of pigs to
the acre, as with sheep. With adequate housing,
concentrated food and small paddocks sub-
divided for grazing and farrowing, you could
have 50 to the acre. It depends on the food-
stuffs and layout of sties, water, etc. (6)
Tamworth, Berkshire, Large White, Middle
White, Canadian Berkshire or their crosses,
according to whether the piggery is to be a
stud or produce baconers and porkers. (7)
Root crops, maize, oats, lucerne, with prefer-
ence for roots. (8) Depends on how the
piggery is worked. Some men are making
much more than that on 20 acres.
Outback Occupations.
No. XLVII.
When the Drought Breaks.
“It would come at a time like this,”
you remark, standing on the verandah
watching the rain that has been falling
all night. The boys stand beside you.
Your remark applies to the absence of
your wife, who is having a holiday, leav-
ing you to do the cooking and house-
work. Now you see a vista of big boots
shedding mud all over the place and you
cleaning it up before she returns.
Sheets of water lie on the house pad-
dock. A brown stream is eroding a little
gutter down the car track to the road.
Unconcerned, the horses plod about the
paddock, ready to pounce upon the first
bit of grass that shoves up. The chooks
stand on the verandah edge and ruffle
their feathers, keeping a wary eye on you
and the dogs. Why do dogs smell so
strongly when they are wet?
“Cripes,” you think, “the sheep! ”
You whirl on the boys, saying “Come
on, get y’r oilers! We’ll haveter get the
sheep outa the wheat or they’ll be bog-
gin’. They’re pretty weak.”
They’ve been in the wheat for several
days. You and the boys and the dogs
make for the wheat. There’s a great
“Ho, ho, ho-ing!” as you start to drive
them towards the gate. But they run in
all directions, falling over in the mud.
You squelch after them. You had no
idea that rushing about in wet wheat,
knocked down and tangled as it is by the
sheep, could be so strenuous. You sink
to the fetlocks in the spewy patches;
rain-toughened straw twines about your
ankles and tries to anchor you. You
kick to shake it off and your right boot,
always a trifle large, comes off. Off
your balance, down comes the unbooted
foot into a patch of red mud and the
red mud squirts up your trouser-leg. You
fish the boot out and squash it on again.
After a long time the sheep are out
and the panel up. You and the boys
make for the house. Halfway there one
of the boys calls out, you look up and
see a brown sea of water breaking away
from the tank and heading for the chaff-
shed.
“Rubbish —in the drain —get shovels—
head it off,” you pant, floundering in
your heavy oiler towards the tank as the
boys race for the shed. Up at the tank
you find the drain blocked with a great
mass of dead sticks, straw, thistles, bark,
roly-poly bushes and other rubbish.
The water is piling against this, all the
time adding to it, and the flood is sweep-
ing away towards the chaff-shed.
You tear into the heap with your bare
hands, throwing sticks and thistles aside,
kicking at bushes. You get a lot of the
light stuff away and find a dead wether
and a brambly log firmly anchored
across the drain. You get a muddy hold
of the log while water runs down your
neck, and give a mighty heave. The log
falls clear, the wether floats into the
tank, your bit of earth gives way and
you follow the wether.
The dog that has been with you, always
a bit of a fool, yelps excitedly and dives
in after you. He thinks you want the
wether, so pursues it madly in the swirl-
ing eddy in the middle of the tank. You
drag yourself out, wet through, the oilei
a solid weight. But the drain is clear
and the water flowing into the tank.
Wearily you make for the house.
The boys had whipped in a quick
trench across the shed door and kept the
water out. Suddenly Jack points and you
see that the down-pipe at one corner of
the house has carried away and is spout-
ing tons of water on to the back veran-
dah and in through the kitchen door.
You begin to run heavily. The dog,
having given up the chase of the defunct
wether, thinks you must have found
another one and determines to be in it.
He gets tangled up in your feet and you
and the dog shoot into the mud in a sort
of duck-dive.
You sit up, winded, clearing mud from
your face, wondering what happened.
The dog sits some feet off, regarding
you with great interest.
By this time Jack and Tom have cor-
rected the down-pipe. You reach the back
verandah, slowly and clammily peel off
the oiler and your wet clothes, give your-
self a quick rubdown and clothe your-
self in a rug.
“Boil the billy, Jack,” you say, turning
to go inside for some tobacco.
“It’s bonzer rain, Dad,” says young
Tom. You begin to feel elated. Then you
realise that the last of your tobacco is
somewhere in the saturated heap of
clothing you’ve just discarded.
“Blast the flamin’ rain!” you burst out
bitterly.
With the blank looks of the boys on
you you retire to the tobaccoless interior
of your home. On the iron roof is the
steady drumming of the drought-breaker.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2|d. per line.
Double rates for a South Australian who puts the case for one income tax.
One Income Tax!
If we poor Croweaters never saw the
case for unification before, the Federal
income-tax tables of comparison between
States set it forth in black and white.
On income from both property and per-
sonal exertion right up to the £9OO mark
(which for practical purposes means all
of us), we have the honor of being the
highest-taxed State in the Common-
wealth, Queensland usurping our un-
happy distinction at the £lOOO mark.
Queensland, Victoria, Westralia and
again Victoria in that order share the
privilege of being the lowest-taxed State
throughout the schedule for property in-
come, and ‘the same order with the ex-
ception of W.A. holds good for personal
exertion.
A South Aussie at £2OO (p.e.) hands
out £l6, a Queenslander £6 for com-
bined State and Federal tax. At £9OO
S.A. is £34 ahead of the lowest-taxed
(Tassie this time). At the extreme end of
the scale, £40,000, the gap between high-
est and lowest (Queensland and Victoria
respectively) is no less than £5529! A
slightly-smaller gap holds good on the
same income range between the same
States for income from property.
Are we of the same nation, or are we
not? Uniformity of taxation throughout
the Commonwealth should be one of the
first of many preliminary steps that will
have to be taken towards the eventual
unification of Australia Felix. — Vouvray
(S.A.).
An Excess-profits Tax
One of the major points of criticism
of the Fadden Budget was its failure to
introduce a real excess-profits tax —the
tax at present tabulated is merely a high-
profits tax. An excess-profits tax can be
justified on two main grounds —that of
justice and that of economics proper. It
is only just that the excess profits of com-
panies should be largely drawn upon to
aid the Government in its financing of
the war, and they should be drawn upon
to a far greater degree than private
income.
One of the main aims of the Govern-
ment should be to avoid inflation in
the prices of capital goods. Such an in-
crease would mean that the Government
would have to pay more for the machines
and tools required to make munitions.
This inflation could easily be caused by
private companies competing with the
Government for the services of firms
making machines. Any increase in profits
will mean that private industry is in a
much better position to compete, as about
25 per cent, of company profits is re-
invested in the business to provide for ex-
pansion. This money would be re-
invested in machines and buildings.
As a general rule company profits have
shown a decided increase in the last finan-
cial year. Unless these excess profits are
diverted by the Government to aid it in
financing the cost of the war, our war
expenditure is likely to rise appreciably
in the next financial year.— Anon
(N.S.W.).
A.I.F. and R.A.A.F.
“Paddy M.’s” complaint that the
R.A.A.F. works under much better con-
ditions than the A.I.F. (B. 27 /11 / ’4O)
strikes a discordant note which should
not be encouraged. He should know
that the Air Force is much smaller in
numbers and has to undergo a far more
lengthy period of training before going
abroad than the A.1.F.. It is possible,
therefore, to provide them with more in
the way of comforts than is practicable
with the A.I.F.
While everything in reason should be
done for the comfort of the A.I.F. no
one should begrudge the airmen any
favorable conditions that come their way.
Later on they will have to face greater
risks than any other section. I am sure
there is no “rancor” because one arm
of the service may be on a slightly better
wicket pro tem. than another. It’s hard
to get everything equal. Fitzjay
CN.S.W.).
“Always an England”
These English will take some breaking
—the beggars are so sets in their ways.
Have just been doing a quiet course of
reading on English life at the end of
the fourteenth century, and it might be
the same England that Hitler is trying
to subdue—
Where’er I wander, boast of this I can,
Though banished yet a trueborn Englishman.
That’s 21-year--old Bolingbroke in 1398.
John o’ Gaunt’s cry to his son in the
same scene might have come from any
father of a young R.A.F. pilot:
God in thy good cause make thee prosperous!
And let thy blows, doubly redoubled,
Fall like amazing thunder on the casque
Of thy adverse pernicious enemy!
George VI might have said this just as
well as Richard II before Coventry:
And for our eyes do hate the dire aspect
Of civil wounds ploughed up with neighbor’s
sword;
And for we think the eagle-winged pride
Of sky-aspiring and ambitious thoughts,
With rival-hating envy, set on you
To wake our peace, which in our country’s
cradle
Draws the sweet infant breath of gentle
sleep....
The R.A.F itself might easily adopt
a good many of the phrases of that
“You mean to say someone has already invented a horseless carriage ?”
scene to meet the circumstances of the
battle against an enemy “foul and dan-
gerous” :
As confident as-is the falcon’s flight
Against a bird do I with Mowbray [or Goring]
fight.
Of a Spitfire it might be said:
Doth with a twofold vigor lift me up
To reach at victory above my head.
And lest any dictators are banking on
the delusion that the behavior of Parlia-
ments is an indication of the true inter-
nal spirit of the English people, I com-
mend to them a contemporary bit of
verse —published by the Camden Society
—describing the House during a Budget
debate of the thirteen-nineties:
And some slumbered and slept, and said but
little;
And some maffled with the mouth, and none
knew what they meant;
And some were bought and would not offend
their masters:
And some were so entangled that no baron of
the bench could construe them
—Nay, nor no one else in the borough—
So blind, so bald, so bare was their reasoning;
And some were so fierce at first, they seemed
bent on a bout....
Some “rnaffled with the mouth”! It’s
enough to* make any Canberran wan-
dering in the Middle Ages homesick.
—J. Want (N.S.W.).
The Germans
Despite current events in Europe and
what has happened repeatedly in the past,
there are still far too many people who
subscribe to the kindly notion that it is
all caused by the German leaders, not the
people—that the Germans are a very fine
people who have just been unfortunate
in their choice of leaders.
As long as the English-speaking peoples
refuse to see that the German is funda-
mentally different from themselves —that
he has an altogether different mental
make-up and outlook the German
people will continue to be unfortunate
in their choice of leaders and there will
be the same trouble over again.
It is our own fault, or rather that of our
propagandists. With the idea of arousing
hatred of the German leaders, they have
built up in our minds a picture of the
average German as a jovial, big-hearted,
beefy Fritz downing Steiners in a beer-
garden and having no desire to do other-
wise. Then Hitler comes to power and
the cheerful Fritz is browbeaten and
bullied to become a machine to further
the ambitions of a madman. The same
picture was presented in the last war
with the Kaiser as the madman. Before
that it was Bismarck. Since the consolida-
tion of the German Empire each suc-
cessive generation has produced the same
type of leader with the same methods.
One dominant man with a handful of
fanatically loyal and ruthless followers
might for a short time terrorise a people
and mould them to his will. But when
we see generation after generation of
a people following the same path under
the leadership of men so alike that they
might be one man, then it is time to
realise that this is so because it is the
will of the people as a whole —that this is
a people mentally designed to accept and
welcome iron discipline among themselves
and to exercise ruthless domination of
others. It is time to realise that we are
fighting seventy million Germans, not
an imbecile, a cripple and a circus fat-
man.—P. M. (N.S.W.).
In Our Blue Seas
Sometime in the far, far distant future
we Australians will refuse to follow the
English in many things such as building
gable-roofed houses, wearing heavy
clothes and eating hot Christmas dinners.
We may even wake up to the fact that
even in matters of war our conditions are
somewhat different and demand different
treatment.
The foregoing was prompted on a
sunny day when I saw Australian warships
about six or eight miles out at sea. The
Pacific was as blue as it can be, so was
the sky, and against all that background
the ships stood out stark and clear, per-
fect targets. They were painted the
British color of battleship-grey, of course,
a color eminently suited for northern
seas, which are mostly the same color
when not hidden by fog, but entirely out
of place as a camouflage agent in the
Pacific, which is either blue or green and
can number its grey days on the fingers
of a mermaid’s hands.
It’s easier to see an Australian warship
on a fine day in Australian waters than
it is to see an ordinary freighter, not
painted for war. — Lefty the Nark
(N.S.W.).
Darwin and' White Australia
According to “Anti-Pukka” (B.
27/11/’4O), there is talk of a move to
import cheap colored domestic labor
from the D.E.I. to Darwin, and he views
this idea with horror as destructive of the
White Australia ideal, which he visualises
in the form of hard-slogging women on
servantless farms looking after cows, kids,
cabbages and carrots, to say nothing of
cooking.
I first knew Darwin 30 years ago, and
it was never like that. It always lived
on cheap colored labor, if it could get it.
It was the ideal of every white-collar
clerk and civil servant to have a menage
as much like what he had read in novels
of India and Malaya as local conditions
permitted. His wife would have regarded
“Anti-Pukka’s” notion that she was
destroying the ideal of a White Australia
as utterly fantastic.
But why should “Anti-Pukka” be so
upset at the Laodicean desires of the in-
habitants of that remote part of the
country? In any Melbourne suburb he
will find thousands of young women who
used to have jobs in the city and, with the
full consent of their husbands, are now
established, each in her little villa, sur-
rounded with vacuum cleaners, h. and c.
water, electric stoves, radios and other
amenities of civilisation supplied by that
white-colored laborer the State Elec-
tricity Commission. To realise this ideal
some of them have even given up careers
as artists. Having nothing to do but
read the “Herald” and wait for hubby to
come home from the office, they are bor-
ing themselves to extinction and getting
neuroses, but that doesn’t shake their
belief that that is the way happiness is to
be attained in this world. For the most
part their husbands think as they do. If
“Anti-Pukka” thinks colored labor in
little Darwin is a menace, he ought to
move further south and make an attack
on Melbourne. —Si Anu (Vic.).
Labor-unionism
For 20 years I have been a financial
member of a union which is fairly rep-
resentative of all the others. The secre-
tary is really a dictator, backed by a
strong-lung gang of would-bes. The
rank and file take no interest in the
conduct of the business, and pay their
quarterly fees only under legal compul-
sion. Many of them are always “behind
it,” and have to be bullied by shop-
stewards into giving weekly instalments
of a shilling or so. Occasionally a threat
of court proceedings is necessary.
The ordinary meetings are attended
only by the storm-troopers. “Specials”
get a quorum by the imposition of a fine
for absence. Not one in 20 knows how
to put or block a motion if his life de-
pended on it. As the militants are all
primed and regimented and the voting
is by show of hands, the voters can be
dragooned in the usual manner by the
usual epithets. The bullies have it.
By such methods a silly and disastrous
strike can be called on in spite of the
disapproval of 90 p.c. Once the die is
cast fhe men instinctively become a mob
following a leader, each one afraid to
be the first to be branded a “crawl'er,”
and certain that he would get no protec-
tion from his mates.
Thousands of patriotic workers are
praying (in their own style) for a strong
man to save them from their “friends.” —
Name (S.A.).
“Fitzjay” (B. 27/11/ ’4O) mentions
“quack nostrums” which have been
dangled before union members which !r
practised would only worsen things. I
suppose old-age pensions, the maternity
benefits and the Commonwealth Bank
would all come within his “quack” cate-
gory.
I have attended hundreds of union
meetings, and, though sometimes hot
arguments have ensued, I have never
heard any member denied a hearing.
Nearly all big issues, as well as the elec-
tion of leaders, are decided by ballot.
Indeed, he would be a poor leader who
embarked upon any action to which a
majority of members were hostile. In
fact, he would lose his job if he did. Ndt
all Labor officials are men of culture,
but few of them are fools.
“For the working class to get any*
where it must jettison the Labor party”
—the workers have the numbers, he
adds; they could dominate every elec-
torate in the Commonwealth. Yes, but
first they must “free themselves from a
political alliance which is hamstring-
ing them.” So they are to break up the
organisations and political party they
took decades to build ; they must go out
and conquer individually; where all
failed one has a chance on his own.
Otherwise collective efforts could only be
brought about by forming a new party,
and as the same people would select
leaders the same officials would, of
course, be appointed.—Mark (S.A.).
The Parliamentary Labor party, which
is the political arm of the union and
Labor movement, has never, according to
“Fitzjay,” made a big effort for the
social welfare of the people. Here
is the effort of the first Australian Labor
party (1889-1901): Abolition of plural
voting, franchise for women, land and
income taxes, Early Closing Act, old-age
pensions, minimum wage and the eight-
hour day. To these add the Acts of a
later period that introduced motherhood
endowment, workers’ compensation, the
basic wage and arbitration system.
Perhaps by “quack nostrums” “Fitz-
jay” means that earlier “socialistic
dream” which 20 years ago his ilk tried
to strangle at birth with their foolish


derision—Andy Fisher’s Commonwealth
Bank. — Bathurst Burr (N.S.W.).
Women Who Work
Inspection of the “Situations Vacant”
columns of at least three leading morn-
ing dailies nullifies “Competitor’s” plaint
(B. 27/11 / ’4O) that there are insufficient
purely womanly jobs to absorb those of
the fair sex who find it necessary to get
their own living. Machinists, milliners,
waitresses, domestics, cooks and nurses
are called for in increasing numbers,
and, apparently, the response is but
meagre.
This is due to the fact that a multitude
of mothers illogically consider that their
daughters are too good for such menial
tasks, and therefore spend money that
they can ill afford in having them taught
the rudiments of typing and a smatter-
ing of shorthand. At the back of their
minds there is also the hope that by
working among menfolk their daughters
will have greater opportunities to marry.
If they only realised it, they are penal-
ising their girls. A good machinist or
milliner can always command a salary
equal to that earned by any typist, the
work is not so exacting, and the money
saved by being able to run up their own
frocks and hats'would, at a conservative
estimate, amount to at least five shillings
a week. — Melton (Vic.).
What They Can Do
An absurd feature of the prevalent
women’s organisations is the number of
middle-aged and elderly females parad-
ing in expensive uniforms and spending
considerable sums of money keeping up
to the mark in their “war effort.”
If hostilities occurred here the strenu-
ous exertions for which they are sup-
posedly intended would be beyond them,
and I suggest that they do real social
war work by visiting and comforting the
returned men who, sacrificing their
health and strength in the last conflict,
now languish in military hospitals and
institutions. They could also concern
themselves with needy dependants of
family men overseas.
The cash they spend on uniforms, etc.,
could be much more usefully employed
in the nation’s war effort by unobtrusively
investing it in war-savings certificates. —
Petermac (N.S.W.).
Sex and Self
I plead guilty to reading immoral
books. Some are sexy in a refined way,
some are amusing in a vulgar way. Others
are blatantly vicious. Recently I have
read a number of autobiographies by
authors representing all these classes, and
find them nauseous in spite of their in-
tellectual spicing.
Take one as an example of the general
run The author is an exhibitionist,
baring his subconscious mind, naked and
unashamed, to the world. From the first
infantile grubby gropings to the time of
writing, every sex-experience, natural and
pathological, is exposed as if it were
unique or admirable. The instincts com-
mon to all animals, but usually controlled
by Homo sapiens, are glorified as signs
of surging genius, while the necessary in-
hibitions of decent society are condemned
as “repressive” hypocrisy.
The “best-seller” moves in high literary
and artistic circles, enjoying all the super-
refinements bought by long centuries of
self-sacrifice and discreet self-control. In
health he expects his servants to be law-
abiding, courteous and modest. In sick-
ness he demands that his doctors and
nurses shall be only a little lower than
the angels. Praising the morals of the
jungle, he claims as his right the ameni-
ties of virtuous family-circle sentiment.
Whatsoever is of good report, if it inter-
feres with “self-expression” and enjoins
responsibility for free action, is con-
demned as “mushy” and “sloppy.”
Such a philosophy of life, teaching
that the forbidden fruit should be par-
taken of with all the other innocent
pleasures of a peaceful and protected
garden, is not “modern.” It has been
tried many times in the course of history,
and has always failed to bestow happi-
ness on its disciples and their children. —
Selfishness (S.A.).
Magazine Filth
Just before the war a great crying was
heard from the protectors of our culture
and morals about the low types of maga-
zines coming into this country from
foreign sources and being displayed for
the delectation of our suspectible youth.
Since the war, exchange problems
rather than any care for morals have
forced those offences off the market, and
attempts are being made by Australian
publishers to replace them with the same
type of thing. But the home product is
i nmeasurably cruder, lower and filthier
than the imported ever was, yet, except in
isolated instances, there hasn’t been a
whisper against it. Walter the
Wowser (N.S.W.).
Literature v. Grapplers
Months ago I found my “Saturday
Evening Post” vanished from the book-
stalls on the ground of necessity of
conserving dollar exchange and was thus
deprived of a journal which gave me
very good fiction, informative articles
written by experts and articles on the
European maelstrom written by non-
belligerents and therefore moderately free
from the taint of propaganda.
1 suffered the sacrifice gladly, happy
in the idea that such was assisting in
stabilising dollar exchange.
Since then Brother Jonathan, for one,
has toured this continent, no doubt ac-
cumulating a purseful of notes that will
have to be discounted for dollars. Other
grapplers have been heard of in Sydney,
mostly men from the U.S.A. Now my
paper informs me that certain Holly-
woodians are soon likely to visit Sydney.
I want my “Saturday Evening Post”
again.—W. C. C. (W.A.).
Indictment
In the second year of war one Aus-
tralian weekly continually urges upon its
readers the necessity for reducing expen-
diture of money and time upon luxuries
and the showy wastefulness of certain
“Y'll 'ave to swim ’ ome, Liz , to make a bit of room for this feller !”
social habits. Such an attitude, though
it may not coincide with the views of
the master-draper and city-emporium
school of economists, is probably en-
dorsed by the majority of the paper’s
readers, for it is primarily a paper for
the man on the land or the city worker
who believes in sane, clean, adult journal-
ism. Nevertheless, there are some aspects
of this paper’s policy which suggest that
it does not altogether carry out what it
so ably advocates.
Reduced in size considerably through
paper restrictions, this publication never-
theless devotes two full pages—the same
as before the war —to the doings of
society. I feel that these columns are
out of place. Fiction has been drasti-
cally curtailed, literary reviews also, but
sport still gets ample space. And what
sport! Do amateur activities (except
cricket) ever get more than a bare men-
tion? Yet the racing business and its de-
votees are catered for to an extent which
would be ludicrous in war-time, were it
not for the regrettable waste of labor and
time that it encourages.
The paper is The Bulletin. As a regu-
lar reader (and irregular contributor) of
some years’ standing, I feel entitled to
suggest that an even better sixpennyworth
than the present fare might be provided,
giving a paper more suited to the times
and possibly offering more scope for the
Australian writer. — Wusslean (Vic.).
A.B.C.
The “Weakly” has lost £37,000 in
seven months, and is presumably pro-
ceeding backwards at the same speed.
Meantime, in order to save paper, the
telephone directories are sacrificing legi-
bility by using smaller type, minus space
between words. It would be hard to find
a better —or worse —example of pound
foolishness and penny wisdom.
Almost any Government-controlled
journalistic venture would be foredoomed
to financial failure, but the A.B.C. mag.
fairly asked for it. With all the adver-
tising resources of its own omnipresent
radio at command, it began by spending
huge sums on posters. When other
publications were refusing to take back
unsold copies it supplied generous stocks
on “sale or return.” And it was mostly
return. It butted into a market already
glutted, trying to cover a continent while
local requirements were more promptly
filled by more efficient local efforts pro-
duced by men who knew every trick of
their own territory. And so on and on.
No sane private concern would have
taken such risks with its own money.
Wild gambling with public funds is not
strictly ethical. But the waste of cash
and paper, scandalous as it may be, can-
not be compared with the sabotage of
patriotic sentiment and effort entailed.
The average citizen tries to grin while
bearing the burden of taxation as long
as he is convinced that he is carrying
some of the responsibility of the war on
his back. When he discovers that he is
only giving a free ride to high-salaried
bureaucrats he stops grinning, drops his
bundle and looks round for a post to
leap on. — Dismount (S.A.).
The Halt, Lame and Blind
On one corner sits a bedraggled figure
bearing a breastplate testifying to the
fact that he is totally blind but is with-
out a pension. On another corner a
stern-visaged gentleman hopefully sits in
his wheel chair, playing a ukulele. He
has no legs. At King’s Cross there is
one street player who is both blind and
stricken with paralysis.
Another familiar sight at King’s Cross
is that of an old couple, very old, the
one totally blind, the other half-blind,
their arms clasped for mutual guidance.
When pennies are tossed to them they
grope helplessly in the gutter for them.
Recently these two were before the Court
for vagrancy and separated, but they are
now together again. I have seen them
lately in Rushcutter Bay Park, sharing
a meat pie. The woman is in tatters and
the man s trousers are a disgrace.
It is enough to make any decent civil-
ised man hang his head in shame that the
halt, the lame and the blind should have
to sit in the gutter, rain and shine, plead-
ing for the crumbs that may be tossed
to,them. War or no war, £276,000,000
is a lot of money, and a little of it might
be spent to justify our proud boast that
we are a civilised people. Any country
that treats its afflicted members like
pariah dogs is no better than a primitive
savage community.
If these habitues of the gutter are im-
postors and liars, then they shouldn’t be
there. Whichever way you look at it
there is something that needs investigat-
ing.— Celt (N.S.W.).
.
Time-payment
Certainly no one can blame young
couples for grabbing all they can at the
start of marriage (B. 20/11 / ’4O), but that
doesn’t say they will be happy. There are
half a dozen of us, all friendly, who
when we married were too broke to get
things, even on time-payment. We all
started with little furniture, and added
to it bit by bit as we went along. A
visit to the talkies is still a luxury ; our
wives make their own and one another's
dresses, and we husbands are very care-
ful about how many ounces of tobacco
we buy.
That is, all except one bloke. He got
a job soon after marriage that improved
his credit sufficiently for him and his wife
to go in for time-payment. The rest of
us don’t see much of him and his
wife nowadays. We envy his income,
certainly, but it’s not that that keeps us
and our wives away from them. We
hate nagging wives and grumpy hus-
bands. Besides that, we’ve all got kids
now, and to hear that couple, whose in-
come pretty near equals the total the
rest of us make, saying that of course
they envy us our children, but that, what
with the high cost of living and having
to keep up the payments on this and
that, they can’t afford to have any, just
puts our backs up against them and
against time-payment.— Cashdown (S.A.).
Australian Universities
Our university system has many fail-
ings, but it certainly provides something
better than the mere cram-shops “Aus-
trall” describes (B. 20/11 /’4O). There are
abundant opportunities for original minds
to engage in research and creative work,
especially in post-graduate work. There
are, too, the constant stimulus of inter-
course with other minds, the clash of wits,
the debates, clubs and societies, even the
college suppers and endless discussions
that form a vital part of student life
the world over.
If it be true that our intellectuals hate
Australia and continually yearn for
Europe, why have so many distinguished
men, whose reputations would have
gained them positions in Britain, chosen to
devote their lives
and gifts to this
country—men like
Edgeworth David,
Mungo MacCal-
lum, G. Arnold
Wood (who spent
the leisure of a
lifetime writing his
book on the dis-
covery of Aus-
tralia), and poets
like C. J. Brennan,
J. Le Gay Brereton
and H. M. Green,
the Fisher
Librarian, who has
made Australian
literature his special
study?
As to the univer-
sities failing to pro-
du c e outstanding
men in arts —here
are just a few of
our writers who
have passed
through one or
other of them:
J. H. M. Abbott,
Bernard O’Dowd,
Walter Murdoch, Leon Gellert, Nettie
Palmer, Enid Derham, Jack Lindsay,
Mrs. Ameas Gunn, Flora Eldershaw
and Marjorie Barnard, T. Inglis
Moore, Dr. Evatt, L. H. Allen, R.
D. Fitzgerald.—J. M. O. (N.S.W.).
c , , ,
School-leaving Age
If > as their Labor opponents assert,
members of the State Cabinet hope to
propitiate the worker by raising the
school-leaving age to 15, then they are
in for a considerable shock in May next,
The bitterest opposition to the Factory
Acts of last century came from the
workers themselves, . who wished to see
their children earning as soon as possible,
jhe same holds good for many of the
workers today, especially the relief-
worker and the dole recipient, who see in
their fourteen-year-old progeny the means
of a welcome addition to their attenuated
incomes. The more affluent, who are able
to stand the strain of a secondary educa-
tion for their children, will not be affected,
as the leaving age for them is already
sixteen or over, but the parents who,
owing to stern economic necessity, reluc-
tantly take their sons and daughters from
school at fourteen will now have to feed
and clothe them for the extra term,
a fair proportion of the school popu-
lation affected is of a mental calibre which
is too limited for secondary studies, and
therefore no useful purpose will be served
by attempting to fit these for soft-collar
jobs when they would be happier and
more useful as manual workers,
From teaching experience in dairying
districts I would venture the opinion that
the measure will be ™ ost u n P O PU ar.
Detaining a boy for halt an hour to
the afternoon milking is considere
crime on the part of the teachei. 1 ca
imagine the reaction ot the cow
to the extra twelve months sentence,
B. Ec. (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
CYPRUS
DE LUXE
Watch, Stainless
Steel.
15 Jewel Precisi
£5/10/-
S-as
Specially tested to stand tropical conditions.
Fully Gtd. Waterproof, Shockproof, Dustproof.
Watch Repair Service. Send for Catalogue.
DIAMOND
8, WATCH
SPECIALISTS
(Butfa&db
112 MARKET ST
SYDNEY,
OPP. DAVID JONES
S/6
sd
A REAL
COMFORT
TO SMOKERS.
The Genuine “Cavalier”
Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
for 5/6. Honest Value, 8/6.
Genuine Meerschaum Pipe in its
own case for only 20/-.
Honestly worth 30/-.
“Barling” Silver-mounted for 15/-
The value, 22/6.
All brands of Cigarettes in 50 Air-tight
Tins are available.
For all Smokers’ Requisites, write to
SOL LEVY
Tobacconist, Est. 39 Yrs
713 George St., Sydney.
Goods sent C.O.D. ij desired.
n
AN YWHE RE
ANYTIME
MPLI
PORTABLE UNITS
By
Briggs & Stratton.
A small, ' compact
Petrol Electric
Generator, with
everything a car
engine has.
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
Running cost 1/- per
,■ week.
Details gladly posted.
AMPLION Ptu.Lh
in
« For Home Lighting.
9 Battery Charging.
Will operate twelve
25-watt lamps.
• Runs 12 hours on
lgal. of petrol.
382 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
SAVE £2
ON BATTERIES
Buy direct from well-known manu-
facturer at wholesale prices. Save
nearly half usual cost. Marshall
Batteries are renowned for long life.
Every battery is guaranteed in writ-
ing. Send for 16-page catalogue
telling you how to choose, instal and
care for batteries for cars, trucks*
cycles, home or theatre lighting.
Marshall Battery Manufacturing Co.,
38-42 Harbour Street, Sydney.
TILLEY LAMPS
d
300 Candle Power. British
Made.
Fool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied, both
ends. Will not shake oft'. All
lamps fitted with PYREX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EXIOO All 1 Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
be used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 inches. '
PRICE, 63/6 Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table , Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
Obtainable from your localagent or
W. Kopsen & Co. Pt.v., Etc!.,
380 Kent Street' Sydney.
DEHQRNMG
d
Get rid of
HomsBEFORE
then start !
One application of
CHANDLER’S CHEMICAL
DEHORNER
"" will remove the horn
bud from any calf Up
to two months. There is no bleed-
ing-. Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from its mother
for 30 minutes—the horn bud drops off in a few
weeks. An easy,_cheail an d humane method. Price.
D. &W. Chandler, Ltd,, 6/6
MELBOURNE and all branches. ’p os t -Free.
p
elmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
The Pelman System develops per-
sonal attributes and qualities such as:
Self-confidence.
Concentration
Judgment
Decision
Will Power
Social Ease
and a Reliable Memory.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 70 pages, describ-
ing- Pelmanism, are posted free on request.
The Pelman Institute,
3a Gloucester House, 390 Flinders Lane (Cr.
Market St.). Melbourne. Telephone: MU2355.
A VERY USEFUL
CHRISTMAS GIFT!
■ v •
• •
This „Tomato or Vegetable Knife makes
a very good gift for the housewife, with
orange, red, blue, green or purple handles.
3/3 (Post. 3d.).
W. Jno. BAKER
PTY.,
LTD.,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
‘‘See our Special Christmas Window Display.”
XMAS MIXED FRUIT SPECIAL,.
12/6 Bushel Case. Amazing- value! CURRENT
BRICE LIST! Gooseberries 8/- case, Apples 8/G
451 b., Apricots 8/6 301 b., Cherries 6/6 121 b.,
Peaches-8/- 301 b., Plums 6/-.301b., Tomatoes 10 -
301 b., Pears, Lemons, Oranges, Mandarins 12/-
bushel ; Bananas, Pineapples, 14/ tropical case.
By fast passenger trains. Orchard. Produce Distri-
butors, 75 George Street, Sydney.
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO! Bears for a
whole year! Climbs 12-20 ft. trellis fence, netting!
Each plant YIELDS 2001 b. (8 cases) large, red,
smooth tomatoes. Mr. E. Sawyer, Broomehill, W.A.,
writes: “Climbing Tomato; 141 ft.. Already yielded
2001 b., some over 140 z.” Easily grown anywhere.
2/6 packet. Also the world’s greatest HEALTH
TOMATO! “White Beauty.” PURE WHITE, and
100 PER CENT. NON-ACID (non-injurious to
Rheumatism, Gout, etc.). DISEASE FREE!
DROUGHT PROOF, Makes Delicious Jam. 2/6
packet. Exclusive Distributors, N.S.W. SEED CO.,
75 George St. (juaff past Quay), opp. Sailors’ Home.
FREE! RADIO XMAS GIFTS; or we
teach you build Radios or Arts, Crafts;
200 Money-making Flans. Formulas, all
materials, supplied free.
IT’S HERE-WORLD'S SMALLEST 1940
SIE-NU POCKET RADIO
NO
TUBES OR <
BATTERIES
FITS YOUR POCKET,
WEIGHS ONLY 3 OZS. Long
distance over 100 miles clear,
natural tone; superior per-
formance. No crystal' to ad|
.lust; no upkeep. Anyone can
use in Hotels, Boats, Beds,
etc.; takes few seconds to
connect. Guaranteed 5 years’ satisfaction or money
refunded; Pay postman 42/-, or Wire, Write, Call.
RE-NU LTD. (Est. 1932), opp. Richmond Stn.,
Helb. 75 other lines. Agents required. Employ-
ment offers. For full particulars and free samples
send 10d. in stamps, refundable with first order.
d
$
OILSKINS
for long, hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for l r ree Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1593),
1218 REGENT STREET, SYDNEY.
LATEST RADIO SETS
£2O Below Retail Price.
You can buy direct from factory if
no Century Agent in your District,
and thus save up to £2O on retail
prices. .Marvellous tone, sensitivity
and economy; world-wide reception
brings overseas news direct to your
home. Absolute satisfaction is
guaranteed by FREE TEN DAY
TRIAD TO INTENDING PUR-
CHASERS. Illustrated catalogue of
Kattery and Alt-electric sets post
free on request.
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street., Sydney.
A. I.F. ABROAD
'
Corona Typewriters
at Special Rates
£l4/14/- jjCornna Stream-
line Zephyr to any
member of the forces
abroad for >
ď
£l4 POST FREE
No better Xmas Gift for a Soldier.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
- All States —See ’Phone Book.
"Winchester
đ
WITH STEEL ROLLS
SKATES
17/6—21/-
COWLES
and DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
■
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4Jin. knee pads. 3in. this'll
pads. 4-Jin. to Sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
d
Manufacturing Saddler,
Cunningham St., Sydney.
HAWAIIAN GUITARS
SHOP SOILED MODELS
Usual Value 3f7 6.
Reduced to 30/-
Free delivery with home course
and accessories.
7 days money back guarantee.
THE TALKERIES,
161 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
d)
1
NEVER LOSE A FISH.
THE BULL DOG
FISH HOOK
A SURE GRIPPER.
A nibble sets it off and hooks the
fish .‘safely. The hook springs
wide open directly the bait is
taken. Strong, simple, nothing to
go out of order.
Sold in three sizes.
Price 1/3 each, post free.
Obtainable only from
THE UNION MFG. CO.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melb., C.l.
LAMBS SAVED
V
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient—
Humane —Safe—and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer .no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. _ No risk of Infection—No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Froni all Agents or—
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
d
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL, API’I,I tXCE CO.,
DEPT. 37, S 4 IJITT1 J ITT ST., SYDNEY.
muK
S^J~ r brings
mstanf relief
TO ACHING FEET.
Based upon recent X-ray dis-
coveries, the “FOOTHELP” brings
new hope to sufferers from painful
foot troubles. This amazing new
invention contains NO METAL
PARTS WHATSOEVER and is as
light as a feather and moulded to measure.
14. DAYS FREE TRIAi
Write to-day for full details and TRIAL OFFER.
Satisfaction guaranteed no matter where you, live
JOHN H. UNGER (Wept. 12F),
65 York Street, Sydney.
DEAF?
New Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW 1
K. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney.
REDUCE
YOUR
WAIST
The GOVERN A BELT will reduce
your waistline and give a slim
athletic figure. Supports delicate
organs. By gentle, changing pres-
sure, waistline bulge is eliminated
•with every move you make.
7 DAYS' TRIAL OFFER
In . 7 days your waistline will be
3in. smaller . . . 3 in. of bulge
and strain gone . . . OR NO
COST! Write for full illustrated
details of 7 DAYS’ TRIAL
OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
d
To Aid the Red Cross
The Garden
Lover’s Log
by Olive Mellor
An attractively printed diary for
garden lovers, full of practical ad-
vice and hints for" every month in
the year.
A splendid little gift.
Price 3/6, posted 3/8.
ROBERTSON & MULLENS, LTD.,
107-113 Elizabeth St., Melb., Victoria.
RUPTURE
nets
LIKE THE HfMD
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
.fiat upon the orifice. You
will, at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE
BA It RE RE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27W), 35 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
p . 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
P ° St my c °Py of The Bulletin every week
T m r\n , so I do not miss a single issue.
cimk<w e - /- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN" SERVICE CQUPON
11/12/’4O (See Page 24)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss....,
Cut this out and send with your "Wants” to the Service Department, "The Bulletin "
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


vrhe re I
cotn©
sctid JoHnnie
. *9
in
Walker
:•:••: ,. v .-v; ,v: £
s
vW/f
V
1
ssas
•■:
B
k i>
.j!h
¥ s;
n
m < \
5W«$
kxxvi;:
r
“There’s always the warmest of welcomes
for Johnnie Walker at Christmas as at
all other times. This fine whisky, so per-
fectly matured, so skilfully blended, is
famous for its smoothness and distinctive
flavour. Make sure, then, that you have
a bottle of Johnnie Walker in the house
for Christmas, so that you and your friends
■ ’ f
can enjoy Scotch whisky at its very best.”
For your convenience the half'bottle and smaller flasks
are made to fit the pocket—both ways.
mm.
1
•JOHNNIE
WAhKER
Born 1820 — still going strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LONDON, KILM A R NOCK, SYDNEY
