

COMMONWEAL' H
national übbabt
t\
■
’
V :
■K
»
■
}* * * "**;;»'*
Pi
hi
.-'v'.
:
'
Kilii
"psp
1
v, V
I'i I m fm
f, -i ’fi®’
ym wr t --
■
a
is
liiL
m mm
■\ a IS
INDUS IRY, creator of opportunity and
avenue for progress in peace, is burdened
with an added responsibility in the
emergency created by war. Raw materials
essential in secondary industry assume new
values, and none is more vital to the nation’s
industrial strength and security than steel.
By virtue of The Broken Hill Proprietary’s
iron and steel making operations Australia
is most fortunately placed for iron and steel
supplies. Iron ore, coal and limestone
resources have been co-ordinated to the
national welfare by the 8.H.P., whose
operations are distinguished by great
efficiency. By its ability to supply high-
grade iron and steel at consistently low prices,
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd. renders
a national service unmatched in its beneficial
influence on Australia’s industrial strength
and defence.
è
S:*,,
.
Above is
from a
at the
shown molten steel being teemed
huge ladle into ingot moulds
B.H.P. Newcastle Steel Works,
■
*'V- tIA'SV ‘J:.
Iron and Steel Masters, Colliery
Mine and Ship Owners •
Head
Iron
Iron Ore
Office : 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne,
and Steel Works: NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
Workings: Iron Knob, S.A. Limestone Deposits: Devonport, Tasmania.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61. —No. 3143.
Wednesday, May 8, 1940.
Norway —Fact and Fiction
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424>42S George Street, SYDNEY.
Learn
Story
Writing
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. S4O
The Red Page
A Prophet's Seif-Portrait.
é
the Life. Once he has told
of his “conversion”—that
mystical illumination in the
Australian bush, initiating
him not into any estab-
lished creed but into “harmony with
the universe” —the complexities of a
marriage that was never static domi-
nate his existence. Fame and money,
to both of which his attitude is
free from all vulgarity, came easily to
him after an absurd court of law had
decided that his Sexual Inversion was “a
lewd wicked bawdy scandalous and
obscene libel.” Marriage, though he
records a deep and enduring love, was
never easy.
According to his own account —though
that is somewhat qualified by the letters
that passed between the pair—it was a
marriage of reason rather than love at
first. It developed into an abiding affec-
tion, but one which was subjected to con-
tinual strain because the wife was at-
tracted to women rather than to rften.
Ellis, hurt by his wife’s succession of
“dear friendships” with women, began
himself to contract “dear friendships”
with women. The fact that both hi%
band and wife were “rational” people?
allowing each other complete inde-
pendence, gave them problems of
jealousy to solve for the rest Of
their lives. It is a curious story, tpld m
intimate detail with great sweetness and
without a trace of either salaciousrtess
or humor. Towards the end, when the
wife became insane and twice attempted
suicide, it is extremely moving.
Tales told by the wayside are as in-
teresting as one would expect from a
figure of Havelock Ellis’s eminence.
There is his lifelong friendship with Olive
Schreiner; glimpses of Mallarme and
others in Paris; his wife’s experiments
in spiritualism; her lecture tours in
America, on one of which she indig-
nantly refused a substantial offer from
the German embassy to oppose Ameri-
can intervention in the Great War; the
picture of Ellis in his serene old age,
basking in a revolving sunhouse and at-
tended by Fran?oise, the last of his “dear
friends.” Read as Ellis wishes it to be
read, as an impersonal .study of an ex-
periment in living, or simply taken as
literature, this is an outstanding book.
"Here Lies Goebbels."
Chapter after chapter Vernon Mc-
Kenzie, in Here Lies Goebbels (Michael
Joseph, Ltd.), lays before the reader
details of Nazi propaganda activities in
country after country—most countries of
the world, in fact, except the Orient and
Australia and Maoriland —with a brief
side-glance at British and French efforts
in the same line and suggestions for im-
provement of these.
His main thesis is that Hitler, or
Goebbels on Hitler’s behalf, “has de-
liberately and viciously, as a basis of his
political policy, done his best, or worst, to
stir up trouble in every inhabited part of
the world.” This, he insists, is “no
rhetorical generalisation. If anyone cares
to challenge this statement let him name
an area, and I’ll name a Nazi act.” He
names enough areas, and gives details
scandalous enough about the Goebbels
factory at work to satisfy most tastes —
Czechoslovakia and Poland (before they
fell), Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria,
Greece, Turkey, Rumania, Egypt, Pales-
tine, Syria and Irak ; then to Scandinavia,
the Americas, Spain and Portugal, South
Africa, Britain and France.
It is an extraordinary story of wide-
spread, insidious and very often effectual
bribery and corruption, assassination and
intrigue, brightened up in the reading by
the presence of beautiful spies and other
queer figures, by cold-blooded murders
and other acts of violence, most of which
are familiar recent history, though his
point of view gives them a sharpened
interest, and all of which suggests that
Ruritania is not and never was a lost
Atlantis, but is and has long been a vast
part of living Europe. Propaganda, in
Mr. McKenzie’s definition, is not confined
to the written and spoken word, but com-
prises every sort of effort that can be
brought under the heading of “public
opinion manipulation.” On “overt foreign
propaganda” Britain in 1938 spent
£220,000; Lord Macmillan, in a speech
in the House of Lords in October, 1939,
placed Nazi propaganda expenditure, over
a five- or six-year period, “between
£6,000,000 and £20,000,000 annually.”
Mr. McKenzie shows a fair amount
of that weighty total in the course of
being spent, not in the war of words alone
(including such broadsides as the two
hundredweight of Nazi propaganda pub-
lications which he has personally received
and has stowed in his basement), but in
bribing politicians and officials, in keep-
ing Balkan and other newspapers from
bankruptcy —of course for the easily-
guessed consideration—and in subsidising
the Nazi Fifth Column in dozens of
countries. As an example of the wide-
spread scope of this particular sort of
effort, the writer quotes the “Christian
Science Monitor” as having estimated
in 1939 that the Nazis were spending from
£6OOO to £BOOO a month in such a com-
paratively out-of-the-way spot as Mexico.
One of his many curious sidelights on
propaganda activity generally brings into
view the “professional listening group,
not more than a few hundred in the
whole world, whose task it is to record,
comprehend and interpret at least half
a million wireless words a day”—words
spoken in some twoscore tongues. Great
Britain, France and Germany had, within
a few weeks of the outbreak of war, from
40 to 85 of these listeners each, on duty
24 hours a day, usually working in four
shifts. At Britain’s headquarters “some-
where in England” 65 facile linguists and
sub-editors are at work on this exacting
job, recording each 24 hours approxi-
mately 150 news broadcasts, as well as
leaders’ speeches, propaganda talks and
even lessons for children and advice to
housewives. From the beginning of the war
|o fchf end,qf ? 1939 more than 50,000,000
WQfds! Jfe|Pjr fltus < handledf |in| Britain
alone. * G
Mr. McKenzie believes, rather vaguely,
that Goebbels, despite eertaip. success
f fueled.. He is more
specific regarding the failure or Goebbels
propaganda in Britain. Goebbels and
those attached to his lie'factory have been
“quite unable to fathom British psycho-
logy and temperament,” and therefore, so
far from influencing British public opin-
ion at all, L > merely wasted time,
money and ene gy. As an example of
the German “psychological ineptitude” he
instances the two hundredweight of
propaganda which he himself has
received: “except that the language is
different, much of it contains the same
material that is supposed to convince
Arabs.”
Among his examples of bad British
propaganda he instances the Commander
Stephen King-Hall news-letters, which he
suggests were allowed to circulate in
Germany, though ostensibly officially
banned, because they helped Goebbels
in his internal propaganda job of con-
vincing the German people that they were
being encircled. The British leaflet-raid
propaganda he describes as “inept and
ill-timed”; the millions of leaflets were
worse than wasted, because they helped
to stiffen the German backbone. The
same sort of propaganda effort in 1917-
18, when the Germans were headed for
defeat, was just about perfectly-timed—
illustrating Aldous Huxley’s point that
propaganda can only canalise an existing
stream.
It may be news to many, even of those
who fought in France, that as early as
1914 the Germans were bombarded from
British and French trenches with propa-
ganda material shot from trench mortars,
dropped from kites, and even fired from
75cm. guns. In 1918 ingenious free bal-
loons carried and dropped leaflets as far
as 600 miles or more into Germany.
An American, though anything but
nootral in his views, Mr. McKenzie forms
one considered opinion in the course of
his book that should be heartening to
those who think highly of propaganda as
a war weapon, and who may, perhaps,
feel that Goebbels and co. have had the
best of it so far. He gives the British
the equivalent of the gold-mounted
doughnut as the “cleverest propagandists
in the world.”
On Driftwood to Tahiti.
“Johnny” Wray earned his tramfares
totting up figures in Auckland (M.L.),
and at top, bottom and sides of the
columns of figures he .drew boats. When
he lost his job at twenty-one he still
thought of boats. Having only £8 10s.,
he couldn’t buy a craft, so he built one.
In South Sea Vagabonds (Herbert Jen-
kins ; Moore’s Bookshop) he tells the
things that have happened to him in the
eight years since he laid the keel.
The timber for the Ngataki came from
kauri logs which Wray found washed up
on the beaches, and which he towed to
the mill with the aid of a friend’s yacht.
Some pine legs he brought in paid the
mill for cutting up his timber. Rigging
came from the wrecked four-masted
barque, the Rewa, which was lying in a
bay on a little island outside Auckland,
and an engine (a five-h.p. Zealandia made
in Auckland in 1904) was discovered
crusted with rust and earth in a turnip
field, where it had been lying for eight
years. A few weeks’ work in a wool-
store brought in enough money to pay
for caulking cotton, paint and varnish.
Tar was “borrowed” from the side of
the road. Friends lent tools, and Wray
drew his own plans.
About two years later the Ngataki took
the water. She was 35 feet overall with
a 12ft. lOin. beam, three cabins, 12ft. b>
Bft., lift, by 7ft. and (the galley) lift,
by Bft., all with 6ft. 6in. headroom, the
ship was sturdy and solid, a real sea
boat, cutter-rigged and designed with
Earling Tamb’s Norwegian pilot boat
Teddy in mind. She wasn’t fast, but she
could ride out a storm, and many times
in the next few years she was called upon
to do so. That early part of the boo*-*
the details of the building of the boat
and the various dodges Wray learnt by
experience later to help in sailing her—-to
drag all spare gear, spars, sails, anything
at all on towlirfes over the stern to help
break up the seas and steady her when
running before a gale; to throw bags
filled with old sump oil overside to calm
the seas in a nasty blow —form the most
interesting chapters.
After a preliminary cruise with a pay-
ing crew to Norfolk Island, the Ngataki
was entered against the Te Rapunga in
the Melbourne Centenary race from
Auckland to Melbourne. The Ngataki
was beaten by sixteen hours after sailing
nearly 2000 miles. Melbourne turned on
seven-course dinners and plenty of beer,
then the two boats raced to Hobart for
more dinners and more beer. Back in
Auckland Wray collected another pay-
ing crew for a trip to Tahiti and the
Friendly Islands to see friendly natives,
dancing girls, coral reefs and colored
fishes. And then he went back again to
the Friendly Islands, alone save for a
cat till at Bangimotu the native girl Loti
joined the crew. “Life in the Friendly
Isles consists chiefly of eating, sleeping
and singing. Now we have our own
little string band on board. Loti plays
the guitar and sings, I play the mandolin
and sing, and Rasmic lets in a bit of
a meow now and then.”
Other South Seas wanderers have made
all this a pretty familiar story. But
Wray’s innumerable storms, like his
“schooner” (beer) —“for the benefit of the
uninitiated,” he says, a schooner con-
tains one imperial quart —are indeed
remarkable: —•
I have a dim recollection of an enor-
mous wall of white, seething water bear-
ing down on us, a violent, sickening crash,
and the next instant I was under water.
There was a deafening, roaring noise in
my ears, and all the forces of the world
were pulling me away from the shroud.
It was torn from my grasp and I was in
green water, somewhere below the sur-
face. I swam to the surface and there,
a few yards away, I saw the keel of my
Ngataki sticking up in the air. A bit of
the topside was also showing, but it seemed
she was sinking fast. We were 100 miles
off land; there was no hope of swimming
that far in shark-infested waters.
This, then, was the end.
For something better to do, I swam
over to poor Ngataki and climbed up the
topside. A moment later I saw Don climb-
ing on to the stern. Then, wonder of
wonders, the boat began to rotate and
the mast appeared. It began to rise out of
the water as the Ngataki slowly righted
herself.
Then Eddie’s head popped out of the
half-open hatch. He had been down be-
low the whole time. Sitting on the cabin
ceiling in the dark, Eddie had decided he
was on his way to the bottom of the sea.
Now he was intensely surprised and re-
lieved to find the ship was still above
water. But she was only just floating.
There were over three feet of water in the
cabin. In calm water the Ngataki had a
foot of freeboard, but now the decks were
awash.
Edited by a reputable critic, or pub-
lished by one of the houses whose name
guarantees the quality of their output, or
so well written that it created its own
authority, an annual survey of literary
activities in the Empire would be a valu-
able publication. The British Annual of
Literature (Vol. 2) is edited anony-
mously; it comes from the British Authors’
Press, which in Tales by New Zealanders
and Tales by Australians impartially
mingled good work and the most futile
rubbish; its reviews (based upon no ap-
parent principle of selection) and its
articles (mainly obituaries and apprecia-
tions) are the sort of thing one sees in
provincial dailies on Saturdays. Katha-
rine Prichard and Frank Swinnerton,
whose names appear in red type on a
band round the dust-jacket, are contri-
butors ; John Masefield, W. B. Yeats,
Henry Handel Richardson and John
Buchan, whose names are printed on the
same band in slightly larger red type,
are not contributors but the subjects of
articles.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”— means fidelity in every detail.
“THE SENIOR STORE’
/.
&
' n
H
m
m
m
mm
'
W H|
> - iiSIl H
«
«S»§
1
■
:
«
■
$
\‘
V
/?
/ m
H
wmm
m
*
• ! ffiiSSSSSSS .:
11
CAKE SERVING FORK. Silver-
plated on nickel silver. Spring
pusher for releasing cake. At
Anthony Horderns’, price .... 4/6
MM
•wm
/ */$
MM
«
HI
v.'->
m
m
v
w
iii
Will
GRAND PRIZE "EUREKA" VACUUM CLEANER
British made. Operates easily; precision built; complete
set of attachments; spare parts always available. Fully
guaranteed and serviced.
At Anthony Horderns’, price £lB/18/-
Available on Easy Terms. ’Phone M 2401 for a home
demonstration.
s' «
m
/&,
m
K <
i mm
ir
■■ . K
' !
illli
TABLE LAMP, with flex and
key switch. Green, rose, gold,
natural and white. At Anthony
Horderns’, price 29/6
FRENCH STATIONERY—"Rayures Directoire."
25 folded sheets heavy quality fancy note paper in white,
blue, buff or grey; tissue lined envelopes to match. Smart
box, cellophane covered. At Anthony Horderns’ 5/~
"AURELIAN" COMPENDIUM OF STATIONERY.
Splendid quality notepaper with deckle edge and envelopes
to match. Buff, blue or grey. At Anthony Horderns: 3/6
• Stationery—Second Floor. Freight paid to ail railway
stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
CUT GLASS SALAD BOWLS. Assorted cuttings,
size. Complete with pair of servers.
At Anthony Horderns’, price
8-inch
10/9
AGEE PYREX SET. Three pieces. 1-2 I pint square
Casserole; Cake or Bread Pan, 9iin. long x s|in. wide x 2gin.
deep; Tart or Pie Plate, 7jin. At Anthony Horderns: 18/-
42-PIECE GRINDLEY'S ENGLISH UTILITY SET,
in a pretty peach blossom pattern, with stippled gold edge
on ivory finish. At Anthony Horderns’, price ... £3/13/-
• China and Glassware —Third Floor. Delivered free only
within our delivery area.
PIE AND TART SERVER. Stain-
less steel blade, mirror polished, with
xylonite handle, serrated edge for
cutting. At Anthony Horderns’,
price, each 10/
BEETROOT SERVERS. Silver-
plated on nickel silver. A.i quality.
Designed for easy lifting. At
Anthony Horderns’, each .... 3/6
• Cutlery—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Freight paid to all railway stations
in N.S.W. and seaports of the Com-
monwealth.
SUNBEAM MIXMASTER, fitted with the exclusive '‘Mixfinder.” You
simply dial the new Mixfinder to the correct speed for any mixing job
you have to do.
Features of the Mixmaster.—Automatic full power on every speed; big,
full-mix beaters; fast, efficient juice extractor. Easy portability. Guar-
anteed 12 months. At Anthony Horderns’, price -£lO/13/6
Easy Terms of 22/- deposit, 12 monthly payments of 16/9.
• Electrical-Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Delivered free only within our
delivery area.
FLOOR HASSOCK, covered in
tapestry or genoa velvet. All wanted
colours. Upholstered with springs.
At Anthony Horderns’, each: 5/11
COTTAGE WEAVE CUSHIONS.
Fringed edge, filled best quality
kapok. Blue, rust, green or brown.
At Anthony Horderns’, each: 6/11
• Soft Furnishings—Third Floor.
Lamps, Hassocks and Cushions deliv-
ered free within our delivery area.
21-PIECE MELBA ENGLISH BONE CHINA
TEA SET. Six new designs to choose from;
Autumn tonings, leaf and floral decorations. At
Anthony Horderns’, price &\Jf—
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
POSTAL ADDRESS:
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'PHONE M 2401
(DAY OR NIGHT).


FEAR
“When do We reach port, Captain ?”
“Port, madam? Officially We're still in Sydney Harbor .”
By GAVIN S. CASEY.
I WAS hot, sweating and panting, and trembling
with fear and exhaustion. Earlier I’d been shak-
ing with rage, but that was gone, and now it was
just fright that made me shiver. It was no good
running any more. The yard of the church was full
of cover, old trees and a line of staggering fence and
the outhouses, and I knew that whichever way I went
I would be caught. I couldn’t hear any of them mov-
ing, but there was sound in the darkness and I knew
I was done for. I hated myself for being afraid but
I couldn’t help it. I knew I couldn’t do anything
but wait, shivering.
A clump of high bushes that were silhouetted
against the night sky quivered. Their tops swayed
and began to part, and I watched them fascinated.
I felt someone else creeping up behind me, but I
couldn’t turn. I watched the bushes opening and the
dark figure creep out of their depths toward me. My
lips were dry and my heart was hammering, and the
others started to appear from all sides, but I stared
■ at the one who came out of the bushes. My throat
was tight, so that I could not yell or even speak. I
watched him come nearer, moving cautiously, not
making a sound. He came slowly, enjoying the
moment and prolonging it until I thought my heart
would burst.
He was only my cousin Joe, and the rest of them
were my cousins, too. Little Samuel was only a kid
half my size, and spiall and weak for his age, too,
and Dora was the eldest. Joe was my size or a bit
bigger, but he wasn’t like me. He was cruel and con-
fident and full of swagger, and he kept the rest of
them after me. Young Sam would always leave his
kid’s games, and Dora would drop her airs and
graces, and the rest of them would come running
from whatever they were doing when there was a
chance to hunt me. They fought among themselves a
good deal, but never in any argument in which I was
involved. They were always united against me, under
Joe. They were my enemies, and Joe was their leader,
and I hated him most of all.
“Got him,” Joe said when he was standing in
front of me. I felt sick and desperate, and I didn’t
say anything even when he grabbed my wrist and
twisted my arm so far behind my back that I thought
it would break.
“Why did you take the little chap’s knife? Why
did you take it off him?” asked Johnny, standing in
front of me.
“I never took it,” I said. “You know he swapped
it. You know I gave him that top for it a week ago.”
“He swapped back again,” Dora said. “What was
the use of a top he couldn’t spin?”
“I’d have taught him,” I said. “You know I
offered to teach him, but he wouldn’t try.”
It was no use talking, because they weren’t ask-
ing me questions to find out anything at all. They
were just cross-examining me to work themselves up
and to make their pleasure last longer. They had me
in the dark behind the church, and they were having
some fun. Joe laughed and twisted my arm harder,
and I doubled up until my nose nearly touched the
ground.
“That’s right,” Joe said. “Eat gravel, skunk.”
Then little Sam came around and walked up to
me and kicked me in the shins. You could see that
he knew it was quite safe for any miserable little kid
like him to kick me, and it usually was, but it wasn’t
that time. I clipped him on the ear with the arm
Joe wasn’t twisting, and Joe got such a surprise that
he let me go. Then I found myself fighting Joe, sob-
bing and panting and banging at him as hard as I
could, and doing quite a lot of damage in the first few
seconds before he got over his surprise.
It was no use me fighting Joe, I knew I’d get a
hiding, but at first it was pretty good to be free and
punching away at him in the darkness. It was alto-
gether different to being held by him and having my
arm twisted while all the rest of them grinned. The
yard of the church got noisy and full of dust we’d
scuffled up, and sweat and action and excitement in-
stead of just silence and fear. Even when Joe started
to hurt me it wasn’t the dreadful thing I’d always
imagined it would be. It wasn’t any worse than the
way he hurt me even when I didn’t resist.
When I lay on the ground it suddenly came back
to me that I could never beat them all, that I could
never even beat one of them when the rest were
there to back him up. The very knife we’d had the
trouble over bruised my hip when I fell, and I put my
hand in my pocket, and when I got up again I had
the knife open and ready. I think I only wanted to
scare them, but I don’t know. I was bruised and
sore and desperate. The blade of the knife caught a
ray of light and gleamed under my sore, wet eyes,
and they all saw it.
“He’s got the knife,” yelled Joe, suddenly startled.
“Grab him!”
“Get him from behind,” Johnny roared. “Grab
his arms! ”
They all came at me then, and I was soon down
on the dirt with Joe’s knees digging into the muscles
of my arms. What they’d have done goodness knows,
but the noise brought Auntie May out from the house
and the whole thing passed into her hands.
Auntie May was kind enough, and she tried to
do her best for me, but the trouble was she couldn’t
imagine her own children doing the things they did.
She and my uncle always took Joe’s word against
mine, and Joe was a liar. He was the only one of
my cousins who was a liar, but when he said any-
thing the rest always backed him up. Anyway this
time he didn’t have to say much. There was the
knife, and I wouldn’t deny that I’d opened it when
I’d been fighting with him. It looked pretty bad.
“I don’t know,” said Auntie May sadly. “I don’t
know what you’ll grow into, Arthur. What’ll your
poor mother think? I’m sure it would spoil her
holiday altogether, but somebody who has some influ-
ence with you will have to speak to you.”
For a few days after the fight I worried about
what my mother would think when they told her. I
felt worse than I usually did, and I’d felt pretty bad
for most of the months I’d been living with my uncle
and aunt and my cousins while my mother worked in
the city. But, although I had that trouble on my
mind, I felt better in other ways. I knew now that I
wouldn’t get hurt any more if I fought than I would
if I ran away and let them hunt me. I was hardly
afraid of Joe at all now. I told myself that if they
told my mother about the knife I’d get Joe on his
own and have another go at him, though probably
I wouldn’t really have had the courage to do it.
WHEN my mother did arrive it was quite different
from what I’d thought it would be. During all
the months we’d been separated I’d thought about her
a lot and written every week, some pretty long letters,
too, but it wasn’t till I saw her that I felt all the pain
of separation. She looked thinner and not too happy,
and, though I was far too much of a kid to under-
stand the sort of grief and loneliness and weariness
she suffered while she toiled away to keep her and
myself, I felt it somehow. Seeing her and being with
her made me remember how good things had been
when dad had been alive and we’d all lived together,
and I’d always gone home to a couple of people who
wouldn’t have believed any bad of me any more than
Auntie May and my uncle would believe it of Joe.
So for the fortnight she was with us I was a bit more
thoughtful and decent than was altogether natural.
Auntie May never told her about the knife. At
that time I couldn’t understand her, and used to hate
her a good deal, but she often did things like that
which made me feel warm and grateful. The first
morning of my mother’s holiday I lay in bed worry-
ing about it, until my aunt came out on to the
verandah where I slept. “I’m not going to tell your
mother anything that might upset her,” Auntie May
said. “She needs a real rest, Arthur. Be as good
as you can.”
I said I would, and then I lay for a while wishing
it was possible to kill Joe without hurting Auntie
May, and then I got up feeling altogether free and
good and not worrying about Joe or any of my other
cousins.
My mother and I had a fine fortnight. Every
afternoon after school I hurried home, and then we d
go for a walk. Sometimes we went to the park and
sometimes we followed the narrow river out into the
bush and wandered among the farms, and we always
talked about the past or the future, never about the
present. My mother said that the green, soft country
reminded her of Gippsland, where she’d lived when
she was a girl, and it seemed to me that there was
nothing more important I could do in the world than
make things comfortable and happy for her.
I decided I wanted to be a farmer, and I told her
I would be and talked a lot of rot about it. I talked
about the grand farm we’d have some day without
worrying in the least about how we’d get it. I told
her about school and about how I filled in the time,
and I made it all look pretty pleasant and unlike
what it was. I tried to make her think I was quite
happy, and sometimes I’d get carried away by my
own words and suddenly feel afraid that she might
think I didn’t need her at all. Then I’d put my arm
around her and hope she could feel what I wouldn’t
and couldn’t say and that it would be less hurtful
that way.
Most of the time it was a fine fortnight, with me
swaggering and making out that I was just like one
of Auntie May’s own family, and that I was a pretty
strong and successful sort of a boy in every way. The
two weeks were grand while they lasted, but two
weeks is not long. The last day of my mother’s holi-
day, came and I stayed home from school, and when
it was time I went to the station with her. She said
to Auntie May and my uncle that she’d like just me to
come to the station, and that was first thing in the
morning, and I felt proud and excited and full of
love. But later, when we were going down the street
with her cases, it was not so good.
MY mother walked wearily in spite of her holiday.
I couldn’t understand how hard life is for a
woman like her, but I could feel it and I grew afraid. I
held her arm tightly, and to fight my sadness and terror
I started to skite to her as we went along the street
carrying her poor, light little bags.
“It was pretty strange here at first,” I said. “They
stick together in a town like this, the kids do, but I
soon made them see that I was as good as they were."
“You’ve been lucky to have your cousins to be
friends with right from the start,” my mother said.
I thought about my cousins, all their cruelty to
me and their feeling for each other, and I could see
that my mother and myself were a lonely, weak pair,
just a woman and a boy, and it seemed that all the
other women and boys in the world were members of
strong, united families. I had to prove to my mother
my own strength and fearlessness. I had to prove
that they couldn’t beat us, not any or all of them, and
to give my mother a hope that when I was bigger
and stronger I would be able to make things all right
for her, too.
“My cousins weren’t too good at first,” I said.
“Joe in particular didn’t like me, but I fixed him.”
“What did you do?” my mother asked, alarmed.
“We had a fight,” I said. “He twisted my arm
one night and I pulled free and let him have one on
the nose. He’s a bit more careful about what he
does to me nowadays, I can tell you.”
We were on the railway footbridge, and below us
the train my mother had to catch was oozing steam.
Wisps of the damp, white vapor drifted around us,
and I saw that my mother now looked startled and
doubtful. My legs felt weak and I wanted to cry, but
I wouldn’t. I wanted to stop talking altogether, but
I couldn’t. “I’m not afraid of Joe,” I said. “I gave
him a hiding, and I’ll give him another one as sood
as he asks for it.” I put down the bag and clenched
my fists with some vague, silly idea of showing her
how I would hit Joe next time he asked for it.
“Hurry, Arthur,” she said. “We’ve only a
minute. Give me the bag.”
We went down to the platform, and my mother
got on the train. There were no tears in my eyes,
but they were close enough to stop me from seeing
properly. Everything was vague and grey, and I was
nervous and ashamed and trembling. Then my
mother put her head through her carriage window
and seized me by the shoulders and looked hard at
me without speaking for a long time. Her lips started
to tremble, and I could see that I’d given myself
(Continued on next page.)


away completely. I knew she realised how miserable
I was and how afraid.
“I’ll send for you, Arthur,” she said. “You
needn’t stay. I’ll send for you and we’ll live together
in the city. I thought you’d be happier here.”
“No,” I said. “No. I’m all right.”
At first it was good to be finished with all the
shamming, to feel my mother’s anxiety and pain for
me and to see an end to living with my cousins. But
then I remembered how my fight with Joe had ended
in a shameful and cowardly way. I remembered how
I had feared that Auntie May might tell her, and,
though I wasn’t ashamed that she knew how miserable
I was, I was ashamed of that. It made me think of all
the things I couldn’t tell my mother about, and of all
my useless, silly talk to her. I saw myself as a worth-
less, stupid liar, not even a practical one like Joe.
Things are supposed to be clear-cut and simple
when you are a kid, but in that moment on the railway
station with my mother I could see and fear all that
lay ahead between her and myself. I saw the pretence
and the fear and sadness and my own cowardice and
unreliability, and I knew how little my love for her
would ever prevent me from disappointing and deceiv-
ing her and disgusting myself, and skiting and lying
to cover up my own smallness and terror.
It was a moment of the purest grief, cut in half
by the wail of the engine whistle, and finishing quickly
as my mother’s face moved rapidly away and I started
to wave and cry and to be sorry for myself instead
of full of soreness and shame.
FLANNAGAN’S MARION
By STEVE BENNETT.
THE most invitin’ house o’
call for sailors in New-
castle when I was a
young feller was Flan-
nagan’s. Pat himself was
generous an’ genial, an’ he had a bloke there every
evenin’ to sing at the pianner an’ dance, but the man'.
attraction for me while I was dodgin’ in an’ out o’
the port in coastin’ schooners an’ ketches was Marion.
She was slim, black-haired, black-eyed, ever smilin’.
I forget most o’ what I told Marion the night X
said my longest good-bye, but I remember well enough
that she agreed with everythin’. I had signed on for
a voyage to the West Coast an’ back at seven quid
a month, which was enough to set any man buildin’
castles in the air, an’ I swore that I’d stand by my
ship, fair or foul, collect my pay in full, an’ then
settle down in a cosy little pub with her. It was a
lovin’ farewell, an’ put me in such good humor that
I slipped her my advance note for a month’s wages
to buy herself a vanity-bag or somethin’!
In the fo’c’sle we had a happy-go-lucky crowd,
an’ we had hardly cleared Nobbys before I was
reckonin’ myself a sober, experienced old-timer com-
pared with some o’ them. They knew their work right
enough, but when one o’ the youngest started braggin’
the first evenin’ of the advantages of a wife in every
port I felt a bit disgusted.
“You’ll change your ideas as you get older,
Sammy,” I told him. “You’ve got nothin’ to live for
now but piggin’ it in these ships; but later on you’ll
find a goal to strive after, an object in life, an’ that’ll
alter your whole outlook.”
“Well, well!” says Sammy, poppin’ cheeky eyes
at me over the rim of his rusty pannikin. “Yer brings
tears to my eyes, matey, an’ yer makes my ’eart bleed.”
As the others sniggered, Mick Riley cocked his
head, smilin’ very superior. “Sammy lives for today,
an’ to hell with tomorrer,” he says. “I used to be
like that, but now I’m countin’ the tomorrers. You
see, my girl has had enough o’ me wastin’ my time at
sea, an’ we’ll soon be gettin’ spliced.”
That sounded sensible to me, an’ I was glad to
find another steady-goin’ bloke aboard. “Intendin’ to
live in Belfast?” I asks.
“She’s a Sydney girl,” says Mick. “A clergyman’s
daughter. An’ the goal you’re strivin’ after —your
object in life,” says he, “is she waitin’ for you in
Greenock?”
I grinned, pleased at the chance to talk about
Marion. “She’s the prettiest, smartest little business-
woman in Australia,” says I proudly. Then I squibbed
it a bit. “Runs a millinery shop not far from the
Town Hall in Melbourne.” Then it wasn’t long before
our confidential chat was spread, an’ the whole crowd
knew that me an’ Mick were givin’ up the sea to be
married. Most o’ the lads cracked friendly jokes
whenever they could think of any ; an’ when they
couldn’t, which Was more often, they’d sling mud. I
wasn’t much concerned, havin’ put ’em all in the
wrong boat, but I pitied Mick, hearin’ the yarns they
invented about clergymen an’ clergymen’s daughters.
The bloke who always laughed loudest at this
rot, an’ kept everybody else laughin’ when there was
only himself to be laughed at, was Carl Schmuts.
Carl had been laughin’ at everythin’ since we left
port —hard work an’ the growlin’ mate, weevily bis-
cuits an’ damp tobaccer. Laughin’ for thirty-odd years
had given his eyes such a twinkle an’ made his face
so red an’ fat that anyone could raise a giggle at
sight o’ him. I found him a good cure for the blues
durin’ the first few weeks, when my castles in the air
would sometimes seem rather too airy. “T’inkin’
’bout de little milliner?” he would ask when he caught
me lookin’ glum ; an’ then he’d listen an’ laugh in a
way that would have me talkin’ myself back to the
church door an’ the weddin’ cake.
We were twenty days out before Carl confessed,
washin’ clothes round the forehatch on Sunday
mornin’, that he himself had a girl pinin’ for him in
Port Adelaide. I felt at once like he was my own
brother.
“So that’s what keeps you always so cheery, eh?”
says I. “Lookin’ ahead to the day you’ll tie up in the
Port for the last time. An’ what’s your plan, Carl,
for a life ashore?”
“A nice little pub so close to de docks as I can
get it,” he laughs. “Better money in sailors’ pubs
dan vomen’s hatshops!”
I was sparrin’ for breath when Mick Riley chipped
in, superior as usual. ‘T wouldn’t allow a good dog
o’ mine to waste its life in a pub,” he says, scatterin’
soapsuds from a heavy jersey. “Crowds o’ drunken
sailors hangin’ round my wife wouldn’t suit me! I’m
for a nice little orchard in country, with a cow
an’ a pig an’ a beehive”
“An’ rosies climbin’ rahnd the door an’ pretty
tomtits twittering!” yaps Sammy. “But there ain’t
no money in it, I’m tellin’ yer! Amuse the public,
that’s wot I say! Give ’em a bit o’ fun, an’ they’ll
pay yer better’n if yer feeds ’em on milk an’ ’oney!,
My dart’s a peep-show. Best payin’ game in the
world an’ no ’ard graft. Any ole shop wot’ll ’old a
few pitcher-machines with ’andles to turn for a penny,
an’ a punchin’-machine an’ a try-yer-weight an’ one o’
these ’ere ’lectric gadgets to give ’em shocks. All the
missus’ll ’ave to do is sit tight an’ rake in the dough.
An’ I’ve got jist the right little donah with the right
little shrewd ’ead!”
We chuckled at his queer idea, but some o’ the
questions we fired at Sammy were queerer. I was
anxious, though, to give him an encouragin’ word, an’
I got my chance when goin’ on deck that night. “My
opinion o’ you is changed, laddie,” I told him. “You
ain’t quite the hooligan you look, an’ if you’ve got
a good girl to help you in that peep-show business I
reckon you’ll get along well. I know just how you
feel, eager for the day you’ll chuck the sea for some-
thin’ decent.”
“Y’re a good mate, Scotty,” says he very earnest.
“I might sling orf abaht the ’atshop, but all the same
I wishes yer luck.”
I grinned to myself in the dark, an’ climbed the
fo’c’sle-head ladder to keep a lookout for lights an’
to watch Marion handin’ pots o’ beer to a million
stars.
MICK an’ Sammy, with me an’ Carl, found our-
selves in a separate clique. We had more respect
for each other, havin’ interests in common, than the
rest o’ the crowd had for us. We could always agree
that runnin’ a business ashore must be better than
battlin’ in windjammers an’ boardin’-houses, boozin’
away our wages in home ports or jumpin’ ship in
foreign places to go on the bum; but we never could
agree on the business itself. Mick Riley was for
ever spoutin’ o’ the joys o’ ploughin’ in the spring an’
isellin’ apples in summer, while Sammy went on
buildin’ up his peep-show so big that, long before we
fetched Iquique, he was worth thousands!
I got some fun out o’ those arguments, an’ a lot
o’ comfort out o’ Carl’s. Carl knew so much about
saloons an’ pubs the world over, what the dope cost
an’ what profit there was in it when properly treated,
that I always listened very close when he was havin’
his say. I asked a lot o’ questions, too, for my own
information, but still kiddin’ I was keen on the mil-
linery.
Durin’ these few weeks the ship had been gradu-
ally gettin’ harder, an’ at last I had to tell the mate, one
dirty mornin’ when he had us soogiein’ paintwork
under a heavy flyin’ spray, that if he reckoned on
chasin’ this crowd out he was makin’ a bloomer.
“When we leave this hooker, mister,” says I, “we’re
takin’ our money with us!”
I think he reported that, because, right through
my next trick at the wheel, the Old Man paraded the
poop with a face like a wet Sunday, cursin’ me as the
rottenest wheelman that had ever scrawled arcs an’
angles across the face o’ the ocean, an’ threatenin’ to
knock the carelessness out o’ me an’ the rest o’ the
stiffs for’ard. “Sailors! ” he coughs at the end of each
spasm. “A bunch o’ hoboes an’ shoemakers!”
All hands caught it; an’ Sammy, who argued that
he had steered bigger an’ faster ships for better
skippers, also caught a backhander across the lug that
set him blabbin’ about clearin’ out.
“Young feller,” says I in the fo’c’sle, “it won’t be
the first time good sailors have had to fight for their
wages as well as work for ’em. What a nice little haul
this hungry Old Man’ll get if we all clear out! An’
don’t forget, laddie,” I says very soft, “you’ll be
needin’ that money for a good cause!”
I had to advise Mick an’ Carl the same way a
little later, as both the skipper an’ his mate were
sockin’ it in properly. They snarled insultin’ lan-
guage at us every time they opened their mouths, they
kept us on the jump workin’ ship when we weren’t
paintin’ or tarrin’ down, an’ they gave us more scrapin’
an’ holystonin’ aboard that lousy old coal-lumpin’
packet than we’d have got in a crack clipper! An’ as
the work was piled on the grub was eased off, to
break our hearts through our empty bellies.
It was just here that Carl
caved in. “Scotty,” says he one
afternoon on the tops’l yard
shortenin’ sail, “I can’t stick
aboard dis ship ; I am losin’
veight already yet!”
“If you don’t stick it,” says I, “you’ll be losin’
cash an’ robbin’ that little girl in Adelaide.”
Carl dragged on a gasket an’ tucked the end,
lookin’ more serious than I had ever seen him. “I
vant to write von nice letter to dat girl,” he murmurs.
“I vant to tell her plenty, but English to me is so
gordam heavy! Vill you help me, like a good feller?”
“Certainly,” I laughs. “We’ll fix that up in the
dog-watch.”
We did ; an’ you never heard anythin’ funnier
than that Dutchman tryin’ to kid his girl how he
loved her, how he was longin’ to be with her, an’
how he was savin’ his money to spend on her. I filled
in all the prettiest names an’ most lovin’ sentences,
enjoyin’ myself as though I was writin’ to my own
girl, an’ was right through with the sugary stuff before
I tumbled that that was just what I was doin’.
“An’ now,” murmurs Carl, rollin’ his eyes an’
rubbin’ his hands, “I says good-bye vonce more, mine
own dearest Marion!”
“Marion!” I gasps, bracin’ myself to a leeward
lurch. “Marion don’t live in Adelaide, fathead!”
“Sh-sh,” whispers Carl. “Don’t let dese oder
mugs know! But isn’t she lufly? A vunderful picsher
she’d make, Scotty, for dat silly damn Cockney’s
peeps!” He took the letter, an’ I watched him
scratchin’ crosses after his “Faithful Carl.” Then 1
sat like a dummy while his tongue washed half the
gum off an envelope he cadged from me an’ his podgy
fist thumped it to make the other half stick. “T’anks
for helpin’” he says very grateful. “You cert’nly
writes nice letters.”
As I sneaked on deck for a breath o’ fresh air he
was scribblin’ the address.
u\7 ES, your peep-show should be a great payin’
* business,” I told Sammy as we sat on the hatch
after midnight, “if you can get a level-headed bloke
for a partner; but if you ever let a flamin’ woman
get tangled up with your machines an’ customers she’ll
sink the lot!”
“Crikey!” says Sammy. “Wot abaht the little
’atshop?”
“It’s like Carl’s little pub,” I grumbles very bitter.
“On the rocks!”
“An’ that means, I s’pose,” adds Sammy, sighin’
very heavy, “that you’ll be jumpin’ this bleedin’ ship
in Iquique an’ givin’ up all your goals an’ objec’s in
life! Well, matey, I’m with yer, since Mick showed
me today a photer of the future Mrs. Riley. Y’d laugh
yer eyes out to know that the dame ’e expec’s to milk
cows an’ gather ’oney is Pat Flannagan’s Marion! An
I tells yer straight,” he goes on very determined as I
clenched my fists, “I ain’t spendin’ no more on that
wench. Mick can ’ave ’er!”
But Mick seemed to lose heart too when I had
a quiet chat to him next day. “What do you think
o’ that poor Cockney mutt,” says I, “bein’ caught by
Flannagan’s Marion? If I told him half what I wrote
to her the other night for Carl it’d break his heart.
O’ course, Mick,” I finishes in a hurry, seein’ fire in
his eye, “it must be different with a clergyman’s
daughter!” Then I whispered in Carl’s ear about his
two rivals, an’ so I had the pleasure o’ hearin’ an
honest, heart-to-heart confab among the three o’
them that would have exploded every bottle in Flan-
nagan’s bar!
After they had quietened down, Sammy swore
he’d stick to his object in life an’ find another girl.
Mick was more downhearted, givin’ the photer a silent
an’ sorrerful sea-burial. Carl dived into his sea-chest,
opened his letter an’ read it aloud, his fat sides
shakin’ an’ his round head bulgin’, till all hands were
laughin’ at me an’ I found myself hopin’ he’d bust a
bloomin’ artery! Anyhow, the skipper had his way
with the three o’ them. They cleared out, along with
most o’ the crew, before we’d discharged our cargo ;
an’ never have I wished shipmates a heartier fare-
well!
The Old Man got tired o’ bullyin’ me, an’ the
mate became so friendly that before we sailed for
Newcastle we were drinkin’ an’ yarnin’ together in the
saloons around the port. “Ye’ll have a tidy pay,
Scotty,” says he one evenin’ when we were pilotin’
each other to the gangway. “How’ll ye be spendin’
it?”
“Well,” I pipes up a bit boastful, lookin’ square
at where I reckoned his eyes to be, “havin’ got rid o’
three nasty flies in the ointment, I’m thinkin’ o’ settlin’
down ashore with the finest lass I’ve ever met. She’s
an Adelaide clergyman’s daughter, mister; runs a
money-makin’ little peep-show in Sydney at present,
but we’re goin’ to buy a little farm, with a few cows
an’ a ’lectric gadget to give ’em shocks an’ a hogshead
o’ the best Jamaica”
“Good for ye, lad,” shouts the mate, fetchin’ me
an awful whack between the shoulders. “Ye should
have better luck wi’ a bride like that than the skipper
himsel’ when he fell foul o’ a wee romance last year
that cost him a couple o’ hundred quid for breach o’
promise. Still, he’s verra canny, I tell ye. He’s been
makin’ his sailors pay the damages instalments ever
since, which just shows ye that they’d ha’ surely made
a darned good pair, this Auld Mon an’ Flannagan’s
Marion! ”


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
t pl ffblt ‘Wmeofsiabe mellctmcM andJwuq/uei
More and more with the passing
of the years and improved transport
facilities, the upper reaches of the
Thames become, collectively, pars
inter pares of London. One excep-
tion is the river at Maidenhead, for
that town with its old and historic
past preserves an entity defying the
“encroachments of the great City,”
in the sense indicated, and adjacent
to venerable Maydenhithe, under
which name it received its incor-
poration in the twenty-sixth year of
the reign of Edward 111 (1327-1377),
are some of the most popular parts
of the river. But a mile and a half
away is the “village of Bray,” within
the municipal boundaries of the old
town. Bray enjoys world fame,
made so by the tunefully set ballad
commemorating the accommodating
conscience of one of its earlier vicars
—Simon Aleyn, who possessed the
benefice in the reigns of Henry VIII,
Edward VI and Queens Mary and
Elizabeth. Being twice an adherent
of the Roman faith and twice a sup-
porter of the reformed religion,
when reproached for his want of
moral principle, which allowed him
to alter his religious creed in accord-
ance with the different political
changes of the times, he replied that
he governed himself by what he re-
garded a very laudable maxim—
never on any terms to part with his
vicarage. Thus he was a man of
“unchanging principle” as respected
his parish:—•
“This is the law I will maintain
Until my dying day, Sir,
That whatsoever King may reign,
Still I’ll be the Vicar of Bray, Sir.”
The Church records, however, refute
the events the song relates. Lovers
of ancient ecclesiastical buildings
will find the church composed of
various materials and exhibiting a
mixture of styles of architecture
prevalent in the centuries through
which it has passed.
BRAY AND ITS IMMORTAL VICAR.


“AND THEREFORE TAKE THE PRESENT TIME.”
“Italy, after three victorious wars and 18 years of Fascism, does not like to hear herself referred to as a peaceful heir to the warlike Rome of old, and as devoted solely
to the arts.”—A London "Times” correspondent on the Menzies broadcast.
“Mazzini, you say. Raphael. Tasso. What about me?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch 04u.5.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
NORWAY—FACT AND FICTION.
“To remove false impressions that an early and easy
victory can be expected” in Norway, Mr. McEwen,
the Minister for External Affairs, made a statement
at Canberra confirming what most people by then
had suspected—that cable reporting, radio reporting
and even such official announcements as that giving
out news of the taking of Narvik had been wildly
misleading.
Australians have a right to demand more frequent
helpings of official information from Canberra —say,
twice a week —correcting all such disreputable stuff
as the alleged Allied ultimatum and threatened bom-
bardment at Oslo, and the alleged complete isolating,
except for the air, of Germans in Norway. The major
false impression thus spread about was that the Ger-
mans had committed a serious strategical error in
going into Norway, and were there faced with an
immediate disastrous defeat.
A week ago, when Mr. McEwen’s speech was
published, they had, by his estimate, 90,000 men in
Norway, and they must have been sending more
troops across at a fairly fast rate. They had also in
the near vicinity their Baltic army of 400,000, which,
according to a report published in London before the
war was taken to Norway, had been “waiting in trans-
ports or dockside barracks ever since the Finnish
war began.” They had also air bases, a solid grip
on southern Norway, a terrain there which greatly
assists defence against attack, the advantage of a
very close general base in Denmark, and probably
other less material but possibly very important ad-
vantages as well. And, as the melancholy sequel
showed, they were strong enough to hack their way
through the defenders of southern Norway and compel
the Allies to break off the fight for Trondhjem and
withdraw the forces landed at Andalsnes and Namsos.
As to these other advantages, little has come out,
and that little may possibly be as misleading as the more
optimistic stuff. However, one or two items touching
on the part of Norway in which the Germans have
most successfully dug in are at least worth a thought.
On the day before the German invasion two belligerent
’planes came down in that part of Norway. The
Allied ’plane made a forced descent on land, and its
occupants were interned. The German ’plane came
down in the sea; its occupants swam ashore and
“disappeared.” Again, early cables on the invasion
reported the “strange sight” of crowds of some 30,000
people in Oslo, including “many young men of military
age,” standing and watching the Germans march
through; that evening German soldiers were “the
centre of attraction” to groups of young people in
cafes, the girls “openly flirtatious.” British criticism
of Norway’s general policy, from the time of the
Altmark rescue onwards, should also, perhaps, not be
overlooked in assessing the strength of Germany in
the invaded part. One typical sample, published in
London on the day before the invasion:
What does Britain get in return for protecting
Norwegian sailors from German U-boats and
bombers? A line of action, a course of action, that is
favorable to Germany whenever the occasion arises.
The very widespread feeling was that Norway’s
attitude on the Altmark affair compared badly with
its apparent mildness over the German sinking of
Norwegian ships—up to the day of the invasion, 52 ;
more than twice as many as those of any other neutral
country except Sweden, 33. There was then not much
inclination, official or otherwise, to believe that Nor-
way’s attitude was wholly dictated by fear of Ger-
many, and very little patience with Norway on that
account. The widespread impression, very freely
expressed, was that Norway, for whatever reason, was
certainly favoring Germany. It should not be for-
gotten at once that that widespread feeling was current
up to one month back.
There is no sense in blinking the inferences that
might be drawn from such facts regarding the Ger-
man-occupied part of Norway. It might help towards
a better evaluation of the German hold there to accept
that Quisling was not the only member of the Ger-
man Fifth Column.
A mistake into which people in Australia and
other Allied countries are liable to fall —the more
patriotic, the heavier the fall —is that, because they
feel the justness of their cause, and see the necessity
and rightness of acts taken to further it, people of
other nations, especially small and evidently threatened
neutral nations, should be seeing things in exactly
the same light. Failing any correction on this point,
it is natural that many false notions—disastrous to
any realistic appraisal of happenings—should persist.
Official corrections of false news, such as Mr. McEwen
belatedly made, are all to the good, but they would
be better if they included significant information
filling in gaps. The Bulletin (24/4/’4O) directed
attention to one very serious gap:
Nor has the public been informed how neutral
Europe reacted to the mining before its attention became
fixed on the related rush of events, which alarmed, and
still alarm, the Little Nations not yet invaded and plun-
dered. Seemingly the thing had a bad reception, for
the Little Nations don’t think nearly as much of Mr.
Churchill and his plans and strokes of policy (a Grand
Alliance was one of the plans, those nearest the Nazis
to be the mugs) as people in Australia and Britain do.
If it had had a good reception we should have been
told of it.
It can now be stated that the reception was
every bit as hostile as The Bulletin had feared.
The Norwegian newspaper “Dagbladet” described
the mining as “the most dangerous blow directed
against Norway during the war.” The Norwegian
Government party organ “Arbeiderbladet” said: “We
are now facing a violation of neutrality which may
have the most far-reaching consequences as regards
both Norway and Sweden.” The “Norwegian Journal
of Shipping and Commerce”: “Great Britain has
brought her blockade into Norwegian waters in viola-
tion of international law.” “Ekstrabladet” (Sweden):
“You can hardly believe that such a blow to the in-
dependence of small nations could come from a
country that has always waved the right of independ-
ence on her standard. The Allied action can only be
interpreted as a violation of Norway’s integrity.”
Other Swedish newspapers were even more
biting. “Nya Dagligt Allehanda”: “Apparently the
Great Powers have thrown all scruples overboard.”
“Aftonbladet”: “The mine plan is in reality an act of
war. The talk of relief for Finland now seems to
have been a pretext, while extending the war to the
Nordic area was the real aim.” The view of Swedish
political circles, as reported in London newspapers,
was that “Britain had acted with complete disregard
for international law, and had seriously jeopardised
her delicate position among Scandinavian neutrals.”
The press in other small neutral countries joined
ip the almost unrelieved chorus. “Handelsblad”
(Holland): “No neutral power can defend the Allied
action.” “Het Vaderland” (Dutch Liberal organ):
“The neutrals have repeatedly declared that England
is fighting for her own interests and that they and
not the belligerents should decide the limits of neutral
rights. The war is none of their making and England
is not fighting in the neutrals’ interests.” “Standaard”
(Flemish Catholic newspaper): “The small neutrals
were not consulted when the war began. We regard
pressure exerted on a neutral country to join any
belligerent as a pernicious method.” “Basler Nach-
richten” (Switzerland): “A wrong has been done to
Norway under the false justification that if a violation
of neutrality is committed by one belligerent —as
Germany did in her sinking of Norwegian boats—the
opponents are also entitled to commit violation.”
Some of the views thus expressed may seem in-
comprehensible to people of Allied countries certain
that their cause is right, but it is better to be aware
of them than not when it comes to sizing up events.
Perhaps in none of these countries is there any con-
siderable body of false illusion about Germany, but
it is just as true that among them there was never
any overwhelming trust of Britain, either. There is
less now since the failure of the campaign in southern
Norway and of the fight for Trondhjem. The military
effects of this fiasco are perhaps of no great con-
sequence, but the political effects are far-reaching and
everywhere deplorable.
As far as Norway is concerned, it is well estab-
lished that Germany was on the move in that direction
before the mines were put down. There was the
German Baltic army known to be in existence —ready,
waiting, with transports, as long ago as last year.
Mr. Chamberlain, in the House of Commons on April
9, declared that the invasion “was in operation before
the British mines were laid.” Mr. C. J. Hambro,
the President of the Norwegian Parliament, has
claimed to have “irrefutable proof that Germany
months ago prepared the detailed plans of her in-
vasion.” Further, London newspapers on April 7
the day before the mine-laying—published reports of
an armada of 70 vessels congregated along the Baltic
coast, with “all troops said to be ready to march at
48 hours’ notice.” It is clear that Germany’s plans
were deliberately made in advance of any mining,
but, in view of the reception given to the mining
in Norway, Sweden and other countries, the Ribben-
trop version, that the German action forestalled Allied
invasion plans in Norway by only a few hours, may
quite likely receive more credence in the affected
countries than people in Allied countries would
probably expect. Those accepting this view would
see the Allied mining as the cause of the war being
forced on them, and would react accordingly.
It is all to the good to feel so convinced about
the Allied cause that any other point of view seems
fantastic ; it is not so good to accept that, therefore,
contrary views do not exist. Unfortunately, they do
exist, and they existed before the mining, which all
Europe must now regard as a blunder. A soundly
realistic official statement on the lines of that made
last week by Mr. McEwen, but filling in gaps such
as those indicated here and those left by Mr. Cham-
berlain on May 2 in his “statement of an interim
character,” as well as correcting false impressions
caused by newspaper exaggerations and other sorts
of misinformation, would be a national service of the
greatest value just at present. Such statements would
not always be as gloomy as the one Mr. McEwen felt
impelled to make, but when they had to be gloomy
there would be no need to sugar-coat them. Aus-
tralians can take the worst with the best.
The Spender Budget.
War has to be paid for, and the more that can be
paid out of the national income, without injury to
its sources, while the struggle is in progress, the better
for the country afterwards. Sir John Simon s Budget
was soundly based on this principle, and so is that
of Mr. Spender —the first ever introduced here in
anticipation of a financial year. And the Australian,
like the Briton, has done a pretty good job. There
are errors and omissions in his Budget, but they can
be rectified.
Overseas war expenditure is being financed over-
seas, the British Government letting Australia have
the money at the interest it is paying itself. This
arrangement will last till December 31, and before
that date it will be necessary for Australia to provide
at least part of this expenditure, which will increase
with the increased war effort.
Meanwhile Mr. Spender has to provide for war
expenditure in the Commonwealth, and his estimate
is that he will have to find £70,000,000 for 14 months
to June 30, 1941. He proposes to borrow £50,000,000,
and to get the rest by doubling the land tax, increasing
estate duties, adding 3d. a gallon to the duties on
petrol and benzol and 10 per cent, to the customs
duties on general commodities —other than those now
free of duty and primage making the sales tax
8 1-3 per cent, instead of 6 per cent., taking another 50
per cent, from individual incomes, and clapping war-
time taxes on company profits—(l) undistributed and
(2) those exceeding 8 per cent, “on capital employed.”
His calculations of new revenue are £1,500,000 from
land tax, £500,000 from estate duties, £5,300,000
from customs and excise, £5,000,000 from sales tax,
£3,000,000 from individual incomes, £450,000 from
undistributed profits and £4,250,000 from excess
profits.
Compared with Andrew Fisher (1914-15), Mr.
Spender is a Treasurer with limited opportunities.
When the last war began Australia had penny postage
(in fact, the letter-rate did not become till October
28, 1918), and all other charges and taxes were corre-
spondingly light. There were no Commonwealth
income tax, sales tax or estate duties, although they
arrived in 1915. There was a Commonwealth land tax,
introduced to “burst up the big estates.” In that it
failed, but its authors found it useful as a revenue
impost. It was “reduced in successive years,” as
Mr. Spender says, because the Taxation Department
found it difficult to collect from landmen in bad
times —“a fourth is derived from country land and
three-fourths from urban land” —and impossible in
some cases. The rates that obtained in 1922-27, which
were comparatively good years, are to be reimposed,
and at the same time a great deal more is to be
taken from landmen’s incomes. The Government
can look for an energetic renewal of the demand for
better prices for pastoral produce, wool in particular.
An additional £3,500,000 from income tax and
estate duties doesn’t sound much considering that
the Sydney Government alone expects to get another
£3,900,000 from corresponding taxes and stamp
duties, increased after war broke out with the assur-
ance that the annual loss on its inept transactions
would thereby be reduced —it is not going to be.
The objection is that N.S.W. taxpayers will have to
shoulder the double burden —this applies also, but
not to such an extent, to taxpayers in other provinces
—because the State incubus was allowed to get in first.
Nor is there any guarantee that the Six Encumbrances
won’t increase their exactions during 1940-41. The
national-emergency regulations are wide enough to
enable the national Government to give taxpayers
such a guarantee, and more.
Mr. Spender should tell the Six Encumbrances
that no additional State taxation or appointments to
their bloated establishments will be tolerated during
the period of the war. He should go further and
point out that the war has plainly shown that their
“Parliaments” are superfluous since, for one thing,
they have been loafing most of the time, and the
N.S.W. “Parliament” hasn’t even bothered to exhibit
any particular interest in its alleged duties for
attending to which the 90 Assemblymen voted them-
selves £875 p.a. (a rise of £205 p.a.) when the annual
loss was piling up at the rate of £1 per head. Mr.
Spender’s remarks should close with a notification
that, from July 1, all State Parliaments will be under
Commonwealth control and all State politicians on
half-pay.
The Treasurer himself emphasised the need for
the missing guarantee by referring to “the high levels
to which income tax has been raised in some of the
States.” They are so very high that, except on one
point, he has had to abandon what he calls the “old
scale of rates, designed to produce a moderate revenue
by taxing higher incomes with considerable severity,
while falling lightly on middle incomes and exempting
lower incomes altogether.” If the Government carry-
ing on the war taxed “very high incomes” up to
12s. 9d. in the £, as Britain is doing, the taxpayers
would have nothing left, because they would have
“already paid over Bs. in the £ in State taxes,” the
proceeds of which are so largely wasted. So the poor
old middle class is to get it in the neck. For the
single taxpayer, however, there will be an exemption
of £250 p.a. as hitherto. Why, the Treasurer did not
explain, and he would be hard put to it to justify
this concession to a particular class. Seeing that scores
of thousands of young Australians have accepted and
are accepting the risk of dying horribly far from
their native country for a lot less than £250 p.a., non-
starters should be required to contribute something


for the privilege of staying at home and having a good
time. In many cases it would merely mean taking
a little for the nation in its peril from the tin hares,
the horses, the s.p. bookies and the “lott’ry.”
Neglect to tax lottery prizes is another Budget
omission. It was done for years when there wasn’t
a war, and should be done again. It is utterly wrong
that £5OOO derived from investments in labor-
employing concerns should be taxed £2116 by the
Government carrying on the war (and £1335 by the
Queensland show) while £5OOO gained through drawing
a marble from a barrel is tax-free. The Commonwealth
should also tax entertainments again. If it be objected
(1) that this would make racing, football, the tin hares
and the pictures dearer, and (2) that the States already
tax entertainments, the answer is (1) that, for men
capable of war service and not rendering it in any
form, racing, football, the tin hares and the pictures
ought to be dearer, and (2) that the necessities of the
Commonwealth are greater than those of any or all
of the States. In any case, anything that could have the
effect of accelerating the disappearance of State Gov-
ernments and Parliaments would be of service to the
nation.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Australia Must Be There.
During a week big with events in northern Europe
it was “reported” in Australian streets for the second
time that Italy had declared war on the Allies. The
second furphy went the rounds on May Day —the
Sovietists’ day out —after the diversion of British ship-
ping from the Mediterranean had been ordered in
London. On the previous day the Rex, Italy’s largest
liner, had started on her normal passenger voyage to
New York. That was a sign that there would be no
immediate entry of Italy into the war ; but the increas-
ing bitterness of Italian newspapers —the “Osservatore
Romano” excepted—the appointment of the pro-Nazi
Count Alfieri as Ambassador at Berlin, the arrival of
a great Anglo-French battle-fleet at Alexandria and
the obvious anxiety of Mr. Roosevelt and his
advisers, who are making earnest representations to
Rome, all testify to the position having become ex-
ceptionally difficult, even if unofficial reports of Italian
concentrations here and there are exaggerated.
In a well-meant attempt to arrest the rapid de-
terioration in Anglo-Italian relations, Mr. Menzies
addressed a broadcast speech to Italy. Unfortunately
he got into an argument with an Italian newspaper
which, among other things, objected to his application
of the term “neutral” to a “non-belligerent” ; but,
having broken the ice, he should try again—if it is
not too late. And next time he should mix some praise
for the achievements of the Italians from 1915 onwards
with references to the two greatest English poets
whom Italy haunted like a passion and to the noble
Englishmen of the nineteenth century who worked for
the liberation of Italy from the German yoke. Nations,
as well as individuals, like to be flattered. And he
might lay stress on the solemn fact that Britons and
Italians have never been at war.
In any case, the Prime Minister struck a note
which has been heard all too seldom in Anglo-Italian
polemics. It was a pleasant change from scolding,
railing and warning on the one side ; defiance, bom-
bast and threatening on the other.
There is another change that should be made;
and there is not a moment to be lost. The Follow
Britain “policy” must be abandoned once and for all.
It has come to mean following France as well as
Britain. New blood is obviously needed on the Allied
War Council, to which Poland and Norway have been
admitted, and the Dominions can, and should, supply
it. They have a right to demand representation on
that Council by at least two voting members, together
with representation of each Dominion in the Imperial
War Cabinet, the revival of which has become im-
perative. If the other Dominions won’t come in—
though in all probability they would —Australia
should act alone. The Australian Government cannot
allow the fate of its fighting men, and perhaps the
fate of its nation, to be decided by persons from
whose councils it is excluded —at present the vain old
fools who sent a division of Territorials to fight the
German army and the German air force without
aircraft.
One War Is Enough.
On Tuesday of last week coal-strike leaders and
A.C.T.U. representatives saw Chief Arbitration Judge
Beeby in Melbourne and were told again that the
Court would do nothing while its findings were being
flouted.
On Saturday, the Government issued the National
Security Act regulations designed to implement its
plan for reopening the pits if members of the mining
unions persisted in their refusal to work. Meanwhile
strike leaders, agitated at the condition of the war
chest, which the general run of unionists obstinately
refused to replenish, were rushing here, there and
everywhere in search of a soft place to fall on. Mr.
Curtin thrice advised them to send the men back to
work, but a Mr. Scanlon assured the miners that “if
we stand pat the Government will not get sufficient
coal to meet its requirements.” Strikers’ families are
more concerned about getting sufficient food to meet
their requirements.
On Tuesday the strikers were assembling for mass
meetings, at which the question of returning to work
was to be put to the vote, with a face-saving recom-
mendation from the Red bosses that the calamity
should be continued. Ships loaded with food and raw
materials were then lying without fuel in our ports ;
there had been further curtailment of rail and tram
services and more dismissals of workers because
industry dependent on coal was halted. Abroad there
had been a serious reverse in Norway and the position
in the Mediterranean, always difficult, had become
dangerous. No one doubts that most of the members
of the mining unions are loyal to Australia and the
Crown. It seemed impossible that, in such circum-
stances, they could decide to carry on a strike which
has been injurious to everyone, except the enemy and
his friends, and to themselves most of all.
Where Has the Money Gone?
Every few days N.S.W. people read that some poor
creature has been turned away from a hospital be-
cause he or she can’t be accommodated, and that
Government school buildings are dilapidated or over-
crowded or both.
Recently a Paddington municipal health inspector,
visiting the manual training room at Sydney Techni-
cal High, found it “unfit for human habitation.” Four
classes (two of 47 and two of 46) were being taught
in a den 56ft. by 24ft. 6in. and Bft. sin. high, with
stained walls and a stone floor.
The surface was broken in places and some of the
holes contained water. There is no ventilation. The
room had a damp, musty odor, and the handles of the
tools used by students were covered by mildew.
A few days later W. A. E. Lewis, a member of
the Hospitals Commission, gave a Parliamentary select
committee the fruits of his inquiries and observations.
At Braidwood, he said, patients were attended to in
a building not fit to be a hospital: “old, damp and
dirty.” At Wagga Base Hospital there was “a
masseuse with no massage department” ; the kitchens
were bad, and the cupboards were “below standard.”
In the children’s ward it had been necessary to put
two children in one cot; in the women’s ward 11
beds were placed on a “narrow verandah,” and “T.B.
cases were accommodated with medical, surgical, and
eye, nose and throat patients.” But conditions in other
hospitals were also “appalling.”
At Hawkesbury District there were 12 rooms for
26 nurses, and on occasions 70 patients were crowded
into a place with a normal capacity of 36. At
Cootamundra there was only one bath for 22 nurses,
and at the time of my inspection two were living in a
garage, though they have since been placed in a cot-
tage. At Penrith and Cootamundra conditions are bad.
At Marrickville the sterilising and storage arrangements,
pronounced unsatisfactory four years ago, have not been
improved. The nurses’ quarters are inadequate, and the
hospital has 95 beds, though 17 operations have been
performed in the one day. As for the Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital at Camperdown, the pathological depart-
ment is a disgrace and its condition a menace to the
staff. Adjoining it is the morgue, in which there is
no provision for bereaved persons going there to view
bodies or attend funerals —they are obliged to stand in
a room with cabinets containing other bodies. As
for Sydney Hospital, it is out of date and needs rebuild-
ing as soon as possible.
In other places schools and hospitals are elemen-
tary services, built, equipped and maintained out of the
rates and taxes. Thus financed, they satisfy all re-
quirements in the way of comfort, hygiene and sani-
tation, and, in the case of the hospitals, are ready
for all emergencies. Sydney Governments have scan-
dalously failed to furnish these requirements, although
they have extorted terrific taxation and have had the
use of nearly £370,000,000 of loan money, in addition
to the millions poured into the State by the Common-
wealth Government and the other millions derived
from lotteries, which in Queensland have been mainly
devoted to the building, equipment and maintenance
of hospitals and clinics.
What has been done with all that money?
Java and Mr. Curtin.
From “Feng-Shui”:
If Hitler invades Holland and the Netherlands East Indies
are put under “protective custody” it will not be for the first
time. The Portuguese took the archipelago under their pro-
tection in 1511. They did not regard the natives as human
beings, though they were not more fiendishly cruel than some
of the native sovereigns.
Spaniards formed an establishment in the Moluccas in
1526. In the following year, reinforced from Europe, they
attacked the Portuguese, but they were too weak to make
themselves protectors of the natives against their Portuguese
oppressors.
The Dutch arrived in Java in 1596 under Houtman. They
celebrated the occasion by inviting the Prince of Madura and
his family to pay a ceremonious visit to their fleet and
massacring them.
In 1811 Napoleon incorporated Holland in his empire,
and the English took Java, restoring it to the Dutch five
years later. During that short period Java had the good
fortune to have as its Governor the enlightened Stamford
Raffles, who unearthed the country’s storied past, gathered
around him English and Dutch scientists, ethnologists and
archaeologists and laid the foundations of a decent human
relationship between the native and the European.
On their return, however, the Dutch resumed their old
commercial methods, reinforced by a system of forced labor
and compulsory cultivation. It had the effect of quadrupling
the population in four decades, but the cost was so hideous
in human suffering that one solitary Dutch official, Dekker,
was stirred to action. His novel, Max Havelaar, awoke the
conscience of home-staying Dutchmen. Since then the
governance of the Indies has steadily improved until now
only a red-hot chauvinist would maintain that any other nation
could do it better.
Hence it is somewhat disconcerting to find a staunch
anti-imperialist like Mr. Curtin talking as .if he wanted to
see the Dutch possessions put under protective custody by
Australia. According to the Labor leader any threat to Java
would prejudice Australian security, so a military expedition
would not only be justified but be strategically important.
Many years ago I used to like to go and sit on the wall
of an old fort in Java which had been built by the British
when the island was under their protective custody. As a
neighboring cemetery disclosed, the garrison died like flies until
the island was handed back to Holland. But, of course, if
Australian troops occupied Java, no doubt Mr. Curtin
would have us hand it back to the present owners if and
when Hitler was turned out of the Netherlands in Europe.
If, on the other hand, that didn’t happen, Australia might
find itself saddled with a brand-new colonial empire, with
ten times its own population, a large proportion of whom
would probably be in revolt against their new masters. The
history of the Dutch occupation is almost an unbroken record
of wars and upheavals. One war in Sumatra lasted for a
century, being kept going by the army because it provided an
easy road to promotion.
Out of a cloudy controversy there has emerged a sort
of guarantee that the Dutch East Indies will be left in the
hands of their present owners. This should avert the
necessity for Australians going on a career of conquest in an
area which has been a white graveyard for four centuries.
The War—and Denis.
Since Jehovah banished bacon from the Jewish break-
fast table the pig has suffered more contumely than
any other animal. Why this should have been so is
rather hard to understand, unless it was because the
Jew, denied one of the most succulent of meats, be-
came enormously narked and, afraid to turn on the
banner, expended his annoyance on the banned.
Christianity, though it did not follow the Jew in
refusing to eat the pig, adopted the Jewish habit of
going to the sty in search of allusive description for
things it doesn’t like. Thus we hear of people as fat
as pigs, as dirty as pigs and squealing like pigs. In Aus-
tralia you may call a man a natural child and nothing
come of it; call him a swine and there is likely to
be violent reaction. Unyielding people are pig-
headed and a greedy man is a hog. Poor-quality beer
is pig-swill and a nasty-tempered horse is a pigrooter.
Now, surprising as it may seem, the pig is a
courageous animal; it is docile, strong and intelligent
as animals go ; and sows are good mothers. Yet
nobody is ever credited with being as game as a pig,
as quiet, as strong or as cunning, though in this last
attribute the pig could give the fox ten on and a
beating.
No race has been more ready than the Anglo-
Saxon to follow the Israelite in this matter, and it
seems something like poetic justice that the British, at
death grips with the Germans, should view the latter’s
capture of the small country of Denmark not so much
as a strategic military loss as a loss of bacon and pork.
On their 500 islands the Danes had cultivated the
pig more intensely than the Australian cultivated the
merino sheep or the rabbit. For the pig is a closer-
settlement animal, and as such proved a source of
continuous profit to the Dane. Five years ago there
was nearly a pig per person —3,034,000 pigs to
3,550,656 Danes—and annual imports of Danish pig
meats into the United Kingdom were worth about
£20,000,000 a year.
Australia can breed pigs by the million if she
chooses, and modern refrigeration makes possible trans-
port of pig meats to Britain —which will be looking
for them. In a general way Australia’s surplus wheat,
fed to pigs, would bring better returns than if sold
as grain for export. Pigs can be run on any sort
of country, provided they are well looked after. Closer
settlement, previously confined to doubtful wheat pro-
duction, can look to the pig for a revival. The foun-
dation stock for a big expansion in pig-breeding is
here. If Australians miss this chance then we are
a pigheaded lot, for Denis could well prove a most
important contribution to the Allied war effort.
The Milky Way.
On April 24 it was here mentioned that the Sydney
Government had adjourned for 12 days, and the
U.A.P. press excuse was quoted:
Since the House assembled there has been little
interest in the proceedings, chiefly owing to the war,
the coal strike and dissension in the Labor party.
These things were still going strong five days
later when the same press announced that the same
crowd intended to adjourn late in May until late
July or early August, and innocently added:
Many members admit that the war and Federal
political matters have distracted their attention from
State issues, which, they feel, are of minor importance
compared with the war.
A purely State issue not of minor importance
was the proposal of a costly Milk Board to make
consumers pay another Id. a quart on an essential
commodity already so dear that the average family
man on a small income couldn’t buy enough of it.
The Mair Cabinet, grimly warned by a long-
suffering community that it wouldn’t stand the in-
crease, indicated that it had no confidence in its Milk
Board by refusing, after days of haggling, to ask the
consumer to pay. Mr. Mair himself thought so little
of the public milk jug that he failed to turn up at
the third Cabinet meeting, having gone to the pictures.
Farmers are to receive advances, free of interest for
12 months, with which to buy fodder. The amazing
gap between the Is. a gallon paid to the producer and
the 2s. 4d. paid by the consumer is to remain, nor,
apparently, is Sydney guaranteed against a repetition
of rationing.
Meantime, there is the almost unanimous public
desire that the Milk Board should be abolished,
which Mr. Mair has so far ignored.
He and the rest of the State politicians won’t
be able much longer to ignore the outcry for their
abolition. People, contemplating with a sort of grim
patience the increasing demands of a Commonwealth
Government for cash with which to carry on a war,
regard State futilities with eyes remarkably like those
of a policeman contemplating a professional loafer.
State issues may be “of minor importance com-
pared with the war,” but the matter of their existence
in a country called upon to turn every penny that
can be spared into war finance is far from a minor
issue. Abolition of State Parliaments is overdue.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
"'Tain't my fault it's sprouted. We wus ’eld up fra month at Kelly’s Crossin'.”
“Drummer”: Note from New York
“Times”:
World’s Fair officials, announcing new
marvels for the 1940 season, reveal that
“Kosciusko Day,” to be celebrated on May
30, will mark the 100th anniversary of the
discovery by General Thaddeus Kosciusko
(1746-1817) of the highest mountain peak
in Australia, now named Mount Kosciusko.
In order to mark this discovery, hitherto
unknown, the Yanks propose an elabo-
rate parade, to include Australian and
Polish folk dances. It was feared that
nobody knew what an Australian folk
dance was like, but a message to Holly-
wood brought the reply that if a guy
named Strzelecki could be located he
would have the dope. As the message
pointed out, this Strzelecki was well
known as “the bird that shrieked when
freedom fell.”
* * * *
“Bi-weekly”: People in minor public
positions who commit minor offences
will go to remarkable lengths to keep the
thing quiet. A council officer in a town
20 miles from mine was lumbered on a
charge of being drunk while driving. By
some means he got the case listed for
our court, and at 3 a.m. pulled me from
a comfortable bunk to invite me not to
be present when it came on. Gently I
conveyed that a country paper couldn't
make fish of one and so forth, and went
back to bed. Next day I got letters from
two clergymen and one solicitor in the
neighboring town, all telling me what a
good fellow the officer was, and all about
his wife and family. I replied that all
court cases in our town were reported
and no exceptions could be made. Came
court day, and the defendant in a blue
funk. His state of mind was so dis-
tressed that I became somewhat alarmed.
Trying to calm him, I suggested that a
few drinks was nothing, whereupon he
broke down completely, made a beeline
for the nearest bar and got so hopelessly
blithered that he failed to appear, and
was fined the usual half-note ex parte.
It is doubtful if any but his intimates
ever heard of the affair.
* * * *
“Obsy. H. Squirter”: It could come
only from the land of the Hooey bird
and the kingdom of Kidstakes, that
offer of a million dahllars for the de-
livery of Hitler, unscratched, to the
League of Nations for trial. A nation
that could be scared into a bolt for the
cactus by a broadcast of a Wellsian play
is capable of anything. Still, it seems
unfair to the Austrian to treat him as
Jesse James, Two-gun Earp or A 1
Capone, for, whatever the trouble and
tribulation he has brought to the gol-
durned Britishers, the truth is that he
is an American creation. Had there
been no Woodrow Wilson and no
idealistic attempts to set up synthetic
republics around Germany it is doubt-
ful if Adolf would have ever got the
public ear. Anyhow, the thing is far
from original. If I mistake me not old
Lloyd George won a British election
during the 1914-18 war on a “Hang the
Kaiser” policy. Now it begins to look
as though Wilhelm will see L.G. out.
Neither is likely to hang, nor is Hitler.
* * * Sic
“T”. touching that Hollywood pro-
nunciation of “romance,” which A.B.C.
has adopted—l have heard an A.B.C.
announcer “present Baithofen’s ‘Row-
mance in D Minor’ ” —I doubt whether
San Francisco has followed the moving-
picture pronunciation. There is an old
feud between San Francisco and Los
Angeles, of which Hollywood is, of
course, part, and ’Frisco has not for-
gotten the school of writers who gave
it a distinction that synthetic productions
can never give Los Angeles. The opening
stanza of one of Bret Harte’s finest
poems refers to the Mission bells:
Tinging the sober twilight of the present
With color of romance.
No “rovv-mance” for Harte.
* * * *
“Tovarish”: So another attempt has
been made on the life of King Boris of
Bulgaria, followed by wholesale arrests.
If they ever start an escapologist event
at the Olympic Games that tall, vigor-
ous monarch—he looks like a leaner
Lavarack —would have an easy walk-
over. When the Bolshies tried to
blow him up in his own cathedral, he
foiled them by getting influenza the day
before. The rest of the congregation
were picked up with shovels. Boris’s best
performance, however, was when some
ill-disposed persons showed their rancor
by trying to shoot him down on a subur-
ban road. As he usually drives, the
assassins took a potshot at the man at
the wheel of the royal car, scored a bull’s-
eye and put the engine out of gear. The
king, who wasn’t the driver, hesitated not
a moment. The Sofia Transport Union
was holding its annual picnic in a near-
by glade. After a masterly hundred in
professional time, Boris pinched their bus
and left for the capital in a cloud of
dust. It was years before his enemies
gunned for him again.
* * * *
“D.E.”: It was sad to read that three
of eleven Grimsby trawlers named after
international cricketers have been sunk
by bombs, presumably in Norwegian
waters, though regret was mitigated by
the fact that all hands were saved. The
three were called Hammond, Larwood
and Bradman; the others are Jardine,
Barnett, Leyland, Wellard, Compton,
Hendren, Paynter and Gregory. The
trawlers that go out from Grimsby and
Hull and other fisher-fleet ports have
been of priceless service in two wars, and
they are manned by as stout a breed
as has ever dlared 'not only the perils of
the sea but those of the upper element.
Before the war is over, Australia should
make it its business to secure fisher-fleets
of its own ; for economic purposes, as
well as naval auxiliaries, it will need
them. Apropos of Grimsby, Australia
has a remote connection with the place,
inasmuch as an Australian girl married
the then member for the district, Sir
Charles Doughty. She was Eugenia Stone,
who wrote The Bulletin’s Melbourne
Chatter in James Edmond’s time.
* * * *
“Quiz”: The “Times” (London) says
that the Norwegian traitor Quisling has
added a new word to the English lan-
guage—a synonym for “traitor.” It may
be so, but I doubt if the word will’last
long enough to be included in the next
supplement to the Oxford Dictionary.
After the 8010 Pasha affair in 1917
Lloyd George uttered the warning
“Look out for Boloism in every shape
and f0rm....” Boloism is not in the
dictionary today.
“Lao-dah”: One of the strangest cases
of the quick sanctification of a new word
by Australian dailies is the contemptuous
“puppet” applied to the Japanese-con-
trolled Government of Wang Ching-wei
in China. Melbourne “Herald” now
speaks of the Chinese puppet Premier as
if it were an official title instead of an
insult, and the other day it spoke of
Japanese puppet troops as if it were a
title of honor like “Horse Guards.”
Nevertheless, it would not be surprising
if the Japanese themselves have accepted
the word in innocent good faith as a
complimentary designation. Stranger
things have happened with the English
language in Asia. A stout Chinese tailor
in Tientsin once approached a British
cable mess for assistance in making up
his signboard. He wanted a dignified
and descriptive English surname and he
got dozens of suggestions. A few days
later over his shop appeared the legend
“Jellybelly, Foreign-style Tailor.” He
stuck to it for 20 years and he couldn’t
have picked a more commercially suc-
cessful trademark.
* * * *
“Gun Bo”: Hardly had the ban on
American crime magazines been gazetted
when a scene torn straight from one
of them was enacted at Wollongong
(N.S.W.). A woman was heard cry-
ing for help in the dawn, and two
youngsters rushed from the house.
A neighbor and the woman’s son
went to the back door, but slammed it
just in time to escape a bullet from a
rifle. Police arrived, and one, unarmed,
gamely tried to calm the armed man.
He was ordered off at gun-point. A bit
of paper fell from a front window of
the house, and, while one officer crept
forward to obtain it, another fell with a
bullet in the brain. Sydney was asked
for reinforcements, which travelled 52
miles by fast cars. Thirty-five police,
armed with tear-gas bombs, rifles and
revolvers, laid siege to the place, which
was now silent, except for the blare of
a wireless set. A rifleman poured bullets
through a window, and others hurled their
gas bombs into the room. Then a gas-
masked party rushed the door. But it
was all over. Inside was a dead woman,
terribly battered, and in another room
her husband, who had shot himself, evi-
dently before the bomb attack.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: How’s this for devotion? An
outer-suburban Melbourne householder
who had been made tree-conscious by
the propaganda of the State departments,
all of which are pledged to preserve
our native flora, built a house and in
his garden planted a bluegum seedling.
The seedling got its feet into some subter-
ranean waterway and grew like wildfire.
One day there was a complete stoppage
of the householder’s sewerage system.
The pipes were unearthed and found to
be completely packed with roots from
the blue gum. Fresh pipes were laid
in concrete and the bill was £l2, but the
tree-lover gladly paid it and continued
to admire his precious possession. One
day the storm-water drain, which also
carried the waste from the laundry,
ceased to function. The drain was dug
up and found to be filled in the same
way. Fresh pipes were laid in concrete
—bill, £lO. Then the householder went
away on a holiday. When he returned
the tree had vanished, and in its stead
was a trench which had been dug by
the public authority that attends to
sewerage. The tree had been chopped
down to save him the expense of a
deviation which might have cost him
a couple of guineas.
* -Is * *
“Chevroford”: As a sign of the times,
a Geelong firm of motor salesmen has
lately been displaying in its show window
a Comper-Swift monoplane whose log
reveals that it has flown from England to
India and back, and that its total flying
time is 481 hours. This doesn’t indicate
a new trend in the motor business. The
mechanical bird was accepted by the
firm as part-payment for a new Ford
VB, its owner, an R.A.A.F. pilot, having
come to the conclusion that private flying
is a luxury in waf-time.
•T * * *
“Cauboy”: I am intensely amused at
the Melbourne matrons who, having
been affected by the ballet fashion, hope
to turn their daughters into world-
famous ballerinas. They send them to
some academy of dancing three nights a
week, and for the rest of their time the
girls go to the pictures, play and lead
the lives of ordinary young ladies. They
have as much hope of becoming bal-
lerinas as Bradman would have had of
becoming Australia’s greatest batsman if
he had given cricket the same dilettante
attention. When he was a youth Brad-
man was so obsessed with cricket that
he used to spend hours throwing a ball
at a wire on a fence in a paddock. He
hit the wire five times out of ten, but
when he missed he had to chase the ball
a hundred yards or so, so he did more
running than throwing. The ballerinas
in Melbourne are equally obsessed with
the ballet. They hang around the
theatre when off duty and think and talk
of nothing but the ballet. They will
practise a particular action for hours,
days or weeks, and they have been
dancers since their childhood. Ballet is
in the Russian tradition just as cricket
is in the Australian tradition, and the
notion that there is anything more im-
portant than the ballet never enters their
heads for a moment. As one bal-
letomane said to me: “You have only
tc look at their muscular development
to know that they haven’t been spend-
ing their lives like young ladies.”
WHERE?
Where are the folk who smoothly slither
Out oi the ken of the keenest eye,
Hitting the breeze for none know whither
(Though, just as certainly, most know why)?
A problem this, from the dawn of hist’ry,
1 hat ever baffles, intrigues, absorbs,
A dark and ever-recurring myst’ry . . .
And where the dickens is Woolcott Forbes?
Where would you look for the chaps who
vanish,
As poets phrase it, into the blue?
Do they order tiddleys in French or Spanish?
Lie low in Dublin or Timbuctoo?
Or have they carpets, like Easterit fairies
Once wove, to settle their frames upon,
And be whirled away from Buenos Aires
To the old-time kingdom of Prester John?
Have we never a seer that help can render
In tracking birds to an unknown shore?
No modern dame like the Witch of Endor,
No priestess skilled in the gipsy lore?
What use in the dim stances started
For Sludge-like mediums their art to show
When there’s never a voice from the dear
departed
To tell us something we’d like to know?
Come, here’s a chance for you crystal-gazers,
Readers of secrets in stars and skies,
A chance to prove you’re as sharp as razors
And to wipe the Sherlock Holmeses’ eyes.
Somewhere he lurks, and doubtless lazes,
Screened from the sleuths’ and the demons’
orbs.
But where the mischief, and where the blazes,
And where the devil is Woolcott Forbes?
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“ Nonsense , you're not a bit too early. Come in."
“C.Q.”: An eminent churchman was
conducting a broadcast. In one qorner
of the studio a programme director
was sitting, speculating as to how
he could fit a “session” on cook-
ing, a news gazette on the fighting
in Finland and ten minutes of Bing
Crosby into the time remaining before
the dinner music; the announcer was
wondering why he hadn’t backed the
winner and the gents behind the glass of
the control-room were looking with
puzzled frowns at a piece of apparatus.
The holy man brought his address to a
magnificent conclusion, wiped his brow
and gazed round the room with an ex-
pression of beatific triumph. Then he
said to the staff: “Let us all go down on
our knees.” He suited his action to his
words, and his astonished hearers all fol-
lowed his example. “Now,” he said,
“let us thank God for having arranged
this broadcast.”
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: Queer things, these
tragic coincidences, but they certainly
seem to indicate this year, clearly enough
for any astrologer, that the numbers three
and five should be strictly avoided by
those who wish to see the war end. The
year began with the curious series of
three and five road accidents in Queens-
land (B. 24/1/’4O), and among a number
of others there has been the sequence in
one Victorian family, three members
killed in five months —one son in the air,
another in a motor accident and the
father in another accident. I can add
still another. Within a recent three
weeks I wrote to five men, all under 60,
who were old correspondents and who
had been neglected for some time. In
every case, the addressee died while the
letter was on its way or immediately
after its arrival. lam now thinking hard
of esteemed comrades in Germany and
U.S.S.R. who might appreciate contact
with an Australian pen-friend.
* * * sfc
“X.S.”: Melbourne will soon have the
most palatial police-station in Australia.
The picturesque old bluestone block in
Russell-street has gone, and in its place
will rise an organlike modern building
whose central section will tower 153
feet above the parade grounds. A wireless
mast will add another 156 feet, and the
total will be exceeded only by the spire
of St. Patrick’s Cathedral. “Superior
residential accommodation” will be pro-
vided for 150 officers and bachelor con-
stabulary far from traffic noises. In the
preliminary demolitions there went west
in the old building a room which had
historic interest inasmuch as three
policemen committed suicide in it. If
any policeman commits suicide in the
new erection it can’t be said that it was
due to the conditions.
* * * *
“Trapezer”: It appeared in a Sydney
morning paper:
Wanted, 50 Workmen for Circus.
Apply this morning, 11 o’clock, Foley-
street.
Debating whether my job would be to
feed the performing fleas or massage the
elephant I went along. The street —it
was really a lane —was packed with hun-
dreds of applicants. While we seethed
a fire engine arrived, then two more.
Then came a police car. I felt certain
I’d been inveigled into a Communist
demonstration or something, and got as
far away from the hoses as I could. The
fire engines left. So did the police. Time
passed, and more joined the crowd in
the lane. At midday came a rather awed-
looking gent., who announced that the
wages would be 225. 6d. a week and
keep. This munificence stunned the
“Why don't yer kick a man your own size?"
crowd for a moment, then it gave tongue.
The gent, hurriedly picked about 25, and
looked more awed as others surged
around, demanding that he shout for the
mob. He hastily appointed ten men as
a bodyguard and retreated, followed by
a large section whose looks were black
and manner truculent. My vision of a
life on the road under
the big top faded,
and I left that 225. 6a.
prospect for my hum-
arum £lOOO a year,
feeling that the awed-
looking gent, had been
somewhat lucky to
escape so lightly.
* *
“X.S.”: A child as
yet unborn caused a
stay in proceedings in
a Melbourne court the
other day. An expec-
tant mother claimed
£3OOO for herself and
her coming baby for
the loss of her hus-
band, killed in a
motor accident. Coun-
sel for the defendants
argued that the in-
clusion as a litigant of
the unborn child was
unnecessary and vexa-
tious, and might pre-
judice the jury. No-
body knew what the
sex of the child would
be, and a jury might
award more for a boy
than for a girl. if
that plea failed to
satisfy the Judge he asked for the
case to be postponed until after the
birth of the baby, which was due to
arrive in two months’ time. Counsel
for the plaintiff argued that if proceed-
ings were thus delayed a new situation
might be created. The mother might die
in childbirth and then she would
have lost the right to sue, which she
had now on behalf of both herself and
the baby. Justice Martin decided to
withhold an opinion until he had con-
sulted the Chief Justice as to whether
the case was a matter for the Full Court.
The problem could hardly arise in
Japan, where a child is regarded as of one
year of age at the time of birth, the
period of gestation being considered as
part of its temporal existence.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Melbourne is much
more cosmopolitan than Sydney in the
matter of its public nourishment, and
far more people frequent foreign cafes
in the southern city than they do in the
metropolis by the harbor. Moreover, the
prices are so low that the Italian, French,
Chinese, Yiddish and Viennese cafes are
serious competitors of the Australian —
for one thing, most of them throw in a
moderately good wine free. Melbourne,
as a matter of fact, to people who know
the ropes, is almost as good a place for
an epicure to live and die in as Italy,
where you can get better cooking in the
wretchedest little cafe than anybody but
the rich gets here. For bad cooking
England stands alone ; but the Eng-
lish don’t see it. I was dining in
Soho with a Londoner and began to
animadvert on English cooking. “What’s
wrong with this?” said the Englishman,
“This is an Italian cafe,” I said. “Well,”
he answered. “It’s in England, isn’t it?”
* * *
“Colbun”: Lecturers in the cause of
total abstinence have a great deal to put
up with at times from the annoying per-
versities of the lower animals. A valu-
able exhibit on their platforms is a horri-
fying painting of what happens to a gin-
drinker’s liver —cirrhosis, in doctor slang.
Now we learn that the London Zoo s
big chimpanzee, Douglas, a lifelong
abstainer, has died of the same com-
plaint. Worse still, several lion cubs, all
teetotal, have expired from it, and the
Zoo’s finest cheetah is under treatment.
Another fundamental principle of the
teetotal platform is that animals hate
intoxicating liquors. But elephants have
a perfect passion for beer. Most of the
goat mascots of Welsh regiments die
from chronic alcoholism. Even a white
rabbit adopted by the R.A.A.F. mops
up all the beer it can hold, and more,
whenever it gets the chance. It is all
very annoying, and something should be
done about it if we are ever going to get
prohibition in Australia.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: German pro-
paganda broadcasts in the vernacular
have provided an unproarious stand-
ing joke for the simple native of
the Dutch Indies. The Malay word for
boiled rice is nasi, that in colloquial
Java-Malay for any kind of frying of
food is goering, and that for thunder
(in particular, belly-rumbles) guroh, which
sounds a bit like Fiihrer as locally pro-
nounced. A popular native dish com-
posed of boiled rice fried with chillies
and other ingredients is universally
known as nasi goering. Thus it comes
that when appeals blare out from the
innumerable wireless sets in every vil-
lage and town for the noble Malayan
race to aid the Nazi leaders to free
it from its brutal oppressors, loud shrieks
of merriment arise as some humorist
remarks “Nasi goering ada pitchara” —
“Fried rice is talking!”
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: I see by the papers
that the “Master Metaphysicians of
America,” apparently very wealthy,
have adopted a baby which they pro-
pose to use for a grand experiment
to demonstrate their principle that mind
is superior to matter. By dint of think-
ing immortality for the infant they hope
to bring about the conditions which will
make it live for ever. Part of the con-
ditions is the ornate ex-home on Long
Island of one of the millionaire Vander-
bilt women. According to the meta-
physical theory it is wrong thinking that
shortens the lives of human beings, so
the baby is to be protected from all
destructive thoughts. There is one point
on which the metaphysicians don’t seem
to have made a pronouncement, and
they may be putting their protege into
the predicament of Tithonus. Venus so
loved the beautiful youth that she con-
ferred immortality upon him. But she
forgot to include perpetual youth in her
gift, and poor Tithonus grew older and
older. When he thought of his toothless
gums, his bald head his aged aspect and
his vanished beauty he suffered unutter-
able anguish and longed to share the
fate of ordinary mortals.
THE TWO EVILS.
“The centre group of the N.S.W. Labor party con-
siders that it is hopeless to think of winning
elections while either Mr. Lang or the Communists
are associated with the movement.”—“S. M. Herald.’'
Faced with two evils, to select the lesser
Is clearly every prudent person’s biz.,
But in this case the cleverest assessor
Might hesitate to say which really is
The lesser evil of the two —the gang
With Red proclivities or Mr. Lang.
Auburn or Moscow? Very little wonder
It sure perturbs these estimable souls.
The thought of being asked to stagger under
The crushing weight of either at the polls,
Where candidates success or failure reap
According to the company they keep.
Of evils twain, assumes the aphorism,
One or the other must the more repel,
But when it comes to Lang and Communism
It’s obviously difficult to tell.
The figure “fifty-fifty,” I suggest,
Would summarise the situation best.
This being so, ’most any true well-wisher
To Labor in its bids for power and place
Might well recall the words of “Jacky” Fisher
As applicable to the present case,
When that bluff sailor growled in accents hot
His memorable dictum “Sack the lot!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


.<*s3
o
10 for 9d. 20 for I^6.
E 1865
It's their extra touch of quality -
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENX
e
PREVENT SORE THR
POLITICAL POINTS
Canberra is recalling with grins the
circumstances in which Labor Unity was
accomplished three years ago, after Dis-
unity had reigned for ten years. On
the steps of Parliament House Curtin and
Beasley met and exchanged greetings.
“Well, how are things, Jack?” said Curtin
to Beasley. “All right, Jack,” said Beas-
ley to Curtin ; “how are they with you?”
Six years previously Beasley had moved
the vote that put the Scullin Govern-
ment out of office and cost Curtin his
seat; and when they were heard “Jack”-
ing everyone knew that Unity had ar-
rived at last. On Thursday, when Beasley
introduced himself as the leader of a
separate party, Curtin barked “It’s the
second time you have made that state-
ment in this House.” The rest was
sound and fury, with Lazzarini’s voice
high above all others.
One of the comic features of the latest
Labor rumpus is that it has wrecked the
four-A-Senator front, N.S.W.’s amazing
contribution to political history at the
last elections. And the alphabetical order
has been disrupted, though there are the
makings of two new tickets. Senators
Amour and Armstrong are with Beasley,
Senators Anderson and Arthur with
Curtin.
Hutchinson, the U.A.P. member for
Deakin (Vic.), visited Russia with a party
which included Makin, the Labor mem-
ber for Hindmarsh (S.A.), and returned
with lasting impressions of “churches
used as centres for the anti-Christ move-
ment,” of people living in “frightful
poverty” under “awful oppression,” and
of rulers having the time of their lives.
Stalin lives in the Kremlin and also in-
habits palaces that once belonged to the
Czar. He has his own fleet of Packards.
The palaces of the nobles along the banks
of the Volga are the homes of high Soviet
officials, and select pools are guarded so
that the unwashed herd dare not draw near.
And all the time we were in Russia we
didn’t see a decent pair of boots; in fact,
we hardly saw a pair of boots at all.
Makin was in the House when Hutchin-
son let himself go. He said “Hear,
hear!”
“Our greatest deficiency in Australia
is oil,” said Cameron the other day, “and
I would feel much happier if one man
discovered oil than if a dozen men found
other Kalgoorlies.” According to Senator
Arthur (N.S.W.), that will be easy. In
ipite of the machinations of the Com-
monwealth Oil Advisory Committee and
the Commonwealth, N.S.W., Victorian,
S.A. and Tas. Governments, “a company
of which I am a director is drilling seven
wells under Mr. Steinbuchel’s direction,”
and “should this company fail to dis-
cover oil I shall resign my seat.” The
Steinbuchel method, described by Foil:
He straps his instrument around his
waist. It has on the top of it a spring
which is supposed to waggle when oil is
approached. Apparently the only time it
waggles is when Steinbuchel approaches
towns where his agents are ready to sell
shares.
Remarks of some of Arthur’s Labor
(No. 1) colleagues suggest that they
would be glad to lose him if they could
be sure of saving the seat —barring acci-
dents, he has over four years to go.
Old legal hands in Sydney are grin-
ning at the discomfiture of some of their
younger brethren. When Evatt got in
for Hurstville as a Heffron Labor man,
about half the members of the junior Bar
developed political ambitions, and a
number began nursing selected electo-
rates. Their dreams of soft snaps have
been rudely interrupted by the formation
of “the Australian Labor party (non-
Communist),” and Phillip-street is now
full of embryo politicians with gloomy
looks and careworn brows.
Concannon, who leads one of the
Labor “parties” in Sydney’s Second
Chamber, suggested the other day that
industrial arbitration jobs should be con-
fined to lawyers, and was heavily rebuked
by “S. M. Herald.” Yet the Westra-
lian Arbitration Court has carried on
for about 40 years with a Judge, a repre-
sentative of the employers and one of
the unions, and its record is pretty good.
So is that of the Queensland Industrial
Court, which is constituted in much the
same way.
Thorby, who talked so boldly about
Ministerial responsibility when out of
office —witness the lofty stand he took in
the affair of the Sydney G.P.O. extension
—has become quite tame since he became
P.M.G. In deference to A.B.C. and its
lordly staff, he has refused to disclose
what has been lost in four months on
the commission’s “Weakly,” bleating that
“it is not considered desirable to disclose
“If you don’t mind, old cock, we'd like to come in.”
the business details of this undertaking.”
Yet listeners who have to pay £1 Is. a
year for a service worth fully 12s. 6d.,
the difference being tax, are entitled
to know how their money is spent. They
didn’t ask for the journalistic flop, nor
did they bargain for being robbed of lots
of time so that it might be advertised.
Harrison, of Wentworth, and Thorbv,
his successor as P.M.G., are birds of a
feather. Harrison was Minister —and
humility itself in his relations with the
heads —when a cheeky Communist was
allowed to glorify the Soviet and throw
mud at British and Australian war policy
by A.B.C. Paying out forcible-feeble
chin-music at a meeting last week, and
referring to this insult to listeners “at
which you must all have been offended,”
Harrison said “it would have been en-
tirely impossible unless the grossest mis-
representations had been made regarding
it.” The fact remains that Harrison knew
the Communist was going to speak, and
what his subject would be, and didn’t
stop him, nor did the putty Minister
punish the person or persons responsible
for the Communist engagement.
Sydney’s Left Book Club, of which
Clarrie Martin, M.L.A., was until re-
cently the bright particular star, had a
“Defence of Democracy rally” the other
night, and some of the “Hands Off
Russia” lions did some subdued roaring.
In the chair, instead of Clarrie, was “Mr.
Edgar Ross, the associate editor of ‘Com-
mon Cause.’ ” Clarrie had other troubles
on his hands; the “Hands Off Russia”
resolution has divided his electorate,
Waverley, and a Lang organisation claims
greater support than Clarrie’s. A “Lang
Is Right” Assemblyman once, Clarrie is
now positive that Lang is wrong."
There was once a Commonwealth
Public Service Arbitrator who was never
known to refuse an application for higher
pay. Possibly because the tradition still
lingers, 33 applications for higher pay by
public service organisations and others
with Government employees among their
members have yet to be dealt with. Three
date from 1937, 14 from 1938 and the
most recent were lodged last September.
It seems rather a poor advertisement for
this sort of arbitration.
London “Daily Telegraph,” to which
the ex-Kaiser once opened his heart, has
scored an interview with Joseph P. Ken-
nedy, the American Ambassador. Joseph
P. talked frankly, though bewilderirigly,
about “the feeling among his compatriots”
(“very strong against Russia,” and
“they can’t be more anti-German than
they are,” but “they don’t want to get
into a war”), and referred to the bad
effect produced by the lie about mails
being removed from a Clipper at the
Bermuda airport at the point of the
bayonet. A worse effect has been pro-
duced by the revelation of the Minister
for Economic Warfare that American
copper, rubber, tin and “other materials”
have been imported into Vladivostok “in
quantities which make it certain that a
good part is going to Germany,” and
that Germany is suspected of getting
contraband by American ’planes in touch
with Spain and Portugal. What hap-
pened to that moral embargo?
Dwyer-Gray, who is Treasurer of Tas-
mania again, has another grievance
against what he calls “the present almost
universal system of debt-finance.”
Tasmanian loans of £4,156,500 at
p.c. and £448,300 at 3 p.c. fell due in
London in January, and, no pro-
vision having been made for repayment,
the State had to float a short-term loan
at £3 15s. sd. p.c. and get it underwritten.
In interest, exchange, National Debt Com-
mission and underwriting charges, the
transaction will cost the islet another
£40,000 p.a. for four years. “Outrage-
ous,” the old gentleman declared, and
he went on with his familiar blither
“about the rational use of national credit.
What is outrageous is that Tasmanian
politicians should have borrowed so
lavishly in London “between 30 and 50
years ago” without making the slightest
attempt at redemption.
Dedman, the new member for Corio,
is a “national-credit” crank like Dwyer-
Gray. If these worthies were given their
heads the purchasing power of the Aus-
tralian pound would sink to about
eighteenpence.
Scarcely any news comes from South
Africa nowadays, but Eire has made two
recent appearances in the cables after
months of unbroken silence. One mes-
sage was to the effect that an I.R.A.
prisoner had died in Dublin after a 52-
day hunger strike; the second that Eire
farmers were willing to multiply their
exports of pig meats, butter and eggs to
the Saxon if he provided “facilities.” There
is tragic irony in the death by hunger-
strike. When a case occurred during
“the thrubbles” of 1920-21 Lloyd George
was called a murderer on three conti-
nents. De Valera has found, as did his
old enemy, that, when politi-
cal prisoners are bent on
making martyrs of themselves
by refusing food, the Govern-
ment can’t always go on saving
them from themselves.
Now it is Victoria that
has another Labor party. It
has been formed in Colling-
wood and Fitzroy by the group
that ran Councillor Baker for
the Collingwood Assembly seat
against ex-Speaker Tunne-
cliffe, and it claims a thousand
members already. Title, “The
Australian Democratic Labor
party”; objects, “to extend
activities throughout the State
and to nominate candidates
against all parties.” If the
Demos, can get control of the
Collingwood and Fitzroy foot-
ball clubs, their political for-
tune is made.
Sydney Water Board is
again talking of restricting
water and has appealed to
citizens not to waste the stuff.
The president of the Domain
Dossers’ Association has an-
nounced that members have
decided to go without cold
showers for the duration of
the war, or drought, or whatever it is
that has caused the shortage.
From the Rev. D. A. Garnsey:
Apparently “El V.” (B. 1/5 / ’4O) would like
to visit my sins (or would he say indiscre-
tions?) upon my father. I am a plain Rev.;
it is my father, of Sydney, who bears the title
Canon. Needless to say, my father should not
be held responsible for my opinions.
But why should “El V.” go on to make the
further mistake of referring to Sir Henry
Gullett as “Mr.”? Such slight inaccuracies
lead one to look rather more than suspiciously
at his strange assertion that the Comintern
is now working from Vienna as a base in-
stead of Moscow.
My letter was written not in order to sup-
port the Communists nor to express any opinion
about the truth or error of their doctrine,
but rather to defend democracy against the ill-
judged acts of its leaders, who in attacking
civil liberties are doing their best to provoke
the violent reaction which “El V.” so much
dislikes.
Mr. Garnsey writes from Goulburn
(N.S.W.), a town greatly esteemed by the
Society for the Promotion of Cultural
Relations with Soviet Russia. The refer-
ence to the Minister as Mr. Gullett was
deliberate, being in line with an old
Bulletin custom. As for the “strange
assertion” that “the Comintern is now-
working from Vienna,” it was made by
the Imperial Policy Group, whose monthly
reports could be read with profit at
Goulburn, even if “the scientific study
of Communism” should suffer.


THE GOLD RUSH.
“Hitler is ‘wanted’ by a group of Americans who have offered a reward of 1,000,000 dollars for his capture.”


The Richardson Chain Hotel
è
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
OPPOSING INFLUENCES OF INTEREST RATES
AND TAXATION ON SHARE PRICES.
CHANGES AND DEVELOPMENTS IN THE
FINANCIAL OUTLOOK.
May Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.. Ltd.. 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House'
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Dr. Cecil Madigan, who goes to Liver-
pool (N.S.W.) in charge of the field wing
of the Army School of Engineering, is
a very notable Australian. An old-time
Rhodes scholar of S.A., he holds the
record for delay between winning the
honor and getting to Oxford. First, he
obtained leave to go to the Antarctic
with Mawson; then came the war, in
which he acquired two wounds and the
rank of captain. Eventually he got back
to Adelaide, where he has been second
to Mawson, the Professor of Geology.
And he knows more than most men
about Centralia, having led several ex-
peditions to Lake Eyre, the Simpson
Desert and thereabouts. His degrees,
D.Sc. and M.A., come from Oxford.
Clifford Henderson Hay, who has been
permanent head of the N.S.W. Premier’s
CLIFFORD HAY.
Department for 24 years, except for a
year or so in the London office, was
born at Adelaide and is 62. His dad was
a master mariner. He wears three
decorations on State occasions, C.M.G.
at the head, and favors gardening and
fishing as relief from the cares of State.
A strange record is that of the Meates
family, of Melbourne. Since 1878, when
the late Thomas Meates joined the Met-
ropolitan Gas Company, it has supplied
nine Meateses to the business, whose
years of service total 235. A great-
grandson of Thomas is the first Meates
to break the tradition. He has gone on
active service.
Malcolm Mcßae, recently appointed
secretary of Adelaide’s Fighting Forces
Fund, gave his first lusty hoot at Good-
wood (S.A.) 45 years ago. He fought
with the A.I.F. to the end of the 1914-18
strafe, and as secretary of the 43rd Bat-
talion Club has been a doughty battler
for the down-and-out Digger. Joined
Adelaide Public Library as a clerk in
1910, and was assistant secretary to the
old board when that triune anomaly
was split up into its component parts.
The various cities, capital and provin-
cial, of Victoria having celebrated their
centuries, it is now the turn of the human
beings that helped to build them. Edward
Stephens, farmer, of Stawell, leads the
procession. He first saw Australian sun-
light 100 years ago last week in a cot-
tage opposite the site now occupied by
the Elizabeth-street post office in Mel-
bourne. His father came to Australia
under contract to John Pascoe Fawkner
as a carter. Edward was an infant prodigy
in those days, when there was no universal
and compulsory education. His mother
taught him to read from the “Argus,”
and he made a juvenile living writing
letters for gold-diggers who paid him in
nuggets.
Whatever the experience of the rest
of the troops, there was one man in the
Namsos affair in Norway who had seen
some fighting—the one-armed Major-
General Carton de Wiart. Son of a Belgian
diplomatic family, married to a member
of the ancient Central European financial
house of Fugger, he was educated at
Balliol, Oxford, as a queer preparation
for entry into the 4th Dragoon Guards.
He was twice wounded in S’Africa,
severely wounded in Somaliland (he
won the D.S.O. there), eight times
wounded on the Western Front, and
came out with the V.C., C.M.G., C.B.
and a potful of foreign decorations. His
recent years have been spent in Poland.
Laid down the baton in Melbourne
for the last time at 43, Maurice Gut-
tridge, the back of whose head had been
familiar to Melbourne theatregoers for
a quarter of a century. He came from
Sir Thomas Beecham’s orchestra in
London to conduct the musical comedy
“Irene” for J.C.W. Then he accompanied
Ernest Rolls in his meteoric career as a
theatrical entrepreneur. For a while he
was musical director at Sydney Regent,
but when he fell sick the other day he
was engaged on musical scores for the
Russian ballet.
Passed away at Manly. (Sydney) last
week F. C. (Freddie) Williams, a pioneer
of surf bathing in the Village’s early
days. Fred was claimed
by his pals to be the
first white man to
body-shoot a wave, an
art taught to him by
an Islander servant. He
was famed in Sydney
for his announcing at
swimming carnivals.
His crisp, penetrating
voice would easily fill
the huge Domain
Baths. He left the
bustle of city life 10
years ago, and settled
down in a small but
cosy hut at the foot of
the cliffs at Dobroyd,
right opposite the
Heads. Sixty-four at
the end.
R. Selkirk Panton
fitted himself for a
foreign correspondent’s
berth by extensive
travel in Europe and a
lengthy sojourn in Ber-
lin. His first job in that
line was as assistant
special correspondent in
Berlin for London
“Daily Express.” After
three years he was
transferred to Vienna,
with all the Balkans in-
cluded in his “round.”
He returned to Berlin,
in full charge, in 1935, and has
witnessed all the important events con-
nected with Hitler’s career since that date.
He and his Russian wife, it appears, have
not been interned, and are still at liberty
in Denmark, but are unable to leave.
His first child was born during the tur-
moil of the German invasion.
War added to the tragedy in a Caul-
field (Vic.) family when Pilot-Officer
Mervyn Thomas, of the R.A.F., was re-
ported missing after aerial operations in
Europe. Five days later his younger
brother was killed in a motor-cycle crash
in Melbourne. Five months ago accident
killed their father.
Victoria’s new Speaker, William Slater,
is a popular figure in local Parliamentary
circles and is easy to get on with. Like
the immortal Billy, he started at the
bottom (he was a newsboy) and made
himself into a lawyer after he became a
representative of the people. He was
Attorney-General under Prendergast and
Hogan.
Died at Hobart last week, John J.
Oakley, aged 98. A noted racing man
(he said he had never missed a Hobart
Cup), breeder of Lincolns and judge of
long-wool sheep, he was known in every
nook of the Speck. Of an old-fashioned
family of 14, three sons and two
daughters survive him.
Kindly, hard-working S. Elliott Napier,
a figure in Sydney literary circles for
over 40 years, passed out at Gordon
(N.S.W.) last Friday. Born 70 years ago
in Hunter-street, Sydney, Napier was
the son of a shipbuilder and engineer.
Educated at Newington College, Sydney,
he became a bank clerk, then a lawyer,
then a soldier—he enlisted at 47 in a
Queensland battalion. In 1925 he joined
the “S. M. Herald” staff as a leader-
writer ; he was a sub-editor on the
“Sydney Mail” when he resigned two
years ago. He wrote numerous travel
books and much good verse. A
fair amount of his earlier work appeared
in The Bulletin, and he was a reviewer
of detective fiction for this paper’s Red
Page not long before he died.
Charles Lloyd Jones, subject of this
Frith model, is as well known in Sydney
as the town clock. His father founded
the business which now has three depart-
ment stores, and C.J., who wanted to be
an artist and studied under Julian Ashton
to that end, now finds most of his time
occupied by the cares of management.
But he still paints and draws (some of
CHARLES LLOYD JONES.
(Modelled by Frith.)
his black-and-white stuff has appeared in
The Bulletin) and he shows very sound
oils at society exhibitions. With Sydney
Ure Smith he founded “Art in Aus-
tralia.” Plays tennis and runs a yacht.
Canada has wide empty (if colder)
spaces like Australia, so it is fitting that
it should have occurred to the University
of Toronto to confer on the Rev. John
Flynn, of Melbourne, an honorary
doctorate for his work in founding the
flying doctor service and the unique
pedal wireless system of communication
for the Outback. “Flynn of the Inland
has been superintendent of the Australian
Inland Mission of the Presbyterian
Church since 1912 and is now the
church’s Moderator. He is 60 and as
active as ever.
Frank Wilkins Arnold, newly-appointed
Deputy-Director of Posts and Telegraphs
in S.A., is a Westralian, 58, who entered
the postal service in W.A. as a telegraph
message boy 44 years ago. He reached
F. W. ARNOLD.
inspector’s rank in 1918, has seen service
in Queensland, Victoria and N. S. Wales
as well as in his native State, and is a
redoubtable bowler.
S.A. ’Varsity medical faculty dean, Col.
Constantine Trent Champion de Cres-
pigny, who served in the 1914-18 war in
Gallipoli, Egypt, France and Belgium
with the A.A.M.C., has offered his ser-
vices again, but has been turned down
on the score of age—he’s 58. The colonel
was a hospital commander, was men-
tioned twice in dispatches, and won the
D.S.O. His son, Dr. Geoffrey de Cres-
pigny, is on active service.
“Dick Tafone”: An amiable foible in
the fine character of J. M. Hunter (B.
24/4/’4O) was his love of appearing at
vice-regal levees in full Court dress —
cocked hat, knee-breeches, silk stockings,
silver shoe-buckles, etc. His dignified
bearing and appearance always attracted
attention from overseas visitors, fre-
quently succeeded by astonishment on
hearing that he had been a Queensland
Labor Minister. Reproached by a former
colleague of Leftist tendency for wearing
the garb of the capitalistic master class,
he explained with a twinkle that he had
picked it up in Petticoat-lane, and it saved
wear and tear on ordinary clothing.
N. M. Morley, who passed out at
Mont Albert (Vic.) the other day, had
a family association with the abo. His
father, a parson, was sec. of the Soc. for
the Protection of Native Races in N. S.
Wales for a quarter of a century. His
son took up the cudgels for Binghi in
Perth by forming the Australian Abo-
riginals’ Ameliorative Assn. Subsequently
he became president of the Vic. Aborigi-
nals’ Uplift Soc.
Dr. Pat Ardagh, appointed O.C. Surgi-
cal Division of M.L.’s General Military
Hospital, takes the temporary rank of
lieut.-col. He is a native of North Otago,
and graduated at Otago Uni. During the
Great War he was handed a D.S.O. for
gallantry at Crevecceur, where he
worked under shellfire. He married a
Sydney girl, Miss Lowick, who, while
her husband was engaged in medical
work at the front, served with the nurs-
ing division overseas.


Warning to Business Men!
To Directors of Companies, General Managers,
Managers, Secretaries, Accountants and Proprietors
War Contingencies Make Loss of Profits Insurance
of Front Rank Importance To-day
Costs of the mere physical effects of a fire have receded into comparative
insignificance against the array of costly new barriers that now stand in the
way of refitting a business to function properly aftef a fire. Before the WAR
the business man had at his call a wide choice of contractors, suppliers and
helpers to repair his damage, provide fresh raw materials, replace his plant,
and so on. He could devise any number of expedients to hasten recovery.
All this is not possible to-day. The business man is limited, not by what he
is capable of doing, but by what he is ALLOWED to do.
To any business consequential loss through
fire can be damaging beyond all propor-
tion to the mere physical cost of the fire.
Under conditions of peace the hazards
of consequential losses were fairly well
understood by prudent business men. But
the present conditions of war have forcibly
introduced into industry so many new
and unfamiliar factors that the question
of consequential losses has asstimed a far
wider and more vital significance than
ever before. It has become a matter now
that demands the urgent attention of the
management in every business.
COVER GOES FAR BEYOND
ORDINARY FIRE INSURANCE
Loss of Profits insurance begins where
ordinary Fire insurance ends. The fire
policy, for example, pays for material
damage only, whereas loss of profits insur-
ance reimburses for—
1. —Loss of profit as a result of reduced
turnover following a fire.
2. —Standing charges such as wages to
skilled employees, rent, rates, taxes,
etc.
3. The increased costs of working in-
volved in obtaining further supplies
of materials, alternative premises and
the many additional expenses neces-
sarily incurred to enable a firm to
carry out its existing contracts in
face of handicaps caused by fire.
NEW CONDITIONS HAVE A
TREMENDOUS IMPORTANCE
To-day, under war conditions, fire will
inevitably have much more far-reaching
consequences than before. The position
of industry has been changed from a
largely “free” to a closely ‘ controlled
economy. The effect of government
controls is a new and tremendous factor
in connection with effects upon profit.
For example, whereas in the event of a
fire a firm could, in peace time, farm out
some of its production to another, where
now could it find anyone who would be
sufficiently free to undertake the work?
Also, suppose a fire had destroyed a stock
that had been carefully and laboriously
accumulated according to war restrictions.
How could it possibly be hoped that such
supplies could be quickly replaced? What
losses of all kinds would be occurring in
the business while frantic executives were
trying to operate the bureaucratic
machine?
Under present conditions it may take
three or even six times as long as
formerly to repair fire damage. This is
but one of many new wartime considera-
tions for responsible executives.
This may mean that now, instead of a
month, three months, or six months being
sufficient in which to restore the business,
to-day a year or even a year and a half
may not be enough. What, then, about
the period of indemnity?
(Period of Indemnity is the period following the fire which
marks the limit of time during which the policy operates
and compensates the insured for loss of Profits and Standing
Charges and the increase in cost of working which has
been necessary to maintain whatever part of the turnover
has been possible during the period of interruption.)
Business men who effect new policies
covering consequential losses will, of
course, be advised to have this period
adequately provided for, but, and this a
highly important point, holders of policies
issued before the war will find that this
factor is covered only for pre-war con-
ditions. Those holders, therefore, should
lose no time in getting expert advice in
view of the much extended period of
indemnity needed to-day.
It is safe to estimate that to get everything
straightened up and business resumed
after a fire the time required is likely
to be at least three times the pre-war
interval.
COVERING THE POSSIBLE
INTERRUPTION
OF MATERIAL SUPPLIES
Industries which rely in any degree upon
semi-manufactured goods as their raw
material or on power supplied by outside
sources should seriously consider the ex-
tension of their insurance to cover the
reflex action that would of necessity arise
to their own internal economy should any
interruption following fire occur in the
premises of such suppliers.
For example, many business men do not
realise that a loss of profits policy can
cover them against fire at the premises
of a supplier of semi-manufactured goods
or at an outside power station, either of
which contingencies could very seriously
disturb their production.
In the past many firms may have had what
they consider good reasons for not pro-
tecting their activities with this sort of
comprehensive cover. To-day, however,
conditions are so entirely different that
reasons for avoiding these precautions
would surely be impossible to discover.
INCOME TAX EXEMPTION
Premiums paid for loss of profits insurance
are allowable deductions for income tax
purposes.
The Manufacturers’ Mutual Can Help You in Your Loss of Profits Insurance
Business houses which find they have no loss of profits insurance would be well advised to consider
their position in the event of a fire, as shareholders would certainly have a legitimate grievance if they
found their business was not protected by one of these policies.
To give Executives and Boards of Directors every assistance in checking up their position in regard to
this important sphere of insurance and to help them to obtain the fullest cover under latejst war
conditions, the Manufacturers’ Mutual consultant will call on your ringing 8W2071 or writing.
Manufacturers’ Mutual Insurance Limited
Manufacturers’ House, 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Sir CLIFTON LOVE, Kt., Chairman of Directors. L. R. WELDON, Gen. Manager.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Peedamulla”: Old Jacky-Jacky had
seen W.A.’s north-west progress from
the bullock-dray, the horse, the camel,
the donkey-team to the motor-car and
-truck. Finally, his boss, having him
down Geraldton way, thought to give
him a novel treat by taking him home
per ’plane, a hop of well over 500 miles.
Stolidly Jacky climbed into the belly of
the big bird. Stolidly he sat throughout
the journey, hardly deigning to glance
out of the window. Before dusk the
same day he was home at the old station
house. “Well,” beamed the missus, “and
how did you like riding in the aeroplane,
Jacky?” The returned traveller spat
disgustedly., “No good that pfeller. Get-
tum in, sit down. Then burry, burry,
burry! No time, and the boss say, ‘Get-
tum down, Jacky, we’re there.’ No ride
at all that one. Next time you tellum
boss send me home in bullock-dray.”
H= H= H=
“Kriz”: Maybe there is no recorded
case of an octopus slaying a human
being (B. 24/4/’4O), but one of my pearl-
divers was nearly shocked to death by
one. It happened off the Ninety Mile
beach. Habada, the No. 2 diver, seemed
to be on the bottom a long time, so the
tender tugged at the lifeline ; getting no
response, we hauled him up and stripped
his headgear off. His face was as white
as a brown skin can be, and he seemed
all in. Just as we y/ere pulling his corse-
let off he tried to sit up, but fainted. I
rushed to the cabin for the medicine-
chest, and got back in time to see
Nishioka, the No. 1 diver, pull out
Habada’s two front teeth. The shock
and loss of blood apparently brought
him to. He sat up and took the double
nip of brandy I gave him, and in be-
tween great heaves of his chest explained
that an octopus had fastened on to the
hosepipe, and pulled it into one of the
deep holes, and as the strain came on to
the hosepipe it cut off his supply of air.
He suffered no ill-effects, however, and
didn’t seem to mind the loss of two per-
fectly good molars.
* * * *
“Flight”: A myth about the plain
turkey, on a par with the one about a
man on a galloping horse being able to
catch it as it rises, is the bird’s sup-
posed inability to begin flying without
a preliminary run. As a youngster I
often worked a turk. into a corner of a
rabbit-netting fence with all the care of
a kelpie yarding a blowfly into a pickle-
bottle. When I’ve had him jammed right
in with not a spare inch of elbow-room,
I’ve whipped in the heels and charged
straight at him. Have I ever caught one
in that manner? Nary a bird. Those
roosters can rise straight up. Admittedly
it’s a big effort to them, and they appear
to strain as they lift; but I’ll back the
turk. to save his tail feathers from even
an Olympic Games sprinter.
* * * *
“No. 1 Bench”: When considering
timbers for acclimatisation, Forestry
Departments might give an eye to the
Californian redwood. Our eucalypts do
remarkably well in California ; that coun-
try’s timbers might do well in Australia.
And there could be no greater boon to
the Australian builder than a good red-
wood forest. No softwood, or hardwood
either, withstands both the termite and
the toredo as does the soft, easily-worked
sequoia. Have seen the trail where ter-
mites crossed a plank of redwood to get
at oregon-pine wall studs. The Oregon
was reduced to paper-thinness and dust,
the redwood merely showed a smear
where the earthen runway had crossed.
For five years I used a boat, jarrah keel
and redwood planking. Hauled up the
slip to investigate leaks, the jarrah was
found to be riddled .yvith toredo, while
the redwood remained untouched.
* * * *
“Bogan Boy”: Having spent over 20
years on the Western Plateau and in the
Centre, I am puzzled by “Edjudina’s”
reference to the “breakaway” (B.
3/4/’4O). I have heard the expression
countless times, but it has always been
in reference to a gully washed out with
rains. The term applied by outbackers
to a break in the terrain is “jump-up.”
Never have I heard them referred to
otherwise, from Scott’s Crossing (W.A.)
to Oodnadatta (S.A.) or in any
part of Queensland. Incidentally, at
the foot of one of them west of the
Victoria River, near Wave Hill (N.T.),
“ We'd better go out an' grab a few more. This job's urgent."
is a group of red sandstone pillars which
is almost a replica of England’s Stone-
henge.
sf*
“Old-timer”: Old hands of the Ninety
Mile Bend still recall “Dash-me-rags”
Smith when yarns of endurance are being
told. Cutting stakes for a drum-net,
“Dash-me” gashed his foot with the axe.
Tying it up with bits of shirt, he rowed
two miles to camp, the bottom of the
boat awash with blood. There he smeared
vaseline over the wound, tied it up again
with calico and string, put his old bike
in the boat and rowed across the river.
Thence he set out to push the bike to
Kulkyne, nine miles away, over rough
ground littered with sticks and logs. After
three miles “Dash-me” came to Cross
Creek. A fresh in the river had backed
it up until it ran sft. deep and about
12ft. wide. Desperate, sick with pain
and delayed shock, “Dash-me” tried to
throw the bike across. It fell short and
sank. He hurled himself after the bike,
with the same result. Shock of immer-
sion proved an antidote to failing powers
and he struggled out, got a stick and
fished out the bike. There was sand now
and the going was heavy. After a few miles
he abandoned the bike and went ahead
on foot, falling over the homestead gate
just on sunset. As they gathered round
“Dash-me” murmured, “Where’s that
flamin’ horse-doctor? If he can fix prads
he can fix me!” He then went out to it,
and the “horse-doctor” seized the chance
to sew up the wound, pack it with band-
ages and put “Dash-me” to bunk. A
fortnight later “Dash-me” was running
his nets and preparing to celebrate his
seventy-second birthday.
* * * *
“Atrax”: The destructive effect of
jarrah on nails and other iron fastenings
mentioned by “No. 1 Bench” (B.
17/4/’4O) arises from the same acid in-
gredient which gives the timber its
peculiar immunity against borer worms,
white-ants and all other timber-destroy-
ing agents—except man. Neutralisation
of it by chemical combination with the
iron robs the fibres around the nail of
their durability-factor, and they rot away.
The tallow-wood of N.S.W. and S.Q.
(Eucalyptus microcorys), also very dur-
able, has a similar, though less severe,
effect on iron fastenings, and rusts gal-
vanised-iron roofing if used as battens.
It is also treacherous stuff for scaffolding
and such purposes when not thoroughly
seasoned, as its oily quality enables nails
to draw easily.
* * -it *
“N. Sylvester”: Nature is wonaerfully
prodigal with beauty—beauty which she
designs for no human eye. Sinking
through the basalt which covered most
of Victoria’s quartz reefs, one came on
multitudes of small chambers, usually
about the size of an eggeup, but never
larger than a closed fist. Inside each
one would be dazzling crystals, of bril-
liancy to dim the diamond. Clear as the
finest glass, exquisitely spiked, these cry-
stals were created merely to lie buried,
as millions of them still in untouched
rock will lie buried for ever. Back in
the early days of the Great Boulder
fW.A.), mining operations opened up a
cone-shaped vugg. Heaped in this as
though lying in a cupboard was 700
ounces of the purest gold-. Handfuls as
fine and as yellow as mustard. Scores
of small nuggets, all as bright as a newly-
minted sovereign. Casually Nature had
flung that splash of metallic beauty—to
wait how many million years before it
met the eyes of men? And how many
such splashes still lie hidden? Cleaning
cod taken from six and seven fathoms
I found their paunches full of tiny spiral
shells. Exquisite blues and reds which
no above-sea colors could match. An
absolute squandering of beauty, hidden
deep in the sea. But perhaps Nature
herself, consciously a lover of beauty,
prefers to create beauty in preference to
ugliness. For, after all, we her children
must derive our awareness of beauty
from her.
* * * *
“Caballer”: “Genuine pigskin,” said
the shopman, patting the deep armchair.
“A bit more expensive of course, but
after all, you know, there’s nothing like
real pigskin.” His expression was that
of one who offers a platinum crowbar
or a fertiliser composed of radium. And
well he might. In many countries I have
observed various methods of keeping
pigs alive, arranging for their sudden
demise and the rites and ceremonies that
follow. I admit I have mixed only with
common or garden farmers ; simple soms
whose only method was to immerse the
pig in hot water and scrape the hair oft.
They must still be doing it, for the pork
1 buy at the butcher’s still has skin on,
and my grocer continues to sell bacon
with a rind. And yet somewhere as
witness the salesman’s offer —-someone
must skin pigs. But to me it is still as
mythological as Lasseter’s Reef and the
Bunyip.
He * # *
“The 0.D.”: Obviously from the city
and badly scared, he rushed up to our
hut on the Murray one still night. It
appeared he had pulled in his motor-
caravan to spend the night where the
road ran beside the river about two miles
away. His wife had wandered off just
after dusk. He had been making things
shipshape for the night when he heard
his wife give two horrible shrieks. Grab-
bing a tyre-lever, he ran among the
gums, shouting, but got no reply. Then
came another shriek, undoubtedly the
woman’s last, as some prowler chopped
her to death. He searched and called
in vain. Then he had caught sight of
our light and come for help. We loaded
our rifles, though sceptical, and followed
him back to the deserted caravan. In-
side it, with the door barred, was his
badly-frightened spouse. She had, she
said, been walking by the river when a
terrifying shriek burst on her ears. Almost
fainting, she dived down by a log and
lay still. She had heard hubby’s yells
and had tried to answer, but terror had
robbed her of her voice. After a while
she had got back to the caravan and,
finding it deserted, felt sure something
or someone had made away with her
husband. In great fear she shut herself
in and settled down to wait for daylight.
While we were wondering what their
game was, a bloodcurdling scream ripped
through the dark and sent the woman
into shivers. We hooted with laughter,
then recovered, and explained that,
though no more terrifying sound could
be imagined, it was made by a night-owl.
Nevertheless they moved the outfit up
close to us for the night. And anybody
who heard a Murray screech-owl for
the first time would hardly blame them,
* * * *
“Bufo”: Autumn, 1940, seems to have
been a record season for snakes in
N.S.W.’s Northern Rivers districts. An
Italian vegetable-gardener near Lismore
killed a death-adder just in time to save
his small daughter, who was playing
near as he hoed a bean patch. Within
an hour he had killed 17 more, ranging
from Bin. to 34in. long. A boy at Tully-
morgan, near Grafton, picked up a hol-
low pumpkin and dropped it enthusi-
astically when he found a 3ft. black
snake coiled up inside. On the other
hand, the swampy country along the
Murray River, formerly a snake-collec-
tor’s paradise, is now scarcely worth visit-
ing. The wrigglers died off in great
numbers during the droughty summer,
Food-shortage weakened them, and in-
ternal parasites finished the job. Mel-
bourne Zoo prices have gone up to £2
a dozen for f.a.q. snakes, with increased
rates for outsizes and rare species.
SUNDEE NIGHT.
There are times when we dread the cornin’
year,
An’ times when our thoughts are sad;
We worry an’ fret an’ yield to fear
An’ mutter that things is bad.
But we dump our woes every Sundee night
When Harry an’ Pearl drop in,
An’ we get out the cards an’ the extra light,
An’ the rounds of crib begin.
Oh, it’s fifteen six an’ a pair goes eight an’ one
for his hat is nine;
The wind may howl an’ the dogs may bark
at the moon, but the deal is mine.
The pegs go in an’ the pegs come out, we’re
eight holes up at the bell:
There’s a black frost crackin’ the roof to-
night, but the backlog’s burnin’ well.
There is work to be done with the lambin’
ewes
In the dawn when the crows come out.
There is war an’ death in the wireless news
An’ troubles to come, no doubt;
But the fire is bright an’ it’s Sundee night,
An’ Harry an’ Pearl are here,
An’ we cut an’ deal in the double light,
An’ a jack is met with a cheer.
Oh, it’s fifteen six an’ a pair goes eight an’
one for his hat is nine;
An’ a ship goes down in the grey North Sea
in the dark, but the deal is mine.
The pegs go in an’ the pegs come out, there’s
three for the pair an’ go;
They say there’s a plague of mice down south,
but the kettle’s singin’ low.
There is Harry’s boy in the Palestine camp;
We’ve a kid in the Flyin’ Corps;
Do they think of the glow of the homestead
lamp,
Like a star in the smoke of war?
Well, hearts may be sad but it’s Sundee night,
An’ Harry an’ Pearl have scored.
They’ve a dozen in crib —a handy sight —
An’ their pegs march down the board.
So it’s fifteen six an’ a pair goes eight an’ one
for his hat is nine;
An’ the wife may dab at a furtive tear on her
cheek, but the deal is mine.
The pegs go in an’ the pegs come out, that’s
ten with a run of three;
The bugles ring on the wind tonight, an’ the
wife is makin’ tea.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“A bloomin' U-boat, an' I ain't renooed me insurance policy."
“Bigfoot Billy”: Mine tinkit that
pfeller Misser Orr more better come
’long Arnhem Land. Plenty good place
that Arnhem, all boy there ’im proper
Communisht. One boy gotum tom-
bakker, all boy shareum that tombakker
quick time. ’Spose that boy ’im say no
shareum, then plenty waddy ’long head
b’long that boy, an’ shareum that tom-
bakker all same. ’Spose that boy got
trouser, shareum that trouser, shareum
shirt, shareum all thing b’long that boy.
No pleeceman ’long Arnhem, no soldier
break up meetin’. ’Spose Misser Orr sing
“Red Frag” all time no boy say shut up. In-
come tax ’e no come there, contscription
’e no come, stop-work meetin’ all time.
Gin b’long ’im catchum pfish, catchum
goanna, catchum carpet snake. Misser
Orr no pay for that plenty good tucker,
sing “Red Frag” all day, sleep all night,
plenty good corroboree. You tell
Missel Orr come up quicktime, bring
Misser Hoare, too, bring plenty tom-
bakker, plenty pfish-hook, plenty grog,
then ’e savvy proper Communishm
quicktime. Boy ’e show ’im that pfeller
’long Arnhem.
* * * *
“Ulack”: The postmistress at Sinker’s
Bend was suspect. She garnished her
gossip with so much up-to-the-minute in-
formation that it was assumed she must
have been reading the letters. It wasn’t
till Bill went to Perth that suspicion be-
came certainty. Bill’s letter to Mary
finished:
I’ve got an idea that that old fowl, Miss
Anteater, has been opening our letters. I’m
shoving a flea in the envelope. See if you
can find it.
Mary found the flea right enough, but —
Bill hadn’t put one in.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: To land folk sharks
are the fiercest and most formidable in-
habitants of the world’s oceans. Yester-
day we sighted a family party of the real
article cruising lazily in the track used
by the humpback whales on their north-
ward migration. A triangular fin stand-
ing five feet out of the water with a light-
colored patch just aft of it revealed the
old bull; smaller fins, recurved at the tip,
his wives and youngsters. They were
killer whales —really a species of dolphin.
The 30ft. bull’s driving flippers were
bigger than those of a sperm whale twice
his length and several times his tonnage.
His bulldog jaws bristled with 6in. teeth
as thick as a man’s wrist. The females
were half his size, but any one of them
could overhaul and kill a shark bigger
than herself should she care to. The
killer’s favorite quarry is a whale, and
the pack will literally tear one to strips
before dragging out and eating the great
tongue. On the southward migration
they bite the 30ft. humpback calves into
chunks. When whales are scarce, por-
poises, seals and fish have to satisfy their
ravening appetites. A bull harpooned in
Arctic seas contained over 20 porpoises
and seals. They range the whole world’s
oceans, and I admit to a thrill along the
spine when one of those families of sea-
devils heaves in sight of the boat. There
is a recorded instance of a North Sea
herring-boat tom to pieces by them—
one survivor. Apparently they had mis-
taken it for a white beluga whale. But,
killers were friendly enough with the
Twofold Bay whalers in former days.
* * * *
“Mei”: Aboliars have been discours-
ing on the depth and viscosity of sundry
muds, but I doubt if even the black-soil
plains of nor’-west N.S.W. were worse
to get bogged in than parts of n.-e. Vic-
toria. In the early gold-rush days Kil-
more, a small township, was in the direct
line for traffic to some of the most popu-
lar fields. Heavy wagons and a wet winter
made the streets a lake of mud. One
had to get on horseback to cross the
street, and one rider cut his horse’s chest
badly on a bullock’s horn. The animal
had been previously bogged and drowned
in the liquid mud, and came to rest with
one horn on a stone, well out of sight.
$ * * *
“Podger’s Soak”: In all my readings
of The Bully and its collection of Abo-
liars, I have never struck any 'remark
on the really big spider found right
through the W.A. goldfields. With an
abdomen the size of the ball of a big
man’s thumb, thorax and nippers to
match, and a leg-spread that would cover
the said big man’s palm, this lady is the
real spider of thrill fiction. Her web
takes in a span of anything up to 20ft.
between supports, with cables the thick-
ness of No. 40 sewing cotton. Central
web is just as strong. To be riding or
walking at night and meet such a web
gives one a distinct pull-up. Terrifying as
the lady and her home appears, she is,
however, non-poisonous and afraid of
man; but her appetite for insects is
terrific. The ordinary fly she scarcely
bothers about; her web takes in huge
night-flying moths, the bigger praying
mantis, the 6in. phasma or walking-stick
insect. These give her a real meal. So
strong is the silk of her web that up in
the Kimberleys I met an ingenious Scots-
man fishing with a line spun from it.
Said he had learned the trick from the
natives of New Guinea, where, he
averred, the spiders were even bigger.
* * * *
“Mutt”: “One time,” remarked Old
Bill, “when I’m coolin’ off in the pub
at Wannayinna I ’eard the barkeep tellin’
about ’is cobber ’oo kept a ’otel near
a glassworks. Some of the ’blowers got
their grog at ’is boozer, an’ one day they
turned up with some pintpots they’d
made themselves an’ presents them to the
publican. ’E’s dead pleased, o’ course,
an’ tells them ’e’d keep them for their
special use. For about six months these
snoozers enjoy their beer out of pots of
their own blowin’; then one time when
they blew in the special pots is missin’,
an’ the barkeep can ’ardly speak civil to
’em. For some reason the ’blowers make
no mention of the missin’ pots, but
quickly down their liquor an’ clear off.
Y’ see, Bung ’ad drawn a pint be mis-
take, an’, instead of wastin’ the booze,
’ad tipped it into the nearest pot, which
’appened to be one of the gift ones. ’E
noticed then it didn’t fill it, so ’e investi-
gates. Yair, them gift pots looked like
an ordinary pintpot, but they’d been that
cunnin’ly blown they ’eld damn’ near a
pint an’ a ’alf.”
* * * *
“Mt. Mawson”: Ever since Old Tom
was hurt in an accident 20 years ago
he has been unable to walk without the
aid of sticks—that is, until the other
night, when he made a miraculous, if
brief, recovery. Bill, the bloke he boards
with, likes, but can’t carry, a drop of
beer, and when he arrived home late
with a cobber, both a bit on, Old Tom
was asleep. They had finished the second
bottle when the cobber asked Bill what
he’d do if the criminal who had escaped
from gaol a couple of days before were
to present himself at the door. “Do?”
said Bill, rising unsteadily and pulling
from his pocket an ancient revolver of
enormous bore. “Thish’s what I’d do.
Shee that poshtman there?” and he
shut one eye and wobbled the weapon
in the direction of an almanac depicting
a postman coming down a path. “I’d
shoot him jusht like the poshtman on
the wall.” Then came a terrific report
and the bullet tore through the window.
Two seconds later Old Tom in his shirt
tore out the door. When the smoke
cleared the cobber took charge of the
revolver and Old Tom was found in
the backyard clinging to the fence, help-
less without the sticks he had forgotten
to collect in his hurried departure.
* * * *
“Raorut”: “Talkin’ erbout whales,”
said Sid the Sailor, “remines uv the time
I’m No. 1 ’arpoonist uv the Sea Serpent.
We’re ’untin’ round Baffin Land an’ doin’
no good a tall till we sails inter Oochoo
Bay. Cripes, after we gits over the first
shock we gives a cheer an’ darnces the
’ornpipe, fer there’s thousins uv the big
fellers there, all blowin’ like mad. We
can’t make out wot’s goin’ on till we gits
close in. Thin we finds out it’s the
annual whale-blowin’ competition ar-
ranged b’ the chief uv the Eskimos. All
the Esks. fer ’undreds uv miles round is
there with their pet whales ter see ’oo
c’n blow the ’ighest. Yer never seen no-
think like it. It’s really wunnerful; all
them big brutes watchin’ their owners
fer the signal, thin divin’ down deep an’
cornin’ up ter spout like ’ell. The Esks.
is real pleased ter see us, an’ they gits
the skipper ter act as judge, which ’e does
like a sport. But we ain’t there fer the
the good uv our ’ealth, an’ after the
skipper erwards the first prize an’ pre-
sents the cup we ’arpoons the lot an’
sails erway.”
“Excuse me, sir, but that's the sixth time today someone up there's pinched the bricks out of Bob's box.”
AMENDE HONORABLE.
“Lobster flesh, so often looked upon suspiciously
and blamed for stomach disorders, is, properly
cooked, a perfectly healthful food which should have
no adverse internal effect.” —Visiting doctor.
O cray ! Whose flesh so succulent is shielded
By hide that Nature’s armor rendered strong,
Who by your tail or whiskers have been
wielded
By blottos full of grog and ribald song:
The decapodal flesh that you have yielded
So often to the Bacchanalian throng
Has (taken with innumerable beers)
Been looked on with suspicion down the years.
Upon the morrow morning’s grim awaking
With drouthy mouth and head a ball of fire,
And hands and backbone shuddering and
quaking
(Which makes him wish he’d curl up and
expire)
And —worst of all—his bingey wildly aching—
For this particular discomfort dire
The reveller would never hesitate
To blame the lobster he unwisely ate.
Heart up, calumniated, wronged crustacean!
Too long unbridled curses round you rang,
Here comes at last a handsome vindication:
Your luscious flesh of which Lucullus sang
Is, of itself, deserving admiration
For healthful properties and salty tang.
You’ve been a victim of—there’s not a doubt —
Too close a partnership with beer and stout.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


A Mes senger-
TO PAY YOUR ACCOUNTS !
A current account is an extremely trustworthy messenger
to run your financial errands—one that will go anywhere
—in the city or in the country. It takes the exact money
in each case, saves much walking and waiting, and
eliminates the risk attendant upon the carrying of large
sums of cash. The cheques afford the safety of a receipt
for each amount paid, while the butts, with their details
of expenditure, serve as a record of payment and are
a positive aid in budgeting. Ask for full particulars
from the nearest Office or Branch of the National Bank.
TH2 NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria)
73-T6-3.
A Safeguard Against Poor Administration of Your Estate
ARE in selecting the Executor who is to administer your Estate after you are gone is wisdom.
Many a family has suffered grievously because the dead father’s executor was lazy, or too old
when the responsibility fell on him, or because he was dishonest.
It is good defence against these risks to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited- It
may be appointed as sole Executor and Trustee, or jointly with a relative or friend.
The Company’s health never fails. It ha 9 continuous existence. It cannot abscond. Its
capital and assets are security for its integrity. Ask that a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee”
be posted to you. It will tell you of the risks to be avoided. Ask for it to-day.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman) ; Lieut.-CoL the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C. ; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; J. P. Abbott.
H. Y. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others,
Administrator, etc.
The financial security the company offers comprises its own assets and uncalled capital exceeding
£1,250,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Metropolitan Life
Ordinary Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.)
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 107,381 30,150 23,924 53,307 544,460
1931.. 103,705 29,153 23,641 50,911 595,371
1932.. 103,276 40,742 25,302 37,232 632,603
1933.. 105,990 44,022 27,060 34,908 667,511
1934.. 121,747 48,269 26,071 47,407 714,918
1935.. 124,100 49,359 25,162 49,579 764,497
Reserves drawn upon, £530 .. 763,967
1936.. 131,213 50,138 25,210 55,865 819,832
Profit sale assets, £3589 . . 823.421
1937.. 140,468 48,753 24,729 66,986 890,407
Reserves drawn upon, £262 . . 890,145
1938.. 149,312 51,214 22,599 75,499 965,644
1939.. 160,077 62,299 21,540 76,238 1,041,882
* Includes divs. to shareholders: 1929, £8333 ; 1930,
£3958 ; 1931, £4167; 1932, £4375 ; 1933, £4375;
1934-35, £5000; 1936, £5500; 1937, £5OOO ;
1938-39, £2708. ) Includes sundry reserves.
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.)
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 171,353 42,173 78,432 50,748 489,221
Staff Provident Fund, £2OOO .. 487,221
1931.. 160,648 49,612 72,488 38,548 525,769
1932.. 156,665 48.268 75,400 32,997 558,766
1933.. 162,491 52,203 77,083 33,205 591,971
1934.. 176,016 48,451 77,353 50,212 642,183
1935.. 185,054 55,484 80,974 48,596 690,779
Reserves drawn upon, £470 .. 690,309
1936.. 197,045 57,571 83,841 55,633 745,942
Profit sale assets, £3201 .. .. 749,143
1937.. 212,338 60,719 87,834 63,785 812,928
Reserves drawn upon, £238 . . 812,690
1938.. 227.462 65,096 86,381 75,985 888,675
1939.. 238,067 76.590 84,343 77,134 965,809
* Includes divs. to shareholders: 1926-35, £7500;
1936, £7OOO ; 1937-38, £7500; 1939, £5OOO.
) Includes sundry reserves.
The Metropolitan has been writing poli-
cies for 44 years now ; but it is over the
past decade that it has made most pro-
gress. Outstanding feature of that period
has been strict supervision of outgoings
—cost-savings have amounted to nearly
£9 per £lOO of premiums in both Ordi-
nary and Industrial departments. It is
partly reflected in a net addition to funds
(now £2,007,691) of £1,078,065, or
£148,439 more than the increment in the
first 34 years, and that notwithstanding
that net interest-earning since 1929 has
declined by £1 14s. p.c.
In the result Metropolitan Life has
developed into a solid bonus-paying in-
stitution, making annual distributions to
both share- and policy-holders, between
whom O.D. profits are divisible in the
proportion of 10 p.c. and 90 p.c. respec-
tively. Strengthening of the basis of actu-
arial valuation not so long ago enhanced
bonus-paying prospects, and progress
continues in other desirable directions.
Effect of war on the mortality experience
is a matter for conjecture; but the co. does
not operate outside the Commonwealth
—business is confined to the three eastern
States and South Aus. —and the inner
strength apparently tucked away in some
of the assets should help to relieve the
necessity for earmarking large slabs of
current revenue against war contingen-
cies. Reduction of interest rates, how-
ever, and the higher level of costs and
taxation can be expected to affect bonus
rates. But those are factors with which
all life offices will have to contend.
Outstanding features of the latest
accounts are further reduction in ex-
pense rates, slight expansion in the earn-
ing-power of assets, and a record addi-
tion to funds. In common with most
other offices, a reduced volume of busi-
ness was written—£766,4ss altogether,
of which £261,663 (down £41,540) was
in the O.D. and £504,792 (down £8833)
in the I.D. However, total income in
both departments combined was £21,370
stronger at £398,144; £300,873 (up £8723)
was represented by premiums, £84,428
(up £7912) interest and £12,843 (up
£4735) consideration for annuities.
Including £7708 (down £2500) taken
by shareholders, exes. (£105,883) swal-
lowed £3097 less ; but there was an ex-
pansion of £22,580 in claims, leaving
the accretion to funds at £153,372, or
38.5 p.c. of the year’s income. Apart
from the assurance funds (£1,912,899),
there is additional protection for policy
contracts in £94,790 of sundry reserves
and the £50,000 of share capital.
The office assumes its funds will earn
3 p.c. net in the O.D. and 3y p.c. in the
1.D.; actually last year’s effective rate
on the mean assurance funds was 4.63
p.c., or about Is. p.c. better than in '3B.
Deducting dividends and taxes, and
assuming annuities cost 3 p.c., exes,
got away with 17 p.c. of net Ordi-
nary premiums and 40 p.c. of Industrial.
That compares with 18.7 p.c. and 41.2
p.c. respectively the preceding term, and
25.9 p.c. and 48.9 p.c. in ’29.
Investments, spread this way, now
top the two-million mark:
1938. p.c. 1939. p.e.
Freeholds, etc. ..£252,881 13.1 £262,276 12.6
Govt, securities . . 1,189,735 61.9 1,237,858 59.7
Shares other cos. .. 24,764 1.3 24,907 1.2
Mortgages . . . . 271,959 14.1 332,475 16.0
Loans on policies. . 118,448 6.2 131,112 6.3
Book debts . . 52,604 2.7 57,371 2.8
Cash .. .. 13,187 0.7 29,138 1.4
Most of last year’s surplus earnings found
their way into Consols and mortgages.
Compare the percentage of the former
to total funds with the net interest return
from all sources.
At the end of the year actuary Cook-
sey will make his triennial overhaul of
the business. At the 1937 investigation,
which was affected by a more stringent
basis of valuation, there was a surplus
for both departments of £50,152, of
which £9306 was reserved for suspended
O.D. mortality. Bonus payments then
ranged from 30s. to 40s. p.c. on whole-
life and endowment contracts, and on
Industrial contracts 10 p.c. on the
sum assured on 15-year-old policies, plus
1 p.c. extra for each additional year.
Bond’s Industries, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Ro—
Dec., Profit.) Dividends. serves, serves.)
£ £ £ £
1930.. 20,151* 7 p.c. = 2948 17,203 17,203
1931.. 4,413 5 „ „ 4262 151 ) 19 „,-,
Transferred to taxation reserve, £5OOO J ’
From inner reserves, £57,000 .. 1
From tax reserve, £2026.. .. I M
Loss.) r 90
1932.. 71,284 Nil J
Deficits
1933.. 176,830 Nil
From inner reserves, £31.018 .. .. 145.716
1934.. 31,378 Nil 177,094
Forfeited shares, £l3B 1761956
Surplus debenture interest, etc., £4615.. 172,341
Profit.)
1935.. 5,878 Nil 5,878 166,463
1936.. 11,559 Nil 11,559 154,904
1937.. 7,381 Nil 7,381 147,523
Surplus cancellation debentures, £1954.. 145,569
Debenture interest written back, £1236.. 144.333
1938.. 14,473 Nil 14.473 129,800
Surplus cancellation debentures, £2245.. 127,615
1939.. 22,647 Nil 22,647 104,968
* Eight months,
f Excluding capital reserve, £166,167 at Dec. 31, ’39.
1 After payment of debenture interest, etc.
Last year’s result is the best showing for
over a decade. It is the outcome of the
board’s policy of renewal and improve-
ment of plant, the chief earning asset,
and of a general overhaul of both the
manufacturing and selling sides of the
organisation, the aim being to increase
the co.’s competitive power in a market
where aggregate plant capacity is well
able to take care of existing demand.
Investment interest centres chiefly in
5120 £lOO debentures, in front of which
are the mortgage (unchanged at
£76,715) and overdraft (£56,529, down
£48,053). There is £112,806 of share
capital ; but it is too early yet to talk
about when divs. on this lot are likely
to flow. The debentures, originally the
trade debts of the old Bond co., which
were funded, are secured by a floating
charge over the whole of the co.’s assets.
They used to carry a cumulative 7 p.c.
p.a., reduced to £5 Bs. 6d. p.c. by the
N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act, and
then by agreement to 2 p.c., 2\ p.c. and
3 p.c. for the three years to Oct., 1937,
and to 4 p.c. till May 1, 1941. The dif-
ference between £5 Bs. 6d. p.c. and the
lower rates mentioned is to be paid out
of earnings when profits and the co.’s
financial position permit. At the end of
1939 the contingent liability in this
respect was £42,816, or £8 7s. 4d. per
debenture. Trade creditors, however,
rank before these arrears in the event of
liquidation.
Despite keen competition and the up-
ward trend of manufacturing costs, there
was a spring of £44,269 in the co.’s
gross earnings (£182,934) last year, due
to increased turnover and improvements
in plant in the underwear and hosiery
mills. After making an unspecified
allowance for taxation and setting aside
£28,580 (up £789) for depreciation, exes.
(£120,660) took £22,367 of the increase,
leaving net earnings at £62,274, equal to
12.1 p.c. on debenture capital. The
debenture-holders received 4 p.c., accord-
ing to the terms of their agreement, plus
1 p.c. on account of arrears, the full
distribution requiring £25,627. Of the
£36,647 that remained, £14,000 was
specifically reserved against possible fluc-
tuations in the value of stocks, leaving
£22,647—the profit shown in the intro-
ductory table—visibly to put on the
shelf. With a surplus of £2245 from
cancellation of debentures, it reduced
the deficit on shareholders’ account to
£104,968. That excludes a capital re-
serve of £166,167, which is largely a
book entry in respect of the freehold. On
present appearances, therefore, prospects
of debenture-holders receiving £5 Bs. 6d.
p.c. on termination of their current
agreement are encouraging.
The market prices the debentures at
£7B as against £5l 10s. a year ago. At
the higher figure the return is 5.1 p.c.
on a 4 p.c. div. basis, or 6.9 p.c. on a
£5 Bs. 6d. distribution, plus arrears. In-
cluding the capital reserve already re-
ferred to, the net tangible backing is
£134, and for the more speculative
pound shares, which are priced at
7s. 4d., 295. 2d.
The financial position further im-
proved :
1933. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £86,442 £102,806 £107,806 £112,806
Debentures* .. 529,747 525,206 519,943 515,413
Mortgage . . 1*)9,786 93,771 76,714 76,714
Overdraft . . 122,099 87,072 104,582 56,529
Sundry creditors 30,312 16,696 18,514 43,767
Freehold .. 320,920 322,150 327,052 325,983
Plant . . 212,754 192,033 180,317 174,841
Stocks . . 226,034 227,833 236,559 222,488
Book debts .. 128,602 98,168 115,504 138,604
Cash, etc. . . 10,426 4,010 4,433 4,510
* Including accrued interest.
A reduction of £14,071 in stocks was
accompanied by a growth of £23,100 in
debtors’ balances. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£188,592, excluding debentures) was
£31,906. That was after buying the
branch office freehold at Newcastle at
“a satisfactory figure” and making
further additions and extensions to plant.
Outlay on these two' items, however, was
£1069 and £5476 respectively less than
was written off.
As for the current term, “sales are
entirely conditioned by our production,
and our production is controlled by our
ability to secure skilled labor,” the
chairman says. Also, extensions and
additions to the plant, estimated to cost
about £55,000, are being made in order
to manufacture condenser cotton yarn,
on which the Federal Government has
imposed an import duty and bounty.
Union Trustee Co.
Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 21,033 10 p.c. = 12,500 ) 71 7 .. ...
Staff Super. Fund, £2OOO ) 71,70 ° 648
Transferred to capital, £12,500.. 59,256 648
1931.. 16.009 9 p.c. = 12,375 £ eQn
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO ) 61 ’ 890 • 74
1932.. 10,044 64 p.c. = 8,938 t RI QQ „
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO ) 61 ’ 996 1269
1933.. 8,619 6 p.c. = 8,250 ) ar . 171 ft
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO j 61 ’ 86 ° 1710
1934.. 9,725 6 p.c. = 8.250 Igo 840 9r.11
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO j 62,840 2jll
1935.. 12,055 6 p.c. = 8,250 1 .. ...
Staff Super. Fund, £lOBO )
1936.. 12,840 6 p.c. = 8,250 ) fto 9Q( -
Staff Super. Fund. £lOOO f 09,2,56
1937.. 12,955 7 p.c. = 9,625 ) 71 . RJ -
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO J ' l,OOO
1938.. 13,478 74 p.c. =10,313 * 7 „ 7 „ n 9R7 ,
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO ) i6 > 76{}
1939. . 13,550 8 p.c. =ll,OOO ) vrt ocn 97ns
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO ) 75 > 280 “ 7Uh
1940.. 13,712 8 p.c. =ll,OOO \ 77 409 9q9 ,
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO ) ‘ ' ,492 z
Income is derived mainly from corpus
and other commission earnings and in-
vestment of the co.’s own funds. At the
end of February, the £137,500 of share
capital, reserves and £92 of unclaimed
divs. —apart from that the co. owes not
any man —were represented by freehold
£139,481, guarantee funds held by Gov-
ernments £52,400, Consols £8770, mort-
gages £l5ll, cash £18,458 and book
debts £5388. So, apart from the small
chances the co. takes when investing its
own funds, it hasn’t got to risk much —
if there is any doubt concerning the in-
terpretation of a will there is always the
Court to go to for instructions. Also,
the growing realisation of the advantages
of the corporate over the private trus-
tee, and the complications which taxa-
tion and other legislation have intro-
duced into the administration of estates,
are driving more business into the
expert care of the cos.
The Union, which has strong connec-
tions in pastoral circles, set up at Mel-
bourne 55 years ago, and now has
branches at Sydney, Brisbane and Towns-
ville. It doesn’t broadcast the volume
of trusts in hand, but gross earnings


GUARANTEED
FOR TWO
FREE SETT! NOfti&ffgi
*
55^*3
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. A 11
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/0
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle’!!" 15/6
Blade size 2in.
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Razor Guards, 3/6 extra,
CRAIG &■ AITKEN, 654 Georg'e St., Sydney
YOUR SAVINGS
MAY BE SMALL . - .
But even with approx. £2O you
can have a stake to-day in
Australian industry . . .
Custodian Trustees Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd.
A Free Booklet h yours op
request to the Managers of
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P.0., SYDNEY
. TELEPHONE: B 5294
AN INVITATION THAT PRODUCED
300,000 TELEGRAMS
ON Ist MAY, 1939
ia IMPERIAL CABLE Via BEAM WIRELESS
A social telegram service, 5/- for 12 words
to any part of the Empire, was inaugurated
with an offer of a free message.
Result —300,000 telegrams within the Em-
pire on one day.
Were you one of these 300,000 then, and
have you sent a message since?
Social telegrams within the Empire have
been so popular during the past twelve
months that now a new development can be
announced HALF - CROWN EMPIRE
TELEGRAMS FOR THE FORCES.
Have you a friend thousands of miles away
with a birthday or other celebration? Then
greet him or her with a social telegram.
5'- FOR 12 WORDS
TO ANY PART OF THE EMPIRE
SPECIAL KATE
HALF-CROWN FOR 6 WORDS, with entire
address free, for messages from or to soldiers
or airmen abroad (except Canada and Eire).
«
Messages may be handed in at any of the Com-
panies’ Offices or at any Postal Telegraph Office.
“Via Beam Wireless’ 9
A.W.A. OVERSEAS SERVICES
Amalgamated Wireless (A/sia) Limited
47 York Street, SYDNEY
“Collins House” and 167 Queen Street, MELBOURNE
“Fia Imperial’ 9
EASTERN EXTENSION A. & C.
TELEGRAPH COMPANY LTII.
10 Spring Street, SYDNEY
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
maintain a steady growth, the improve-
ment being £4468 last term:
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Exes.* Earnings.
1915 .. .. £17,318 £9,728 56.1
1920 .. .. 37,029 24,609 66.4
1925 .. .. 80,658 59,905 74.1
1930 .. .. 104,567 83,534 79.8
1935 .. .. 91,538 77,483 84.6
1936 .. .. 97,411 82,571 84.7
1937 .. .. 90,731 75.776 83.5
1938 .. .. 99,595 84,117 84.5
1939 .. .. 103,275 87,725 85.9
1940 . . . . 107,743 92,031 85.4
* Excluding reserved for taxes.
An encouraging feature is that exes,
were 10s. p.c. lighter, and, after setting
aside £2OOO (same as in previous term)
for the taxgatherer, the net result (up
£162) was a shade under 10 p.c. on capi-
tal, compared with 9.8, 9.8, 9.4, 9.3, 8.7,
7.6, 6.5 and 8.1 p.c. back to 1932. The
div. was kept at 8 p.c., while the staff-
fund contribution (£500) was chopped in
two. For 11 years to the close of
accounts in 1930 a steady 10 p.c. was
paid, sweetened with £25,000 of bonus
scrip. The lowest rate paid during the
slump was 6 p.c.
The immediate outlook favors main-
tenance of gross earnings, but taxation
and the cost of conducting the business
are on the up-grade. The market, doubt-
ful of the future and mindful of the
fact that it is difficult for the co. to
pass on increased costs, prices the scrip
at 445. as against 495. 6d. two years ago.
At 445. the yield is 5 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The shares have a face value
of £2 10s. each, of which 275. 6d. is paid
up, and all but 2s. 6d. of the balance is
a reserve liability callable only in the
event of liquidation. The backing is
435. 7d. in net tangibles.
Illawarra Steam (N.S.W.)
To Re — Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930 .. 18,875 9 p.c. = 9,000 9,875 40,634
1931 .. 10,099 10 „ „ 10,000 99 40,733
1932 .. 8,058 8 „ „ 8,000 58 40,791
1933 .. 8,050 8 „ „ 8,000 50 40,841
1934 .. 8,253 8 „ „ 8,000 253 41,094
Unexplained additions reserves, £3500.. 44,594
1935 .. 8,480 8 p.c. = 8,000 480 45,074
Unexplained additions reserves, £3401.. 48,474
1936 .. 8,346 8 p.c. = 8,000 346 48,820
Tax and bad debts reserves written
back, £2500 51,320
1937 .. 11,871 8 p.c. = 8,000 3,871 55,191
Insurance adjustment, £2llB .. .. 57,309
1938 .. 14,581 9 p.c. = 9,000 5,581 62,890
1939 .. 10,905 9 „ „ 9,000 1,905 64,795
1940 . . 11,243 9 „ „ 9,000 2,243 67,038
Apart from competition from road
transport, the co. enjoys a monopoly of
the carrying business between Nowra,
where the railway ends, and the Victorian
border and Sydney. Last term a dry
spell affected output in the dairying dis-
tricts, and the wage, coal and tax bills
all increased. Still, whatever the co.
missed in one direction it appears to
have picked up in others. The board
wrote net earnings £338 better at
£11,243, equal to 11.2 p.c. on capital as
against 10.9, 14.5, 11.8, 8.3, 8.4, 8.2 and
8 p.c. back to 1933. That was after
making an unspecified allowance for
taxation and writing off £3120 for depre-
ciation of ship property —at that rate the
book value of the fleet as at March 31
last would disappear in eight years. The
div. was kept at 9 p.c.
As for the current term, recent rains
have relieved the immediate seasonal out-
look. The Navy has requisitioned one of
the co.’s boats, the coal strike necessi-
tated curtailment of services since the
close of accounts, and the continued up-
ward trend of costs might lead to a
general revision of freight rates, the
chairman says.
The market, which notes the co.’s snug
position, financially and otherwise,
doesn’t expect last year’s rate of distri-
bution to be interfered with. It there-
fore prices the pound shares at 455. as
against 445. 3d. a year ago and 40s. 12
months before that. At 455., which is
11s. 7d. more than the net tangible book
value, the return is 4 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
div. basis. As a holding proposition, the
scrip is still worth consideration.
When the books closed the share capi-
tal (it includes £25,000 of bonus scrip
issued in 1920) and £33,837 besides were
represented by Consols (£108,269, face
value) and cash (£25,568):
1929. 1934. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Liabilities .. 8,052 11,413 7,740 8,554
Ship property 44,993 48,980 28,000 24,880
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 2,095 2,595 2,475 2,400
Plant, stocks, etc. 2,315 1,674 1,874 1,740
Book debts .. 13,519 8,704 13,818 17,176'
Public securities
cash, etc. ' 79,889 94,554 130,868 133,807
Book debts alone twice covered the out-
side debt. The more or less liquid surplus
(£143,499, up £5378) was equal to 28s. Bd.
per share. The ships, which appear at a
very conservative figure, are reported in
good order and insured.
D. Mitchell and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To He— Re-
Dec., Net Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 3,082 21 p.c. = 5,625 12,496
Deficit.
Provision for doubtful debts, £10,226 7 66,801
Provision for contingencies, £69,070 ) ’
Loss.
1930.. b,.ud Nil 75,000
1931.. 30,021* Nil 75,000
1932.. 16,474* Nil 75,000
1933.. 18,011* Nil 75,000
1934.. 37,662 Nil 112,662
1935.. 8,451 Nil 121,113
1936.. 4,556 Nil 125,669
Surpius saie properties, £5222 .. 120,447
1937.. 1,172 Nil 121,619
1938.. 2,232 Nil 123,851
Profit.
1939.. 219 Nil 123,632
*Debited to contingency reserve.
This old-established drygoods business
—it was set on its feet by David Mitchell
in the 1860’s with money he had made
storekeeping at Ipswich (Q.) —has never
yielded much in the way of profits.
Reserves had to be tapped for £21,324
to pay divs. averaging 6.5 p.c. during
the 10 generally flush years to the end
of 1929. Since then the figures show
that shareholders have lost 11s. in the
pound of their capital, mainly on account
of bad debts.
The co.’s connections are largely in
the country, and it has had to borrow
heavily to finance clients, who, owing to
the plight of wheat and other farmers,
found it difficult to meet the wholesaler’s
bill in full. Also, competition has re-
mained keen, and demand has centred
upon the cheaper lines, carrying small
margins.
Some relief was gained from sale of
the Sydney Kent- and Clarence-street
properties in 1937 for £50,000, which in-
cluded £5222 profit. But there is still
£31,337 invested in Mitchell’s Factories
Pty., Ltd., which could be employed to
better advantage. An effort is being made
to sell the subsidiary’s warehouse and
factory buildings; meanwhile, the parent
continues to use them, together with the
plant.
Last year country turnover fell away
owing to drought and other causes, but
city sales picked up, especially during the
last half of the term. Gross earnings
(£57,001) were £4822 better. After
writing off bad debts and providing an
extra £l4B for depreciation (£1152), a
profit of £219 was claimed, an improve-
ment of £2451 on the previous year’s
result.
Chief balance-sheet movements were
a growth of £4987 in stocks and of
£1387 in debtors’ balances:
1935. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £225,000 £225,000 £225,000 £225,000
Mortgages, etc. 42,478 -
Overdraft .. 70,777 52,661 54,709' 56,868
Sundry creditors 23,932 37,977 40,726 45,202
Freeholds . . 46,650 5,763 5,735 5,488
Plant.. .. 6,373 7.022 7,942 8,195
Stocks . . 49,276 45,794 38,155 43,142
Shares sub. . . ( 9Q 788 1 9,167 9,167 9,167
Advances sub. j 1 21,329 21,762 22,170
Book debts. . 108.772 101,829 110,914 112,301
Cash.. .. 213 3,115 2,908 2,976
To finance the outlay £2159 was added
to the overdraft and £4476 to. the amount
coming to sundry creditors. There was
little change in the more or less liquid
surplus (£56,349). When the books
closed there was a shade over 20s. of
outside money at risk in the business
for every pound belonging to share-
holders which was represented by
tangible assets.
The market, doubtful of the co.’s
capacity to stage a substantial recovery,
prices the pound shares, covered by net
tangibles with a book value of 95., at
2s. 3d. Much depends upon how soon
the board can sell the subsidiary’s proper-
ties in Forbes-street, Sydney.
Arahura Gold Dredging, near Hokitika
(M.L.), has declared its maiden div.—
Is. a share, calling for £15,000. In
the last nine months the co.’s efficient
plant has dug 3,129,000 c.y. for a
net gold yield of £109,529, of which
£78,199 was working profit. Costs
averaged only 2.4 d. per c.y., recoveries
1.96 gr. Increased Commonwealth defence
taxes promise to make gold scrip more
attractive to investors, and, though not
devoid of speculation, dredging has more
of an investment character than lode-
mining. These Maoriland cos., however,
themselves pay taxes on. the other
side of the Tasman on all c’ivs. declared
at half-rates until twice capital has been
repaid, thereafter on the full Dominion
scale. And the effective M.L. production
and export tax is about twice as heavy
as Australia’s levy.
(Continued on next page.)


THERE IS ONLY
. ... AND IT IS THE MOST
ECONOMICAL PETROL YOU CAN BUY
Shell—the largest marketers of Motor Spirit in this country
—have brought their whole organisation to bear on pro-
ducing one unbeatable petrol . This scientific concentration
on one grade has resulted in a crystal clear petrol of perfectly
balanced performance which combines in full measure every
quality desirable in a motor spirit.
can Sc sure cf shell
The Shell Company of Australia Ltd. (Incorporated in Great Britain)
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt!
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O T
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.. LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals.— Advt.
v * h= *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt,
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR—.
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
Chain Stores and Juvenile Labor
In a review of the accounts of Wool-
worths, Ltd., in B. 17/4/’4O it was men-
tioned that the N S. Wales Government
had appointed a Royal Commissioner to
inquire into chain-store trading methods,
and that
After investigations spread over a couple
of years he found, among other things,
that “The success of the variety chains
in N. S. Wales which have been a success
is due not to any improper practices, but
to brains, organisation, competence and
fair dealing, all of which have won the
confidence of a very large section of the
purchasing public.”
The “Wild Cat” then went on to say:
An undesirable aspect of the position,
however—and it concerns not only chain-
stores but many other businesses, too —is
the increasing employment of juniors
whose services are dispensed with before
they become entitled to a senior’s wage.
This calamitous state of affairs needs in-
vestigation with a view to appropriate
remedies being provided. But at the
moment the national effort is bent on
other than internal social problems, so the
matter is likely to be shelved till after the war.
Woolworths, Ltd., have since drawn the
“Wild Cat’s” attention to the following
portions of the Royal Commissioner’s
report:
(a) In my opinion neither the opera-
tions, management, purchasing practices nor
methods of any of the variety chain stores
[Woolworths is a variety chain] are detri-
mental to the interests of the State, store-
keepers, shopkeepers (I omit wholesalers
for the present), manufacturers, producers,
consumers, employees in chain stores or
any other trade, business or industry, in
producing (and I am satisfied that they do
not produce) either
(i) Undue restraint of trade;
(ii) Unfair methods of trade competition;
(iii) A diminution of trade, business or em-
. ployment; or
(iv) A lowering of the standard of living.
The commissioner again:
The trading methods of these stores,
their treatment of their employees and
their business practices generally are honest
and fair, and are of at least as high a
standard as those of retailers conducting
general department or other stores. That
they render a very real service to the
public—particularly to that portion of
the public whose need for such services is
very real indeed, I think there can be no
doubt
It was in reference to grocery chain
stores —and Woolworths, Ltd., is not
classified as a grocery chain —that the
commissioner found:
Unfortunately it is a fact that in many of
the grocery chains, and indeed in many in-
dependent grocery stores, and in some de-
partment and general stores (indeed gener-
ally whenever junior labor is largely em-
ployed), the services of junior employees
are often dispensed with before they be-
come entitled to a senior’s wage. Some-
times, in the case of the grocery chains, this
happens at as early an age as 19 or 20
At 6s. 6d. a share the market is valuing
Wiluna’s mine and other assets —12
months ago these included £A313,861
ill cash, debtors and stores held by the
operating co. and 220,000 ss. shares in
Gold Fields Australian Development in
the holding co.’s strongroom—at around
£A506,600. It seems a very conservative
figure, even viewing the mine as a salvage
proposition only. In the year to March
31 the co. showed a surplus on operating
account of £A266,600; but of that
£100,500, owing to curtailment of
development expenditure, was earned in
the last quarter. On that basis working
profit in the current term might run to
over £A400,000, and at the end of 1939
chairman Hamilton gave the main mine
a three years’ life. That, of course,
takes no account of the Happy Jack and
Bulletin sections. On the former of these
latest developments have been anything
but disheartening, the grade exposed be-
ing well above that now being handled.
Here is the official report:
Developments on the Happy Jack lease
were ore over 6|ft. north drive at
800 ft. level, for length 106 ft.; s.6dwt. over
6ft. in south drive for 74ft.; sdwt. over
7ft. in north drive at 1000 ft. level for
121 ft.; s.3dwt. over 6Jft. in south drive for
149 ft.; B.Bdwt. over 10ft. in crosscut at
1040 ft. level. Drilling at 800 ft. exposed sft.
ore worth 6.Bdwt.
If agitation in the West brings some
revision of the Federal gold excise in
favor of low-grade producers, as well it
might, present pessimistic broodings over
the future of Wiluna may be shattered.
Meantime the scrip appears a not-
unattractive speculation.
* * * *
The usual May div. from Triton
(W.A.) will not go out at the end ot
the month, but is being “deferred,” which
does not necessarily mean passed. As
suggested in B. 1/5/’4O, development on
both the co.’s own Mararoa and Western
Gold’s Rand holding, which is being
opened up by Triton, is biting deeply
into current revenue, while purchases of
reserve stores, as a war precaution, have
temporarily tied up further funds. An-
nouncement that heavy ground at depth
is bumping up costs and tending to
reduce output has contributed to a weak-
ening in the scrip to Bs. or so, although
no serious decrease in millings is as yet
apparent from the published returns.
* * * *
Gt. Boulders have weakened a shilling
or so on unconfirmed reports that a re-
duction in output is near. This yarn
doesn’t match (1) unofficial accounts of
the soundness of the mine, (2) that there
is an abundance of ore in sight of a
substantially higher grade than that being
treated, and (3) that, compared with the
figures of a year ago, reserves, at well
over the million-tons mark, show a sub-
stantial increase.
* * * *
Another manager has left Lancefield
(W.A.). This time, Jack Fox, who suc-
ceeded Albert Faul a few years ago, has
moved out, and the mine accountant and
supervisor has stepped in. Recently
Lancefield shares rose on reports that
prospects at depth were looking brighter,
but they have since fallen on later
accounts of poor developments. Fox is
taking charge of Porphyry, a show near
Edjudina which a no-liability Adelaide
concern let go on account of financial
and treatment troubles and which is now
being worked by a local co.
* * * *
Despite increased income from its
interest in the near-by Enterprise mine,
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) shows
slightly-reduced earnings for 1939 —
£128,498, as against £130,764. Deprecia-
tion, taxation, etc., absorb £49,541,
two 20 p.c. divs. (less tax) on the 4s.
shares £70,256, and the directors take
£4587 additional to their ordinary re-
muneration, which amounted to £934 in
1938. Though ore-treatment (114,567
tons) expanded only 2 p.c., the output
was worth £71,046 more at £367,979.
Just where the extra revenue was
absorbed the accounts themselves will
tell when they come to hand. Results
so far in the current term have not been
quite up to last term’s average experi-
ence.
* * *
New Golconda (W.A.) in its latest
annual report mentions the receipt of
£126 in royalties and from hire of plant
and announces that, as authorised by
shareholders, the whole of the machinery,
plant and buildings on the co.’s mine
was sold by public auction for £2lOO.
Other goods and material realised £305.
There is an air-compressor left, which
the board hopes to dispose of for £4OO.
A sampling option has been taken on
the Saturn mine, at Boogardie, about
which “a high opinion has been ex-
pressed.” If this option is exercised a
new co. will be formed to carry on. New
Golconda’s deficit for the year was
£llO2. Cash in hand at the date of the
balance sheet (January 31 last) was £B5.
* * * *
Ora Banda .Mines, N.L. (W.A.), has
resolved to be known in future as
Sterling, N.L. This is because the names
of several other goldmining cos. operat-
ing in that State begin with the name
Ora Banda. Co.’s principal asset is a
show at Marie’s Find, on the North Yil-
garn field. It has paid one and is about
to pay another threepenny dividend. It
reckons it has the makings of a good
small mine.
* * * *
“Jobber”: The pound shares of Black-
water Mines, which has been working a
Reefton (M.L.) area since 1906, have had
a smart rise from 16s. to 20s. 3d. in
London. After passing the 1937
distribution, the co. paid p.c. in ’3B ;
interim on account of 1939, when a work-
ing surplus of £82,920 was shown, was
of 5 p.c., and a final of at least a similar
amount (and possibly p.c.) is being
anticipated. Divs. are free of U.K. tax.
Recent monthly returns suggest that
appreciably increased earnings may be
shown in the current term. Half the
250,000 shares on issue are in the hands
of Consolidated Gold Fields of New
Zealand.


HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Every comfort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/o
Double Room, from 11/-
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/-
For rooms with Hot and Cold Water:
Single 1/- and Double 1/6 extra.
Modern a la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
“Graneentral,” Sydney
SMOKE-OH!
“What do the stars reveal?”
—Astrological guff.
As much as the censor will allow.
■l* •£• *l*
“If you go over your face a second time with
the razor of a morning you actually remove
more skin than hair.” — Article.
Especially if you’ve been to a party
the night before.
“London has more cats than people.”
Coincidentally, it has more women
than men.
4* 4* 4*
“The Mayor had used his influence to secure
advancement for his personal friends in every
way.”— Suburban rag.
The compleat wangler.
<i« 4* 4* 4*
“The captain was rowing in a whale to a
near-by warship. He hastened back to his Sun-
derland.” — “D.T.”
That’s something for the whale to
spout about.
•b 4*
Marriage becomes really intimate when
you no , longer have to laugh at your
husband’s jokes.
4* 4 1 4* 4*
“Like a child, she hurried to find Joe. In
her present mood he would be like a tonic.”
— Extract, novel.
That’s why she was shaking it up.
4* 4> 4* 4*
“Owner names his horse after radio-announ-
cer.” — Sporting note.
Should be strong in the wind.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Is your roof in good order, with no broken
tiles or spouting to cause damage when the
heavy rains come?” — Melbourne “Herald.”
No, we pay rent.
4* 4* 4*
“One slumber suit issued to the Army Ser-
vice Corps, A.1.F., was patterned in blue and
red stripes, with tiny puppies in between.”
— “Sun.”
It’s known in the army as putting on
“dog.”
4* -b 4*
“One night he half-throttled me and then
laughingly declared that he had only been
fooling.”— Wife, in divorce suit.
A sort of practical choke.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Delicate Situation.
It was a real King’s Cross party, and
everything was going with a swing when
suddenly he noticed how his wife was
behaving. Seated on the couch, he
watched the alluring pose of her dancing,
the possessive way her partner held
her. Once his lips brushed her cheek,
and she trilled a happy, reckless little
laugh.
Her husband frowned ominously. Put-
ting down his glass, he smashed aside a
straying balloon and assumed a grim
attitude. He seemed on the verge of
springing up, rushing across the flat and
striking the interloper to the floor. But
he managed to control himself. That
would have to wait.
After all, if he got up now he would
have to move that dinky little blonde
from her delightfully comfortable posi-
tion on his knee.
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Editor Regrets.
“Most editors are very difficult to please as
regards poetry.”— Literary course.
He objected to the metre, and the
rhyming made him scream. His expres-
sion grew no sweeter as he criticised
the theme. He disliked my subtle finish,
while the middle made him sneer, and
his frown did not diminish when he found
my spelling queer. Then he said, “Too
sentimental. And the typing’s very poor.”
And his arm was none too gentle as he
shoved me through the door. At his
judgment I elected to incontinently scoff ;
but he crankily objected to the way I
told him off.
E.
“When should a soldier marry?”
—Women s mag.
When he’s surrounded by overwhelm-
ing odds and there is no retreat.
*|* «i» 4*
“How does the average husband come
home?” — Women’s paper.
Like the tide —he comes in only to go
out again.
<&> 4*
Traffic Problem.
Sir, —While I have every sympathy for
the hard-working dairy-farmer (I am not
a member of any political party as some
seem to think), I think it is high time
some action was taken about herds being
grazed in Sydney streets. Between
Martin-place and Circular Quay, espe-
cially at 5 p.m., George-street is becom-
ing a positive bedlam, trams, crowds,
taxis and cattle all milling and shrieking
in indescribable confusion.
Except when defending its calf, the
milch cow on its native pastures is the
gentlest of animals ; but it is only natural
that they should react violently when
struck by trams, as I saw with my own
“Cot any firewood or old papers y' don't Want, lady? We've run out o' coal."
eyes on Friday night. It is rapidly be-
coming impossible to enjoy a quiet game
of dominoes without being attacked
by one of these (when alarmed) ferocious
animals.
In any case, it is absurd, as there is
hardly a blade of grass to be found in
any of the city streets. One would think
Australians were totally oblivious of the
war. The editor of the Sydney “Morn-
ing Herald” persistently ignores my letters
on this subject, and untold damage is
being done to lives and property, causing,
in some cases, severe nervous collapse.
I am, etc.,
Disgusted.
4* 4* 4*
Woolly and Wild.
“When you have selected the design you want
to knit, and chosen your wool, then the excite-
ment of making up the garment begins.”
— Women’s paper.
And hell’s let loose for the rest of
the household. Making up the garment
is child’s play compared with making up
the family rows that go with it. When
my wife sees wool she itches to make
a sweater for me. And when I wear the
sweater —well, I just itch. If I dare
object she threatens to make a muffler
to match.
One of the most important things is
casting off, especially during knitting
bees. Casting off at absent female
friends and husbands in general is the
most popular. For casting on the in-
structions are the same, except that
they keep on at it.
There’s one knitting instruction which
any man will understand if he sits next
to a woman knitting in the tram. He’ll
realise that the entire point in knitting
is on the end of. the needles, and when
he’s caught both elbow and her needles
in his side for a few miles he'll know
that she’s only doing what the book
said —“Work 40 rows in rib.”
Elm.
An optimist is a person who, after
taking one lesson in a literary course,
writes to the various motor firms for their
latest catalogues.
-I* »I- 4*
“Sausage-skins Stolen.” — “S. M. Herald.”
There’s plenty of room for a mystery
in that.
Danger.
When Rosie leaps to hit the ball
Her racquet swings with graceful ease :
She never seems to slide or fall,
Her poise and play are sure to please.
Those hits, however, always make
Me feel a rather painful doubt
Concerning whether I should take
The risk of asking Rosie out.
T. W. NATHAN.
Travesty.
“ Simplicity” and "Dawn” and “Winsome
Sprite”
And “Belvedere” and “Rustic Water-
mill” ;
“Wild Briar” too, and “Eve” and “Sheer
Delight”
And “Fairy’s Wand” and “Spring” and
“Daffodil”;
Then “Tulip Time” and “Sunset Gold”
refuse
To bid my mind adieu. But don't
suppose
I gleaned them from Parnassus or the
Muse —
They’re merely trade-names for
milady’s hose!
P. O. M. C.
A Big Problem.
“A chiropodist says that policemen’s feet
are becoming smaller.”
Unthinking people may dismiss this
news as of no moment, but considera-
tion will reveal that the happiness —yea,
even the very livelihood —of many people
may be jeopardised should this tendency
be not arrested.
Take, for a start, a policeman’s own
home. The kids, anxious to follow in
the old man’s footsteps —not immediately,
of course, for at their tender age they
may get lost in them, or fall down a
heelprint if it is in soft ground —use his
boots in their game of “trapping the
burglar.” Young Johnnie, baton in hand,
is the sleuth, and little Willie, Aifie and
Enid are the criminals gone into “smoke.”
Father’s boots, parked here and there
on the back verandah or in the bath-
room if it is big enough, are the hideouts.
What will happen if the boots are to
become sma —well, not so large? Aifie
will keep getting stuck up in the toe
somewhere, and holler for his mother to
pull him out. If the trilbies shrink
further still, the kids mightn’t be
able to get in them at all. Their game
spoiled, they will get cranky, and drive
Mum nearly frantic ; and the old man
will cop the backwash when he gets
home.
Also, there is the policeman’s own
personal safety. By reducing to size 17
he might be able the better to balance
his budget, being able to make a tin of
polish do three pairs instead of two;
but will he be able to balance himself?
No doubt the chiropodist who dis-
covered the shrinkage in cops’ pedal
extremities announced it on a bitter note,
for with this shrinkage in the corn-grow-
ing areas the spectre of the Official
Assignee would loom large on his
horizon.
Progressive foot-shrinkage in the force
will have its quickest repercussions, how-
ever, in the place where police boots are
built. One of the first to feel the pinch
will be the “nail-tester.” Selected for
his inordinately long arm, this worker’s
job is to lean well down in the boot after
the finisher has lowered it down to him
on the block and tackle and feel all round
the toe to see if any nails have been left
sticking up. If there are, he wheels the
boot across on a hand-truck to a last,
and puts the sole under the steam-
hammer. He can no longer, it seems,
have security of employment.
Others to be adversely affected will be
the members of the Humorous Scribes,
Gag Thinkers-Up and Comedians’ Asso-
ciation. Already hard hit by the dis-
appearance of the bullocky, the serious
dearth of fresh jokes about mothers-in-
law, lousy Scotsmen and blasphemous
golfers, the decline in popularity of
crooners and the fact that many plumbers
and university professors are now taking
courses in Pelmanism, this latest news
will be the last straw for these unfor-
tunates.
Once the most prolific subject for their
witticisms, the Force has steadily yielded
fewer and fewer jokes per cop. The
decline began with the gradual disappear-
ance of the old type of Hibernian John and
his replacement by smart young police-
men who filed their nails and took lec-
tures in psychology at the ’Varsity. There
still remained the big feet, which were
a solid rock in the whirling stream of
changing humor, and the H.S., G.T.-U.
and C.A. isn’t going to see one of its last
bulwarks go without a fight. At an extra-
ordinary general meeting which is being
convened the following resolution is to
be submitted: —
“That the members of this association
view with alarm the decrease in the size
of policemen’s feet, and, therefore, their
boots; and in view of the distress which
must necessarily result to members if
this evil is not checked, and as the basic
cause of it is the increased mechanisation
of the Force, that the Commissioner be
asked to reintroduce the old and better
way of walking everywhere while the
police under his control are on duty. And
to explore all other means of inducing
the splaying of police feet.”
BO.


SYDNEY—STAY AT THE WENTWORTH
The Wentworth Hotel, noted for kindly hospitality, combines a
full measure of courteous service with modern appointments that
make for your comfort. Bedrooms with telephones, private bathrooms
and toilets.
TARIFF: Room and Breakfast from 13/6, inclusive from 20/-. Our
tariff remains constant the year round; we do NOT follow the
policy of increasing tariff durinq Christmas, Easter or any other
season.
MACLURCAN: Managing Director
HI
H
SYD N EY
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
“Pay As We Go”—First Call
The war-time taxation proposals in-
troduced at Canberra last Thursday
suggested, among a number of other
things, that it has not been pos-
sible to push Australia’s war effort ahead
as rapidly as at first thought. In 1939-
40, the year closing at the end of next
month, it was proposed to spend some-
thing like £74,000,000 on war —there were
almost monthly additions to the estimate
for a time —but Mr. Spender now says
the outlay will actually be £46,000,000.
This apparently doesn’t include expendi-
ture on any forces after their dispatch
abroad. But since the total outlay over-
seas during the closing financial year
and the one following is put at
£35,000,000, it seems that the maximum
at which the 1939-40 outlay can be put
is very much short of first estimates. Yet
between August and February 80,000
more people were given work (enlist-
ments excluded), though nearly all the
coalminers in the Commonwealth have
gone on strike. Obviously the mere
spending of money won’t give us ade-
quate war equipment, and of this fact
the authorities appear to be aware. We
are physically capable of doing so much,
and no more; and we can reach our
maximum output only when Communist-
inspired strikes and the like are knocked
stone-cold, and when all employable
people are back in their jobs. The
Commonwealth Government forecasts
that “we shall soon have no great re-
serves of unemployed man-power.”
When that point is reached we shall need
to be careful that we don’t try to push
spending ahead of production, otherwise
there will be inflation!
Next year, 1940-41, is to be a big
one. Excluding outlay overseas, our
war expenditure is to be £79,000,000.
We have to find £7,000,000 to complete
the 1939-40 programme, so at the date
of the Treasurer’s speech there was
£86,000,000 to be found by June 30,
1941. Of this, ordinary taxation was ex-
pected to yield £16,000,000, leaving
£70,000,000 still to be found. It is pro-
posed to borrow £50,000,000 of this, and
to find £20,000,000 from avenues of new
or increased taxation.
The biggest source of increased
revenue is to be from income tax. From
“middle-income” individuals an average
increase of 50 p.c. is to be levied, yield-
ing £3,000,000, the £5OO-£lOOO class being
affected most. A war-time company "tax
on cos. earning more than 8 p.c.. on
“capital employed” is expected to yield
£4,250,000. (This is the excess-profits
tax.) There is also to' be an undis-
tributed-profits tax of Is. ir? the £ yield
£450,000 —25 p.c. of distributable profits
is exempt.
Next-biggest source of war-tax revenue
is to be sales tax. It goes up from 6 p.c.
to 8 1-3 p.c. (Id. in the Is.), operative
from May 3, and will yield an extra
£5,000,000.
The duty on petrol, benzol, etc., goes
up 3d. a gallon, yield estimated at
£3,300,000 —which apparently presup-
poses a consumption of 264,000,000 gal-
lons a year. This may be a clue to the
Government’s intentions ’ regarding
“rationing.”
Customs duties and primage are to
bear a surcharge of 10 p.c., expected to
yield £2,000,000. Land tax is to go up
100 p.c., to bring in £1,500,000 more ;
estate duty increases aim at bringing in
£500,000 more a year.
The new taxes applicable to a finan-
cial year will operate in 1940-41 on
“Have you got that line in a blue stripe ?”
assessments, for 1939-40. Income tax ex-
emption remains at £250, but it will dis-
appear at £5OO, against £750 hitherto.
Deductions for dependants remain. As
explained by the Treasurer,
Broadly, the new scale of personal exer-
tion rates provides a tax of sd. in the £
on. incomes up to £5OO. This rate increases
by one-fiftieth of a penny for each pound
, by which the ,income exceeds £5OO, and up
to £lOOO. For incomes from £lOOO to
- £4200 the progressive increase will be one-
hundredth of a penny in the pound, and a
flat rate of 7s. 6d. in the pound will
apply on incomes above £4200.
The new scale of property tax is: Bd. in
the £1 on incomes up to £5OO, thence
increasing by one-fortieth of a penny in
the £1 for each £1 up to £lOOO, and from
there increasing from one-eightieth of a
penny in the £1 for each £1 up to £4200.
Property income exceeding £4200 will
pay a flat rate of 9s. in the £l.
Under the new tax rates a person
with a wife and child receiving a net
personal-exertion income of £4OO will
pay £2 in taxes, against £1 hitherto ; net
income £7OO, tax £l5, against £ll
hitherto ; £lOOO, £42, against £2B.
The most controversial taxation in-
crease is likely to be the excess-profits
tax on companies. Much will depend on
the term “capital employed.” It is
stated that the first 1 p.c. on profits
in excess of 8 p.c. on “capital employed”
will be taxed at 4 p.c. ; between 9 p.c.
and 10 p.c., at 8 p.c. ; between 10 p.c.
and 11 p.c., at 12 p.c. The rate rises
until profits in excess of 22 p.c. on “capi-
tal employed” are disclosed ; in this case
the maximum rate of 60 p.c. operates.
If “capital employed” is to be taken
as that part of a co.’s funds described
under the Companies Acts as “subscribed
and paid-up capital,” then some fictitious
and unfair positions may arise. Take
just two instances. Not long ago Aus-
tralian Consolidated Industries, formerly
Australian Glass, increased its ordinary
capital by an 11-for-4 bonus issue. In
its next accounts it showed earnings
of 8.85 p.c. on ord. capital, against
29.21 p.c. in the preceding term. Actu-
ally profits were substantially bigger in
the later period. A contrasting case is
Mauri Bros, and Thomson. It has a
paid capital of £457,520 and visible re-
serves of £322,113. No bonus issues
have been made for 13 years at least.
This co. has shown profits of over 27
p.c. on ord. capital in its last three
years, though if reserves were taken into
account the ratio would fall substan-
tially.
From an investor’s viewpoint, con-
cerns with a large swag of low-interest
pref. money may find that the taxation
blow is softened for their ord. share-
holders, since “capital employed” would
seem to include pref. capital, even
though the pref. div. were substantially
below 8 p.c. and the ord. div. substan-
tially above that rate. All would be
“capital employed,” and the tendency
would be to reduce the rate of tax.
Subject to further definition or the
principle of some of the taxes, the Treas-
urer’s proposals are no more severe
than many expected. If the war drags
on expensively, of course, it is possible
that when the war-taxation machine beds
down firmly it may be geared to ex-
tract higher rates in some cases.
Mt. Lyell, which recently got special
dispensation from the metal-price fixa-
tion —it has been permitted to charge
present London prices for copper instead
cf pre-war, though portion of the in-
come has to be used for development
has raised its interim div. from 6d. to 9d.
a share. Last year a final of Is. made
Is. 6d. (7i p.c.) for the year. The scrip
firmed following the announcement.
* * * *
Since wheat steadied in price as a
result of contracts with Britain there has
been little or no change in the monthly
averages of prices received for our prin-
cipal exports. In January and February
the Commonwealth Statistician’s index
covering wool, wheat, butter, raw sugar,
beef, lamb and lead was stationary at
844, compared with an average of 675
for the same two months of 1939. Prices
at present are near the level of the
average for 1937-38, though still short
of the peak reached in 1936-37. Costs
at the moment are considerably higher
than in those earlier periods.
* * * *
Profit by Burns, Philp and Co. for the
year to March 31 was £260,621, accord-
ing to the co.’s accounts, compared with
£251,144 in the preceding year. Taking
an unexplained addition of £33,810 to
insurance reserve into account, profit be-
comes £294,431 for the latest year;
deducting £1 6,000 transferred to a staff-
retirement fend, the £284,431 compares
with £290,286 in 1938-39. The co.’s
merchandising business has expanded,
and at present it is endeavoring to form
a trustee co. to act as executor, etc.,
where required by its customers and
others in the Islands and elsewhere. The
trustee co., of course, will be slow in
showing the parent anything worth while
in the way of profits.
Burns Philp owns about two-thirds of
the shares in B.P. (South Sea) Co., which
last year maintained its div. at 6i p.c.
Approximately half the scrip in Queens-
land Insurance is also owned by B.P.
PenneysL, the Queensland chain-store con-
cern, and Jantzen (Aust.) are other cos.
in which B.P. is interested. Investments
in subsidiaries appear in the co.’s books
at £774,527. At present market prices
the holding in Queensland Insurance is
worth more than that, though this parcel
of scrip may be included in another item
labelled “investments in shares in other
cos., also Government loans,” and valued
at £978,160 (“cost, or less depreciation”).
As defined by the N. S. Wales Companies
Act, a subsidiary co. is one in which the
holding co. directly or indirectly holds
more than half the share capital, other-
wise than as security for a loan, or has
more than half the voting power, or has
direct or indirect power of appointing
the majority of directors. Under N. S.
Wales law it is not necessary to publish
aggregate accounts of subsidiaries. The
South Sea offshoot and Queensland In-
surance are, of course, public cos.
The parent co.’s scrip returns 3.8 p.c.
at 535. South Sea shares at 255.
yield 5 p.c.


mm
mm.
. .
mtzt
mmm*
m
mmm
Wmsmk
“Fuel Costs Ijj d Per Here
15 ACRES PER HOUR”
says Mr. L. K. Alker,
of Boggabri, N.S.W.
“TN sowing, our 40 h.p. ‘Caterpillar’ D 6 Tractor pulls three 14 feet
A combines covering 15 acres each hour at a fuel cost of per acre.”
The experience of Mr. Alker demonstrates the remarkable fuel economy
of the “Caterpillar”. In addition “Caterpillar” track-type tread allows
you to get your sowing done on time regardless of weather conditions.
You can go straight on to your paddocks after heavy rain and because
of “Caterpillar’s” light tread there is no packing of the soil.
Get in touch with your nearest “Caterpillar” dealer and ask him to demon-
strate a machine on your place.
CATERPILLAR
•KQD, 08. PAT. OFF*
TRACK-TYPE
TRACTORS
DISTRIBUTORS
New South Woles: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON
PTy. LTD., Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters,
Sydney.
Queensland: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY.
LTD., 102 Melbourne Street, Brisbane.
Victoria and Tasmania: WM. ADAMS &
CO. LTD., Collins St., Melbourne.
West Australia: WIGMORES LIMITED,
Wellington St., Perth.
South Australia: THE S.A. TRACTOR COMPANY,
Flinders St., Adelaide.
8.8.30.40
There are no prospects of an imme-
diate merger between Australasian Paper
and Cumberland Paper owing to the un-
certainty of the taxation position, but
the sharemarket was cheered last week
to hear that a new issue of 600,000 ords.
was to be made by the operating co.,
Australian Paper Manufacturers, to the
two holding cos. It is anticipated that
the holding cos, will ask their share-
holders for most or all of the money
necessary to take up the new issue, and,
since Cumberland’s portion will be
134,292 and A.P. and P.’s 465,708, there
may be a three-for-ten issue to all classes
of Cumberland shareholders and a two-
for-five issue to A.P. and P. ord.-holders.
Cumberland Paper is increasing its nomi-
nal capital by 100,000 ord. shares, and
a new issue is to be made to those on
the register on May 20. The last issue
made by the holding cos. (in 1935) carried
a ss. premium. If a premium is charged
on this occasion it may reduce the
amount of share capital asked for.
The £600,000 issue being made by
A.P.M. will increase its paid capital to
£3,200,000 in 2,000,000 16s. ords., 600,000
£1 ords. and 1,000,000 6 p.c. prefs. All
the ords, are held by A.P. and P. and
Cumberland —the former has a 78 p.c.
interest, the latter 22 p.c. The million
prefs., offered in May, 1937, under
arrangements that aroused some criticism
at the time, provided finance for a pulp
mill in Gippsland and for the further ex-
pansion of the Kraft-paper and paper-
board mills at Fairfield (Vic.) and Botany
(N.S.W.). A new section of the Botany
cardboard mill was opened in June, 1938,
with a capacity of 100 tons of board a
day, with sufficient flexibility to increase
output to 54,000 tons a year. The Mary-
vale (Gippsland) pulp mill, capable of
turning out 25,000 tons of pulp a year,
came into active commercial operation
during the six months to Dec. 31 last.
“Eucalypt pulp is being regularly and
satisfactorily used in the co.’s regular
range of manufactures,” it was an-
nounced in January.
Since the outbreak of war A.P.M.’s
activities have expanded considerably.
Plant has operated at full capacity since
September, notwithstanding the falling-
off in the motor-trade’s demands for
paper-board. Present output of paper
and board is at the rate of 110,000 tons
a year, as against a pre-war maximum
of 90,000 tons. An unsatisfied market
for about 20,000 tons remains, according
to A.P.M.’s board, most of which will be
supplied when the new paper machine
now approaching completion comes into
full production.
The £600,000 of new capital is wanted
to increase the capacity of the Maryvale
pulp mill from 25,000 to 36,000 tons a
year, and to modernise and add to other
auxiliary plants, including power-houses.
The directors say that much of the capi-
tal outlay recently incurred has not yet
contributed to income, and as sales are
steadily increasing they suggest that the
position indicates maintenance of divs.
at 8 p.c. p.a. on all shares in the holding
cos. after the new issue is taken up. It
has been the practice to provide heavily
for depreciation in the past.
* * * *
It has been decided to extend the term
of Professor D. B. Copland as Prices
Commissioner for the duration and six
months thereafter. Salary will be about
£1750 a year. Since war broke out con-
trol of prices 'has been more successful
than many expected.
* * * *
Declared profit of General Motors-
Holden’s for 1939 was £703,650, com-
pared with £850,976 in 1938 and
£1,005,773 in 1937.
* * * *
A voice from South Australia—that of
Howard Lloyd, chairman of the Bank
of Adelaide:
Probably forthcoming loans will be
offered at a rate of interest lower than in
the case of the March loan. It is unwise
to penalise thrift to the point of discour-
agement. If we are prepared to pay with-
out demur high prices for goods, muni-
tions and shipping, and to pay very large
sums for services of individuals, surely then
it is equitable to pay to the thrifty a
reasonable rate for use of fheir savings.
If the war should be prolonged, we can
expect a period of apparent prosperity-
based upon expenditure of huge Govern-
ment loans. It is to be hoped that this
will not in any way hide the necessity
to plan wisely for the future, so that we
may not have a recurrence of what hap-
pened after the last war.
In that planning, three fundamentals are
efficiency, industry and thrift, all of which
can be contributed by every individual and
all of which have never before been so
important.
With regard to thrift, the banker specially
referred to State Governments.
Income from war-savings certificates,
apart from being free of Federal income
tax (B, 1/5/’4O), are also to be free of
State taxes, Federal and State stamp duty,
and are also free of exchange. They are
bearer securities—that is, they may be
sold without any more formality than
the handing-over of the certificates in
exchange for cash.
* * * *
Gibson and Howes, the Bundaberg (Q.)
sugar-grower and -miller, which some
years back put into operation an irri-
gation scheme to save its plantations
during drought, had a good year to Dec.
31 last. At £34,349 the earnings were
up £3837, and represented the best show-
ing since 1927. A bonus of 1 p.c. was
added to the 8| p.c. div., the 9\ p.c.
distribution calling for £26,600. The co.
crushed 224,075 tons of cane for 30,900
tons of sugar—a record output, of which
7900 tons represented “excess” produc-
tion under the peak-year provisions.
The 1939 sugar season was a record
generally. Here are some estimates, with
comparisons over a decade:
Australian
Tons 94 n.t. Consumption, Export,
Year. Produced. Tons. Tons.
1930 .. 535,063 325,211 209,853
1931 .. 604,844 303,414 301,430
1932 .. 532,763 336,698 196,065
1933 .. 666,741 347,456 319,285
1934 .. 642,409 317,581 324,828
1935 .. 646,760 336,541 310,219
1936 .. 782,412 359,337 423,075
1937 .. 809,852 364,917 444,935
1938 .. 821,831 363,461 458,370
1939* .. 927,000 370,000 557,000
* Estimates.
With the increase in the export surplus
far greater than the expansion in Aus-
tralian consumption the average return
to the grower would ordinarily be much
lower than usual —on a tonnage basis.
But early in 1939 the world price of
sugar was better than in 1938, and after
war broke out the British Government
bought the whole of the Australian sur-
plus at a fixed price (7s. 6d. sterling per
hundredweight, plus the preferential
tariff of 3s. 9d.); thus results from the
export surplus were more satisfactory
than usual —about £9 a ton for excess
sugar (against £7 6s. 10d.). Hence the
improvement in Gibson and Howes’s
showing. Sugar from No. 1 pool fetched
about £l6 10s., against £l6 19s. Id.
The British Government is taking the
Australian surplus again this year. Any
rise in freights is to be borne by Britain.
The Commonwealth Government has
again renewed its sugar agreement for
five years, which ensures an unchanged
price for sugar consumed by Australians
until 1946.
* * * *
Stirling Henry, Ltd., a new and pros-
perous Sydney cotton-spinner and knit-
wear-manufacturer, has announced that,
“after lengthy discussion with the direc-
tors of Bradford Cotton Mills, it was not
found possible to effect an amalgamation
of the cos.” on terms it could recommend
to shareholders. The board made use
of the occasion to report that business
continues to expand, all plants running
full time, and a favorable balance sheet
is expected at the end of the financial
year. The first merger rumors that men-
tioned this co. named Davies Coop, of
Victoria (with inter-State subsidiaries), as
the other party. Stirling Henry continues
to do very well on its own, however. In
the term to June 30, 1939, it earned
30.8 p.c. on ord. capital (since enlarged),
and paid a 12i p.c. div. Last week the
co.’s ss. ords. stood at 10s. lid.
* * * #
Davies Coop ords. keep around 305.,
yielding 5 p.c. on a 1\ p.c. div. basis.
Capital is now £523,875 in 366,000 fully-
paid ords., 150,000 f.-p. 6 p.c. prefs. and
34,000 partly-paid ords. The new 100,000
ord. issue made last November ranks
equally for dividend with the older scrip.
Interim div. for the current term was at
an unchanged rate.
* * * *
Adelaide Steam shares, recommended
in B. 17/4/’4O at 325. 6d., rose to 355.
6d. buyers, 375. sellers, last week.
» * * *
Sydney newspapers shares were par-
ticularly rickety in last week’s share-
market. Associated News ords. slumped
to 125., while last sales of Consolidated
Press prefs. were made at 15s. Truth
ords. were sold at the same figure. No
daily evening paper has yet emerged
from “Truth’s” office.
* * * *
During April Tableland Tin (Return
Creek, Mt. Garnet, Q.) handled 90,000
c.y. (mostly opening-out tailings) for 26.5
tons of tin concentrates, valued at £5232.
Costs were £2865, leaving a mine profit
of £2367. Since the beginning of 1940
281,000 c.y. has been treated for 93.7
tons tin cons., valued at £17,992, costs
£11,511, working profit £6481


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
NORWAY BETRAYED.
[London “Daily Telegraph” described the amazing
story “from a special correspondent” here condensed
as '“The story of the treachery among Nazi sup-
porters in Norway and highly-placed officials which
made possible to the German Navy and Army their
unchallenged entry into Oslo.”]
Between midnight and noon on April 9 Nor-
way’s capital, all her principal seaports and her most
strategically valuable coastal defences fell into Ger-
man hands. I spent those hours in Oslo, together
with two American newspapermen, Warren Irvin and
Edmund Steevens, and we could scarcely accept the
evidence of our eyes. I had to remain in Oslo through
four days of the German occupation to learn how
this miracle of lightning naval and military occupation
was made possible. Then I could scarcely believe my
ears.
Norway’s capital and great seaports were not
captured by armed force. They were seized with
unparalleled speed by means of conspiracy. By
bribery and extraordinary infiltration on the part of
Nazi agents, and by treason on the part of a few
highly-placed Norwegian civilian and defence officials,
the German dictatorship built its Trojan horse inside
Norway. Absolute control by key men in adminis-
trative positions and in the Navy turned the trick. .
For the success of the German plan the capture
of three key cities —Oslo, Bergen and Narvik —was
essential. It is reported that Narvik was betrayed
to the Germans by its commanding officer. [London
“Times,” under the headings “How Germans Got
Into Narvik: A Norwegian Traitor,” reported assist-
ance given to the Germans by the commander of
the port of Narvik: “The capture of Narvik must
be attributed to a combination of surprise and assist-
ance from within.”] How Bergen’s harbor defences
were taken remains a mystery so far as I can learn.
But most important of all to the Nazi plot was the
immediate domination of Oslo Fiord, with its mighty
fortresses, and the forcing of its virtually impregnable
narrows at Drobak, together with the seizure of the
great Norwegian naval base at Horten. Only in
this manner could the Germans penetrate to Oslo
and deliver the almost irreparable blow to Norway’s
Parliamentary Government.
To seize the whole of Oslo Fiord and force its
narrows would have appeared impossible to any
foreign Government except the Nazi Dictatorship ; but
by methods even more astonishingly efficient than
those which it used against Austria or Czechoslovakia,
the inconceivable was accomplished. To understand
the scope of the conspiracy one must go back to some-
where near the climax of the plot. In Oslo I learned
on most reliable authority that Germany’s sea forces
and troopships sailed from the German ports for their
Norwegian adventure during the night of Thursday,
April 4 —three full days before the British mined the
upper Norwegian coast between Bergen and Narvik.
On Friday night, April 5, while the German
fleet and transports were already steaming towards
Norway, an event of enormous historical importance
occurred at Oslo. The German Legation held a
soiree to which were invited 200 persons representing
Norway’s most influential personalities. All the mem-
bers of the Government were invited, many officers
of the defence forces, and leading bankers, shipping
executives and industrialists. The invitation emphasised
the importance of the soiree by stipulating white ties,
uniforms “and decorations.” Despite the great
formality imposed it was no official dinner. Norway’s
elite had been invited to see “an unusually interesting
film.” It proved to be the cinema film “Baptism of
Fire,” which depicts in most graphic details Germany’s
aerial destruction in Poland. For over an hour the
distinguished Norwegian audience sat in icy silence,
gripped by the horror of its scenes. Afterwards the
German Minister explained that the film was not a
war but a peace film, since it showed what nations
which chose peace would save their people from
suffering. The Norwegians left the German Legation
that night filled with gloomy, ominous thoughts.
On Sunday night the British sowed the minefields
below Narvijc. On Monday Berlin’s press flamed
against that “provocation.” In the first hours of
Tuesday, April 9, Norway’s naval defences were be-
trayed to the German fleet and the first German troops
were landed at Fornebo, Oslo’s airport, a few hours
after daybreak. Afterwards a Norwegian sailor who
verified the developments declared: “It was only
through treason that the Germans got in.”
The Narrows of Oslo Fiord were mined and con-
trolled from Drobak. About 1.30 on the morning of
April 9 these mines were all rendered harmless by
being electrically disconnected from the Drobak
control. This enabled a German cruiser to penetrate
the Narrows.
In this fashion Norway’s capital was betrayed
from within and the German occupation of Oslo
assured before its Government knew what had hap-
pened. The same madness of incomprehensible
events continued all day long. First there was mysti-
fication over the city’s complete lack of defence from
its naval forces and coastal forts. Then it was the
immunity of the low-flying Nazi ’planes to the thou-
sands of machine-gun bullets which spattered almost
incessantly until after 10 o’clock. Then it was the
further fact that only one anti-aircraft battery seemed
to be firing against the German ’planes, and that even
this became silent after firing only a few shells, all of
which were inexplicably wide of their mark.
Norway’s capital in every quarter was a scene
of dazed disorganisation, completely without leader-
ship. Apparently even the men who had been called
to the colors did not know where to go or simply
forgot about it. The streets were filled with men
of fighting age, all standing watching the German
’planes, waiting and speculating, but doing nothing
and going nowhere.
It was like this until 2.30. Then, as I walked
up to the hotel desk, the porter asked me, “Aren’t
you going out to see the Germans come in?” “What
do you mean, the Germans?” “Yes, they’re marching
up Carljohan Boulevard any minute now.” I called
Irvin and Steevens; we rushed outside into the
strangest scene imaginable. Oslo’s beautiful main
boulevard was jammed with people all flocking to
see the Germans come in. Strangest of all were the
Norwegian policemen calmly forming lines along the
pavements, clearing the streets for the Germans’
triumphal entry. One policeman told me the Germans
would be there within 10 minutes.
Shortly before three o’clock two lorries filled
with a dozen German soldiers rolled along the street.
Soldiers lolled in them with rifles dangling as if they
had been assured that they had not the slightest resist-
ance to fear. From the rear of the second lorry two
machine-guns poked their noses out, straight down the
boulevard. Their crews lay prone, with intent, hard
faces, ready to fire. This was the only show of force
and all that was needed.
At 3.3 a murmur ran through the crowd. We
could see two mounted men swinging into the boule-
vard in front of the Palace, then six more, then the
head of a marching column in field-grey. The mounted
men were Norwegian policemen actually escorting
the German troops which were occupying the capital.
The German column marched through a lane
of 20,000 or 30,000 Osloans, fully half of whom were
men of military age. A tall, broad-shouldered officer,
—“Daily Herald,” London.
MUSSOLINI’S DILEMMA.
Ribbentrop: “With the Führer’s compliments, your Excellency!”
Gen. von Falkenhorst, and two other officers marched
directly behind the mounted police. Then came the
German regulars in column of threes.
They were hard-muscled, stony-faced men. They
marched with rifles on shoulders with beautiful pre-
cision. Mostly they stared straight ahead, but some
could not restrain triumphant smiles in the direction
of the onlookers. Several times Falkenhorst and the
other two officers returned the Nazi salutes of persons
in the crowd.
It was a thin, unbelievably short column. It
required only six or seven minutes to march past.
It was composed only of two incomplete battalions
—surely less than 1500 men in all. Norway’s capital
of nearly 300,000 inhabitants was being occupied by
a German force of approximately 1500 men.
The last of the German troops went by without
a single jeer or hiss, without a single tear noticeable
on any Norwegian face. Thousands of young men
stood watching this occupation parade. Not one hand
or voice was raised. We could discern no sign of
resentment upon any face about us. This was the
most incomprehensible thing among all the incompre-
hensible things of this fantastic 24 hours. The only
indignant people we met or saw that day were
foreigners.
The Germans simply paraded in, taking the
capital over. Now they went to work. It was the
urgent task of the tiny force of 1500 men to seize
the key places of the nation’s capital. They did it
swiftly, without any fear of interruption.
Next day, Wednesday, was as unbelievable as the
events of April 9 had been. Twoscore German soldiers
filled the open windows of the third floor of the
Parliament building, all singing lustily, while one
pumped joyfully at his accordion. Osloans stood
watching and listening on the pavements below. I
looked closely, but as far as I could see they were
simply curious and somGwhat entertained. Wherever
we went we saw groups of young people clustered
round German soldiers on guard. Some of them
chatted pleasantly with the soldiers, some stared at
their rifles and machine-guns and asked questions
about them. Many young girls gazed admiringly at
the men in field-grey uniforms.
*****
(From a report by Ralph Hewins, ‘‘Daily Mail”
correspondent in Norway .)
At Halden German agents bought key Norwegian
officers, who refused to issue ammunition. This also
happened at Fredrikstad, where no shot was fired.
A fugitive from Halden complained, as many others
do, that they were mobilised but never received ammu-
nition or uniforms owing to the treachery of certain
officers. “If we had had only rook rifles we could
have stopped them. Now we are searching for a
better commander.” *
****,,
{From "Time and Tide.”) ,
The picture of successful intrigue by fitters
agents looks almost inconceivably appalling
British public, which has thought of Norway as
model democracy, populated by seafaring,
working people very much like ourselves j
Better educated, better governed, more united
exemplary honesty. When Poland fell, there wer
plenty of critics to whisper that public funds had be
misspent, that some of her public men KjL
means above suspicion, that native courage had been
wantonly sacrificed to incompetent and P ossl £Z
rupt leadership. But no one thought that Norway
would prove only a few months later to have far wor
traitors among its own most responsible public men.
If there were so many traitors to betray tne Nor-
wegians, so many that the towns and ports were
entered by the enemy through doors opened wide ana
left almost completely unguarded, where can we put
any trust?
{From Major-General Sir Charles Gwynn’s weekly semi-
official newsletter.)
It has come as a shock to learn how a nation
so highly civilised and so universally admired could
have been so honeycombed by treachery. Hitler, not
content with corrupting his own people, has aimed at
infecting all others. Let us trust that the infection
in Norway is on the surface only. Nothing, however,
can be too bad for traitors who betray their country
and are willing to sacrifice the lives of thousands ot
their fellow - countrymen.
Other nations threatened
by Hitler’s poison have
been warned and have
taken steps to disinfect
themselves.
* * *
Allied Initiative
{From a London “New
Statesman” article.)
When the Supreme
War Council met on
March 28 it decided to
take the initiative. France
was restive after the Allied
failure to give help in
Finland; intrigues were
afoot; public opinion had
to be satisfied. The Rey-
naud Government de-
pended on a display of
energy. The decision was
made to tighten the block-
ade. No further iron ore
was to reach Germany
from Sweden. The Swedes
and Norwegians were in-
formed that any further
advance by Germany or
Russia would be countered by British and French
force, even if the Norwegian and Swedish Govern-
ments were slow to accept protection. Mines were
to be so laid that German shipping would be forced
into the open seas where it would be at the mercy of
the Allied blockade. The justification for these strong
measures was the total disregard of international law
by the Germans, and the knowledge that the Nazis
were already using their familiar technique of internal
aggression in Scandinavia. Sooner or later we should
have been confronted with a fait accompli in Nor-
way and Sweden unless we acted. On this occasion
we decided to take the initiative.
The Allied plan was by no means wholly secret.
Its gist was known to many persons here and no doubt
to the Germans. The decision to lay mines in Nor-
wegian territorial waters was gossip in informed
circles, and the tenor of the Allied note to Norway
and Sweden could be guessed even though it was not
yet officially presented to the Scandinavian Govern-
ments.
* * * * *
Britain’s Scandinavian Trade
{From a London “Daily Mail” article by Negley Farson.)
In the two years preceding this war Britain sold
to Scandinavia more goods than she sold to India,
double the amount sold to the Argentine. Scandinavia
took as much from Britain as did France, Belgium,
Holland and Italy combined. British shipments to the
16,500,000 people in the four Northern countries were
worth as much as her total exports to the 60,000,000
Germans and the 120,000,000 people of the United
States.
Under recent trade agreements, the Scandinavian
countries consented to take from 70 to 80 per cent,
of their coal supply from Britain. This was one of
the first weapons that Germany used against these
countries at the beginning of this war. “If England
can’t supply you,” boasted the Nazis, “we can!” —
and offered them cheap Polish coal from Gdynia and
Danzig. I was in Copenhagen in December when the
Scandinavians were facing this dilemma. They had
based their industrial economy on these British ship-
ments — Britain was sending these four countries
£10,000,000 of coal and coke a year. What could
they do if we failed? The Germans had the answer.
Denmark was buying something like £7,000,000
maize and oil-seeds for her pigs and cattle. You know
what happened in England (and is still happening) to
the pigs and chickens and the cattle when the feed-
stuffs did not come through. Denmark had 3,100,000
cattle, 3,500,000 pigs, 500,000 horses and 30,000,000
chickens to feed. Normally, 70 per cent, of the maize
came from the United States and Canada ; but all
the seed-cake came from the British Empire. The


Germans had no answer for this, because they were
hoping to import for themselves maize from Russia,
and they did not have enough seed-cake for their
own needs. The Danes in desperation bought five
ships to run soya beans from Dairen, in Manchuria,
back and forth, back and forth.
The Germans have occupied Denmark, but what
are they going to do about it? They are still no
nearer to getting any fodder. If they eat the pigs
they may fill their hungry stomachs for a time —and
pigs could replace themselves by quick propagation,
as pigs do, after the war. But if they eat the cattle,
then Denmark’s agricultural basis is wrecked. The
Soviets discovered this when their peasants, seeing
themselves forced into the collective farms, -ate their
cattle rather than have them go to the State. One of
the most serious problems of the Soviets today is to
replace this livestock on the land. As a kulack
said to me when I asked him why he was carrying
on about an ox being so much more valuable to him
than a tractor: “ Baren , in time of famine you can eat
the ox —you cannot eat a tractor.”
If Ribbentrop could fulfil his boast, “From now
on no Englishman or Frenchman shall set foot in
Scandinavia,” £103,000,000 of British imports would
stop; about 11 per cent, of Britain’s needs. Britain,
failing supply from the Scandinavian countries and
the Baltic States, would have to depend for timber
either on the Soviets or the Pacific forests of Canada.
Forty per cent, of Britain’s iron imports would have
vanished. An impossible position.
And Britain, largely because of her Ottawa-
necessitated trade treaties, was taking 60 per cent,
of Denmark’s exports, 47 per cent, of Finland’s,
28 per cent, of Norway’s, 25 per cent, of Sweden’s.
Where would these things go? Not to Germany. They
would vanish. And with them would go the highest
civilisation developed in Europe under democratic
Governments.
Threatened Holland.
[Condensed from a London “Daily Telegraph’’
article by Dorothy Thompson, “most distinguished of
American commentators,” who is investigating con-
ditions in various European countries.]
The army of the Netherlands and the army of
Belgium are mobilised in anticipation of an attack
from Nazi Germany. Whether their anxiety is justified
or not, the fact of the mobilisation must be taken
seriously. For the Dutch are not a hysterical people ;
they are probably the least hysterical people in
Europe.
An attack on Holland is an attack oh western
civilisation. If it happens it will mean that neutrality
is a myth. If it happens it will be a crime not only
against the Netherlands but a crime against all
decency, all civilisation and against the very concept
of neutrality.
The Nazis want submarine bases in Holland,
They asked for them. The demand was, entirely
properly, refused. It was not ostentatiously refused.
The news was not given any publicity. For Holland
wishes to remain on the best possible terms with both
sides in this war. During the last war the Dutch
handled an ultimatum from the Kaiser so tactfully,
with such political and diplomatic skill, that the facts
about it never leaked out until the war was over.
Holland must tread warily. She is wide open to
Germany. She is a nation of less than 9,000,000
people facing a nation of 80,000,000. Since 1936
Holland has accomplished remarkable things with her
armament, but no conceivable armament could make
her position anything but precarious.
Twenty-three per cent, of Holland’s exports go to
Great Britain, 15.6 per cent, to Germany, 6 per
cent, to the United States, Of her imports, 23.3 per
cent, are from Germany, 9.3 per cent, from Great
Britain, and 7 per cent, from the United States. In
peace and in war, therefore, the destiny of Holland
hangs between Great Britain and Germany, and she
has cultivated good relations with both to an exquisite
degree. In this position she has stayed at peace for
a century and developed a solid prosperity.
Although in the last war the sympathies of the
Dutch were strongly divided between Germany and
England, their sympathies today are with the Allies.
That is inevitable for two reasons. First, everything
that the Nazis stand for —dictatorship, on top of an
organised mob ; persecution of minorities ; suppres-
sion of free thought and open or underground war-
fare against religion —is wholly incompatible with the
Dutch temperament or the Dutch tradition, and there
is very little in Holland on which revolutionary move-
ments can feed. The Nazis tried to honeycomb Hol-
land with their agents, but the agents were unsuccess-
ful. A Nazi movement exists, but makes no headway.
Holland cannot be undermined from within.
Secondly, the Dutch people are pro-Ally because
a Nazi victory may mean the subjection of their in-
dependence. They have no such fears from England
and France. If Holland is attacked, Belgium and
France will defend her.
But the Hollanders do not want their country
to be made into a battleground. They do not want
to flood the land they have drained, or spill the
blood of their youth, or have their beautiful towns,
their lovely public beaches, their handsome housing
complexes for workers, their unparalleled museums
destroyed —along with their women and children —
from the air. They believe that an intelligent, well
educated, productive and united people can find their
destiny by quite other means than war. But if they
are not allowed to do so they will fight. They will
not sell one scrap of their independence out of fear.
They cannot be blackmailed.
Communists in France.
(From a London “Time and Tide” leader.)
In France public opinion fully supports M. Rey-
naud’s Government decree by which the dissemination
of Nazi and Communist propaganda is declared a
treasonable offence and punishable by death. Indeed,
from the beginning of the war the demand for action
against the Communists even stronger than the action
taken has been made by overwhelming majorities in
all the French parties. The reason is obvious enough.
The Communists work hand in glove with the Nazis,
the propaganda of both is indistinguishable, and the
aims of both are identical.
Only a brief study of the contents of Communist
propaganda tracts is required to perceive how close
is the working partnership between Communists and
Nazi agents. To take a few examples, the following
slogans containing direct incitement to sabotage the
fighting material of a nation at War and to disintegrate
its morale have been printed on leaflets signed by
the French Communist party and distributed in thou-
sands to munition workers and soldiers on leave:
One hour less for National production means one
more hour gained for the Revolution.
By every possible means, by uniting all the resources
of your intelligence and your technical knowledge:
HINDER, SET BACK, DELAY and RENDER
USELESS ALL PRODUCTS and FABRICATIONS
OF WAR.
The French soldier is paid one franc . fifty (about
one penny halfpenny) a day.
The British soldier is paid 30 francs a day.
That is what Chamberlain and Daladier call Equality.
How well this fits with the Nazi slogans that are
bawled out ten times a day by the loudspeakers on
the Western Front:
The Third Reich wants only one thing: to live in
peace with France, whom it respects.
The enemy that must be destroyed is the British
Empire. The British hypocrisy which under the pretext
of alliance is trying its hardest to enslave y0u....
On some occasions the Communists find that they
cannot improve on the German original, as, for in-
stance, in the following slogan, which is broadcast
—“Daily Mirror,” London.
DEAD MEN DO TELL TALES.
Shetland fishermen who reached a battered ship’s lifeboat as it was being
swept towards the rocks yesterday (April 17) found grim evidence of U-boat
terrorism. In the bottom of the lifeboat lay eight dead men. Another,
an Arab, was dying. Fifteen other men were huddled together in the last
stages of thirst and hunger. Adrift in stormy seas for four days and nights,
they were the only survivors of the London steamer Stancliffe (4511 tons),
torpedoed off the North Scottish coast. — London “Daily Mail.”
regularly in French by Germany and has been printed
verbatim in a Communist tract:
Workers of all countries unite so that British Capital-
ism shall be wiped out.
It is scarcely surprising that the attitude of the
fighting forces is adamant. French soldiers who, at the
front, see or hear ad nauseam posters and loudspeakers
diffusing the same defeatist propaganda as is being
spread by Communists in the interior take the view
that the treatment of traitors inside the country should
not be milder than that applied to soldiers if they
are caught engaging in similar activities.
(Condensed from an article by a “Time and Tide"
French correspondent.)
The action taken by the French Government is
only one aspect of the general position of the Com-
munists in France. The one thing which must be
understood is that the whole country has repudiated
Communism. It was not just the Government which
for reasons of security suppressed a dangerous party ;
it was the French nation which by democratic means
clearly gave expression to its firm determination to
outlaw Communism.
This determination has been demonstrated on a
national scale not only by normal Parliamentary pro-
cedure but also by measures taken by working-class
and syndicalist movements. The C.G.T. (Federation
of Trade Unions) last September took the initiative
by condemning the Soviet invasion, expelling those of
its members who continued to adhere to the Third
International, and dissolving the unions and federa-
tions that were under the influence of the Communist
minority.
Government action followed, and later the voice
of the people was heard in Parliament when the ex-
pulsion of the Communist Deputies was voted by
enormous majorities in all parties. The Government
had if anything to restrain Parliament. The April 5
decree was announced only after the 35 Communist
Deputies indicted for defeatist agitation and incite-
ment to sabotage had undergone a trial whose con-
duct was so absolutely fair that not a single complaint
was made by the defendants that their rights had
been restricted or violated. Incidentally, the sentences
passed on these Communists were judged to be too
lenient by French public opinion and in particular
by soldiers in the line.
Surely the essence of democracy is the sovereignty
of the people? Communism which is condemned by
the working-classes and by the nation cannot be called
the victim of Government oppression. In the French
view, when a minority is in the pay of a foreign State,
indeed of the enemy, and the nation is in danger, this
minority is no longer merely an opposition but an
outlaw. As M. Frossard has recently said: “We are
no longer suppressing Communism, but Stalinism.”
And it must be treated as such with severity when it
possesses a group of agents numerous enough or suffi-
ciently high-placed to be dangerous.
The French fully understand the British attitude
to conscientious objectors, although that attitude
shocks all their ideas of patriotism and good citizen-
ship. They naturally expect the British to show the
same understanding towards the Communist problem
in France. Surely, they feel, it is clear that the
separatist and defeatist activity of the Soviet agents
is precisely the same as that of their German asso-
ciates against England in France, against which the
French authorities have done so much. And surely
it is clear also that it is not France, but Great Britain
and the British Empire which are the principal objec-
tives of the campaign of the Comintern. The dangers
Britain and France have to face are too great for them
to leave any doubts as to their friendship and fore-
sight.
In Finsbury Square.
(Hannen Swoffer, in London “Daily Herald.”)
Pro-Germans stood up as usual in Finsbury-square
at lunchtime yesterday (April 15) and made seditious
speeches. It is their habit to do
so every Monday and Friday.
When Labor obtained from
Chamberlain, before the war
started, a promise that, despite
the Sedition Act, freedom of speech
and opinion would be allowed, it
was little realised what advantage
would be taken of that pledge. As
part of the anti-war activities, per-
haps a dozen meetings of a Fascist
flavor take place in London every
week — at midday lunch-hours in
Finsbury-square and Lincoln’s Inn
Fields and in Hyde Park on Sun-
days. Although the word “Fascist”
is no longer used, all the old
Fascist phrases, such as “This is a
Jewish banker’s war,” are uttered,
parrotwise.
On April 5 a speaker distributed
to a Finsbury-square crowd the
Marquis of Tavistock’s pamphlet
“Can We Trust Hitler?” —the in-
genuous Marquis wrote this before
the invasion of Denmark and Nor-
way —and then proceeded to “de-
bunk,” as he said, the atrocity
stories issued with the approval of
the British Government. He made
the following points, among others:
That the Athenia was not
sunk by a German submarine but
that a Maritime Court in America
had proved that it was sunk by a
British destroyer!
That the prisoners on the Alt-
mark were not ill-treated.
That the story of the gunning
of unarmed fishermen and the
sinking of fishing trawlers “was a
deliberate propaganda lie to stir
up hatred, issued by Mr. Winston Churchill, the lying
scoundrel,” and that in sinking these ships the Ger-
mans were acting quite legitimately.
One speaker has boasted from the platform that
he used to be a burglar —“driven to burglary by the
Jews.”
The comic thing is that the war is being waged
in defence of the freedom of speech —and that these
Fascist-minded folk, who object to freedom of speech,
oppose a war being waged so that they can enjoy the
right to make speeches opposing freedom!
Isolationist America.
(Condensed from a letter, signed J. Radinsky, Washing-
ton, in London “Spectator.”)
With increasing asperity English periodicals and
newspapers are harshly impatient with America and
Americans for the following reasons:
(1) They are so purblind that they cannot see
that England and France are fighting their battle.
(2) Their superficialness of character makes them
confuse the issues at stake, disables them from
squarely facing realities, and throws them back upon
their own fetish of isolation, which they hysterically
idolise.
(3) Having shown that they are too mean-spirited
to do the right thing in the fight which the democracies
of England and France are waging against totali-
tarianism, they should at least have the elemental
decency to keep their mouths shut and not bellow out
their opinions as to the conduct of the war, or offer
their insulting and gratuitous advice, or send emis-
saries to go poking about in affairs which definitely
do not concern them.
The Americans have no desire to gainsay these
notions. Most are unaware of them, evincing little
or no interest in the judgments which foreign nations
may opine about them. So little do they care for the
good opinion of others that, unlike other peoples,
they never put their best foot forward in the outside
world, shooting motion pictures and books, showing
their corruption, perversion, gangland excesses, politi-
cal chicanery and general rottenness, in a constant
stream, which they have been doing now for a good
many years. If the rest of this planet think that the
United States is a country largely inhabited by
racketeers, crooked politicians and promiscuous


females, why, that’s O.K. with the Americans. You’re
entitled to your opinion, mister, and I’m entitled to
mine ; and, by the way, how do you think the baseball
season is going to come out?
It is a fact that people will not fight for abstrac-
tions ; they must have something their senses can
grasp. You say that you are fighting for democracy.
That is a pretty abstract word. Just exactly what do
you mean by democracy? If what you mean by
democracy was the system practised in England just
before the war, you will find many here in America
who will dissent to your use of the term. I, as an
American, do not consider equal justice for all as
denoting democracy, or even equable political repre-
sentation. Democracy must stand on a different basis
than something which is grudgingly given by a con-
ciliatory upper class to classes which are hard pressing
it. Democracy must stand on the ground of the
most common and least privileged of the people com-
posing a country. It first must be of the people
before it can be by or for it. Therefore you do not
touch us when you say that you are fighting for
democracy. You are not fighting for our kind of
democracy.
Neither are we relations that are being untrue
to their sanguine and spiritual affiliations. If we are
relations at all, it is only illegitimately. The institutions
of this country are Anglo-Saxon in so far as they
were established by men of English blood, but their
views were not the views prevailing in the England
of Dr. Johnson and Edmund Burke ; in fact, they
were in the minority on this side of the Atlantic, and
had to force their way of life on the majority. The
War of Independence was not only a rebellion against
the authority of the English Crown, but it was a civil
war as well. Those loyalists that did not want the
American way of life migrated to Canada, whose
English-speaking parts, together with New Zealand
and Australia, are the direct descendants of the British
polity. The Americans and the English have different
customs, different laws and legal procedures, different
educational systems, different forms
of government and different sys-
tems of society. Even their spoken
languages are hardly the same.
What special affinity can this
country be to England, or the Eng-
lish point of view, when we take
into account the 14,000,000 negroes,
the 20,000,000 people of Germanic
blood, the 6,000,000 Italians, the
5,000,000 Jews (of whom I am one),
the millions of Poles, Czechs.
Slovaks, Hungarians, Croatians,
Irish, Norwegians, Swedes, Danes,
Mexicans, Greeks, Albanians,
Finns, Russians, besides Japanese,
Chinese and Filipinos; not to men-
tion the Indians. If this country
had had the English outlook all
along, all these people mentioned
could not be here now ; instead of
a policy welcoming the oppressed
of all nations, there would have
been a policy of exclusion, similar
to that practised in Australia ; in-
stead of 132,000,000 people, there
would be at the most 50,000,000,
living in an undeveloped continent.
We are not your blood-brothers
and your ways are not our ways.
Your democracy is not our democ-
racy, and we will not fight to help
you preserve it. Should the time
come, and we hope it won’t, when
we will be the only opponent to totalitarianism, we
feel confident that we can maintain our way of life,
come what may. Being Americans, and hating
abstractions, the various recondite arguments set forth
by the contestants confuse us and irritate us. We
know that England and France are fighting for some-
thing worth while, but it is not for democracy or
the rights of man, because we sincerely believe that
you never had them and hardly know what they are.
Brutality in Poland.
o Condensed from a London “Time and Tide” letter,
signed Jules Menken and Noel Newsome.)
The German plan for the exploitation of Poland
has a ruthlessness which only the Teutonic mind at
its worst could conceive and none but the Prussian
spirit could execute. The plan aims, according to
documents quoted in the “Times,” at drawing, “up
to the utmost possible limit upon the economic
resources of the territory for all our [German] re-
quirements resulting from the necessity of raising the
military strength of the Reich without a moment’s
delay.”
The principal provisions of the plan, according
to instructions drawn up and issued jointly by Goring
and Frank (the Governor-General of German-occupied
Poland) to the German authorities responsible, include
the following:
The maximum possible increase of Polish agricultural
production and its earmarking for German military and
other requirements. “Only if there is a surplus after
this will the Poles themselves receive anything.”
The ruthless exploitation of timber and available
mineral and chemical resources.
The restriction of industrial plant (and therefore
production) for Polish use “to a bare minimum”; plant
suitable for German needs to be retained; the rest to
be dismantled and sent to Germany to be used as scrap.
“At least 1,000,000 men and women to be deported
as workers to Germany”; of whom about 750,000 to
be used for farm work; this latter total to include
about 375,000 women.
“Poles engaged in work for Germany will receive
sufficient food to keep up their strength. The rest will
receive a bare minimum of rations."
The phrases in inverted commas are quoted from
the “Times.” The plunder, destruction and enslave-
ment on a nation-wide scale which this monstrous
plan involves represent a disaster that can certainly
not be paralleled in Europe in Christian times and
can scarcely be equalled by the worst excesses of
non-Christian barbarism. Already 2\ millions of
Polish men, women and children have perished at
German hands from mass starvation, ill-treatment
and inhuman exposure to cold. The organisation of
Polish life has been utterly destroyed. The flower of
the Polish people—their intellectual, scientific, political
and artistic elite —has been cut down by the German
scythe and trampled into the mire by the Prusso-
National-Socialist jackboot.
Inured to the suffering of others as the Western
world has become through the countless brutalities
of recent years, here is a tragedy which we dare not
allow to pass. In the Allies’ own life-and-death
struggle with Germany, not much material or financial
help can be spared for these miserable victims—or
could reach them if it were set aside. We can resolve
that such restitution as is humanly possible shall be
made after our victory. And we can mark, learn
and inwardly digest their meaning as regards our own
danger and our own war aims. For this devastation
of Poland represents the mildest fate which would
certainly overtake Britain and France if they should
be defeated ; and the final destruction of the organised
German military power which committed them must
be the first and most fundamental of our purposes
in the present struggle.
Kinks in Soviet Transport.
(Condensed from a London "Economist” article.)
The Reich’s riposte to the Allies’ power of
blockade was the economic agreement with the Soviets.
Even if the goods required by both sides under this
agreement can be produced, which will be far from
easy, the trade alliance will still stand or fall by the
ability of Russia’s transport system to carry them.
For Germany this problem is vital.
Ever since the Revolution the sole aim of Soviet
transport policy has been to build up a satisfactory
system of internal communications. Practically no
attention has been paid to international connections ;
—“Daily Sketch,” London.
POLAND—THE AFTERMATH.
and even now, after more than two decades, the
purely domestic transport problem is far from solved.
Even though daily wagon loadings have risen by 340
per cent, they are still very low compared with
Western industrial countries. The density of Russian
railway traffic too often means congestion and intoler-
able delays. More locomotives are needed: between
1913 and 1922 the number fell from 20,000 to 6000; it
on ty 23,000 now, though the traffic has been multi-
plied six times since 1913. New lines, and above all
new subsidiary lines, are needed if Russia s railway
“ & eVen f ° f domestlC reqUire '
Some success has been achieved in air transport,
but this too, has very obvious limitations. Quanti-
tatively, Russia s transport problems can in no way be
solved in the air. Nor can transport by road or by
water be expected to solve Russia’s domestic prob-
i ems of distribution in the near future, let alone the
problem of Russo-German trade.
The traffic carried on rivers and canals did not
reach 1913 level of 48 million tons until 1933. The
river fleet, which in 1913 consisted of 5556 mechani-
cally propelled and 24,186 other vessels with a total
capacity of 13 million tons, had shrunk by 1936 to
3070 mechanically propelled and 6507 others, with a
capacity of only 5| million tons. In the main, it is
comparatively local traffic that makes use of Russian
canals, the country’s second line of transport.
The Soviets claim to have 1,368,000 miles of “con-
structed” roads but 1 146 000 miles are classified as
“natural gravel” roads,'while of the rest, registered as
“made-up” roads, only a minute fraction (mainly in
and around cities and towns) have surfaces akin to
Western highways This is the background to the
Soviets’ polfcy of large-scale motor-vehicle production.
In 1937 Russia s output of lorries and buses was
jg 2 000 giving Russia second place in world manu-
factnre ’ (The United States produced 894 000, the
United Kingdom 114,000 and Germany 63,000.) But
the roads to carry these Russian vehicles over any
long distances simply do not exist.
Even a bird’s-eye view of Russian transport facili-
ties shows clearly that the Soviets have not nearly
solved their own domestic problem, despite over 20
years directed to that end only. For home use alone
many thousands of miles of fresh railway track are
needed, many more locomotives and goods wagons; a
whole new river and canal fleet is required and a
wholesale reconstruction of inland waterways and
roads. Now, when the test of distribution beyond the
Russian frontiers is being experienced, the strain is
plainly severe. The campaign in Finland was lament-
ably lacking on the supply side. Deliveries of grain
and oil to Germany have been seriously hampered.
There is an absence of adequate railway outlets west-
wards. There is an acute shortage of tank wagons.
There are differences of gauge between the railways
of Russia and those of her neighbors.
A determined drive with German aid to open the
gates to the West might improve matters in time. But
no very efficient system of external communications
can easily be attached to an inadequate internal
transport system.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment from
various acknowledged sources .)
The effect of competition for produce in Rumania
in recent months has been to raise prices to a ludi-
crously uneconomic level. Rumanian oil stands at
about two and a half times the quotation for Mexi-
can, and other prices have increased more or less
proportionately. — “Great Britain and the East.”
* * * * *
Appointments to the four highest ranks of the
Women’s Auxiliary Territorial Service, according to
the “Gazette” of March 30 (“Honorables” are in-
cluded as titles): —
Rank. Titled. Untitled. Total.
Chief Controller 1 0 \
Controller 2 0 2
Chief Commandant .. -.9 17
Senior Commandant .. .. 16 36
All higher ranks .. .. ..28 53 81
With the exception of the Chief Controller (Dame
Helen Gwynne-Vaughan) and of one Dame among
the Chief Commandants, who have earned their title
by their own achievements, the remaining 26 titled
ladies owe their rank to birth or marriage (or both).
It looks as though, while demo-
cratising the army, we are aris-
tocratising the A.T.S. — From
“Critic's” “New Statesman” notes.
* * *
A provincial editor in a town of
100,000 people made the first direct
reference to the imminent possi-
bility of Italy entering the war. But
Giovanni Ansaldo is considerably
more than the boss of the Leghorn
“Telegrafo.” He is the chief kite-
flier for the Italian Foreign Office.
He says what Foreign Minister
Ciano wants said but doesn’t want
to say himself. Ansaldo it was who
less than a year ago was authorised
to define Italy’s Lebensraum. He
defined it as Yugoslavia, Albania,
Greece, and parts of Hungary and
Bulgaria. —Froom Tyler ; London
“Daily Mail.”
* * *
For the past three years the
Germans have doubled and re-
doubled their efforts to perfect the
network of spies that infests every
department of life in Yugoslavia
today. Unless you had black hair
and an obviously non-Aryan nose,
the natural reaction of every mem-
ber of the hotel where I stayed in
Belgrade was to address you in
German. I certainly heard more
German spoken than Serbian during the whole time
I was there. This was not, as might be assumed, be-
cause German is the lingua franca of Yugoslavia, but
because a foreigner is more likely to be a German
than a member of any other nation. — Philip Thorn-
ton ; “News Chronicle.”
* * * *
The business notepaper of a London firm (run,
incidentally, by a lady) bears in the corner the legend
“Our telegraphic address is: “chastity, London.”
Across it is inscribed with a rubber stamp, “Cancelled
for duration.” Like how much else. — “Janus” ; London
“Spectator”
* * * * *
Spain’s Government-controlled radio service
[April 14] has launched a violent campaign against
Britain. The new campaign comes just as anti-
British propaganda in Italy reaches new high levels.
Listeners to the Spanish radio are used to vitupera-
tive references to England, but these broadcasts have
exceeded in violence anything hitherto heard. The
mildest descriptions used of the English were “rogues”
and “unscrupulous idiots.” England was stated to
have deliberately kept Spain weak and helpless through
the centuries to satisfy her own greedy interests.—
—London “Daily Herald.”
* * * * *
Mrs. Patrick Campbell has died. She wri the
actress who, in 1914, caused a sensation and ai bused
a “storm of protest” by uttering the words “Not
bloody likely” in Shaw’s “Pygmalion.” In 1914!
Within a few months mankind was wallowing in an
orgy of horror, of cruelty, of hideous degradation.
Today, 26 years later, mankind prepares to wallow
again. Yet there are still thousands of English draw-
ing-rooms where refined elderly ladies, as they discuss
the fortunes of the war and try on their gas-masks,
would be horrified if a guest exclaimed, “Not bloody
likely.”— London “Daily Herald.”
*****
It is the United States’s right to decide whether
Hitler is the enemy to be fought openly or by measures
short of war, but it is indecent to say that Hitler
and the Allies are six of one and half a dozen of the
other. Mein Kampf and Germany’s record are a
propaganda which makes American neutrality not
merely difficult but shameful. — New York “World
Telegram.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
There were no special happenings at
Moorefield. The horses were of the same
class that compete nearly every Satur-
day, most of the runners being well-
known to racegoers. With five first and
two second favorites successful in the
first seven races, Good Earth’s win at
10 to 1 in the last race of the day was a
welcome relief for the Ring. I have often
heard it said “Sydney bookmakers can-
not lose at the prices they lay at suburban
meetings,” but even those who hold that
belief could not contend that Moorefield
results gave them any cause for rejoicing.
The Brush Hurdle Race produced a
field of the class to which we are accus-
tomed in Sydney, and the favorite, Phil,
who disposed of the pacemaker, Bogan
Boy, turning into the straight, won at his
ease from the latter. Lockslea and
Padale headed the remainder, who were
so far out of it that they scarcely counted
as starters. Festoon and Sir Diac lost
their riders, and Willanje was pulled up
altogether after going a few furlongs.
“It’s a pity the A.J.C. should saddle
minor clubs with hurdle races,” was a
comment I heard, and unfortunately they
are mostly unsatisfactory affairs.
Radical looks up to weight, and in
the Three-year-old Handicap did not
belie his appearance. There was little
between Grand Billy, Consonance and
Jazbeau turning for home, but, asserting
himself when fairly in the straight, Radi-
cal was a winner half a furlong from the
judge’s box, notwithstanding his steadier
of 9.7. Tobasco, who will improve, nar-
rowly beat Consonance for second, and
at the finish Tyrannus was doing better
than any of the unplaced lot. He com-
menced fairly, dropped out owing to
striking a little trouble, and then ran on
again. Gallop’s dash of the previous week
was missing, and more racing will bene-
fit Jazbeau, who was a trifle on the burly
side.
In the first division of the Juvenile
Handicap it was a surprise to see Lejong
pacing it with Status to the turn. After
Status disposed of the former she had to
be ridden out to beat Black Art, with
Lady Neith a close third. Shortly after
entering the straight Loyal Lad looked
like getting a place, but he weakened,
Lejong finishing slightly ahead of him.
Status is a good advertisement for Hall
Mark, her six starts having returned three
firsts and two seconds, carrying a total of
£360 in prize-money. Bred by H. Thomp-
son, Status was catalogued at last year’s
sales, but not sold, and is raced on lease
by G. Ray and F. McFadyen.
Royal Exchange and Gold Rim had
the issue of the second division of the
Juvenile Handicap to themselves from
the top of the straight. The former won,
but, as it was by only a half-head, he
gave those backers who laid odds on
him some anxious moments. Most were
relieved when his number went up. He
is seemingly not quite so good as sup-
posed. Brazen Boy was third practically
throughout. Apart from the place-getters
nothing showed form of any account.
Free Man (Buoyant Bachelor-Malvina)
had every chance this time, but over the
last two furlongs was not even a possible
place-getter.
*•••*•
Dashing Cavalier had no difficulty in
winning the Brighton Handicap. The
early leaders were Asnazu, Korimako
and Tickle, but though Korimako and
Asnazu led into the straight they had
no chance when Dashing Cavalier put
in his claim. The minor places were
filled by Stalin and Hilarious, but it was
a one-horse race. A longer distance will
help Hilarious. This was Dashing
Cavalier’s fourth win as a three-year-
old, and, as he won once last season,
he has, with the addition of minor place
money, returned more than double the
700gns. he cost as a yearling. Bonnie
Loch did not improve on his recent
efforts. Last most of the way, he never
raised the hopes of his backers. At the
commencement of this season he won
the Canterbury Guineas, with Dashing
Cavalier third, but the latter gave him
101 b. on Saturday. Dashing Cavalier
has done a lot of racing this season, but
it has agreed with him, as he never
looked better than last week.
The Kite has started in over 20 races
this season, and has paid his way, his
record being five wins, four seconds
and five thirds. He won the Moorefield
Handicap in the same fashion as when
previously successful at that track. Carry-
ing only 41b. more weight, and going to
the front early, he quickly set up a use-
ful lead, but won by only a neck from
Plutus, who was his nearest follower
throughout. The time was again 2.7.
No excuse could be made for the favorite,
Überous, and, on the form they dis-
played, neither Old Serpent nor Baveon
is likely to win a middle-distance race
during the next few weeks.
Commencing from the outside, Miss
Pentheus made a game effort to win
the first division of the Flying Handi-
cap all the way, but Opportunist, who
was always handy, beat her in the last
few strides. Halfway down the straight
Benburb flattered his backers, but the
last bit found him out. June, who was
genuinely supported and generally does
well on this track, was outpaced in the
early part. She ran fourth, but Nebraska
may be better worth following than most
of the unplaced runners. She is again
looking very well. Camsion is also
worth keeping in mind.
It is often easier for a horse to win
an open welter when favorably handi-
capped than a race of the Park Stakes
order when near the top of the list.
Good Earth emphasised this. Unplaced
—though she ran well—in a division of
a Novice Handicap at Rosehill earlier
in the week, she headed Ben turning into
the straight in the second division of the
Flying Welter, and then hung on suffi-
ciently well to defeat Moaveil by a head.
Lavengro, who was hampered at one
stage, was a fair third, and he and Ben
will win at suburban meetings before
long. The Nineteenth and Excursion
shaped respectably, and the latter is sure
to pick up a race for W. Booth.
* * * *
Sydney trainers have received many
unpleasant shocks in Brisbane, and
Waireka’s effort in the Stradbroke
Handicap must have been a tremendous
blow for G. Price. She was accounted
unlucky when defeated last year ; but this
time there was seemingly no excuse for
her. She collapsed after going five fur-
ldngs, and, though she has never received
credit for being a sound stayer, even six
furlongs would now appear beyond her.
Anne, however, did no better,” and she
recently won at six furlongs at Rand-
wick.
Stradbroke Handicap winner Heroic’s
Double did a lot of racing last season,
and won seven times. Bred at Oakleigh
Stud by H. S. Thompson he is a four-
year-old by Heroic from Princess Olwyn
(Tressady-Queen Carmen), and as a
yearling was sold for 850gns. Last year’s
winner, Bahwing, ran Heroic’s Double to
a head, and presumably he will be raced
in either Sydney or Melbourne in the
spring. It is possible to recall some good
Queensland horses that did not act y p to
their northern form when they can e to
Sydney. One reason probably was that
they had reached their top before they
left Brisbane, and were “on the turn”
when they raced here.
In winning the King’s Plate Mildura
covered the expense of the Brisbane trip
for E. J. Watt, but he had no easy task
in beating Tragopan, another of The
Buzzard’s useful sons. Last year Trago-
pan ran fourth in the Brisbane Cup, but
carried only 7.2.
Spear Vale’s running in the St. Leger
Stakes was a complete upset. He at least
appeared certain to beat any of the Bris-
bane division, and his defeat for second
money by Earl Rivoli, a 50-to-l chance,
disposed of the idea that he was another
Spear Chief. Perhaps he may have been
disadvantaged by the comparatively slow
pace, the time being slower than
when Seven Fifty won a year ago. In
the Brisbane Cup he did better, finish-
ing a fair third to Tragopan and Over-
draft. Second most of the time, Trago-
pan won easily, and must be a pretty
good horse.
Katanga ran up to his best Sydney
form in winning the Q.T.C. St. Leger,
and Mrs. C. Hicks may now be a trifle
sorry she took him out of the Brisbane
Cup. His St. Leger win sent his weight up
to 8.3, but in similar circumstances Spear
Chief brought off the double two years
ago On the maternal side Katanga's
most noteworthy relatives are sprinters, so
the fact of his staying so well must be
credited to his sire, The Buzzard. At two
years Katanga had three starts without
a win, but his five wins this season have
made him a profitable purchase for Mrs.
Hicks at the 450gns. she gave for him
as a yearling. Of his four Sydney wins
three Were at Randwick and one at
Rosehill, their total value being £1570.
Weighted at 8.1 for the Moreton
Handicap in Brisbane on Saturday,
Katanga will go up to 8.7 consequent
on his St. Leger win. One advantage
of the additional weight is that it will
permit of Munro being his rider. When
St. Constant won the Final Flandicap
at the A.J.C. autumn meeting he was
giving Katanga (unplaced) 71b. As they
will again meet on those terms the former
should again stand a good chance of
beating the younger horse. The Squire
is bound to run well with 7.5, and so is
Tragopan.
* * * *
Backers are game when they take
even money about a horse with lOst. in
an important handicap for which there
are 10 runners. They had no reason
to regret such strong faith in Aurie’s
Star’s ability to win the Goodwood
Handicap at the S.A.J.C. (Adelaide) meet-
ing. He not only beat the second horse
by five lengths, but made a course record
of l.lli for six furlongs. Rising eight,
Aurie’s Star appears to be galloping as
well as at any previous time. As a
sprinter he has a great record, his per-
formances including a first and second
in Newmarket Handicaps, two Oakleigh
Plate wins—one with 9.12 —and a first
and third in Goodwood Handicaps. When
he ran third in the last-mentioned race
two years ago he had 9.5, so he must
have been a much better horse last
Saturday than then, notwithstanding he
has reached an age at which improve-
ment in horses is unusual.
* * * *
One of the most promising young
jumpers in training in Melbourne is
Mamillius, who completed a hat-trick by
beating Sir Muslin and Fighting Cock
in the Bolinda Trial Hurdle at Moonee
Valley on Saturday. His record is more
impressive by reason of the fact that he
has had only the three races over hurdles,
and, although each has been in restricted
company, good judges are already select-
ing him as a likely National winner.
They might be right, but trainer Des
McCormick does not feel disposed to-
wards setting him for the G.N. Hurdle
this winter. “He is only a four-year-old,”
says McCormick, “and, while he might
be an ideal National horse next year, I
do not think that he is seasoned enough
for this year’s race. In fact, I do not
think I shall even nominate him.”
Another year probably will do a lot for
Mamillius, who is by March Along from
Sicilia, though it can be pointed out that
Longlands in 1928, Pildin (1925) and
Fiscom (1921) were four years old when
they won the G.N. Hurdle.
Four-year-olds have a poor record in
the G.N. Steeplechase, Grafnell in 1903
being the last of that age to succeed,
but there is every chance that Henry
Tudor, winner of the Moreland Steeple-
chase on Saturday, will be entered for
the corresponding race this winter. A
four-year-old by Gay Lothario from
Revellet, Henry Tudor was having his
first race over brush fences, and showed
all the brilliance of a natural ’chaser.
Owner W. Learoyd missed the thrill
of seeing Henry Tudor win, business
keeping him home in Tasmania, but it
does seem that in this gelding he has a
good substitute for Jolly Boy. Few horses
win at their first start over fences, but
Henry Tudor, a 12-to-l chance, hit the
front before entering the straight for the
first time, was out about 10 lengths at the
six furlongs, and, although tiring some-
what towards the finish, was never in
danger of defeat. He now figures as
the course-record holder for 2 miles 7
chains, his time of 4.2 cutting five seconds
off Rhymster’s previous best. The fact
that only two races have been run over
this course, however, robs the “record”
of some of its glamor. Ridden by former
Sydney jockey George Sholl, Henry
Tudor is trained by Steve Murphy, who
has enjoyed a good innings lately.
A costly proposition earlier in his
career, Marcius, a three-year-old colt by
Pantheon from First Away, apparently
needed time to develop. His success in
the Glen Elgin Handicap was his third
win from his last four starts, and the
fact that his two previous wins were
recorded in restricted company enabled
followers of Lou Robertson’s stable to
obtain a nice price about him on Satur-
day. Moving up second to Wind Robe
rounding the bend, he finished well to
win from Bankshaw and Barametric,
latter of whom, though he did not run
on quite as well as usual, was not dis-
graced in his attempt to increase his
winning sequence to four. Marcius was
chosen as a yearling by Eric Connolly
for Miss F. M. Martin, who has a prop-
erty outside Echuca and required a
young horse which later could be mated
with mares running in the paddocks
there. Marcius cost 800 guineas as a
yearling, but Connolly, with his usual
good judgment, picked a winner. The
colt is a most promising stayer.
The old saw “never look a gift horse
in the mouth” cannot be applied to Mei-
Ling, winner of the Warroona Handicap.
Mrs. J. B. Bellair purchased the fillv
for 200 guineas as a yearling as a sur-
prise birthday gift for her husband, a
Moonee Valley committeeman, and Mei-
Ling’s win at the Valley was her second
from her last three starts. In stakes
alone she has returned £6BO. Mei-Ling
came from an almost hopeless position
to win her previous race, but on Satur-
day she was headed only once during
the race, entered the straight with a clear
lead, and hung on to beat Much To Say
by half a head. Mei-Ling should be
able to gallop, being by Manitoba from
that erstwhile good mare Black Duchess.
Much To Say was unlucky in that she
had to go round two horses at the turn,
otherwise she would have won, but no
excuse was possible for Black Legend,
who finished third. Well-backed Inset
ran much below expectations, and Star
Boarder only plodded on after making a
fast move coming to the turn.
Badger has his critics, but he is riding
right at the top of his form again. A
winning double on Scarlet Toi and Con-
flagration on Saturday followed a
winning treble at Pakenham the previous
day. Scarlet Toi, who was imported
from Ireland by John Wren, and is
trained by Dave McNamara, is not pro-
duced very often, and many bookmakers
wish he had been left at home on Satur-
day. As much as 10 to 1 was bet to a
small sum, substantial wagers were noted
at 5 to 1, and Scarlet Toi ended equal
second favorite with Manurere at 7 to 2.
Fidylus, with a record of two runs for
a first and a second, was always favorite,
and it was unfortunate for his party that
he should strike such a smart galloper
as Scarlet Toi. These two outpaced their
opponents, but Scarlet Toi closed on
Fidylus on the bend, and was a bit too
solid for him in the run home. The
merit of Scarlet Toi’s performance lay
FOR RANDWICK.
(By “PILOT.”)
Hurdle Race: Blackie Miller, 1 ;
Phil, 2 ; Conundrum, 3.
Two-year-old Handicap (colts and
geldings): Black Banter, 1 ; Brazen
Boy, 2 ; Trade Mark, 3.
Two-year-old Handicap (fillies):
Victorine, 1 ; Lady Neith, 2 ; Happy
Bay, 3.
Flying Handicap: Denis, 1 ;
Nebraska, 2 ; Hamurah, 3.
Novice Handicap: The Winger,
1 ; Thunderclap, 2 ; Liege Maid, 3.
James Barnes Plate: Lockray, 1 ;
Dashing Cavalier, 2 ; Stalin, 3.
Welter Handicap: Tel Asur, 1 ;
Knight Folly, 2 ; The Kite, 3.
FOR ASCOT (Melbourne).
(By “SENTRY.”)
Wimbourne Trial Handicap:
Druspear, 1 ; Highland March, 2 ;
Nawabzada, 3.
Montrose Handicap: Churchill,
1 ; Balkan Chief, 2; Prairie Prince,
3.
Charlemont Trial: Scarlet Toi,
1 ; Parilla, 2 ; Deniker, 3.
Imperial Handicap: Kanuri, 1 ;
Con Naru, 2 ; Kaolin, 3.
Granville Handicap: Diaphane,
1 ; Denis Girl, 2 ; Lalmoni, 3.
Jeffcott Welter: All Talk, 1 ;
Montaza, 2 ; Beaustone, 3.


in the fact that his time for the six
furlongs, 1.125, on a track that had been
deadened somewhat by rain, was a second
and a half faster than that occupied by
Conflagration in winning the second divi-
sion. A four-year-old gelding by Scarlet
Tiger from Primtoi, Scarlet Toi is a
half-brother to Soltoi, who, although not
an easy horse to train, also won for
Wren.
Conflagration recorded a good per-
formance to win the second division of
the Bulla Trial. Her chance looked
remote when she was ahead of only about
four of the 15 runners near the half-
mile, but, gradually improving her posi-
tion, and overcoming the disadvantage
of having to make her run round several
horses on the turn, she wore Fiesal down
near the post and won by a neck. Basil
Conaghan, who once rode over jumps
in Sydney and Melbourne, is having a
splendid run of luck with his team. In
addition to two wins with Conflagration,
he has won three races with Galleon
and two with Tyngold in recent weeks.
A three-year-old by Thracian from Black
Powder, Conflagration is not very big,
but her gameness offsets any lack of size.
Drifting Star, a country performer,
shaped well enough in third place to
indicate that it might not be long before
she repays the cost of her city trip.
Remembering Grandson’s second to
Pure Gold when meeting the latter at
level weights over a mile at Moonee
Valley last spring, bookmakers were on
the right tram when they opened that
gelding favorite for the Magdala Welter.
Grandson’s improvement meantime might
not have equalled that of Pure Gold, but
he has had only two opportunities to
show it. His race on Saturday was only
his second after a spell of several months,
and, behind St. Fervent rounding the
turn, he finished too strongly for the
latter and Montaza. Montaza did well,
as she was forced to cover a lot of extra
ground on the turn. Like the mile-record
holder Amiable, Grandson is owned by
W. R. Kemball, who bought him as a
yearling in Maoriland. He is by Sieg-
fried (sire of Wotan) from Bonuna, and,
as improvement is almost certain, it
should not be long before he wins in
better company than he beat on Satur-
day. St. Fervent made a game effort to
maintain his winning sequence. He did
not get away smartly from an unfavor-
able barrier position, and had to be used
rather freely early in the race.
Parilla and Dannevirke, unplaced
runners at Moonee Valley, should repay
following in immediate engagements.
Winner of six of his previous seven races,
Parilla was a runner for the first Bulla
Trial division, but this usually smart be-
ginner missed the start* was forced wide
on the turn, and was running on in fifth
position at the finish. Dannevirke, now
four years old, has been out of the win-
ning list since he won four races as a
juvenile. He has been difficult to train,
but his fast-finishing fourth to Grandson
on Saturday indicates a return to form.
* * * *
There were no special happenings at
the Hawkesbury meeting at Rosehill last
week. Perhaps the performance calling for
most attention, as bearing on the future,
was that of the two-year-old Tunic, who
finished strongly to win his race from
Overjoyed and Celebrity. Scientist
(Marconigram-Bimbil) settled his chance
when he was slow to get away, and Con-
testor lost so many lengths at barrier-
rise that she was never really in the race.
The winner, against whom as much as
50 to 1 was laid, is a good stamp of
gelding by Veilmond, and loses nothing
by being out of Real One (winner of
a few races and sister to Amounis).
Originally held on lease by R. Skelton,
Tunic is now raced and trained by J.
Cook. The runners included Gold Rex,
a three-quarter brother to Top Hole,
whose three-year-old deeds included
second in the Caulfield Guineas and third
in the Caulfield Cup and Victoria Derby.
Gold Rex, who cost only lOOgns. as a
yearling, got away too badly to give
any idea as to whether he was likely to
prove of much account.
* * * *
Inexperienced apprentices cannot be
expected to show the same vigor as ex-
perienced jockeys at the finish of a race,
therefore stipendiary stewards should not
be hard on them. J. Jamieson, who rode
Bridegroom in the first division of the
Novice Handicap at Rosehill, certainly
was weak. Still he managed to make a
dead-heat with Brave Bird, and, though
he was told he would have to improve
or he might lose his permit, it is possible
he would have escaped reprimand if he
had got only another foot out of his
mount.
* * *
LTp to the end of last month the
principal two-year-old winner in Maori-
land was F. W. Hughes’s recent purchase
Nightbeam (Night Raid-Lady Burleigh).
His total was £1290, and he was fol-
lowed by Doria (Iliad-Princess Doreen),
£1270; Lou Rosa (Foxbridge-Lucy
Rose), £1225 ; and Sir Beau (Beau Pere-
Rose Ray), £lO3O. The most successful
sire of two-year-olds, in respect of earn-
ings, was Beau Pere with £2865. He
was followed by Bulandshar, £2105, and
Phaleron Bay, £l9BO.
* * * *
Kanooka (The Welkin-Wilga), dam of
Winooka, was recently destroyed at
Kia-Ora. Foaled in 1923, she had not
thrown anything for the last three or
four years, and, as she was feeling her
age, owner P. Miller mercifully decided
to end her days. In Winooka she threw
one great horse, but the remainder of
her progeny did not include anything
of account.
* * * *
E. McMenamin has not been able to
get a real “go” on since he resumed rid-
ing, but it may not be long before he
again comes with a rush. With Mc-
Menamin one of our leading jockeys, it
seems strange to think that in his early
“Just our luck now We've run out of prawns!”
hurdling days in Sydney he had difficulty
in getting a mount on the flat. Though
Cook and McMenamin are well ahead of
Munro in number of wins, it is safe to
say that the last-named jockey’s income
for this year is much greater than that
of either. M. McCarten, on top last
season, is a long way down the list this
time, but during his career in Sydney
so many of the plums have fallen to his
share that he can afford to be in the
background for once in a way.
* * * *
With the weather favorable for the
remaining five days at that track it is
probable the totalisator turnover at
Randwick this season will reach
£1,000,000. The transference of Warwick
Farm meetings to headquarters is respon-
sible, £192,407 being that club’s turn-
over for eight days. Notwithstanding the
change-over meant increased prize-
money that has been more than counter-
balanced by attendances and the
totalisator.
“Investments” at the A.J.C. spring, sum-
mer, Anniversary and autumn meetings
did pot equal those of 1938-39, but the
total for the whole of the meetings held
at Randwick this season is £861,689 10s.,
made up as follows:
Australian Jockey Club.
Spring meeting (four days) . . £181,057 10 0
Summer meeting (two days) .. 73,183 0 0
Anniversary meeting (two days) 62,055 15 0
Autumn meeting (four days) .. 190,503 15 0
£506,800 0 0
Tattersall’s Club,
Spring meeting (one day) .. £35,722 10 0
Summer meeting (two days) 70,395 5 0
£106,117 15 0
City Tattersall’s Club.
Spring meeting (one day) .. £38,255 15 0
Autumn meeting (one day) .. 18,108 10 0
£56,364 5 0
Warwick Farm.
October 21 .. .. .. £28,347 5 0
November 18 .. .. .. 26,602 5 0
December 6 .. .. .. 15,364 15 0
December 9 .. .. .. 22,492 10 0
January 13 .. .. .. 24,612 10 0
February 10 .. .. .. 28,611 0 0
March 16 26,081 15 0
April 27 20,295 10 0
£192,407 10 0
In the 1938-39 season £199,571 went
through the machine at the A.J.C. spring
meeting, and £192,523 15s. in the autumn.
* * * *
Rosehill does not expect to make any
marked immediate advance in prize-
money as a result of its conversion from
a proprietary to a non-proprietary club.
Nor can it well be expected unless attend-
ances improve, and that may depend
upon stricter enforcement of the “off-
the-course” betting laws. This was
pointed out by a member of the Rose-
hill club, and it does seem absurd that,
while laws were specially framed to meet
the position, we still read of horses being
backed for minor races at starting price
for thousands. No doubt the transactions
are exaggerated, but there is no getting
away from the fact that a lot of “off-
the-course” betting still goes on in Syd-
ney. So far as getting additional meet-
ings are concerned, there seems little
hope for Rosehill or any other metro-
politan club, unless it is at the expense
of the provincial clubs, and the latter
can be relied on to do a lot of hard
fighting to avoid letting go any of their
fixtures, even though they may contend
there is very little profit in them.
* * * *
A.J.C. judge Dudley Smith has been
explaining the methods he adopts in
watching a race in order to give a cor-
rect verdict. One thing, however, that
neither he nor any other judge will suc-
ceed in doing is to convince all backers
of a beaten horse that he has not erred
in a decision in a close finish. The last
stride often makes a difference, but
many spectators who have witnessed a
finish several yards one side or other of
the winning-post are always ready to be
emphatic as to a judge’s alleged mistake.
The mere fact of one horse carrying its
head higher than another is alone liable
to give an erroneous impression, and,
though the man who only occasionally
goes racing is forgivable if he is inclined
to demonstrate when a decision is not
favorable to him, it is amusing, if not
annoying, when regular followers of the
game take on in the same fashion.
* * * *
At a meeting of the Wanganui Trot-
ting Club last month a rider of gallopers
was refused permission to take a mount
on the score that suitable trotting horse-
men were available. It is stated to be the
first incident of its kind in Maoriland.
A Wellington paper says that last year
the Auckland Trotting Owners, Trainers
and Breeders’ Association asked the N.Z.
Trotting Association to prohibit profes-
sional jockeys from riding in trotting
races. The reply was that the matter was
entirely in the hands of clubs which pro-
moted saddle events.
* * * *
Some amateurs have proved that it is
unnecessary to be reared in a stable to
succeed as a trainer. In Maoriland an
amateur, W. E. Hazlett, seems certain to
head the winning trainers’ list for South-
land this season. He has 16 wins and
22 minor places to his credit, his most
successful horses being Sparkle (Winton
and Dunedin Cups), Spindrift (five wins)
and Gusto (three steeplechases). Hazlett
races in partnership with his brother, and
the stable is expected to do well during
the jumping season.
* * * *
Lord Stalbridge, who owned apd
trained Bogskar, winner of the recent
Liverpool Grand National, is a non-
bettor, and, according to a London
paper, his monetary interest in the race,
apart from the stake, was a side bet of
sixpence. I. Anthony, trainer of Milano,
said his horse was sure to beat Bogskar.
Lord Stalbridge disagreed, and bet
Anthony sixpence that Bogskar finished
ahead of Milano. Bogskar was not
actually first past the post, being led by
National Night, who got rid of his rider,
Jones’s brother, Sergeant H. A. Jones,
in the first round.
* * * *
When B. Carslake previously retired as
a jockey in England it was probably
because of increasing weight. A couple
of years’ experience decided him there
was much more money in riding than in
training, and when he resumed the Eng-
lish critics credited him with being as
good a horseman as at any former time.
Now, at 54 years of age, Carslake s re-
tirement as a jockey is again announced,
because of his health. As Carslake is
an intelligent man, he may make a suc-
cess of training this time, even though
he did not find it profitable at his previ-
ous attempt. Many successful jockeys
have been failures as trainers. Some
have done well as both, but a higher
standard of intelligence is seemingly
necessary in one calling than the other,
and it is possible to recall some first-
class riders who were hopeless in nearly
every respect when they were off a
horse’s back.
* * * *
The first of England’s big three-year-
old races, the Two Thousand Guineas,
went to M. Boussac’s French colt
Djebel, who was a 9-to-4 favorite. Last
year he won the Middle Park Stakes,
but was not an entrant for either the
original Two Thousand Guineas or
Derby, notwithstanding his owner had
four others in the latter. When those
races were cancelled owing to the war,
and entries taken for substituted races,
Djebel was nominated for both. He
won the Two Thousand in such easy
fashion that he is naturally the Derby
favorite. He is by Tourbillon, and,
trained by S. Donoghue, was ridden by
C. Elliott, whose first win in the race
was on Ellangowan in 1923. He sub-
sequently won on Flamingo and the
Derby on the latter and Bois Roussel.
Stardust (by Hyperion), who was
second to Djebel, was one of England's
best two-year-olds last season, and is
owned by the Aga Khan. Tant Mieux,
who ran third, was jointly owned by
P. Beatty and Prince Aly Khan last
season, but at its close was bought by
the Maharajah of Kolhapur. Presum-
ably he will later be raced in India.
* * * *
All sorts of people figure as owners or
part-owners of racehorses. This is even
more marked in connection with grey-
hounds. Travelling up north some time
ago, a man remarked to me concerning
his brother: “He’s on the dole, but as
his dog won him a couple of races lately
things are not so bad with him.”
* * * *
Americans bought extensively in Eng-
land last year, and one of the latest
purchases is the five-year-old French-bred
horse L’Odeon (Mont Bernina-L’Ole-
andre), the best hurdler in Ireland. He
was beaten only once over the hurdles
last year, and he then had 12st.
* * * *
Fields of 14 are rarely exceeded at
meetings in America, and Belmont Park
(New York) is credited with being the
only track in New York where large
fields can be handled. Most of the
totalisators (or pari-mutuels) used in
America are regulated to take care of
12 horses. Any excess is grouped as
“the field” and wagered on as a unit.
It is anticipated that greater provision
will have to be made at Belmont Park,
even if not at the other courses in the
State of New York.
* * * *
Seabiscuit, the world’s greatest winner,
with a total of 437,730 dollars, cost C. S.
Howard 8500 dollars. He was bought
from the Wheatley stable, and had been
used as a working mate for horses
credited with greater pretensions to class.


SAVE MONEY
ITS
THRIFTY
TO
INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS
SSB
Si
m
m
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
slit!
CHAMPION
Bring BETTER
HILL CLIMBING
Good hot sparks from Champion
spark plugs will give your car the
kind of ignition it needs for a
smooth, even pull up a hill.
Champions allow less carbon to
form, so you get more speed,
more power, more economy.
Champions save you money!
SPARK
PLUGS
T. Smith, who trained Seabiscuit, did not
commence his career in a stable. He
was first a cowboy on a Colorado ranch,
and then conditioner of horses for a
Wild West show. From that he drifted
into the ranks of horsetrainers, and made
his mark. It is stated that at the Santa
Anita meeting the team he handled
totalled nearly 40.
* * * *
An American authority does not think
the installation of the totalisator in that
country has been an unmixed blessing,
but would things have been any better
if bookmakers had entirely controlled
racecourse betting? He says:
There never was a time when a great
horse of any age could earn so much
money. However, with the coming of the
pari-mutuels came a class of racetrack
owners that cared nothing for the breed-
ing industry, the horsemen or the public.
All they wanted was a big nrab at n>e
money that came into the pool box, and in
many cases they had laws passeu so ui.u
they could control the Racing Commission
of the State. The Racing Commission of
any State should control the racetracks
in that State and not the racetrack owners
control the Racing Commission, as has
happened on various occasions in several
of the States.
* * h= *
Col. Bradley’s colt Bimelech, the
winter favorite for the Kentucky Derby,
was beaten a length and a half in that
race by Gallahadion, whose tote dividend
was at the rate of 35 to 1. There was an
attendance of over 90,000, and the value
of the race was £16,500 sterling. There
are so many valuable two- and three-
year-old races to be won over there
that some day an enterprising Australian
may be tempted to breed a few horses
for racing in America. The idea may
commend itself to W. J. Smith, of St.
Aubins Stud.
* He * He
Canada naturally races on a light scale
by comparison with the United States,
but last year it distributed £A271,000 in
prize-money, of which a little over
£A 101,000 was won by Canadian-bred
horses.
H= He H= He
Action against dopers in a court of
law in America is unusual, but in the
Nassau County Court a little while ago
a waiter and an ex-jockey were charged
with conspiring to tamper with a race-
horse. Both pleaded guilty, and each
was fined £AI2S. In addition, the ex-
jockey received a year’s imprisonment,
and the waiter six months’.
* * * *
In the way of number of mounts an
American 41-year-old jockey named Earl
Pool has a record that will take a deal
of beating. Pool, who commenced rid-
ing in 1914, had ridden in 8135 races for
1403 wins up to the beginning of this
year.
* * * *
Betting in Ireland is on the light side,
both with the books and tote. The
£212,501 that went through the machine
last year was £36,459 more than in 1938,
and a record for Ireland. Since the tote
was first used in that country in 1930
the turnover has amounted to £1,289,706.
In France, as in England, all the classic
races will be run this year, Longchamps
being the venue of the principal meet-
ings. The Derby, Oaks and Grand Prix
have been reopened, but are referred to
as “substitutes,” with prize-money lower
than in previous years. In many of the
minor races there will be an increase.
There will, of course, be fewer meetings
in France than in normal years, but the
outlook is now very much brighter for
everyone connected with racing than
seemed possible in September.
* * * *
It has often happened that a horse,
after leaving one stable and going into
another, has developed form. That, how-
ever, does not uphold the idea that the
newer trainer is possessed of greater
ability than the previous one. Many
trainers have the same methods for most
horses in their stable, and naturally they
do not suit all. Therefore marked im-
provement in a hor9e is often merely
due to one trainer’s methods suiting it
more than those of another. Incidentally,
some horses can almost train themselves,
and more than one trainer who has been
lucky enough to get a good one of this
class has gained a name which he has
been unable to uphold when he has had
to deal with material of poorer quality.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
You certainly can’t tell how good or
bad a player is in the United States by
merely looking at his bag of clubs.
Most players carry a huge bag with the
full number of 14 clubs, umbrella, water-
proof clothes, gloves, cap and sundries.
I was amused at a club the other day
when four caddies, laboring with huge
bags full of clubs, awaited their em-
ployers, who stepped up and all badly
topped their drives.
Nearly every golfer here firmly believes
that clubs make the player; they possess
the latest in equipment, and change their
clubs when new models appear each year.
By “educating” the American golfer on
these lines, professionals and club manu-
facturers have increased their businesses
many times over. Club pros, have for
some time been trading-in used clubs
on new models in an effort to keep their
turnover up. Whether this is good busi-
ness is debatable; some professionals
advocate it strongly, while others are
not at all keen to take in an old set
in part-payment for new clubs.
Each year, in keeping with the auto-
mobile trade, club manufacturers turn
out new models, and, following them
up with huge national advertising cam-
paigns, promote sales for professionals.
In each pro.’s shop there is a selection
of reconditioned used clubs for sale
along with the latest models. These
second-hand clubs represent good value
for the average player, as he can buy
last year’s models for about half the
price they originally cost.
Unlike a professional’s shop in Aus-
tralia, the pro.’s premises here are most
luxurious ; they cater for everything a
golfer needs, from his clubs down to
shirts, shoes, socks and other clothing
items. By carrying all these lines for
his members a professional not only gets
a good proportion of the available busi-
ness, but keeps his customers from buy-
ing their needs ih city sports stores. At
most clubs a golfer can get fitted out
completely from the pro. In fact, the
pro.’s rooms are the most important part
of the club, for from there everything
is arranged as regards caddies, visitors,
partners, competitions, fees, etc.
In comparison with Australian-made
clubs, the equipment here is no better.
As to the actual heads, the Australian
are just as well made as the best Ameri-
can clubs, but the manufacturers here
leave us far behind when it comes to
“finish.” The close attention that is paid
to the smaller details of club-making give
the American product a much more
attractive appearance. While this does
not improve the club from the playing
point of view, it assists greatly from the
merchandising aspect. Attractively boxed,
and with small smart-colored lettering
on the club-head, grip and shaft, they
sell themselves.
The Americans favor sheathed shafts
in their iron clubs and a plain chromium-
finish shaft in the woods. They contend
the iron clubs should have little or no
“feel” in them. The woods, also
on the stiff side, have slightly more
“feel” than the irons and are generally a
little heavier in the head than Australian
clubs. The Americans like to feel the
weight at the bottom of the shaft.
Thicker grips, too, are another feature
of their clubs, as they are great believers
in having the club gripped in the palm
of the hand rather than the fingers.
The 1940 range of clubs here is more
upright in lie than those in previous
years, making players stand in to the ball
a little closer. The iron clubs are shorter
and more compact in the head, being
thicker through and generally concen-
trating the weight behind the ball. The
iron faces are well scored, being almost
rough to feel, and have the effect of
stopping the ball rather quickly. In fact,
many of the manufacturers here sail
pretty close to the wind as regards this
deep scoring.
Wooden clubs are very similar to the
Australian models in shape and weight.
Inset faces of various compositions are
all the rage at the moment, for they have
been getting a softer type of persimmon
wood in the heads this season, which is
wearing out quicker; thus the change
over to the inset faces. In addition to
the regulation sets of clubs, there are
innumerable odd clubs produced. No.
5 woods can do away with the No. 2
iron, while there is a varied selection of
bunker clubs, chippers, approachers,
pitchers and “trouble clubs” —tiny clubs
18 inches long to dig a ball out from
under an obstacle —and putters by the
dozen. The putters include some of the
weirdest clubs I have ever seen, many of
them looking like battle weapons from
the Middle Ages.
Though Australian golfers have not
quite the same selection of golfing equip-
ment to choose from, they can rest
assured that their clubs are the equal
of those over here. While not as pretty-
looking they are just as useful when it
comes down to the actual playing of the
shot. So far I have seen none that I
would change my four-year-old set for.
Golf bags here, however, are tremendous
in size, some of them nearly big enough
for the player to take shelter in on rainy
days, while their pockets can carry a
complete change as well as practice balls
and shoes.
* * * *
Alan Waterson (Moore Park) retained
his N.S.W. amateur golf title after a
paralysing burst of pars and birdies
against D. Davies (Ryde-Parramatta) at
Sydney’s Lakes course. Five down and
14 to play, the champion won eight of
the next 11 holes and finished 3 and 2.
Davies obviously tired towards the end.
Both are little more than youths, and
neither is much bigger than his bag.
Footbrawl
Only Footscray and Carlton maintained
their opening positions on the V.F.L.
premiership list. At West Footscray
22,000 saw the greatly improved home
side trounce Essendon —which had beaten
Melbourne the previous Saturday—by
17-9 to 9-12. After the second quarter
it was only a question of by how much
the Scraggers would win. It’s a bit early
for prophecy, but ’Scray looks like
finishing in “the four.” Its forward line
is nippy and the backs keep well on the
man.
At home to “Sowth,” Carlton won by
15-19 to 12-5, but had to overcome
determined resistance to do it. The Red-
and-whites are coming on, and with a
little more anticipation by the forwards
and more cohesion generally will prove
tough opposition for any team.
Collingwood went down to Geelong,
14-10 to 11-13, at Victoria Park. The
game was seldom inspiring except towards
the close of the second quarter, when
’Wood, by desperate battling, reduced a
26-point lead to make it 5-6 all.
Hawthorn left its rose gardens to go
to St. Kilda, and suffered the well-known
soporific effect of sea air to lose by 12-25
to 7--13. On the day Hawthorn could
have been licked by the Fire Brigade
Seconds. Unconfirmed rumors have it
that several barrackers were treated for
jaws dislocated by yawning—and it takes
something to dislocate them.
It wasn’t a game at North Melbourne,
where the locals had a bit of practice
against a visiting Fitzroy side, and for
record purposes sent in a score of 15-16.
The Maroons, allowed to have a kick or
two, marked up 7-9. There were flashes
of the sort of football that causes loss
of voice between Melbourne and Rich-
mond at M.C.G. Ground and ball were
greasy at first, but both sides settled
down, with Melbourne having the edge
with steadier and more deliberate attacks.
It took the lead early and increased
it to 18-14 to 14-15.
••••••
V.F.A. followers concentrate round the
Williamstown team, which looted Todd
from the League, and 10,000 saw ’Town
wallop Port at the latter’s ground.
* * * *
“Sturt”: Adelaide football clubs con-
tinue to pay Melbourne methods the
compliment of importing coaches. Jack
Smith having enlisted, Norwood has sent
across for Hardiman, of Essendon.
Flardiman is no stranger to S.A., having
played for South Adelaide in 1936-38.
Gaudion (West Adelaide) and Marcus
Boyall (Glenelg) are others who are ex-
pected to bring S.A. a little nearer to
Victorian standard.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Big Mat got a game
with a Vic. mallee football team and
turned out full of eagerness. The umpire
didn’t seem too clear on the perennial
holding-the-ball, holding-the-man tangle,
and Mat became slightly puzzled. He
was further plagued by the attentions of
a diminutive but smart rover of the
opposing side, who succeeded in wang-
ling a lot of free kicks when the big
fellow grabbed him in possession. How-
ever by the end of the first quarter Mat
reckoned he had that umpire’s measure.
But in the second quarter the ump. swung
his rulings the opposite way and tied
Mat up again. There was a thick ruck
in the centre, with the ump. dancing
round ; then Mat emerged with the ball
in one hand, the diminutive rover squirm-
ing in the other, and, holding both firmly,
roared “Now, Umpie, ’ere’s a chance t’
make up y’r ruddy mind! ” The hilarious
yell from players and barrackers drowned
the whistle, and after that the game went
without a hitch.
* * * *
Randwick, unbeaten to date, is alone
at the head of the Sydney Rugby Union
table, and continues to pile up points.
It put through North 21-5 (four tries
to one), though backs mulled passes and
duffed tackles. North is finding it dif-
ficult to fill positions because of injuries
and enlistments ; and Gibbons, the cap-
tain, normally a scrum-half, turned out
as full-back. Manly, second on the list,
beat University 14-9 (three tries each)
at the Village. Full-back Biddulph was
its star ; he scored two tries.
Gordon had a win, and a clinking
good one, 11-6 (two tries to none),
against West. The Highlanders played
like a team for the first time this season.
St. George was licked again, 21-9 (four
tries to one), by Drummoyne. Parra-
matta notched another win, a close 11-9
(one try to two) affair, over East.
•5? * * *
Soccer is having a poor season in
N.S.W., the coal strike being largely
responsible. N.S.W. v. Victoria was a
tame affair: N.S.W. won, four to two.
The ground was out in the wilds of
Dulwich Hill and only £l5O was taken
at the gates.
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Can any other
family in the world show such a long
and continuous run of billiard champions
as Australia’s Lindrums? The original
Lindrum arrived in 1838, and soon after-
wards became Australia’s first champion.
His son Fred became world’s champion,
as did his grandson Fred and his great-
grandson Walter. Walter’s brother
Horace was runner-up in a world’s
snooker championship match, and holds
the record for a snooker break —141 made
at Manchester in 1937. Taught by his
grandfather, he achieved his first Aus-
tralian snooker championship at 19, and
has held it for the last eight years.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. takes its lacrosse seri-
ously. Players have increased from 450
five years ago to over 800. A new sea-
side club, Brighton, has run away with
the premiership for three seasons.


wcy
(
Time to change to
For those who prefer beer, Tooths suggest their famous
Winter brew, Double Brown Ale. In this fine, full-bodied
beer there’s extra roasted malt for warmth and sustenance,
extra hops for flavor. So, when the weather’s wintry, call
for Tooth’s Double Brown Ale.
m
BBBMMttawaiSg
m -
IllSilfiE
Us
Rich Roasted Malt
for Warmth!
TOOTH’S
'i
Q
ALE
THE WINTER DRINK FOR THE BEER DRINKER!
BA-9-FP.


AN EARLY BREAKFAST
J it//,
ON SUNDAY
MORNING
or week morn-
ings Is a boon
to Travellers,
Hikers and
other EARLY
BIRDS.
And the
HOTEL PLAZA
at Wynyard
makes every provision for these
special patrons.
Breakfast is ready from 7 a.m. in
Walnut Cafe (Entrance from George
Street or Platform), and is undoubtedly
the finest meal service in town.
Delicious Fish, Tender Rump and Fillet
Steaks, French Cutlets and Bacon Ham,
or Bacon and Eggs, Luscious Omelettes,
etc., etc., all served With Hot Toast and
Special Tea or Coffee.
Dinner is served in the Walnut Cafe
and Snuggery Lounge from 11.30 to
'3.30 and Night Dinner from 5.30 to
8.30 p.m.
ĕ
ė
The Friendly Hotel, Wynyard.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“Gone With the Wind”
Most of what Hollywood knows about
film production is represented in this
M.-G.-M. version of Margaret Mitchell’s
novel. It is, in most respects, a magni-
ficent example of Hollywood at its lavish
and efficient best; a best which, though
it may represent technical perfection
rather than artistic inspiration, also repre-
sents something which artistic inspira-
tion alone could never achieve —a studi-
ously acquired excellence of presentation
and a luxurious extravagance in every-
thing from the most gorgeous pageantry
down to the most trivial detail.
It might also be said that it repre-
sents Hollywood more faithfully as a
tremendous effort and expenditure and
great hullabaloo about something of no
lasting value ; that it is a great and ex-
pensive bubble that will burst into no-
thing in less time than it took to make ;
or that it is a most extravagant exag-
geration of superficial fiction and emo-
tionalism. But that is Hollywood’s trade
—to make beautiful and expensive
bubbles, and, it must be said, the vast
majority of people would rather be
anaesthetised by such bubbles than have
their minds jolted into awareness by
penetrating drama.
But, even admitting that such is Holly-
wood’s stock-in-trade, it is a pity that
“Gone With the Wind” should be such
an obvious example of it—that it should
be something so big based on something
so small that the contrast is noticeable.
If only there were in the film an authen-
tic human theme, or even one penetrat-
ing statement —something to pierce the
mind and stick there. As it is, after see-
ing the film there is certainly the impres-
sion of having seen something far above
ordinary; but then reflection asks
“What?” And consideration reveals that
all you’ve seen is an example of build-
ing a bubble.
Presentation, acting, directing, photo-
graphy are as near perfect as they could
be, especially photography. Hitherto, and
particularly since the advent of techni-
color, Hollywood photographers have
aspired mainly to what might be called
pretty pictures. The photography here,
however, has definite feeling, and time
and again, when the photographer has the
film to himself, he gives it more eloquence
and strength than the players or story
could ever provide.
Long as the film is, it is relatively
shorter than the novel. The most nag-
ging of the inconsistencies in the story
and characters have been removed or
hurried over ; the result is a far more
direct and compact narrative. The result
is also a much better view of the story,
revealing it more clearly as a very shal-
low and sentimental yarn, approaching
perilously close to flapper fiction in spite
of its passages of fine descriptive writing
and its authentic touches of femininity.
The shortcomings of the narrative are
also reflected in the limitations imposed
upon the players. As Scarlett O’Hara, the
mean, vicious wench, a mass of feminine
complexities, Vivien Leigh offers an
extraordinarily vivid portrayal, but it is
never fully convincing because the char-
acter itself always just escapes reality.
Olivia de Havilland is similarly handi-
capped, though her role, while being less
vivid than Scarlett O’Hara, sometimes
strikes with more accuracy.
Rhett Butler in the book was merely
a sentimental conception of a big bad
wolf with a heart of gold; the film-
smiths have improved him by cutting out
the heart and leaving the wolf, which is
fairly into Clark Gable’s hands. He’s
a much better actor than is generally
realised and turns in a very satisfactory
performance. Leslie Howard struggles
to make something of nothing with in-
different success. The rest of the acting
is in the hands of a string of good
players headed by Thomas Mitchell and
Hattie McDaniel, and they do their work
nobly.
Almost as though it were conscious that
the narrative is lacking, the film strives
in every other respect to give itself
strength and beauty. There is an amaz-
ing wealth of scenery and decoration.
Old plantations and homes, cotton fields,
the sacking of Atlanta, the retreat of the
Confederates, extravagant interior scenes
and many others have been re-created on
a scale that only Hollywood could man-
age. It is a pity that consideration of
these and other fine technical qualities
in the film must lead eventually to the
story in it. Otherwise it could be de-
scribed as the finest thing Hollywood has
ever made. It is the finest thing, super-
ficially, but as such it immediately invites
more than superficial consideration —
which reveals that the whole magnificent
three-and-threequarter-hours of it is
constructed around a core that is as
barren as a china egg.
* * * *
“Cauboy” views “The Hunchback”:
Melbourne critics took considerable excep-
tion to “The Hunchback of Notre Dame,”
now on at Melbourne Regent, but the photo-
graphy of the cathedral is great. Soiree of it
provides the observer who has only hitherto
Clark Gable (Rhett Butler ) gets breezy with Vivien Leigh (Scarlett
O’Hara ) while Leslie Howard (Ashley Wilkes) looks on in “Gone with
the Wind,” at Sydney St. James.
been able to enjoy a worm’s-eye view of
Paris’s treasure with his first opportunity of
seeing some of the maze of carving which
was placed in spots inaccessible to feet and
hardly visible to the eye by the sublime and
anonymous craftsmen who built it.
Being accustomed to Hollywood’s tricks,
some people say that the cathedral was a fake
constructed of three-ply in Hollywood. No
modern builder could reproduce the detail
of the facade in any material whatever, and if
he could it would take years to do it and
would cost a fortune. Most of the shots are
photographs of photographs, but the thing
photographed in the first case is the original
cathedral.
Notre Dame today is flush with the pave-
ment, but in the period depicted it evidently
had steps built to it. These have been added
in the picture; but the edifice that stands
behind them is obviously Notre Dame. Nor
could the statues have been faked. The gar-
goyles look more alive than Hunchback
Laughton himself, and the stone carvers who
could make that happen lived in the Middle
Ages. If there were some such alive today
we would see evidence of them in our cities,
but we don’t, more’s the pity.
As for the story, it does not besmirch the
book in any way whatever. It gave me the
impression of being a faithful, if highly in-
tensified, picture of the Middle Ages, and when
the beggars with self-imposed scabs, sores
and deformities came creeping round the
young poet I got the horrors. Mr. Laughton’s
make-up was certainly terrifying, but there was
nothing commonplace about the pathetic figure.
One of the objections to the film is that
such horrors as the flogging of the hunchback
and molten lead being poured down on the be-
siegers should not be depicted, and Mr. Cress-
well O Reilly, with his infallible capacity for
doing the obvious, has released the film for
adult consumption only. But if he is so upset
on account of the children over horrors that
occurred in the Middle Ages, why is he so
complacent about the modern war films on the
same programme? Or does it hurt to be tor-
tured in the Middle Ages but not to be blown
up by a bomb or sunk in a submarine in 1940?
STAGE AND CONCERT
A Different Shylock
“The Merchant of Venice,” chiefly
interesting for Lloyd Lamble’s portrayal
of a proud, merciless Shylock in early
middle-age, was the second of Sydney
Minerva’s Shakspearean matinees. Black-
bearded and erect instead of grey and
cringing, this Shylock was a powerful
creation.
In one of the big scenes —his refusal
of all appeals to mercy during the trial
—the severe interpretation brought out
more than the usual amount of drama ;
but in two other important scenes —the
lamentation for Jessica and ,the final
degradation in the court —it was not pos-
sible for Lamble to evoke the pathos
of the character. For that reason, and
because the text describes him as “old”
Shylock, the conventional figure is
preferable.
Lamble is acting so well these days—
within a month he has made an outstand-
ing success of characters as widely dif-
ferent as the effeminate Malvolio, the
giant idiot in “Of Mice and Men” (still
running at the Minerva) and this iron
Shylock—that it is becoming worth while
10 go to any Minerva production just
to watch his development. His diction
in the Shylock role —except for a habit
of saying “muh” for “my”—was splen-
did.
Maxwell Osbiston’s Gratiano stood out
among the other performances. Muriel
Steinbeck and Aileen Britton knew how
to make the most of Portia and Nerissa.
Augustus Neville made rather a heavy
wether of Antonio.
* * * *
“lolanthe”
The Sydney Royal company has in-
fused “lolanthe” with some robustness
—the fairies themselves rather too robust
—but at the expense of any pleasant
lightness. There are individual suc-
cesses ; no combined sincerity.
Frank Lasslett made his first appear-
ance, a confident one, as that unfortunate
Strephon who is “a fairy down to the
waist” ; and Peggy Shea was an appeal-
ing lolanthe. Gregory Stroud (an im-
posing Mountararat) and John Fullard
(a highly-amusing Tolloller) led a color-
ful band of peers, and Ivan Menzies gave
himself full scope for his humor as the
highly-susceptible Chancellor.
* * * *
Music in Adelaide is widening its grip,
notably in the direction of young people.
The Corinthian Club, founded in 1935
by John Dempster, and having Clive
Carey—back from England—for presi-
dent this year, presents dance or other
light music in between the serious items.
The less-known Offenbach operettas, of
which there is a wide choice, are
promised.
The Music League, with J. E. Becker
director, has just presented 16 fully-
equipped cots to Adelaide Children’s
Hospital as the result of an “On Parade”
show last year; it promises a revised
1940 edition this winter and a panto-
mime at Christmas. Membership claimed
is about 2000. The current idea is to
acquire an existing Sports Park in the
hills behind Adelaide, and there combine
music with golf, tennis, riding and swim-
ming.
* * * *
Legend hath it that when Nijinsky
introduced the dance based on
Debussy’s “Apres-midi d’un Faun”
to a Paris audience he performed
it with such erotic intensity that
the house was in an uproar;
duchesses fainted, critics slapped each
other in the face and gentlemen whose
lady friends had been insulted challenged
one another to duels. Rodi.n, the sculptor,
rushed behind and embraced the dancer.
Whether he danced it in a different man-
ner or fashions have changed, there were
none of these manifestations of feeling
at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, last week
when David Lichine appeared in the
name part, with Grigorieva. There was
heartfelt applause, however, for it was one
of the most expressive performances of
the current season. The majestic brown
Lichine looked the faun incarnate, con-
veyed the sensuousness of Debussy’s
music to perfection and danced with ex-
ceptional intelligence. There was an
equally excessive coldness about the
ladies, but this may have been all in
accordance with the intention of Nijin-
sky, who was the choreographer of the
ballet.
“Francesca da Rimini” was repeated.
It is the best of the storied ballets, and the
murderous finale matched the frenzy of
the closing bars of Tschaikowsky’s music.
Artbursts.
The aim of most ballet artists doesn’t
seem to be to hold a mirror up to Nature,
judging by drawings in the Art of
the Ballet exhibition opened by Uni-
versity Vice-Chancellor Medley at
Myer’s, Melbourne.
The process by which the Russian
ballet has attained, for the most part, to
its present heights of grotesqueness has
probably been accelerated by ballet
artists who catch the Byzantine humor
of the ballet and try to outdo it with
their drawings. The ballet confectors
look at the drawings and try to outdo
them in the bizarreness of their produc-
tions. Since Nature cannot be eliminated
altogether, the grace of the ballerina often
triumphs over these conventions, and,
because of them, is all the more impres-
sive.
It came as a shock to look round and
see real ballerinas gazing at their own
reflections in the artist’s distorting mirror.
Some of them looked much nicer off the
stage than they do on it.
* * * *
Highlights of a mixed show of flower-
pieces and other still-lifes at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, are three flower
studies by Rupert Bunny, quite in his old
graceful manner. Maud Sherwood’s bold
designs stand out, Lloyd Rees applies his
queer style to hydrangeas most success-
fully and Mary Edwards makes a nice
rich decorative splash with a bowl of
camellias. Vida Lahey and Thea Proctor
are characteristically represented, Roland
Wakelin and Grace Cossington Smith tell
the horrible truth (as they see it) about
venomous violets and base begonias, and
William Dobell presents a large depressing
view of green pumpkins on a plate. The
most distinctive bit of work in the show
is Helen Stewart’s “Lasiandra,” as charm-
ing as it is clever.


YOU CAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
Cut You Must First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache as a signal that there
is something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
and filters. Every three minutes all the blood
in your body passes through these tubes to bo
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons.
Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous impurities, these tubes become
clogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
ness. frequent or scanty passages with
smarting and burning also show there is
something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay and don’t experiment. Go to
your chemist or store for DOAN S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before it is too late. Millions of users the
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as your neighbour does —take DOAN 3
pACKACHE KIDNEY DIELS to-day,
A WOMANS
LETTER
Photographers taking pictures of every-
thing but their footprints buzzed about
the posy of debs, who bloomed at the
University Settlement Ball. The debs., in
spite of their academic aspirations,
looked as simple as lily-of-the-valley.
There were 35 of them, and they all
wore white, and all carried pink and
white flowers. The Great Hall of the
University was the scene of the first act
of the junketing.
A soft surf of organ music broke
upon the air. Trumpeters blew nobly,
announcing the entry of the University s
Chancellor, Halse Rogers, his lady and
erudite brethren. Oyer the tessellated
floor they swept with a rustling of
gowns. To the Chancellor and his wife
the young Minervas were presented by
Mrs. Harold Dew. Her frock was a
luscious affair of apricot-pink brocade,
bustle and all.
Punctuality was a feature of this cere-
mony. Eight-thirty to the tick must have
seen it burst into action. If you got
there at twenty to nine, you got jammed
in one of the doorways of the Great
Hall, jostling girls in long white furry
coats and coats of many colors, snatched
from the citizen of jungle and
forest. Tall girls in blue, short girls
in red, in-between girls in all the
in-between fabrics politely gnashed their
teeth on the outskirts. One girl tried to
use the mirror from her bag as a peri-
scope. Some girls found chairs and.
stood on them, acting as commentators ;
“There’s Betty! She does look nice” ;
“Has that girl next to her got a bird in
her hair, or are they flowers?” Escorts,
meanwhile, were grimly on the alert,
waiting for an opening. But none came
till the long, long trail of debutantes
stood ready to be photographed.
Next scene was in the Union Refectory.
Leaving the Great Hall everyone made
for the Union. All the paths, seemingly,
were in rehearsal for a blackout. But
the intrepid 600 marched on to the ball-
room. Yes, there were 600 bookings, a
record even for this popular dance
Secretaries Mrs. Hoyle and Mrs. Benning
had a right to look pleased. Decided
that the surroundings, quadrangle, arch-
ways, and paths lined with knowledge-
able buildings, made just as good a snare
for romance as any in Sydney. Hand-
some were the amethystine crepes worn
by the Chancellor’s wife. Splashed with
silver was the black frock worn by Miss
1. Fidler, president of the Settlement.
Among the many pretty girls were
Beatrice and Pat McGirr, Jocelyn Targett
(in Dr. and Mrs. Cole’s party), Esmey
Burfitt, Joyce Taylor, Monica McGlynn,
Dymphne Lennon and Mary Woods
The Russian-violet feather fronds in
Mrs. McGirr’s hair matched the shade
of her heavy crepes.
Fairies and peers and all were mixed
blithely in “lolanthe” on Saturday ; and
when at the curtain call Ivan Menzies
pinned a pair of coy white wings on
producer Minnie Everett there was a
spate of laughter. The women in the
audience aired their furs, for the night
was chill. Much greeted was Mrs. F. E.
Baume, who flew back to Sydney last
week from London. A silver-fox cape
almost hid her jade-green frock. Dorothy
Tremlett, her G. and S. as fluent as her
French, applauded in white lace caped
in black velvet. Pamela Bushell’s mink
jacket was worn over bluebell georgettes.
Lieutenant-Colonel Richard Yorke was
there to see wife Evelyn Gardiner as the
fairy queen. Evelyn’s mother was there,
too. Hibiscus-red patterned were the
white taffetas worn by Mrs. H. J. Brady.
Joyce Vale, of Kirribilli, became Mrs.
“Bill” Fillingham at the little C. of E.
with the red spire at Milson’s Point last
Saturday. This was a family wedding,
and not more than 50 guests were there
to see the ’groom and his bride in her
orchid satins and Brussels-lace veil ex-
change their vows. Sheila Vale attended
her sister, her frock a soft gleam of
crushed strawberry in the afternoon light.
Reception was at the home of Mrs.
Cecil Schartl, another sister of the bride.
Her mother, Mrs. H. Vale, received the
guests, her frock and hat of mist blue.
Old family friends the Charles Rosenthals
were there. So was Andy Watt, K.C.,
who proposed the toast of the bride, just
as he had done for her mother at her
wedding.
The Lord Mayor’s Fund is to get a
helping hand from the singers of Syd-
ney. Roland Foster is organising, and
Mrs. Foster (in this picture) is the sec-
retary for, a choral concert of great rich-
ness which will be held at the Conserva-
torium in July. A choir of 200 voices
will be assembled by Roland, and the
music will be English and Australian.
‘‘Sun” knight Hugh Denison is president
of a committee that has as many society
vice-presidents as a dahlia has petals.
Photo, by Norton Trevaire.
Time turned backward in its flight
under the magic of Matron Conyers’s
tongue on a sunshot autumn afternoon
last week. With Matron Kellett, Sister
Kearey and other distinguished war sisters
of 1914-18 she sat at a table in one of
the reception-rooms of the Australia.
To east and west and south of her
stretched long tables surrounded by grey-
clad nurses of the second A.I.F. These
young women, most of them rapier-slim
in their trig uniforms, steady and
humorous of gaze, were of Queensland,
Victoria and N. S. Wales. After a mas-
terly prelude by Matron Kellett, Matron
Conyers launched into her simple but
noble theme —the story of the 1914-18
Anzac nurse.
From King George’s Sound the lis-
tener sailed with her on the Shropshire,
in convoy, the Sydney to starboard, the
Japanese cruiser Ibuki to port. You saw,
too, the noble line of the Hampshire,
to be later wedded in death with Lord
Kitchener. You saw the company of
nurses, busy from the first day, with
injection cases. You saw the Anzacs
fretting lest the show be all over before
they could get at it. You saw the Syd-
ney suddenly steam off at a great rate
to engage the Emden off Cocos Island.
During the day over the wireless, with all
the rest of that transport, you got mes-
sage after message till at last came word
of the beaching of the German ship.
You felt the excitement of that arrival
in Colombo, where 42 ships had been
bottled up because of the menace of
the Emden. You went up the Canal
greeted by companies of Gurkhas, of Sea-
forth Highlanders and other crack regi-
ments, all glad of your safety. You saw
the work of Mena Flouse, of the Heli-
opolis (with its special royal suite for
the King of the Belgians) and of former
sultans’ palaces, now hospitals.
You heard the story of Sister Kelly,
and how she won her R.R.C. up in a
casualty hospital in the lines. From
start to finish the story of the A.I.F.
nurse is an epic. And you knew, gazing
around those tables, that every girl in
that newer, jauntier grey uniform was
an embryo Sister Conyers, Sister Kel-
lett, Sister Kelly and Sister Kearey. A
laurel leaf or two must be handed to
Miss E. P. Evans, secretary of the
A.T.N.A., for her management of the
party.
Important arrival in Sydney last week
was the Aotearoa, which lit on Rose
Bay nine hours after it left Auckland.
Among the nine passengers, two only
were women. They were Patty Drom-
gool and Joan Hewitt. Both sparkled
over their experience. There was a party
bristling with speeches to celebrate the
arrival The Qantas Empire Airways
arranged it. There were 300 guests
Minister for Air Fairbairn, who had
flown from Canberra, one of them, ine
Aotearoa carried 40,000 letters to Aus-
tralia. There was also on board a
gramophone record of greetings from
Auckland’s Mayor, Ernest Davis, to
Sydney’s Mayor, S. S. Crick.
Mrs. Harold Bott’s birthday was
made the reason for a party by a group
of her musical friends. Mrs. A. Mc-
Cartney was the hostess, and by half-past
three last Thursday afternoon the fes-
tive table was strewn with sheaves ol
roses, plots of violets and less transitory
gifts. Mrs. Roland Foster, with a sky-
sweeping beret above her black frock,
was there, the look of the flat-hunter
still alight in her eye. Miriam Hyde (Mrs.
Edwards), whose husband is overseas
with the A.1.F., Josephine Bell (Mrs.
Herbert) and Mrs. Hope Gibson were a
few of those who came with congratu-
lations. Mrs. McCartney’s hat and frock
were in rich burgundy tones.
At the end of the Town Hall, oppo-
site the platform, sat Lady Wakehurst to
view the procession of the Junior Red-
Crossers. On the organ-loft of the plat-
form were rows and rows of small girls,
white-frocked, white-snooded. On the
floor of the hall, stretching between the
vice-regal dais and the stage, were hun-
dreds and hundreds of mothers and small
sisters and brothers. Their part was to
applaud the members of the family tak-
ing part in the pageant. Every year this
seems brighter than the last. There was
an Admiral this year to walk the quarter-
deck, a five- or six-year-old Nelson, very
brave his gold epaulets and cocked hat.
Mothers laughed when a small girl im-
personating a stork walked on to the
scene, a baby doll in the bundle in her
bill. Behind her followed a retinue of
nurses, each holding a baby doll wrapped
in a blanket. There were Jack Points,
Nautch girls, Jolly Jack Tars, arms
folded in readiness to burst into a horn-
pipe. Here was a Second A.1.F.-er com-
plete with Balaclava. One youngster
hopped along, a blithe young kangaroo.
But, of course, the pageant is the
glamor part of the proceedings. Behind
this gala lie months of hard work —‘knit-
ting and stitchery for the children of
the needy Anzac. In addition to their
own beneficiaries, this year small hands
have knitted nearly 2000 jumpers for the
child victims of Finland’s war. Parma
violet was the color of Lady Wakehurst’s
costume ; her fitting black hat was decked
with a fan of black velvet. Mrs. Cecil
Hordern, Mrs. A. G. White, Miss Con-
sett Stephen, Miss Kate Egan, Mrs.
George Parkes, Mayoress Crick (all in
grey) and Mrs. Robert MacKinnon were
among those who drank tea up in the
Mayoress’s rooms when the procession
was ended and the Town Hall was given
over to the army of Juniors, who raged
in merry madness while mothers held
banners, coats and other impedimenta.
Here’s an engagement the announce-
ment of which will set old memories
stirring in the Singleton district. Gwenda
Rosa Wilson, great-granddaughter of
Benjamin Singleton, who founded the
town of that name, has just become
affianced to Edwin Sharp, of Petersham.
Patriotic appeals take up much of
Gwenda’s time. She is a worker for the
Randwick Patriotic Fund and the Lord
Mayor’s Fund, and is a member of Ken-
sington’s bright Younger Set.
A glimpse of shipping knight Tom
Gordon in Bridge-street last week re-
minded that a painting of the Japanese
warship Ibuki is now hanging in the
King’s Gallery at Federal Parliament
House, Canberra. The painting, which
has poetry and movement in its concep-
tion, is by R. Arai, the leading repre-
sentative of the Western school of paint-
ing in Japan. The artist spent many
years in Italy and other parts of Europe
for the purpose of study, and has at-
tained a high reputation as a painter of
seascape and landscape. Mr. Arai has
the most unusual of signatures. He signs
all his letters with a tiny sketch of his
own face and head. The chin and jaws
are done in a lightning capital A inverted.
The painting was presented by the man-
aging director of Birt and Co. to
Priminister Menzies on behalf of the
Hon. Shozo Murata, president of the
Osaka Shosen Kaisha, the Japanese ship-
ping line.
“A nation’s greatness is reflected in
its humanity” boldly affirms one small
competitor in the Be Kind to Animals
poster competition. If this is true, and
this Letter believes it so, then Australia
is being prepared to rank above all. For,
judging by the exhibition of the posters,
the fives to sixteens of this continent find
it in their hearts to be kind to all dumb
creatures. Possum and ’roo and deer,
even the frog has its protector. The
next time you feel tempted to hurl a
stone at green water-brother, remember
the request of one anxious friend and
refrain. The dog, the horse, “cocky”
and the cat are subjects for whom your
care and kindness are recurringly im-
plored. One small boy breaks into verse:
I wonder what’s making the poor dog so
I’ll search him and see if he’s picked up a
tide. , . , _
If this isn’t the cause, then I think I must
say
I’ll just have to ring the R.S.P.C.A.
That we live in a droughty land and
a sun-baked one is shown over and over.
“Don’t forget to give them a drink. ’
“Put your horse in the shade.” The
lady who goes off leaving a note for
the baker to say she won’t need bread,
she’s on holidays, and has forgotten her
dog, still tied up in his kennel, is held
up, despite the law of libel, to hatred
and contempt.
An amiable idea is the map of Aus-
tralia, each State carrying a picture of
some domestic animal. Striking, too, was
the drawing of the horse. Here was the
racehorse: “The Sport of Kings,” above
him his “Show Ring” brother ; there a
steed very gallantly carrying his Light
Horseman for King and country ; then
the polo pony. Most of all appealed the
five-year-old who seemed to have got
her inspiration from the Apocalypse,
Here were strange-looking birds and
beasts, even the snake. Here were cotton-
wool green trees, and presumably a water-
hole, "it bore the indisputable statement:
“All animals and birds need water.”
Meeting Percy Hunter at the journalists’
lunch to Lieutenant-General Blarney was
as heartening as a champagne cocktail,
as bracing as an iron tonic. Two of his
phrases—“these Norway Blues” (that a
little contemptuous in view of the
courage shown over withdrawals and
advances in the early part of the
1914-1918 struggle) and “A Quisling
in every home,” referring to the so-called
Fifth Column activities —stick in the
memory. Everybody seemed as full of
stories as the General’s chest was of
medals.
There was the story (it grew out of
censorship talk) of the old man whose
eyes went wrong, and who couldn't read
the newspapers. When the oculist ex-
amined the eyes he asked the sufferer
about his diet, and the patient admitted
he liked to drink in moderation —a bottle
of whisky a day. The doctor said:
“Well, I can cure your eyes and you’ll
be able to read the papers again. But
you must give up your whisky.” “Ah,
no, doctor,” said the old man, “don't
bother. I prefers what I drink to what
I read.” Official War Correspondent
Ken Slessor and his wife were at the
lunch. She will make her home in
London for the duration, and confessed
to bringing brand-new vaccination marks
to the party. Kindly and clever Charlie
Bean was there ; so was a brother to the
beloved “Trooper Bluegum” of the
1914-18 struggle. The lunch was at the
Carlton, and was a crowded affair.
War or no war, the 1940 Eisteddfod
will rage from August 19 to 31. There
will be 200 sections —some of them new.
Among these will be the vocal solo with
flute obbligato. For the first time this
will take its place in the Melba Memorial
competitions. The trophy has been given
by John Lemmone, old friend of Melba
and her favorite flautist. Ballroom
dancing finds a place in the Eisteddfod.
The finals will be judged at the Troca-
dero, and will be accompanied by a full
dance band. The C. J. Dennis Memorial
Prize Fund sponsors a competition under
the heading “Speech-training.” Remem-
ber entries close on June 29.
Lebby Hordern, son of the late Lebby
Hordern, of Sydney and Bowral (one of
the Brickfield Hill firm clan), was married
in London last week to the lovely Ursula
Gibbons. Her mother is Lady Orr-Lewis.
’Groom’s mother, Madame de Romero,
was a Miss Monie, of Sydney.


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of
JAMES WILKIE, formerly of Hastings, New
Zealand, but who went to reside in Sydney
about 10 years ago, please communicate with
MACLEAN & KINCAID,
Solicitors, Taihape, N.Z.
WILL JOHN McKENZIE, son of the late
Robert Peter McKenzie, of North Auckland,
New Zealand, last heard of in Forbes, New
South Wales, in 1932, and Coonamble, New
South Wales, in 1934, or anyone knowing his
whereabouts, please communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Whangarei,
New Zealand?
GULLY.—WouId FRANK HAROLD GULLY
(last known address Blue’s Point Road, North
Sydney), or any person knowing his address,
please communicate with PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Adelaide?
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of
JOHN and JAMES KENNEDY, nephews of
JOHN O’DONNELL, late of Tumbulgum,
Tweed River, please communicate with
MESSRS. HALLIDAY, BUDD & STAINLAY,
Solicitors, Murwillumbah?
ROCK, Bridget, daughter of Bernard Rock
and Anne McGoay, also
GRAHAM, James, from England. Probably
died in Australia about 60 years ago. Relatives
should communicate with GANDY, COHEN
& HISCOCK, Chartered Accountants, 44
Queen Street, Melbourne.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 432 of 1940.
BETWEEN EDITH GERTRUDE BOXHALL
Petitioner
And OLIVER BOXHALL Respondent.
TO OLIVER BOXHALL late of Islington.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDITH
GERTRUDE BOXHALL has commenced a
suit agairist you in this Court and has applied
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Court on or before the Eighteenth day
of July next and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fourth day of April,
1940.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
S. S. MITCHELL, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle; by his
Agents, JOHN CORCORAN AND CO., Solici-
tors, Assembly Hall, 2 York Street, Sydney.
TO CHARLES FRANCES TAYLOR formerly
of Mary Street Richmond in the State
of Victoria but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MARY
JANE ELIZABETH TAYLOR has commenced
proceedings in the Supreme Court of Victoria
for a divorce on the ground that you have
without just cause or excuse wilfully deserted
her and without any such cause or excuse left
her continuously so deserted during three years
and upwards UNLESS you enter an appear-
ance in the Office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court at Melbourne within 21 days
from the publication hereof the case may be
proceeded with in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay costs AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that if you intend to
defend the suit of your said wife you must
cause an answer to be filed in the said office
within 31 days from the publication hereof.
This advertisement is inserted by MESSRS.
N. H. SONENBERG & GOLDBERG, of
No. 447 Little Collins Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
DATED this Third day of May, 1940.
TO LAWRENCE GEORGE COLLINS for-
merly of Earlstown Road Oakleigh in
the State of Victoria but now of parts
unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife ELSIE
ETHEL COLLINS has commenced proceed-
ings for divorce against you on the ground
of desertion during three years and upwards
Unless you enter an appearance in the Office
of the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court of
Victoria at Melbourne on or before the
Twenty-second day of May 1940 and file an
answer in the said office by the first day of
June 1940 the suit may proceed in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay costs.
P. J. RIDGEWAY,
379 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Parliament of Victoria opened
last week for its seasonal session. The
ceremony, never exhilarating, was shorn
of some of its trappings, including the
guard of honor and the artillery salute.
Sir Winston Dugan was present, wearing
his service uniform. The galleries were
as crowded as usual, particularly with
the wives of politicians and titled gentle-
men, whose feminine counterparts as
one woman wrapped themselves in black
and buried their shoulders in silver foxes.
Conversation happened, as always, in
awed whispers. Such reverence is seldom
equalled at church weddings. It would
be a diversion if the unexpected hap-
pened ; if some valiants with the State’s
good as their prevailing phobia could
purloin entry cards and let fly with their
grievances. There are flunkeys, of course,
but they may be out of training. It
would be a dramatic interlude.
Because the bride clings to a super-
stition that May is no month for a mar-
riage, the wedding of Agnes O’Loughlin
and Dr. John Devine took place on the
last day of April. Original plans were
for a wedding later in the year, but, as
the ’groom has military duties ahead of
him, arrangements were altered slightly,
and Agnes, instead of being a midwinter
bride, wore her gown of white slipper
satin and tulle veil on a mild autumn
morning with showers falling intermit-
tently. The very quiet ceremony in St.
Peter’s, Toorak, was succeeded by a
small reception for intimate friends and
relatives at the home of the ’groom’s
parents, the Hugh Devines. The bride,
who was unattended, was given away by
her uncle, H. Shirley. She is the fourth
daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. T. J.
O’Loughlin.
Stonnington has entered a new era of
existence. Royalty slept under its roof in
the days when it was Government House.
Rowdy girls entered its imposing gates
and emerged a few years later genteel
young ladies ; that was when it was St.
Margaret’s. Later Stonnington became a
hospital for young victims of the infan-
tile-paralysis epidemic, and last week
last-minute jobs were completed to make
it a military hospital and convalescent
home. Lady Dugan and Red Cross
officials were present at the opening
afternoon ceremony. Premier Dunstan
received the verbal kudos as representing
the Government, which made the build-
ing available. Lieut.-General Lavarack
and Col. Shaw made short speeches on
behalf of the military forces.
Hanging chrysanthemums were a
feature of the Chrysanthemum Show in
the Lower Town Hall. They should be
grand as a window-box idea for flats ;
even the apartment-bound Pomeranian
will be putting on airs if his owners
achieve such a showy feature upon their
domicile. At the show the flowers in
variegated colors hung like Juliet’s hair
from balcony boxes camouflaged with
moss and bark. They were grown from
seed in the Fitzroy Gardens.
Plans for the American Ball have
been hatching for months—the Ameri-
cans seem to get going for the Fourth of
July on the First of January. Ado to
help with the ball expenses happened
last week at the instigation of Mrs. Her-
bert Allen, Mrs. Jud Holt and Mrs. Jim
Welker. Their idea, which turned out
trumps, was a picture night at The Vil-
lage Toorak, with coffee and liqueurs
in the foyer as a curtain-raiser and a
popular diversion during the interval.
Mrs. Allen, in black and a swayback
lame coat, carried a silver coffee pot
hither and thither without spilling a drop.
Mrs. Holt, a yield of turquoises upon her
black frock and of feathers aloft of her
head, worked with great speed behind
the counter. Mrs. Welker, who wore a
fan-pleated gown in the color of purple
currants, also showed a deft hand at
pouring a measure.
Mrs. J. M. Lindsay was attached to
the ticket table and to two mammy dolls.
Mammies were like rabbits, everywhere;
they even were propped under the arms
of Larry Hartnett and Jimmy Clymer.
Jimmy, with his mammy, afterwards
found himself sitting with Latham, C.J.,
the Latham lady (who is the president of
the Children’s Hospital) and the C.
Gambles. Mrs. Clymer’s homemaking
instinct kept her busy collecting cups,
separating glasses from ashtrays, etc. The
Luigi Luiggis were on deck ; also Mrs.
Ralph Hunt in flamingo-pink and
diamente buttons, and Mrs. M. P. Cordia
m black and silver foxes. Mrs. Will
Plowright and Mrs. Ben Bradley were
pals together, each the owner of a hus-
band who pleaded he couldn’t face up
to the film of the evening—“ Honeymoon
in Bali.”
At the same hour on the same after-
noon two exhibitions of pictures were
opened, each the antithesis of the other.
Those people who first visited the Sedon
Galleries basked in the sunshine and
shadow of Will Rowell’s landscapes
before they made tracks by way of new
purple carpets (if they used the stairs)
to the Athenaeum for Adrian Lawlor’s
provocative adventures. Mr. Lawlor
was there, talking with great intensity
to his pals. Eavesdropping, one could
hear smatters of philosophy and occa-
sional very human phrases like “What
the hell!”
In the absence through illness of J. A.
MacDonald, Harold Herbert opened Will
Rowell’s show at a few minutes’ notice.
Being who he is Mr. Herbert can get
away with a spot of legpulling. He
admires Bill’s work, but he didn’t say
so till he’d had his bit of fun, congratulat-
ing his brother artist in “having seen the
light” and succeeding, “though, of course,
your medium of oils is much easier than
my own of water-colors.”
The old “Tin Alley” at “The Shop” is
being perpetuated, whether to posterity
or not time will tell. A graduates’
dramatic club has come into existence
calling itself the Tin Alley Players. It
will produce its shows in the Union
Theatre and receive co-operation from
the Union generally. With characteristic
lack of timidity the Tin Alleys have
chosen Elmer Rice’s “Judgment Day”
for their premier season on May 17, 18
and 20. The play has never been pro-
duced in Melbourne.
Lance Carlson, who took bows for
being such a big surprise in McMahon’s
production of “Of Mice and Men,” has
a Goring-like part as General Rakovsky
in “Judgment Day.” Lance’s usual bent
is towards metallurgy. Frank Brooks,
of the National Bank, is Slatasky, one
of the few humanitarians in the play.
Stanley Lowe, who earns his daily bread
as a teacher, is one of the totalitarian
Judges, The highly-strung accused is
played by Murray Sutherland, a lecturer
on the University Extension Board.
Keith Macartney, who’s producing, plays
a minor role as a moron.
Keith would make a fitting president
for a Department of (one
never knows, this might be an invention
as a staff absorber for the Department
of Censorship after the war is over). He
is planning a season of “French With-
out Tears” and of “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream.” As to the latter, being
aesthetically minded, he would not, as
producer, tamper with .the script, but
decor and costumes may be like an earth-
quake to the diehards; also, the lines
will be spoken and not elocuted.
In Broothorn’s portrait is Virginia
Russell, elder daughter of Major and
Mrs. Alex. Russell, of Mawallock, Beau-
ford. Since her return home last year
from finishing school in Paris Virginia
often comes to town for social fixtures.
Once again Margaret Wilson knows
the thrill of having a tennis racquet in
her hand. A year ago she was knocked
down by a car, and it was thought she
might not play again. Last week, play-
ing a winter pennant match in the Uni-
versity A-grade team against Camber-
well A grade, Margaret met May Blick
and, though defeated, managed to take a
game from her slim and agile opponent.
In 1937 Miss Wilson was junior cham-
pion and was ranked No. 7 woman
player in Australia.
Making the most of her two months’
holiday in Australia is Elizabeth McEvoy,
who is staying with her mother, Mrs.
George Forman, of Glen Eira-road.
Miss McEvoy, who is an “old girl” of
St. Catherine’s and trained as a nurse
at the Alfred, is on leave from her job
as a staff nurse at the Anglo-Iranian Oil
Co.’s hospital at Abadan at the head of
the Persian Gulf. She’s finding it grand
to be home again, but she’s very happy
in her job, likes the life and the work
and has no complaints about the hot
climate of that part of Iran.
That part of the world, she says, has
its small blessings, a shower of rain now
and again and two months of winter
when the British community is glad of
light coats and even occasional fires after
nightfall. Miss McEvoy says that social
life is merry and bright, there’s plenty
of dancing and bridge, golf and tennis,
and swimming in the fresh-water pool.
British bathers never compete with the
crocodiles in the open water.
In Athol Shmith’s photograph is Bet-
tine Heriot, singer of 17 who’s a protegee
of Gertrude Johnson and the National
Theatre, and who last week made her
debut with the A.B.C. as a coloratura
soprano. Bettine’s home town is Wil-
liamstown, and her father is a member
of the Liedertafel Choir. Three years
ago Miss Johnson heard Bettine sing and
offered her a scholarship, but first she
advised six months’ rest as a preliminary
to work commenced in earnest. Bettine’s
course of study embraces a broad range
and includes opera, oratorio and concert
singing, also dancing and drama.
Maria Markan made her Melbourne
debut with no flowers in her hair and no
jewels, save for pendulum earrings and
her decoration from the King of Den-
mark pinned to her corsage with a nar-
row navy-blue ribbon. Her severely
plain white gown was worn with a full-
length cape of dull-surfaced black crepe,
a full-marks idea for an orchestral back-
ground. Miss Markan bought this apparel
in Sydney, as she did a moon-blue lame
gown which she will possibly wear dur-
ing this week. Sharing the programme
honors with the singer from Iceland was
conductor Antal Dorati, who merited
every moment of the loud and long
applause. Right through the arduous pro-
gramme he used no script—in fact, the
conductor’s music-rest was notable by its
absence.
In Saturday’s packed house were Pro-
fessor and Mrs. Lodewyckx, the Professor
possibly being the only person present
besides Miss Markan who has ever
trodden the heaths of Iceland. The Angliss
lady and Eirene were noticed in wool-
len coats ; mother’s, in powder-pink, had
a counterpart in an imposing mass of
flowers upon her corsage ; daughter’s, in
lobelia-blue, produced a headpiece attach-
ment in the Red Riding Hood manner.
Strella Wilson’s lame coat was spattered
with gold and silver dots. Dorothy
Mattingley, who was with her father, Dr.
H. V. Mattingley, wore furs and a bunch
of fuchsias upon her corsage.
Frank Sullivan has been welcomed
home by friends of two generations.
He’s returned with an aura of travel
and experience. During his four years
abroad he moved journalistically
from place to place, absorbing
knowledge all the time. One of his
jobs was on “The Times” and another
was in Wales, which country he liked,
though he didn’t go far with the lan-
guage. He learnt only one word, and
he’s not quite sure of the spelling, but
it means “Here’s how” in English and
“Skaal” in Norwegian. Frank did better
with his smattering of German and
French. During his seven visits to Ger-
many he carried on long conversations
in German, and he also on one memor-
able occasion translated for an Italian
a letter into French which was written
in German by a Hungarian.
Frank liked the U.S.A. and Canada,
and apparently the inhabitants of those
countries liked him. Arriving in Winni-
peg on a Sunday morning, knowing no-
body, he telephoned a man to whom he
had a letter of introduction. He was
promptly invited to lunch, and later in
the day was taken to meet a prominent
K.C. and his wife, who was a city coun-
cillor. After a couple of hours’ for-
gathering, they invited Frank to stay
with them for his three months" term in
Winnipeg. He accepted and got to know
the country better for his new-found
friends’ kindness.
A motor-car presented by the John
Martin Co. in Adelaide brought in for
the Red Cross well over £lOOO from
45,000 sixpenny shots at putting a name
to the picture of a Digger winning a pile
of money from some Arabs at two-up.
A jury of art critics and journalists, with
the Lady Mayoress, gave the car to “A
kipper, and' two bad eggs on toast.” A
humorous feature was reported by the
preliminary sorters, who had to toss out
duplicate entries by the hundred. The
most popular title, presumably sent in
by original Diggers themselves, was “Fol-
lowing in father’s footsteps.”


Water Frontage to the Sea.
FOR SALE. —A home to retire to, and one
that is also close enough to Sydney to enable
a businessman to go in and out to his daily
work.
Surfing, fishing and privacy.
Furnished Cottage, Caretaker’s Cottage,
Garage, etc. Council Water and Electric
Light and Power. Refrigeration, Sewer,
Garden, Lawns, etc.
Twelve miles north of Manly. Total frontage
276 feet. A far better investment than money
out at low interest subject to high taxation.
A. J. Dadson, Hotel Manly, Manly, N.S.W.
THE SERVICE MAN
Poor Tommy!
In an article received from London
by Beam wireless and published in the
“Argus,” Captain Liddell Hart penned
a criticism which cannot be answered: - -
Before the Government manifested a dis-
position to halt the German iron-ore traffic
through Norwegian waters —a move that
could hardly fail to provoke a reply—it
should surely have had a carefully-picked
expeditionary force ready to embark at the
shortest possible notice to counter the
enemy’s likely riposte against Norway. It
might also have been wise not to make
such a move unless, after weighing all
risks, we were prepared to send a sub-
stantial part of our fleet into the Skagerrak
to interrupt the passage of German troops
to Oslo.
On March 20 the people of the British
Commonwealth were informed by Mr.
Chamberlain that the Allies had offered
to have “about 100,000 men, heavily
armed and equipped,” in northern Europe
“befoe the end of April” with orders “to
help Sweden if attacked, to aid Finland
and to guard the lines of communication.”
In the light of subsequent events, though
Red opposition would have been formid-
able in only one respect —numbers —it is
just as well that the 100,000 men were
never sent.
The expedition to Norway has been
marked by features with which students
of Mr. Churchill’s career, of the Gal-
lipoli campaign and of some of the 1915
battles in France were sickeningly
familiar, and new ones have been added.
In the first place, not nearly enough
men were sent, and they did not arrive
until the enemy had strong and well-
equipped forces waiting in strong posi-
tions. They and the public were fed
with extravagant accounts of the check
administered to his capacity to carry on
a campaign by the naval operations,
heroic though these were, and effective
within limits. In a Churchill speech their
duty was laid down for them—they were
to expel “the filthy pollution of Nazi
tyranny” from the “land of the Vikings.”
And this they were expected to do with-
out having anywhere sufficient protection
against aircraft, for lack of which the
campaign in Poland so swiftly became a
massacre.
“Many British boys were killed the
moment they landed on Norwegian soil.”
So wrote James Aldridge, a young Aus-
tralian, in a graphic message to the Syd-
ney “Sun,” after a journey from Nam-
sos to Stenkjaer, during which he saw
appalling evidence of bombing raids that
“laid low the whole of the Namsos
valley,” wrecking the town, pitting the
roads, smashing transport lorries and
leaving huge gaps in the railway. Ald-
ridge witnessed “the German bombers
flaunting their superiority in the face of a
couple of undersized and ineffective
British pursuit ’planes.”
And what happened in the Namsos
valley happened also in the Gudbrandsdal
and Oster valleys, down which small
parties of British, armed with little more
than Bren guns, had pushed with the
object of stiffening the resistance of a
Norwegian division —the second —which
had tried to hold on to Hamar and Lille-
hammer. It proved to be beyond succor,
and according to the German report
there were “40 British” among the Nor-
wegians who surrendered north and north-
west of Lillehammer: 6000, with “seven
cannon, 125 machine-guns and 250 auto-
mobiles” —so poorly equipped was the
unfortunate division.
The experiences of the British south
and south-west of Trondhjem must have
been equally harrowing. One of the
meagre official reports mentions that
“enemy air attacks on Andalsnes and
Molde continued all day.” The Germans
allow that the British took their punish-
ment stoically. Dombas, the railway junc-
tion south of Trondhjem and south-east
of Andalsnes, was, German newspapers
admit, defended by them with “courage
and toughness” against the Germans
thrusting along the Gudbrandsdal valley ;
and although they had to withdraw be-
yond Dombas they held on to their new
position “toughly,” disposing of three
enemy tanks. But the double drive along
the valleys, accompanied as it was by an
advance north from Bergen, made their
position precarious, and seriously
threatened also the force at Andalsnes,
where, according to the German account,
the landing party consisted of “8000 men
without anti-aircraft protection.” Once
at Dombas and Opdal, further north, the
Germans announced that they were in
control of the railway from Oslo to
Trondhjem. And Hitler issued a trium-
phant proclamation to his troops.
Of all these developments, the public
learned more from Berlin than from
London. In Britain there were bitter
complaints of the meagreness of War
Office bulletin®, and the planning and
“Lef me in and I'll promise not to croon any more!”
conduct of the campaign were hotly con-
demned by members of Parliament, par-
ticularly Sir Archibald Sinclair, the
Liberal leader, and press-writers. Some
of the newspapers published articles
designed to prepare the public, not only
for the impossibility of taking Trond-
hjem, but for a probable withdrawal from
Central Norway. The most dismal pessi-
mists were those whose expectations had
been greatest only a fortnight before and
who before that had led the chorus of
protests against “kid-glove tactics” and
of demands for “action.”
Mr. Chamberlain broke the silence of
his Government on Thursday. He revealed
that when the question of assisting Fin-
land lapsed, “the forces for Finland and
other forces, to go to the assistance of
Norway and Sweden in the event of the
invasion of those countries” had, for the
most part, been “dispersed,” together
with the transports:
About a month ago, however, it was
decided that certain small forces should be
kept in readiness to occupy western Nor-
wegian ports at short notice in case of an
act of aggression against southern Norway.
These “small forces” were the basis of the
expedition. One landed at Narvik on
April 15. Meantime the Royal Navy had
accounted for all the German destroyers
in that port, so “troops intended for
Narvik were diverted,” for “we resolved
to try to capture Trondhjem”:
Naval forces had landed at Namsos on
April 14. British troops landed on April
16 and April 18, and French Alpine
troops a few days later. Part of this
force advanced towards Stenkjaer to sup-
port the Norwegians. South of Trond-
hjem, a naval party landed on April 18 and
19, and advanced toward Dombas, and
a contingent went toward Lillehammer to
support the Norwegians opposing the main
German advance.
But it was all in vain. “Although our
troops fought with gallantry and deter-
mination and inflicted heavy losses, local
German air superiority, which precluded
the landing of the necessary artillery and
tanks to withstand the enemy drive from
the south, and the ability of the Germans
to send reinforcements at a much greater
rate than we could,” necessitated the
withdrawal of the troops south of
Trondhjem. This operation “was accom-
plished without loss under the very noses
of the German aeroplanes,” and was
likened by Mr. Chamberlain to the action
of Sir John Moore at Corunna; and
General Paget, the commanding officer,
was more fortunate than Moore. A
retirement from Namsos followed.
The Prime Minister argued that “the
balance of advantage in Norway” leaned
to the Allies, since the Germans had
“failed to achieve their objective” and
their losses at sea were so great. “We
have no intention,” he said, “of allowing
Norway to become a mere sideshow.”
This was taken to mean that the Allies
would concentrate on Narvik, which may
be taken and held, though the German
troops there will evidently be reinforced,
as well as the British troops.
“We only laugh when Mr. Chamber-
lain declares that the British withdrew
from Andalsnes without loss.” Thus a
German commentator’s sneer. The High
Command reported the capture of more
thousands of Norwegians, and, now
striking an exultant note, added: “In
unresting pursuit of the wildly fleeing
English, German troops reached Andals-
nes and raised the war flag of the Reich.”
A postscript referred to the seizure of
“enormous quantities of materials, muni-
tions, vehicles and mules”—presumably
four-footed mules, not politicians.
It has been disclosed that the British
who were expected to carry out im-
mensely difficult operations without air-
craft against superior forces belonged to
a division of Territorials —the 49th. The
French were Alpine Chasseurs. Soon
after the French landed “a great part of
their ammunition was blown up by
bombers,” and as for the Territorials
landed at Andalsnes “the transport con-
taining the brigadier-general’s anti-
aircraft guns had been sunk.” An official
Italian newsagency declares that of
the British there were 27,000 men, 12
tanks and 40 guns; of the Germans
110,000 men, 350 tanks and 400 guns.
Number of aircraft not given nor had the
Allied losses been announced when this
was written.
Poor, game, goodhearted Tommy
Atkins! Sacrificed once more, with an
intensity of suffering not experienced even
at Walcheren, in the Crimea, in Meso-
potamia, in Gallipoli, France or Flanders,
to purblind and complacent ineptitude in
London! In such cases, until “the last
battle,” somebody in London always
forgets something.
“T.”: When magnetic mines began
doing their deadly work one of the many
pro-Churchill papers announced that “the
genius of Mr. Churchill would find the
answer to this device.” Not the genius
of Mr. Churchill, but, according to the
“Times,” “the officers of one of his
Majesty’s Naval Establishments, with the
advice and able assistance of the most
eminent men of science in the country”
have found the answer —a safety girdle
round the hull, “applicable to ships of
all sizes, from the Queen Elizabeth to
trawlers.” It consists of “ordinary insu-
lated electric cable, energised in a special
way by an electric current.” No ship
wearing the “degaussing” girdle has
been even damaged since the invention
was perfected, and one of the inven s
has a standing offer to take any
gaussed” ship over any number or mag-
netic mines. As he isn’t a politician, ms
name has not come out, nor have tnos
of his fellow-officers or the eminent me.
of science. A French report states mat
French ships going to Norway were hull-
girdled.
Around the Army.
XXV.
THE RATION PARTY.
To the front-line man there is nothing
more conducive to the pure pleasure
derivable from unselfish acts than to be
told off to join a ration party. Especially
is this so if there is a continuous whine
of shells far overhead, while the front
line itself is a haven of quietude and he is
filling flushes and straights every second
hand.
He may allow himself a mild Teh!
Corp., I only wish you had called
me before I was dealt these four es -
I’ll have to toss them in now. Theie
will, however, be voiced by those whom
he is about to succor a deep solicitude
for the one so selected. “Don tbe a
Noah’s Ark, Corp.,” will go up the cry.
“Pick on someone else, can’t y’, an give
us a chance to get our Oscar back. He
might get skittled an’ then we ll be stilt.
Leaving the front line, the ration party,
light in ballast, makes easy going down
the communication trenches, past sup-
ports. Hitting the duckboard track, it
gets its metaphorical running-shoes on.
Arrived at the edge of a wood that is
being diligently searched by enemy shells
for the advanced 18-pounder battery that
jerry knows is hidden there, the lance-
jack will suggest they skirt it to the right
to take advantage of the old abandoned
trench system there which leads to the
big crater near where the sunken road
comes out by the chalkpits, behind which
the field-kitchen is located. Some of
the mob reckon they should bear over
to the left, as the Woodbines are over
to the right, but Johnno knows those
trenches as he knows the back of his
hand. They spent a month in reserves
there once with the mob he used to be
with. Yair, keep to the right and it’ll cut
half a mile off.
With this convincing evidence, the
one-striper leads the way. It is when
they are getting back towards supports
again, the old trench system they’ve fol-
lowed proving to be a crescent-shaped
salient, that Johnno opines luridly that
the lance-jack is the biggest mug of a
map-reader in the A.1.F., and that he’d
get bushed in Hyde Park.
After a detour which takes them
through a few miles of shelLpitted bog
they at last get on to the sunken road,
and finally to the field-kitchen, there to be
greeted by a ropable bab, who implores
Heaven to inform him why he was ever
mad enough to drag on babbing for
bunches of quarter-wits who keep him
up half the night while they go mucking
around the countryside.
There follows a good lashing of stew,
washed down by a few pints of tea and
topped off with a good whack of o.p.
Then containers are hoisted on backs, bags
are slung over shoulders and the home-
ward trek begins. Jerry will be methodi-
cally, if unimaginatively, dropping salvos
of ,77’s on the crossroads every three
minutes, right to the second, thus kindly
allowing them to get past that hot spot
with a minimum of bother. It will be
fairly easy going on the duckboard track
until the cove carrying the bread issue,
three to a loaf, in the blackness follow-
ing the extinction of a Verey light some
goat has fired right overhead, steps in
between two duckboards and the
“munjee” bounds over the landscape.
Considerate attempts to wipe the mud
off will be met by the admonition that
the mob’ll be sweatin’ on a good feed,
and, anyway, the mud’ll brush off easier
when it’s dry.
A whizz landing near by will send
them to earth, and a few will get clouted
with lumps of mud. The warrior carrying
the container of hot stew will feel some-
thing warm and sticky running down his
leg. Visions of a “Blighty” will joyously
sustain him despite the numb feeling >n
his leg ; but when he at last hops in 10
the trench it is to find that a small pellet
has gone through the container, and that
a flying clod gave him the bruise on his
leg.
As he wearily wriggles out of the
shoulder-straps and dumps the container
down on the duckboard a bleary-eyed
face will poke out from a blanket and
say “I wish youse useless cows’d leave
y’r ’orses outside when y’ come in.” And
at breakfast the favorite query will be
“Is this all the goats brought back?”
S. W. K.


BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man*
hood. Price 10/6.
GLAND
TONIC
WRITE
TO-DAY
*O3 3 S 3 N O f *1
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6 P flfli Perth ... 500 watts
Wfl! Northam. . 2000 watts
6Ki C 5 Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
BANKS’ 1940 MODELS
* .
J ~'x- ■
'■* i " i'
«
PATENT STOVES
kK
/o
O/'
CONTINUOUS
WARMT
ii
& v# V
V ' '
HFALTHY HEATING
AT
LOWER COST
Call and inspect the 1940 designs.
PHONE M 6505 18 LINES. LATE SHOPPING FRIDAY 8.30. PM
% DUNKS
AND
SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED ( INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. M 2381.
THE FLYING COLUMN
Air Power in Norway.
“Aileron”: “Local German air superi-
ority precluded our lan ling the necessary
artillery and tanks to withstand the
enemy drive from the south.” In these
words Mr. Chamberlain, so confident at
the outset, reported the failure of the
struggle for Trondhjem and the efforts
to relieve the Norwegians about Lille-
hammer; and he left most of the story
untold.
The Germans commanded all the
aerodromes. They were able to establish
at fixed points heavy anti-aircraft
defences, of which the Allies were desti-
tute, and send their fast short-distance
fighters to blast the Allies at all points,
virtually with impunity. Their heavy
bombers could take off, discharge a load
of bombs, return in half an hour or so
to their bases, change crews, reload and
fly back to repeat their destruction of
man-power and machinery again and
again. And all this they did.
It was overlooked in London that
modern fighting aerodromes cannot be
improvised successfully in a moment,
especially in mountainous country. Most
fast machines need a 1500 yd. runway,
and, if any appreciable force is in use,
numbers of runways are needed. They
need huge fuel dumps, intricate mechani-
cal equipment in the background, much
skilled man-power to service them. To
every flier in Spain, with less complicated
and fuel-hungry machines than in the
present war, the Italians had 15 ground
men.
Nor can efficient anti-aircraft defence
be devised for moving troops, especially
in narrow and winding valleys. The
only air weapons available to the Allies
were long-distance bombers, which could
only refuel and rearm on their home
aerodromes. From there they had to
fly several hundred miles across the
North Sea, dropping their load of bombs
and getting away before they were picked
up by anti-aircraft guns or blasted by
a swarm of fighters. They had to fight
with tired crews against fresh Germans.
And they could do little or nothing
to check troops abundantly supplied with
bombers and fixed anti-aircraft protec-
tion.
To attack the German aerodromes with
intent to destroy their hangars, machines,
fuel and servicing man-power and render
their runways useless was the R.A.F.’s
only resource. And in that kind of
warfare it was at a vast disadvantage.
A heavy bomber without a fighter pro-
tection is like a battleship at sea without
scout cruisers and destroyers.
Nevertheless, the R.A.F. made a
good showing in a series of heavy-duty
raids on the Danish and Norwegian air
bases held by the Germans. The main
attacks were on Stavanger, which sits out
on a low peninsula on the southern side
of the expansive Bukken Fiord. Into the
Stavanger peninsula a small fiord runs
which forms a magnificent natural sea-
plane base, and the aerodrome is in the
vicinity. It is accessible from the sea —a
fine place to surprise. On April 30 the
A.A. guns at Stavanger were silenced,
air opposition was beaten down and fires
were started which could be seen for 50
miles. A gallant action but without
effect on the course of the swift cam-
paign. Nearly everything that happened
in Poland was repeated in Norway,
though not on the same scale; but the
Polish experience was wasted on those
responsible for sending troops helpless
against the air arm to King Haakon’s
country.
Short Sunderlands.
“Norelai”: Australia ordered a squad-
ron of Short Sunderlands before the war
—nine 21-tonners, to be based tem-
porarily on Port Moresby. They are
now being handled by R.A.A.F. crews
in the war zone The deadliness and
adaptability of the type have been
demonstrated several times.
Two Sunderlands were in the limelight
last week. One landed on a Norwegian
fiord when a squadron of heavy bombers
turned up. The captain was on his way
to a warship in a dinghy ; he pulled back,
dodged the bombs, took off and brought
down a Messerschmitt
110 —a type armed with 20mm. cannon.
A second Sunderland added another
U-boat to the list of sea pests which
have been bombed out of existence by
this type of machine.
The Sunderlands are too big to be de-
stroyed by fighters except when set on
fire or hit in vital places—their wing-
span is 57 yards. They are four-engined,
have wardrooms, and are armed with
twin batteries of shell-firing guns in
power-operated turrets, one of which is
in the tail unit. And they can cruise up
to 16 hours , and carry a bomb load of
three or four tons.
The Commonwealth could do with a
lot of them in the permanent equipment
of the R.A.A.F.
Tasman Service Open.
“Aileron”: The Tasman air service
was opened to schedule on April 30 by
Aotearoa with nine passengers and
40,000 letters. Begun at 6.10 a.m., the
voyage from Auckland to Sydney took
nine hours.
The ship is a civil duplicate of the
Short Sunderlands which Australian
crews are operating in the North Sea
war zone. Captain J. W. Burgess, who
has flown most of the Empire routes
and who has been across the Tasman
several times on experimental flights,
was in command, and the trip was made
between 5000 and 8000 feet through a
good deal of rain.
On May 2 at 4 a.m. the Aotearoa re-
turned to Auckland with a full load
of mail and five passengers, taking seven
hours 59 minutes. Then the service
settled down to routine.
There is no word yet of when the
opening of the trans-Pacific link may
be expected, but it will be “in the near
future.” Juanne Trippe, president of
Pan-American Airways, says that all
facilities at Auckland and Honolulu are
complete, and that the service at first
will be monthly, and possibly weekly
within a year.
“Neoflyte”: A 8.8. C. announcer, telF
ing of how a German bomber crashed
with its load of bombs or mines on
Clacton-on-Sea, after being damaged by
A.A. fire, gave credit to the crew for
trying to avoid the place. His version
was that the pilot tried to clear the town
before coming down. Next morning 'the
papers had it that the damaged raider
“circled over the town for 30 minutes.”
Clacton is a small Essex seaside resort,
out on the edge of a broad North Sea
peninsula. It is surrounded by low,
marshy ground, and any hostile pilot in
difficulties would have every inducement
to stay in the locality. A move a few
miles north would have brought the
machine within range of heavily-defended
Harwich, a few miles to the west within
the ambit of military Colchester and a
much thicker population, and a few miles
south within range of strong Thames-
mouth defences. The crew of four and
six Clacton people were killed (two were
retired Australians, man and wife, named
Gill) and 154 were injured—34 were
hospital cases —in the smash, and great
damage was done to property.
The Distinguished Flying Cross has
been awarded to two Australians —one
to Flying-Officer French, son of the
Chief Commonwealth Auditor in
Queensland, and the other to F.-O.
Edwards, a Leichhardt (Sydney) lad.
Both graduated in the R.A.A.F. and
were sent to Britain to take up short-
service commissions in the R.A.F.
Edwards gained the honor for gallantry
in two attacks on Stavanger.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: Preserved in the records
of the Federal Parliament is a Minis-
terial speech which would have appealed
to the sense of humor of the Tommies
who have had such a grilling in Nor-
way, if they had been primed with it.
It was delivered by A. J. McLachlan
when Postmaster-General and Leader of
the Senate, and was to the general effect
that aircraft were useless in war. The
choicest bit was an assertion that it took
920,000 shots from a ’plane to register
one hit. One can imagine the Tommies
quoting this priceless information when
bombs were dropping on Namsos or
Stenkjaer—circumstances have to be
very grim indeed when the British soldier
can’t dig up a grin. Odd, but true, that
the most cocksure pronouncements
heard at Canberra on the subject of war
—any phase—are made by politicians
who have never had even a distant
acquaintance with it.
* * * *
“Kay”: The “bombing teacher” is to
the bomb-aimer what the Link Trainer is
to the pilot. The standard bomb-sight is
used to aim at targets on a landscape
cast on the floor of a darkened room by
a motion-picture projector in the roof.
This landscape moves, reproducing the
effect of flying over the ground at any
desired speed or height up to 200 m.p.h.
and 15,000 feet. The effects of winds—
in any direction and of any strength—
can also be produced.
■* * # *
“Aldis”: The balloon barrage is not
confined to Britain. Men of this branch
of the air arm, complete with balloons,
are now serving overseas. Two squadrons
were recently sent to France to set up
balloon-barrage defences at ports of dis-
embarkation for men of the British
forces. The barrage is particularly suited
for defence of transports from low flying
attacks while ships lie at their berths.
* * * *
“Ka”: An interesting R.A.A.F. re-
cruit is Judge Phillips, of New Guinea,
who was an observer in the A.F.C.
in the last war. At 50, he looks 10
years younger than his actual age, is
athletic, and takes a keen interest in car-
tography and particularly that of the Man-
dated Territory. He was given a C.B.E.
in 1937 for his work in evacuating
Rabaul during the volcanic eruption of’37.
The Air War Day by Day.
April 29-May 5: Systematic and destruc-
tive German bombing of British land-
ing-places, roads, railways, transport
and lines in Norway. Namsos and
Stenkjaer destroyed by heavy bombs,
which at Namsos fell at the rate of 70
an hour. Clouds of bombers precede
and accompany the German columns
advancing towards Trondhjem along
the Gudbrandsdal and Oster valleys
and harry the Allies trying to hold
points on the Dombas-Trondhjem
railway. No effective reply in any
quarter.
British bombers again make repeated
attacks on Stavanger and Fornebu in
Norway and Aalborg in Denmark, also
the Oslo-Trondhjem railway. Con-
siderable damage done at Stavanger in
particular. Seven British ’planes miss-
ing ; four German ’planes shot down
and more destroyed on the ground.
Short Sunderland flying-boats shoot
down a Messerschmitt 110 fighter off
the coast of Norway; another sinks
a U-boat lying in a fiord.
A Heinkel bomber shot down by
anti-aircraft guns crashes in flames on
Clacton-on-Sea, Essex. Crew of four
and six residents killed and many in-
jured. An explosion wrecks seven
homes and litters streets.
“In operations against a vastly
superior force working from shore
bases” in Norway, Fleet Air Arm
machines destroy “at least ten
machines” and “damage many others.”
Six F.A.A. ’planes missing.
The Admiralty describes as “fan-
tastic” German claims that bombers
sank a British battleship (afterwards
termed a “flagship,” then “an anti-
aircraft ship”) in the North Sea; sank
a destroyer and set fire to a heavy
cruiser escorting troops from Namsos ;
and set fire to a battleship, sank a
troopship, and seriously damaged a
battle-cruiser and a destroyer during
raids on Narvik.
Loss of a sloop admitted.


YES
ITS
5)
/5
DEGREES
WARMER since
VE INSULHTED
WITH CANE-ITE VI
S'.
%3
n\
&
a
pwwwpa
0y
wiMW'jWPw^maiawag
W/te*tt(ftttteA fame*
Will Yon lie Waim and Cosy?
THE house that is insulated with Cane-
ite defies heat and cold alike. Mill-
ions of tiny air cells ensure snug warmth
in winter, refreshing coolness in summer.
What is more, Cane-ite deadens external
noises . . . makes every room an oasis of
peace. Remember . . . Cane-ite is the
white-ant-proofed insulation which not
only adds to the STRUCTURAL strength oi
the building but makes it possible for you
to DECORATE as you insulate. Cane-ite
is made in three thicknesses —in boards
up to 12 feet long. It can be easily and
inexpensively installed and lends itself to
attractive modern treatments.
Cane-ite is now being produced in Australia.
STRUCTURAL INSULATION
THE COLONIAL SUGAR RETIRING COMPART LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Sydney . Melbourne . Adelaide . Brisbane . Perth
OR WILL YOU SHIVER
IN AN UN-INSULATED
DRAUGHTY HOUSE?
im
r,sg
■
CA9-40
MASONITE, "The Wonder Board
of 1000 Uses", is ideal for
partitioning.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The Brisbane Avalanche
“Clayfield”: Brisbane’s municipal
election will be remembered for the
avalanche that smote Labor and also
by the newspapers at least —for the adver-
tising. Full and half-pages in the daily
press; pictures of the Citizens’ Muni-
cipal Organisation candidate for Lord
Mayor garbed as Tarzan and howling in
a tree; Labor assertions that if the
C.M.O. succeeded it would sack all
hands, raise rates and “bankrupt” the
city, for which a Labor Government had
to resort to emergency measures after
six years of Labor prodigality.
C.M.O. advertising was more moderate
in tone. Its candidates pledged
themselves, if returned, to “allow neither
politics nor religion to interfere in
council management” and to employ only
on the basis of “honest merit”; to re-
duce the rates ; to complete uncompleted
works and extend sewerage and elec-
tricity ; to establish “works of a perma-
nent character” ; to preserve industrial
undertakings; to abolish excess water
charges; to “avoid caucus rule and
restore proper dignity to council meetings
and prevent brawls and unseemly con-
duct.” A stiff contract.
Adult suffrage obtains, and more
than half the population, minors and
disqualified persons included, voted. The
results showed a devastating defeat for
Labor. Alf Jones, the Lord Mayor—
or, as some of his enemies insist on call-
ing him, the “Loan Mayor”—was beaten
in every one of the 20 wards by J. B.
Chandler, a radio dealer and orchid
fancier who leads the C.M.O. Chandler’s
party gained seven seats ; Labor lost six
and gained one—from Protestant Labor.
It means that the C.M.0., which had
seven men in the old council, has 14 in
the new; Labor, which had 12, now has
seven.
Nineteen Protestant Laborites put up,
and eight lost their deposits. So did the
Communist candidate for Lord
Mayor and three other Soviet
supporters.
The C.M.O. is still rejoicing.
When it tries to straighten out
the mess it will feel less happy.
“X.T.”: There are still a
few places where the word
rodeo is unknown and where
they still hold sports-meetings
at which there are competi-
tions for all. None of them
go as far as the old Parramatta
fairs, at which a popular event
for ladies was chasing the
pig, but Pentland (N.Q.)
clings to a lot of favorite
public amusements popular
when I was a lad. This year’s
events included stockhorse-turning, a whip
and bottle race, catching the greasy pig,
tilting, a rescue race and a needle race.
Some of these would add novelty to
metropolitan shows, thousands of whose
frequenters have never seen a greasy
porker in full flight.
* * * *
Died at Nerang (Q.) at 70, Annabella
Gawn, nee Emmins, who could boast'that
she was “mentioned in dispatches” in
the S’African war. Born at Prahran
(Vic.), she was trained as a nurse at
Melbourne Hospital, and in the ’nineties
transferred to Coolgardie (W.A.), where
she had experience in nursing enteric-
stricken miners which stood her in good
stead as a sister in the enteric ward at
Pretoria. It was there she met her
future husband, Thomas Gawn, who was
a member of the Sixth ML. Contingent.
They were married in Brisbane in 1909.
# * - *
“Ryan’s Well”: Flying doctors, whose
telephone exchange is the pedal radio,
hear some queer questions, not always
medical. One outback sawbones avers
that he was asked by a woman how
to make yeast without hops. And Alice
Springs centre hearkened to the
anguished cry of a station-manager’s
wife whose car was bogged in the bottom
of a sandy creek with a thunderstorm
threatening and flood water like to
arrive any minute. All hands and the
nurse left their iodine long enough to
pedal out their sand-busting lore over
a hundred miles or so of country. .After
“Is she black all over, Dad?”
“Yes, son.”
“ Cripes, Dad, you know everything.”
an anxious interval the patient was
enabled to say that she was on her way
home.
* * * *
“Motu”: Hubert Murray’s last annual
report is responsible for the greatest
true fish story told ip Australia for a
long time. Murray declared that in
Redscar Bay there is a shark forty feet
long, “as nearly as one can tell without
exact measurement.” It is far from impos-
sible —white sharks are said by old mari-
ners to run up to sixty feet, but the line
isn’t made which will hold them.
“Nor’-west”: How big is the biggest,
shark in Australian waters? So far the
record is held by the white pointer, a
man-eater which ranges from Gerald-
ton (W.A.) to the Arafura Sea. Forty
feet is the longest yet recorded. The
gaping jaws of such a monster easily
frame the head and shoulders of a man.
Such a fish cannot be landed by any
ordinary boat. Around Pt. Cloates in
earlier whaling days a few were caught,
the idea being to see if a market could
be found for the oil from their livers.
A harpooned whale was the bait, the sea-
tigers rushing the “kill” like packs of
wolves. From such a ravenous horde it
was easy to take toll with the harpoon
gun and then handle the carcass with
whale tackle. A 40ft. white pointer has
teeth 3in. in length. But what about
these? Out dredging the oceans in 1872
the Challenger expedition more than
once lifted shark teeth. Many of these
were five inches long. Compared with
the biggest white pointer, the owners or
such teeth must have run close to 100 ft.
$ * * *
“Dungeness”: A striking example of
the debilitating climatic effects of Aus-
tralia’s Awful North was witnessed by
a picnic party at the Millaa Millaa falls
on the Atherton Plateau (N.Q.). A
young man who earns a crust by toiling
in the blistering tropic sun on a near-by
farm climbed to the top and did a perfect
dive into the deep pool at the foot, 72
feet below. Though he struck the water
with such velocity that his bathing suit
was torn from his back, he wanted to
do it again for a bit of practice. Spec-
tators dissuaded him on the ground that
once was enough—at any rate for their
nerves. *
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Brisbane trunk-line
telephones are watching their step ver>
carefully these days. The reason is that
confusion between the names of E. Han-
lon, State Minister for Health, and E.
Hanman, local director of
monwealth Department of Intor »
has created a certain ,
official messages have reached tne fa
E.H. Requests from outback osp
as to what he intends to do wit
urgent maternity cases embarrasse
modest clerical soul of one. Irate o
demands from Canberra concerning
whereabouts of File 75Z outrage
Ministerial dignity of the other. Appar-
ently the simple solution of replying
“Wrong number” has occurred to neither,
but it is not for a mere hireling of a
capitalistic press to offer suggestions to
those in high places.
* * * *
“Marsh”: The advent of the motor-
car started the toboggan of “bottle loo,”
a pastime indulged in by sporting
travellers on Queensland roads as a means
of breaking the long monotonous hours
in horse-drawn vehicles. With the cost
of. drinks at the next pub as the penalty
for title loser, the driver and his com-
panion would point out each empty bottle
as it was seen on the respective sides of
the road, the tally being kept not in
numbers counted, but after the golf style
of scoring, so many up to the one whose
side was adorned with the most empties.
“Bottle loo” was always the medium of
providing cheap drinks for “Red” Ned,
who used to handle the ribbons for
Cobb and Co. on the Charleville-Langlo
Crossing route (Q.).
* * * *
From “Cloviski MacOdoacer,” Some-
where-in-the-Mandate:
The yarns that Australians put over in Eng-
land about their pre-war occupations and their
country form no mean part of the history of
the last war. This time the biter is being
bit, and bit hard, by a new race from the
north —55 warriors from New Guinea. Re-
porters who met them in Brisbane must have
gone prepared to swallow anything: alligators,
pythons, plantations galore, and, choicest of
all, the River of Death (the Sepik); but they
got more. To a man the new arrivals had spurned
orthodox modes of transport and flocked to
Rabaul through'dense jungles and over tower-
ing mountains by canoe and schooner, or
across the trackless ocean from lonely coral
islets on horseback, pausing frequently to swim
crocodile-infested rivers. We who remain m
N.G. and hope to be down there with the next
lot are at our wit’s end, for there isn t a
plantation left to call our own. That crowd
bagged them all.
A disappointing feature of the business,
though, was the performance of my friend
John Grant. John’s weight in stones has
almost caught up to his age in years, so he
was bound to catch any reporter’s eye.
The supply of plantations had evidently run out
when it came to John’s turn to speak, so he
hastily converted the Government station ot
Aitape into one and flew in from it, placing
it in the hands of a manager. Anyone who
knows Aitape will say that that’s fair enough,
but the selected few who know John are
forced to the conclusion that he must be losing
his punch. Had he been his old self he would
not have entrusted the fine old property to a
manager; he would have sold it on the spot
to that reporter.


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” {U.S.A.).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the; valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting the
Australian equivalent of 3 American dollars
through “The Bulletin” Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
dA/ipg'/twtA'
BLUE GILLETTE BLADES
To-day, in every walk of life, more men than ever are shaving with
Blue Gillette Blades. Presumably, their days of experiment are
over and they have reached the conclusion that the Blue Gillette
gives them what they want ... a closer, smoother shave at least
expense. The reason is simple—the superhard steel in the Blue
Gillette takes a keener edge and holds it longer! 5 for 1/6.
o^ TTE
ě
°* °i£AN S«^
(G
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor n ot to members of the staff personally.
W.C.B. (and others) : Ferrier didn’t write
that particular par. Anyway, he has a per-
manent physical disqualification—a knee injury
dating from boyhood A.E.D.: Pedestrian.
E.P.W.: Beware of the quatrain
M.G.A.: And beware of the dog E.D.:
It’s just a statement J.McK.: The jingle’s
about as exciting as a bicycle be 11... .W.T.:
Groaned loud and long over “The Moans of
the Mob at Moree” V.G.: It’s one of hun-
dreds all saying the same thing in the same
way J.C.: Here’s “Epitaph’s” epitaph....
J.W.: Glad to hear you had a happy birthday.
A.T.: “Not in the Race” is right
R.L.8.: “Dreamin’, Just Dreamin’ ” is return-
in’, just returnin’ E.R.M.: Send us some-
thing else E.J.8.: Now there’s nothing to
catch the attention A.M.8.: “Butterflies,
feathered folk, bees” are getting to be a pest
around this office... .J.H.: Better, but it’s still
clumsy C.M.H.: Heavy going A.A.L.:
There’s something unintentionally comic about
“Awake, O Daily Press, O Radio!” R.E.:
The week’s great thought:
Oh! Warrior of the Congo jungle—
When you roam your vast domain;
Pity the outside world’s sad bungle
Of carnage wrought for worldly gain.
....G.N.R.: Not yet, but you’re still improv-
ing C.G.E.: Hollywood uses the same idea
about twice a week N.G.J.: You have to
stand on a soapbox and wave a flag to dis-
perse those sentiments L.T.C.: Animal
stories need to be better than that... .K.P.R.:
Just pretty G.R.8.: Left the maiden when
she began to sing soulfully at the sea....
8.R.8.: Can’t do anything with that illegible
scrawl... .F.W.E.: Large junks of descriptive
matter and a couple of names don’t make a
yarn... .P.S.R.: Couldn’t you inflict them on
someone else for a while?... .8.F.8.: If that’s
what reading overseas detective magazines does
to you, it’s a good job they’re banned....
H.R.N.: Detest “Spring Idylls,” and it’s
autumn, anyway J.F.J.: Poor little 'Willie
dies about once a month F.G.H.: Come
again when you’re not so serious... .8.D.L.:
Plot’s all right, but you’ll need a good deal
more experience before you can handle that
sort of thing... .T.H.: The office-boy solved
it at the second page... 8.R.K.: Read it to
her... .E.R.C.: No, but it might stand a
chance if you cut it by a third M.H.T.:
The w.p.b. keeps an ever-watchful eye on
gentlemen swaggies 8.R.8.: Nothing there
except nice writing 8.A.L.: Counted three
ghosts and four corpses and then took our
leave... .8.D.W.: Published something very like
it about three weeks ago J.S., D.8.M., P.T.,
and F.C.R.: Missed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.D.: Same gag, illustrated in much the
same way, appeared recently in an American
magazine... .W.P.: Wash drawing looks as if
it had been left out in the rain all night
M.W.H.: A bit late in the day L.K.: Deep-
sea diver was left floundering on the ocean
bed A.J.R.: More promising than the
average first attempt, but you’ve a long way to
go T.J.: Unk White first thought of that
jest... .F.L.: Not interested in “roughouts”
from unknown artists; let us see some of your
finished work... .T.T.: Muddled and scratchy
drawing and a hackneyed wheeze N.M.K.:
Magnetic-mines picture will not attract any cash
to your pockets 8.C.: We relieved your
drunk of his crayfish and sent him home....
8.P.: Drawing from photographs will not carry
you far; you should attend a life class....
L.S.: That same goat must have butted thou-
sands of citizens over that cliff during the last
half-century H.M.: Originality not ques-
tioned; ability is F.A.: Soapbox was well
drawn; not so the long-haired orator standing
on it....J.P.: Your stockmen look like strays
from Texas S.A.: We have interned that gag
for the duration of the war....R.G.: Make
the picture tell the story as much as you can.
J.H.S.: Not keen on “illustrated quaint
sayings of children”... .B.B.: That master-
piece arrived through the front door and went
out through the window.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Dead in England at 70, Duncan Elliott
Alves, who, born in Scotchbyterian
Dunedin (M.L.), made a fortune out of
oil. He founded the Imperial scheme of
building up oil reserves. Alves it was
who bought the Kirriemuir cottage where
Barrie was born and presented it to the
nation. Bryn Braes Castle, Carnarvon-
shire, and Devonshire House, Piccadilly,
were the homes of the ex-Maorilander.
* * * *
The school at Kyneton, Victoria, is
to unveil a memorial to Joseph Furphy
—Tom Collins of Such Is Life —on May
9. It is a bronze portrait plaque, bought
by public subscription. It was while he
lived at Kyneton and attended the school
that Collins won a literary prize with
some verse on the death of Abraham
Lincoln.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Mention of S.A. Govern-
ment’s campaign to economise on depart-
mental stationery (B. 17/4/”40) reminds
me of the admirable method adopted by
the officials (assistant resident, district
officer and engineer) of a British island
in the Malay Archipelago which
abolished departmental archives. A mis-
sive from a private citizen would be
endorsed by the district officer and for-
warded perchance to the engineer. He
would add his comments and return it
to the D.O. The D.O. would add a
further note and forward the sheet of
paper to the Resident. He would place
his O.K. upon it or return it for further
comment. By this time the commentaries
would have overflowed on to the back
of the missive. The D.O. would add his
final observations and return, to sender.
On one occasion when I had had cause to
complain about the Administration’s dila-
toriness with regard to something or
other, the reply was so unsatisfactory
that I sent another more peremptory
request for information. That evening I
met the D.O. at the club. “Did you get
my letter?” I asked, “yes,” he said with
a pained expression. “But why didn’t
you write your request on the original
letter? You don’t expect me to keep ail
those details in my head, do you?”
* * * *
“F.S.”: A storm has broken over the
head of the director of the National
Gallery in London because he replaced
the Old Masters which have been
stored away to be safe from high ex-
plosives with an exhibition of British
Painting since Whistler. He was
accused by fellow-artists of trying to
make himself art dictator by arranging
an unrepresentative exhibition by in-
competent and ignorant youngsters, while
the good old academicians have been
ignored or flouted. The criticism may
or may not be just, and the youngsters
may or may not be better painters than
the old academicians who dislike them,
but it is encouraging to see that London
can get more excited about an art matter
in war-time than Melbourne or Sydney
can in peace-time. When, a year ago,
the trustees started on an ill-advised’
attempt to “improve” the front of the
Vic. National Gallery, hardly an artist
protested, though Australia was at peace
with all the world and no air raid was
expected.
* * * *
“Colbun”: A curious effect of the war
has been that, apart from I.R.A. out-
rages, serious crime in Britain has
declined markedly since hostilities began
Burglary, housebreaking, holdups and
crimes of violence generally have
dropped by nearly 30 p.c. in six months
Gaol populations are 5000 fewer than
m September last. Minor crimes such as
pocket-picking, bag-snatching, and petty
thieving have increased, the opportunities
afforded by blackouts being the official
explanation. Bicycle thefts have grown
to unprecedented figures since petrol
rationing began and average nearly 2000
monthly reported cases. Professional
thieves of the more skilful kind have
almost given up safebreaking and such
shiner-sparkler jobs, as they are known
in the regular trade, and now concen-
trate on swags of sugar, butter and other
rationed foodstuffs.
„ T * * , * t
„ i: 1 1 TTT , f Mahatma
aa ' a ecl e t 0 cat a S'gantic
civil disobedience campaign throughout
India in the interests of Dominion
status. A later statement suggests that
he may make it a one-man job. All that
is likely to result is that the last rem-
nants of Parliamentary government will
disappear. This has already occurred in
seven provinces, where the Governors
have been compelled to take over the
administration. ’ If Gandhi realised his
dream of a self-governing Dominion all
that it would do would be to shatter
his illusion, just as coming into money
shatters the illusion of a person who
thought that lack of money was the
cause of all his troubles. Hindus and
Moslems have never yet learned to live
together, the ability to share being one
of the most difficult things for any
human being to learn. Why the Ma-
hatma should imagine that Indians
would suddenly and miraculously attain
to this supernal wisdom if they were
given unrestricted Home Rule it is diffi-
cult to imagine. Yet the belief has
been the mainstay of his life. The worst
thing that could happen to him would
be the gratification of his heart’s desire,
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: The Mercator type of
map gives an exaggerated idea of the
areas of Scandinavian countries, just as
dlc f att dlaE ,| lc inhabitants are—or were
—independent nations creates an un-
conscious presumption of big popula-
tions. Denmark is a little over three-
fifths of the area of Tasmania, and has
about the same population as N.S.W.
and Queensland combined. Norway is
about half as large again as Victoria,
and has about 100,000 more people than
N.S.W. Sweden is about twice the area
of Victoria, with some 700,000 fewer in-
habitants than Australia. But the
most tragic feature of Nazidom’s latest
appalling crime against civilisation is not
based on areas or numbers—Danes and
Norwegians (Swedes, too) are among the
most industrious and mentally-advanced
peoples of the present day, sworn to
peace, and seeking only to be left alone
to do their work.


PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how. many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mes’s—no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SILK —only one price,
6d. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE .
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman).; W. H. Hart, Esq., . ■ y >
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.u.
With offices at London, Canberra, Sydney^and[ nches aMßec«ving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New ' ’ d the World this
through the leading Banking. Institutions covering the.
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction
AMAZING VACUUM HELMET MACHINE
GROWS HAIR
FREE TRIAL OFFER TO
IVIEN, WOMEN. Scienti-
fically renews thick hair,
cures baldness, greyness,
dandruff, oily, dry hair, etc.,
by stimulating deep lying,
after dormant blood vessels, mil-
lions hair roots, etc. Simple to use. CHEAj'
PRICE. 75 other lines. Agents required. RE-nu
CO., Op. Richmond Stn., Melbourne.
BEFORE
FULLY
GUARANTEED
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in fifing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
To buy copy of War Is War, by “Ex-Private
X.”—6812.
Words of recitation “The Burial of Moses.
—6998.
Competent working-housekeeper, Melbourne,
requires position, country preferred. —7009.
Gentleman, Sydney, invalid, good typist,
seeks typing work. Neat and accurate;
moderate charges.—7olo.
To buy copy of The Golden Shanty, pub-
lished about 50 years ago by The Bulletin.
—7007.
Information Sought.
Record prices for Australian wool, merino
and crossbred, greasy and scoured, for each of
the years during the 1914-18 Great War .
7022.
1914-15: Merino fleece, greasy 18|d., scoured
28d.; crossbred fleece, greasy 18d., scoured
22}d. 1915-16: Merino, greasy 24|d.,-scoured
44|d.; crossbred, greasy .23-jd., scoured 27d.
1916-17: Merino, greasy 33id., scoured 46|d.;
crossbred, greasy 29d., scoured 39d. 1917-18:
Merino, greasy 3Hd., scoured 48d.; crossbred,
greasy 28d., scoured 40|d. 1918-19: Merino,
greasy 31id., scoured 48d.; crossbred, greasy
28d., scoured 40d.
* * * *
Whereabouts in Europe is Eupen-Malmedy ?
—7025.
Eupen-Malmedy is a territqry of 382 square
miles with a population of 65,000 (chief towns,
Eupen, Malmedy and Moresnet), German, until
1919. It was ceded to Belgium under the
Treaty of Versailles, and - the cession was con-
firmed by plebiscite in 1920. The population
is mixed, partly German, partly Belgian
(French-speaking Walloons). The Germans
have linguistic rights and enjoy full equality
of status. There has been a great deal of Nazi
agitation in the area in the last few years.
* * *
Official world’s altitude records for (1)
heavier-than-air machines and (2) lighter-than-
air machines? —6843.
According to Jane’s All the World’s Aircraft
for 1939: (1) Lt.-Colonel Mario Pezzi (Italy)
reached an altitude of 17,083 metres in
a Caproni biplane (Piaggio XI-R.C. engine) at
Montecelio, Italy, on October 22, 1938. (2)
Capt. Orvil A. Anderson and Capt. A. W.
Stevens reached a height of 22,066 metres in a
spherical balloon (“Explorer II”) at Rapid City,
S. Dakota, on November 11, 1935.
* * * *
Names of the commandants, and the regi-
ments to which they belonged, of the penal
settlement at Moreton Bay from the year of
its establishment until it was broken up ?
7029.
1824, Lieut. Henry Miller, 40th Foot; 1824-
25, Capt. Bishop, 40th Loot; 1825-30, Capt,
Patrick Logan, 57th Foot; 1830-35, Capt.
J. O. Clunie, 17th Foot; 1835-37, Capt. Foster
Fyans, 4th Foot; 1837-39, Major Cotton, 28th
Foot; 1839, Lieut. George Gravatt, 28th Foot;
1839-42, Lieut. Gorman, BQth Foot.
* * * *
Salary paid to magistrates in Sydney courts ?
—6853.
Metropolitan stipendiary magistrates are
paid at the rate of £1096 2s. p.a. The chair-
man of the Bench receives £1246 2s.
* . * * *
Is there any law to prevent anyone collecting
driftwood and ■ other material washed up on
beaches ? —6924.
Articles floating on the sea or cast up on
the shore come under the designation of
“flotsam and jetsam” and, unless claimed by
the owners within a year and a day, become
the property of the Crown. “Flotsam” means
goods found floating on the sea after a wreck
and “jetsam” things thrown out of a ship
to lighten it. But the Crown would scarcely
claim driftwood.
* * - *, *
(1) How could a person enlist in.-the Aus-.
tralian Army Pay Corps ? (2) Qualifications ?
(3) Could a member of the corps obtain a
commission ? (4) To whom should inquiries
be directed ? —6807.
(1) By application, to the District Finance
Officer of the State in which the applicant
resides. (2) The desirable qualifications are
accountancy certificates. (3) Yes. It is an-
ticipated that appointments to commissioned
rank will be made only from those serving in
the ranks of the corps. (4) The District
Finance Officer.
* * * *
Where would I be likely to obtain employ-
ment as a turner and fitter in munitions, arms
or aeroplane workshops ? —6750.
Communicate with the Employment Officer
of the Supply and Development Department,
Melbourne, or the manager, Small Arms Fac-
tory, Lithgow, N.S.W. The construction of
aeroplanes under the scheme sponsored by the
Commonwealth Government is under the con-
trol of the Aircraft Construction Branch of
the Department of Supply and Development.
Aeroplane construction work is also being car-
ried out at the N.S.W. Railway Workshops
and by De Havilland Aircraft, Ltd., Mascot,
N.S.W.
* * * *
(1) Education, physical and other require-
ments for admission as a recruit to the Dun-
troon Military College? (2) Summary of
conditions of enrolment and scale of payment ?
(3) Any vacancies for qualified applicant ?
6866.
(1) Applicant must have passed in five sub-
jects at the school leaving or intermediate ex-
amination, including English, mathematics and
one other language, ancient or modern; must
be over 16 and under 20 on the last Saturday
in February of the year in which he joins the
college ; must pass the prescribed medical ex-
amination and be approved by the selection
board. (2) No payment is made to a cadet
admitted by normal entry whilst at the college,
but a maintenance allowance' of approximately
7s. per day is credited to the cadet’s account
for necessary expenses, etc. The normal length
of the course is four years, but in present cir-
cumstances has been reduced-to three years.
(3) The number of vacancies existing each year
is advertised in daily newspapers circulating
throughout the capital cities of each State in
approximately August or September of each
year.
* S: * *
What is the meaning of the term “reversal
of pitch,” as applied to an ore-body or lode ?
Does it mean that the lode, after dipping, rises
towards surface level, or that -it reverses its
direction ? —6923.
The term pitch is applied to the inclination
from horizontal of the apex of an anticlinal
axis, as in the base of the saddle reefs of Ben-
digo. Where a change in inclination from a
northerly to a southerly one occurs, “a reversal
of pitch” is recognised.
* * * *
(1) Does Australia produce enough rice for
her own use ? If so, since when ? (2) Does
Australia export rice? (3) What are the
different varieties of rice, what is the difference
in them and where are they grown? —7006. ,
(i) Australia produces more than sufficient
for her own requirements, and has done so .
since about 1927-28 (2) Australia now exports
considerable quantities of Australian-grown rice..
In 1927-28 the total value of overseas ship-
ments of rice from Australia was only £156,
but the following year was £12,855. Since that
time the industry has expanded greatly, and
the following are the export figures for the
last two seasons: 1937-38 £215,353, 1938-39
£185,260. Nearly all the rice produced in Aus-.
tralia on a commercial scale is grown on the.
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area in N. S. Wales.
(3) Posting pamphlet issued by the Depart-,
ment of Agriculture, Sydney, giving informa-
tion regarding the varieties grown, and advice
regarding cultural methods.
* * * *
(1) Cost of constructing the average Mel-
bourne tramcar and the new double-decker
buses to run in Bourke-street ? (2) Number of
passengers each will carry ? (3) Cost of pre- ,
paring a roadway to carry double-decker,
buses, and the cost of laying a tramway track ?
(4) Operating cost of both systems?- —6890.
(1) and \(2) The type of electric tram now-
being made at the Preston workshops costs j
approximately £3400. The seating capacity is
48, the crush loading capacity being 150. As-
the contracts for the double-deck Diesel buses:
have not been completed, the price per vehicle
is not available. The buses will seat 56. (3)
The cost of tram tracks varies according to the
type of street construction arranged for be-
tween the Tramways Board and local author-
ities, and ranges from £14,000 per single track
mile for open ballast track, such as that in
Dandenong-road, to £22,000 per s.t.m. for
concrete, wood block and asphalt construc-
tion. The board does not contribute directly,
nor does any other bus proprietor, to the costs
of the roads , over which buses run. (4) The
working expenses (salaries, wages, lighting,
uniforms; but excluding power, buildings,
rolling stock, permanent way, electrical equip-
ment, etc.) are 12.029 d. per vehicle mile
for electric trams and 9.751 d. for the buses
now in use. With power costs added, the re-
spective figures are 14.587 d. and 10.893 d.
* * * *
What are the varieties of stringybarks, and
their botanical names? For what purposes are
stringybarks best suited? —7019.
The best are White Stringybark ( E. eugeni-
oides), Narrow-leaved Stringybark (E. Wilkin-
soniana), Silver-top . Stringybark (E. Icevo-
pinea), Yellow Stringybark (E. Muelleriana)',
E. dextropinea and E. fastigata. Brown Stringy-
bark (£. capitellata ) and Red Stringybark (E.
macrorhyncha) are inferior to the others,
although useful for many purposes. E. obliqua i
has more the color of the true oak ( Quercus )-
and so is made into furniture; but care must
be taken to remove the sapwood, which is
readily attacked by borers. All the stringy-
barks may be used for general building pur-
poses, carriage construction, shipbuilding, and
also for sleepers and telegraph poles, being
very durable in ground.
* * * *
(1) Biographical details concerning George
Gordon McCrae, the poet, and father of Hugh
McCrae? (2) What books did he write ? —7013.
(1) Born at Leith, Scotland, on May 29,
1833, he was the son of Andrew Murison Mc-
Crae, writer to the signet, who in 1839, at
the suggestion of his friend Sir T. L. Mitchell,
migrated to Sydney, but settled almost at once
in the new township of Melbourne. The
family reached Melbourne on March 1, 1841,
and Andrew McCrae took up land for a cattle
run near Arthur’s Seat. After a short experi-
ence of commercial and banking work, George
Gordon McCrae on January 1, 1854, entered
the office of the Victorian Auditor-General,
and after promotion through several Govern-
ment departments reached the position of
Deputy Registrar-General, from which he re-
tired, having reached the statutory age limit,
in 1893. He lived in retirement at Hawthorn
(Vic.) until his death in 1927. (2) The Story
of Balladeadro and Mamba the Bright-eyed —
two ballads of aboriginal life— The Man in the
Iron Mask, Rosebud from the Garden of the
Taj, The Fleet and Convoy (all verse), and
John Rous (a novel).
* * * *
(1) Method of measuring mill timber in
Queensland ? (2) Allowance made for pipe in
logs ? (3) Award or average rates per 100
super, feet paid in Queensland? —7000.
(1) The Forestry Department calculates the
superficial contents of a log by the Hoppus
method. Multiply the square of a quarter of
the centre girth by the length of the log and
divide the result by 12. Example: 20ft. x
48in. —j-girth, 12 x 12 '= 144 x 20 =
2880; divided by 12 = 240 super, feet. (2)
The size of a pipe is gauged by the forest
officer by measuring the pipe shown at the end
of the log and calculating the superficial feet
of pipe as follows: Square the width of the
pipe, multiply the result by length of pipe and
divide by 12. Example: 28ft. length, with
6in. pipe—6in. x 6in. x 28 divided by 12 =
84 super, feet. (3) There is no award covering
falling trees and cutting into log lengths.
Cutters are usually employed on piecework
rates. The rates paid in S.Q. for pine vary
from Is. to Is. 3d. per 100 super, feet and
hardwood from Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. per 100
super feet.
* * * *
What is an encyclical? —7ooB.
It is a circular letter by the Pope on religious
and political questions. The opinions and
directions contained in an encyclical have not
the power of a dogma but come rather near to
it. Issued only on important occasions and de-
fining papal policies over a length of time,
they are significant documents. Famous politi-
cal encyclicals were, e.g., Leo Xlll’s Rerum
novarum (anti-Socialist), Pius Xl’s Quadra-
gesimo anno (for. a Christian Corporate State)
and Mit brennender Sorge (in German, anti-
Nazi).
* * * *
A good diet .or tonic for a person, having
a poor complexion with plenty of blackheads
on face? —6812.
A plain and simple diet with plenty of
fruit and vegetables is advisable, and open-
air exercise should: be taken. For local treat-
ment, a good lotion: is: Sulphurated potash
40 grains, zinc sulphate 40 grains, acetone 120
minims, water one ounce. Since patients with
acne nearly. always suffer from dandruff, the
hair should be frequently washed with a good
shampoo and the scalp massaged. Medical
treatment takes the form.of glandular prepara-
tions,,: such as, testerone proprionate. • Ultra-
violet radiation, or fractional doses, of X-rays
are now known to have effected great improve-
ment;, but. .this treatment, as well as the
administration of; drugs internally, can be car-
ried out only . under medical supervision.
$ * . . % .
(1) Is paralysis agitans curable? (2) What is
the treatment ?— 6710.
(1) The disease is usually progressive and few
authentic cures have been reported. (2) Treat-
ment consists mainly in the use of sedative
drugs which lessen . the tremor and rigidity;
the most commonly used is the hydrobromate
of hyoscine in doses suited to individual re-
quirements. . ~■■■•- .-■■■■•
*■* * *
In the back country many people believe
that it is dangerous to sleep in the .rays of the
moon, and tell tales of distortion, moon-blind-
ness, etc. Is this true ? —6539. .
There is no foundation whatever for this
belief, which- derived from ancient astrologi-
cal lore. . Indeed, the word lunatic comes
from. the Latin word luna, the moon. The
periodicity of the moon, its shape changing
from day to day, no ,doubt caused the ancients
to associate insanity with our . satellite, for the
regular periodicity and variations- in many
kinds of insanity are well,known. Fears about
deformities, blindness, etc., caused I by the
moon are also groundless. *
* .* * *
What was the Treaty of. Rapallo 3—7031.
A treaty: of friendship and • commerce be-
tween. Germany and Soviet Russia, signed un-
expectedly at Rapallo, near Genoa, Italy,
during the international conference on eco-
nomic questions and reparations held at Genoa
in November, 1921.- It was the work of
Rathenau, • then German Foreign Minister,
.and became the symbol of German-Russian
co-operation. ’ • •
* * * *
Briefly, what doctrines were expounded by
Sir Thomas More in his “Utopia” ? Was the
book written-in English ? —7035.-
It is a sketch of; ani ideal commonwealth,
wherein religion is pure theism, toleration is
almost absolute, a sort of communism is estab-
lished and. social life 1 is regulated according to
-the dictates - of - right reason, as that reason
presents itself to the natural man. The work
was, written in Latin; the earliest and best-
known version in English is that by Ralph
Robyson (1551).
* * * *
A. few details concerning Harry Linley Rich-
ardson, the MaorHand artist? T 037.
He was born in London in 1878, and re-
ceived his art education , at the Westminster
School of Art and other London institutions, and
at Julian’s Academy, Paris. He is a Fellow of
the Royal Society of Arts, London, and has ex-
hibited at the Royal Society of British Artists,
the RoyaT Academy, the Royal Cambrian
Academy and extensively elsewhere. His work
is on view at art galleries in Christchurch,
Wellington, Wanganui and. Auckland. He
specialises in portrait work in oils, his Maori
studies being notable among his work. He
is at present art master at the Palmerston
North Technical College.
* * * *
Method of enlarging snapshots?— 6BB4.
The negative image is projected on to en-
larging paper through an enlarging camera,
available in many different types and sizes.
Brief Answers.
A.M.: (1) The chairman, should have
received the motion “that the recommen a
tion be not accepted,” and put it to
the meeting, assuming it to have been
seconded. (2) The chairman was , in t
putting the motion, duly seconded, that tic
recommendation be accepted’ ••••.'
to the transfer of your interest in the mort-
gaged farm you would require the professional
services of a solicitor. You could get a copy
of the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act, to-
gether with forms of application instruc-
tion, from the Perth Registrar of OJd-age^Pen-
sions L.J.D.: Wait and see if the owners
of the adjoining blocks serve you, in writing,
with notice to contribute. If they do so you
should not pay without some deduction being
made for depreciation in value. You should,
however, recognise that the existence ot e
fences in question materially enhances the
value of your own property... -C.C.U.. inere
is no Government department which could
assist you even were you able to supply the
necessary information as to names and
addresses. The solicitors who served the
notice could no doubt give you all the infor-
mation you require, but without the addresses
your case seems rather hopeless. You would
be entitled to any balance remaining after the
resale and attendant expenses had been met.
...W.S.: Write to the local member ot Par-
liament, asking him to call the attention oi
the military authorities to the cqmplaint ot
the poultry farmers in your district and ask
that the practice complained ot be aiscon-
tinued E.M.G.: Having made an otter to
pay the £2 weekly and it having been accepted
you cannot now go back on that offer. The
question of reduction of the rental rests with
the landlord. You cannot claim for the cost
of replacements due to any neglect or care-
lessness on your part, but only in cases o
fair wear and tear... .W.R.H.: U) an(^
The chairman should vacate the chair and an
interim chairman be appointed by the meeting
until the vote has been taken. (3) The report
should be received and, having been dealt witn,
should be adopted or rejected by motion to
that effect.... J.H.M.P.: She could dispense
with the services of the solicitor and it the
defendant failed to meet the instalments as
the Court ordered, she could report the fact
to the Clerk of Petty Sessions...-A.C.E.: A
little can be learned from such courses, ihe
best teacher, however, is practical experience.
Best to take a local rather than an overseas
course K.D.R.: Write to the newspapers
mentioned or to the Canadian Government
Agency, 60 Hunter-street, Sydney... .T.H.:
Impossible for us to determine which ot the
two claims is the correct one. Headquarters in
Paris is the only place where that information is
obtainable... .J.G.F.: Write C.S. and 1.R., 314
Albert-street, East Melbourne.. . .R.M.: Intor-
mation not recorded in available reference
books. You would have to refer the question
to the persons concerned.. . .M.D.K.B. : Write
to F. Curlewis, Secretary, Queensland Sugar
Producers’ Association, Eagle-street, Brisbane,
or to . the Secretary, Sugar Cane Prices
Board, Executive Buildings,, . George-street,
Brisbane 5.8.: Sugar chemists in Queens-
land are not covered by an award. Suggest
that you communicate with F. Curlewis, Sec-
retary, Queensland Sugar Producers’ Assn.,
Eagle-street, Brisbane, who will be able to fur-
nish you with information... .T.J. and K. W.:
Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street,Syd-
ney W.H.S.: Have not heard of that alleged
fortune for years, and can only conclude that
claimants have at last realised the folly of
hunting for something that doesn t exist....
C.G.: Write H. A. Evan and Son, 358 Collins-
street, Melbourne... .N.M.: Files are avail-
able at the Mitchell Library, Macquane-street,
Sydney E.N.S.: The White Army was the
Russian anti-revolutionary army in the civil war
of 1917-1921, styled thus in contradistinction
to the “Red” army of the Communists, and in
allusion to the royalist forces of the Vendee
which attempted an insurrection against the
Republicans of the French Revolution, using
the white lily, emblem of French monarchy.
.... A.L.C.: Entries for the City of Sydney
Eisteddfod, to be held at the Thachers’ Federa-
tion, Conservatorium and other halls from the
middle to the end of August, close on June 29,
1940. Particulars are obtainable from the
organising secretary, Room 521, Fifth Floor,
Commonwealth Savings Bank Building, 14
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.... G.W.T.: Best
book on the subject is Culture of the Abdo-
men, by F. A. Hornibrook (Angus and Rfpbert-
son, Sydney, 10s.), which gives full details of
exercises and treatment... .T.T.: (1) Nervous
instability may be due to any of the causes
you mention. (2) Cure depends entirely on a
correct diagnosis of any mental or physical
failing. (3) Yes. An increase in weight can
generally be accomplished in the healthy subject
by suitable dietetic measures, of which you can
read in any of the books on nutrition now
available... .R.F.G.: Try the following pre-
scription: Chrysarobin and oleum rusci, ot
each 20 parts; salicylic acid, 10 parts; green
soap and vaseline, of each 25 parts. Any
chemist will dispense this. Avoid a1c0h01....
H.W.T.: No special diet has yet been recom-
mended as likely to increase mental energy. An
ordinary well-balanced diet is all that is neces-
sary J.W.: All details as to preliminary
training, the course and the cost are to be
obtained from the Secretary, Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital, Missenden-road, Camperdown,
Sydney C.R.: Deafness is rarely curable
late in life. The effects you have noticed are
due to bone conduction. In your case it would
be wise to consult an ear-specialist, but
appliances are sold by Angus and Coote, 500
George-street; Audiphone Co., 44 Martin-
place; Mears Earphone Co., State Shopping
Block, Market-street; and Nathan Hearing
Aids, City Mutual Building, Hunter and
Bligh streets —all Sydney J.M.: The usual
treatment consists in the drainage of the
antrum, and, in more severe cases, of a radical
operation by which the cavity is thorough!;'
cleaned out. The treatment you mention has
been used with some success, but is unlikely
ever to replace operation entirely.


FOR WINTER PRODUCTION YOU NEED
CaJL-Ch-
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
to make good the phosphorus
deficiency in the pasture.
Tri-cal-os is recommended for all live stock feeding—it is palatable,
easily digested and readily assimilated. It contains over 70%
tricalcic phosphate, having a guaranteed minimum of 32.5%
phosphoric acid and 40% lime —Tri-cal-os maintains good
health and increases production.
All particulars from Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, N.S.W.,
G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne, or G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane, or G.P.O.
712 F, Adelaide, or G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
, or
Box
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
8/
m
o
N
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus oils and
their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or coal tar
derivative. Neither washes nor dries out. Does not stain fleece.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’L.AND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Australian and African Wool.
“Ghanam”: Sydney’s wool appraise-
ment season is drawing to a close. The
turnover was easily a record —1,303,500
bales. The Sydney return will be
£22,000,000, and for the whole of Aus-
tralia round £60,000,000, without incre-
ments from profits on resales to be paid
at the end of the war. It sounds good,
but when increased taxation and other
burdens are taken into account it may
not look so well.
It appears that the increased produc-
tion will be maintained next year ; but
all the wool that can be grown will be
wanted. British manufacturers making
civilian material are so far rationed that
yarns are being made for many purposes
on a basis of half wool, half staple fibre.
The fighting services and export are eat-
ing up tremendous quantities.
The heavy demand is being reflected in
the stock market. Lambs in N.S.W. have
reached the highest prices for years. One
run was sold at Flemington last week
for an average of 325. 9d. —eight months,
32-441 b., skins about Bs. Top prices paid
for Border Leicester crosses in the auc-
tion market reached 355. sd. If the
season holds, there will before long be a
dearth of good breeding ewes in some
districts which it will be hard to remedy.
Subject to costs, the future of the in-
dustry sounds well enough, but it is riot
as good as that of some other countries,
and prices here are obviously below
world parity. S. Africa when last heard
from had only 17,250 bales in hand out
of 671,000 offered. The arrangement
there is that the British Government can
secure wool at the Australian average—
10fd. in the grease, the rest going to auc-
tion or general sale. It must be remem-
bered that there are wide differences in
yield and type between Australian and
S’African fleeces, so that the African
price is a better yield price than the
Australian.
The method of British buying is that
the representatives of the B.W.C. appraise
and then bid at auction in the ordinary
way up to their limits. But before the
sale appraisement limits are furnished to
brokers. Provision is made for arbitra-
tion where there is disagreement as to
value. France buys independently in
S. Africa, and has been very active, “un-
doubtedly strengthening competition.”
The average for the season up to the
third week in April was ll|d. S. African
14.7 d. Australian —or average
better for a poorer average clip than
our basic price.
And S’Africans have made their bar-
gain only for the present season. The
next clip is to be dealt with “in the light
of the experience then gained and in
the circumstances then ruling.”
The C.S.L.
“Bungaree”: Scientifically the Com-
monwealth Serum Laboratories set up in
Melbourne are doing a first-class job in
turning out vaccines.
However, a stockowner requiring vac-
cine must accompany his order with a
cheque to cover the amount; price lists
showing costs of the various vaccines are
circulated to. graziers everywhere. If the
grazier orders the vaccine through a
storekeeper or agent the agent has to
produce cash before the order is
executed, so the C.S.L. are on a safe
wicket and have no need to worry about
bad debts. Then the C.S.L. decided to
allow stock inspectors to purcKase
vaccines for their own use through P.P.
Boards at a discount of 20 p.c. Trouble
developed when P.P. Boards took ad-
vantage of the concession and started to
supply graziers in their districts with
vaccines at wholesale rates. Stockowners
who could not buy through P.P. Boards
had to pay cash and were penalised by
paying 20 p.c. more.
There are no P.P. Boards in Victoria,
where animal vaccines are most in de-
mand, so the C.S.L. are discriminating
against stockowners in their “home”
State. And merchants and agents in other
States who once purchased C.S.L. vac-
cines for their clients have a genuine
grievance. No business can afford to buy
something at 20s. and sell it at 20s.
“What has he eaten ?”
“Same as us —corn beef and cabbage , suet puddin' and a hunk of cheese."
Although storekeepers have to pay cash
for vaccine, their clients may keep them
waiting for months for their money;
the cash buyer goes to the P.P. Board,
while the storekeeper has to carry the
slow and doubtful accounts. Storekeepers
are quite within their rights in demand-
ing that if P.P. Boards are going to supply
vaccine at all they will supply everyone
and the storekeeper will keep out of the
business.
Stockowners should be supplied with
vaccine—for pulpy kidney, black disease,
blackleg, tetanus, strangles, etc. —at the
cheapest possible rate, and there should
be no discrimination. C.S.L. should pub-
lish one price list and stick to the prices
shown on it. If they can sell at 20 p.c.
below present list prices to some they
should be able to sell at the low price
to all.
Wheat Restriction Again!
“B. Cubbin”: Last week it was hinted
from Canberra that the Federal Govern-
ment might appeal to wheatgrowers to
restrict acreage for the next harvest,
using difficulties of realisation and ship-
ping as an excuse.
A great proportion of next year’s har-
vest should already be sown. Some cur-
tailment of acreage is certain, but it will
be done voluntarily by men cutting down
on wheat and going in for sheep, lambs
or pigs. Australia is hardly likely to
harvest another record yield next year,
and, though there appears to be a carry-
over of about 80,000,000 bushels at
present, the year is still young.
Britain’s needs are not fully defined.
Japan, too, is anxious to take flour and
grain. Tom Gordon, a representative of
the British Ministry of Shipping, told a
Sydney paper that ships would be sent
out regularly in future, many to lift
wheat, and that “ovefseas liners were
now lifting more wheat and flour than
ever before.”
If reports are true, there is no substan-
tial reason for restricting acreage at
present. The war has every appearance
of spreading and lasting several years.
If Britain is determined to conserve
dollar exchange, she must turn more and
more to Africa and Australasia for grain
and meats. In Australia itself there is
likely to be a big call for grain as stock
food.
Thorby, who advocates changeover to
mixed farming in marginal areas, sees
a possible carryover from last season
of upwards of 70,000,000 bushels, but
as the Federal Government has acquired
all wheat that problem has passed from
the grower, who is now wondering when
he is to get a further advance on the
28. already paid. So far, proceeds
of sales overseas are still well below the
Government’s £30,000,000 guarantee, and,
with heavy war expenditure and a tricky
financial position ahead, Canberra is un-
likely to commit itself for some time.
All the same, it should interest itself
in the doings of the costly Wheat Board,
which, apparently, has not even con-
sidered any means of increasing home
consumption. In pig production alone
there is tremendous scope both for ex-
pansion of pig numbers and use of wheat
as pig feed, to say nothing of the use
of wheat in sheep areas where feed is
sborb
Meantime, Riverina farmers are get-
ting a bit worried about the growing
numbers of mice. The pests are thick
in the tqwns and on the roads, and hay-
stacks and grain stores are likely to
suffer. There is, too, the danger of mice
following the drills and digging the seed
from the ground.
N.S.W. Flour Quality.
“Yarrunga”: Complete tests of the
season’s N.S.W. f.a.q. wheat, from mill to
oven, indicate the general quality to be
“very good,’ 5 although not quite up to
the high standard of that of 1938-39.
Though dry gluten percentage was
lower (B. 24/4/’4O), gluten quality of
the flour was “good to very good.”
Analyses show that, compared with the
previous season, protein content at 9.63
p.c. was 1.2 p.c. lower.
Farinograph data revealed a slight de-
crease in water absorption and dough
stability. Nevertheless, baking results,
were “very satisfactory.”
Owing to mixed and unfavorable con-
ditions in the latter part of the grow-
ing season and the ripening period, the
pool sample showed some loss of condi-
tion and pinching, but the grain on the
whole was well filled, and generally there
should be no grounds for complaint re-
garding bread quality.
Lucerne on the Inner Rim.
“Wing’s Apprentice”: Wonderful plant,
lucerne! A generation ago we were told
that it was a fodder for
rich flats like Maitland
(N.S.W.), Bacchus
Marsh (Vic.) and
Boonah (Q.). It would
not, it was believed,
grow without plenty of
lime in the soil. Pres-
ently it began to be
found in strange places
—out on the Macintyre,
for instance, where
some of its roots were
traced for 70ft. in their
hunt for water.
Then fat lamb-wheat
areas discovered lucerne
and came to realise
that, provided there was
inoculation, it would
face almost any climate.
W. N. Muntz, near
Dimboola (Vic.), on the
Mallee fringe, where
the rainfall is under
15in. in normal yfears,
has 500 acres of it
sown with wheat in
rotation. He started
timidly five years ago
with 6oz. of seed to the acre. Now
he has trebled the quantity. A cover
crop of wheat goes in—bushel of seed,
fcwt. super, per acre. Extra cost of put-
ting in the lucerne is about 3s. per acre,
when it goes through the grass-seed box
on the drill.
During the 1938 drought—Bin. rainfall
—sand silted over some of the plants and
blotted them out, but on many sandy
rises the lucerne held back the drift. In
midsummer —1938-39 —sheep were get-
ting green picking on the ridges. The
lucerne normally carries two sheep to
the acre. One paddock has been used
for experimental wheatgrowing. It was
ploughed after being under lucerne for
three years and sown to wheat without
fallowing. Not only was the wheat yield
as good as that from fallowed areas, but
failed to kill the lucerne, which afterwards
came on vigorously.
If lucerne can be acclimatised in the
Mallee, there are a lot of other places
where it is worth a trial. Seems to me
a lucerne and sub. clover society is
needed in Australia to do the same work
for these staple pastures as is being done
by the pure-breed societies for cattle.
And Agricultural Departments might
drop some less important work to study
(<Continued on next page.)


For all External Livestock Diseases
"CARBOX"
A Wonderful Healer .... A Super Cleanser
A Powerful Antiseptic.
“CARBOX” is an Australian product for Australian conditions.
“CARBOX” embodies only the finest materials in its ingredients, providing not
only a surehealer of the highest quality, but a superlative cleansing ointment,
and has well earned its place as the farmers’ friend.
Note these few uses for “CARBOX”: —
HORSES.—For sore shoulders, itch, cracked and greasy heels, strangles, douche
after foaling, sprains, swellings, cuts and abrasions, etc.
CATTLE. —For contagious abortion, douche after calving, mammitis, milk fever,
sore teats, foot rot, etc.
SHEEP.—For maggot and fly, shearing cuts, foot rot, crow peck, tailing, and
marking, etc.
PIGS.—For lice and scale, sore mouth, body wash, etc.
DOGS.—For distemper, mange, douche after pupping, grass seed abscesses, cracked
pads, fleas and dog lice, etc.
“CARBOX” is an essential on the farm.
“CARBOX” is not Good for Parasites—lt Kills Them!
Packed in 3-gallon drums, 1-gallon, £ -gallon, and tins
Full particulars obtainable from:—
HENRY BERRY & CO. (Australasia) LTD.
Australasian Distributors:
515 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Houses in All States. When writing mention “The Bulletin.”
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson ,
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’Account Book
(Price £1),
including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return#'
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations ~ 15
Sheep bought ~ 20
Wire netting „ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way us to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1940 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
For 2 Weeks
Only at
PRE-WAR PRICES
m
Smart Black Oxford
in Beautiful Box
Calf-ONLY 26/11
Normally this shoe is priced
at 32/6, but for the next
two weeks we are offering
it at less than its pre-war
price. Good-looking, as
you can see by the illus-
tration, and made by crafts-
men from a super-grade
box calf with calf back
lining and stout welted
soles that will give oceans
of wear. In black only,
but in a full range of sizes
and half sizes, to guarantee
perfect fit. Order at once
as the offer definitely
cannot be repeated.
NOTE: Abbey Shoes are sent by mail to all
parts of Australia and the British Empire, so
order with confidence. Always state size and, if
possible, send a tracing of your stockinged foot,
Satin}action guaranteed.
ABBEY
316 George St.
224 Pitt St.
Sydney.
SHOES
Abbey Shoes,
316 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me a pair of your Black Oxford
Box Calf Shoes. My size is I enclose
remittance for 26/11 pliu< interstate postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Print in Block Letters.)
A2O-163S
FORTY-FIFTH
ANNUAL SHEEP SHOW
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST STUD SHEEP EXHIBITION.
Conducted toy THE N.S.W. SHEEPBREEDERS’ ASSOCIATION
To be held on the SYDNEY SHOWGROUND
19th, 20th, 21st, and 22nd JUNE, 1940.
SEE THE PICK OF AUSTRALIA’S FLOCKS.
PRIZE-MONEY AND TROPHIES EXCEED £lOOO.
ENTRIES CLOSE
Sheep Saturday, 18th May
Fleece Classes Saturday, 18tli May
Junior and Senior Judging- Competitions .... Saturday, 18th May
Sheep Dog Trials Wednesday, 22nd May
SCHEDULES. AND ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
STUD SHEEP SALES, Sydney Showground, viz.:
British and Down Breeds Friday, 21st June
Merinos, Corriedales, and Polwarths, commencing Monday, 24th June
Endeavour House,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
G. C. SOMERVILLE,
Secretary.
sub. clover and lucerne acclimatisation
in the districts where they are most
needed.
di i c j • d
Black End m Bananas.
“L.F.”: Black end develops in the
finger stalk during ripening. It is most
common in cased fruit packed in singles,
though fairly common in bunch packing.
The rot generally starts from the broken
end of the stalk and works back to the
fruit, destroying its sound appearance,
Later pink spots occur. There is not
usually much decay in the fruit itself,
but black end is enough to put most
buyers oft. .
The C.S. and I.R. in a useful pamphlet
declares that dead leaves from plants are
the most important source of infection,
which begins before the fruit leaves the
trees. Prevention methods include a
thorough clean up of rubbish round the
plantation in spring and in midsummer.
A better plan is to keep up a continuous
cleaning process. Careful handling of
fruit avoids bruises, where fungi may
lodge. Temperature is important—cold
in summer, heat in winter. The interval
between cutting and ripening should be
as short as possible. Immersion of stalks
in 50 per cent, alcohol solution for 10
seconds is suggested as a possible method
of sterilising stalks against the disease.
“Gumnuts”: I won’t have it that ring-
barking should be done in the winter
u/hpr treo ornwth k at its minimum fB
when tree growtn is at its minimum fK.
1 //4/ 40). The sap is then mostly in
the root. It rises in the spring, when the
stumps sucker heavily and few die.
,
’O. T. : Nearly 10,000 meals were
served at the N.S.W. Wine Producers’
Association cafe during Sydney R.A.
Show. Dry wines were in greatest de-
mand, though practically the whole range
of wines was called for. Good publicity
work was done, and there seems every
reason to believe the public would wel-
come the right to drink light wines with
meals in city cafes.
“Porcine”: N.S.W. is slowly increasing
the output of market pigSs but as ye{ is
no j taking seriously the export demand
for Britain’s requirements in frozen
baconers and porkers. Exports do not
e q Ua i imports of bacon from other States,
In the Clarence-Richmond-Tweed area,
w here more than half the pig population
is located, slaughterings last year at
bacon factories and works killing for
Sydney totalled 124,689 head, as com-
pared'with 108,084 five years ago. In
this area in 1939 no fewer than 222,000
bo bbie calves from the dairy farms were
slaughtered, largely for boneless veal for
export to u.K
'
Outback Occupations.
No. XVII.
Fodder Conservation (1).
T , , . . u , _,, t
11 begins. will, a letter from the local
SIOW seLrc aiy ’ '
Mr. J. Fordcubbin,
Lindisfarme,
Cowra Road.
Dear Mr. Fordcubbin,—Well, Jack, the
R-A.S is running their fodder consumma-
tlon contest this y ear and wants me to rak . e
up a few entries. I see you have a bit
0 f i iayj an( j o ifi Kenny tells me you put
down a sillage trench, so will you come in ?
We L Ja< -k s it is 5 bob to enter and i!
you win there is a cutlery set worth a
fiver and then you might go and £et a
place in the R.A.S. prizes. If you have
any good sheepskins I can offer a fair price.
Let me know.
Yours faithfully,
W. E. Dogthistle.
“Always tryin’ t’ get a few bob outa
a man/’ you think, and throw the letter
aside. Two days later you remember
something about sheepskins and look for
the letter. It can’t be found. The wife
says she’ll hunt for it. She brings it to
you in the paddock. After you’ve read
it, she says, “I’m always ashamed of our
knives when visitors come. I do hope
you win it.”
“Win what?”
“That fodder thing.”
“I’m not goin’ in f’r any fodder thing.”
She doesn’t reply. You look at her.
The last time her mouth set like that was
when you didn’t want to buy the car —
but you bought the car.
“Look, missus, I got no chance of
winnin’, and Bill Dogthistle knows it. All
he wants is me five bob.”
“Isn’t our fodder as good as anyone
else’s?”
You empty fertiliser into the drillbox.
“The Joneses won a nice clock last
year.”
You shake the fertiliser bag, hoping
the dust will drive her away. She sneezes
and pulls a wry face, but doesn’t go.
“Five shillings isn’t much for a nice
set of cutlery.”
“Y’ got t’ win it first.”
“Well, you certainly can’t win unless
you go in for it.”
“Geddap, Nugget! Kitch! Brownie!”
“I’ll ring up Mr. Dogthistle when I go
back, if you like.”
“Hur-rup, Nugget, y’ ol’ loafer!”
The team carries von away on the
combine.
Two days later comes another note
from Dogthistle:—•
Mr. J. Fordcubbin,
Lindisfarme,
Cowra Road.
Dear Mr. Fordcubbin, —Well, Jack, 1
put your name down after Mrs Ford-
cubbin rung up. I’ll bring the judge out
next week, probably, and collect the dollar
then. Have you got any good sheepskins ?
Yours faithfully,
W. E. Dogthistle.
“These blessed women,” you think, but
you are too old and too wise and too
weary to kick up a fuss. You can’t back
out, anyway, because you know Dog-
thistle will make a song about it all over
the district.
You go out and look over the hay-
stacks. They’re well built and the hay
is good. You hope the silage has settled
down well. The oats in the tank are
sweet. A slow feeling of mingled pride
and anticipation grows in you. You puli
hay from the stacks and smell it. Good!
You wish you knew who else was in the
competition so you’d know what chance
you had.
Comes another day, with Dogthistle
and the district agricultural instructor,
who is to judge. He seems a bit young
and exudes a non-stop cheerfulness.
Naturally they hit the place on lunch<
time, and you bring out the lager you
bought and kept for the occasion. The
missus has a turkey, with roast spuds
and all the trimmings. You never knew
she could cook like that. Dogthistle
cracks a joke about getting high points
for hospitality, and suggests Mrs. Ford-
cubbin is trying to get round the judge.
He and the judge laugh loudly, you grin
weakly, the missus colors up and retires.
The three of you go out to the stacks.
Dogthistle sits on a stump and talks
about everything under the sun. You
and the judge run a tape measure north,
south, east and west and sideways over
the hay. The judge "nils out great hand-
fuls of it, smells it, holds it arm’s length,
then throws it on the ground. He goes
dead serious and writes on a card.
Then he examines the oats in the tank,
measures them, looks thoughtful, and
writes some more. After that you take
him to the silage pit, and he stands by
while you dig. The earth should be four
feet deep, but somehow it’s become seven
feet. You sweat and dig, and finally get
down to the silage. You realise by the
stink that it is good. You tear out a
handful and pass it to the judge. He
inhales the awful smell then
looks doubtfully at his hand, says “Yes
and stands back writing while you refill
the hole.
He takes particulars of your stock,
acreage and natural carrying capacity.
You take him and Dogthistle to the
house, give them another feed and send
them off.
Being frugal-minded, you realise that
in addition to the entry fee it has cost
you 12s. for beer, the turkey was worth a
quid, and you’ve lost a day’s work worth
£2. You haven’t got the cutlery set, but
it suddenly dawns on you that the wife
is wearing a new dress, you feel certain
some of the cups and forks were new,
and that tablecloth hadn’t been seen
before.
“These blessed women,” you think.
That night Dogthistle rings up to con-
gratulate you. You’ve won. You are
silent. Then a warm glow comes over
you, you stick out your chest and go out
to the haystacks in the dark and look
at them. Then you come in and tell
the wife.
“Yes,” she says calmly, “I’ve made
room in the sideboard for the cutlery.”


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
21d. per line.
In future names —though required as a guarantee of good faith-will not be
published unless it is clear that the writers don’t object. Many do, and give good
reasons—domestic, industrial, departmental, military—for preferring anonymity.
For a spirited reply to a critic of trade-unionism a man who writes from Glen-
orchy whether Victoria, Tasmania or Queensland, he doesn’t say—gets double rates.
Unionism
I have seen some weird criticisms of
trade-unionism, but that of “D.J.G.’ (B.
10/4/’4O) takes the cake. He contends
that, because workers united to obtain
better conditions, the individual worker
ceased to desire and work for more re-
sponsible and more lucrative employ-
ment, contenting himself with such im-
provements in conditions or wages that
the union was able to secure for him.
This simply overlooks the individual
side. The satisfaction of achieving some-
thing for himself and by himself is by
far the larger part of the ambitious man’s
reward, and makes union-acquired bene-
fits look like nothing.
If “D.J.G.’s” point is that before trade-
unionism conditions were so bad that the
abler workers were more keenly spurred
on to win something better, then he is
simply praising trade-unionism. It is
better that the conditions of all work-
men should be improved than that a
few of them should by bad conditions
be goaded to strive for better occupa-
tions. '
There is a very subtle and insidious
snobbery rife in Australia today. It is
to look down on the manual laborer
whose wages are the basic wage or a
little above it. It takes for granted that
the manual laborer wants to be some-
thing more than a manual laborer—“a
responsible job or a small businessman,”
as “D.J.G.” has it. It cannot conceive
the possibility of a workman simply
wanting to be a good workman. Yet
where would we be without the man
to move the dirt? We can’t all be clerks
and managers.
The sooner we realise that the pick,
the shovel, the axe, etc., are even more
necessary to us than the pen, the sooner
we will accord to the man using them
conditions of work and life which are
his due as an indispensable member of
society—permanent work or adequate
unemployment insurance, reasonable
hours and pay, enabling him to indulge
in health and life insurance. And what
a barren ground would Australia then
be for the Communist and the visionary
reformer! —G. W. Brimage.
Socialism
“Government control of every sphere
of industry, no profits, only salaries go-
ing into private pockets” (B. 24/4/’4O) is
only another name for the complete
socialisation of industry—a type of
polity workable only by a form of gov-
ernment and industrial organisation
akin to that of Soviet Russia.
The great mass of the people would
be in a state of servitude to a small
directing class, which would not only
dictate their working conditions and re-
muneration, but would control every
aspect of their lives. Protest would be
useless.
Australia’s present economic system,
based on private enterprise, may not be
perfect, but it allows the citizen, a rea-
sonable degree of freedom and a far
higher standard of living than would be
his portion in a socialist State.
Better conditions for the masses can
be secured by reforms designed to cre-
ate and preserve the widest possible
ownership of property. —Lyle (N.S.W.).
Let me put in a word on behalf
of the ordinary enterprising capitalist.
He is almost wiped out, swept away by
State and company control. Yet his
class is one of the most important in
the community.
Once there were builders; now there
are building societies. Once we had
little shops in every district; now
big grocery, butchery, drapery and other
firms have taken control of the trade.
Once seamen went down to the sea in
small ships; now big shipping companies
have control of the traffic on the high
seas. The point I wish to make is that
this is socialism.
You can see its results. There is no
humanity in a big company and there
is no way of attacking it. Companies
may liquidate their debts, and God help
the creditor. But when the little man
gets into difficulties it’s a different matter.
He has to pay.
We can see the results of even moder-
ate socialisation in our own midst. We
can see it racing the world along at a
tempo that must ultimately end in de-
struction. Socialism is the most danger-
ous doctrine preached in our midst.
Dangerous, not because it feigns to give
men homes, but because it removes the
need for individual effort and initiative.
The small capitalist, because he is
lively and enterprising, provides that
initiative, and because he does so he is
the lifeblood of the community.—Pro-
capita (N.S.W.).
A Suggestion
The weakness of democracy through
the ages has been the lack of cohesive
effort in war-time. Ancient Rome solved
the difficulty by electing a strong man
and rallying behind him until the danger
had passed. It is about time the Empire
considered doing the same thing. But
what man can we trust with the powers
necessary for a Prime Minister to fight
the war to a successful conclusion?
Chamberlain, Churchill, Eden and the
other politicians are all hampered by their
limited following of partisans or the
jealousies of-party life during past years.
There is only one man fitted by breed-
ing, tradition, education and ability to
lead a national Government selected by
him from the best brains of the whole
Empire. That man is Edward, Duke of
Windsor. His services as King were lost
to the Empire, but he would be in a
position to use his undoubted talents and
remake history as Prime Minister. His
Government would have the support of
all classes, and his Cabinet would be
united in its loyalty to him.
Edward could be trusted with almost
unlimited powers necessary for a war-
time Prime Minister to assume. A man
who laid aside the Crown of England
would never aspire to copy Caesar. And
the very arguments against having his
present wife as Queen would be in her
favor as American wife of the Prime
Minister. —J. A. S. K. (Q.).
A Harder Row?
The notion that the “upstart” has a
harder row to hoe than the one born in
the purple (B. 24/4/’4O) is fallacious.
The best training for all would-be dic-
tators would be several years’ hard labor
in the ranks of the underdoggery. That’s
what gives them the spurt. To be bom
in the purple is a tremendous handicap,
and the man who can struggle out of,
and upwards from, such an enervating
background is a mighty man indeed.
We hear objections from the unthink-
ing about these gibes at “house painters.”
But what about the gibes at “bloated aris-
tocrats”? For the role that Savage and
Lyons filled they had a most excellent
training. The greater praise, however,
should be showered on an unfortunate
man like Stanley Bruce. Look at all he
had to contend with. The very fact that
he was afflicted with all the disadvantages
of easy circumstances completely did for
him (politically) in the eyes of hundreds
of thousands of unthinking electors.
Give me a fairy godmother at birth,
and I’d ask for the dosshouse-under-
dog route to fame every time. By that
route I’d be almost sure to make the
grade.— Eton and Poonah (N.S.W.).
Beer as Usual
A loud “Hear, hear” for “Celt” (B.
24/4/’4O), who recommends a war-effort
contribution from all. Let’s start with
the breweries. Why is all this hotel-
building, hotel-remodelling, etc., going
on? These “hotels” are mainly boozing-
places. They are not real hotels at all.
And all this spare cash which flows so
plentifully into the coffers of the brewers
should be diverted to legitimate war-
effort channels.
All these facilities for extra boozing
should be stopped. Money spent on
booze is waste. And look at the increase
in the crime statistics. Look at all the
extra police work, hospital work, etc.,
which boozing entails. — Here’s Hooey
(N.S.W.).
A War Gamble
How about extracting war funds from
a sport-loving public by a nation- or even
world-wide sweep on the year and month
and day of the end of the war, at six-
pence per tip?
Prizes could be worked on a percentage
basis and a certain proportion of each
month’s takings be immediately allotted
to war funds. As a safeguard against
holding back for signs of an obvious
collapse no tip that came within a month
of the end would be valid.
The published tips of a few military
experts or other Big Heads would give
the event a good jump-off, and some of
our old ex-A.I.F. men could take the
responsibility of conducting it —supported
by our leading dailies. —N. A. D. (Vic.).
“A Penny for the Army”
If Gerald Dillon (B. 24/4/’4O) had the
handling of a war Budget he would soon
know why soldiers cannot be paid as
handsomely as public servants, and why
a littlq generosity from civilians is called
for. Although Australia has only a com-
paratively small proportion of her man-
power under arms, impending taxation
increases will almost reach our limit.
At one stage France had 6,000,000 men
mobilised. The withdrawal of such a
force from productive to destructive
duties imposes an enormous loss of
national income that would be impossible
for the Government to overcome and
at the same time pay its armed forces in
accordance with ordinary needs. Even
Hitler, with all his power to extract taxa-
tion, force loans and inflate the mark, is
obliged to urge his civilians to provide
comforts for his troops.
Australians spend well over
£100,000,000 annually on the geegees,
dogs, imported films and pugs, booze and
other vices, and why shouldn’t we will-
ingly forgo some of this for the com-
fort of those who have volunteered to
lay down their lives for us? Patriot
(N.S.W.).
Golf and War
Objecting to the Australian Golf
Union’s decision to suspend the Aus-
tralian open and amateur championships
“until the international situation im-
proves,” a paragraphist (B. 3 /4/’4O)
remarked: “What possible effect a hand-
ful of golfers in search of championships
could have on the country’s war effort
is beyond contemplation.” This implies
that a certain number of golfers would
rather follow their own game than do
anything towards helping the country’s
war effort.
Without considering that if all groups
of young men Were to take the same view
there could not be any war effort, it
seems rather tragic that so much import-
ance should be laid on the business side
of the game. By all means have the game
as a recreation, or as an anodyne if the
situation should become worse, but it is
unthinkable for people to concentrate on
playing a game for gain and fame when
their brothers, friends or countrymen are
pitting their chances against all the
agonies and tortures to be encountered
in modern warfare.
The Australian Golf Union is to be
commended for its action. —B. (W.A.).
Farmers and Secondary Industry
“Sam Square” (B. 3/4/’4O) is wrong
when he says there is a tendency among
farmers to belittle secondary industries.
There is hardly a commodity grown or
produced that is not treated in some way
before it reaches the market or the con-
sumer, and no farmer would ever be so
foolish as to think flour mills, woollen
mills and the like do not perform a very
necessary function.
Nor would any man on the land be so
stupid as to imagine that, in present-day
methods of agriculture, we could do with-
out the implements and tools that second-
ary industry provides.
But the farmer has a just grievance
against secondary industry in that it does
not allow him to fix the price of his
own product, but says that it is fixed by
world or local demand. The farmer has
to take the price offered, whether it covers
the costs of production or not. On the
other hand, the products of secondary in-
dustry are sold back to the farmer at a
price fixed by the seller, after allowing
a comfortable margin of profit.
But the farmer has a still greater
cause of resentment against industry.
Quarter of a century ago agriculture
supplied its own power and fuel, and
also supplied industry with a large part
of its power and food. Since then, in-
dustry has reversed that state of alfairs,
and tractors and oil fuel are on most
farms. Not only has the farmer lost a
great market, but he has to dump, all the
extra produce that used to feed his
power on the market, with a corre-
sponding decrease in price for his com-
modities. Nothing has ever compensated
the farmer for this invasion by indus-
try, for the only effect of it was to in-
crease farm produce. And now, de-
spite the opinion of a few diehards,
there is an increasing surplus and a
diminishing price.
The extra consumption of primary
produce by the increased number of
operatives in secondary industry is so in-
conspicuous, compared with the huge and
increasing amount of primary produce
made possible by improved methods of
cultivation and labor-saving devices, as
to be almost negligible.
The farmer does not belittle secondary
industries. But he realises that, unless
he too can get a fixed price, with a
margin of profit, he will be forced
deeper and deeper into the morass of
debt and despair.— Walter C. Belford
(W.A.).
Dairy-farming for Profit
Although the opinion may not be
popular in the. cow country, increased
prices for their products is not the solu-
tion of problems facing the dairy-
farmers. Instead of asking consumers
to pay more, farmers can make a greater
return by adopting efficient methods that
will cut costs of production. The un-
profitable cow is, perhaps, the most in-
sidious enemy the farmer has. Each
herd must show, collectively, profitable
returns for the owner, but very few
farmers can show individual profit from
each cow in the herd.
It is common to hear a farmer say
that his herd averages 2001 b. of butter-
fat per cow, but he cannot say how
many average 3001 b. and how many
1001 b. If he knew he would be able to
eliminate the unprofitable animals, and
he can know by having his cows tested
for production under the Government
scheme which operates in all States.
Unprofitable cows mean waste, which,
in turn, means lower profits. Effort is
necessary to milk and feed 30 cows, and
20 profitable cows are better than a herd
of 20 that are profitable and 10 that are
not. Elimination of the unprofitable 10
leaves more food for the 20 that are
earning it.
Dairy-farmers have beep told these
things and have seen them proved by
more progressive men. Some have in-
creased the yield per cow from 1701 b. of
butterfat a year to 3401 b. If some can
do it, others can. The dairy-farmer,
however, takes too long to put his work
on a general business footing. He k
suspicious of anyone advocating better
methods, and by the time he realises his
mistake the many postponements have
made recovery both difficult and expen-
sive.—Cow Time (N.S.W.).
Dear Fruit and Distressed Growers
The fruitgrowing industry is in a hope-
less tangle of State rights, marketing
laws, grading regulations and so on.
Fruitgrowers are divided by their States,
and again by their varieties. There is no
common marketing ground on which
Queensland banana growers might meet
Murray River dried-fruit producers, nor
have citrus growers any apparent prac-
tical sympathy with pome growers, or
vice versa. All the same, every orchardist
(and every vigneron) has a common in-
terest in three things: (a) Securing a
profitable price for his produce, ( b ) ex-
panding the export market, and (c) in-
creasing home consumption.
The stipendiary magistrate who re-
ported on the N.S.W. fruit industry—in
a volume weighing over 51b. —found that
30 p.c. of N.S.W. growers were in a
sound financial position, 37 p.c. were on
suitable soil but financially handicapped,
17 p.c. were on unsuitable soil and/or
neglected properties, and 16 p.c. were
inefficient. These figures might be applied
to the whole of Australia, and so might
other things which astonished the magis-
trate, such as conflict of interests and
absence of commonly-accepted standards.
Anyone might quail before the colossal
task of bringing order out of all this
chaos, yet from the growers’ point of view
there are certain fundamental evils that
could be attacked as a beginning. The


greatest of these is the system of cen-
tralised marketing for home consumption,
a product of Big City legislation and
State politics.
Even in the cities good fruit is far
too dear, except at glut periods. The
spread between the price received by the
grower and that paid by the consumer
is enormous, and its effect on home
consumption can be gauged at a glance
by anyone who examines the lunch-bags
of schoolchildren and manual workers.
In country districts outside the recog-
nised fruit areas good fruit is a rarity.
One of the frequent complaints of travel-
lers is that the dining tables of country
hotels and boarding-houses seldom carry
fruit, and if they do it is rarely fresh
enough to excite the palate. And every
hotel- and boardinghouse-keeper, if
questioned, wilt reply that fruit is too
dear. You wifi get this reply in districts
not 50 miles from an orchard settlement,
not because the people don’t want the
fruit, but because it has to travel up to
250 miles to the city market and back to
the town shop, though the tree that pro-
duced the fruit is but 50 miles away.
And if some enterprising grower de-
cides to load a motor-truck with good
fruit and take it to the town 50 miles
away he will come up against some regu-
lation or other, most likely from a Trans-
port Department or from the local
Bumbles, who have been told by rate-
paying shopkeepers that these hawkers
must be stopped.
Centralisation has its effect in other
ways. Case shooks have to travel from
the city out to the fruit district and back
to the city as cases of fruit.. If the box
factory operated in the fruit district, not
only would marketing costs be reduced
but there would be an additional con-
sumer force at the seat of production.
The main overseas market is the
British, and the product has to travel
13,000 miles and be delivered in an
attractive condition to compete with
rivals whose orchards are practically at
Britain’s back door. If Australian
growers can do that there is no practical
reason why they should not overcome the
disabilities that prevent them from getting
the best out of their home market by
providing the home consumer with good
fruit at a reasonable price.
To do that they must break down the
complex barrier that stands between
grower and consumer. When this .s
done there will be created such a public
appetite for fruit as will place the in-
dustry beyond the need for grants and
subsidies, and give the efficient fruit-
grower a reasonable margin of profit
for his endeavor. —O. T. (N.S.W.).
State Parliaments
Our State Parliament (N.S.W.) is to be
adjourned for a further two months on
the admission of many members that
their activities are of minor importance
compared with the war.
Is this a self-confessed admission of
their own futility? The Bulletin has
persistently pointed out that the chronic
financial embarrassment of State Treas-
uries will inevitably spell the doom of
State Parliaments. They must give way
to a less extravagant form of State ad-
ministration and one within our sadly
depleted means.
Luxuries these days are taboo, and
will be more so in the years to come.
State Parliaments are costly and useless
luxuries. —W. E. C. (N.S.W.).
The pathetic belief of “B.” (B.
10/4/’4O) that “Australia, with a man
like Washington, Lincoln or Nansen,
could strike off some of the ties of over-
government and achieve real union” is
typical of the “Some day my prince
will come” school of thought. The men
he mentions came to the front at times
in the histories of their respective coun-
tries when deep-seated national resent-
ment blazed up and large proportions of
the peoples passionately demanded the
redress of grievances. The leaders were
the products of the demands, not the
producers of them.
In Australia we have a people so in-
different to politics that their political
masters find it necessary to force them
to the polls to exercise the franchise their
forefathers fought for so long and so
bitterly. It is useless to protest that our
disastrous politicians have produced this
indifference to politics. The converse
is true, for such politicians are truly
representative of an electorate that
doesn’t care sufficiently to see that it is
fairly and capably represented in Parlia-
ment.
Our press has, for the most part,
ignored the steady deterioration of Par-
liamentary government, brought about
by government by regulation, adminis-
tration through innumerable and all-
powerful boards and subordination of
the common weal to the party’s welfare.
Tell any average elector that you think
State Parliaments should be abolished
and the odds are ten to one he will agree
with you, but his agreement is only
academic. He is not anxious to do any-
thing about it. The only militancy in
politics is displayed by sundry gentlemen,
mainly imported, who dream of Soviet-
ising the country, and who have seduced
from their loyalty sufficient real Aus-
tralians to make their Oriental nastiness
a national menace.
The fact is that we have borne with
political incompetence and impudence so
long and so meekly that elected persons
have become convinced that we will stand
any amount of it. And, thinking over
recent history, I am not sure that they
are wrong. Whenever there are
rumblings of discontent it only needs
some soothsayer from a university to
assure the people that their grievances
are only imaginary and that, anyhow, the
proposed changes are impracticable, and
straightway the tumult is stilled. Witness
Professor Bland and the Riverina move-
ment for unification.
It is no good praying for some heaven-
sent leader to rescue us from the mess
we are in. If our house is to be set in
order we must do the job ourselves with-
out benefit of rabble-rousers or Prince
Charmings. First we must convince Our-
selves that we really want reforms and
that we are prepared to make an effort
to get them. If sufficient electors be-
come vocal in their demand for the
removal of the six excrescences the
leaders will soon appear.—C. G. Salis
(N.S.W.).
Constructive Criticism
A good watchdog barks only when
there is occasion to do so ; it does not
yelp at the merest pretext. The primary
reason for which a Parliamentary Oppo-
sition is elected —and well paid—is to
act as the watchdog of the people’s in-
terests, and give warning if it sees the
Government drifting into difficulties or
imposing obnoxious legislation. It is not
required to indulge in irritation tactics
and withhold co-operation on “principle.”
Today, you will seek in vain for well-
intentioned, sound, constructive criticism
from the official Opposition. It is dead
from Brisbane to Perth. Rather, carping,
worthless criticism is the order of the
day. Any fool can point out and ridi-
cule the efforts and shortcomings of
others, but it takes brains and courage
to remedy the defects.
No time could be more opportune
than the present to bury the hatchet and
let co-operation replace castigation.—•
Ricardo (N.S.W.).
Bathrooms
Every bathroom I’ve seen in Sydney
has a floor which is level, or almost level,
so that after a man has a shower he has
to spend a messy five minutes mopping
up pools of water. Will some architect
or builder tell me why these floors aren’t
built with a fall of a couple of inches
to the drain-grating?—E. B. (N.S.W.).
Female Labor
“P.O.M.C.’s” debunking of romantic
and social-climbing lady war workers
(B. 3/4/’4O) gives rise to another train
of thought. Where is the feminisation
of business and industry going to end?
After the last war soldiers returned
to find that their jobs had been taken
by women who were paid about half
men’s wages. Ever since cheap female
labor has been used more and more,
throwing men out of work. Big Busi-
ness says that to employ men would
greatly increase costs.
These employers should realise that
their commercial success depends
primarily upon the demand for their
products and wares, just as demand
depends upon consumption. It does not
take an economist to realise that con-
sumption, in turn, depends upon the
number of families to be fed, clothed
and supplied with the amenities of
civilised life. And it is the man in
constant work who creates and main-
tains families.
So the businessman who pays a
woman a meagre salary to do a man’s
work has little cause to congratulate
himself on the grounds of economy. He
is robbing a man of a job, keeping a
woman from her proper sphere in life,
keeping the nation’s cradles empty and
depriving himself of a great potential
market. In short, the utilisation of
female labor in spheres rightly belonging
to males spells commercial and racial
suicide.
The solution is not difficult. Equal
pay for equal work done. Then watch
Big Business go for the male labor. —•
Propergander (Vic.).
The Continental View
In the many discussions and opinions
printed in The Bulletin and elsewhere
on the war and the settlement after, there
seems to be very little thought given to
what may be termed “the Continental
view.” We read the British view and
the French view, but there is also a Con-
tinental view of such things.
For instance, the persecution of the
Jews is linked with the fact that the Jews
have been unable for years to emigrate
to the United States and elsewhere out-
side Europe, whereas formerly they emi-
grated by thousands and thus reduced
their numbers and their competition in
the countries where they are now per-
secuted.
The Continental view of the Franco-
Russian alliance in 1907 was that it was
a direct danger, as it would involve
neutrals in the war it seemed to con-
template. It brought Russia well into
the European scene when she was look-
ing eastward, and neutrals felt that
Europe was threatened with the Russian
club.
As for Italy and Abyssinia, the coun-
tries which refused to employ sanctions
against Italy were States which the vic-
torious Allies had created in 1919.
The European view of Britain and
France and their actions toward the Ger-
man democracy we set up after the last
war was that we did nothing to help
the infant democracy. We, especially
France, sneered at it and used force
against it, and drove the Germans back
on themselves and to a tight, self-centred
nationalism.
We must try to understand the mind
and views of other peoples when we at-
tempt to settle the affairs of Europe.—
L. Etherington (M.L.).
Grave or Gay?
It has been said that speech was in-
vented to conceal thought. The present
intention of part of the press seems to
be to stifle meditation. The latest comic
strip is “guaranteed to dispel war gloom.”
Solemnity gets no headlines, and seldom
earns space rates. The Writers’ Hand-
book tells its own story. Religious and
philosophical publications, almost with-
out exception, advertise the fact that,
though contributions are accepted, “no
payment is made.”
Diogenes must still be content with
his tub and lantern. The jester lives in
the palace, enjoying the limelight and
getting the pickings.
Perhaps I’m wrong. Maybe the wise
men have adopted the cap and bells and
only fools seek to seem wise in-
sombre garments. If our neglected saints
and sages were to beat their epigrams
into wisecracks and their moralisings into
comic strips they, too, might be syndi-
cated and rewarded.
This is written without rancor, but
rather in sorrow than in anger. I am
saddened by the sight of Wisdom crying
in the streets, clad in sackcloth and ashes,
when she could be on the front page, clad
in shorts and brassieres.
There is surely a lesson for us here.
Let us forswear the rounded period, the
carefully constructed syllogism, the
learned analogy, the recondite allusion
and express such wisdom as has been
vouchsafed unto us in language that may
be understood by the people who are
entertained if not enlightened by the
press.— Merry Andrew (S.A.).
Water for Stock
“Bluey’s” contention (B. 17/4/’4O)
that the responsibility of providing
water at trucking yards is the Railway
Department’s is wide of the mark. What
about stockowners clubbing together
and making provision for watering stock
at trucking yards? They are the people
mainly concerned.
There is far too much shirking by
animal owners in this country. Many
do not appreciate that they are respon-
sible for the well-being of the animals
they control. There is a responsibility
under the various Acts of the Legisla-
ture and there is also the moral respon-
sibility.
Another way is for the local council
to provide watering facilities and make
an appropriate charge. — Walla Walla
(N.S.W.).
Contentment
Every now and then we encounter
well-meaning people who placidly state
that man’s most valuable asset is a con-
tented mind. They regard contentment
as the sign of a healthy outlook and
think that many of life’s evils would be
lessened if this so-called virtue were
more generally cultivated.
Like everything else, however, a little
contentment goes a long way, and very
often it is just a cloak for stagnation
and decay. If you wish to progress and
prosper, discontent is much more worth
while, for haven’t the restless yearnings
of discontented natures resulted in many
of our present reforms, comforts and
privileges?
Contentment is actually a form of
laziness, and contented people rarely, it
ever, make much of a success in any-
thing. They may be the happiest,
but their joy is of a rather deadly type
that would never satisfy their more in-
telligent and progressive neighbors. A
contented attitude, except in the old,
the feeble and the defeated, can be more
of a vice than a virtue. —P. Radwon
(Vic.).
More Boards
Complaints in the O.F.M. about the
ever-increasing multiplicity of official
boards created by the unnecessary State
Parliaments leave S.A. unmoved. It is
expected that the first war-time Gover-
nor’s speech to the S.A. Parliament on
July 11 will announce a bill for an Egg
Board, though the scheme hasn’t been
quite hatched out yet. Merchants may
try to crack it, but some producers are
crowing for it. —M. H. (S.A.).
Germ Parade
Thank heaven for the rain. Thank
heaven for water. And ditto for the
water-carts. They keep the gutters in
such a condition that weak-stomached
persons can look upon them before
breakfast and still feel life is worth
while. But not so the pavements of city
and near-city. I am unlucky enough to
have to foot it every morning from
Darlinghurst to King’s Cross, and the
footpaths—even in the “select” streets
—are usually disgusting.
Every offender should be nabbed, and
forced to parade through the city with
this placard around his dirty neck:
“Beware of this animal. It spits.”—
Elm (N.S.W.).
Make It Here
Militiamen were recently informed that,
as the flannelette used for cleaning rifle
barrels was imported, issues of it would
have to be strictly rationed in future.
This seems ridiculous in Australia —the
world’s leading wool-producer and also
a grower of cotton.
Surely we have technical experts and
manufacturers here who would not find
it difficult to produce a fabric ideal for
the simple process of cleaning rifle
barrels. — Crusader (N.S.W.).
Opera in English
Hearing an opera in English is like
reading a translation of a foreign literary
work —we are given the story and the
scenes, but not the real atmosphere and
effect of the original. Anyone suffi-
ciently interested gets to know the story
of the opera without having to attempt
to understand it word by word.
A musical work should be rendered
exactly as it was created, or it loses its
natural charm. I have heard “carmen ’
in English, and thought our phrases quite
unsuited to its passion and verve. In
fact, some of its passages sounded ridi-
culous and overmelodramatic. If done
originally in English the composer would
have taken care to write the words in
keeping with the music.
Without any reflection on our lan-
guage, I would say that light operas,
notably those of Gilbert and Sullivan,
lend themselves better than the more seri-
ous to English librettos. — Arthur Falk
(Vic.).
Helping Others Overseas
Australians are far too ready to send
financial assistance overseas while our
own people at home are in distress. An
earthquake, a war or a famine and
straightway you will see funds going
from Australia to the country affected,
but when there is a disaster in Australia
we never hear of the victims getting any
assistance from other countries.
It didn’t happen after the disastrous
Victorian bushfires, and I’m willing to
bet that the families of the coalminers
will not get any financial assistance from
Russia or from any other country.
We should remember that charity be-
gins at home. That’s the motto of over-
seas countries at any rate.—W. P- T.
(N.S.W.).


i
?,
Hb,
'w uou, ant,
* Woman,
Mirrors Tell —
If you are a woman, you
peer in the mirror often. That s
natural. You want to look your
best at all times. But your
mirror can tell you more than
you think.
The next time you look in
your mirror, put out your
tongue. Not because you don’t
like yourself—but because you
do. Now examine your tongue.
Is it coated with a furry, white
or yellowish substance?
A Sure Sign—
A coated tongue is an almost
positive sign of constipation.
Remember how the doctor
says, “Let me see your
tongue/’ He knows that a
coated tongue usually means
constipation. And he knows
that constipation is the most
common cause of headaches,
dizziness, biliousness, blotched
skin, “that tired feeling,” and
many worse ailments.
Nature’s Remedy—
When a coated tongue tells
you of constipation, act at
once. Don’t wait for something
worse to happen. Help nature
back to normal with a natural
laxative —with a good gentle
laxative with Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
You will like the way Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills act.
There is no griping pain, no
depressing sickness. Swiftly
and smoothly the herbal in-
gredients stir the intestines into
activity. Soon the poisonous
wastes that were coating your
tongue are gone. Then consti-
pation cannot endanger your
health.
For coated tongue, for any
of the symptoms of common
constipation, four generations
of women have preferred the
natural remedy—Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
Dr. Morses
s
I
«
i
PILLS
QbrmLiver
Or. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
high grade preparation sold at a low price.
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Sunburn and Windbum. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving.—A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face before
and after shaving will be found
soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
e
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
“Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS,” by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra)-
■
!/v p
{<s®*
*#V *yf\,*o^
#•’
x s-
.*•'
.. •' vo


?#S****
ci* v !
Be
am
Set
y\C®
to SK'P s
V/' Te ' e S etv'® e *° , c „\cc
ce
Aess
“Ve
\eP^ 6
He**
f\\'
Bt
*»t
Gu'« ea
V/'t®
<Jca s
tt
\e* s
*\o9
S etv
Q a
ct 3
S etv
Set v
c cS’
\ce
P»
ctut
gt
am
Set''
ce
V/\te
\ess
V/\te
Bt
oa
\ess
dcas
Rese
\\o9
ta
at
c \ut
cb*
St a'
on s
“Vbe
fi
sU
Rad'°
\a
*
r %^ e ° WIRELESS
# Ario*AL wa* v * s
(K* v .k* v
1
At
Ay
v r A
