

“If I had my way, I
would write the
word ‘insure’ over
the door of every
cottage and upon
the blotting book of
every public man,
because I am con-
vinced that for sacri
hces which are in-
conceivably small
families can be
secured against
catastrophes which
otherwise would
smash them up for
ever.’ 7
WINSTON
CHURCHILL,
Prime Minister
of Great Britain.
%
“Life Assurance
h
should be considered
not as an expense,
but as savings. It
should be the first
factor in any pro-
gramme of invest-
ment. It should be
the last to be let go
In hard times it is
especially important,
and we should make
every effort to keep
our old Life Assur-
ance in force.”
FRANKLIN D.
ROOSEVELT,
President
of the
United States
of America.
HEAD OFFICE..
CORNER HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY,
Ufie
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE. SOCIETY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879
An Insurance Society which belongs to its Policyholders
and
Operates only in the Commonwealth of Australia
Assets Exceed £10,000,000
REPRESENTATIVES REQUIRED. WM. BENNETT, Managing Director.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3169.
Wednesday, November 6, 1940.
The Stab at Greece
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspape


ŵ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney "Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
GRAHAME BOOK SERVICE.
London New York
BOOK IMPORTERS SUBSCRIPTION MANAGERS
Let us quote you the LOWEIST AND
CORRECT rate for any Periodical or Book
published. Information gladly supplied.
SYDNEY OFFICE:
Prudential Building, Martin Place. 8424!
The Red Page
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize.
Conditions for the Seventh Annual
Competition.
Closing June 6, 1941.
To recognise the services to Austra-
lian literature of the late Samuel Henry
Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18
years, his son, H. K. Prior, has provided
£lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which
will be awarded every year for a work
of literature.
The trustees have decided that only
novels will be eligible for entry in the
seventh year’s (1941) competition for this
annual literary prize. The Prize will be
awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Aus-
tralian literature.
The competition will be controlled by
trustees who have been appointed by the
directors of the Bulletin Newspaper Co.
Pty., Ltd.
Competent judges will be appointed.
Entries, which close on June 6, 1941,
will be limited to the unpublished work
of Australian authors. (Australian for
this purpose means born or naturalised
in Australia, New Zealand or the British
South Pacific islands or a bona fide
resident of any of these places for the
two years preceding the closing date.)
All rights, including book, serial,
dramatic, cinema and radio, are reserved
to the author, subject to the proviso that
The Bulletin shall have the option to
purchase the first Australian serial rights
of any work submitted, such option to be
forfeited if not exercised within two
months of the publication of the judges’
award.
Every work must be submitted under a
nom de plume, and the correct name and
address of the author, with the nom de
plume, must accompany the MS. in a
sealed envelope. The author’s name must
not appear on the MS. Entries which do
not comply with this rule will not be
eligible for the Prize, and no work will
be deemed as being entered for the com-
petition until its receipt has been acknow-
ledged by the trustees, through the
columns of The Bulletin.
Stamps for return must accompany all
MSS., which should be typewritten.
The judges’ selection shall be final and
binding on all entrants, and on all other
matters arising out of the competition
entrants must accept the ruling of the
trustees.
All MSS. and communications must be
addressed to the Trustees, S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, Bulletin Office, Box
252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
The trustees shall have the right to
withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy
of an award. If this should occur in any
year, the amount held over will still be
available for subsequent award among
works considered by the judges to be of
equal merit (as in 1940), for the encour-
agement of worth-while writers other
than the prize-winner, or shall be other-
wise awarded as the judges may recom-
mend or the trustees decide.
The Prior Prize Authors.
Now that the results of the 1940 S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize and the conditions
of the 1941 competition—restricted to
novel# —have been announced, it’s worth
while having a look at what the prize has
done and will continue to do for Aus-
tralian literature. To what extent the
existence of the prize can act as a spur
to literary effort is hard to determine ;
maybe all of the 119 entries (a pretty
good total for a war year) would have
been written in any event. But the prize,
as an affirmation of the value of literature
and of the Australian culture, must be
of importance if only as an indirect
stimulus. It gives direction to the scat-
tered labors of writers all over Australia
and Maoriland, and to the winner—this
year- to the three winners
—it gives the most practi-
cal recognition.
Because there was £3OO
in the kitty, the prize this
year was able to demonstrate to
the full its value to the individual
writer. The £lOO to Eve Langley’s
Pea-pickers set a young writer well
on the road to success; the £lOO to
Kylie Tennant’s The Brown Van (coming
after the 1935 award to her Tiburon)
sets the seal of unquestionable excellence
on a novelist whose career is still only
beginning ; the £lOO to Malcolm Ellis’s
Lachlan Macquarie —the cheque looks a
small thing beside the suitcase into which
his colossal manuscript was crammed—
pays tribute to a monumental labor and
recognises that Australia needs its his-
tories, its belles lettres, as well as its
fiction if its culture is to be fully de-
veloped.
Although the trustees of the prize have
resolutely refused to debase its value to
Australian letters and to the individual
writer by yielding to the temptation of
encouraging newcomers at the expense
of established writers merely for the sake
of their newness, the prize fulfils its
function most pleasingly when, as in Eve
Langley’s case, it can go to a new writer
who can meet the authors of known
quality as an equal.
Slight, dark, intense, her conversation
a maze of quick gestures and quick wit,
Eve Langley has fought a long time for
recognition by a circle wider than that
of the little group of writers who knew
her in Auckland (M.L.) —young Gloria
Rawlinson and Robin Hyde, whose tragic
death last year Eve Langley lamented in
a fine poem published in The Bulletin.
Eve Langley’s husband, Hilary Clark,
earns the daily bread by teaching in an
art school and working in a quarry.
Born in Forbes, New South Wales, 32
years ago, Eve Langley knows the pea-
pickers of Gippsland with whom her
novel deals as well as anybody could
know them. She worked in the fields
with them. On the evidence of her poems
about Maori life she should have another
interesting novel up her sleeve.
The prize will be doing both Eve
Langley and Australian and M.L. litera-
ture a service if it leads —as it well may—
to the publication of her poems as well
as Pea-pickers, for her verse, unknown
except to readers of The Bulletin and
New Zealand Best Poems and never yet
published in book form, is of outstanding
quality. Like her prose, it is a mingling
of sensuousness and delicacy, realism and
magic, that owes nothing to any master
unless to the spirit of Keats. Here, in
an extract from a poem from The
Bulletin, she is finding the whole of
Australia:
In a white gully among fungus red
Where serpent logs lay hissing at the air,
I found a kangaroo. Tall, dewy, dead,
So like a woman, she lay silent there,
Her ivory hands, black-nailed, crossed on her
breast,
Her skin of sun and moon hues fallen cold.
Her brown eyes lay like rivers come to rest
And death had made her black mouth harsh
and old.
Incarnate, lay my country by my hand:
Her long, hot days, bushfires and speaking rains,
Her mornings of opal and the copper band
Of smoke around the sunlight on the plains.
Globed in fire-bodies the meat-ants ran
To taste her flesh and linked us as we lay
For ever Australian . ..
Kylie Tennant, author of Tiburon, of
Foveaux and now of The Brown Van (or
Battlers as it is to be called when Gol-
lancz publishes it —it has already been
accepted) is well known to Bulletin
readers, for Tiburon, besides winning a
Prior prize, ran as a serial between these
covers. Born at Manly 28 years ago and
now married to L. C. Rodd, a school-
teacher at Muswellbrook (N.S.W.), she has
had a career as adventurous as Eve Lang-
ley’s, and knows what it’s like to live
in a converted tramcar (rent, ten bob a
week). She deliberately lived the life
of the slums to get the material for
Foveaux, and made herself ill in the
process.
To The Brown Van there hangs an-
other tale of adventure ; and also —alas!
—an innocent named Violet. To find out
how the “battlers” lived on the roads in
New South Wales, Kylie Tennant tra-
velled for three months in an old laundry
cart, sharing the life of the people she
has written about. She picked peas with
them (she and Eve Langley will have the
whole of the Fellowship of Writers rush-
ing off to pick peas); she picked cherries ;
she confesses that she learned to steal
a sheep. Faithful Violet, who hauled the
laundry cart all the way and jibbed till
the novelist gibbered, died a sad death
in the toils of a badly-tied slipknot.
It’s a matter of some interest to writers
that both Eve Langley and Kylie Ten-
nant —though they’ve both probably their
full share of writer’s cramps —are free
from the snares of journalism ; they have
a certain amount of leisure for creative
effort. Malcolm Ellis’s Macquarie is an
astounding example of the work that can
be produced by a journalist in his imagi-
nary spare time, for the bulk of its titanic
300,000 words was written or rewritten
while the midnight oil burned in his
flat and only the cat and the caretaker
prowled The Bulletin office where Ellis
spends his days. And he turns in such
a wad of copy for The Bulletin each
week that (with the cat) he ranks as one
of this office’s most prolific workers.
As far as an adventurous career goes,
Ellis can show a clean pair of heels to
his fellow-prizewinners, for he’s done
some extraordinary things: he set out in a
motor-car to drive from England to Aus-
tralia (he got as far as Delhi); he was in
command of the first successful both-way
crossing of Australia by car ; he travelled
aboard H.M.S. Hood during part of its
Empire tour in 1924 ; he’s even survived
a session as member of a Government
Committee of Inquiry into Municipal
Trading in Electrical Appliances. He has
written a number of books, two on his
car journeys, several on politics and
defence and one —maybe as light relief
from politicians—on the beef Shorthorn
in Australia. He was born in Narine
(Q.) in 1890.
His travels helped him considerably
with the Macquarie biography, as he was
able to trace his hero’s youthful footsteps
in Scotland, his soldiering tread in India.
When the work finds a publisher its
length need frighten no reader away, for
Ellis’s style is fluent and colorful.
Verses from the Gravesyard.
Fifty short poems selected from
Robert Graves’s earlier books and pub-
lished by Faber under the totally mis-
leading title No More Ghosts suggest
once again that Mr. Graves would
cut your throat as soon as look at you
and make an extremely pleasant little
book to read at midnight in a cemetery
in a thunderstorm.
The opening poem sets the tone:
“Come, surly fellow, come! A song!”
‘‘What fools? Sing to you?
Choose from the clouded tales of wrong
And terror I bring to you:
“Of spirits in the webbed room
Up above the stable,
Groans, knockings in the gloom,
The dancing table,
'
“Of demons in the dry well
That cheep and mutter,
Clanging of an unseen bell,
Blood choking the gutter.”
After 48 pages of surly-fellowship, on
time, death, love, ogres and pygmies,
bards, children, butterflies and a world
in general
Whose griefs are melancholy,
Whose flowers are oafish,
Whose waters, silly,
Whose birds, raffish,
Whose fish, fish,
Graves turns his polite attention to “The
Laureate,” and says, by implication,
something significant about his own
work:
Like a lizard in the sun, though not scuttling
When men approach, this wretch, this thing of
rage,
Scowls and sits rhyming in his horny age.
His time and truth he has not bridged to ours,
But shrivelled by long heliotropic idling
He croaks at us his out-of-date humors.
Graves himself, the poem hints, has
“bridged his age to ours,” his ill-humors
are up-to-date. That is quite true, for
Graves was one of the Georgians and is
still eminently readable though Georgian
pastorals are long out of date. He no
longer rides “nim-nim” to the hunt. But
one suspects that Graves has kept up his
contemporaneousness by assiduously cul-
tivating his bad temper over the past
20 years.
The Laureate, he observes in a final
death sentence,
Still turns for comfort to the western flames
That glitter a cold span above the sea.
Graves specialises in colder comfort. He
is particularly annoyed with love:
Beyond the Atlas roams a love-beast.
The aborigines harry it with darts;
Its flesh is esteemed, though of a fishy tang
Tainting the eater’s mouth and lips.
Ourselves once, wandering in mid-wilderness
And by despair drawn to this diet,
Before the meal was over sat apart
Loathing each other’s carrion company.
Life, as a whole, is a matter of
Legs for the road,
The road for legs,
Resolutely nowhere
In both directions.
How can a man dedicated to denying
everything that is the stuff of poetry still
—as Graves does —write undeniably
good poetry? The answer seems to be
that Graves always means the exact
opposite of what he writes; or, at least,
that every negative implies a positive ; and
so Graves’s denial of Keats’s “truth and
beauty” affirms them.
Anyhow, Graves does write a most
attractive verse; and, if for no other
poem, he’ll go down to posterity for the
superbly unquotable “Down, Wanton,
Down.’ Anyone familiar with his pre-
vious books will find some interest in the
alterations Graves has made to a number
of the poems as reprinted in No More
Ghosts. By changing statement to image
—changing
he will likely
Prove his own disproportion and not laugh
to
And who would judge between Ogres and
Pygmies—
The thundering text, the snivelling commen-
tary—
Reading between such covers he will marvel
How his own members bloat and shrink
again—
he has improved some poems out of
sight. But only Graves and his virago
Muse know why “staring eyes” in “The
Haunted House” should now have be-
come “rabid eyes.” Why not rabbit-
eyes?
"Hamlet Had an Uncle."
When Hamlet plotted to murder his
wicked uncle for killing his father he
was really plotting to murder his father
for killing his uncle, for his wicked uncle
had had an affair with his mother ( i.e.,
his sister-in-law), and Hamlet, had he but
known, was his uncle’s son and his
father’s nephew. Or so James Branch
Cabell says in his new novel, Hamlet Had
an Uncle (Bodley Head).
Other curiosities of history revealed
by Cabell are that Hamlet, when mad,
used to bleat like a sheep; that the
Gloomy Dane was a large, blond, amor-
ous young man; that he married his
Uncle Wiglerus’s fiancee, daughter of the
King of Britain ; that he then, still fol-
lowing in Uncle Wiglerus’s errant foot-
steps, married the beautiful but murder-
ous Queen of the Piets; and that, finally,
Hamlet was murdered by that charming
lady at the instigation of his charming
Uncle Wiglerus. One other surprising
piece of news is that the whole sequence
of amours and assassinations was in-
spired by a polished gentleman named
Orton, not known to Scandinavian
mythology, but well known elsewhere as
the Devil.
This novel, if it’s about anything, is
about Uncle Wiglerus (Hamlet’s uncle’s
son’s mother’s brother) rather than about
Hamlet, Uncle’s cynical hedonism
giving Cabell a chance to write the sort
of romance he always writes so well.
There is no living writer who can be so
delicately indelicate, and there are few
living writers who can be half so amusing.
Australia-Pacific Health.
R. W. Cilento, Director-General of
Health and Medical Services in Queens-
land and Professor of Social and Tropical
Medicine at the, Queensland University,
deserves appreciative regard from his
fellow-medicoes in Australia’s tropics,
sub-tropics and tropical dependencies. His
recent Tropical Diseases in Australasia,
although presented as a compilation and
in no way a substitute for textbooks of
tropical medicine, would be better
described as an encyclopaedia of the sub-
ject as it applies to Tropical Australia,
Melanesia and Western Polynesia.
To the writing of it he has brought
20 years of varied personal experience in
all principal parts of the region as sur-
geon, physician, microbiologist, investi-
gator or administrator. Also an admir-
able lucidity of expression. Of the high-
lights in the 371 well-filled pages a chapter
on diagnosis of fevers in Northern Aus-
tralia is the best exposition of the sub-
ject yet published, and those dealing with
the obscure group of disabling diseases
which up to quite recently were lumped
together as “coastal fever” should prove
of much practical industrial value by
enabling them to be detected and re-
ported in their earlier stages.
The absence of unnecessary technicali-
ties and the clear presentation of the
subject in all aspects from Q disease to
spider bites make the book fully compre-
hensible by non-medical readers. A
copy might well find a place on the book-
shelves of any plantation manager in
Papua or New Guinea who is keen on
keeping his native labor force at full
working pitch. Set up and printed by
Messrs. Smith and Paterson, Brisbane,
it is also a very creditable example of
Australian typography, well befitting a
subject of vital Australian importance.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING" —the guide to commercial ethics .
“THE SENIOR STORE”
<o^
s
\
\
?>
s
%
V-
W
\
rOP
°l
'Vo 1
‘b
NP
>» m
► '
°\>
\)
x>
»■
AV
as?
and save that last
\
T- ~ V
HAMMER PEG SET, length 10
inches, width 4 inches, height 6
inches, complete with mallet. At
Anthony Horderns', Price 3/3
i
w
m
m
mm
SB
I
Hi!
;*
us
w
A
V *n (^
~A r^.
I
jy ■
W*'
.
n
1 >
*m.
m
lit id
4;
I
Pi
* 11
HANDSOME GARAGE, length 16 inches,
width 10 inches, height 10 inches, nicely-
painted. At Anthony Horderns', Price, 8/6
CLOCKWORK FIRE ENGINE, length 17
inches, extending ladder 25 inches. At
Anthony Horderns', Price 21/-
AMERICAN DUMP TRUCK, made
of heavy pressed steel, length 20
inphes, width 7 inches, height 7
inches. Enamelled blue and red.
At Anthony Horderns', Price, 16/6
-
MOUNTIE SET, solid
leather belt and pistol
pouch, metal click pistol.
At Anthony Horderns', 4/3
BABY BETTY DOLL, 14”
high, composition head,
sleeping eyes, celluloid
arms and legs. At Anthony
Horderns', Price 11/3
10” 12" 16” 18” 20”
6/3 7/6 14/3 16/6 19/9
PISTOL. The Texas repeating cap pistol
with revolving cylinder. At Anthony Hor-
derns', Price 3/-
Repeating Caps, sd. per box of 5 rolls.
THE GREYHOUND MOTOR BUS.
A heavy pressed steel clockwork
bus, length 18 inches, width 5
inches, height 6 inches. Enamelled
blue and cream. At Anthony
Horderns', Price 15/6
THE SOLDIER BEAR, 18
inches, high-grade English
make. Red velvet coat,
tartan trousers. Anthony
Horderns' Price .... 15/6
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Phone M 2401
Day or Night
Famous Low Prices
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
THE DIGGER SUIT for
boys, 4 to 8 years, good
quality khaki, well made.
At Anthony Horderns',
Prices 10/6, 12/9, 14/9
Also Sailor and Airman
Suits at same prices.
• Toys—Second Floor.
Delivered free only within our
delivery area.


A PLACE ON THE MAP
By CECIL MANN.
JIM HARLEY
pulled across
from the island
for a reason
which not only he but everyone up and down the
river considered good.
Old Tom Jamieson had been jogging along the
river-bank road half-asleep in his sulky when a bullet
ended his mortal existence. That caused a good deal of
excitement and speculation, and people’s minds turned
to human monsters of various varieties, gaolbirds,
gangsters and the like, that might be at large, and won-
dered for a while whose turn it would be next. How-
ever, the coroner’s inquiry put an end to all that.
Its finding was that the shooting was just a freakish
sort of accident. The cook out on the dredge had
been potting at a diving team of cormorants, and a
bullet must have taken a ricochet skip off the water.
Whatever motive Providence may have had in the
matter, none could be attributed to the cook; the
excitement died down, and speculation returned to
the weather, the crops ; to normal channels.
It was tough on the cook, because, through no
fault of his own, he now had a thorn-point embedded
in his subconscious. It was tough on old Tom, because
anyone would have gambled a rajah’s ransom on his
eventually passing out quietly in his bed. On old
Tom’s widow it was toughest of all, because it left
her suddenly penniless, and though Scudamore had
undertaken to see about the pension, and without
charging her a bean, something had to be done for
her in the meantime.
All this led up to the race meeting whither
Jim Harley was heading as he rowed the dinghy
across to the north bank. The bus, having a change
from transporting the sturdy by-products of the com-
munity up to high school, conveyed a crowd of Jim’s
hard-toiling and sentimental sort to the racecourse,
all making use of the excuse that it was a good cause,
and that it should net old Tilly a few bob to keep
her going.
The track was a loop among sparse gums and
ironbarks out past the cemetery. Jim knew pretty
well everybody. The bawling of half a dozen bookies
kept things lively ; members of the committee tore
about full of importance; a cowbell clanged for
saddle-up and go-to-the-post; men who hadn’t seen
each other for anything from a fortnight to six months
or more were wishing each other the best in shandies
at the canvas-covered booth, quite unaware that
presently all this was going to be turned into tumult
and confusion.
Not having backed the winner of the Tom Jamie-
son Handicap, Jim Harley was standing, without any
special interest, watching the horses come back into
the post-and-rail enclosure. As Hoppy Johnson, on
the angular bay, pulled his mount up near the corru-
gated-iron weighing-in shed, a big chap whom Jim
was fated to know a lot more about stepped forward,
reached out, plucked Hoppy down from the saddle,
held his crooked little frame at arm’s length and
punched him full in the face.
Could a man stand aside and see that? Jim
Harley couldn’t. He surged forward and caught the
big chap with a punch to the ear that sent him reel-
ing. Instantly a surprising and stunning blow caught
Jim on the back of the neck. Seeing Jim thus
attacked, Harry Wishart, from down by The Reach,
waded in ; others went for Harry ; others went for
them ; the mill of them, with more joining in, swept
towards the weighing-in shed, and surged
inside. Those who didn’t get in could
have thought that hell had broken loose.
Thuds and bumps and the crash of
stirrup-irons against the corrugated sides
of the shed raised a terrific din. While it
lasted, it was a riot to remember.
The police sergeant, there for a nice,
easy afternoon, and the committee re-
stored order at last, without any of them,
and very few of the most active partici-
pants, knowing how it started or what it
was all about.
If it had stopped at that it could be
set down that whatever power was re-
sponsible for stringing out this chain of
events had arranged it all just to have a
brisk few minutes’ agreeable entertain-
ment. The “Star” reporter had other
ideas about it, describing it with pro-
found solemnity as “A Disgraceful
Occurrence.” Others as well had their
own feelings about it, and it was these
who led Jim Harley on to figure briefly in
the role of Public Hero. The upshot of
it all was that Jim got himself out of bed
one pleasant Sunday morning some three
weeks later feeling sore, sorry and sour.
AS he came out of the bedroom he
heard his wife saying in her un-
unruffled, mock-angry way, “You’ll cop
it for that, Bill, me young shaver! What in the
name of goodness did y’ do it for?” But he wasn t
interested in his wife, or young Bill, or anything else.
They were in the kitchen looking at the map on the
wall as he went through. He went straight on past
them and out the back door. Half-filling the enamel
dish at the tank tap, he took it across and set it on
the box by the woodheap. There, with a towel pulled
through his belt, he stood and looked sourly over his
island domain.
There was abundant reason marked on his face
why he should be feeling sour, but none in either the
view or the morning. Three feet high, thick in the
stalk, and broad and freshly green in the leaf, the
young maize stretched away to the breakwind clump
of oaks at the up-river tip of the long island. Nor-
mally, standing there on the rise on which the house
was built, he would have been proud of it, and with
good cause. Every inch of it his, one of the finest
little properties on the river, it lay in the middle of
the broad stream like a green riband. The slight
irregularity of its shape gave the impression that it
was waving in midstream. It was high for a river
island ; rich, dark alluvial soil that would grow any-
thing, from the trellis of grapes alongside the red
weatherboard house, to the melons as big as boats
down through the corn. With its windmill, its several
Jerseys paddocked at the eastern end and its yard of
fowls, ducks and turkeys, it was as good as self-
contained. It stood like a fortress.
But, though there was nothing to cause the idea
in the few wisps of cloud skirting round the horizon,
or in the sunlight sparkling on the dew and on the
water, its owner’s state of mind turned on the thought
that one of these days a flood would come along and
wipe out the lot of it. There hadn’t been a flood in
the river since he could remember ; but if the prophet
Isaiah had suddenly appeared and assured him that
the maize crop would set a new record it would have
made no difference. He was feeling sour with him-
self, and he was set on continuing to feel that way.
His wife’s comment, “Y’ don’t look as bad as I
expected y’ would,” hadn’t improved him. Lathering
his hands with the cake of yellow soap, they felt as big
as if he still had the gloves on. The right thumb was
puffed to the size of two ; the knuckles of both hands
were stiff and swollen. That gave him a momentary
flash of satisfaction, till he bent down and felt the
soap and water stinging his face. His arms and
shoulders, too, were sore, and, straightening up, he felt
the bruising about his ribs.
He’d taken it all right. He’d taken plenty. Even
so, he was much more hurt by the feeling that he’d
been a mug ; that he’d fallen for it all.
“ What's y'r bait, Jack?"
He dried his
face slowly, dabbing
at it like a woman
with a powder-puff.
“From now on, I mind my own damn’ busi-
ness.” But, being an evasion, that gave him
no satisfaction. Not this morning, certainly, but
at some future time, with a similar call on his
credo, something like it could probably happen again.
Had it stopped with the shindy on the racecourse it
would have been nothing. What rankled was that
he’d been galoot enough to be talked into meeting
the big chap with the gloves on. About three weeks’
very earnest training; the boosting he got in the
“Star” ; posters up on telegraph poles and in the little
town’s shop windows —he had swallowed it all. In the
dazzle of limelight, he came to believe himself a
world-beater. He was a public hero and the halo was
pleasing to wear.
The police sergeant, when everything had been
explained, said that if he’d had the rights of the matter
in the first place there’d have been no two ways about
what he’d have done —he’d have run Flash Harry
in. Gillan, who’d meanwhile handed Scudamore the
cheque for Tom Jamieson’s missus, agreed to referee.
Hoppy Johnson reported that things were not good in
the opposition camp: Flash Harry Walsh wasn’t train-
ing, was going the suds ; he’d line the socks off Flash
Harry.
I T hadn’t worked out like that. Flash Harry, work-
* ing on the railways construction job, didn’t get
into a ring that night for the first time in his life.
“Considerin’ y’ been up against a pro., y’ did pretty
good, I’d say,” was the Gillan verdict. No great
satisfaction in that. He’d heard beforehand that Flash
Harry was a pro.; if it wasn’t for the limelight dazzle
he’d have expected what he got. He’d at least have
been ready for it.
What he saw in the ring was a solid figure of
a man about his own weight, wearing red trunks with
the initials H.W. worked above the seam of the left
leg. It didn’t take him long, after Gebb had rung the
bell, to realise that Flash Harry was as tough a
proposition as he looked. Before it was over he’d
taken a thorough doing. At the end he was swinging
wildly through a red haze, fighting only on grit and
instinct. He lasted it out, but there was no question
about the verdict.
Well, there it was. First, he’d gone and barged
into something that wasn’t his business ; then he’d
swallowed the puffing-up till he’d fancied himself as
a Public Hero and a world-beater. To cap it off,
Dick Lofts, who seconded for him, said “Next time
Hoppy gets a punch in the gob he’ll get it from me.
The stinkin’ little runt went and won twenty quid
backin’ Flash Harry.”
He hadn’t only been a sentimental mug, dragged
into making a public exhibition of himself ; as well,
he’d been let down. It left a taste in the mouth.
Going inside the kitchen, he flung the towel over
the back of a chair and sat down to his breakfast.
The three small boys came in and sat down, too,
looking covertly at his damaged face and feeling very
proud of him. Threatened by their mother with most
things short of sudden death, they kept their heads
bent to their plates and said nothing.
On the wall facing him hung the large shire map
of the river, which he’d put up there where he could
see it because the island was so plainly marked. Look-
ing towards it without interest he was vaguely aware
that there was something different about it. He looked
closer.
“Here,” he said, “who’s been muck-
ing about with that map?”
“It’s that young Bill,” his wife said
from the stove. “He only did the island
in with red ink. It’s that g’ography
they’re havin’, an’ the war. Y’ see,” she
added, coming a couple of steps from the
stove and pointing at it, “it’s just like a
place on the map, ain’t it?”
“England,” young Bill ventured to
put in.
“England! H’h! Y’oughter have
better sense. It’s a wonder y’ didn’t
draw John Bull on it!”
“Well, if y’ ask me,” his wife said,
“y’ look somethin’ like him y’rself this
mornin’, Jim.”
“That’s right,” Jim Harley said with
compressed humorlessness; “go ahead,
rub it in!” But presently the way she
had said it, and even the idea itself,
touched his vanity. Outside, looking over
his estate, his bruised visage managed a
twisted grin. A whiff of breeze stirred
the young maize, making it flow, broad-
leafed and green, to the far tip of the
island. They were always telling him
there’d be a flood one of these days.
What if there was? It’d do the soil
good ; and, anyhow, the house was on
high ground.


THE TREES
By F. RHODES FARMER.
(< PSARN it,” said Lock Winwood to his wife
\ Lucy, “a bloke don’t seem to be able to get
[ J away from trees. Here I’ve been gettin’ trees
out of my sight all me days. I retire and
what do I strike? More trees!”
“Well, chop ’em down,” said Lucy. “Like you’ve
always done. That’s what trees are for, ain’t it —
to chop down?”
“Not in these parts,” said Lock, shaking his head.
“People like trees. We ain’t in the bush now, Lucy.
A bloke can’t chop down trees like he wants. Here
I am! Trees behind me. Six flamin’ great spotted
gums cuttin’ out my good view in front. And a bloke
can’t lift an axe to ’em! ”
“Bit of choppin’ would do you good,” said Lucy.
She departed for the kitchen. Lucy was small and fat
and comfortable ; she loved kitchens.
Lock continued to lean against the verandah
railing. He was tall and raw-boned, gnarled with hard
work. He might have been any age between fifty and
seventy. Actually he was sixty-seven. In his young
days he had cut a farm out of the bush west of Sydney.
Finally, receiving an offer for the farm too good to
refuse, he sold but. He bought a block of land twenty
miles from Sydney, overlooking Pittwater. He built a
good wooden house for himself and Lucy, and they
had lived in it six months.
Friends said that in those six months Lock had
aged more than in the previous ten years. Lock hated
idleness. But darn it! Hadn’t he worked on a road
gang at the age of twelve? Worked ever since! Earned
a bit of leisure, hadn’t he? Always longed for a
good view of the water. Now he had it, bar a row
of trees —on another bloke’s property!
Lock scratched his sandy head. He peered between
the branches of the stately spotted gums, a hundred
yards downhill, at the blue expanse of Pittwater.
Headlands dipped into the placid water, dappled with
deeps and shallows, that wound towards the Hawkes-
bury. Lion Island stood in magnificent isolation at
the head of the estuary.
“Pretty, all right!” thought Lock. “Except for
them trees!
Who owned that property, anyway? Perhaps the
bloke would be glad to have those trees cut down.
Lock straightened ; he moistened his hands as though
about to grab an axe ; a glitter lit his grey eyes.
“Ma! ” he called out. “I’m off down to the store.
Won’t be long!”
It was summer; the store was big and cool.
‘Good day,” said the storekeeper, a little, lean, scaly
man with slow blinking eyes.
“Good day,” returned Lock. “You know that
property below me. Who owns it?”
“Why, the captain of a ship,” said the storekeeper.
“Name of Pete Herman.”
“Could a bloke get on to him?”
“Maybe he’s drowned,” said the storekeeper.
"Ten years ago he came down here. He bought that
block o’ land, then he went away. No one’s heard of
him since.”
Lock nodded. His shoulders slumped. He turned
dispiritedly towards the door. “Thought I might get
permission to cut down them spotted gums,” he said.
'They stop my view.”
The storekeeper blinked his round, dull eyes. “I’d
cut ’em down,” he said. “Why not?”
“A bloke wouldn’t get fined?” asked Lock.
“If Pete Herman ever comes back he’ll forget if
he had any trees,” said the storekeeper, who wanted to
please a good customer and wasn’t interested in trees
anyhow. “I’d go ahead.”
“I will,” said Lock. “When’s the next bus to the
city?”
That night Lock returned from Sydney with a
Kelly axe, wedges, a pickaxe, rope tackle and a small
crosscut saw. He gave Lucy a grin that made him
look twenty years younger. “Early breakfast in the
mornin’, ma!” he said. “I got to start work!”
Lock did not burst himself on those trees. He
worked easily and happily.
“You’re makin’ them trees spin out as long as
you can!” remarked Lucy one morning.
Lock gave a sheepish grin. “You forget I’m
retired. I’ve earned me leisure!”
“You!” cried Lucy. “You don’t know the
meanin’ of leisure!”
“I’m workin’ now to enjoy it!” said Lock. “I’ve
ordered two dozen six-foot firs. Fm plantin’ ’em
along the back. That’ll cut out the sight o’ that bush
behind, see! We’ll have the water in front. I won’t
have a skerrick o’ bush to remind me o’ work. I’ll
sit on the verandah and do nothin’ ”
“You!” exclaimed Lucy. “You’ll be in your
grave first.”
She was only too right. Inside three months Lock
cut down the trees, stacked the timber, grubbed the
roots. A week after he finished the job Lucy went
out on to the verandah to take him a cup of tea. Lock
sat in a queer, stiff attitude. Lucy gave a sharp cry.
Lock! What’s the matter?”
Lock made no answer. He was dead ; his sight-
less eyes stared over the uninterrupted view for which
he had worked.
“For the Lord's sake , a drink , a drink!"
“Draught or bottled?"
I UCY abandoned the house. She went to live with
‘—’ her sister near Melbourne. A few weeks later the
shed in which Lock had stacked the split wood caught
fire one blazing hot day. A fierce easterly fanned the
flames on to the house. An hour later all that re-
mained of Lock’s house was a heap of charred, smok-
ing timber.
Lantana and blackberries soon sprang up ; they
covered the foundations of the house in a wild, untidy
tangle. The firs that Lock had planted also grew
strongly in the rich soil. Some of them were a good
forty feet high when Pete Herman at last returned to
the district.
This was in 1936.
Herman was a stout, comfortable, weather-beaten
little man of sixty-odd ; still full of energy. He
brought Mrs. Herman with him. She was tall and
inclined to be gaunt, but a quiet, pleasant-spoken
woman.
Herman bustled into the store.
The storekeeper’s opaque eyes glimmered at the
thought of another customer.
“Remember me?” asked Herman. “I’m building
right away. I’m putting up a stone cottage. I’ve had
enough of the sea. Mrs. Herman says the sea looks
best through trees. So it does! So it does! Don’t
I remember a row of tall trees in front of my block?”
“That was thirty year ago,” said the storekeeper,
who was now withered and smoke-colored, like a dried
fish. “Someone grubbed ’em up,” he added after a
pause. “I forget who.”
Herman nodded his head smartly. “Can’t expect
things to remain the same. So my wife says.”
Herman saw that the contractor got to work on
his house quick and lively. It turned out a fine little
stone house with a red tiled roof. The front verandah
made a circular sweep ; like the bridge of a ship.
Herman paced restlessly up and down this
verandah.
“Don’t like those firs up there at the back,” he
said. “They’re sombre. Remind me of the North
Sea. I’ve a mind to cut ’em down.”
“My good man, they don’t happen to be on your
property,” replied Mrs. Herman. “You are not a ship’s
captain now. You can’t do as you like!”
“Never mind,” said Herman. “I’ll walk down to
the store. Find out who owns that property.”
It was summer ; the store was cool and big. As
always, a big cabinet of fishing tackle stood just inside
the door. The storekeeper himself sat on a chair in
the breeze. Nowadays his daughter-in-law mostly
waited behind the counter.
Herman bustled up to the storekeeper. “That
property behind me,” he demanded ; “who owns it?”
The storekeeper scratched his weedy hair. “People
called —now what was it? —Winwood. They own it.”
“Where are they?” asked Herman. “I must get
in touch with them.”
“Haven’t seen ’em for years,” replied the store-
keeper. “Not for twenty years. More than that!”
“Don’t like those firs up behind!” said Herman
brusquely. “I like the green trees. I live in the bush,
so why shouldn’t I see it! I’ve a good mind to cut
down those firs.”
“Well, cut ’em down,” said the storekeeper, blink-
ing up at this good customer.
“What would Winwood say if I did?” asked
Herman.
“He wouldn’t mind,” said the storekeeper
solemnly. “He’s dead. His house burned to the
ground.”
Herman narrowed his eyes. “I’ll chance it,” he
said. “I’ll cut ’em down.”
That year winter came early. Herman bought a
broad-bladed axe and a crosscut saw. He made him-
self a saw bench. Every morning he spent two hours
exactly felling Lock Winwood’s fir-trees, rolling down
the logs, sawing and splitting them in front of his
woodshed. By spring all that remained of that thick
palisade of firs was a row of stumps.
“Winter’s gone quickly,” remarked Herman to
his wife. “Now the place is looking shipshape. Tell
you what I’ve done. I’ve ordered two dozen gum-tree
seedlings. I’ll plant ’em along the front fence. Re-
member what you once said? Water looks best
through trees. So it does. I’ve always wanted a view
of water through trees. Now I’ll be happy. Bush
behind ; trees in front.” He bustled off towards the
shed where he kept his paints. “I’ve another surprise,”
he said over his shoulder. “I’ve thought of a name for
our house.”
“It’s time we had one,” said Mrs. Herman. “What
is it?”
Herman gave a boyish chuckle. “You wait!”
Two hours later he appeared at the door of the
kitchen. “It’s fixed,” he said importantly. “Come
and see it!”
Mrs. Herman followed her husband down the
neat stone path to the front gate. “There it is,” said
Herman proudly. “Read it.”
On a neat green plaque screwed to the front gate
two words stood printed in white lettering. Mrs.
Herman read them aloud: “THE TREES.”
NEW ZEALANDERS.
Now while the aeroplane hurtles and sings through
the night,
Shattering the web of starshine, O look up
Higher than death's mad song to my people bleeding,
Silver upon their terrible cross of stars.
Not without agony out of the womb of time
This gale of meadows leapt, this earthquake of alps;
And the weary rowers broke their brown backs at
the oars
And nowhere beyond the horizon tossing like fire
The forest shone green to welcome the scarred canoe.
Not without tears of women and blood of men,
Not without sweat and fire did our fathers win
This scythe of pastures, this hone of lakes and snow,
This silver plough of the ranges we drive through time ;
And never, O never while mountainous southern
midnights
Brandish our blazing crucifix, stigmata of stars,
Will the seabird rest in the forest, the rowers reach
land,
Or the rivers run smiling and clear through the
clanging gorges,
Or the ploughman lie down and the green years bury
the plough.
“We will fight on for ever and for ever ”
Brown Rewi cried, but Rewi’s gods betrayed him :
No soft green god in the snowy fern of the clouds
Will spare my people who bleed upon eternity.
Now while the aeroplane screams in the mesh of the
starshine,
Cry with brown Rewi, but with a surer voice,
Who never will rest from suffering and triumph,
We will fight on for ever and for ever
Whose destiny is nailed upon the night
On the cold splendor of the Southern Cross.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
Hihe of*ia*ie mellowncM andiciwiief/
WINDSOR CASTLE.
Windsor Castle, the noblest royal pile and the most splendid palace castle in Europe, and indeed the world, is familiar to every British
subject as the chief official residence of the head of that Commonwealth of Nations which comprises our Empire. This superb edifice
has been not inaptly termed a type of the British Constitution in its strength, its grandeur and its antiquity. Erected on the summit of a
hill, on whose declivity the town has been built, it is seen to best advantage when regarded from a distance and contemplated in totality.
Perhaps this grand irregular castle looks finest when seen from below, and there is no better vantage point than that provided by the river.
The name Windsor is derived from the serpentine course of the Thames hereabout, in Saxon “Windleshora,” or “winding shore or
banks.” Its delightful situation has made it the favorite residence of monarchs, even from the time of William the Conqueror. Edward
the Confessor granted the site of the town and castle to the Abbey of St. Peter at Westminster, but the eligibility of the spot as a military
post was noted by the Norman Conqueror, who exchanged it with the Abbey for some lands in Essex, and constructed a fortress of
considerable size. Henry I enlarged the building and erected a chapel. Edwards I and II made Windsor their principal residence, and
that “very mirror of chivalry,” Edward 111, was born here. This enterprising monarch nearly rebuilt the whole of the castle. Elizabeth
is the monarch to whom we owe much of the most real enjoyment and many of the pleasantest recollections connected with Windsor.
She led our great poet to write of those merry wives, and that merrier knight, the remembrance of whose doings and sufferings is so
bound up with these localities as always to be the first to occur to the tourist on visiting Windsor. The “Comedy of the Merry Wives
of Windsor” was played before Elizabeth for the first time in the Castle in 1593. The most beautiful and interesting place accessible
to the public is that perfect Gothic gem, St. George’s Chapel, which is interwoven likewise with much of moment in the centuries that
have witnessed the growth of our race. It has been described a “poetically regal chapel.” It is something more. It is the sepulture of many
who have played important parts in “the thing called life,” to wit, its founder Edward IV, Henry VI, Henry VIII, Jane Seymour and
Charles I, to instance a few. No visitor to the Castle should fail to see this chapel, and, having done so, will find peculiar appropriateness
in the phrase that “things seen are mightier than things heard.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 61.—N0. 3169.
Wednesday, November 6, 1940.
UNAVOIDABLE INTERRUPTION.
"Carry on, John! I’ll be seeing you again when I’ve counted the votes.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: / Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3 s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d-, per copy. Urated Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE STAB AT GREECE.
Considered as a crime committed in breach of explicit
guarantees and repeated verbal assurances, Italy’s
attack on the Greeks is as cruel and wicked as was
the German invasion of the Low Countries.
Considered as an isolated military operation, it
will, if successful, bring the invaders certain material
advantages at the price of national honor and of an
increase in the hatred which the proceedings of the
Dictators have inspired among peoples still free and
able to take care of themselves and give blow for blow.
Considered in conjunction with other recent
Berlin-Rome manoeuvres —the “defensive alliance”
with Japan, the dismemberment of Rumania and mili-
tary occupation of the part containing the oilfields, and
the meetings with General Franco, M. Laval and
Marshal Petain —the foray in Greece looks like part
of a policy designed to bring about an Axis peace, in
the main by striking down or overaweing the remain-
ing countries to which Britain gave guarantees, forc-
ing acceptance of the so-called “new order in Europe”
on France and other countries, defeated or in no posi-
tion to resist, and closing almost the entire Continent
against Britain, as Napoleon did for a time. The idea
being that Britain, however reluctant, will accept the
accomplished fact and call off the war.
The stab at Greece was delivered on October 28.
By all accounts the weather would have been more
favorable had the invading army and air force gone
into action on October 24. But that happened to be
the 23rd anniversary of the opening of the Battle of
Caporetto, in which the 2nd Italian Army alone lost
10,000 killed, 30,000 wounded, 230,000 prisoners, 3152
guns, 1732 trench mortars, 3000 machine-guns, over
300,000 rifles and “an immense mass of stores and war
material of every kind.”
This time the Austro-Germans who inflicted that
fearful defeat on the Italians are on their side and
holding themselves in readiness to come to their assist-
ance if the Greeks resist too long. Writing just
before another little nation was delivered over to the
slaughter, Ward Price, of the “Daily Mail,” who knows
Italy well, expressed the opinion that half the people
were against the war. Be this as it may, there must be
many Italians whose heads go down when they think
that the nation which produced Garibaldi and Mazzini
is now engaged in the bloody subjugation of a little
people with an imperishable history, and that as the
docile instrument of “the barbarians” against whom
Italy struggled until Italia Irredenta was finally re-
deemed, with the help of the British Army and the
Royal Navy, and with that of Foch and the five French
divisions he accompanied to Italy in the last week of
October, 1917.
Italy is a poor country, and very early in the last
war it found itself in financial difficulties and short of
necessary commodities. Blockaded since June, and
with no London money market to lean on, it is prob-
ably in a still worse situation, financially and economi-
cally ; and this must have influenced Mussolini if the
crime against Greece may be judged as a desperate
effort to shorten the war. No doubt he also hoped
that the invasion of Greece would draw British troops
from Egypt, thus weakening the pressure on Graziani,
and bring about another and worse Narvik or Dakar,
together with such naval opportunities as the necessary
extension of the already tremendous duties of the
British squadron in the Eastern Mediterranean might
give his own warships, hitherto singularly inactive,
but now, it is believed, reinforced by two 35,000-ton
battleships carrying nine 15-inch guns. The over-
running of Greece would, in any case, place him and
the predominant partner in a more favorable position
for intensifying the war in Egypt, and for starting one
in the Middle East. For that most difficult enterprise
plans have assuredly been prepared, but the Axis is
not likely to attempt it unless there is no other way
of forcing a decision, or unless Britain is seriously
weakened in one way and another by the Blitzkrieg
and the U-boat campaign—certainly it could not go
on losing merchant ships at the rate of 193,000 tons a
week, as it did in the third week in October —or by
more Narviks and Dakars.
The invasion of Greece had not lasted 36 hours
when it was suggested in London that Australian and
Maoriland troops might be sent from Egypt to some
part of the Hellenic kingdom. It is to be hoped that
this kite drew instant and emphatic refusals from the
Governments at Canberra and Wellington, and that
these communications were made without loss of time.
No body of Australian or Maoriland troops could
possibly give the Greeks any material assistance in a
strange region so remote from their own base, and if
Australian or Maoriland soldiers were sacrificed in
a hopeless project there would be distinctly unpleasant
reactions in both Dominions, loyal as they are. The
fact that so crazy a proposal should have been pub-
lished in London without any prompting from the
Dominions concerned shows how necessary it is that
both should be represented in an Imperial Cabinet, and
on the War Council to which representatives of Poland
and Norway have been admitted —Australia by a man
like Mr. Cameron, with an experienced member of
each of the fighting services to advise him.
The Advisory War Council began well by reach-
ing an immediate agreement on two important ques-
tions fraught with possibilities of division, the
Latham mission to Tokyo and war-time strikes. If the
council secures for Australia, without further loss of
time, that share in the direction of the war and the
shaping of peace to which Australia is clearly entitled,
it will be held to have justified its existence if it does
nothing else.
It has suddenly become evident that the policy of
the Petain Government will affect the duration of the
war and have a bearing on the terms of peace. Since
the Petain Government gave in it has been savagely
attacked by British and Australian newspapers which,
in the days when foreign news and editorial columns
were given over to wishful thinkers and other col-
lective-security cranks, were all for Continental alli-
ances, with France as the pivot. If these newspapers
had turned up the history-books they would have been
reminded that, in making a separate peace, France had
done no more than almost every other beaten ally of
Britain did in previous European wars —Russia and
Rumania in the last war, and Austria, Prussia, Russia,
Sweden and other countries in the wars of Napoleon,
when Prussia (in 1806) and Sweden (in 1810) rounded
off the job by declaring war against Britain. In fact,
the predisposition of Britain’s European partners in
time of disaster to consult only their own interests,
as they conceived them, and leave Britain in the lurch,
is one of the fatal weaknesses of the policy of Con-
tinental alliances; now, it is to be hoped, finally
exploded.
But, forgetting history, and being entirely ignorant
of the French character and of French ideas of war —
the notion of carrying on a lost Continental war from
colonies, though natural to Britons, is inconceivable
to the average Frenchman —these British and Aus-
tralian newspapers pursued the Vichy Government with
invective, and radio commentators joined in with
hoarse cries of their own. Weygand was a “ga-ga
general” ; Petain was a dotard, incapable of a coherent
thought; Laval and Baudouin were traitors and corrupt
millionaires withal. No allowance was made for the
situation in which these unhappy men stood, or for
the terrible plight of their people, at the mercy of
conquerors in their cruelly-ravaged France and a prey
to all manner of anxieties abroad. The appalling
state of the country, the ever-present fear of famine,
pestilence and Communist revolution and the existence
of unnumbered millions of refugees and of two million
prisoners of war, incessantly imploring the Govern-
ment, they and all their friends, to make some arrange-
ment with the enemy that would admit of their return-
ing to their poor homes and beginning some sort of
new life —one would think these facts would touch
the hearts of the fountain-pen and microphone
chivalry which was so Francophile some seven months
ago. But no ; the men of Vichy were a venal and
cowardly gang who were selling out to the enemy ;
handing over their warships and their naval and air
bases, not only in metropolitan France, but at Dakar
and other vital points, so that he might complete the
destruction of Britain.
This went on until the middle of last week, when
a change came over the spirit of the savage dream.
Someone suddenly suggested that Petain mightn’t be
such a bad old boy after all. It was even allowed
that, though of an age at which senile decay is apt to
set in, he might have some rudiments of intelligence
and honor left. Certainly, in his own account of his
conversations with Hitler, he struck no craven or
treacherous note. In a broadcast to his people, he
said “I met Herr Hitler of my own free will—not
under dictation or pressure from him. The interview,
which raised hope and caused anxiety, was made pos-
sible thanks to the dignity of the French people in
the face of their ordeal, and thanks to their enormous
effort toward regeneration.”
Thanks to the heroism of our sailors, the energy of
our colonial leaders and the loyalty of the native popu-
lations, France has rallied.
This first meeting between victor and vanquished
signifies France’s first vindication. I have accepted the
principle of collaboration between the two countries for
the salvation of France. Primarily that is in our own
hands. Though France has many obligations to the
victor, that collaboration must be sincere, and aggression
must be excluded.
In effect, the Government headed by the most
illustrious and war-wise of living Frenchmen is accept-
ing an accommodation with the conqueror for the sake
of national unity and reconstruction. That means,
not that it will actively assist our enemies, but that
it will refuse to co-operate or acquiesce in the glitter-
ing project which dazzles so many British politicians
and editors, an invasion of Europe on the grand scale,
ending in the downfall of the German army and the
liberation of the countries it holds down, Czecho-
slovakia among them. Though the British Common-
wealth has shown that it can defend itself, it has not
men enough for such an immense adventure, nor
could it afford the loss of manhood that it would
surely entail. If it took that road to what at most could
be only a temporary victory, it might march to its
doom. By a right use of sea-power and air-power,
and by utilising to the full its immense material
resources and the friendship of the United States, it
can go on protecting itself and, by gradually exhaust-
ing the Axis Powers —which must already be suffer-
ing severely—force them to offer or accept a peace of
which the Americans themselves would approve. It
can serve even the beaten nations best by securing its
own survival. That done, it can bide its time, serenely
and justly confident that this old Empire will outlast
Hitler, Mussolini and Stalin and the systems they have
built on sand cemented with blood.
Politicians at Play.
Australian politicians have for a fair while been
enjoying the time of their innocent lives, and the game
isn’t over yet. Looking on, some dismal adults think
it’s time it was over, their trouble having always been
that of confusing the world as they see it with the
world as juveniles see it.
They expected the innocents to grasp such grown-
up propositions as that, while this country’s popula-
tion might appear to compare favorably with Nica-
ragua’s, the place could have double or treble as many
people and still be seriously deficient in man-power
if it came to defending itself in war. The innocents,
in a normal childish way, saw it as a land marvel-
lously bastioned by big trees, rocks and mountains,
and, should it come to the worst, and the ogres arrive,
well supplied with caves at Jenolan and hollow-logs
everywhere.
The jittery adults expected them to see that here
was a country open and defenceless and that some day
a bogey man would come and get them if they didn’t
watch out. Happily for their peace of mind, the
children had a better story with which to comfort
themselves in the dark after hearing such nasty, fright-
ening tales. Out in the big sea dwelt the British Navy.
With that there it was silly to be scared ; they could
safely coil up and go to sleep, pulling the sheet over
their heads just to be sure.
From all of this evolved the famous kindergarten
slogan “Tune in with Britain,” or “Leave it to Dad
Bull.” Prize-essays and speech-day speeches were
made on this theme, and the great majority of adults
described these as Very Patriotic. This, of course, was
not altogether disinterested adulation. The plain truth
of the matter was that it touched the adults in their
most tender spot, their pocket, leaving that repository
intact, whereas the contrary attitude prescribed by the
few dismal ones —that tuning in with Britain was a
harking back to subservient colony days ; that it would
be wise, in case the British Navy was elsewhere en-
gaged, to keep up military training and buy a warship
or two and ’planes—this attitude, the bulk of adults
realised, would cost them a pretty penny. So they
encouraged the children by giving all those who be-
haved the right way a free go in the big white tart-
shop at Canberra, and the lucky ones, quickly realising
what was expected of them, did it.
When a war did come along, the British Navy, as
the dismal ones had feared, was pretty fully engaged
elsewhere, and even the adoring adults saw that the
time for prize-essays and speeches was past. Were the
children dismayed? Never less so in their lives. They
realised, what nobody else did, that here was a better
and bigger game than ever —much bigger and better
than playing Geneva, or Unarmed but Unafraid, or
Tune-in.
They rushed the new game with an enthusiasm
that did great credit to their hearts, if less to their
heads. Habit, of course, could not be shaken off
immediately, so they still mixed the old game of
Tune-in with the new game, but it was pretty to see
them at play, none the less so because it was part of
the game to make-believe that they were at work. Had
they really got to work to the extent that the dismal
ones considered the circumstances required, had they
even begun to understand the implications of the term
now most frequently on their lips—that is, total war
—they would have been calling for a total war effort
beside which what they played at would have been a
game for the infants’ form. Instead, the entire coun-
try, so far from approaching real war effort as this is
understood elsewhere, remained very much as it was.
There were still strikes; vested interests still squealed
and were heard patiently and sometimes obeyed ; there
was more big talk than big guns.
To show quite conclusively that it was the normal
child spirit of play rather than any gloomy adult spirit
of work which animated them, they thought up, in
the midst of all this, a beautiful game of their own
called Election, which consisted mainly of going about
calling each other names and putting their pictures
up on hoardings. But the real beauty of this game was
in the general fun everybody could enjoy when it was
over. Then there could be things called Conferences,
which went on for weeks, with the children flying
about in aeroplanes and going to and fro in trains and
Rolls-Royces. For a while it seemed to the dismal
brand of adults that the war had been forgotten, but
one day a very annoying big boy had the idea of call-
ing all the children together and telling them a really
frightful story about the war and the monsters asso-
ciated with it. The nature of this cautionary tale is
unknown, being kept a big Secret, but the purpose of
it was to bring all the children up with a round turn,
and lead them back to playing the War Effort game
the big boy liked best, because, though he knew no
more about the realities of war than most of the
others, and less than some, he made good speeches on
it, and, anyway, was the biggest boy in the class and
getting on towards being an adult.
The nasty war has meanwhile taken new and
threatening turns; it will not spread much further
before the call for man-power replacements will have a
tragic, urgent note. But for the moment peace still
reigns, the sun shines and life goes on as usual in this


island paradise, with no sign yet of anything so dis-
turbing as total war effort as this is understood else-
where.* 5 Quite a lot of the boys have got the sulks and
won’t play, but still the game goes on, and it seems
that nothing short of bombs—wicked things—will ever
stop it.
If Australian politicians consider this a distorted
picture, they should tear themselves away from the
tart-shop and adjoining playground for a while and
try to see themselves as others, for some time, have
despairingly seen them.
MACANN.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Presidential Election.
Since 1861, when Buchanan, the Pennsylvanian,
bequeathed the Civil War to Lincoln, there have been
only three Democratic Presidents: Grover Cleveland,
Woodrow Wilson and Franklin Delano Roosevelt. But
whereas only one of the Republicans (Grant, 1869-77)
served two full terms (Lincoln, Garfield and McKinley
were assassinated), each of the three Democrats
qualified for eight years in the White House, though
Cleveland’s period of service was not continuous. By
seeking a third term, Mr. Roosevelt added a chapter
to American history.
There is no Constitutional impediment. As Bryce
wrote in his monumental work, published in 1888, a
President “may go on being chosen for one four-year
period after another for the term of his natural life.
But tradition has supplied the place of law”:
Washington absolutely refused to serve a third term,
urging the risk to Republican institutions of suffering
the same man to continue constantly in office. Jefferson,
Madison, Monroe and Jackson obeyed the precedent In
1880 an attempt was made to break the unwritten rule in
Grant’s favor. Had there not been among the Republi-
cans a section personally hostile to Grant, or rather
to those who surrounded him, the attempt might have
succeeded, though it would probably have involved
defeat at the polls. This hostile section found the
prepossession of the people against a third term so
strong that, by appealing to the established tradition, it
defeated the Grant men and obtained the nomination of
Mr. Garfield.
This precedent has been taken as practically decisive
for the future. A principle affirmed against Grant is
not likely to be departed from in favor of any aspirant
for many elections to come.
So in coming out a third time Mr. Roosevelt chal-
lenged a sentiment which was probably more inimical
to his candidature than the cry of his opponents that
he was carrying his country into war.
In form, Presidents are chosen not by direct
popular vote, but by the votes of 531 Presidential
electors. Says Bryce:
The Constitution directs each State to choose a
number of Presidential electors equal to the number of
its representatives in both Houses. It is provided that
they shall not be members of Congress nor holders
of any Federal office.... But the Presidential electors
have become a mere cogwheel of the machine, a mere
contrivance for giving effect’ to the decision of the
people.
It is possible for a candidate receiving a minority
of popular votes to get a majority of Presidential
votes; this happened in 1876, in 1888 and in 1913.
But all the recent Presidents, Harding, Coolidge,
Hoover and Roosevelt, received strong popular
majorities. If no candidate receives an absolute
majority of Presidential votes, the election goes to the
House of Representatives, voting by States, and if in
that case “no candidate receives an absolute majority,
then no President is chosen, and the Vice-President
becomes President.”
The President is Commander-in-Chief of the
Army, Navy and Air Force. “He cannot declare war,
but he may, as Polk did in 1845-46, bring affairs to a
point at which it is hard for Congress to refrain from
the declaration.” War declared, the President’s
emergency powers are immense, as Woodrow Wilson
showed.
“A Presidential election,” Bryce wrote, “is some-
times, as in 1800, and in 1860 and 1864, a turning-point
in history,” Considering the assurances of both candi-
dates that they were against participation in the present
war or wars, this doesn’t seem likely to be written of
the Presidential election of 1940. Still, as in 1916, cir-
cumstances may prove too strong for the winner.
In the Balkans.
“El V.” does a Cook’s tour:
The best way to get to the Balkans from England
used to be either by the Orient Express or by road. Getting
to Austria from the Channel was easy, and there was no
difficulty in discovering when you had reached the borders of
the Balkan zone. As far as Vienna, a few years after the
war, it used to be difficult to find a policeman. After the
Hungarian border the atmosphere changed, and there were
armed police and soldiery every yard.
I chose the depth of winter for my tour. We left
Budapest with copious warnings about bandits and evil
men in Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia begins on the fringes of
Mohacs field. There the good road ended in a slough of
frozen mud and Customs officers.
The Yugoslav Customs officer is not a thing of beauty.
He bulges all over with concealed weapons, and his foreign
vocabulary seems to consist entirely of such phrases as “How
much money have you got?” “Show it to me,” “Twenty
dinars for the permit,” “Your duty is 240 dinars,” “Cameras
are not allowed,” “Forty dinars for the soldier.”
. At last we got away on a road which consisted of frozen
icicles through the “liberated” provinces which had been
joined to “gallant little Serbia” after the war. The liberated
provinces had been liberated of everything, apparently, in-
cluding blankets, window blinds, foodstuffs and any livestock
which could not be hidden in the woods. We bucketed over
the roads till nearly midnight, camped near a tributary of
i anu^e > a nd tried to get water with the expedition
sledgehammer to boil the billy. The ice on the river was
only five feet deep. At dawn I slid, crawled and otherwise
progressed to the nearest village. The blanketless and liberated
population were all huddled together in their huts, men,
w ° me n and children together, cursing the gallant little Serbs
who had taken their coverings. Although there was a large
oak forest next door they were even without firewood. Some
Serb owned the forest. A shepherd was taking out the village
pigs, which were performing extraordinary balancing teats on
the ice. It is so cold in the Timeser Banat that even the hogs
have wool on their backs. . D ,
Next evening we made Zemun, across the river from Bel-
grade. Zemun was an interesting town, full of refugees, mostly
from Russia. It took us two days to get a bath. Stock
hotel excuse for its non-appearance: “Einer ist gestorben
someone is dead and the bathroom in use as the pub morgue.
Belgrade was reached by a ferry, on which the captain and
first lieutenants wore imitations of British naval uniforms.
I counted seven funerals in Belgrade that afternoon, and 1
was arrested, seemingly for wearing a flying helmet and having
my hands in my pockets while watching the changing of the
guard at the palace where Queen Draga and her husband were
once dismembered by the Karageorgeovitches. Belgrade fare-
welled us with warnings about the dangers ahead, particularly
about the Bulgarians, whom they declared to be all bandits.
Crossed the border of Bulgaria unawares and caused a
display of rifles between Bulgarian and Yugoslav frontier
guards, who seemed prepared to start a war for our bodies.
Decided to form an axis with a display of dinars. War
settled by third-party indemnity. Twelve miles through the
snows of the Dragoman Pass brought us to the first Bulgarian
post. The Bulgarians are a stolid, friendly, humorous people,
poor as mud. Their yellow city of Sofia had been for days
under 12ft. of snow, which had been dug out in tunnels.
Stopped at Imperial Hotel, which proudly displayed the only
lift in Bulgaria and gave us suites for a pound a day. A
pound is 665 levas —you carried your money in Bulgaria in
a sugar-bag. We lunched with the British Minister —his wife
told us to send our washing along to the Legation. Called
on the Spanish Minister, as president of the Automobile Club,
and found him painting in water-color. Called on King Boris
and found him a dark young man, somewhat like A. M. Blain,
M.P., and speaking English like a cultured Dubliner. He
said he was devoted to motoring. He has to be —his skill
has saved his life from assassins several times.
On to Greece, after seeing the cathedral and other
buildings blown up by Communists. Sofians warned us about
Macedonians, komitadjis, banditti and other terrors.
An excursion into nether Greece is like an evening in
Luna Park, if Luna Park were covered with snow, ice and
slush, and entirely inhabited by gentlemen in frilled skirts
and by village dogs. There was no danger from komitadjis.
All the komitadjis were too much occupied trying to keep
their feet on the slippery surface of old Hellas. And any
animosity seemed to melt when they found we had a drink
on us. Some of the Macedonians also had a drink on them.
It was one of those drinks that slide down cold and then
burn like a time bomb.
We turned back and reached the Turkish border. The
snow ended here, but we were arrested again, and hauled into
Adrianople on a charge of being French —one of the members
of the party was named Francis, which is Turkish for French,
and our passports showed us to be Australians.
And so to Istanbul with only one more arrest —for getting
into Greece again by mistake.
One of the reparation clauses of the Peace Treaty should
insist on Hitler and Musso making motor trips through the
Balkans in the depth of winter. It should cure them effectively
of any further desire to meddle in Balkan affairs.
Beyond the Bombing—Hope ?
The bombing of London was inevitable from the
moment Bleriot flew the Channel in his contraption of
wires and canvas 31 years ago. The military minds,
seeing the ’plane first as a scouting unit and later as a
weapon of offence, made bombs on Piccadilly as inevit-
able as death itself.
Thus the civilian came into war with a rush. The
bomber puts the old trench-line out of action, it
reduces the barrier of the sea and it refuses to recog-
nise private homes or anything else as sacrosanct. It
comes by night or day and scatters its load with a blind
impartiality on all below.
Despite all the warnings they had in the interval,
London and Liverpool, Berlin and Bremen watched
the growing destructive power of the ’plane impas-
sively. On newsreels and in illustrated papers they saw
clouds of aeroplanes, or saw them in reality, but it
was a spectacle, not a lesson.
What thoughts trouble Londoners and Berliners
now? Looking on the ruin of the morning after the
night of fear, some sense of the futility of it all must
strike them. Do they feel nothing but a longing for
revenge, or do they realise that neither time nor
human history can be halted and that in the long
run these days must be marked as another terrible
landmark of man’s ignorance? Some appreciation
there must be of the fact that this death and destruc-
tion is the penalty for a passive acceptance of things
that seem unimportant or are shoved aside as annoy-
ing in the fitful periods of peace, but which spring up,
demanding attention, when war comes.
Perhaps bombed London and Berlin may be the
birthplaces of a renaissance of commonsense. Both
are home to millions of people, and though you might
drive man away from home he will come back;
destroy his buildings, burn his churches, he will hang
on and survive, for his home is where his spirit is.
High explosives and incendiary bombs cannot
destroy that spirit; nor can political ideologies. A
London that is home to millions, where lives the ideal
of freedom and progress, looked to with millions of
free eyes both from within its wreckage and from the
outer marches of the sea, is eternal.
Money and Electricity.
Side by side in the Sydney “Herald” appeared two
reports which, to an outsider, must have seemed ex-
tremely puzzling. The first:
Unprecedented increases in almost all forms of taxa-
tion, direct and indirect, were discussed today in the
Treasury conferences [at Canberra] on the forthcoming
record Commonwealth Budget of £250,000,000.
Next to it:
After inspecting the proposed dam site at Jindabyne,
the Minister for Works and Local Government (N.S.W.)
said he proposed to recommend that preliminary work
on the Snowy River hydro-electric scheme be started
immediately.
First column:
Reviews of essential expenditure, it is believed,
disclosed that the preliminary estimate of new taxation
of from £25,000,000 to £30,000,000 would be inadequate,
and that it would probably be necessary to raise new
revenue from all sources, including taxation, of
£40,000,000 to £45,000,000.
Second column:
The total capital cost of the [Snowy River] scheme
was estimated —three years ago—at £10,600,000.
There was more in both columns. This Snowy River
scheme is not the Sydney Water Board’s Snowy River
scheme —that was estimated to cost £30,000,000 —and
there is nothing much wrong with it, except the bad
news in the other column.
The Australian taxpayer is about to get a very
hefty kick in that part of his pants where he keeps
his pocket. Plainly, he cannot afford huge State expen-
diture, and it’s about time Canberra had something to
say about Sydney’s Snowy River and Eastern Suburbs
railway plans and the £8,800,000 Melbourne suburban
railway. A country deeply involved in a war, its
export markets reduced, some primary industries on
the breadline and in the grip of a bad drought, simply
cannot afford them. Its paramount duty is to attend
to the war.
"Health Week."
The Australian city most noted for size, dear milk,
scarcity of water, insolvent hospitals and Govern-
ments with deficits has been celebrating “Health
Week.”
This consisted, in the main, of speeches about the
need for eating more fruit, drinking more milk and
taking more exercise, and of displays in its Martjn-
place by skimpily-clad young women who weaved
patterns on the Commonwealth Bank windows with a
forest of bare legs.
Sundry Government doctors were heard declaim-
ing about the falling-off in infant mortality thanks to
baby health clinics. None of them had anything to
say about the fall in the birthrate or the lack of in-
ducement to marry offered to the young.
It’s hard to see what good these annual celebra-
tions do. Nobody who watched the prancing in
Martin-place was likely suddenly to give up his or her
bad habits, or start prancing in the same manner
around suburban streets.
A little more attention to the more pressing faults
in the health of the public and less time and money
wasted on fat-headed “weeks” might not be so spec-
tacular, but would be of much greater benefit to the
State —even if the flapper press had to go somewhere
else for pictures of the female limb.
Lawson Knew Them.
“The dawgs” came up for discussion in the Victorian
Upper House the other day, a Mr. Clarey securing
an adjournment of the debate to give him an oppor-
tunity to draft an amendment to a bill intended to
restrict dog-racing clubs.
A man of vision, Mr. Clarey refuses to be mired
down in the gloomy present. He resolutely fixes his
eye on that future when Peace shall have come again
and the voice of the odds-merchant be loud in a land
flowing with bilk and bunny. He wants an amend-
ment “to provide for an increase of dog-racing courses
if the future development of the State justifies it.”
Mr. Clarey is on the side of the poor man who
“can’t afford to own a racehorse but he can own
a dog. Many dog-owners love their dogs and look
after them better than they would look after human
beings.” This without an atom of sarcasm or even
a thought of it.
The kind of dog to whose future Mr. Clarey is
devoting so much thought was aptly described by
Henry Lawson as “thin, thieving, murderous and
spiderish.” The alleged love of it is nothing more than
a desire to make money quickly and easily, money that
comes from the pockets of the “poor man” Mr. Clarey
is so concerned about. Most men are dog-lovers, but
few of them can make a mate of the tyke Mr. Clarey
seems to regard as essential to the progress of his State.
Mr. Clarey got his motion of adjournment by
15 votes to nine. The Victorian Government made a
progressive step of much social value with its Dog
Racing Bill; it will be a great pity if the Clareys are
allowed to emasculate it. Dog-racing comes pretty
close to being a national disgrace already.
Mr. Cooper Makes Comparisons.
Queensland Treasurer Cooper flew into print with
invidious comparisons and doubtful figures when
R. J. Larking, secretary of the Queensland Chamber
of Commerce, declared that excessive taxation was
“crippling industry and strangling private enterprise”
in that State.
Insinuating that Mr. Larking was unconsciously
playing the game of big southern manufacturers who
didn’t want to see Queensland establish industries that
would compete with them, Mr. Cooper claimed that
the State’s industries had just had their most pros-
perous year.
Then he seized on South Australia as a shocking
example, asserting that “lowered taxation and worsen-
ing industrial conditions” had produced in that State
“a rate of industrial progress slower” than that of
Queensland.
The Commonwealth Statistician doesn’t support
him. In spite of Queensland’s greater population and
superior resources, the increase in value of factory pro-
duction for the five years 1933-38 (£13,712,500 to
£18,612,900) was less than in S.A. (£8,641,400 to
£13,820,100). Sugar mills (33 in 1937-38) give Queens-
land a long start over S.A., which has none ; but in
1937-38 the Statistician found far more agricultural
implement works (35 to nine) in S.A. than in Queens-
land, and more factories and workshops turning out
chemical fertilisers ; electrical installations, cables and
apparatus ; tramcars, railway rolling stock and car-
riages ; hosiery and other knitted goods; dresses;
shirts, collars and underclothing ; jam, fruit preserves
and pickles as well. Also, there were more woollen
and tweed mills and far more motor-body building.
And there is no getting away from the fact that
S. A. taxes companies 2s. in the £1 of profits, whereas
Mr. Cooper’s Government takes as much as 7s. 3d.,
plus 20 p.c. super tax.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“T.”: Now Minister of the Navy, as
well as Attorney-General, Hughes has
held almost every Commonwealth
office except those of Treasurer and
Minister of Defence. He began in 1904
with External Affairs ; had three subse-
quent terms as Attorney-General
(1908-09, 1910-13, 1914-15); was P.M.
and Attorney-General (1915-21) and.
after the conscription split, Minister
of Trade and Customs for two
months of 1916; P.M. and Minister
of External Affairs (1921-23); Vice-
President of the Executive Council,
Minister of Health and Repatriation
(1934-35); Minister of Repat. again
(1936-37); Minister of Health again
(1937); Minister of External Affairs and
Territories and Vice-President of the
Executive Council (1937); Minister of
External Affairs once more (1938); and
Attorney-General and Minister of In-
dustry (1938-40). The old man would
die of ennui if he were a mere Premier
without portfolio, like Mair (N.S.W.)
and Cosgrove (Tasmania).
* * * *
“Glong”: The ancient steamer Edina,
which must hold the record as the world’s
most-paragraphed ship (she was on the
Geelong-Melbourne run for 50 years and
during the last two decades has been
Vic.’s Number One Maritime Institution)
has suffered a final and crushing indignity.
Haying lately converted the old ark into
a lighter, her owners sought to register
her in her new capacity, but were told
there was already a lighter named Edina.
So, having lost her profession, her super-
structure and her innards, she now suffers
amputation of an E. In future she will
be called Dina.
* * * *
“Letspray”: It looks as if those saga-
cious coves who compile gardening hand-
books for Sydney will have to revise
their notions as to moisture required.. The
amount of rain that has fallen on Sydney
suburban areas in the last 12 months
would go in your eye ; the Water Board
has put a ban on hoses and sprinklers,
and what’s the result? Are the lawns all
sere and yellow, the flowers all wilted
and wasted? Nothing of the sort. In
eastern, North Shore and western
suburbs the garden pageant has never
been so fine. Never have roses bloomed
so prodigiously, never have stocks and
snapdragons grown to such brave heights.
Flowers that never did well before have
achieved success, and lawns are ap-
parently all the better for a prolonged
drought.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”; A fine old sea warrior
passed over to the Valhalla of Good
Ships when H.M.S. Coringa was sent to
the bottom by the enemy. Built at
Dumbarton, she was the most powerful
tug in Australia, and soon after her
arrival in Brisbane gave a proof of her
quality by towing the steamer Carnhill
2000 miles from New Guinea to Sydney.
Requisitioned by the Admiralty in
1915, she did three years of naval
salvage, towing and patrol work in
European waters before returning to
Brisbane. Her most spectacular adven-
ture in peace-time was in 1929, when her
steering gear broke down after she had
reached the steamer Arafura, drifting
with a broken tailshaft in a N.Q. cyclone.
Only the superb sea skill of her master
and mate got her through the two days
which elapsed before temporary repairs
could be made. Again requisitioned for
Admiralty work she left Brisbane for
England in January under the care of
Capt. George Cowling with a Brisbane
crew of 24, none of whom was aboard at
the time of her loss.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: It looks as if heavy rubber
goods may have to be ranked with ex-
plosives. A warehouse fire in Flinders-
street, Adelaide, was changed from the
ordinary blaze to nearly the most costly
one the city has ever had by a stock of
motor-tyres and such things in the base-
ment. The gas generated was too thick
for the firemen to enter. The scientists
say that only its heavy compression kept
it from exploding on the spot, but when
it rose and mingled with the air far up
there were some amazing fireworks. Fine
work by the brigade kept the block
isolated.
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: As was to be expected,
when a Sydney daily published what
"Are you in on this, Joe ?”
could be taken as a criticism of the
women going about Sydney in uni-
forms —the paper claimed to have s/en
at least 17 different kinds —the flapper
press almost pushed the war news off the
front page in its rush to defend the dar-
lings and the dowagers, playing up one
lady’s allegation that the criticism arose
from “masculine misunderstanding.”
Aside from other things, have unneces-
sarily uniformed females any idea of the
grins, giggles and guffaws that follow
them when they toddle, waddle and
wriggle along the streets? For the uni-
forms of such as Red Cross nurses,
V.A.Ds. and canteen workers, there is
real justification ; but, what with drought,
war and worry, the city is in no
mood to appreciate the spectacle
of peaked caps, gold braid and swagger
canes surrounding curves that were never
meant for such vanities. The sight of an
ancient lady of ample proportions cruis-
ing up George-street in a uniform must
surely be one of the horrors of war.
* * * *
“Wester”: Nobody seems to have
noticed it, but Westralia this year
achieves its fiftieth year of responsible
government. In that time its population
has risen from 46,000 to 465,000, it has
produced £225,000,000-worth of gold, ex-
ported £90,000,000-worth of wheat and
£21,000,000-worth of flour. But nearly
half the people live in Perth-Fremantle,
and the crowd at the Saturdee-night trots
is five or six times the population of the
North. And Broome and Wyndham are
as far removed from Perth as Sydney or
Melbourne.
* * * *
“Tassy”: “Colbun’s” reference (B.
16/10/’4O) to the Marie Laure interested
me, for I have her log. It gives her name
as Maria Lowry, John Chamberlain,
master, but further on it is written Marie
Laure. In 1873 she was skippered by
James Chamberlain. On March 26, 1870,
there was an incipient mutiny on board,
and six of the crew were put in irons. The
ship cruised during that period mostly in
“The Middle Ground” Kangaroo
Island, Jervis Bay, the Australian Bight
and Greenly Island. James Chamberlain
was of a pious turn of mind, for each
Sunday he logs “no unnecessary work
done.” John Chamberlain was something
of an artist. Whenever he recorded the
catching of a whale, he drew in the
margin of the book the mammal or
its flukes or its head.
* * * *
“Wellshot”: A transposition in the
cables has left thousands of Australians
under a misapprehension as to what H. G.
Wells really said about Lord Gort. All
the newspapers had him describing the
army man as “our prancing general.”
Now, according to a report of a
Commons debate on the ancient fic-
tioneer, what he really said was “our
praying general” in a sort of side-swipe
at Christianity. There’s a heap of dif-
ference between prancing and praying,
especially in the mental picture conveyed
by the use of the words as adjectives.
Gort’s own views on the matter would be
interesting; they tell me he’s Irish.
* * * *
“Colonel B’s’t’r”: I confess to feeling
bored with the brave dogs that rescue
drowning men, women and children. Pre-
sumably in order to increase publicity
value the selfish mongs always wait until
the victim is sinking for the last time.
In a way, it is refreshing to read of a
Brisbane dog that disdained all advertise-
ment. As this independent-minded tyke
was being given a swim in Breakfast
Creek at the end of a long lead, the
mooring got tangled round one of the
owner’s legs and pulled him into a deep
hole. Instead of doing the faithful-rescuer
stunt the honest creature towed his be-
loved master under with such enthusiasm
that he would certainly have been
drowned but for the arrival of a neighbor.
While artificial respiration was being
applied the forthright Friend of Man
became interested in a bone, only desist-
ing to chivvy the ambulance down the
road when it removed his b.m. to hos-
pital for further treatment and attention.
There’s no beastly hypocrisy about that
hound.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Maoriland is preening
herself over statistics that show she is
the second-largest user of cars in the
world in proportion to population. The
Yanks average one to seven persons;
Maoriland one to eight. Also in popu-
lation ratio of telegrams dispatched
she comes second only to the U.S.A.; and
the service is the cheapest in the world.
Of course Maoriland continues to hold
the world’s record for earthquakes— not
in severity, but in number. Seismograph
records indicate that there are innumer-
able minor tremors of a sort not experi-
enced in any other country. And in con-
sumption of beer per capita Maoriland
leads the world.
* * * *
“Ike Holler”: No doubt we live in an
affable age, reflected by the efforts of
shopkeepers to familiarise their best-
known names with the public. I buy my
fruit at Jim’s,” get my boots repaired
at “Mac’s” go to “Joe’s” if I’m inclined
for a hamburger, and buy the breakfast
sausages at “Sam’s,” besides dropping in
for my morning coffee at “Tony’s” or
dining at “Alf’s.” “Gwen” does the
missus’s hair, while “Doris” does her best
to sell her hats, and “Pat” to intrigue
her with gowns—she goes to “Dulcie”
for flowers. But apparently there is some
prejudice against nicknames. A man who
has been very popular as an assistant in
a local pharmacy, where he earned a repu-
tation as being “as good as a doctor,” has
taken over on his own account the shop,
whose former proprietor has enlisted. He
is a man who believes in advertisement:
the shop front bloomed with a bold red-
letter announcement that “Doc” was run-
ning the business. It was probably non-
ethical or something. Cars raced up and
emptied out men who spoke heatedly
with the new proprietor. Yielding to pres-
sure, the chemist had the offending sign
scrubbed off. A neat card proclaiming
that Adolf E. Squills (“Doc”) has taken
over the business has *jeen substituted,
and it serves. My fuchds mention that
they are going to “Doc’s” for morning-
after treatment, and it sounds just as
friendly as going along to “Jim’s” or
“Sam’s” or “Sally’s”—Sally runs the pie-
shop.
* * * *
“The Verger”: Churches always seem
to suffer most in modern warfare. Con-
sider the toll of London’s churches
to October 28 —32 destroyed, 47
seriously damaged and “many others
less seriously damaged.” And, according
to a New York “Times” report, there
was heavy destruction of French fanes
when the enemy burst through. The
cathedrals of Rouen, Evreux, Arras and
Cambrai were virtually destroyed; the
Church of St. Maclou in Rouen, a
thirteenth-century church at Gisors and
a Renaissance church at Adelys, those of
St. Paul and Notre Dame de Recouvrance
in Orleans, Chanaz in Chambery, St.
Genix, Pont de Beauvoisin and Domessin
and many convents, religious houses and
diocesan buildings were wrecked oi
damaged. Even the home of Joan of Arc
at Orleans, which housed Dominican
Sisters, was gutted.
* * * *
“Ex-Vic.”: R. S. Forbes, secretary of
the Victorian National Safety Council,
declared that the fact that 515 people
were killed and 7428 injured in road acci-
dents in that State last year was a chal-
lenge to commonsense. yes, but whose?
* * * *
“S.T.S.” remembers some history:
Adelaide has been celebrating the centenary
of its municipal corporation, which is claimed
to have been the first in Australia. The famous
Hurtle Fisher was the Mayor. Adelaide
in 1840 was in a primitive stage. The infant
corporation had no definite home, and its
finances were so rocky that it got into debt for
the room it hired, and saw its furniture sold
by the landlord. Also, about two-thirds of
the members quarrelled violently with Governor
Grey, while the rest of them quarrelled with
the majority. The corporation, says historian
Worsnop. “lived —and was likely to live —on
sufferance only,” and in 1843 it quietly gave
up the struggle. After some experiments with
commissioners, a real and dignified corpora-
tion started in 1852, under the same Hurtle
Fisher. At the Centenary lunch it was stated
that the Town Hall, opened in 1866, is on an
acre sold originally for 125., but now valued
(unimproved) at £115,000; that the city is
worth 12 millions just as land, and 27 millions
with the buildings, and that it was the first in
Australia to have complete deep drainage, a
Chamber of Commerce or a Town-planning
Act. The present Mayor is A. G. Barrett, of
the Vic. malting firm, who spent his first 20
years in Melbourne, but has been in Adelaide
for the last 25.
THE EVERGREEN.
‘W. M. Hughes has a collection of 14 Bibles,
mementoes of all the occasions on which he has
been sworn in as member of a Federal Cabinet.”
—Sydney ‘-D.T.”
Fourteen Bibles! A goodly store,
Taking you back to Nineteen-Four,
That distant lap in a hard-run race
When first you struggled to power and place.
Fourteen volumes of Holy Writ,
Each with some memory held in it
Of past or present, of near or far,
From the days that were to the days that are.
Fourteen Bibles! What tales they grade
Of old ties severed and new ones made,
When foes grown friendly were round you
ranged
And your fiercest critics were friends estranged!
Idol in turn of both parties—but
There came a time when each door was shut,
When your goose looked cooked and your
lunch seemed cut.
Yet your tally of Bibles, now fourteen,
Proclaims you still as an evergreen.
Fourteen Bibles! An ampler lot
Of costlier trophies you’ve doubtless got,
Inscribed gold boxes, as like as not,
Making you freeman (for what it’s worth)
Of various cities on English earth,
And a little matter of twenty thou.,
But what in the world do those matter now,
With fourteen Bibles to mark so clear
The highlights reached in your long career?
Now up, now down —but never for long—
And, for all your summers, still going strong,
Who else of all we have known or know,
As Ministers come and Ministers go,
Had ever a record like yours to show,
With fourteen books whereon you were sworn
When fourteen Cabinets were bom? . ..
Despite all faults, to give him his dues,
Was ever a stayer like Billy Hughes?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“El V.”: Melbourne does get its own
back sometimes. One of its Beaks
had Sydney Harbor up before him on a
vagrancy charge, and sent him away for
six months to spend his ninth successive
Christmas sheltered from the Port Phillip
winds by the walls of Pentridge or some-
where. It is the irony of fate that a man
with a name like that should be con-
demned to live in Victoria, but parents
are frequently so careless as to how they
name their offspring. I used to know a
bewhiskered and aristocratic-looking old
drover who rejoiced in the signature O. Y.
Love. And he couldn’t get away from
the humor of it, because his peculiar
Christian names were Oddam Young. So
that whatever way he put it the thanks
he received for his cheques was inevitably
a shout of laughter. He eventually got
over his troubles by adopting the plain
name of William by deed-poll.
* * * *
“Clooter”: Don’t know how many
small boys there are in N.S.W. between
the ages of nine and fourteen, but I’ll
guarantee every one of them would give
his socks to be the lucky kid that wit-
nessed the shooting of the ex-gunman
Slater in an outer Sydney suburb.
Imagine it, you harried grown-ups, and
try to recollect yourself at 11 years old
and the high pinnacle of joy that would
have been yours in his place. Picture
that kid walking, or, rather, strutting
about the schoolground, surrounded by
his aura of greatness, the envy and admi-
ration of every short-trousered male in
sight, the object of many a small-girlish
eye. If he lives to be ninety he’ll never
forget his eleventh year and the splendid
chance it gave him, though possibly by
that time the yarn will have become a
romance.
* • * * *
“T. McN.”: A couple of days after the
Graeco-Italian war got going, Sydney’s
office and shop population sallied forth in
search of lunch. Suddenly strong men were
seen to stop, stare and stiffen in their
tracks. Others stared, stiffened and
stopped. Still others merely stiffened. Hat-
less youths turned color and the eternal
flapper risked facial lines with involuntary
frowns. All this was caused by the flar-
ing black words on the midday news
posters. Swiftly the papers were bought
and the news assimilated. Word got back
to the offices and even to the inner
sanctums of the big noises. Work ceased
while the fell blow was discussed. A
blind man, sensitive to the change about
“They joined up from the 18-footers, Prendergast!"
him, asked, “What has happened? Has
Greece fallen? Are the Aussies in action?
Or has a British battleship gone down
with all hands?” “No, no,” he was
assured, “much worse. Somebody tried
to shoot the Cup favorite with an air-
gun ! ” Whereupon the blind man’s heart
failed him and he had to be assisted to
a near-by hostelry and there revived with
three drinks and the information that it
was all right, the scoundrels had missed.
And if you think this couldn’t happen,
ask anybody who was in Sydney last
Thursday and saw that poster.
* * * *
“Bo”: As the ungainly trio came along
Castle re agh-street the crowd of Sydney-
siders seething along the pavements
stopped and stared open-mouthed and
obviously shocked. Following the three
were some hundreds of the curious, hope-
ful of seeing some dramatic climax. Then
the cynosure came opposite me —two out-
size cops, each with a firm grip on the
unprotesting arms of a large muddled
individual who mumbled incoherencies.
Staring stonily ahead, they were patently
enduring a dreadful ordeal, such as is
known to singers, actors and speakers
going through their first bout of stage-
fright. And then my mind went back —
and not far back —to more robust days
when a citizen being lumbered to the
boob by an unperturbed john with the
map of Ireland stamped large on his phiz,
the while his charge lashed vigorously at
his shins, would have excited no more
interest than a down-and-out diving on
a cigar-butt outside the Australia. Sadly
I mused on the degeneration of a once-
great city.
V * *
“Oxmead”: “Dewey” (B. 30/10/’4O)
is quite right in refusing to accept the
word “guts” as an Americanism. It is
good enough English, though it has taken
it a long time to advance in public favor
to its present secure position. Actually,
the verb dates back to Stuart times. In
Macaulay’s History of England, apropos
of the rioting in London before James II
bolted from his kingdom, I find the fol-
lowing :
The king’s printing-house was, to use a
coarse metaphor which then, for the first
time, came into use, completely gutted.
In other words, the mob “tore the tripes
out of it” before making a bonfire on the
site. And, even 150 years later, the his-
torian evidently regarded the expression
as somewhat indelicate.
* * * *
“Tuart”: If all the Greeks in Aus-
tralia go to the war, there will be a
fish-shop famine in the capitals, and many
a country town —particularly in N.S.W.
—will be without its most prosperous
eating-house. The census-takers found
5652 in 1933 (hundreds went back home
during the depression period), and there
has since been a steady immigration of
1000 or so p.a. A large proportion of
them came, not from the mainland, but
from the isles where burning Sappho
loved and sung; and not a few have be-
come men of substance. In Westralia
one established prosperous tobacco
factories and plantations, in the process
putting new brands of cigarettes on
the market. And Lennon’s Hotel, Bris-
bane, was bought and is being rebuilt
by a compatriot who, starting from
scratch, put his savings in a variety of
businesses and made money in all. The
Greek from the islands is generally a
good swimmer and is fond of wrestling
and boxing, though rather as a spectator
than as a performer (Pythagoras, winner
of the N. S. Wales lightweight wrestling
championship, is an exception); and a lad
named Zimbulis has earned a steady
place in the Westralian Eleven. But, un-
like Australians of Italian descent, our
new allies, whether foreign- or Australian-
born, show no interest in politics, though
in their native haunts they are about the
keenest politicians in Europe.
* * # *
“Zake”: Strange events occur and
strange decisions are taken in other
portions of our planet, but the Yewnited
States can invariably claim to produce the
strangest. Would any other army in the
world, for instance, grant a man exemp-
tion from conscription just because his
face resembled a gargoyle? It looks as
if the brasshats have bowed to the power-
ful influence of Hollywood. Nobody, I
venture, has ever spotted a homely phiz
in any film built around West Point. Few,
however, would be found to subscribe to
"Better not go to the beach—it looks like rain. Let's have our picnic on the catchment area."
the theory that a
battalion of Clark
Gables and
Robert Taylors
would do any
better going over
the bags than one
composed of
’sloggers with
clocks like
George Formby’s
or W. C. Fields’s!
The Ist A.I.F.
was the hardest-
dialled army in
military history,
and its reputa-
tion is not to be
sneezed at.
* *
“Skyrider”: I
am beginning to
wonder whether
Sydney is really
the hub of the
universe. Drop-
ping from the
skies into Mil-
dura (five hours
by air from Syd-
ney, but eeons
by every other
measure), I found
Melbourne papers—always a day old —
quite sufficient pabulum for the best part
of a week, but homesickness at last
drove me into club reading-rooms.
The Settlers’ looked promising—I made
a beeline for The Bulletin and
then looked for the Sydney dailies.
Melbourne, yes; Adelaide, certainly;
Sydney—mo. The Working Men’s
(yes, I know longest bar in the
world except for the one those Mexican
cows made 10ft. longer) had The 8., but
no “Herald,” no “Telegraph,” not even a
“Sun.” At the Mildura a dignified
official said “Sydney?” in a tone
which said quite plainly “Sydney isn’t
done,” though one member was deep
in a red-covered weekly. The boss
of the biggest paper shop (and there
are some big shops in Mildura) looked at
me with pained surprise. Bulletin? Yes
(and The Bulletin’s daughter, too), but
Sydney dailies? No. “Never asked for
them, sir!” Feeling about as big as tup-
pence, I crawled into another newsagency.
“ ‘Sydney Herald’?” He thought for a
moment. “Oh, yes, Sydney! Well, if
you like to order one 1 could get you
one.”
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: Uncertainly attached to an
electric-light pole by his right arm, our
suburb’s drunk gravely surveyed the con-
crete footpath between his boots and mur-
mured “Can’t shtop ’ere all night, y’
know. Gorrer get ’ome, gorrer get ’ome.”
He leaned away from the pole, gave a
couple of tugs with the arm bent round
it, then desisted and again contem-
plated the footpath. Then he straightened
up, firmly detached his arm from the pole
and said, “Orright, if y’ gonner be shtub-
born, be shtubborn. Y’ can blanky well
shtop there, see!” And leaving the pole
to its blind obstinacy he drifted off alone.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Two defeated politicians I
have known had the quality which is
supposed to distinguish threatened men.
I was in Kalgoorlie in 1901 when John
Waters Kirwan, then editor of the
“Miner,” became its first Federal
member. He had set his heart on a
career in Commonwealth politics, and
when, three years later, he was beaten
out of sight by the 23-year-old Charlie
Frazer, he looked and talked like a
broken man. Sadly he went back to his
chair ; but, his political hopes reviving,
he stood for the Leg. Council. He has
been a member of that carefree Chamber
for 32 years, has been President for 10
years (the salary is £lBOO p.a. and very
little to do), and has outlived all the other
Federal members for Kalgoorlie, Frazer,
Mahon —he was editor of the “Sun”
when Kirwan edited the “Miner” —Her-
mann and Green, except George Foley,
whose tenure of the seat was briefer than
his own. In 1911 I helped to farewell
Harry Gregory, who had lost the last
goldfields seat remaining to the Libs.,
and a portfolio with it. Very dejected
and never robust, he shook hands sadly
all round, and presently we heard that he
was eating his heart out on a farm. But
two years later he was back again as
Federal member for Dampier—now
called Swan —and last month he was
declared elected for the eleventh time.
Now the oldest man at Canberra, he has
seen all the Perth Premiers of his time,
with one exception, pass into the shadows:
Forrest, Leake, Throssell, Daglish,
Rason, Wilson and Moore. The excep-
tion is that eternal youth—still practising
law, telling good stories and pointing out
to strangers the charms of Perth girl-
hood and the Town Hall spire—Walter
James.
THE ARMCHAIR STRATEGIST.
Of all the writers on the war, the one
I find the most assuredly grotesque
Is he who tells us how to whack the Hun.
From the safe shelter of an office desk.
It’s true his sentences may smoothly run,
His phraseology be picturesque,
But what’s his knowledge worth about la guerre
Who lays down tactics from a study chair?
It’s like enough he never heard a gun
In anger fired or saw a soldier fall;
Acquaintance with the battlefronts he’s none
Excepting for a map upon the wall,
Yet he can theorise how wars are won
Or lost. There isn’t anything at all
In this connection that he won’t disclose
From the ripe store of what he thinks he knows.
He schedules things that shouldn’t have been
done,
Or things undone that ought to have been
tried,
Hurls at this man or that a malison
And shows how victory might be simplified
By his advice. Of all the narks I shun,
The would-be mentors that I can’t abide,
I give him pride of place upon the list,
The self-appointed armchair strategist!
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


m
■■n
3013
Adore «w«i more neoDle ore
m
mi
every day
ality always tells!
10 for 9d
WM
MADE SPECIALLY TO SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
“A wise custom limits the President to
two terms. Under no circumstances will
I be a candidate for or accept another
nomination.” The first Roosevelt said
that on the night of the 1904 Presidential
election, and went back on it with unfor-
tunate results. In a day or so it will be
known whether the second Roosevelt
wouldn’t have been well advised to give
a similar pledge and stick to it.
The Advisory War Council had quite
an auspicious first meeting. Latham,
C.J., attended it, and his mission to Japan
was the subject of discussions that “re-
vealed unanimity” so “complete” that he
will be “able to go to Tokyo, feeling that
there are no differences of opinion about
the matters with which he will be deal-
ing.” Thus Menzies, and none of the
Labor four demurred. The fact that the
Latham mission is to proceed indicates
that the position in the north is not so
black as it has been painted by exuberant
persons with fountain-pens.
“Labor is sailing in charted seas, it
has a sound vessel and is making for a
promised land,” declared Queensland’s
Acting Premier Cooper in a by-election
speech. Asked how far off the promised
land was, he said he didn’t know, but
“it’s not as far as it used to be.” Per-
haps it’s in the same position as “the
prosperity” of a former N.S.W. Premier
—“just round the corner.”
“This Government,” said the N.S.W.
Minister for Justice, “has gone a very
long way in its consideration of the
problem of liquor reform.” Taxpayers
hope it will go further —and never come
back.
In 1920-21, when the mean population
of Queensland was 754,000, State tax-
revenue amounted to £4 17s. Bd. per
head and £3 17s. Bd. p.h. went in
interest on the public debt. In 1939-40,
the mean population being 1,019,000, tax-
revenue reached £7 12s. per head and
interest took £5 3s. p.h. For 18 of
the 20 years, Labor was in office.
Cooper, its latest Treasurer, seems
astonished at his party’s moderation in
borrowing and taxing so little.
Roosevelt is a New Yorker, Willkie a
Hoosier. Australia’s tenth Prime Minister
came from its smallest State, and had he
lived another 16 days he would have
served longer than any of his pre-
decessors ; but no small-State man ever
goes to the White House. Six of the
Presidents were New Yorkers (Van
Buren, Fillmore, Arthur, Cleveland and
the two Roosevelts), six Ohioans (W. H.
Harrison, Hayes, Garfield, McKinley,
Taft and Harding), five Virginians
(Washington, Jefferson, Madison, Mon-
roe and Tyler), and three were from Mas-
sachusetts (John Adams, John Quincy
Adams and Coolidge), three from Ten-
nessee (Jackson, Polk and Johnson), two
from Illinois (Lincoln and Grant), and one
each from Louisiana (Taylor), Indiana
(Benjamin Harrison), Pennsylvania
(Buchanan), New Hampshire (Pierce),
New Jersey (Woodrow Wilson) and Cali-
fornia (Hoover).
Tasmanians are annoyed with Menzies
for leaving them without a representa-
tive among the 16 Ministers. They point
out that if they hadn’t given him two
more precious votes in the House and
returned Senators Hays and Hayes, with
Burford Sampson to keep them com-
pany, his Government would now be
only a memory; and that in doing all
that they rejected Curtin’s offer of an
annual grant of £250,000 more than the
Grants Commission has recommended.
Another thing that galls is that Menzies
put tyros in the Ministry and turned
down Allan Guy, who, at Hobart and
Canberra, was a Minister for seven years
under Lyons.
There is a Progressive Federation of
Yugoslavs in these parts, and in Sep-
tember, 1939, it let out a mighty war-
whoop :
The fight is on, the fight for Democracy,
Liberty and the Independence of Nations;
the war against the bestial rule of Fascism!
Fascism must be destroyed.
The only subsequent shouts from that
quarter were in the nature of protests
against the removal from the list of
foreign newspapers of a rag called
“Napredak,” which was banned for good
and sufficient reasons, and demands for
its reinstatement. Now there is dead
silence.
They had a Curtin in the U.S.A. in
October, 1863, when the Civil War was
raging. He was Republican Governor of
“The general use of sun glasses for the A.I.F. will not be approved.”
—Minister Spender.
“Hey, Mr. Spender, it’s not sun glasses we want so much as long
glasses with beer in ’em.”
Pennsylvania, and his re-election that
month contributed materially to that of
Lincoln in the following year. His oppo-
nent was a Judge who had declared Lin-
coln’s conscription measure unconstitu-
tional in Pennsylvania, and had said “If
the Union is to be divided, I want the
line of separation run north of Penn-
sylvania.” Soldiers voted in 1864 as well
as in 1940, and, like the A.1.F., were
mostly for Curtin’s party, only more so.
Colebatch, sometime Premier, Minister,
Agent-General, Senator and Agent-
General again, is back in the Westralian
Leg. Council and speaking in his old
form. Always a mordant critic of Gov-
ernment finance, he said recently that in
four years railway working expenses had
increased from £2,488,000 to £2,828,000,
and that, although during the same period
there was an increase of £109,000 in
revenue —from £3,446,000 to £3,555,000
—the number of passengers carried de-
creased by 1,600,000 and the quantity of
goods carried by quarter of a million
tons. There was no corresponding
decrease of staff. On the contrary, there
was an increase of 455 —8565 to 9020 —
in 1938-39 alone.
Taxation of incomes has been “re-
adjusted” in Westralia, where a so-called
Labor Government is in office. Harold
Seddon, a goldfields member, pointed out
that married taxpayers have a grievance
in that their statutory exemption dis-
appears at £225, though in the Common-
wealth and every other State much bigger
allowances are made. He suggested that
the least the Government could do would
be to take £5O off for a wife. A horri-
fied Minister replied, without furnishing
evidence, that this would mean a loss of
£lOO,OOO in revenue, which would have
to be made up by a 10 per cent, increase
in tax-rates, and protested that deduc-
tions for wives had never been made in
Westralia. Then it is time they were
made. They might at least help to im-
prove the birth statistics, which show 9200
births in 1930 and only 8119 in 1939.
In the first 10 years of responsible
government the population of Westralia
increased from 46,290 to 179,708. In the
last nine years the increase was a mere
34,306 —from 431,610 to 465,916. Cer-
tainly, the ’nineties brought the gold
rushes ; but all the same
It’s just as well —for him —that Pilate
lived when he did instead of 1940 years
later. Were he to put his famous query
“What is truth?” today, and then survey
the press, politics and the world in
general, he’d probably finish up taking
to drink and getting run in as a public
nuisance.
Victoria has new bushfires legislation.
Landholders are not to burn stubble be-
fore 4 p.m., and then only if the tempera-
ture is below 90deg. and the breeze light.
They must have firebreaks and three
men, fully equipped, on hand, and the
fire must be out by sunrise. Sawmillers,
too, have to do certain things; so have
people who use outside fires to cook
and do the week’s washing. These re-
strictions, of course, are directed at
people who are generally pretty careful
about fires. What is needed now is an
effective spotting system to report smoke
and an organisation to deal with it. In
the last horror, fires were burning in the
Omeo district for weeks, and as it was
nobody’s business they just burnt on until
the big northerly came. Then came
disaster.
McKell, leader of the N.S.W. Opposi-
tion, told the Sydney Parliament that if
a private business copied practices by
which the Sydney Government used
money raised for social relief it would
lead to the scandal of the century. It’s
pretty close to being that, anyhow,
though it is a strange truth that ordinary
people take from their politicians what
they would never take from business
firms.
The “Argus” believes that the future
of the Ministry of Information is doubt-
ful. So was its past and so is its present.
There was never any need for the thing.
Members of the Victorian State Gov-
ernment, the “Age” says, “do not accept
as a serious threat the Labor leader’s
statement that his support of the Govern-
ment depends on its continuing with pro-
gressive legislation.” Of course, they
don’t. Nobody takes Mr. Cain seriously
these days. And at the week-end it
looked as if a C.P. man would win Pol-
warth on Cain-group preferences.
If Australians were to read periodically
that the British Ministry of Munitions
had let another defence contract worth
(say) £100,000,000, of which £50,000,000
went to Scotland, £25,000 to Wales,
£12,500,000 to Yorkshire and the rest to
Little Puddleton, and that the chairman
of the Slough-on-Wye County Council
was bucking because his county hadn’t
got any, they’d be full of jeers about the
British war effort. Yet they read exactly
the same sort of stuff in their own papers
about their own war effort and think
nothing of it.
Spooner, having transferred from
Macquarie-street to Canberra, advocates
(1) abolition of State Parliaments, (2)
extension of the powers of local govern-
ment bodies, and (3) overriding powers
for the Commonwealth. His life won’t
be worth tuppence if he shows his nose
in his old haunts.
“The failure to complete the Eastern
Suburbs railway is a scandal. Congestion
of traffic in the metropolitan area is
appalling. The City Council’s rejection
of the King’s Cross tunnel offer is
foolish.” Thus a Mr. A. D. Carson, of
the Sydney Town Planning Association.
If Mr. A. D. Carson doesn’t look out his
command of nouns and adjectives will
earn him a seat in the Sydney Parliament.
In a Victorian debate on dog-racing,
Beckett, M.L.C., remarked that the “sport"’
would not have become so popular if
Parliament had not baulked at allowing
20 night-trotting meetings a year. People
could not have trots, so they went
to the dogs.” He could, but didn’t, add
“literally and figuratively.”
“C.S.”: Everything that has been pub-
licly said and written about the Common-
wealth election result has been colored
by the party view. It has yet to be seen
whether a Parliament in which a Govern-
ment holds a slender majority is bad.
On the contrary, it might be very good;
certainly the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment’s best work was done in its first
eight years, when no party had a majority.
Anyway, the growl that the Government
can’t do much good with a poor majority
can be met with the answer that it can’t
do much harm. Governments with
thumping majorities have not been con-
spicuous for wise legislation in Australia ;
N.S.W.’s experience is that they put
through sectional laws without regard for
opposing interests, or they fall asleep on
the job.


THE NEW ROMAN TOUCH.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders' Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
SHARES, TAXES AND JOBS—
A Mixed Outlook
A Full Budget of Financial Developments
November Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £30,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,500,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
PERSONAL ITEMS
In the space of three days Melbourne
saw the passing of three old Common-
wealth politicians—John Henry Keating,
Frank Anstey and James Mackinnon
Fowler. All were men of ability, and
each had the bitterness of seeing men of
inferior talents pass them in the race to
preferment. Fowler took it hard ; the
others were more philosophic. Keating
was 68, Fowler and Anstey 75.
Keating, Hobart-born, represented Tas-
mania in the Senate for 21 years, was an
honorary Minister in 1905, and from
1907 to 1908 Minister of Home Affairs.
A barrister, he framed and drafted
the Australian Copyright Act, and
in recent years consolidated the Tas-
manian statutes. He was an eloquent
advocate of Federation when the ques-
tion was controversial; his speeches in
the Senate are still remembered as grace-
ful, logical and incisive.
Frank Anstey sat in the Victorian
Parliament for eight years early in the
century—for East Bourke Boroughs and
Brunswick, then transferred to the Bourke
seat, ousting Hume Cook in 1910, and
held the seat for 24 years until 1934, when
Maurice Blackburn succeeded him. In
1922 he became deputy-leader of Labor
for a time, but he was not cut out for
leadership. His one period of office
came in October, 1929 ; he was one of
Scullin’s Ministers for 16 months or so.
A crusader for the underdog, he
brought to the job a fine gift of
oratory, a biting tongue and lungs which
had been strengthened by a career at
sea in his early days. He wrote as well
as he spoke, and his books still have a
vogue among Labor men. In his later
days, silver-haired and leonine, he was
only a shadow of the fiery, black-haired,
gleaming-eyed bit of human wrath who
used to hold the Reps, in thrall with his
turgid, satirical humor. It was then that
Low pictured him in a noted cartoon, put-
ing his old friends Hughes and Pearce
in their places. He had the kindest of
hearts, and was one of the most popular
men in a House which always filled to
hear him, and which recognised his
sincerity.
Fowler was Perth’s M.H.R. for 21
years (1901-22); then he was ousted by
E. A. Mann. A tall, good-looking, serious-
minded Scotsman, he was thrice elected
as a Laborite ; but in 1909 he turned
Liberal, not having been able to get along
with the Caucus bosses. In 1917 he
found himself carried along by the cur-
rent of “Nationalism,” but he never cared
for that party, and wrote a brochure very
critical of Hughes. By profession an
accountant, he would have made an able
Treasurer, but he was never vouchsafed
a sniff of office, though he was Chairman
of Committees in Joseph Cook’s time.
Though a good fellow in many respects,
he was also a good hater, and it must
have cheered him in his last illness to
learn that Mann had gone down in
Flinders.
Continental liaison officer for Royal
Dutch Air Lines for several years, in-
cluding eight months in Spain in 1939-40,
C. W. McCann, son of knight Charles
McCann, S.A.’s Agent-General in Lon-
don, was recently appointed to what is
described as an important confidential
job with the Spanish section of the
British Ministry of Information. Mc-
Cann, jun., had a lucky escape from
Amsterdam when the Germans invaded
Holland. He speaks Spanish, French,
Portuguese, Italian.
Elwyn Bewell Scarfe, a junior member
of the Adelaide family widely known in
commercial affairs, has made legal history
by appearing in the Supreme Court in
naval rig, to be admitted to the Bar. He
is therefore now Ordinary Seaman Scarfe
in the Australian Navy
and Gentleman One in
the courts.
Many ministers are
long-lived, but few of
them retain the vigor of the
Rev. A. Killworth, incum-
bent of St. Peter’s in what
used to be Sydney’s
“ ’Loo” before East Syd-
ney was chosen as more
euphonious. At 86 he
preaches three sermons a
week and attends to the
work of his parish.
“Qwert Yuiop”: Many
men who later achieved
success in Queensland
public life gained early
experience in a small
meeting-room over a Bris-
bane grocer’s shop. The
Valley Parliamentary De-
bating Society held its
meetings there before the
century got into its teens,
conducted its mock House
of Assembly and adhered
strictly to correct pro-
cedure. Of those young
men of more than 30
years ago, T. W. McCaw-
ley and W. F. Webb each
became C.J., R. J. Doug-
las is a Northern Judge,
A. D. McGill a K.C.,
A. G. C. Hawthorne has been a Minister
of the Crown, H. M. Russell is U.A.P.
leader, and C. E. Chuter and J. D.
O’Hagan are Under-Secretaries of the
Home and Justice Departments respec-
tively.
Harry West, who succeeds Harold
Finnis as Rotary president in S.A., knows
his home State (he was born in Adelaide
ih 1899) better than most natives, for he
travelled the length and breadth of it
for seven years as a commercial traveller.
Since 1919 he’s been with Shell Oil, for
which he has been assistant-manager in
HARRY WEST.
Adelaide for the last 13 years. Joined
Rotary six years ago, and was vice-
president last year. Golf, tennis and
gardening occupy his leisure moments.
“J. Want” does his own sketch of
Frith’s latest victim: —
First time I saw Earle Page he turned up in
1919 in Queensland Parliament House wearing
a bright smile, a bright new tie, a bright new
returned-soldier badge and a bright new idea for
a Country party organisation. An ancient pan-
taloon among politicians remarked to him:
“You are a blanky fool to get into politics.” E.P.
replied imperturbably: “I am a blanky fool.”
So his great surgical practice went west, and
in the same year Page became Federal member
for Cowper. iW*only way to stop Page from
being M.P. for Cowper would be to put a time
bomb under the electorate and blow it up.
Within three years the C.P. had wrecked the
Hughes Government and the Bruce-Pages had
begun their long reign. As a coalition —what-
ever it was as a Government —it was an out-
standing success. Page made the ammunition,
DR. EARLE PAGE.
(Modelled by Frith.)
Bruce manned the gun. Bruce, at his best,
was a persuasive orator who liked talking. Page,
when he makes a prepared speech, is effective,
but usually his speeches remind one of a turgid
river in which the drowning swimmer, blinded
by the spray, wakes up occasionally to find
himself hit on the back of the neck by a hard
fact. Essentially, Page is a practical dreamer
who likes seeing tangible results. He has
left a big mark on Commonwealth legislation
—the overseas marketing schemes were his; so
were the Loan Council and the consequent
amendments to the Constitution. His interests
are widespread—the farmers of Northern N.S.W.
bless his electricity schemes, and he is a good
farmer himself. During the depression, too, he
put many a family on the land. He was one
of the first politicians who constantly used an
aeroplane, and he drives a motor-car as off-
handedly as does W. M. Hughes. Page has
been acting Prime Minister several times, Prime
Minister for a brief period, is a Privy Councillor
and a G.C.M.G., attended the last Imperial
Defence Conference and came back with a
comprehensive knowledge of conditions in most
European countries which he visited and with
a very accurate idea of what was to happen.
After 20 years of politics and round-the-clock
work he retains his sense of humor.
Janet Sinclair Wood,
promoted to be matron-
in-chief of Australia’s
army nursing, from a
similar position in S.A.,
was matron at Burra and
Maitland (S.A.) even
before the other war, in
which she did good ser-
vice abroad. After re-
turning, she was head of
Broken Hill District
Hospital, and has latterly
had one of her own in Adelaid, bein &
also the one military nurse from S.A.
selected to go to London for the Coro-
nation.
The winning of the aggregate trophy
at Bathurst (N.S.W.) show this year was
a triumph for Claude Bowhay, one of the
younger generation of Merino stud-
masters. Managing Buckinbah, Yeoval
(N.S.W.), founded by his father 18 years
ago, he is already a familiar figure as a
judge at country shows. He exhibits
at Sydney sheep show, and usually takes
a fair batch of the awards. The Buckin-
bah sheep are of pure Peppin blood.
Prof. W. K. Hancock, who told the
Royal Empire Society in London that the
Empire needed to get rid of a few “luna-
tics”—he mentioned the Australian wool
bother with Japan five years ago as an
example—first attracted public attention
when he was nine years old by jumping
into the Mitchell River (Vic.) and saving
a mate. He got the Royal Humane
Society’s medal for that, and in 1922,
when an extra Rhodes scholarship was
available for Australia, he got that. The
following year he was the first Australian
elected as a Fellow of All Souls, Oxford,
and a year later was professor of modern
history at Adelaide (S.A.) University. In
1933 he accepted a similar job in Birming-
ham, and has been there ever since. Son
of a former archdeacon in Victoria, the
prof, is 42.
Menzies made Commonwealth history
when he appointed his father-in-law,
Senator Leckie, to the Ministry. No
previous P.M. ever had the opportunity
of conferring office on a relative. Though
father-in-law has been elevated late in
life, he is a shrewd politician (an M.L.A.
and an M.H.R. before he became Senator)
and a good Protectionist, and has been
a sound adviser of Bob for upwards of
twenty years.
The engineering studies at Oxford of
Edmund Ernest Jarvis, Westralia’s 1939
Rhodes scholar, having been interrupted
by war conditions, he has returned to
Australia, and recently joined B.H.P. at
Newcastle. Born in Perth 23 years ago,
Jarvis was educated at the Perth Modern
School and Perth Uni., graduating B.Sc.
in 1939. He represented the West in
inter-State lacrosse in 1936.
Edmund Alfred Drake-Brockman, who
has been on the Federal Arbitration Court
Bench for the last 13 years, is the soil
of a one-time Surveyor-General of W.A.,
and was born at Busselton in that State.
56 years ago. The war of 1914-18 found
him a fully-fledged barrister. He was a
company commander on Gallipoli, and
commanded the 4th Australian Infantry
Brigade in France and Belgium, serving
till the A.I.F. demobbed. His bag of
JUDGE DRAKE-BROCKMAN.
decorations included D. 5.0., C.B. and
C.M.G. In post-war years he had a term
as Senator for W.A., towards the end of
which he represented Australia at the
League of Nations Assembly.


k
V
pfifi l ’’- " V*
u^iiii^d^rr-P
a
k
ass
/
•V.
8 Ss££l
I
i
1322
SECRET IS
v> JJJ s BLENIS/
EXPH
JJJ
ALWAYS
PLEASE
ASK
PLEASE
OR
333
f r
A!
r
CORK TIPPED AND PLAIN: 9-6 d., 18-1/-.
Also flat fifties, square hundreds and round airtight fifties
82RF-10.40


ABORIGINALITES
“Iƒ ’Hitler be among 'em, laad, We'll all get blinking V.Cs."
“Old-timer”: Old Lanny had been in
the bend so many years that most of us
had long since given up wondering how
long he’d been there. A thoughtful old
cuss, albeit a trifle maculate in personal
habits, he was wont to go into deep
silences for days, a habit that earned him
a reputation not dissimilar to that which,
on a larger scale, surrounds the Mahatma
of the loincloth, goat’s milk and civil
disobedience. Thus was Lanny a per-
manent institution when there arrived one
who shall be known as Tutye Tom and
his missus. The female Tutye must have
come down from those fowls known as
apostles ; she was as garrulous as any
group of those birds, and only Tom knew
if she was silent when asleep. One day
Tom took down to old Lanny a spare bit
of apple-pie from the lady. “That missus
o’ yours,” said Lanny, sampling the gift,
“must be a pretty good cook. An’ good
cooks is generally good sorts.” Tom
answered slowly, “Aw, she’s all right.”
The sage of the bend surveyed the river
thoughtfully and delivered the strange
finding, “Why’nt y’ teach ’er t’ swim?”
Tom looked blank. “That,” added the
sage, “would teach her t’ keep her mouth
shut.”
* * * *
“James W.”: Those gentle souls who
protest periodically at the “cruelty” of
fishermen who jag the barb through the
piscatorial snout and skulldrag their
catch in might be interested in the case
of an ornamental specimen in an
aquarium at Green Island, in Trinity Bay
(N.Q.). It had most of the top of its
head bitten off as clean as a whistle by
another voracious dandy; the for’ard
end of its backbone is visible, yet it seems
quite normal, swims as fast as the best
of them and scoffs all the tucker it can
find. Imagine any other creature sur-
viving the shock of such an injury!
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Is the bee-eater really as
guilty as it is accused of being? Leach
describes its diet as “insects, very rarely
bees.” This season I have examined the
stomach-contents of eight killed by a
bee-keeping neighbor in coastal S.Q.
There were 13 bees amongst them, 51
dragonflies, 26 March flies and 17 other
assorted insects, mostly flying ants. Of
the bees, one bird had eaten seven, one
three, three one each and three none. Last
year ten post-mortems yielded 28 bees,
of which two birds had accounted for
20, 63 dragonflies, 32 March flies and 26
other flying insects. Four birds contained
two bees each, the remaining four none.
I have come to the conclusion that,
although Merops ornatus cannot be ex-
onerated from the charge of apicide, only
a comparative few of the beautiful race
really practise it on a large scale. These
addicts are usually to be found waiting
near the hive for workers returning with
their loads and deserve shooting, but the
existence of a few gangsters in the
family is not enough to warrant shooting
at sight anywhere. Anyhow, my neighbor
is going to confine his marksmanship to
really suspicious characters for the
present, future action to depend on post-
mortem results.
* * * <*
“Wheeler”: The pumping-station was
at the foot of a high cliff down which ran
a chute for shooting logs down to the
boiler. Dan was up top dropping logs
into the chute when Steve hailed him
from below. Somehow off his balance,
Dan stumbled in turning to answer the
shout, fell into the chute and shot to the
bottom in record time. He was still try-
ing to ascertain if anything was broken
when Steve drawled “Cripes, I didn’t
want y’ t’ come straight away, Dan.
There was plenty of time.” .
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow was
heading north under a heavy swag when
a well-dressed man in a motor-car offered
him a lift. Mat murmured his thanks and
climbed in. As they travelled the other
talked. Mat thought by the way he threw
his weight about that he was a bit of a
skite. After a bit he said, giving Mat’s
swag a disparaging look, “You’re not an
Australian.” Mat looked at him with a
slight frown. “I can see you’re not be
the way you roll a swag,” went on the
other happily; “every true Australian
knows how to do it.” Now that swag
went pretty close to 1001 b. and Mat
thought he had made a pretty good job
of it. Also, as he was a bit soft, it had
made his shoulder a trifle sore. Think-
ing over this, his empty pockets, the fact
that he might have to hump the darned
thing a thousand miles before landing a
job and the further fact that the bloke in
the car had probably never been short of
a feed, Mat opened the floodgates of a
vocabulary known for its freshness from
Ned’s Corner to Twofold Bay. When he
had finished there was a short silence ;
then the other said, “Swag or no swag,
you’re an Australian, all right.” Albury
(N.S.W.) now knows what led to the cele-
bration staged there that night—the night
a big, sunburned drunk and a little,
dapper drunk gave a swag-rolling demon-
stration in Dean-street.
* * * *
“Yangardook”: “Padflogger’s” instruc-
tions for making damper (B. 16 /10/’4O)
set me wondering if he is an advance
agent for some indigestion remedy. Fancy
setting a fire two hours beforehand to
bake a damper which mustn’t be more
than half an inch thick, and when it is
finished it’s to be stood on its side so
that it won’t go sodden! To produce a
damper fit for even a garbage-bin pros-
pector one must use either baking powder,
carb. soda and twice its bulk of cream
of tartar, or resort to what is seldom
seen where dampers form part of the
menu —self-raising flour, none of which
“Padflogger” has mentioned. A damper
such as his could without fear of becom-
ing sodden be cooled off on a smith’s
tyreing plate. The warm water for the
mixing is right, but why all the bother
mixing the salt, which can be dissolved
in the water? What’s wrong with rolling
the stiff dough around the end of a
stick and toasting it before any kind of
fire? With a bit of care the job is finished
inside ten minutes. If you have a visitor,
use two doughy sticks.
* * * *
“Goulder”: Seeing that this N.S.W.
drought is common to city and country,
with surface water pretty scarce and the
garden hose no longer in action, is it in
order to suggest that all spare a thought
for the local and migratory birds and
stick up a water tin on a handy post? It
must be tough for the birds these hot days
with their usual water supply cut off.
* * * *
“Oont”: “Quareef” (B. 16/10/’4O)
questions my knowledge of horses. Very
well. In about forty years’ experience
one Queensland station I managed ran
two each of blood and draught stallions
to provide working stock for about
150,000 sheep and 3000 cattle. On an-
other on Which I signed the cheques we
yarded about 1000 horses; 300 I kept
for station working purposes, 300 I sold
to Kidman, the rest being strangers. I
was familiar with Paddy Lenny’s 3000-
odd brumbies, and also with the 5000-
odd on Glenormiston. Against that “Q.”
places his lot: “There are 30 horses on
the far-west N.S.W. run from which I
write.... ” I’ve seen one traveller on the
Barkly with more than 30 horses in his
plant. As for camels, I’ve seen a team of
91 bulls, all loaded, all with the tar-
patch behind the ears. (Does “Q.” know
what that signifies?) A sight like that
isn’t fluked in ten minutes. A man has
to be years among ’em, and perhaps he
won’t see it twice in a lifetime.
“Flight”: I didn’t think it could be
done until I saw it with my own eyes.
On an island off the N.Q. coast a spar-
rowhawk which visits that quarter from
April to September floated out of some
scrub silent as a shadow, hovered for
a breath, then dived on an otherwise
engaged magpie, its long talons getting a
grip on the caroller’s loins. That was the
end of it. Should Maggie wake up before
the attack is delivered it will carry the fight
to the attacker. But that fellow’s defence
is perfect: he just flits into thick scrub,
beats the more dashing flier by his zig-
zags, loses himself in the foliage and
melts into nothing by remaining still. I’ve
seen Mag beat eaglehawks, pelicans,
jaberoos, brolgas, goburras —all birds
with pretensions to stoush. I’ve seen
the butcher bird do the same. But
it’s odds on the sparrowhawk settling
both game fighters.
* * * *
“K.Mc.”: A cat with snakebite will
sometimes live for days in a comatose
condition, then revive. A neighbor’s horse
lay peacefully unconscious for two days
with snake dope before taking the count.
But on the first hot day this season, when
Mr. Brown Blake got his hypodermics
into my long-haired collie, the victim
gave up the ghost within 15 minutes.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Many a city-dwelling
artist finds it difficult "to keep the
wolf from the door, but Noel Woods's
trouble in that line is with the vegetation.
Neither wolves nor their hungrier rela-
tives in the shape of rent collectors,
tradesmen, canvassers and salesmen ever
call at Bedarra Island, which rears its
peak skyward from the shimmery breast
of the Barrier Reef Inner Passage, three
miles from Dunk Island, where once
lived and wrote E. J. Banfield, the Beach-
comber. Anyone who does call is re-
quired to act as artist’s model for the
duration of the stay. When the limner’s
hair grows long he just ties it up and
makes it serve as a hat. An enthusiastic
cook, he makes his own bread from cas-
sava meal, an accommodating vegetable
which also yields tapioca and spinach.
Coconuts provide butter, and pineapples,
pawpaws, bananas, sweet potatoes, taro,
Chinese beans and corn all flourish. Fish
and oysters are to be had for the taking,
and a friendly hen frequently lays a
breakfast egg in his bed. Tanagara leaves
are as good as china plates except for
soup, and don’t need washing up. His
palm-leaf shack and studio were built
by himself from home-grown materials.
The only irksome detail of an otherwise
satisfactory existence is the necessity for
occasional visits to cities to sell his pic-
tures. So far, no Eve has yet gained
entrance to the Bedarra Eden, but the
serpent is already there—a carpet snake
got away with his last lot of chickens.
* * * *
“Boot and Saddle”: The Australian
synonym for a horse, “prad,” has always
intrigued me—where did it come from?
Possibly some of those Britons sailing to
these shores by way of S’Africa picked
it up from the Taal dialect, which calls
a horse a “paard,” and the word was
mangled. From the First Fleet onwards
until the Suez Canal was opened, most
emigrant ships spent longer or shorter
periods in Table Bay, where the prospec-
tive Australian settlers were wont to make
horseback excursions through that part
of the old Dutch province lying under
the shadow of Table Mountain. Any
other explanation?
* * * *
“Bughouse”: There is little question
but that this continent is becoming drier
and drier. Possibly the death of trees
was the start of this process of desicca-
tion. Possibly the Centre, which is the
focal point from which aridity constantly
tends, was one time covered with forests
which, despite the general low altitude,
successfully withstood the tendency to-
wards dryness. Perhaps some natural
convulsion wiped out these forests over
thousands of square miles, all within a
few weeks, perhaps within days. Such a
convulsion may have followed the fall
of that giant meteorite at Henbury, south
from Alice Springs. Investigators credit
this meteorite with not less than 1000
tons of incandescent nickel iron. The
shock of the impact with the earth was
sufficient to vaporise almost instantly
these solids, which then must have swept
as a vast fiery cyclone over hundreds of
miles of country, destroying every vestige
of vegetable life. Destruction on a much
smaller scale was seen in Siberia in 1908.
There a 50-ton meteorite sent forth a
blast that levelled and burnt the wet
forest for fifty miles in every direction,
the sound of the explosion being heard at
points 1000 miles distant. Multiply such
devastation 20 times—and one finds
Central Australia reduced in a few hours
from forest land to fire-blackened desert
—a desert that has ever since existed.
SONG OF THE NAVVY.
Here I’m slaving in a cutting
For my eighteen bob a day;
I’ve a tent of double can,vas
And a bed of bags arid hay;
And I’m up above the morning
With my shovel on the hill,
Where the hefty bars are ringing
And the hammer drives the drill;
Where the mullock she is lifting
Where she sits above the blast,
And the pulley-wheels are screeching
And the skips are lurching past;
It’s a demon’s craft, the navvy’s,
’Mid the smother and the din,
With a sweat that beggars blazes
And a thirst that raises sin.
But I’ve “belted” every cutting
From Port Darwin to the Bight,
And along the tracks, between them,
Had my share of fun and fight;
And I’m still the one for beefing
Where the dogman spikes the plate,
With a bet to bust the “centre”
Or a pound to stake a mate.
At O’Riley’s “ranch” I’m growling
At his rissoles, hash and stew,
With a wink towards his daughter—
She’s a sort that’s decent, too —
But I do my wooing wary,
For the hills are wide above
And I’ve lived so long for roving
That I fear there’s chafe in love.
A doer and a dicer, me,
Who drifts from job to job,
I’ll never own a lump of mud
Or ever save a bob;
But I’ve bridged the roaring rivers,
And I’ve tunnelled through the range
Just to grade a road that’s easy
For the bloke who saves his change.
N.S.W.
FRANK McCALL.


“Wang”: “I’m on a clearin’ contrack
one time,” related Dan, “near a farm
owned be a young cocky. One night jist
on dark this bloke’s missus comes over
in a buggy with two kids. She’s near
hysterical, an’ reckons her husband’s gone
batty an’ threatenin’ t’ kill her an’ the
kids. ‘Cripes!’ I ses, ‘I better go over.’
‘No,’ she ses, pleadin’, ‘don’t. Let me
leave the children here an’ I’ll hurry inter
the township fer the perlice’; an’ she
shoves the kinds inter me arms, whips up
the horse an’ drives orf fast. The kids
is twins, ’bout a year old, an’ as soon
as they know their mother’s gorn they
start pipin’ up. ’Struth, didn’t I have a
time with them that night! They never
stopped howlin’, an’ I’m dog-dancin’
round all night tryin’ t’ quiet ’em. I’m
fair knocked out, when jist on daylight
their mother drives up agen. She’s lookin’
dead pleased with herself, an’ after thank-
in’ me fer what I’ve done grabs up the
kids an’ carts ’em to the buggy. ‘What
about yer husband?’ I ses, feelin’ sore
as a boil. ‘Oh,’ she ses, quite sprightly,
‘everythin’s all right now. I met him in
the township an’ we patched things up.’
She drives orf quick, for what I wus
sayin’ wasn’t too perlite. Later that morn-
in’ I’m yarnin’ to an ole cocky who lived
up the road, when the father of them
kids comes canterin’ along. ‘I b’lieve you
an’ yer missus had the time of yer lives
at the Bach’lers’ Ball larst night,’ the old
cocky ses. ‘Me darters wus there. But
we wus wonderin’ how yer got on about
the twins.’ The young cove wus a quarter
of a mile down the road be the time I’d
managed t’ get t’ me axe.”
* * $ #
“A.W.8.”: Reports on the plague of
rats now ravaging W.Q. are seldom favor-
able, but I give the ravagers full marks
for a job done. Over a period of 12
months I spent endless hours trying to
eradicate bulrushes from some miles of
bore drain. Recently the flow went back
and the drain dried. Then the rats got
to work. Leaving the tops in heaps in
the drain, they burrowed under for the
bulbous roots, which carry a high per-
centage of moisture. As the rodents were
depending on the drain for water it is
possible this had some bearing on the
clean job they made of it.
* * * *
“Naturala”: I must congratulate “The
0.D.” (B. 9/10/’4O) on being able to
extract bardi grubs from their tunnels
with thin wire. My experience is that
the bardi makes a tunnel opening large
enough to permit of its extraction only
when it has completed its larval stage
and is leaving its early home. The bardi
is the grub of the longicorn beetle, com-
mon almost the world over. Nocturnal in
flight, the mother beetle deposits her eggs
under the bark, preferably of a newly-
fallen tree. Hatched out, the tiny grub
bores into the wood, starting with a tunnel
of pin-head size. Gradually
this becomes larger, eaten out
to accommodate the grub’s
growth. Finally the full-grown
grub eats out to the light—and
e ats no more. Many species
then emerge, burrow into the
soil, assume there the chrysalis
shape, from which finally
emerges the adult beetle. A
rarer species seals up the
freshly-made tunnel opening with wood
powder ; behind this the chrysalis stage is
spent, the adult beetle scraping a passage
“Is he Well trained?”
“My oath, he is! You tellum lie down you see plurry quick."
through the plug. All this progressive
enlarging of the tunnel can be followed
when splitting up bardi-riddled wood.
And, definitely, the grub doesn’t enter the
wood by any opening that can readily be
found by the unaided eye. Fat grubs, of
course, can be heard eating and then be
chopped out —the abo. has done that for
ages.
* * * *
“C.H.H.”: Chocolate* came uneasily
into the beach dressing-shed and went to
the end of a row. His skin was the
yellowish-brown of the half-caste abo.,
his shirt and trousers far from clean.
One of the lesser breeds, he stood awk-
wardly among the representatives of the
ruling race, and looked around with the
furtive suspicion of the self-conscious.
When his clothes were off he caught sight
of his reflection in the mirror opposite.
Then I saw a transformation. He looked
again at the human form divine, the thin
legs of the sedentary, the paunch of the.
opulent, the translucent blue-veined skin
of the city worker, the spider, the slug,
the pig—though there were others very
different from these —and Chocolate’s
gaze turned again to the mirror, and he
smiled a little. Then, lifting his head, he
pulled back his shoulders a trifle, stepped
into his trunks and walked out like an
ambassador.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Old Sarah has died,
last of the island-born Kanaka women re-
maining in these parts, convinced to the
last that she had been done out of a
substantial sum of money promised to
her by Kaween Wikkitoria for remaining
in Queensland. The dark people came
in from miles around to give her a fine
funeral, and old Charley, last of her
several successive husbands, rode proudly
in a real motor mourning coach behind
the flower-decorated hearse. His friend
Bos’n cheered him up at intervals by
remarking how much Sarah must be en-
joying it all, and how happy she would
be in heaven. The assembled mourners
sang a hymn, and the officiating clergy-
man, new to the district, was much im-
pressed by the genuine religious feeling
displayed by the simple colored folk. A
few relatives attended the sorrowing
widower back to his lonely hut. As he
entered his eye fell on Sarah’s false teeth
lying on the table. “What for that dam-
fool one leave teef behind?” he demanded
indignantly. “How she kaikai ’long
hebben, no teef?” And, accompanied by
the faithful and approving Bos’n, he
walked two miles back to the cemetery to
bury the denture in the freshly-turned
earth above Sarah’s last resting-place.
* * * *
“Merrangbaur”: “The Anglers’ Club
smoke night was well on its way,” said
Bert the barman, “when old Shandy Mc-
Guinness upends ’imself. Usually ’e don’t
talk much, but the menu’s gone to ’is
’ead an’ ’e yaps away like a politician
openin’ a bazaar. ’E ain’t satisfied with
jawin’ about club doin’s ; ’e ’as to start
skitin’ about ’imself an’ the whoppers
’e’s caught, which makes us blokes laugh.
The treasurer, who’s been makin’ the
menu look silly ’imself, reckons Shandy
couldn’t catch whitebait with a depth
charge. Shandy does ’is block an’ lays
a fiver ’e can catch a bigger sea denizen
with ’is bare ’ands (‘sea denizen, mind
“Them petrol-ration tickets you gave me, sarge, Were crook.”
you,' ’e says again) than
ever got away from us
blokes. Somebody takes
’im on, an’ Shandy sits
down lookin’ thoughtful.
After a while ’e’s dis-
appeared, an’ we forgets
all about ’im. We’re just
tappin’ the last niner
when a taxi-driver walks
in askin’ if we knows a
bloke called McGuin-
ness. Ses ’e’s out in ’is
cab an’ we better come
an’ get ’im. Out we
goes. This taxi bloke’s
stretchin’ it a bit. Shandy
ain’t in ’is cab. ’E’s
lyin’ flat on the roof with
’is ’ead down, gazin’ in
the rear winder. There’s
water everywhere, most
of it drippin’ orf Shandy,
an’ ’e’s sayin’ ‘Come on,
y’ disbelievin’ cows ; ’ave
a look at ’im. Caught
’im with me bare ’ands.
Yair, me bare ’ands!’
We lurches over, opens
the taxi door an’ out
flops a soppin’ wet seal.
Yair; Shandy won is
fiver all right, but ’e ’ad to ’and it over
to the Beak next day for breakin’ an'
enterin’ the Aquarium.”
* * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Add this to the debit of
the greyhound (B. 2/10/’4O), that it is a
true cur, undoubtedly the most treacher-
ous of all breeds. It will without provo-
cation bite the hand that feeds it, and is
the only dog (or mongrel) guilty of at-
tacking human friend or foe while waving
the canine flag of truce, its tail. The
dingo is a gentleman compared with the
average tin- or liveware chaser.
* * * *
“James W.”: The stingray has a first-
class sting—sometimes two of them —
under his tail, but what for? It eats
very small bottom-feeding fish or fry of
pelagic fish, relying entirely on its speed
in hunting. I’ve watched ’rays in shal-
low water mopping up shoals of small
fish but have never seen the deadly
prong brought into action. A 10001 b.
’ray, common in tropical waters, has a
sting of solid ivory, 2ft. long and up-
wards of 3in. across at the butt, but as
a weapon against the shark, enemy-in-
chief of rays of all sorts, it’s as useless
as a paper bag. Despite yarns on the
subject, I’ve never seen nor met anyone
among the N.Q. fishermen who has seen
evidence to support the silly claim that
’ray stings pierce the stomachs of sharks
that swallow them. The sea lawyer is
too wily to swallow weapons of that
order. So, though it could be a fear-
some implement, as a defensive weapon
it’s apparently punk, at least for its
wearer. But it makes the best head ever
devised for a fish-spear.
Si! si: * =!•
“Atrax”: Hawks and crows are popu-
larly regarded as the only habitual canni-
bals* of the bird world, but they have
plenty of unsuspected fellow-criminals in
that nefarious line. At the Melbourne
Botanical Gardens it has been necessary
to shoot out the nankeen night herons,
which were rapidly devouring broods of
young black ducks. Currawongs are
death on small birds and their nestlings,
and the big channel-bill cuckoo misses
nothing in that line which comes its way.
Even Jacky Kookaburra is a confirmed
egg-stealer and devourer of nestlings
whenever he gets a chance. A pet brolga
of my acquaintance was detected in the
act of swallowing week-old chicks like
pills, a heavy shortage in the chick line
having been blamed on goannas for
weeks previously. The big Pacific gulls,
often kept in gardens in southern States
to destroy slugs and snails, have been
seen to kill and swallow sparrows and
chickens. In fact, no living thing small
enough to swallow is safe from any big
water bird.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Bert had been literally
sold a pup. A quaint little mong it was,
with the head of a French poodle and
the body of a dachshund. Unfortunately
Joe the rouseabout, who fancied himself
an expert on the breed, not only refused
to acknowledge the canine as a blue-
blooded poodle, but also made a few tact-
less references. to “bitzers.” This insult
to both his judgment and his hound was
too much for Bert’s temper, and a 15-
year-old friendship was rapidly deteriorat-
ing when Choom broke in with the wis-
dom of Solomon. “Eee, laads, gie over
fightin’; tha are both right and both
wrong. Yon little tyke is neither a French
poodle nor a ‘bitzer’ —it’s the first pure-
bred Lorraine poodle Ah’ve seen in Ors-
tralia.” It was the perfect compromise ;
but when the pacified pair had departed
I asked Choom “What’s this Lorraine-
poolde business?” “A French poodle with
a German minority,” he grinned toothily.
CALL OF THE WEST.
“I’m headin’ west,” the swagman said,
•‘Where me an’ Bill was mates.
We used t’ tramp the western tracks
An’ work f’r western rates
At shearin’, fencin’, sinkin’ tanks
Or lumpin’ bags o’ gram,
An’ then we’d loaf till we was broke
An’ on the track again.
“At last I felt the city call;
The pay, you see, was high;
I saw the west was far too tough
Its droughts too blanky dry.
Of Bill he reckoned I was mad
T’ tackle city life —
Y’ orter read his letter when
I wrote I’d took a wife!
“ ‘Y’ barmy coot,’ writes Bill t’ me,
T yoke y’r silly neck;
Y’ll be a proper softy now,
Y’ poor ol’ married wreck!
But still,’ he writes, ‘when you wake up
An’ want a mate again,
Y’re always on to half me dough,
So long’s I know y’re sane.’
“The years went by; me kids grew up;
Me life went be the clock;
Me dreams of wealth proved on’y dreams;
Me ship would never dock.
An’ since I read a bit o’ news
Of Bill —his kind is few—
It set me thinkin’ mighty hard
Of good ol’ days we knew.
“I’m headin’ west,” the swagman said,
“T’ join ol’ Bill once more.
I’ve left me fam’ly an’ me job
An’, though me feet are sore,
I know where Bill is hangin’ out;
It’s kept me spirits up —
He’s drew the fav’rite in the sweep
They’re runnin’ on the Cup.”
N.S.W.
OLD-TOMER.


ẅ
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
£ £ £
1930 . . 316,936 32.5 p.c. = 260,000 1,585,178
1931 .. 80,421 7.6„ „ 60,000 1,605,599
1932 .. 152,803 10 „ „ 80,000 1,678,402
1933 . . 276,199 15 ~ ~ 120,000 1,834,601
1934 . . 260,884 25 ~ „ 200,000 1,895,485
1935 .. 355,302 30 „ „ 240,000 2,010,787
1936 . . 519,903 62.5,, „ 500,000 2,030,690
1937 .. 803,278 70 „ ~ 560,000 2,273,968
1938 . . 437,432 80 „ „ 640,000 2,071,400
1939 .. 383,138 40 ~ ~ 320,000 2,134,538
Shares written up, £201,369 . . 2,335,907
1940 .. 455,244 40 p.c. = 320,000 2,471,151
Profits are governed mainly by metal
prices, the volume of sales, the grade of
ore treated and costs. As for prices and
the volume of sales, the British Govern-
ment contracted with the smelters at Pirie
to buy 13,875 tons of lead per calendar
month at £AIB 16s. 7d. per ton, f.o.b.
Australia, for the duration of the war and
three months thereafter. The price was a
couple of shillings above the market
average for the 12 months to June 30,
1939, and is subject to half-yearly adjust-
ments according to specified rises and
falls in production costs ; also, the buyer
has the option to terminate the contract
when deliveries aggregate 166,000 tons,
which is equal to about 12 months’ de-
liveries at the agreed monthly rate. With
Australian consumption calling for over
2000 tons p.m., this means that full
normal production at the Barrier will be
marketed at a profitable price.
Zinc concentrates are also sold under
contract to Electrolytic Zinc, Imperial
Smelting Corp. and the British Govern-
ment through I.S.C. The co. doesn’t
broadcast actual prices realised for its
lead, zinc and silver, but last term’s
figures were “somewhat higher than those
obtaining during the prior period” for
each metal. Also, stocks of lead (now
8884 tons) and silver (now 383,6460 z.)
were reduced by 2039 tons and 45,7160 z.
respectively during the year. Since the
lead was taken into account at £AI2 10s.
per ton and the silver at Is. 3d. (Aus.)
per ounce, this sale of accumulated stocks
was obviously a nice sweetener to the
richer returns from current production.
In the interests of national security,
the quantity of crude ore mined and
treated isn’t broadcast this time. There was
little change in the average assay value,
which was 15 p.c. lead, 6.20 z. silver and
12.6 p.c. zinc for 1939. The metallur-
gical staff succeeded in extracting a little
more of the three valuable metals from
the ore, recoveries being 96.1 p.c. lead,
91.5 p.c. silver and 88.7 p.c. zinc, the
best yet.
From one cause and another, gross
earnings from the mine (£1,138,125) shot
up £133,961. But owing to higher wages
(average £5 10s. lOd. per week, up ss. 3d.,
including the lead bonus), continued
rise in other costs and special provision
for taxation and contingencies, the profit
claimed from mining was £36,026 lighter :
Declared profit— 1937. 1939. 1940.
.. .. £664,803 £224,081 £188,055
Investments .. .. 103,513 125,926 141,449
£768,316 £350,007 £329,504
A gain of £15,523 in the return from in-
vestments reduced the shrinkage in the
claimed profit from all sources to £20,503.
The difference between the £329,504
and the profit shown in the introductory
table is reconciled in this*way:
Profit claimed £329,504
Add: Allowance for depreciation .. .. 33,000
Allowance for contingencies . . . . 70,000
Profit sale investments .. .. .. 178
Unexplained addition general reserve. . 5,518
Unexplained addition replacement res. 23,840
Total £462,040
Less: \V ritten off investments, etc. .. 6,796
Net profit per table .. .. £455,244
The £455,244 was £72,106 better than the
previous year’s showing and equal to a
trifle more than 2s. lOd. per share. The
£329,504 was equal to a shade over 2s.
of it came from investments) per
share. Maintenance of the div. at 40 p.c.
(2s. per share) was, therefore, not such
a difficult matter as the profit claimed
might suggest.
The writing up of the shareholding in
B.H.A.S. by £201,369 makes the position
more in keeping with what it actually is.
The South received 201,369 £1 shares
from the smelting co. in 1934, but took no
account of them in the books till now.
Including shares in other cos., many of
them in allied industries, the year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus was £331,846, making it £1,900,650,
or 12s. per share. The mine figures in
the books at £83,694, unchanged.
At the end of June ore reserves were
put at 2,350,000 tons (down 350,000 tons).
That excludes ore disclosed by diamond-
drilling only, ore incompletely developed
and ore below the 1840 ft. level. The
main shaft (No. 7) is down 2073 ft.;
further sinking has been suspended for
the present. A year ago the chairman
said the mine may live for 20 years, but if
it does it will be due to discovery of ore
as yet unknown.
As for the current term, the contract
for the sale of lead to Britain has been
renewed on the old terms, and subject
to taxation, etc., the 40 p.c. div. may not
prove beyond reach again.
Since the beginning of 1940 the price
of the f.-p. ss. shares has fluctuated
between 30s. and 19s. lOd. on the market.
At 275. the immediate return is 7.4 p.c.
on a 40 p.c. div. basis.
South British Insurance Co.
Net To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1928.. 214,333 12.1 p.c.=124,657 89,676 1,443,364
1929.. 233,831 12.9 „ ~133,253 100,578 1,543,942
Written off premises, £20,000 .. .. 1,523,942
1930.. 211,037 13.3 p.c.=137,552 73,485 1,597,427
Leasehold sinking fund included, £9073.. 1,606,500
Unexplained addition to reserves, £66,776 1,673,276
1931.. 137,042 13.3 p.c.=137,552 1,672,766
1932. . 194,443 13.3 „ „ 137,552 \ BQI . „„„
Written off premises, £40,000 j 16 ’ 891 *>689,657
1933. . 191,304 13.3 p.c.=137,552 , ftQ
Written off premises, £40,000 J 1.703,409
Unexplained additions to reserves,
£263,681 1,967,090
1934.. 240,030 13.3 p.c.=137,552 102,478 2,069,568
Unexplained addition, £14,878 .. .. 2,084,446
1935.. 261,538 13.3 p.c.=137,552 j Q „ Qa „ 78
Written off premises, £30,000 j 93 > 986 2 « 178 ’ 433
1936.. 309,957 13.3 p.c.=137,552 172,405 2,350,837
1937.. 327,788 13.7,, „ 141.850 185,938 2,536,775
Unexplained reductions, £13,229 .. 2,523,546
1938.. 329,425 14.1 p.c.=146,148 183,277 2,706,823
Unexplained reductions, £172,314 .. 2,534,509
1939.. 335,614 14.1 p.c.=146,149 189,465 2,723,974
Unexplained additions, £532,737 . . 3,256,711
1940.. 442,103 17.1 p.c.=176,239 I r 75
Written off premises, £50,000 j -5i0,804 u
This 67-year-old Auckland-controlled fire
and marine office has yielded share-
holders some rich harvests. Paid capital
is £1,031,640, of which £907,000-odd has
come from reserves, which were still 3.3
times greater than paid capital at the end
of August last. So the two combined
need turn in only a shade under 4 p.c. in
order to show 17.1 p.c. on capital alone.
The last gift was in 1927, when £257,910
of bonus scrip was scattered. Under
more settled conditions the time for fur-
ther gift-giving might be considered near
at hand. But in these very uncertain
days the careful board prefers to reward
shareholders in a way that has less sting
in its tail; three points have been added
to the div., making it 17.1 p.c.
The big changes in last term’s figures
arise mainly out of the exchange value
of business done and assets held outside
the Dominion. The co. gathers a sub-
stantial part of its income and holds a
like proportion of its assets outside
Maoriland. These were hitherto expressed
mainly in sterling. In the latest accounts
everything has been converted into
Dominion currency at rates of exchange
ruling at balancing date. One benefit to
the figures in this respect has been an un-
earned increment of £532,737 to reserves ;
and all the gain may not have been dis-
closed, either.
The marked growth in last year’s under-
writing figures was due largely to ex-
change adjustments and partly to expand-
ing business:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £209,239 £136,160 £50,229 65.0 p.c. 24.0 p.c.
1915.'. 553,297 287,117 159,063 51.8 „ 28.7 „
1920.. 792,664 369,194 256,543 46.4,, 32.3 „
1925.. 905,917 496,709 313,382 54.8 „ 34.6 „
1929.. 1,051,842 641,433 318,072 61.0 „ 30.2* „
1934.. 813,472 422,969 275,163 51.9 ~ 33.8 „
1935.. 895,697 482,941 277,974 53.9 „ 31.0 „
1936.. 1,040,070 562,000 295,461 56.5 ~ 28.4 „
1937.. 1,181,609 704,128 293,578 59.6,, 24.8 „
1938.. 1,342,535 843,977 316,394 62.8 „ 23.5 „
1939. . 1,417,625 844,516 384,989 59.5 ~ 27.7 „
1940.. 1,752,479 1,022,962 445,524 58.3 „ 25.4 ~
The apparent growth in net premium in-
come was £334,854, Losses swallowed
£178,446 of the gain, and exes, were up
£60,535. A truer idea of the improve-
ment in the co.’s experience is afforded
by the contraction of 245. p.c. in the loss
rate and of 465. p.c. in the expense rate.
The underwriting surplus was £95,873
stronger at £283,993, or 27.5 p.c. on
capital. Returns from interest, rents,
etc., advanced £10,616, reaching £158,110,
or 15.3 p.c. on capital. The net return
from all sources was thus £442,103, which
was an attractive 42.8 p.c. on capital as
against 32.5, 31.9, 31.7, 30, 25.3, 23.2 and
18.5 p.c. back to 1933. So the board
didn’t have to strain anything to raise the
div. After striking a round £50,000 off
premises, £215,864 of the year’s takings
was ploughed in.
Exchange adjustment had its influence
on balance-sheet figures, too:- —
1939. p.c. 1940. p.c.
Premises .. .. £505,271 12.1 £473,250 9.0
Mortgages .. .. 279,544 6.7 240,000 4.7
Deposits, cash, etc. .. 650,948 15.5 971,101 18.6
Stocks, debentures, etc. 722,382 17.2 818,754 15.7
Municipal debentures, etc. 386,917 9.2 469,373 8.9
Government securities i,543,024 36.8 2,125,260 40.6
Book debts . . . . 103,494 2.5 129,331 2.5
From both shareholders’ and policy-
holders’ point of view, the co. is in a
strong position. When the books closed,
net tangibles amounted to 257 p.c. of
the year’s net premiums, whereas 150 p.c.
is usually considered adequate.
What the future holds for underwriters
with world-wide connections nobody can
say at the moment. Two reassuring
features are that most of the co.’s busi-
ness is written outside present chief
danger zones, and that financially the
business is very well equipped to stand
a jolt.
In Maoriland the lOs.-paid shares sell
at 50s. on the market, and in Australia
at 425., returning 3.4 p.c. and 4.1 p.c.
respectively on the basis of last term’s
distribution. The net tangible cover is
435. Bd. per share.
United Provisions. Ltd.
,—* —Dividends To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves, serves.
1930.. 102,964 8 p.c. 7 p.c. 102,500 404 1186
1931.. 36,205 8 „ Nil 36,000 205 1391
1932.. 35.611 8 „ Nil 36,000 1002
1933.. 22,090 5 „ Nil 22,500 592
1934.. 35,652 8 „ Nil 36,000 244
Transferred from taxation reserve, £830.. 1074
1935.. 07,812 11* p.c. 2 p.c. 68,500 386
1936.. 55,326 8 „ 2 „ 55,000 326 712
1937.. 36,087 8 „ Nil 36,000 87 799
Tax refund, £467 .. .. .. .. 1266
1938.. 70,853 8 p.c. 3 p.c. 64,500 6,353 7619
1939.. 57,021 8 „ 3 „ 64,500 340
1940.. 52,999 8 „ 1-i „ 47,875 5,124 5204
* Including 3 p.c. arrears.
This is the holding co. that gave
£1,355,008 for the interests of J. C
Hutton and Foggitt, Jones (combined
paid capital £716,700) in 1927. It
is now the largest ham- and bacon-
curing, smallgoods and canned-foods,
etc., organisation in Australasia. All
told, 13 factories and a like number
of warehouses are controlled, the geo-
graphic spread of the former being
Queensland two, N.S.W. one, Victoria
three, South Aus. one, W.A. two and the
Speck one, with three across the Tasman.
For some years prior to the amalgama-
tion the two working concerns were on
the pig’s back. But the onset of the
depression brought destructive competi-
tion, both on the buying and selling sides,
and the path since has been slippery,
notwithstanding trade connections with
Southern and Eastern Asia, the East
Indies, Britain and the Islands, and con-
stant widening of the range and appeal
of activities.
Last year Britain took our surplus pork
production, of which U.P. is a large ex-
porter, at 7|d. per pound, first quality,
thereby eliminating the price hazard ; but
it restricted its imports of canned meats.
Also, the co. has lost its Indo-China,
Hong Kong and Shanghai markets, and
the profitable connection with the Dutch
Indies has been seriously dislocated. In
the home market there was intensification
of competition for pigs and other raw
materials, the prices of which are further
subject to seasonal variations ; but the
breakfast bacon-and-eggs appears as
popular as ever, and, despite their semi-
luxury nature, most of the co.’s other
lines appear to be holding well, though
margins remain fine.
Figures in the introductory table relate
to the holding co. only. Here are the
ones that really matter, covering the
whole group:
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends To Re- Re-
Sept , Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1939.. 57,490 8 p.c. 3 p.c. 64,500 164,875
1940.. 55,185 8 „ li,, 47,875 7310 172,185
* Subject to intangibles of £641,782.
Taken all round, turnover appears to
have gained ground, but the higher level
of outgoings, including taxation, produced
a slip of £2305 in the net result. That
was after striking off £28,241, as against
£25,407, for depreciation, but allows
for an accretion of £1491 to reserves.
After feeding the prefs., the £55,185 of
profit was 2 p.c. on the £950,000 of ord.
capital, compared with 2.2, 3.6, nil and
2 p.c. for the four preceding terms. Ord.


a scrap of paper
• . . . but in the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
equitable probate
and CENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD A
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
». V. PERKINS, General Manager.
e
ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend:
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
LONDON OFFICE:
I 8 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank Ltd.,
Barclay’s Bank Ltd., National Provincial Bank Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South
Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED.
ARE YOU GETTING CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES
m
JiLU
ABBOT
Filler
3
Cylinder
è
F I LTE Ft
If you are having trouble with
your water supply, either for
household or industrial purposes,
we can help you. We manufac-
ture water filters of all descrip-
tions. Our ABBOT pressure and
drip type filters used throughout
the Commonwealth and the East.
Our pressure filters used for Butter
Factories, Ice Works, Cordial
Factories, Hospitals and wherever
pure water is required.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
div. was lowered from 3 p.c. to p.c.,
the £7310 remaining reducing the amount
of ord. capital unrepresented by tangibles
in the books to 9s. lid. per share.
Finances are comfortable enough,
stocks, debtors and cash, etc., exceeding
the debt by £442,953 (up £2234):
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1940.
Paid capital .. •• £1,400,000 £1,400,000
Bank overdraft • • . • 60,034 211,838
Other creditors .. . . 144,413 121,49-
Tax provision . . 1 • 29,358 38,50 l
Suspense account.. .. 3,9/5
Freeholds .. 395,909 393,362
Plant, etc 158,204 166,682
Stock .. • • 371,801 501,793
Debtors ’.. .. .. 236,021 241,220
Cash, etc. .. •• •• 37,344 33,270
Intangibles* . . • • 641,807 641, 1 82
Suspense account.. .. 4,094
* Mainly difference between book value and par value
of inter-co. shareholdings.
The overdraft grew by £151,804 last
year in order to cut back the amount
due to other creditors by £22,921 and add
£129,992 to stocks. Amounts written off
fell £8478 short of new plant outlay—
new sheep- and lamb-processing works
were completed at St. Leonards (Tas.).
The depreciation charge would write
plant off in six years.
The accounts dealt a body-blow to the
market, the ords. at 6s. 3d. now being
3s. sd. below the year’s highest. The
prefs. stand at 225. 7d. Respective im-
mediate yields are 4 p.c. and 7 p.c.; the
cover is 10s. Id. ords., £2 Is. 4d. prefs.
Non-Metallics, Ltd.
Formed in February, 1939, to mine,
treat and market mineral earths in N. S.
Wales, this co. has put up a factory at
Granville and is now milling kaolins,
barytes, talc, etc., with a greater variety
of non-metallic earth products in view
when plant extensions are made. An
agreement has been made with Denver
Trading Pty. for exclusive distribution of
the co.’s products.
Originally, a magnesite deposit esti-
mated to contain 70,000 tons of the pro-
duct at Thaddungra (N.S.W.) and a
500,000-ton dolomite deposit at Cudge-
gong were to be taken over from L. V.
Ellis for £2500 in shares. Since then
additional properties have been investi-
gated in “the various States” and some
have been acquired.
It appears that the co. at present is
more active in milling ores than in de-
veloping is own mining properties. Partly
because of war conditions a ready market
is said to have been found.
The co.’s paid capital at June 30 last
was £9290 in 46,668 ss. shares paid to
varying amounts. Creditors were owed
£1244. The vendor’s consideration (£2500
in shares) is to be allotted only when the
co.’s annual earnings reach 8 p.c. Assets
were represented by land and buildings
£2267, plant, etc., £763, stocks £554, cash
£3020, debtors £BO, development £1236,
preliminary exes, (mostly brokerage)
£1338, p. and 1. debit £1276. The
latter item represents the loss incurred
between Jan. 17, 1939, and June 30, 1940.
Trading has only recently commenced,
and the directors have waived their fees
for the year.
Next year’s trading should give some
idea of the possibilities of this venture.
From London: Question of transfer
of domicile sought by Great Boulder and
other mining cos. heavily hit by the
excess-profits tax is hotly discussed both
in and outside the Stock Exchange. Sup-
porters of the transfer claim that there is
nothing unfair about it. Opponents
argue that transfer of domicile shouldn’t
be sought until all other methods to
obtain redress have been exhausted and
that the choice of the present moment of
emergency for making such transfer is
neither tactful nor timely. Another objec-
tion is that London shareholders would
lose the possibility of effective watch on
the affairs of a transferring company, and
in matters of dispute may have no ade-
quate representation except by very
roundabout and expensive methods.
Discussing the matter in its editorial
columns the “Financial Times” says:
The gold levy imposes a heavy burden
on mining cos. in Australia, India, Rho-
desia and West Africa, but it is the addi-
tional imposition of U.K. excess-profits tax
which has come as a last straw on com-
panies domiciled in Britain. This impost
falls with particular severity on goldmines
operating in the foregoing countries, as
well as on the Northern Rhodesian copper-
producers and many Malayan tin con-
cerns. The last-named, like the goldmines,
lay stress on the fact that they are work-
ing a wasting asset. Without going the
length of transfer of domicile, they claim
with justice that in producing at over
100 p.c. of the international tin quota
they are serving a patriotic purpose in
providing for the reserve stock in the
United States, while depleting their ore re-
serves, which constitute their main asset,
and at the same time becoming liable to
pay substantially 100 p.c. on excess pro-
duction. Considering that known ore re-
serves are limited it is undeniable that
mining cos. stand in an exceptional posi-
tion as compared with a manufacturing
business or one whose product is renewed
continually by nature. The situation is
especially difficult for developing cos. with
a low profit standard. It is urged that
an allowance should be made for deple-
tion much more reasonable than the maxi-
mum 4 p.c. so far conceded. While
shareholders may be willing to surrender the
whole of their excess income in the present
state of emergency, they alone of all
taxpayers should not be asked to submit
to a capital levy as well.
* * * *
Blue Bird Gold (W.A.) reports for
last year (1) value of production £63,898 ;
(2) disbursement of £45,000 in dividends
and payment, exclusive of Federal levy
of 50 p.c. above £9 an ounce, of £9568
in taxation; (3) 11,575 tons of ore re-
serves ; (4) deepening of main shaft to
210 ft. vertical and completion of new
treatment plant. Since milling was com-
menced in 1936 £201,075-worth of gold
has been won. Until much more is
known about the continuation and value
of the reef in depth the value of the
mine, other than what can be estimated
by the gold in sight, would be difficult to
determine.
* * * #
The old Morning Star at Mt. Magnet
(W.A.), held by Metropolitan Mining Co.,
which operates the adjacent Black Cat,
has been forfeited for noncompliance of
labor conditions. Swan Bitter Co., which
applied for the forfeiture, is to be given
a lease of the property by the Mines
Department. Morning Star, like a num-
ber of early-day. shows at Mt. Magnet
and elsewhere on the Murchison field,
had some rich ore in shallow ground, but
it was soon worked out.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Now that Edna May Amalga-
mated has mastered a water-flow of 1000
gallons a minute, uncovered the buried
remnants of the old Edna May gold-
carrier and begun to do well out of pro-
duction, it is turning its attention to some
areas adjoining its present holding. Por-
tions of these areas are to be diamond-
drilled. Features of the Edna May group
are that the pegmatitic gold-bearing
lodes are contained in a belt of gneissic
rock 50 chains long by five chains wide,
the gneiss being encompassed by green-
stone. The success of the proposed bor-
ing appears to depend on whether it
discloses extensions of the gneissic belt.
If such rock exposures are made they will
probably be found to contain lodes with
as satisfactory gold content as is the case
with the main gneissic belt on which Edna
May is located. All things considered,
the boring seems justified.
* # * *
Gold Exploration and Finance, the
London-Australia investment concern
which dropped a packet in its B.M.L.
Bendigo venture, records net earnings of
£54,480 for the year to March, after
handing the taxgatherer £37,142 ; the
1939 surplus was £21,744. Following
Gold Mines of Australia’s reconstruction,
there have been changes in the investment
portfolio. At balance date the chief hold-
ings, with divs. received during the term,
comprised:
Divs.
Shares P.c. Re-
Company. Held. Capital, ceived.
Western Mining’ Corp. .. 621,366 9'6.8
G.M. of Kalgoorlie .. 369,400 30.2 -/101*
Triton G.M. . . .. 191,820’ 19.9 1/-
Wostarn Gold . • ■ • 31,600 31.6 1/9
Victoria Dredging .. 118,934 47.6 11/
G.M. of Australia . . 260,500 62.4
Morning- Start .. .. 52,100 13.0
* Sterling, t Since sold to Mt. Coolon.
The main interest, Western Mining Corp.,
four-fifths owner of Central Norseman,
has turned in nothing yet, but some
return is getting closer. Central Norse-
man showed the tidy surplus, before de-
preciation, of £201,300 last term, most
of which went back into the mine. In
return for advances made, G.E. itself
holds options over 2,000,000 Central
Norseman shares at par.
* * * *
When Trekelano dropped to 470 tons
of copper ore for the past month it meant
nearly a 50 p.c. shrinkage, and Chillagoe
Smelters felt it immediately, for the whole
Cloncurry output didn’t get near the
usual Trekelano truckage. It took some
of the old pillars to get that lot, but
prospecting work is being pushed on in
the hope of speeding up future supplies.
Mt. Oxide, too, dropped from 312 tons
to 191 tons for no very apparent reason.
Outside of these the other suppliers are
only lightweights at the present time.
* * * *
Kelsey Creek Gold Mines, Ltd., reports
that the bottom level, No. 4, in the Duffer
mine, near Proserpine (N.Q.), has been
driven north 225 ft. from the main shaft
on Bin. of ore. This is good news for stock-
holders, seeing that recent crushings have
been around soz. fine per ton. On ore
of this grade, Bin. is almost a bonanza.
The Duffer will be remembered as the
show that hit the ceiling in the Chillagoe
Smelter assay-room, individual lots going
as high as 17oz. fine per ton. It seems
to have settled down now to a steady
4oz. or 50z., and prospects should please
medico Dittmar and his confreres.
* * * *
Acquisition of 29,800,000c.y. of 0.4531 b.
ground by Larut represents a sizable
addition to its property and about 10
years’ work for No. 5 dredge, rated capa-
city 250,000 c.y. monthly. The last esti-
mate (Dec., ’37) put total dredging re-
serves at 44,532,000 c.y. averaging 0.481 b.
t.o. Meantime, getting on for 12,000,000
c.y. has been dug, but that appears to
have been more than covered by fresh
acquisitions, apart from that now an-
nounced. The co. is also an equal part-
ner, with Anglo-Oriental and Rawang
Tin Fields, in a 0.571 b. property of
55,000,000 c.y. near Pungah in West
Siam.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
Hi
E9IHIII
ffir
jjj majHljglWj
[j| MM»g
a.
fc
w^SS
>evV^
&
&
-si
M
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
W. G. Bulfin
SMOKE-OH!
“One M.P. invariably reserves his sleeping
berth in this train.” —Melbourne “Herald.”
His bunk is, of course, taken for
granted.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A silver fruitdish was presented to the
bride-to-be by girls of the staff. The guest will
take martial vows next Saturday.”— “Truth.”
The fight is on!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“When the first lot of beer 1 made went flat
I gave it to the pigs.”
—Correspondent in woman’s paper.
That’s one way to get pickled pork.
4* 4* 4- 4"
“Each degree of longitude on the earth rep-
resents four minutes of time.”
— “World’s News.”
Any man who has waited 240 degrees
of longitude for his girl considers he has
allowed her plenty of latitude.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Lunch-hour concert.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Usually opens with a tenor solo by the
soup-eater on your left.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“These girls claim to be the most efficient
set of mannequins in the world.”
—Film magazine.
And no doubt they have figures to
prove it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A counterfeiter may pass bad two-
shilling pieces with equanimity and yet
be scared stiff to pass a couple of
coppers.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Some of Napoleon’s letters were so illegible
that they were mistaken for maps of a battle-
field.” — “World’s News.”
What a doctor the Little Corporal
would have made!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Ladies! Cut out your own clothes.”
— Advt.
Come, come! Isn’t this getting a little
too revolutionary?
e
“You do what you re told — l'm the owner of this horse.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Swearing in War Council.” — “Sun” heading.
That should spur them to get on with
their job!
4* 4* 4* 4*
It looks as though the R.A.F. has
stopped Hitler from barging into Eng-
land.
Curry.
“He declared that his wife was incapable of
cooking, and that she had made him a nervous
wreck and forced him into financial ruin.”
—Divorce report.
The moral, for the man who feels
An urge for wedlock’s noose,
Is : Girls who cannot cook your meals
Can often cook your goose!
T. W. N.
Model de Luxe.
“Lots of domestic tragedies could be pre-
vented if only a man was as particular at
choosing a wife as he is at choosing a new car.”
—Dorothy Dix.
Joe the garageman quietly thought
over Ethyl’s good points. He had seen
her swimming and knew that she pos-
sessed a first-rate chassis. Her body-
work, apart from a few freckles, was
unmarked, and, although her clutch was
a trifle fierce, she was quick off the mark
when a party was mentioned.
Parking with her was no trouble. He
had examined her gearbox and was
astounded at the number of spare parts
in it, besides lipstick, powder compact,
nail polish, rouge, mascara, eyebrow
pencil and aspirins.
There wasn’t a solitary knock in her
knees, and her curves had a sophisticated
streamline effect. True, her hood was
on at a rakish angle and would prob-
ably need replacing at frequent intervals,
but, although he would be paying her off
for the rest of his life, he decided to
take her in tow.
MELTON.
A Moot Point.
w
N.A. EVANS.
Conversation Piece.
“Fez, please.”
“ and mind you, Alice, she’s sup-
posed to be a friend of mine. She didn’t
know that I knew Mrs. Johnson, and that
what she blabbed about me would come
back.”
“Yes, and the hide she’s got”
“Fez, please.”
“She came round to my place pretend-
ing she wanted to know when the next
meeting of the Auxiliary was on. You’d
think she wouldn’t have had the nerve to
put her nose inside my gate again after
the broad hint I gave her about her com-
ing round only when she knew Jim was
home. As if I couldn’t see that”
“Fez, please !”
“Now, what do you know about that ?
She tried the same stunt with Bob, but
he simply can’t stand the woman. Says
she simpers. She does, too, and she’s
really nothing to look at, you know.
I”
“Fez, please!”
“Oh! It’s the guard. All right, you’ve
no need to shout. Anyone would think
we were trying to get out of paying our
fares. It’s all right, dear ; I have it.”
“No, don’t you bother, Miriam. I
have the exact amount here.”
“No, I’m certain it’s my turn, Alice.
You paid coming in, I think. Here we
are. Oh! Aren’t these zip-fastener bags
a perfect nuisance! This one of mine
keeps catching.”
“Well, let me pay it, darling. I really
think it’s my turn, anyhow.”
“No, dear ; I’ll get it in a — there ! that’s
got it . . . H’m! That’s funny. I was
sure I had a two-shilling piece left. Oh,
I know. That bit of georgette came to
Is. ll|d., didn’t it? But I’ve got a pound-
note here sorrtewhere I’d put aside for
the insurance.”
“It would be silly to change that, dar-
ling. I’ll pay it. Here we are. Four-
pence, fourpence ha’penny, fivepence ha'-
penny. You’ve got that odd ha’penny,
Miriam, that’ll make sixpence. How
much is it —eightpence? Oh, dear! We
must have spent more than we thought.
That’s the worst of these Friday specials
—you keep on buying, don’t you? I’m
afraid you will have to change that pound
after all, dear.”
“Two right out, please ... Did you
see the glare he gave me, Alice? The
hide of him! What’s he there for, any-
way?”
K.
Down to Earth.
“If you grow root vegetables in a piece of
ground one season, put in a different type of
vegetable next time.” —Radio gardener.
As we’d just used the last of the carrots
and artichokes, the missus and I decided
to take his advice. So we got a seeds-
man’s catalogue and studied it closely,
but without avail, for it was clear that
every vegetable listed had roots. The
problem appeared to be insoluble. We
talked it over for days. In the end per-
sistence brought its own reward. We
sowed several kinds of vegetables in
seed boxes, waited till they grew a bit,
then, carefully cutting off their roots, we
transplanted them to the garden. I’m
sure we’d have got quite a good crop if
it hadn’t been for something that caused
them to wither. I intend asking the Agri-
cultural Department experts what it was.
M8.
Suburban Tragedy.
The words of pleading died upon his
tongue;
The husband sat with shame upon his
face ;
His pitiful excuses ceased among
The shafts of scorn she aimed at his
disgrace.
He swore that he had loved her —now
he’d failed !
Dark now her wonted alabaster brow.
“That letter now,” she barked, “you said
you’d mailed,
Give it to me —I’ll go and post it
no w!”
CLEM LACK.
Sporting Finance.
“The list of miscellaneous charges against
Australia’s share of the 1939 Davis Cup gate-
money included 3900 dollars to the Philadelphia
Police Pensioners’ Fund and a payment to high-
school boys hired to walk barefooted over the
courts in search of weeds.”
As the last of the congratulations and
back-slapping was over and the crowd
melted out the gates at the conclusion
of the great contest, the Australian man-
ager approached the manager of the
American team, his eyes dancing with
excitement.
“Well,” said the Yank as he took his
o pp osde number’s arm, “it was sure a
swell mee ting, Aussie . And did the dough
ro ll in! Come into the office here and
check , h n Your share
x „ T
comes to 57,500 dollars. Isn t it just
’
’ .
The Aussie could scarcely suppress a
y e 'l o£ . l°y- Struth. he said, isnt
that snifter?”
“Sure!” said the Yank. “The folks
down under’ll get a big kick out of it.
Of course, there are one or two little items
to be charged against the receipts. There's
this item of 7225 dollars for the Fund
for Deserted Co-eds. Y’ see, the campus
i s the cradle of tennis, so we figure we’re
unde r a sort of obligation to support the
colleges.”
“g ut ”
A . , tIOnAA
This next item here, now, 8,000
dollars for cheer leader and rooters.
We’ve let you off lightly there. It set us
back actually 54 grand to get Butch
Pinkenhammer, the ace cheer leader of
Manhattan, so we reckoned that seeing
he was pulling the cheers mostly for us
we’d take two-thirds of the cost our-
selves.”
“But this fourth item here: ‘Autograph
musclers, 9000 dollars.’ What was that
for?” asked the puzzled Aussie.
“Well, you didn’t want your boys an-
noyed with bunches of autograph-hunters,
did you? So we hired 150 ex-bruisers at
40 dollars a day to shoulder off any pests
they saw pulling a bead with an open
book on any member of the teams. We
split that lot 50-50.”
“And this 1100 dollars for Insectospray
fluid —what was that for?”
“Well, when our No. 1 man was having
a warm-up before the opening singles on
Friday a fly on the net was putting him
clean off his service. We couldn’t take
a risk on insects spoiling the game, so
we got some of this juice to knock ’em
with. It’s real expensive stuff, but it’s
worth it. I’ve had the rest of it put into
your dressing-room. You can take it
back to Aussie and use it to spray them
kookaburras, wombats and other insect
pests you get in the Antipodes. It’s sure-
fire stuff.” .
“But we don’t want to take”
“Say no more,” said the American
manager handsomely. “It’s yours. Now
there are just a few more items, but
they’re not important. There’s 750
dollars to the Long Island Bartenders’
Barbecue Fund ; 800 dollars to the Fund
for Distressed ex-White Sox Pitchers;
1500 dollars each to the Democratic and
Republican Conventions—we can’t appear
one-eyed where politics are concerned;
450 dollars to the Home for Flat-footed
Ball Boys; 300 dollars to the Talla-
hassee Backwoodsmen’s Thanksgiving
Day Dinner ; 550 dollars to the collec-
tion on behalf of the burnt-out East-
side matmen ; 800 dollars to the Shirley
Temple Fan Fund —and another half-
dozen smaller items that don’t come to
more than 2500 dollars. Let me see,
now ; these expenses total up to 63,000
dollars. That leaves 5500 dollars you’re
in the red for. Your association can
give us a cheque for that, but don't
hurry. Any old time’ll do. There’s no
doubt, pal, this challenge round has been
a great financial success!”
Bo.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers. unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors:
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND F. W. HIXSON
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW. Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
A £250,000,000 Budget
It is forecast that the new Federal
Treasurer, A. W. Fadden, will present
a Budget providing for a £250,000,000
expenditure after Parliament meets on
November 20. About £200,000,000 of the
proposed outlay will be in respect of
defence, especially purchase of equip-
ment and materials. Last year’s Budget
provided for an expenditure of about
£102,000,000, which was a record up to
that time.
The latest Budget predictions suggest
that between a quarter and a third of that
rather hypothetical something “the
national income” will be consumed by
war’s cost in 1940-41. Not so very long
ago (in January), H. D. Black, lecturer
in economics at Sydney University, was
rather caustic in his opinion that “this
war is no emergency to some people, but
a golden opportunity—a matter of busi-
ness a little better than usual.” He
referred to it as a “two-bob-in-the-pound
total war” so far as Australia was con-
cerned.
The present “65.-in-the-pound” pro-
posals show how the May Blitzkrieg and
subsequent development have altered the
Australian economic outlook. Until
recently we found it difficult to spend the
money budgeted for ; the defence pro-
duction machine was not got going so
quickly as the defence finance machine.
Fortunately wise counsellors prevented
the expenditure of money ahead of pro-
duction, though retail-trade economists
were nearly all in favor of “a little in-
flation” —their minds inevitably run that
way.
But now that the industrial system of
the Commonwealth has had placed under
it a war-time base, spending can go
ahead as fast as the increasing produc-
tion. And as labor and materials are
diverted from domestic avenues to
defence work, it is natural that this tax
on the nation will become increasingly
felt.
The £200,000,000 which it is proposed to
spend in 1940-41 represents just under £29
a head for every man, woman and child
in the Commonwealth. It is something
more than 10s. per week per head. This
expenditure should not be regretted nor
denied provided we have war production
of the kind we want flowing out as fast
as the money flows. Money is the
shadow, defence effort (in the shape of
labor and materials) the substance. An
excess of defence expenditure and a short-
age of useful defence effort mean an
inflated cost of defence. That is some-
thing we do not want.
Treasurer Fadden has said that his aim
in preparing the Budget would be to
maintain a sensible balance between the
three chief methods of raising money—
taxation, voluntary loans and bank
credits. Taxation would be “designed
to cause no disproportionate hardships to
any section of taxpayers.”
His mention of bank credit has already
been seized on by “political observers,”
etc. A number of people with shadowy
ideas about credit and finance have
already been asking why the whole war
enterprise should not be financed out of
something they term “national credit”
and the necessity for taxation abolished.
They don’t seem to realise that a nation
can compensate itself for labor and
material wasted in fighting a war only by
working harder in order to restore the
inroads made into domestic supplies.
“Credit,” however juggled, will not do
any good ; it can only shift burdens from
one class to another —a sort of robbing
of Peter to pay Paul.
Mr. Fadden mentions bank credit last
in his three sources of war finance. That
may signify the proportionate position it
will occupy in the 1940-41 scheme of
things. It already occupies third place,
bank credit having been availed of during
the first three months of the war in order
to provide immediate cash to look after
pressing wants. And that process has
been carried on within limits. On
Dec. 31, 1938, eight months before war
broke out, the Australian trading banks
held £37,800,000 of Government paper,
including £18,700,000 of Treasury bills.
On April 30 this year the total was
£84,400,000 (£43,400,000 Treasury bills),
after which proceeds of a public loan and
incoming revenue enabled the total to be
reduced to £74,600,000 in July, rising
again to £77,700,000 at August 31.
Up to the present time the Common-
wealth financial policy has acknowledged
that the only way to conduct the defence
programme is to divert much essential
labor and materials to the Government,
and, since this represents a tax on pro-
duction, it is sound practice to recognise
it in taxing private incomes, etc., to
finance it so far as it is politically pos-
sible.
It is not, apparently, politically possible
to do the whole job by taxation, though
that is the obvious way from a theoretical
point of view. We have had some public
borrowings already besides bank accom-
modation, and overseas outlay is being
financed in London for the time being.
So far in the Commonwealth the Gov-
ernment hasn’t shaped up squarely to
excess-profits taxation. It seems to be
avoiding this necessary measure, which is
in operation in Britain and has been
passed in the U.S.A. It is something
which should be availed of before even
thinking in nonsensical terms of “credit
expansion.”
The Baerami Oil Venture
Alex. J. Gibson, a sponsor of the new
co. to be formed to work the Baerami
shale deposits in N.S.W. (B. 30/10/ ’4O),
says that the portion of the field the co. is
interested in has been tested geologically,
and he has supplied portion of a report by
Julius, Poole and Gibson, consulting engi-
neers. This advises that “12,100,000 tons
of retortable oil-yielding shales” is con-
tained in the co.’s own areas, with prima
facie evidence of an additional 8,000,000
tons in adjoining leases. The only relation-
ship now existing between the Standard
Oil Co. of Australia, which engaged the
engineers, and the new venture is that
the Standard co. is vendor of the leases,
etc., the sponsors state. The considera-
tion is 250,000 £1 shares, equal to one-
eleventh of the proposed paid capital.
The new co., however, had not been
registered up to the end of last week.
It is proposed to treat the 20,000,000
tons of material over 25 years. Shales
put through the Renco retort “in-
dicate that a yield of 58 gallons of
crude oil and tar can be definitely
accepted as the commercial rate to be
obtained when using this retort from the
shales at Baerami as mined.” Apart
from the mining side (costs here are esti-
mated at 11s. 6d. a ton), prospects
of financial success will depend greatly
on whether results from this experimental
plant are repeated over lengthy periods,
and on whether they are as economical
as believed.
The applicant submitted estimates of
ore reserves, mining and retorting costs,
earnings, etc., before Treasury permis-
sion was granted for the raising of the
proposed £2,500,000 of capital.
The prevailing air around Australian
’Changes would suggest- that the war is
already won. Between September 12
and October 30 the Sydney index
of industrial shares rose from 123.52
to 132.29. In the same period the
London index moved up from 79.3 to
82.4, and the corresponding Wall-street
indicator from 127.87 to 132.98. It is
apparent from these comparisons that
Australian sharemarkets have a more
optimistic atmosphere than either of the
world’s two leading financial centres, one
of which is domiciled in a neutral coun-
try. The tone here is exceptionally —and
surprisingly —strong.
One reason for the apparent strength
would seem to be the absence of bears,
which were banned from ’Change after
the orgy of share-slaughter following the
German invasion of France. Another
reason is the low yield being offered on
Consolidated loans. A further factor
might be the fear of inflation and the
acquisition of equity scrip as a protection
against this possible danger; but Aus-
tralians have never fully appreciated the
position in this regard in the past. When-
ever inflation has seemed possible or
threatened the prices of ord. shares
have fallen almost as much as any
other kind of security. During the May-
June Blitzkrieg, for example, when high-
quality shares of all kinds were being
sacrificed, it was impossible to convince
the general body of market followers that
ord. shares were every bit as good as
paper money, and that from some angles
they looked a great deal better. So The
Bulletin finds it hard to believe that
fears of inflation are a potent factor in
the present strong market, though it con-
siders that, as an offset to the effect of
a possible inflationary movement on one’s
capital, ord. shares of some kinds have
outstanding merit. But the Federal Gov-
ernment’s avowed intention has been to
avoid inflation as far as possible, and to
date it has been remarkably successful.
Equality of sacrifice would be difficult if
inflation became pronounced, and inter-
ruption of an efficient war effort would
be certain. Therefore, while still recog-
nising the merits of ord. shares as an in-
vestment in times like these, this paper
hopes that inflation will be avoided by the
levying of adequate and well-spread taxa-
tion where additional money is necessary
to carry on this war.
The unemployment total is reducing
steadily, and for the September quarter
was down to 7.4 p.c. of registered trade-
unionists. In 1939-40 taxation per head
was £2O 12s. 10d., against £l7 19s. 6d.
the previous year. The levy is likely to
be much heavier in 1940-41, and the
Federal Government will be shirking its
duty if it doesn’t introduce some form
of excess-profits tax based on average
earnings before war broke out. This is
something the Commonwealth investor
should give due (but not undue) regard
to, and also to the fact that the season
in some very important parts of the Com-
monwealth is decidedly bad.
* * * *
The net profits of Felt and Textiles
have expanded at a great rate over the
past two years. In 1938 consolidated
profits were £60,376, in 1939 £94,184, and
in 1940 £160,153. The latest figure was
arrived at after providing £38,798 for
depreciation and £79,825 for taxation.
The co. and its subsidiaries make Feltex
floor coverings, other felts, carpets,
slippers, flocks, waddings, etc., and capital
account of the parent had grown from
£130,000 in 1936 to £869,247 at the close
of last accounts. That included 37,333
ords. issued during the year to acquire a
new subsidiary. Since the close of
accounts a further 314,624 ords. have
been issued ; when these are fully paid
the capital account will total £1,183,871,
only £240,000 of it in prefs. (carrying
6 p.c.).
As a public co. Felt and Textiles has
not yet suffered a reverse. Last year’s
earnings exhibited in the parent’s own
accounts (£156,612) were equal to 23.2 p.c.
on average ord. capital, compared with
15.2 p.c. in the preceding term. How-
ever, the div. was kept at 10 p.c., and the
profit undistributed helped to ease the
strain on finances caused by the great
expansion in activities. At balance day
the parent and pups owed £920,113, in-
cluding provision for income tax, so the
necessity for the new capital just issued
becomes obvious. Still, £791,712 was the
figure at which stocks were valued,
against £728,798 for all fixed assets (ex-
cluding goodwill, £230,840), so that the
position was reasonably liquid notwith-
standing the size of the outside debt.
The stock is highly active, and at 355. the
ords. give a return of just under 6 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. As in the case of
Woolworths and other young progressive
concerns, the expansion in capital account
will later on reduce the ratio of new issue
benefits.
* * * *
Though the annual report dated Oct. 4
said “your directors hope to be in a posi-
tion to consider the payment of a div.
in the near future,” shareholders in Asso-
ciated Pulp and Paper got a surprise when
a 6 p.c. distribution on the ords. was
announced at the annual meeting 26 days
later. Of the 6 p.c., 3 p.c. is in respect
of the year to April 30 and 3 p.c. is an
interim for the current year. It is an
unusual procedure ; usually a div. is an-
nounced in a co.’s annual report and con-
firmed at the general meeting. A.P.’s
div. is payable on Dec. 18, after which the
255,000 deferred shares will rank equally
with the 950,000 ords. for div. A.P. ord.
shares rose no less than 2s. 9d. on an-
nouncement of the div. Some cos. owed
money by A.P. are going to exercise
their options over A.P. shares to the
extent of their loans.
* * * *
Australian Newsprint Mills, the daily-
newspaper co-operative enterprise prepar-
ing to make newsprint in southern Tas-
mania, had a paid-up capital of £1,026,249
on June 30. It owed £70,456. Fixed
assets totalled £910,611, and cash, etc.,
£186,094. The report carries little other
information. The second annual meeting
is to be held in Hobart on the 18th.
* * * *
“Nothing definite in mind about a
further capital issue,” said Norman
Brookes at Australian Paper Manufac-
turers’ annual meeting last week in Mel-
bourne. With the installation of the new
paper machine at Mary vale in August it
is now possible to turn out 135,000 tons
a year working overtime, and 120,000
tons under normal conditions. Paper-
pulp capacity has been increased by 6000
tons a year. Taxation difficulties are
holding up a merger of the holding cos.
“Paper-manufacturing prospects appear
very bright,” according to the chairman
of Cumberland.
* * * *
The capital of Greater Union is con-
trolled by Wests (26.2 p.c.), Spencers
(26.7 p.c.), Greater J. D. Williams (32.5
p.c.) and Amalgamated Pictures (14.6
p.c.). The holding cos. have different-
sized capital accounts, and in proportion
to each £lOO of capital Wests holds 39
shares, Spencers 36 shares, Greater J. D.
Williams 33 shares and Amalgamated 32
shares. All four cos. have had a
thin time since the old operating co.’s
overbuilding programme was followed
by depression and the squeezing grip
of Yankee film interests. A couple
of years ago Amalgamated Pictures
spent £14,000 on its Melbourne Majestic
Theatre, and Wests later laid out
something like £50,000 on its Olympia
in Adelaide. This theatre is leased
to G.U.T. until 1941 at a weekly
rental of £53 17s. 6d., plus rates and
taxes. A ten-year extension was arranged
on similar terms, plus 8 p.c. p.a. on the
1939 capital outlay. Wests also owns the
King’s in Wellington (M.L.), leased at
£624 a year. Though its profit last year
improved, no div. was paid because of
an increase in the debt on the theatre.
* * * *
National Press Pty., publishers of
“Smith’s Weekly” nowadays, claim a
profit of £1261 for the year to Aug. 31
(after writing off £544 of preliminary
exes.), and a 3 p.c. div. is being paid.
Paid capital is £40,000. Outsiders are
owed £4089, including taxation reserve,
and assets of £45,349 are mostly of a
liquid or semi-liquid nature.
* * * *
W. H. Soul, Pattinson and Co., the
N.S.W. chain-chemist concern, disclosed
profits of £69,000 for the year to July 31,
compared with £70,047 during the pre-
ceding 12 months. In March a £126,000
bonus-issue was allotted (two for five),
and on this a 12 2-3 p.c. distribution has
been made, against 15 p.c. on the old
capital. But the final distribution at the
rate of 13.3 p.c. on the new capital
account is equal to 18.6 p.c. on the old.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
MEDITERRANEAN FRONT.
[ltems here condensed give information (along with
some speculation, which, of course, is always liable
to be upset) on some aspects of the Mediterranean Front,
on which the latest war moves are being made. First,
New York “Times” considers Russia’s position.]
Stalin and Molotov seem to be lying in a pit
of helplessness which they themselves have dug. They
signed their pact of death with Hitler last year ; they
must now abide by its consequences. One of its con-
sequences has come in the form of a German-Italian-
Japanese alliance which appears to have clamped a
handcuff upon them ; another may come any day in
the form of a Japanese-Russian pact made at Hitler’s
command ; still another may be the spectacle of Ger-
man troops advancing, without hindrance, through an
age-old Russian Lebensraum in the Near East.
It will be little consolation to the British to see
Russia thus paying the price of her past miscalcula-
tions and misdeeds. The British position in the Near
East may become increasingly dangerous. If Turkey
capitulated under Russian pressure, the present British
Army in the Near East would be hard pressed to hold
the Iraq oilfields and Suez at the same time. Faced
with such a prospect, the British can only grit their
teeth, send more and more of their bombers over
Germany, and take comfort from the prophetic words
of Mr. Churchill last August: “Even if .the Nazi
legions stood triumphant on the Black Sea, or indeed
upon the Caspian ; even if Hitler were at the gates of
India, it would profit him nothing if at the same time
the economic and scientific apparatus of German war
power lay shattered and pulverised at home.”
* * * * v
Italy’s Part
(From London “Nineteenth Century”)
It is customary to jeer at the Italian navy because
of its speed, the implication being that ail it can do
well is to run away. Speed is one of the main com-
ponents of strength in any fleet and to “run away”
is often the right thing for a fleet to do. There have,
throughout British naval history, been times when it
was necessary to avoid battle, when the proper func-
tion of the fleet was to remain “in being.” The Italian
fleet is derisively referred to as “bottled up” in the
Adriatic. But it operates very effectively as a fleet
“in being.”
As such, it immobilises in the Mediterranean a
British fleet and air force which, except in so far as
they complete the blockade, are rendered useless
against Germany. The Italians also compel Britain to
maintain considerable forces in north-east Africa.
Their fleet “in being” enables them to command their
communications with Albania and therefore to invade
the Balkans in defiance of British sea power. At the
same time they are helping the Germans powerfully
to gain access to the shores of the eastern Mediter-
ranean and to Spain.
If Italy were forced to conclude a separate peace
the blockade would become much closer, German
influence would be destroyed in Spain and reduced
in the Balkans. Naval, aerial and military opera-
tions, blockade by land as well as by sea, and varied
forms of economic, financial and diplomatic pressure
would be at the disposal of Britain for a converging
movement that would accomplish the total defeat of
Germany.
The defeat of Italy is, therefore, the essential pre-
liminary to the defeat of Germany. A separate peace
with Italy would not be an end in itself, but a means
to an end. The sooner that peace could be brought
about the better, however generous it may be, within
certain limits, as long as Italy ceased to be a bel-
ligerent. Italy, by herself, is not a menace to England.
There is only one such menace —Germany. It is a vital
interest that the power of Germany be broken
for ever. It is not a vital interest that Italy’s power
shall be broken —except as a means of breaking
Germany’s.
It is essential that Great Britain achieve the
maximum concentration of ships, troops and aero-
planes in the Mediterranean region and pass from the
defensive to the offensive with as much speed, vigor
and resolution as she can command. The demands
made by home defence, by the blockade and by the
aerial attacks on Germany remain. But the danger
of full-scale invasion is no longer serious (perhaps it
was never so). The danger of air raids on towns,
dockyards and shipping and of landings by parachute
or transport ’plane will continue—-and the more the
defences of Britain are depleted, the more it will grow.
Nevertheless, the forces and the material employed for
home defence should be reduced to the minimum com-
patible with bare security so that the defeat of Italy
may be rapid and decisive.
* * * * *
Desert Invasion
[Description of the desert country across which the
Italians have been trying to advance into Egypt, and in
which Australian and New Zealand troops will probably
be fighting. Extract from London “National Review.”]
Deserts used to be very effective frontiers. In
the day of the petrol engine they are no longer as com-
plete a deterrent as they once were to a would-be
invader. Still, they present a more or less formidable
obstacle. In the “Observer” Major Jarvis, who knows
the western deserts of Egypt from having lived in the
oases of Egypt, writes a very informative article of
great value to the students of the campaign about to
open:—
“The 350 miles of desert that lies between the
Anglo-Egyptian frontier at Solium and Alexandria
may be divided into three parts. Firstly, the coastal
belt some 10 miles wide which for the most part is
hard clay or gravel with infrequent saline wells;
secondly, a stretch some 20 to 30 miles wide with
myriads of small scrub bushes growing out of hard
clay hummocks which is not negotiable by cars for
any considerable distance; and south of this the
desert proper with its limestone scarps, its lines of
sand dunes, and its depressions of marsh or soft
sand, which is entirely waterless except for the oases.
“There are two possible lines of advance ; one
along the sea coast, where the going is suitable for a
mechanised force of all arms, and the other by way
of the high desert and the oases. There is no definite
caravan route across the central desert, and light
vehicles and light tanks—but neither laden lorries nor
heavy artillery—could cross it, but an intimate know-
ledge of this sandy wilderness and its various traps,
both natural and otherwise, would be essential for a
successful crossing. There are in some parts marshy
depressions with narrow causeways, there are others
filled with quicksands, there are sudden abrupt lines
of sand dunes that cannot be traversed, and steep
escarpments that cannot be climbed, and the water-
ing places, as represented by the oases, would be held
by Anglo-Egyptian troops.”
That is a geographical picture we should carry
in our minds. Major Jarvis continues by saying that
we should be able to bomb any advancing enemy
troops from the sea on the coastal route, and that
inland, owing to water difficulties, they would be
unable to endure delay:
“In the Libyan desert the midday heat is not far
short of 112 deg., which means that if a force failed to
connect with its water supplies at the time arranged
half the motor transport would be out of action from
dry radiators a few hours later and two-thirds of the
force crazy from thirst.
“The coastal route looks the more attractive of
the two, but here the few wells would be denied to
BRITISH ARABIC POSTER.
(A series of these posters is issued by the British
Ministry of Information as propaganda in Arabic-
speaking countries. In this one Hitler says to Europe
in chains: “You are now under my protection and
nobody can ever deprive you of your freedom.” The
posters were drawn by “Kem” —Kimon Evan Marengo,
a British subject who was born in Greece .)
the enemy, and at Mersa Matruh. This line of attack,
too, would be subjected to shelling from our naval
forces the whole of its 350-miles length, and run the
risk of having its communications cut by surprise
raids from the sea. With all the possible routes across
the deserts always there is the fact that an invading
force is getting farther away from its supplies and
becoming more exhausted and extended in line as the
defenders fall back and concentrate on their main
position, where ample water, petrol and rations are
available close behind them.”
There remains the possibility of invasion across
the central desert:
“The front on which an invasion across the cen-
tral desert could move would be limited to the country
between Siwa and the coast. South of Siwa there is an
impassable sand sea some hundred miles wide that
runs along the Italian frontier towards the little
waterhole of Owenat on the Sudan border. Where
these serried dunes die away 100 miles north of
Owenat they are replaced by a broken scarp rising
2000 feet from the low desert, which is equally im-
passable. A light-car raid from Owenat as a diver-
sion to interfere with the water supply at the Assuan
dam might be regarded as a possibility, but it is safe
to assume that if such a force reached the Nile Valley
it would never return.”
* * * * *
(From a London “Times” special correspondent’s report.)
The war here in the Egyptian desert is a war of
hide-and-seek. It is of the highest importance to
baffle observation from the air, and hence the dis-
persal of troops on the ground is a standing principle,
and the art of camouflage is carried to a high pitch.
It might be imagined that this would be difficult in
the open desert, with little or no vegetation, but advan-
tage is taken of every patch of scrub and camel-thorn
as protective background, and the shadows cast by
vehicles are reduced as much as possible by the use of
camouflage netting. In these conditions it is remark-
able how a large encampment can escape notice and
disappear entirely into the landscape. The extent to
which the troops are dispersed gives a new meaning to
military expressions such as “transport park,” in which
no vehicle is nearer than 100 yards to another, or
“troop concentration,” which may spread loosely over
50 miles.
Turkey's War Outlook
(Condensed from a London “Times” article by a
correspondent in Turkey .)
The Turkish friendship has survived a series of
disasters that would have shaken the confidence of a
less sturdy ally. The alliance with England and
France was concluded on the assumption that Anglo-
French relations with the Soviet Union were to develop
on friendly lines. The war opened and continued for
many months with the Soviet Union displaying a hos-
tile face to England and France and a decidedly grasp-
ing tendency at the expense of third countries, includ-
ing Turkey. Worse was to come. Turkey believed
she had at her back an Allied army in Syria some
250,000 strong. With the collapse of France this army
had to be written off and Syria regarded as potentially
a hostile country. To defend herself against a formid-
able array of potential adversaries —the Soviet Union,
Germany and Italy—Turkey suddenly found herself
thrown back upon her own arms and the help of a
depleted Allied Fleet in the Eastern Mediterranean.
The Turks are formidable fighters, and their
geographical situation is highly favorable for defence,
but, apart from their inferiority in numbers, the Turks
can have had no illusions that the equipment of their
forces made them a match for those of a Great Power.
Deliveries of modern weapons and material on a large
scale were getting under way when Italy’s entry into
the war disrupted communications. The British Navy
has since seen to it that they got here, and any
assailant seeking to force the Straits will now have a
warm reception. But the Turkish Government must
have had some anxious weeks while it seemed just
possible that Britain herself might go down under the
Nazi Blitzkrieg.
It is not surprising that Turkish public opinion
was occasionally shaky, especially as hostility to Hitler
and all he stands for did not exclude considerable
admiration for some of his qualities. People led so
long by Atatiirk have learned to value the man of
action. They also have had cause to appreciate the
value in war of that revolutionary temper which impels
man to attempt and execute the seemingly impossible.
The Turks made a contrast, highly unfavorable to the
latter, between the German leadership and that of the
democracies, which, as it seemed, had taken countries
into war unprepared and, even when at war, had con-
tinued to talk more than act.
The development of political and military events
modified the role which Turkey expected and was
expected to play as an ally of Great Britain and
France. It seemed clear to the Turkish Government
that the military situation at the time Italy declared
war made Turkish participation more hazardous than
it could be helpful. Turkey admitted her obligation to
help England but invoked, somewhat irrelevantly per-
haps, the Soviet protocol. The formula had the merit
of conserving both the alliance and Turkish non-
belligerence. There were few critics of the Govern-
ment decision that, as Turkish territory was not imme-
diately threatened, it was imprudent to endanger
gratuitously a key position in the Mediterranean. The
same broad considerations apply to an Italian attack
upon Greece. But if Turkish territory is threatened
Turkey will defend it and, with British help, bar the
Italian or German way to the Near or Middle East.
Looking at the situation today, Turkey finds it
difficult to see how the war can be ended definitely in
favor of Germany or England without the intervention
of a third Power. Whether this will be the United
States or the Soviet Union, or both, is not at the
moment clear, but confidence that the eventual victory
will be England’s is high.
* * * * *
Spain’s Present Position
[This general review of the present state of Spain
and the forces at work there influencing Spain’s policy
regarding the war, for and against, is condensed from a
London “National Review” article by J. M. Batista i
Roca.]
A year and a half after the end of the Civil War,
the amount of reconstruction ahead in Spain is still
enormous. Agriculture and industry are far below
normal. Agriculture is short of fertilisers, labor, cattle
and especially horses, which are largely used for
tilling. Nearest to normal is the steel industry, with
60 p.c. of its former output. Others such as textiles,
the staple industry of Catalonia, now employ only
some 20 p.c. to 35 p.c. of their usual labor. Women
have to queue for hours to get small rations of food
—3|oz. of meat, two eggs and lOoz. of beans every
week, and, at intervals of over a fortnight, under lOoz.
of sugar and 21b. of potatoes.
An official communique published in Madrid last
March estimated that in General Franco’s army alone
70,000 were killed in battle and 353,000 wounded. Of
the latter, one in every seven died (50,000) and one
in every six was permanently disabled (60,000). Hos-
pitals treated 756,000 sick, of whom 70,000 died.
Taking the Republican army, these figures must be
doubled ; total for the two sides, about 380,000 dead
and 120,000 permanently incapable of work. This
would still exclude the number murdered or executed
behind the lines on both sides. Thus the country has
lost over half a million men of the best age. Some
say that a million are still in concentration camps


and prisons, or have been deported to the West
African colonies or to labor battalions in Morocco.
Taxes are increasing ; so is military expenditure.
In the June Budget for 1940-41, out of a total of
6000 million pesetas (about £l5O million), over 1500
million pesetas are earmarked for the forces, while
agriculture, public works and education together get
only 882 millions. The effect of all this on people’s
minds has been very great. These gay people of the
South are depressed. In many towns people still seem
afraid to walk freely in the streets, where beggars
have appeared in large numbers, and cafes once so
crowded are thinly patronised.
In contrast to all this depression among the people,
certain Falangist leaders make flamboyant speeches
about Spanish greatness and the necessity of seizing
the “unique occasion” to rebuild the Spanish Empire.
One of the most prominent journalists in Spain, Sr.
Aznar, wrote on May 31, in reply to Lord Halifax’s
statement on Anglo-Spanish relations and the trade
agreement, “The first of Spain’s great problems call-
ing for settlement is Gibraltar.” General Franco, on
July 17, the anniversary of his rising, declared: “We
are only pausing in the battle now ; we have not
finished our task. We have shed the blood of our
dead to create an empire.” Speeches of this kind,
although applauded by the Falangists, who are still
imbued with the elan of victory, fail to stir people
haunted by the horrors of the past war and harassed
by the urgent problems of getting work and food.
Knowing that all power ultimately rests with the
party and the Government, the public is growing
silently apprehensive.
In strong contrast to the British policy of helping
financially and with food and striving to remain on
friendly terms with Spain, the Germans have been
very active with intrigues, since they and they alone
can gain from dragging Spain into the war. The
number of German agents working behind the scenes
in many Spanish economic enterprises is difficult to
estimate, but it has often been repeated that a large
number of Germans—around 80,000 —sometimes more
or less thinly disguised as tourists and sometimes
reported to be equipped with arms, are concentrated
in certain parts of the Peninsula.
The Germans have so contrived to install them-
selves in the Spanish Army, the press, and through
many agents in the key posts of the economic life and
administration that their influence may well be de-
cisive at a given moment. The fact that the Germans
have now overrun France and have their armies on
the Pyrenees adds physical force to their influence on
Spain’s decisions.
On the other hand, in spite of the Spanish Gov-
ernment’s change from neutrality to non-belligerency,
some observers discern signs of a stronger resolve to
preserve the status quo in Spain and escape entangle-
ment in the war. Gibraltar, however, is a dangerous
subject. Up to recent years no Spaniard worried about
it, but the constant verbal hammering about the Rock
is beginning to rouse people. Many observers were
impressed by the enthusiastic demonstrations in
Madrid following the occupation of Tangier. They
prove what a persistent campaign can do.
The regions which were brought under General
Franco’s rule right at the beginning of the military
rebellion have been subjected for four years to propa-
ganda in favor of the Axis Powers, in favor of totali-
tarian ideas and against democracy and democratic
countries. This does not mean that the mass of the
people would like to come into the war. Probably
only some Falangist leaders and extremists inside
and outside Government circles would willingly take
an active part in the war. Certain army leaders are
also in favor of this, and even those who are now
passive would submit to military discipline in case of
a major conflict. One must not forget that the
Spaniards, like all Mediterranean races, are an excit-
able people. Because it did not need songs and flag-
waving to bring Britain to war, it does not follow that
fiery speeches and propaganda will fail to blind some
sections of society in Spain and make them acquiesce
in war.
Catholics now find themselves in an unenviable
position. Many who supported the Nationalist rising
—in its Traditionalist rather than in its Falangist aspect
—are increasingly disquieted by the totalitarian sym-
pathies and methods of the new regime. The censor-
ship has not hesitated to interfere even with the Pope’s
encyclicals or to distort statements, as in the case of
Cardinal Hinsley’s address to Roman Catholics in
Britain. An anti-Nazi feeling is spreading, even among
some who have so far been pro-German.
In Catalonia and the Basque country the general
anti-Fascist feeling is emphasised by conditions
peculiar to these countries. Not only has there been
a negative attitude of mind, as is usual in any “anti”
campaign, but in connection with the war there are
three positive ideas which have a strong appeal because
they have deep roots in the Catalan and Basque spirit.
These ideas are: that the Allies are fighting for
democracy, a type of government that has always best
suited both peoples ; that they are fighting for the
defence of small countries against aggression, which
strikes home to Catalan and Basque patriotism ; and
third, a traditional sympathy towards Great Britain.
Germany may have an interest in dragging Spain
into the war —an interest which is not shared by any
other party inside or outside the Peninsula. She holds
a very powerful position in the new Spanish State.
To ensure that “the gods of war and hatred” will this
time spare the Peninsula, the forces must be equal in
the tug-of-war going on in Spain.
In Conquered France.
[This article is condensed from New York “Times,”
which states regarding its author: “Written in the
occupied zone of France by a citizen of a non-belligerent
country. Since the writer’s home is in France, he asks
that his name be withheld. We are glad to vouch for
his responsibility.”]
That every phase of manufacturing and trade be
rapidly and comprehensively resumed is, in a nutshell,
Germany’s business policy for France, and she is cor-
rect in believing that social health will improve when
men and women get back to the accustomed jobs.
Merchants with closed shops have been ordered to
reopen them. Managers of idle plants will start the
wheels turning. It is to be done within 60 days. Other-
wise there looms the penalty of having the business
conducted by a personnel of the invader’s selection.
The order stipulates that each enterprise shall
employ its pre-war staff, or the numerical equivalent,
at the same wages and on a five-day week. In other
words, business shall reopen under the same conditions
as were in force during the first six months of 1939,
whether or not raw material is procurable, whether or
not a market exists for the output.
The army of occupation promises an absence of
labor trouble. At the first tremor of unrest the French
police, officered by Germans, plus the garrisons from
beyond the Rhine, will crack down on agitators with
an iron hand inside an iron glove. The C.G.T. (French
Federation of Labor) is supposedly disbanded. Of a
certainty it has not uttered a whisper of remonstrance.
The rationing of essential foods is severe as to
quantity, but the price of these staples is strictly con-
trolled. Canned goods are not rationed, but an impish
practice prevents the housewife from accumulating a
hoard. In selling a can of condensed milk or green
peas the grocer punches a hole in the can. The con-
tents must thus be consumed the same day.
Newspapers print the names of establishments
which have been guilty of overcharging. The grocery
which my family patronises has its doors locked, and
HITLER: “Do you know where we can spend a happy
vacation?”
MUSSO: “St. Helena Island.”
(Another M.O.I. poster for Arabic-speaking countries,
drawn by “Kem.”)
the front window exhibits a placard “Closed for Ten
Days Because of Attempted Speculation.”
Wheat, oat, potato and bean crops have been better
than normal. If the Germans would allow occupied
France to retain these home-grown supplies there would
be sufficient nourishment to go around. Unfortunately,
this is not the fact. The cream of the crop is being
skimmed off for the a'rmy of occupation. A still
further quantity is being shipped into other German-
controlled lands. Hitler, it should be recalled, faces
a food shortage everywhere. He has ninety million
mouths to feed, and it comes after an agricultural
season during which his man-power has been not on
the land but under arms.
If the Germans honestly desire the revival of
French business it is a puzzle to know why they are
detaining 2,000,000 young Frenchmen in prison camps.
These young fellows are crazy to get home and into
harness. Farm labor, railway employees, civil ser-
vants, the shock troops of agriculture and transporta-
tion have already been released. Why are these other
2,000,000 potential workers held in enforced idleness,
four-fifths of them on foreign soil? Is Germany fear-
ful of revolution while she still has England on her
hands?
The hair-trigger danger to France, particularly to
rural France, during the 1940-41 winter lies, it seems
to me, in the social unrest which must accompany the
liberation of the war veterans. These men are already
angered at being so long, so uselessly and so inex-
plicably interned. Rightly or wrongly, they believe
that they were betrayed and sold like droves of cattle
by their top commanders and by the pre-armistice
Government.
If, as and when these two millions, nursing their
sense of injury, return to their homes, to find their
communities stripped to the bone, to find many of
their sweethearts and wives pregnant, their dependants
hungry, their jobs vanished, their farms overrun by
foreigners, they will be dynamite. If packs of desperate
men roam the countryside, burning barns and hay-
stacks, seizing animals and foodstuff, looting the
houses of the well-to-do, I, for one, will understand it
and will sympathise with their mood.
In such an emergency will Germany maintain
public order? Or will she welcome the boiling over
of the pot and seize upon it as an excuse for planting
her cowhide boot more firmly upon her former rival?
This is the anguishing question that can be answered
only as the months go by.
To sum up this ambiguous situation: With one
breath Germany purports to desire full steam ahead
in French industry; with a second breath she com-
mands the imprisonment and inaction of the very
labor which is essential to French industry. She can-
not face two ways, nor order the businessman to
forge ahead and to halt simultaneously. Speaking as
one who has been in business in this country for 15
years, I am terribly afraid that the invader is storing
up grief for himself and for enslaved France during
the cold nights of January and February.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources .)
Those who have never heard the yell let out
by a Spitfire when it is falling on its prey from the
empyrean have something to live for. The sound
has something elemental in it, a note of doom, of
vengeance. It is heard by thousands of men and
women in Britain who lift up their hearts in thank-
fulness for the heroic sons of their race. —London
“National Review.”
* * * * *
No State has been more resolutely neutral than
Switzerland and none has suffered more severely from
the war. From the beginning of it she has been ham-
pered by the British blockade ; since the onslaughts of
the German military machine on neighboring States
and the entry of Italy into the war, the complete dislo-
cation of transport has made the predicament of this
inland State very serious. A sign of present chaotic
conditions is that it has lately been found necessary
to organise a commercial transport service by lorry
between Berne and Lisbon, which helps precariously
to maintain the country’s connection with the oversea
world. Neither Englishmen nor Americans are buying
Swiss watches in anything like the usual quantities,
nor do they provide the tourist traffic on which Swiss
prosperity so much depends. For dearth of coal, hot
water in private houses is already allowed only once
a week ; and Germany has coal to export. During
the past year Switzerland had accumulated large stores
of petrol, sugar and fats, all of which Germany
covets. Switzerland would like to retain them ; but
she may agree to let a large proportion go across
the frontier into the Reich in order to keep herself
provided with the minimum of domestic and public
heating which the Swiss winter makes absolutely
essential. —London “Times.”
* * * * *
A wave of sympathy rolled over Scandinavia
after the Great War, 1914-1918, towards the poor
starving German children. Thousands of Scandi-
navian homes opened their doors voluntarily to look
after these children only for humanitarian reasons
and without asking any monetary assistance. These
children, who were nicknamed “The Vienna
Children,” grew up in Denmark and Norway, were
sent to school and learned to speak the Scandinavian
languages perfectly, and when conditions in their own
country improved a fid became more tolerable they
went back to Germany—indeed thankful to their
foster-parents who saved them from famine and
taught them the sunny side of life. The Norwegians
were wondering, during the beginning of the invasion
of their country in this present 1940 war, why so
many German officers and privates spoke the Nor-
wegian language so perfectly. By examining this
phenomenon closer it was revealed that those German
officers and privates were none but the old “Vienna
Children.” —From the Danish publication “Bien ” ;
Los Angeles, U.S.A.
*****
Canada’s war programme, essentially a British
programme, crumbled during the week-end of May
24-27. First came cables from England saying that
the British could give Canada no further equipment.
These were followed 48 hours later by appeals for
assistance from London. On May 28 the Canadian
Navy of seven destroyers sailed from Halifax to help
guard the Channel. The Dominion also sent
50,000,000 rounds of small arms ammunition, stripping
itself to such an extent that for a while training camps
were obliged to suspend target practice. The first
group of pilots, observers and gunners to graduate
under the Air Training Plan sailed for England instead
of remaining to act as instructors. Last winter it
became clear that the British were placing very few
orders for mechanised equipment in Canada. Many
Canadian manufacturers went to London seeking con-
tracts, but generally returned home empty-handed
and disillusioned. They are fairly well agreed on three
things: British military officials realised what was needed
for the new type of war but were unable to convince
the Cabinet; Britain was not underestimating Canada’s
capacity to produce—she simply was not interested
in using it; and British manufacturers definitely would
not release blueprints, a fact which was confirmed
by the Canadian Minister of Munitions and Supply,
Mr. Howe, in the Ottawa Parliament on May 22.
Canadian factories did not turn out mechanised equip-
ment —tanks, shells, shell casings—because, in the
words of Mr. Howe, “One of our chief difficulties has
been to obtain the latest British designs British
industry has not been too willing to part with these
designs.” —Edgar Packard Dean, in American “Foreign
Affairs.”
*****
When the bombs rain down on London not only
are buildings blown asunder but the streets are littered
with broken glass. The glass industry in the U.S.A.
has spent about $6,000,000 in developing a new glass
through which it is possible to hurl a man, something
which, when cracked, can be rolled up like a rug.
No doubt the scientific authorities in the service of
the British Government are well aware of these
developments. Even if the very latest type of Ameri-
can automobile glass is not adopted there is no reason
why British buildings should not be glazed with
shatter-proof panes of the ordinary automobile type.
—New York “Times.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Cranky horses and unsatisfactory starts
have marred several races in Melbourne
recently. Gold Salute in the Windsor
Handicap at Flemington and Laveur in
the Broadmeadows Steeplechase at
Moonee Valley were two favorites who
lost all chance at barrier-rise, and Pan-
dect’s loss of anything up to 50 yards at
the beginning of Saturday’s Victoria
Derby, for which he was second favorite,
was another bitter experience for backers.
It is not suggested that fault lies with
the starter. Untoward incidents over
which that official has no control have
contributed largely to the succession of
“incidents.” But he has the power to
take disciplinary action against unruly
horses, and, for the protection of backers,
and of owners whose horses are in
danger of being seriously injured by bar-
rier outlaws, this power must be exer-
cised. The present epidemic of kicking
sees fields disorganised at almost every
meeting, and the offenders are not con-
fined to local horses. Visitors are also
to blame.
Barrier fractiousness led to a recom-
mendation that the nomination of Foot-
mark, from W.A., be refused for future
metropolitan meetings, but, rather un-
expectedly, the V.R.C. commitee decided
on Saturday that he be permitted to fulfil
engagements at the V.R.C. spring meet-
ing. There was a proviso that no barrier
position be drawn for him, that he be
hurdled off from the rest of the field.
Committee took into consideration the
fact that the connections of the horse
had been put to large expense in bring-
ing him to Melbourne, and that he had
been entered for V.R.C. races before the
ban was recommended. Leniency in
Footmark’s case may have been justified,
but if it is carried too far the standard
of Melbourne racing will suffer propor-
tionately.
Even with a fair start, Pandect may
not have repeated his AJ.C. Derby win
over Lucrative, but, for all the chance
he had, he might just as well have been
left at home. According to his rider, W.
Cook, he was standing side-on when the
barrier rose, having been pulled out to
avoid being kicked by Warbird. Stewards,
however, did not agree with Cook in that
respect. They reported that when Pan-
dect was being led into his position by
the clerk of the course, Warbird backed
out and collided with him as Pandect
was moving into line and facing the
machine. Whatever the real cause, it is
only fair to add that Pandect himself was
troublesome at the tapes. Out of the
race from the start, he ran past several
tired horses in the straight, and finished
ninth of the 14 runners.
Lucrative’s success probably confirmed
the opinion that he was unlucky in the
A.J.C. Derby. Never better than 7 to 4,
and starting at 11 to 8, he had a perfect
run throughout, was only behind Dark
Felt entering the straight, and, shooting
to the front on straightening up, won de-
cisively from Tranquil Star and Dark
Felt. His performance dispelled all
doubt concerning his stamina, over \\
mile at least, and earned for him a run
in the Melbourne Cup. Had he been
beaten, or just scrambled home, he would
not have been a Cup runner, but, as rider
Maurice McCarten declared after the
race, Derby winners usually go well in
the Cup, and Lucrative was a very fit colt
who apparently was improving with every
race. A bay by Gay Lothario from
Balkan Star, Lucrative has been a rare
bargain at his yearling cost of 450
guineas.
Many people considered that the
Tranquil Star stable was throwing
away the substance for the shadow in
running the filly in the Derby in prefer-
ence to the Wakeful Stakes. As the
Derby second was worth £lOOO, as
against £5OO first money in the Wakeful
Stakes, however, there was method in
its procedure. The Gay Lothario filly’s
rider, F. Tocknell, declares that she
might have beaten Lucrative with a little
farther to go, but, watching from the
stand ’ h appeared that her run had fin-
ished shortly before the post, and that
Lucrative was more than holding her
right at the finish. Unless the race has
knocked her out Tranquil Star should win
t he Oaks Stakes tomorrow (Thursday),
v 3
Da^k Feb > °™ed byPandect’s trainer,
emurel
?° bd for Pandect > did bis job in
f ß r ° nt ’ and s u urpnsed ev |n his rider, H.
Badger ’ by ba t tlin g on for third money,
Badg f, was later sus P ended for °ne
m ° ntb *°r forcing Positron on to Scientist
a n d Tidal Wave, causing. Tidal Wave: to
w gr ° U ? ’ S A°n ly
be st ? rt - Tidal Wave almost fell, and, m
? e circumstances he did well to finish
fourth ’, JUS . I abead of Scientist. Latter
wa l also , ! n the wars > ha ™ g L eCe L V - e £
W£ T dS ° n thlgh
, wh f n u klCke ! at th ? post ; Warblrd » who
,ost abou J 40 yards at the start » showed
remarkable speed to move into second
position near the six furlongs, but,
thou 8 h he was level with Dark Felt
round,n g the bend, the effort took too
much out of him, and he finished last,
’
Escorted to the course by armed
g uards > Beau Vite made High Caste look
b ke a second-rater in the L. K. S.
Mackinnon Stakes. This despite the fact
that Hi gh Caste had galloped in quite his
best stjde dur i n g the week, and was con-
ceded a great winning chance by his
stable - Beau Vite’s win was one of the
best Melbourne Cup trials seen for years,
and P rom Pted rider Ted McMenamin to
de clare: “He’s past the post in the Cup.”
T . ' ’ * * *
, , e r^ ce 'y as considered a match
betw een Beau Vite, who started at 11 to
a ° n ’ anC * Caste, at 13 to 8 against,
As a match, however, it was a one-sided
affair. Beau Vite moved up on the out-
f de of Historian and High Caste be-
the five and four furlongs, and
tbere was h’ttle between High Caste and
Beau Vite from tbat stage until approach-
ing tbe furlong post. Immediately
McMenamin gave Beau Vite a sight of
the whip, however, he bounded right
awa and won easing up by three and a
half lengths from High Caste, with His-
torian on ly half a length away third. The
ease °f Beau vite ’ s defeat of High Caste
j n a truly-run race was an eye-opener,
and t he latter’s rider, Ted Bartle, paid a
tribute to the winner when he declared
a ft er the race: “No excuses ; the other
fellow was too good.” Beau Vite’s win
was his sixth on end, and increased his
stake earnings to £18,410.
. ...
Historian’s third was a good perform-
ance. He was just about as close to the
winner a furlong from home as he was
at the finish, and, even allowing that Beau
Vite was easing up, Historian met him
151 b. worse than Cup terms. Historian’s
jockey, A. Breasley, had every reason to
regard it as a good Cup trial. Maikai ran
badly, and Ortelle’s Star, who had unex-
pectedly won the corresponding race a
year ear ij er was outclassed.
......
Running right up to the form which
took her to a record-breaking win in the
Gimcrack Stakes at Randwick, All Love
spreadeagled her opponents in the Mari-
byrnong Plate. High Title, who was con-
sidered to be her principal danger, was
scratched because of an injury to a leg,
and All Love, never better than 6 to 4
on, started at 9 to 4 on. She was inclined
to gallop “greenly” in the early stages,
but, once she settled down, strode right
away to win by four lengths from Port-
able (Portofino-Lyrical) and Pyramus (El
Cacique-Pyramul). The slow time, 1.2}
for the five furlongs, was due to a head-
wind.
All Love, a daughter of Double
Remove and Beauvue, has been a won-
derful proposition at her yearling price
of 280 guineas. An offer of 3000 guineas
was made for her and refused after she
had won the Gimcrack Stakes, and,
although the prospective buyer was re-
ported to be willing to go as high as 5000
guineas, the filly was not for sale. That
offer was made on behalf of E. P. Walker,
a newcomer to the racing game and
owner of the Breeders’ Plate winner
Yaralla. All Love’s owner, “Charles
Vixen,” himself is comparatively new as
an owner. Stylish, third in the Wakeful
Stakes on Saturday, is the only other
horse he has raced, but he has not seen
either of them win. “Vixen,” a wholesale
poulterer, has never been on a racecourse,
and contents himself with listening-in.
He appears to have the makings of a
champion in All Love, whose success
was some compensation to trainer Jack
Cush for the latter’s misfortune with
Reading in the Caulfield Cup.
Figures pointed to Mildura beating
Gold Salute in the Cantala Stakes, but
prospects of a match-race were shattered
when Mildura bruised a heel after work-
ing on Saturday morning. He had to be
scratched, but it is reported he is
recovering and will be fit to have
a “crack” at the Williamstown Cup. Alan
Cooper, owner of Gold Salute, was dis-
appointed at Mildura’s scratching. The
latter’s withdrawal meant very short odds
about his own horse.
Well-positioned all the way, Gold
Salute ran past the pacemaker, Aurie’s
Star, about a furlong and a half from
home, but, although he eventually won
decisively enough from Judean and the
Westralian Remarc, Judean appeared to
have him “at it” for a few strides. Critics
doubted Cooper’s wisdom when he gave
the reported sum of 10,000 guineas for
Gold Salute just prior to the A.J.C.
Derby last year, but the Maoriland-bred
gelding is going the right way towards
repaying the purchase money. He has
won five races for Cooper, and has reached
peak form under the care of trainer J. T.
Jamieson. Four starts since he entered
the latter’s stable have yielded three wins
and an unlucky second. In Melbourne
alone this spring he has earned £2200 in
prize-money for two wins and a'second.
Aurie’s Star found the mile of the Can-
tala Stakes beyond him, but biggest dis-
appointment of the race was St. Constant.
He did not stretch out properly at any
stage, and, hopelessly placed from the
start, finished ahead of only three of the
10 runners. Mohican, who, like St. Con-
stant, had previously won a Cantala
Stakes, shaped fairly in fourth position,
but is not as good as he was.
Dashing Cavalier’s win in the Hotham
Handicap was an improvement on his
form in the Moonee Valley Cup a week
earlier, but the larger Flemington track
was much more to his liking. Similarly,
it was appreciated by the runner-up,
Gladynev, who was in a hopeless position
when he fell about three furlongs from
home in the Moonee Valley Cup. A
plunge on Gladynev, who firmed from
7 to 1 to threes, featured betting on the
Hotham, and it was hard luck for his
party that he should strike such an im-
proved galloper as Dashing Cavalier.
Latter, trained by J. McCurley for F. W.
Hughes and E. A. Coghlan, challenged
Gladynev and Saint Warden inside the
last furlong and won going away from
that pair, with Wilson, who lost ground
near the half-mile, a close fourth. Glady-
nev’s rider, J. O’Sullivan, was doubly un-
fortunate. In addition to being beaten,
he was suspended for one month for
crowding and crossing other runners.
Tranquil Star will be favorite for the
Oaks Stakes, and the only fillies likely to
be backed seriously against her are Ses-
sion and Trueness. Session was regarded
by her trainer, Peter Riddle, as being un-
luckily beaten by Tranquil Star in the
Edward Manifold Stakes last month, and
she has won her two subsequent races.
Always favorite for the Wakeful Stakes
on Saturday, she was taken along quietly
by Munro in the early stages, and, hit-
ting the front entering the straight, held
off Trueness’s challenge to win by half a
length. Latter was making no impression
on the winner at the finish, but might be
returning to the form that enabled her
to win the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes.
Stylish, a good third, appeared to be
doing slightly better than the first and
second horses right at the finish, but she
is not engaged in the Oaks. Well-backed
Pauline weakened into fourth position,
and Throttle was never dangerous.
Sydney jockeys and horses had a field
day at Flemington on Saturday. Thanks
to their efforts, favorite-backers collected
on five of the six races. Three of the
winners, however, started at odds-on, and
it was a case of “buying money.” Syd-
ney riders —Munro (2), McMenamin,
McCarten, Bartle and Coutts —scooped
the pool, while five of the Six winners
were Sydney-trained. Lucrative, winner
of the Victoria Derby, was the only local
to succeed.
* * * *
Moorefield gave visitors to its meeting
on Saturday plenty for their money,
even though the competitors, as a whole,
were of indifferent class. Ten races made
the afternoon rather long, and, though
divisions could not be avoided, there was
no particular reason for an interval of
35 minutes between some. They do
things better at the mid-week meetings.
Despite the Jack of class the races were
far from uninteresting, and, as four
winners started at double figures and
only two favorites won, results favored
the books.
The Carlton Mile was the greatest sur-
prise of the afternoon, not one of the
four most fancied horses gaining a place.
Penthides and Grand Boy made the run-
ning for the first half-mile, with Asnazu
and Forward nearest them. At the turn
there was little between Penthides, John
Peel and Forward, but when fairly on the
road home Dollar put in his claim and
quickly put the result beyond doubt. It
was his first win since a two-year-old at
Randwick.
Forward and Asnazu got very tired in
the run home, and though Penthides also
weakened at the end his effort was good
enough to give him a winning chance
when he next runs in a six-furlongs race.
John Peel has recovered his pace, and
should win before long. Bel Oiseau was
hampered in running, or would have done
better.
The Moorefield Handicap was a com-
plete upset so far as Aristocrat and
Enatic were concerned. They were the
two best-backed horses, but after chasing
The Kite for nearly seven furlongs they
collapsed, and while Enatic finished last
Aristocrat was not far ahead of him.
Masterpiece, whose race at Victoria Park
earlier in the week evidently benefited
him, ran past The Kite and Early Hope
turning for home, and eventually won as
he pleased from Early Hope, who, how-
ever, made a promising showing. Last
Chance was disappointing, and though
Tickle looked well she evidently needs a
little more racing to bring her back to
her old form.
Triggerman, a three-year-old by Spear-
felt from New Girl (Fortafix-Graftoline)
and trained by F. Dalton, had an easy
win in the first division of the Maiden
Handicap, in which Sunstreak and Phrase
were together in front when half the dis-
tance was covered. Triggerman was in
charge at the top of the straight, and
won easily from Night Pilot (Night Raid-
Lytup), who narrowly beat Turumbol,
the remainder being headed by Eager
Fox, a brother to Fearless Fox. The Sion
filly Approbation proved a false favorite,
never being a danger.
There was merit in Ginger Lass’s win
in the second division of the Maiden
Handicap, notwithstanding her time
was 1.46 J, against the 1.44} recorded by
Triggerman in the first division. She got
away badly, and was hampered in run-
ning, but won by half a length from
Windjammer (Windbag-Yule Cake), who
was first into the straight. Woomera, in
third place, finished fairly, and among
the unplaced lot Lady Spats (Magnitude-
Like Richmond) and Alrobin (Christopher
Robin-Alarum) showed pace.
Always at odds-on Milanja justified his
favoritism for the first division of the
FOR FLEMINGTON.
By “SENTRY."
Linlithgow Stakes: High Caste or
Gold Salute.
Oaks Stakes: Tranquil Star, l;
Session, 2 ; Trueness, 3.
FOURTH DAY—SATURDAY.
C. B. Fisher Plate: Beau Vite, l ;
Beaulivre, 2 ; High Caste, 3.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(By "PILOT.”)
Trial Stakes: Australasia, 1 ;
High Dividend, 2 ; Triggerman, 3.
Flying Handicap: Penthides, 1 ;
Benburb, 2 ; Vergure, 3.
Two-year-old Stakes (colts and
geldings): Milanja, 1 ; Parsing, 2 ;
Dutch Band, 3.
Two-year-old Stakes (fillies):
Limonite, 1 ; Harprey, 2 ; Heretrix
or Magi, 3.
Canterbury Handicap: Constant,
1 ; The Kite, 2 ; Masterpiece, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Kooba,
1 ; Aladdin, 2 ; Bungaree, 3.
Campsie Handicap : Bonny Loch,
1 ; Dollar, 2 ; Enatic, 3.


e
A VV^ TE BLa l>£s
Op AjV
* Cz. £ an
Managing Agents :
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
Juvenile Stakes. Setting up a long lead
in the first furlong from Grand Land
and Parsing he was never in danger of
defeat, though Goldbrook was within a
neck of him at the winning-post. Lord
Pentheus was a fair fourth. The winner,
who cost 75gns. as a yearling, is by
Madagascar from Queen Balak, by
Moabite from Sita. The unplaced divi-
sion included Dutch Band (Fanfare-Lady
Dutchie), a good-looking and well-grown
colt. He was never near the front, but
belies his appearance if he does not see
a better day.
All the runners in the second division
of the Juvenile Stakes were fillies. The
favorite, Chataway (Chatham-Princess
Rose), was second to Jesterine at the
turn, but had nothing to do with the
finish. Heritrix, who was not one of the
leading division in the early stages, came
home strongly to win from Jesterine and
Harprey. Heritrix, who is by Junior
Counsel from imported Inheritance
(Birthright-Gwalia), was a 400gns. year-
ling, and gave a win to trainer J. Pike.
Jesterine is by Pentheus, and Harprey by
Harinero, who had another good-looking
representative in Harula.
Martheus was hard ridden to take the
lead in the early part of the first divi-
sion of the Three-year-old Handicap, but
War Trophy had his measure going up
the hill, and won easily from Dawn
Mary, with whom the rather slow-begin-
ning Don Byrne was almost on terms.
The winner, who is trained and raced by
J. H. Abbs, is a strongly-built and good-
looking colt by Harinero from Joan of
Arc, and may stay. Royal Emblem gave
a glimpse of form, and is worth remem-
bering.
Minnabel, a daughter of Pantheon and
Sweet Annabel, made a runaway affair
of the second division of the Three-year-
old Handicap, but the fact of the time
being a second! and a half slower showed
the difference in class as compared with
War Trophy’s division. Without being
able to trouble the winner The Fawn (by
El Cacique) ran fairly, and Mickey
Rooney, who is not fulfilling early expec-
tations, was third, a long way ahead of
the remainder.
Novice, favorite for the first division
of the Flying Welter, gave her backers a'
poor run. She could not raise any pace
in the early part, being one of the
whippers-in, and, though she made up a
lot of ground in the last three furlongs
to finish fourth, was never quite a place
probability. Benburb led at the leger, but
was outstayed by King Pyrrhus, who was
in a handy position throughout. Kooba,
in third place, finished so well that a
return to his early form !is not un-
likely. Jazbeau’s big weight had him
beaten a long way from home, and
neither Table Talk nor Roxford did as
well as on some other occasions. As a
three-year-old Roxford has fallen far
short of the promise he gave when he
won two races at the A.J.C. meeting last
autumn. However, there is plenty of
time for him to come on again.
There was no excuse possible for the
failure of My Friend, a supposed “cer-
tainty” for the second division of the
Flying Welter. Second soon after barrier-
rise, he was first into the straight from
Dom, and led at the leger. Marlong was
the first to take his measure, but she was
cut out of first money in the last few
strides by Glittering Flame, who has
been mixing hurdling and flat-racing
during the past few months. Glittering
Flame and Marlong were two of the last
three at the half-mile, and the winner was
ridden by V. Thompson, who is appren-
ticed to E. Hunter Bowman, and has been
on Marlong in all her recent races.
Pony Majorca was prominent at the
turn, and finished fourth, while of those
further back Tyrannus and Magsmen
may be best worth remembering.
% J{c %
In Sydney on Monday Beau Vite had
Melbourne Cup betting almost at a
standstill. Now that the race is over
11 is possible to give the prices on offer.
Fhese were as under:
Beau Vite, 2 to 1.
Historian, 7 to 1.
Beaulivre, 10 to 1.
Apostrophe, 12 to 1.
Dashing Cavalier, Lucrative, Maikai,
Pandect, 14 to 1.
Scientist, Wilson, Pantler, 20 to 1.
Cheery Jack, Katanga, True Flight,
Tidal Wave, 33 to 1.
Others, 50 to 100 to 1.
* * * *
Fearless Fox’s win in the Q.T.C. Derby
would, in some measure, compensate
. ■ for Mildura’s inability to run
| n the Cantala Stakes owing to an injury
0 °ne of his feet on the morning of the
race. Price has always had a lot of faith
in Fearless Fox, and his belief that he
was sure to prove a fair stayer worked
out correctly on Saturday. Anyhow, even
if the race was not truly run, Fearless
Fox stayed too well for his opponents.
Bold Step could only get third. His
Guineas win gave the impression that he
was something out of the ordinary, and
that was the reason for the owner of
Veiled Threat cancelling his projected
trip to Brisbane. Perhaps it was as well
he did, as Fearless Fox has evidently im-
proved during his stay in the north, and
in stake-money is now well ahead of the
600gns. he cost as a yearling.
* * * *
Australian sportsmanship received a
bad advertisement when an attempt was
made to shoot Phar Lap prior to the
1930 Melbourne Cup, and an even worse
one in what was evidently meant to be
a cold-blooded attempt to either take
Beau Vite’s life or maim him last week.
Fortunately for the owner of the latter,
but not for the owner of El Golea, a
mistake was made as to the stalls in
which the two horses were located. A
hole was bored through the back of El
Golea’s stall, and through this two shots
were fired, that horse being hit by both.
The worst wound was in the off hock.
As was to be expected, people began
talking about bookmakers —they stood
to be hard hit if Beau Vite won the Mel-
bourne Cup—and the Bookmakers'
Association countered with an offer of
£2OO reward for information leading to
the conviction of the person or persons
responsible for the injury to El Golea.
All bookmakers are not angels, but it
is difficult to believe that any of standing
would associate themselves with an
attempt to maim Beau Vite. It was only
mistaken identity that saved the latter
from serious injury. El Golea and Beau
Vite are alike in color, were similarly
bandaged, and their bridles were alike.
This evidently confused the individual or
individuals who watched their return to
the stables, and the mistake saved Beau
Vite.
* * * *
Lucrative should have won the A.J.C.
Derby, notwithstanding that Pandect out-
stayed him over the last bit. Only for
being hampered rounding the turn it is
probable Lucrative would have gained a
lead that Pandect could not have wiped
out. It was so in the Caulfield Guineas,
but that was only at a mile, and at two
years Lucrative had proved himself
speedier than Pandect. The Victoria
Derby did not settle the question of
which was the better at a mile and a half.
Pandect was so badly left at the start that
he practically took no part in the race.
As his stable-companion Dark Felt, who
is not rated in the same class as Pandect,
ran third, one can imagine the disgust of
the latter’s owner when his chance was
settled at the start. It is not given to
many owners to have the luck to secure
a colt possessing prospects of winning two
Derbies, and then, after getting in one
leg, to lose all hope of the other at
barrier-rise. If Pandect had been simi-
larly unlucky at Randwick what a howl
there would have been from Melbourne!
* * * *
Pandect and Lucrative are in the C. B.
Fisher Plate on Saturday. The older
horses engaged include Beau Vite, Beau-
livre, High Caste and Maikai. Last year
High Caste won from Landlaw in 2.30 i,
but the odds are greatly against his re-
cording a second successive win in Satur-
day’s race.
* # * *
As a rule it is advisable to give prefer-
ence to young and virile mares as prob-
able dams of first-class horses. There
are, however, always exceptions. Domi-
nant, dam of Beau Vite, is one. Bred
in 1919, she had her first foal in 1927,
and was 17 when she threw Beau Vite.
Passbook, dam of Beaulivre, is much
younger. Bred in 1926, she threw her
first foal in 1931, and Beaulivre in 1936.
* * * *
Mildura has recovered from the injury
he received in Melbourne on Saturday,
and has been able to resume his prepara-
tion. He has no engagements at Flem-
ington on Thursday or Saturday, but
presumably will run in the Williamstpwn
Cup, in which he has 8.12. Mildura
has once been placed at a mile and a
half, that being when, with 8.5, he ran
second to Gold Spark in the Anniversary
Handicap at Randwick.
* * * *
If A. E. Cooper was correctly reported
he was upset because the withdrawal of
Mildura prevented him getting more than
even money about Gold Salute for the
Cantala Stakes. He reckoned his horse
would have beaten Mildura. Perhaps,
but there is certainly room for doubt in
view of the fact that Mildura gave Beau
Vite 51b. and ran him to half a head in
the Craven Plate. Better even money
a winner for a big bettor than a liberal
price about a loser. However, Cooper
has been a great buyer, and should not be
begrudged any luck that comes his way.
9 * *
For ten days’ racing at Randwick this
season the totajisator turnover has aggre-
gated £407,079 15s. Of ha sum
three Warwick Farm meetings gave
£78,981 155., that clubs largest turnover
being £36,770 10s., and the lowest £14,74
15s. The most put through the
tote on any of the ten days was
£80,560 on Derby day, though Syd-
ney Cup day, with £75,266, was not far
behind. Unless something unexpected
happens, the Randwick turnover wi
greatly exceed a million this season.
* *
At the time of writing nothing definite
has been decided about Ajax’s future, but
it might be safe to bet that he will not
race again. His owners are not exactly
in need of money, and it is certain that
sooner than take the risk of doing him
the least injury they will not have him
prepared for the autumn. In addition to
his owners, what a great asset Ajax has
been for F. Musgrave. Ajax has won
over £40,000, and though it was not all
first money comparatively little came
from minor placings. Assuming Mus-
grave has received the 10 per cent, for
wins customary with some owners—and
the Newmarket probably meant more —
Ajax has returned him nearly £4OOO in
four years, apart from training fees. For-
tunate indeed is the owner or trainer who
gets hold of a first-class Korse.
Jn m 2 Kjng Ingoda won the Mel _
bourne and Williamstown Cups, and since
j atter j ias more than once served
a$ a n j ce conso lation stake for the owner
a m i nor _pi ace getter in the more im-
portant race. Second Wind won it after
runn j n g second to Phar Lap in the 1930
U p ? and Yarramba put up a similar
p er f ormance subsequent to being beaten
j n 1932 Cup. A year later Shadow
King, after being defeated by Hall Mark
j n the Melbourne Cup, won at Williams-
town. Last year Maikai, who ran second
in the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups,
made a mends in the Williamstown Cup
with 91b. more than he carried in each of
the other races. It is probable the second
or third horse in the Melbourne Cup
will be this year’s favorite for the Wil-
liamstown race.
* * * * .
Owner F. W. Hughes, presumably in
order to avoid dispute, withdrew Rival
Chief from the second division of the
Flying Welter at Moorefield. In the
weights originally issued by the club,
Rival Chief was in a position that, on


Missing Friends.
WOULD anyone knowing the present where-
abouts of KINGSLEY CLINTON LYONS, son
of the late Leslie Herbert Lyons and Elizabeth
Adelaide Kate Lyons, formerly of Mirboo
North and Sandringham (Victoria), please ask
him to communicate with THE PERPETUAL
EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES ASSOCIA-
TION OF AUSTRALIA, LTD., 100-104 Queen
Street, Melbourne?
BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE .* •
When certain glands tail, yon
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man-
hood. Price 10/6.
B 21
CLA N 0
T9MIC
WRITE
TO-OAT
T.JONES £ CO.
C-H.JK.vusX, 31!) George Street, Sydney
the race being divided, put him in the
first division, but as Kooba, in the same
ownership, was also in that, Rival Chief
was relegated to the second division, and
a horse that should have been in the latter
went into the first division. That any
owner should be so favored was not well
received by other owners, and some made
no secret of their intention of lodging
a protest if Rival Chief won and they
ran second. This on the score that he was
ineligible for. the second division. Pre-
sumably in future divisions at Moorefield
anything calculated to cause dispute will
be carefully avoided, notwithstanding
that a gentleman prominently associated
with the club is reported to have declared
that it will be a law unto itself in such
matters.
* * * *
Totalisator betting must be making
great headway in Melbourne. The
attendance at Flemington on Derby day
was computed at 40,000, but the tote
turnover was £96,341, a much higher
average than has ever been reached at
Randwick. It is not so in Sydney, but
in Melbourne the books really have some-
thing to fear from the machine.
* * * *
Sydney-trained horses have a great
record in the Cantala Stakes, Gold Salute
being the tenth winner from N.S.W. in
the last 20 years. Most have carried
penalties, which proves that when a horse
shows form at a mile a little extra weight
is not a serious matter. Gold Salute is
the first winner of the race trained by
J. T. Jamieson, who scored a third with
Closing Time in 1934.
* * * *
J. T. Cush is not an unlucky trainer.
He has never had a strong team numeri-
cally, but his horses have generally in-
cluded some from fair to really good. It
can be said for Cush that he can gener-
ally get the best out of the material he
has in hand, and it is not so with all
trainers. Still, with Reading temporarily
out of action, he is specially fortunate
in having such a brilliant filly as All Love
to represent him in Melbourne. She won
the Maribyrnong Plate as comfortably as
she did the Gimcrack Stakes, and in two
runs has given a return of £2050 for the
280gns. she cost as a yearling. It is
said All Love’s owner never sees a
race, but it will be surprising if this filly
does not cause him to depart from that
rule. Saturday must have been a pleasant
day for P. Miller, as well as All Love’s
owner. In addition to being the breeder
of All Love, Miller won the Wakeful
Stakes with Session, a daughter of Mar-
conigram.
* * * *
It is amusing how seriously some
trainers —not all, fortunately—take them-
selves when they get hold of a good horse
or two. They are inclined to give them-
selves all the credit for a horse’s develop-
ment, though if it stands work and racing
it may not need much assistance from
its trainer to reach the top. How-
ever, when all classes of people run
after them in the days of their success,
it is not surprising that some not over-
brainy trainers do not remember that
many of their ardent admirers had no
particular desire even to know them in
their lean days, and will quickly forget
them when they again land on a barren
period.
* * * #
Session is solid, but perhaps it was
fortunate for her owner that the joint
owners of Tranquil Star were sufficiently
enterprising to try her against the colts
in the Derby. Like Lucrative, the winner,
Tranquil Star is by Gay Lothario, and
is the first filly to get a place in the
Derby since Miss Arrow in 1930. Frances
Tressady, in 1923, was the last filly to
win a Victoria Derby, Furious being
successful two years earlier. Other
winners within the last 40 years were
Lady Wallace, Wilari, and Carlita. An
A.J.C. Derby has not been won by a
filly since Picture in 1898. Tranquil Star
will probably meet Session in the Oaks
to-morrow.
sp * * *
Wyong, one of the provincial clubs, has
decided to drop out, which caused a
trainer to remark in my hearing the
other day: “Some of the others ought to
do likewise if they can’t increase their
prize-money. I recently won a race of
a little over £l5 for first, but what with
float to the course, farrier, jockey’s losing
fee and £1 entry and acceptance, it cost
about £4 to start. When a race is divided
I do not think it right provincial clubs
should charge the full entrance and ac-
ceptance fees for a paltry prize. They
should refund half.” That sounds only
fair. The fees mentioned and those paid
by bookmakers go a long way towards
covering the prize-money distributed at
some provincial meetings. If it were not
for the betting market and the oppor-
tunity of occasionally running horses at
a distance short of six furlongs, some of
those fixtures would not be worth con-
sidering by owners.
* * * *
In answer to a country subscriber who
wishes to know how many bookmakers
are licensed for Victoria Park, the
number for each enclosure is: Saddling
paddock, 54 for straightout betting and
six for doubles; St. Leger, 65 straight-
out and 20 for doubles. Moorefield,
Rosehill and Canterbury racebooks do not
give the number licensed for those courses.
* * * *
Now that mid-week clubs are conduct-
ing race meetings in aid of war funds,
the public will get a fair idea of their
average takings, which is something to
which considerable secrecy has attached.
There was not a specially large attend-
ance at Victoria Park last week, when
£7Bl was distributed over eight races.
It is often claimed by owners that clubs
could afford to give more prize-money
than they do. Some definite knowledge
as to whether that idea has been war-
ranted in the past will be gleaned from
clubs’ contributions to war funds.
* * * *
In racing, as in most other things, you
must have luck, though it is contended
by some people there is no such thing.
It would be difficult to convince backers
of Veiled Witch and Sigh at Victoria
Park on Wednesday that it is non-
existent. Veiled Witch reared up at the
start of the second division of the En-
courage Stakes, and then, after being
many lengths behind the main body after
going a hundred yards, finished within
less than half a length of the winner.
Occasionally horses do run remarkably
good races after getting away badly. In
consequence it is possible to overrate a
beaten horse’s effort, but with ordinary
luck at the start Veiled Witch would
probably have won easily. Now the
trouble will be to get a fair price about
her in a similar class of race. Sigh,
backed for the second division of the
A.I.F. Welter as if she could not lose,
caught a strand of the barrier in her
mouth as it rose, carried it with her for
some distance, and really took no part in
the race. Judgment in racing is a good
thing to possess, but that is insufficient to
carry you through. It is necessary also to
have luck on your side.
* * * *
After his Wellington Handicap win
with 9.7 the Wellington w.f.a. race, the
Harco'urt Stakes, 1J mile, proved so soft
for Royal Chief that he beat the second
horse, Sir Cameron, 10 lengths. Last
month the latter won the A.R.C. Great
Northern Guineas, beating,’among others,
Beau Leon, Cillas and Sir Beau, so he
must be a fair galloper. It is not stated
whether Sir Beau or Sir Leon ran in the
Harcourt Stakes, but it is probable one
or the other did.
Royal Chief has 9.6 in the New
Zealand Cup, and a Maoriland exchange
says as that is weight-for-age he cannot
be rehandicapped for his Wellington Han-
dicap win. Evidently the conditions of
the Cup provide that horses with w.f.a.
escape penalties. The Cup will be run
next Saturday. In America they go in
for a sliding scale of penalties. A horse
with 9st. or over may escape a penalty,
no matter how important a win; those
from below 9st. down to 7.7 receive
varying penalties, while the horse with
the minimum weight receives the full
penalty. However, the Australian re-
handicapping system for important races
is just as effective.
* * * *
In Australia we flatter ourselves that
we have little to learn in connection with
conducting race meetings, but in some
matters Americans leave us behind. At
meetings in the State of New York, and
some in other States, each horse is
examined thoroughly in its stall approxi-
mately an hour or more before the time
of the race in which it is scheduled to
run. The examination consists of an eye
test, temperature, heart, respiration and a
check-up for soreness and lameness or
other ailment which might prevent a satis-
factory performance. A record is made
of this examination, and the man in
charge of the horse is required to sign
the duplicate examination slip, a copy of
which he retains. This makes the groom
responsible, and has practically killed
doping at New York meetings. Up to
August 1 the stewards were not called
upon to deal with one case this year,
whereas a few years ago doping was a
pronounced evil. Nowadays we hear so
much about doping in Sydney that course
examination of horses on lines similar to
those adopted in New York might be a
good idea.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Amateur Champs.
N. S. Wales lilywhite title finals at
Sydney Stadium produced, among other
remarkable phenomena, a spectacle that’s
often heard about but seldom seen—a
scrapper literally out on his feet. This
was light-heavyweight contender W.
Maloney, who, in the preceding round,
had C. Trott down on the canvas, not to
a mere punch, but to a whale of a
battering, and that near to out that the
victim couldn’t have known the difference.
Trott staggered to his corner, more by
instinct than design, was sprayed with a
barber’s siphon and staggered forth to
the fray again with his senses still
mountaineering in Tibet. He looked a
certain goner, when a right swing that
looked like the long arm of coincidence
in person fell on the Maloney jaw. It
partly paralysed Maloney, but it wholly
galvanised Trott. More followed it,
knocking Maloney’s head from side to
side and vice versa till his back was
against the ropes, and there he stood,
like the leaning tower of Pisa, and still
stood, after his smiter had been called
off by the ref., till his corner came across
and harvested him.
W. De Belin, of the Balmain Police
Boys’ Club, put up the night’s best per-
formance to win the lightweight title.
A rangy, snowy-headed lad, just a
shade over 18, De Belin already had
the Police Boys’ championship to his
credit. In the first two rounds he showed
well as a neat boxer, cool, and a clean
puncher, and in the very willing third
proved just as good and game a fighter.
Unless he outgrows the weight, that’s
one title that looks in safe keeping for
a while.
Arthur Kell retained his welter title.
Up against A. Williamson, a fighter with
a lethal right, he outboxed him
throughout the three rounds, placed some
pretty right- and left-hand punches, and
went close to winning with a knockout.
The scrap that went down best with
the tidy-sized crowd was the bantam
lash, J. Crisafi, another Police Boys’ Club
(the ’Loo) product, taking what must have
been a pretty close points verdict over N.
McCarthy, of the Air Force. Crisafi
fights in the Filipino manner, eagerly;
whish, bang, smack all the time, using his
phiz as his principal item of defence.
This scribe thought McCarthy won the
first two-thirds of the scrap, and therefore
the engagement, by cleaner and cooler
work, but no doubt industry deserves its
rewards. Anyway, the Air Force had
its turn in the heavies, when W. Belford,
built on Lockheed Hudson lines, dis-
played better manoeuvrability than L.
Kent, of the Uni.
Other title holders: Flyweight, L.
Feighan; feather, S. Leal; middle, N.
Scott-Young. Grapplers: Bantam, F. E.
Payne ; feather, K. Scanlon ; lightweight.
G. Pythagoras (trot out Musso!); welter,
L. Turnbull; middle, J. E. Murray ; light-
heavy, J. Reilly ; heavy, J. Scott.
* * * *
Patrick v. Elliott
The up-and-coming Vic Patrick (9.6 i)
beat Australian junior lightweight champ.
George Elliott (9.51) in eight rounds at
Leichhardt, giving George the father of
a lacing.
It was Patrick’s most severe testing to
date, and his performance was better than
it possibly looked. Elliott, getting a trifle
sere in the business, is a crafty customer,
and he used his craft mainly to keep him-
self out of bother, with variants in the
infighting of a kind that brought him
sundry censures from ref. Pearson. There
looked to be some elbow and head work,
with a good deal of hold-and-hit, despite
which, though George finished as red
about the gills as a boiled cray from lefts
that flashed into his dial in salvoes from
short range, the young chap finished with-
out a mark on his singularly thoughtful-
looking phiz, and otherwise showing not
the faintest sign of distress.
Patrick —noted here earlier as a south-
paw who stands up much closer to his
work and is altogether nicer to watch
than most of the breed —had to make
the fight, and showed no reluctance about
it. He pressed the retreating George
pretty well all the time, wearing him out
with short, hard, well-timed, well-placed
punching, fairly evenly divided between
head and body. It’s this incessant short-
range pounding, rather than any lethal
wallop, that wins his scraps. He wears
his forehead in the corrugated manner
and seems to have the ice-cold thinking
apparatus behind it which Jimmy Wilde
considered the prime asset. Vic not only
watches the opposition closely, but seems
to study it intellectually as a problem of
biology and geography. He displayed
the fault of throwing his glove instead of
punching on the few occasions when
George was having the best of mixings;
but he pounded a retreating, evasive, ex-
perienced opponent into submission, and
generally speaking did the job like a
tradesman.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
Although the field in the Hardscrabble
open amateur tournament contained such
names as Johnny Goodman (1938 U.S.
amateur champion and 1933 open cham-
pion), Art Doering, Chick Evans, Don
Schumaker, Ted Adams (the 1938
Canadian amateur champion) and Jack
Tinnin (Texas titleholder)—all members
of Walker Cup teams which have played
Britain —they failed to overcome the local
conditions, particularly the Bermuda
(couch) greens, which gave Allison, the
local champion, a decided advantage.
In the final against me Allison needed
only 26 putts in the morning round of
70 to lead me four up at lunch. In the
afternoon he appeared to have lost this
amazing touch on the tricky greens, which
made me three-putt four of them in the
morning ; my 33 in the first nine holes
of the second round put me one up. How-
ever, after we passed the turn, he sank
putts for birdies on the 11th, 13th, 15th
and 17th greens to take the match 2 and 1.
This extraordinary putting, which gave
him 19 one-putt greens in 35 holes of the
final, was typical of his game throughout.
A rather erratic player from the tee and
with his long irons, he more than made
up for the mistakes by deadly approach-
ing and good putting. The tournament,
acknowledged as the southern amateur
championship, attracts a field of the coun-
try’s best amateurs.
• • • • • •
The Calcutta pool attached to the tour-
nament totalled £lOOO at a dollar a ticket.
Holders had a chance of drawing one
of the 32 qualifiers and to auction the
players at the clubhouse the night before
the event. Frank Stiedle, the defending
champion, and I brought the highest
price in the auction —£100 each. The
bidder who bought Allison received £6OO
from the pool and my bidder collected £ 145.
Ellsworth Vines nearly realised an
ambition in the Memphis open amateur
tournament. Leading the qualifiers with
a brilliant 70, Vines fought his way
through the field to reach the final. A
rapidly improving golfer, with a fine
style and a cherished wish to win a golf
title, he appears on the road to success.
Although Vines is a professional tennis
player and is employed by the largest
sporting goods manufacturers in the
United States —they also make golf equip-
ment —he is considered an amateur golfer.
At the same time the U.S. Golf Associa-
tion bars from its championship Johnny
Dawson because he is employed by a
sporting-goods co.
George Dawson has the same sort of
job as his more talented brother —actually
with the same firm—yet, apparently be-
cause George is considered not capable
of winning the amateur championship, he
is allowed to compete with the “lily-
whites.” These inconsistencies are not
confined to the United States.
• ••••«
In the Dawsons’ case, Johnny plays for
and has won every other amateur crown
in the country from the same players that
make up the national amateur fields, and
is in the golfing public’s eyes the best
amateur. Dawson was first barred in
1929, when, after qualifying for the
national amateur championship and
drawing Bobby Jones, the U.S.G.A.’s
“white-haired boy,” in the first round, he
was told he couldn’t play next day.
A two-day “trial match” at Sydney
Cricket Ground was just picnic cricket.
However, it had the effect of getting a
son and namesake of Victor Trumper a
place in the N.S.W. eleven to play at
Brisbane. Picked for his fast bowling,
he can also bat a bit. Another Manly
player, Cook, a brisk left-hand batsman,
accompanies him into the State side.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
European Art
The surrender of the N. S. Wales
National Art Gallery Trustees to the
clamor for the exhibition of the stored
pictures of the imported “Contemporary”
show —held in Australia because of war
risks at sea —has been accomplished in a
non-committal manner. One of the large
bays of the gallery has been hung with
the Gallery’s own specimens of European
art, plus a not very large but highly
representative collection of designs by
such pioneers of the new order as
Matisse, Cezanne, Gauguin, Van Gogh,
Pissaro, Vlaminck and Dali.
Surrounding these are large carefully-
painted canvases, dating from the ’eighties
or earlier, by such forgotten French
masters as L. G. Pelouse, C. Dujour,
Gaston la Touche, E. Dinet and E. V.
Luminais. There’s a head by Jan Van
Beers and other work of the old Dutch
school.
The objection to such work, of course,
is that anyone can understand it. It
pleases the common herd, whereas to
appreciate the bearded man with woman’s
breasts of Dali, the smudges of Matisse,
the tangles of Cezanne, the dapples of
Pissaro, the maplike diagrams of Van
Gogh and the frenzied brush-strokes of
Vlaminck one must take to them a know-
ledge of the extensive literature that
boasts and (as far as is humanly possible)
elucidates these versions of natural
phenomena. The old chaps were able to
speak for themselves with brush and
palette, which possibly was very wrong
of them.
„ k is sometimes forgotten that while the
post-impressionists” gathered all the
glory the impressionists went on. Re-
minders are Jean Vincent’s “Swiss Land-
scape,” Nigeley’s vivid, joyous sunlit
scene, Gerber’s “Head of a Peasant Girl”
and the strong, colorful work of Auguste
Roure.
In the Botanic Gardens, just a
stone’s-throw away, Mother Nature is
bolding a little art show of her own —two
big jacaranda trees in full bloom. Mother
wins in a walk over all schools.
* * * *
Dorothy Thornhill’s Show
Dorothy Thornhill, an English girl
who had her first art training in M.L.
and later studied in Sydney and London,
holds a first show at the Macquarie Gal-
leries, Sydney. She has feeling and she
can draw, but her work has not, as yet,
much individuality. Most successful of
her current offerings are “Dry Summer”
and “Morning at Cremorne,” charming
studies in pointellisme, and a still-life,
“Gladioli and Bird Flowers.”
* * * *
John Eldershaw (Velasquez Galleries,
Melb.) is another caravaning artist with
a penchant for bridges. As chief
stamping-ground is Tasmania fie has
Old hands Robert Benchley and George Sanders teach newcomer Joel
McCrea correct behavior for American and English correspondents
respectively, while Albert Basserman is done in—“Foreign Corre-
spondent,” at Sydney Regent.
plenty to go on. Italy and Spain have
also been under observation, and there
is a striking view of Lake Garda in
Musso’s country, with women washing
in the lake. Eldershaw’s recent work
lacks finesse. The pier in No. 4 is an
example of this. A study of children
playing in a stream is better.
* * * *
Australian artists are great wanderers.
John A. Gardiner and Rex Battarbee
popularised the idea of chasing the Muse
by caravan and camel into the wilds of
the Never Never. Dozens have since
imitated their example. Battarbee is at
present somewhere back of Alice Springs
with his abo. pupil Namatjira, and
Gardiner has just returned from Car-
narvon and the Zamia Ranges of Central
Queensland to the Melb. Athenaeum with
40 pictures of those uncanny regions.
Bottle-trees and scenes in the Glasshouse
Mountains are some of the subjects which
he deals with in a more schooled and
sophisticated manner than he used to.
AT THE TALKIES.
“He Stayed for Breakfast”
Wisecracks and other references to
this week’s U.S. Presidential election
had been figuring in films for some
time. When Franklin Roosevelt’s
nomination for a third spin was
first being talked about, a film con-
tained a brief passage with an elderly
woman fossicking among her old
marriage garments. On the 30-year-old
newspaper in which they were wrapped
was a streaming headline, “No Third
Term for Teddie Roosevelt.”
In the current show at Sydney Prince
Edward, “The Ghost Breakers,” the de-
scription of some ghostly, living corpses
or something is, in effect, “they have no
mind of their own, they do exactly as
they’re told, and they live for ever.”
The immediate answer is “They sound
like Democrats.”
In “He Stayed for Breakfast,” current
at Sydney State, Communist Melvyn
Douglas says he is leaving Paris for
America, where he will “live like a normal
human being and even vote for Roose-
velt.” To the statement that “You won’t
be able to vote for Roosevelt; you’ll be
an alien and won’t be able to vote for
five years,” the answer comes, “Never
mind, he [Roosevelt] will still be running
then.”
Roosevelt, however, is not the only
target of the humor in “He Stayed for
Breakfast”; Communism and the
Woiker’s Paradise come in for a goodly
share. Melvyn Douglas is a confirmed
Paris Bolshie who, after shooting at
banker Eugene Pallette, hides out in the
apartments of bewchus Loretta Young,
Pallette’s ex-wife. There are any number
of wisecracks, much bedroom humor and
some bright comedy provided by Una
O’Connor as Miss Young’s maid before
Mr. Douglas, converted from Com-
munism to Democracy, and Miss Young,
converted from Capitalism to Democ-
racy, hie themselves to Gahd’s Own
Country.
“Mystery Sea Raider”
A good many people are ready to
accept the flow of violently anti-Nazi
films as an indication of American war-
feeling. Suffice in this regard to remark
that non-Aryans are very solidly repre-
sented among shadow-show executives.
Anyway, the sole purpose of “Mystery
Sea raider,” current show at Sydney May-
fair, is to cash in on the war as a setting
for an ordinary Hollywood adventure
theme.
Story is of a Fritz agent in the U.S.
who charters a tramp steamer and puts
it to work as a sea raider and mother-
ship to a fleet of submarines operating
from round the West Indies. The Yank
owner-captain, Henry Wilcoxon, refuses
to co-operate and is shoved into the hold,
together with his crew. Aided by goil,
Carole Landis, however, they summon
aid and Fritz is downed.
There is none of the usual propaganda,
though, naturally enough, Fritz gets it
in the neck, since the chief export market
for the film is the British Dominions.
STAGE AND CONCERT
Actors’ Equity of Australia, a trade-
union of entertainers in general, turned
on a tip-top matinee concert at Sydney
Theatre Royal. The Equity aims to pro-
tect, succor and advance its members,
and its matinee show deserved to drag
in some coin for the good cause. There
was a first-class bill of stage and radio
entertainers, first half compered by John
Harper, second by Lloyd Lamble. A
host of well-knowns, including Marie
Burke, Marie Le Varre, Fred Bluett and
Dorothy Foster, offered individual
numbers, and the Jan Kowski ballet
group and the J.C.W. “Vagabond King”
company and chorus provided some
backbone.
* * * *
Wirth’s
Back to its old location and right up
to its 35-year-old schedule, the Greatest
Show on Earth has opened its doors at
Wirth’s Park, Melbourne. The intrepid
Captain Flyger cows his cats with as
much nonchalance as ever and the ele-
phants smell as heavenly as usual.
Princess, incidentally, was born two years
after the death of Dr. Johnson. Tippoo
Sahib may have ridden on her back, for
all history has to say to the contrary,
since she was a girl of 13 when he died
after a lifetime of intriguing against the
British ; and she may have been present
at the Massacre of Cawnpore, being then
an old lady of 71. She bears these un-
conscious honors lightly and rolls intp
the ring like a moving mountain.
The more or less melodious buffoonery
of the Zachinni troupe, Alex. Christie’s
Liberty Horses, the balancing Myrosis, the
sleight-of-hand of the Seven Wyerios, and
the aerobatics of the Seven Rascals en-
chant the youngsters. A pony race with
monkeys for. jockeys looks like a subtle
satire on an event of great national
importance.
ARTBURSTS.
Soliloquy on the Probable Impos-
sibilrty of Seeing the Invisible.
What! An egg?
No! Or two bricks perhaps?
Or a great Judge
Fat-bellied i
Slobbering out jargon
Or reams and reams
Of white paper
Or green felt
Or lizards and crocodiles?
SEVEN, SIX, FOUR,
FIVE, THREE, Two.
Do they not fly high—
These radishes,
Or are they but earth-bound
Things like green tomatoes?
Is this a salmon that I see
Before me upside down in the air?
It hath no strings
Nor handle either,
Nor has it little holes
Along the side.
What is it then
If not a salmon?
This but a pauper dentist who
Having no hamburgers
Nor tools of trade
Has sought his fate in the invisible
And finds it rather better
Upside down.
A dentist who
While laboring glumly
In the city’s heat
Heavy with child
And sprouting little twigs
And having no straw
On which his wife might feed
And deck herself
Avoiding beauty’s snare.
A newspaper
When sullied with the smirch
Of royal king’s collapse
And throne’s decay
Turns to a raving grasshopper
Or else
Waits discontented for another day.
An egg when pithy
With the yolk inside
Is beautiful,
But rarely can disclose
Within its purple-colored shell
A viaduct or an aeroplane.
Hence we,
A Rajah and I,
Who have no eggs to lay
Must frequently drink beer
Or even milk
Because of the hot
Summer season.
Hey nonny, nonny, nonny, nonny,
nonny.
N.S.W.
P. R. V.-H.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
‘ MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
Bombshells:
A.McE.:
Here’s three cheers for the people of London,
Fighting by night and by day
To keep the cruel Germans away.
As the Nazi ’planes roar over the city
London shows them no pity—
They are bringing them down,
Their wreckage is all over the ground.
M.C.T.: —
He used to sell me a yard of tape
When he was learning to linen-drape;
He’d nothing to fear but a flea in his ear
If he cut too much off a roll of crepe.
Now he’s saving my life every night in the air,
The draper’s assistant so devil-may-care.
P.R.: —
God gave to us this country, and he made it wondrous
fair,
And to see it wrecked by others, ’tis more than
we can bear.
A.J.J.: Still misses A.J.P.: Flat
S.S.S.; You’ve a gift for rhymes, but you strain
sense, grammar and euphony to get ’em....
M. : “Struggling feet” is right... .W. 0.0.:
Thin... .G.A.8.; Have never seen the riddle
of the universe more easily solved... .T.S. :
“The Boy” the best, but it says nothing new.
C.G.: Hardly Shakspearean 8.A.P.:
Slight... .BJ.McC.: One stanza, then :
When in each city park and street
The stroller cannot fail to meet
Our Amazons in grand array
Of uniforms from green to gray,
Rejoice, small nations! don’t deny
That your redemption draweth nigh.
J.F.F.: Dunno that it would be such a
bad idea to restrict your output—of verse, any-
how.... W.R.: Which is the verb in the first
sentence? C.A.: Thanks; and no, thanks.
H.P.: It’s time “doth” went to dust....
John H.: Liked the last line only J.S.:
Mediocre L.8.H.: Approve of the indigna-
tion but not of the incoherence... .M.C.: Aus-
tralia “bland”!... .G.D.: Tut.... J.G.R.: It
sounds like Wordsworth on a wet Sunday....
1.P.: Sentimental T.L.S.: No fairies....
D.W.: Cannot approve of the solitary word
“Jumping” as a line of English poetry....
L. 8.: Creek nearly trickled in... .1.M.G.: A
thought-in “Black Swan,” but the treatment’s
1005 e... .P.K.: About as gripping as dripping.
. ...A.8.D.: That type of humor belongs to
America S.N.A.: “No, No, My Dear.” No,
n 0... .P.L.O’D.: For the nth time, only
hitherto unpublished yarns in Australian or Island
settings S.K.M.: It might be all right; we
couldn’t decipher it S.D.: Try a magazine
dealing with the subject... .D.J.: Old stuff,
very old C.J.F.: “What’s Funny About
Funerals?” Nothing... .P.D.W.: No, but
you’re getting warmer... .N. 5.8.: Call for the
body... .L.K.S.: “Jackie’s Sin” passed on to
the Religious Editor... .H.P.S.S.: Now tell us
a fairy story... .P.T.L.: “Fisherman Joe” needs
more bait on his h00k... .M.W.T.: Have you
ever seen a prospector or a swaggie? ... .E.F.8.:
So that’s what you think about Ned Ke11y?....
N. : Not good enough for an animal story.
B.C.L.: Your “fast, bright comedy” is
neither comedy, bright nor fast T.1.P.:
It might interest the waste-paper people
G. : You’re still a long way off print....
R.C.F.: And your best still isn’t good enough.
H.B.P.: Not here.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.8.J.: We recommended that you adopt a
more flowing style—now you’ve hit us with an
avalanche... .T.N.: The “little Ikey” joke was
buried thankfully many years ago; disinter-
ment barred L.8.A.: Wooden P.J.: One
of the most venerable in the whole range of
Hibernian jokes C.V.J.: It might be a dock-
side scene; on the other hand, it could easily
be mistaken for an early woodcut of Footscray.
H.R.P.: A fruity echo of an old Bulletin
gag J.D.: The society matron and the lubra
may be sisters under the skin, but not on it.
....C.M.V.: Away with that violet ink!....
H. : Your recruit passed out as an anatomi-
cal monstrosity J.F.: Gags covered with the
moss of ages... .D.S.W.: Immature.... H.C.:
That badly-punned gag was the last straw....
F.McG.: Why adorn the shoulders of your
stockman with an amorphous blancmange sur-
mounted by what could possibly be a hat?.


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL JOHN McKENZIE, son of the late
Robert Peter McKenzie, of North Auckland,
New Zealand, last heard of in Forbes, New
South Wales, in 1932, and Coonamble, New
South Wales, in 1934, or anyone knowing his
whereabouts, please communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Whangarei,
New Zealand?
EDWARD CHARLES PRESSEY, a son of
THOMAS and MARGARET PRESSEY, will
hear of something to his advantage if he com-
municates with MESSRS. J. WELDON
POWER & BENNETT, Solicitors, Horsham,
Victoria. Any person knowing of his where-
abouts is requested to communicate with the
said firm.
Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by* it have made
it famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
placed on the market. .
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Refuse all substitutes. Remember
the name DOAN’S.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The old Fox Film home in Goulburn-
street has had a complete change of
innards. It is smart with cream paint,
with crisp curtains. Nobody in Goulburn-
street can run away with it, for it has its
name, Air Force House, written across its
fa9ade. It flew the Australian flag proudly
last Thursday afternoon, for Lord Wake-
hurst was there to open it —to make it
free to all young air heroes of uncommis-
sioned rank. As you go in the front door
you probably went straight up the con-
crete stairway. This leads to the dormi-
tory, which covers almost the whole of
the top floor. There are 100 camp beds,
as like as peas in a pod or the bluebells
of Scotland. They are all tidily tucked
under air-force-blue covers, each stamped
R.A.A.F. Every woman looked under
the blue, and felt the grey blankets.
Off the dormitory are the gleaming
cream bathrooms. Here are hot and cold
showers, and at the side of each white
washbasin is a blue composition tumbler.
In one corner is a dark red shoeshine
stand. The office, the kitchens, the tele-
phone booths, the lounge- and dining-
rooms are on the ground floor. The
lounge is set with deep-red leather chairs
and couches, and for the opening, at any
rate, the flower pieces were things of
beauty. The tables in the dining-room
will seat four. They have deep-red tops,
and on each the letters A.F.H.,
set in laurels and topped by a
crown, are done in gold. There are book-
shelves into which the books have already
settled. The writing-room is done in
natural woods, and each desk has its
waste-paper basket gaily lacquered with
a flag. The kitchens are just a house-
wife’s dream —on a large scale. There’s
the gleam of chrome and enamel, and
everything’s electric.
How is the committee going to pay the
rent? Mayor Crick and Keith Smith
kept on rubbing it home that it was a
peppercorn rent. And there isn’t a
peppercorn-tree near the place! Lord
Wakehurst seemed pleased with every-
thing he saw —the kitchens particularly.
The Claude Reading lady, president of
the A.F.H. women’s auxiliary, was being
told how good the work was. She took
congratulations in a cool navy-and-white
outfit. Mayoress Crick and Henry
Braddon were in the crowded rooms. An
important was Mrs. Warwick Fairfax —
she’s a vice-chairman. With her blue
frock she wore a wide white hat that was
kept taut by a wide blue bandeau. Mrs.
John Brunton, Mrs. Noel Heath, the
Keith Smith lady, Air-Commodore A. T.
Cole were among the many.
Every girl’s dream wedding-dress was
worn by Constance Rouse. And to
those who didn’t see the pretty creature
walking down the aisle of St. Mark’s on
the arm of ’groom Sub-Lieutenant John
Osborne Bovill, R.A.N.V.R., the wedding-
dress worn by Anna Neagle in “Irene”
will give the idea. In fact, it inspired
Constance. White Chantilly it was that
swept into a crinoline skirt from a pina-
fore bodice that was a froth of tiny white
frills. Eight frills edged the train,
on to which some cunning hand had
dropped a spray of silver arum lilies
matching those on each side of the skirt.
There was a sort of moonbeam gleam
about this dress, too, for there were
delicate embroideries of silver and pearl
woven into its lacy pattern. A silver
Juliet cap, a mist of tulle, and a three-
row necklet of pearls, gift of the
’groom’s mother, helped make up the
picture.
The three ’maids and the matron of
honor wore white moire. Peter Osborne,
A.1.F., was best man. Among the ushers
was the ’groom’s father, Lieutenant-
Commander J. S. Bovill. The reception
at Elizabeth Bay House (and that his-
toric house has been sold) is still being
quoted as a model for wedding parties.
Here Mr. and Mrs. H. H. Rouse enter-
tained 250 guests, and pale pink and
white roses and pastel gladioli added
their beauty. Mrs. Rouse and Mrs.
Bovill harmonised in misty blues and
mauves. There was nothing more
admiration-stirring among the wedding
presents than the Royal Worcester dinner
service, complete even to the coffee cups,
and the suite of French crystal. These
were also gifts from the ’groom’s parents.
As the bride cut the cake fire flashed
from the diamonds and sapphires in the
ring from her mother.
As this is written the gods have not
finally written the winner of the Cup. By
the time you read it, you will have spent
your cheers or tears according as your
horse romped home or was just a tweeny.
Social Sydney shows a good few gaps,
and will for another week or so. Mel-
bourne hotels and guest-houses even into
the suburbs report record bookings.
Yesterday, to help the R.A.A.F. Com-
forts Fund, there was a Cup Day party in
every committee home. Every club in the
city staged its Cup corroboree. The Food
for Babies Fund had its Fashion Parade
at the Australia, and at the same address
the Dalwood Home for Children had its
cocktail cabaret. At Cahill’s, in Eliza-
beth-street, there were cards to help the
deaf and dumb and the blind children.
Cup broadcasts were the big item of every
gathering.
This is Sylvia Keighley, the girl with
the fluff of ash-blonde hair who, after
much travel in other lands and experience
of modelling in New York, is now doing
her bit of war work at home. Sylvia is
going to be one of the helpers at the
Retford Hall fete for the Women’s
Hospital, Crown-street, and if helping the
new citizens of Australia isn’t a good
war-time job, what is? With her mother,
Mrs. A. W. Keighley, she will run the
flower stall. The fair, which was to
have been held on the ground in front
of Elizabeth Bay House, is now being
transferred to Retford Hall by permission
of the Tony Horderns. Not only are the
Horderns lending their grounds and ball-
room, they are giving a comforting
cheque as well. This fair ends up in a
five-to-seven sherry binge, and is going
to be a whale of a success judging by the
committee meetings. Photograph by
Dayne.
The Education Gallery mixed postage
stamps with paintings on the last even-
ing of the Royal Art Society’s Exhibition.
The idea was a celebration of the cen-
tenary of penny postage. The display
of stamps held beauty as well as interest,
especially the black one stamped with
Queen Victoria’s head, which was the
original penny “stickyback.” The stamp
struck to mark the centenary shows a
head of Victoria from a die by Heath and
one of her greaLgrandson George VI from
one by Dulac. Underneath is written
“1840-1940.”
The exhibition was instigated by a
group of students of the Memorial Col-
lege of Household Arts that is known as
“the Good Companions.” There were
tableaux arranged by Fay Hornby and
Grace Stafford showing stages in the life
of H.M. mails. The costumes ranged
from those worn in the youth of Queen
Victoria to the flying kit worn by Captain
P. G. Taylor. The exhibition of stamps
was arranged by J. W. Dovey, who also
gave a lecture illustrated by lantern slides.
After the programme there were coffee
and talk, the supper being the work of
the students of the college. Dr. Mary
Booth, founder of the college, seemed
pleased over the experiment, of which
Mrs. K. A. Donkin was patron.
The hall of Christ Church St. Laur-
ence breathed the Hallowe’en atmosphere
last week. Witches and black cats and
crescent moons surrounded the walls, and
the end of the room opposite the stage
showed a great pumpkin face emerging
from a long white robe. The drawings
of the witch at home and abroad had
been done by Mrs. Schofield and cut out
by the Edye family. The night, however,
wasn’t so much eerie as A.1.F.-ish, for it
was one of the weekly parties for soldiers
organised by Mrs. Ben Edye, her sister,
Mrs. Lee, organist Lilian Frost, Bort Fahy,
Mrs. Russell Gillies and a host of other
untiring friends of the soldiers. Bort
Fahy’s music kept feet busy from seven
to ten, which is closing-up time. He
played “Roll Out the Barrel,” “The Man
Who Comes Around,” “The Umbrella
Man” and “Whistle While You Work.”
When the pace got too hot for him Lilian
Frost hopped on to the stage and took
over the piano, playing “The Lily of
Laguna,” “Yip-i-addy” and such while
Bort cooled off.
There were two witches, one fair, one
dark. One was Mrs. Schofield, the other
seemed to be known as Liska. From big
baskets they handed out packets to each
soldier, the lads sitting schoolboy-like in
rows on the floor. Annette Kellerman
was there, all in terra-cotta reds and
pinks. She took over the programme for
a while with her piano-accordion, and
made everybody sing like blazes.
Stephanie Edye, in a swirl of white and
gold, very full, like the Spanish senorita’s
of pre-revolution Spain, her black hair
set off by a white lace mantilla,
danced as they did in old Madrid,
to the click of castanets. Mrs.
Edye was an efficient master of cere-
monies. The Polish visitors from the
ship which brought over the evacuated
children proved tireless dancers. Some
of Sydney’s most attractive girls, all sen-
sibly dressed in cool print frocks, were
there to see that every man had a partner.
Last of all there was brandy-snap. The
two witches carried in the dish of almonds
and raisins, put it in the middle of the
floor, where it blazed gaily while the boys
did a snap.
“Whoso diggeth a well, whoso planteth
a palm” is extolled by Marie E. J. Pitt in
one of her poems. Any poet might have
found inspiration for a poem in the tree-
planting ceremony at the Lady Gowrie
Child Welfare Centre at Erskineville last
week. Lady Gowrie and Lady Wake-
hurst were both in the digging and delv-
ing, and looked as though they enjoyed
it. No doubt the kiddies of the centre
did. They dug, and they watered assidu-
ously from their little watering-cans. Both
the vice-regal ladies planted Ficus hillii.
Kindergarten knight Sam Cohen planted a
eucalypt, the Julius lady and Mrs. J. C.
Windeyer both set oleanders, and a jaca-
randa will flourish as the result of Mrs.
McNall’s labors. Mrs. C. P. Johnson served
tea for all in the dining-room of the school.
All concertgoers have seen Lilian Frost
on innumerable occasions at the great
organ in the Town Hall. Those who visit
the Pitt-street Congregational Church
during weekdays know her, too. They
have heard the inspiring strains of great
music interpreted by her, and are looking
forward to her midday recital on Novem-
ber 13. This will be Lilian’s 1000th mid-
day organ concert, and she is preparing
a programme in keeping with that record.
On that day she will be supported by
her old friends Elsie Findlay, Virginia
Bassetti, Esther Kahn, Henry Stael and
Lawrence Campbell. Last Sunday Lilian
began a series of afternoon recitals in
the Town Hall for the City Council.
Photograph by Norton Trevaire.
The Mayor’s Patriotic Fund young
people’s committee hopes to raise £12,000
by its Queen Competition. On Friday
the section that is backing the Air Queen
got busy with a cocktail coo-ee at
Romano’s. By six o’clock the place was
pretty packed, and drink slips were be-
ing exchanged for anything from iced
lemonade upwards and onwards. Sur-
prising to see, when there is so much
clamor against the cocktail hour, how
many fruit drinks are consumed at these
parties. Verna Macdonald is the Air
Queen, and Edna Bowden, helping to
take tickets at the door, was enthusiastic
over her chances to carry off the crown.
Healthy finance was contributed to the
afternoon by George Falkiner. He gave
a cheque for £lOO.
Mrs. Harry Twigden playing Chopin
was one of the pleasantest sounds of last
Wednesday afternoon. The drawing-
room of the Carlton was the concert hall,
and the afternoon was for the Women’s
Hospital, Crown-street. Making sweet
music for the same cause were contralto
Olga King, soprano Margaret Carr, and
Nancy Gilchrist, who played the violin.
Muriel Edall was the accompanist.
Lady Gowrie came to the concert, and
conductor Georg Schneevoigt waved a
farewell baton in Beethoven’s Fifth Sym-
phony when the A.B.C. orchestra got into
action for Lord Rothschild’s Jewish
Relief Fund. An audience that almost
filled the Town Hall answered the
appeal, and Sigrid Sundgren was in
dashing and spirited partnership with the
piano in the Saint-Saens and Tschaikowsky
concertos. President knight Sam Cohen
and Mrs. Orwell Phillips, president of
the women’s committee, received the wife
of the Governor-General, who looked
very graceful in black and silver. The
Cohen lady was not well enough to be
present, and sister Mrs. Brash acted for
her. Groups of attractive girls sold pro-
grammes and flowers in the cause, and
altogether Camille Honig, the London
emissary of Lord Rothschild’s fund for
war victims, should be very pleased with
the result. After the concert there was
a supper party for the conductor, his wife
and helpers in the Australia.
Everybody saw “The Show Boat” and
has heard of the trading done along the
Mississippi before the covered wagon had
pioneered road transport from coast to
coast of the Americas. But how many
know that the Hawkesbury is still some-
thing of a water highway? This Letter
heard for the first time last week of the
store boat that travels along the Hawkes-
bury, and used to do a roaring trade at
the different piers till motor travel be-
came so general. The store boat still
trades busily, and brings its sturdy cabin
fitted with shelves laden with stores to
the river-dwellers. On one side of the
river, where the roads aren’t so good, its
arrival is still looked forward to.
The Royal Prince Alfred Hospital has
no quarrel with the “man who comes
around.” Chairman Bertie Schlink, at
the annual meeting the other day, gave
grateful testimony to the leniency of the
tradesmen. The deficit of £17,435 was
placed more or less to the discredit not
only of the present Government, but of
Governments as far back as that of the
See Ministry. Dr. Schlink says he has
known them all, and not one has solved
the problem of hospital finance. How-
ever, Minister for Health FitzSimons
pointed out that the Budget now before
the House provided for over one million
pounds, so perhaps Dr. Bertie will be
able to pay the butcher’s and the baker’s
bills in full next year.
An interesting point for the woman
listener was that 10 years ago
40 per cent, of babies were born
at home. In 1939 this happened to
only 9 per cent. Does this mean that
beginning parents are more careful, or
just that more people are living in flats
where accommodation cannot be
stretched to include nurses and mothers-
in-law? Lady Wakehurst, looking crisp
and cool, unveiled a plaque on the new
King George V memorial block for
mothers and babies, and presented a
group of nurses with their certificates.
Writing home to her parents, the H.
J. Barbers, of Rathluba, Yass, daughter
Dorothy tells of her experience as a farm
girl on Shipton Court Farm in Oxford-
shire, England. Dorothy says that lots
of other Australian girls are serving Eng-
land in this capacity. She was nursing
at Lord Nuffield’s Hospital, Oxford, when
she answered an urgent call for farm girls
and, as a result, finds herself working
on the largest Jersey farm in England.
She is up every morning at 5.30. She
is now milking 18 cows and hopes to
reach 20 soon.


Divorce Notices.
TO ERNEST ERIC JANSSEN formerly of
228 Toorak Road South Yarra in the State
of Victoria Traveller but now of parts
unknown. . r .
TAKE NOTICE that your wife AILSA
JANSSEN has instituted proceedings for a
divorce on the ground of desertion during
three years and upwards UNLESS you enter
an appearance in the office of the Prothonotary
of the Supreme Court Melbourne on or be-
fore the Twentieth day of November One
thousand nine hundred and forty the case
may proceed in your absence AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that the sealed copy petition
and copy citation in this suit may be in-
spected at the office of the Petitioner’s Solicitor.
JOAN ROSANOVE,
440 Chancery Lane, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND— ROCKHAMPTON.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
TO VINCENT EVERARD TANZER formerly
of Maryborough in the State of Queens-
land (but whose present whereabout* are
unknown) Laborer. .
TAKE NOTICE that an action No. 40 ol
1940 has been commenced against you in the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Rockhampton
by petition filed therein and Writ of Summons
issued thereout on the Seventh day of October
1940 by MABEL EDNA TANZER of Mary-
borough in the State of Queensland married
woman claiming a dissolution of her marriage
with you on the grounds of your adultery and
your continued desertion without cause for a
period of five years and upwards and also for
the custody of the children of the marriage
AND it has been ordered that service of the
said Writ of Summons and of the said petition
by filing and sticking up on the notice board
in the Registry of the said Court a copy of
such Writ of Summons and an office copy of
such petition and the affidavit verifying the
same and by publishing this notice once in
“The Sydnev Bulletin” a newspaper published
in Sydney in the State of New South Wales
and once in “The Maryborough Chronicle” a
newspaper published at Maryborough in the
said State of Queensland shall be deemed to
be good and sufficient service of the said Writ
of Summons and of the said petition upon you
If you desire to defend the said action you
must within thirty days from the date of the
last act done in compliance with the said order
enter an appearance at the said Registry and
in default thereof the said Mabel Edna Tanzer
may by leave of the Court or a Judge proceed
therein and judgment may be given against
you in your absence.
DATED this Twenty-fourth day of October,
1940.
(1.5.) F. J. RUSSELL,
Registrar.
R L. WEIR, Solicitor; Town Agents:
REES R. & SYDNEY JONES, Solicitors,
Rockhampton.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
No. 185 of 1940.
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes.
BETWEEN ESTHER ELIZABETH ADAMS
Petitioner and
ROBERT ADAMS Respondent.
TO ROBERT ADAMS late of Cobar New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued by this Honorable Court citing you to
appear to answer the petition of ESTHER
ELIZABETH ADAMS of Foundry Hotel Kal-
goorlie in the State of Western Australia mar-
ried woman praying for dissolution of mar-
riage IN DEFAULT of your so appearinfg
riage In default of your so appearing you will
not be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said petition
proved and pronounce sentence in respect
thereto AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid you are within
forty-five days after the date of this publica-
tion to attend in person or by your proctor
solicitor or attorney at the Central office of
our said Court at Perth Western Australia
and there to enter an appearance in a book
provided for that purpose without which you
will not be allowed to address the Court either
in person or by counsel at any stage of the
proceedings in this cause.
DATED at Perth this 15th day of October
1940 and in the fourth year of our reign.
T. F. DAVIES,
Registrar.
This notice is inserted by S. HOWARD-
BATH, of Occidental House, 51 St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, Solicitor and Agent for E. M.
HEENAN & CO., of Kalgoorlie, Solicitors for
the Petitioner.
Melbourne
Chatter
For the Derby there came a plunge
back into winter and a wind that tore
tempers and coiffures to pieces. Some
brave new hats were seen and went back
home with their lives intact, for it didn't
rain. Most of these were of straw with
wisps of colored veils, a lightening-up for
the rest of their wearers’ apparel of suits
or coats, with furs upon every second pair
of shoulders. Mrs. Alec Cato, in black
and silver foxes, gave a thought to color
with blue flowers in her hat. Mrs. Brian
Breheny’s black coat had sleeves of silver
fox, and her little hat was an achorage
for a cluster of red roses. Mrs. Alan
Cooper’s will-o’-the-wisp white hat went
with a black coat, fox-trimmed in motifs
upon shoulders and lapels. Mrs. Nelson
Mills wore her silver foxes as a cape pro-
tection for a black frock with fanciful
apron skirt. She rejoiced at the long
odds place-getting of the family steed
Saint Warden in the Hotham Handicap.
Wielding a folded umbrella was Sir
Malcolm Barclay-Harvey, escorting Lady
Muriel to the birdcage to inspect her
horse Waxwings. The Ford Guthries
were there, he in all-enveloping khaki
greatcoat and black Tank Corps beret,
she in black with patriotic burst of red,
white and blue upon her hat. A Sydney
visitor was Brenda Troedel, and among
brides of a week or so was Mrs. Joseph
Dickson (who used to be Valda Sleight),
wearing a mulberry sway-back coat over
a black frock. In pavement-blue suit with
a dash of purple aloft was Mrs. Len Voss
Smith, and all in milk-chocolate-brown
was Mrs. George Gardiner.
The Carry On Ball on Derby Eve
took on to such an extent that there was
Clamoring at the doors of the Palais for
extra tickets and the problem arose of
creating more tables and their supper fur-
bishings out of thin air. The co-opera-
tive effort was by the A.I.F. Women’s
Association and men of the Carry On
Club —a cheery lot of ex-Diggers who
are quick on the uptake, whose motto is
“Be Practical,” and whose big interest
outside their own work is a helping hand
for necessitous cases among soldiers and
their families.
President of the club is J. W. Pears,
and a past-president, W. L. Sinclair, filled
the arduous role of organiser of the ball,
which he took in his stride in spite of his
other responsibilities (he’s Melbourne
manager of the Commercial Bank of
Sydney). Among Carry On members is
T. H. Dutton, treasurer of the club and
also treasurer of the ball committee. His
line of work otherwise is in insurance.
Bob Cuthbertson, who’s a big boy in
Olympic Tyres, is also a member —to the
ball he brought his wife, clad in silver
lame. Present also were the Rex Neals
and the Keith McDougalls, but missed by
a lot of pals (through influenza) were
popular Syd Birrell and his better-half.
The A.I.F. women were present in vast
numbers, often without husbands. For
the young ones it’s a sad outlook; they,
who have never been wallflowers, just
have to stand and look on while their
generation dances to its heart’s content.
Helping to receive the official guests, in-
cluding a number of generals and their
respective wives, were Mrs. J. D.
Lavarack, in oyster satin, and Mrs. S. F.
Rowell, who wore a turquoise jacket
over her romaine gown. Decorations
upon the official board were floral.
Silver candelabra had been borrowed for
the evening from the collections of Mrs.
Clive Steel and Mrs. Bryan Foster.
Among younger A.I.F. wives-without-
husbands selling tickets for dolls, stock-
ings or pintpots allocated by the spin of
a wheel were Mrs. Peter Gilmour, in
navy satin strewn with lucky four-leaf
clovers, Mrs. Alf Bell, in her wedding
gown of hand-loomed brocade, and Mrs.
Bill Cantelo, who not so long ago was
Jennie Adams.
The Hamilton Sleighs were lucky
enough to be able to overcome the man-
less difficulty by invitations to sizable
bunches of the A.I.F. and the Air
Force, thus balancing up three tables of
guests. Enjoying themselves at the dance
were the Jack Whiteheads, the Eric
Grimwades and the Leith Gillespies;
Valda Treadwell, in silver and a coiffure
of moment; Marjorie Tatnall, in gold
lame and pink roses ; and Sergeant Sam
Spry, down from Pucka and wearing a
brand-new tunic that fits him much
better than his last one. Ann Akhurst,
all in white unto her bunny-wool jacket,
helped on the cigarette stall.
Down to earth in plain suits, severe
tailored blouses, sports hats almost cut
to a pattern, with hair left to itself with-
out crimp or curl, were the visiting com-
mandants and other office-bearers of the
Women’s Air Training Corps. They
stepped into Melbourne for a conference
in flat or near-flat heels, with serious
demeanor, on business bent. They didn t
appear at social fixtures in their uniforms,
but their choice of apparel was consis-
tent with being the next thing to an army
corps. One day they took lunch at the
U.S. Cafe, and had their 4.30 coffee,
sandwiches and sherry at the Lyceum
Club.
At the luncheon, served in the cafe’s
party-room with a lame cushion apiece
for every chair and oyster cocktails at
decorative intervals upon the lace table-
cloth, the honors were done by generalis-
simo Mrs. J. R. Bell. Nancy Lyle was
hostess at the mid-afternoon bugle-call
at the Lyceum. Among inter-State visi-
tors present were Miss Starke from
N.S.W., taking the place of Mrs. Charles
Walton, Lady Bective from S.A., Mrs.
David Taylor from Tasmania, and Mrs.
R. J. Risson from Queensland.
Photograph inset, by Broothorn, is of
Ann, Dr. and Mrs. H. C. Colville’s
younger daughter, who is one of the
ticket secretaries for the Zooie Ball. Ann
left Melbourne Grammar last year, and
after this week, when she faces up to
first-year massage exams., will get down
in earnest to working for the success of
the ball. Organisers Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell and Mrs. Hector Kendall feel
that they’re psychic about December 7,
a date that won’t let them down meteoro-
logically. Last year they had all the luck
in the world over the weather, a day that
was fine, warm and windless. That car-
nival night in the realm of the lions and
tigers was an enormous success and
brought in a record sum of money for
charity. This year the Red Cross alone
is the beneficiary.
Big figures pertaining to people of
both sexes and all ages and to the number
of trains and ships met were presented
at the twenty-fourth annual meeting of
the Travellers’ Aid. Miss L. Armytage’s
report bristled with what is termed in
journalese human interest. The lost, the
lonely waifs and strays, not by the dozen
but by the hundred, have been collected,
provided with home comforts of meals
and showers and had their faces turned
towards a brighter future —which might
have been a new job, or, for the run-
aways, the old home town which some-
how doesn’t seem such a bad place after
all.
Among these runaways children are
predominant, average ages being between
nine and thirteen. Owing to the war the
Travellers’ Aid is busier than ever.
Though jobs of meeting ships are fewer
military movements keep the society’s
workers always on the run. They meet
and advise innumerable wives, fiancees,
children, etc., who come to visit relatives
and friends in camp. They rise to any
occasion, for babies are born practically
upon their doorstep. They also, at short
notice, have provided a padre and a ring
for nervous young couples who promise
to repay their small debt as soon as they
are able. The Travellers’ Aid is not de-
pressed by the debt of £lO,OOO-odd still
outstanding upon the new building.
Well under way are rehearsals for
“Lover’s Leap,” a Gregan McMahon pro-
duction for the Red Cross on November
22 and 23. Front-of-the-house organisa-
tion is also proceeding smoothly as a
result of a conference at Mrs. Russell
Clarke’s home inaugurated by Mrs.
Clarke and Mrs. Sidney Myer. The com-
mittee looks as if it knows its job, and is
confident of its persuasive powers in get-
ting friends to write plump cheques for
bunches of tickets, which are priced at
from ss. to one guinea each. Among
the vice-presidents are Mrs. Rupert
Downes, Mrs. G. I. Stevenson, Mrs.
Harold Clapp, Mrs. A. W. Coles and Mrs.
Harold Cohen, to say nothing of the
spouses of General Bruche, Colin Fraser,
William Angliss and Norman Brookes.
Blonde and beauteous Mrs. M. L. Baillieu
is handling publicity, and Maura Kieran
and Vaire Wilkinson are issuing the
tickets. Vaire almost works a cash-till in
her sleep. She’s on duty daily behind the
desk at the U.S. Cafe.
Campaigning early for the fete at the
Children’s Hospital on December 5 and 6
are Mrs. Ivor Manton and Barbara
Bayles, who are both members of the
hospital committee. Last week they
gathered up other supporters, including
president of auxiliaries Mrs. Stanley
Elder, Mrs. R. A. Staughton, Mrs. Boyd
Graham and representatives from the 16-
odd auxiliaries which work quietly in
suburban and rural districts all the year
round for the good of the small patients
at the Children’s. Gifts for the fete will
be welcomed ; so will Christmas presents
for the children and pantry requisites.
All in ten days wedding plans were
made by Mary Saenger and Noel Arm-
strong. Noel has turned his back upon
his job in civil life, which calls for an
intimate knowledge of antique furniture,
and will soon be in camp as a gunner. For
the moment there’s an interim of surfing
at Manly (Sydney), as the couple have
chosen the Pacific Hotel for their honey-
moon. For the marriage ceremony Mary
wore a frock and little jacket of misty-
blue pebble crepe, an inconsequent hat of
white violets, her mother’s gift of a
diamond brooch and her husband’s
present, a diamond eternity ring.
Although only intimate friends and rela-
tives were invited to the wedding, flowers
were profuse in Melbourne Grammar
School chapel. Flowers, too, were a
feature of the wedding cake cut at Men-
zies during the afternoon —for it’s an
American custom to have real flowers
decorating a cake made for a very special
occasion. For the three-tiered confection
that honored the big day in her life, Mary
chose white lilac and lily-of-the-valley,
which in minute sprays were fitted into
slots in the flagpole on top of the icing.
Newly engaged is Yvonne Wearne
(Dickinson - Monteath photograph),
younger daughter of the W. J. Wearnes,
of Irving-road. Her fiance, Hubert
McCardle, only son of Dr. and Mrs.
E. L. McCardle, of Benalla, has a prop-
erty in that district, so Yvonne when she
is married will enjoy country life to her
heart’s content, which thought pleases
her mightily. Last week she spent a few
days staying with her prospective parents-
in-law amidst general congratulations and
rejoicings and appreciative inspections of
her diamond ring.
First nights come and go and fade into
dusty annals, but the first night at the
King’s of “No Time for Comedy” was
a memorable exception. It was Derby
night, and the theatre was crowded even
up into the gods, as in the good old days.
The play, a witty comedy and a much
better piece of work than usual, went
over well. All was well, too, with the
cast, and Marie Ney had the support of
a new T and very-favorably-received lead-
ing man, Hal Thompson, of the U.S.A.
The flowers were profuse and extrava-
gant, and Miss Ney’s final-curtain speech
was tactful and intelligent. She thanked
everybody and gave credit where credit
was due.
Once aga'in producer Alec Coppel hid
modestly among Bill Constable’s scenery
(an exhilarating decor for a modernistic
penthouse and a pale-blue satiny outfit
for another New York home), refusing
to come out and smile like a docile little
boy. Aftermaths were a big do at Men-
zies, with champagne flowing at George
Edwards’s request. The first-night house
contained guests from a large dinner
party. It arrived after the first interval,
and included the hostess, Mrs. Sidney
Myer, the P.M. and Mrs. Menzies and
the Charles Lloyd Joneses, of Sydney.
Up in the dry hot centre of Queens-
land the caravan-wheel tracks of artist
John Gardner crossed those of an old
Chinese who questioned him —“How you
sell your pictures, in dozen like cab-
bagee?” Mr. Gardner wishes it were
true. His show at the Athenaeum was
opened by Harold Herbert with a disser-
tation about blues (those of the atmo-
sphere, not those issuing from the throats
of crooners) and an avowal that Gardner,
modestly hiding behind the spectators,
Will Rowell, waiting on a word to mount
the dais, and he (Herbert) were three
dyed-in-the-wool realists without an ism
to share between them.
Another trio at the show were three of
the Children’s Hospital’s American god-
mothers, Mrs. C. K. Gamble, Mrs. J. B.
Burnett and Mrs. Jimmy Clymer, the
last-mentioned in a summer poem of
green and black. Mrs. Gamble was mak-
ing one of her first appearances since her
accident early last July, when she frac-
tured her leg. Her friends are unanimous
in agreeing that she’s the pluckiest and
most uncomplaining patient they have
ever visited. The three Americans were
interested in the show for its own sake
and devoted special attention to the im-
posing canvas “The Monarch of the
Ranges,” a generous gift by the artist to
be raffled for the Children’s Hospital by
tickets the price of which no one will
miss. Someone is going to win this
picture for sixpence.


THE MAN
Greece on the List.
“Ek Dum”: Since the beginning of
August war clouds had hung threaten-
ingly over Greece, but the Axis Powers
apparently waited till their foothold on
the Black Sea was secured and their
forces marshalled on the Libyan border
before they moved. Perhaps also there
were naval considerations: if the work is
up to time, Italy should now have two
new 35,000-ton battleships in being, per-
haps three. And all along the predatory
Axis has probably had in mind the time-
table of the last Balkan war of 1912-13,
from which there were many lessons to
be learnt.
In the region of the Little Entente
Hitlerism has acted like a slow paralysis.
It spread eastward to the Black Sea
under the feet of enslaved Poland.
Hungary was bullied, and appeased with
Transylvania. Rumania was dismem-
bered in such a way as to satisfy Russia
and Bulgaria with territorial concessions
and secure vantage points from which to
bully Turkey.
Meanwhile, Yugoslavia was cajoled
with trade and flooded with propaganda.
A copy of “Echo de Belgrade,” a jour-
nal printed in French and with close
official connections, has reached The
Bulletin office. It is dated August 8.
Almost every column bears the mark of
German and Italian influence.
A long article celebrating the fortieth
anniversary of the accession of King
Victor Emmanuel of Italy stresses the
identity of interests and the good-neigh-
borly relations of Yugoslavia and Italy.
The growing trade with Germany and the
fallen trade with England are referred to
pointedly. The exchange of German,
Russian and Yugoslav trade delegations is
reported ; also the decoration of several
German journalists by the Yugoslav Gov-
ernment. And the anniversary of
General Metaxas’s accession to power is
hailed, in propagandist strain, in remem-
brance of his merciless struggle against
two “enemies” of the Greek people—
Parliamentary government and allied
Communism.
On the day on which these articles
were published it was reported that the
Albanians were in revolt, subsequent to an
attempt by the Italians to stir up trouble
between Greeks and Albanians along the
border near Monastir. The Mriditi tribe
had rebelled against military conscription
and two Italian officers had been killed.
Three Albanian villages had been burnt
in revenge and large Italian forces had
been sent to southern Albania. The
Italians denied the report as “British
propaganda.” Then the Stefani news-
agency reported that Greek “terrorists”
had entered Albania to foment revolt and
had beheaded an Albanian irredentist
patriot named Daut Hoggia. Sharp
Italian warnings were issued against
“blind Greek despotism.” Athens re-
marked that the late Mr. Hoggia
was no patriot, but a bandit with
a bad record 20 years long.
Advices from Thessaloniki—the name
was changed officially from Salonika a few
years ago—suggested that there had been
fighting in Albania and that 400 Italians
had been killed.
Germany meanwhile was demanding a
new trade agreement with Greece. Italy
accused Greece of playing a non-neutral
game on the side of Britain. On August
14 it was officially denied in Rome that
Italy would make any territorial demands
on Greece.
On 'August 15, at 8.30 a.m., one of
Greece’s only two cruisers—the Helle,
2083 tons —was torpedoed at anchor
off Tinos, s.-e. of Athens, while crowds of
people near by were assembled for the
celebration of the Feast of the Assump-
tion. Rome Radio the same day
accused the Greeks of violence against
Albanian minorities. The announcer
added: —
The Greek game has gone on long
enough. The lies must stop.
The German Minister called on General
Metaxas, but it soon became evident that,
though the General might be a dictator,
he was not of the same breed as other
European dictators. He apparently stood
firm against the Axis.
Italy at first blamed Great Britain for.
sinking the Helle. On the same day—
August 16 —unknown ’planes were re-
ported to have bombed Greek destroyers.
Next day, the Turkish Premier, Dr. Rejik
Saydam, conferred with the Greek Minis-
ter. A warlike atmosphere immediately
developed. An Italian ’plane was shot
down near a Greek armament factory,
30 miles from Athens, while, according
to the Spanish Radio, Greek soldiers
were killed and wounded in clashes
with the Italians on the Albanian
border. General Metaxas conferred with
Sir Michael Palairet, the British ambas-
sador, while the Bulgarians were moving
out of Varna to recover Rumanian Dob-
rudja. The dismemberment of Rumania
was going ahead steadily.
The Athens conference was quicklv fol-
lowed by a statement from the British
spokesman there that, if Greece resisted
attack, the British Navy and the R.A.F.
would give immediate aid. This pledge
was repeated on Sept. 5.
By that time, it was reported that
500,000 Greeks had been mobilised in
the north and that streams of lorries
were pouring into Kastoria, which is 10
miles from the Albanian border. Italian
’planes were warned not to infringe Greek
territory.
The Italian press intensified its cam-
paign against Greece, and Signor Gayda
said—not for the first time —that “Al-
bania-Greece frontier revision can no
longer be delayed”—a contradiction of
the official Italian statement of August 14.
Turkey and Greece had ended the anta-
gonisms bred of the Anatolian war of
1923 with a treaty of friendship and
arbitration signed in 1930. Another
treaty, made in 1933, declared the exist-
ing borders between Greece and Turkey
inviolable, and embodied clauses in which
the signatories agreed to a common policy
on matters affecting them mutually. In
1938 the bonds were strengthened and
the Turkish Premier paid a visit to
“Yes, Major!”
Athens, which was returned by a visit
from General Metaxas to Ankara.
By the Anglo-French-Turkish treaty
signed in Ankara in October last year,
Turkey agreed that, while the British
guarantees to Greece were in force, the
Turkish Government would co-operate
effectively and lend every assistance in
its power should aggressive war reach
the Mediterranean. This was conditioned
by the proviso that Turkey should not
be compelled to take action “ihvolving as
a consequence entry into armed conflict
with Soviet Russia.” The British guar-
antee to Greece, given after the Italian
occupation of Albania, was to operate if
the independence of Greece was threat-
ened and the Greeks decided to resist.
Italy chose as a moment to strike
the eve of the anniversary of the great
Bulgarian victory at Lule Burgas in the
last Balkan war. The attacks are taking
two directions. One is pointed southward
along the coast into Janina, through the
terrible broken country of the littoral.
The other aims eastward towards Kas-
toria, on Kastoria Lake, below the high
Neretchka Range. Here again the
country is turbulent mountain, with slip-
pery passes, at this time of year r^in '
swept, with snow and sleet at the higher
levels. On the sides of deep gorges goat-
tracks run along ridges, and the country
has little or no local food resource.
There is 60 miles of this. terrain
to be traversed before the invaders
can reach the great malaria-stricken
Vardar estuary plain, which the British
armies knew so well in the last war.
Once there, only the Vardar River would
have to be crossed, and north-west
Greece would be in the enemy’s hands,
together with Thessaloniki and its fine,
sheltered harbor at the head of the
Salonika Gulf.
The passage to Salonika would be a
terrible task for any army resisted by a
defending force of reasonable strength
supported by adequate air squadrons and
mobile artillery. And the campaign
against Janina is not likely to be intrinsi-
cally easier, especially as British naval
and air help would be available all along
the coast.
Eastward of Salonika, a strip of Greek
territory runs along the Asgean coast
south of the Bulgarian border to beyond
Dedeagatch, which is about 40 miles as
the crow flies from Gallipoli. It is highly
suitable for mechanical war on the
coastal side when the weather is good,
but practically all the low-lying coastal
belt is within range of naval guns. If
the Italians should drive across there,
only 120 miles of Bulgarian Black Sea
territory would stand in the way of
complete encirclement of Yugoslavia
and Bulgaria by the Axis Powers.
But the conquest of eastern Greece
would bring the Italians into the suburbs
of Adrianople, Turkey’s greatest western
outpost, and their armies face to face
with the screening defences of the
Chataldja Lines, of which the outpost
army corps is less than 60 miles from the
Greek border at Chorlu. And the Turk
is a stubborn fellow and a stout fighter.
On the Mediterranean Front.
“Ek D.”: War on all fronts except the
pew Graeco-Albanian was quieter than
usual throughout the week. Bad weather
inhibited operations
on a large scale in
the air over both
Britain and Ger-
many.
Air raiding con-
tinued over a wide
area in the Medi-
terranean, from
Naples, to which
the British squad-
rons flew 1000 miles
from England, to
the Dodecanese,
where the Naval Air
Arm pounded bar-
racks and dumps.
At the end of the
week there was con-
siderable movement
among Italian troops
on the western
Egyptian front,
which looked as if it
might be the prelude
to major operations.
On the other hand
it might just as easily
have been bluff.
On October 28
the Italians showed
the emptiness of the
declaration of mid-
August that Italy
had no territorial
demands to make on
Greece by giving
that country three
hours to surrender
part of her territory, remarking that at
6 £.m. the Italian armies would be on
the move.
General Metaxas replied that the
demand and the manner in which it had
been made seemed to him to constitute a
declaration of war. As the Italians have
confessed, their troops crossed the fron-
tier at dawn —5.30 a.m., half an hour
before the expiry of the ultimatum ; the
technique was made familiar by the Ger-
mans. The Italians also admitted the
bombing of Patras, the biggest Greek
port and city in the west, of the Corinth
Canal, the Tatoi aerodrome and the Tre-
vesa naval base.
The first air raid on Athens took place
at 7.30 a.m. on October 28, an hour after
the operations along the Albanian fron-
tier had opened. Fiorina and Kastoria,
within a few miles of the border, both
Greek military centres, were bombed.
Greek Army headquarters announced
that Greek forces had entered Albanian
territory for eight miles.
The rest of the news of fighting during
the week was a confusing mass of state-
ment and contradiction. As the days
went by it became obvious that the only
serious Italian movement was along the
Adriatic coast towards Janina. On Oct.
30, the spearhead of a couple of divi-
sions was asserted by the Italians to be
six miles inside the Greek border near
Konitza, about 50 miles off the coast
east of Corfu. The Greeks reported the
weather as good and bright; the Italians
declared it bad and rainy, with snow in
some of the higher border passes. Cer-
tain it is that their progress was exceed-
ingly slow. Suspiciously slow, perhaps.
The Axis object may be to get large
British forces in a bad military situation
in Greece and neighboring parts.
On November 2, following an early
Admiralty statement that British naval
and air forces were co-operating with the
Greeks, First Lord Alexander broadcast
an announcement that “the R.N. is there;
British troops have landed in Greece and
Britain is giving air support.” But this
does not necessarily mean that major
British operations are contemplated on
the European mainland.
The proper place to fight is the Suez-
Egyptian area, which is the most central
point for drawing on the resources of
India, the Dominions and Africa, and
the nearest to the Navy’s oil resources.
Moreover, Egypt is prepared ground on
which the British commands have been
working for years. There the difficulty
of keeping open long communications
and providing reinforcements falls mainly
on the shoulders of the blockaded aggres-
sors. Already there are palpable signs
that the Italians are suffering from their
disabilities in Egypt, and that the steady
attrition of the R.A.F. is having its effect
on Germany itself.
An Axis success in Egypt would be
a heavy blow to the whole British Empire.
Fortunately the Australian Government
is not likely to sanction any European
military adventures with the A.I.F., and
it is to be hoped that the British Govern-
ment will not yield to newspaper clamor
for “action” of the sort that newspapers
always clamor for. The leaders of the
fighting services can be trusted to do
everything that can be done with a fair
prospect of success with the forces they
have at their disposal. It would be black
ingratitude to the R.N. and the R.A.F.
and it might be extremely dangerous if
they were asked to do too much.
Sea Tragedy.
“Nobby II”: For British shipping, the
second and third weeks of October were
among the worst of the war.
The seven days to October 14 saw the
destruction of 63,265 tons, including
seven British vessels (of 32,370 tons),
which was about 11,000 tons above the
weekly average (Germans claimed the
sinking of 120,000 tons). The next
week saw a marked increase in submarine
activity, and the Admiralty admitted that
32 British ships (146,528 tons), seven
allied ships (24,686 tons) and six neutral
ships (22,816 tons) had gone down
(467,000 tons was the enemy’s guess). The
increase brought the weekly average of
sinkings to 57,000 tons.
The Empress of Britain, 42,000 tons,
sunk early on Saturday morning, October
26, was the world’s tenth-biggest ship.
When she was 150 miles off the Irish coast
in a calm sea and was apparently on her
normal transatlantic run, a German
bomber swept out of the sky at terrific
speed, and let go a stick of bombs, one
of which hit an A.A. gun and killed part
of the crew. It then machine-gunned the
decks and killed a woman, swooped up
and dived again, dropping incendiary
bombs and high explosives all over the
ship, which was soon on fire and shrouded
in smoke and fumes.
Most of the passengers were at break-
fast, but the crew set calmly about the
task of saving them. Some boats had
been riddled with bullets, and rafts had
to be hastily improvised from spars and
doors. In 30 anxious minutes women and
children had been transferred to boats,
while the crew fought with hoses and
extinguishers to keep the fire from closing
the main staircase and trapping the pas-
sengers.
Captain Sapsworth, who had brought
back the King and Queen when
they visited Canada, remained on the
bridge, which was machine-gunned by the
Germans—an officer was killed—until the
flames drove him below The officer
were compelled to jump 15 feet to
themselves. .
A nucleus crew of 200 men remaine
aboard fighting the flames for seven
hours, and for the same period
sengers, who had been told by a u
land flying-boat, which arrived soon after


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM
6AM
6KG
6GE
Perth .... 500 watts
Northam. . 2000 watts
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
Geraldton 500 watts
St. George's Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Public Notice.
THE 4th Infantry Training Battalion urgently
requires three sets of bagpipes and two side-
drums. Have now one set and bass drum.
Carrying on Scottish tradition in N.S.W., as
original 4th Battalion, A.1.F., was formed from
N.S.W. Scottish Rifles. The present C.O. and
second-in-command of the 4th Inf. Trng. Batt.
and many of training staff are from the 30th
Batt. (N.S.W. Scottish Regiment). We have no
band at all. —Capt. R. A. Wright, 4th Inf. Trng.
Batt., Block 7, Manilla-road Camp, Tamworth.
“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
-RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting
13/3 (2 years £l/2/9) to “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
the disaster, that rescue was coming,
waited in the boats. A doctor rowed
from boat to boat tending the wounded
and injured, and the heroism of the
British mercantile marine in tragic hours
was nobly exemplified. One boat over-
turned and seven persons were lost.
Eventually salvage tugs arrived and
took the big liner in tow, but she blew
up before she reached port.
The Germans announced the sinking
with an air of triumph. It was not their
fault that only 40 innocent lives out of
643 were lost in the murderous attack.
But for the coolness and determination
of the crew Britain might be mourning
over another catastrophe as shocking as
the destruction of the Lusitania.
The losses take on a different perspec-
tive against the vast background of
British sea-power. The First Lord of the
Admiralty points out that at any given
moment there are 2500 British ships
loaded down with goods ploughing the
seas, and that new building and acquire-
ments are replacing sinkings.
Apart from what is being done in
British yards, Britain is negotiating for
the establishment of stocks to construct
150 freighters in the U.S.A. within two
years.
A New Air Cockpit.
“Aileron”: The Bulletin mentioned
(B. 31/7/’4O) a book by Otto Schiidde-
kopf, issued by the German General Staff
before the war for the instruction of
German airmen in British and Continen-
tal air strategy.
One of the “main seats of war” plotted
by the author on his maps was all the
land and sea from Ceylon to Hong Kong
and south to New Guinea and North
Australia. The interval has shown that
Herr Schiiddekopf was an accurate
prophet regarding his first two zones —
Britain, France and western Germany
and the Middle East from Sicily across
Arabia, though the air war there has not
yet reached his most eastern point in that
area, which was beyond Basra.
The East Indies area, if not yet a war
zone, has since become a potential one,
and air forces which would have been
considered first-rate both as to size and
quality in any European country before
the end of 1938 are already assembled
there.
The R.A.F. has received useful
R.A.A.F. reinforcements. Their new zone
of operations is well within the Common-
wealth’s defensive area, since coverage
is needed to defend the sites from which
the bulk of our fuel supplies is drawn
for navy, army, air force and civil
use, and since there are air lines which
must be kept open. It is necessary to
maintain aerial reconnaissance to guard
against surprise attacks, however remote
the likelihood of them, on the outer
wards of Australia and New Guinea
which touch East Indian and other
foreign territory.
There are three other air forces operat-
ing in the area. The East Indian Air
Force is modern, comprehensive in types
of machine and well manned with the
pick of the Dutch pilots, many of whom
have had a long experience of civil flying
round the Equator. They are well served
with medium-heavy American Hudson
bombers, so that a greater part of their
heavier offensive force could operate
integrally with the R.A.A.F., which uses
the same type of machine. The strong
naval eskader two light cruisers, one
flotilla leader, eight destroyers, 14 sub-
marines and some minelayers and other
light craft also has a powerful air
auxiliary, which before the outbreak of
war had 72 seagoing heavy machines,
besides 18 smaller ones carried by ships.
There is an auxiliary naval air base in
Borneo.
The East Asian air force least thought
of is that of Thailand (Siam), num-
bers of whose machines in four-
squadron lots were a few weeks
ago reported by the French as fly-
ing over parts of Indo-China. For
years the Siamese air force was ahead of
most of the air forces in Asia, not even
excluding that of India a decade ago,
when most of the greater Asiatic countries
had scarcely a feather to fly with. Last
year Thailand, as it is now called, was re-
puted to own a front-line force of 200
machines, with a personnel of 98 officers
and 2486 other ranks.
And, of all East Asiatics, Siamese make
about the best fliers. They are a strange
people. Most Asiatic peoples are only
medium fliers —their minds seem to have
a time-lag when they deal with transport
machinery. Not the Thailanders, who
seem to have an inborn mechanical sense.
One of their royal princes ranked recently
amongst the world’s finest racing motor
drivers. And they have tenacity and
adventurousness above the average.
Thailand signed a non-aggression pact
with Britain, France and Japan on
June 12.
The third force is that of Uncle Sam,
who has strong naval co-operation squad-
rons in the Philippines.
"Guns."
BY J.H.M. ABBOTT.
One evening 11 years ago, the writer
sat in the wardroom of H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia—then the flagship of Rear-Admiral
Evans, R.N. —as she Jay at anchor in
Hervey Bay (Q.), talking to the com-
mander and the chaplain. A short dis-
tance away officers were playing one of
those table race games in which you
throw dice and move little lead horses
and jockeys over a graduated “race-
course” in accordance with the results of
your throwing.
One of those officers was Lieutenant-
Commander J. A. Collins, the ship’s
Gunnery Officer and also Squadron Gun-
nery Officer. A pleasant, alert, witty and
companionable young man, he was one
of the earliest products of the Royal Aus-
tralian Naval College. A triumphant
shout of victory on his part drew Com-
mander Carslake’s attention to him, and
he said with a smile :
“See ‘Guns’ over there, Abbott?”
“Yes. He seems to be doing all right.”
“Well, that’s just what he will do,
always. Collins will go a long way in
the service. He’s got brains, and he’s
keen on his job.”
The Commander was reputed to be
one of the most accomplished men
in the Royal Navy —it was said that
the turrets and the torpedoes contained
several of his inventions —and such a
testimonial from such a source greatly
impressed a humble landlubber tem-
porarily sojourning in the midst of these
seamen for the purpose of writing Bul-
letin articles about the R.A.N. But
when a few days later, over afternoon
tea in his cabin, Admiral Evans remarked
that the lieutenant-commanders serving
in the flagship who’d been trained at
Jervis Bay were about the smartest lot
of their sort he’d encountered in his
career, and that John Collins was the
pick of them, he became more than ever
interested in the functioning of a gunnery
officer as exemplified in the flagship’s.
He couldn’t help making a study of the
species in the person of Lieutenant-Com-
mander Collins. So he wrote in the
log he was keeping for his own edifi-
cation :
When it is all boiled down, the whole
business of a man-o’-war in action lies in
suiting the convenience of the Gunnery
OfficeF He is altogether paramount, and
the interests of his deadly and uproarious
weapons take precedence over everything
else in the ship’s life. The Captain is in
control of every rank and rating so that
they may be trained and drilled into
handling the ship with such efficiency that
“Guns” may have every opportunity in the
hours of stress and trial to make the best
use of his weapons. The Commander is
there to back the Captain up in this useful
work, and to keep the ship’s company up
to concert pitch. The First Lieutenant
assists the Commander in securing the
“team-work” necessary to the conservation
of “Guns’s”.interests. The Navigator exists
to provide “Guns” with effective positions
from which to use his batteries It is
always to me, viewing the matter in such
a light as this, an admirable and wonder-
ful thing that the particular “Guns” with
whom I have had fullest opportunity of
becoming well acquainted should be the
modest and unassuming fellow he is—for
surely he is It.
It was a privilege and a pleasure to
know John Collins a decade ago as much
as it is now, but one man was unfortu-
nate in meeting him lately—the captain
of the Bartolomeo Colleoni. Collins has
amply fulfilled Commander Carslake’s
Hervey Bay prophecy of 1929.
“H.G.”: Organisation and efficiency
are two of the main essentials in an
army, but they seem to be lacking in
one department. Two months ago my
husband wrote and increased his family
allotment. The E).F.O. deducted half
the amount from his pay, but the family
didn’t get the increase. Six of his
fellow-officers are experiencing the same
trouble.
* * * tt u *
“Ente Marid : E. W. Holden, Con-
troller-General of Australian Canteens,
has some lively stones of the Diggers of
the new A.I.F. which s ow t at t eir
fathers have not much to teach them At
one port they borrowed a fire engine and
raced it up and down the streets. Next
day they were sent to do penance before
the fire brigade chief. The entrance to
the fire station is decorated with a fine
clock on a marble column. They apolo-
gised and left. So did the clock.
The Air War Day by Day.
October 28-29: German-Italian raids
on England with heavy bombers escorted
by swarms of fighters. Four separate
attacks on London ; few machines pene-
trate R.A.F. screen. German estimate
of losses, seven machines; British, 22
Germans, seven British. Longest raid to
date on n.-e. England, but damage slight
and casualties few.
Further extensive R.A.F. attacks on
Germany, mainly on shipyards of Ham-
burg, Kiel, Bremen and on Cuxhaven
docks. Oil refineries at Hamburg and
Cologne, canals and Belgian aerodromes
blasted.
Italian Libyan communications con-
stantly harassed by R.A.F. Water pipe-
line being laid between Bug Bug and Sidi
Barrani bombed. Fleet Air Arm attacks
Maltzena, capital of Stampalia, Dode-
canese ; heavy explosions caused in am-
munition dumps, barracks hit. Italians
bomb docks, railways and port installa-
tions at Patras, Corinth, Athens and
Piraeus, Fiorina and Kastoria. Patros
casualties 110 killed, 300 wounded.
October 29-30: German raids on Lon-
don, Merseyside and other parts of
Britain by heavy and widespread forces,
manly driven off before reaching objec-
tives. Damage and casualties light; 28
German and seven British machines shot
down.
Berlin raided by R.A.F. in bad weather
and 14 fires started among 29 other objec-
tives —oil plants at Homburg, Sterkrade
and Magdeburg. Further extensive bomb-
ing of Bremen, Wilhelmshaven, Dutch
and Belgian ports and German-occupied
territory generally. Huge fires again
started. Two R.A.F. machines missing.
Greek headquarters report enemy air
activity as “light.” Corinth Canal and
Tatoi aerodrome (Athens) bombed.
Italians announce that they will not bomb
Athens if Rome is spared.
R.A.F. raids nine Italian Libyan and
Egyptian bases, including Dorna and
Tobruk. Italians also admit raids on
Assab, Massawa and other Eritrean
centres, killing five and wounding 16.
President Roosevelt announces that he
is clearing the way for Britain to rein-
force the R.A.F. with 26,000 U.S.A.
’planes.
Oct. 30-31: Limited attacks on London
and on various points in England ; nine
German and four British ’planes shot
down. Bad weather limits R.A.F. raids
over Continent, but Cherbourg, Flushing,
Emden and a few other ports bombed ;
one British machine down.
Widespread R.A.F. and S.A.A.F. raids
over the African war area, particularly
Tobruk and Bardia (Libya). Italians
claim that in combats near Sidi Barrani
seven British and three Italian ’planes
shot down. Germans claim sinking by
a bomb of the British freighter Starstone
off West Irish coast.
R.A.F., from British aerodromes, bomb
oil tanks and other objectives at Naples,
1000 miles away. Italians declare raid
did limited damage, killed one person
and injured five. Italian ’plane shot down
by R.A.F. in flames during reconnais-
sance flight over Greek and Italian
waters.
Further Italian raids on Greece.
Oct. 31-Nov. 1: Desultory German
raids over England; enemy loses nine
machines.
R.A.F. raids on western Germany in-
clude large-scale attack on Berlin, in
which railway stations and Klingenberg
power station attacked, Krupp’s works
at Essen, oil plants at Magdeburg and
Gelsenkirchen and Osnabruck railway
station. German High Command reports
only few raiders reach Berlin, but a
number of persons killed and injured,
houses and a hospital damaged ; also a
military hospital wrecked in Amsterdam.
Further raids in Egyptian area, includ-
ing one on Tobruk.
Italians raid 13 Greek towns, killing
90 and injuring 209. They claim to have
machine-gunned “troops” attempting to
land in Greece, hitting steamer and
damaging landing facilities.
Towns include Athens, Salonika,
Canea (Crete), Patras and Perama. Little
damage except at Patras. Italians also
claim to have bombed military bases on
Corfu, an arsenal and ships at Salamis,
and raiding of several towns not included
in Greek list. Greeks report having
bombed troop concentrations and
Albanian aerodromes, destroying several
’planes, and to have shot down four
Italian bombers in battle; Italian ’planes
shot down in Corfu bore Greek colors.
Nov. 1-2: During raids on southern
England R.A.F. accounts for 11 German
’planes—in Yorkshire, Essex, Kent and
Sussex —against seven British lost.
Air Ministry announces 2433 German
bombers and fighters shot down over
Britain since Aug. 8, 6000 German airmen
killed or taken prisoner against British
Fighter Command’s loss of 353 pilots.
Total losses for war: Germany 4938
machines, Italy 232, Britain 1594.
Tasmania lost a smart young man in
Leo Doyle, M.H.A., who passed out sud-
denly at 38. The first pupil of St. Virgil’s
College, he made rapid progress through
various stages to the University, where he
won first place in the final law examina-
tion, and was admitted to the Bar at
21. Later he lectured in law, and was
acting Dean of the Faculty after the
retirement of the late Prof. McDougall.
He left the Uni. for politics, winning
Franklin in 1937. Captain of Royal
Hobart Golf Club twice, he was a mem-
ber of the Tasmanian Club, and played
a big part in the little State’s football
activities.
* * * *
Guy Fisher, who succeeded Col. Ross
Jacob as Deputy Assistant Commissioner
for the S.A. division of the Red Cross,
describes himself as “a student.” A mem-
ber of the original 10th Battalion, he was
invalided from Gallipoli; afterwards he
got his commission and transferred to the
Royal Field Artillery, with which he re-
mained until hostilities ceased. His job
is to inspect Red Cross work at
military hospitals and dressing stations
and to act as liaison officer between the
society and the medical branch of the
fighting forces.


YOU
cases ® EKI
HEVRO'-V
It’s a fact you can’t beat Chevrolet as a Utility
investment. Comparison proves that, to a greater
degree than any competitor, Chevrolet meets your 5
most important Utility requirements. A Chevrolet
Utility offers you—l. Maximum mileage from your
petrol ration. 2. Space for the bulkiest Utility loads.
3. Outstanding comfort and roominess. 4. Every
modern Utility feature. 5. The greatest Overall
Economy:—low first cost, amazingly low running
and upkeep cost, and high resale value.
m
Z " ,
:
IS
m
smsm
. Si
■•>*y
-y
famous 6-cyl. Overhead
Valve Engine on both Utilities and
Commercials is fitted with an
Octane Selector (instantly adjust-
able for second grade fuel).
AMAZINGLY LOW PRICES
CHEVROLET 10-12 CWT, UTILITIES
Chassis Prices from . . £277
Available with a wide
range of body styles from
£353
15 CWT. COMMERCIAL UTILITIES
Chassis Prices from . . . £267
£321
Available with a wide
range of body styles from
Easy Terms Available Under
Confidential G.M.A.C. Plan.
THE IDEAL DUAL-PURPOSE UTILITY!
Hauling capacity loads all the week ... away on a picnic at the
week-end—Chevrolet is styled and engineered to do both jobs with the
greatest economy and complete satisfaction.
See and drive Chevrolet and you’ll agree that this hard-working,
good-looking Utility has an in-built comfort far ahead of anything
offered by competitors. There’s seating and leg room for 2 adults
and 2 children in the luxurious Coupe Cab exclusive Vacuum-
assisted Gearshift and underdash Handbrake leave the floor clear.
There’s also a big parcel shelf behind the seat, lock-up glove box
on the handsome instrument panel, wide-angle “Pilot Seat” Driving
Vision and a host of other luxury features. Come in any time and
we’ll gladly place a Chevrolet Utility at your disposal for a test —
no obligation. And remember that we also have available a full
range of Chevrolet Commercials—Australia’s lowest-priced 15 cwt.
Utilities!
CHEVROLET
CHEVROLET IS A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia. GENERAL MOTORS—HOLDEN’S LTD. C73S-2<
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“El V.”: Dead in Thursday Island,
Alec Corran, once perennial Mayor of
Australia’s northernmost town. Corran
was a small, bearded man, a bundle of
energy and good nature, a printer by trade.
’Ninety-three smashed him in Brisbane
and drove him northward, penniless. He
was not long making a foothold for him-
self. His paper, the “Torres Straits Pilot,”
established a reputation as the smallest
sheet in the world—it was 16in. by 9in.,
printed on one side, and the price was
6d. Its publication and Thursday Island
printing took up little of Corran’s time,
and most of the rest he gave up to public
affairs. Ls his prime he was the inevit-
able chairman at all T.I. meetings. The
distinguished visitor found him on the
wharf, often without a coat, to offer the
freedom of the island. He was counsellor
to everybody in trouble, arbiter in most
disturbances, and was Mayor for so many
years that his original election was lost
in the mists of time. Corran was known
all over the world to people who had
met him and read his curious journal as
they passed through, and he believed T.I.
to be the centre of the universe.
* * * *
“Creswell”: As our member hasn’t a
vote in the House, we Territorians aren’t
particularly interested in what happens
at southern elections and after, but we
were mildly pleased by one feature of
the Cabinet reshuffle. In the past almost
every alteration affected the Minister for
the Interior, whose department is sup-
posed to run the N.T. In the last eight
years we’ve had Parkhill, Perkins, Harri-
son, Paterson, McEwen and Foil, and at
least five made special trips through the
N.T. to see what could be done about us.
So far nothing in particular has been
done, but at least it’s a relief to know
that Senator Foil is still Minister for the
Interior —we shouldn’t have to put up
with the dust of another caravan of poli-
ticians and their offsiders scooting
through the N.T. on one of their “in-
spection tours.”
* * * *
“23-4”: There’s nothing half-hearted
about A. S. Huybers, president of the
Royal Geographical Society. He
wants trigonometry, algebra and
some of the dead languages abol-
ished from our schools and study
of native flora and fauna substi-
tuted. A trip to the Carnarvon
Ranges has convinced him of the
need for population, and he thinks
about 50,000 000 new settlers would
about fill the bill. To him it’s in-
credible that refugees from
northern Europe are being given
transient passes to Shanghai when
a country like this could use them.
Holding that Carnarvon shales
would yield 60 gallons to the ton
he urges the study of geology by
all hands, confessing that the vice
has so got hold of him that on two
Wednesdays in succession he gave
up golf to go and look at rocks.
Mon, yon’s an awfu’ admeesion.
* * *
“Carater”: A gang of workers
who dug a trench in Blackall-lane,
Gympie, are debating with them-
selves whether to submit to an
oculist or a public kicking. In the
manner of their kind they threw
the dirt and rubble out of the
trench, laid a concrete gutter in it
and retired to fresh toil and public
thoroughfares new. A few days
later the Town Clerk’s daughter,
skipping merrily homeward from
a juvenile eisteddfod, picked up a
pretty piece of stone. Assayed for gold
it brought £2O. Toilers’ dreams are now
haunted by the number of pots that bit
of stone would have bought.
* * * *
“Merty”: Aspiring politicians have
invaded our Queensland district in search
of votes. Leadin’ of ’em is no less a
personage than the State Treasurer, Mr.
Cooper, who blandly informed a few of
us the other night that Labor had been
fighting for the masses “since the days
when the Israelites had demanded straw
for bricks from Pharaoh and had gone
on strike when they did not get it.” This
is certainly a new interpretation of what
led up to the Exodus and seems rather
unfortunate as an example of Labor
politics, for the result was that few of
those who started the bother in Egypt lived
to see the end of it and their descendants
have been in trouble ever since.
“There, little flower, you’ll be quite safe now!”
“Balander”: The heat - waves last
summer had their effect in the pear
country, where a good bit of dense seed-
lings and regrowth are showing up be-
cause the heat reduced the reproduction
of cactoblastis. The insects are breeding
up again and their assault on the pear is
increasing. Cochineal bugs filled the
breach rather well, devouring seedlings
and holding up the fruiting of larger
plants. The special strain of cochineal
brought from South America is hopping
into the tiger pear with enthusiasm, and
another bug, Lagochirus funestus, is
helping in the difficult job of dealing with
tree pear. The work on pear land goes
steadily forward, as shown by the report
that last year 714,003 acres were thrown
open for settlement and all but a thou-
sand or so taken up. Well over 21,000,000
acres have been selected in pear country
in the past decade. Leaseholders are
more than performing the necessary
maintenance and improvement work re-
quired, and only two cases of forfeiture
are recorded for failure to comply with
development conditions of the leases.
Queensland owes a big debt to scientists,
settlers and insects.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Queensland Works
Minister Bruce has been expressing naive
surprise at learning that his three toll-
bridges charge dead as well as living
passengers for the privilege of crossing
them. Whenever a funeral cortege has
to traverse one of them on the way to
the cemetery, it has been the practice for
the undertaker to arrange beforehand with
the toll-collector for an inclusive payment
for all arranged cars. A check is made
at the bridge and any surplus mourners
who may have joined in without previous
notice are held up for their little lots.
It has been going on for years, and must
have collected quite a tidy little aggregate
from the estates of defunct bridge-users,
but until the gaff was blown by the
C.P. member in whose electorate the
Logan toll-bridge is Mr. Bruce hadn’t
heard of it. He has undertaken to recom-
mend to the Main Roads Commissioner
that the past-mortem piracy be discon-
tinued.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: A fine old Australian of
the outback passed over the divide when
70-year-old Fred Hardy, of Goolparla
station (N.T.), was killed by his horse
falling with him in the first hack event
at the Adelaide River races. Victorian-
born, he and his brother Harry, of Anna-
burroo station, were known throughout
the Territory as buffalo-shooters, horse-
breeders and cattlemen for more than
forty years. Up to recently Fred had
owned Mount Bundy station, and when
he disposed of it he made it a condition
that he would be buried on the hill above
the homestead, wherever and whenever he
might chance to die. He has had his wish.
* * * *
“Lid”: One of the results of the
Queensland Government’s enforcing of
eight-o’clock bar-closing—usually it’s an
open slather until 11 p.m.—has been some
lively disturbances by members of the
A.I.F. In Brisbane plate-glass windows
and showcases were smashed ; pubs were
broken into ; trams were boarded, stopped
and their windows shattered ; willing en-
counters between the soldiers, pickets and
police occurred, and so on. The battle-
cry of the rioters was “We want beer!
and dry canteens are given as one of the
causes of the disturbances. At least, it
can be said for wet canteens that they
would encourage Diggers to do their
drinking leisurely and not hog the hops
as soon as their leave comes round, and
that when a man did have a few over the
eight he would be more easily looked
after in camp, and would not draw public
attention to his uniform.


At
MOKE
GOOD FOR.
ALT
0 P S
EAST
ED T 0
CTIO N
V*
//
TOOHEYS
FLd
KEEP
THE
MAKE
YOUR MONEY
FIGHT!
*FLfIG*
flying


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of 'A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
Genera! Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking bus’iness.
O.S.K. LINE
OSAKA SYOSEN KAISYA
BUSINESS MEN AND TOURISTS
should travel by
NEW, FAST MOTOR VESSELS
to
JAPAN, SOUTH AMERICA and AFRICA
Also Special Round the World Trip
European Cuisine and Accommodation
For Particulars, Fares, etc., apply
BIRT AND COMPANY (PTY.) LIMITED
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
8W1421.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The r *B selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Lady, Sydney, own machine, will revise and
type manuscripts, exp., charges reasonable. —
8631.
Mechanic (dental), exp., good-class work,
seeks permanent situation in Brisbane. Refs.—
8641.
Writer compiling biography of Westralian
John Forrest would appreciate illustrative anec-
dotes, information (particularly personal), help,
hints.—8624.
To buy instructions for playing musical saw.
—8593.
To buy Home Annual for 1935, ’36, ’37. —
8619.
To buy Dictionary of American Biography. —
8646.
To buy Dr. Brewer’s Dictionary of Phrase
and Fable, second-hand.—8592.
Wanted second-hand Hermes baby typewriter.
—8591.
Information Sought.
(1) Cause and effect of flat feet? (2) Treat-
ment ? Do arch supports help to cure the com-
plaint or only ease the feet? —8384.
(1) Exact cause is not completely known,
but there is thought to be a hereditary tend-
ency, since they tend to run in families, and
some races are more flat-footed than other.
When the feet grow rapidly, especially in
adolescent girls, unsuitable shoes being worn at
the same time, flat-feet are likely to develop.
The trouble is also common in fat people, being
due to the excess weight. The condition may
also be the result of an accident, such as a fall
from a height. Affected persons (especially
children) are often below the average in general
physique, with knock-knees, rounded backs and
poor muscular development. (2) In treatment,
proper methods of walking must be taught and
the supporting structures of the foot streng-
thened. Many exercises are employed for the
purpose. The heels of the shoes can be rein-
forced with pads and supports so as to compel
the wearer to walk on the outer border of the
foot. The habit of walking barefooted or in
flat slippers is harmful. Hot applications and
massage are helpful, as, in many cases, are
well-fitting arch supports.
* * * *
How is carbonic-acid gas used to stop weevils
eating corn or wheat stored in tanks, as is the
practice of Atherton (Q.) maize-growers? —
8427.
Carbon bisulphide is the most satisfac-
tory fumigant for the treatment of bulk stocks.
It is the fumigant used by the Atherton Table-
land Maize Board in its silos, and many
farmers keep stocks on the farm for the treat-
ment of tanked maize. For the safe storage of
seed wheat or seed maize, a mixture containing
equal parts of naphthalene and paradichloro-
benzene will give reasonable immunity from
weevil infestation when added to the seed at
the rate of 1 l-51b. per bushel. The carbonic-
acid gas method of controlling weevils consists
merely in placing lighted candles on the top
of the tanked maize and then sealing the lids.
The candles burn till the available oxygen is
depleted below the requirements of combustion.
The method was common some years ago, but
it is not particularly effective.
* * * *
(1) Would a Fordson tractor give a satisfac-
tory performance when fitted with a producer-
gas unit? (2) Approximate cost of plant? (3)
Would running be economical? —8441.
(1) The Fordson tractor has proved satis-
factory when converted to “Powell” gas. To
obtain full kerosene power, it is necessary to
have the block rebored so as to increase the
bore by |in. and to fit a special high com-
pression head. This costs approximately £20
in addition to the cost of the plant. (2) About
£100 f.o.b. Sydney. (3) It could be expected
that one 561b. bag of charcoal, costing in Aus-
tralia from Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. per bag, would
do the same amount of work as of
kerosene.
* * * *
After court proceedings to prove that a
man is the father of an illegitimate child have
failed, what action can the man take against
persons who persist in stating that he is the
father ? —8580.
He can issue a writ claiming damages for
slander, take police court proceedings for
using insulting words or apply to the Supreme
Court for a common law injunction restraining
the use of defamatory words.
* * * *
What is the origin of the term “Black Maria”
for a prison van ? 1 understand in Germany
it is known as “Green Henry.” —8339.
The term “Black Maria” was first used in
Boston, Philadelphia, in 1838, where a power-
ful negro woman named Maria Lee kept a
lodging-house for seamen. So strong was this
woman that she was frequently called upon
to help in getting refractory prisoners under
lock and key, and it is said that her name
was to the conveyance employed. Can’t
trace the German slang.
* * * *
In a no-trump hand at 500, can the joker
be played on a suit when the holder of the
joker has previously discarded on that suit ?
—8574.
Hoyle Up-to-Date, latest edition, says: “In
no-trump and nullo bids the joker is a suit
by itself. Holder of the joker cannot play it
if he can follow suit. Not being able to follow
suit he can discard a card of another suit
as often as he chooses, or play the joker
when he pleases.”
* * * *
(1) Do Border Leicester ewes crossed with
Romney Marsh rams produce good fat lambs?
(2) Approximate amount of wool a two-tooth
of this cross should cut given a good season,
the ewes and rams being the best obtainable ?
8610.
(1) The cross cannot be safely recommended,
though it may be all right. Border Leicesters
seem to do best on merinos for lamb and wool
production, the ewe of the cross being kept
and put to Romney rams. Some people have
tried a Romney-merino cross ewe, put to
Romney rams for lambs and wool, but little
has been heard of them. Good results have
been obtained from a Romney on a Border-
merino cross ewe. (2) Can’t say, not having
seen products of such a cross.
* * * *
Meaning and pronunciation of the words
“Ho-ro mhairi dhu,” which appear in the
old Highland air “Turn ye to me”? —B272.
“Ho-ro” is an exclamation in Gaelic which
has no equivalent in English. “Mhairi dhu”
means Dark Mary, and would be pro-
nounced something like “Vain ghu” (or goo).
The only way to get the real pronunciation is
to ask a Gaelic speaker to say it.
* * * *
(1) Method of propagating quandong, witga,
cypress pine and rosewood trees? (2) Are any
special methods of treating seeds, cuttings, etc.,
necessary? (3) Are any special kinds of soil
desirable ?— 8407.
(1) All can be raised from seed. (2) Quan-
dong and wilga seed should be put in
boiling water and left for a few hours so as
to soften the hard shells; also some should be
sown in the ordinary way of seed-sowing. (3)
Loamy soil should be used with plenty of sand
mixed through it but no manure. The seed
boxes or pans should have plenty of drainage
in the bottom, such as rubble covered with
leaves, then filled up with the prepared soil,
firming same until within one inch from the
top; water well and let drain before sowing.
After sowing, press seeds down with a flat piece
of wood, then cover lightly with soil, give
another light watering, shade until germination,
then give more light and gradually do away
with shading. During dull weather take the
shading right off so as not to weaken seedlings.
When fit to handle they should be potted off
singly and grown on until ready for permanent
positions.
* * * *
Method of cleaning coffee, grease and salt-
water stains from tapestry upholstery ?—8514.
Shake together in a bottle |-pint benzine,
4-pint water, £lb. ammonia and four (liquid)
ounces of a saturated solution of sal. soda
Leave to stand till next day. Keep well
corked and shake before applying to marks, re-
newing rag as it becomes soiled. Be careful
of fire. Hot bran or fuller’s earth spread
on thickly and removed by brushing might
also be tried.
* * * *
How to make a car cover from sugarbags ?
—8448.
Open the bags and join neatly until the
full extent of the cover is reached, then press
the joins to make it look like a sheet of thin
canvas. Then ( a ) dissolve lOoz. of alum in two
gallons of boiling water, and ( b ) dissolve |lb.
acetate of lead in two gallons of boiling water.
Mix ( a ) and ( b ) and stand overnight, then pour
off clear liquid and discard sediment. Soak
bag-sheet in solution and, when thoroughly
sodden, squeeze (do not wring), hang up until
almost dry, dip again, squeeze and hang up to
dry. To color the bath add aniline dye, obtain-
able from a chemist.
* * * *
What method is used in preparing wattle bark
to be used for tanning? —B2Bs.
Dry quickly as soon as removed from the
tree. Do not make heaps with the bark until
it is quite dry. Exposure to wind and sun is
sufficient to dry the bark. When dried it is
tied up in bundles and sent to a mill for grind-
ing it. If it is sent to Sydney the bark is cut
to small pieces about lin. long, and then
packed in bags. This is sold as chopped bark.
* * * *
Method of tanning a sheepskin for making a
mat ? —8314.
The dry skin should be well washed on the
wool side with soap and hot water. If the
skin is greasy, use a small amount of soda.
The skin is then soaked in water overnight
and then the flesh, fat, etc., are scraped off.
The skin is then put in a solution containing
31b. salt per lOgal. water, and remains in the
salt solution until the next day, when it should
be stretched on a frame made of 3in. x 2in.
timber. Tie strings on to the edges of the skin,
and then tie other end of the strings on to
nails in the frame. The skin should be lightly
stretched in such a manner that it retains its
original shape. A solution of alum lib. and salt
41b per gal. is now brushed on the flesh side.
Keep the skin wet with plenty of this solution
for two days. Then remove any surplus liquor
and allow the skin to dry. None of the alum
solution should come in contact with the wool.
If the skin has any grease patches, they are
covered with a thick paste of whiting and
water, allowed to dry and then scraped off.
Sheepskin rugs are lined with a rough calico
or other fabric, and finished by combing the
wool. The leather portion is not made soft,
as a firm leather keeps the skin flat on the
floor.
* * * *
A method for preserving home-made butter ?
—8291.
The old-fashioned way of potting butter has
not been superseded: Roll into a line powder
and mix thoroughly lib. white sugar, llb._ salt-
petre and 21b. salt. Add loz. of this mixture
to each pound of butter to be preserved. Store
in large or small crocks.
* * * *
(1) Recipe for a good commercial shaving
cream? (2) Cost of large size tubes? —8331.
(1) Almond shaving cream: Curd soap 40z.,
spermaceti loz., rosewater £ pint, isinglass ioz.,
carbonate of potash £ drachm, two egg-whites,
oil of almonds to perfume (any other oil may
be used). Simmer together soap, sperm and
rosewater till they jelly, add isinglass dissolved
in a little water, add potash and egg-whites
mixed, then the perfume. Improves with 10
p.c. addition of lanoline. May be made in any
quantity. (2) Impossible to quote prices with-
out knowing quantities required. Ask S. T.
Leigh and Cos., Raleigh Park, Kensington,
Sydney, for quotation.
* * * *
Method of mixing cement to make concrete ?
—8297.
Concrete is mixed either by machine or by
hand. When done by hand the stone or gravel
is spread on a wood or iron platform, on that
is spread the sand and on that again the
cement. The whole is then mixed thoroughly
by being turned over with a shovel until the
color is uniform. Water is then added and
the whole again turned until thoroughly mixed.
The proportions used depend upon the type of
work to be constructed, but the average is
one part of cement, two parts of sand and
four parts of gravel or stone. The concrete
takes nine to 12 hours to harden, and it
should be kept moist for some days to enable it
to cure properly.
* * * *
What solution should flannelette be dipped
in to make it non-inflammable ? —7877.
The use of chemicals for treatment of cloth
for clothing is not recommended. Bearing this
in mind, the following formulae have been
published for fireproofing of textiles: (1) Alum
lib., ammonium phosphate lib. and water 2\
gallons. (2) Tungstate of soda lib. and water
H pints; dissolve, and then add a solution
of sodium phosphate 2oz. and water 1 pint.
(3) Boric acid 60z., boracic acid 14oz. and
hot water 2 pints. Fire resistance imparted
by any of these means is largely removed by
washing.
* * * *
(1) Must a batsman’s pads be in a direct
line between the wickets before he can be
given out l.b.w. ? (2) Is a batsman out l.b.w.
if his pads are out of line with the wickets
but in the opinion of the umpire the ball
would have hit the stumps if the batsman’s
pads had not deflected its flight? —Bsß2.
(1) Covered by Cricket Law 24: “If with any
part of his person (except his hand) which is
between wicket and wicket he intercept a ball
which, in the opinion of the umpire at the
bowler’s wicket, shall have been pitched in a
straight line from the bowler’s wicket to the
striker’s wicket or shall have been pitched on
the off side of the striker’s wicket and would
have hit it” —the batsman is out l.b.w. (2)
Yes; the umpire has the final decision on the
question.
* * * *
(1) How many times did Sam Langford and
Sam McVea fight? (2) What were the results
of their contests? —B64s.
(1) Fifteen. (2) .Langford won four, McVea
won two, five matches were drawn and in four
there was no decision.
* * * *
What was Dave Smith’s weight when he
fought Les Darcy for the Australian heavyweight
championship ? —8530.
Smith fought Darcy twice for the champion-
ship. At Sydney on June 24, 1916, he weighed
12st. 81b., and in Brisbane on August 23, 1916,
he weighed 12st. Darcy won both bouts.
* * * *
(1) Was Les Darcy ever middleweight cham-
pion of Australia? (2) Did Darcy win the
world’s middleweight championship when he
defeated Eddie McGoorty at the Sydney
Stadium in 1915? —8519.
(1) There is no record of Darcy fighting for
the Australian middleweight championship. He
won the heavyweight title by defeating Dave
Smith in 12 rounds at the Sydney Stadium on
June 24, 1916. (2) Darcy’s contest with Eddie
McGoorty at the Sydney Stadium on July 31,
1915, was advertised as for the world’s middle-
weight championship, and Darcy knocked Mc-
Goorty out in 15 rounds, but overseas authorities
claimed that A 1 McCoy held the world title at
that time, and Darcy was never recognised out-
side of Australia as a world champion.
* * * #
Have boxers Billy Grime and Harry Collins
ever met in the ring?— B3sß.
No. Both boxers were active at the same
time (Collins from 1920 to 1927, and Grime
from 1920 to 1932), but they never met in
contest, although each fought Sid Godfrey and
Hughie Dwyer. Collins won the Australian
welterweight championship from Archie Brad-
ley in 1924, and Grime gained that 10.7 title,
which was declared vacant when Collins went
to England in 1926, by beating Eddie Butcher.
Grime, a legitimate featherweight, was prob-
ably too light to fight Collins, who often had
to reduce in order to make the welterweight
limit.
Brief Answers.
L.P.: “A Gentleman with a Duster” was
Edward Harold Begbie, author and journalist,
born .{une 24, 1871, fifth son of Rev. Mars Hamil-
ton Begbie. E. H. Begbie died at Ringwood,
Hants, October, 1929 E.C.J.: (1) The adjoin-
ing owner is liable to contribute towards the cost
of the fence equally with you. (2) Sufficiency
of existing fence is a matter of fact to be
determined by the Court should he decline to
contribute G.R.: If the document amounts
to an acknowledgment of the debt, the debt
is revived for another six years... .L.T.: Can-
not say without seeing the agreement you
signed. The usual agreement provides for the
amount to be paid if the course is discontinued.
. ...P.0.C.: Almost any encyclopaedia will give
you the principles of pise, cob or adobe con-
struction. In practice experiment is always neces-
sary, as soils and clays vary widely in their
adaptability to these procesess .... R.S.: It’s
always a tough job to keep neighbors’ cats out
of your property, but if the area is small spray-
ing with strong ammonia water or nicotine sul-
phate or dusting pepper about will sometimes
act as a deterrent W.A.F.: Send a small
piece of the affected daphne plant to the Chief
Biologist, Department of Agriculture, Sydney.
. ...W.S. The New South Wales Depart-
ment of Agriculture is building a reinforced
concrete silo of 150,000 bushels capacity at
Birriwa, near Dunedoo. A visit to this plant
should give you the information you require.
. ...L.E.H.: Pamphlet issued by the Australian
Cement Manufacturers’ Assn., which describes
and illustrates the method of repairing with
concrete an old galvanised-iron tank, has been
posted... .G.S.F.: You are probably referring
to Air Navigation, by F. G. Brown, obtainable
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney. .. .C.8.C.:
The Queensland Peanut Board was established
in 1924 when the commercial production of
peanuts began under tariff protection....
P.R.L.: Under the provisions of the State
Savings Bank Act 1928, power is given to the
Commissioners of the State Savings Bank of
Victoria to provide dwelling-houses for eligible
persons upon such terms and subject to such
covenants and conditions as are prescribed or
are fixed by the Commissioners... .L.T.P.:
At the end of 1938 there were 599 baby health
centres in Australia 8.T.A.: Average yields
of oats per acre over the last 10 years were
N.S.W. 16.47, Vic. 13.47, Q. 13.19, S.A. 7.84,
W.A. 10.76, Tas. 28.18, A.C.T. 20.06 C.R.A.:
In 1937-38 there were 239,976 acres planted
with coconuts in New Guinea; 196,717 acres
were bearing, and the yield was 75,949 tons....
K.F.T.: The value of Westralia’s gold produc-
tion to 1937 was £209,910,271; Australia’s pro-
duction for the same year was 4 p.c. of world
production.. .-F.D^R.: Write to Angus and
Robertson, Sydney... .C.R.L.: A dense nega-
tive is not necessarily a contrasty one, nor, on
the other hand, is a thin negative necessarily
fiat. Broadly, length of exposure governs den-
sity, and length of development governs con-
trast... .J.T.N.: Process too lengthy to describe
here. Any number of books on the subject
can be seen at the Public Library, Sydney....
8.T.5.: At both referendums members of the
A.I.F. abroad voted in favor of conscription.
. ...V.F.S.: Ca ne fait rien means “it doesn’t
matter” or “that’s nothing.” D.8.Y.: Write
to the Mines Department, Brisbane... .L.T.F.:
You could go directly to Darwin by boat or
’plane, or you could go by train to Alice
Springs, by truck from there to Birdum, and
by rail from there to Darwin. You could also
get to Mount Isa by train and chance a lift
by truck from there to Birdum F.C.D.: Im-
possible to say what it might be worth without
seeing the picture... .F.G.R.: Write to the
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research,
Melbourne... .G.8.T.: Don’t know of any
reason why the cockatoos shouldn't talk.
Two methods which have met with some suc-
cess are to place each bird in a separate cage
on opposite sides of the house, or to place
them under a table, cover them with a cloth
or bag and leave them while people are talking
and moving about the r00m... .C.S.P.: It’s
hardly fair to any large dog to keep it in a
small yard. Keeping it on the chain for long
periods is worse still and may make it
savage 8.F.P.: No criticisms are made of
single entries in the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Competition... .D.R.V.: A “baby” car isn't
the best you could use for the trip; you would
really need one of the heavier models. What-
ever you get make sure it has plenty of ground
clearance at the back, otherwise you may find
your petrol tank knocked in over some of the
short gullies. Anyway, some firms have special
country models, and your best plan would be
to have a look at some of them D.G.P.:
Not absolutely necessary, but you’d get a better
job if you removed the old paint first....
F.C.T.: To oil a camera shutter with light
machine oil is a good way of putting it out
of action. Graphite is a good lubricant for
the job, but you’d do better to take it along
to a camera mechanic 8.D.: Don’t shut
the lines away in a box; stand them some-
where where they can dry off in plenty of air.
....G.8.R.: Write to the Department of the
Interior, Canberra, A.C.T D.G.: Paul Muni
and Luise Rainer were the principals in the
film “The Good Earth”... .C.F.L.: Those
particular tennis racquets have a column of
mercury in the handle D.L.P.: Mentor won
the Melbourne Cup in 1888... .H.T.N.: There
were 3087 divorces granted in Australia in
1938 R.G.M.: There have been two shark
attacks recorded in the Macleay River, N.S.W.


e
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
«
O
A
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St.. MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
37 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q'LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Crossbred Piece-picking.
“Ghanam”: In the average crossbred
fleece, fleece wool makes up from 75 to
85 per cent, of the total, belly wool round
8 per cent., first pieces from 5 to 9 per
cent., second pieces 1 to 3 per cent., neck
1 to 3 per cent, and locks anything up to
2 per cent.
Skirting should be done with one fleece
on the table at a time. To do the job
properly two men should work together
from opposite ends. If the fleece is of
good quality, all inferior wool should be
taken off the edges, but where it is poor
in quality it pays to take only very rough
and. stained pieces from round the edges.
Neck pieces generally consist of a very
small quantity of weathered wool, but is
only worth keeping separate if there is a
fair amount. Otherwise, it should be run
in with first pieces, - which come off the
shoulders and flanks.
Wool from behind the armpits, gener-
ally dirtier than the rest of the side skirt-
ings, goes to second pieces. Be careful not
to remove more than is absolutely neces-
sary round the shoulders, where some of
the finest part of the fleece grows. Coarse
and matted bits and the coarse wool
round the breech go to second pieces, but
stained breech wool is better kept apart.
Look carefully at backline fleece, and if
it is sandy or full of dirt take it out.
Rolling is an art in itself. Tuck in the
ends and sides an inch or so to square it
up. Then fold over about a third of the
whole from the outside. Pull the folded
third over again to cover the remaining
third —outer fleece edge upwards, of
course. Then roll the whole fleece tightly
from breech to shoulder.
The End' of the Mulga Belt.
“Tiamoontoo”: The arguments of
‘E.O.S.” (B. 16/10/’4O) against overcrop-
ping wheat areas apply to a far greater
extent to the misuse many graziers have
made of the Queensland mulga belt.
When the belt was cut up for selection
the Government set out that an area
should enable a man to run a flock large
enough to support himself, his wife and
three children—in other words, 5000 head.
Mulga country generally will run only a
sheep to eight acres, and the general run
of selections averaged 30,000 acres. How-
ever, as s.-w. Queensland is subject to as
many drought years as good seasons, and
selectors have mostly overstocked,
the future of the mulga belt is far from
encouraging.
In some cases areas have been enlarged,
but this has not had the effect of conserv-
ing the mulga. Selectors have simply
increased their flocks. Today the greater
portion of this belt has no young mulga
coming on, simply because the selectors
will not spell portions of their holdings
horn time to time to enable trees to
mature.
The only prospect of restocking with
young mulga is to spell portions of the
countryeach year for at least six months
to enable the young mulga to reach a
height of 6in., when it is too bitter for
sheep to eat. It takes ten years for mulga
to become edible, and unless the Gov-
ernment steps in to prevent overstocking
m the very near future the mulga belt is
doomed.
Phalaris and Drought.
“R.N.”: Phalaris tuberosa has stood
up magnificently in the drought on
country close to Sydney. Sub. clover
and lucerne also did well, though peren-
nial rye, cocksfoot, white and red clovers
failed.
Around Picton and the nearer southern
tablelands phalaris responded to every
drop of rain that fell, and a couple of
inches in September brought it away well.
A patch sown on fallowed land in May
germinated on moisture held in the soil
and weathered the bad winter and spring,
no loss was suffered and new seedlings
have been showing up in recent weeks.
From January to September the area got
only 9j inches of rain, its normal aver-
age being 30| inches. Between sowing in
May and mid-October, the phalaris pad-
dock got only a little over three inches.
Sowing on fallow seems to be the
secret for successful establishment of
“There ain't a fence on the place t' hold ’er since she learnt t' open gates."
phalaris stands in that sort of country,
using f rom Hcwt. to 2cwt. of super, and
31b. to 41b. of seed an acre. On old culti-
vations, the super, rate should be in-
creased. This applies also to lucerne and
sub. clover, except that the seeding rate
should be about lib. an acre less, sowing
the lucerne on deep soil and the sub. on
shallow sods '.
Small Potato Crops,
C 4., , „ . ... ....
Murphy’: For early planting light,
friable soils are best, but if heavy land
is used it should be thoroughly ploughed
in autumn and left to mellow throughout
winter. Deep spring cultivation should
come before planting. The surface may
be left rougher than for most other crops,
and clods and pieces of turf will later
come to pieces under cultivation,
Extra humus is good, but its applica-
tion can be overdone on rich soils. Too
much fertility softens the crop and helps
blight. The most suitable artificial fertil-
iser on average soils is a mixture of about
three parts super, to one part amm. sulph.,
applied at the rate of scwt. per acre on
light land and 7cwt. on heavy.
Sour and. peaty soils call for lime and
potash. Lime should be laid down several
months before planting to guard against
scab. ' . .
Furrow the land for planting and mix
the fertiliser thoroughly with the so at
the bottom of the Llr ™w s P
m the seed, which should be laid as soon
as the soil is reasonably warm. Use only
certified seed, whole, about 2oz. to 3oz.
With tubers 15in. apart, in rows separated
by 30in„ 20cwt. to 30cwt. per acre is
y ,j ’
"Cultivation should begin with the
arrival of the early weeds and before the
crop is above ground. Deeper tickling
between rows should be given when the
seedlings are above the surface, and as
growth proceeds some of the soil should
be hilled up toward the plants to bury
small weeds and support the stems. A
iater hilling should bring the earth well
up on each side of the rows in inverted
“V” shape. There should be no channel
on the top of the “V,” as such a gutter
acts as a rivulet to carry blight spores.
The main crop is ready to dig when
the skin will not rub off freely.
Millet and Sudan.
“Bunol”: In middle areas—back from
the coast but not in the marginal country
or west*of it—it might be a good idea to
try some Japanese millet or Sudan grass
or both. They make good green feed
in the hot months when natural pasture
has gone off, and are very good for young
stock, which don’t do so well on dry feed
as the older animals.
Japanese millet has proved itself on
the N.S.W. central slopes about Cowra
and Orange, and is fairly cheap to grow,
the seed ranging around 2d. a pound and
the sowing rate from 81b. to 101 b. an acre.
Upwards of fcwt. of superphosphate an
acre is necessary. Like all crops, millet
does best on well-prepared land. It
grows quickly and can be grazed after it
is about a foot high. It can be sown
from now right up to January.
Sudan grass is liable to frost damage,
and sowing should be held up until that
danger is past. About 121 b. of seed an
acre is the usual rate, the seed being.
about £3 a cwt. and a little dearer than
Japanese millet. There is a danger of
prussic-acid poisoning in cattle from
Sudan grass, though sheep are safe on it
provided pure seed has been used.
Some farmers make a good thing out
of growing these crops for seed. A
normal Sudan yield would be about
7001 b. of seed an acre, worth about 6d.
per pound. Jap millet may give 25
bushels an acre. Sowing can be done
with a wheat drill and harvesting with a
header. Make sure the seed is pure.
Hints for the Farm.
“N.K.M.”: Dry spells mean extra
sheeps|dns strip them carefully and take
off all meat and fat. Stretch wires across
and them (here o£ h
, T s ., mrnPr m j n tW tho noils
weather. In summer, painting the pelts
w“h a solution of arsenic and soda will
the weevils. When sending to mar-
ket, fold the skins head to tail, wool out,
and press into firm bundles
P. Park : Try this instead of lopping
the branches of kurrajong and other fod-
der trees for sheep: Fasten a length of
copper wire to the lash of a stockwhip
and whip off the leaves. There’ll be a
new growth in a week or two, whereas
when the axe drops a branch there’ll
be no new growth until the following
spring.
“Mullengah”: When blowfly infestation
is serious, provide a hospital paddock for
struck sheep. This will enable affected
sheep to be inspected frequently and
dressed when necessary, thus saving sheep
which otherwise may be lost. A fly-struck
sheep is a menace to others, as it attracts
flies, so segregation in a hospital paddock
lessens the chance of extra strikes in the
flock.
“Goulburn”: Do not give a sow any
food for about 12 hours after she farrows,
but provide plenty of fresh, cooi drinking
water. For the first feed, give a bran
mash and 3oz. castor oil. The second
feed should be a light one—about 41b.
of the following mixture: 571 b. wheat,
201 b. maize, 101 b. bran, 101 b. pollard, lib.
bonemeal, lib. salt. After the second
feed, give that mixture in two meals at
the rate of 81b. a day, increasing to 141 b.
if the sow loses condition. Add 21b. of
separated milk to lib. of the mixture,
Give the sow green feed or good grazing
at midday, and don’t neglect the water
supply at any time,
„ r£ , A .
- Chilly G. : If youve got a heavy m-
?fs^ 10n of stmkwort put the disc into
J b , efore * starts to .f ed - £° P the pad-
dock. next season, if possible. A top-
dresjln§ Wlth s , u P e [: will make the young
weed more palatable and the sheep will
&o for it. Anything that escapes the disc,
tbe s " ee P or the cr °P can be hoed out.
“Clyde”: Grooming doesn’t merely put
a shine on the nag: it promotes health,
Properly done it has the same effect as
massage and gives the horse a sort of
dry bath. Attention to the feet is


*
*v*s-co v
PURE
SOLIDIFIED MOLASSES
STOCK FOOD
SHEEP CftTTLE HORSES PIGS
PRICE: £9 per ton Double Hesheen
Paper Containers. £lO per ton Metal
and Wood Containers.
(P.O.R. TCLLY, N.Q.)
Carried at Starving Stock Fodder Rates where
those conditions exist.
Railage to New South Wales Border £2/11/-
per ton (truck lots).
Order through your usual Merchant.
Enquiries to:
MOLASSES PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.
GORDONVALE, N.Q.
Telegraphic Address “Molascolic ” Gordonvale.
Molascolic Solidified Molasses
* i i 11 1. | -
Aiw/vr*,
M
f'
d*>
*
A
6
*
Z.
£7
(T
V
Cf
K
r
&
*P.
3 3 K*
&A M B I T I 0 N&
The achievement of knowledge,
power or whatever high objective
you. have in mind means two
things—hard work and money. A
degree of expense is inevitable.
You can meet that expense, when
the time comes, if you plan your
budget now. The Commonwealth
Savings Bank offers a simple
method of doing this. By deposit-
ing a few shillings weekly you
keep your ship of dreams on a
straight and safe course for the
harbour of success.
commonuienLTH
spumes hnm;
Of AUSTRALIA
%
LUDOWICI CHROMOL
TIIPOWICI
CHROMOL
■ t I M ITI
SUPER HEAT RESISTANT
FIRE BEATERS
Two types are supplied from this leather
the standard flat sheet and the new strip
type. Both have been built to fulfil the
main requirements of a good firebeater
resistance against heat and toughness i 5
withstand hard wear and tear. The new
strip type was very successful last season
and was found to possess many advantages
over the older flat type.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST AND ALL PARTICULARS.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL STOCKIST.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
Makers of Quality Leather Products since 1858
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
M. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., King St., Sydney
JTp
m
w
important, especially with shod horses. See
that the shoes fit well, that no nails have
worked loose or dropped out, and keep
the foot free of pebbles. Regular removal
and replacement of shoes —say once a
month—are necessary, and it is wise to
remember that the horse doing little work
needs more foot-care than one in regular
toil.
“Hot Spot”: Potatoes will keep well if
properly pitted. Put a thick layer of
straw on the ground and on it heap the
potatoes so that they taper to the top like
the ridge of a long haystack. Cover with
another thick layer of straw, and on top
of that heap earth. When potatoes are
wanted, open one end of the pit and
cover up again.
“8.C.”: A world wheat crop of
4,025,000,000 bushels is estimated by the
United States Department of Agriculture,
but doesn’t include Russian or Chinese
yields, estimates of which are not avail-
able. The total is 250,000,000 bushels
below last year. The European figure
is set down at 3,531,000,000 bushels, a
decrease of 229,000,000. The Southern
Hemisphere is expected to produce
327,000,000 bushels, 18,000,000 less than
last year. According to the London
“Statist,” Canada is facing an even greater
problem than Australia in the handling
and storing of a big crop, as well as
financing it prior to sale and disposal.
She has lost European wheat and flour
markets which took 45,000,000 bushels,
though Great Britain has bought an extra
amount almost as great. Canada hopes to
get rid of 170,000,000 bushels, and will
then have 460,000,000 on her hands.
“Kyamba”: The tester is not always to
blame when milk tests vary. Cows in
high condition will test well until the
fat is off. Usually they test better during
the first month after calving than dur-
ing, the next two months, after which the
test gradually increases. Cows first turned
to pasture usually test well for about a
week, then drop. Summer tests are
usually lower than winter, though cows
exposed to cold, wet weather will drop
in both milk flow and test. The manner
of milking is important, too. If the cow
does not give her milk freely, owing to a
strange milker, excitement or heat, she
is likely to test lower, while the next
milking will be higher in fat. Irregular
feeding or sudden changes also lower the
test, while moderate exercise seems to
improve it. The cow’s likes and dislikes
show their reaction in tests, and even
a hot, stuffy stable at night means a low
test in the morning.
“Bundalinga”: Dairying is more profit-
able if most of the herd is in production
during winter. The bulk of our butter
is produced during the summer, and
winter output falls away to such an extent
that cold storage of summer stocks is
necessary to supply the local market when
the cold weather comes. Natural fodder
is scarce during winter, but wise conser-
vation will remedy that. Breeding can
be regulated so that cows freshen about
December, when they will milk until the
following August. They can then spell
in spring when pastures are good and
natural feed is plentiful. If dry cows
carrying calves are left to fend for them-
selves on sparse and far-from-nutritious
winter pastures they are not in good con-
dition when they do calve, and produc-
tion is adversely affected during the fol-
lowing lactation period. There is a
danger, too, that the calves will be per-
manently weakened. If cows are milked
and fed through the winter and spelled
in the spring, they have a much better
chance of producing heavily.
Outback Occupations.
No. XLII.
Hay— and Youth.
“Dad,” says young Jack, “this hay is
dryin’ off pretty quick. It’s a pity you
couldn’t manage it with me an’ Tom both
pitchin’ on to the load”
“Get out,” you say scornfully. “I
could take it from four pitchers in
me time. Mean t’ say I couldn’t keep
you an’ Tom goin’!”
“Well, we pitch a fair sheaf,” says
Jack.
“We’ll bring Tom out next load,” you say.
Jack doesn’t say anything, but you find
the sheaves coming pretty fast, and you
have to hop to get ’em packed down. You
steal a look at Jack over the edge of
the load, but he’s moving along appar-
ently without haste. Tom is nearly as
big as Jack, and knows all about pitching
sheaves. He’s in on the stack at the
moment, waiting for you to come with
the load.
When you come out for the next load
Jack and Tom are both on the wagon,
and Jack says “Dad, p’raps it’d be better
if I loaded an’ you an’ Tom chucked
it up.”
“Get out with y’; anybody’d think I
couldn’t take hay from a couple of kids.
You chuck it up fast as y’ like.”
They pitch from each side. At first
you have little trouble to take it because
you’re on the floor of the wagon, your
footing is firm and Tom takes it easy,
timing his sheaves to fall between Jack’s.
It gets a bit thick as you rise in the
wagon and Tom loses sight of Jack. As
the flying sheaves fall like rain and you
stagger about trying to load, you debate
about getting both to work on one side,
but there’s something about Jack’s silence
that bodes ill for such weakness, and you
keep quiet.
You manage somehow, though the
sweat is pouring off you. Then Jack
starts chucking them up in twos. You’ve
just taken one from Tom, whipped it
down, and two from Jack hit you in the
back. You turn to protest, and two more
hit you in the face. Oats fall down inside
your shirt and prick your body. You
get up, about to yell, when the wagon
moves with a jerk and you nearly go
overboard. Between stooks you manage
to straighten the mess.
Before you can get a blow Jack shoots
two more at you. You sweep at them
with the fork and they go over the other
side. There’s a yell from Tom as two
more take you amidships.
“Hold on!” you cry; “you’re tossin’
’em right over. This ain’t a contest.”
“What?” cries Jack from below.
You move gingerly to the edge of the
load to peer over. Two sheaves hit you
under the throat and you go over back-
wards.
You get up on the slippery hay, wild
as a cornered snake, and deliberately
drive your fork into a corner of the load
and shove. Half the wagon unloads on
top of Jack.
“What happened?” he demands, emerg-
ing and picking grass-seeds and oats from
himself.
“Hay’s a bit dry an’ slippery,” you
mumble, trying to hide your joy.
“Yair!” he says, dripping sarcasm.
After that he takes it a bit easier, and
you get the load on with little trouble.
The stack is a little over half-built. As
you pull in with the load you notice a
suspicious bulge in one side.
Jack sees it, too. “Hey,” he says, “that
flamin’ stack ain’t holdin’ too well.”
“It’s all right,” you say ; “I’ve been
building stacks since before you was
born. You an’ Tom belt it in round
there with y’r forks.”
They do so, and you climb on to the
stack. Tom takes his stand ready to turn
the sheaves, and Jack climbs to the
wagon-load. His first sheaf is still in
mid-air when you feel your feet slipping
from under you. You, Tom and about
two tons of hay spew outwards and down.
You come out of it. Jack is leaning on
his fork regarding you with a far too
solemn look. Tom is shaking hay off
himself.
“Musta bin the force of gravity, Dad,”
remarks Jack without a sign on his face.
You look at the stack. A good third of
it has slid to the ground in a long cascade
of tumbled sheaves.
“Take the horses out, Tom,” you say
wearily ; “weT have to build this all up
again. It means pullin’ the whole box
an’ dice to bits.”
Just then your wife arrives with tea
and cake. She looks at the fallen stack,
then at you, and remarks “Are you build-
ing it from the top down, dear?”
“Gimme that tea an’ get back to your
house, woman,” you snap.
“Dad,” says Jack tentatively, “don’t
y’ reckon I better ring up ol’ Thompson
an' see if we can borrow his press? It’d
be better baled than like this.”
“P’raps you’d better,” you say. He
goes to the house with alacrity. Sud-
denly you recollect that he’s been visiting
Thompson’s place a lot lately, and you
think of Ettie Thompson and some of
the strange remarks young Tom’s been
passing lately. Jack’s ' nearly twenty,
b’gosh. A suspicion causes you to get
up and look at that hay. Nearly all the
bands have been snicked through on the
sheaves that collapsed!
“So,” you say, and turn to young Tom.
He gives you a fugitive look and drops
his head, busy with the horses.
You envision Thompson’s hay press on
your place, and somehow you feel certain
Ettie Thompson’s going to be about the
place a lot, too. But there’s nothing to
be done —only wait.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2£d. per line.
First place this week for a South Australian who relates a personal experience
and points a moral.
Fire and War
When the big warehouse a hundred
yards down the street began to blaze I
left my little shop under the care of the
girl and ran to see the fun. With thousands
of other sightseers I got quite a pleasant
thrill from the majestic spectacle of
smoke and flame. It was most interesting
to watch the plucky, agile firemen risk
their lives, and when the roof collapsed
I joined in the general applause ; when
an officer tripped over a hose in his hurry
I laughed with those that laughed.
Not a sigh was heard, not a funeral
note. The young women around me
tittered and giggled and tried to be in-
cluded in the press photographs. The
men smoked and tried to assess the insur-
ance. The occupants of the high win-
dows in the neighboring premises were
envied their points of vantage.
That was, of course, while the wind
was blowing the smoke and sparks away
from my shop. When it suddenly altered
its direction and glowing embers began
to lob on my roof and singe the door dis-
play, the whole scene seemed to change
with it. As I rushed about trying to
evacuate my stock I marvelled at the cal-
lousness of a crowd that could make a
picnic of my troubles and look on at my
frenzied labors without offering a help-
ing hand. I wondered how they would
feel if their earthly all was threatened
with fire and water. A squirt of the hose
or a cinder in their eye might do them
good.
Of course, it’s only human nature. Even
a great war is only an interesting inter-
lude from the common round while the
bombs are distant. A few cinders from
the conflagration, telling us that the
breeze is blowing our way, might make
the political, industrial and social mob
take the matter seriously. Firebell
(S.A.)
“From Where?”
Can’t agree with “D.A.” (B. 16 /10/ ’4O)
that compulsory A.R.P. training is un-
warranted in Australia. This is a war
of swift moves and surprise tactics, in
which the unwary have been caught nap-
ping time after time.
There is nothing to guarantee that the
centre of conflict will not shift from one
hemisphere to the other within a few
days. Naval and air bases belonging to
one Power today may be in another’s
hands tomorrow. A non-belligerent this
week may be a belligerent next week.
As a British stronghold in the Pacific,
it is Australia’s duty to be prepared for
anything. This is no time for sitting back
in our haven of false security and per-
suading ourselves that we couldn’t be
effectively attacked from anywhere. It
would be a wicked omission if the Aus-
tralian public were not taught even the
fundamentals of self-defence. Arthur
Falk (Vic.).
Women
Perhaps women aren’t wholly to blame
for all this stupid talk about equality of
the sexes (B. 9/10/’4O). Trouble is that
in the silly Victorian era men assumed
that they were superior. Women, as a
resulting reaction, fell for the stupidness
They saw their distinctiveness from men
as inferiority—which was really a way of
agreeing with the male superiority fal-
lacy—and set out to wipe out that dis-
tinctiveness. One of the ways in which
they attempted it was in competing with
men in male pursuits. The competition
has proved that man is superior in his
own departments of life. Which proves
no more than would a ploughing match
between a draught horse and Phar Lap.
While women have been attempting
to compete with men in jobs peculiarly
suited to the male, they have looked on
those jobs peculiarly fitted to women as
debasing and inferior, and nothing could
be more silly. Accordingly, they have
allowed the feminine departments of life
to decline. Home life has become more
uncomfortable and fragmentary than
ever before; babies are almost museum
pieces; and education has turned into a
babble of isms.
“Equality of the sexes” is only the
reverse of the debasing “superiority of
the male” belief. It’s about time we woke
up to the fact that the sexes have distinct
functions, and that inferiority, superiority
and equality do not enter into the matter.
—lnkpot (S.A.).
Girls in War
Those Gepp girls (B. 9/10/’4O) would
not have found latent hostility among the
men had those men not had memories of
the last war —and after. There are many
men unemployed in Australia today;
there are thousands with incomes so small
that they dare not do the job Australia
needs from most of them —that of adding
to their families and so increasing Aus-
tralia’s true wealth and strength. And
to many —probably those latently hostile
men among them —it seems that much
of this position can be attributed to the
invasion of men’s jobs by women.
During the last war women were intro-
duced into business and industry to keep
the nation’s wheels turning at full speed.
Men patriotically worked side by side
with them ; many, indeed, considered that
the women were making great sacrifices
in giving up women’s interests to help the
men keep the nation in top gear. The
war ended. A few years passed. The
men who had considered the women they
worked alongside to have the nation’s
interest at heart found themselves out of
employment. Returned soldiers whose
jobs, so they had been told while abroad,
were being kept open for them by women
begged in the streets. Employers glee-
fully footed wage bills that were lower
than when their staffs consisted of men.
The luxury trades were glutted on the
earnings of women. Almost the whole of
the Australian press became feminised.
Worst of all, the birthrate fell to blazes,
checking Australia’s development and
weakening its potential defensive power.
Latently hostile to women in industry?
My flaming oath! — Australl (S.A.).
Women’s Suffrage
To say that women have accomplished
nothing by political means is absurd. By
agitation, pressure on Parliament and
eventually by the vote, they have revolu-
tionised their own status and ended the
exploitation of their sex, to the vast bene-
fit of society in general. It is only about
70 years since the law provided that any-
one in England could deal with property
except felons, outlaws, infants, idiots,
lunatics and married women. —J. M. O.
(N.S.W.).
The Only Chance
If Josephine Scollan (B. 25/9/’4O) had
a husband who, having spent six or seven
years working as a rouseabout in some
of the hardest sheds in Australia (in addi-
tion to learning woolclassing and gener-
ally fitting himself for the job), took on
a sheep farm when wool was 17d. per lb.,
only to watch it fall to about
through the muddling of the Government
of the time, I am sure she would buy a
ticket in a lottery.
If she had gone straight from a city
to a strange farm in a strange State and
had to knuckle down to making her own
bread, soap, preserves, etc., on little or
no money she would feel different.
It is easy for people to preach about
“giving more” to acquire happiness. Let
them try cooking for shearers and, in
between, rushing up to the shed to lend
a hand with woolpressing and fleece-skirt-
ing because there is a man short and no
money with which to hire one.
Let them experience that sinking feel-
ing when one knows the first baby is
coming, and wonders first where the
money is coming from to pay hospital
and doctor’s fees and to buy clothes,
and secondly whether the ancient truck
will make the grade to the hospital 60
miles away when the time comes.
Have these people ever been in the
position where they have to go down on
their knees to the “firm” whenever a few
pounds are needed to put up a new
fence? Or have they seen the son of the
mortgagor, whose whole life has been
devoted to golf, fast car-driving and flying
east for week-ends, patronise their hard-
working husbands?
Consider the position of the woman
with growing children and a poor school —
she either teaches them herself or sees
them grow up with practically no book
knowledge. There is no money to
send them to town to school, so they
grow up little savages.
If Josephine Scollan had been through
this, and seen super, rise 30s. a ton (the last
straw!), she would do as I do —scrape to-
gether ss. out of the egg money occasion-
ally and buy a ticket in the lottery, just
on the offchance of one day having enough
money to afford to tell everyone else to
go to hell. — Everytime (W.A.).
Critic Criticised
Being a devotee of a different branch
of art from that which suffered the in-
different attention of The Bulletin’s
art critic in “Art in Old Heidelberg” (B.
16/10/’4O), I am concerned with the
critique only as an example of the flip-
pant, unconstructive sort of criticism that
art (of all sorts) is up against in Australia.
If, as the writer remarks, “the shire
harbors the studios of at least 30 well-
known painters,” and their work is de-
serving of no more discerning comment
than a passing allusion to a “quiet little
landscape by Ida Meldrum,” then either
the art of criticism or the art of painting
itself is still non-existent in Australia.
Some encouragement to hope that the
fault lies more in the critic than in the
artist may perhaps be found in a criti-
cism of an exhibition by Roberts, Conder,
Streeton and other early artists published
by a Melbourne newspaper, 17/8/1899:
Of the 180 exhibits, something like four-
fifths are a pain to the eye. Some suggest
that a paint-pot has been accidentally upset
over a panel nine inches by five; others re-
semble the first essay of a small boy who
has just been apprenticed to a house-
painter, whilst not a few are as distressing
as the incoherent images which float
through the mind of a dyspeptic dreamer.
Let the 30 later Heidelbergers and others
take heart from that classic example of
critical blindness. — Jack High (Vic.).
Art for Mars’ Sake
In the Middle Ages, “Wopstein” says,
art was performing its proper function
because it was connected with the most
serious things which men had in mind,
and it was serving ends which were in
themselves serious. Too right, it was!
Nearly all the great artists of the Renais-
sance were also architects, and as archi-
tects they were required by their lords
and masters to design fortifications for
them. Leonardo da Vinci and Michel-
angelo were both responsible for some
very tidy designs in cannon and suchlike
serious objects. In between they built
cathedrals and painted frescoes for the
princes of the church, who each wanted
to outvie the other. The painter in those
days was not a practical servant of the
public, but he was certainly a very use-
ful person to a duke or a bishop. The
fact that in the process he produced
works of art was due not to the superior
taste of his aristocratic employer, but to
his own criterion.
Now that the general public has be-
come more important than the princes
the artist naturally hangs his pictures in
exhibitions. The only harm that can do
him is if he is more concerned about the
public’s good opinion than about his own
good opinion of himself. An artist, if he
is an artist, must have seen something
other people haven’t. If he tries to paint
like other artists, he is not an artist but a
manufacturer. Naturally if he has seen
further than other people his work at
first won’t be liked, and he will be stoned,
metaphorically speaking. All the artists
we now call great were stoned by the art-
loving public of their period, and now
that the “modernists” are having a few
stones heaved at them they are inclined
to take this as proof that they are of the
great. But because Van Gogh was dis-
liked and they are disliked doesn’t neces-
sarily mean that they are Van Goghs.
They may merely be the forerunners of
a new fashion which is unpopular at the
moment, but in due course will become
respectable. The girl who first wore a
short skirt down the streets of my native
city nearly got herself stoned. She would
be more likely to get stoned today if she
wore a long skirt with bustle like her
grandma.
Art judgments are extraordinarily risky
things to make, and there is no need for
“Wopstein” to be pessimistic about the
Australian artist or bother about the arty-
crafty community and the dust and up-
roar of controversy such as surrounded
the recent exhibition of the Contem-
poraries in Melbourne. It may be that in
some obscure corner work is being done
which will some day be regarded by at
least some section of the public as much
more significant than anything the critics
and the patrons talk about and buy. It
happened in the case of Manet, Corot,
Cezanne, Van Gogh, Gauguin and a lot
of others ; so why couldn’t it be happen-
ing at the present moment? — Craiser
(Vic.).
Cash Orders
Working people cheerfully and recklessly
mortgage the future in order to possess
objects which are really far beyond their
means. They do not consider the
economic aspect because the high rate of
"Aw, I'm fed up with chasin' divots!"


interest generally prevailing is not so
apparent on small sums. Nor do they
consider the fact that business houses
accepting cash orders must work on a
large profit margin in order to allow for
the discount charged them.
The old personal touch between busi-
nessman and customer tends to disappear,
and the latter, should he meet difficulty
with his payments, finds that he has
agreed to allow peaceful repossession by
an organisation which must place profits
before personal hardships. In some
classes of contract repossession without
arrears outstanding does not end the
hirer’s liability. He had agreed to pay
up to 50 p.c. of the price of the article
to cover depreciation while he was using
it. In other words, termination of the
hiring does not mean termination of his
liability for further payments.
Some idea of the ramifications of the
system may be obtained from the fact
that a cash-order company with paid-up
ord. capital of £376,177 has during the
last four years returned 60 p.c. of that
in dividends. —B. E. C. (N.S.W.).
Dignity of Parliament
Recently 1 went to see a member of
a State Parliament, and as we were walk-
ing about among the many party rooms
and other buildings he told me that 1 was
expected to keep my hat off as a mark of
respect while 1 was “within the precincts
of the House.” I laughed, and then
thought sadly of a number of reasons
why Parliament is no longer respected
as it should be.
Sections of the press carry some Of the
blame. The general public, reading con-
temptuous references every day, must
eventually believe that politicians are
stupid, dishonest and insincere.
Another reason is the unrestrained lan-
guage in which politicians describe one
another, both in the House and at election
times. The mud so freely thrown about
sticks to them all, and the press assists
by headlining the vulgarities.
Still another reason is the overgenerous
allowances and “extras” for members.
Few people are prepared to admire
a politician, however keen they may be
about his policy, when there is a lurking
suspicion (fostered by political oppo-
nents) that the policy is only bait.
It is very regrettable to see democratic
government robbed of its dignity, when
dignity and respect are vitally necessary to
it. Our people would be happier and better
citizens if they felt impelled to remove
their hats when “within the precincts.”—
E. O. S. (N.S.W.).
“Calling Canberra”
I used to agree with The Bulletin
about abolition of State Parliaments, but
after a little experience the other day
I’m not so sure.
I was heading for Perth, and stopped
at quite a pretentious, newly-rebuilt pub
about 30 miles out to make a ’phone call.
The publican told me “Sorry, no tele-
phone here.” 1 asked why, and he told
me that the department wanted £l6 a
year rental. Why? Because the nearest
exchange was 16 miles away. I pointed
out that the wires ran along on the other
side of the road. “Oh, yes ; if they had
been a few miles away as well I would
have been asked to put up an additional
£2OO deposit!”
Grasping the edge of the bar to steady
myself, I asked what we had members
of Parliament for. “Ah, but you see,
the P.M.G. Department is a Federal
matter. They’re not worried about what
happens to blokes like us ’way out in
the bush.” I downed the rest of my
drink thoughtfully.—R. H. G. (W.A.).
Death to Latin
An edict has gone forth from the N. S.
Wales education authorities that, com-
mencing in 1941, no firsTyear pupils in
high schools will study Latin. Those few
who wish to do so will be permitted to
take it for matriculation purposes in the
later years.
This seems to indicate that within a few
years Latin will disappear from our
schools as a general curriculum subject.
Thus the final victory in a long struggle
has gone to those who regard education
merely as a training for livelihood, and
who value only those subjects which
confer obvious utilitarian advantages. The
periods previously devoted to Latin are
to be given to talks on hobbies and read-
ing sessions in the library^
Latin is the basis of all the Romance
languages, and has given to our own
tongue more than 50 p.c. of its words.
As a mental training its study is un-
rivalled, while its power of terse, concise
expression is unsurpassed. It has placed
the literature and culture of the world
under a debt that the finest minds
throughout the ages have unanimously
avowed, and it must always remain the
best foundation for building up one’s
general knowledge.—E. J. B. (N.S.W.).
“One Tremendous Federation”
“Keel Row” (B. 16/10/’4O), being a
realist, might be induced to take a longer
view. Nations are large bodies and move
slowly. Not very long ago (historically
speaking) the federation of the Scottish
clans and their league with the hated
Sassenach must have seemed an impos-
sibility. Today it is a fact and their dis-
integration unthinkable.
Universal history is just a long yarn
telling how pacts joined families into
tribes, nations and empires. Now the
empires are forming teams for which no
convenient title has yet been found. The
evolution has been slow, but the trend has
always been in the same direction. Soon
there will be only two or three competi-
tive political bodies on the earth. In full-
ness of time even they will merge into one
tremendous federation which will be quite
workable because of the then speed of
transport and communication.
England under seven kings was a con-
tinual welter of blood. Under one king
it led the world in the arts of peace. The
League of Nations has failed. So also
did the first flying machine. Adversity
makes strange bedfellows, and already the
democracies are being brought closer than
they were in times of peace.
When the inevitable parley sounds we
may see another instalment of federation
that now appears to be impossible, sup-
ported by millions of sadder and wiser
men who have learned from bitter ex-
perience what they refused to be taught
by school books. — Glesca Keelie (S!A.).
“And that's how I'd surround 'em and take Berlin."
The Average Australian
Neville Cardus (“S.M.H.” 26/10/’4O),
after claiming to have searched high and
low in the city, has had to confess (un-
like Sir Thomas Beecham) that he
couldn’t find a suitable formula for the
average Australian.
Neither Mr. Cardus nor his fellow-mis-
sionary Mr. Coward will find the average
Australian in the streets or the clubs of
the city. Cities and city-dwellers are
stereotyped. The difference between New-
castle, Australia, and Newcastle, England,
is only geographical; the inhabitants of
Seattle have the same stony faces as the
inhabitants of Sydney.
If these distinguished gentlemen want
the dyed-in-the-wool Australian they must
go to the shearing sheds outback, to
the wheatfields, to Lawson’s Australia.
They will find him sweating in a parched
field, carrying on in the face of certain
ruin, or patching torn wheat bags in a
flea-ridden shed. He probably wouldn’t
recognise Brahms and he’d be only
vaguely curious about “Cavalcade.” If
they mentioned culture to him and Jhe
politely replied “What do you mean, mis-
ter —agriculture?” then they’d know they
were getting hot on the trail. —W. Lynch
(N.S.W.).
What the Diggers Need
As an Old Digger’s offspring I know
just how handy a few extra shillings of
soldier’s pay would be, but it is a small
matter compared with the need for 1941
equipment. Never let us hear again that
our soldiers “fought gallantly against
greatly superior mechanised forces.”
It’s up to us to provide for the A.1.F.,
not a few paltry shillings a week, but
better tanks, A.A. guns, anti-tank guns
and sub-machine guns than any of
the Axis armies uses. It may take every
penny of our foreign exchange and
every machine shop in Australia ; it may
disrupt our ways and interfere with horse-
racing, but we can do it. —P. N. (Q.).
Careful Drivers
Under present conditions the careful
car-driver has to pay exactly the same
premiums for his car insurance as the man
who has an accident and a claim every
week. Of course, there is the 20 p.c. no-
claim bonus, but this is not sufficient
reward for the driver who can and does
drive year in, year out without calling on
his insurance company.
A far better method of rewarding the
driver who has no claims would be a
progressively increased reduction in his
premiums. For instance, give the usual
20 p.c. reduction each year for the first
five years, and after that give him an
extra 5 p.c. reduction each year until he
is getting his insurance for 50 p.c. less
than the man who is a burden on the in-
surance companies and a menace to other
road-users. —W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Shift Industries!
Why not realise once and for all that
supplies of water for Sydney are just
about availed of to their maximum capa-
city. Then, instead of talking about
blowing £30,000,000 on more water,
spend a small fraction of it on moving
industry to places where there is water
and cheap hydro-electricity. The ramifi-
cations of some industries are so extensive
that their removal would be economically
unsound. But there are others which
could be shifted holus-bolus to the North
or South Coast or inland to places like
Albury.
A dry spell taxes the facilities of the
Water Board to the utmost. As the only
available relief appears to be over 300
miles away, it seems more logical to bring
demand back to capacity by organising
the removal of stated industries, together
with their dependent populations, to
places where there is water in abundance
than by spending fantastic sums on bring-
ing water to the population.— Sandpatch
(N.S.W.).
At La Perouse
The dark people at La Perouse (Syd-
ney) may be considered an attraction for
tourists as they squat there by the road-
side with boomerangs and shellboxes —
and a sullen kind of resentment. But they
aren’t much to the Government’s credit.
The dole mission which gives them
their food and huts is doing good work.
But not good enough. The mission school
turns out the black kiddies with their
three Rs, but turns them out to what?
To make more boomerangs, as dad did
before them? To marry a boomerang-
maker as mum did and lie around out-
side the huts, gossiping most of the day?
Two wooden rooms for a married
couple—a little kitchen and a little bed-
room. When a family arrives the build-
ing material for another room or so is
given to the householder, who then has
to build similarly poor rooms, according
to his own ability. Hellholes of heat in
the summer and drab, cheerless boxes in
winter. No gas, no electric light. They
simply look like what they are —walls
reluctantly thrown around doleites.
One decent modern building divided
into flats with all mod. cons, would be
sufficient to house the “first Australians.”
There would still be enough commercial-
minded natives to carry on the tourist
trade of boomerangs, etc. But some of
the younger ones would perhaps be en-
couraged to venture usefully into the city
world of business and profession. There
aren’t many of the dark Australians lett
here, but the few there are should be
treated as humans, not as curiosities.—
Elm (N.S.W.).
Juvenile Delinquency
Some years ago in Westralia there was
an employment concern for the benefit
of youth. A lad went there, and, after
the first year’s operations, he could gener-
ally get a job the day he reported for
duty. Sometimes ha was given a job
before he had time to register, and often
he had his job within 10 minutes. This
effective concern was allowed to languish
and perish for lack of a paltry £lOO to
enable it to carry on for six months.
As the movement operated juvenile
delinquency diminished, and it was found
that over 95 p.c. of the delinquent section
of the lads given employment did not err
again. The improvement was due to
the application of the laws of need and
supply. A job, preferably with prospects,
and an immediate wage solved the ques-
tion that all the Courts and institutes and
researches will not be able to do.—
Dagenham (Vic.).
Worth-while Cargo?
I thrilled to read that Lord Beaver-
brook is sending us a crashed Messer-
schmitt 109 to raise money for a com-
forts fund. I thrilled to think of the
space it has taken up in some ship which
must travel at the risk of many sailors’
lives. Some of these men have already
been torpedoed three times, and every voy-
age they make is a credit to their courage
in keeping the shipping lines going.
Never has there been a lack of crews
of British stock to take vital supplies to
and from the beleaguered homeland.
Cheerfully they carry a polyglot cargo,
secure in their knowledge that it is useful.
But what is the use of a smashed aero-
plane? If comforts funds are so essen-
tial that attractions must be added at
what might prove to be great cost, then
they should be raised by taxation. On
the other hand, in war-time vital ship-
ping space should be treated with respect.
—J. M. S. (N.S.W.).
A.B.C. Valuation
“Eureka” (B. 30/10/’4O) should listen
more closely to A.B.C. announcements.
The £25, £lO and £5 which he calls prizes
in the play contest were bonuses and were
paid in addition to the usual fee for radio
plays, which makes all the difference.—
99-Out (N.S.W.).
Sordid News
Just as the first suicide off the Sydney
Harbor Bridge resulted in the Gap losing
its attraction, so also the triple gas-suicide
in Sydney some time ago has been fol-
lowed by similar cases.
It’s about time that the daily news-
papers stopped publishing the manner in
which a person took his life. It is of no
real interest to any rationally-minded
person, and often provides an idea for a
temporarily unbalanced or overwrought
person who may happen to read it. —
Paddy M. (N.S.W.).
Pensions
When the Pensions Act was brought
in it was given out that the old-age pen-
sion was a right, not a charity. For years
it was carried out in that spirit until the
Lyons-Page Government made the pen-
sion practically a charity and not a right.
But tell “A.M.C.” (B. 2/10/ ’4O) that it
is not now necessary for the pensioners to
“go out and line up in a queue” to
get their pensions. These will be posted
to them on application. The money is
sent by cheque in a plain envelope so
that no one knows where it comes from.
The cheque can be paid into a bank or
cashed by a friendly businessman, and
no receipt is required for it. This facility
was mainly due to the agitation of the
late Doctor Maloney about the last
active campaign that he conducted.—
J.G. (Vic.).
Tea Planters Show the Way
Here are a few facts about the tea
industry. To maintain and if possible
increase consumption of tea all over the
world, the International Tea Market
Expansion Board has spent the follow-
ing sums: 1936, £215,000; 1937,
£395,000; 1938, £415,700; 1939,
£446,000 ; 1940, £438,000.
The tea industry does not appeal to
Government. Instead, it has a cess, each
grower paying so much on every hun-
dred pounds of tea that he produces.
This fund is centralised, and all charges
for publicity, administration of the in-
dustry by its various boards, etc., are
taken out of it.
Surely an example to Australians con-
cerned in industries of the soil.—
E. R. W.-K. (Calcutta, India).


e
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so that we
are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us. We see
more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In consequence, there
is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire exact knowledge,
remember it and recall it as required. We learn to trust our sense
perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is then open
and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and woman. The
more important of these qualities are
Observation
Will-Power
Decision
Self-Confidence
Judgment
Organisation
Concentration
Initiative
Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and
useful data of every kind.
The Exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose. The Pelman
Course is a real training, its primary object being to create good habits
of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly ones, to train the
conscious and the subconscious so that every faculty will, when called
upon, contribute its share in making a good performance of anything
that has to be done.
From several thousands of letters received from men and women doing all
kinds of work in Australia and New Zealand we give the following of recent date
as complementary to the published opinions of prominent, people illustrated at
the sides of this announcement:
Aug. 14tli, ’4O.
Since starting Pelmanism I have improved
immensely in various ways. This Lesson
(Concentration) was very informative. I 'was
always under the impression that concentration
was fixation of thought. —Printer (Vic.).
April 22iid, ’4O.
As an example of what Pelmanism has done
the following might be of interest. For the
past week I have been working on a subject
winch for the past twelve months almost drove
me to despair. Today I suceeded in obtaining
the maximum percentage in an oral examination
which lasted over two hours. I had no fears,
felt perfectly confident and felt a tinge of regret
when it was over. I was thoroughly enjoying
myself. —Officer (merchant ship).
March sth, ’4O.
Knclosed you will find my work sheet for
Lesson 12.
[ must enclose a few lines to express my
gratitude for the information and advice con-
tained in this Lesson 12. From it I have
obtained the solution to a problem which I’ve
tried to solve in various ways, but without pre-
vious success. Had this been the only benefit
derived, this Course would have been worth
while. —Clerk (Vie.).
March Bth, ’4O.
I forward mv last work sheet with a feeling
of regret. This Course has been a great pleasure
for me, and f have enjoyed the reading and study
immensely! I complete it"with a feeling of satis-
faction and enlightenment, and know that I have
received far more benefit than I had imagined
possible. —Lady Bookkeeper ( Q’land ).
Feb. 15th, '4O.
My casual memory is almost infallible. 1 note
important details to be done at specified times,
but rarely need to rely on these written notes.-
I seem now to have an automatic mental “remem-
bering” device. —Bank Officer ( Vic .).
Feb. Ist, '4O.
With the help and encouragement of Pelmanism
J realised that 1 possessed artistio-ettm—business
talent. Soon after completing the Pelman Course
I found a place in Radio as cadet announcer.
Today, about six years later, 1 am the manager
(station named). Pelmanism is largely respon-
sible for all this.
You have my permission to show this letter to
anyone really interested in your splendid Course
of—The AYay to Live! —Manager (Q’land).
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential
communication; we have no outside representatives
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality ,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbou'-n-.
Telephone: MU23SS. ________
There are over half a million
Pelmanists, of whom more than
44,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
Tlie Headquarters of the Pel man
Institute are in London.
Pelmanism is approved by the Army
Council in London. 160 Admirals
and Generals and nearly 100,000
other ranks have taken the Pelman
Course.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the app'roval of the Reserve
Hank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. \\ rite in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne,
w
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
39G Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Vt'dress
120
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
n
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
j enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
i Subscribers Jivin' > outside Australia and 'New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
anjo Paterson s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage *
2d. extra). '
PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster. <£>
stud y °f Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra). - 0
“LANDTAKERS,’ by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts n
the building up of the . C 0 ’
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage M
sd. extra). ,
0°
of
S® t$ 6 '
*
..• ..•••


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING Anthony Horderns practise it as continuously as they speak of it.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
x % <
' . j.
SK'fj
; -i
m'Swi
:
: ~
m
: :••• r
■
C,.
'
piitM
: :
■V:
■
J
jn
' .
11l
liilii
' < , , , '<S r i
.
W 4.
ssss
.
MPI 1
i
WS.
1 r
- ■ i.
m
m
,' 1 |
is
mmm
....... \
i m
.
lin
t*# 14
*’
lia
Hfp ; s
■
CZ3
/
CE3
cz>
fznoH’sn
GSiMts'jJ'i
<s Sf.
"£S*S£
HEAT STORAGE
COOKERS BRING
to the
KITCHEN
The scientific application ■ ..at storage principle in the ESSE
"FAIRY" Cooker lenders possible a fuel consumption as low as 2 tons
per year continuous burning, routable fuels are coke or charcoal, which
have great heating 'efficiency and small bulk, handle easily and require
little storage space. • - '1
Ihe ESSE FAIRY has TWO OVENS. '1 he top oven lor roasting, etc.,
and the lower for slow cocking and plate warming, are generous in
size, evenly healed, ventilated, free from fumes and objectionable
grease deposits. An . oven beat indicator is fitted.
TOP-PLATE is, ample for simmering and warming, and the Heat
Accumulator Hot-plate allows very fast boiling. The heat is always
under control, a special feature of ESSE heat storage. Oven heating
is indirect—there are no internal flames or fierce direct heat to dry up
the food cooked, which is much improved in flavour by the retention of
natural, juices.
Fairy" and Water Heater Halves Kitchen Toil
"ESSE" FAIRY
DIMENSIONS
The ESSE "FAIRY” overall
measurements are: width,
34in.; height to top-plate,
31 fin.; depth, 20in. Top
oven measures 12in. wide
x lOin. high x deep,
while the lower oven is
12in. wide x lOin. high x
16jin. deep. An extension
shelf, which can be fitted
to either end or both ends
if required, increases
width of the cooker by
sin. or lOin. respectively.
Working weight, approxi-
mately 7401 b.
Heating engineers maintain that the separate functions of cooking and water
heating for domestic supply can only be effected efficiently by two fires, each
with its special duty, and that principle has been carried out in this model.
This Water Heater is supplied with lin. diameter screwed connections of a
sufficient length to project 3in. through the enamelled casing. The connections
are led from the back of the boiler and are fitted with right-angled cone
couplings which can be readily turned to provide either right or left-hand
flow and return.
DIMENSIONS
Overall measurements: width 48in„ depth 20in„ height to top-plate 31fin.
The flue nozzle takes 3£in. Asbesiesse or 4in. cast iron pipe. For long runs it
is advisable to increase diameter of pipe.
WORKING WEIGHT
Cooker with Water Heater approximately 9901b5.
Independent Water Heater , r . approximately 3401b5.
WATER HEATING RATING
8.T.U.5., 20,000. Storage Cylinder, 25/30 gallons.
Complete Quotations and Specifications prepared without obligation.
Terms available if desired.
e
★ You can save
80 % Fuel Costs
with an "Esse"
rround Floor, Pitt Stree
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'Phone M 2401.
Day or Night
Postal Address:
2712 C, G.P.O.
