

i
w
mi ;
er
seniol yoM'&lf
ill
■x-s
wsmsfm
m
5 - m». vm
The
BRITISH PETROL
Pin?
AUSTRALIAN
BENZOL
★ The entire Benzol output of Aus-
tralia’s growing Steel industry is
absorbed by The Commonwealth Oil
Refineries Ltd,
C191.48P8
FILL AT THE RED, WHITE AND BLUE C.O.R PUMPS
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (Commonwealth government and Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Voi. 61.-No. 3160.
Wednesday, September 4, 1940.
Munitions and Men
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


GRAHAME BOOK SERVICE.
London New York
BOOK IMPORTERS SUBSCRIPTION MANAGERS
Let us quote you the LOWEST AND
CORRECT rate for any Periodical or Book
published. Information gladly supplied.
SYDNEY OFFICE:
Prudential Building, Martin Place. 84241
"sloni W'ntm?
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
My Name
My Address
S'.B. 340
The Red Page
CONSIDER THE GREEKS.
The long, turbulent cavalcade of Will
Durant’s The Life of Greece (Simon
and Schuster; Angus and Robertson),
streaming out from the polished
cynicism of the mind of a true historian,
will shake a reader’s optimism about the
stability of any form of government.
On the whole, it should trouble the
dictatorships more than the democracies,
for, if neither form of government is
going to be permanent, the subjects of a
tyrant put up with a devil of a lot of
futile hardships.
Durant’s Sparta so much resembles
Hitler’s Germany that the old tag
“there’s nothing new under the sun”
seems staggeringly true. Thirty thousand
Spartan citizens (like the Nazi organi-
sation, faced with the task of ruling
their own people and all the rest of
Europe) had to keep in subjection four
times their number of conquered
foreigners and seven times their number
of serfs or Helots. It could be done, but
only by turning every Spartan citizen
into a soldier. The price paid, says
Durant,' was “ the withdrawing of Sparta,
in every sense but the political, from the
history of civilisation.”
Music, in which the earliest Spartans
excelled, became an art of war. Any
composer departing from the martial
Doric tradition” could be punished by
law. Secret police watched the popula-
tion like a mother. Not only political
opponents were liquidated, but too
zealous supporters. Thucydides records
a piece of Machiavellian humor that
would almost make Stalin look to his
laurels:
After eight years of the Peloponnesian
War, the Helots were invited by a procla-
mation to pick out those of their number
who claimed to have most distinguished
themselves against the enemy in order that
they might receive their freedom; the object
being to test them, as it was thought that
the first to claim their freedom would be
the most high-spirited and the most apt to
rebel. As many as two thousand were
selected accordingly, who crowned them-
selves and went round the temples, re-
joicing in their new freedom. The Spartans,
however, soon afterwards did away with
them, and no one ever knew how each of
them perished.
Spartan training started from birth.
Before it, rather, for men and women
were supposed to study their partners’
fitness before marrying, and even a king
was fined for taking an undersized wife.
Fathers had the right to infanticide,
and defective children were dashed to
death from a clifftop. Every man was
liable to compulsory military service from
his 20th year to his 60th. Sickness was
a crime. Fighting, starvation and all
forms of privation were encouraged
among the boys. Girls had to make
themselves strong for motherhood.
Foreign visitors were discouraged. The
people’s devotion to law and order
amazed ancient historians. Public dis-
cussion of philosophical problems was
forbidden. The arts withered.
An odd result of the men’s preoccupa-
tion with war was that the women became
powerful. Gradually they got into their
hands nearly half the wealth of the State.
Another inevitable result of the system
was that the ruling caste became corrupt
and there were innumerable popular
risings.
Looking at Greek history as a whole,
Durant sees it as a perpetual struggle
of Europe against Asia, and it is here
there occurs the most extraordinary
parallel between Sparta and Nazi Ger-
many :
In the end Sparta’s narrowness of spirit
betrayed even her strength of soul. She
descended to the sanctioning of any means
to gain a Spartan aim; at last she stooped
so far to conquer as to sell to Persia the
liberties that Athens had won for Greece
at Marathon. Militarism absorbed her and
made her, once so honored, the hated terror
of her neighbors. When she fell, all the
nations marvelled, but none mourned.
Today, among the scanty ruins of that
ancient capital, hardly a torso or a fallen
pillar survives to declare that here there
once lived Greeks.
To defend itself from Athens, Sparta
called in the Persians and
gave Greek civilisation to
the domination of Asia for
a generation. Hitler, in a
similar jam, signed the
Nazi-Soviet pact and let Asia into Europe
once again.
There is no need for the reader to
labor after analogies with modern times
in The Life of Greece. Durant deliber-
ately brings them to the fore and often,
as when he discusses Plato’s “Fascism,”
underlines them. In Alexander, though
that warlord was young, handsome,
drunken and full of reckless courage, he
even has a Hitler of sorts. At the zenith
of his career the king became “sus-
picious, severe and lonely.” When he
killed a friend who criticised him he fell
into hysteria, refused to eat and tried
to commit suicide. He announced to
the sceptical Greeks his own divinity.
But, unlike Hitler, he had the good taste
to die at 33. His mighty aggressions,
leading to the epic disaster of his march
into India, form the most dramatic chap-
ter of the book. Durant’s dry comment
is that perhaps Alexander’s most lasting
contribution to the history of Europe
was his introduction of the custom of
shaving the face.
Durant’s story ends as Rome is rising
to power, but it lasts long enough
to show the Greek States (perhaps like
some of the nations now under German
domination) deceived by a generous peace
after Flaminius had defeated the Mace-
donians, welcoming Rome as the libera-
tor, and then learning quickly enough to
hate Rome as the conqueror. Says
Durant, “The essential cause of the
Roman conquest of Greece was the dis-
integration of Greek civilisation from
within.”
As he traces the history of Spartan
militarism, so Durant follows the stormy
career of democracy in the Greek City-
States, principally in Athens, until de-
mocracy, too, when the Hellenised Egyp-
tians tried State socialism, was found
wanting. The Egyptians learned that a
Socialist Government could exploit them
just as unmercifully as any other. Aris-
totle, whom Durant finds dull but deep,
sums up, very much as Roosevelt might:
Those States are best instituted wherein
the middle classes are a larger and more
formidable part than either the rich or
the poor. Whenever the number of those
in the middle State has been too small,
those who were the more numerous,
whether the rich or the poor, always over-
powered them, and assumed to themselves
the administration of public affairs. When
either the rich get the better of the poor,
or the poor of the rich, neither of them
will establish a free State.
Even if all the Greeks had agreed with
Aristotle, says the pessimistic Durant,
that wouldn’t have saved their civilisation,
for in the life of nations “wisdom is
the harbinger of death.” War and the
class war broke the Greeks, but the seeds
of decay lay in their virtues, in the sacri-
fice of virility to the graces of civilisation.
“Around every Rome hover the Gauls;
around every Athens some Marathon.”
Salvation, if salvation is possible, doesn’t
lie in any known form of government,
if Durant’s challenging generalisation is
true: “The basic principle of democracy
is freedom inviting chaos ; the basic prin-
ciple of monarchy is power inviting
tyranny, revolution and war.”
Democracy can take heart from the
fact that, whereas military Sparta left
only a memory of vain brutality, Athenian
freedom left the world its most priceless
legacy of beauty in stone and power in
words. Durant’s survey of Greek letters,
sculpture and painting is as masterly as
his analysis of politics. Still digging up
his analogies for the present, he submits
the obscure poet Hipponax, flourishing in
550 b.c. :
Hipponax composed poems so coarse in
subject, obscure in language, pointed in wit
and refined in metrical style that all Greece
began to talk about him, and all Ephesus
to hate him. He was short, thin, lame and
completely disagreeable. Woman, he tells
us, in one of his surviving fragments,
brings two days of happiness to a man—
“one when he marries her and one when
he buries her.”
Mingling quotation and appreciation
with such niceties of criticism as the
influence of Isocrates on the prose of Mil-
ton and Burke, Durant discusses all the
great figures of Greek literature. He
believes, “with a high degree of diffi-
dence,” that “the ‘Odyssey’ is a century
younger than the ‘lliad’ and is predomi-
nantly the work of one man.” He gives
fact and legend about “burning” Sappho,
and tells of the miraculous discovery of
fragments of her poems on papier-mache
coffins dug up by two archaeologists in
1897. He is frank enough to find Pindar
intolerably dull, and acute enough to
quote from Euripides’ “Trojan Women”
the moving passage of Andromache’s
mourning for her infant son when the
Greeks are about to dash him to death
from the walls of Troy:
Go, die, my best beloved, my cherished one,
In fierce men’s hands, leaving me here alone.
Thy father was too valiant; that is why
They slay thee .. .
And none to pity thee! ... Thou little thing
That curlest in my arms, what sweet scents cling
All round thy neck! Beloved, can it be
All nothing that this bosom cradled thee
And fostered, all the weary nights wherethrough
I watched upon thy sickness, till I grew
Wasted with watching? Kiss me. This one
time;
Not ever again. Put up thine arms and climb
About my neck; now kiss me, lips to lips ...
Oh, ye have found an anguish that outstrips
All tortures of the East, ye gentle Greeks!
Quick, take him, drag him; cast him from the
wall,
If cast ye will! Tear him, ye beasts, be swift!
God hath undone me and I cannot lift,
One hand, one hand to save my child from
death.
Durant says with some truth that “the
revival of scepticism, liberalism and
humanitarianism in the eighteenth and
nineteenth centuries made Euripides
almost a contemporary figure, more
modern than Shakspeare.” He must have
forgotten about “Hamlet” when he said
that, for Hamlet’s glowering indecision
is about as typical an example of
“modernity” as a pessimist could find,
but Euripides’ doubts—
I looked upon man’s days, and found a grey
Shadow. And this thing more surely I say
That those of all men who are counted wise,
Strong wits, devisers of great policies,
Do pay the bitterest toll. Since life began
Hath there in God’s eye stood one happy
man?—
are certainly of some contemporary sig-
nificance, as is his underlying stoicism,
“Do thou endure as men must, chafing
not.”
If Durant had gone a little further in
following the Greek influence he could
have pointed out that the most “revo-
tionary” developments in contemporary
prose and verse have sprung directly
from the Greeks Joyce’s Ulysses and
T. S. Eliot’s verse-plays. A poet as new
as Louis MacNeice, instead of experi-
menting with Greek form like Eliot,
Auden and the American Archibald Mac-
leish, comes out with a fine translation of
the “Agamemnon” of /Eschylus:
Beacon forwarding beacon, dispatch-riders of fire,
Ida relayed to Hermes’ cliff in Lemnos
And the great glow from the island was taken
over third
By the height of Athos that belongs to Zeus,
And towering then to straddle over the sea
The might of the running torch joyfully tossed
The gold gleam forward like another sun,
Herald of light to the heights of Mount
Macitus ...
And the strapping flame, not yet enfeebled, leapt
Over the plain of Asopus like a blazing moon
And woke on the crags of Cithaeron
Another relay in the chain of fire.
While that confounded plaster boy in
Sydney Botanic Gardens is still trying
to dig the thorn out of his foot, and
while the shape of the banks in every
subbub invites you to sacrifice a black
goat to the manager, it’s hardly necessary
to read Durant on the influence of Greek
sculpture and architecture, but his last
word on them is worth quoting:
The essence of that style is order and
form: moderation in design, expression
and decoration; proportion in the parts
and unity in the whole; the supremacy of
reason without the extinction of feeling; a
quiet perfection that is content with sim-
plicity, and a sublimity that owes nothing
to size.
Greek art, Durant emphasises, was
inspired and maintained by Greek reli-
gion, just as art in the Middle Ages was
kept alive by the Church. He explains
the sombre undertone of the plays as
well as the quick grace of the sculpture
as resulting in part from the conception
of Hades. Believing that the dead were
condemned to wander for ever in the
forlorn Stygian shadows, the Greeks
were at once haunted by the fear of death
and committed to the adoration of vital-
ity. Even Greek comedy, the ribaldry of
Aristophanes, developed from religious
rites. The processions of phallus-wor-
shippers, singing dithyrambs to Dionysus
as they made their way to the temples
to celebrate the symbolic marriage of
sky and soil, always amused as well as
edified the populace, and gradually the
impromptu improprieties of the festival
took shape as primitive comedies.
Modem comedy, Durant observes, is
strictly traditional.
Religion in its decline still fed the arts,
inspiring the moody questionings of Euri-
pides, and furnishing the great philoso-
phers with endless material for discus-
sion. Durant expounds the philosophies
with two rare qualities—humor and the
utmost clarity.
He begins with Heracleitus, who said
that all things were a form of fire, and
who —if he meant “fire” as symbolic of
energy—was as modern as Rutherford.
He saw the universe as a vast Becoming,
and “his conception of strife and struggle
as determining all things reappears in
Darwin, Spencer and Nietzsche —who car-
ried on, after 24 centuries, the war of
Heracleitus against democracy.”
Durant follows with Pythagoras, who
believed in transmigration of the soul,
and whose notion of the music of the
spheres gave Shakspeare a lovely moment
of poetry when Jessica sat down in “The
Merchant of Venice”; Plato, with his
Fascist Utopia and his delicate logic-chop-
ping ; Anaxagoras, who formulated a
theory of evolution, and who was in-
dicted for impiety for describing the sun
(still a god to the people) as a mass of
stone on fire; Democritus, who said “By
convention sweet is sweet, bitter is bitter,
hot is hot, cold is cold, color is color;
but in truth there are only atoms and the
void,” and who also said, giving Woife
a chance to plagiarise before Quebec, “I
would rather discover a single demonstra-
tion [in geometry] than win the throne
of Persia” ; Empedocles, who announcec
that he had once been a bird and
flowering shrub and a fish that swims in
silence through the deep sea, and who
confessed to his friends that he was a
god but wrote that God was “only mind,
sacred and ineffable mind, flashing
through the whole universe with swift
thoughts”—Empedocles who in old age
“warned the human race to abstain from
marriage, procreation and beans” ; Pro-
tagoras, who discovered that truth was
relative and suffered banishment, and had
his books burned in the most modern
manner ; and Gorgias, the Sophist, who
carried scepticism to the interesting stage
where “(1) Nothing exists, (2) if any-
thing exists it would be unknowable, and
(3) if anything were knowable the know-
ledge of it could not be communicated
from one person to another.” Aristotle
anticipates Wordsworth’s pantheism, and
speculates about the nature of God like
any contemporary thinker who has found
rationalism unsatisfactory:
As the tree is drawn by its inherent
nature, power and purposes towards the
light, so the world is drawn by its inherent
nature, power_ and purposes, which are
God. God is not the creator of the
material world, but its energising form; he
moves it not from behind, but as an inner
direction or goal, as something beloved
moves the lover. Finally, says Aristotle,
God is pure thought, rational soul, contem-
plating itself in the eternal forms that con-
stitute at once the essence of the world,
and God.
Philosophy, Durant shows, decayed
into nihilism. Carneades attacked all
conclusions as intellectually indefensible,
and told his students to be satisfied with
probability and the customs of their
time. Epicureanism offered a pleasant
negativity; Stoicism sought to resign
itself to the law of Nature. “Wars, said
Chrysippus, are a useful correction of
overpopulation, and bedbugs do us the
service of preventing us from oversleep-
ing.” The same amiable philosopher
thought it would be a good idea to eat
dead relatives. Hegesias argued so bril-
liantly that life had more pain than
pleasure in it that he caused a wave of
suicides. Religion, reinforced by Asian
theology, came back to its own. Science
and mechanics, though Philon of Byzan-
tium invented pneumatic machines, Watt
-—no, Heron of Alexandria—invented a
steam engine, and the Greeks were ac-
quainted with the magnet, were aban-
doned, partly because the Greeks pre-
ferred theory to practice, mainly because
they had plenty of slaves to do the hard
work while they thought about God and
planned their “democracies.”
This book of Durant’s is little short
of magnificent. It follows Our Oriental
Heritage, which was the first volume in
the gigantic Story of Civilisation he pro-
poses to write. Like the Athenian democ-
racy, The Life of Greece has the faults
of its virtues : the author is so sane, so
tolerant, so civilised, that one misses the
fire and thunder of a Carlyle or the
gorgeous pomposity of a Gibbon. In
its purpose, however —to enable the
present to learn from the past—it is com-
pletely successful, and its flow of quiet
irony and the profuseness of vivid anec-
dotes make it immensely readable.
Durant’s breadth of culture and keenness
of perception are extraordinary. His
style—if only he wouldn’t say “all in
all” at the end of every chapter—is
smoothly competent. His conclusion on
the Greeks is a slight modification of Sir
Henry Maine’s “classic hyperbole”:
“Except the blind forces of nature, no-
thing moves in this world which is not
Greek in its origin.” All in all, he makes
one look with new awe upon the local
fishmonger.


A
mencan
Ciolonial furniture •*« «
The revival of period furniture designs is becoming more apparent every day. People are realising
the importance of furnishing the home in a manner which will not weary them after a few years.
To do this they choose the recognised designs of the past which have proved their worth in
many ways. These charming Bedroom and Lounge Suites are the authentic renderings o e
latest trends in furniture design —the American Colonial Furniture, first broug tto menca y
Dutch Colonists . . . and now how attractive in your home.
'it
f,. i
%>i
(, M ;
.ij i i *
In I
I
I i !
i 7.
&
u, .c
>Q
/
i s
,/■
> V:
V I
LttmJ LSI
i . . '<««
; !
i Ky-<w \ c_s^
6^
; i 4
b'i I
V\i I IV/
.<N4Vj
: 0- c J
r?fB¥;
l\ .o >
</; i
I ( v,
&\ i
I W
I
?i^mi
Sgggl
i
Li'
? C
.
Iliiilill
:
IIIiSSS
5:*:5S
Sr
■- i
HHM
ill*
£52/10/- BEDROOM SUITE
Bedroom Suite comprising Wardrobe,
Dressing Table with wall mirror and
Stool, Chest of Drawers, Twin Beds
and Bedside Table. The work of
e47'10 /
craftsmen throughout . . . adapted to modern conditions.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price £52/10/-.
SPECIAL PRICE £47/10/-
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT £4/15/-; 18 MONTHLY PAYMENTS
OF £2/11/1.
wu in Our
Own Oactoru
Anthony Horderns' employ experi-
enced craftsmen, who carry out this
work to perfection . . . men who
know the beauty of balance and
detail, and the importance of
strength and finish. Eminently suited
for Australian climatic conditions,
these Suites are made of solid
Coachwood with smooth & rounded
edges. Plain or two tone finish may
be selected, without extra charge.
• Furniture, Third Floor —delivered jree only within
our delivery area.
kmmm
• v v .'A
W'
- ;
i'OU'-'
/a \;
iS ' s
■'9) { .■
4
SSg?
£32/10/ 3-piece LOUNGE SUITE
Three-piece Lounge Suite of turned
Coachwood frames and loose cushions.
Colonial style. Choose your own cover-
ings. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price
-/01/BZ3
£32/10/-. SPECIAL PRICE £2B/10/-
EASY TERMS: DEP. £2/17/-; 18 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF £l/10/6
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
'Phone M 2401
Day or Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
Postal Address:


THE MEDIUM
"I should like to have your advice about my future vocation , sir ?”
By DOUGLAS STEWART.
50MEWHERE at the back of the house a child
began to wail.
“Shut up, you brats! ” yelled the stocky man
who was standing at the head of the bed.
The visitors, feeling that his exasperation was
directed against them as much as his quarrelling
children, shuffled uneasily.
“Come on,” the stocky man addressed them.
“What you going to do now? A nice mess this is.”
“My children, my children,” moaned the woman
on the bed. “What do you care about them? What
do you care whose lives you are ruining?”
“If Madame Clara would only” began Mr.
Walters.
The woman buried her face in the pillow. “You’re
killing me.”
“Can’t you see, Walters,” said Mr. Goringe, “that
this woman has had a terrible shock? She’s in no con-
dition to answer your senseless questions. If she
does turn out to be seriously ill it’s on your head.”
“She won’t die,” said the stocky man, looking
contemptuously at his wife. “But what you going to
do about it? That’s what I want to know.”
“Goringe is going off the committee,” declared
Mr. Walters. “That’s one point certain.” The light
of battle seemed to snap and crackle in his washy blue
eyes as he stared over the disordered blankets and
the woman’s gross body at the big man he detested.
“The whole thing will have to be thrashed out
thoroughly by the full committee,” interposed Miss
Cronin. “One would think the president and secre-
tary were the only ones with any say in the society.
The members have a right to be heard.” Two bright-
red patches appeared on her bony cheekbones. She
looked to Mrs. Thorncroft for support.
“Of course, I’m not a committee member,” said
Mrs. Thorncroft, “but it does seem such a pity to be
squabbling here with poor Madame Clara so ill.”
“I don’t propose to bandy words with you,
Walters,” said Mr. Goringe, “but when the committee
does meet I’m going to move that you be kicked out
of the secretaryship. I think Miss Cronin will agree
with me that you have very queer ideas of your duty
to the society. This will be a public scandal.”
“Oh, please go away,” came the voice from the
blankets. “I can’t talk to you today. I’m ill.”
Of course she’s ill, thought Mrs. Thorncroft,
staring at the medium in mingled horror and sym-
pathy. It was really terrible last night. Everything
had gone along so quietly ; then suddenly there was
the shouting and the confusion ; the long scarcely-
secret hostility between Mr. Walters and Mr. Goringe
breaking out into the open ; and now this bickering
over the dishevelled medium, with her husband stand-
ing there as if he’d like to murder them all.
J T had been Mrs. Thorncroft’s first seance. Once a
* plump jolly girl, with never a thought of the occult
in her head beyond a normal fondness for ghost
stories till she had “buried,” as she put it, first her
husband and then her mother, now she was waver-
ing on the verge of perpetual melancholy. She pitied
herself, and was grateful to Miss Cronin, whose insist-
ence had brought her to the back room of the Town
Hall in the hope of receiving some comforting mes-
sage from beyond the grave. Looking round the
stuffy little room at the twenty or thirty devotees, she
wished she had not come, for she felt out of place
as well as more than a little frightened.
The intensity of the blackness about her when the
lights were switched off was startling. She looked in
the direction where a moment before there had been
a door —an avenue of escape to the lighted passage
and the friendly wet gleam of the winter streets —but
no merciful line of light slit the invisible wall. Where
the windows had been, reared the same overpowering
darkness. She could not even see her hands on her
lap, and nothing of Miss Cronin beside her. The
breathing of Mr. Walters on her left might be the
panting of some unknown wild beast. The little man,
though she knew him well enough in his usual set-
ting, the dingy gloom of a solicitor’s office, had seemed
strange even before the lights went out —so brisk and
excited. Miss Cronin; tall, bony, twitching Mr.
Goringe, all the people she knew had been swallowed
up by the darkness. There was something terrifying
in the sound of people breathing all around her.
The sound of shuffling, the single thud of heavy
heels on the floor, that would be Mr. Goringe stretch-
ing out his great long legs. He was always too big for
any room he entered. She had seen him holding forth
to Madame Clara —something about a “manifesta-
tion,” demanding something—screwing his face up,
flinging his arms about in great awkward gestures that
seemed to sweep the room as if he were wielding a
scythe.
There was a little reproving cough from Mr.
Walters.
“Well, now, if you’re quite ready!” said Miss
Cronin. “Will you all please place your hands on your
knees and concentrate?”
Mr. Goringe clattered his boots along the floor
once more and smacked his hands loudly on his knees.
“We are in readiness, Madame Clara,” announced
Miss Cronin.
All eyes in the suffocating blackness turned
towards the corner where Madame Clara sat mys-
teriously behind her curtain. There was an atmosphere
of excitement. The ordinary members of the society,
as well as the committee, were divided over her merits
as a medium. Six weeks ago she had been engaged on
Mr. Goringe’s recommendation, and still nothing but
crystal-gazing and “trumpets.”
“Concentrate,” Miss Cronin urged.
The room became as silent as it was black. Mrs.
Thorncroft suppressed a nervous giggle. Would there
really be a materialisation? What on earth would
she do if it walked about, if it turned its eyes on her?
If it touched her?
Not Mother, she thought, horrified. I couldn’t
bear it. I’ll scream. She felt a sense of uncleanness.
What had she, Alice Thorncroft, to do with Miss
Cronin and Mr. Goringe and Mr. Walters? They
were all mad, mad! They said Goringe had lived
alone in the bush, working as a shepherd, before he
took up accountancy. That was what made him so
queer and cranky and dominating. And Walters was
worse still, even if he did look as miserable as some-
thing in a cobweb. Miss Cronin told her he believed in
astrology and watched the papers and wrote to every-
body who had twins. He was breathing so quickly and
heavily beside her ; unnatural.
“Let us sing,” Miss Cronin said abruptly. “Evi-
dently they are having some difficulty tonight.” She
raised her thin soprano in a hymn.
|Z7 OR the first time since the lights had been extin-
-1 guished the company began to feel at ease. The
darkness was forgotten as the room filled with voices.
Mr. Walters’s nervous tenor competed with the sten-
torian grumbling of Mr. Goringe’s bass-baritone. Mrs.
Thorncroft joined in timidly at first, then with a lusty
contralto. As the repertoire of well-known hymns
ran out, there were false starts with unfamiliar tunes.
The alert Miss Cronin switched the programme
towards the secular with the not inappropriate
ejaculation:
All the darkies am a-weepin’,
Massa’s in de cold, cold ground.
The company fell gladly into what Mrs. Thorncroft
described afterwards as “a good old sing-song.” They
yearned for the old folks at home ; they vowed that
when her hair had turned to silver they would love
her just the same ; they called down a blessing on
Mother Machree; they laid them doon and dee’d for
Annie Laurie. When they began to proclaim with a
certain gusto that there was a tavern in the town, and
there their true love sat him down and never, never
thought of them, Miss Cronin was about to protest,
but at that moment an emaciated, metallic baritone,
sounding as if it were coming through the horn of an
old-fashioned gramophone, repeated enthusiastically
And never, never thinks of me!
The company gasped. Mrs. Thorncroft broke out
into a cold sweat and clutched at Miss Cronin’s hand.
There was a rustle and creak as people shifted in their
chairs, then an uncanny silence.
“Come on,” said the Voice. “Sing up. You
oughter know me by this time.”
“How are you, Dave?” Miss Cronin welcomed
the speaker. “We’re ever so glad you could get
through.”
“I’m fine,” said Dave. “I’m always fine.”
He struck up the tune again, and the company,
quaveringly at first, but with growing assurance,
blended their voices with the ghost’s.
There is a tavern in the town, in the town,
And there my truelove sits him down, sits him down,
And drinks his wine ’mid laughter free,
And never, never thinks of me.
“There’s a stranger among you,” asserted the
twanging voice of the spirit when the song was over.
“Her name is Mrs. Thorncroft.”
“You’re quite right, Dave,” said Miss Cronin,
“I brought her along myself.”
“I know,” said the ghost. “There isn’t much we
don’t know.”
“Do you know her husband?” asked Miss Cronin.
“Know him well. Used to know him in the old
days, as a matter of fact. Often had a pot with him.”
“Ever get a pot Over There, Dave?” queried Mr.
Goringe.
The spirit was silent.
“Mr. Goringe means,” interposed Miss Cronin,
“do you see anything of Mr. Thorncroft Over There?”
“No I don’t,” Mr. Goringe contradicted her. “I
mean does he ever have a pot of beer Over There.
I’m seriously interested. It is the actual conditions of
life on the Other Side that we find .most difficult to
imagine. I’ve never yet”
“No,” replied the Voice sadly. “There’s nothing
like that.”
“We seem to have got off the track,” said Miss
Cronin, rushing to the rescue. “We 1 would be so
grateful if you could give us any news of Mrs. Thorn-
croft’s husband.”
“Joe, his name was,” Mrs. Thorncroft put in.
When her late husband’s name had been first men-
tioned she had felt both foolish and frightened, but
Dave’s easy tone and commonplace conversation had
reassured her. Here was no horrible apparition ; only
a nice ghost talking like anybody else.
“That’s right,” said Dave. “Joe Thorncroft. I
saw quite a bit of him when he first Passed Over. He’s
not here now.”
“Oh!” cried the widow.
“I mean,” the Voice explained, “he’s in some
other part. He’s quite all right, Mrs. Thorncroft, I
can tell you that. Joe’s as happy as a bird.”
“Can’t you tell us where he is?” asked Mr.
Goringe.
“I have to be going now,” said the spirit. "I . . .
have ... to ... be .. . going . . . now” His voice
faded away.
“Now!” exclaimed Miss Cronin, shattering the
momentary silence. “Others may come if we are all
in harmony. Oh, Madame Clara, couldn’t you get
Little Friend for us again?”
“Little Friend,” Mr. Goringe interjected coldly,
“is even more of an imbecile than Dave. Cant
Madame Clara”
There was a faint moan from the medium s
corner. “It is all so confused,” she complained.
“There is great opposition. Wait; please wait. Little
Friend is saying—she is sending her love to Miss
Cronin”
“ Dear Miss Cronin,” cried the voice of a little
girl. . .
“Oh, the pet! Are you here then, Little Friend,
the spinster exclaimed ecstatically.
“Mr. Gowinge made a nasty, wude wemark, the
Voice accused.
“Never you mind, dearie,” consoled Miss Cronin.
“It’s only his funny way. Don’t you take any notice
of him. Tell us what you’ve been doing all the week.


“I’se been playing.”
“The duck!” exclaimed Mrs. Thorncroft, as
thrilled as the other woman.
“Is that Mrs. Thorncwoft?” prattled the child.
“You are lonely. Poor Mrs. Thorncwoft. I will be
your Little Fwiend as well as Miss Cwonin’s if you like.
I am with her always.”
“Mrs. Thorncroft has a mother,” interrupted Miss
Cronin.
“Somefing is happening!” cried Little Friend.
“Oh, good-bye, dear Miss Cwonin. Somefing is hap-
pening. I have to go.”
There was a rustle about the room, and several
people cleared their throats loudly. Then there was
stillness, and the blackness, now that the voices had
ceased, seemed to grow more intense. Mrs. Thorn-
croft felt that her eyes were straining out of their
sockets. She was almost hysterical at the uncanni-
ness of it all, flattered at the attention she was receiv-
ing, shaken by memories of her dead. She began to
cry quietly.
Then suddenly she and the rest of the gathering
started in amazed incredulity. A woman whimpered.
Where there had been black nothingness, in the corner
occupied by the medium, was the apparition of a
woman. There had been no warning of its approach.
Its face, faintly radiant, was calm and beautiful.
Around its head, like a nun’s hood, it wore a draping
of some pale, shining stuff that looked like woven
light. The same ghostly material swathed its
shoulders. Nothing could be seen of the rest of its
body, nor could any person in the room, in spite of
the light, see anything of his companions. The vision
wavered, then seemed to come forward a little. Those
who thought it was advancing towards them tautened
and shrank back against the wall. Everything about
it was fluctuating and vague, except the terrible pallor
of its face. In the remoteness of its expression it
looked immeasurably dead, chilly with unimaginable
experiences.
The apparition spoke. It spoke in a harsh, dry
whisper, like paper blowing over the floor. “Alice,
Alice, don’t you know me?”
Mrs. Thorncroft shrieked.
While the cry was still ringing in the air, a beam
of light flashed on the apparition and someone darted
across the room. The light was immediately extin-
guished. There was the sound of a scuffle, a shriek
from the medium’s cabinet. Another man ran to the
corner with pounding steps. Pandemonium broke
loose, women screaming, men shouting. “What is
it?” “Help!” “The lights, you fools, the lights!”
Mr. Walters, his grey hair ruffled, his eyebrows
bristling, his face flushed, was struggling with the
medium’s husband in the corner, fending him off
with one hand and groping at the curtains with the
other. Mr. Goringe, who had switched on the lights,
strode purposefully across the room, seized the little
lawyer about the waist, pinioning his arms to his side,
swung him off his feet and carried him to the centre
of the room.
“Damn you, Goringe, let me go! Look, you
fool, he’s getting her away.”
Madame Clara’s husband was hustling her from
the room. Uttering sharp cries of distress, the medium
was leaning heavily on his shoulder, staggering as he
led her to the door. Miss Cronin rushed to help her.
Mrs. Thorncroft, neglected, buried her face
in her hands. She felt sick and ashamed.
“Mother, mother!” she kept muttering to
herself. “I knew I shouldn’t have come.”
Freed from Mr. Goringe’s gorilla-like
embrace, Mr. Walters, surrounded by a
jostling and excited crowd, all arguing
heatedly, was declaring triumphantly, “I
always had my doubts about that woman
and now I know. The cheek of her! Get-
ting herself up in butter-muslin and trying
to gull us that it was a manifestation.
Butter-muslin and phosphorescent plates! I
caught hold of her and she struggled back
behind the curtains. If her precious hus-
band hadn’t been so quick off the mark
you’d have seen for yourselves.”
“I saw all right,” an angry male voice
exclaimed. “I could see when you flashed
the torch that it was Madame Clara.”
“You couldn’t have,” another voice
declared. “I was watching just as close as
you were. The thing just vanished and
then you, Walters, have to go dragging Madame Clara
out into the open. It’s a disgrace to the society, a dis-
grace to the whole society.”
“You’ve practically driven the woman insane,”
said Miss Cronin, returning. “She’s in hysterics. Her
husband has taken her home. Surely you knew how
dangerous it was to disturb her in that state. Far
worse than waking a sleepwalker. She was in a
trance. She might have died with the shock.”
“She’s an impostor,” challenged Mr. Walters.
Back against the wall, confronting the hostility of
nearly all the devotees, the little man was revelling in
the situation he had created. His hands shook. “As
for you, Goringe,” he went on, “this is the finish of
you. I believe you knew all along she was a fraud.
You intervened like a hooligan because you didn’t
want her to be caught out. You hired her, you en-
gaged her for the society against my advice, and you
didn’t want to see her exposed for the charlatan she is.”
NOW, by the medium’s bedside on the morning after
the seance, the debate was being continued.
“Your whole manner,” accused Mr. Walters,
“showed that you doubted her yourself. But you
didn’t have the courage to do what I did and take
action in the matter. You were afraid of losing face
with the committee. If you’ve become the laughing-
stock of the town, it’s your own fault.”
“Confound you, Walters!” exclaimed Goringe.
“We’ll see who’s going to be the laughing-stock. Flash-
ing your little torch about like a private detective. I
admit I never cared much for Dave and Miss Cronin’s
Little Friend, but I defy you to prove they weren’t
genuine phenomena. I looked upon them with
scientific detachment. Possibly Little Friend was the
embodiment of one of Miss Cronin’s private fan-
tasies.”
Miss Cronin gasped indignantly.
“How else are you going to explain it, unless you
admit it was supernatural?” asked Mr. Goringe.
“Ventriloquism,” snapped Mr. Walters. “Pure
trickery.”
“Tell me how Madame Clara managed to fake a
voice as convincingly masculine as Dave’s.”
“Easy enough. You yourself said that Dave was
an imbecile. Can you possibly imagine a departed
spirit uttering such nonsense as he did?”
“The trouble with you, Walters,” said Mr.
Goringe, “is that you lack the scientific mind. Why
should a man who has Passed Over be any more in-
telligent than he was on earth? I regard it as one of
the proofs of Madame Clara’s genuineness that Dave
was so deplorably lifelike. My only quarrel with her
was that she could not put us into touch with any
superior mind.”
The medium stirred in her bed, turning blood-
shot eyes towards her tormentors. “I would have,”
she complained. “You gave me no time. You asked
too much. lam ill. I’ve been ill for years.”
“Quite so,” agreed Mr. Goringe. “And the first
time she contrives a manifestation, Walters has to
ruin everything.”
“I did my duty to the society,” Mr. Walters de-
fended himself. His great gesture, he secretly feared,
was falling flat. “Madame Clara practised a deliberate
fraud on Mrs. Thorncroft. Absolutely heartless.”
“You have no right to say that it was a fraud,”
declared Miss Cronin.
“Exactly,” said Mr. Goringe. “Suppose Mrs.
Thorncroft tells us whether or not she thinks it was a
fraud. After all it was her mother. Wasn’t it, Mrs.
Thorncroft?”
“Oh,” wailed Mrs. Thorncroft, “I saw her!
Mother. But it’s wicked.”
“There you are,” said Mr. Goringe. “She recog-
nised her.”
“Impossible!” shouted Mr. Walters. “Mrs. Thorn-
croft was nervous and excited. It was impossible to
recognise anybody at that distance. Just a face in the
corner; anybody’s face. If I don’t get satisfaction
from Madame Clara, from the committee, I shall
inform the police. Let them investigate it!”
What a place, what a mob! thought Mr. Goringe.
Like the woman on the bed, the room was untidy and
“Shut up, chatterbox—
you might sink a ship!”
forlorn. Even the shaft of sunlight seeping through
the torn lace curtains looked unclean, emphasising
the dustiness of the bedroom. A heap of clothes lay
crumpled on an armchair where Madame Clara had
thrown them the night before. Her shoes lay on the
floor at one end of the bed, and at the other end,
plainly in view though it had obviously been placed
there for concealment, stood the half-empty bottle of
gin which Mr. Goringe’s sharp eyes had noticed imme-
diately he entered the room. Madame Clara’s hus-
band appeared to be trying to hide it behind his legs
as, dark with anger, he glowered at the company.
What could it feel like, Mr. Goringe wondered, to
be married to a medium? Not a bad life, it seemed,
for the fellow never did any work, apart from a bit
of touting for his wife and a few odd jobs to assist
her at seances. He was like a showman with a per-
forming bear.
On the dressing-table, above a litter of “fancy”
toilet articles of greenish glass, a pair of stockings, a
hairnet, a brush and comb, all dusted with a faint
flour of spilt face-powder, stood a faded wedding
photograph of the couple —the man rather negligible
except for a certain hardness of the mouth and jaw,
Madame Clara more impressive as a billowy young
woman with wide-open eyes and a foam of dark hair.
Love, if there was any; marriage, children; this
squalid bedroom; Walters standing there like some-
thing fished up out of his own inkwell, exulting in his
petty victory ; prim, silly, vicious Miss Cronin, suck-
ing her upper lip, polishing its thin down ; hefty Mrs.
Thorncroft, ready to burst into tears again: what had
all this to do with scientific truth? And Walters was
threatening to bring in the police.
“You’ll have to go, that’s all about it,” Goringe
said to Madame Clara. “We can’t afford a scandal.”
“You forced me to do it,” sobbed Madame Clara.
“Why wouldn’t you give me time? I’m sick. I have
the children to feed. I get no help. You’ll kill me,
that’ll be the end of it.”
She wept unrestrainedly, writhing on the bed and
tearing at the pillow. Miss Cronin moved to comfort
her, then paused. After all, the society came first.
There must be no publicity.
“Very well,” she said. “If Mr. Walters is willing
to discuss it quietly there’s no need for friends to fall
out. We can surely settle our own affairs without the
police.”
“Get out!” shouted the stocky man suddenly.
“Take your damned arguments somewhere else and
finish them. I’ll sue you for damages, that’s what I’ll
do.”
When the visitors, still arguing bitterly, had re-
treated to the street, he gripped his wife’s wrists so
fiercely that she shrank from him in agony. “You
drunken fool!” he snarled. “You’ll land us both in
clink yet. I told you not to risk it. I’m finished
with you.”
“But I have the power,” she moaned. “You
know I have. Why don’t they give me the time?
They ask and ask and I daren’t wait any longer.”
“Aw, stop your whining,” he said. “You and your
power! You haven’t had anything for years.”
“It’ll come back,” she said. “They can’t desert
me. Give me the time, that’s all. You work me to
death. I can’t stand it.”
“Come on,” her husband said. “Get dressed.
We’re on the road again. Even if that fellow doesn’t
get the police we’re finished here . . . And give me
that, you’ll get no more today.” He took the bottle of
gin out to the kitchen and poured himself a drink.
Madame Clara climbed wearily out of bed.
EARH TIES.
These quiet paddocks that I fiercely love
They are my kindred; and these hyacinth kills
Where all day long the wind like a white dove
Coos in the lavenders of dusk and dawn,
They are my children; and my soul is drawn
To them in passionate yearning. Brooding here
I watch the sunlight lacquering the leaves
Of the blue eucalypts with leaping gold;
And see the grasses link their silken sleeves
Together lest the dance should break their hold.
The sheep browse in the pasture, lowered heads
All turned one way like fay-enchanted folk;
The rose-combed hens drift thro’ the milking sheds
Like wind-blown flowers; while the pearl-grey smoke
From the farm chimneys curls in soft retreat,
Rising in tatters, thin, verbena-sweet.
Where in the whole wide world are lovelier things
Than these that hold my heart a willing slave? —
The long brown paddocks smooth as plovers’ wings; l
The pasture clover rippling, wave on wave,
To meet the fallow at the river’s bend
Where thrushes sing from dawning till day’s end;
The gullies brimmed with mauve and indigo;
The mists that rise and wander, white and slow,
As cattle homing in the afterglow.
If all this loveliness where I have dreamed
And waked and worked, and slept and dreamed again,
Should suddenly before my peace-lulled eyes
Be seared and tortured, blackened and blood-seamed,
The paddocks burned, the hills a-scream with pain,
Like hamstrung horses ’neath the pitiless rain
Of Nazi shellfire belched from smoking skies —
Ah! then would I know hate so deep, so deep,
That never more in waking or in sleep,
Not though a thousand years were granted me,
Would my heart ever hold tranquillity.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
if} ffblt lifne cf*ia t ie mellcwncJS anclXouqjUcf/
CANTERBURY CATHEDRAL FROM THE NORTH-WEST.
It?-™ * U fhp k, Anghcan communion has his official residence in London, appropriately enough within almost a
5*5? h^ StnC u ly - accurate designatio « of the Houses of Parliament, and Westminster
P Valhalla of the British race, his Cathedral Church is situated some 62 miles away in East Kent, on the River Stour.
What St Peters at Rome is to the adherents of the Roman faith, so is Canterbury Cathedral to those who adhere to the Anglican rite.
Hn^nH b ni,m2nm tL S?a a f ociatl ° ns , thos ® “ the old fcffih” with this great and beautiful temple of worship are
close andnumeious The birth of the Cathedral goes back almost 1500 years to 509, when the conversion of King Ethelbert to Christianity
by St. Augustine led to its foundation with the adjacent Abbey. The Australian or New Zealander visiting England would place after
London, as chief centre of interest, Canterbury, for with it many of the greatest names and most critical events which have marked the
history of the British race are associated. Consequently Canterbury provides a lesson in history, in the preservation of unique memorials,
and even of what it has lost traces have not wholly faded away. The Cathedral is not, however, the oldest place of Christian worship
in the City. This honour belongs to St. Martin s. The late Rev. Dr. T. Field explained this in his history of the church:
“Al the beginning of the fourth century, during the reign of Constantine the Great, St. Martin’s hill was occunied bv Roman
villas, and probably a small Roman encampment. Later on, in the same century Maximus was sent as
afterwards proclaimed Emperor in 383, .taking up his residence at the ancient city’ of Treves. Shortly before Ms* elevftion to the
Imperial power ,he had become a Christian, and it is not improbable some of the British troops who had followed him to Treves
returned to their native country and, encouraged by his advice, erected for themselves a church in Durovernum afterwards called
Canterbury. It is uncertain whether this church was originally dedicated to the Blessed Virein Marv InH S
St. Martin of Tours the patron saint of France, by Queen Bertha in 590, whetherTti & <£“dSiS£f S?
Martin —an intimate friend and counsellor of the Emperor Maximus —and he may have sent workmen from hil to ,.
known from the writings of the Venerable Bede that the church was erected during the Roman ioT and CM T L„/v
was originally built ‘in honor of St. Martin.’ The Romans left Britain in 410 ” occupation, and he seems to imply it
To return to the Cathedral. It has hitherto passed without irretrievable damage through many vicissitudes and now after the lapse of
centuries rears its majestic pile, a dumb witness to the piety of our ancestors. The Pointed style of architecture finds a representative in
the great Bell Harry Tower—one of the most beautiful specimens in England. Passing into the Cathedral, objects of interest abound,
not the least notable being the Shrine of St. Thomas a Becket the great Archbishop who was murdered on the steps of the high altar.
Though shorn of its jewels and splendour,” the knowledge that formerly kings, princes and thousands of the highest and § noblest
in the land came to its altar to do penance attracts the visitor irresistibly to the spot. This noble Cathedral, this glorious Gothic fane,
is owned by the British race wherever domiciled. > b


The Bulletin
VoL 61.—N0. 3160.
September 4, 1940.
FIRST ANNIVERSARY.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: l Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F'. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America. 2d. per copy. To all other places. 4d.
MUNITIONS AND MEN.
One thing that should stand to the Government side
in the coming election is the solid quality of its war
effort, as claimed by Mr. Menzies and other spokes-
men —claims so far unshaken by critics or political
opponents. No doubt more will be heard on that
from the platforms, speakers being permitted a free
go, apart from such necessary restrictions as not men-
tioning troop movements and the like. But if all the
Government claims can be substantiated, the Opposi-
tion will need to produce a powerful lot of promises
to merit a stronger vote.
According to Mr. Menzies, “inconceivable pro-
gress” has been made since war, with the threat that
it might be brought directly home to Australia, spurred
the Government at last to take the defence of the
country seriously. Mr. Menzies is on ground as shaky
as a bog in declaring that “Up to a year or two ago,
Australia, like other British countries, was going along
steadily with her defence expenditure, laying sound
foundations.” Nothing could be much further astray
from the facts. Right up to Munich it was the
common policy of all these countries to spend their
wealth on anything but their defence. Mr. Chamber-
lain, returning with a piece of paper in his hand, opti-
mism on his lips and doubt in his heart, straightway
turned Britain’s attention to defence legislation and
increased expenditure. Taking the customary cue,
the Australian Government —the Menzies Government
under a different leader —also then began to give some
thought to defence. But to suggest that it had done
anything “sound” before that —since a Labor Govern-
ment in 1929 wrecked the country’s military organisa-
tion, and in the cheeseparing times further back than
that —is one for the sort of credulity attributed to the
Marines.
In fairness to the Governments of those 20 lotus-
chewing years it has to be said that they legislated—•
in Britain and other parts of the Empire just as in
Australia—according to the will of the people. In
fairness to the people it should not be forgotten that
they had had a long and horrible war which they
wished to forget, and countless babbling and writing
charlatans to help them in the forgetting. As one
example, over that lotus-chewing period The Bulletin
was the only organ of public expression in Australia
which consistently advocated compulsory national
service and increased defence expenditure. The
country’s political leaders, saying what the country
apparently wanted them to say, could not declare often
enough that national service would never be reintro-
duced while they had the breath and the power to
oppose it. These were not only Government repre-
sentatives ; the attitude of their opponents was, if any-
thing, worse: these protracted their professed opposi-
tion to that elementary defence requirement even
beyond the actual outbreak of war.
So no retrospective charge can be brought against
the Government side in that respect. What it has
done since the war started is the measure of past
neglect, but, apart from that aspect of it, the effort
looks a useful ally to take into an election. Com-
pulsory national service was promptly reintroduced,
as this paper frequently said it would have to be, and,
volunteers for the A.I.F. having come forward plenti-
fully, Australia, with the war now a year old, has
about 300,000 trained men, some of them in war zones
overseas, the bulk of them ready here for home de-
fence. The equipping of them has been just as notable.
On statements by Mr. Menzies and others in a position
to know, it has been such a striking achievement in
the time that the Prime Minister and the rest can be
excused for so obviously preening themselves on its
account.
Small-arms ammunition production, Mr. Menzies
has stated, is already five times what it was a year
ago ; by the end of the year it will be nine times, by
the middle of next year 16 times greater than when
the war started. “A great new explosive and filling
factory” is going up in S.A. Near Sydney “a great
factory is being constructed for the manufacture of
aeroplane engines of a famous pattern and immense
power.” In Victoria “a satisfactory production of
anti-aircraft guns, the largest guns yet made in Aus-
tralia, has been achieved.” Shells, bombs and the like
are being turned out in “large quantities.” By the
middle of next year 150,000 people will be employed
on munitions production. Taking it all round, it looks
like fair enough reason for Mr. Menzies to declare:
I am filled with pride at what is being done, and I
want you to share it. 1 honestly believe that future
generations will look back on this period in our history
and marvel at the speed and skill with which a quiet
and peace-loving country converted itself into a modern
arsenal.
Mr. Menzies is not the only witness to the per-
formance. Elsewhere it is given out that steel output
has been stepped up to a record production of
1,600,000 tons a year; that “Australia’s air defences
have reached a level of strength and efficiency that
was not even contemplated a year ago” ; that this year
Australia’s war expenditure on the present estimates
will total £177,000,000, the rate of expenditure being
more than 20 times that of two years ago. Under the
Empire Air Scheme nearly 400 trainees a month are
being taken in in Australia, with more than 2000 in
training. The plant which is to produce 10,000,000
gallons of petrol annually from shale has had its official
opening.
Altogether, it appears to add up to an excellent
performance. It is a pity that it should be marred by
what can be called a psychological blunder, which is
made almost every time a Government spokesman makes
a statement on the war effort. Mr. Menzies made it
again in the broadcast from which some of the figures
given here are taken; so did Mr. Spender, speak-
ing on the air scheme and other aspects of the Empire
performance ; so do most others from time to time.
Mr. Menzies said once more that “the paramount need
of every belligerent country is not men, but munitions.”
Mr. Spender, referring to the recent stirring achieve-
ments of the R.A.F., explained them as due to the facts
that “our airmen are better trained,” that “Spitfires
and Hurricanes are easier to manoeuvre” and that the
British fighters have the further advantage over the
Germans of “better petrol and lubricating oil.” Any-
thing, in fact, except the fighting quality of the men.
Perhaps Mr. Menzies, Mr. Spender and the rest
accept that that quality in the men of all branches of
the services, Australian as well as British, is something
that can be taken for granted, and they may be right.
Even so, it is a bad blunder in psychology to slight
that quality, however indirectly. Plant the idea now in
the minds of men that they are of secondary import-
ance and the effect might take some shifting later on,
when the offerings of man-power may not be so readily
forthcoming. Those responsible deserve all credit for
what they have done and are doing in the production
of necessary machines, but a gun, a ’plane or a tank is
not asked to sacrifice life, and none of them is ever
better than the man in it. Already some figures of the
latest call-up for national service have been disturb-
ing. They will not improve, they will get worse, as the
idea is more and more fixed in the minds of men that
these days it is the machine which is to be glorified,
and that they, and the lives they offer, their living
beings and all that they have to lose, are now paltry
matters that have lost their old importance.
Manoeuvres in the South Pacific.
Australians interested in the air carriage of mails,
passengers and express freight would have a poor
chance of getting concessions in foreign countries ; but
it is persistently urged that foreigners interested in the
air carriage of mails, passengers and express freight
should be granted concessions in Australia. There
has been a regular outbreak of these representations
in Sydney. If the Commonwealth Government yields,
the sorry story of the decline of British shipping in the
Pacific may have a sorrier sequel.
The pioneers of all long-distance routes over the
Pacific and Indian oceans were Australians. Ross
Smith and Keith Smith were the first men to fly from
Britain to Australia; Kingsford Smith and Ulm
were the first men to cross the Pacific and the Tasman.
They and Allan covered the route again in 1933-34.
The first experimental air-mail flights from Eng-
land to Australia were made by Qantas and Imperial
Airways pilots, and a regular service was established
in 1934. In the meantime, the Dutch had linked
Amsterdam and Batavia.
In 1936 the British and Dominion Governments
discussed the establishment of a trans-Pacific link
between Sydney, Maoriland and Canada. Americans
pricked up their ears. British and Dominion
surveys had been made, and a British Resident was
established on Christmas Island, a likely landing spot,
in January, 1937. The Imperial Conference discussed
the project in that year, and its accomplishment
became a foregone conclusion.
While these discussions were taking place, a band
of U.S.A. astronomers left a pillar on Canton Island
which bore the United States flag in stainless steel.
H.M.S. Achilles was sent to hoist the Union Jack there,
and a British Resident Commissioner was appointed.
In August, 1938, it was agreed that Britain and the
U.S.A. should have equal aviation rights on the island,
the question of title being left in abeyance for 50
years. Surveyors arrived, an Imperial Airways man
with them, from Maoriland in H.M.S. Leander.
At the end of 1937 the first survey flight from
Sydney to Fiji was made by Captain Burgess in the
Empire Short flying boat Centaurus. In 1938 Pan-
Pacific Airways made a move to link Auckland with
San Francisco. This project was delayed by the tragic
loss of a Clipper and by technical troubles.
Its revival after the outbreak of the present war
was marked by a curious series of events. It became
obvious that the Americans were aiming, not only at
operating part of the system, but at finding means to
push their way to the Australian coast and round the
world. This was made plain last October in a cable
stating that the United States Post Office and Pan-
American Airways were urging the civil aeronautical
authority to authorise —which means subsidise —a pas-
senger and air-mail service from U.S.A. to Aus-
tralia, via Honolulu, Canton Island, Noumea and
Auckland.
Three days afterwards it was given out that Pan-
American Airways, Royal Netherlands Airways
(K.L.M.) and Royal Netherlands Indies Air Lines
(K.N.1.L.M.) were negotiating a pool arrangement for
a 21-day round-the-world service. Within a few days,
the war being on, K.N.I.L.M. was seeking extended
rights in the carriage of mail to and from Europe to
Australia.
On December 4, “S. M. Herald” announced that
the Japanese air line which operates to Palau, 1300
miles from Darwin and 1400 miles from Port Moresby,
was planning extensions to the Commonwealth and
to Batavia. A Douglas D.C.4 —the largest land ’plane
in the world and the only one sold by the manufac-
turers outside U.S.A.—was bought by the Japanese for
the Palau service. It is capable of carrying 32 pas-
sengers and has a range of 3000 miles.
The first section of the southern Pacific air route—
Sydney to Auckland —was opened at the end of April
with 21-ton flying-boats by the Qantas-8.0.A. service,
in conjunction with the Australian, Maoriland and
U.K. Governments. By this time, it was known
that Pan-Pacific Airways, when they linked Auckland
to San Francisco, would use Noumea as a base.
It was a peculiar arrangement. The distance from
Suva to Noumea is about the same as from Noumea
to Auckland—roughly 1100 miles. Yet, to reach
Noumea, the Americans arranged to fly over Fiji, thus
adding over 700 miles to their total journey.
After they had established this link, it was an-
nounced that Suva might become a stopping place. A
luxury yacht which had been owned by the former head
of the Scripps-Howard chain of papers was bought.
The U.S.A. press reported that she would be stationed
at Noumea as a “floating hotel” and would carry
mails and passengers to Australia. Brisbane is distant
795 miles, Sydney 1058 miles ; Auckland is 1260 miles
from Sydney.
The Commonwealth Government appeared to
know nothing about any such arrangement, though the
Civil Aviation Department had reserved its right to
run an air-mail service to New Caledonia.
Presently one of the Dutch cos. which had been
negotiating with the Pan-Pacific people for a round-
the-world service developed a strong desire to carry
mails to the A.I.F. The proposal received enthusiastic
support in Sydney papers. Had it been accepted,
the Government would have had to go on paying
about £300,000 p.a. for the Qantas-Imperial service.
It was very properly rejected.
The establishment of through communication
from San Francisco to Sydney coincided with a burst
of spreadeagleism in Scripps-Howard papers. Their
“Far Eastern expert,” a Mr. John Thompson, shouted
that the United States was “Britain’s Maginot Line
in the Pacific,” an unfortunate comparison. He
demanded to know what Australia and Maoriland
would do without actual or implied protection by
U.S.A.”:
Japan would have overrun these regions long ago
but for the presence of our fleet in mid-Pacific.
Referring to British and French possessions, he added :
We may have to occupy some of these islands to
prevent them falling into Japanese hands.
Then a party of Australian pressmen visited the
U.S.A., and a party of American pressmen came to
Australia. The head of the U.S.A. delegation was also
the head of the Scripps-Howard chain. One of the Aus-
tralian pressmen was informed before he left California
that the “first steps had been taken to convert Canton
Island into one of the most important Pacific bases
for the use of the United States Navy and Air
Force.” He was told that the naval possibilities and
the chances of laying down a large aerodrome for
bombers there were being investigated. He apparently
did not find it worth while to inquire what the position
of Australia would be if this base were used in hos-
tilities to which it was not a party.
Presently it was announced that Mr. Harold
Gatty, who represents Pan-Pacific Airways in Auck-
land, would move his headquarters to Sydney; also
that Pan-Pacific Airways might soon be “permitted to
extend its trans-Pacific service to Australia.” Sydney
“D.T.” reported that, if landing rights were refused,
Pan-Pacific Airways proposed to operate a fast
steamer service from Noumea to Brisbane:
This move would defeat any protection the Empire
service might hope to gain by a refusal of landing
rights [i.e., for the Clippers], It is expected, however,
that the Commonwealth Government will be ready to
waive its present objections to the Clipper service
terminating in Australia. Extension would immediately
affect mail freights, since the mails are now offloaded
at Auckland and carried to Sydney by Tasman Empire
Airways.
According to present arrangements, Pan-Pacific’s
luxury yacht will in a few weeks inaugurate the service
from Noumea to Sydney. Its Sydney agents will be the
Matson Line, whose ships were used, under a U.S.A.
subsidy— at one time 125,000 dollars per 81b. of mail
carried —to blanket British shipping in the Pacific.
By the combined service San Francisco will be
brought within seven days’ travel of Sydney.
Tasman Empire Airways, in which Australian tax-
payers are shareholders, will have its combined route
short-circuited and will suffer a heavy loss. And
K.N.1.L.M., now dependent entirely on U.S.A. for a
supply of machines, since Dutch factories are in
German hands, may be drawn into an arrangement
for a round-the-world route, via mid-Pacific bases,
which will skim the traffic of the Pacific Islands and
Maoriland and some from the Commonwealth as well.
The matter of linkage gives no trouble —Noumea is
only 1600 miles from the nearest point in Dutch New
Guinea, a short stage for the Clippers, which might
find it as easy to capture all the New Guinea mail and
passenger trade.
There is some vague mention of reciprocity and
of the granting of U.S.A. landing rights to Australian
concerns in the dim future. It should be dismissed


from consideration until a concrete offer is made by
responsible authority.
There are also the press suggestions that the Pan-
Pacific service cannot be kept off the direct route. But
if direct entry cannot be prohibited, the owners of
the service could be taxed until they were brought to
their senses. In any case, the Australian Post Office
can retain control of mail, and the Australian defence
and immigration authorities can define the routes by
which passengers, vessels and aeroplanes will be per-
mitted to reach Australian ports.
After the war so many people of our own race
and kindred races will want to get as far away as they
can from Europe and its interminable quarrels and its
explosive bombs and incendiary bombs and poison
gas —that horror may yet come —that Australia will
become an increasingly important factor in the Pacific
and it will be in a position to pick and choose. After
the war also many Australian and Maoriland fighting
airmen and aircraftsmen will want to take up commer-
cial aviation. It will be a rotten return for their ser-
vices and sacrifices if they have to be told that,
because of war-time concessions lavished on foreigners
—neutrals, for the most part —there are no Pacific or
Indian Ocean services for them to be employed in.
Just as American shipping policy is wholly the
concern of Americans, and Japanese shipping policy
wholly the concern of Japanese, so Australian air-
transport policy is wholly the concern of Australians.
Now, and always, it should be framed and adminis-
tered by Australians in the interests of the Australian
nation, with due regard for the rights of its British
Commonwealth partners.
EL VERDUGO.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Good Australia-First Man.
Giving up a post to which every young barrister
aspires, a salary of £3OOO p.a. and a pension of £l5OO
p.a. for which he could have qualified in five years,
Herbert Vere Evatt has resigned from the High Court
Bench to offer his services to the nation in the place
where its war measures are decided and its peace
measures will have to be shaped. He has come out as
a supporter of Mr. Curtin’s party for Barton, a seat
held by a U.A.P. member for nine years. Except in
one quarter, his decision has been universally
applauded. Admiration is felt for the man, whose
talents have long been recognised, and pride in the
country which, in doubtful and dangerous hours, can
command such a sacrifice and such courage on the
part of one of its distinguished sons.
Unfortunately, Mr. Menzies chose to set himself
against the current of popular feeling. “I regard the
precedent as most regrettable,” he said. This, from
the leader of a Government which has itself, with
complete acceptance, established a precedent by com-
missioning the Chief Justice of the High Court to go to
Tokyo as a representative of the Government. “The
judiciary,” he proceeded, “should be kept completely
detached from party politics.” So it should be, and
so it is, and there has been no conflict of loyalties in
the present case. In abnormal times Dr. Evatt has
exercised a right which every other Australian Judge
possesses, and has honorably paid the heavy price.
But Mr. Menzies went further:
I hope Government supporters in the Barton elec-
torate will not be deceived by the attempt that is being
made in some quarters to suggest that Mr. Justice
Evatt will be a sort of non-party candidate. He
will be a pledged member of the Australian Labor party,
as I believe he was before that party put him on the
Bench. He will be an opponent of the Government
and of the suggestions for a national Government.
Ungenerous and unworthy of a Prime Minister, him-
self an eminent barrister, who would be the first to
object if his own party were accused of having made
political appointments to the Bench ; and there was
more in the same strain.
Dr. Evatt may, as Mr. Menzies suggests, be
opposed to a national Government, but that matters
little. Perhaps he and his leader are opposed only
to the kind of national Government which Mr.
Menzies and the U.A.P. editors have in mind ; a Gov-
ernment which is to be the outcome of a Coalition
victory in the constituencies, and in which Labor will
humbly accept a subordinate place. Perhaps the
Evatt-Curtin idea is that Labor is going to win the
election, and that it will then be for Labor —as in
Maoriland —to offer terms.
In any case, no national Government can work
wonders. There is none in Canada, yet Canada’s war
effort is very fine indeed. And the achievements of
the one in England have been grossly exaggerated by
English newspapers of the anti-Chamberlain order
and Australian newspapers of the “Tune-in-to-London”
breed. Australia’s greatest immediate need in the
domain of politics is an Australia-minded Parliament,
composed of men who will think and act for Australia
and put Australia first —where the British Common-
wealth is concerned, the first among equals, but still
first. Dr. Evatt has shown that he is one of these
men. There are others who, if not his intellectual
equals, have the same spirit and outlook, and these
times it doesn’t much matter whether they call them-
selves U.A.P., U.C.P., Federal Labor or Non-
Communist Labor. If they are elected in sufficient
numbers, common necessities will force a common
policy on them.
The Dunsfans and the Mairs.
Premier Dunstan is no financial genius, but N. S.
Wales people who have examined his Budgets and
compared them with those of the alleged Treasurers
who smite them with taxes and try to explain away
their huge annual losses would like to borrow him
for a few years. On a comparatively small revenue
he contrived to show a surplus of £6200 for the year
to June 30, and he expects another—of £3ooo—for
the current year. This after making a 15 per cent, cut,
reckoned at £267,000, in unemployed-relief tax.
The N. S. Wales Treasurer says he wound up the
1939-40 twelvemonth with a loss of £2,213,000, and
during the twelvemonth he extracted another
£4,000,000 by an all-round increase of taxes,
to be for the purpose of “reducing the deficit ” And
he has already been at Canberra’s ear for “accom-
modation” to tide over a vast loss on the present year’s
operations. In 1938-39, though a surplus was pre-
dicted, and Ministers and members promptly awarded
themselves three times the anticipated amount in
increases of salary —the increases, decided upon in
October, were dated back to July 1 £3,750,000 was
added to what the Auditor-General grimly calls the
accumulated deficiency.
Yet taxation is much stiffer in N. S. than
in Victoria. For example, the maximum rate of “ordi-
nary” income tax is 55.2 d. in the £, and there is a
super tax of Is. in the £ on income exceeding £2OOO ;
in Victoria the maximum rate is 40d. in the £, plus
a special tax of 12s. 6d. in the £lOO on income exceed-
ing £2500. In N. S. Wales, companies are taxed 2s. 6d.
in the £ and mutual-life concerns Is. 6d.; in Victoria
2s. and Is. Probate duties in N. S. Wales run from
2 per cent, to 25 per cent.; in Victoria from 1 per
cent, to 10 per cent. And so on all round.
How is it that this Victorian Government can
pay its way on a revenue that would drive N. S. Wales
Treasurers frantic? One reason is that the Victorian
public debt, though much greater than it should be—
£176,279,900 on June 30, 1940—is less than half that of
N. S. Wales (£359,844,000 on June 30, 1939), which
means that losses on “works” which have to be met
out of the taxes are not nearly so great a drag.
Moreover, while royal spending of tax-money
as well as loans has become a settled habit in N. S.
Wales, Victorian Governments and Parliaments have
much more modest traditions. They do more work
than the Sydney tribulations for less pay. Mr. Dunstan
(1) is his own Treasurer and Solicitor-General as well.
His deputy (2) is President of the Board of Land and
Works, Commissioner of Crown Lands and Survey and
Minister of Forests. The Chief Secretary (3) is also
Attorney-General, another gentleman (4) is Minister
of Public Instruction and Health, and the Minister
of Agriculture (5) is also Minister of Mines and Vice-
President of the Board of Land and Works. N. S.
Wales has (1) a Premier without portfolio, (2) a
Treasurer, (3) an Attorney-General, (4) a Minister
of Justice, (5) a Secretary of Lands, (6) a Minister
of Education, (7) a Colonial Secretary, (8) a Minister
of Agriculture and (9) a Minister of Health —who
has just returned to his superfluous post after ten or
eleven months in some home-service military job in
Melbourne. And all these gentlemen have secretaries,
and in some cases the secretaries have secretaries, and
secretaries’ secretaries have secretaries, world without
end. . ,
And when the war entered on its second year the
alleged Parliament, which coolly added £24,000 to
the salaries of Ministers and Assembly members
during the year in which £3,750,000 went west, was
out of action.
The Home Guard.
One must go back to the days of Queen Elizabeth
to find its near equivalent. Then, when the English
got word that Spain was sending a mighty fleet and
army to invade their land, there was a rush to join
armed bands formed to repel the enemy. Storms and
English seamanship reduced the land defenders’ work
to lighting beacon fires along the coast..
Today all Britain has enlisted to repel invasion.
The Home Guard is uniformed, armed and drilled.
By night its members prowl the streets and country
lanes, watching for the parachute landings they have
been led to expect.
Office boy and managing director, shopkeeper,
publican and parson, farmer and lawyer and the
oldest inhabitant, with their women, are ready to
stand off the invader.
Quite evidently the Germans don’t like it. They
have made threats as to what they will do to this
“collection of snipers with their King at their head.”
The “snipers” are willing for them to try.
It is one thing to invade a country knowing that
if you can defeat its army its citizens will greet you
with no more than black looks or ingratiating smiles.
It is another to know that you will not only be up
against an army fortified by the spirit of the populace
behind it, but you will also have to beat that populace,
which will not fight by the normal rules of war, but
will be potting at you from ditches, the ruins of its
homes and other unexpected places with everything
from d.b. guns to “Molotov cocktails.”
Despite all the early talk of total war, it took
the definite threat of invasion to bring the Home
Guard to life. Ostensibly it was to deal with enemies
within and with soldiers dropping by parachute, thus
leaving the military to face the main attack. But there
is no doubt now that the Home Guard will be in
every fight it can get a chance at —Britain is now an
armed nation in a sense hitherto not visualised.
But the Home Guard also gave warning to the
enemy in another direction, for its rapid evolution
and the enthusiasm and courage of its members must
have conveyed to him in no uncertain terms that what-
ever hopes he had entertained concerning the work of
Communism in Britain had to be abandoned. True,
there is still a Communist member in the Commons,
and doubtless avowed Communists still spout in Hyde
Park, but any attempt by them or their kidney to
interfere with the national war effort would receive
a sudden and decisive squelch.
Conceivably the Home Guard may yet force
peace upon the world. Conquerors will never be so
anxious to try conquest when they know that every
citizen in the country marked for attack, as well as
every sailor, soldier and airman, will resist the invader
to the last shot.
Snuffle and Humbug.
In the past, the U.A.P., N.S.W. branch, was so keen
on pre-selection that its Mr. Stevens, when Premier,
fell into the habit of choosing all the N.S.W. Assembly-
men as candidates. Last week a so-called special con-
vention, with Mr. Stevens’s blessing, rejected its pet
expedient —at least, for the period of the House of
Representatives elections —for another, which it calls
“multiple endorsement.” The change, it was ex-
plained, was forced on the party by the fact that
“the Empire is faced with the greatest emergency and
with the greatest crisis ever known,” and, besides
saving the Empire, it also suits Mr. Stevens, who had
found the path to Commonwealth preferment blocked
by pre-selected candidates.
It was admitted by the president—Mr. Sydney
Snow —that pre-selection was provided for in “the
constitution” and that the special convention
was “not in order,” as the result of insufficient notice.
No matter; “Australia,” Mr. Snow declaimed, “loudly
calls for the best men available,” and the party would
be “wrecked” if it didn’t provide them.
Therefore, I urge strongly that all candidates who
wish to do so be allowed to contest the election as
U.A.P. candidates.
This was too much for Jackson, M.L.A., who suggested
that if “all candidates who wish to do so” nominated
pre-selection would go on behind the scenes the
money can be thrown in behind a man. ’ He went
on to say, also with asperity, that he and others were
“familiar with the technique employed in making this
proposition, which has come in so suddenly,” and that
the “proposition” was “mainly a thrust at the Prime
Minister.”
And, what is more, the Prime Minister knows it.
Anyone with a cork eye can see it. The dogs in the
street are barking it.
It is a fact that the Prime Minister became a target for
very unusual attacks in “S. M. Herald, another
sudden convert to “multiple endorsement.” It was
asserted that he had “made no effort to bring ‘big’
men into Parliament or the Cabinet,” and that he might
have to reckon with “a new, patriotic, all-embracing
party” if he didn’t weigh in with an appeal which
would “rally the nation to furnish a Parliament worthy
of the popular spirit in this crisis.” In other words
Mr. Menzies objected to sacrificing faithful supporters,
products of U.A.P. pre-selection, and to appointing
outsiders to the Ministry, as demanded by the
“Herald ”
An honest admission that the U.A.P. has through-
out its existence followed a grossly impudent and
utterly undemocratic policy, and that a cure cannot be
effected straightway by even the right remedy, would
be welcome, even at the eleventh hour. But there is
nothing admirable in a conversion so palpably made
for expediency’s sake, and from which Mr. Stevens
and other gentlemen with friends at U.A.P. head-
quarters are the first beneficiaries. Principle doesn’t
come into the argument. Witness the president’s
admission that “multiple endorsement will not apply
to seats held by the Country party” or to the Senate
election, for which the U.A.P. is running a ticket of
three (all pre-selected) for three seats. If principle
really prompted the change, and if the object were
really to give the public “the widest choice of the best
men available,” all candidates “who wish to do so”
should be “allowed to contest” the Senate “election
as U.A.P. candidates,” the Senate being manifestly in
greater need of a strengthened personnel than the
House. But though pre-selection is all wrong for the
House, it is all right for the Senate—which is mere
snuffle and humbug.
A Dangerous Maniac.
The man with the queer look in his eyes the
rostrum and announced that he was a candidate. ‘ Let
me,” he said, “briefly outline my policy”:
Thorough defence of Australia in every arm, and all
possible help to the Empire to win this war. Immediate
Australian representation in an Imperial Cabinet and on the
War Council. Abolition of State Parliaments and substitu-
tion of a single Australian Parliament, with regional councils.
A liberal Commonwealth Transport Act.
“Hooray!” “You’re barmy!” “Give him a go!”
The speaker ignored them and went on:
Compulsory fodder conservation and erosion control.
Life imprisonment for anybody found guilty of abortion.
Establishment of country killing works. Abolition of all
boards and commissions appointed to do work that Govern-
ments are elected to do. A whaling fleet and
His voice faded out as an altercation broke out
between three well-dressed men and two policemen.
People looked at them. They lowered their voices.
Banning of all syndicated printed and illustrated matter
of a trashy nature. Parliament to sit at least eight months of
the year, Cabinet Ministers to work all the year, with one
month’s annual holiday. Introduction of the initiative, referen-
dum and recall
“This man’s mad,” shouted one of the well-dressed
listeners.
Revision of the educational system to fit pupils for the
work they are best fitted for. Aviation and electricity to be
in the curriculum. Free flying tuition for adults. Encourage-
ment by freight-rate concessions and other means to persons
willing to establish factories and industries in country towns.
Development of neglected natural ports
“He is mad,” cried another of the well-dressed
persons.
Pubs to be open from nine to nine throughout Australia.
Ceaseless propaganda and encouragement to bring about a
higher birthrate. Marriage to be made economically easy for
young adults. Equal pay for the sexes for equal work.
Governments to be compelled by law to resign when unem-
ployment figures reach 10 per cent, of the population capable
of working.
At this stage the three well-dressed persons and
the two policemen moved forward and took posses-
sion of the speaker. Later it was learned that he had
been sent to a reception-house pending an examination
by an alienist. Later still it was learned that the
three well-dressed persons were members of Parlia-
ment.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Mac Hoots”: The large dark gentle-
man who used to sing “Veni Veni Veni”
in the chasm I inhabit at King’s Cross
has been missing for the last few weeks,
and his place has been taken by a bloke
with the most wonderful grievance. If
you earned your living singing in the
streets night after night to the tall flats,
and most people only waited resignedly
till you went away, you’d naturally de-
velop a sombre view of humanity. And
then, if the few people who did throw
open the windows and heave a coin out
into the night chucked it where you
couldn’t find it, you’d have a splendid
grouch. That’s what’s biting my gent.
Every time a window opens you hear a
reproving roar, “Why don’t you throw it
where a man can find it! ” Then there’s
a long gap in his singing, punctuated by
a steady grumble, “Ah, where’s it got to?
Can’t see the thing. Got no sense at all.
That’s another one gorn. Ah, well!”
Then he sings another touching love-
song ; hears the ring of a coin; stops
and delivers another public reproof to
the careless thrower. Life’s ’ard.
* * * *
“L.H.P.”: A Turakina made maritime
history in 1895, but she was a windjammer.
The steamer Ruapehu, slipping through
the “Roaring Forties” at knots, noticed
that a sail which had been sighted astern
was rapidly overhauling the steamer, and
amazed eyes watched it grow larger. The
Ruapehu’s engineers piled on coal, and
used every artifice to keep ahead. The
clipper passed the Ruapehu within a
ship’s length on the starboard side, and
soon after passing hauled her wind,
crossed the steamer’s bow, shortened
down to topsails, with reefed mainsail
and furled cro’jack. Even then she held
her own during a long day, always a
little ahead on the bow. During the
night the wind freshened, and at dawn
the Turakina was out of sight far ahead.
One Mason painted a picture of the
event.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: Sir Oliver Lodge, dead at
87 in England, was known in a particular
sphere throughout the world 50 years
before he became generally famous. He
invented an extraordinarily simple device
for protecting submarine cables from
lightning. Until he hit on the notion it
was the custom to earth cables during
thunderstorms to prevent the delicate in-
struments from being damaged. In the
wet season thunderstorms were endemic,
and were always occurring somewhere on
the England-Australia route: and the
Lodge lightning guard, costing a few
shillings, almost doubled the efficiency of
the cables. Afterwards came Lodge’s
contributions to abstract science, but
he always had an interest in the
world of the spirits, and prided
himself on being a rationalist in
spiritualistic matters, paradoxical as that
may be. After the last war he wrote a
book describing his conversations with
his son Raymond, killed in action. Ray-
mond declared that the world after death
was a sublimation of this world, even to
the point of having better moving pic-
tures. Oliver promised before he died
to wait a year in the next world and then
repeat to the right people through a
medium the words of a message which
has been sealed and locked in the safe
of the Psychical Research Society of
London. Conan Doyle promised to do
much the same thing, thus far with no
result.
* * * *
“Blue P.”: One of the more detestable
habits of Yankee journalism printing
interviews with accused persons after
their conviction or acquittal—is beginning
to appear in our own flapper press. Latest
effort was an interview with a woman
acquitted of trying to poison another, in
which she was made to say “I don’t bear
her any grudge. I have never felt malice
towards her. Why should I?” She then
went on to outline her life history, the
location of her relatives and the number
“ That's me new patent anti-crow balloon barrage."
of her friends. None of these details
could have been of any possible interest
to anybody save a few inquisitive morons.
* * * «
“Spokeshave”: One of Melbourne’s
social workers, a lady with very strong
convictions about the bringing-up of
babies, was sitting in a tram when she
observed a working-class mother com-
placently reading an American pulp
magazine while her baby lay in her arms
equally placidly sucking at a dummy. She
surveyed this disgusting spectacle for a
couple of sections, then her zeal got the
better of her. “How can you call your-
self a good mother,” she snorted, “when
you can sit there letting your child suck
that revolting object? It is quite un-
hygienic.” And leaning over she snatched
the offending thing out of the baby’s
mouth. Instantly the baby started bawl-
ing. “There, see what you’ve done!”
indignantly retorted the mother. “You
upset the baby, so now you can nurse it.”
And she dumped it on the s.w.’s lap.
As that lady had never got nearer to the
management of babies than attending
conferences at maternity hospitals, she
was completely nonplussed, handed the
baby back and incontinently ducked at
the next tram stop.
* * * *
“Heldorado”: A dude ranch has
opened up within 20 miles of Sydney.
You can go out in the tram and be met
by the “stage coach” and trotted off to
the “old-fashioned homestead” which is
located on the outskirts of “the virgin
bush.” “Experienced cowboys” are men-
tioned in the prospectus, and under the
tutelage of the “ranch foreman” it is
promised that the novice can be converted
into “a fair horseman” in a single day!
Tennis, guitars and dancing are among
the attractions of the “ranch.”
“Cauboy”: Like the Theatre Royal
cat, the persistent drone which puts in
an appearance at the Melbourne Town
Hall in the middle of a performance has
defied all endeavors to locate it when off
duty. The Theatre Royal cat always
absented itself before the curtain rose
on a first night, and chose to walk across
the stage just at the psychological
moment when it would produce the maxi-
mum effect. It is the same with the
Town Hall drone. It made itself heard
the other night just as Bernard Heinze
raised his baton to launch his orchestra
on a Paganini concerto which had never
been performed before in Australia. Paga-
nini having had the reputation of pos-
sessing diabolical powers during his life-
time and of having frequented concert
halls after his demise, it could not have
selected a more appropriate moment.
Scientists and acousticians are divided
as to the cause of the phenomenon. Some
suggest that hot air from the condition-
ing plant rushes into the pipes of the
organ and causes a vibration. But no-
body has explained why the note stopped
abruptly the instant Prof. Heinze threw
down his baton, turned round and
frowned at the circumambient ether.
Possibly Paganini didn’t like the opening,
and was suggesting to the professor that
a fresh start would be a good notion.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Statistics do not bear out
the statement of “Chevroford” (B.
21/8/ ’4O) that youth is responsible for
a large proportion of road accidents.
Amongst 1963 recent cases of drivers
involved in accidents 109 (5.5 p.c.) had
been driving for six months or less, and
55 (2.8 p.c.) for six months to one
year; 115 (5.8 p.c.) had driven for
one to two years, 369 (18.8 p.c.) for
two to five years and 490 (24.9 p.c.) for
five to ten years. The remaining 826
(42 p.c.) had been driving for 10 years
or longer. Thus drivers with more than
five years’ experience were involved in
1316 of the total 1964 accidents, nearly
67 p.c., or roughly two in every three.
I’m certainly no believer in “Youth at
the helm and pleasure at the prow” when
it comes to car-riding, but the most hair-
raising shaves that I’ve ever experienced
in that line of progress have been in the
cars of a friend whose driving experi-
ence dates back to benzine-buggy days.
“Dead Marine”: A bit of journalese
that makes naval men shudder every time
they see it is the indiscriminate use of
the word “salvo” to describe any sort
of firing of guns or dropping of bombs.
That is not incorrect English—any dic-
tionary gives salvo as a synonym for
a volley. But also every dictionary gives
the primary meaning of the word as
“an exception or reservation,” and that
is the aspect of the word the Navy has
insisted on since long before Nelson’s
time. In the sea service a salvo means
a broadside volley in which each
alternate gun is “salved” and therefore
silent.
* * * #
“Pitt-street”: It was in a permanent-
wave factory not 100 miles from Sydney
G.P.O. In a chair sat a woman, from
her head sprouted a queer-looking col-
lection of tubes and wires. Suddenly a
gale whisked the iron roof off a near-by
building and deposited it with a mighty
clatter on the roof of the wavery. With
a yell of “Bombs! We are being
bombed!” the woman leaped from her
chair, only to be yanked back by the
tubes and wires. Everybody else in the
vicinity rushed into the open. But no
Dornier darkened the sky, no parachutist
appeared, there was not even a vestige of
a swastika anywhere, and, looking rather
disappointed, the crowd went back to
work. Still, that woman had a very bad
three minutes.
* * * *
“Aler”: The usual pimps and snoops
are busy reporting to the Sydney press
ways in which their neighbors and the
local small boy are wasting water, despite
the tearful pleas of the Sydney Water
Board to the people not to take baths,
wash the dishes, shave, clean their teeth
or do any of the other thousand acts
likely to involve the use of water. I was
mooching along a suburban street when
I. came upon a cove standing beside a
running tap unhurriedly washing his
hands. From the tap gushed a stream
that poured down the gutter. “Here,” I
said, “haven’t you heard about not wast-
ing water?” He dried his hands, lit a
smoke, turned off the tap, gave me a
supercilious look, climbed into a light
motor-truck and drove away. On the
truck was the legend “Metropolitan
Water and Sewerage Board.”
sfc ;*c
“D.A.”: A friend of mine in the choco-
late business is prepared to contribute
something toward the formation of a
Swiss Navy. He had paid for a ship-
ment of aluminium foil (chocs, aren’t
wrapped in tinfoil nowadays); the Swiss,
who make a lot of chocolate themselves,
are also expert makers of foil. His
stuff reached Genoa, in Italy, for sea-
carriage to Australia, just as II Duce de-
clared war. The Swiss makers had it
brought back double-quick across the
frontier, and held a confab about it. A
long train journey across France was
decided on, a southern port being selected
in view of Germany’s progress in the
north. The foil was packed tidily on
the wharf at Bordeaux waiting for a ship
when Petain threw in the sponge. The
stuff’s back on the Alps again now, await-
ing, like a lot of other British property,
a friendly road to any one of the Seven
Seas.
* * * *
“Scat”: Of all forms of political ver-
bosity and self-advertisement, the one I
like least is the flowery inscriptions on
foundation stones to the effect that “This
stone was laid by the Honorable Sir
Maurice Fitzguzzlepipe, P.0.Q., 8.0.,
0.K., Minister for White Mice, etc.”
And whenever I need to stir my wrath
sufficiently to tick off the office boy
I dwell on the story of a certain poli-
tician who was knighted shortly after
laying a foundation stone and had the
stone removed to have the inscription
on it brought up to date. I can never
understand why the persons concerned
don’t realise that the simpler and less
wordy an inscription is the greater its
impression. But they never seem to,
and, apart from beautiful phrases hewn
on headstones, on one building only
have I ever struck an inscription that
impressed me. It graces the Anzac
Memorial in Sydney’s Hyde Park, and
I recommend it to all potential layers
of foundation stones: “This Memorial
was opened by a Son of the King on
the 24th November, 1934.”
* * * *
“Reallah”: It’s getting a bit of a
job to keep up with the way these broad-
cast announcers pronounce ordinary
words. Latest is the 8.8.C.’s rendering
of “vicinity,” in which the first syllable
becomes “vyce.” If it goes on much
longer those of us who once laughed
at the bloke who referred to his “aigs,
laigs and paigs” will find that, by radio
standards, he was right after all.
SPRING SONG.
(After Swinburne.)
Now “the hounds of spring are on winter’s
traces”
For chaps who feel in poetic vein,
And our Water Board with uneasy faces
Are praying heaven (and Mares) for rain;
And the turn of the year is a stimulus
For those who horses and jocks discuss
And speculate on the coming races
And the chance of beating the books again.
Come, gentle slayer of chills and shivers,
Putter of sneezes and sniffs to flight,
Rejuvenator of hearts and livers
And proved afflatus for blokes who write,
When Cupid’s arrows fly sure and fleet
And maids and youths may their soul-mates
meet
In trams or buses or two-seat flivvers
Or anywhere else by day or night.
For winter’s Toms-and-Jerries are over,
And all the season of rums and gins.
From city chauffeur to outback drover
And all frequenting hotels and inns,
To the lure of spirits men cease to cotton,
The nips that burn are a taste forgotten,
And breweries will be soon in clover
Now the vernal sway of King Beer begins.
From the pumps in torrents the brown ale
gushes
For sign that winter has got the boot;
The foam on pint and on pewter flushes
As thirsty cobbers parched frames recruit.
And brawny barmen will scorn to tire
And Bungs get nearer their hearts’ desire
Till the husky call of “Time, gents” hushes
The peter’s ring to the chink of loot.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Hurry up and get that thing hack on the rails —a mans got to be at Work by nine.
“Lao-dah”: An Australian “modernist”
painter had been out in the bush getting
hints from nature for his contributions
to a forthcoming exhibition.. Returning
to the road where he had arranged to
meet his wife and some friends, who had
offered to give him a lift back to the
city when his inspiration was ended, he
propped his hints against a tree, propped
himself against another and, the day
being full of the sleepiness of early-spring,
fell into a profound slumber. In due
course his friends arrived, and the driver,
in turning his car, backed it over the
painter’s canvases. Appalled at what he
had done, he picked up one of the pic-
tures, across which the imprint of a
Dunlop tread meandered over a back-
ground of sky and mountain. “Your
husband will never forgive me for this,”
he wailed. “Don’t say anything about it,”
the lady replied. The first thing the
painter looked at when he awakened was
his pictures. “My God,” he cried, look-
ing at the run-over painting. “I felt I
was inspired today. I must have been
painting from my unconscious.”
J*: * * *
“S.T.S.”: A Court in S.A. has decided
a really fine point about a technical
“alien.” An Italian-born youth of 19
moved from Broken Hill on March 30 to
attend the School of Mines at Adelaide,
but did not notify his change of address
within the required seven days. A charge
to that effect was laid on April 20 ; but
his father had become naturalised the
day before that, and thus the boy, being
a minor, had automatically become a
British subject too. The Court pointed
out that he had been on the wrong side
of the fence any time after April 6, but
had been helped over on to the right side
before the Law entered the field. It
added amiably that, Italy not having then
come into the war, the youth never was
an “enemy alien,” and that there is no-
thing to show him as anything but a good
Australian all through. Charge with-
drawn accordingly.
* * * *
“El V.”: Nothing the raiders have
done in the way of wanton destruc-
tion could have annoyed Londoners
more than their dropping of bombs
round St. Giles’s, Cripplegate. The
old church is considered one ot
the luckiest in the city—: it was one
of the very- few which escaped the Great
Fire of 1666, and it was again saved from
the fire of 1897. It stands in Wood-street
(whose tree was commemorated by Words-
worth), was built at the end of the fifteenth
century and is steeped in history. Fro-
bisher, Foxe, Milton and Speed the topog-
rapher all rest there, and there Cromwell
married Elizabeth Boucher on Aug. 22,
1620. Grinling Gibbons carved the font
and pulpit, and part of London Wall
survives in the churchyard. Milton s
statue, which was knocked prone by the
bombs, stood near the north door. A
window remembers Edward Alleyn, who
founded Dulwich College, which gave
Australia many men of mark —among
the living ones Henry Braddon, of
Dalgety’s.
* * * *
“Pilgerstein”: Not only was Prof.
Roberts wrong in his reference (B.
28 /8 / ’4O), but also Warner and Marten,
if correctly quoted by “Challis.”
Palmerston never professed to have un-
derstood the Schleswig-Holstein ques-
tion, which was linked with the succes-
sion to the throne of Denmark, and
which was extremely complicated. What
Palmerston said was that only two people
had really understood it, and that one
of them was in a lunatic asylum and the
other dead.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Arabi Pasha was “Arrah Be
Jabers” to the Tommies he fought in the
’eighties, and I wonder what the grand-
sons of some of those Tommies are
making of Ahmed Maher Pasha, moniker
of an ex-Premier who leads the Saadist
party. Ahmed Maher, “in a statement of
Egyptian policy,” was alleged to have
“shown clearly that he would rather do
anything than fight.” A later report
credits him with “urging Egypt to enter
the war”; and that’s more like it. A
man with a middle name like that should
Have an eye like Maher’s to threaten and
command.
* * * *
“T.”: A.B.C. chairman Cleary claims
that his concern has. “tried to bring
light, order and beauty into the lives
of listeners.” Hence, no doubt, the
racing reports that rage every week-
day, the interminable issue of dance-
band stuff, written by imbeciles for
imbeciles, and the sickening inflic-
tion of Tin Pan Alley and Holly-
wood “music.” And all to the exclusion
of English literature, save occasional bits
from Shakspeare, taken much too fast.
But perhaps the chairman regards his
deadly humorless commentators as im-
personations of, order, beauty and light.
* * * *
“Lochiel”: Even in the war cables
(and they’re grim enough, the Lord
knows) there are sometimes rays of
brightness tucked away amid the murk.
Last week’s most vivid was the couple
of lines recording a British Army casualty.
The sufferer came out of a raid with a
dislocated jaw—the result of yawning!
*'* * *
“Fi. fa.”: The irrationality of State law
in divorce has been once more demon-
strated, this time in Brisbane. An A.I.F.
officer was granted an order nisi ; ground,
adultery. Before it was made absolute,,
the Attorney-General intervened, alleging
collusion, suppression of material facts and
adultery by the petitioner since the order.
The evidence made- it- abundantly clear
that the parties hated each other, that
there was no possible hope of reconcilia-
tion, that the husband wanted to marry
the girl and that the wife wanted to marry
the man. Yet, Queensland law being
as it is, the intervention was supported
and two new marriages have been pre-
vented in a country which for its future
survival needs babies above anything else.
* *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Impervious alike to
argument and precedent, Brisbane s
Ludmayor Chandler refuses to array his
form in the robes, cocked hat and gold
chain pertaining to his office. He admits
a rooted objection to ceremonial clobber
of any kind and considers that it is
ridiculously out of place in war-time.
His Labor predecessor Alfie Jones
adheres to the view which he expressed
when ignoring an anti-robes-hat-and-
chain resolution of the Trades and Labor
Council. J. W. Green, who used to add
knee breeches and silk stockings to the
ensemble, also regards robes, hat and
chain as necessary to support the dignity
of Ludmayorship. The chain weighs
141 b. with the successive links added by
new Mayors since 1859, and is worth
over £5OO, but even at that the new incum-
bent to office prefers to run round loose.
“Wodgil”: “Some people object to
ceremonial conduct in any circum-
stances,” said Ludmayor Crick, of Syd-
ney, rebuking his iconoclastic opposite
number in Brisbane; “but there is a
charm and dignity associated with
traditional observance that adds to rather
than detracts from the fullness of life.”
This must have startled the shade of
Bill Lambert, that freehanded exponent
of a full life ; but there was more to
come:
The wearing of robes and chain tends to
add dignity to the status of the wearer, and
dignity to the conduct of city affairs. It is
well accepted that ceremonial behavior and
dress have a psychological effect upon any
assembly. I admit that the chain in Syd-
ney’s regalia is becoming somewhat weighty
to carry, but I would strongly oppose any
suggestion that the limited ceremonial
associated with Sydney’s City Council
should be eliminated. It is tradition that
unites a people. Ceremonial attire is merely
an outward sign of an old tradition. Let
us in Australia encourage the preservation
of traditional observance and build upon
the past our own traditions for the future.
Suc-cess to the Mayor, and may he never
forget the moving-picture business as he
made his money by!
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: Outching a bag of fruit,
a tin whistle and a bottle, he got off the
bus and made an uncertain way along
our street, in which the lights had just
come on. After a careful inspection of
several gates he found the right one,
wavered up the path and knocked on the
door. From the house emerged a sturdy
young man, who took the inebriated one
gently but firmly and led him to the rear
of the house and into the disused motor
garage. “Wharrer y’ doin’? Wharrer y’
cornin’ at?” the drunk demanded
querulously. “’S my house, ain’t it?
Wharrer y’ think y’re doin’?” “Now look,
Bob,” said his escort, “you know me,
Jack. I’m your wife’s brother. You
know she won’t let you in in that state.
You just settle down there and have a
doss.” Bob looked him up and down,
then marched back to the house. His
brother-in-law followed, a bit uncertain
of what to do next. “Here, you!
ordered the drunk ; “you knock on that
door. Go on!” Trying to humor him,
Jack knocked. His sister appeared. Said
the drunk: “Look here, missus, this ain’t
no way t’ (hie) treat y’r husband, see.
If y’ warrer make me shleep in garage,
do it yourself, see!” She took him by
the arm, led him to the garage and pushed
him in. He sank down with a sigh of
content. “Thash berrer,” he grunted.
“Now a man knows wherree is. None o’
that blanky fifth column f’r me. Do y’r
own dirty work, tha’sh wha’ I shay.”
And, satisfied, he sank to slumber.
“ ’Ang on there, bottle-o. We've on'y got 'nother 'arf-
dozen to git through."
SITUATIONS VACANT.
“A peculiarity of this war is that it has brought
forth no war poets.”— “Bulletin,” 28/8/’4O.
They’re still in plenty, the chaps who follow
The craft that Homer and Virgil plied,
The blithe disciples of bright Apollo,
The coves who hike up Parnassus’ side.
They can smite the harp in some sylvan grotto
Or lilt of love to the lyre and lute;
But where have the martial minstrels got to?
Why in the world are the war bards mute?
They can pipe of urban and rural pleasures,
From wood birds’ music to church bells’
chimes,
With scant regard for accepted measures
And little liking for tuneful rhymes;
They can flirt with fancies and play with
phrases,
The highbrow school who’ve the mode
become.
But why in the name of blithering blazes,
Why in the world are the war bards dumb?
From lungs of iron and throats capacious
Our politicians rampage and roar,
As fervent, fluent, verbose, loquacious
In times like these as ever before.
From countless pulpits the saws of preachers
Rise to the rafters and roll and ring,
Like clarion calls in the Stadium bleachers.
But why have the war bards ceased to sing?
There was never room for them shown so
plainly,
TSfever a need of them so acute.
And one asks perplexedly, sadly, vainly,
Why in the world are the war bards mute?
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


ML
10 for 9°
20 for I'6
50 for 3'9
100 for 7'6
For greater
smoking enjogment
CRAVENA
•Jjky H**
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
m
wmm ■
%
2817
POLITICAL POINTS
How many of these Win-the-War
candidates and patrons of Win-the-War
candidates helped to win the last war by
attending it?
Curtin got in ahead of Menzies with
his policy speech and did some powerful
bidding for votes. He undertook to pay
another 3s. a day to militiamen, another
10s. 6d. a week to a married A.I.F. man
with one child, another ss. a week to old-
age and invalid pensioners and a pound
a week to widows, plus 10s. a week for
each dependent child; and to wheat-
growers he promised 3s. 10jd. a bushel,
“f.o.r. ports,” for the first thousand bags,
plus 50 p.c. of any increase should the
world price go above 3s. He is
sure that Australia can find all the
money, beside financing the war until it
is won, and if difficulties arise “a national
credit advisory authority” will attend to
them.
Australia would like to hear something
from Curtin about representation in
an Imperial Cabinet and on the War
Council. It can be taken for granted
that “the Labor party stands inflexible in
support of the British cause” ; a Labor
Government should be prepared to take
its proper share of responsibility for the
direction of the war and the shaping of
the peace. Australia would also like to
hear something from Curtin about his
plans, if he has any, for taxation reform,
the extrication of the country from the
bog of legalism and overgovernment and
union under one Parliament. These omis-
sions from his policy speech should be
rectified in future speeches.
There is at least one candidate who
doesn’t accept the theory that in all in-
ternational matters in which Australia is
vitally concerned London knows best.
J. P. Abbott, the N.S.W. Graziers’ man,
suggests that John Greig Latham should
go to Tokyo as “diplomatic represen-
tative for the whole Empire,” and “should
have a prior voice in the shaping of the
Empire’s policy in the East.” Abbott is
a C.P. candidate for New England.
The N.S.W. Agrarians are pretty con-
fident of getting five of their six Ms.H.R.
back, but are a bit anxious about Thorby.
There are a good many distracted fruit-
growers in Calare, and a turnover of
1200 votes would settle the P.M.G. Last
time he got 26,378 and his Labor oppo-
nent Folster (sometime M.L.A. for
Orange) 24,114. However, once Thorby
digs his toes into an electorate he is a
hard man to shift.
Considering Dunstan’s past relations
with the U.A.P. it was pretty cool of
him to expect U.A.P. support for
Flinders. It has never been a C.P. seat,
and if Skeat, of the central council, hadn’t
got Labor support in 1937 he might have
lost his deposit; as it was, the late Jim
Fairbairn beat him by 27,085 to 12,497.
Dunstan’s bid for U.A.P. support was
also rank ingratitude to Labor, which has
kept his Government in office since he
quitted the Argyle Government in April,
1935. Labor had its own man out for
Flinders and was looking for such C.-P.
support as there was when Dunstan
started the stunt that ended so ignomini-
ously. If Labor doesn’t now withdraw
its support from Dunstan’s Government
its State leaders will have shown that
their capacity for eating dirt is un-
limited.
E. A. Mann, alias “The Watchman,”
who is coming out for Flinders (Vic.)
as a “non-party” candidate, presumably
with strong Freetrade leanings, has dis-
covered that he was “Independent
Nationalist” member for Perth. He didn’t
call himself that when he was the only
Nationalist in the field in 1925 and 1928,
but a little forgetfulness is pardonable in
a gentleman who is rising 67. In 1922
when he got in he was one of four Nats.;
in 1929, when he was beaten, he was
one of two. Perth Nats, believe in the
open go, and partly on that account they
haven’t lost the Federal seat since 1906.
Sydney Snow, president of the U.A P.,
N.S.W. branch, to the “special conven-
tion” which decided on “multiple en-
dorsement” of aspirants to seats in the
Reps., especially Stevens:
I urge strongly that all candidates who
wish to do so be allowed to contest the
election as U.A.P. candidates.
H. W. Horsfield, secretary of the same
outfit:
The decision appears to have been
erroneously regarded in some quarters as
“a general invitation to all who have
political ambitions, without regard to ability
or qualifications, to have a run with the
assistance and support of the party.” The
fact is that the U.A.P. is seeking the best
and ablest in the nation.
If Snow feels hurt at having been
corrected by his secretary, he might find
"It's no good, Tubby—you need a super XOS.”
surcease in designing a uniform for Win-
the-War candidates. Something like the
one his concern is selling to W.A.N.S.,
with “a ‘Lastex’ roll-on two-way stretch
sports girdle (four suspenders ; OS and
XOS)” to “ensure a perfect fit,” and, of
course, space enough for Jubilee and
Coronation medals.
Argyle, having a pick at Dunstan’s
Budget, said it was gratifying to hear
that it had been balanced, though only
by the use of unemployed-relief funds.
But not even Argyle would deny that
a State politician is perfectly entitled,
by long usage and custom, to balance
his Budget by any means short of high-
way robbery.
As Melbourne City Council has abol-
ished aldermen, there was nobody to
light the traditional candle so as to give
time for civic fathers to gallop in on
horseback from the outskirts to record
their vote in the mayoral election. Any-
how, it was a foregone conclusion that
Councillor Coles would be given a third
term —that has become a tradition. An-
other tradition is that the bunny-skins
should be draped upon a person suffi-
ciently well-to-do to stand the financial
strains of office. Concerning this, Labor
members are becoming restive, and a
Labor councillor gave notice of an inten-
tion to work for an increase of the
mayoral allowance of £2500.
Always obliging in such matters, the
Australian Government is preparing to
relieve Britain of the burden of feeding
and caring for aliens from Germany
and parts adjacent of whom the Old Man
has honest doubts. As a war measure
this may be warranted by Father Bull’s
necessities, but the express condition
should be made, if not made already, that
the arrangement will last only for the
period of the war. It seems that 90 p.c.
of those booked for Australia (Canada is
also taking some) were willing to come,
and it has been broadly hinted that they
will be willing to stay. And if home-bred
humanitarians can bring it off, Australia
will be “the mug” again.
“A considerable number” of the
internees being shifted from Britain to
Australia are “persons whom the Aus-
tralian Government previously refused to
admit.” So says the Under-Secretary to
the Home Office, and he added that in
Britain “there have been definite cases of
German agents impersonating refugees.”
Instructive reading for the Sydney editor
who wrote passionate articles against the
15,000 limit set by an unsophisticated
Government (he wanted at least 50,000
refugees), and that other Sydney editor
whose tears for refugees overflow into
his paper. The Home Office man’s dis-
closures have been ignored by both
worthies.
Australians are to pay more for
cigarettes, though they won’t notice it,
as the extra charge is being made by
a minute reduction in the size of the
cylinder itself. Since women have taken
to nicotine it wouldn’t be politic to make
a straightout price increase. If there is
one thing woman can do better than
man it is refuse to buy anything she
thinks is too dear.
Lawson, M.H.R., told a Lithgow
(N.S.W.) audience that he was still opti-
mistic about seeing a motor-car industry
established inferentially at Lithgow.
Somebody was heard to mumble some-
thing about building racing stables there,
but then there’s always a nark in elec-
tion crowds.
Curtin told his listeners that the
Department of Information has cost
£55,000, and promised to give it a thor-
ough going-over if returned to power.
He’d have been more impressive if he’d
promised to abolish the thing. Mean-
time, the regulations that maddened
editors fearful of losing advertising space
or of having to sacrifice some imported
comic strip have been “modified.”
Every week or so a Sydney boxing
promoter gives it out that he is import-
ing black bruisers from America or
brown thumpers from some American
possession. The announcements are in-
variably made in language which suggests
that the gentleman has an utter contempt
for the law forbidding the introduction
of colored and contract labor, and has
no cause to worry about dollar exchange.
An ugly light has been cast on this sort
of immigration by a Hobart case in
which an American coon and his man-
ager, for whom warrants are out—
though they can’t be served—were parties
to a fraudulent fight—“arch-conspira-
tors,” the P.M. called them. Fakers or
not, colored sluggers should be banned
for the duration of the war and 25 years
afterwards.
Ballarat (still Ballaarat to the electoral
people) may change its member on Sep-
tember 21. Archibald Fisken, now chair-
man of the Australian Meat Board, was
its member for three years and could
have held it for the U.A.P. in 1937. His
retirement enabled former Labor M.L.A.
Pollard to scrape home 598 votes ahead
of Stanley Walker in an effective poll
of 48,970. E. K. Montgomery has been
nursing the electorate for months and
cultivating good relations with farmers
as well as people in the city and suburbs.
On the other hand, Pollard, though a
returned soldier, offended sticklers for
solidarity by voting against his party on
the national-emergency measure.
For the next three weeks, and perhaps
for the next three years or longer, the
Victorian Assembly will be without one
of its three McDonalds. Allan of that
ilk is trying to cross from State Polwarth
to Federal Corangamite, though with the
canniness of his race he is keeping one
.foot in Polwarth. The probabilities are
that he will land with both feet in
Corangamite. One of the 1901 elec-
torates, Corangamite has had only two
Labor members- —Scullin (1910-1913) and
Crouch (1929-1931). Gibson, now in the
Senate, held it as a C.-P. member for
14 years; then the late Geoff Street
came along. His majorities were com-
fortable—4743 in 1934 and 3692 in 1937.
On each occasion his opponent was Dr.
Haywood.
Scenario of a noxious weed in Vic-
toria :
Warracknabeal deputation asks Hogan to
declare hoary cress noxious. Hogan replies
his hands are tied until weed is mixed with
chaff or grain. “See Lands Department,” says
Hogan; “ ‘Lands’ is responsible while weed is
growing.” Deputation retires, scratching its
head. Weed goes on growing. Irresponsible
people suggest declaring red-tape noxious weed.
Government expected to reply that eradication
is too costly.
One after another the useless
State Parliaments are suspending busi-
ness, going into recess or otherwise
downing tools in order to prepare
for the Commonwealth election. Let’s
all shut up shop and join in the fun.
Any excuse for knocking off work is
better than none, and if State politicians
can seize on a Federal election as one,
why not the people who support the State
politicians?
[For matter referring to the Commonwealth
election, responsibility is taken by J. E. Webb
and Cecil Mann, 252 George-street, Sydney.J


THE AWKWARD SQUAD.
“THREE Labor parties are running Commonwealth-election tickets in N.S.W.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund ..
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..
£1,250,000
1,000,000
1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Streef
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Around 5 p.c. Annual Yield
with Safety
Your investment—even as little as £2s—in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
gives you an interest in 20 leading Companies yielding, at present
prices, around 5 % per annum. Moreover, your investment is
definitely safeguarded by Custodian Trustees: Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd.
Now is your opportunity to share in the increasing activity of Industrial
undertakings. Write for Booklet No. I, post free, on request to the
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Telephone: 85294.
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £4,000,000.
FIRE ... MARINE...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
PERSNAL ITEM S
An Australian medico long recognised
as a world authority on matters relating
to sex, Dr. Norman Haire, is revisiting
Australia. He was in Sydney a few days
ago and is now spending a longish holi-
day in Queensland. He was born in Syd-
ney, was a captain in the A.A.M.C. from
1915 to 1919, and has since been a
Harley-street specialist. He is the author
of a round score of books on his pet
subject, and has lectured in the U.S.A.
and most European countries.
Died of a haemorrhage in Melbourne
last week, Dr. William Robert Nuttall
Maloney, M.H.R., better known as “the
Little Doctor.” He had reached the ripe
age of 86, after 51 years as a State and
Federal Parliamentarian, and had been
ailing for a long time. This had not
altered his charitable activities in the
slightest. When he conducted a practice
DR. MALONEY, M.H.R., as Low saw
him —and he never changed.
(it is 60 years since he held an obstetrical
appointment at St. Mary’s Hospital,
London) his Melbourne clinic was
thronged with poor people who got his
services for nothing. During his 37 years
as Federal member for Melbourne his re-
election was a foregone conclusion. He
was one of the earliest advocates of the
initiative, referendum and recall, and he
championed the cause of the disabled
returned soldier who was refused pension
rights on the ground that his disability
was pre-war. Born at West Melbourne
and educated at “Scotch,” he started work
in a bank, tried life as a Gippsland selec-
tor for three years, and then took to the
medical profession, qualifying in London.
The diminutive figure with the Napoleonic
beard and the fierce moustaches was so
well known in Melbourne that everybody
knew him, and everybody liked him.
“The Little Doctor’s” death has
brought another melancholy distinction
to W. M. Hughes. Billy is now the only
member of the first and second Common-
wealth Parliaments still in harness. And,
in appearance the frailest of them all, he
has outlived the great majority of his
1901-06 colleagues in both Houses.
Melbourne’s third-term Lord Mayor,
Councillor Coles, is a candidate for
Henty, and if he wins Frank Beaurepaire
is an almost certain inheritor of the golden
chains of office. The onetime swimming
champion is managing director of Olyrp-
pic Tyre and Rubber Co. He still takes
an interest in the teaching of swimming
to Victorian children, and holds the N. S.
Wales Royal Humane Society’s medal for
life-saving.
Dalgety’s Adelaide manager, George
John Cowie, who retires at the end of
September after 42 years’ service with
the firm, was born in Melbourne 66 years
ago and got his schooling in England,
Belgium and Germany. In 1895 Cowie
joined the Bank of Adelaide’s London
branch, three years later entering Dai-
gety’s London office. Returning to Aus-
tralia in 1908, he served the co. in
various capacities in N. S. Wales, Q.
and Victoria before being appointed sub-
manager in Adelaide in 1921, becoming
manager two years later. A director of
many commercial concerns in S.A.,
Cowie was president of the Associated
Australian Chambers of Commerce in
1931-32. K. R. Elder, of the Sydney
branch, is his successor.
G. W. Matters, dead at 93, was the
oldest newspaper man in Victoria. He
started as printer’s devil on the Geelong
“Advertiser,” and, after following the
Inky Way through various offices, started
the Koroit “Herald” 61 years ago. He
died at Koroit.
Passed over at 77 in Melbourne, J. S.
Meagher, chairman of directors of Tong-
kah Compound and associated mining
cos., and one of Melbourne’s leading
legal lights for more than half a century.
He studied law while teaching pothooks to
Catholic children in diocesan schools at
Beechworth, Bendigo and Ballarat, and
after graduating from Melbourne Uni.
was admitted to the Bar in 1890. He
specialised in the licensing laws, and
wrote several books about one of the
most complicated
aspects of Victorian
legislation. His Digest
of the Victorian Licens-
ing Statutes is a stand-
ard work of reference
on the relations be-
tween Bung and the
public.
“Ex-Mister”: Captain
J. B. Laird, of the miss-
ing Turakina, is honor-
ary geography master
to St. John’s School,
Glasgow, and his ship
was adopted under the
Ship Adoption Society’s
scheme by the 1100
pupils. On the last
homeward voyage he
took thousands of car-
tons of ice-cream from
Brisbane in the ship’s
refrigerating space and
gave a memorable
party to his pupils,
which fixed for ever in
their minds the geo-
graphical relationships
of Glasgow and Bris-
bane. Every arrival of
the Turakina meant
festivity for scores of
youngsters in Sydney
and other Australian
ports. Laird’s mail
from kid-friends on
Christmas Eve, 1938, in Sydney required
a special G.P.O. van to bring it along-
side and a cargo sling to hoist it aboard.
One particularly appreciated letter from
a ten-year-old ran: “Send to the school
if the crew mutinies.”
Well-liked wherever he made his home
was Frank Mcllwraith, who died suddenly
in London last week, and whose funeral at
Golders Green cemetery was attended by
a big concourse of Fleet-street denizens.
He hailed from the little village of Spring-
field in Canterbury, M.L., which used
to be a railway terminus and the kicking-
off point for the coaches that crossed the
Southern Alps. Frank was an editorial
writer on many M.L. city newspapers
before he went to a berth on London’s
“Daily Mail” 14 years ago. Since 1932
he has been London rep. of “Smith’s
Weekly.” Though then five years short
of 50 he was frosty-pated when he called
in at this office on a visit to Sydney a
couple of years ago, but as young in eye
and heart as when he first trod the Inky
Way.
S. African War ; Natal Harbors Board ;
Transvaal Public Works Department;
commander of a 1914-18 fleet of
hush-hush boats after his own ship
had been blown up in the North Sea ;
later a fisheries inspector at Swansea and
now on important war-time shipping
supervision duties at one of England’s
greatest ports. That summarises thei
career of Lieut.-Commander Hugh
Milne, R.N., a South Australian. He’s
a brother of Kenneth Milne, the archi-
tect ; another brother, George, is
living at Glenelg (S.A.) after having spent
most of his life in South Africa as a
Customs official at Durban; a third
brother, Malcolm, is an Adelaide agent;
and George Milne, of Milne and Co.,
wine merchants, is an uncle. For many
years Hugh was an instructor in the
Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve. Saints
(Adelaide) is his Alma Mater.
Lieut.-General C. G. N. Miles is a
Queenslander who had his early mili-
tary experience in the old Brisbane
Grammar School cadets. He won the
Cockle prize for mathematics a couple
of years before J. D. Lavarack won it.
Two other school contemporaries were
R. E. Jackson and Eric Plant. All four
made the Army a career and all served
in the 1914-18 war with distinction.
Miles came home loaded down with
LT.-GENERAL C.G.N. MILES.
(Modelled by Frith.)
decorations, including the D. 5.0., after
he had passed the staff college. He has
been Director of Military Art at Dun-
troon and Director of Military Training,
and is now C.-in-C., Eastern Command.
Plant is his next-door neighbor, in com-
mand of the Queensland section of the
forces, Lavarack has an A.I.F. Division,
and Jackson is also among the generals.
W. H. (Bill) Walker, of Manly, has
been secretary of the Royal Life Saving
Society, Sydney, since 1919. He owns
W. H. WALKER.
the society’s Distinguished Service
Medal, and in his time the number
of awards granted annually by the
N. S. Wales branch has grown from
989 to 16,341 for 1939-40. He was
the first to teach life-saving (artificial
respiration) over the air—he speaks from
2BL on Tuesdays. Bill claims Mac-
donaldtown, Sydney, as his birthplace.
He’s 60. His grandfather—also William —
son of a burgess of Arbroath, helped to
obtain the charter granting municipal
government in Victoria.
Onetime secretary of the Farmers’
Co-op. Union, Captain John Gladstone
Sinclair is busy in these days of A.R.P.
rehearsals in Adelaide as Controller of
Casualty Services in the State civil de-
fence scheme. In the last war he
was quartermaster of the Fighting
Tenth Battalion ; now he’s chairman of
the R.S.L. Distressed Soldiers’ Fund in
S.A. Sinclair recently told some A.R.P.
officers they must be more careful not
to give their wives confidential infor-
mation. It’s all very well for John Glad-
stone to say such things. He’s a bachelor.
Back in Melbourne, G. L. McHenry,
managing director of International Har-
vesters of Australia. He was born in
Kansas, but has been 30 years in Aus-
tralia. He wants Melbourne to give itself
an airport on the model of ’Frisco, where
the superfluous mud of the city was
dumped into the bay to form Treasure
Island, which is to be turned into an
airport after the Fair has ceased its
operations.
“C.Q.”: In 1903 Malcolm McEacharn,
of the shipping family, was M.H.R. for
Melbourne—he had been Mayor. He
was opposed by Dr. Maloney, who had
resigned as Labor M.L.A. for West Mel-
bourne. At that time anybody standing
for Labor was considered by the Best
Melbourne people as belonging to the
Tenth. At one of his meetings
McEacharn said, or rather yelled:
“L ask, what will they say in London if
this Labor man is returned for this great
city of Melbourne?” Baronet Rupert
Clarke took the chair at one of “the Little
Doctor’s” meetings. All sorts of stories
floated round to explain the phenomenon
of Australia’s leading blueblood hobnob-
bing with a Laborite ; Maloney ignored
them all, and remained imperturbably
cheerful. He lost by 77 votes ; the High
Court voided the election, and in the new
poll Maloney got in with a majority of
859. He stayed in till his death the other
day'.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
.PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
HU— HIH
:
m
11
»
iff*
&
m
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
Manager W. G. Buifm
SMOKE-OH!
A waitress is a girl who makes people
wait
4* 4* 4* 4*
“One shark swallowed another.”
— ‘‘World’s News.”
And now we’re supposed to swallow
both.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A good idea is to put down some salt for
the snails.” — Garden notes.
But who wants to pamper snails?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“There were half a dozen policemen in the
house. It was murder.” — ‘‘Sunday Sun.”
Having half a dozen policemen in the
house would be murder!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It is a great mistake to allow the trees to
grow so high that it is impossible to reach the
fruit. It means that a lot of fruit is wasted
by falling on the ground.”
— A.B.C. radio gardener.
Best means of preventing this is to
plant the trees in the cellar. Then as they
come up through the floor you simply
pick off what fruit you want.
+ 4* 4-
“Because his wife said she would be better
off if he was dead a Chiswick man committed
suicide.” — “Sun.”
No man should take his wife so seri-
ously.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The company paid him £2OOO p.a. for get-
ting drunk day after day.”— “D.T.”
When a man’s well screwed he can
afford to get well screwed.
“Farmer donates a ton of peanuts to the
A.I.F.” — News item.
Looks as though our troops are in for
some heavy shelling.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The average housewife wears out between
100 and 175 brooms in a lifetime.”
Surely this is a sweeping statement?
4* 4* 4* 4*
There’s many a musician prepared to
swing for fame.
“The average person consumes about 5- 2
pounds of food and drink each day. Article.
Boarders don’t come under this
category.
F F F F
“A woman in Brooklyn, New York, recently
received £lOOO damages because she developed
spasmodic fits of giggling as the result ot an
accident.” — “World’s News.”
It was no joke, but she had the last
laugh.
F F F F
Many a man who thinks he could set
the world on fire is only considered a
flaming nuisance.
F F F F
“It is common these days to hear courting
couples nagging at each other and quarrelling.
— Women’s magazine.
Then they marry and live snappily ever
after.
“He wants his arm set in some OTHER position , doctor."
“The officers sipped coffee and poured over
their charts.” —London paper.
Making themselves familiar with the
grounds.
•P * * •**
Then there was the detective who put
down all his deductions on his income-
tax return.
-j. * *
“A woman-hater is usually a gloomy person.
— Women’s paper.
He is a stranger to good sorts.
•{• 4*
“Forget Your Age.”— Heading.
Most women do.
*1* 4*
“Professional wine-tasters in the Soviet have
been charged with excesses.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
Discrimination.
She’s fair. She holds my heart in thrall;
Of no one else I’ve been so fond;
Which isn’t strange, for, after all,
A gentleman prefers a blonde.
But my addresses she has spurned;
In fact, on me she’s placed a ban.
And I reluctantly have learned
This blonde prefers a gentleman !
P.O.M.C.
Madcaps.
“Capricious, light-hearted little hats do much
to cheer sleek tailleurs and sombre frocks.
The engagingly mad concertina model, sophisti-
cated red felt tricorne and very young pale-
blue felt topper are irresistible.”
— Women’s paper.
I have never discovered what drives
feminine hats crazy unless it’s seeing
themselves so frequently in the mirror,
but there’s no denying that most of them
are. My wife has one that should have
been certified weeks ago. She keeps it
in a padded box at the bottom of the
wardrobe, and if it ever runs amuck the
wife’s 11 frocks will inevitably shrink
from sheer fright. My spare suit’s safe,
thank heaven! —it’s rolled up in a bundle
in a kerosene-case on the back verandah.
I’m at a loss to know how light-hearted
models remain capricious (and sane) with
so much lunacy at large. I counted 45 sleek
tailleurs in King-street the other day ob-
viously being cheered and amused by as
many chirpy little felts. Yet across the
street an exotic black halo had broken
away from its keeper and was throwing
itself under a tram.
Sophisticated red tricornes and ever-
popular postilions are different. They’re
so frightfully blase and attend so many
cocktail parties that nothing shocks them.
PERCIVAL.
To My Butcher.
O vendor of the rib and chine,
Of sirloin, rump and neck,
Your beef is tough and quite enough
My peace of mind to wreck.
If curses deep could spoil your sleep,
All night you’d lie awake;
Or, dreaming, hear the outcry drear
Of martyrs at the steak.
CLEM LACK.
The Near Thing.
Freeman had at last succeeded in per-
suading Gunter to take on golf, and was
giving him his first lesson. They were
on the first tee, the hole 185 yards away.
“Now watch. You balance lightly on
your feet, relax the knees, slowly take
the clubhead back and swing at the
ball, keeping your eyes on it all the
time.” Freeman swung and sent the
ball flying down the fairway to the edge
of the green.
“Seems easy,” remarked Gunter. He
took the club, fixed his eye on the ball
and made a mighty swipe. The ball shot
away, struck the ground, and went
bounding and rolling towards the green.
The astounded Freeman watched it run
slowly on to the green, trickle up to the
pin and drop into the hole. He let out
a gasp.
“Yair,” said Gunter, “I was afraid it
was going to miss, too.”
No. 7.
The commissar for tasting wine
Was given to intoxication,
So he received with judgment fine
A fitting sentence —liquidation !
T.W.N.
Overdue Recognition.
“A London magistrate has ruled that if a
burglar switches on a light in a room where
blackout precautions are not provided, the
householder, and not the burglar, is to be held
responsible.”
Asked by the “Daily Twerp to com-
ment, the secretary of the Amalgamated
Burglars’ Society said that the members
of his organisation were naturally de-
lighted at the decision. Too long had it
been held that the man who leaves his
home, often on a miserably wet and cold
night, to rat another man’s might be sub-
jected to indignities with impunity. Now
that the working burglar had established
his claim to the Court’s protection against
any remissness on his client s part, mem-
bers of his society would certainly not
hesitate to take legal action to protect
their interests.
It was shortly after this that the case
of Johnbasher v. Dohteberne was heard
in Equity before Mr. Justice Horsehair
and a jury of four. Plaintiff claimed
damages of £1000 on the ground that de-
fendant, by gross carelessness, had caused
him mental and physical hurt, had ruined
his reputation among fellow-members of
his profession, and had caused him to
become a guest of H.M. against his
desires. Ajr
Opening the case for the plaintiff, Mr.
Magganmag, K.C., said that his client,
Mr. “Spike” Johnbasher was a craftsman
who had been held in great respect not
only by his fellow-housebreakers, but by
the C. 1.8. In the early hours of April 1,
1935, he was burgling defendant’s resi-
dence at Pottsrak. On forcing an entry
through the scullery window he had
stepped on a bottle that had been care-
lessly left on the floor. Thrown off his
balance, he had fallen against some
glasses negligently left on the sink ; some
had broken, inflicting cuts. One of defen-
dant’s servants came on the scene. His
client had swung a blow, but the servant
in trying to avoid it had slipped, causing
plaintiff’s hand to come in contact with
a wall. The resultant commotion brought
others, and plaintiff had been appre-
hended.
Mr. Magganmag said it was fortunate
for his client that he had been given only
five years’ “hard”; had the sentence)
been longer the Statute of Limitations
may have prevented his seeking redress
from the Court. He submitted that by
the gross carelessness shown by defendant
and/or his servants his client had been
deprived of the profits which his un-
doubted skill must otherwise have en-
sured him and also of the pleasures of
society. .
“Pongo” Blithers, called for the plaintiff,
said he had been working with plain-
tiff on the morning in question. He had
given “Spike” a leg up to the scullery
window, and a few seconds later he heard
a crash and then “Spike’s” voice saying
“What silly left these things
lyin’ about?” About a minute later he
again heard his partner say “Cop that,
y’ scangy-lookin’ blankard!” This was
followed by a yell of agony from his
china-plate.
Questioned further, the witness con-
fessed that the impression among his
fellow-burglars thereafter was that
“Spike” had slipped a cog or two. From
his own wide experience he would say
that it was unusual for bottles or glasses
to be left immediately under a scullery
window, the traditional entry place
for burglars. In his opinion it was
criminal negligence on defendant’s part,
unless it was a trap, in which case it
was a lousy thing to do.
Cross-examined by Mr. Silkslinger,
K.C., “Pongo” said he could not sub-
scribe to the view that such a contingency
was a legitimate risk of the profession.
For the defendant, who did not go
into the box, it was contended that he
had had no idea that he was to be
burgled on the night in question, other-
wise he would have taken all precautions
to see that ingress by the
scullery window was free
from obstacles. The glasses
had been placed on the
sink by his servants in the
normal course of their
duties. Had the plaintiff
exercised reasonable care
and felt exploratively with
his foot before putting it
to the floor he would not
have trodden on the
bottle, and the unfortu-
nate sequel would not have
occurred.
His Honor, summing
up, said it had been estab-
lished that a householder
who was being burgled
had certain responsibili-
ties to the burglar. Plain-
tiff had, in all good faith,
gone to defendant’s house
in pursuance of his nor-
mal occupation. He could
reasonably expect uninter-
rupted ingress and, with
the exercise of ordinary
care, to complete his work
without disturbing the
inmates. When plain-
tiff swung the blow at defendant’s ser-
vant he would naturally be prepared only
for the shock of flesh meeting flesh.
The carelessness on the servant’s part
in slipping, his Honor went on, had been
clearly established, and the injury to
plaintiff’s hand was clearly due to this.
It was for the jury to decide whether the
bottle and glasses had been left beneath
the scullery window fortuitously or de-
liberately. If they came to the conclusion
that this had been done with the object
of putting difficulties in the way of plain-
tiff, thereby attacking him at the point
of his livelihood, they would be justfied
in awarding substantial damages.
After retiring for a minute and a half,
the jury brought in a verdict for the
plaintiff, fixing damages at £l5OO.
In discharging the jury, his Honor
complimented them on their verdict.
Assessment of damages at half as much
again as had been claimed might dis-
courage those misguided householders
who looked upon burglars as fair game
from what he could only describe as
sharp practices.
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
A.I.F. lifesavers bring in a “patient.”
“Mat’s Mate”: We were “humpin’ the
curse” through the Goulburn Valley
(Vic.) and found handouts both reluctant
and scarce. “Y’ got t’ handle these
cockies with kid gloves,” Mat said one
night as we finished a big feed of black
tea and tightened belts. “Knuckle-
dusters would be better,” I sneered. “No,
fair dinkum,” said Mat; “I’ll bet a little
soft-soapin’ ’d work the oracle. Any-
how, I’m givin’ it a fling in the mornin’.”
Next morning we approached a farm-
house, Mat with a big smile and me try-
ing to force a grin. “Good day, mate,”
Mat boomed cheerfully; “nice bit o’
land y’ got here.” “Yair,” said the cocky
noncommittally. “Too right,” Mat
asserted. “Nice cows, too, if I’m any
judge. Bet y’ wish y’ had a few more
of their sort.” “Yair,” said the cocky,
warming to Mat. Mat praised the fences,
the gates, the color scheme of the home-
stead. “Bonzer paddock o’ clover y’ got
here,” he went on. “Bet y’ could do with
a few more acres of it.” “Yair,” said
the cocky, eyeing Mat with approval.
“S’pose you fellers could do with a bit
o’ tucker? Go up t’ the house an’ tell
the missus I sent y\” An attractive little
woman duly filled our nosebags, and we
started for the road, passing the cocky
on the way. “By cripes,” Mat told him,
“them’s a nice bunch of fat wethers y’
got up there. Bet y’ could do with a
few more of ’em. Thanks, mate, f’r the
tucker. We got some from y’r missus.
Cripes, she’s a nice woman. Bet y’ could
do with a few more like her.” When I
looked back from the hill a mile away
the cocky was still staring after us.
* * * *
“8.A.A.”: I have been sun-gazing and
star-gazing and moon-gazing for over
50 years. At Woy Woy (N.S.W.) on
July 18 I saw something I had never
seen before, nor heard of from any of
the many astronomers with whom I have
come into contact. Everybody has seen
a big white halo or ring round the moon,
and it is often regarded as a sign of
rain. At about 11 o’clock that Thurs-
day morning I saw a ring round the
sun, apparently the same diameter as the
rings round the moon. This solar ring
showed faintly the prismatic colors, the
same as in an ordinary rainbow, though
not so bright. There was a very distinct
ring round the moon a few nights before,
and the new moon was decidedly “on
her back.” I have waited in vain for
the rain of which these appearances are
supposed to be forerunners.
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: Don’t know about Will
Lawson’s bandicoots in the Murray-
Darling country (B. 28/8/’4O), though in
many years there I never heard of them ;
but I can’t credit wombats on the
Wakool. There were wild pigs there in
my time, between Moulamein and the big
river and along the Edward, Niemur and
Wakool—at least, we thought they were
pigs, but maybe what we gorged our-
selves on after hunting them with spears
made of shear-blades wasn’t pork after
all.
* * * *
“Kriz”: Cracking a pearl blister is a
fascinating gamble (B. 21 /8 / ’4O). For
years we had used a pair of outsize pearl-
shells as a door-stop at our foreshore
camp at Broome (W.A.), intending to
clean, polish and send ’em south when
we had time, which somehow never came.
They were kicked hundreds of times by
shell-openers using the camp. One joy-
ous day Con Gill, a West Indian bos’n
then general factotum at the Continental
Hotel—later to become one of the central
characters in Idriess’s Forty Fathoms
Deep —came to the camp, stumbled and
broke one of the shells. Picking up the
bits, he examined the blister on the lip
of the shell and said “More better you
take alonga Ellies.” We took the broken
shell to Ellies, a Cingalese pearl expert,
who got to work on it and recovered a
pearl later sold to a French buyer for
£250.
* * * *
“Jaccarri”: There is a fungus in the
forest country of Gippsland (Vic.) that
has put many a bibulous home-coming
timber-getter and sleeper-cutter on the
water-wagon. It grows on the protected
side of trees about eight to ten feet from
the ground and is generally about the size
of a dinner-plate. In the daytime it is
scarcely noticeable, but on dark nights
in the gullies its ghostly green light can
be seen from a fair distance. Then the
fungus seems to expand to nearly twice
its daytime size, its centre pulsating
gently. It gives off a dank, musty odor
and is a death-trap to the hundreds of
tiny insects that are attracted to it by its
glowing light.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Count among the de-
ceptive fowl in a land where queer birds
are plentiful the common leatherhead.
Of the drabbest greys and browns, he
appears at first sight to be colored for
camouflage, yet he’s about as shy as
an auctioneer and announces his where-
abouts in much the same manner, volume
and tone. Thus advertised he is very
easily observed, and his uninteresting
plumage, awkward beak, skinny ewe-
neck and general ugliness brand him
as one outside the realm of the beautiful;
yet in the spring he weaves one of the
loveliest nests in the bush —a deep cup
slung in a fork, with yard-long strands
of red bark threaded over and under to
give strength, spring and safety. The
job commands respect; you remember
he is also called the friar bird and are
just about to admit his virtues —then
he opens his mouth and, like a woman
censor, as soon as he starts to gabble
his reputation is wrecked. The bird
books sedately say that his call re-
sembles the words “tobacco box” and
“four o’clock.” Granted ; but he goes
on to remark, “My wife’s a talker, talker.
Lot o’ rot, lot o’ rot. Hop it, y’ bitch”
—and then rises to a sustained stream
of deliberately-practised abuse.
* * * *
“Jim Norhina”: Watching a flock of
apostle birds building their mud villa in
a quinine-tree near Mareeba (N.Q.), 1
suddenly woke up to the fact that there
was no mud within 50 miles. They were
scooping up dry dust, working it about in
their beaks and then laying the brick in
the ordinary way. Later I found that
the local mudlarks had adopted the same
idea. There was a waterhole in the Walsh
River, about three miles off, but the birds
didn’t go near it while building—they
knew that its bed and banks are pure
sand.
$ * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Taffy, a pony the boss
bought for his missus, had a rug phobia ;
the way he used to get out of ’em would
have shamed Houdini. We tried every-
thing to keep him rugged at night, but
in the morning he would be draped like
“September Morn.” The missus decided
that I’d have to build a stable for the
“little pet” before he got pneumonia, and
after three days’ work I got the job fin-
ished. Then nothing on earth could coax
the perverse animal to use it! When I
put his manger inside, Taffy would sneak
cautiously in, feed with one eye on the
door, ready to bolt for freedom if any-
one approached, and the minute he’d fin-
ished he’d be out again in the more con-
genial shelter of a few ti-tree bushes.
One cold, wet night the missus couldn’t
sleep for thinking of his discomfort, so I
was dragged out of bed to get him stabled
at all costs. It took me half a soaking
hour to get the obstinate beast in, and
then I had to blindfold him and back him
in. Just three minutes he stopped there
—it took him that long to kick the doors
down!
* * * =>
“Pop”: Travelling through some of the
Speck’s forest country we came upon a
section of scrub that had all the signs of
being blasted by bushfire. Although
some of the undergrowth was green, the
leaves were scorched almost black. But
not a flicker of a flame had been through
that area ; it was merely the result of a
real Tassie west coast frost, which makes
those in the Gippsland hills look like a
mild dew.
* * * *
“City Bloke”: Was in charge of a
small country school in the Dookie (Vic.)
district. One morning one of the kids
produced a fresh rabbitskin from his
pocket. Was rather intrigued as to how
he’d bagged the rabbit without gun, dog
or ferret. That afternoon two kids de-
lightedly initiated the city schoolie into
the subtle art. When a sitting rabbit was
sighted one lad complete with necessary
waddy stood well behind. The other then
proceeded to walk in a circle of about 20
yards radius around the prospective
victim. The walk became a run, and
while the rabbit gave its attention to the
active one his companion quietly
approached until within striking distance.
I then started to calculate how much I
had spent on cartridges for the year.
* * * *
“Bungham”: A number of medical
students of both sexes used to visit a Mel-
bourne abattoirs to watch the beasts being
slaughtered, possibly to harden them to
the sight of blood. With their eyes glued
to peepholes in the dividing wall they
watched operations on the killing floor.
Some of the slaughtermen grew restive
under this spying ; others were irritated by
the “oohs” and “ahs” of the lady students.
One day Murphy, a hairy-chested behe-
moth, was in the centre of the floor with
a stricken bullock when a party of stu-
dents arrived. Murphy slit the beast’s
jugular, and as the warm blood gushed
out he gathered up a quantity in his
cupped hands and drank it. Then, rub-
bing his gory hands over his face, he
glared round with ferocious mien at the
unseen onlookers. There were horrified
screams and sounds of retreating foot-
steps. After that there was a poor
attendance.
Jfc
“Billy See”: Prohibitionists may pro-
hibit and temperance lecturers temp, but
there is something subtly seductive about
alcohol; and man isn’t the only one that
realises it. Harassed by myriads of
snails, Groperland gardeners have found
a remedy. Take one of those tablets of
solidified metho., used largely to boil the
kettle at picnics, mix with a pound of
bran, lay out on tiny heaps on the
vegetable beds and, lo! the shellbacks
and their brethren the slugs will be out
to it next morning in hundreds —victims
to the Demon Drink.
4c 4c * *
“Hay St. Perth”: Reading that par.
on the Condamine bell (B. 24/ 7/ ’4O)
somehow recalled the time I rode with
Long Ned and an English gent, out on
to the Murchison (W.A.) in quest of a
cattle camp. No easy task with a few
thousand square miles for the said camp
to hide itself in. Said Long Ned: “Keep
an eye peeled for horse-tracks; some of
the riders are bound to be scouting out
wide rounding up strays.” After some
30 miles I did sight some equine tracks.
“No good!” Ned snorted. “You know
that yourself: those nags weren’t shod.”
Miles further on we came across the
prints of horseshoes. “These’ll do,” said
Ned with conviction. “These must lead
us to the camp.” They did, though dark-
ness overtook us, and we were guided
in by the cracked note of the father of
all cowbells, hanging from the neck of
a camel. A genuine Asian bell, built of
hammered iron and of about two-gallon
capacity. “Now, how came it that you
were so positive about those last tracks
leading us here, and so certain that the
earlier tracks would not?” inquired the
English gent, over a pannikin of billy.tea.
“Well,” said Ned, as though explaining
to a child, “shod horses mean men, un-
shod horses mean only straying brumbies.
And when shod tracks go straight ahead,
without the horse pausing to snatch a
mouthful of grass from either side, it
means that that horse had a rider, and
that rider was going somewhere.” A lot
of bushcraft is just as simple as that.
THE BOATRACE.
When Ned the Spieler hit the town
He found the pickin’s beat his dreams;
The simple bushmen fell f’r Ned
An’ did their cash on all his schemes;
An’ when, in some particular game.
He found their interest gettin’ thin,
He’d think a newey out f’r them
An’ strip them down t’ bone an’ skin.
“One last clean-up will see me through,”
The Spieler thought, an’ sought a plan
Whereby t’ make his final kill
An’ trim the socks off every man.
As though the gods of chance had heard
Shrewd Edward’s plea for one more chance,
They sent old Jim the Hatter in—
An ancient cove in moleskin pants.
Now Jim lived in a Murray bend,
An’ spent his wakin’ days afloat
Upon the bosom of the stream
A-rowin’ his old river boat.
He claimed t’ be the best man there
At pullin’ boats upstream or down;
An’, strange t’ say, his claim was good
An’ granted in that river town.
When Ned the Spieler heard old Jim
An’ saw how all believed his skite,
He put his busy brain t’ work
An’ sent a letter off that night.
An’ after three long days had passed,
A lean an’ wiry swagman came;
He dropped his knot outside the pub
An’ slipped inside t’ start Ned’s game.
An’ soon the talk was gently led
T’ men an’ oars an’ rowin’ boats,
An’ loud they skited of old Jim
Till Ned the Spieler flashed his notes.
“I’ll bet yez one an’ all,” he cried;
“I like this bloke —I’m backin’ him.”
They rushed him with their money up
An’ slapped it thick an’ hard on Jim.
I needn’t tell y’ how they rowed
Or how old Jim took leadin’ place,
And kept his blades a-goin’ strong,
An’ won with ease that rowin’ race.
The Spieler nilly died o’ shock;
He tried t’ welsh, but pay he must,
An’ with the cash they won from him
The whole blamed town went on the bust.
An,’ broke, upon the river bank
The Spieler an’ his ring-in lay,
Each wonderin’, in language fierce,
Just how they’d bin sucked in that day.
Before them bobbed the empty boats,
Above them rang the bushmen’s laugh.
They couldn’t see, beneath one craft,
That tightly-fastened bag of chaff.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“ There's s'much talk 'bout charcoal , Tummas, I thought I'd give un trial."
“Old-timer”: Bandy Andy was having
some difficulty with his oxen. The big
wagon was down to the hubs in sand,
and the bullocks seemed to think there
was nothing they could do about it.
Andy thought differently, and was ex-
plaining his opinion in blistering speech
to the unheeding beasts'when he observed
a buggy drive up and pause near by. With
a quick glance, Andy saw that it con-
tained but one man, and he let go at
those bullocks again. Then a mild voice
said, “I suppose it never occurred to you
that prayer, if as faithfully and sincerely
expressed as profanity, might serve.”
Bandy bent a hostile eye on the stranger,
but, seeing that he wore his collar back
to front and was not poking borak, he
thought hard for a minute, and grudg-
ingly admitted that “It blanky well
couldn’t do any worse.” Thereupon the
holy man descended from his buggy,
stood beside the uncomfortable Andy
and sent a petition aloft. Then he stepped
back, Andy put his old hat on again and
said “Whoa up there, Bally, Nigger, Pan-
cake!” The team laid into their yokes,
heaved and the wagon came forth. Andy
regarded it with awe and turned slowly
to the holy man. Their eyes met. “Well,
I’ll be !” said the petitioner, got into
his buggy and drove off.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: One of the world’s
mysteries is the cause of “desert noise,”
a loud booming, rumbling sound
occasionally heard on flat sparsely-
habited districts. It has been recorded
on the western plains of America, the
Russian steppes, Central Australia, the
Sahara, and similar spots. My father
heard it twice during his lifetime: on
the Barkly Tableland (Q.) and near
Coolgardie (W.A.). It occurred in each
case on hot, still days. I have heard it
once on the saltbush plains east of the
Burra (S.A.). I felt no suggestion of
an earth tremor and saw no sign of the
smoky trail across the sky which a
meteor usually leaves when it falls in
daylight. Some attribute it to the noise
made by overheated rocks splitting;
others to a meteor passing through the
upper air without leaving a smoke trail
to mark its passage ; possibly it is the
echo of some quite normal sound, ampli-
fied by distance and the contour of the
earth. French army meteorologists have
recorded the sound of gunfire oyer
astonishingly long distances in the Syrian
desert. My own theory is that it is
caused in some way by the movement
of masses of sun-warmed air.
* * * *
“Leirum”: Neatest bit of stockmanship
in this scribe’s experience occurred imme-
diately prior to the hearing of a sheep-
stealing case in s.-w. Queensland. Three
hundred jumbucks were being held in
the police paddock as Exhibit A for the
prosecution. A few nights of uneventful
vigil must have caused the Law to nod,
for one morning on the stock route some
distance away there was visible a pile of
mutton. It was the incriminating evi-
dence, all neatly butchered and with the
incriminating earmarks cut out. With
great skill the mob had been silently mus-
tered and drafted through a gap cut in the
netting fence and there dispatched. But,
ironically, the obstructors of justice
missed three woollies, which were enough
to enable the Crown to secure its con-
viction.
* * * *
“No. 1”: Why is it that birds’ eggs
have a hard shell, while those of reptiles,
particularly the goanna, are in many cases
soft-shelled with a leathery exterior? My
own view is that, as birds lay only a single
egg at a time, ample room is thus allowed
for the hard-cased embryos next in line
without damage to the soft, unformed
successors developing behind them. Rep-
tiles, on the other hand, lay a large clutch
of eggs at the one time ; these could not
simultaneously develop hard shells within
the mother’s body without undue disten-
sion and risk of damage. Their softness
simplifies stowing while a nesting-ground
is being sought. What are the Council s
views?
* * *
“Peepingee”: I’ve often
heard of the Afghan sew-
ing a leather patch over
the oont’s saddle-sores;
never have I seen it. But
up on the Ashburton
(W.A.) I watched an old
Baluchi do a real job on
a badly-holed bull. Begin-
ning with scissors and
paper, the operator cut
patterns to fit the two big
saucerlike sores he in-
tended to treat. Then
with scissors, a blunt knife
and a wet rag he cut and
wiped the sores until they
bled. Meanwhile Abdullah
stood by with a shorn
sheep. A word that all
was ready, and the jum-
buck died. Peeling off the
skin along one flank, the
surgeon fitted a paper pat-
tern and ran a sharp knife
around. Straight on to the
sore, where it was a good
fit, went the hot, still-living
patch. Stitching was done
quickly, the needle a
sharply-turned bag-sewer,
the thread catgut fishing-
line, Then, while the sheep’s hide was
still hot, the second patch was cut out
and stitched on. Maybe the new skin
“took,” or perhaps it only gave protec-
tion while the sore underneath healed.
But don’t shudder at the cruelty of it.
* * * *
“Hay St. Perth”: Yes, I might quite
easily get bushed in “Odd P.’s” “eastern
scrublands, where the sky is often over-
cast for days and there’s nothing but
whipstick” (B. 31/7/’4O). But how did
the first blokes to enter such country
return to tell the tale—-or are they still
there or their bones? During close on
60 years in this continent, and not all
of it spent in the West, I recall only two
occasions when the sky was so com-
pletely overcast as to entirely blot out
old Sol. That was during two north-west
(W.A.) cyclones. But even then we had
a fair idea of the whereabouts of the
orb ; now and again the clouds would
let a faint glow through; so we knew
which was north.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Queer bush characters
(B. 7/8/’4O) don’t usually gravitate to
the bush as hatters; it’s the long-
continued life they lead there which
makes a normal-enough man queer. I
know a typical case ; he lives in a hut
with stone walls, a Cane-ite ceiling and
an iron roof. From the outside it looks
like some outsize and very neat doll’s
house, and the interior confirms this im-
pression ; internal measurements are 6ft.
long, sft. wide and 7ft. high, fireplace
at one end and window at the other.
Two feet above the table, which runs
the full length of one wall, is the bed,
like a ship’s bunk. Under each end
of the table is a cupboard ; the centre
space, like the kneehole in an office
desk, is the feet-parking place. Rest of
the space is taken up with reachable
shelves. The owner contends that large
chunks of space left lying around accen-
tuate the feeling of isolation. Another
peculiar feature of the “hatter” is that,
eating on his own, food develops a
monotonous sameness which discourages
hearty eating. But watch him when a
visitor shows up! He’s pretty good on
the ivories then.
* * * *
“Bill Timor”: Those flying-fish of
Westralian waters (B. 7/8/’4O) often leap
literally into the frying-pan. Cruising up
that coast it is no uncommon thing to
find half a dozen flopping on to the deck
of the lugger. Pretty good eating they
are, too. And sizable ; few run under
a foot long. Flying is done by the two
pectoral fins, which extend outwards like
sections of an umbrella just behind the
gills. Fully extended, these wings have a
span of about three-quarters the length of
the fish’s body. Flight, however, is too
rapid and too glistening for the eye to de-
tect whether any flapping takes place. The
impression is that flight is accomplished
by gliding. Well out on the ocean such
taking to the air is a lifesaver to the
gurnet, but anywhere adjacent to land it
often lets the aviator in for another form
of trouble. From high aloft the fish-
hawk or sea-eagle sees all that takes place
beneath the water, possibly to a depth of
50ft., just as the aeroplane nowadays can
detect the submarine. He sees the pur-
suit by the porpoise or the bonito and is
ready to swoop down in a terrific power-
dive directly the gurnet leaves the water.
Other sea-fowl also have a try, but they
are clumsy fielders compared with the
eagle.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: “Me an’ me cobber
’Ardface ’Annigan,” said Cinnabar San-
derson, “ ’ad bin out fer about a month
prospectin’ some country nor’-west o
the Petermann Range without sightin’
a color. One night we camps at a soak
close ter a rusty-lookin’ spur o’ rock
croppin’ up outa the spinnerfex, an’ it
bein’ a cold night we c’lects a good pile
o’ desert oak an’ starts a roarin’ fire
agenst the side o’ the outcrop. Wen
we turns out nex’ mornin’ wot do we
see but the burnt face o’ the rock
studded with clinkers o’ gold! We
breaks out as mtftiy specimints as our
pack bags could carry an’ starts f’r
’ome. That night a ’ell o’ a thunder-
storm strikes our camp, an’ our camels
wot wus tied up to keep ’em frum
strayin’ drawed their nose-pegs an’
streaked orf. Nex’ day we gets on t’
their tracks an’ follers ’em until we
gets among sandstone ridges, where we
loses ’em. We goes back t’ camp, an’
arfter plantin’ our gear an’ all ’cept a
few o’ the specimints we fills our water-
bags an’, takin’ as much grub as we
could carry, starts ’omeward, agen.
Nex’ evenin’ our water gives out, but
we struggles on, hopin’ f’r a shower
o’ rain or a blackfeller’s well. A coupla
days later ’Ardface chucks ’is clo’es off
an’ tears through the spinnerfex like a
scalded cat, an’ that’s the last I see of
’im. I staggers on till sundown nex’
day, w’en I sights a big sheet o’ water
—an’ that’s w’ere me troubles ended.”
“An’ did y’ find the reef agen w’en y’
went back?” queried the cook’s offsider.
“I didn’t go back,” said Cinnabar sadly.
“Y’ see, when I finds that water was as
salt as Lot’s wife I kerlapses on the
sand an’ dies o’ drouth an’ disapp’int-
ment.”
“There's a trunkline call fr Jim Matthers over at Dogleg Creek.
I'll ask 'em to hang on while y' go an get him!"
CONVOY.
Rolling hulls of black and grey
In the murk go by,
Smeared with smoke and whipped with spray
’Neath a sullen sky.
Do the winds ask “Who are they?
Whither bound and why?”
Nay, the sea-winds know too well
Ships and whither bound
As they swing on surge and swell,
Bound for Plymouth Sound.
Do the seas shout “Halt! Who goes?”
Nay, for every roller knows.
Every merchantman that goes,
Convoyed by the guns,
Dares the wrath of hidden foes
Where the shoal tide runs.
Do the tides cry “Who goes there?”
Nay; they whisper “Hist! Take care!”
See, the warships gather near,
Shepherding their sheep—
Darting there and darting here,
Lest the Reaper reap.
Hear the guns shout. What say they
As they roar and leap?
Thus the guns: “Our ships pass by
In the murk of night.
Let who would gainsay them try—
Let him come and fight.”
Shout the guns “Hullo! Hullo!”
No gun answers; on they go,
Rolling through the night.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collms Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
86371.
M 4383.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
AH classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTY
vvpnlfnv * °m, a< f <111 ain ,n‘? a ce . sho , ul(J T,e expected to become your
or 01 ,trustee, lliis is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
tlle results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
:L52 lste ? an 01 ’£ anis ation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence.
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
{Incorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
iSi
m
The Symbol of
Security!
, .. . ■,
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
N.S.-W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry BvaddOn, K.B.E. (Chairman) ; J. Beresford Grant (\ice-
Chairman).; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B’.E., M.L'.C.; James Kidd; Hon. Colin A. Sinclair, M.L.A.;
A. E. Heath, C.M.G. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
New Zealand Insurance Co.
Net To Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1924.. 186,257 12.5 p.c. =112,500 73,757 1,081,069
1925.. 243,331 13.2 „ ~118,750 124,581 1,205,650
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 1,055,650
1926.. 208,617 11.9 p.c. =125.000 83.617 1,139 267
1927.. 244.172 12.5 „ ~131,250 112,922 1,252,189
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 1,102,189
1928.. 226,536 11.5 p.c. =137,500 89,036 1,191,225
1929.. 232,088 11.5 „ ~137,500 94,588 1,285,813
1930.. 259,488 11.9 „ ~143,750 115,738 1,401,551
Transferred to capital, £300,000 .. 1,101,551
1931.. 199,392 10 p.c. = 150,000 49,392 1,150,943
Written off, £20,748 1,130,195
1932.. 156,761 10 p.c. = 150,000 6,761 1,136,956
1933.. 174,975 10 „ „ 150,000 24,975 1,161,931
From inner reserves, £147,585 .. 1,309,516
1934.. 228,295 12.5 p.c. =187,500 1
To staff pension fund, £20,000 1 10,795 1,320,311
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO I
1935.. 232,809 10 p.c. = 150,000 ) „ oq , 120
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO j 72 ’ 809 M93 ’ lZO
1936.. 249,165 10 p.c. = 150,000 99,165 1,492,285
1937.. 288,456 10 „ „ 150,000 138,456 1,630,741
1938.. 321,884 10 „ „ 150,000 171,884 1,802,625
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,792,625
1939.. 260,837 10 p.c. = 150,000 110,837 1,903,462
Assets adjustment, £296,808.. .. 2,200,270
To tax reserve, £40,000 . . . . 2,160,270
War exes, donation, £20,000.. .. 2,140,270
1940.. 346,718 10 p.c. = 150,000 196,718 2,336,983
This highly-successful Auckland-con-
trolled fire and marine office with world-
wide connections has a paid capital of
£1;500,000, of which £1,200,000 has been
transferred from genuine reserves or ac-
cumulated profits since 1912. Over the
same period of 28 years, divs. averaged
approximately 11 p.c., and returns from
investments have kept close on the heels
of advancing dividend charges, thus leav-
ing the underwriting surplus, or most of
it, available to swell investments and, of
course, the returns therefrom. When the
books last closed, shareholders could still
see reserves heaped £836,988 higher than
paid capital. Furthermore, something
had also been slipped into the family
stocking, from which £147,585 was shaken
out in 1933 and another £296,808 at the
end of last term.
The £296,808 is, however, unearned
increment, arising out of the exchange
value of assets held outside the Dominion.
The co. gathers about three-fourths of its
income and holds a like proportion of
assets outside Maoriland. At the end of
May, 1939, the published accounts in-
cluded assets expressed in sterling to the
value of £1,461,425. All assets have now
been converted into Dominion currency
at the rates of exchange ruling at
balancing date. Appearances are that the
whole of the gain on account of this con-
version has not been disclosed.
Here is the position as the published
accounts now show it:
1930. 1935. 1939. 1940.
„ £ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,200,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities. . 360,203 225,940 369,722 509,555
Public securi-
ties .. 1,981,827 2,035,631 2,161,573 2,643,082
Mortgages.. 61,625 46,250 9,747 7 770
Shares etc. 122,324 239,889 680,274 668.822
Freeholds.. 425,268 446,793 553,661 572 898
Agency bal-
ances and
cash . . 465,710 465,497 492,929' 618,963
Exchange adjustments account for a large
slice of the growth of £481,509 in the
book value of Government securities, and
partly explain the growth of £139,833 in
outside liabilities and of £126,034 in
agency balances and cash. The outstand-
ing feature is the co.’s obviously strong
position from both shareholders’ and
policy-holders’ point of view. When the
books closed, net tangibles had a book
value equal to 217 p.c. of the year’s net
premium income, whereas 150 p.c. is
usually considered satisfactory.
Exchange adjustments also partly ex-
plain the growth in last year’s under-
writing figures:
Loss Expense
Net Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. • p.c.
1910. . £605,509 £391,321 £172,593 64.5 28.5
1920.. 1,072,761 603,650 342,334 56.2 31.9
1930.. 1,199,382 737,719 362,277 61.4 30.2
1931.. 1,145,257 740,245 353,439 64.6 30.8
1932.; 1,050,351 670,714 349,331 63.8 33.2
1933.. 1,008,530 622,039 333,387 61.7 33.1
1934. . 1,001,328 553,886 336,849 55.3 33.6
1935. . 1,050,792 596,778 348,938 56.7 33.2
1936. 631,809 346,414 57.6 31.6
1937. . 1,185,636 705,955 351,903 59.5 29.6
1938. 823,852 363,337 60.5 26.7
1939. . 1,405,787 910,489 377,632 64.8 26.8
1940. . 1,763,659 1,105,966 462,809 62.7 26.2
Net premiums were up £357,872, losses
were £195,477 heavier and exes, advanced
£85,177. A truer idea of the improve-
ment in the co.’s experience is afforded by
the drop of £2 2s. p.c. in the loss rate
and of 12s. p.c. in the expense rate. The
underwriting surplus (£194,884, up
£77,218) and returns from interest, etc.
(£151,834, up £14,822), made the net
result from all sources (£346,718) a
juicy 23.1 p.c. on capital, as against 17.3,
21.4, 19.2, 16.6, 15.5, 15.2, 11.6 and 10.4
p.c. back to 1932. That leaves out of
the reckoning £40,000 transferred to the
tax reserve (now £90,000) and a donation
of £20,000 to the Dominion’s war ex-
penses. The div. remained steady at
10 p.c.
At the moment, he would be a bold
man who would venture to predict exactly
what the future holds for underwriters
with world-wide interests. What can be
said definitely is that this N.Z. co. is very
well equipped to stand any jolt.
In Maoriland the pound shares sell at
58s. and in Australia at 475., returning
3.4 p.c. and 4.2 p.c. respectively on a 10
p.c. div. basis. The cover is 51s. 2d. in
net tangibles.
Melbourne Steamship Co., Ltd.
Nominal
' , Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 65,409 6 p.c. 9 p.c. 32,100 33,249 444,881
Written off, £30,026... , .. .. 414 855
1931.. 9,127 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 18,560 405*422
1932.. 33,922 6 „ 5 „ 18,560 15,362 420,784
46,320 6■ „ 6„ 21,960 24,360 445,144
1934.. 46,150 -6 „ 6„ 21,960 24,190 469,334
Unexplained additions, £28.731* .. 498,065
1935.. 35,732 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 21,960 13,772 511,837
Net unexplained reduction, £27,008.. 484,829
1936.. 20,244 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 21,960 483,113
To. staff fund, £24,260 .. . . 458,853
' Unexplained additions, £47,903 .. 506,756
1937.. 34,180 6 p.c. 6i‘p.c. 23,660 10,520 517,276
Unexplained additions, . £30,598 .. '547,874
1938.. 33,037, 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 25,360 7,677 555,551
Unexplained additions, £49,208 . . 604,759
1939.. 34,320 6 p.c. -8 p.c. 28.760 5,560 610,319
Unexplained additions, £39,771 .. 650 090
1940.. 22,032 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 25,360 646^762
*lneludes profit on sale of Consols.
Pride of the fleet is the passenger-and-
cargo vessel Duntroon, which took up
the inter-State running five years back.
It accounts for almost half of the total
gross tonnage of 23,073:
Gross Year
Vessel. Tonnage. Built.
M.v. Duntroon .. 10,346 1935
S,s. Ellaroo . . .. 4,655 1921
S.s. Lowana . . .. 3,021 1924
S.s. Mernoo .. .. 2,417 1926
S.s. Coolana . . .. 2,197 1921
Tug Tooronga .. 246 1922
Tug Keera . . . . 99. 1926
Tug Minah 92 1900
Other sources of revenue include takings
from the lighterage, etc., business, pick-
ings from coal and coke distribution and
other agency connections, the engineer-
ing operations of the subsidiary, Hob-
son’s Bay Dock, which has been doing
defence work, and returns (£6522 last
year) from £136,801 of outside invest-
ments.
The Navy has been requisitioning its
shipping requirements on a tentative basis
of 9s. a ton a month—less than half
the charter rate of the last war. Though
the Melbourne Co. may not be greatly
affected by this so far, it has had other
difficulties to cope with.
In the inter-State trade naval requi-
sitioning of ships has left an over-
supply of manifests for those remaining.
But passenger bookings have suffered,
while running costs have bumped up to
an extent that small adjustments of freight
charges have fallen far short of covering.
Examples cited include war-risk insur-
ance —as distinct from increased marine
insurance—which cost the co. £32,000
last year, and a fuel bill for the Dun-
troon alone £15,000 heavier. Practically
everything else in the nature of stores
and equipment has also advanced in
price.
Further causes of furrows in the man-
agerial brow were the higher call of the
Government for defence and the 10
weeks’ coalfields disruption of March-
May, which caused part of the fleet to
be laid up and .affected trade turnovers.
Result: An exhibition of seasickness in
profits, which at £22,032 (down £12,288)
slipped to 6 p.c. on capital. That was
after adding £39,771 net (a reduction of
£9437) to sundry reserves, mainly in re-
spect of depreciation. It looks a liberal
allowance, and dispels some of the
sombreness attaching to p. and 1. figures
alone. Never given to lavishness in the
matter of divs., the board cut the distribu-
tion from 8 p.c. to 7 p.c., visibly leaving
£36,443 of the year’s takings in the busi-
ness and increasing reserves to £646,762,
of which £382,896 is specifically tabbed
for depreciation.
Combined profit of the co. and Hob-
son’s Bay subsidiary, after addition of
£41,128 to reserves (now £673,497, in-
cluding depreciation), was written £12,385
lower at £22,139, of which £16,532 was
in respect of the parent’s and £5607 of
the pup’s operations.
Purchase of the Duntroon caused
a gap in liquid resources which the man-
agement is gradually replenishing:
Melbourne
Steam.
1938. . 1939. 1940.
Paid capital .. £366,000 £366,000 £366,000
Creditors . . 95,451 82,786 . 103,416
Taxation, etc. . . 32,227 22,711
Steamers, etc. . . 800,386 828,718 ' 833,997
Freeholds, plant 54,238 55,300 57,154
Stores .. .. 26,199 40,008 35,902
Book debts . . 63,8.40 79,657 102,606
Investments, cash,
' etc 85,019 129,000 148,645
Chief movements in the combined accounts
were the additions of £19,645 to cash and
investments and of £22,949 to debtors,
the surplus of more or less liquids
(£183,737) benefiting by £17,858. Work-
ing assets, in at cost, are reported “in
their customary first-class condition,”
which involves heavy maintenance outlay.
As for the future, “the higher cost of
maintaining inter-State services calls for
an immediate review of freight rates,
which, under existing conditions, are in-
adequate,” says chairman York Syme.
With outgoings still mounting, much will
depend on the extent to which the Prices
Commissioner hearkens to the plea, and
on freedom from industrial upset. Mean-
time, the pound ords. at 30s. return an
immediate 4.6 p.c. The cover is 58s. in
net tangibles, of which 225. 7d. is repre-
sented by the depreciation allocation.
Berlei, Ltd.
, Dividends *
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ & £ £
1930 .. 13,064 3712 7| p.c. = 9,361 29,568
U.S.A. rights sold; intangibles reduced,
£1965 31,533
1931.. 17,629 4000 7£ p.c. = 9,361 4268 35,801
Unexplained additions to. reserves, £2300.. 38,101
1932.. 15,650 4000 8 p.c. = 9,985 • 1665 39,766
Unexplained reductions, £2300 .. .. 37,466
».■ 14,675 4000 8 p.c. =10,352 323 37,789
Unexplained additions to reserves, £1500.. 39,289
1934.. 19,645 4000 8 p.c. =11,005 4640 43,929
1930.. 19,245 4000 8 „ ~11,005 4240 48,169
Bonus scrip M.L. subsidiary, £2560 .. 50,729
1936.. 25,182 4000 10 p.c. =13,756 7426 58,155
1937.. 25,463 4000 10 „ ~ 13,756 7707 65,862
1938.. 26,282 4000 10 ~ ~ 13,756 8526 74,388
1939.. 21,278 4000 10 „ ~13,756 3522 77,910
1940.. 23,206 4000 10 ~ ~13,756 5450 83,360
The figures are characteristically “uplift-
ing.” The impression is that, though man
has had to take in his belt a notch or
two, his fifth rib continues to devote the
same time and money to the cultivation
of curves. There are plenty of jobs
available for the fair sex these times,
too, so that demand for the feminine
creations the co. specialises in should keep
up.
The business is sectionalised into four
parts. The parent organisation set up
in Sydney 31 years ago. A manufactur-
ing offshoot in M.L. sprouted in 1923,
a Victorian one in 1927 and the U.K.
subsidiary two years after that. Oppor-
tunities provided by the tariff, currency
depreciation and the management’s
enterprise a dozen years ago in design-
ing corsets especially for Australian
women were grabbed with both hands.
Assisted by attractive advertising and
service, the co. as a result now supplies
most of the women of Australia and the
Dominion with their corset and bras-
siere requirements. As sales and effi-
ciency have improved, the benefits have
been translated into selling prices.
Last year full order books kept the
parent working to capacity, and the
encouraging thing is that the output
doesn’t appear to have just gone into
retailers’ stocks. “Minimum” price in-
creases, however, were necessary to offset
the higher level of outgoings. Berlei
(N.Z.) continued to send out \l\ p.c.
from a net surplus 32 p.c. on its £50,000
share-register, the Victorian co. recorded
“satisfactory increase in sales and net
profit,” and Berlei (U.K.), thanks to
economies, also earned more, though it
has returned nothing on the money in-
vested just yet.
The £23,206 (up £1928) of the pooled
takings called profit was 13.7 p.c. on the
parent’s ord. capital, allowing for the
prefs., compared with 12.5, 15.9, 15.3,
15.1, 11, 11.3 and 8.2 p.c. back to 1933.
Ord. div. was kept at 10 p.c. The aver-
age 8.95 p.c. sent out over the last
decade is an indication of the extent to
which turnover is anchored.
The board’s move in adding substan-
tially to stocks (up £27,465) should be
a good ’un:
1933. 1935. 1939. 1940.
Paul capital. . £189,824 £190,057 £190,057 £190,057
Overdraft . . 32,133 49,401
Sundry creditors 0,431 9,571 19,194 27,772
Freeholds . . 32,910* 60,803 62,792 62,720
Plant . . 11,182 10,563 10,964 11,593
Investments!. . 53,174 80,383 89,854 89,854
Stocks . . 87,517 - 58.848 105,757 133.222
Book d'ebts . . 48,426 34,080 54,507 59,877
Cash. etc. . . 8,194 9,961 4,297 2,200
* Less mortgage, t Shares in subsidiaries.
Though it necessitated the addition of
£25,906 to the debt, when the books
closed the more or less liquid surplus
(£118,126, excluding shareholdings) was
£4892 stronger than at the preceding
balance. Of the figure at which debtors
appear, £35,6)8 represents assistance ex-
tended the associated ventures.
Over the past 12 months the f.-p.
pound shares have fallen from 365. 3d.
to 325., to yield 6.2 p.c. The 10s.-paid
contribs., showing 6.6 p.c. at 155., are
a better income purchase ; a call —un-
likely at present—would increase their
relative attraction. Net tangible backing
is 325. per pound of ord. capital paid
up and £5 9s, 4d. for each of the 50,000
prefs., which are seldom dealt in.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
Towards Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1930.. 43,653- 7 p.c. = 35,000 8,653 135,715
1931.. 37,730 6„ „ 30,000 7,730 143,445
1932.. 39,162 6„ „ 30,000 9,162 152,607
1933.. 41,017 6„ „ 30,000 11,017 163,624
1934.. 48,638 7„ ~ 35,000 13,638 177,262
1935.. 46,034 7„ „ 35,000 11,034 188,296
1936.. 57,884 8„ „ 40,000 17,884 206,180
1937.. 65,089 8 „ „ 40,000 25,089 231,269
1938.. 50,047 7i „ „ 41,240 8,807 240,076
1939.. 47-,910 7 „ „ 38,500 9,410 249,486
1940.. 53,226 7 ~ „ 38,500 14,726 264,212
It was a good year for those in the
woolbroking and pastoral-finance trade.
Favorable seasonal conditions produced a
heavier clip in both N. S. Wales and
Queensland, in both of which States this
co. operates. Also, the British Govern-
ment bought the clip at a flat contract
rate of 13.43 d. per pound, which com-
pares with an average of 10.57 d. per
pound obtained in the open market for
the previous season. Last season’s
appraised price was 1.03 d. per pound less
than the contract rate. This difference,
together with 10 p.c. retention money
(10 p.c. of appraised price was retained
against possible overvaluation), was paid
to suppliers of participating wools
through selling brokers on July 26—after
close of the co.’s last accounts. The sums
involved for the whole of Australia
were £5,742,044 retention money and
£4,880,738 flat-rate adjustment payment,
total £10,622,782, which is a handsome
sweetener to a cheque already fatter
than its predecessor. Further, half of
any profits on resale of raw wool by
Britain to other countries than itself and


THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1882.
Head Officet
george s Hum man. Sydney.
CAPITAL - . £1,000,000
All . classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is
A. C. DAWSON.
Gen. Manager,
an Australian Institution.
T, O. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gfcfl. Manager.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. VV. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se.. and Colli son and Co. (Me'b.). —Advt
Mining Notice.
TRITON GOLD MINES, NO LIABILITY.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend (the
10th) of Sixpence (6d.) per share has been
declared on all the issued shares in the capital
of the Company.
The dividend is due and payable at the Regis-
tered Office of the Company on Monday, the
30th day of September, 1940.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will
close at 5 p.m. on Monday, the 9th day of
September, 1940, and reopen at 9 a.m. on
Wednesday, the 11th day of September, 1940,
and shareholders registered on Tuesday, the
10th day of September, 1940, will be entitled
to receive the dividend.
By Order of the Board,
L. EDWARDS, Manager.
Registered Office, 360 Collins Street,
Melbourne, August 27, 1940.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP
RESERVE FUND .. •• •• •• \
(Used wholly in the business )
RESERVE CAPITAL
£4,739,012 10
4,300,000 0
4,739,012 10
0
0
0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend; Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
JUST WHAT
HE WANTED!
is**.
■
A
VALE T
AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR
No. 101 Moulded. Case Set —in
new type of moulded case,
contains razor. "Valet” strop in
hinged container and three
blades in moulded sheath, 9/
Stropped in
a few seconds
<55
Cleaned in a few seconds
A Valet . . . the original self-stropping
razor! What man wouldn’t be pleased
to find your thoughtfulness has such
a practical turn. All men know “Valet”
and respect it as much for its sim-
plicity as for its efficiency. It shaves
swiftly and surely. There’s nothing to
take to pieces. It is easy to clean. The
blade is always in position and a few
quick strokes on the strop give it the
finest shaving edge of all razors.
Has your man a birthday, soon ?
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
Australia will be paid to Australian
°rowers at the end of hostilities.
~ Another factor which helped turnover
was increased sales of fat sheep at better
prices:
r Wool
(bales). Sheep. Cattle.
1014 101,579 307,813 18,764
1920 ’ 137,258 321,140 15,357
1925 117,550 232,501 32.676
1930 182,221 485,958 37,243
1932 214,126 481,507 21,901
1934 206.277 442,078 20,447
1935 233,840 426,674 25,457
1936 .. 210,640 365,724 28,736
1937 238,473 458,439 32,725
1938 ' 213,801 423,573 44,919
1939 ! 207,354 395,256 29,272
1940 .. 259,596 434,870 28,500
An extra 52,242 bales and 39,614 sheep
were put under the hammer last term.
Lower yardings resulted in a slight de-
crease (772) in the number of cattle sold.
After making whatever allowances
were considered necessary for contingen-
cies, including increased taxation, the
board figured net profit £5316 better at
9.6 p.c. on capital as against 8.7, 9.1, 13,
11.5, 9.2, 9.7, 8.2 and 7.8 p.c. back to
1932. The div. was kept at 7 p.c., and
the £14,726 that remained lifted reserves
to £264,212, equal to 9s. 7d. per pound
of paid capital. Over the last decade
divs. have averaged a shade under 7 p.c.
To make advances with a book value
of £1,107,380 on a capital of £550,000
and reserves of £264,212 the co. has had
to borrow heavily:
1928. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Capital .. £414,018 £500,000 £550,000 £550,000
Liabilities .. 553,490 510,121* 528,308 568,622
Freeholds . . 199,965 200,624 200,624 200,624
Plant ) Q 1 „ r „ J 10,108 16,477 16,452
Stocks j ■ U > GS6 1 37,474 33,387 65,775
Advances, etc. 899,365 1,001,552 1,046,789 1,107,380
Investments and
cash . . 21,865 11,321 11,351 11,851
Consignments 1,916 310 38,415
* Including £6190 share moneys in advance.
Last term £60,591 was added to advances
and £32,388 to stocks. To meet the out-
lay the co. went outside for an extra
£40,314; the balance came mainly from
discontinuance of consignments. When
the books closed, more or less liquids
exceeded liabilities by £616,384, an im-
provement of £14,750 over the twelve-
month. Obviously much depends upon
the flexibility of advances.
How the current term will pan out de-
pends mainly on seasonal conditions.
Britain will take the clip again at the
same price.
The market prices the f.-p. pound
shares at 255. 6d. (265. a year ago), at
which figure the return is 5.5 p.c. on a 7
p.c. div. basis. The contribs., paid to
10s. each, return 6.1 p.c. on the same div.
basis. The net tangible cover is 295. 7d.
per pound of paid capital.
Woolworth’s interim div. of 6 p.c. was
the same as the previous year’s interim.
The sharemarket now takes the view that
an uninterrupted 17| p.c. will be handed
out for the full year, and offers 17s. 6d.
for the ss. shares. The yield available
is now down to 5 p.c. It was 6 p.c. a
short while ago. G. J. Coles ords. return
£5 11s. per cent.
* * * *
Part of the London press, particularly
the section that doesn’t like De Bernales,
is putting it to the British Government
that frustration of the Great Boulder
transfer of domicile from London to Aus-
tralia would “be justified.” The idea of
the transfer is to evade British war-time
taxation, as Great Boulder already pays
gold excise and other Australian taxes.
The word “justify” imputes the applica-
tion of justice. Therefore, is it just that
a co. working an Australian mine sub-
ject to Australian taxes should be socked
by the British taxing authority when
other Australian mines which don’t
happen to have their office in London
aren’t similarly socked? It all boils down
to the question of whether Great Boulder
in the past derived any special benefit
from its British domicile. Australian
shareholders probably don’t think so.
The issue at stake has a wide appli-
cation to Australian mines. Lake View
and Star, Wiluna, North Kal., South Kal.,
Sons of Gwalia, Paringa, Zinc Corp. and
Sulphide Corp. are only the principal
examples of Australian mines worked by
London-registered cos.
* 4 * *
In its latest term North Kalgurli (W.A.)
did 9576 ft. of development and 3966 ft.
of diamond-drilling. Throughput was
135,671 tons, comprising 64,292 tons
(6.55dwt.) from the North Kalgurli and
Genevieve blocks, 16,293 tons (7.98dwt.)
from Union Jack, 47,407 tons (8.68dwt.)
from Kalgurli, and from Croesus Prop.
7679 tons (5.56dwt) —average grade for
the lot, 7.4ldwt. In addition, royalty
from tributors’ returns brought in £l7Bl.
Positive ore reserves of 835,242 tons,
grade 7.31dwt., are made up of 61,150
tons averaging 12.14dwt., 137,150 tons
8.62dwt., 235,930 tons 6.7dwt., 210,820
tons 4.99dwt., broken ore 190,192 tons
B.lldwt. Probable ore is conservatively
taken at 246,500 tons averaging 6.l7dwt.
Previous estimate was: Positive 780,701
tons of 7.Bdwt. grade, probable 201,770
tons assaying 6.6dwt. Commending the
new plant erected on Croesus Proprietary,
the consulting metallurgical engineer,
A. F. Norwood, says: It is designed to
treat 7000 tons a month, but provision
has been made for its ready expansion
to treat 14,000 to 15,000 tons. Ore bins,
thickeners and filters with sufficient capa-
city to deal with the larger tonnage have
been installed, and the crushing section
would be capable of handling the extra
tonnage without additional expenditure.
* * * *
Paringa (W.A.) is again whooping
about an ore development. Recently it
crowed about prospects, exposure of
good average-grade rock varying from
sft. to 15ft. in width, and continuance
of shoots. Now it reports a diamond-
drill stab at the 640 ft. level, the core of
which assays 7dwt. a ton over an approxi-
mate width of 18ft. It is declared to be
a continuation of the East lode. As there
are 3,863,428 shares issued, discoveries
need to be impressive to have much
effect on the market.
* * * *
Once Westralian goldmining shows re-
ported fortnightly returns, then they an-
nounced them monthly. Now, as a result
of the advent of fortnightly paydays in-
stead of two pays a month, returns will
be issued every four weeks, so that 13
returns will be issued a year instead of
12. Mines Dept, will continue to issue
its production figures every calendar
month.
* * * *
The Louisa reef, on the Palmer gold-
field (N.Q.), figured largely in Dr. Jack’s
reports in the last century as a small,
rich deposit from which sulphides drove
away the early prospectors. An old
Queensland mining identity, Charlie
Barnes, and party have taken a lease
over the area, and have opened it up to
130 ft. The syndicate is getting ready to
stope, and a battery to be erected near
by will give the old show another tryout.
Efficient recovery of the gold in the bat-
tery may be the problem rather than the
values underground.
* * * *
The last dividend of the Black Jack
Co., Charters Towers (N.Q.), brought the
total paid out to shareholders ahead of
the £20,000 distributed when the mine
was first worked in the ’eighties. Develop-
ment has reached a point 1150 ft. south
of the shaft. Like all Towers reefs there
are blanks, but the reef is looking par-
ticularly well, more especially No. 5
south, where there is 15in. of heavy
mineral stone for a considerable stoping
length. The last fortnightly return, 160
tons crushed and 300 tons of tailings, ran
out between 4dwt. and sdwt. gold by
cyanide treatment. W. H. Clark looks
optimistically to the continuation of the
southside shoot in depth. The Black
Jack remains his greatest contribution to
the partial comeback of the Towers field.
While production has slightly stepped up,
outside of the Jack it is mostly in the
hands of small prospecting parties.


f; :
f"-
ffilliii
Ifllilii
MiMWSSm
fs
mm
m
..
•a
IT IS SAFE
IT IS SIMPLE
IT IS ECONOMICAL
IT PROVIDES A RECORD
IT IS MORE CONVENIENT
IT IS A PROOF OF PAYMENT
IT MAKES BOOKKEEPING EASY
IT AFFIRMS YOUR CREDIT STANDING
Open a cheque account to-day with the
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
H E 'F I R S T BANK IN AUSTRALIA
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters.
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agent: A. L. Frost, Esq., Launceston.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
loma Rubber Estates
The day of the company promoter is
not dead. War or no war, National
Security (Capital Issue) Regulations not-
withstanding, loma (Papua) Rubber
Estates, Ltd., “confidently offers acre
allotments as an attractive and lucrative
investment, certain to return an excep-
tionally high and permanent income for
the respective outlay.” And, having read
portion of a “booklet” which “is not
the company’s prospectus,” you auto-
matically wonder why the proposition has
not been brought before the custodians
of the National Debt Sinking Fund as
an alternative investment to Consolidated
Loans. For what more does any Treasurer
need than “an attractive and lucrative
investment, certain to return an excep-
tionally high and permanent rate of in-
come”?
But the part about “exceptionally high
and permanent income” occurs on the
last page of the booklet-which-is-not-a-
prospectus. Perhaps we will find our
enthusiasm easier to contain if we start
at the beginning of the document. After
all, rubber has been produced for years
and years. The booklet admits that
1,000,000 tons of the stuff is consumed
annually throughout the world. There-
fore someone else must be making profits
or losses out of it —that is, if losses are
possible in the rubber-growing business.
(What would a permanent, lucrative loss
look like?)
The booklet deals with the first issue
of 200 “certificates of allotment.” The
directors of the co. are R. C. N. Primrose,
a solicitor, A. H. Watson, a broker,
and A. M. Watson, another broker.
In addition to these Watsons being
brokers, both their first names are
Albert; they probably call each other by
their second names —Henry and Melville
respectively. The directors, solicitors,
broker (A. H. Watson), secretary and
registered office are all to be found at
No. 12 or No. 14 Castlareagh-street,
Sydney. The auditor is round the corner
in Martin-place.
It appears that the co. has a rubber
plantation in Papua in which it is
desirous of disposing of “beneficial in-
terests” to anyone able to put up £6O
or multiples thereof. From photos, in
the booklet it would seem that, in addition
to young rubber trees, there are a number
of natives in the vicinity, some in fancy
dress, others in a less elaborate worka-
day outfit the size of a dishrag.
There is also a “native sing-sing ground.
Casuarina tree in centre.”
Purchase of a certificate (£6O) entitles
the holder to “a beneficial interest of one
two-hundredth portion of the net pro-
ceeds from the rubber produced on the
first section of 200 acres.” The co. main-
tains the plantation until production of
rubber commences. Thereafter the co.
will market the rubber crop for 5 p.c. of
the gross proceeds. The net profits will
be distributed pro rata among certificate-
holders, and “the certificate of the auditor
of the co shall be conclusive as to
the amount of such net profits.”
Over the past six years Koitaki Para
Rubber, operating in Papua and listed
on Sydney ’Change, has paid divs. aver-
aging under 8 p.c. p.a. And it doesn’t
have to hand a managing co. “5 p.c. of
the gross proceeds.” The loma enter-
prise estimates “the annual income” when
the “trees reach production of 10001 b.
per acre (which should be in the second
year of tapping)” at 62\ p.c. That is
with rubber at Is. a pound in London.
The price has fluctuated both above and
below that figure in London this year.
In comparison with the estimates of
the loma co., it may be of value to know
that the rubber cos. listed on Melbourne
’Change are among the scraggiest in-
vestments of the list. Divs., when paid
in recent years, have been meagre.
Koitaki, the Sydney-registered co. already
mentioned, has had the best experience ;
part of its success has been due to its
Papuan domicile. Steamships Trading Co.,
also partly interested in Papuan rubber,
in 1939 paid an ord. div. of 8 p.c. out
of earnings disclosed at 19 p.c. on ord.
capital. Still, 19 p.c. is less than a third
of the result loma estimates it will be
able to show with rubber at a shilling
a pound.
According to such little information as
the loma co. is prepared to offer in the
booklet about its antecedents, “the
original vendors have cleared and planted
200 acres with rubber trees (109 to the
acre). The trees growing are now 2\
years old, and average over 20ft. in
height. These trees have been produced
from hand-selected seed obtained from
the Government plantation at Kokoda,
from which plantation the average yield
for the year ended 30/ 6/ ’39 was 9.9689 1 b.
per tree —equivalent to practically 1000 lb.
of dry rubber per acre per year.” The
emphasis is the co.’s idea. The size of
the plantation from which the yield was
taken isn’t mentioned.
The co.’s 200-acre plantation is portion
of a 1000-acre parcel of land at loma, on
Papua’s northern side, held on 99-years’
lease. It is said to be near a 130-acre
Government planting. Exactly what a
certificate-holder’s interest represents
other than being a beneficial one the
booklet or the specimen agreement does
not say ; the assumption is that the in-
terest, beneficial or otherwise, exists for
the duration of the lease. It is mentioned
that the “productive life of a rubber tree
is 30 years.”
This much can be said for the co.’s
booklet: it is uniform in its optimism.
So uniform that it may be described as
lopsided. Although the co. willingly
quotes that
The Official Handbook of Papua, 1938,
states: “Profits from a well-managed rubber
plantation are not only sure but are higher
than those of many speculative commer-
cial concerns whose shares are bought by
the public. With rubber at I\A. per lb.
in London the average Papuan planta-
tion should give a return of about 27 per
cent., and the profit is more likely to
increase than diminish,”
nowhere does it suggest that there are
any difficulties in the way of rubber-
growing. The quotation from the hand-
book mentions well-managed plan-
tations ; the co. does not say who its
manager is. Its directors are Sydney
professional men, well-versed, apparently,
in law and broking.
Shareholders? Yes, there are some in
the concern somewhere. The co. has a
nominal capital running to £2500 in
16,000 2s. 6d. ords. and 10,000 shilling
def.erreds. The amount paid up isn’t
stated. Certificate-holders are asked for
£12,000 in the first issue. If the
co.’s “estimates” are exactly realised
shareholders will, on a 5 p.c. basis,
get a gross return of £625 a year
and certificate-holders £7500 net. Looked
at from this angle the relationship
isn’t unfair. But the co.’s estimates
are only estimates, and in the rosy
language of its booklet it should at least
have found space to say how much the
acres for which it is asking £6O have
cost it to date.
Is Dutch Indies petrol won by
“foreign” companies and sold to the
world, or is it principally extracted from
under the earth by British-domiciled in-
terests which prefer to be paid in dollars
—dollars being more valuable than
sterling? Petroleum has been coming into
Australia at a price of about 4d. or sd.
a gallon. Of course, it doesn’t cost any-
thing like that much at the well; there
are refining, shipping and profit charges
included in the figure. Additional re-
fining is in some cases carried out in
Australia. If a British co. controls oil-
wells in the Netherlands Indies it is
difficult to see how the problem of dollar
exchange arises. And even if British
concerns control merely the refining and
transport portions of the petrol-supply
job, then only a fraction of the landed
cost should be a dollar problem. Quite
apart from the matter of petrol-rationing,
the Commonwealth and British Govern-
ments should go further into this ques-
tion of whether it is really necessary to
use dollars at all for the purchase of
petrol from some sources. Royal Dutch
Shell sources, for instance. The British
Navy’s services are worth a lot to oil
cos.
* * * *
It was reported last week in London
that Anglo-Iranian Oil (formerly Anglo-
Persian Oil) is to pay to Iran the sum
of £1,500,000 as a result of an argument
between the oil co. and the Iranian
Treasury. This payment is in respect
of 1938 and 1939, and a new basis of
royalty will operate until 1941, when a
reconsideration will take place. The new
rate of payment for the years 1938-41
will have regard to 1937 basis of pay-
ment, with a minimum royalty of
£4,000,000 in 1940 and 1941. Apart from
the latest surcharge, Anglo-Iranian Oil
paid Iran £3,545,313 in 1937, £3,307,479
in 1938 and £2,770,814 in 1939. Iran
produced 10,720,000 metric tons of crude
oil in 1939.
* * * *
Petrol flowed from the Glen Davis
(Capertee Valley, N.S.W.) works of
National Oil Pty. last week. It was the
first time petrol had been produced on
a commercial scale from Australian
crudes. The present plant is capable of
handling 500 tons of shale a day for a
return of 58,000 gallons of crudes, in
turn yielding 35,000 gallons of petrol.
It works out at 10,000,000 gallons of
petrol a year. George Davis, of the
Gelatine Co. and Cockatoo Dock, is
managing director of National Oil.
* * * *
Australian Gas is still on a 4 p.c. div.
basis (cut from 6 p.c. because increased
costs, by N.S.W. Government decree,
can’t be passed on to the consumer) and
the £6 shares, even at last week’s im-
proved price of £5 125., are still below
par, and still further below the issue
price at which they were auctioned. Yet
the Federal price-fixing authorities have
allowed cigarettes to be reduced in size
in order to meet increased costs, and no
tobacco co.’s scrip is below par. If Aus-
tralian Gas desires to extend its services
into new areas in competition with the
County Council’s electricity depart-
ment it will be unable to raise share
capital to do so. There are no two ways
about it: so long as the country is pros-
perous no mere political stunt should be
allowed to depress gas shares below par.
No charge of inflated costs or over-
ambition has been made against Aus-
tralian Gas by the N.S.W. Government.
Therefore, why this slash at gas share-
holders as a class?
* * + *
With the approval of the Prices Com-
missioner the size of a number of brands
of Australian cigarettes has been reduced.
This has been done by the tobacco cos.
to meet the increase of 10 p.c. in duty on
imported leaf. In some cases the in-
creased cost has been offset instead by
increasing the amount of Australian leaf
in the blend.
* * * *
Onkaparinga Woollen, of S.A., has in-
creased its div. from 4 p.c. to 5 p.c.
Yarra Falls has maintained its div. at
10 p.c.
* * * *
Yellow Cabs of Australia, after pro-
viding £45,692 (against £44,188) for de-
preciation and £23,000 for taxation
(against £10,881) has exhibited net profits
of £19,736, compared with £20,944. Pro-
fits from sale of assets was £5675, against
£4680. Div. and bonus for the year total
14 p.c., compared with 12 p.c. in 1939.
It remains to be seen whether petrol-
rationing will adversely affect the co. or
not. At 10s. the 7s. 6d. shares return
10.5 p.c.
* # * *
Adelaide Steam shares sold at slightly
under 30s. last week, drifting in the
market against the general trend. They
yielded 4.3 p.c. on a 6\ p.c. div. basis
and were attractive for holding purposes.


WHO 9
PAYS-
Naturally, it is your responsibility
as a husband and father always
to protect your dependents. You
will be able to rest in content-
ment knowing that their futures
are secure if you are wise enough
to assure your life. Give them
the security they expect from
you—assure yourself to-day with
the
EQUITABLE
PROBATE an o
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane.
Wingello Mouse. Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
THIS SADDLE IS TOPS!
No. 163,
'TUMBA"
“PRIDE OF THE ROAD.”
ds
Our
Catalogue
is Free.
Send for
One.
£10/19/6
(•COMPLETE)
A high-grade
Saddle with
narrowest
possible grip
and comfort-
able n o n-
chafing seat.
First- class
materials used
throughout.
N.S.W. Freight on
Saddles Paid fcr
Cash with Order.
it
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
sting
\lavve
acre
§llll
y.f
31
Pulling a 14 foot header,
this "Caterpillar" Diesel RD4
harvests 30 acres of wheat
per 10 hour day and at a
fuel cost of sd. per acre,
in hilly country.
Whatever work there is to do a “Caterpillar" Diesel will do it far
quicker, cheaper and with lower maintenance costs. With its broad,
non-slip, light-treading tracks, and ability to work in all kinds of weather
day and night, no work need wait; no farm operation need be neglected.
Investigate the economies of “Caterpillar" Diesel power today—ask your
local dealer, or write.
CATERPILLAR
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Victoria and Tasmania:
William Adams & Co,, Ltd.,
521 Collins Street, Melbourne.
New South Wales:
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.,
Unwin’s Bridge Road,
St. Peters, Sydney.
Queensland:
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.,
102 Melbourne St., Brisbane.
South Australia:
The S.A. Tractor Company,
231 Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
West Australia:
Wigmore’s, Limited,
613 Wellington Street,! Perth. .
B.H.P. steel-production figures are no
longer published, but a “special corre-
spondent” of a Sydney daily last week
stated that present steel production in
Australia was at the rate of 1,600,000
tons a year (“one works 1,000,000 tons
and another 600,000 tons”), compared
with 1,200,000 tons in the year before the
war. The same authority recorded that
A modern blast furnace is now in course
of erection to serve the main source of
Australia’s supplies of iron ore. When
completed, it will represent an invaluable
addition to South Australia’s rapidly-
expanding heavy industries, and will provide
an additional source of pig-iron supply.
The strengthening of Australia’s steel
front does not end there. One company
has built a new mill for rolling tool steel,
indispensable for the efficient operation of
those Australian factories which are en-
gaged in the production of guns, shells,
aeroplanes and aero engines by mass-pro-
duction methods.
The daily quoted is the “Herald,” which
isn’t so Freetrade as it used to be.
* * * *
In addition to a shortage of copper,
Australia is feeling the pinch in regard
to other metals. In spite of the present
unprecedented rate of steel production,
builders report difficulty in getting all the
galvanised iron, steel waterpipes and
guttering they want. This notwithstand-
ing the falling-off in building activity.
Engineering concerns, too, are often held
up with their requirements of girders,
bars, etc. The reason, of course, is de-
fence consumption ; the changeover of
a large portion of our energies from
domestic work to war work, often spoken
about by Treasurer Spender, is no myth.
The competition between defence and
industry for steel is a clear illustration
of what is meant by the advice to spend
less on non-essentials and to contribute
more to war funds. Not only is Aus-
tralia drawing more heavily on B.H.P.
and A.I. and S. steel; air-raid shelters,
etc., are still being made here for Britain,
and they represent a large quantity of
metal. Since Britain requires all the steel
it can turn out, Australia has been allotted
the task of supplying other Empire coun-
tries with as much steel as possible.
Australia turns out about 19,000 tons
of copper a year, and before the war
some of this was exported. Now all of
it, and more, is wanted in the Common-
wealth. Substitutes are being allowed by
water-supply authorities in place of
copper pipes, but even substitutes are
hard to get. Mt. Lyell (Tas.) turns out
about 13,000 tons of electrolytic a year ;
so far it hasn’t been able to increase
the figure, though no doubt efforts are
being made to do so. Mt. Morgan is
the next-biggest producer, and New
Occidental (N.S.W.) turns out some red
metal. The price fixed by the authorities
is £76 a ton for electrolytic, of which £4
has to be set aside for developing further
copper production.
He H= He *
Six men appeared in Sydney’s
Central Police Court last week charged
with having unlawfully, fraudulently and
deceitfully conspired, combined, con-
federated and agreed together, and with
William James Fullerton, “by means of
fraudulent statements, conducts, tricks
and subtle devices, to obtain the moneys
of Mary Burt Welsh, with intent to
cheat and defraud her and divers
other persons of divers sums of
money.” The names of the men
were David Hampton, company director,
Michael Spiegel, retired company direc-
tor, George S. Holburn, company
director, Edward R. White, retired
grazier, Percy R. Higgins, barrister, and
Walter J. Taylor, company director. The
Commonwealth Hemp Corporation
figures in the case. All the men were
remanded. Bail was fixed at £lOOO in
each case.
* * * *
That progressive Australian towel-
manufacturer H. B. Dickie, Ltd., had a
“greatly increased output and turnover’
for the year to June 30. After providing
£8350 for taxation, net profit rose from
£13,422 to £15,959. The ord. div. has
been lifted from 8 p.c. to 9 p.c.; on
the increased capital (50,000 new ords.
and 25,000 new prefs. were issued dur-
ing the year, both classes now paid to
12s. 6d.) the div. called for £10,944,
leaving £5015 for reserves. When all the
scrip now issued is fully paid there will
be a share-register total of £190,000
£40,000 of it in 6 p.c. prefs. Doing well
before, the war has greatly expanded the
foundations of this co.’s business. At
28s. in Melbourne the ord. shares return
6.5 p.c. on the basis of a 9 p.c. div. It
seems quite secure in present circum-
stances.
* * * *
Newbold Refractories, which used to
be Newbold Firebrick, showed a profit
of, only £20,215 during the term to June
30, compared with £29,296 in the pre-
vious year. Earnings dropped to 7.6 p.c.
on average capital, against 11.6 p.c. in
the preceding term. The div. was brought
down from 10 p.c. to p.c. At first
sight the figures are a shock, seeing that
firebricks, etc., must be in great demand
in the munitions and allied industries.
The directors explain that the coal strike
threw the works right out of gear in
the second half of the year, though
normal operations are now the rule. The
new basic brick plant has been held up
because of difficulty in getting steel and
essential machinery. At 245. 6d. the
shares return 6 p.c. on a 7 % p.c. div.
basis. It is the lowest div. since 1933.
* * * *
The sharemarket bid exuberantly for
the stocks it fancied early last week.
Felt and Textiles rushed up to 40s. after
having been down to 30s. Highest price
in the early-1940 boom was 425. 6d. Other
textile concerns were in keen demand,
Yarra Falls being sought in vain at 40s.
6d., Bradford Cotton at 355. 6d., and
even Amalgamated Textiles (N.S.W.) was
active at 6s. Id. Bond’s Industries deben-
tures reached £Bl. Warrnambool Woollen
ords. sold at 12s. 6d., and buyers offered
265. 6d. for Valley Worsted (Vic.) scrip
after sales at that figure. This co. made
a profit of £44,068 to June 30 (tax pro-
vision £25,730), against £41,529 (tax
£10,346) in 1938-39. Lincoln Mills
4s. ords. were dealt in at 7s. 3d. Davies
Coop ords. rose sharply to 275. 6d., after
265.; this co., like Bond’s and Bradford,
is mainly interested in cotton goods. It
was principally woollen and cotton con-
cerns manufacturing for defence orders
that were sought after last week. Hosiery
cos. were dull.
A climax was reached on Friday.
The Sydney ’Change index of industrial
shares that day touched 119.82, after
having been down to 114.7 on August 9.
(The June “low” was 107.52, recovering
to 116.95 on July 31.) Australian Gas
A shares, the div. on which recently
fell from 6 p.c. to 4 p.c. and the price
to £5 55., sold at £5 14s. Drug Houses
changed hands at 265. 2d., David Jones
ords. at 305., Woolworths at 17s. 3d.,
North Coast Steam at 395., Electro. Zinc
ords. at 48s. 6d., Kandos Cement at 295.
9d. and Australasian Paper at 28s. 3d.
North Broken Hill was sought after at
365. 3d., South at 255. 3d. Broken Hill
Prop, was quiet until Friday, and Tooth
relapsed again to 475. 3d. This stock
has been very volatile of late. It closed
for the week at 48s.
* * * *
The Federal Match Co. has bumped
its head on the price-fixing regulations.
It lifted the price after August 7 be-
cause of increased costs. According to
Professor Copland,
These increases in cost had been investi-
gated, but the company was informed on
August 16 . that the Prices Commissioner
desired to examine the gross profit margin
before permitting an increase in prices.
Despite the intimation that it was desired
that the increase should be withheld pend-
ing the investigation of profits, the com-
pany proceeded to sell matches at the
higher prices. The order published in the
“Commonwealth Gazette” compels the com-
pany to revert to its pre-war prices pend-
ing the review of profits.
Other interests that have been forced to
change their minds about increased
charges since war broke out are Aus-
tralian Window Glass, coastal shipping
cos., marine insurance cos. and paper-
importing concerns.
C. G. Sundstrom, managing director
of the Federal Match Co., said that since
July the co. had been making matches
at a loss. The recent increase in price
was lOd. a gross. Now credit notes, by
reason of the Price Commissioner’s de-
cision, are to be sent out in respect ot
55,000 gross sold since the price was
lifted. The match co. claims to supply
N.S.W. with 95 p.c. of its matches.
$ * * *
“I have been cherishing a hope that in
the not distant future the motor-car in-
dustry will be established ; it has had its
setbacks, but it is going to be established
—at Lithgow, I hope.” So said Lawson,
M.H.R., who “more or less fathered” the
idea of making cars in Australia while he
was Minister for Customs. He was
speaking at Lithgow (N.S.W.). Australian
Consolidated Industries was to do the
job before a leased racehorse and public
opposition interfered with original plans.
* * * *
W. W. Campbell and Co., an extra-
ordinarily successful Sydney furniture
retailer, disclosed a decline in profits or
£6224 last year. But out of the £17,635
shown it was still possible to pay 17?
p.c. to ord. shareholders, against 20 p.c.
and 17? p.c. in each of the two preceding
years. The drop in profits was principally
due to provision “for all anticipated war-
time taxes and a substantial addition to
the reserve against debtors.” There is
£60,000 of ord. capital and £50,000 of
p.c. pref. money. Reserves total
£120,000, apart from £59,498 in pro-
vision for unaccrued profits and bad
debts. Goodwill figures at £52,500. The
co. is owed £212,441 by its customers. A
bonus issue to ord. shareholders has
been prohibited under the war-time finan-
cial restrictions.
* * * *
Canberra has interested itself in the
Centralian mica industry. Senator
McLeay said last week that the
market for the product in Alice Springs
had been chaotic, but “steps are now
being taken to improve it and ensure
stability of prices.” Later he announced
that the Commonwealth had assumed
control of all mica production, and had
appointed a buyer to supervise deal-
ings and transport. Professor Copland
has fixed a figure for the stuff, which
is now readily absorbed in the Common-
wealth. Much of the mica comes from
Hart’s Range. In the year to June 30,
1939, £134,000-worth was produced in the
Territory, and under existing conditions
that figure may expand considerably.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
THE COLLAPSE OF FRANCE.
(Condensed from the latest monthly memorandum of
the Imperial Policy Group.)
When as a result of the last election the Front
Populaire Government came to power, a series of
disasters commenced which are largely responsible
for, and have ended in, the armistice of June, 1940.
The election brought a considerable number of Com-
munist Deputies and extreme Leftists to the Chamber,
whose mischievous influence and persistent intrigue
played a deadly part. At a time when the highest
possible industrial output was necessary for the very
life of France, the country was plunged into a series
of deplorable disputes and strikes from which it
never recovered.
Having created black chaos in France, M. Blum’s
Government pursued a reckless foreign policy involv-
ing France in bitter enmities for which she was to pay
dearly. Eventually, the Front Populaire broke down
and in due course M. Daladier formed a Government
with a mandate to put a sorely-perplexed country into
some sort of order. Unfortunately, events abroad had
moved no less swiftly than those at home, and M.
Daladier was soon plunged into all the complexities
of a European crisis of the first magnitude.
The whole world believes that Mr. Chamberlain
was driven to Munich by the unpreparedness of
Britain. Although this was an important factor
it was not the only decisive one. We had no
obligation to Czechoslovakia outside the League,
to which body no appeal was ever made. Our
only commitment was to France. It was only
in the very middle of the crisis that it became
apparent that France had not the slightest in-
tention of carrying out her obligations, and it
was at this moment that the appalling dangers
of our position became plain.
Although Britain was very reluctant to go
to war, and our preparations were incomplete,
the primary object was to save France from the
most appalling humiliation, and to escape fight-
ing Germany quite alone over an issue which
did not involve our treaty obligations.
Powerful forces were at work. Amongst
the politicians opposed to intervention were
MM. Flandin, Laval, Marcel Diat, Bonnet, De
Monzie and many others. Many distinguished
soldiers were also strongly opposed to action.
The masses were utterly pacifist. Neutral ob-
servers who talked to soldiers on their way to
the frontiers reported upon their ill-temper.
Nothing was ever more popular amongst the
French masses than the Munich settlement.
All this came as a great shock to those who
regarded France’s eastern commitments as vital
to the life of the country, and directly the crisis
was over they asserted themselves. Two schools
of thought were to prevail: those who believed
that the Polish alliance could effectively be car-
ried out, and those who thought that to say so
would bluff Hitler out of aggression. M.
Daladier was amongst the latter, but absurdly
enough everyone knew it. Anyone with moder-
ately good contacts in Paris could hear what
the French Prime Minister had said about it
on this or that occasion. It was well known
in Berlin.
Little by little an atmosphere was created in which
to criticise or question the Polish alliance was akin
to treachery, and so opposition was gradually silenced,
until at the last not a voice was raised in protest. The
channel of communication between London and Paris
was narrowed and, unhappily, the British Government
was unaware that all the apparent unanimity was
nothing more than a deceptive facade behind which
were seething discontent and utter defeatism.
No sooner was war declared than political in-
trigue started afresh ; the isolationists were determined
to bring it to the earliest possible conclusion at the
conference table. Then the Communists got to work
on Germany’s behalf in every nook and corner of
France. In order to counteract all this, the activists
persuaded M. Daladier to impose the strictest measures.
The press was heavily censored, individuals who ex-
pressed the slightest doubt as to the outcome of the
war were locked up. Many foreign visitors to Paris
were regarded with suspicion. Every resource of
propaganda was mobilised in order to persuade the
French people that Germany was in extremis, and
that the war would be won quite comfortably.
The facts, however, were very different. Ger-
many’s passive policy in the west was, as we know,
deliberately calculated to undermine the morale of
France. Grumbling in the army grew to alarming pro-
portions. The authorities could not arrest the defeat-
ists fast enough. The Germans concentrated Nazi
propaganda upon the upper classes, and spread Com-
munist propaganda amongst the masses. The Fifth
Column grew to enormous proportions. Officers could
be heard in the cafes saying that soon they would be
marching back to Paris. The rank and file, receiving
grumbling letters from their wives at home, became
ever more difficult to console. It was estimated by
observers that 90 per cent, of the women of France
were ready for peace at almost any price.
The Germans started the story that France had
gone to war under British pressure, whereas, in fact, it
was to honor a French alliance that Great Britain
had really marched. Much was made of the small-
ness of the British Army, and at this criticism many
Frenchmen were only too anxious to grasp. The total
inadequacy of the French air force many Frenchmen
were inclined to forget. Anti-British sentiment spread
far and wide, assuming most alarming proportions.
If it had not been for the Finnish business, M.
Laval might have come to power last December. He
was in favor of a separate peace with Germany. The
Finnish war gave the people something to think about,
and generally gingered up the propaganda machine.
Then came M. Daladier’s downfall. Powerful influ-
ences had been at work. It was thought necessary to
give the Reynaud regime a run for its money and
then, when it was proved that the situation was no
better, to sweep the activists out and put the nego-
tiators in.
M. Reynaud expressed the opinion that unless
something was done to break stalemate his Govern-
ment would not last ten days. He agreed to redress-
ing Norwegian neutrality and the declaration that
France would make no separate peace. On his return
to France, however, he found that certain aspects of
the Allied plan were strongly objected to, and that
some of his colleagues were furious at the “no sepa-
rate peace” declaration. M. Daladier and his friends
imposed conditions upon M. Reynaud which made
the effective prosecution of the war virtually impos-
sible, and also made it clear that the declaration was
of little importance.
At the time of Germany’s western thrust, M.
Reynaud’s Government was again in danger from the
isolationists, for the collapse of Norway had dealt a
Cleveland “Plain Dealer,” U.S.A.
BRITAIN FIGHTS ALONE.
shattering blow to the activists. In our considered
view, it was only a question of a very short time before
France would in any case have been at the conference
table. The military calamities which followed so
swiftly one upon another and led to the dismissal of
General Gamelin and 15 of his colleagues left M.
Reynaud in the saddle, but badly shaken. The country
was becoming ever more restive. The summoning of
Marshal Petain to the Vice-Premiership and the
appointment of General Weygand helped to steady
the pulse, but only temporarily. When the enemy
started breaking through on the Somme and the Aisne,
France’s capitulation was certain.
Just before the last battle started, a distinguished
though unofficial French visitor arived in London. He
explained that the chance of holding the Germans on
the Somme and the Aisne was extremely small; that
the loss of Paris was almost certain, and that it was
difficult to see any end to the retreat of the French
army. He explained that there was reason to fear
that the Germans would set up a Communist Gov-
ernment in Paris which would undoubtedly be widely
supported throughout the country and might have far-
reaching political repercussions throughout the world.
He expressed the opinion that the policy of withdraw-
ing from France was impracticable because of the
difficulty of persuading French sailors to blockade
their own wives and children for any long period ; in
any event, a French Government would certainly be
formed, Communist or otherwise, which would make
terms with the enemy. He was, therefore, of the
opinion that it would be far better that terms should
be negotiated by some reliable and properly consti-
tuted Government than by revolutionaries.
His view was proved to be only too well founded.
It is very difficult to know why Marshal Petain did not
ask for a meeting of the Supreme War Council and
lay before the Allied Governments a fresh apprecia-
tion of the situation before approaching the enemy.
This was evidently not done. It must be remembered,
however, that the breakdown of France was complete.
General Weygand was trying to command his armies
from a small provincial hotel with a single telephone.
Millions of refugees were blocking the roads. They
were homeless, without food and without prospects.
The major part of industrial France was already in
German hands, and nearly all the territory which has
been included in the terms of armistice was already
occupied.
Petain’s action represented the desires of an over-
whelming majority of the French people. It is quite
possible, however, that the very act of capitulation
and the terrible nature of the armistice terms may
produce a reaction. Both Petain and Weygand had for
months warned the French Cabinet of the dangers
which lay ahead. There is evidence to show how they
tried to avert them. General Weygand’s memoranda
during the first months of the war were not those of a
defeatist. So far as Petain is concerned he has for a
very long time been a bitter critic of the political
regime in his country. History will undoubtedly con-
demn his action in not pursuing the Reynaud con-
versations with Great Britain on the subject of peace,
but will also take extenuating circumstances into
account.
Even though on balance the Marshal is found
guilty of a grievous mistake in not awaiting a release
from Britain and reserving the fleet, his great services
to France over a long and distinguished career, and
especially his patriotic warnings of recent months, all
rank him as having once been a staunch Frenchman.
The general disregard of his warnings and the tragic
state of his country no doubt embittered him
at the last and, pressed on many sides by de-
moralised politicians, anxious advisers and
harassed civilians, he cut through all formali-
ties and reservations and, even as Mr. Churchill
was already on his way for further conversa-
tions, he cast the die. In the last hours the
Marshal became very old, disgruntled and,
alas, a defeated man.
We cannot disregard the fact that France
broke a solemn pledge and acknowledged Ger-
many’s right to use French territory for opera-
tions against us. At the same time we shall
harm neither our own cause nor that of Europe
if we are generous enough to take into the
fullest account the appalling dilemma which
faced the French Government at the last and
the terrible calamities through which the French
people have passed. Those who sincerely
treasure good relations between the British and
French peoples will take care not to judge the
aged Marshal and his colleagues too harshly,
for in so doing we shall gain nothing, and we
may well alienate a large section of French
opinion.
It ought not to be difficult to reconcile a
deep understanding of Petain’s difficulties with
admiration for those Frenchmen who, despite
all reverses, are anxious and determined to
continue fighting for France on Britain’s side,
with all the resources at their command. They,
least of all, would wish the British public to
form a harsh opinion of the France from which
they are at present exiled, or of the distin-
guished soldiers, sailors and airmen, many of
whom for various reasons have had to take
another course.
Although it is too early yet to estimate what
the internal political repercussions will be, we
can examine certain guiding facts from the
recent past. On the extreme Left there was an active
and widespread Communist movement, and on the
Right the P.S.F., which grew from the old Croix de
Feu. Of this party Colonel de la Rocque is leader,
and, although the colonel disclaims any royalist lean-
ings, his brother is secretary to the Comte de Paris
and there are many royalists in the party’s ranks.
Between the two extremes are the innumerable
groups and parties, nearly all of which have their full
share of responsibility for France’s difficulties. Most
of them will now pay a heavy price, and we shall very
likely see a general “same qui peut,” with politicians
scuttling into one extreme party or the other. Ob-
servers have always been greatly divided in their
opinions as to which way France would move in such
a crisis—would it be towards the Right or the Left?
The balance of opinion has been that at the first there
would be a grave danger of Communism, but that, if
the worst moment could be passed, then the tendency
would be towards the Right. The instinct of most ex-
officers (and there will be thousands of them) will be
towards some form of strong Right-wing movement,
and, since there is no single outstanding Communist
figure who is not well known to have been in German
pay, the masses may find it hard to resist the claims
of the Right.
Moreover, anti-Semitism has been rife of late
and during recent weeks has reached great proportions.
Hatred of the Freemasons has also been growing, and
both these tendencies are certainly of the Right.
Further, the people remember that it was the Leftists
who opposed armaments and who voted against the
Maginot Line credits. It was they who quarrelled with
Italy and Spain, while putting their faith in a Russia
which never fired a shot except against the Finns.
On the other hand, the Right Wing in France has
always been hopelessly ineffective and divided. There
will be bitter heart-searching in France, and there will
be some little time-lag before most Frenchmen make up
their minds where they stand politically. Tremendous
issues will depend upon the course of events. One
thing is certain ; the old order of Parliamentary in-
trigue, corruption and place-seeking will certainly be
swept away. For a long time resentment has been
growing, now it will reach fever-heat. Whatever the
immediate consequences, almost any outburst will be
for the good, for France had lost her will power, and


so long as she regains the character to take some
action, however dangerous, that will be the first step
towards the rebirth of what is fundamentally a great
race and will remain so.
Convoys from Canada.
[With Britain drawing heavily on the U.S.A., as also
on Canada, for supplies, Canada’s eastern seaboard has
become one of the most important of shipping centres.
In the article here condensed from the “Saturday Evening
Post” Eeslie Roberts describes the convoy system in
operation and gives some idea of the volume of the
traffic.]
Ever since the European powder keg took fire again,
storm-scarred freighters, low-riding tankers and all
manner of merchantmen —many of them relics of the
last war —have been bucking the gales north from
Eastern United States ports, loaded to their Plimsoll
lines with every conceivable species of American-made
war goods. One by one they straggle north into
Canadian waters and anchor in one of the world’s great
natural harbors, where they join other ships which
have loaded in Canadian ports. In this Canadian
roadstead the tramps of the seven seas are organised
into convoys.
Tonnages moved from North American waters to
Allied ports under the convoy system during the war’s
first winter reached astronomical figures. Figures are
not revealed, for obvious reasons, but one “unnamed
Canadian port,” as the censors like to call it, is
authoritatively said to have been the world’s busiest
harbor since the convoys began to sail last September.
As war steps into higher gears, or as Europe’s domestic
trade suffers new dislocations, the movement is destined
to touch new highs, month by month, until the fighting
stops and what is obviously a false trade collapses.
Because it is the organisation point of the great
merchant convoys, Canada’s Atlantic frontier has
become a war zone. Anti-submarine nets seal the
entrance to the great land-locked basin in which the
loaded merchantmen assemble. On near-by head-
lands long-range guns, electrically heated to keep each
artillery piece ready for instant action, point black
snouts out to sea. Patrol craft skim the waves. Mine-
sweepers drag ship channels. Bomb-laden aircraft fly
to 200 miles off the coast on the lookout for subs, or
surface raiders. Warships come and go.
Today, from 70 to 100 loaded merchantmen may
be riding at anchor in this huge roadstead. Tomorrow
only 20 will remain—ships of speeds unsuited to the
gait of those which slipped out at dawn under battle-
ship, destroyer and air escort to begin the long trek to
unannounced destinations. Throughout the day, every
day, more tramps and tankers arrive from United
States and Canadian ports.
Convoys are organised with a view to speed and
dispatch, as well as with an eye to safety. Some of
the anchored ships will be good for 12-knot speeds,
others for 10, some of the old harridans of pre-1918 for
no more than seven or eight. Thus there are fast con-
voys and slow convoys, which are purely relative terms.
The day preceding departure is one of bustling
preparation, invisible to anyone but the participants
and those who know the signs. At dawn, patrol ’planes
take off out to sea to sweep the waters in relays until,
darkness falls again. Minesweepers drag paravanes
through the channels of the outer harbor and the path
the ships will use to reach the open Atlantic. Skippers
go overside for last-minute sessions with their
chandlers. The censorship clamps down hard on in-
coming messages and outgoing mail. Finally, toward
evening, masters, mates and wireless operators meet
the naval-control officer, the convoy commodore, the
commanding officer of the escort, pilots and liaison
officers to discuss the problems of the journey ahead.
Every man’s credentials are checked before he enters
the room. Hundreds of lives, millions of dollars in
war materials, tens of thousands of tons of ships depend
for their safety during the days immediately ahead
on words which will be spoken and orders which will
be issued in this meeting. Doors are closed and guards
are mounted. A convoy conference is in session.
The naval control officer —a commander of the
Royal Canadian Navy—passes a copy of the sailing
orders to each master. “Being in all respects ready
for sea,” runs the preamble, “you are to sail with a
convoy for your destination, in accordance with the
following.” “The following” are the detailed instruc-
tions by which every master must abide at sailing
time. In addition, just as he weighs anchor, each
skipper will be handed a series of sealed envelopes
with definite orders as to when he may use them.
These secret orders show the route to be followed, day
by day, the place of rendezvous and that of dispersal.
Thenceforth everyone is anonymous. Each ship
will move from its anchorage at a specified moment
and will pass control stations at stipulated times and
stated speeds, picking up pace as the convoy steams
in line toward the submarine nets and again after
pilots are dropped. Ships will then continue in line
out to sea to an appointed rendezvous, where they will
form into convoy pattern as laid down in cruising
orders. Thereafter they will sail 3000 miles through
sleet, fog, gale and whatever else the North Atlantic
has to offer. Nobody will shift position in the flotilla.
No lights will be shown. Wireless will keep silence.
All very simple. Britishers, Frenchmen, Nor-
wegians, Dutchmen, plus a couple of Panamanians, of
United States origin no doubt, moving, evenly spaced ;
dun-colored mercenaries of the deep ; a hard-boiled lot
of ocean tramps. The naval officer checking ships and
times as they go by swears ardently at No. 11, the
Dutchman. “Damn that fellow!” he snaps. “If he
belches that kind of black stuff from his funnel he’ll
catch the devil from the commodore before he’s much
older!” The convoys don’t advertise.
Cut back now to the conference room. The con-
trol officer has had his say. Questions have been asked
and answers given. Now a much older man steps to
the table—a man whose beribboned breast bears testi-
mony to a life spent at sea in fighting-ships. Six
months ago, this paunchy, weather-beaten oldster was
growing roses somewhere in Surrey, his days on the
sea finished. Then war came again. They tell me
that what most of his breed did was to storm the doo
of the Admiralty in London next
all manner of dire events if they wer given
thing to do right away, and ‘at sea, mister! Ihey
pulled strings in offices occupied by their onetime
juniors. They pestered their members of Parliament.
They bothered Under-Secretaries, Cabinet Ministers,
sea ords ad mirals and belted earls in their clubs,
sea loras, aamirais auu u r,Hmirals
They didn t have to wait long, these old vice-admira
anc [ ca ptains ; with the convoy system the old-timers
needed not to ride in men-o’-war but in the
cramped ca t, ins of merchantmen, as commodores
charged with the sailing discipline of large
wallowing tankers. A comedown? The old salts were
tickled pink,
Eight or nine,
XticVrU’ For a few da?s sit about cEbs
p| ing bridge and billiards, downing
’telling any immediate listener what’s
P ink gin ? a ”5 ■ ,5 , y , t rron voune _
wrong with the world and * t nf ° oht and
Then, one by one ° vocabu^
bridge and billiards until their
turns come to -live*
lead ships of the long P r b nort thev stretch
to Europe. When eir c y , P aeain not in
their legs briefly asho f taking them
luxury liners but m
back to Canada to lea y L A t i ant i c
. spee f j p f pnrp a f ter declaration of
seaboard m a stat of inmr-nnge vuns re-
war was remarka e. . ® b Sauad-
placed obsolete weapons p f ' ini an d
rons of bombers and g These
points to augment t ose J redoubled and aue-
mobile forces beeni cioi tvnp ’f machined
mented again with the la YP g S *
boda Y Canada insists upon g ahead to
Canada, so far as safe y p , necessity
increase its own participa ion defence
of assistance from Great n a a tb other
on the one hand, and con Y immediatelv took
At this war s outset
over responsibility for all y g _ .
waters, a task which grows to new proportions with
every month. Without the
de Eence reqiiireMTients at sea ™ P • L,, .
negligible. But with the mer , . i mno ? tan |
ber Atlantic coast is one o . •, Firrnnean
economic fronts its most imp p
waters. ■_
An Appeal to Americans.
[The item here given is extraordinary in being in its
original form not an article but a full-page advertisement
in blew York “Times,” appearing also in newspapers
from coast tQ coast „ Qf the Unitec i states, sponsored
by the “Committee to Defend America by Aiding the
Allies” and organising a national campaign to that end ;
national chairman William Allen White, editor of the
Emporia (Kansas) “Gazette.” Therefore it must have
been read and discussed by a great many thousands of
Americans, and can be given here as a remarkable
expression’of widespread American opinion favoring the
cause for which the Empire is fighting.]
Hitler is striking with all the terrible force at his
command. His is a desperate gamble, and the stakes
are nothing less than domination of the whole human
race. If Hitler wins in Europe, the United States will
find itself alone in a barbaric world a world ruled
by Nazis, with “spheres of influence” assigned to their
totalitarian allies. However different the dictatorships
may be racially, they all agree on one primary objec-
tive: “Democracy must be wiped from the face of the
earth”
The world will be placed on a permanent war
footing. Our country will have to pile armaments
upon armaments to maintain even the illusion of
security. We shall have no other business, no other
aim in life, but primitive self-defence. We shall exist
only under martial law—or the law of the jungle. Our
economic structure will have to be adjusted to that of
our gangster competitors. We shall have to change
ourselves from easy-going individuals into a “dynamic
race.” “Government of the people, by the people, for
the people” —if Hitler wins, this will be the discarded
ideal of a decayed civilisation.
Is this “Alarmism”? Then so is the challenging
scream of an air-raid siren, warning civilians that
death is coming from the skies. We have ample cause
for deepest alarm. It should impel us, not to hysteria,
but to resolute action. It is obvious that there is no
immediate danger of direct invasion of the United
States. Hitler doesn’t strike directly when he doesn’t
have to. He edges up on his major victims, approach-
ing through the territory of small and defenceless
neighbors. We have 21 neighbors in this hemisphere,
in addition to the colonial possessions of Britain,
France, Holland and Denmark. We must not forget
that, however wide the Atlantic and Pacific oceans may
be, the Canadian and Mexican borders are no barriers
to invasion.
The Monroe Doctrine is not an automatic safety
catch, securing the entrance to our hemisphere from
all intruders. We have to enforce it—all the way from
Greenland and Alaska to Cape Horn. Furthermore,
we have to guard night and day against the manifold
enemies from within. We cannot ignore the fact that
Trojan horses are grazing in all the fertile fields of
North and South America.
The Fifth Column is led in this as in other coun-
tries by Nazis and Communists and their fellow-
travellers who are well trained in the dissemination
of poisonous propaganda. Their object is to destroy
national unity, to keep the United States in a state of
confusion over all world issues so that we will be weak
and helpless when our time comes. All Americans
should beware the prevailing Nazi-Communist propa-
ganda which attempts to capitalise our desire for peace
by opposing all our moves toward national defence—
sabotaging all aid to the Allies—preaching that Hitler
has already won and we must meekly appease him.
The Western Hemisphere contains the richest ter-
ritory for exploitation on earth today. And the inter-
national gangsters want it. They have already started
the process of taking it. For many years the agents of
the Nazis have been effectively at work in Latin
America, gaining ground by persuasion, bribery, inti-
midation. They have been fighting a trade war and
a political war; and what we have lately seen in Nor-
way and Holland and Belgium proves to us that these
agents are ready to fight a military war when the
orders come through from home. “Divide—and con-
quer!” has been the Nazi watchword in the insidious
invasion of all countries. The preliminary work of
division has been carried on here with devastating sue-
ccss.
We can and should and will devote ourselves to
a vast programme of defence. But we must not try
to fool ourselves into thinking that security can be
bought. It will be achieved only by unity of purpose
among ourselves, by the spirit of sacrifice that we can
summon from our own hearts and minds. Overwhelm-
ing destiny will not be stopped “with the help of God
and a few Marines.” It will take years for us to build
the necessary machines and to train the men who will
run them. Will the Nazis considerately wait until we
are ready to fight them? Anyone who argues that
they will wait is either an imbecile or a traitor.
How long shall we wait before making it known to
Hitler and the masters of all the slave States that
we are vitally concerned in the outcome of this war
—that we would consider a victory for them an un-
mitigated calamity for civilisation?
There is nothing shameful in our desire to stay
out of war, to save our youth from the dive bombers
and the flame-throwing tanks in the unutterable hell of
modern warfare. But is there not an evidence of sui-
cidal insanity in our failure to help those who now
stand between us and the creators of this hell?
We can help—if we will act now —before it is
for ever too late. We can help by sending ’planes,
guns, munitions, food. We can help to end the fear
that American boys will fight and die in another
Flanders, closer to home. The members of our Gov-
ernment must know that the American people are not
afraid to cast off the hypocritical mask of neutrality,
which deceives no one.
Hitler’s Impossible Task.
(Condensed from a London “Times” article .)
The instrument of revenge and terror is not one
which is capable of managing and developing in the
German interest the economic life of the occupied
regions. Still less is it a permanent system of govern-
ment.
The Danes, Norwegians, Dutch, Belgians and
Frenchmen who live in these territories have behind
them a long native tradition of free institutions. They
had learned and practised the arts of self-government
before Germany and Italy so much as existed as States.
It is unthinkable that peoples with this history and
these traditions can be won to anything more than a
sullen acquiescence in Nazi domination.
Others, like the Poles and Czechs, have kept alive
their hope of freedom under centuries of oppression
and have refreshed it with 20 years’ enjoyment of
independence.
A heavy hand and a ruthless suppression of re-
sistance are Germany’s only weapons ; and these are
not weapons by which proud and highly-civilised
nations can be organised and governed. For the
moment opposition may be crushed. But the first sign
of military reverses, or the widespread economic dis-
tress which the occupation is doomed to create, would
reveal the hollowness of Germany’s control and the
colossal nature of the task she has taken on herself.
Seventy-five million Germans, even assuming that
they were solid in their loyalty to the Nazi cause,
cannot permanently hold down a population of ninety
millions united in their hatred of the German yoke.
Administratively, a German-run and German-ridden
Europe is not merely a nightmare. It is a tour de force
which Napoleon could not maintain, which Germany
cannot maintain, which no one European race could
hope to maintain.
Economically, the vision of a Nazi Europe seems
still more extravagant and unreal. Mobilisation,
devastation and the mass movement of refugees have
shattered the economic structure of a large part of
Europe, and especially of some of its most densely
inhabited regions. But were the present chaos reduced
to some semblance of order, the problem of organising
Europe as a self-contained economic unit under Ger-
man control, and in defiance of the rest of the world,
remains none the less insoluble.
Continental Europe is not, and never has been,
self-supporting. It must import metal alloys for its
heavy industry. It must import tin and rubber, in
which it is wholly deficient. It must import oil,
which must be available in enormous quantities if
industry and transport are not to be brought to a
standstill. In foodstuffs it is self-sufficient only at a
far lower standard of living than that to which
Western Europe and Germany herself have become
accustomed.
Even the transport system of the Continent is
dependent on sea power. It is often forgotten how
much of the normal trade between Continental coun-
tries is seaborne. German coal is shipped to Italy
through Rotterdam, Spanish ore to Germany through
Bilbao. Oil in particular cannot, in the absence of
pipelines, be conveyed overland in important quanti-
ties. Even if cost is not counted, the already over-
strained road and rail systems cannot supply the de-
ficiency of sea transport. Once the sea routes are
closed, the economic life of Europe collapses, not only
for lack of vital supplies, but for lack of adequate
means of transporting the supplies which Europe her-
self possesses.
So long as sea power is denied to the controller
of the Continent, the lesson of Napoleon’s Conti-
nental blockade is still doubly valid. Given sea power,
the rest of the world can blockade Hitler, however far
his armies may roam over Europe ; but Europe cannot
indefinitely dispense with the rest of the world.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Saturday’s meeting gave us a taste of
spring racing at Randwick, and, as usual
when the good horses are seen out at the
commencement of any season, there were
some upsets.
Mildura’s price was proof that the
stable was not enamored of his chance
of success in the Campbelltown' Handi-
cap. However, after Jazbeau had done
the early pacemaking, and Radical had
taken charge at the top of the straight,
Mildura put in his claim over a furlong
from home and won comfortably. He
had a pound more than his Epsom weight,
and, though prior to his win he was not a
runner for that race, there is now a
change of programme. He looked as if
he could be improved as much as any-
thing that finished behind him.
Denis was a close third, and then
Mohican, Delmestor and Caesar, but
none of that lot looks like turning the
tables on Mildura. Caesar, as usual, com-
menced slowly, and, after appearing a
possible place-getter halfway down the
straight, died away. Winnipeg, with 41b.
more than his Epsom weight, was dis-
appointing, and as his condition was all
that could be desired there now seems
little hope for him in the mile race.
Binnia Hero was the disappointment of
the Warwick Farm Handicap, and there
was no excuse for him. When he ran
up second to Old Serpent turning for
home his backers had reason to be on
good terms with themselves, but he com-
pletely upset their calculations by failing
to stay. When Dashing Cavalier headed
Hope inside the last furlong his success
seemed assured, but the latter, coming
again, beat him almost on the post. Old
Rowley finished well to get third, though
not far ahead of Gundagai and Cable
Boy.
Pantler, though he moved freely in his
preliminary, and was nicely placed at
the half-mile post, was wanting in the run
home, and Seven Fifty again failed to
do nearly as well as his track work sug-
gested possible. Hope, though nine years
old, would seem to be even better now
than when he won the Anniversary Han-
dicap at six years, and in the Metropoli-
tan he has 81b. less to carry than on
Saturday. He will meet Dashing Cavalier
71b., Old Rowley 81b., Gundagai 31b.,
Binnia Hero 91b. and Bristol and Cable
Boy 81b. better, so he reads like again
beating that lot. Gundagai may be his
toughest opponent of Saturday’s runners.
In the Hobartville Stakes Flying
Knight ran up to his best previous form.
He headed David Copperfield before
reaching the turn, and though just after
entering the straight Lucrative looked like
overhauling him he got away from the
latter again commencing the final furlong.
Lucrative then gradually closed on him,
but at the winning-post Flying Knight
was still a neck to the good. Finishing
better than at his two previous starts
Broadcaster was third, succeeded by
Trueness.
John was making up leeway at the
finish, and, though it was not Derby form,
he is likely to improve. Nothing did
much worse than Tidal Wave, who could
not have looked better and was well
backed. Soon after barrier-rise he was
third-last, and was not after even a place
possibility. David Copperfield tired after
going half a mile, but he should be worth
backing for a handicap during the next
few weeks, as will Panchio and Tunisia.
Reading was unequal to beating Beau-
livre in the Warwick Stakes, but he ran
a great race. Commencing very smartly
he was well ahead of Beaulivre, Vergure,
Beau Vite and Buzalong at the half-mile.
Beaulivre caught him entering the
straight, and though from that out he
always had slightly the better of Reading
there was not a great deal in it. If any-
thing Buzalong was a little nearer both
at the winning-post than he was a fur-
long from home, his effort adding to his
Metropolitan and Caulfield Cup sup-
porters.
Beau Vite did well to get fourth. He
scarcely looked as forward in condition
as the place-getters, and the run should
do a lot for him. Mosaic made a fair
showing, considering the short trip did
not favor him, and St. Constant is worth
keeping in mind for a handicap. The
time, 1.241, was a second and three-
quarters faster than Flying Knight put
up in the Hobartville Stakes and, as the
distance covered was 22|yds. over seven
furlongs, was not far behind Randwick’s
best of 1.23 for seven furlongs.
Valhalla opened favorite for the Hurdle
Race, and was a sure winner from the
time he ran past Lord Belmont nearly
half a mile from home. As his jumping
is bound to improve further, Valhalla will
probably develop into a first-class hurdler.
Blackie Miller made a good run in the
straight, but was unequal to troubling
Valhalla. Although King Otho was third
his effort was no better than that of Lord
Charis, who, after dropping back near
the half-mile, ran on again to finish
fourth.
Freckles won the first division of the
Farm Novice from barrier-rise, and, with
8.3, cut out the mile a quarter-second
faster than Snow Queen (7.2) put up in
beating a good field in the Glenlee Han-
dicap later in the afternoon. Hydra was
Freckles’s nearest follower most of the
way, but, tiring in the straight, was cut
out of second money by Scientist.
Freckles adds to the many useful horses
sired by El Cacique, and as his dam,
Suntint, is by Paper Money from Sun-
glow, a sister to Boniform, he may stay
fairly. Unplaced runners in John Hali-
fax and Trade Mark made a respectable
showing.
Evergreen was reckoned a certainty for
the second division of the Farm Novice
Handicap, but though he got within less
than a neck of Pinero in the straight the
latter went away from him again, win-
ning by three-quarters of a length. Can-
vasser, who led at the turn, was cut out
of third money by Serenade, who was
always handy. Of the remainder In
Tune did best. Pinero, who is trained by
G. Price for E. R. Williams, is by Lord
Quex from Parley, by All Black from
Pourparler (sister to Bobrikoff), and was
a 400gns. yearling.
In the Glenlee Handicap Snow Queen,
who has done well for M. Poison, was
having her first run since competing at
the Grafton meeting, and she won bril-
liantly. Showing the pace that enabled
him to run well in a couple of two-year-
old races, Royal Sceptre led into the
straight, but Snow Queen had matters all
her own way over the last furlong, and
gave Poison’s apprentice G. Whitney his
second long-priced win of the afternoon.
Snow Queen will score at middle dis-
tances.
June was prominent throughout, and
Mandowie also did well, while Wind-
brook, after being a long way back at
the turn, showed promising form in run-
ning fourth. Nightbeam was disappoint-
ing. A little over a furlong from home
he made a sharp run, and then died away.
Beauoartir failed to do even as well, and
Fearless Fox, after always being one of
the rear division, ran second-last. Breeze
could not run on after moving up at the
turn, and Speardale never did worse. In
finishing about the middle of the field
after getting away very badly, Malagigi
made himself a hope for a middle-
distance handicap during the next few
weeks.
* * * *
How are the mighty fallen! Manrico,
whose string of wins leading up to Can-
tala Stakes success last year caused an
alteration in penalty conditions govern-
ing the latter race this spring, and whose
brilliance was partly responsible for
Ajax’s eclipse in the C. M. Lloyd Stakes
in the autumn, was comfortably beaten
by the Adelaide-owned mare Celeris in
the August Stakes at Mentone on Satur-
day.
Manrico looked a safe bet at 7 to 4 on,
but it took him almost two furlongs to
hit the front, and, never out with a lead
of more than two lengths, he failed to
respond when Badger tried for a “break”
at the top of the straight. He was easy
money for Celeris when the latter chal-
lenged, and, although little fault could be
found with his condition, seemingly he is
not as good as he was. Racing under
heavy weights apparently has taken its
toll, and, unless Manrico reveals sudden
improvement, he is not likely to be a
real danger in any of the sprint w.f.a,
races this spring. Celeris, with a weight
advantage of 341 b., won attractively, and
more will be heard of this four-year-old
by Pennant from Corvina, trained by
A. R. Jamieson for Jack Bond. She is
not a big mare, however, and may be
troubled by weight in first-class company.
Red Morn, having his first race since a
spell, finished a good third, but Har-
monic Law was quickly beaten after being
the first to challenge Manrico.
Manrico’s defeat was the beginning of
a bad day for trainer Jack Holt. Latter
also expected to win the Waverley Handi-
cap with Mac Rob, and the Berwick Han-
dicap with Distinction, but each was
beaten into second place. Mac Rob, a
Mentone specialist, started favorite at 6
to 4, but, although his customary whirl-
wind finish was in evidence, he was not
quite so impressive as on one or two pre-
vious occasions at the same track, and
failed by three-quarters of a length to
overtake Royal Order. The latter is a
decidedly useful galloper on his day, and
Mac Rob conceded him 121 b.
Royal Order’s success was a training
triumph for Jack Fryer. It was his first
appearance since he broke down in a
race at Caulfield in January, and some
nice bets were landed at long odds when
he' ran past the pacemaker, Temple Coyn,
at the top of the straight, and held his
lead to the finish. A five-year-old entire
by Limond from Anklet, owned by
Maorilander J. Richardson, Royal Order
has been a difficult horse to train, and,
according to his trainer, was broken
down when entries for this year’s Cups
were taken. He had a bowed tendon,
and, far from visualising Cup success for
him, his connections considered they
would be fortunate if the horse stood a
preparation for a minor race. He was
not nominated for any of the big handi-
caps of the spring, but a “firing” opera-
tion was successful, and if his injured leg
continues to stand the strain he should
soon win in better company than he de-
feated on Saturday.
Judean landed a first-up plunge in the
first division of the Westminster Welter
Handicap. A class sprinter when in his
prime, Judean had been out of the win-
ning list since the spring of 1938, but
recent track trials indicated the proba-
bility of a return to form. A boil in his
mouth had troubled him during the week,
and it was decided only on Saturday
morning to start him, but the betting sug-
gested that his party was confident of suc-
cess. From 10 to 1 Judean’s price firmed
to 11 to 2 and. shooting to the front more
than a furlong from home, he won very
easily from Saki and Sun Call. As
Judean was having his first race since
March, improvement is probable, and,
having just turned seven years, it is not
too late for him to reproduce something
like his best form.
Tidylus, who has been mentioned as a
likely runner for the A.J.C. Metropolitan,
was a well-backed runner for Judean’s
race, but dropped out after being well-
placed to the turn. As he was burdened
with 9.12, and was having his first race
since a let-up, however, it would be un-
wise to condemn him. Probably he will
do better at his next start. L’Aiglon,
winner of one Sydney Cup and second to
Mosaic in another, made up ground to
finish fifth.
Fur Trader, who might be a starter
for the A.J.C. Derby, was not disgraced
in defeat in the Berwick Handicap. He
finished only third to Warbird and Dis-
tinction, but, considering that he carried
9.2, started from the outside of a field
of 17, and was third-last at the end of
two furlongs, did remarkably well to get
so close. Fur Trader probably would
have won had the distance been a little
farther than seven furlongs, and it seems
that staying will be his forte. He is by
Manitoba from Tricycle, and is trained by
Duncan. Warbird, a colt bred in Eng-
land to Australian time, led over the last
half-mile, but had to be ridden right out
to beat Distinction by a head. With three
wins, including one at Flemington, he
has been a bargain at his yearling cost of
300 guineas, and, even if not a genuine
stayer, might develop into a class sprinter.
High expectations which centre around
the three-year-old colt Positron are re-
flected in his entry against Ajax and co.
for the Memsie Stakes, to be run next
Saturday. Expectations might yet be ful-
filled, but Positron, who is trained by
Lou Robertson, disappointed in the Ber-
wick Handicap. In receipt of 201 b. from
Fur Trader, and sent out second favorite
at 7 to 2, he weakened towards the finish
of the seven furlongs, and just missed a
place. The Adjutant ran a promising
fifth in the same race.
Lord Windburra, a candidate for the
Can tala Stakes and the two Cups, had
nothing of much account to beat in the
second Westminster Welter division, but
he won stylishly from Cavante and Colig-
nan, and, having raced only twice since
his return from a spell, seems certain to
improve. A five-year-old gelding by
Windbag, he is bred to get a distance,
and probably will stay better now than
when beaten by Lusson over the 11 fur-
longs of the Australia Day Cup at Wil-
liamstown in January. None of his wins,
however, has been at a distance beyond
a mile. Imported French Legion showed
up well at his first start since March. His
condition gave out after he had disputed
the lead with Gallant Lad to the turn,
but he battled on to finish fourth, and will
be all the better for the race. French
Legion has won only one race, a Maiden
Plate at Williamstown, but he has shown
good promise on other occasions, and
probably will develop into a useful stayer.
Country trainer Don Castle won his
second Mentone race in four days with
Cursive when the latter won the first
division of the Hume Handicap. Cursive
appeared to move short in his prelimi-
nary, and that may have accounted for
his starting price of 10 to 1, but there was
no stiffness about his action in the race.
He dashed to the front about a furlong
and a half from home, and had just
enough in reserve to withstand strong
challenges from The Barber and Blue-
beard. An aged gelding by Curialis
from Waninga, Cursive is trained at Wah-
gunyah, in the north-east, and with two
wins worth £149 in stakes has more than
paid the expenses of his latest city visit.
The judges verdict was queried by
backers after he had placed King
Arthur, Sugarmagundi and Royal Comet
in that order, with only half-heads
between them, in the second divi-
sion of the Hume Handicap. They
contended that Microphone had at
least gained a place, and evidently that
opinion was shared by Microphone’s
rider, W. Elliott, who took up his posi-
tion to parade his mount past the judge
with other place-getters. In one of the
most exciting finishes seen on a Mel-
bourne track in months, five horses
passed the post practically in line. In
order from the rails they were Corredor,
Royal Comet, Sugarmagundi, King
Arthur and Microphone, and only the
man in the box was in a position to give
a correct decision. King Arthur’s form
was an improvement on his display at
Moonee Valley at his previous start, when
he finished eighth to Count Cimaun in a
mile Trial Handicap. Landlaw’s half-
brother Royal Comet, having his first
race since a spell, will be a better proposi-
tion at his next start, and Corredor, a
maiden three-year-old, gives good stay-
ing promise.
* * * *
Only that four weeks will do so much
for horses it would be possible to say
“no chance” of several well-engaged
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
By “PILOT
Highweight Handicap: Table
Talk, 1 ; Spargo, 2 ; Bruce Wood
or Beau Mari, 3.
Canterbury Stakes: Beaulivre, 1 ;
High Caste, 2; Flying Knight, 3.
Flying Handicap: Tel Asur, 1;
Mohican, 2 ; Creditor, 3.
Canterbury Guineas: Broadcaster,
1 ; John, 2 ; Ensign, 3.
Turf Club Handicap: Yours
Truly, 1 ; Mischief, 2 ; Buzzal, 3.
Campsie Handicap: Light
Dragoon, 1 ; Tickle, 2 ; Baveon, 3.
FOR CAULFIELD.
(At Flemington.)
By “SENTRY.”
Doona Trial: Royal Comet, 1 ;
Cavallo, 2 ; Corredor, 3.
Warriston Handicap: Damocles,
1; Industry, 2 ; Fur Trader, 3.
Memsie Stakes: Ajax, 1; El
Golea, 2 ; Maikai, 3.
Sandringham Steeplechase:
Dorset, 1; Deckard, 2; Domford, 3.
Heatherlie Handicap: Historian,
1 ; Moonray, 2 ; True Flight, 3.
Whittier Handicap: Chatsbury,
1; Aurie’s Star, 2 ; Manrico, 3.


horses that ran at Randwick on Satur-
day, while others emphasised the fact
of their handicap prospects being quite
as good as suggested by the betting
market. After the Warwick Stakes I
heard it suggested that in order to win
the Epsom with 9.4 Beaulivre should
have beaten Reading more decisively at
seven furlongs. Perhaps so, but it
seemed to me that the barrier rose at
the exact moment Reading was prepared
to jump away, and that enabled him to
set up a useful lead in the first two
furlongs.
Reading had not raced since last
March, but his appearance suggested he
was not far from his top in condition,
and the fact of Beaulivre giving him a
fair start commencing the last half mile
and then beating him made it a good
performance. It seemed to me a better
one than that of High Caste in winning
at Victoria Park earlier in the week.
Stable-companion Mildura, at level
weights, may now prove one of Beau-
livre’s most troublesome Epsom oppo-
nents. As winner of a Newmarket and
Doncaster he is deserving of all respect,
and on Saturday he looked as if he
could be improved a little more than
most of the horses he beat in the Camp-
belltown Handicap. If unsuccessful in
any of the important handicaps in which
he runs before then the Cantala Stakes,
with 9.2, should give him a great chance
of adding to his credit account.
Radical’s owner still gives him a
reasonable chance of success in the
Epsom with 61b. less than he carried
last week. He will be meeting Mildura
51b. better, but though he may not beat
the latter even on those improved terms
he reads better than anything that
finished behind him. I heard excuses
made for Delmestor and Mohican. It is
questionable whether they were war-
ranted, and Winnipeg and Geebung will
have to come on tremendously to enter
into calculations. The latter, who car-
ried his Epsom weight, has only 61b.
more than when he won that race last
year, but it seems doubtful whether he
will strike the same form. It must be
added he comes on quickly. Three weeks
before he won the last Epsom with 7.10
he was unplaced in Tatt.’s Tramway
Handicap with 7.7.
Buzalong did well over the last fur-
long of the Warwick Stakes, but, while
he might run well in the Epsom, if
started, I suppose his special mission will
be one of the longer handicaps. St.
Constant is coming on, but, though he
ran third in a Doncaster with 8.11, I
doubt whether an Epsom with a pound
less will be within his reach. He ran
last year with 9.4. Freckles won his
division of the Farm Novice in good
time, but an Epsojn with 7.7 and Cantala
Stakes with 7.8 are different matters,
and though the afternoon’s runners in-
cluded a few Epsom lightweights they
were not impressive. Sticking to form,
Beaulivre and Mildura undeniably came
out best of the Epsom horses.
Backers of Reading for the Metro-
politan were well pleased with his form,
but it is a matter of opinion whether
it stood out to any extent from that of
Buzalong, who, even less than the
former, would scarcely be suited by
seven furlongs the Warwick Stakes
distance. He was meeting Reading and
Beaulivre on level terms, but has to give
each 21b. in the Metropolitan. Figures
are therefore against him, but the extra
distance will help.
Beau Vite, who was not quite so for-
ward in condition as any of the three
mentioned, was a fair fourth in the
Warwick Stakes, but as he has 41b. less
in the Caulfield Cup than in the Metro-
politan perhaps the southern race will
be chosen for him. That, however, may
depend upon his form in his next race
or two. I am quite prepared for Beau
Vite to show himself comparatively
better than last year, and though he was
an unplaced runner in the A.J.C. and
Victoria Derbies, won by Reading, he
stayed better than the latter in the Mel-
bourne Cup. Even if Beau Vite should
miss the Metropolitan he will be a very
live competitor for the w.f.a. races.
Neither Beaupartir nor Own Folk
distinguished himself in the Glenlee
Handicap, and, notwithstanding the
former has been made the second leg
of some Epsom and Metropolitan
doubles, I think that, despite his St.
Leger wins in Maoriland, a mile and
five furlongs in a first-class handicap
will bother him. A Metropolitan win
for an ancient warrior like Hope seems
almost too much to expect, but he came
out better in the Warwick Farm Spring
Handicap than any of the other Metro-
politan horses that ran in the race. He
won the Anniversary Handicap with 7.10
in the fast time of 2.30, and an extra
furlong should be within his compass.
Binnia Hero and Seven Fifty were
both discredited on Saturday, and it is
doubtful whether the former will be
improved by racing. Old Rowley will,
also Gundagai, who did not shape at all
badly at his first attempt over a distance
in Hope’s race. Pantler did not please,
and Bristol, Cable Boy and Aristocrat
are not good Metropolitan prospects,
though Cable Boy may be a possibility
for one of the minor handicaps at the
A.J.C. meeting. The same can be said
of Malagigi, who ran in the Glenlee
Handicap. Fountain, Bourbon, Peerless,
Katanga and Sedunum were other
Metropolitan candidates seen out at
Randwick but did nothing to entitle
them to serious consideration for that
race at this stage. The next three weeks
will give them an opportunity of doing
so.
Mosaic ran in the Warwick Stakes,
but it was scarcely to be expected he
would shine at seven furlongs. How-
ever, he finished ahead of six or seven
other runners and looks well for the
time. On figures the Melbourne Cup
gives him his best chance; and, omitting
Beaulivre because he may incur a pen-
alty as winner of the Epsom, Metro-
politan horses that, in my opinion,
showed to most advantage last week were
Hope, Buzalong, Reading, Gundagai and
Old Rowley.
* * * *
Subsequent to Saturday’s racing at
Randwick there were a few alterations
in Epsom and Metropolitan betting.
Beaulivre is on top in the mile race, fol-
lowed in order by High Caste, Mildura
and Early Bird. Then Beau Vite, Buza-
long, El Golea, Radical and Tetreen in
a bunch. Reading is still favorite for
the Metropolitan, with Beau Vite next,
and then Beaulivre, Buzalong and Land-
law. Gundagai and Millie’s Hope follow.
Gladynev, Historian, High Caste and
Reading share favoritism for the Caulfield
Cup, while Maikai is still the popular
selection for the Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
In discussing the prospects of some
Melbourne colts that had been mentioned
as probable runners for the A.J.C. Derby,
the summing-up of a southern visitor was
that “They’re not much good.” The
question arises whether the same cannot
be said of most of the Sydney division.
There was nothing out of the ordinary
shown by anything except Flying Knight
in the Hobartville Stakes, and he did
not shine the previous week when
opposed to older horses in the Cameron
Handicap at Newcastle.
There is no doubt as to his gameness,
but Lucrative was gaining on him at the
finish on Saturday, and in another 50
yards would probably have beaten him.
Form in the Canterbury Guineas and
Rosehill Guineas may put a different
complexion on affairs, but, though it
seemed certain a little while ago that
Nightbeam would challenge Lucrative
for Derby favoritism, the latter is now
definitely the popular choice. Broad-
caster did better than in his two previous
races, but there is no reason for sup-
posing he will stay better than Lucra-
tive, even if he should prove superior to
Flying Knight in that respect. Notwith-
standing general opinion is against him
the owner of Flying Knight is hopeful
he will get the Derby distance.
Trueness, though unplaced, ran well
in the Hobartville, but Ido not think
she will add to the fillies that have won
the A.J.C. Derby. In fact, John may
prove the best of Payten s stable, as
after commencing indifferently he came
from a hopeless position at the turn to
beat more than half the field. His stable-
companion Evergreen ran in the second
division of the Farm Novice, but stopped
at the finish of the mile.
Tidal Wave, who looks the part of a
good colt, must have given his trainer a
shock in the Hobartville Stakes. His
track work had been excellent, but, as
he neither commenced nor finished well,
more will have to be seen of him before
he can be included in the Derby possi-
bilities. Neither Panchio nor Tunisia
showed form above handicap class,
though the latter finished strongly. Bear-
ing on the Derby, nothing that is favor-
able can be said of such Hobartville
runners as Black Banter, Passport, His
Lordship, Roxford or Chatoona. _
Pinero’s win with a light weight in
the second division of the Farm Novice
proved he could at least get a mile, u
scarcely put him in the Derby class, nor
did the minor placings of Scientist,
Hydra or Serenade. Naturally Night-
beam’s defeat in the Glenlee Handicap
was productive of the comment “Not as
good as we thought,” but as he was
conceding from 71b. to 261 b. to the five
older horses that finished ahead of him it
would be unwise to condemn him at this
stage. When, with a lighter weight, he
runs against the w.f.a. horses, we shall
know more about him. Fearless Fox,
though not lacking in condition, ran
badly in the Glenlee Handicap.
At present, however, Lucrative is pre-
ferable to any of the other Derby colts
that ran on Saturday. Last year Read-
ing was unplaced in the Hobartville
Stakes and then won the Derby from
High Caste. Perhaps one of the well-
beaten lot in last Saturday’s Hobartville
Stakes may equal that effort, but unless
Flying Knight proves a better stayer than
generally supposed, or Nightbeam, at his
next start, shows that his form of Satur-
day was wrong, backers are likely to
look to one of Lucrative’s fellow-Mel-
bournites to beat him.
* * * *
My old friend the well-known trainer
P. Nolan contributes the following:
After Tommy Burns fought Jack Johnson
at Rushcutter Bay Stadium for the champion-
ship of the world he lived in Sydney for a
time, and raced a horse named Brilliant Boy.
One day at Maitland he was saddling his horse
for a handicap, and attracted the attention
of two trainers standing some distance away.
One of them said, “There’s Tommy Burns
saddling Brilliant Boy. 1 think I’ll go and ask
him if he is trying.” The other one, who had
trained a horse for a pugilist and received a
punch on the nose when he presented his bill
for training fees, remarked: “Well, from my
experience of men who follow the same occu-
pation, I’d advise you to ask him from where
you are.”
Another from the same source is as
follows:
Back at the end of last century prominent
among Sydney trainers were two by the name
of Cornwell, father and son, distinguished by
the nicknames of “Old Cracker” and “Young
Cracker.” When 66 years of age “Old Cracker
trained the winner of a Melbourne Cup—Lord
Cardigan. After the performance he jocularly
remarked, “I’m going to get some visiting-cards
printed ‘A. E. Cornwell, Trainer,’ and down in
the corner ‘Melbourne Cups a Specialty.’ ”
“Young Cracker,” who was present, chipped in
with “God bless my soul, father, if it takes you
as long to win the next as it did to win this
one you’ll be pretty old. You know you’ve
been 66 years winning this one.”
* * * *
Judean, who was a good miler nearly
a couple of years ago, and is now seven
years old, returned to the winning list in
a mile welter at Mentone on Saturday,
and as, with 9.2, he equalled the course
record, he can evidently gallop almost
as fast as at any time in the past. He
was second with 8.0 to St. Constant
(8.3) in the 1938 Cantala Stakes, and
at the same meeting easily won the Yan
Yean Stakes with 8.9. In this year’s Can-
tala Stakes he again has 8.0, and if he
retains his form of last week should
again be a danger. Among those behind
him at Mentone were smart gallopers in
Saki, Tidylus and Keelie. L’Aiglon, now
trained by M. G. Hoyt, was a runner,
but a mile would not suit him.
* * * *
High Caste finished strongly to win
the Flying Handicap at Victoria Park, but,
making full allowance for the fact that
he carried 9.11, had not raced for five
months, and did not get so smooth a run
as Early Bird, it was not exactly an
effort over which it was possible to enthuse
greatly as bearing on his Epsom chance
with 9.5. His defeat of Early Bird and
Mohican was too narrow to permit of
that. He met Early Bird only a pound
worse than Epsom terms, and, while it
is reasonable to expect him to improve,
so will she. Bartle said he would have
won more decisively if he had given him
a cut with the whip, but he did not think
that advisable.
In the Epsom Mohican will receive 31b.
less from High Caste, and it is question-
able whether he is likely to improve as
much as the latter or Early Bird during
the next four weeks. As Mohican is eight
years old the odds are slightly against a
return to his best previous form. Last
season Early Bird won at 11 and 12 fur-
longs, her best short-distance effort being
when she ran second with 8.6 to His-
torian (7.8) in the Brunswick Stakes, one
mile, at Flemington. Last week’s run
proved she had not lost her earlier pace,
and at present her Epsom chance can be
rated little, if any, inferior to that of
High Caste. However, while the next
run or two of each will tell as something
more on that score, it seems as if im-
provement will be necessary on Wednes-
day’s run for either of the place-getters
to win the Epsom.
* * . * . *
The style in which Pierce won his
division of the Novice Handicap at Vic-
toria Park suggested that he might de-
velop into a genuine stayer. He had little
to carry, but had to overcome difficulties
in the straight and was going away at
the finish. His pedigree favors the idea
that he may get a distance. He is by
Pantheon from Box On, by Magpie from
Moscas, a half-sister, by Solferino (sire
of Count Cavour, N.Z. Cup winner), to
Charleville, dam of Windbag and
Loquacious
* * >it *
A trainer who has two horses in a race
is always liable to get into trouble when
trying to do his friends a good turn. At
Randwick the other day a trainer in all
good faith told inquirers what he thought
was the better of his two. He backed it,
letting the other run against him. The
unfancied one won, and commenting on
the result the trainer remarked: “I had
lots of friends before the race, but no
one would look my way after it. 1 sup-
pose none of them would believe I let
the winner run without putting something
on.” The same thing has happened to
many other trainers, proving to them
that it does not always pay to go out of
their way to be too open in their
opinions.
# ■* * *
The idea obtains that the standard ot
horsemanship in Sydney is not very high.
Recently I heard a Victorian visitor
remark: “Sydneyites condemn Mel-
bourne jockeys, but I cannot see
that we are any worse off in that
respect than you are. Sydney hasn’t
more than eight licensed jockeys and a
couple of apprentices on whose mounts
you would care to put your money as
a .regular thing. Others ride well
occasionally and badly at other times.
Even some of your best are inclined to
do quite a lot of bustling to get horses
into a forward position at an early stage
in races of six furlongs or a mile. Ad-
mittedly they cannot afford to be too
far back in the early stages of sprint
races, but there is no call for them to
ride as if the winning-post were at the
top of the straight.” However, there is
probably a lot in the explanation of some
jockeys that “You can’t afford to be
at all far back at any part in short
races these days.”
* * * *
Limbohm’s narrow win with 9.9 in
the Trial Hurdles on the opening day
of the N.Z. Grand National meeting at
Riccarton (Christchurch) was not re-
garded as enhancing his prospects of
success in the G.N. Hurdles on the
second day, and of the eight runners hi
was only sixth in demand. His backers
were unhappy when he was left over a
dozen lengths at the start, but, with the
early pace slow and the distance some-
thing over two and a half miles, that
did not tell greatly against him, and he
won, though only by a head from Aussie
Ra. Clarion Call, winner of the G.N.
Steeplechase on the opening day, was a
runner with 11.12, but, though he was
credited with jumping better than any-
thing else in the race, his weight was too
much for him, and he ran fourth.
# * * *
Bimelech, whose retirement was re-
cently cabled from America, was a 5-to-3-
on tote favorite for the Arlington Classic
at Chicago on July 21, but only ran a
moderate third. The winner turned up
in a gelding named Sirocco (13 to 1), who
easily beat Gallahadion. Sirocco, who
had not previously won a race of im-
portance, was in receipt of 51b. from
Gallahadion and Bimelech. The time for
the mile and a quarter was 2.3, and the
winner’s share of the prize $37,900.
second received S6OOO, third S4OOO and
fourth S2OOO. There were six runners.
* * * *
First favorites have done so well in the
Melbourne Cup of recent years that the
books are justified in looking forward
to the success of an outsider on the com-
ing occasion. Marabou was a 5-to-l
favorite when he won in 1935, The
Trump 11 to 2 in 1937 Hua and Sir
Regent being at the same price—and
Rivette 5 to 1 last year. Between those
races Wotan and Catalogue certainly
gave most of the bookmakers good re-
sults, but three short-priced winners in
five years must have made the Cup un-
satisfactory for many bookmakers.
Favorites have had some long losing
sequences. After Prince Foote won at
4 to 1 in 1909 13 favorites failed in suc-
cession, and of these only The Cypher
gained a place. Bilalli at 4 to 1 ended
the sequence of failures. Then there
was another run of “outs” for favorite
backers until Phar Lap won at 11 to 8
on in 1930. The previous year, when an
even-money favorite, he ran third, and
in 1931 he ran nowhere when a 3-to-l
favorite.
* * * *
The success of two three-year-olds
against older opponents at Victoria Park
last week points to the younger division
doing well this spring. There was a lot
of merit in Christopher Milne’s win.
Slow to leave the mark, he was badly
placed when the field settled down, had
to go round horses in making up his lee-
way, and then finished gamely, outstay-


Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
IN THE MATTER of an Agreement for Sale
dated the 21st day of July 1916 made
betweeen CO-OPERATIVE ESTATES
LIMITED of the one part and JOHN
BLOXAM PURTON of the other part.
BETWEEN CO-OPERATIVE ESTATES
LIMITED (in liquidation) Plaintiff
And JOHN BLOXAM PURTON Defen-
dant.
TO JOHN BLOXAM PURTON late of Court-
ney Street New Town in Tasmania.
TAKE NOTICE that an Originating Sum-
mons has been filed in this Court by the above-
named Plaintiff directing you to appear and
answer the claims set out therein viz.:
1. it may be declared that the Plaintiff
is entitled by virtue of the abovemen-
tioned Agreement for Sale to an equitable
charge upon the lands and hereditaments
comprised in the said Agreement for Sale
(being Lots 171 and 172 on a certain sub-
division plan filed in the Lands Titles Office
and being portion of the lands comprised in
Certificate of Title registered Volume 234 Folio
21) for securing to the Plaintiff the sum
of £216/8/10 being the balance of principal
and interest calculated up to the Ist day
of July 1940.
2. That in the alternative it may be declared
that the Plaintiff is entitled to a Vendor’s
lien in respect of the said lands and heredita-
ments by virtue of the said agreement and
non-payment of the purchase money.
3. That the said lands and hereditaments may
be sold with the approbation of this Honorable
Court to enforce the said equitable charge
or Vendor’s lien and that all necessary and
proper direction may be given for carrying
out such sale; and that the conduct of the
sale may be committed to the Plaintiff.
In default of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the Court
will proceed to hear the said claims proved and
pronounce judgment in respect thereto AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the pur-
pose aforesaid an appearance must be entered
at the Registry of the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania Macquarie Street Hobart on or before
(L.s.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
ing Monte Carlo and Hieron. Monte
Carlo, w’ho has pace above the average
for a novice, is a half-brother by Brazen
to Scientist.
* * * *
Up to a mile and a half Ajax is defi-
nitely one of the greatest w.f.a. horses
Australia has produced, but it is now
improbable he will ever be thoroughly
tried out as a stayer. I am among those
who subscribe to the idea that a first-class
mile and a half handicap is a severer test
than a w.f.a. race, but as there is now
little likelihood of Ajax ever running in
one, nor in a w.f.a. race beyond that dis-
tance, he will probably go to the stud
without it being possible to claim for
him that, in addition to his brilliance, he
was a sound stayer. However, he has
done so well that the odds are in favor
of his siring good stayers as well as bril-
liant horses. It has been stated that Ajax
will, all going well, race again in Sydney
next autumn, but, if so, it is fairly safe
to assume that the Autumn Plate, Cum-
berland Plate and A.J.C. Plate will again
be passed over in favor of the All-Aged
Plate and C. W. Cropper Plate.
Ajax should have another win in the
Memsie Stakes next Saturday. Nine fur-
longs will suit him better than El Golea,
and though the entrants include Maikai
and the Queenslander Tragopan they are
unlikely to trouble him. The running of
Maikai and Tragopan will, however, be
of interest to their Melbourne Cup sup-
porters. That of Maikai, in particular, as
he is favorite for the two miles race.
Carbine and The Grafter each won a
Melbourne Cup subsequent to running
second, but Maikai, with 211 b. more than
when second last year, is going to find
it a very difficult task.
* * * *
Last year some backers were lucky
enough to take 5000 to 1 about the “two
Rivettes” for the two Cups, but this
time winter form has not given any-
thing a great chance of repeating that
performance. Still, double backers on
the lookout for outsiders are afforded
a wide choice. In the Caulfield Cup
there are 148 horses, whose prices range
from 1000 to 20,000 to 1 about every-
thing for the Melbourne Cup. Long-
priced horses for the first leg of the
double include that good sprinter Aurie’s
Star. He has only 8.11, but the prob-
abilities are that the books are correct
in assuming that so late in life he is
unlikely to develop form at a mile and
a half, even with what, for him, is a
low weight. Among the Sydney horses
included in the 20,000-to-l division for
the second leg is Winnipeg, but with
horses that are considered to have very
remote chances of success in the Caul-
field Cup.
* * 4= *
Writing from Miowera (via Bowen),
N.Q., a correspondent says: “I noticed
in The Bulletin some time ago where
a number of well-known turf identities
had joined up to ‘fight the just fight.’
In camp here we have W. P. Car-
berry, who was stipendiary steward for
the North Queensland Racing Association
for 14 years, and for some time with the
Kalgoorlie and Boulder clubs (W.A.) as
stipendiary steward and handicapper.
Prior to coming to Queensland he was
associated with the Western Districts
Racing Association (Orange, N.S.W.), so
he had experience in three States. Car-
berry is one of the ablest stewards we
have had in the North.”
* * * *
The totalisator turnover in New York
is exceeding even the most optimistic
forecasts of those who favored its in-
troduction, and up to the close of the
first week in July the State had received
more than five times as much as in the
whole of last year as revenue from racing.
In the 66 days of machine betting at
Jamaica, Belmont, and Aqueduct the
amount wagered was $31,343,822. The
totalisator has given so much satisfaction
in every way that at latest New Yorkers
were querying “Why didn’t we have it
long ago?” As the total attendance on
those 66 days was 813,418, backers must
have speculated freely for such a large
sum to be put through.
* * * *
New Jersey is the latest American
State to take up racing. This is conse-
quent on the legalisation of totalisator
betting. The Racing Commission of that
State has received several applications to
build race tracks. One writer says it
is rumored that New Jersey will insist
on all prizes being sufficiently liberal to
enable decent trainers to live on without
touting. Perhaps so ; but, unless America
differs greatly from Australia, there will
still be touting trainers, even though no
race should be of less value than £5OO.
* * * *
Everyone recognises what a lot of
luck there is in the purchase of yearlings,
and none of those sold in 1938 at 700gns.
or over did sufficiently well early in their
two-year-old careers to be topweights
of their age in the coming Melbourne
Cup. Those heading the three-year-olds
are Lucrative (450gns.) 7.6 and Trueness
(500gns.) 7.4, the latter, as she has a
pound over w.f.a., being actually rated
the best of her age. Tiderace (1450gn5.)
has 7.1, Bonny Vale (1400gns.) 6.12,
Balkan Chief (llOOgns.) 7.2, Juma
(1150gns.) 7.2, Distinction (750gns.) 7.2,
Fur Trader (750gns.) 7.2. Since the
weights were issued some of those men-
tioned have shown improvement, but it
cannot be said that the buyers of many
of the highest-priced yearlings of 1938
have yet anything on which to con-
gratulate themselves.
* * * *
At Hollywood Park (California) there
is a breeders’ award of 10 p.c. on the
value of all races to the breeders of all
horses running first, second or third. It
is the first club in the United States to
take such a step, and these premiums
are given by the club and not deducted
from the prizes.
* He * *
Several men prominent in Irish racing
have died recently, the latest being J. T.
Rogers, who had marked success as a
trainer. His wins included one or more
of all Ireland’s classic races, and he
headed the trainers’ list in 1936, 1937 and
1938. He owned one of the largest stud-
farms in Ireland, and though he retired
as a trainer in 1938 he took it up again
when his son was called up for service
in the Royal Air Force.
* * * *
It is interesting to note that among the
low-priced stallions advertised for this
season in N.S.W. is Gilt Edge (Valais-
Glittering Gold), whose fee is 15gns. At
5000gns. he was third highest-priced
yearling ever sold in Australia, but
though he won races his turf deeds were
not in keeping with what he cost. He
is the sire of Lovable (V.A.T.C. Debu-
tante Stakes) and several other winners,
and, though few were of special note,
he is not too old at 15 to beget something
of real class.
* * * *
Most American breeders are naturally
sore at the debarment for several years
of some of their most successful lines
from the English Stud Book. After point-
ing out the continued success in America
of horses belonging to barred families,
Chas. E. Brossman, who is not what can
be termed “an auctioneer’s catalogue
breeding expert,” wrote as follows:
While we have always had a number of
thoroughly competent breeders in America
the novice of the present day is often at a
disadvantage for want of experience. Too
often he is advised by some dude who has
been abroad and seen the English Derby,
and therefore knows all about racehorses,
what kind of breeding stock to buy, with
the result that his farm is a complete
failure and he loses a lot of money, or,
worse still, he falls into the hands of some
English stock salesman who prates about
the purity of the blood that is recorded in
the English Stud Book and the sanctity
of the Bruce Lowe Figure System while
he unloads a lot of worthless imported
stock upon the novice and makes him be-
lieve the American stock is spurious •
then comes the awakening.
America has numerous valuable two-
and three-year-old races, but it costs a
lot to compete for them. For instance,
it cost $lOOO to run for the two-year-old
race, the Lassie Stakes, at Arlington Park
(Chicago) in July. At present rate of
exchange that would work out at approxi-
mately £3OO in Australian money. There
were eight starters, and the 10-to-9-on
favorite, Misty Isle, was beaten by Blue
Delight, 14 to 1. The winner, carrying
8.7, ran the six furlongs in 1.12 4-5.
First money was $17,250, second $5OOO,
third $2500, and fourth $lOOO. The re-
spective nominators of the first three
received $750, $5OO and $250. The tote
turnover on the race was $112,000, and
for the day $740,674 more than
£221,000 —which was good for an attend-
ance of 25,000.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
Although swaying or moving the body
during a shot generally spoils it, there
are several leading American golfers who
move themselves slightly into or away
from the ball during their stroke. It
is a mannerism that suits only a minute
percentage of golfers. Every golfer can
understand the forward sway—that is,
when the body, instead of turning as
the club comes down to the ball, begins
moving forward as well as turning
toward the projected line of flight. This
movement, unless everything else co-
ordinates, makes accurate and consistent
play impossible.
Runyan, the 9st. New York profes-
sional, has a double sway in his swing.
On the backswing Runyan moves his head
and shouldfers back at least three to
four inches as he “winds up” ; then, as
soon as his downswing has begun,
he starts to sway back into the
ball, till at the moment of impact his
head has returned to the position that
it was in before he swayed away during
the backswing. Known as the most un-
orthodox swinger in the United States,
Runyan’s career proves that his method
is not a steady one, for he has played
in every major event over the last 10
years and his two match play title wins
are his only successes.
Many golfers of every type have a
sway in their swing which makes con-
sistent play impossible. In addition to
this forward sway, there is another
movement, a flinching one, the head
and shoulders coming up as the club-
head nears contact with the ball. In
other words, the club is pulled slightly
up and consequently across the ball as
it is struck, resulting in the ball being
sliced or, in some cases, pushed straight
out to the right. This fault is just as
common as forward- or back-sway, and
is unconsciously made by hundreds of
players who are unaware of the error.
The most successful shots are hit when
the player stays down to the ball; that
is, when he concentrates his power to get
it behind the ball. This position cannot
be achieved when the head and shoulders
are beginning to move up away from the
ball; in such cases a loss of power and
accuracy results, plus a mishit shot. Yet
this fault is in the swings of two of
America’s greatest golfers—Lawson Little
and Craig Wood. Little, the open cham-
pion, and Wood have been very brilliant
players for various periods, only to fail
at odd times for no apparent reason.
Little hits every drive slightly pulling
away from the ball; this peculiarity in
his style passes unnoticed by many, and
it took me several rounds with the cham-
pion to pick it out. But after noting
it I could watch for it on every tee.
Little, who possesses tremendous power
with his slightly-closed club face, makes
this movement to keep him from hooking
too much, as by drawing away he turns
his closed face into a straight one.
Although he has a hooker’s grip and
swing, he rarely pulls the ball to the left;
if anything, his loose shots come from
a pushed-out ball.
This feature of Little’s swing interested
me greatly, as he is the only other star
player besides Wood —he does it only
very slightly—who hits the ball this way.
By playing every day Wood and Little
have control over this peculiarity; but
every now and again it gets the better
of them for brief periods. If the average
club golfer tried to hit his shots the same
way he would be asking for disaster.
The best way to overcome this “pull-
ing-away” movement, as well as any
sway of the body, is to work upon turn-
ing the head back slightly when address-
ing the ball so that one looks down at
it more out of the left eye than the right;
this will help you to keep the head still
in the same position till after the ball
has been struck. It takes a little time to
stop a sway of any kind, as to eradicate
it one has to put up with a feeling of
sometimes having a little too much
rigidity in the swing. Overhitting or
forcing one’s shots is another way to
introduce a sway to the swing. By
thoughtful concentration upon pushing
the clubhead out after the ball the ten-
dency will gradually disappear.
* * * *
“Foosilier”: Though accepted as an
amateur everywhere else, Ferrier was
disqualified from the U.S. amateur golf
championship on the ground that, as he
was to collect royalties from the Bulle-
tin book, Ferrier s Golf Shots, he was
no amateur. The book was issued on
1/5/’4O, and most of Ferrier’s country-
men, as well as the big fellow himself,
put the worst construction on the fact
that nothing was heard from the U.S.
Golf Association until the day before the
qualifying rounds began, nearly four
months later, by which time it was
obvious that Ferrier’s chances were red-
hot. The disqualification was the first
sign the U.S.G.A. gave that it knew the
Australian champion was in America.
Though he had been there some months
and had played a lot of golf, he had not,
as the American press puts it, “once been
given the hand of welcome by the
U.S.G.A.”
Footbrawl
The first V.F.L. semi-final will be be-
tween Essendon and Geelong, Richmond
having run into second place behind Mel-
bourne by holding off a determined
South Melbourne assault on the latter’s
ground. Essendon and Geelong had a
trial spin on Saturday ; the Dons booted
16-16 to 7-10.
South Melbourne held Richmond dog-
gedly for three quarters, then the Tigers
exerted themselves and it developed into
a rout. Richmond, 16-12 ; South, 8-13.
The Tigers are in fine fettle, and are
freely tipped for the premiership.
North Melbourne finished with the
wooden spoon. On the M.C.G. Melbourne
scored 18-21 to North’s 11-15.
At Carlton, the Blues and Footscray
staged a picnic affair. Carlton won the
egg-and-spoon race, Footscray the pull-
ing-faces contest. The crowd waited
eagerly for results —from Mentone race-
course. When the Blues had 15-12 to
11-14 everybody went home to tea.
It says something for Collingwood’s
drop in barrackers’ estimation that little
more than three men and a dog turned
up on Saturday to watch the team get
beaten by St. Kilda. Both human and
canine onlookers got a shock when,
sadly behind, ’Wood suddenly turned on
its famous system, galloped to the front,
and romped home by 15-19 to 10-15.
An even smaller crowd saw Fitzroy,
which had made a startling approach to
the four, belted all over the Hawthorn
ground. When the massacre was over,
Hawthorn had 13-16 to 5-8.
$ # * *
For the Rugby Union finals North
Sydney oval had one of its best crowds
for years. The Reserve-grade game,
Manly v. University, was fast and open.
Manly won 16-13.
Manly v. Randwick, first grade, began
solidly. Forwards rucked hard, backs
searched for gaps, the passing was fast
and the tackling determined. For halt
an hour there was no score, then a
Manly forward dived over from a ruck.
Coxon’s goal was a beauty; 5-nil.
Presently Towers, Randwick s 33-year-
old skipper, made an opening and sent
Rankin in for a try, and the same player
kicked the goal—s-5.
Manly opened the scoring again m
the second half. From a mid-field ruck
its forwards rushed the ball through at
the toe ; it bounced nicely for one ot
them to pick up and run through the
posts. Another Coxon goal 10-5. But
already the extra weight in the Rand-
wick pack was beginning to have its
effect. From a scrum near the line
Cremin, the five-eighth, sent the ball to
Towers ; then it went to Rankin, an
so to Keith Windon, and that fast tor-
ward crashed over. The goal was easy—-
10-10. Soon Windon had it again, and
again barged over. Another goal 15-1 .
Another try to Windon and another goa
to Rankin —20-10 ; and the premiership
to Randwick. The distinction was wei
earned, and the scene closed with Man \
men carrying Towers to the pavilion.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Ask No Questions”
Few of the odd dozen or so gossip-
comedies which have had their inspiration
. The Women” have managed any
J£r 1Vi “ ua l success except as imitations.
1 hey have copied the pattern —the players
are all women, the most important
characters, though they never appear, all
men—and in many cases conscripted the
fh ’ Ca * wisecracks for repeat duty ; and
ey ve rarely had anything new to say
of themselves. Sydney writer Gwen
Meredith’s “Ask No Questions,” given
a showing by the Independents at their
North Sydney theatre, is one of the few
that can stand on their own feet.
Only the method of “The Women” has
been borrowed. It’s set in a private
hospital (plenty of scope here for an
“obstetrical” brand of humor), and the
ladies and near-ladies gossip themselves
into quarrels and misunderstandings,
gossip themselves out of them and then
gossip themselves in again. There are
plenty of bright new gags.
Perhaps it is that the ladies are merely
indulging their natural habits, but what-
ever the reason there’s not a false note
in the whole performance. If acting it
is, the Independents excel themselves.
Gwen Plumb stands out as the pasty-
faced, dumb-witted probationer, but
that’s largely because the best of the
lines and the brightest of the gags are
lavished on the part. Gwenda Moverley,
Winifred Taylor, Audrey Cunningham.
Phil Taylor indulging in a spot of aerial skating to the consternation of Eddie
Marcel and Egbert in “Ice Follies of 1940,” the excellent ice show at Sydney
Royal.
Mary Littlejohn, Elizabeth Myers, Irene
Thirkell, Hazel Hollander and all the
others handle the business as if to the
manner born. Doris Fitton produces,
and the play is one of her best bits of
recent work.
♦ k '
“Banana Ridge”
A prominent official of an Australian
airline makes a forced landing near a
country house in England in the last war
and spends a night there. He has a two
nights’ liaison with the daughter of the
house, and, as a result, becomes a father.
Twenty-five years later the long arm of
coincidence brings his son, the son’s
mother and sundry of her later lovers
to Bukit Pisang— i.e., Banana Ridge—in
the Federated Malay States. The young
man is in love with the daughter of one
of his mother’s lovers, since respectably
married, and the long arm of coincidence
puts its elbow out of joint by bringing
along his father, now an eminent citizen
with a title.
That is the theme of “Banana Ridge,”
the comedy by Ben Travers put on by
Frederick Blackman at the King’s, Mel-
bourne, on Saturday. De Maupassant,
Chekhov, Shaw and others have dealt
with the same theme and brought some
understanding to it. In the last act Mr.
Travers polishes it off with the same
cocksureness and celerity with which he
wrote his notices of Test matches for the
“Herald” and associated papers when he
was in Australia. He makes everybody
talk about himself and herself and each
other in a way no human being ever
talked or could talk.
As a bit of smart journalese “Banana
Ridge” had its moments, and was acted
amusingly by some and awkwardly by
others. The most awkward was Ross
Vernon as the young man who causes
all the pother, and the most at home was
Frank Bradley as a planter with a deep
affection for the bottle. Pat MacDonald
supplied the love interest as his step-
daughter. Yvonne Banvard gave a good
characterisation of the erring mother, and
Letty Craydon was an incredible Presby-
terian wife with a creditable Scotch
accent.
* * * *
It’s an Illusion
Sydney Minerva’s farces are getting so
light that when the show’s over you’re
not quite certain that you remembered
to go to it, and even while the show’s on
there’s an uncanny feeling that you’re
only imagining it. The new one, “It’s a
Girl,” ought to be called “It’s a Phantom.”
If it wasn’t all a dream, it’s about two
sellers of women’s underwear and a gold-
digger who snares the guileless partner
(Pat Twohill), then snares the bright part-
ner (Charles Norman), who comes to the
other’s rescue; and then at the end the
gold-digger is foiled. Lily Moore comes
in as an ancient and masterful employee.
The producer’s idea of introducing
songs and dances into the farce only
serves to hold up the action and to spoil
what chance it has of convincing you
that it exists. What’s the good of bring-
ing in songs when nobody can sing, and
what’s the use of trying to create the in-
formality of a music-hall without the
atmosphere of prawns, peanuts and beer?
Charles Norman works himself into a
frenzv to keep the show moving and does
it with remarkable success. He’s bril-
liantly funny. Because of his efforts
there’s a laugh in it, if it is, as Gertie
Stein would add.
H: * ' $
Friedman with Orchestra
An Australian-born conductor, Percy
Code, waved his baton over the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra at last week’s
A.B.C. “celebrity” concert at Sydney
Town Hall. Proceedings opened aus-
piciously with a brisk performance of
the “Bartered Bridei” overture, which
found the band on familiar ground.
Butterworth’s rhapsody “A Shropshire
Lad” has its moments of sweetness and
nice sentiment and was well done, but
these vague and aimless expressions of
melancholy by British composers are
singularly out of tune with the spirit of
the times. Chausson’s symphony con-
cluded the programme. Cleverly orches-
trated as it is, and ingeniously con-
structed, it contains nothing worth re-
membering.
The “celebrity” item of the evening
was Beethoven’s pianoforte concerto in
C Minor (op. 37, No. 3) with Ignaz
Friedman as soloist. There are no vain
regrets about this music, in the matured
Beethoven’s most vigorous style, and
Friedman, well backed by orchestra,
played the largo movement with majesty
and the bravura passages in the first and
third movements with fire.
* * * *
Yehudi and Hephzibah Menuhin made
their second and final family appearance
at the Town Hall, Melbourne, on Satur-
day, and the house was a bumper, but
the grave young couple were so obsessed
with their music that they looked as if
they would not have noticed if the house
was empty. It would be difficult to
imagine a more diversified programme,
although there were only three items on
it. The first was the Beethoven Sonata,
Op. 12, No. 3, which seemed as clear,
fresh, simple, sparkling and expected as
a creek in a mountain gully.
It was followed by a sonata by Georges
Enesco, the young friend and mentor of
Yehudi. This has a queer wailing note
about it, seems to be perpetually building
up to something and then scattering, like
a bombing squadron in an air raid, and
it has a strange rich finale. Yehudi
played it with the same loving devotion
that he gave to the Beethoven and subse-
quently to the tuneful Cesqr Franck
Sonata in A Major. Sister Hephzibah
ran the violinist a good second at the
piano.
ARTBURSTS.
S. Society of Arts has had two
good one-man shows. Septimus Power
(who received his first commission in
Adelaide long ago) is as strong as ever
with his horses, but is steadily growing
more versatile. His landscapes are de-
lightful. The highlight of his show is a
great portrait of Prof. Richardson, now
of Victoria, but formerly head, from the
foundation, of Urrbrae, where S.A.
mixes agriculture with science.
T. H. Bone, though less known, is
steadily making a name, and is already
represented in several Australian gal-
leries. He travels a lot and is no imitator
of the S.A. school. In fact, the present
show puts him up somewhere towards the
Buckmaster and Herbert class.
AT THE TALKIES.
Perhaps with the idea of discountenanc-
ing any carping critic who might doubt
the magical powers of the Oriental image
in Thorne-Smith’s filmed “Turnabout”
Sydney’s Mayfair backs it up with an
exhibition on stage by a real and live
magician, one Gogia Pasha. Gogia
doesn’t attempt to change women into
men or vice versa, nor does he bother with
men at all, but he does surprising things
with the two little harem ladies who
assist him. One he shuts up in a basket,
makes disappear, then thrusts a sword
into the basket where she should be ;
the other he places horizontally in mid-
air, suspended only by a pole under the
armpit and leaves her there quite un-
concerned. Should that not suffice to
convince the doubters he drags a couple
of dozen flags from his mouth and coins
from thin air. The Mayfair cat pays the
Pasha’s skill its highest compliment. It
takes great interest in the films, sitting
on the stage, but keeps well out of sight
when Gogia’s showing his worth.
* * * *
“Wagons Westward,” at Sydney Capi-
tol, is an oft-repeated Western with twin
brothers on opposite sides of the law.
Chester Morris makes fair work of the
dual role, appearing alternately as an
outlaw chief and a law-abidin’ citizen.
Chester the o.c. is captured, and his place
taken by Chester the l.a.c., who, of course,
pretends to be Chester the o.c. in an
attempt to capture the rest of the outlaw
band. Complications introduced by
Chester’s goil, who doesn’t realise that
Chester is no longer Chester. Chester
of course escapes quod and arrives on
the scene in nice time to complicate
things for Chester. Scores are even at
the finish with the law getting Chester
and the goil getting Chester.
* * * *
George Formby is still going strong
at Sydney Lyceum with a new support
feature, “The Missing People.” It is the
second of a series with Will Fyffe doing
noble work as one of Edgar Wallace’s
amateur sleuths. The mysterious dis-
appearance of a wealthy old damsel is
discovered to have been one of many,
and Mr. Reeder is soon hot on the trail.
Villains duly tracked down and liqui-
dated. Will is much more satisfying as
an amateur sleuth than the usual smart
young superman.
* * * *
Blanche Yurka in “Queen of the Mob”
at Sydney Cameo, tries to bring stage
technique to the screen with indifferent
success. It’s a rather entertaining piece,
however, with a family of criminals
going about their dirty deeds under the
guidance of their supremely criminal
mother. With the exception of the
family’s lone white sheep all fall by the
wayside, and while it lasts it has more
wild action to the foot than anything
viewed for some time.
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Peacocks in Paradise”
The Australian author of this play,
George Farwell, evidently has two minds
on Tahiti—one minute he’s in raptures
about the beauty of the spot and its
merits as a refuge from the toils of
civilisation, the next he’s kicking it all
over the place for what it does to white
men with its free-and-easy ways,
languorous tropical climate, dusky
damsels, vicious gossip, narrow-
mindedness, petty snobbishness, and
all the extra amenities for rotting away
with the minimum of discomfort.
Mr. Farwell’s main statement seems
to be contained in that part of his play
which deals with Lady Somebody chasing
out to Tahiti to rescue the man she turned
down and there finding him degenerated
to a taxi-driver —work generally left to
the island natives —and preferring to stay
that way and rot away peacefully and
pleasurably to oblivion —it’s always dif-
ficult to think seriously of these birds
since Laughton’s beachcomber. Unfor-
tunately, on the night this commentator
inspected the play the foregoing part of
it was subdued almost beyond notice
and other rather banal doings were
brought to the fore. A Sydney doctor
who misfired with an operation in Syd-
ney and went to Tahiti to forget about
it, and there nearly degenerates like the
other fellow, redeems himself with the
aid of his wife and by saving the life of
a half-caste grocer’s child by an opera-
tion identical with the one he messed up
in Sydney. That’s old stuff, but it came
out as the main narrative of the play
instead of being only an incidental bit
of filling, mainly to provide odd charac-
ters, settings, etc.
The main trouble was that Thea
Rowe’s Curtain Professional Players,
who are putting on the show at their
Sydney theatre, are stricken with Ger-
man measles. Half a dozen changes in
the cast finally resulted in the taxi-driver
chap being played at a few hours’ notice
by the understudy’s understudy or some-
one. He barely got through reciting his
lines —some good ones amongst them,
incidentally—and the role faded until it
was often difficult to decide whether he
or the prompter was making a better
job of it. Thea Rowe as the Lady Some-
body trying to rescue him was also
handicapped because her part was mainly
a frame for his —she turned in a good
stretch of acting, but it was a frame with-
out a picture.
The doctor and his missus were played
by the author apd Jean Forbes Allen.
There’s nothing particularly new or ex-
citing about the roles and they shouldn’t
have been the central theme of the play,
but they were, and the actors gave them
everything they could, Miss Allen being
in much better fettle than she was in
her previous performance in “Short
Story.” Clement Kennedy made a
broadly humorous job of the British
Consul, but any comment contained in
his marrying an uppah-stratah half-caste
was lost in Elsa Charlesworth’s playing
of the half-caste. Miss Charlesworth
knows her way about the stage, but she
tends to overstatement and misinter-
preting the author’s original meaning.
Thomas Vary filled two roles, that of
an American go-getter being his best
effort; Olaf Petersen appeared for a
few moments with a very colorful por-
trayal of an old salt; Theo Rivoli was
a Chinese boy; and Diane Farwell a
dusky seductress, on which role present
commentator is not prepared to com-
ment without experience. Incidentally,
in view of the discussion raging on the
Other Fellow’s Mind” of this paper on
the subject, it is interesting to note that
the play attributes the declining birthrate
!° ‘taxes, modern service flats, and the
influence of ballet on young men.”


HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
Doctors say your kidneys contain 15 Salles
of tiny tubes or filters which help to purify
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pas 3 about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your blood
are the cause of frequent or scanty passages
with smarting and burning, nagging back-i
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, leas of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swollen feet
and ankles, puClness under the eyes, head-t
aches and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pintd a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat-
ter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait! Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully
the world over by millions of peooie. They
Eive quick relief and will help to flush out the
35 MILES of kidney tnb-s. Get DOAN’S
(BACKACHE (KIDNEY PILLS at your ghemlst
pr gtorss,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Blue sky, blue frocks, blue hats turned
Randwick into a colorful playground last
Saturday. It was a Warwick Farm
meeting, but it was as urban as the hats,
which were new, spring-songish, and as
expensive-looking as the furs. Even
though it was the last day of August the
air was shrewd, and the fox (not quick
like the one who lives in the typewriting
manual, but dead and barbered) was
there in cohorts —silver, smoky, red,
Arctic and brother from Canada. Liked
the way Mrs. Penfold Hyland wore him
in positively noble cuffs on her snugly-
fitting coat.
Hats were often posies or circlets of
flowers, and one of the flower pretties
was worn by Mrs. Sam Stirling—pink
roses her choice. Mrs. Strath Playfair
and Eve were an attractive pair.
Mrs. Playfair was in black, and Eve in
two tones of blue. Joan Peacock in her
green and blue plaids was pleasant to
meet; so was the trig-in-black Rada Pen-
fold Hyland. Mayoress Crick’s white felt
hat had a high pointed crown, Amber
Bushell’s tiny hat of white peonies had
its bandeau of green stems. Her coat of
thin woollen was green, her frock white.
Wide-brimmed and high-crowned was
Pat Culpan’s black felt hat.
In the melee around the official stand
were Mrs. Joe Coen and daughter Marie,
Mrs. S. E. Parsons, and five cheery-look-
ing A.I.F. sisters from the Showground
camp. Grey uniforms, brown tie, brown
band on grey hat, were worn with a smart
clipper-like air. Sue Other Gee’s blue
coat had lynx lapels ; her blue hat was
circled with upright blue wings. Mrs.
Forrest Hughes in air-force blue was with
Miss Maher.
From Glen Alice, Mudgee way,
came Margaret Jameson. She was all in
black, and she was with Amber Bushell.
It was a peaceful scene, and yet the signs
and murmurs of war were everywhere.
Friends stopped to ask mothers and
sisters how the soldiers of the family were
faring. Walking about between stands
and ring were clouds of khaki and air-
force blue.
Not only the Consular group, but all
Queen Wilhelmina’s subjects in Sydney
celebrated her birthday last Saturday.
This was part of a celebration by Dutch-
men and -women in all countries. Six
hundred took part in the Sydney gesture
of loyalty, and a book containing the
autographs will be sent to the Nether-
lands Queen, now in London. Anthony
Hordern’s was gay with orange flowers
and with the flags of the Netherlands,
and all joined in singing the National
Anthem. In the afternoon a reception
had been held at the home of the Consul-
General for the Netherlands. Mrs.
Schuurman wore her touch of orange in
a necklet of large orange beads. Mrs.
Van der Mandele paid a compliment to
England by wearing a neck bow of red,
white and blue.
The Signals party was no end of fun.
It started at 5.30, was feverish by six,
and was still simmering at eight. Your
entrance money entitled you to three
drinks and a reckless choice of oyster
patties, sausages and chips. In the in-
tervals of munching and talking, one
and all got busy with the poker machines,
with roulette and housie-housie.
The brisk doings were in charge of
the Signals Women’s Auxiliary Com-
forts Fund, of which the Fisk lady is
president. She looked as though she had
dipped her head in pink rose petals and
then decided to wear them as a hat.
With her long black lace frock the effect
was blithe and picturesque. The Keith
Morris couple were the centre of glad
greetings. Her black frock and silver-fox
cape were rich to the gaze.
Mrs. Norman Lowe, not long returned
from England, wore a beflowered hat
with her black laces. The auxiliary’s
secretary, Mrs. L. A. Robb, was a flash
of burgundy. • There were 60 A.I.F.
signallers from Liverpool; and there was
a forest-green company of girl signallers
under the eye of director Mrs. Mc-
Kenzie. Colonel Thyer and his wife
were there; so were the Captain Patrick
couple. He is turning his face to
politics, and if things get dull in the
Senate the captain can always cheer
them up with a rollicking sea chanty.
Mrs. Tom Murray, Mrs. E. R. Cox,
the George Parkes couple, Wendy
Burge and the Norman Nocks were in
the Trocadero merry-go-round.
Among other gifted youngsters, the
1940 Eisteddfod has presented Roma
Sumner to the music world. Roma, just
16, is the winner of this year’s open
violin championship, winner of the
junior violin championship, and winner
of the City of Sydney’s prize (open) for
the best performance of Mendelssohn’s
Violin Concerto. Roma is a daughter of
the Rev. C. J. L. Sumner, of Bexley, and
is one of a talented family. Her mother
is an accomplished violinist. Roma, in
is a capital violinist, Roma also plays the
viola, elder sister Dorothy is a ’cellist,
and younger sister another violinist. So
you see the Sumners have a string
quartet in the family. The Russian
musician Jascha Gopinko is Roma’s
teacher.
Those old Athenians knew it all.
Comedy, tragedy? Say the word, it was
all the same to them. Another likeable
thing about them is the chummy way
in which they have their gods inter-
mingle in the common affairs of the
day. All this and more is proved by
Aristophanes's “The Frogs.” The S.U.D.S.
are presenting this in the Great Hall of
the University next month for three
nights, starting on the 26th. “The
Frogs” has been done only once before
in Australia. That was at Melbourne
University 25 years ago, when John Greig
Latham, not then C.J., played a leading
part—surely not that of the ghost of a
well-known browbeating counsel?
The Sydney committee is determined
to have a programme that a quarter of
a century hence may be dragged out
of the archives with pride, even as is
the Melbourne one at present. The
S.U.D.S. programme will have a blue
folder, and its inset will be buff art paper
on which a reproduction of the actual
temple in which the play first raised the
loud laugh will appear in grace.
Everybody at the University is as
vibrant with enthusiasm as the newly-
twanged strings of a harp. The Professor
of Greek has bought the material for
the costumes, so the right color note
will be struck. The patrician purple,
however, eluded him, so he is making
do with its modern sister Bordeaux.
Miss I. Fidler, always interested in the
University Settlement, which shares the
takings with the University Women’s
War Auxiliary, is president. Lady
Gowrie expects to attend on the first
night, Lord and Lady Wakehurst on the
second.
The two-, three- and four-year-olds of
Erskineville are going to spend happy
days in the sunny graciousness of the
Lady Gowrie Child Centre. This is a
sort of super-kindergarten, and its work
will be under the guidance of the Kin-
dergarten Union. It cost the Common-
wealth Government £6OOO to build, and
the Ministry of Health is to maintain
and staff it for five years. The windows
are long and many, and it had an air
of light and cheerfulness and grace on
the morning when its committee met for
the first time. Indeed the pale-blue nur-
sery for the two-year-olds, with its little
slippery slide and “dolly town,” got many
a lingering, backward look from the
grown-ups—a sort of “Turn backward,
turn backward, O Time, in thy flight”
look.
Lady Wakehurst is the first president
of the group which will guide the destiny
of this experimental pre-school. She was
enthusiastic over the architecture and the
furnishings. The curtains of unbleached
calico printed in red with cheerful animal
motifs came in for a special word. They
were designed by Deirdre Hall Best.
President of the Kindergarten Union
Samuel Cohen received the visitors. He,
the Julius lady and Mrs. J. C. Windeyer
are the vice-presidents of the Centre. The
director is Muriel Rogers, and her senior
assistants are Margaret Boyce and Isabel
Terrey. All are graduates of the Sydney
Kindergarten Training College. There
is a house committee of 18, and some
members of it are men. H. G. Jeffreson
is treasurer.
Sydney P.E.N. Club broke a long fast
as a society on Tuesday night. Presi-
dent Robert Garran presided, and the
invited guests included some home-grown
celebrities —one was Dr. Margot Hentze,
formerly lecturer in history at Sydney
Uni. and author of Pre-Fascist Italy.
Dr. Phyllis Kaberry, just returned from
New Guinea, anthropologist Dr. lan
Hogbin, who has written Experiments in
Civilisation, and A. J. Marshall, who has
Black Musketeers and Men and Birds of
Paradise to his credit, were others.
A woman writing from London tells
that recently she was invited to a late-
afternoon party. It fell out that it was
on the same day as the funeral of an
acquaintance. She desired to pay respect
to the dead, and also to go to the frivol,
but found she would not have time be-
tween the two to journey home to change
her attire. She put a long cloth coat
over her dressy frock, subduing it to the
right note. The hat was more of a prob-
lem. It was one of those jaunty affairs,
mostly violets and lily-of-the-valley, plus
a velvet ribbon. She put it in a paper
bag and carried it to the church, and
just inside the porch door she put it on
a shelf. After the service was ended she
stepped outside the church for the pass-
ing of the coffin, and then, to her dis-
may, she saw the tuft of violets and lily-
of-the-valley that was her hat crowning
the floral tributes!
Evelyn Hall (Mrs. Izal) is going to
Adelaide to raise her rich contralto voice
in Dvorak’s “Stabat Mater.” Evidently
Evelyn’s singing pleases conductor
Thomas Beecham, for she first sang with
the symphony orchestra under his lead.
Then the work was “The Messiah.” This
singer has never been out of Australia,
but she has now sung with many of the
leading conductors who have visited Aus-
tralia, Malcolm Sargent, Hamilton Harty
and Maurice D’Abravanel among them.
In opera seasons conducted by the
A.B.C. she has taken the leading con-
tralto parts. The soprano part in the
presentment of “Stabat Mater” will be
sung by Lisa Perli.
What must it feel like to create a
city, and then make it work to your
will? Knight George Julius has done
this with his model city. Already, as
it grew, the hamlet has raised much
money for kindly purposes. Any who
had previously seen the trim buildings,
the railway train that comes hurtling
down the hill and through the tunnel,
in all things obedient to the flashing
signals, were delighted to be asked to its
official opening by Lady Wakehurst. This
happened on an afternoon of last week
in David Jones’s Market-street store, and
the city is now installed for the duration.
Of the admission money 80 per cent, will
go to the Mayor’s patriotic fund and 20
per cent, to the day nurseries and the
kindergartens.
Before Lady Wakehurst cut the red,
white and blue ribbon across the city’s
approaches there was a blithe circling of
cocktails, the barmen including Jimmy
Bancks. Mrs. Alan McGregor gave a
hand with the service. How Barrie
would have liked the clever engineer
knight’s face! It has just the sort of
“buttoned-up humor” look that most of
J.M.’s characters convey. The Julius
lady, the Norman Nocks, the Charlie
Lloyd Joneses and the Alfred Davidsons
were in the vice-regal group. Kinder-
garten and day nursery committee
women were present in numbers ; so was
Mrs. Halse Millet, of the Canadian
Women’s Association. Peter Lubbock
was in a group that included Joan and
Bunty, the daughters of Air Marshal
Burnett. They were guests at Govern-
ment House. Guess what particular
branch of war work claims their atten-
tion?
The last time this writer saw Mrs.
Alleyne Zander was in London, and she
was up to her eyes preparing for the
private view of the Royal Academy.
Mrs. Zander is what they call press re-
lations officer for the R.A. Last
Saturday she returned from her
native Melbourne, to which city she and
her daughter Jocelyn travelled imme-
diately on their arrival from England.
On Friday she will open the Society of
Artists’ show in the Education Gal-
leries. The S.O.A. is making a charge
of one shilling admission on every day,
starting on private-view day. This will
go to the Red Cross. The artists, too,
are generously donating half the sales
moneys.
A man sitting a few seats away from
this Letter got a zinc bathtub handed to
him after curtain-fall on “It’s a Girl!”
Was it to catch his tears? Other things
were given out, brooms among them.
But good mime needs no brush. This
giving away of trifles at the curtain-fall
of a first night is a meaningless trick. If
you have a good play you don’t need to
do it, and if you haven’t no amount of
giving will make it good. The rain fell
in wallops on the opening night, but there
was a good audience at the Minerva.
Most of the dressing was weatherproof,
though Princess Radziwill did swing a
three-quarter coat of ermine over black
laces. The foyer and stairs of the theatre
were graced by a number of the Minerva
actors and actresses. Barbara Smith
looked down from the balcony on the
entrance ; with her was Lloyd Lamble.
Aileen Britten took up colorful stand on
the stairway. Katie Towers was seen;
so was Marjorie Gordon.
The Anzac Fellowship will be a few
pounds the richer from the afternoon of
music at the Carlton. Tenor Charles
Benson and his wife brought a party of
Tasmanians Mrs. H. W. Armstrong,
wife of Captain Armstrong of shipping
renown; Mrs. Bob Rex and daughter
Mary; Mrs. I. Palmer. They were keen
to hear Charles sing “Calling You,” the
song composed recently by his mother.
Marie Gordon sang songs by Goring
Thomas, Del Riego and others; Audrey
Davies recited. Victor McMahon fluted
with charm. Della Cooke sported one of
the two really spring hats in the room.
The other was worn by Mrs. Benson, a
white straw with a pink rose blushing
under a mist of veil. Mrs. Arthur
Scrivener and composer May Brahe were
guests of honor. Hector Tinkler was the
pianist.
The Sydney Legacy Club will present
a musical pageant at the Town Hall
on Thursday, September 26. Lord
and Lady Gowrie and Lord and Lady
Wakehurst are patrons, and the Wake-
hursts have promised to be there.
The pageant will feature the cultural
and physical training of the junior boys
and girls of “Legacy.” Star items will
be given by Legatees Peter Dawson,
George Brown and Bert Harrow, the two
latter providing the comedy element. The
A.B.C. Military Band will be heard in
new and special items. Proceeds will be
equally distributed among the Mayors
Patriotic Fund, the War Veterans’ Home
and the Legacy Club.
Australians, and American friends of
Australia, in New York are mindful of
the second A.I.F. A group that calls
itself the Anzac War Relief Fund of
New York has sent a first contribution
of £926 and some shillings to be divided
between Sydney’s Mayor’s Patriotic
Fund and that of Melbourne. Members
are also enthusiastically knitting socks
and balaclavas for Australian soldiers
overseas. Chairman of the group is Alick
McD. McLean, brother of Dr. Ken Mc-
Lean, of Melbourne. Harold Rabling,
formerly of Ballarat and Melbourne, is
the treasurer. Singer Marjorie Law-
rence, explorer Hubert Wilkins and
pianist Percy Grainger are committee
members.


for a modest 3s. 6d. —so it’s just a dance.
Audrey Campbell, of Myrnong-crescent,
Toorak, is secretary.
Personal and Missing Friends.
SYDNEY MANTON (Harold Sydney Manton),
once in Newcastle district. Father dead. Write
to mother, 19 Margaret Street, South Yarra.
ANDREW HARVEY, formerly of Excelsior
and Piamlong, New South Wales, Australia,
or anyone knowing his present whereabouts, is
requested to communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUST OFFICE. Rotorua, New Zealand.
Divorce Notices.
TO LLEWELLYN CHARLES LILLEY for-
merly of Geelong and Corryong in the
State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife BESSIE
LILLIAN LILLEY has instituted proceedings
against you for divorce on the ground of de-
sertion Unless you enter an appearance in the
Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court in
Melbourne on or before the Twenty-sixth day
of September 1940 the case may proceed in
your absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs If you intend to defend this suit you
must also file an answer in the said office on
or before the Seventh day of October 1940.
MORGAN AND FYFFE.
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
TO THOMAS MARTIN of Dubbo New South
Wales Australia Painter.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MARY
MAUD MARTIN of Ponsonby in the city of
Auckland and Dominion of New Zealand
Married Woman has filed in the Supreme Court
of New Zealand at Auckland a Petition for
Divorce against you on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and that unless you enter
an appearance and file an answer in the said
Court within Forty (40) days from the appear-
ance of this advertisement the said petition
may be heard and determined in your absence
and if you are not now domiciled in New
Zealand you are warned that the Decree for
Divorce if and when obtained may not have
effect beyond New Zealand and that you should
not remarry in reliance upon a decree in these
proceedings without first obtaining advice in
the country where you propose to remarry.
DATED at Auckland this 22nd day of
August, 1940.
(L.S.) E. M. MOSLEY,
Deputy-Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
MESSIEURS SULLIVAN AND WINTER
are the Solicitors for the Petitioner, whose
address for service is at the office of MES-
SIEURS SULLIVAN AND WINTER, 102
Dingwall Building, Queen Street, Auckland,
New Zealand.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF VICTORIA.
(Divorce Jurisdiction.)
TO MAE ELIZABETH RUN DELL formerly
of Perth in the State of Western Aus-
tralia but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your husband
MATTHEW GRAHAM RUNDELL has in-
stituted proceedings against you for divorce
on the grounds of desertion. Unless you enter
an appearance in the Prothonotary’s office of
the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before
the 26th day of September 1940 and unless
your answer is filed on or before the 7th
day of October 1940 the case may proceed in
your absence.
LEWIS WILKS, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
440 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF VICTORIA.
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes
Jurisdiction.
No. 570 of 1940.
BETWEEN ERIC BUCKINGHAM Petitioner
And MARY GERTRUDE BUCKING-
HAM Respondent.
TO MARY GERTRUDE BUCKINGHAM
of Commercial Hotel Mildura but now of
parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your husband ERIC
BUCKINGHAM has commenced proceedings
in this Honorable Court for a divorce on the
ground that you have without just cause or
excuse wilfully deserted him and without any
such cause or excuse left him continuously so
deserted during three years and upwards Unless
you enter an appearance in the office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court in Mel-
bourne on or before the 26th day of September
1940 the case may proceed in your absence If
you intend to defend this suit you must also
file art answer in the said office on or before
the 7th day of October 1940.
DATED this 30th day of August 1940.
IRVING S. PLOTKIN, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 375 Collins Street, Melbourne.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1471 of 1940.
BETWEEN VERA MADELINE STEVENS
Petitioner
And RONALD DALLAS HAMILTON
STEVENS Respondent.
TO RONALD DALLAS HAMILTON
STEVENS.
TAKE NOTICE that the above-named VERA
MADELINE STEVENS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-
seventh day of November next and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time to do so the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit will be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
Dated this Twenty-eighth day of August,
1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A LAURENCE (Laurence and Laurence),
Solicitor for the Petitioner, 44 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Events of social significance fell so
thick and fast on Saturday that to have
covered them all a racing car, a police
pass and the constitution of a footballer
would have been needed. The afternoon
started innocently enough with a brace of
fetes as far removed as the poles. Then
there were half a hundred weddings, and
for punters who go off “down the line”
as naturally as they swallow their break-
fast coffee there were races at Mentone.
In between times the town was crammed
with soldiers spending their last fort-
night’s pay without a qualm. Every pub
was popular and all the well-known
dining-out joints were packed for dinner.
Afterwards came the Yehudi and Heph-
zibah Menuhin concert at the Town Hall,
“lolanthe” at His Majesty’s and “Banana
Ridge” at the King’s, as mixed a bag as
one could wish for, followed by the Em-
bassy, crowded as usual, and the “Sons
of the Sea” affair on the quarter-deck of
Menzies.
To start at the beginning with the two
fetes, one was opened by Lady Dugan
and the other by Mrs. Menzies. Lady
Dugan’s destination was in the wilds of
Richmond, which she found so interesting
that the v.-r. car was still parked in the
lee of the Pelaco factory late in the after-
noon. The Pelaco girls and boys’ war
work is remarkable. They had £350 in
hand towards an ambulance before the
date of their fete. As the fete was a
deluge and far exceeded expectations re-
garding crowds—good-humored police
had all they could do upon the stairs —
they look like raising a goodly sum for
the Red Cross and Comforts.
To add to the excitement there were
the shrill squeals of infants competing in
the baby show (most of them lent by ex-
employees) and their little-bit-older
sisters and brothers everywhere else in
the crowd. On one floor there was a
musical parade of song and dance; on
another the exhibition proper, where the
crowds were so dense that the traffic had
to be regulated. The bazaar stalls did a
brisk trade in all kinds of goods for home
and holiday. There was an exhibition of
craftwork, and some of the factory ex-
perts showed on their machines how
shirts are made.
Mrs. Menzies opened the housewarm-
ing fete at the United Services Cafe (col-
loquially known as “Deb’s Dell”), which
has been transferred from a dark and
grimy underground cavern to a cheerful
restaurant with cream tables, scarlet
chairs and glass crockery. Lounges and
easy chairs lent by Dr. Buffer Murphy
speak a welcoming word at the entrance
and in the lounge reserved for officers of
the three services, where they may read,
write, dutifully wait for their wives, etc.
The “Sons of the Sea” was all of the
deep briny ocean. Whereas gold braid
was plentiful, only two men of the “Aif”
were visible, and sole Air Force represen-
tatives were a couple of lads from Somers
in Mrs. Wallace Mitchell’s party. Wel-
coming dancers to Menzies were two
Jack-tars made of cardboard, and round
the pillars were lifebelts which are to be
a bit of atmospherical decoration for
Navy House. A very grand supper was
served in the dining-room, where under
the chins of the Admiral and Lady
Colvin a model of the H.M.A.S. Sydney
sailed in a sea of flowers. Attractions of
the evening were Strella Wilson’s songs of
gallantry and a Dutch auction by Wal-
lace Mitchell of Popeye the Sailor,
which fell into the hands of S. Abrahams
at a total cost (shared by half a dozen
bidders) of six and a half guineas.
Apparel of distinction was worn by Mrs.
Robert Parish. With her tight-fitting
black taffeta gown she wore an emerald-
green jacket embroidered with leaves of
a plane-tree, which leaves were repeated
in the design of long dangly wooden
earrings. Mrs. Biff Gluth’s white net
gown was emblazoned with scarlet
flowers and sash.
Pouch pockets have arrived. While
large enough to satisfy the primeval in-
stincts of a mother kangaroo, they are
also sufficiently shapely to please the
woman who craves something new and
different. Pouched backs to coats are an-
other feature which will be seen this
summer. Both ideas cropped up at
Cann’s show, where Pat Outhwaite joined
the ranks of the mannequins with credit.
Young Pat, although stiff shaken by an
aftermath of influenza and the unwanted
guest from Pucka who has been digging
his claws into everybody’s throat, looked
well in a series of devastating creations.
Some models shown actually were from
Paris, and have a tale of adventures sewn
into every seam. They were delayed
for some time in London. One gown
arrived by air.
Judge Book made one of his clever and
appropriate speeches when proposing the
all-important toast at the wedding of
Yvonne Spry and Jock Tuckfield,
R.A.A.F. Jock’s reply also clicked, and
he managed to say “my wife” three times
loudly and firmly. Yvonne, a radiant
picture in a classical gown of white
corded silk, tulle veil and gardenias, was
attended by her sister, Mrs. Bowen Allen,
as matron of honor, and brother Sam
(otherwise Sergeant Howard Spry) was
Jock’s henchman, in khaki. Though Sam
says he could get a horse-collar inside the
neck of his tunic and still do the buttons
up, his was a uniform to be proud of,
so elegantly were the pants pressed since
their visit to the dry-cleaners. That
uniform spent a week in tissue-paper
while its upstanding owner manned the
guns of Pucka in his “giggle suit.”
Among guests at the wedding (at St.
John’s and at No. 9) were the H. P.
Ogiivies, Mrs. Ogilvie in a saucy black
hat which she had worn only once before,
just a year ago that day at the marriage
of daughter Jean to Major Redvers
Dunbar. (That party, too, was at No. 9 ;
Jean is now in England, and her husband
is on active service.) Another hat with
a personality was seen upon the head of
Mrs. Stephen Howie, whose figured frock
ran to elaborations of velvet ribbon bows.
Sylvia Nowack stepped out of a gilded
picture frame in a toe-length frock of
frilled muslin and little white bonnet to
match Receiving congratulations was
Stanley Arms, who only that day had
become the father of a son and heir.
A kitchen tea, a pantry tea and a
dinner-and-theatre party were among pre-
wedding festivities offered to Yvonne
Spry. The pantry do was given by Mrs.
Frank Lukis at Laverton, where Yvonne
proved herself with one exception the
brightest guest present, for she won a
glazed vase in a guessing competition.
The exception was the hostess, who in-
vented the riddles with the help of her
husband, the air station’s C. 0., in his
daily five minutes or so off duty. Mrs.
Lukis also wrote verses of no mean
quality to accompany her pantry parcel,
which included a young cook’s best
friend —a tin-opener.
A bride in pastel-pink was Anne Mack-
intosh, who was claimed by a ’groom
in uniform, Lieut. John Stanley Elder,
at Christ Church. Palest pink also were
the bride’s tulle veil and coiffure attach-
ment of ostrich feathers and the spotted
net and chiffon frock worn bv her attend-
ing ’maid, younger sister April. The
bride is the elder daughter of the Nor-
man R. MacKuitosnes, «uiu me giuoui is
the elder son of Mr. and Mrs. Stanley
Elder. Late-afternoon felicitations were
at Menzies. The bride’s photograph is
from Spencer Shier.
For the young and the fair September
will be a month of dances. The staff of
K. E. Rogers, Ltd., has adopted A.I.F.
military hospitals for its cabaret dance
at The Palms next Monday night (9th).
Members of the committee feel that that
if they can even make the troops’ fight
with the vicious little “Pucka throat” bug
a less miserable affair they will be doing
a worth-while job. The president is
returned-soldier Bert Smith, Phyl Thomp-
son is treasurer and Sylvia Warren secre-
tary. A lot of fun will be on tap for
ss. tickets.
A pageant approacheth: “Pictures
from the Past, or Australian History
Without Tears.” The idea was born in
the minds of Mrs. W. E. Agar (who
wanted to do something worth while for
her godchild among good-works move-
ments, St. Mary’s Mission at Fitzroy)
and Miss Mary Webster, who is steeped
in the history of this country—she’s
librarian for the Historical Society. Miss
Webster wrote the script for the pageant
of Australia-in-the-making, which will
be read as the leaves of the history-book
are turned, tableau by tableau. Co-
operating are the National Theatre group
(whose theatre will be used for the two-
nights’ season, October 4 and 5), the
Standard Players, Janet Clarke Hall
students, Girls’ Grammar and Lauriston
dramatic societies, Winifred Moverley,
Doris Morton, Neil Amos, Charles Leg-
gett (who is collecting “old salts” to sing
chanties in a windjammer scene) and Wil-
liam Carr, who is the stage-manager.
At his show at the Velasquez Galleries
Frank Crozier saluted his old cobbers
of the 22nd Battalion and the 6th
Brigade by donating total sales of the
pictures on the north and south walls
to the 22nd’s Comforts Fund. Moral
support for “Cro” on the opening after-
noon was provided by Col. W. Fethers
and Major R. H. Norman, by a picture
lent by the major and his better half
and three pictures lent by Mrs. S. G.
Savige on behalf of the brigadier, who
is away on active service.
Harold Herbert opened the show and
gave all credit to blonde Cecily Crozier,
whose first action on her recent return
from abroad was to fox out uncle’s
pictures from his burrow at Warrandyte
and break the news gently to this quiet-
living artist that an exhibition was
imminent. “Cro” was once a bank clerk,
but he sacrificed the delights of banking
for art. Col. Fethers in his straight-from-
the-shoulder speech recalled his first im-
pression of “Cro,” sketchbook in hand,
with his head poked out of a front trench
on Gallipoli. Later Private Crozier was
an accepted candidate for the Intelli-
gence in France.
Under the sports hat is Mrs. Matthew
Patrick, who, like many other women
these days, lives in a world of wool and
good works. She’s the newly-elected
president of the Prahran Red Cross
branch (the vice-president is the new
Mayoress of Prahran, Mrs. A. H. Wood-
full). Mrs. Patrick also belongs to the
Prahran Patriotic Society, where her
specialty is being hand in glove with King
Jumbuck, for she does all the buying and
distributing and counting of wool skeins.
She is also treasurer of the Toorak, South
Yarra and Prahran Creche. Broothorn
photograph.
Mrs. Alleyne Zander and her 18-year-
old daughter Jocelyn made tracks for
Sydney during the week-end after a short
stay in Melbourne, their destination after
a long journey from England. They were
last here in 1933, when Mrs. Zander
brought to Australia the first show of
“modern” art. Abroad she has had in-
teresting experiences as a publicist, and
for several years has done propaganda
for the Royal Academy exhibitions, of
which the Chinese Exhibition was the
most noteworthy. The war curtailed
plans for an Indian Exhibition.
Regarding art, Mrs. Zander says she
has no prejudice. Her work covers a wide
range as each show follows on the dis-
similar heels of its predecessor. For in-
stance, straight after an exhibition of
nineteenth-century French art there came
a show of Hitler’s “Banned Art.” The
latter, for the most part, consisted of the
work of refugees. When Mrs. Zander
was in Germany she managed to get
access to the works of the banned nine-
teenth-century impressionists hidden
away in cellars by Hitler’s injunction.
Her opinion of those is not high.
The 2/2 Pioneer B.N. Auxiliary
Younger Set, otherwise the “Pucka
Pagans,” are inviting their friends to
come to Ormond Hall on Saturday, 28th.
As pagans they would like to call it an
orgy on a night of a waning moon, but
feel that guests might expect too much


KITCHING’S
TRAVEL Goods Specialists.
Military TOILET SETS
PRICE:
42'-
OTHERS:
32/6 to 70/-
MONEY
BELTS,
6/6 to 9/6.
WET PACKS,
12/6 & 25/-
mirrors.
Stainless
Steel,
2/6 and 3/-
Free
Delivery
to all
Suburbs.
-TO
<zr~
VERY NEAT AND HANDY
Comprising:—Hair Brushes, Clothes and
Shaving Brushes, Containers for Toilet and
Shaving Soap and Tooth Brush, also Steel
Mirror, Comb, File, Scissors, and Safety
Razor. In a beautiful Solid Leather Case,
with Zip Fastener Attached.
C. E. KITCHING PTY. LTD.
319 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. 8W7133.
;(Ngar \yynyard Station.)
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRAHDAtfJBK * 00. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
fPENS
Every point
guaranteed
<2^
W£AN M£N AND IVOM£N
Loss of vitality and premature feeling
of old age are due to failure of certain
glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY.
IT. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
m
GL-ftND
TONIC
WBIfTS
THE FLYING COLUMN
Debits and Credits.
“Ek Dum”: For the tenth week
the invasion of England has been
“imminent,” but so far the only Ger-
mans who have succeeded in landing in
England have been those who have fallen
out of aeroplanes.
The British losses are mainly single-
engined fighters; those of the Germans,
heavy bombers with two and three
engines. They are considerably more
difficult to replace and take longer to
build than Hurricanes and Spitfires.
It is difficult to calculate what man-
power casualties have been, but, on the
known types of raider which have been
destroyed, the Germans cannot have lost
fewer than 2000 men. Their problem of
replacement is not merely to train in-
dividuals but to add to individual in-
struction the long team practice which is
needed before a bomber crew is efficient.
Certain it is that German man-power
losses are out of all proportion to the
British. There seems to be a striking
contrast between the wastage in British
raids over Germany and German raids
over Britain. It is rare for more than
one or two British machines to be de-
stroyed, even though their flights are
long and Continental atmospheric con-
ditions are all on the side of the de-
fenders. The bulk of all casualties on
both sides are suffered over England;
and there, when a German “bails out”
alive, he is a prisoner, while many a
British Spitfire or Hurricane pilot de-
scends to fight again.
Germany has huge reserves of trained
airmen. Before war broke out semi-
official claims were made that they num-
bered 600,000. But there is a vast dif-
ference between a trained fighter and
an experienced one. The man who has
been through even one fight has his value
increased. And Britain is rapidly build-
ing up a huge superiority in experience
of personnel and with it, naturally, an
ascendancy in morale which is growing.
It is obvious that either Germany has
not yet found an ideal method of attack
or that difficulties with materials stand
in her way of reaching the same stand-
ards in machines and armament as have
been achieved by the R.A.F. Technical
comments on captured German machines
are heartening. Where petrol has been
found in the tanks it has usually been
inferior to British petrol in octane rating
and in other respects. The same has
proved true of lubricants.
Raids and Counter-raids.
It is evident that German air fighting
continues in the experimental stage. The
latest experiment is a reversion from
heavily-massed attack to a new form of
combined operation. In every day’s en-
gagements there seems to be one massed
attack by heavily-guarded bomber
formations. This is generally aimed at
an important naval or air-force objec-
tive, and it naturally draws a concen-
tration of defending fighters to one point.
While the fight is in progress, small
formations of machines are dispersed
over thousands of square miles of
country, flying high, dropping bombs
here and there and generally aiming at
disturbing industry and robbing large
groups of population of their sleep.
These dribbling raids, particularly
when directed at London, are long-drawn-
out. Two lasted into the seventh hour,
beginning as the theatres were about to
empty and keeping Londoners locked in
air-raid shelters.
The attacks are made with every
fiendish type of bomb invented —short-
fused bombs for slaughter of troops and
civilians, incendiary and high-percussion
bombs for destruction of buildings and
material, and delayed-action bombs
which are meant entirely for the destruc-
tion of the unsuspecting and the shatter-
ing of civilian nerves. Added has been
an expanded use of low-flying machine-
gun ’planes, which range over streets
and mow down people indiscriminately.
Information as to the damage done is,
as a rule, vague. “A few people killed,”
“several casualties,” “municipal, indus-
trial and residential property damaged”
are stock phrases in the British official
vocabulary. The German High Com-
mand paints a lurid picture of wrecked
docks, harbor works, aerodromes, air-
craft factories, barracks and convoys.
On the other hand, while the R.A.F.
tells of huge German oil plants in flames,
of 27 aerodromes strafed in one day,
of railway junctions blasted out of exist-
ence and naval bases at Kiel and Wil-
helmshafen torn asunder with explosions
and machine-gun fire, the Germans them-
selves can find “no damage worth men-
tioning,” “a few civilian casualties.”
Last week began with raids on Britain
(August 26) on a somewhat more
modest scale than in the previous two
days, but covering the country more
widely, and even penetrating to Eire,
where a Wexford dairy factory was
attacked, three girls killed, another and
nine soldiers injured. The attack on
the Midlands was the heaviest on
record to that date.
But Germany, not Britain, was the
real offensive centre. It was covered by
a vast British raid which seems to have
swept the country from end to end,
reaching down to the great oil works
at Leuna near Leipzig and taking in the
naval bases at Kiel and Wilhelmshafen
and Berlin itself.
Berlin was not so much accustomed to
raids as London, which on the same
night was experiencing its fifth visi-
tation. The Berlin alarms sounded just
after midnight. Searchlights sprang to
life all over the sky, and four waves of
bomb-droppers kept the German mind
occupied for 3j hours.
The military authorities admit that all
traffic was held up for an hour and a
half. Invading squadrons were seen over
the official quarter on the south-east and
in the northern suburbs, which straddle
across the outer ring of metropolitan
railways towards the Jungfern Heath.
Explosions were heard on the west,
where bombs seem to have fallen in or
close to what used to be Berlin’s bright-
est pleasure street, the Kurfiirsten-
damm, and out by the Griinewald and
the Wannsee, which to Berliners are
what Manly and Coogee are to Sydney.
“No damage” was the incredible Ger-
man summary. The R.A.F. reported
that it attacked armament factories, while
sister squadrons romped down to Leip-
zig and fired a salvo or two in honor
of the opening day of Leipzig Fair.
Italy, too, had some attention that
night. Whitleys and Wellingtons went
out over their now well-beaten path
through the clouds above the Alps and
carried out their routine of bombing the
aircraft and engine accessory plants of
Milan and Turin.
Germany reported that 70 British
and 21 German ’planes had been de-
stroyed. The British reckoning placed
the enemy loss at 46 machines for the
day, 151 for three days, and the R.A.F.
loss at 15 machines and four pilots.
August 27 was a quieter day. The
German High Command claimed that
“poor visibility confined our activity to
reconnaissance flights” until evening,
when Gosport was attacked, fires were
started at Aberdeen, Southampton, Dun-
dee, Leeds and Hull,- and particular
damage was done to aircraft works at
Birmingham and Derby and to Chatham
Docks. British raids on Germany and
Italy continued with relentless precision.
The German version of casualties was
three British and one German machine.
The R.A.F. listed four German machines
as lost.
On August 28 Berlin had another three
hours of terror and unrest, and the High
Command admitted that 10 people were
killed and 28 wounded—all civilians living
in workers’ dwellings on the s.-e. of the
city. The raiders evidently had aimed at
the Templehof, the world’s greatest air
landing field. Neutral correspondents
wrote that the damage was vast. Every
window was broken in one area a quarter
of a mile square.
Meanwhile Kiel was swept by a sys-
tematic attack which raged up and down
across the naval town inside the A.A.
defences. Wilhelmshafen, too, had atten-
tion. And the paths back and forth from
Berlin to the Channel coast were marked
by a trail of fires and explosions as the
R.A.F. squadrons came and went. Sun-
derlands rolled out of the clouds over
Norwegian ports. Sirens screamed in the
Gironde and over Lombardy. The
Germans swept the teeming Mid-
lands of England, and it was re-
ported that London workers were “red-
eyed and weary after a sleepless night.”
Casualty lists showed their normal wide
variation; according to the enemy, 44
British and 15 German ’planes ; accord-
ing to the R.A.F., 28 German machines,
14 British ’planes and 10 personnel.
On August 29 a few bombs fell in
London, and there was widespread but
desultory bombing of other parts of
Britain. The Germans returned again
and again to the same spots from the
Scillys to Scotland. Casualties were nine
German machines and three British
fighters. The Midlands were again
visited; so was Wales, but the
greatest concentrations —200 machines—
were over Kent trying to push through a
wall of fighters. Germany was awake
again at night.
On August 30 there were persistent
onslaughts on London. Late on
the night before, screaming bombs
had dropped in a residential area. His-
toric Rochester cathedral had been set
on fire, and the strain which was being
put on British nerves in some areas was
evidenced by the fact that one Midland
town had its seventieth air-raid alarm.
Now, at midday, the most determined
attempt to reach the heart of London
was made by formations of 400 Ger-
man machines, the first of which came
over as lunch hour was approaching.
The first all-clear signal was not given
until 3.40 p.m. The enemy came
in two squadron formations, and each
formation was promptly tackled by
fighters who gave Londoners their first
intimate sight of dogfights in progress
over the city itself. At one stage six
were going on at once —battles which
were being repeated further south all
along the eastern part of the Channel
coast and the south-west as the R.A.F.
went up to stem the inrush.
After that fresh raids developed.
There was not one hour of the last 12
during the day and evening when some
part of the United Kingdom was not
hanging on to its ears as it listened to
the wailing of sirens, the scream of
bombs and the rattle of A.A. and fighter
fire.
There were 700 German machines
over England during the day. The only
respite from noon till midnight was a
five-hour lull before 9 p.m. Then the
bombers and fighters came over the
Channel again in an almost continuous
stream until the first streaks of dawn
on Aug. 31, nearly seven hours later,
when dogfights were still going on.
There was another rest until 8.30 a.m.,
when London traffic is almost at its
heaviest and Holborn and other great
arteries are a solid mass of crawling
vehicles from pavement to pavement.
The traffic went on, possibly because
it was impossible to clear the streets
effectively at that hour. It was 38
minutes before the last attacker had
been driven off; then about an hour and
a half later the savagery began again.
There were the same reprisals on
Berlin as on Wednesday night and
Thursday morning. They lasted \\ hour
in the early hours of August 31 and
formed what the Berlin Police Com-
mand admitted to be the most intense
attacks yet suffered. Bombs were
dropped half a mile south of the Unter
den Linden. The Germans admitted
that their inner ring of defences was
penetrated and that six people were in-
jured, three severely, but there was also
news of bombing at various scattered
points, which showed that the admissions
did not represent a tithe of the damage
done. Among the damaged objectives
shown to foreign journalists were
Siemens works and the Berlin central
fire-station.
On September 1 the destruction con-
tinued. The R.A.F. was over Berlin
for the sixth time in eight days in another
li-hour raid directly after midnight. The
German police reported that bombs were
dropped on several points in the out-
skirts of the city, but that A.A. fire
kept the raiders away from central
Berlin. U.S.A. correspondents declare
that Berlin’s underground railway system
has been completely disorganised by the
R.A.F. attacks, and this is not inconsis-
tent with the German statement, since
the system rings the suburbs.
England had another battle Sabbath.
Women and children were machine-
gunned by dive-bombers in London
suburbs. A part of the n.-e. line from
Liverpool-street, the busiest of the City
suburban stations, was disorganised.
Thirteen people were trapped in a cellar
in a n.-e. English town, and 11 of them
killed. One raider being chased by a
Spitfire dropped its bombs in a London
suburb and damaged 30 houses.
On the eve of the first anniversary of
the attack on Poland all England and
most of Germany seemed to be under
a blanket of total war.
Of all British points attacked, Rams-
gate, which lies above The Downs near
the North Foreland and the entrance to
the Thames Estuary, seems to have
suffered most. On August 24 nearly
1000 dwellings and shops were wrecked.
The normal population of Ramsgate is
about 45,000.
The R.A.F. is instructed not to bomb
civilian areas. But its ravaging of
factories, oil supplies, railway yards,
naval and air harbors, aerodromes and
workshops must be fearfully punishing to
an enemy which is at a disadvantage in
morale in having taken the initiative in
a warfare of ruthless murder discarded
since the Dark Ages, save in the nether
wilds of the more savage continents.
The Air War Day by Day.
August 26: Daylight raids, with
casualties, on Folkestone, Dover, Ports-
mouth and the Scilly Islands; night raid
on London. Germans claim considerable
damage to military points and three
merchantmen, and give machine losses
at 70 British and 21 German. R.A.F.
estimates 46 raiders (151 in three days)
and 15 British fighters down; 11
of the pilots rescued. Raids over Ger-
many and German-occupied territory;
enemy declares damage unimportant;
two civilians killed and eight injured.
R.A.F. reports 27 aerodromes and several
oil plants bombed ; one machine missing.
Bombs dropped in Eire wreck a Wex-
ford creamery, kill three girls and injure
another and nine soldiers. Eire Govern-
ment protests to Berlin.
Points in Italian Somaliland and Abys-
sinia bombed. Italians claim to have
attacked a British convoy in the Eastern
Mediterranean and shot down an R.A.F.
raider in Eritrea.
August 27: Early-morning alarm
sounded in Berlin; Germans report
British ’planes driven off by A.A. fire.
R.A.F. raids Italian points; enemy admits
damage to a Fiat building at Turin, and
states British bomber brought down by
A.A. fire; five of crew killed. Raid on
Tromso (Norway) by Short Sunderland;
two Heinkel seaplanes sunk, one in flames,
and others damaged.
Germans report that poor visibility
forced Luftwaffe to confine activity over
England to armed reconnaissance flights;
claim fires started ; admit bombs dropped
(Continued third column next page.)


Readers’ Union
MS ■
of ;
mm-t*
: '
Forthcoming Titles in
The Best Book Club
By joining Readers’ Union you can build up a library of your
own of the best recent books—fiction, history, biography,
travel—at a trifling cost.
Each month you will receive a real bargain; a good recent
book, normally only available at a much higher prjce. You
will also receive the lively and informative 1 6-page Readers’
News free with each book.
Outstanding recent Readers’ Union books have been Storr s
“Orientations,” Lin Yutang’s “The Importance of Living,”
Stefan Zweig’s “Beware of Pity,” Chapman’s “Lhasa, the
Holy City,” Aldous Huxley’s “Ends and Means” and many
others.
Readers’ Union books are supplied to members at a uniform
price of 4/2 per copy, plus postage (about 6d. per book)
where necessary.
Remember, it costs you nothing to join Readers’ Union.
The only liability you assume is the promise to take the chosen
book each month for a minimum period of 6 months.
Despite their price, Readers’ Union editions are real books,
easy to handle, colourful, very good-looking. In addition,
R.U. ‘choices often contain many pages of photographic
illustrations.
Every lover of good books and reading should be a member
of Readers’ Union.
Write for particulars, post free, to
Robertson & Mullens, Ltd.
Australian and New Zealand Agents for Readers’ Union,
107-113 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l, Victoria
on Germany “with no effect worth men-
tioning” ; state three British ’planes down.
British report that raids on England
were mostly carried out by single units
over a great area, though there were
attacks in which up to 24 bombers took
part. Two (large forces escorted by
fighters driven off after a half-hour battle
which ranged from mid-Kent to the
Thames ; at least ten raiders shot down.
Italians admit further raids on Lom-
bardy and Piedmont. Haifa (Palestine)
bombed, but little damage, few civilian
casualties.
August 28: Fifth raid on London, after
heavy fighting over Kent in which 24
enemy and 12 British machines crashed.
Raid lasts 4| hours, and one Kentish
town suffers six attacks. Considerable
damage done in south-western town.
Kiel dockyards, among other objectives,
attacked by R.A.F.; heavy explosions
heard. Other objectives include a
Messerschmitt factory, a naval station
—at Wilhelmshafen and oil depots
in the Gironde (France). Fiat main works
at Turin hit by two salvos of heavy
bombs and large fires started.
R.A.F. makes three-hour raid on
Berlin, covering almost the whole city.
Germans admit 10 killed, 28 wounded,
and say British machine brought down.
Italians claim to have bombed Suez
Canal between Port Said and Ismailia.
August 29: Nine German ’planes and
three British shot down in light but
widespread raids on Britain. Two hun-
dred German machines attack Kentish
coast. Germans claim to have attacked
numerous objectives and started fires, of
which the biggest was at Liverpool docks.
A few bombs fall in London. Raids over
France and Germany continue.
August 30: London strafed from noon
till midnight in three raids in which 400
enemy aircraft are engaged. First dog-
fights over city. Indiscriminate bombing
of southern counties. Big air battle in
north-western England.
Rochester Cathedral bombed. A Mid-
lands town has its 70th raid. Extensive
British raids over France, Germany and
northern Italy in which all types of
military objectives are bombed.
August 31-Sept. 1: Raids on England
from midday, August 31, almost continu-
ous through both days ; one on London
lasted 6\ hours. Women and children
machine-gunned in London suburbs;
traffic to Liverpool station disorganised
in parts; 30 shops and houses wrecked
in one suburb. In n.-e. England 11
persons killed in cellar and many
fires started in one place. August
31 casualties: 85 German ’planes,
212 personnel; R.A.F., 37 ’planes, 12 per-
sonnel ; 15 German machines wrecked
on Sept. 1 morning. Germans claim 133
R.A.F. machines and 74 barrage balloons
against their own loss of 32 machines.
R.A.F. carries out fifth and sixth mid-
night raids on Berlin during eight days.
Siemens and other works bombed;
underground rail service partially dis-
organised, Berlin central fire-station hit
and other damage done. Bombs dropped
within half a mile of Unter den Linden.
Losses: Sept. 1, German 25, British
15 ; for week, Germany 293, Britain 113 ;
for year, Germany 3914 (1419 over
Britain), R.A.F. 1009 (351 over Britain).
THE SERVICE MAN
Lull in the Mediterranean.
“Ek D.”: Save for air raids, the Medi-
terranean and African fronts witnessed
only small desultory clashes, mostly of
native troops, last week. Alexandria had
its sixth raid on August 26. It lasted 90
minutes, and one person was killed and
five wounded. The Italians claimed that
all their machines returned safe, and that
a British bomber sank after making a
sea landing, three of the crew being
taken prisoner. They admitted that eight
soldiers were killed and 40 wounded when
the R.A.F. raided Galabat (Libya) and
that a child and 15 Askaris were killed
elsewhere.
The enemy declared also that bands of
Italian troops had occupied new posts in
the Lake Rudolf district of Kenya, and
that British raiders who attempted to
push into Eritrea from Sudan had been
driven out by Italian colonial troops with
numerous losses.
Later in the week the Italians reported
another raid on Alexandria, followed by
their first air attacks on the Suez Canal
between Port Said and Ismailia, and on
the ferry at A 1 Kantara, where the rail-
way from Egypt runs to Palestine.
There was also desultory Italian bomb-
ing from Haifa to the Sudan, and a
number of British air raids, but nothing
of major importance.
Italian threats to Egypt continue, and,
reading between the lines, there has been
a considerable movement of A.I.F. troops
into that country. Reference is made in
particular to “an anti-tank unit,” which
is “under canvas with New Zealanders
on the fringe of the desert.” And the
British Ambassador to Egypt, by way
of stiffening the Egyptians, broadcast a
speech to the effect that “Britain is pre-
paring huge forces incomparably
equipped, with which, when the moment
comes, and it is not far off, it will launch
a great counter-offensive.” But at the
moment of writing there is no sign of
an offensive against Egypt or a counter-
offensive against Libya.
In Syria, momentarily expecting a
visit from an Italian Armistice Com-
mission, the borders of Palestine are still
closed. Ten Italian officers arrived at
Istanbul during the week on their way
to Beirut. The French in Syria are still
said to be hostile to the British.
This is not the case in other French
possessions. General de Gaulle announced
last week that the Cameroons and the
Chad territory, which adjoins Libya on
the south, had decided to fight on, and the
Petain Government admitted at the be-
ginning of this week that the movement
had spread to French West Africa, the
French Congo and Indo-China. The port
of French West Africa is Dakar, in which
the Americans have been showing an
interest —not, of course, possessive.
The position of Greece remains ob-
scure. There are still reports that Italy
is massing troops on the frontier, but
during the last few days the Germans
and Italians seem to have been more in-
terested in bringing a dismembered
Rumania under their control than in
issuing commands to Greece.
The War at Sea.
“Nobby IF . The raider which sank
the Turakina in the Tasman Sea has dis-
appeared into the blue, but the search
for her goes on. There has been no
further news of the fate of the Turakina
herself.
In a communique issued on August 28
the Germans reported the sinking of “the
armed merchantman British Commander
by our naval units in the Indian Ocean.”
She is actually a 6000-ton tanker. The
date of the sinking was not given.
The list of sea casualties has been
fairly long, and the information from
conflicting sources confused. On August
26 the Admiralty denied that a British
destroyer of the Viscount class had been
lost, as alleged by the Germans, but
admitted that H.M.S. Hostile, a 1340-
ton destroyer with a complement of 145
had been sunk by a mine.
In the week ended Aug. 18, 10 British
mercantile ships totalling 41,175 tons, one
Allied ship of 7590 tons and two neutral
ships totalling 4134 tons were sunk —
52,899 tons in all, a little over the weekly
war-period average. The German esti-
mate for the week was 151,000 tons, and
up communique is now issued by the
High Command without a claim to ship-
ping destruction tacked to it.
It seems that Italian submarines with
German and Italian crews have slipped
through the Gibraltar Straits and are
operating in the Atlantic. Anyway, the
crew of the torpedoed British Fame, who
arrived at Lisbon, reported that their
attacker was an Italian.
Germans reported that one U-boat had
sunk 46,170 tons on one voyage, and
that another had bagged four merchant-
men of 30,000 tons. On August 28 the
German claim was made that another
U-boat had sunk 28,600 tons, and that
naval guns had “probably destroyed two
British submarines” off the French coast.
Next day seven more victims were
claimed by a U-boat commanded by
Captain-Lieutenant Schetk, five of them
“strongly convoyed.” On August 30,
21,000 tons of destruction was reported
by still another hero.
At the end of the week the Dunvegan
Castle, 15,000 tons, commanded by Cap-
tain H. Ardill, R.N., and known on the
London-Cape Town run before she was
converted into an auxiliary cruiser, was
discovered in flames and sinking by a
flying-boat after having been torpedoed.
British warships landed 250 of the crew
and 30 are missing. Nineteen survivors
from the Ilvington Court, 5187 tons,
which sank in the Atlantic in five minutes
after having been torpedoed, have been
landed at Lisbon, and the captain brought
a further 20 to shore on another part of
the Portuguese coast.
The Germans have apologised to the
Eire Government for bombing the small
Irish Channel steamer Kerry Head on
August 1.
As a final atrocity, the Germans tor-
pedoed a British ship carrying children
to Canada off the Scottish coast. The
only casualty was the purser, accidentally
killed; 70 children, aged from.s to 15 years,
were landed in Scotland from lifeboats.
The R.A.N.'s Glorious Record.
The Minister for the Navy, Mr.
Cameron, has issued a stirring account of
the performances of the R.A.N. in the
Mediterranean. As well as sinking the
Bartolomeo Colleoni, H.M.A.S. Sydney
took part in the attack on Bardia
(Libya) which practically put that port
out of commission, and has helped in
the sinking of Italian destroyers.
H.M.A.S. Hobart and the destroyer
Voyager have also shared in successful
actions.
Captain Collins, of the Sydney, in a
letter to the Navy Board describing the
battle off Cape Spadia, wrote:
I cannot speak too highly of the be-
havior of the officers and ship’s company,
which was faultless. I find it difficult to
select from the ship’s company those de-
serving of special credit in that all did their
duty in an exemplary manner.
H.M.A.S. Hobart received special
praise for her work during the evacua-
tion of British Somaliland, in which she
lost three gallant ratings in a forlorn-
hope land action.
H.M.A.S. Stuart has received high
commendation from the C.-in-C. in the
Mediterranean for salving the British
steamer Trocas. And Stuart and Voyager,
quartering the sea in darkness after a
submarine, were rewarded by seeing at
daylight large patches of oil which seemed
to show that their depth charges had done
their work. Apart from that, the two
destroyers were concerned with British
battle units in a major action in which
heavy damage was inflicted on a power-
ful Italian fleet off Calabria.
The R.A.N. went to war under Aus-
tralian-trained captains and senior offi-
cers, for the most part. It is setting
up for itself a dazzling tradition.
German casualties for the first year
of war are given as 39,000 killed,
143,000 wounded and 24,000 missing and
1050 ’planes. “The enemy” is alleged to
have lost 6950 ’planes, 500 warships and
merchantmen totalling 2,000,000 tons
and 700 warships and merchantmen
damaged. Whatever else in Germany is
failing, the daring of the Propaganda De-
partment does not flag.
* * * *
Major-General V. A. H. Sturdee,
C.8.E., D. 5.0., succeeds the late General
Brudenell White as Commonwealth Chief
of the General Staff. He is at present in
command of the Eighth Division, A.I.F.
He is a Victorian, son of Col. A. H.
Sturdee, of the Army Medical Corps—
both father and son had fine records
in the last war and a nephew of
Admiral Doveton Sturdee, who won the
Falklands battle and wiped out the
German Pacific Fleet on Dec. 8, 1914.
He is 50.
* * * *
“El V.”: At the beginning of the war
Rumania had an area of 113,884 square
miles and a population of just on
20,000,000. Now, with Bessarabia and
North Bukovina grabbed by Russia, part
of the Dobrudja ceded to Bulgaria (the
rest is evidently to follow) and two-thirds
of Translyvania (17,600 square miles)
handed over to Hungary, it is only a
shadow of the “Great” Rumania set up
in 1919.


SEND THE APPLICATION FORM BELOW— AND YOUR
CATARRH
HEAD NOISES AND CATARRHAL DEAFNESS
CAN BE CLEARING FOR GOOD
BY WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 25,1940
UNQUALIFIED PUBLIC GUARANTEE MADE
POSSIBLE BY FORMER CATARRH
SUFFERER’S AMAZING DISCOVERY
C" 1 VERY reader who suffers
from Catarrh or respiratory
troubles of any kind will be inter-
ested in the important Health
Discovery of a former Catarrh
sufferer announced to-day.
Mr. David Burton, of London, has
brought years of experiment to a
triumphant conclusion by the develop-
ment of a successful treatment which
affords every sufferer from Catarrh,
Head Noises, Catarrhal Deafness and
Sinus or Antrum troubles the blessing
or immediate relief and complete
banishment of these most distressing
ailments.
In the course of his investigations
Mr. Burton found that the combina-
tion of ailments grouped under the
heading of Catarrh results from an
excess of ACID and an insufficiency of
ALKALINITY in the blood. This
corroding acid inflames the Mucous
Membranes, seriously upsets the
metabolic balance and lowers the resist-
ance of the body, resulting in the
symptoms so well known to Catarrh
sufferers.
In collaboration with experienced
chemists, Mr. Burton formulated an
entirely new, different and successful
therapeutic combination to neutralise
the hyperacidity of the blood, build up
tbe Nervous System, increase bodily
resistance, re-establish metabolism in
complete balance and permanently
banished his Catarrh BY REMOVING
THE BASIC CAUSE.
This simple, safe and lastingly
effective method ensures natural, easy
breathing through BOTH nostrils;
eliminates unpleasant mucus from nose,
throat and stomach; clears post-nasal
congestion; heals inflamed, germ-
irritated, swollen membranes; ends
sneezing and constant nose-blowing;
rights digestive wrongs; corrects con-
stipation; promotes sound, refreshing
sleep; improves appetite and general
health.
HOW THE METABOLIC
BALANCE IS UPSET.
The Metabolic balance is seriously
upset when the acids are in excess
of the alkalinity, as in Catarrh.
This corroding acidity inflames
the mucous
membranes, re-
sulting in the
symptoms so
well known to
Catarrh suf-
ferers.
M
When Meta-
bolism is re-
established in
complete bal-
ance, Catarrh
will no longer
trouble you.
Results are noticed ALMOST
INSTANTLY in a clearer head, a
brighter, more optimistic outlook, a
new feeling of radiant cheerfulness,
renewed vigor and vitality instead of
exhaustion, dullness, depression and
despondency.
Sinus and Antrum pains, Catarrhal
headaches, dizziness, nausea, offensive
breath and body odor quickly dis-
appear. Head Noises and Catarrhal
Deafness gradually diminish and ulti-
mately vanish.
These remarkable results are obtained
without the use of sprays, douches,
injections, special diet, or powerful
nerve-deadening drugs.
Mr. Burton desires every Catarrh
sufferer to benefit by his new scientific
development. He therefore invites
every reader of "The Bulletin" who
suffers from Catarrh to send the appli-
cation form and immediately receive
free of charge and obligation:—
(1) A trial supply of his NEW
ANTISEPTIC VAPORIS-
ING OIL CAPSULES. This
powerful, bland and pleasant
germicidal Oil instantly
clears stopped-up nostrils
and destroys Catarrh germs
breeding in post-nasal cavities
and respiratory tract. By
virtue of its healing action,
it greatly aids in the restora-
tion of the inflamed mem-
branes to a healthy condition.
(2) Sufficient MUCUS - SOL-
VENT TABLETS to purify
the blood-stream, eliminate
Catarrh germs from the
stomach and help every
organ of the body to function
normally.
(3) An interesting Health Hand-
book entitled “How to
Banish Catarrh, Head Noises
and Catarrhal Deafness,”
with full details of guarantee
that you shall see the ending
of your Catarrh by Wednes-
day, September 25, 1940.
Catarrh is more than an annoying
trouble—more than an unclean dis-
ease—more than a brief ailment.
Unless the CAUSE IS REMOVED,
Catarrh too frequently destroys smell,
taste and hearing and may open the
door to the most dreaded of complaints.
Do not allow YOUR Catarrh to develop
and make your life unendurable, but
take the first step toward permanent
freedom from this ailment and its
dangerous consequences, if neglected,
by sending the application form
TO-DAY.
HEAD NOISES | HEADACHES
ms
mi HEAVINESS
$ AND
wasaaaasm
DEAFNESS
| DEPRESSION
' J&S3
4sti
STUFFINESS
II
The head effects of Catarrh,
as shown on the left, are
really symptoms of a much
more serious and sometimes
dangerous internal condition.
TYPICAL
REPORTS FROM FORMER SUFFERERS
“I am writing to let you know the
result of the Treatment. In the first
place, it has done me the world of good,
because 1 am eating and sleeping much
better and headaches are gone. That
clogged feeling has gone, and I am now
enjoying the best of health.”
—M. J. Keating, Northcote, Vic.
* *
“The cure is all that you claim it to
be, and I can only add that after taking
your Course I am wholly free from
Catarrh.”
—Lewis Sinclair, Croydon Pk., N.S.W.
* *
“Definitely your Catarrh Treatment
is the biggest contribution and has paid
me the largest dividend in regard to
my health that I have ever received,
and from my own personal experience
with this irksome complaint, I would
estimate the value of my progress at
£lOO and probably many times more
than this, when we come to consider
the complications which it brings in
its train. I say confidently again that
your contribution to this world of
science for the preservation of mankind
is inestimable. Words fail to express
my appreciation, but it gives me a great
deal of pleasure in making this report.”
—D. A. Denehey, Huon, Tasmania.
* *
“I am pleased to tell you that your
Treatment has made a new man of
me. It has given me great relief, clear-
ing throat, nose and head of all stuffi-
ness and noises, relieved the breathing
through nose, which is a great relief.
I can eat and sleep well now and get
up fresh in the morning. The clear-
ing of my head has greatly relieved my
hearing, as the trouble was caused by
blockage from the throat to the ears.”
—Wm. Hole, Sebastopol, Ballarat, Vic.
* *
“I have just finished a course of your
David Burton Catarrh Treatment, and
am a very much improved man, all
round. I can hear better, see better,
have a better appetite, and sleep beauti-
fully, and have more energy. I will
recommend your cure to all my
friends.”
—G. T. Cormie, Nonda, Q’land.
“I had been suffering from Catarrh
for over 25 years, very severe and con-
tinual. I commenced the David Burton
Catarrh Treatment on the 2nd Novem-
ber, 1937, at the same time carrying
out the instructions regarding diet,
etc., faithfully in every detail, and I can
now honestly say that I am completely
cured. Thirteen months have passed
since the commencement of the treat-
ment, and I have never experienced
the slightest sign of Catarrh up to date.
I can highly recommend the treatment
to anyone suffering with Catarrh.” 1
—Chas. Pittner, Petersham, N.S.W.
* *
“I am pleased to state that I am com-
pletely cured. I haven’t had a cold
this winter, thanks to the David Burton
Catarrh Treatment.”
—E. Bowden, Sandgate and Slack Sts.,
Virginia, Brisbane, Q’land.
* *
“I am quite satisfied with your treat-
ment. It has made a wonderful differ-
ence to me.”
—A. G. Tankard, Wodonga, Victoria.
* *
“I am pleased and thankful to inform
you that I have made a wonderful im-
provement, so much so that I think you
can easily put me on your cured list
I thank you sincerely for your kindness
and attention to me during the time I
have been under your treatment.”
—H. Hill, Tully, N. Q’land.
* *
“I finished my supply of the David
Burton Treatment a few days ago, and
I am pleased to say that I have had
very satisfactory results. My head is
clearer and 1 no longer suffer with
stuffed-up nostrils. I feel much better
generally.”
—James Rose, Deniliquin, N.S.W.
“I am feeling wonderful after taking
your Treatment. The mucus seems
to have quite cleared and I am feeling
greatly improved. I didn’t think that
1 could have got such relief as I have,
as my Doctor told me that it was im-
possible to get rid of my Catarrh.”
—Mrs. S. A. Hilton, Boolaroo, N.S.W,
APPLICATION FORM
Mr. David Burton,
Anglo-Australian Laboratories, 62 Margaret St., Sydney.
(Box 4242 XX).
Please send me free of charge and obligation the trial supply of
Antiseptic Vaporising Oil Capsules and Mucus-Solvent Tablets and
Health Handbook with full details of Guarantee as mentioned.
NAME
ADDRESS
Write name and address PLAINLY and enclose 2d 3tamp for
return postage. B. 4/9/ 40.


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Mataranka”: Darwin soon will not
know itself with its new hotels, banks,
naval buildings, stores, aerodromes and
administrative structures and barracks.
Latest move has been to send the Bris-
bane town-planner R. A. Mclnnis up
there to lay it out along really tropical
lines. Mclnnis has just finished the re-
planning of Mackay (N.Q.), which occu-
pies about as uninspiring a site as any
planner could wish to see, and has
succeeded in making a picturesque and
orderly job of it. However, his task
there was no harder than it will be in
Darwin.
* * * *
“Dip”: One N.T. industry that seems
likely to profit from the war is mica-
mining. Shortage of supplies from India
has obliged the Commonwealth Govern-
ment to order that all N.T. mica be re-
served for the Crown, and an officer is
to be appointed to buy the mineral at
regulated prices, to supervise grading and
to attend to transport. One thing seems
to have been overlooked —the mining
itself. When the N.T. mining warden
visited the fields at Hart’s Range he found
the methods wasteful.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Winton (Q.) claims that
it was the first place to hear “Banjo”
Paterson’s “Waltzing Matilda,” now a
favorite war-time ditty here and in Eng-
land. The poet was staying with Bob
MacPherson at Dagworth station when
a swagman who had refused an offer of
mutton was found to have previously
killed one of Mac’s sheep at a billabong.
The pastoralist called in the police.
Amused by the incident, Banjo was
casting about for a verse setting to
it as they did the long buggy-drive
into Winton when they met another
swagman. “Don’t know what you
call that cow’s way of living on
us,” said Bob. “Out here it is leading
the waterbag or waltzing matilda.” That
evening in Winton a musically-minded
lady listened to Banjo’s first draft of
“Once a jolly swagman camped by a billa-
bong,” composed a lilting piano accom-
paniment, and so “Waltzing Matilda”
came to its own.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Any challengers for the small-
town fund-raising championship against
the village of Bengalla (Q.), which has a
population of between 200 and 300? It
held a sports and dance the other day
to raise a patriotic fund. The proceeds
were £668. There were six cheques for
£5O each in the kitty.
* * * *
“Balander”: The late Wilfred Bourne
Barnard, who owned The Summit, had
a passion for collecting moths and butter-
flies. His specimens numbered close to
30,000, gathered from all parts of Aus-
tralia, and they have been presented to
Queensland Museum. The collector was
a son of George Barnard, who owned
Coomooboolaroo, on the Dawson, and,
himself a collector, passed the hobby
on to his sons.
* * * *
“Darwarb”: Each week-end working
parties are hard at it trying to uncover
the old racecourse at Fanny Bay and
repair the damages done by misuse and
cyclones, for Darwin is to have a race
meeting its first for six years this
month. The N.T. Racing Club is to
hand over the proceeds to Red Cross
and Comforts funds, and at least a
score of neddies, some from as far away
as Perth and Wyndham, are expected to
take part. The Darwin Cup, of a mile,
will be worth £lOO. Normally the Cup
horses are buffalo-hunters’ mounts and
station hacks.
* * * *
“Darawa”: Just back from a trip to
the big city with his boss, Panhandle
thus unburdened himself to the Darwin
correspondent of a Melbourne paper:
“Big place, Sydney ; Darwin only station.
I bin go walkabout alonga street, big
mob white pfeller, plenty tram, full-up
motor-car, all same shop he everywhere.
Pretty soon this pfeller bushed, police-
man bin talk longa me. ‘Where you bin
come from, Jacky?’ Mine tell him ‘My
name Panhandle.’ ‘Where you bin come
from?’ he talk. Ino more tellum me
bin come alonga Darwin, no plurry fear.
‘Bin come from Australia, boss,’ I tell
that one policeman.”
* * * *
“23-4”: Like other localities, the North
frequently comes to light with almost
incredible tales of human endurance.
Latest is that of Jim Clarke, an Atherton
man who was carrying dynamite at
Goldsborough, on the Mulgrave River,
when it exploded and blew off the lower
part of his right arm. Enough to stop
a Samson on the spot! The Atherton
man set out to meet the hastily-sent-for
ambulance and travelled five miles on
foot, bearing the shreds of his arm, be-
fore he was met and first-aid given. He
was rushed to Cairns hospital for ampu-
tation, but there is a limit and poor
Clarke reached it in the hospital.
* * * *
“Clarence R.”: Any fiction-writer who
tried to make a story out of what hap-
pened between a man, a lady and a
lizard on the N.S.W. North Coast the
other day would have been kicked down-
stairs by the editor. The lady made a
pet of a lizard that lived in a stump.
One day she visited the spot, to find the
stump reduced to coals and the lizard
vanished. She armed herself with a hefty
stick, went to a near-by farm and accused
the man of having burnt the stump. He
admitted it. She fell upon him with
the stick and put him in hospital. Charged
with assault, she was fined £2, plus £i7
12s. 6d. costs; and then it came out
that the lizard had escaped the fire —it
had been seen and identified since the
assault. Given that, Maupassant or O.
Henry would have shrieked with joy and
seized pen and paper to turn out another
masterpiece.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
J.E.S.: Mulga very spindly...-G.E.S.: Try
elsewhere J.M.0.: You don’t show that the
house was ever likely to lose the day
E. : “Snooper” droops... .S.L.R.: Prose.
H.C.B.: It never gets into top... .H.8.R.:
Has its moments M.D.: “A Reproach to
Dictators” lacks punch D.H.: Moralising.
A.C.G.: Save it for Mother’s Day
F. You’ve said it before... .N.G.: That’s
E. J. Brady’s paddock M.L.C.: “The little
brown potato patch on the shoulder of the hill”
wants weeding and fertilising... .D.V.R.: No
goblins, please J.L.S.: It’s been done till
it’s done for J.H.: “Gambolling lambkins”
are forgivable only in the very young... .T.G.:
Maybe he’s a good critic J.A.: Send it
to the local paper by all means... .P.WJ.
and R.P.: Delighted to learn that “gory but
infutile vultures shall never suppress the lust
mnate of our invincible cultures”... .P.K.:
Your little lost doggie is snug in the little
w -P-b H.P.T.: That and the rain ruined a
spring day 8.H.R.: “The First Woman”
doesn’t seem much different from her present-
day descendants N.D.E.: That little blonde
> °een trying to tempt us for years and
shes never got a bean... .F.R.N.: “I would
"ke to make my first appearance in print in the
pages of The Bulletin.” Well, you’ve done it.
• •••C.R.D.: They used to tell that yarn over
pub counters about 20 years ago... .8.D.R.:
We’re rather tired of the major, the doctor and
the explorer telling wild tales over whisky-and-
sodas in the club lounge G.P.R.: O. Henry
spun the same yarn many years ago... .8.F.R.:
Take it to the most out-of-the-way stump you
can find and read it to the trees... .8.5. R.:
Not for us K.M.D.: Away with your gold-
fevered and thirst-stricken prospectors
N.D.R.: Must you keep pelting us with tearful
missiles about orphans, stray dogs or reformed
lydies? G.N.D.: Not a bad setting; fit a
better yarn into it H.D.1.: Ghosts, clanking
chains, etc., reserved for the Tiny Tots’ Pages.
D.J.T.: Perhaps some “pens are mightier
than swords”; yours certainly isn’t... .H.R.S.:
Gavin Casey tends that paddock G.H.W.:
Neither funny nor original... .8.K.R.: So the
poor little servant turned out to be Lady Whosit
and snobbish Lady Whosit turned out to be
nobody. Out!... .F.G.R.: Make a character
sketch of it and come again.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.G.: Barman and busker both finished up
on the doorstep R.W.: No flagpoles for
your “Flags of All Nations”... .G.C.: The
neddy has no more life than the Trojan horse.
.A.A.: First effort, like almost all first
efforts’ was a flop M.F.: Off our beat
M.S.: Don’t fancy the splintery lmework....
R.D.: It made its debut a few weeks ago
C.H.: Jokes about Mr. Chamberlain’s umbrella
are a little flat nowadays H.H.: The few
good points don’t compensate for the multi-
tude of bad ones J.R.: No room for your
freaks E.M.P.: He could do with a few
year? at a good art school M.W.: Released
Ma from the rabbit-trap and sent her home.
L.G.: If that really is the man you say
it is he has aged 20 years since we saw him
recently T.J.K.: “A Close Shave” has
possibilities as a “safety-first” poster. . .J.W.:
Now making the journey back across the
Tasman C.F.: A dud, if ever there was
one.
EVATT ON HOLMAN.
(BY “EL VERDUGO .”)
W. A. Holman’s memoirs appeared in
The Bulletin in 1934-35. Now, in Aus-
tralian Labor Leader (Angus and Robert-
son), H. V. Evatt has written his life, and
made a wonderfully good job of it. The
volume runs to 574 pages of close type,
and it is astonishing that a busy High
Court Judge—as the author was then —
could have found time to collect the
material and present it so attractively.
The book is really more than a biog-
raphy ; it is a history of the main stream
of N. S. Wales political events hung
round Holman’s career. Viewed in that
light, it will take its place as a work
which every writer on Australian political
history will need to keep on his shelves.
Nobody would have forecast for
young Holman, when he came to Aus-
tralia with his father and his family in
the old Cuzco in 1888, the life which was
to be his. The family tradition was
wholly theatrical. His father was Wil-
liam Holman, actor and actor-manager,
a Shakspearean exponent of the Barry
Sullivan school. His mother, profession-
ally, was May Burney. Theatrically, Aus-
tralia was at its best, and the pair came
out under engagement to Brough and
Boucicault. Mrs. Holman was afterwards
a comedy lead with Wilson Barrett’s
company.
Young Bill Holman was 17 —he had
been born on August 4, 1871. He had
had a sound training in elocution, which
afterwards stood him in good stead. Like
many a youth of his day, he was an
ardent socialist, and he had been appren-
ticed to a cabinetmaker, which gave him
entree to one of the oldest and
most stable of British unions. But he was
not a born mechanic ; he was a dreamer
whose real interest lay in his night classes
and his literary societies. He spent most
of his voyage reading—Shakspeare, Car-
lyle, Macaulay, J. S. Mill, Darwin,
Spencer and Huxley, Aischylus in Eng-
lish, Stevenson.
He soon found a job with a cabinet-
making firm at Darlington, Sydney, and
joined the old Sydney School of Arts
Debating Society, which had nurtured
G. H. Reid. There Barton heard him
and remarked: —•
I do not know any young man who
possesses a better choice of language, a
superior faculty for arrangement or a better
taste as a speaker.
Thus, writes Evatt, “he selected the
man who was probably the greatest
orator to whom Australia ever listened.”
Many would cavil at that judgment.
An orator Holman certainly was. He
had the flow of language, the beauty of
voice and diction, the allusiveness which
make for greatness on the platform. But
he did not rise to greatness of thought,
and his talent was rather that of the de-
bater than of the true orator. He was
at his best in contention, and his best
always smacked of the trained elocution-
ist and inspired the listener with an un-
easy sense of all that he owed to his
training and to greater minds. He was
certainly outstanding against the back-
ground of his times, but they were times
when oratory was in decline.
During the N. S. Wales election cam-
paign of 1891, which resulted in Labor
winning 36 seats, there appeared on many
a platform a theatrical figure with curly
black hair and a golden voice. It was
Holman. Like W. M. Hughes, he had
come under the influence of Henry
George, and he was given to spouting in
this fashion:
Whoever is in favor of Land Value
Taxation, he is my comrade. I go further,
it is true, but I go but one step at a time.
And I hold that it is possible even now
for the workers to unite on this one point.
But whosoever insists on tacking on to Free
Land the utterly irrelevant demand of
Free Trade, and thereby helps to perpetuate
fiscalism, the cause of the- most damnable
schism that has ever existed in the ranks
of the workers in this colony, with what-
ever motive, helps forward the interests of
Monopoly.
Hardy toilers found it a bit bewildering.
To prevent the extension of the “dam-
nable schism” to Caucus itself, Holman,
at the Labor League conference of 1893,
secured the adoption of the pledge to
abide by the will of the majority, and,
for the first time in Labor history, his
majority used the gag to stifle opponents.
Thus “solidarity” was born ; but his part
in bringing it about was of no immediate
benefit to Holman. J. S. Hawthorne, a
shrewd politician, defeated him when he
stood for Leichhardt in ’94, and in ’95 —
being then director of the short-lived
“Daily Post” —he was beaten by another
Freetrader for Grenfell.
After that, it looked as if his career
might come to a sudden end, for he and
his fellow-directors of the “Post” found
themselves in the dock convicted on mis-
representation and conspiracy charges.
The Judge regarded Holman and another
director as the leading spirits, and gave
them each two years and the other direc-
tors 18 months. All were released from
Darlinghurst after two months’ residence
there upon the hearing of some reserved
points in the Full Court. Evatt writes:
In my view, the “Daily Post” case must
be added to the list of cases where inno-
cent men were convicted.... Holman
underwent the unspeakable indignity and
mortification of suffering imprisonment for
a crime of which he was entirely inno-
cent, certainly morally, and, in my firm
opinion, legally also.
The incident dogged him for the
rest of his political days; but at the
time it imposed only a check on his pro-
gress. Within two years he was up to
his neck in Federation arguments. In
1898 he was in the Assembly as member
for Grenfell, having defeated a Protec-
tionist by a comfortable majority. His
maiden speech was a success —it “com-
pletely lowered Mr. See’s colors for swift,
flashing, galloping oratory.” His attacks
on Reid and Reid’s attacks on him drew
increasing attention to the young man.
He became one of the “solid six” —
Hughes, Edden, Dacey, Thomas and
Thompson were the others —who engi-
neered Reid out of office.
There were plenty of thrills and plenty
of picturesqueness about the next decade
and a half of political life. The great
figures departed to the Commonwealth
Parliament; Holman remained in State
politics, shifting from Grenfell to Coota-
mundra. In politics and at the Bar, to
which he had been called, the atmosphere
of the stage seemed to follow him in
incident after incident. Once John Nor-
ton raked up the “Daily Post” case, and
tricked Holman into resigning his Coota-
mundra seat on a challenge ; thereupon
John ambled back to Surry Hills, leaving
Holman with only local opposition on
his hands. In other years came his com-
bat with Hughes over the 1911 Common-
wealth referendum, his attempt to turn
Government House into a Public Library,
his conversion of Macquarie’s old stables
into a Conservatorium of Music, his visit
as Attorney-General to Europe, his
Premiership (June 30, 1913), the quarrel
over conscription, the 1917 railway strike,
his compromise with Wade, his differ-
ences with Governor Strickland, the
wheat scandals and the loss of his
Premiership and his seat (1920).
Of Holman’s work at the Bar —he had
taken silk —and of his return to politics at
60, Evatt writes with a graphic and sym-
pathetic pen. He won the Martin seat by
a two-to-one majority, but his days were
numbered: —-
By now the physical appearance of
Holman had changed grievously. He had
an old man’s stoop almost inconceivable
to those who recalled the brilliant fencer
of earlier years. The lines in his face were
etched in deep gullies, his hair was be-
coming grey and scanty. The eyes
were now sunken and harassed.
He was at Canberra, little noticed, for
two years and a half. On June 6, 1934,
he died.
Evatt sums him up:
Holman belonged to an age which sud-
denly ended in August, 1914.... The old
Sydney knew and was proud of Holman’s
splendid career. Ever the champion of
the weak against the strong, his courageous
speeches during the Boer War had toned
down the blatant jingoism of the profes-
sional patriot. With Hughes and others
he succeeded in forcing amendments to
the undemocratic portions of the Federa-
tion Bill and helped to add valuable safe-
guards He possessed great courage, a
first-class brain, an endless capacity for
hard work, a fine physical appearance,
a magnificent speaking voice and, above
all, a compassionate heart.
Holman may have been all that; but
he was impractical, a poor chooser of
associates and no realist. The world to
him was a stage and politics a play.
The biography is fully indexed, and is
illustrated with a gallery of cartoons,
many of which —like the memoirs—ap-
peared in The Bulletin, to which the
author handsomely acknowledges his
debt.


CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. . . A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
Genera i.' Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Use., St. George’s Tee., Perth
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin t 9 hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be ccmfined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To buy copy of Aboriginal Legends, by Mrs.
Langloh Parker.—Bo46.
To buy eggs of the emu, wedge-tailed eagle,
tallegalla, brolga, plain turkey and crow; also
meteoric stones. —8023.
To buy “Woman’s Journal” (English) for
February, 1938.—-8011.
To hear from old Cobb and Co. coach-
drivers in Maoriland. (Reply direct to Philip
Whelan, Camp Hill, Carew-street, Dee Why,
N.S.W.).
Information Sought.
Enlistments by States in Australia during the
war of 1914-18, with percentages to total popu-
lation and to males aged 18 to 44 ? —BO4l.
Queensland, 57,705 enlistments, 8.5 p.c. of
total population, 37.7 p.c. of males aged 18 to
44; N.S.W., 164,030 enlistments, 8.8 p.c. and
39.8 p.c.; Vic., 112,399 enlistments, 7.9 p.c.
and 38.6 p.c.; South Aust., 34,959 enlistments,
8 p.c. and 37.6 p.c.; West. Aust., 32,231 en-
listments, 9.9 p.c. and 37.5 p.c.; Tas., 15,485
enlistments, 7.9 p.c. and 37.8 p.c.
* * * *
Changes in the Greek monarchy during the
past 25 years? —Boss.
George I, who was assassinated on March 18,
1913, was succeeded by his son Constantine,
who reigned until June 11, 1917, when he was
excluded from the throne by the Allied Powers.
Alexander, second son of King Constantine,
then reigned till his death on October 25, 1920.
Constantine returned to Greece on December
19, 1920, reigned until his abdication on Sep-
tember 21, 1922, and died in exile on January
11, 1923. He was succeeded by his eldest son
George 11, who was forced to leave Greece on
December 18, 1923. By a plebiscite on April
13, 1924, a republic was established. The
republic continued until November 3, 1935,
when, in a plebiscite taken on the question,
there voted for the restoration of the monarchy
1,491,992, for the republic 32,454. In accord-
ance with the result, King George II returned
to Greece on November 25, 1935, as King of
the Hellenes.
* * * *
What Australian literary anniversaries occur
during September ? —8099.
2nd: J. Le Gay Brereton, the younger, born
1871; Will Lawson, born 1876; Henry Lawson,
died 1922; Archibald Strong, died 1930. 4th:
E. J. Banfield, born 1862; Arthur W. Jose,
born 1863; Francis Adams, died 1893. sth:
Victor Daley, born 1858. 6th: John Bede
Dailey, died 1935. 7th: C. J. Dennis, born
1876. 10th: Stuart Gurr, born 1877; J. F.
Archibald, died 1919. 11th: G. M. Turnbull,
born 1890. 17th: Walter Murdoch, born 1874.
20th: lon L. Idriess, born 1890. 21st:
Francis Kenna, born 1865; Dymphna Cusack,
born 1904. 22nd: James Hebblethwaite, born
1857. 23rd: Alan Villiers, born 1903. 24th:
E. S. Sorenson, born 1869; Louis Stone, died
1935. 26th: Mary Hannay Foott, born 1846.
27th: Francis Adams, born 1862; F. T.
Macartney, born 1887. 28th: Tom Inglis
Moore, born 1901. 29th: Eris O’Brien, born
1895; Victor Daley, died 1905. 30th: Fred
Cutlack, born 1886.
* * * *
Is interstellar space filled with gases or is
it absolutely void? —8000.
At the time of Newton it was thought that
the space between the stars was absolutely
void. During the last century it was thought
that interstellar space was filled with ether,
which was necessary for the transmission of
light. Since 1900 it has become evident that
interstellar space contains a small but not
negligible amount of matter. The suggestion
of this comes from the dark lines in a star’s
spectrum. These lines are caused by the pas-
sage of the light through some medium. At
one time it was taken for granted that the in-
fluencing material was that which existed only
in the atmosphere of the star, but certain stars
known as spectroscopic binaries show a dupli-
cate spectrum, one for each component, and
two like lines are displaced in opposite direc-
tions because of the orbital motion. There
are some absorbing lines in the spectrum of
such a star that are stationary, and these, it is
believed, are not due to matter in the atmosphere
of the star, but to matter between the stars.
Lines due to ionised calcium first showed this
peculiarity, and led to suggestions of the exist-
ence of these and other gases in space.
* * * *
What portion of a uniform is an epaulet and
what are its uses? —8075.
It is a shoulder ornament or badge, consist-
ing generally of a strap ending in a fringed
pad, worn on uniforms, chiefly by military
and naval officers, differences of rank being
marked by some peculiar form or device. The
epaulet was originally used to retain the
shoulder belt and protect the shoulder bearing
the musket. Its use was abolished in the
British Army in 1855, but is still worn by naval
officers.
* * * *
Meaning of the phrase “benefit of
clergy” ? —BO7O.
A term used in connection with a previous
condition of English law. Briefly, the benefit
meant an exemption of clericals from the
authority of secular magistrates respecting crimes
and misdemeanors. The entire control over a
priest was vested in the bishop. Later this
position was modified, though a priest could
still resume holy orders after conviction. Still
later the privilege was extended to all persons
who were able to read. This law was finally
abolished, after many purposeless modifications,
in the reign of George IV. In Scotland the
benefit was never recognised.
* * * *
Origin of the phrase ‘‘The King is dead!
Long live the King!”? —Bo73.
According to Pardoe’s Life of Louis XIV,
the death of Louis XIV was announced by the
captain of the bodyguard from a window of
the State apartment. Raising his truncheon
above his head, he broke it in the centre, and
throwing the pieces among the crowd exclaimed
in a loud voice ‘‘Le Roi est mort!” Then,
seizing another staff, he flourished it in the
air as he shouted ‘‘Vive le Roi!”
* * * *
A few particulars about guild socialism? —
8032.
Guild socialism is the British variant of
syndicalism. The movement emerged in 1906
under the leadership of Penty and Orage and
advocated a restoration of the medieval guild
system along modern lines. The trade-unions
were to be organised as guilds to take over
and run their respective industries after
nationalisation. This was opposed to State
socialism, under which the State assumes con-
trol of industry. In 1915 the National Guilds
League was set up, and a considerable number
of trade-unions adhered to the movement. In
1920 the National Guild Council was formed,
and the movement seemed on its way to success
when it embarked on large-scale building enter-
prise. A nation-wide Building Guild was organ-
ised to erect houses, but it soon collapsed.
This was the end of the movement, and the
National Guilds League was dissolved in 1925.
No guild : socialist movement has existed since,
but the ideas of guild socialism have perma-
nently influenced British socialist thought, and
the organisation of self-governing industrial
bodies under the management or co-manage-
ment of the trade-unions still appears to many
socialists as the best form of nationalisation.
* * * *
(1) How is a blood test taken to determine
the parentage of a child? (2) Where would the
blood test have to be sent to from Papua for
analysis? (3) Would a European medico’s
native assistant be eligible to take the blood
for analysis? —79sB.
(1) A small sample of blood is taken from
the child, and this is “matched” with that of
the putative parents, ordinarily that of the
supposed father. A child must always be a
member of the same blood group as one or
other of its parents. If it has a blood group
different from that of its alleged father and its
real mother, then the alleged father cannot be
the real father. Thus, a blood group test can
prove that a man is not the father of a certain
child, but it cannot be used to prove that he is
without doubt the father of the child, since
other men may belong to the same blood group.
(2) Ask the nearest Government medical officer.
(3) A well-trained native assistant should be
competent to collect the sample of blood for
examination, but the examination under the
microscope must be made immediately unless
anti-clotting measures are observed.
* * * *
Winners of the Schneider Trophy? —Bo3s.
1913, M. Prevost (France), 48.75 m.p.h. at
Monaco; 1914, H. Pixton (Great Britain),
88.8 m.p.h. at Monaco; 1920, L. Bologna
(Italy), 107 m.p.h. at Venice; 1921, G. Briganti
(Italy), 111 m.p.h. at Venice; 1922, H. C.
Baird (Great Britain), 145.7 m.p.h. at Naples;
1923, Lieut. T. Rittenhouse (U.S.A.), 177.88
m.p.h. at Cowes; 1925, Lieut. Doolittle
(U.S.A.), 235.57 m.p.h. at Baltimore; 1926,
Major de Bernardi (Italy), 246.49 m.p.h. at
Hampton Roads; 1927, Flight-Lieut. Webster
(Great Britain), 281.65 m.p.h. at Venice; 1929,
Flight-Lieut. Waghorn (Great Britain), 328.63
m.p.h. at Southampton; 1931, Flight-Lieut.
Boothman (Great Britain), 340 m.p.h. at
Southampton.
* * * *
The date and details of the escape of
“Thunderbolt” (Fred Ward) from Cockatoo
Island? How did he accomplish it? Did the
prisoners have separate cells? What was his
age when sentenced, and the date and circum-
stances of his death ? —7907.
Frederick Ward (“Thunderbolt”) escaped from
the penal establishment on Cockatoo Island
(Port Jackson, N.S.W.), with another convict
named Britten, on September 11, 1863. There
is a legend that they swam to the northern
mainland in their leg-irons, but this may be
discounted. Most of the prisoners slept in
dormitories, or “wards,” in hammocks, the only
cells in use being for the extra punishment of
“solitary.” In his biography, John Vane, one
of Ben Hall’s young men who had surrendered,
writes: “There were about 500 hard-labor
prisoners on the island, and they were as filthy
a lot of beasts as were ever caged.” Ward
was probably about 30 years of age at this
time. He was shot in May, 1870, near Uralla
(N.S.W.) by Constable Walker, who had chased
him into a waterhole and killed him with the
last cartridge in his revolver. Walker died
over 20 years ago as a retired superintendent
of the N.S.W. Police, his last position having
been that of officer-in-charge of the Goulburn
district.
What is a contralto in music? —8044.
An Italian term in music to denote the
lowest or deepest kind of female voice, the
compass extending from F or G below the
middle C to F or G above the treble stave.
In tone it is serious, tender and rich, and has
peculiar powers of expression, the low con-
tralto being specially marked by its fullness of
tone. French and German musicians did not
utilise this voice, but Rossini and other Italians,
recognising its beauties, adopted it, and it is
now used by almost all nations in their choral
music.
* * * *
Wording of the statutory rule passed in
1921 for the “Protection of the word Anzac” ?
—8047.
The rule provided that “No person shall,
without the authority of the Governor-General
or of a Minister of State, proof whereof shall
lie upon the person accused, assume or use the
word ‘Anzac,’ or any word resembling the
word ‘Anzac,’ in connection with any trade,
business, calling or profession, or in connection
with any entertainment or any lottery or art
union, or as the name or part of the name for
any private residence, boat, vehicle or charitable
or other institution, or any building in con-
nection therewith. Penalty £lOO, or imprison-
ment for six months, or both.”
* * * *
Any figures showing the proportion of left-
handed persons to right-handed persons ? —8064.
In two investigations in England of recent
years by means of questionnaires, one, among
all classes of citizens, 96 per cent, of which
answered, gave a percentage of 92 stating that
they were right-handed, and 4 per cent, left-
handed, while 4 per cent, claimed to be equal
with both hands. Another, taken of 975
prisoners in Pentonville, gave 951 right-handed
and only 24 left-handed, the ambidextrous not
being counted.
* * *
What is the normal currency of Palestine?
—8052.
The standard of currency from November 1,
1927, is the Palestine pound (£P), divided into
1000 mils and equivalent in value to the pound
sterling. Palestinian notes, consisting of
£PI, £PS, £PIO, £PSO, £PIOO notes, are legal
tender for any amount. Silver coins, 720 fine,
of 100 and 50 mils, weighing 180 and 90 grains
respectively, nickel of 20, 10 and five mils and
bronze of two and one mils are used. The two-
mil coin is about equal to an English half-
penny. Gold coins .are not being issued at
present.
* * * *
(1) A good recipe for curing fish that will
keep them free from mildew ? (2) A recipe for
smoking fish, using liquid essence of smoke ?
—7992.
(1) Scale, gut and wash each fish, remove
backbone to within lin. of tail and soak fish
in water 15 minutes. Drain and score the
fish with a sharp knife on each side where
it is thickest (to let smoke in), then soak for
three hours in a pickle made with six quarts of
water, 31b. salt and lib. brown sugar and
hang up to dry. Smoke-box or smokehouse
should not be quite airtight; use pine sawdust,
which gives dense smoke without flame. Join
fish together with a long piece of wire drawn
from one side of the box to the other and
secured outside. Leave five or six hours,
keeping smoke going. (2) Directions for liquid
smoke are given on the bottle.
* * * *
A preventive or cure for boils? —7945.
Preventive treatment consists in free purga-
tion and the administration of tonics, such as
Fellow’s Syrup. Tablets of the sulphide of
calcium (|gr. to lgr. three times daily in pill
form) have been used with much success. Stan-
noxyl in tablet form (six tablets daily by the
mouth) is regarded by many as a specific.
Yeast extract is another valuable remedy in
recurring boils. Intramuscular injections of
collosal manganese in doses of 0.5 c.c. are often
successful.
* * * *
Method and ingredients for making a liquid
germicide soap? —7B32.
Liquid soaps are made from pure olive-oil
soap by dissolving it in alcohol and adding
a little potassium carbonate. Tallow or lard
soaps should not be used, as they will not
produce a transparent preparation. The soap
is very finely shaved and placed with the
potassium carbonate and alcohol over a water
bath, the temperature being slowly raised while
the mixture is kept in constant movement by
stirring. The soap should be of a pure white
color, and alcohol of about 80 p.c. strength
gives the best product. After about one hour,
solution will be complete and a transparent
soap obtained. The addition of a small amount
of benzoic acid, formaldehyde or corrosive
sublimate will give the desired product.
jj*
Details of the racing careers of the follow-
ing horses: (1) The Barb, (2) Grand Flaneur,
(3) Malua, (4) Carbine, (5) Gloaming, (6)
Desert Gold ?— 7612.
(1) The Barb, who won the A.J.C. Derby
and the Melbourne Cup in 1866, the Champion
Sweepstakes in 1867, the Metropolitan Stakes
and Sydney Cup in 1868 and the A.J.C.
Queen’s Plate and the Sydney Cup for a second
time in 1869 (with lOst. 81b.), won in all 16
races and £6918 in prize-money. (2) Grand
Flaneur was unbeaten in 1880; his nine wins
comprised the V.R.C. Normanby Stakes, A.J.C.
Derby and Mares’ Produce Stakes, VR C
Derby, Mares’ Produce Stakes, St. Leger’
Town Plate, Melbourne Cup and Champion
Stakes, after which he broke down; his prize-
money totalled £7939. (3) Malua won the 1884
Melbourne Cup, the Newmarket Handicap
the Australian Cup, the Grand National
Hurdle Race and eight others. (4) Car-
bine won the Melbourne Cup in 1890 with
lOst. 51b. —the heaviest weight ever carried by
a Melbourne Cup winner—against the record
number of 39 starters and in 3min. 284 sec
the fastest time then recorded. During his
racing career Carbine started in 43 races for
33 wins, six seconds, three thirds and stakes
amounting t? £29,626. (5) Gloaming had 67
starts, 57 wins, nine seconds and £43 100 in
prize-money. (6) . Desert Gold had 56 starts
to s< :°re 36 wins, 12 seconds and four thirds
for £23,133 in prize-money.
Brief Answers.
D.S.C.: It is advisable to start up on ben-
zine, but by running the kerosene fuel line
close to the manifold for at least 12 inches
the warming-up period is reduced to about one
minute. Crankcase dilution takes place with
kerosene starting W.G.D.: (1) Shaded effect
on grained service paper is generally obtained
with black litho crayon applied with varying
pressure. (2) Any black ink thinned down with
water, for preference lampblack water-color
A. : No. It would not, for example, cover
negligence on his part, or on the part of a
friend or servant driving the car with his
permission or under his direction J.H.:
Results of the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize have
been as follows: 1935, Tiburon, by Kylic
Tennant; 1936, All That Swagger, by Stella
Miles Franklin; 1937, no award; 1938, no
award; 1939, Who Was Joseph Furphy? by
Stella Miles Franklin and Kate Baker
J.A.G.: £l6 a year compounded at 4 p.c.
(yearly rests) will amount to £BOO in a little over
28 years R.L.: There is no fixed rule. It
is a matter left to the good taste of the wearer.
M.A.: King Edward VII had six children.
The Duke of Clarence, born in 1864, died in
1892; King George V, born in 1865, died in
1936; Princess Louise, born in 1867, died in
1931; Princess Victoria, born in 1868, died in
1935; Princess Maud (Queen of Norway), born
in 1869, died in 1938; and Prince John, born
on April 6, 1871, died the following day
C.C.: It w(as Eden Phillpotts, the English author,
who said “You can’t rise above your own
character, but you can easily sink below it”
B. : Cardinal Francis Bourne was born at
Clapham, London, on March 23, 1861. His
father, Henry Bourne, a post-office official,
was a convert to Catholicism... .T.T.: Bouts-
rimes was a pastime in vogue among literary
circles during the seventeenth and eighteenth
centuries, particularly in France. One membei
of the party gives out certain rhyming words
and the rest of the players compose verses,
using the given words as their rhyme endings,
The amusement was ridiculed by Addison in
the “Spectator” J.M.: The number of
teachers in State schools, inclusive of students
in training and teachers of subsidised schools,
was as follows: N.S.W. 12,697, Vic. 8588,
Q’land 4322, South Aust. 3284, West Aust,
2390, Tas. 1361, Northern Territory 19
G.R.N.: General Pershing was born on Sep-
tember 13, 1860 V.M.: Illiteracy statistics
are as follows: Egypt 85.7 p.c. of population
India 84 p.c., Brazil 67 p.c., Mexico 59.3 p.c.
Turkey 55.1 p.c N.M.L.: Coronation dates
were: George VI, May 12, 1937; George V,
June 22, 1911; Edward VII, August 9, 1902:
Victoria, June 28, 1838... .C.P.: The food of
the mallee hen consists of insects, seeds, berries
and the tender shoots of plants, and it can
subsist for long periods without water. It is
almost completely terrestrial. Its call is a loud,
mournful cooing, uttered with the head between
the legs, the back of the head almost touching
the ground... .E.L.: You are confusing John
Ovens, the explorer, with another John Ovens,
who was a lieutenant in the 57th Regiment,
The former was a major in the 74th Regiment.
. ...P.H.E.: Crawford Pasco’s A Roving Com-
mission was published in 1897 and is a brisk
narrative of his long sea-services. It con-
tains an interesting account of early days in
what is now the Northern Territory... .DJ.:
Native mulberry, or Queensland grasscloth plant,
is a tree which sometimes reaches a height of
50ft. It is the “coomeroo-coomeroo” of the
aborigines, who use the white berries as a
food. The inner bark affords a fibre of fine
texture and great strength, but is rather difficult
to prepare. It grows in the brush forests of
N.S.W. and Queensland... .J.C.T.: (1) Tom
Curran defeated Harry Sellers in Victoria on
March 13, 1860, for the “championship of
Australia” and a £6OO wager. The contest
lasted 2hr. 30min. (2) Joe Kitchen was never
beaten as a middleweight, and won more than
£2OOO in side bets... .T.M.: See W. Lees’s Cobb
and Co., Ltd., and Will Lawson’s When Cobb
and Co. Was King N.W.: The badge of
Queensland is a white circle containing a blue
Maltese cross, bearing in its centre an imperial
crown proper. This badge is part of the State
crest... .N.H.: A committee was appointed by
the Commonwealth Government on August
15, 1932, to inquire into and report on the
Australian wool industry. The report of the
committee was presented to the House of
Representatives on November 24, 1932. A
copy of the report is obtainable from the
Federal Government Printer, Canberra L.S.:
The comet Schwassmann-Wachmann I, which
has been observed every year since its discovery
in 1927 except in 1936, has a period of 16 years
and is due at perihelion in September, 1941.
... .F.T.: The official termination of the Great
War of 1914-18, when treaties of peace had been
ratified by the respective Governments, was
August 31, 1921. The Ottoman Empire was
excluded from an English Order-in-Council,
and war between Great Britain and Turkey
was declared at an end on August 6, 1924
W.S.: The Flashing Stream, by C. Morgan;
Oxford Book of Light Verse, compiled by
W. Auden; Overtures to Death, by C. Lewis;
Poems, by S. Wingfield; Collected Poems, by
R. Graves; Recusant Poets, by L. Guiney;
Behold This Dreamer, by Walter de la Mare;
Geneva, by Bernard Shaw; Poems, by A.
Ridler; Straw in the Hair, edited by D. Kilham
Roberts; Anthology of Modern Poetry, edited
by R. Lynd; The Loneliest Mountain; by W.
Davies... .N.J.: See The Cruise of the Raider
Wolf, by Roy Alexander, published by Angus
and Robertson, Sydney E.F.: King of the
Cannibal Isles, by A. B. Brewster; Fiji and the
Fijians, by Calvert and Williams; Fijian
Society, by W. Deane; The Discovery of the
Fijian Islands, by G. C. Henderson; Islands
Far Away, by A. G. King; The Fijians, by
Basil Thompson; and Fiji, by Nancy Walker.


lysaqhits
pßoor
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
0}
s-i
• N
00
S 3
• P"N
U
S 3
0)
Un
V;
:
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
" LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETT IN G,
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Drought Feeding.
“Bungaree”: The Wool Board pub-
lishes results of drought feeding research
carried out by the C.S.I.R. in S.A.
A suggested ration is a mixture of four
parts grain, four parts lucerne and two
parts molasses made into nuts. This mix-
ture has been named “442.” While no
steps have been taken to investigate costs
of manufacture of nuts, the board sug-
gests rations of grain and lucerne to be
used under varying degrees of drought.
The problem is dealt with in three
stages: (1) Where there is plenty of dry
grass; (2) where grass is getting scarce ;
(3) when no natural feed is available.
Tables have been drawn up under these
three headings giving the amount of feed
required to maintain sheep. Rations are
laid down according to the weight of the
sheep, and the table allows for sheep
weighing from 501 b. to 901 b.
Supplementary feeding where there is
plenty of dry grass is at the rate of 2.7
tons of lucerne per 1000 sheep per month
or 3.6 tons of grain, these figures for
sheep weighing 901 b.
Where the dry grass is limited, the sug-
gested ration is three tons lucerne per
1000 sheep per month or 3.6 tons of
grain, or the same weight of the “442
mixture.” Where there is no natural
feed 1000 sheep should receive 13.5 tons
lucerne or 7.5 tons grain per month, or
the same quantity of “442 mixture.”
The recommendations are very general
—so broad that they can be used only as
a basis. It is generally agreed that
lucerne is the best feed, but its cost re-
stricts its use to stud sheep. At the
moment, lucerne hay in N.S.W. costs
about £ll per ton on truck, Sydney, and
good quality lucerne is very scarce. It
would be quite impracticable to feed
sheep on lucerne under drought condi-
tions, as the rate laid down (13£ tons)
would involve an outlay of almost £l5O
per 1000 sheep per month.
Grain would work out more economi-
cally, but here again the board’s statement
is too vague. At today’s prices, the cost
of feeding 1000 sheep per month on
maize would work out at £75. Wheat
and oats may work out more cheaply
than maize, but so many other questions
are involved, such as method of feeding
(trailing or trough feeding) and the actual
comparative value of the different grains,
that the board’s figures require to be
more fully stated.
Sheep and Parasite Prevention.
“Ghanam”: Proper measures for pre-
vention could end half the ~ parasite
troubles in sheep. It’s essential first to
keep the animals on a balanced feed, with
sufficient exercise and minerals, and gen-
erally healthy and resistant. Overstock-
ing, with consequent eating down of pas-
tures to the ground, is a fruitful source
of trouble.
Rotational grazing is a fine safety
measure. Moving sheep do not infect
pastures, if they are themselves infected,
to the same extent as animals which re-
main in paddocks for weeks at a time.
Drainage is another essential pre-
caution. Wet and marshy ground should
be fenced off ; so should dams. Trough-
watering is best for safety. Apart from
fluke and like diseases, footrot is a malady
of damp and infected pastures, and is
contagious. The parasite which causes
the trouble can survive only a month at
most when it has no animals to carry
it. Moving infected sheep on is, there-
fore, tantamount to stamping the trouble
out in a given paddock. Before sheep
are put back into the paddock they should
go through a footbath.
When pasture becomes infected with
parasitic diseases fire is the best cure, but
cultivation is better than nothing. Watch-
fulness and frequent examination of
animals save a lot of trouble.
Toxaemia of Pregnancy.
“Lion”: There is no known inocula-
tion cure for t.p., but my experience is
that an outbreak can be controlled and
stopped completely.
The first signs are dopey sheep. Then
deaths. Affected sheep hang behind the
mob in driving and often refuse to move
or even get up. They always show heavy
in lamb, and are usually in good con-
dition. Age appears to make no differ-
“ Clothe-s p-r-o-p-s!”
ence. Outbreaks usually occur on rich
pastures, either succulent or rich dry
feed, particularly dry clover bearing
plenty of seed, and practically anywhere
where sheep can get their food quickly
and without effort. The lack of a good
lick helps t. of p. to increase.
Make a post-mortem on all ewes dying
before or during lambing. Quick diagnosis
is half the battle. It is a fallacy that the
disease affects only ewes with twin lambs.
Have found the reverse the rule in
merinos, which are less liable to conceive
twins than crossbreds or long-wools.
It’s usual to find general inflammation
of all intestines. Ewe has either just
lambed and died or is carrying foetus
about a week off or closer. Decom-
position is very rapid and offensive.
Skin invariably dries dark purple. There s
a sickly-sweet offensive odor. The tcetus
does not die first.
Affected ewes often appear “drunk”
when near death, get easily cast, an
are often found dead in that manner.
I use the following lick in all pad-
docks with lambing ewes:
2801 b. salt (li bags), 201 b. Epsom salts
(stock), 1001 b. sterilised bonemeal, 1 gallon
molasses, 4 gallons water.
Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly.
Then dissolve molasses in hot water,
adding slowly to dry ingredients until
whole is a perfect mixture.
Some will say I add too much
molasses. Results prove otherwise. The
molasses encourages the sheep to take
the lick in greater quantities than is
normally the case, and stiffens their re-
sistance to t. of p. by absorption of more
calcium phosphate, essential to in-lamb
ewes, and of the Epsom salts, which keeps
their bowels open, its bitter flavor being
thus hidden.
To control and/or stop outbreaks,
drive the whole mob for at least one
hour per day, and keep it up until lamb-
ing is finished. Make all the sheep “go
walkabout,” particularly those that “bail
up.” Ordinary droving speed is adequate.
Don’t hurry them. Those which have just
lambed can be left behind, but driven
next day. The young lambs can be left
behind and remobbed later. Driving
round boundary fence simplifies this job
considerably. Within three to five days
mortality—according to my experience—
should stop ; but if “walkabout” is cur-
tailed there’ll be more deaths.
Where deaths have been many it is
best to remove the mob every other day
to poor feed or semi-bare paddocks. This
has little effect on milk supply. The
droving from one paddock to another,
presumably not too far distant, plus
natural walks in search of food, is
adequate. When doing this ewes with
lambs can be left in original paddocks.
I consider main cause of t. of p. is too
little exercise on rich feed, causing clog-
ging of intestinal tract, with consequent
rapid absorption of toxins. It is also my
opinion that either the same bacillus as
entero-toxaemia, or one very closely re-
lated, will be found to cause the disease,
as I have noticed a very marked de-
crease in mortality shortly after final
inoculation with two doses of e.-t.
vaccine ; also in sheep which have been
properly inoculated for two years run-
ning, twice a year, against e.-t. onlv.
Sore Shoulders.
“Clyde”: The fallow team can easily
get sores when working at the beginning
of spring after a dry winter. Dust from
the fallow rises and gathers where the
nags sweat under collars or saddles, and
because it is spring and the skin a bit
tender a sore will form quickly.
Mostly sores are caused by badly-fitting
collars or badly-hooked chains. Soak a
new collar thoroughly and put it on the
horse wet. He’ll pull it into a shape to
suit him; thereafter see that he always
wears that collar. Make it a rule that
every horse has its own collar, but make
sure every collar fits well.
A young or fresh horse will chafe easily
when first put to work. Wash the shoul-
ders with warm water and soap after
working, dry off and wash again with
a solution made by chopping green wattle
bark finely into a kerosene bucket about
half-full of water, letting it soak 24 hours
and then straining off the bark.
If you must work a horse with a sore
shoulder, fold a bag to make a pad under
the collar, then cut out of the pad a hole
big enough to leave the sore untouched.
Always look for looseness and friction
in harness when sores appear.
Oats for Silage.
“B. Lar”: Spring rains and warm
weather soon bring the oat crop to the
stage when it is ideal to cut for silage.
Cut it just before the grain appears,
when the nutrients in the plant are evenly
distributed. For best results oaten silage
should be put down in dry ground and
covered with at least 6ft. of earth. The
pit can be excavated like a tank, only
longer and narrower, and the lush green-
stuff piled in with a slide. Let the horses
drawing the slide tramp right through
the greenstuff to help stamp it down, and
keep filling until the heap is about 4ft.
above ground.
' After that scoop earth over it, so that
by the time the stuff has stopped sinking


Q
&
I
i ■
■ J
72
A Magnet for all Classes of Men
It affects men in all walks of life. Lawyers leave their
books, sailors their ships, farmers their ploughs ail
convinced they will strike it rich. Whether they found
gold or not, this country owes much to the pioneer n?
efforts of the gold-diggers and prospectors. Prospercu?
cities now stand as monuments to their courage and
strength. The National Bank has for over eighty year
assisted this progressive movement, making its services
and facilities available in mining centres, purchasing or
making advances against gold, and, in other ways pro-
viding a full financial service. Today that service is
offered to the public through 446 offices and branches
spread throughout Australia.
THE NATIONAL HANK
of Australasia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria)
THE COMFORT OF A SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Matter is dissolved, rendered sterile and overflows into the soil.
Fully Guaranteed (7 Years Against Corrosion).
NO SMELLS, FLIES OK GEKMS.
The Commonwealth Government has been
using them for 12 years and has just
bought 90 more for R.A.A.F., Narromine.
PRICE, £l7/9/6,
including, sales tax and crating.
Write Desk R for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
dsf
df
you’ll have a mound 6ft. thick above the
silage. Round off the mound to run off
rain.
Silage put down in this manner is safe
from all forms of insect, bird and animal
attack, from weather, fire or flood, and
it will be good for 20 years. The pit
will contain about a ton of silage to every
2\ cubic yards of its content.
A hundred acres of average oats thus
treated would provide 1000 ewes with
41b. of feed a head a day for 18 months,
and 41b. a head is well above the drought
ration.
Fodder Saltbushes.
“J. Want”: There’s not nearly enough
attention given to cultivation and im-
provement of our native fodders.
In Parramatta (N.S.W.) I discovered a
hedge of Old Man saltbush growing fat
and heavy under coastal conditions.
W. C. Wentworth’s old Greendale farm
out near the Nepean has a few specimens.
As a drought fodder there is nothing to
beat Old Man. Its roots are great
foragers and rival lucerne for depth. It
cares little what soil it grbws in, though
it prefers sand or loam. It likes stable
manure —or, for that matter, any kind of
manure —and it is one of the bitterest
enemies of erosion and a great soil-
binder. Its feed value, especially for
sheep, is high, and it is easy to grow
from cuttings, though it is cheaper in
the end to seed it.
In planting, plough lOft.-wide strips
half a chain apart to 3in. deep and
harrow lightly. Planting should be done
in autumn at about 51b. of seed to the
acre. A light harrow should be used
to run the seed in. Sheep should not be
allowed near the plants till the tops are
out of their reach. Otherwise, the young
growth will be wiped out in short order.
Saltbush makes a good windbreak in a
small paddock. And it is worth con-
sideration as hay. It holds its moisture
and flavor for a long time and packs well.
There are several species apart from
Old Man which are worth attention.
Barrier has a smaller leaf, stands about
sft. high when mature and sheep like it.
Cottonbush is a last resort, though sheep
will eat it when hungry. It likes swamps
and low-lying situations, and it has the
advantage of being a free seeder. Creep-
ing saltbush is a variety which should be
worth attention. It clings to the ground
and makes good cover about six inches
high.
Sub.-clover Seed in N. S. Wales.
“Wing’s Ghost”: Sub.-clover seed is
certificated by the N.S.W. Agricultural
Department. The method is to inspect
the paddock to approve the strain and
stand at flowering. The paddock is then
registered by number. At harvest, the
seed is inspected for threshing and clean-
ing and sealed in bags under Government
supervision. Each bag contains a slip
giving all details by which the seed may
be identified.
Production of seed is increasing,
especially in Riverina. A good stand will
yield 10001 b. of seed per acre. The field
should be carefully grazed in autumn and
winter and should receive good applica-
tions of super. Harvesting begins in the
south about the end of the year, when
the clover has dried off ; on the tablelands
a few weeks later.
To harvest, mow off dry top growth.
Rake off the mowings, then take up the
seed with a Campbell or other special
rake. After this the ground needs to be
gone over with a rotating brush to pick
up fallen pods, which are then garnered
with close-pronged hand-forks. There is
now a machine available which does
raking and brooming in one operation.
Threshing is done with a special
machine or with an adjusted header, but
unless adjustment is carefully done a
great deal of the seed may be damaged.
S.A., the original home of s.c., is again
to the fore with a special plant which
handles the pods in a peg drum which
runs against a steel mesh to remove them
from stems and which afterwards passes
the material through several stages till it
is dehulled.
Seed is finally cleaned and graded,
again by machinery. The outlay on plant
is fairly heavy, but, with the expansion
of pasture improvement, seed-raising pays
well.
Soya Beans for Hay.
“Fong Tsz”: Soya beans have been
neglected in Australia. They provide
food both for animals and men, and
are a rich source of oil. More Chinese
have soyas as the staple of their ration
than have rice. The U.S.A. is growing
large quantities both for fodder and for
oil. Taken whole as hay, the plant has
11.7 p.c. digestible protein (lucerne has
10.6 p.c.), 39.2 p.c. digestible carbo-
hydrates (lucerne 39 p.c.), 1.2 p.c. diges-
tible fat (lucerne 0.9 p.c.) and 53.6 p.c.
digestible nutrients (lucerne 51.6 p.c.).
Soya hay yields per acre run up to
three tons, and it makes a fine supple-
mentary crop with maize. Grazing kills
off soya, which should be sown early
in the maize crop. United States tech-
nique is to silo bean plant and maize
together, and an excellent feed it makes.
I saw several herds of Shorthorns around
the U.S.A. cornbelt fed on this com-
bination a few years ago, and they were
all distinguished by their excellent flesh-
ing and particularly blooming coats.
Soyas should not be sown till all
danger of frost is over. Otherwise they
are adaptable to most coastal and sub-
coastal districts of middle-eastern Aus-
tralia. They relish a fertile soil, but will
put up with a poor one better than most
fodder crops.
Beans should be put in at shallow
depths not more than 2in. or 3in.
according to soil. Seeds should be
4ft. 6in. apart in rows, which should be
2ft. 6in. or more apart. Put in with a
maize drill. The surface needs light
harrowing to keep it free and open.
There have been many failures with beans
through allowing the surface soil to
crust.
The plants are at their best when pods
are forming. Then animals like the hay
best, but to allow the pods to become
full grown means the production of
nearly double the amount of fodder made
available at the earlier stage.
For seed, pods should be taken off
when three-quarters ripe. To leave
garnering till later is to run the risk of
loss through bursting beans.
An ordinary mower will harvest for
hay without any adjustment.
“Ghanam”: Last season there was a
record shearing and 3,604,000 bales was
removed from the sheep’s backs. This
sold for a total of £65,000,000 irrespec-
tive of what may be earned on resales
by the British Government, in which the
woolgrower has a half-share. This season
has been less favorable, and the clip is
likely to be more than 100,000,0001 b.
lighter. It will be surprising if the
season’s gross cheque touches £60,000,000.
“Peapod”: M.L. farmers are keen on
electric fences. Cost of a three-wire fence
in hilly country averages 15s. per chain,
including labor and material. In sub-
dividing paddocks one or two wires are
enough. Electric fences are satisfactory
for both cows and sheep, but the latter
must first be trained in a small run. Pigs
and calves cannot be held, principally
because of short circuits caused by grass
if wires are placed low enough to keep
small animals in bounds. Battery charges
are low. The milking shed is the best
place for the battery, which should have
an indicator to show any faults. The
current is best carried overhead across
gateways. When building an electric
fence see that it is properly earthed and
connected. Keep grass and weeds down
so that nothing touches the wires. Above
all, get a good controller.
Outback Occupations.
No. XXXIII.
BACON-CURING ON THE FARM.
The pig you intend to kill should be
gaining weight and healthy. It should
be free from bruises, cuts, sun-scald,
housemaid’s knee, lumbago and whoop-
ing cough.
Weight should be about 1751 b. Best
way to make sure of this is to catch the
pig, tie it up, put it in the car and run
into town, where you can dump it on
the chemist’s scales, drop a penny in the
slot and record the weight. If it is under-
weight, repeat the process with another
pig. If overweight, repeat the process
with another pig. To save time and
trouble, drive all the pigs into town and
weigh them all. Make sure you have
plenty of pennies.
Having selected your pig, see that it
eats nothing for at least 12 hours before
the execution. One sure way of achiev-
ing this is to kill the pig at once. Allow
the condemned to rest. It must not be
chased, excited or overheated. See that
no jokes are cracked in its vicinity, and
make sure to remove all cigarettes, choco-
lates and other farinaceous foods.
Killing may be done in various ways.
Some people like to stun or the
thing before bleeding it, but running the
tractor over it has been known to serve.
Dropping it into the underground tank
is another easy way, and if the worst
comes to the worst it can always be
poisoned. It is a waste of time and
effort to try throttling a pig.
After killing, scald the carcass. Then
scrape off all the hair. Don’t use sand-
paper for this, and don’t stand too long
in the water, which should be at 160 deg.
F. If the pig squeals when you start
scraping its hair off you’ll know it is not
dead, so get the boys to help you lift it
out .of the water, take it back to the
gallows and kill it again.
A sound chaffbag should be kept
handy for gathering up the squeals; they
can be sold to Scottish bagpipe-makers or
to editors of sporting papers for use when
their idols of sport are beaten fairly.
The carcass has next to be cut up. If
you can get it through the chaffcutter,
well and good, but don’t blame us if
the chaff has a porky taste afterwards.
By laying the carcass on the ground and
hopping into it with a good axe you can
obtain the desired result. You should
have two middles, two hams and two
shoulders when the cutting-up is done.
If you haven’t —if there are three hams
and no middles or something like that—
then you’ve blundered somewhere, and
the best thing is to get another pig and
start all over again.
Now everything is ready for the cure.
Years ago you could buy remedies that
would cure anything, but as you can’t
be sure what’s wrong with the bacon the
best way to cure it is to wait for a some-
what moist atmosphere with a tempera-
ture of about 43deg. F. If you have a
fairly large farm, get several ther-
mometers and nail them to posts or trees
in different parts of the farm, and have
a man riding round reporting on them.
As soon as he discovers one at 43deg.
gather up the big pieces and canter up
there as quickly as you can.
.Sprinkle a mixture of salt, sugar, all-
spice and saltpetre over the bacon, and
leave it to cure. If flies, crows or other
pests start hovering round build a little
house round the bacon. Make sure to
put a door in it, otherwise the cured
bacon will have no means of getting out
when it is cured.
Next the bacon should be smoked.
Why this should be so isn’t clear. Obvi-
ously tobacco is much better to the taste,
and there is always the chance that the
farmer may be a non-smoker. With
things so tough, no money in wheat and
the bank manager getting nasty and the
storekeeper short, a bloke ought to give
up smoking. It seems a funny way to
live going about smoking bacon, but as
this is an article on bacon-curing we’re
sticking to it.
However, having filled your pipe with
bacon shreds and got them burning, you
take the rest of the bacon and hang it
up in a little shed about 15ft. high and
3ft. square, with a floor halfway up.
Put a pile of sawdust on the bottom floor
and light it.
Make sure to have buckets of water
handy just in case.
Any expert will tell you that “the
smoke creates a distinct antiseptic or pre-
servative action, apart from the dried
albuminoid coating, by depositing on the
surface creosote, formaldehyde and pyro-
ligneous or crude acetic acid.” No-
body seems to know why these things
are necessary on the surface of cured
bacon, but the experts say that’s what
happens, and if you’re going to cure the
blasted stuff you may as well do it
properly.
The sawdust fire should be kept going
until the bacon is a light tan in color.
If it is black, the fire should have been
put out before ; if green, it is a sign that
it was a pity to kill that pig.
After the fire is out and the fumes
cleared away, remove all the pieces of
bacon to a far corner of the farm, bury
them and go into town to the store. Buy
a side of bacon there, rub off the factory
brand, sneak it back to the farm and then
shove it in front of the missus and sa>
proudly “There, what do y’ think of
that ?” She’ll scarcely credit the evidence
of her own eyes.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4|d. per line; all others at
2ld. per line.
Names and addresses must be published in the case of letters touching on the
Commonwealth election.
An advertising man’s defence of his greatly-criticised calling is placed first this
week. He has made a good job of it.
Advertising
As a copywriter, 1 am grieved at the
generally unappreciative attitude of the
public towards advertising. If those who
pass over newspaper ads. so hurriedly
and switch off radio “commercials” so
impatiently would stop to think, they
would realise that the high standard of
living enjoyed by civilised peoples today
is largely attributable to advertising.
Civilisation has been defined simply as
the creation of new wants and the means
of their satisfaction —and it is advertising
which has created most of these wants.
People eat health foods because ad-
vertising has played on their desire to be
fit and well; wash their bodies and
clothes scrupulously because advertising
has drawn their attention to the need for
hygiene; perform household tasks
quickly and efficiently with a wide range
of electric “servants” because advertising
has urged them to enjoy more comfort
and leisure than before.
The remarkable advances in motor-car
design during the last decade —to men-
tion only one product—have eventuated
simply through the efforts of each manu-
facturer to provide his advertising de-
partment with more attractive features
to “plug” than the other fellow’s. Result:
the public buys a continually improving
product at a continually decreasing cost,
because publicity stimulates competition
and —since mass selling means mass pro-
duction —brings prices down. Compare
modern car features and prices with those
of 15 years ago—and thank advertising
for the difference. It’s the same with
almost any product one cares to name.
In the case of products which have
reached a stage where it is humanly im-
possible to improve them further, the ad-
vertising specialist has racked his brains
to find new uses for the goods. As an
example, we find food manufacturers
issuing recipe books which help to raise
John Citizen’s standard and enjoyment
of living by introducing more variety into
his everyday meals—at no extra cost.
Advertising, which has long been striv-
ing to rid itself of the stigma attached to
it following the unscrupulous publicity
practices of half a century ago, is today
an honorable profession—and a major
one. In Australia thousands of copy-
writers, artists, photographers, printers,
process engravers, stereotypers, paper
merchants, display makers, signwriters
and numerous other kinds of craftsmen
owe their livelihood principally (many
of them wholly) to advertising.—
P. S. B. C. (N.S.W.).
Courage to Spare
It is an odd thing to have grown old
and to realise just how heavy were the
minds of men of one’s own generation.
Of youth grown to manhood since the
Great War, their elders said “They’ll
never have the punch and grit of their
fathers. Too fond of tennis, of hair oil,
of Oxford bags, of general lassitude and
take it easy.”
But in all the history of our British
race has youth ever been called upon to
show as high a courage as today? In
previous wars men faced the enemy in
seried battalions, with the confident feel-
ing of strong shoulders on each side.
On the sea this was even more manifest,
for the ship’s crew, even in the direct
straits, were bonded in a feeling as being
of the one family.
The airman of today mostly flies alone,
at best with but half a dozen companions.
Out into the blue thousands of feet above
the earth, daring immense distance, dar-
ing the forces of Nature, daring the
enemy gunfire, without any of the assist-
ance of the mob instinct that so sup-
ported warriors of the past.
“Six of our ’planes failed to return.”
But though six, or even 60, should fail
to return, the ’planes go out again and
again without faltering. Never was cour-
age so sublime. Far from being degen-
erate, our race is still on the up-grade.—
W. C. C. (W.A.).
The League
Like most idealists who fail to realise
that we live in a hard, materialistic
world, “Crusader” (B. 21/8/ ’4O) fails to
grasp the fact that the League of Nations
was doomed to failure from its incep-
tion. The ideals and aspirations read
well on paper, but when the acid test came
the members were dominated by selfish
national considerations.
When Japan invaded Manchuria the
League members made but little effort
to face the first real challenge to its
authority, for not only did Japan leave
the League, but she retained the
mandates granted to her by the League.
The sanctions fiasco merely dealt the
final blow to an already crumbling struc-
ture. In the present state of human
nature any such scheme designed to build
up a system of collective security is fore-
doomed to failure. — Pierrot (N.S.W.).
Qualifications for R.A.A.F.
I am in a position to assure “True
Australian” (B. 14/8/’4O) that there is no
truth, at least in N. S. Wales, in the
“Cripes—me best pipe!”
statement that a lad without a completed
secondary school course and a certificate
like the intermediate or leaving cannot
get into an air crew. I know several
young men who have not these certifi-
cates, but they are sworn in and assured
definitely that they are to be trained in
air crews, some as pilots, others as gun-
ners in the air. It seems that type and
character are as important as educational
standards for this work. In other words,
brains, nerve and dash, plus guts, still
count with the recruiters as in the Kaiser’s
war. — Harry Welch (N.S.W.).
Starving Europe—Last War
In Brussels in 1932 I was sightseeing
with a large party consisting almost en-
tirely of Americans, and we were con-
ducted by a Belgian guide. During the
guide’s lecture an American woman in-
terposed on a point of history or archi-
tecture with:
“Excuse me, guide, but have the people
of Brussels done anything to honor Presi-
dent Hoover for what he did for the
starving Belgians during the war?”
The guide replied: “There is a statue
—I think it is in Flushing, madame.”
“But the people of Brussels, have they
done anything?”
(At this stage the Americans began to
rally and face the guide, and the other
two or three of us to stand aside and
listen.)
The guide continued: “Well, madame,
I do not want to offend any American,
but Mr. Hoover was only three days in
Belgium, madame, and Mr. Grant Whit-
lock, the Ambassador, was here all
through the war, and you see we have
made an avenue in his honor.” (We had
just driven along that avenue.)
Chorus of Americans: “Yes! But
Hoover found the money.”
Guide: “Well, of course, as I said, I
do not want to offend any American,
but we never got the food you sent us.
Chorus: “Who got it then?”
Guide: “I do not know ; but all we
got during the war was half a pound of
bread a day, and it was black, madame.”
American gent.: “Were you in Brus-
sels during the war?”
Guide: “Yes, sir. I was in Brussels
before the war, and all through the war,
and after the war, and I know. Perhaps
if Mr. Hoover had not sent his money
we might have got a quarter-pound in-
stead of half—l do not know; but all
the ham and other things you sent we
did not get.”
A few puzzled Americans asked: “Who
did get it then?”
The guide replied: “I do not know,
sir, but we did not.”
The Americans then dropped the sub-
ject and did not refer to it again as a
party ; but afterwards one of them had a
long and evidently illuminating talk with
the guide.—R. T. N. (Tas.).
A.R.P.
Louis Mattil (B. 21/8/’4O), after a reci-
tal of his deeds as an air-raid warden,
asks “What does the public expect?”
Well, the Sydney public seems to ex-
pect to be able to win this war without
making too much effort. Sydney expects
that every man during this war will still
keep alive his interest in racing, as well
as his interest in beer, the dogs, the
stadium, football in winter, cricket in
summer and the lot’ry.
As a matter of fact, 7 find it rather
hard to take Louis Mattil and his kind
seriously. Precautions against air raids
sound to me a sort of war activity taken
up simply because England has the same
thing. Here there is no obvious need
for A.R.P., and we will become inter-
ested in such a matter only at the 11.59 th
hour. Let Louis Mattil call again when
the bombs begin to drop. Meantime, on
with the racing. Father’s Vice
(N.S.W.).
“Art for Art’s Sake”
Art for art’s sake is a pernicious doc-
trine which has been exploded times out
of number, and if W. Lynch is right in
fathering that illicit offspring of the
Muses on to the moderns (B. 21/8/ ’4O)
I am sorry for them. He says the writer
owes nothing to humanity. But would
any writer feel the same with regard to
a good opinion as he would to an ill
one? Even Shakspeare would not have
been indifferent to the opinion of his
audience. He would be more pleased if
his audience clapped “Measure for
Measure” than if they booed it. But if
they booed it he would not necessarily
think the worse of his play; he might
think they were merely reacting against it.
Despite what Mr. Lynch says, art can-
not be divorced from morals. But that
does not mean that the artist necessarily
accepts society’s valuation as his criterion.
In fact, he usually does the opposite. He
takes his own valuation of himself, and
if it runs counter to what society thinks
requisite he does not think he is wrong ;
he thinks society is. But the difference
between him and the A 1 Capones of this
world is that they are reacting against
society, whereas he is criticising it. Other-
wise, how would Mr. Lynch account for
any progress whatsoever?
We no longer think it a good thing to
send boys up chimneys to sweep them
and then smoke them out if they get stuck.
We would be horrified at the bare notion.
But that was because of one Charles
Dickens. Our Victorian forefathers
weren’t a bit horrified about it. And we
are not horrified at things that will pos-
sibly horrify our children’s children, be-
cause of some new Charles Dickens. So
humanity owes something to Dickens,
and he obviously felt he owed something
to humanity or he would not have both-
ered to instruct it. — Spokeshave (Vic.).
There is a tendency today to think
that any man who knows his alphabet is
competent to judge what is good litera-
ture, and, on much the same ground,
that any man with two eyes can tell what
is good art and not just what pictures
please him. If “faithful realism” is the
end in view, then the peak of pictorial
art is the colored photograph, irrespec-
tive of whether it is taken from the right
angle or not. Logically, therefore, the
wax model in the shop window should
be the inspiration of all sculpture in which
the human form figures, or perhaps we
should say the final expression of all
sculpture. This is, of course, assuming
that the model is not modern and is
made with meticulous accuracy.
No sane person will deny that a good
deal of so-called modern art is perpe-
trated by futile hangers-on to genius, who
hope that geometrical fantasy will prove
an adequate substitute for technical skill.
To condemn modern art on these grounds
is equivalent to condemning Christianity
because there are bad Christians.
Does a “genuine art-loving public”
exist? It is doubtful. Even admitting
it, a study of the history of the various
art forms quickly proves that the art-
loving public has always been the first
to stone the prophets. The modern art
of yesterday, reviled in its own age, is
what is admired by the public today.
The purpose of pictures is not to repre-
sent life but to convey an emotion. Even
a pretty picture of two proportionate
cows under a gum-tree by a river does
this in the final analysis. What the origi-
nal purpose of pictures was only a Cro-
Magnon man could tell. —B. C. (N.S.W.).
Commonwealth Literary Fund
I was a member of the Fellowship of
Australian Writers’ committee that de-
veloped the idea of the fund; I was on
the deputation that successfully submitted
the proposal to Canberra, and am one
of the F.A.W. (N.S.W.) sub-com-
mittee charged with keeping an eye
on what is being done by the con-
trolling body, the advisory board ;
»o perhaps I can put “His One Ewe
Lamb” and other O.F.M. contri-
butors on the right track.
The first thing—and it’s a pity it can’t
be set forth in neon lighting—is that the
fund does not exist primarily for the
benefit of writers but for the benefit of
Australia through the development of
its literature. In general, its aim is to
offset the more stringent economic diffi-
culties attendant upon the production of
literature and the existence of literature
after it is produced. In particular, the
fund sets out (1) to subsidise for a period
of six or twelve months, and for an ap-
proved programme of work, any writer
who can advance in printed or manu-
script form evidence of his literary capa-
city ; (2) to subsidise the reprinting of
important Australian books that com-
mercial publishers have let go perma-
nently out of print; (3) to subsidise the
publication of literature—poetry, drama,
outsize novels, etc. —that publishers would
ordinarily consider a poor business risk.
Work is in progress under each of these
headings.
The fund also subsidises an annual
course of lectures at each university. This
was not a feature of the original scheme,
but as the lectures are part of the degrees
course in each case —and as long-term
planning and the consideration of in-
direct results are proper to the C.L.F.—
perhaps there is something to be said
for the idea. There is also the compas-
sionate grant of about £l7OO a year,
disbursed in small pensions to writers
who are in need through age or misfor-
tune. This grant had been in existence


a number of years, and stood at about
£l4OO a year until recently.
Administration of the C.L.F. is the con-
cern primarily of the community of
letters in Australia. Like all institutions,
it stands in constant need of suggestions
and criticism —though it does seem desir-
able that criticism should be well in-
formed. O.F.M. letters on the subject are
all to the good, but critics could also write
direct to the secretary, or they could turn
up at an F.A.W. branch, where steady
workers are always welcome. It will in-
terest O.F.M. contributors to know that
despite the disbursements to universities
there is corn in Canberra yet. — Drudge
(N.S.W.).
“Gone with the Wind”
“Gone with the Wind” is showing in
Brisbane at two theatres —unprecedented
for Brisbane. Owing to “the high rental
cost of the film” increased admission
charges were asked for, and apparently
paid gladly by one of the biggest crowds
I have seen waiting for a show to open.
This film has, of course, “a war set-
ting,” this kind of shadow fighting hav-
ing become very popular and lucrative
since September, 1939.
But if we must save dollar exchange
why not ration films, especially fancy-
priced ones? —W. K. D. (Q.).
Little Theatres
Australian audiences may prefer
American films to Australian stage pro-
ductions (B. 14/8/’4O), but the cure isn’t
to write better Australian drama. The
apathy of audiences is due to a lack of
appreciation of “home-made” actors
rather than a slight on the written play.
About five months ago the Adelaide
Little Theatre produced Bernard Shaw’s
play “In Good King Charles’s Days.”
The hall where it was produced—a com-
paratively small one —was little more than
half-filled. About a month later an
Adelaide film house screened Shaw’s play
“Pygmalion,” and it carried crowded
houses for several weeks. Evidently Mr.
Shaw’s name carries weight on the screen
but not in little theatres.
W. G. Fay, of the Abbey Theatre,
Dublin, was the founder of little theatres:
He wrote and produced his own plays
in his spare time, working night and day
for several years without pay or reward.
He, too, in the beginning had little honor
in his own country, yet he made the
Abbey Theatre, which now stands as one
of the best stages in the world.
Like their founder, the teachers and
producers in Australia’s little theatres to-
day are unpaid, unhonored and unsung.
A fee of a guinea a year, or, in some
cases, the small sum of a shilling per
class per head, is the only charge made
to members Of these theatres. These
fees, together with the box-office takings,
are the sole revenue derived for the up-
keep of the stage, rent, clubroom, teach-
ing facilities, etc.
The technique taught in little theatres
is far superior to the training acquired
in any Hollywood studio. In fact, the
few good performers on the sbreen have
all had stage training in little-theatre
schools. But it’s a poor comment on
Australians that these little theatres
should be crying out for support while
the film houses are turning people away.
—Poor but Honest (S.A.).
Calling All Comrades
This is a “chain letter,” and you are
requested to make six copies immediately
and post them to other Comrades. If
vou comply you will have good luck, but
if you break the chain you will suffer
a great misfortune within four days. The
object of the chain is to use up all the
paper in the Commonwealth, thereby
holding up the production of cartridges
and hastening the victory of Comrade
Hitler.
To speed your pen, please note that
if the chain is kept unbroken for a year
it will have produced at least 6,000,000
letters, each multiplying so fast that at
the end of the second year there will
not be sufficient paper left to make
stamps for the billions then in transit.
These figures a'pply only to this particular
chain. As there are thousands of others
being copied and delivered each day, you
will see that this work is of great national
importance. It is also a perfectly safe
form of sabotage, as the authorities are
too busy devising means of saving paper
to notice it.
You will be cheered by the knowledge
that your humble effort will play on the
superstitious fears of thousands of
mothers and stop the working of knit-
ting needles for millions of hours. Com-
rades, your pen is mightier than a sword.
—Angus McSlinkski (S.A.).
The Futility of Revolution
The ignominious exit of ex-Comrade
Trotsky emphasises once again the futility
of revolution. It is nearly 100 years since
Marx and Engels claimed to have seen
“the spectre of Communism hovering
over Europe.” Seventy-two years later
this spectre really did seem to have
materialised when Trotsky read the mani-
festo ushering in the Third (Communist)
International:
The period of the last decisive struggle
has begun later than was desired or ex-
pected by the apostles of the social revolu-
tion. But it is here; it has come! Our
duty is to facilitate and hasten the vic-
tory of the Communist revolution
In 1919 Zinoviev boasted that a Soviet
Germany was just round the corner. In
1920 the Italian Socialist party entered the
field under the emblem of the hammer
and the sickle, and polled more than
36 p.c. of the country’s total votes. The
Italian delegation to the 1920 Congress
of the Third International was given a
special train by the Italian Government
and supplied with special diplomatic
passes. In every corner of the world the
Comrades impatiently awaited Der Tag.
But within the space of 16 years the
Communist International passed from
infancy to senile decay. And if the shade
of Lenin (alias Ulianov) were able to
survey the hollow shell of the “Great
Workers’ Republic” which, with Trotsky
(alias Bronstein), he helped to found,
would it not repeat the words of Marx,
“I sowed dragons’ teeth and I reaped—-
fleas!” 7 — Mosscao (N.S.W.).
Fashions in Families
My parents had the same number of
children as the late King of England, and
were proud to have been able to follow
the fashion of so worthy a parent.
Now we take most of our examples
from the movies, but we find no encour-
agement for having big families there.
There is plenty of love (and, presumably,
marriage) in the films, but it generally
stops short of natural results. The
glamor girls never become mothers ; they
never grow old. The films are a mis-
chievous example because they never
face up to the realities of life.
No sylphlike figures are ever shown
developing into motherhood ; that would
be indecent. No glamor girls and boys
are ever depicted with a quiverful of
children ; that would ruin their, careers.
So far has the film-crazed public fallen
from honesty.
To them the ideal life for a young
couple is to be continuously young, in-
credibly attractive, expensively dressed
and luxuriously housed. The natural re-
sponsibilities of marriage are a harsh
intrusion into this glamor world and are
something to be avoided, though one or
two children may be admitted as a con-
cession to human frailty.
Big families' belong to the out-
moded past and to the people in the
slums. No one wants to be like them.
And who is there among us strong
enough to change the fashion? —E. O. S.
(N.S.W.).
Why Not Dowries?
If the European custom of the marriage
dowry were to become established in Aus-
tralia it might help to raise the birthrate.
Some Australian insurance cos. have
schemes that enable parents to endow
their children. Government subsidisation
would allow such schemes to be extended
to provide greater facilities at charges
that would permit a much wider circle
to utilise them. Provision could also be
made for working girls to endow them-
selves for marriage.
Young folk in modest circumstances
would thus be able to commence mar-
ried life with a respectable joint capital.
Many more couples would then find
themselves in a position to maintain
larger families.
Another means whereby an increased
birthrate might be secured would be the
granting by our Governments of con-
crete privileges to factories that were
established in country districts or the
outer suburbs of the big cities, and really
substantial transport concessions to those
who settle outside the thickly-populated
suburbs.
If many of the slender-incomed could
thus be drawn away from the cities it
would be to their and the country’s ad-
vantage ; for they would be able to
secure blocks of land large enough for
them to supplement their earnings by
keeping poultry and growing their own
vegetables. — Lyle (N.S.W.).
Standardise Adoption Laws
A very probable outcome of the trans-
ference of children from Britain and else-
where to avoid war risks will be a sub-
stantial number of legal adoptions of
them by Australian relatives or others.
At present adoption is governed entirely
by State laws whose provisions vary
materially in different States. The dif-
ferences are sufficient to necessitate dif-
ferent preliminary procedures according
to the domicile of intending foster parents
and to affect materially such matters as
inheritance of property by an adopted
child. The conditions to be observed by
foster parents also vary.
The Commonwealth Parliament should
introduce early legislation for a uniform
adoption law in relation to children
brought to Australia for adoption, or
adopted after being brought here on ac-
count of war risks affecting their previous
domicile. If the immigration provisions
of the Constitution do not already cover
this there should be no difficulty in ob-
taining concurrence from States. —Fi. fa.
(Q-).
A Private War Budget
I feel sorry for “Midnight Son” (B.
14/8/’4O), not because he cannot marry
on his £4 per week, but because of his
inferiority complex. He squanders three-
eighths of his pay in order to make a good
impression on his friends and his best
girl, and then complains that he cannot
save anything.
His office friends (who presumably are
on a similar wage) evidently do marry,
because he mentions buying wedding
presents for them. If they can do it so
can he, and this is how.
Cut out the following items from his
budget: Entertaining best girl 10s., sport
Bs., smokes 3s. 6d., drinks 65., and holi-
day fund 2s. The 30s. he pays for board
added to the above would run his home,
and when he gets a family the child
endowment will help.
It may seem hard to give up most of
his pleasures, but he ought to know that
he can’t have it both ways. The pleasures
of married life will more than compen-
sate for anything he loses. And he won’t
lose his standing among his friends ; they
will respect him for doing what they
would like to do if they had the courage.
He apparently does not expect a rise,
and in this he is probably justified, since
his budget - indicates that he goes out
every night of the week for pleasure. If
he stayed at home sometimes and studied
he would qualify himself for a rise, save
money and win the genuine regard of
his best girl.—E. O. S. (N.S.W.).
These Boards
N. S. Wales Premier Mair believes
that there are far too many boards. He
urges the Commonwealth Government to
appoint a single board to handle sale and
distribution of Australia’s whole surplus
of primary production. Mr. Mair’s
statement would have been more con-
vincing if he had added that he was going
to do something about the many boards
in his own State.
There is a Milk Board, which cuts into
and overlaps the work of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture. There is a Water
and Sewerage Board, which spent a small
fortune on a new building for itself at
a time when Sydney faced a water
famine. An Egg Board seeks to control
egg-production throughout the entire
State. Some producers have a vote on
the question—if they have 150 or more
hens. If they have fewer they get no vote,
but they still have to pay a levy of Id.
a dozen to the board on all the eggs
they sell. Wasn’t there once a revolu-
tion on the question of “no taxation
without representation”?
A Meat Commission —just another
board—controls the abattoir which sup-
plies Sydney with meat, when it hasn’t
got a strike on its hands. The commis-
sion is perturbed about meat killed in
the country going to Sydney, although
country killing saves stock from de-
terioration, and means greater prosperity
for country centres.
There are others —a horde of others.
Premier Mair would have got a better
hearing if he had done something about
them.— Sam Square (N.S.W.).
Taxing Taxes
We long-suffering hotelkeepers send in
a return every year of our liquor pur-
chases, and we pay 5 p.c. on the total for
our license fee. But we are compelled
to add sales tax to the purchases, and
we have to pay an additional 5 p.c. on
that. So that is another tax on a tax —
II o.c. for the privilege to trade. —Russ
(N.S.W.).
National Security Regulations
Under the National Security (Land
Transfer) Regulations issued by the
Attorney-General last month, a natural-
ised person of enemy origin or a sub-
ject of a country in enemy occupation is
forbidden to acquire freehold land or
a lease for more than five years, except
with the consent of the Attorney-
General ; and it is also provided that
contracts and instruments in breach of
these regulations shall be null and void.
Lawyers are divided in opinion as to
whether the purpose of these regulations,
which is to prevent persons of doubtful
loyalty • from settling in strategic posi-
tions, might not have been accomplished
by some other method less disruptive to
the conveyancing and land-dealing busi-
ness of the country—a country, by the
way, with the finest system of land regis-
tration in the world —but even those most
strongly in favor of the regulations have
boggled at the declaration which the
Attorney-General calls upon applicants
for his consent to sign.
In addition to the usual particulars of
place of birth, date of naturalisation,
grounds of application, etc., the appli-
cant is required to state' (Clause 5) “In
the case of a son of military age, state
whether he has volunteered for active
service with the A.1.F.”; (Clause 16a)
“Information regarding contributions to
patriotic funds. If no contributions made
reasons should be given” ; and (Clause
16b) “Full particulars as to any invest-
ments in war loans. If none, reasons
should be furnished.”
It may not have been intended, but
these regulations seem so much like an
attempt at bringing pressure to bear on
the alien to contribute to war funds
that the average practitioner feels like a
blackmailer when he has to ask the ques-
tions when filling in the declaration form.
In any case, if an alien is secretly work-
ing for the enemy, it is a safe bet that he
will mask his activities by giving gener-
ously to patriotic funds. — Solicitor (Q.).
Housing Anomaly
Under the Victorian housing laws a
landlord may, without any compensation
and at his own expense, be compelled to
pull down rent-producing properties if
the Government, as represented by the
Housing Commission, orders him to do
so. Or it may order various renovations
or alterations.
But the Government does not encour-
age the property owner to provide him-
self with any form of sinking fund for
such contingencies.
If a house returned, say, 30s. per week
in rent in 1930 the Government presumes
that, if it is still returning 30s. a week
in 1940, it is exactly the same house.
Actually it is probably far from anything
like the same and more than likely is
due for expensive repairs.
If the Government allowed the deduc-
tion of a certain percentage of interest
on property from taxable income, de-
manding, perhaps, in return that the per-
centage be paid into a special sinking
fund for expenditure on repairs and im-
provements, there would be fewer slums
and fewer demolition orders. — Loulalo
(Vic.).
Riddle Department
Why is a “name” that writes wordy
articles about the war but misses fire
with most of his predictions employed in
preference to a trained journalist who
has made an especial study of military
moves and could give the readers more
accuracy and satisfaction? .
Answer: Because letters-after-a-name
are supposed to create illusion and re-
spect, which wrap the learned man’s mis-
takes up in cellophane and brand them
“natural miscalculations” instead of
what they really are —the untrained ob-
servations of an unqualified mind. —M.
(N.S.W.).
Windjammers Wanted
Farmers and graziers are being hard hit
by increasing prices of superphosphate.
One of the causes is higher shipping
rates as the result of the Admiralty com-
mandeering vessels owned by the British
Phosphate Commission.
The commission has to charter ships
to bring rock phosphates, the principal
source of superphosphate, to Australia
from the Pacific islands. Chartering ships
is an expensive business. Sailing-ships
could be used. Possibly there are none
available at the moment; but there is
no reason why small sailing vessels should
not be built from Australian timbers.
This" would create useful employment,
running costs would be comparatively
small, and charter fees would be avoided.
There should be no difficulty in getting
together sufficient men for crews, as we
seem to have a good collection of oid
salts trained in sail, and many younger
men would sign on for the experience.—
Two Strand (N.S.W.).
Traffic Congestion
The yellow centre line painted along
so many of our highways might well be
extended to the footpaths in the cities
and busy suburbs. It is difficult to walk
along a city footpath nowadays at a busy
period without getting pushed all over
the place by pedestrian traffic that moves
in all directions without any attempt a
regulation. Of course, there is a kee r
to the left” rule, but that is general
ignored, and police seldom attempt 0
enforce it.-W. P. T. (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
CYPRUS DE LUXE
Watch, Stainless
Steel.
15 Jewel Predsioi
£5/10/-
5-s?
Specially tested to stand tropical conditions.
Fully Gtd. Waterproof, Shockproof, Dustproof.
Waach Repair Service. Send for Catalogue.
diamond
i, WATCH
SPECIALISTS
fiiuSvfatdA
112 MARKET SI
| SYDNEY.
OPP DAVID JONES
Pelmanism
Scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
Pelmanism trains the observation to
speed and accuracy, increases the
power of concentration and streng-
thens the will. It is a complete
mental training and it develops
personality.
The Pelman Institute
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Fane,
Melbourne (Cnr. Market St.).
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
ds
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4Jin. knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads... 4jin. to iiin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OP RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/137-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
J. P. TALTY
Manufacturing Saddler
6 .Cunningham St., Syd
IT’S HERE—WORLD’S SMALLEST 1940
RE-NU POCKET RADIO
fd
NO Tubes - NO Batteries
NO Electricity
Weighs only 3oz. Long distance
reception, clear natural tone, no
crystals to adjust, no upkeep.
Can be used in Hotels. Boats,
Beds, etc.; takes few seconds to
connect. 5-year Guarantee;
Price 42/-. Also 1- and 2-Valve
Dynamic Speaker, Battery or
Electric Portable Sets, from £4/19/6;
Interstate and overseas: reception guaran -
teed. BE-NtT, LTD. (Est. 1932), opp.
Richmond Stn., Melbourne. 75 other lines.
For particulars, employment offers and
free sample send lOd. stamps; refundable
first order.
TRY "CENTURY" RADIO
—and save 40 p.c.
(up to £2O).
It costs you nothing to try the
“Century” Radio. You can have
FREE TRIAD in your own home.
Century Radio Sets embody the
latest scientific improvements . . .
wonderful reception assured from
ail over the world on Battery and
All-electric sets. Write at once for
Catalogue. If no “Century” Agent
in your district you can buy at
wholesale prices (40% discount).
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-1:1 Dixon Street, Sydney.
niHORMIVG
s, Get rid of
Homs BEFORE,
they start!
One application <>t
HAYES CHEMICAL.
DEHORNER
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
method. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves,
6/6. Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-.
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane.
sf
JVINCHHTW
SKATES
17/6 — 21/.
WITH STEEL ROLLS
COWLES
and DUNN
H KING STREET, SYDNEY
v a
NG
LiMißi:!
TOMATO
letifjiET
Amazing New Imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEARS FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001 b. per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-20 feet. 2/0 packet posted.
PURE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Goutf,
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID!) Sup-
□
efb flavor! Disease free! Drought proof!
MAKES DELICIOUS JAM. 2/0 Packet, posted.
dsf
15-DAY TIMBER KILLER!
Kills all trees, roots to top, large
or small, in 15 DAYS! New method.
NO RINGBARKING NECESSARY!
Prevents Suckering. Will not in-
jure the soil. 5/6 Tin, Post Free
N.S.W. SEED CO., 75 George St., Sydney
GOOD AUSTRALIAN
TOBACCO
Direct from the Manufacturer to you.
PURE COARSE CUTS AND FINE
CUTS. FROM 6/9 PER POUND.
PLUG TOBACCOS FROM 7/-.
FLAKE TOBACCOS, 8/6.
SAVE MONEY —AND ENJOY *
PURE TOBACCO. SEND FOR
PRICE LIST.
SEND TO
HILLMAN TOBACCO Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE.
WHY"™ CORNS AND BUNIONS
the magic corn rubber
Nothing is so painful as a Corn or Bunion, or
so easily removed if done the right \\ay. Our
Magic Antiseptic Corn and Bunion Remover
removes the corn or callus instantly. \ou do
not have to pare or cut the corn, just rub it
gently with the Remover and all hardness,
callousness and the soreness is taken away. Does
not make the corn sore. No pain, no danger
from cutting. A'o nasty stuff to put on for a
week Just a simple, scientific and antiseptic
instrument that will last a family for years.
Removes corn in less than a minute. Posted
to Any Address on receipt of One Shilling postal
note or Stamps of any State. Try one and
tell your friends. THE UNION M. & A. CO.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
LAMBS SAVED
df
By Using: the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
, ..._ . ment. 100 p.c. efficient —
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection—No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Froin all Agents or—
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydnej
d
The
Genuine
“Cavalier”
SILVER-MOUNTED
BRIAR PIPE
FOR . .
HONEST VALUE, 8/6.
5/6
Send fid. in Stamps for liberal
Sample of “Pcvysown” Quality Tobacco at
■T/ lb.—worth 10/- lb.—for Cigarette
" f or Pipe.
Zig-Zag Papers, 60 leaves pkt., 2/6 dozen.
[SOL LEVY
TOBACCONIST,
cst. S 8 years.
713 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Goods sent C.O.D. if desired.
n
OILSKINS
(or long, hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for Eree Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1803),
121B It ECU NT STREET, SYDNEY.
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 35/- only
These beautiful instruments are mar-
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post
office, for only 35/-- COMPLETE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IS
GIVEN FREE, and we guarantee that
you will be aisle to play within seven
days, otherwise we will refund your
money in full. This offer cannot be
repeated. Goods can be sent C.O.D.
if you wish.
TALKERIES,
161 riSriERBViH STItTIET. SYDNBT
TILLEY LAMPS
JaL
300 Candle Power. British
Made.
Fool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on l\ pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake off. All
[amps fitted with PYREX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EXIO.O All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
be used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 inches.
PRICE, 57/6 Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
Obtainable from your localagent or
W. Kopsen & Co. Pty.. Ltd.,
3SO Kent Street. Sydney.
fd
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion Grounds. Machines are'
still going strong.
Has no equal'—
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
CO.
Jabez St., Marrickville,
N.S.W. ’Phone: LM4794.
deaf:
Hew Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW 1
R. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 438 George St., Sydney.
tags*
m
m
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stoekproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
* Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
mun
m rings
instant relief
TO ACHING FEET.
Based upon recent X-ray dis-
coveries, the “FOOTHELP” brings
new hope to sufferers from painful
foot troubles. This amazing new
invention contains NO METAL
EMITS WHATSOEVER and is as
light as a feather and moulded to measure.
14 DAYS FRit TRIAI
Write to-day for full details and TRIAL OFFER.
Satisfaction guaranteed no matter where you live.
JOHN H. UNGER (Dept. 12),
05 York Street, Sydney.
fd
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
f
ACTS
LIKE THE HflllD
The latest invention of Dr
Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
at upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day foi
FREE LITERATURE.
BARREBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 370), 35 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
BATTERIES DIRECT AT
WHOLESALE PRICES.
Cut your costs in half. Every
type of wet battery for car, truck,
cycle, radio, home or theatre lighting
approximately fifty per cent, cheaper
than retail. Marshall Batteries are
entirely new throughout and guaran-
teed in writing. Our 16-page cata-
logue on how to choose and look after
batteries is yours for the asking. The
Marshall Battery Mfg. Co., 38-42
Harbour Street, Sydney.
WAR RAGII
The DREAD FLY
is spreading deadly
disease germs.
SANI-tID can be
fitted to any lavatory
seat and banishes
flies, odours and germs
for ever. Supplied
with 0 months’ supply
of chemicals for only
47/6. Model C (as
i 1 lustrated), complete
with 6 months’ suppl.l
of chemicals. 90/—.
Write for particulars.
Quirk’s Victory
Light Co.,
IN UN SEWERED
AREAS.
mm
229 Castlereagli St., Sydney; 48 King: St., Perth
mmm
PORTABLE UNITS
By
Briggs & Stratton.
A small, compact
Petrol Electric
Generator, with
everything a car
engine has.
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
Running cost 1/- per
week.
Details gladly posted.
AMPLION Ptu.Ltd.
ANYWHERE
anytime
• For Home Lighting.
• Battery Charging.
• Will operate twelve
25-watt lamps.
• Runs 12 hours on
lgal. of petrol.
5582 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
If
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new 'Roussel
I ppiia nee. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE TtOUSSEIi APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 81 Pitt Street, Sydney.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
ior one year so that I do not miss a single issue,
i enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME .....
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
4/9/’4O (See Page 34)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss • •
Cut this out and send with your "Wants” to the Service Department, "The Bulletin ”
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


mmmmm
■
ii?
*
;W;
iitfttpl*'':
54
MS&
s
\'<y *
ns
if.
H
MM
■ ..»■
■
""J*-
v;
W
■ *o*
WAsa
. ■ , ....... .
'*»*&■
CL>
■
.
Lid
££ <0
3fe
A- *:V*\
3/ A* a
\o* Jhs
Vt^fci £
**tl
°*3
9 <?SM~j) istl !y J
n f : M
■■*??£'# mmM «sr. Sh
T a •. r £?/
*/e
-
V-~V*.v: ■■zir-VL
t_;
%
: v-
I "H, mSL
un . «HH
#' HHHHB
■4 i <fo«,^tljripfoenm-
'W^r/Jr***& *»»
■ f nemnt
Lflr
4
ppetite responds gratefully to the stimulating
impulse of a Gilbey s before meals . .Whether
in cocktail form or simply straight’ with a
.dash of diluted to taste, the delicate
mniiulll/(UiilliL r T P T P f T
aromatic flavour or this Jamous gin sharpens the
palate for a keener appreciation of the good
things to come ... At any time or in any form,
Gilbey s is a safe, wholesome and enjoyable drink.
After dinner a Gi l hey s Liqueur is the natural choice o f the
Connoisseur. Scientifically distilled from the choicest fruits and
other ingredients, there is no finer aid to digestion. Creme de Menthe,
Cherry Brandy, Creme de Cacao, Curacao, Advocaat.
