

‘rvrt ' Ij'sHm'
„v>i U ' y
mm
■
mil
xm:’
“j M l
mx-f, r r:
■'
r - i
■: • ’■■
P® 5
afss®?
s
"• -••
f
#
7
m
%
i
ir
SiQCKmv
n
$
ifc
-t *
sa
- jK- •
*■'
v V
** '.
\fl '
,-:::
\1 '
1*
$
1*
H »
frO RN .. SHORN.. WOVEN AMD
(MITII
WORN IN AUS T RA L ! A
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 61.—N0. 3168.
Wednesday, October 30, 1940.
in Bombed Britain (Uncabled Additions)
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


I
ISiii
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
b 100 Russell Street , Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how * JJg",
advertised m the Sydney
My Name
My Address
S'. 13. 340
The Red Page
PUBLISHED BY THE NATION.
The Commonwealth Literary Fund was
established to assist Australian writers
and to make possible the publication of
works of* literary value that wouldn’t
appeal to a commercial publisher. The
Fund receives little publicity, and it’s
possible that Australian writers, only
vaguely aware of its existence, rarely
make application for its aid. Nevertheless,
while there are Australian writers who
live, work and struggle for recognition in
their own country, and who would rejoice
at the miracle of Government assistance,
it is indefensible for the Fund to have
published the verses of Professor Ernest
G. Moll, who left Australia at the age of
16 and who is Professor of Poetry at
Oregon University.
If Jack Lindsay, long established in
England, had a book of verses up his
sleeve, would the Fund publish it? Would
the trustees publish W. J. Turner because
he happened to be born in Melbourne? If
they would they shouldn’t; for surely the
grant, made in effect by Australians as a
nation, isn’t intended to assist expatriates
—and successful ones at that —how-
ever much their work may be valued.
Would they have published Professor
Moll’s verses if he had been plain Mr.
Moll?
The trustees, no doubt, were influenced
by the facts that Professor Moll wrote
the short poems of Cut from Mulga (the
book has been handsomely turned out by
Melbourne University Press “by arrange-
ment with the Commonwealth Literary
Fund”) while on a year’s visit to Aus-
tralia, and that the poems deal with
Australian themes. But that doesn’t alter
the fact that Professor Moll is not, as
the term should be interpreted when the
Commonwealth’s money is being spent,
an Australian writer.
Perhaps, because Professor Moll’s
verses, with their attractive qualities of
irony and understatement, are something
new in Australia, the trustees felt that the
work had an important contribution to
make to the development of poetry in this
country. If that were so, though the
departure from the spirit of the Fund
would remain inexcusable, the pleasure
of seeing an outstanding book finding
print by whatever means might allay
criticism to some extent.
But Professor. Moll’s verses are far
from “new” when seen, as they should
be, against the background of American
poetry. To Robert Frost, that other
American professor-poet, Professor Moll
owes a great and obvious debt. His
whole approach is a variation on Frost’s
affectation of simplicity, his cultivated
rusticity, his pawky New England humor.
It was Frost who taught Americans to
write conversational verses, to use the
speech rhythms which Professor Moll
handles so skilfully.
Here is a typical passage from a Frost
narrative poem:
“Damn ye!” I says,
“That gets ye!” He squeaked like a squeezed
That was the last I saw or heard of him.
I cleaned the rack and drove out to cool off.
As I sat mopping hayseed from my neck,
And sort of waiting to be asked aboiit it,
One of the boys sings out “Where’s the old
man?”
“I left him in the barn under the hay. M
If ye want him, ye can go and dig him out.
And here is Professor Moll’s variation,
applied to an Australian swaggie:
“You’re heading Wagga way?” I said,
Handing the tea. He thought awhile.
Then tipped his hat and scratched his head
And met my question with a smile
Guileless, I would have thought, and bland
Had irony not thrown a jet there:
“Mister, I’m heading nowhere and
It doesn’t matter when I get there!”
Apart from the all-important similarity
of that ironic, rustic-humorist approach,
and that cleverly lackadaisical versifica-
tion, it is worth noting that the swaggie
would never have “scratched his head” if
Frost hadn’t “mopped the hayseed,” for
Professor Moll uses that typical trick
of Frost’s style again and again:
But when the Ghost and I had made
The round of lambing ewes and laid
The poison for the foxes out,
I'd slowly pull his head about
And take my pipe and gently knock it
Against my toe, and feel each pocket
To see that knife and tar and stuff
Were rightly stowed and safe enough.
Close parallels with Frost’s approach—
sometimes astonishingly close—can be
found throughout Cut from Mulga. Pro-
fessor Moll waves a pleasant bough, but
it is remorselessly Frost-bitten:
Professor Frost:
Tree at my window, window tree,
My sash is lowered when night comes on;
But let there never be curtain drawn
Between you and me.
That day she put our heads together,
Fate had her imagination about her,
Your head so much concerned with outer,
Mine with inner, weather.
Professor Moll:
Knob and hump upon this tree
And the humpy things in me
Have a greeting for each other
And a word 1 think is “brother.”
I the man and this wried wood,
Hump to hump as old friends should,
Squat and talk and watch them run
Stretched up thin to catch the sun.
Professor Frost:
Two roads diverged in a yellow wood,
And sorry I could not travel both
And be one traveller, long I stood
And looked down one as far as I could
To where it berit in the undergrowth;
Then took the other, as just as fair,
And having perhaps the better claim,
Because it was grassy and wanted wear.
Professor Moll:
The bus stopped and the funeral car; and I
Sat still and wondered which would grab the
road;
The car by right of ancient courtesy, .
The bus for the requirements of its load.
Professor Frost at a deathbed:
No one believed. They listened at his heart.
Little —less—nothing. And that ended it.
No more to build on there. And they, since
they
Were not the one dead, turned to their affairs.
Professor Moll on a sparrow trapped
by bottle-swallows:
Another tomb among the many
Blind awful mouths already there!
But thinking pleasant thoughts, if any,
I went about my own affair.
Professor Frost on the sinister game
of wall-mending:
We keep the wall between us as we go
Oh, just another kind of outdoor game,
One on a side. It comes to little more....
Before I built a wall I’d ask to know
What I was walling in or walling out,
And to whom I was like to give offence.
Something there is that doesn’t love a wall,
That wants it down.
Professor Moll on the sinister game of
fighting death for a sheep-dog’s life:
I found her in the morning white with frost,
Dead. And I took it as a reprimand
To my boy’s heart, that she had won, I lost,
An ancient game, well-planned.
And with a sense of dark conspiracy
In things beyond my sight, I burned her straw,
And buried her beneath a handy tree,
And shut the useless door.
Bird observed by Professor Frost:
A small bird flew before me. He was careful
To put a tree between us when he lighted
And say no word to tell me who he was,
Who was so foolish as to think what he
thought.
Crow observed by Professor Moll:
I knew a bird was smarter than
Fox or fish or maid or man....
But at last I caught him flat
(And a happy man was I)
With a dainty bit of fat
On a sheepskin hung to dry;
He pecked and swallowed and cawed and flew
But the laugh was mine, and I think he knew.
No poet who ever lived was free from
the influence of his predecessors, and
Professor Moll’s variation upon Frost is,
in itself,' entertaining reading and a con-
siderable accomplishment in a deliber-
ately minor poetry. But it is not, when
Frost is available, of any value to the
development of Australian poetry. If
anything its influence, as purely Ameri-
can, foreign to the Australian culture,
could be harmful. The Commonwealth
Fund is an Australian fund, and prac-
tising Australian poets have every right
to resent the trustees’ misguided attempt
to honor the Professor at the conclusion
of his busman’s holiday.
Idriess and Davison.
One benefit Australia may strike
among the ‘innumerable evils of the war
is an invigorating of its literature to
correspond with the reawakening of
nationalism and an increase of publish-
ing in Australia to compensate for the
growing scarcity of books from England.
Frank Dalby Davison’s The Woman at
the Mill and lon Idriess’s Lightning Ridge
(both from Angus and Robertson) woulc
doubtless, as the work of established
authors, have been published in any
case, but it’s just possible 'that they’re
the first ripples of a wave of Australian
effort.
Both The Woman at the Mill and
Lightning Ridge are strongly Australian
in tone, Davison’s collection of short
stories (some of which have appeared in
The Bulletin) more consciously national
than Idriess’s recollections of the bush.
Some of Davison’s stories are too con-
scientiously documentary; landscapes
exactly plotted, farming operations
minutely described, characters carefully
chosen as Australian “types”—these give
the stories the ring of authenticity, as the
author meant them to, but the details
are inclined to soften rather than to
harden the impact of the stories as
fiction.
The first story in the book, for in-
stance, “Here Comes the Bride,” is a
true-to-life story of the courage of Pa
Pettingell, who conceals his financial
worries so that his third daughter can
have as posh a wedding as the others
had. In spite of some amusing obser-
vation of the separate worlds of men and
womenfolk, this story remains an illus-
tration of its idea—the simple courage of
man in everyday affairs —rather than a
telling study of the individual. “Meet
Darkie Hoskins,” a drama of drought,
dams, and courage rewarded by a fluke
of fortune, is “Meet the Australian
Climate.” “Fields of Cotton,” another
purely documentary story, ends with a
glimpse of a bloke with a sardonic grin
whose career would probably make a far
livelier story than the one Davison has
written.
When he turns from geography to
human beings Davison can write a yarn
with both bite and humor. “Blood Will
Tell,” a comedy of local scandal, is as
funny as farce, yet lifted on to a higher
plane of storytelling by neat touches of
I tire and sympathy. The title story,
'he Woman at the Mill,” analyses a
uation of illicit love into all the
;ments of beauty, sordidness and
thos that compose it. “Fathers and
ms,” telling of a soldier’s betrayal by
selfish, pleasure-seeking father, is one
the best of the bunch.
Two stories, in which Davison is in
e mood of Man-Shy, stand out from
e book. When he is writing of animals
s writes easily, movingly, convincingly,
id the animals seem to exercise a bene-
:ent effect on his handling of human
lings in relation to them. “Nobody’s
elpie,” which is an excellent portrait
' the sort of hound that makes friends
ith all and sundry to the humiliation of
3 owner, is also an excellent portrait
; the self-despising owner ; “Return of
le Hunter,” which describes a man
alking a black dingo and recapturing
le excitement he used to feel as a sniper
i the war, is the book’s best piece of land-
;ape, for here the scene is keyed to the
etion, tense and alive with beauty and
:rror.
Idriess is the sort of author that makes
ctionists tear their hair and take to the
ush, for the number of real-life short
tories he has at command is as incredible
s his. wealth of knowledge about the
ush. He goes back into his boyhood
or the opening of Lightning Ridge,
ells how as a token of kisses the boys
nd girls at school exchanged murdered
lies, and how his gang, of youngsters
nade a fortune by painting sparrows
mellow and selling them as canaries.
Then he goes to the bush, sees a horse
norting away a cloud of finches so that
t can drink from the hole it has scraped
n the dry creek-bed ; he eats cakes made
xom birds’ eggs ; he runs away from his
)OSS.
On the way to Lightning Ridge, where
lie opals lurk, he peers in on a lunatic
boundary rider, meets the most wonder-
ful bird-imitator, and poisons rabbits,
rhen there is opal-mining, stories of
fabulous finds, of the “ratters” looting
the claims at dead of night, of a bloke
who slept on a porcupine, of a gin who
presented her washing bill with a gun.
When opal-mining fails, Idriess goes
droving, and meets the wrong end of a
stockwhip, and a sundowner delivering a
fiery political address to the interested
audience of his swag. After observing
the ways of goannas, snakes, toads and a
ghost or two, he returns to Lightning
Ridge and tells, among a score of things
worth telling, the macabre story of
“Kaiser,” who was paralysed but who
swore he would walk again,- and who,
after escaping from hospital and crawling
about the camps, cured his paralysis with
mosquito-bites and did walk again.
There are two or three flaws in
Lightning Ridge. The introductory
chapter is too self-consciously jocular,
there are several grammatical mistakes
that speak of inefficient sub-editing, a
yarn about an Austrian ex-nobleman is
told in the flowery jargon of cheap novel-
ettes. As a whole, though, it’s Idriess at
his best—and his best is very good.
"Herald" Reminiscences .
Although he tells stories of a dis-
gruntled contributor who lumps
of blue-metal through Sydney “Morn-
ing Herald’s” windows because they
wouldn’t print his articles on Wagner,
of another who just came and sat m
his office and wouldn’t budge, and or
yet another who gave a false report of
his death and read his flattering obituary
notice with malicious delight, Mr. l.
Brunsdon Fletcher, during his long asso-
liation with the “Herald,” didn’t contract
he editorial habit of regretting. Survey-
ng his 35 years with the Old Lady 20
n the editorial chair —he writes, ' There
vas no backseat driving ; I was never
expected to do or write what was against
ny convictions.”
His reminiscences, The Great Wheel
Angus and Robertson), told in an easy,
mecdotal style, are extremely wide in
range. He •is interested in everything
mder the sun: cherries, buses, local
government, fire and flood, politicians,
battleships, Thomas Hardy’s poetry, the
iniquity of the libel laws, the cost ot
overseas news in Australia, the 1914 war.
Hitler, Sydney’s sewerage schemes and
roosters that lay eggs. He is an authority
on Pacific strategy, and prints a map
with a circle round Brisbane, Sydney,
Melbourne, Tasmania and Maoriland to
show that ‘‘the greater part of our Aus-
tralasian population is clotted round a
circle almost wholly occupied by —fish.
The Great Wheel is no juggernaut.
One wouldn’t expect Mr. Brunsdon
Fletcher to heave any bricks through
Hunter-street windows, but his opinion
of the new strip-tease journalism else-
where in Sydney would have been worth
having. As an intelligent man he may
not be interested ; but then he is seri-
ously interested in the welfare of the
community and the future of Australia.
“Pertinent: Digest and Review,”
from Pertinent Publishing Co., 75 Pitt-
street, Sydney, edited by Leon Batt.
Political, literary and general-interest
items, with special attention to matters
affecting the A.J.A., Fellowship of Writers
and Sydney Black-and-White Artists’
Club. There’s room for it, but the second
number has two curious anomalies. (1)
too much reprint; (2) articles by those
rising young journalists Norman Bede
!jge and Tubby Stevens. Surely a jour-
ists’ publication ought to be fighting
use of reprint and of articles by out-
:rs.
"he Structure of the Musical Scale:
in L. Dunk (Bodley Head). An
mination by the standards of physics
oecially with reference to Fourier’s
eorem of periodical variations) of the
iis of the musical scale. As any
sician versed in theory knows, the
ipered 12-note scale does not produce
■feet harmonies. One conclusion of
\ Dunk’s is the reassuring one that
; errors, spread over the compass of
r en octaves (the ear hasn’t a much
ier range than that), don t amount in
> aggregate to more than one seventy-
lrth of a keyboard note, and that the
angement sponsored by J. S. Bach, and
ce universally adopted, follows very
>sely the logarithmic relationship.
The Australian Novel: A Critical Sur-
y: J. O. Anchen, M.A., Dip. Ed.,
nior Inspector of Schools, Victoria
fliitcombe and Tombs, Ltd.). The ques-
>n is, was or wasn’t Tennant Kylie s
yveauron about small-town life in the
lms of Sydney? For the inspector
isses Tiburon as an excellent example
a novel about city life, and includes
tveaux in a list of successful fust novels.
:nton, who receives a fine wigging, and
e author of Redheap, who isn t men-
med at all,, don’t figure in the list ot
ifty recommended novels. And so on.
tie style smacks amiably of chalk:
There is good ground for concluding
that some of our younger authors are not
giving to their later work the care and
attention which marked their first novels.
We have abundant evidence ot their ability
to recapture that first fine rapture, but
they should guard against the allurement
of a facility which tends to overmaster care
and thought. >
Encyclopaedia of First Aid . M. J.
[oean The author is lecturer and
xamtoer to the N.E.S. (N.S.W.) and
.ed Cross, St. John's and Railways
ambulance Corps instructor. The book-
:t is intended as an easy means ot
jference for trained “first-aiders and
overs the subject simply for those who
ave had no training. H.E. ( ai * d f ince ) l '
iary bombs, war gases, snakebites and
rtificial respiration all have their places.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’' —and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
BUY
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
and
bring victory
nearer
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
SALE
LASTING SERVICE at Thrifty Prices
in
mm*
m 0
M m
mm
mm a
m
& WS
""Si
mm"
Jr :
••••■'•
■
MS
,•••'■
£32/10/- 4-PIECE WALNUT
BEDROOM SUITE, AT
£27/15/-
This 4-piece Walnut Bedroom Suite is made
in our own factory and is wax-finished a
Dark Brown Walnut colour. Suite includes
a 4ft. 9in. Wardrobe which is fitted with three
silky oak dustproof drawers, two shelves,
with balance full hanging space. 3ft. 6in.
Dressing Table with large rimless mirror,
centre drawer, three silky oak drawers be-
hind each pedestal door. Fitted Lowboy
and 4ft. Sin. Bedstead complete the suite.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, £32/10/-.
Sale Price £27/15/-.
EASY TERMS:
Deposit 55/6. 18 monthly payments of 29/10.
£29/15/- 3-PIECE
LOUNGE SUITE
£l9'lo'-
Made in our own factory, this fully
upholstered Suite includes a large
Settee and two large Easy Chairs with
loose spring filled cushions, sprung
backs and sprung platforms. Covered
in specially selected Damask Tapestry
material. Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price, £29/15/-. Sale Price £l9/10/-
EASY TERMS: Deposit 39/-. 12 monthly
payments of 30/9.
/m
M
m
wm.
€
m
&
i
\)
The “Channel ”
TALLBOY
• 5' 10" high. 22" deep. 4* wide.
© Made vfrom Selected Oak.
• Available on Easy Terms.
£
e
The simple lines of the ''Channel'' Tallboy make it perfect for
any type of bedroom. It is made in our own factory and we
guarantee first class workmanship throughout. Its generous
measurements enable it to hold an entire wardrobe with ease.
There is extra length for hanging coats and suits, two shelves
for hats, handy drawers for collars and handkerchiefs, and
deep trays for socks, underwear, shirts and pyjamas. The
design is equally suitable for women. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price, £7/17/6. Sale Price £5/5/-
EASY TERMS: Deposit 10/6. 6 monthly payments of 16/2.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LIMITED, SYDNEY
'Phone M 2401, Day or Night.
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.


END MAN
“After this War, I'm tellin youse, things are going to be different!"
By
A. C. HEADLEY.
THE road blocks across from the trams were
slippery with mud and rain. In Bedford-street
the cobbled way was smooth and shiny. Cab-
horses in the light from Kay’s Vaudeville
steamed and stamped sharply on the surface of the
cobbles. The doorway of Kay’s was yellow with
feeble light. On the wall posters programmed the
evening’s entertainment. In the doQrway people were
grouping and vanishing, glad to get inside and shut off
the chilliness of air.
Bob Tully came out of Enmore-road, nodded to a
cabby and vanished around the back of Kay’s. He
was late, not too late ; but that was not so important
as the fact that his toes, cramped in patent leather,
were beginning to ache. He was glad when at last he
came to the stage door. In the dressing-room men
were talking and making ready for the performance
Beyond the curtail# the piano jangled out of solitude.
He sat on the edge Of the polished form and tugged
so that buttons dragged themselves free from holes.
He breathed with the tremendous relief of it.
Johnny Dionne, smearing grease-paint into his
face, grinned. “This ain’t the time to be takin’ your
ease. In a couple of minutes the customers’ll be
clamorin’ for y’. Listen.” He jerked his thumb in the
direction from which came the sound of the piano.
“Phoebe’s up to the nine-minutes-from-now.”
With his boot dragging, Tully stood up, took off
his coat and in his evening dress suit came back to
the polished form and removed his collar and tie.
The black was on his fingers and face almost before
he realised he had been doing it. It was an automatic
process: the first streak on his forehead, then his chin
and the two sides of his face. While he smoothed the
color his mouth grew into a grotesque oval. It was
done at last and he washed his hands in the cracked
basin by the side of the mirror. Outside the piano
began on another piece.
“Five minutes to starting,” said Johnny Dionne.
The wig was hanging on a hook, and Tully
dropped it on his head and smoothed it into position.
He took the collar with its three inches of neck and
fastened it in position. He had wanted to see Kitty
before they went on stage, but now it was too late.
Somebody was yelling “Everybody on stage!” and
they tramped out. The girls were already in position.
He saw Kitty and nodded. “I wanter see y’ after,”
he said.
She was dressed in a fluffed-out frock that reached
to her knees. The weight of powder and paint made
her skin old and heavy.
The curtain was rising, and they were smiling and
singing into the glare of the footlights, and out in front
was the miserable audience. Monday was always
a bad night and now the rain made it worse. The
violin in the pit sounded small and miserable. Tully
studied the few people of the audience and joined
his feelings of smallness and misery. He hadn’t done
up his boot, but his foot was cramped into the small
space and had to remain there until interval. The
number by the “entire company” was over at last
and the chairman taking the floor with his talk. It
was a joke and it dropped like water on a sponge
and vanished. Johnny Dionne was to sing.
In the threepenny seats there was a smattering of
applause. There was always applause for Johnny.
With the powder on his face he looked young and
handsome. Now he sang a sentimental ballad about
his dear old mother. It wasn’t a good voice, but
the applause grew when he had finished. Tully
watched Kitty smile across at him and he frowned.
Johnny bowed and came back to resume his seat in
the semicircle. It was time for Tully’s patter.
“Excuse me, Mist’ Chairman.” He could say his way
through it without thinking, pantomiming around the
words. After that a woman to sing, and then Kitty
with her step-dancing. He watched her flush with
the exertion of it. There was an encore and she
brought clogs from the wings and did the same thing
again. He was glad when it was time for the company
to give the song before interval.
He saw Kitty for a few minutes then, but he
had no chance to tell her what he wanted. There
were people talking and somebody wanted her. He
went into the men’s dressing-room and took off his
boot. The air was filled with cigarette-smoke. Beyond
the stage a thin voice was making a dirge of “peanuts
and lollies,” and there was the sound of heavy rain
on the roof. A railway engine passing the bridge let
out a choked and wet whistle. Tully felt miserable.
He took a cigarette and puffed absently, thinking of
Kitty.
He wanted to tell her about getting that job.
There were such a lot of things—getting married,
for instance. Now with the solid comfort of a job
there was nothing he could not do. After the interval
he came out and took his seat at the end of the semi-
circle. End man. Night after night, week after week,
moving your mouth and trying to spirit the people
out front to amusement. He was glad of the new
job and the sense of security that it offered. The
company sang its opening number and went through
the formula that was the same as the first half. He
was glad when it was all over. The stage felt damp
and uncomfortable, and he could feel the movement
of cold air around him.
TAKING the black off his face, cold in his flannel,
he wanted to hurry, to be ready when Kitty was
ready. He put on his coat and twisted a buttonhook
expertly in his boots.
. “Could I see y’ home, Kitty?” He was standing
looking awkwardly at her.
“I’m sorry,” she said; “Johnny’s taking me
home.”
With the make-up off her face she was young and
pretty. Tully had known her now for a year, but now
it was knowing her afresh with the security of a
new-found job at his back. It meant a lot of things
and that was what he wanted to tell her. “I’ll call
for you tomorrow night,” he said.
Johnny Dionne was waiting for her, looking smart
and sharp and handsome. His coat was open and
light was flicking on round, many-colored waistcoat
buttons. Then he was gone and Kitty, and the news
had to stay bouncing inside of Tully till next day.
Half the lights were off in the show, and from the
dressing-rooms the sound of voices was hollowed.
Tully wrapped his coat round him and pushed
through the door into the lane.
Outside it was dismal with rain. He moved
quickly out around the bridge and into Enmore-road.
Yellow gas lamps were spots without light. Rain was
snatching at the legs of his trousers. He felt damp
and uncomfortable and conscious of the pressure of
pain in his toes. The boarding-house was in darkness.
He let himself in and toiled up the stairs to his
room.
It was a small room that fitted into the angle of
the roof. When it rained a damp stain spread over
the side that was half ceiling, half wall. In the corner
was an ancient iron bed, and a chest of drawers stood
wedged in against a corner. Tully sat on the side of
the bed and thought about next day. In front of him
Kitty’s photo, smiled. That was the important thing
that and the thought inside him of what it could
mean, the chance to save money and think about a
future. With the picture-shows springing up every-
where there wasn’t much in vaudeville. Maybe, like
Johnny Dionne said, they wouldn’t last, and it was the
novelty of the thing ; but you couldn’t tell. But the
crowds in Kay’s were getting smaller, and you felt
better with the security of a job at your back.
He wasn’t like Johnny Dionne, always thinking of
the time when he’d get out of the small shows and
really let people see what he could do. Maybe
Johnny was right. But Johnny was different. He
didn’t have to smear his face over with black and
leave the great oval of mouth. He didn’t have to
look grotesquely comical and make weak jokes.
Johnny was smart and good-looking. Hearing him talk
you knew that he was certain of himself, and even
when you were used to it there were songs he sang
that made you go lumpy in the throat. But being
a comic was nothing. He was popular, and it made
him feel good to hear people in the street say “That’s
Bob Tully, of Kay’s,” and there was a few shillings
each week. But it was growing smaller. The picture-
shows were taking the people. Bodder, the stage
manager, was talking about new acts. Not, however,
that it was likely to affect him. You always had end
men, and an end man is the same all over, even down
to the same well-worn jokes. But now there was a
job, a string to his bow that was a certainty. He
wanted to see Kitty and tell her what it meant.
WHEN he met Kitty the next evening there was no
way he could find to begin. Small talk drifted
from the edge of his mind and that was all.
“Kitty,” he said at last, “I’ve got a job. I’ve
started working for Jim Ryan ... in the shop.”
She stood there looking at him out of the dark-
ness. “But the show —what about that?”
“It’s extra money; I’ll be keepin’ it on. He
stood there trying to say what be wanted to say. “It’ll
give me a chance to save.”
At the end of the street men were grouped in a
body. There was noise and swearing.
“It’s the Enmore push,” said Kitty. “We’ll go
out through King-street.”
Tully wasn’t thinking of the push. He was con-
cerned with the things he wanted to say. “Listen,
Kitty,” he said, “when I’ve got a bit of money saved
would —well, would you marry me?”
They were walking, and she stopped suddenly to
stare at him. He was conscious of her nearness and
the smell of perfume. “If this job keeps up,” he said,
“I’ll have money enough.”
She started to walk again and he joined his steps
with hers. “Bob,” she said suddenly, “I’m married.
I’m married to Johnny. We’ve been married for
months.”
The job was gone abruptly, the saving and hope
of the future.
“We’ve kept it dark,” she said, “because letting it
out might mean the end of my job. You won’t say
nothin’, Bob?”
He shook his head. “I won’t say nothin’.”
It was hard being end man that night, sitting there
and looking across at Kitty and Johnny Dionne.
When it was over he went to see Bodder and told
him he was leaving. “I’ve got a job,” he said.
That was the end of it. When Kitty heard about
it she wanted to talk to him. “It wasn’t,” she said,
“because”
He wanted to hurt her. “It’s time,” he said, “to
get out of it. In a couple of years there won’t be any
vaudeville. There won’t be any of us left. It’s the
picture shows. They’ll knock vaudeville right out of
business.”
She was confident. “Johnny says the pictures
won’t last. People’ll get tired of moving photographs.
They’ll want to see people that can sing and dance
and act.”
“They’ll see all of that,” he said, “and it’ll be
on the pictures.”
SHE came into the shop one day to tell him that
Johnny had got a job singing in one of the city
shows. “It’s a wonderful chance,” she said ; “the
money’s twice as good. It’s the chance we’ve been
waiting for.” But the real news was that she’d have to


give it up soon. “It doesn’t matter now that Johnny’s
doing all right.”
It didn’t matter, but Tully had noticed the people
in the doorway of Kay’s each night growing fewer
and fewer.
“It won’t last,” Johnny had said ; but people were
not yet getting tired of the moving photographs. The
people in the picture-show in Enmore-road were
talking about putting boards over the dirt flooring.
That was money that would normally be going to the
stage. Tully tried to tell her about it, but it was like
telling her of the time when she wouldn’t see a horse
in the street. Looking at the line of cab-horses down
by the side of Kay’s you couldn’t believe it.
Vaudeville wasn’t dying: it was picking up, and
Johnny had a job singing in one of the places in town.
When the baby was born Johnny was doing well.
Vaudeville was beginning to settle down to the fact
that after all the picture-shows were here to stay, but
that there were still people with a taste for the old
days.
“Remember,” Kitty said, “what you said about
vaudeville not lasting? It lasted all right. Look at
Johnny.”
“Yes,” he said, “it lasted all right, but the pictures
are going to get better.”
And then there were times when he knew Johnny
was standing off for a while. He was on a circuit,
and when the circuit is small people see the same
faces too often. The good money he was earning was
sinking itself in those spells.
The kid Frankie was growing up, learning to be
smart and old. Kitty was teaching him to dance,
and he was having his voice trained.
“He’s goin’ to get a start,” said Kitty.
At Christmas-times in the pantomimes she
managed to work it so that he got a job. Tully went
to see him —a new and younger Johnny Dionne, smart
and as sure of the future as his father.
And then the talkies were coming. They were
news for the papers. The talkies, where people
talked and acted as though they were living.
“It’s going to affect vaudeville,” he told Kitty,
“if it’s any good.”
“There’ll always be vaudeville.” She was con-
fident.
“There’ll be vaudeville,” he agreed ; “but it’s got
to be better. It’s got to be the people that people
want to see —and they won’t want to be seeing the
singers they saw last week and the week before. It’s
got to be new.”
“Remember you said once before that vaudeville
was finished,” she reminded him. “Johnny was right
about that.”
He thought abruptly about Johnny dyeing each
grey hair as it appeared.
When the first talking picture came out he went
to see it. There was a black-faced star, and it was
like seeing the finish of the end men, seeing the finish
of the half-circle of chairs on a cold and draughty
stage. It made him thankful for the security of work-
ing for Jim Ryan. When he thought of Johnny Dionne
he was sorry.
A year after that first talkie Johnny Dionne was
still saying that vaudeville was coming back. “They’ll
get sick of the talkies —they’ll want to see real people
again.”
But surprisingly they didn’t seem at all anxious
to see real people again. There were half-talkies and
full talkies, and most of the suburban shows were
being wired for sound. Vaudeville and stage-shows
were beginning to close up.
IT’S ten years now since Johnny lost his job, and
1 vaudeville is coming back. But it’s a different kind
of vaudeville. It’s young and smart, and there isn’t
any room in it for Johnny or Kitty. They’ve always
wanted it to come back—not for themselves now,
but for Frankie. But there isn’t any place in it for
him either. The trouble is that they wanted it to
return as it had been in the old days. They wanted
the things they’d known —the half-circle of chairs and
the company. They can still see the end man screwing
his mouth into a wornout joke. But there aren’t any
end men any more, and there aren’t going to be any.
Johnny says those days are coming back. He and
Kitty are waiting, and they’ll be waiting when they
die. Kitty runs a school of theatrical dancing. She
charges sixpence a week, and the money is hardly
enough to pay for the rent of the room where she
teaches. Occasionally Johnny gets a job at a smoke-
oh. His voice is gone and he gives dramatic recitations
in a dress-suit that is old and out of date. “It’s to
keep things going,” Kitty says, “till Frankie gets a
chance.”
And there is an end man. The last of the end men
—Frankie Dionne. He knows the few steps his mother
knew, and the songs of his father, and maybe a few
°f the jokes that disheartened Bob Tully. All his life
he has been hearing about vaudeville coming back.
Like his father and mother, he thinks of the half-circle
of people on a draughty stage. So he blacks his face
and does a turn at smoke-ohs and listens to his father
talking about the good old days.
“It’ll come back,” says Johnny, “because people
want it.” But years and youth never come back, and
brankie blacks his face and waits.
“Vaudeville is coming back,” says Johnny. But
none of them knows that vaudeville is back.
A HOODOO SHIP
By WILL LAWSON.
IN the “graveyard watch” of June 23, in the winter
of 1893, the iron ship Wellington, bound from
Picton (M.L.) to London with frozen meat, was
tearing along well south of Cape Horn. A westerly
gale which raged for days had stiffened into a hurri-
cane, tearing the tops off the mighty hills of sea till
a fog was made, through which they steered her blind,
with only occasional breaks of visibility.
Undei lower tops’ls, the ship sped before the
hurricane, yawing and rolling till her spars touched
foam, plurging with deep-sunk bows, and the lookout
knee-deep in water, then tossing her bows high, like a
stag seeking to save his throat from the hounds.
Decks were aflood, men half-frozen and half-fed,
for the galley was gone, taken overboard by a green
sea. The forecastle was sopping with water which
had found its way below. Yet the watch below slept
there, heedless of the noise and motion, one man
right in the bows, with his head only inches from the
turmoil just through the plate of iron.
The captain was sick, and the mate also was in
bed, suffering from a broken leg and cuts and bruises,
sustained when the ship was pooped by a following
sea a week before. Save that it was “somewhere
south of Cape Stiff,” nobody knew where the ship was.
No sights had been possible for days. To augment the
depleted after-guard, the boatswain had been given
the “graveyard watch”—from midnight to four.
One of his men, a dark, brawny A. 8., crouched
in the shelter of the forecastle-head and muttered to
his mates. “She’s got a hoodoo on her, I tell yer.
We’ll never get to port. Look at it. We sailed on
Friday, broke the towline in Cook’s Strait on a lee
shore—just scraped clear —then had an earthquake,
and when all’s well again she gets pooped, breaks the
mate’s leg, smashes her wheel. Hoodoo ship, that’s
what she is. An’ I’ll bet there’s ice about. Well
south, we are, I tell yer. Never make port again,
we won’t.”
“Hope yer wrong, Charlie,” another said. “Listen,
there’s the bose pipin’ someone aft. Your turn.”
Grumbling, the big, dark man worked his way
aft along the lifelines to find the bos’n a worried
man. The wheel was almost unmanageable in the
tugging grips of the great seas. The two helmsmen
were exhausted. Charlie took the place of one of
them, and the remaining man let the newcomer have
most of the weight. He was big and strong and fresh.
Another man would be sent aft by the one relieved.
At times the moon struggled through the driv-
ing wrack of cloud and spray, giving occasional
patches of clear visibility, which the wind seemed
intent on destroying with its avalanches of fresh cloud
and spray. In one of these breaks the lookout yelled:
“Ice ahead!”
“I knew it,” Charlie muttered, shifting his helm
to starboard at the order of the boatswain. This
brought the ship’s head to the northward, and left her
at an angle to the shouting, pursuing seas. She
yawed and fought with her helm more fiercely, while
the boatswain studied something faint and far on the
starboard bow, something pale in the blackness, visible
only because it was not dead black, like the storm.
“Cloud, it is!” he announced at last. “Put her
on her course.”
She rode easier with the seas dead astern again.
The moonlight paled and a fierce snow blizzard howled
up out of the blackness.
Charlie cursed the moon. “Yes, hide yer face.
Don’t look at us. We’re goin’ ter git pure hell.” As
he spoke, a wordless yell came from the lookout, there
was a terrific crash aloft, followed by another, then
the ship jumped and stopped with a jar in a stunning
collision. A clatter of falling gear filled the startled
space after the crash —blocks, ironwork, spars and a
clutter of canvas.
The Wellington had rammed an iceberg, and but
for the fact that her masts and jibboom took some
of the shock she would have sunk. The two masts
drifted alongside, held to the ship by the rigging,
while on deck utter confusion reigned. Men had been
struck by falling gear, some had been hurt, but' only
Charlie was killed, caught by a flying block.
Darkness, wind like a solid wall, stinging spray
and uproar of roaring seas framed the scene, lit only
by two hurricane-lamps. A mass of ice weighing
hundreds of tons had fallen on the forecastle-head, yet
had missed the lookout. Jibboom and bowsprit stood
upright from the broken bows, but luckily all the
severe damage was above the waterline. The steam
pumps, worked from the freezer boiler, could cope
with the leaks which had been sprung. Then a sea-
man brought the news, running excitedly to the cap-
tain. “There’s a man in the forecastle, sir,” he said,
“wrapped in a curled-up iron plate. I couldn’t get
in to find him and climbed over the bow.” With
torches of oakum soaked in oil, they found him ; he
was the man who had slept so soundly right in the
bows. There was no chance of releasing him from
his iron tomb ; all they could do was feed him till he
died.
Jury masts were set up and sails bent on the spars
fitted to them. The storm was abating somewhat,
though it still was bad. The jury rigging gave steerage-
way.
Next day a steamer was sighted, rolling in the
seas, her smoke blown away like thistledown. She
had sighted the floating wreck and was coming to
their aid. She was the Emperor, bound from Chile
to Liverpool, and her captain said he would stand
by till the weather moderated. As soon as it was
possible to launch a boat, a line was taken to her by
a crew from the Wellington.
So they were towed to the River Plate, to be
greeted by ringing cheers from the crews of ships
anchored in that port waiting for the end of a revolu-
tion which then was raging. Soon after she anchored,
the Wellington was under fire from batteries trying to
shoot over the river at the rebels. A man fell over-
board one night and was drowned. The hoodoo still
held.
The cargo of frozen meat was intact; the freezer
had never stopped through all the perils of the voyage
and the low temperatures outside had helped, too. The
captain was instructed from London to sell his meat.
Inadvertently, through agents, he sold some to the
rebels. That was a capital offence, and Captain Cowan
had to be got on board the Maoriland steamer
Aorangi just before she sailed. An hour after he got
away, a Government cruiser came out to arrest him.
The hoodoo on the Wellington did not lift till she
reached London, twelve months after she sailed from
Picton on a Friday.
"Promise you Won't Wear your hat like this when you kiss other girls.”


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
Jf $fd c Mhe Ww mellmneMandXtmj/Uei
ETON COLLEGE (from an old engraving).
Of the great public schools of the Empire, Eton may be said to stand at the head. It represents, in certain particulars, many of the
most distinguishing characteristics associated with public schools wherever the national language is the tongue that Shakspeare spoke
and Milton sang. Situated on the other side of the Thames, “facing and overlooked by the great Castle of Windsor” and connected with
the royal borough by an iron bridge, this famous educational foundation presents a striking picture, as will be noted from the exquisite
century-old engraving by Tombleson here reproduced. There is nothing in the village of Eton to interest beside its college, founded by
Henry VI in 1440, whose piety and love of learning, so different in all respects to a later Henry Plantagenet, constitute a memorial to
“a noble King and worthy man.” The foundation provided endowments for a provost, ten priests, four lay clerks, seven scholars, ten
choristers with inferior officers, twenty.five poor grammar scholars, and a master to teach them, and twenty-five poor men, whose duty
it was to*pray for the King There were also attached to the foundation several scholarships at King’s College, Cambridge. Besides
these there are scholars not on the foundation, to the number of 700, who board in Masters’ houses in the town. It would be idle to
attempt to enumerate the celebrated men who have passed through Eton. Their names are emblazoned in the history of the British
race The architectural glory of Eton is the Chapel, a fine example of early Perpendicular, resembling in outline Kings College Chapel,
Cambridge The spires of this beautiful structure are those which “crown the watery glade,” and are conspicuous above the quaint
turrets of the surrounding buildings. Whatever changes the future may have in store as to “forms of education,” nothing can take from
Eton its glorious history.


The Bulletin
Vol. 61. —No. 3168.
Wednesday, October 30, 1940.
RETURN TO THE PRIMITIVE.
"The Nazi methods of making war are recoiling on the Germans. They, too, are becoming cave-dwellers again.”
“Forwarts, Hermann; forwarts, I say!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adam*
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings yopp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places. 4d.
A TIME FOR REALISTIC THINKING.
é
planes in a year. Still, no doubt it sent as many as
it could spare, its own preparations for a possible war
against three military Powers having lagged lament-
ably. Probably the system is fundamentally to blame
—the unwieldy Federal system which strangles
initiative, disperses effort and stands in the way of
those swift administrative decisions and fruitful poli-
tical agreements which have been so conspicuous in
the war history of Britain and Maoriland, with their
single Parliaments and Governments.
Members of the Maoriland Government and
other Maorilanders in high positions have paid
generous tributes to the rush of Australians to the
colors, and to the magnificent efforts of those manu-
facturers and workmen who are making almost every-
thing required by the army, navy and air force, except
capital ships and big guns. Australians, for their part,
have observed with admiration, touched with envy,
the measures of the Maoriland Government, which,
from the introduction of petrol-rationing to that of
conscription for overseas service and the formation of
the War Cabinet, have been far more prompt and
resolute than the proceedings of the Government at
Canberra. They may fairly conclude that the Maori-
land Government, like the British Government, draws
strength from the unitary system, its one Parliament
having supreme and unchallengeable powers ; and that
the hesitancy and tardiness of the Australian Govern-
ment are consequences of the chaos in which seven
Parliaments muddle along, and which will have to be
reformed altogether—in the first place by a complete
separation of powers and fields of taxation —as soon
as the nation has time to attend to it.
Meanwhile, Australia has its seven Governments,
its meetings of Premiers at which the war is discussed,
the fifty-fifty position in the House of Representatives
and the new advisory council. The advisory council
is virtually Mr. Curtin’s creation, and with the pride
of paternity he says it “provides a medium of the most
frank and confidential exchange of views,” which
exchange of views “should prevent obstacles to the
war effort from arising.” This is not exactly convinc-
ing, nor can Australia derive much comfort from the
promise that “Labor will support war measures pro-
vided any legislation contemplated does not violently
contravene what Labor stands for.” But, having no
alternative on which the parties can agree, and being
of the same mind about another election as they are,
Australia accepts the advisory council as a more or
less interesting experiment and hopes for the best,
without expecting too much.
One of the matters that call for a “most frank
and confidential exchange of views” is the matter of
Australian representation in the Imperial Cabinet and
on the War Council. This should have been pressed
for long ago, and the necessity for it has been in-
creased by the presence of an Australian army in
Egypt, where the forces of the Crown may at any
moment be attacked, possibly by superior numbers.
There are Australian airmen in the same region, and
Australian warships in the Mediterranean, and at least
one has been reported in the Red Sea.
With events of the last six months still painful
memories, Australia cannot consent to be a distant
and passive witness of the operations in which its sol-
diers may be employed. It is entitled to be consulted
about them and to register approval or disapproval ;
and that goes for all other operations in which its
forces may be employed. Under the position that
exists and has existed throughout the war, there is
nobody it can call to account if things go wrong ;
nobody it can hang should it feel like hanging some-
body.
The question of war aims—still undeclared,
though romantic promises have been made to unhappy
exiles from countries which have been overwhelmed by
the enemy—should also be discussed by the advisory
council. In a broadcast to the French Mr. Churchill
said last week that “our whole people and Empire
have vowed themselves to the task of cleansing Europe
from the Nazi pestilence and saving the world from
new Dark Ages.” Australia has a right to ask what
this means, and to stipulate that no declaration of war
aims shall be issued in the name of the Empire unless
and until Australia has subscribed to it, after “a frank
and confidential exchange of views.” Incidentally, in
the same speech, the Prime Minister, still addressing
the French, and looking forward to “the victory which
we will share with you,” said “We are on Hitler’s track,
and so are our friends across the Atlantic Ocean and
your friends across the Atlantic Ocean.” A day or
two later, President Roosevelt saw fit to deny “fan-
tastic misstatements that this Government has entered
into secret agreements with foreign Powers.”
I solemly declare that we have no secret under-
standing with anybody I stand upon the Democratic
platform. We shall not participate in foreign wars.
We shall not send the army, the navy or the air fores
to fight in foreign lands except in case of attack.
Whether this was meant as a rebuff for Mr.
Churchill or as a counter-bid for the anti-war vote
which Mr. vWillkie has been after for months, the
reference to and your friends” being on
Hitler’s track was singularly ill-timed and unfortunate.
The manoeuvres in which Hitler is engaged, and
which, beginning with the Japanese, spread to
Rumania and —last week —to France and Spain, point
to a peace offensive. This impression is strengthened
by the inactivity of the Japanese since the Burma
Road was reopened, by the lull in the air war on
London and by a strange article in Count Ciano’s
newspaper —the “argument” was that “Britain should
join hands with the Axis Powers to prevent domination
by the U.S.A., which will come into the war in the
spring and take control of Britain,” but, read between
the lines, the stuff is significant. No doubt plans for
an extension of the war have been sketched out if the
manoeuvres fail, but the members of the advisory
council may reasonably assume that a peace offensive
is coming and get to work on ideas of the shape
that peace should take. They should remember that
great wars have a way of ending suddenly, and should
ê
Glorifying the Gambler.
ë


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Problem of the Senate.
Statistics of the last four Senate elections held in
N. S. Wales make sorry reading. In 1931 the number
of electors enrolled was 1,433,152, the number of valid
votes was 1,233,867 and the number of informal votes
127,794. In 1934 the figures were 1,531,429, 1,273,700
and 193,612; in 1937, 1,596,342, 1,405,988 and
136.841 ; in 1940, 1,679,862, 1,392,934 and 183,015. A
total of 641,262 bad ballot-papers at four polls.
But electors in other States can’t afford to throw
stones at poor old Ma. Victoria, with 447,780 fewer
electors in 1937, had even more informal votes —
147,833 ; and it had 102,267 in 1934 and 101,107 in
1940. S.A., with between 329,389 and 362,000 electors
(not voters), recorded 39,674 informals in 1931, 48,243
in 1934 and 47,157 in 1937. Westralia (220,699 to
255,212 electors) returned 18,947 informals in 1931,
27.841 in 1934 and 30,116 in 1937. Even in little Tas-
mania, with only 100,000 or so voters, 16,161 persons
failed to mark their ballot-papers correctly in 1931,
20,183 in 1934, 16,258 in 1937 and 17,605 in 1940.
Queensland made the best showing last month.
Of 565,914 votes cast in that State, 29,883 were in-
formal. But in 1937, with 519,574 men and women
voting, there were 38,502 informal votes; in 1934
there were 28,601 ; in 1931, 40,203. Queensland, as
a rule, has fewer candidates for the Senate than the
other States: last month there were only seven —two
teams of three and an Independent. This may be held
to account for its relatively low proportion of
informals.
But no Australian can be proud of the fact that
so many hundreds of thousands of electors dis-
franchise themselves in this fashion at election after
election. And something will have to be done about
it; for, even in Australia, democracy has bitter
enemies, and it can’t afford to furnish them with food
for jeers and sneers.
Compulsory voting and compulsory exercise of
preferences have conspicuously failed to produce in-
telligent judgments or to give the country a Senate
worthy of the important part for which it was cast by
the founders of the Constitution. The Senate has
fallen completely under the domination of party, and
ticket men get in according as the wind blows favor-
ably to Ministry or Opposition. And in N. S. Wales
there is a deplorable tendency to choose Senators
whose names begin with the letter A —four in 1937
and two in 1940. All “good party men,” no doubt,
but scarcely known even to the majority of those who
put them in. The third gentleman on the N.S.W.
Labor ticket —an L, elected on an A’s preferences—
was never heard of until he accommodatingly retired
to permit Dr. Evatt to become member for Barton.
It is questionable whether those who set no value
on the franchise —women chiefly—should be com-
pelled to exercise it. Better results might be achieved
if failure to vote were met, not with a fine for the actual
omission, but with disfranchisement, the money penalty
being imposed for restoration to the rolls, if sought. But
if Parliament boggles at this it should at least make
preferential voting optional and even allow plumping,
if only as an intelligence test. Conceivably many of the
people who make a hopeless botch of their ballot-
papers when they have to put numbers opposite the
names of nine to twenty or more candidates, only three
of whom can be elected, would do the job validly,
and even intelligently, if they were required to vote
for only one candidate. And plumping might lead to
the Senate getting an infusion of eminent non-party
men, whereas eminent non-party men, coming out as
lone-hand candidates, would, as things are, fail in
every State.
After all, a great many people don’t really want
to vote for more than one Senator at a time. What
does it profit them or the country to have to write a
lot of numbers opposite the names of persons they
don’t know and don’t want to know?
A Wheat Price Offer.
Mr. Cameron’s last act as Minister of Commerce was
to offer a guaranteed minimum price of 3s. 6d. a
bushel, f.o.r. ports, for wheat during the war period,
the guarantee to be limited to 140,000,000 bushels
of each crop. After a two-day conference the Wheat-
growers’ Federation rejected the 3s. 6d. and is to
appoint a committee to “present to the Government
a case for a substantially higher price.”
State Premiers at the conference “welcomed” the
Federal Government’s acceptance of exclusive respon-
sibility for stabilising the industry (they would), but
“share the growers’ view that the price is inadequate.”
Mr. Cameron told the conference that the
guarantee depended on the wheat States accepting:
(1) Clear delineation of all marginal areas; (2) pro-
hibition of wheatgrowing for grain outside those areas;
(3) reallotment of land in marginal districts to provide
a living area for farmers based on stock and wheat
husbandry; (4) maintenance of improvement by the
farmer; (5) limitation of the area that may be sown or
fallowed in any one year; (6) prohibition of cultivation
of certain types of soil or compelling replanting with
approved cover; (7) conservation of fodder, seed and
water; (8) prevention of future subdivision of marginal
areas.
Grower representatives accepted that part of the plan,
but held that the price meant not more than 2s. 9d.
at sidings after charges were deducted. Nor would
they accept the 140,000,000-bushel limit, claiming that
160,000,000 was an average harvest.
The N.S.W. Premier, Mr. Mair, described the
whole thing as a “fiasco,” a pretty good description of
most conferences. His own plan is for 3s. 6d. a bushel
at siding for the first 3000 bushels, world parity for
any surplus. He fears the Federal plan will encourage
big-acreage men to sow large areas. There is some-
thing in both his fear and his price scheme.
In effect, nothing definite was achieved. Mean-
time, drought is still with us and, though Northern
Hemisphere crops are not up to bumper proportions,
the usually well-informed London “Statist” predicts a
world surplus of 1,400,000,000 bushels.
No wonder Mr. Mair is “very apprehensive of
what is going to occur to the wheat industry.” Some
people have felt like that about it for years, and it’s
high time the Premiers woke up. They should study
Mr. Cameron’s eight points very closely.
Parliaments to the Rescue.
The Premier (Mr. Dunstan-Playford) had just risen to
move the second reading of the bill to set up a Royal
Commission of Inquiry into the idiosyncrasies of
weevils when a message was handed to him.
Excusing himself to the Speaker, he read it, turned
pale and sank back into his seat.
“I hope,” said the Leader of the Opposition (Mr.
Argyle McKell), “that the honorable the Premier has
not received bad news.”
The Premier rose. “I have to inform this House,”
he said, “that a very grave situation has arisen. An
enemy force has effected a landing and cut the rail-
way south of Kempsey. From information I have
received, it appears to be a large-scale raid with the
object of dislocating transport and seizing supplies of
food and other material.”
Mr. Argyle McKell: “That is certainly an un-
expected development. As Leader of the Opposition
I wish to assure the Premier that we will co-operate in
any counter measures that may be taken. Has the
Federal Government been informed?”
The Premier: “This message is from the Federal
Government. Cabinet has been summoned. The
Prime Minister assures me that troops and supplies are
at the State border, but as most of the motor vehicles
commandeered are registered in another State it will
be expedient to instruct border police-stations to waive
the necessity for them to have permits before they can
cross.”
Mr. Finucane (U.L.P.): “Can’t they use the rail-
ways? This looks like another attempt to undermine
the people’s transport system. There has been too
much of it. As leader of the third party, whose ser-
vices have been rewarded by the taxpayers with a
special salary, I object.”
The Premier: “Honorable members will readily
appreciate that the situation must be handled with
care. The Government cannot allow itself to be
stampeded into any sudden or irrational action. Either
we must control transport within our own borders or
hand the control over to the Federal authorities.”
Uproar and cries of “Sabotage.” “Members are
assured that this Government will not be a party to
such a surrender of its rights. I suggest that a Con-
ference of Premiers be called at Canberra, and that
the Federal Government be asked to grant the States
a sum of £10,000,000 as a reparation fund against
further raids.”
The House then adjourned.
Asked later about the bill to set up the Royal
Commission on weevils, the Premier said that on his
return from Canberra he would call the House
together, when the Royal Commission Bill would be
given precedence over other business. Invited to com-
ment on the presence of the enemy force, he said that
action would depend on the result of the Premiers’
Conference. In the meantime, he hoped that citizens
in the affected area would not do anything likely to
harass the Government or jeopardise its plans at a
time when it urgently needed the support of every
member of the community.
A subsequent message from Canberra stated that
the Premiers’ Conference opened at 4 p.m. on Thurs-
day, considered the agenda and adjourned until 5 p.m.
on Wednesday.
Reports from Singleton and Muswellbrook claim
that police were forced to arrest several men in both
towns who refused to hand over firearms which they
possessed. The men expressed their intention of
attacking the enemy but, on being told that seven Gov-
ernments and a dozen Opposition groups had the
matter well in hand, expressed regret for their actions
and were allowed to leave.
Recent Sex Crimes.
Found guilty, with “mitigating circumstances,” of an
abominable assault on a young woman in Melbourne,
two men were sentenced to four years’ imprisonment
and a youth to two years’ and a whipping. The jury
evidently regarded their statements that they were
drunk and the allegation that the victim was no better
than she should be as the “mitigating circumstances.”
Invariably the excuse put forward by such ruf-
fians is drink and/or the loose character of the woman.
Even if that were true —it is generally a lie —every
woman has the fundamental privilege of refusing her
favors. There can be no “mitigating circumstances”
when beasts, singly or in company, outrage a defence-
less creature in sheer savagery.
There has been an alarming number of these cases
in recent weeks, and it should cause serious thought in
high places that a large proportion of the criminals
are youths, some of whom wore the King’s uniform.
It would be instructive if some Judge, dealing with a
youthful sex criminal, made it his business to find out
what sort of literature the offender had been reading,
what sort of films he liked, what sort of associations
he had and something of his home life.
Magistrates in country towns adopt that practice
when deciding whether or not to send a young offender
for trial. In the country town, where everybody is
known to everybody else, it is easy thus to get at the
root of things. In the city a youth can go to the devil
and nobody know anything about it. A little shrewd
questioning from the Judge should be of value.
For example, his Honor might endeavor to ascer-
tain whether the ruffian in the dock was influenced in
any way by specific illustrated prints. He would find
it easy to mention names. In the offal market there
are publications full of photographs of almost-naked
young women in various exciting postures ; magazines
full of suggestiveness in word and picture. Certain of
these doubtful rags have actually been included in
a quasi-official appeal for literature for troops in camp.
Everything As Usual.
There is war and there is drought; and in Sydney
there is business as usual, racing as usual,
wrangling as usual. State Government and City
Council are wrangling about a tunnel under King’s
Cross. The original estimate for this few hundred
yards of burrowing and provision of terminals was
£557,000. The Government produced a £350,000
plan and proposed to find half the money.
King’s Cross is a narrow hill in the heart of
Sydney. Its surface is worth £60,000 an acre and is
covered with ham and beef shops, s.p. joints, ham-
burger bars, boarding-houses and towering blocks of
flats in which it is possible to get a room with a four-
by-four bath recess, a two-by-two electric range and
frig., h. and c., and space for the wireless for a couple
of pounds a week.
Because of congestion in this area, caused largely
by the stream of cars passing through to Rose Bay
and Bellevue Hill, the tunnel has become necessary.
Lord Mayor Crick declares that “the new route would
mainly benefit the residents of the eastern suburbs,
whose travelling time would be reduced without
apparent benefit to the city.” But he favors the
scheme for other reasons:
It is necessary that a dock should be built for the
defence of Australia in the shortest possible time.
As the spoil from the tunnel will be used for the
dock, the matter should not be regarded from the
parochial but from the national viewpoint. As well,
the tunnel would provide an air-raid shelter.
An alderman coldly pointed out that there had
been no geological survey to prove that the spoil was
suitable for the job, and that anyway Sydney Harbor
had 298 miles of foreshore from which spoil could be
obtained without digging a tunnel.
The council rejected the Government’s scheme, so
Mr. Mair will have to find the £175,000. A tax being
out of the question, Mr. Mair might ask country stock-
owners, who are spending tens of thousands of pounds
per month for drought feeding, for the money. They
are so hardened to brazen schemes of extortion that
they are not likely to be shocked at any proposal,
however outrageous.
Germany's Muscovite Partner.
The voice of Moscow is still heard, though in
strange places. For example, in “Pix,” published by
the Associated News group, along with the usual pic-
tures of young women showing bosoms, navels, thighs
and calves there were three pages of Moscow stuff
framed in borders of sex appeal—well-washed Taji-
kistanian ladies smiling round sprays of blossom,
laughing female colonists of the Russian Jewish Re-
public, which Jewish refugees shun like the plague.
This was typical:
Soviet Commissar for Navy, in outlining building
plans, states that Red Navy was now equal to that of
Japan and Germany combined. Russian submarine
fleet is largest in the world. Fleet air arm has been
consistently strengthened and plays vital part in war-
like operations likely to occur in Pacific zone.
A peep into any reference book in the office would
show the publishers of this twaddle its value. Russia
has four ancient battle tubs, one of which, a year or
two ago, found it impossible to return to the Baltic,
without reconditioning, from a voyage to the Black
Sea. Any British battleship could fight the whole
Russian battle fleet singlehanded.
Russia at the beginning of this year had six
cruisers less than 25 years old. Three were modern
—one was built and the others were designed in Italy.
The R.A.N. could wipe the floor with the Russian
cruiser fleet. As for the “largest submarine fleet in
the world,” it has often been heard of but never seen
by any trustworthy authority.
“Pix” proceeded:—
Red Army has war strength of about 12,000,000
trained men. Before Finnish campaign, fighting quality
of this enormous force was unknown. Military strate-
gists particularly U.S.A. now agree that it is first-
class army. Fact that supplies were kept up in Finland
disproved story of disorganisation of Soviet railways.
Yet the army of “12,000,000 trained men” took 14
weeks to force a capitulation on little Finland, and
its admitted losses were nearly equal to the total
strength of the Finnish army.
There followed a boost for the Russian steel
industry and a tricky bit about the Russian system
(“your country makes a gun for profit; we make a
gun, abolish the profit and make another gun”). Finally
there was some information about oil:
This section of Russia’s Baku oilfields is one of
the most coveted spots in Europe. Lying on the Black
Sea, it is vulnerable to sea and air attack. It is pro-
tection of this vital spot which makes Stalin so anxious
to gain at least co-control with Turkey of the Dar-
danelles.
Except that Baku is on the Caspian Sea and not the
Black Sea, which is nearly 500 miles away, that the
Dardanelles are 1200 miles or half the diagonal width
of Europe away, that the oilwells are in one of the best
naturally defendable positions in the Old World, sur-
rounded by mountains and wide belts of Russian ter-
ritory, this statement of “fact” is reasonably correct.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Why don’t y' join the W.A.N.S. an' give a man a rest?”
“El V.”: Agencies which offer “exclu-
sive friendships,” “refined gents,”
“attractive blondes” or “a pal or sweet-
heart for you” seem to be doing a
thriving business and meeting a demand
for an ever-widening variety of mer-
chandise. One of the more enterprising
has new samples:
Several smart and attractive divorcees,
26, 30, 32.
Nobody has yet thought of hunting up a
few handsome, competent co-respon-
dents.
* * * *
“E.H.M.”: One of the latest bits of wan-
ton damage done by German raiders in
London has been to Middle Temple Hall,
which is full of the relics of history.
Shakspeare is believed to have acted there
in “Twelfth Night” in 1602. In the hall
benchers and students dine at a table —
made of oak from Windsor Great Park—
the gift of Queen Elizabeth, but the more
interesting meals eaten are the luncheons
which are held each Sunday for the
benchers after church. At these the
treasurer (who is the president) sits beside
the master (who is the incumbent of
Temple Church), and old Judges pass
round decanter and t&eir wit. They eat
round a smaller table than Queen Eliza-
beth's. It was made from the oak of
Drake’s Golden Hind, which was ap-
proaching the Moluccas at exactly this
time of year 361 years ago, during the
first circumnavigation of the globe by an
English ship.
“Ek D.”: Possibly aiming for the
Camden Hill waterworks, which lie
across the road to the north-east, the
Hun succeeded in gutting Holland
House, which lies in the centre of Hol-
land Park out beyond Kensington Palace.
It has stood there since 1607, when
it was built by Sir Walter Cope, from
whose hands it passed into possession of
Fairfax, the Civil War general. Addison
died there. The Warwick family, into
which Fairfax had married, sold it to the
father of Charles James Fox. For a
generation or two it was the rallying
point of Whiggery, and during the
Regency period its dinner tables were
regularly surrounded by men whose
names are history in politics, art and
literature. It was still a possession of the
heirs of the Fox family—old Charles
James’s speeches in the Napoleonic wars
would not have pleased the picture press
—and the head of the family, Lord
llchester, who has written much Fox
biography, lived there before the crash.
“Nut 3”: The promiscuous arming of
persons with lethal weapons about
which they know little is a habit that’s
a bit overdone in Australia. Three men,
two armed as escorts, were collecting
money from sideshows at a Melbourne
amusement centre when some youths
started a brawl. Threatened, one of the
armed men drew his revolver, which acci-
dentally went off and killed a woman.
Another shot was heard, and this time
a man was hit on a hand. Later, when
the brawl was over, one of the escorts
was putting his gun in his pocket when
he inadvertently pulled the trigger. He
got out of it with a flesh-wound.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: An admittedly puzzled Court
in S.A. has had to settle the case of a
youth who when just under 17 signed a
contract to pay £35 for a course of busi-
ness instruction, but dropped it after
taking one lesson and paying £4. He was
sued for the balance, and the judgment
worked out on these lines: Possibly he
was talked into it, but there was no fraud
—“undue persuasion is not a defence
known to the law.” Certainly he was a
minor, but a minor may incur debt for
“necessaries.” The price seemed reason-
able, and the course would certainly be
a good thing for some people ; but was
it a necessary for him ? Finally, the Law
told the defendant pleasantly that, as he
seemed “below the average mentally,”
the course was too advanced for him, and
so he needn’t pay.
* * * *
“Ming”: An ancient gent, of my
acquaintance whose birthdays, after the
hundredth, became of immense public
interest in our village welcomed the many
curious visitors who came crowding to
his door. I remember his entertaining
a party of flappers. He told of various
methods of prolonging life, diet, exercise
and so forth, but kept the most important
item to the last. “And fer me good ’ealth
I gotter thank one of me strictest rules,”
he finished up. “I never ad a bath in
me life!”
* * * *
“B. the D.”: “Doric” and other Scots
(B. 2/10/’4O) are again robbing England.
Is there not a Northumbrian in all
Sydney town to break a lance for
“Geordie Land”? Glasgow may have
“keelies,” but they were born on Tyne-
side and carried, probably as loot, into
Scotland. For hundreds of years keels
(heavy flat barges) have been rowed up
and down the tidal reaches of the Tyne
carrying coal, stone and other heavy
material. Lives there a “Geordie” in any
corner of the world who has not sung the
Tyneside National Anthem, “Weel may
the keel row that my laddie’s in”? It’s
the oldest song in England. These were
the keels, and the rowers were the keelies.
* * * *
“V.D.L.”: It is just 142 years since
George Bass and Matthew Flinders proved
that Tasmania was not part of the main-
land of Australia. In 1797 Bass had
voyaged in a whaleboat round Wilson’s
Promontory into Western Port, and
realised that he had got so far in behind
the coast discovered by Abel Tasman in
1642 as to make it impossible for these
southern lands to be part of the continent.
However, to prove his theory it was
necessary to go right round them. So
next year, in the sloop Norfolk, of 25
tons, he and Flinders sailed from Sydney
to Cape Barren Island and across to the
Tasmanian coast. They traced the coast-
line westward till they rounded its north-
western corner, and came out into open
ocean. Then they voyaged right round
the island, its shores being carefully
charted by Flinders, and went up the
Derwent as far as they could navigate
their little vessel. Governor Hunter gave
Bass’s name to the strait which he and
Flinders were the first to pass through,
Bass having first conceived the idea that
such a passage was possible.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: The noticeable suc-
cess with which a lady member of an
Australian orchestra could avert or calm
Beechamic temperamental outbreaks by
a few pleasantly-put inquiries has an
interesting psychological basis. Her first
experience of his antics brought up a
definite impression of having met just
such a person not very long before and
at close quarters. Then came enlighten-
ment. Three years previously she had
spent nearly a year in Europe, leaving
her clever 10-year-old son with her
parents. When she returned it was to
find him regarding himself as the king-
pin of his own small universe. To get
the kid back to his bearings she had
practised the ancient feminine method of
logical questioning which Socrates filched
from his long-suffering wife and labelled
as his own discovery. As the knightly
conductor stamped and raved she
thought to herself: “Good Lord —he’s
just Jimmy over again, only with a bald
head and a beard! ” With which realisa-
tion the methods which had cured
Jimmy’s tantrums were applied to Sir
Tommy and worked like a charm,
beard, bald head and all.
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: These daily papers
simply can’t keep quiet if they think
there’s anything about that is being
hidden, though the hiding thereof is in
the national interest. In an arbitration
case a statement from the Munitions
Department was tendered on the under-
standing that it be not made public. Out
came the Sydney afternoon paper with
bold double-column heads, SECRET
STATEMENT TO COURT IN METAL
TRADE CLAIM, and proceeded to an-
nounce that the statement “indicated’'
the urgency of producing munitions at
the highest possible rate. If any spy
wants it, he knows where to get it now.
* * * *
“Joypet”: As an inebriate of long
experience I have had ample opportunity
to study strange fauna. Pink elephants,
green hippos, and snakes innumerable
of every size and hue have I seen and
stalked, but I’ve never managed to catch
one. Consequently the sight of three of
the younger Diggers bringing one back
alive earned my admiration and respect.
Well under, the trio were rolling up Pitt-
street dragging along a couple of yards
of string with four feet of solid brown
snake at the other end.
V * * *
“S. Piel”: I’m convinced at last that
Australia is no place for a thief with
ambition. The piffling loot in the way
of pianos, cars and other odds and ends
that a man can lift here is really an insult
to the intelligence. I’ve always thought
that the United States offered a far wider
scope, and since reading of the latest
“snaffle” there it’s me for the passport
office, the wharf and the Golden Gate.
Yes, sir, any country in which a gang
can get away with a 10-ton locomotive,
four railroad cars and three miles of
steel rails will do me. Apparently, too,
the cops give you a fair go, for the thieves
cut up the whole outfit with acetylene
torches and loaded it on to motor-lorries.
* * * *
“Jachris”: We’re up on the Rivers
building a church when we run out of
bricks. That means “spell-oh,” so Jim
and I and the boss go down to the river
while Bluey repairs to the Royal for a
pint that extends into a two-days’ jag.
Then the bricks come. There’s no need
to worry about Bluey ; once he’s finished
his binge he’s finished. Next day he’s on
the job, as fast as ever, and apart from
the pint we have on the way back to the
dosshouse that’s all the grog there is.
But next morning Bluey stays in bed.
“I’m sore all over,” he moans. “I can’t
move. Me back’s broke. I dreamed I’ve
been carrying bricks all night.” The boss
tries to rally him out of it, but all Bluey
wants to do, he reckons, is to go to sleep
again. We soon found out that Bluey had
been carrying bricks all night! Walking
and working in his sleep, he’d carried 600
of the new load of bricks up the ladder in
a hod and stacked them on the scaffold.
'The chap who lives next door to the
job tells us a bit more about it during the
morning when he hears us laughing. He’d
heard someone at the bricks the night
before, so he stuck his head out the
window. When he saw it was Bluey he
thought he was working overtime, want-
ing the next day off, so he went to bed
without saying anything.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: The Bush Brotherhood
is all right. I still prize affectionately
the memory of a very diminutive, very
English but very tough member of the
tribe who gave me some advice concern-
ing a little town where, I told him, I
intended to drop off the train in which
we were travelling. “If you are think-
ing of lunch,” he said, “I would strongly
advise you to go to the store and buy
biscuits and cheese. Take them along
to the hotel and eat them with some
beah.” “Hotel meals are pretty crook?
I queried. “Well,” he said, “I do not
mind chasing cheese round my plate with
a knife, but I strongly object to chasing
mutton in the same way.” I took his tip*
VITAMINS.
“ ‘Troops ini Australian camps,’ complains Colonel
McDonald, Director of Supply and Transport, ‘show
a marked disinclination to eat celery, haricot beans
and other food selected as being specially good for
them.’ ”
What sort of stuff should we give the troops
Our camps are training in growing groups?
Surely there’s none will the view condemn
That the best we can manage is due to them.
But the medical know-alls on this agree,
That their primary need is vitamin B,
Which from • soil or somewhere crisp celery
gleans
And lurks a-plenty in haricot beans.
Vitamin B, vitamin B,
’Twas this that stiffened the Huns, on dit,
When they whelmed the Poles in their fierce
advance
And set their bluchers on crumpled France.
For fighting tucker there once were points
On beer in barrels and beef by joints.
But now, they warn us, the side that wins
Is the one that’s fullest of vitamins.
Though an army’s march on its belly, eh?
Is true as it was in Napoleon’s day,
’Twere well we listened to those who know
Just what is fittest therein to stow.
For those chiefs of old by whom wars were
won,
From Julius Caesar to Wellington,
What vitamins were they never knew
Or had a glimpse what such things could do.
So, sergeant-major, sit up and munch
Another stalk from that celery bunch!
And, corporal, add to your meal routines
A second helping of haricot beans!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Gent. One”: You’ve certainly got to
hand the bouquet to the bigamist for put-
ting up a rare excuse. In a Sydney court
the other day a naval man pleaded a state
of “mental aberration due to long and
arduous duties” as the reason why he
had made two excessive alliances. There
were three sons by the legal marriage, six
children from the first bigamous union.
He had only two hours with No. 3 before
he scuttled back to No. 2. Acting-Judge
Studdert, whatever he thought of the
sailor’s various farewells, bound him
over.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Dalton, the Minister of
Economic Warfare, is “Mr.” Dalton to
the “Times.” On the strength of being
“D.Sc., London,” and presently ‘D.Sc.,
Sydney,” he was “Dr.” Dalton to the
Australian papers when he visited the
Commonwealth before the war. Our
Glorious Press is very—er —punctilious in
these matters. It never refuses the title
of “doctor” to local holders of degrees
of science, letters and so forth —some-
times granted as favors and sometimes
won by writing theses—and there are
heaps of them about; but the English
have other views. They don’t even confer
the distinction on medical men quite
eminent in their profession. I remember
one who set up in business in an Aus-
tralian city as a consultant and worked
up a flourishing practice. The gentleman
was content to be known as “Mr.” ; in
fact, he was apt to grow testy if ad-
dressed as “Dr.”
“They reckoned she smothered twenty incendiary bombs."
“ Waiter , my wife's lobster seems a trifle underdone , what?"
“Pitt-street”: Is the madness of Europe
so virulent that it can spread to Aus-
tralia, or is it simply that the combina-
tion of war, drought and spring is proving
too much for some minds? Perhaps one
of Norman Lindsay’s old satyrs has got
loose. Whatever the reason, the first
three weeks of October saw no fewer
than 18 deaths from criminal violence in
eastern Australia. My morning paper
seems never free of it lately, as this little
list shows:
Oct. 1, man shoots self; 4, ditto; 5,
man and wife gassed to death; 7, man and
woman gassed to death at two separate
places (no connection); 8, girl strangled
in bed; 11, man takes girl under threat of
shooting parents, and fires five shots;
youth killed and two women badly in-
jured by attack, one woman dies later;
12, woman violently attacked; 13, no crime,
but five road deaths in Sydney area; 14,
woman stabbed to death; 15, man and
girl shot dead; 20, woman killed by stray
bullet from shooting affray; woman found
dying as result of battering; soldier found
shot; 22, father, mother and son bat-
tered to death.
Some of them were suicides and death
pacts, of course, but the whole list makes
grisly reading, and does not take into
account a number of assaults, robberies
and other crimes. It begins to look as
though one would be safer in London.
* * * *
“Audio”: Some of our radio profes-
sors are capable of producing the pro-
foundest thoughts. As we rest on the
evening couch, idly puffing smoke and
nodding wisely or critically as the sen-
tences flow from the set, there come at
times those gems of pure realism that
make us sit up and wish some power
would give us the gift to tune back the
radio and hear the words again. Imagine,
for instance, the effect on a thoughtful
listener of this most significant statement,
uttered by Professor G. S. Browne on
3AR: “African history will come into
prominence again if Nazi Powers decide
to make an onset there.” It is such pro-
fundity of thought that makes us British
what we are.
* * * *
“Clooter”: Dasher, a tea-man doing
the N.S.W. west by car, flashed
along a lonely road late one afternoon
and, seeing a horseman ambling
along, slowed down and hailed him,
“Hey, how far is it to Condobalong?”
The horseman eyed him and said
slowly, “Aw, I reckon it’s about 23
mile as the crow flies.” Dasher, assum-
ing that to mean about 30 by road, let
in the clutch and shot away. He found
the distance to be about 18 miles. Next
day he was in the pub when he spotted
his road guide of the day before. Said
Dasher, “You’re the cove I struck yester-
day?” “That’s me,” said the cove. “Well,”
said Dasher, “if the crows round here
would stop flying in spirals they’d get
over the ground a dashed sight quicker
than they do.”
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: I remember Tom Mix’s
visit to England in 1925. He turned up
at 2LO with his horse Tony and made a
speech of sorts in an accent that grated
on English ears so excruciatingly that
8.8. C. officials received many sarcastic
letters, one being to the effect that if
Tony had neighed into the mike the
effect would have been as intelligible and
far less unpleasing. But when Tom rode
Tony through Hyde Park and along
Rotten Row, complete with white ten-
gallon Stetson, kids trailed along after
him in swarms, pop-eyed with adoration.
* * * *
“Fernie”: Mention of an epidemic of
measles in M.L. camps leads me to sus-
pect that the 1940 Diggers are running
true to 1914 form. Measles broke out in
one of the North Island camps a quarter
of a century ago—measles of a baffling
type. The rash
appeared overnight.
The patient was un-
com f o r table but
cheerful. Three days
later the rash had
disappeared and the
remainder of the 14
days’ leave was spent
at ease. One sunny
day an officer heard
much yelling, swear-
ing and laughter
coming from the
scrub on the river
bank. Wandering
over to see the fun
he was amazed at
the toughness of the
boys. About 40 of
them were tearing
around in the bare
pelt whaling all hell
out of each other
with bushy, prickly
branches of ti-tree.
The officer watched
unseen for some
minutes, then light
broke in upon him
and he strolled back
to camp wearing a
sinister smile. Next
day some 40 of the
boys were on sick parade —measles. But
the M.Q. just grinned. No sick bed, with
gentle nurses, this time.
Just a double dose of
No. 1. But it worked
well while it lasted.
* *
“Ente Marid”: If
Hitler and his Russians
take Constantinople
they will at least find
one relic which should
have a place in one of
their museums, though
I can’t decide whether
the Russians should
claim it as a bit of
booty filched from Fas-
cism or the Germans
as a relic of one of the
British followers of
their system. Across
the ferry from Pera
Bridge to Kadi Keue,
hard by Florence
Nightingale’s old hos-
pital, there runs —or
used to run —an ancient
steamer, with about as
sweet a set of recipro-
cating engines as a
greaser could wish to
see. They have been
doing duty apparently
since the days of the Crimea, and when
I was last there the grimy old Turkish
engineer was prouder of them and con-
sidered them of more interest than all the
palaces of the Golden Horn. “Ah,” he
would say, pointing his grimy sweat rag
at them, “Evvet effendim, lofly enginess—
Preetesh—yess, Meester Mosley make
her.” The manufacturer was a grand-
father of Britain’s Sir Oswald, who is not
nearly as efficient at making political
parties as his grandad was at making
machinery.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The odd sight of a soldier
in the Children’s Court has been seen in
Adelaide. The charge was against a boy
not quite 18 for appearing in uniform
which he was not entitled to wear. He
said he had kept it when discharged from
the A.I.F. last Christmas ; he had been
discharged seven times as medically unfit,
“though my own doctor can find no-
thing wrong with me.” So he had come
to Adelaide to have another try. Charge
dismissed on a charitable society paying
his fare back to relatives in Melbourne.
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.”: In Berry’s Bay, on the
north side of Port Jackson, an honorable
and useful life is drawing to its close —
the famous old clipper ship Sobraon is
in the hands of the shipbreakers. She was
launched at Aberdeen in 1866. The
favorite passenger vessel of her day,
the Sobraon used to make one round
trip each year, leaving London about
the end of September and sailing
from Sydney and Melbourne in Feb-
ruary. Her record voyage to Sydney
was one of 73 days, but she once made
Cape Otway in 60 days from London.
For nearly the whole of her active life
she was commanded by Captain Elmslie,
whose son sailed with him, in all the
ratings between apprentice and chief
officer, for 11 years. The service record
of another member of her crew must have
been unique. James Cameron was a fore-
man shipwright in the yard where she was
built and was aboard her as carpenter
throughout her active seagoing career.
The N.S.W. Government bought her in
1891 and used her as a reformatory ship
for boys, in succession to the old Vernon,
and in 1911 the Commonwealth acquired
her for a naval training ship, when she
became H.M.A.S. Tingira. Many of the
officers, warrant and petty officers of the
present R.A.N. had their early naval
education in the fine old ship.
* * * *
“Dewey”: While I agree with “P.S.”
(B. 9/10/ ’4O) in his respect for good old
English words like courage, I can’t agree
with him when he says that “guts” is an
American synonym. It is a case in which
there are several synonyms, all with the
same derivation. Take “courage,” for
instance —derived from the French for
the heart; “pluck,” according to the
Concise Oxford, means “the heart, liver
and lungs of a beast,” and is therefore no
more polite than “guts.” Good Queen
Bess knew the real seat of human valor
when she said “I have the heart and
belly of a King of England.”
* * * *
“S.P.”: Probably I’ll get the cane for
admitting it, but I never fail to run the
optic over the syndicated strips in my
afternoon daily, and I want to say that
easily the best of them is the one at the
bottom. It is drawn by an Australian
artist to advertise an Australian product,
and has more laughs to the inch than
the rest have to the foot. On the occa-
sions when it is missed out I feel as if
I’ve been robbed.
THE EDITOR REGRETS.
You chaps who labor overtime
At fashioning the piquant sketch
Or churning out the lofty rhyme
For whatsoever it may fetch,
How oft, I fear, your craftsmanship
No recompense or guerdon gets
Save that well-worn rejection slip
Starting “The Editor regrets.”
It’s clearly meant to soothe your pain,
That formula whereby’s conveyed
That nimble fancies of your brain
Have somehow failed to make the grade.
No brusque refusal here you read;
A courteous message forth it sets
That having to decline your screed
Is what the Editor regrets.
It deals your self-esteem no sting,
Or shouldn’t, ev’n if doubts arise
Whether your inky offering
Has ever reached the Old Man’s eyes.
No mention here of underlings
Who blocked you in their highbrow nets.
Your blighted hopes (observe) are things
The Editor himself regrets.
Why did it flop? There’s nothing gives
A clue to that —no subtle scorn
Because you split infinitives
Or rhymed (God help you!) “dawn” with
“morn.”
What though your lilt no lucre earns,
At least ’twill save you fumes and frets
To learn your MSS. returns
With editorial regrets.
Hearts up, my lads! And let it cease
To get your peckers down a bit
That what you deemed a masterpiece
Has failed to register a hit.
There’s surely solace in the hint
From out the phrase that juts and jets
That why you won’t appear in print
Is what “The Editor regrets.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


e
CRAVEN A *m£&
tmei mite*- tketfke,,
always mwtfitfredt!
10 for 9d 20 for 1 7 6
m
m
E 1867
SPECIALLY
PREVENT
XXZEB
POLITICAL POINTS
Having refused to compromise with the
C.P. factions, Cameron is not in the
reconstructed Ministry. By the irony of
events, his place as Minister of Com-
merce has been taken by Page, whom he
reconciled to Menzies 17 months after
the doctor’s bitter attack on the P.M. ;
and Hughes becomes Minister for the
Navy as well as Attorney-General.
Fadden is Treasurer, Spender going to
the Army. Foil remains Minister for
the Interior ; but, like Spender, McEwen,
Mcßride and Stewart have been shifted
—McEwen to Air and Civil Aviation,
Mcßride to Supply and Munitions and
Stewart to External Affairs and Health.
New Ministers are Harrison (Customs),
Holt (Labor and National Services), Col-
lins, Anthony and Leckie. Leckie is the
P.M.’s father-in-law.
Menzies is still Minister for Defence
Co-ordination and Minister for Infor-
mation, but he “retains the latter depart-
ment only temporarily”—which presum-
ably means that he is ready to hand it
over to any likely prospect who is willing
to be “the mug.” Some people profess
to be astonished that McEwen has been
shifted from the External Affairs Depart-
ment. If sincere, they couldn’t have list-
ened to any of his speeches on foreign
affairs.
Before death came so cruelly to Fair-
bairn, Street and Gullett, there were five
Victorian and five N.S.W. Ministers.
Now there are seven Ministers from N.
S. Wales and only four from Victoria.
This lessens the danger of the Sydney
dailies declaring war on Melbourne. The
catch is that Harrison, against whom the
“Herald” and the “Telegraph” cam-
paigned so frenziedly, declaring him a
hopeless dud, has been placed in charge
of the Customs, which means that they
may be reduced to going to see him cap
in hand.
Curtin, Forde and Makin are to be
their party’s representatives on the ad-
visory war council, and Beasley will rep-
resent his group. Dr. Evatt was a candi-
date for the third seat. He is learning
that the way of the newcomer to Federal
Labor politics is never easy.
As the Great Dailies saw it:
Melbourne “Age”: The announcement that
the parties have agreed to form an advisory
war council will be welcomed throughout Aus-
tralia as the beginning of what should become
a genuine and successful scheme of co-opera-
tion.
Melbourne “Argus”: Throughout Australia
gratification will be felt....
Sydney “Sun”: God save Australia. The
nation can view the monstrous result of the
Canberra manoeuvres only with dismay and dis-
gust.
“S.M.H.”: None of the parties need be
under any illusion as to what the public thinks
of the gross and lamentable failure to resolve
the virtual stalemate of the election.
Sydney “D.T.”: Pitiful substitute... .A deep
disappointment... .Menzies brooding in that
self-centred city A glum outlook.
They all support the Government —or say
they do.
Though Stalin wasn’t game to tackle
Hitler when the French Army was in
being and the B.E.F. was ready for mobil-
isation, preferring to double-cross the
democracies and grab what his Nazi
master threw to him, there are still at
large people who believe that he will tackle
Hitler now that the Austrian is lording
it over Europe from Calais to Constanza.
If it isn’t expedient to herd them into
institutions where they would receive the
necessary treatment, an issue of leather
medals should be considered.
“Press as Eyes of Democracy” was the
bold headline chosen for an item in which
Sydney “Sun” claimed that Education
Minister Drummond had told country
pressmen that “without a free press
democracy would not only be blind-
folded but hamstrung.” “S.M.H.” re-
ported the Minister as saying that one of
the “great tragedies of modern times”
was “the tendency more and more in the
great cities of Australia for independent
dailies to be absorbed into one news-
paper.” The “Sun” roosts on the grave-
yard of a string of dailies and weeklies.
The Mair Government’s “inquiry” into
night trotting has followed the way of
all such futilities ; the select committee
“is unlikely to resume until after the war.”
The “inquiry” gave it an excuse for a
beautiful trip to Adelaide and Perth, all
expenses charged up to the taxpayer.
Some of these State Ministers are worse
tipsters than the astrologists. Drummond
told a country press conference at Sydney
that a “stable national Government would
“Mr. Spender, now Minister for the Army, has reasonable views on the subject of wet
canteens.”
“How dry we are; how dry we are! The Lord only knows how dry we are!”
come out of the present political crisis.”
Next day Canberra announced the birth
of the “advisory council.”
Federal Kalgoorlie has 52,189 electors
and 17 subdivisions corresponding to
State Assembly electorates. At one time
or another, eight of these have had
Nationalist members—Gascoyne, Gerald-
ton, Greenough, Irwin, Kalgoorlie, Kim-
berley,. Mt. Margaret and Pilbara. Still,
it is a good many years since Geraldton
and Kalgoorlie were without Labor
Ms.L.A.
Not only Milton but Dryden “should
be living at this hour.” That master of
readable English and energetic verse
would get another kick out of the lines
he,wrote 260 years ago on Shaftesbury:
A daring pilot in extremity,
Pleased with the danger when the waves ran
high,
He sought the storms; but, for a calm less fit,
Would steer too near the sands to show his wit.
They are perfectly appropriate to
Churchill, who, not content with being
the “daring pilot” of his native country,
buoyantly undertook last week to deliver
France and Europe.
The special correspondents have re-
sumed their guessing game. It seems that
as a* result of the Hitler-Laval meeting
and the Hitler-Franco meeting the enemy
is about to swallow Greece, bluff or beat
Turkey, grab Egypt, blow Gib. out of
the water, eradicate Palestine, hand India
to Russia, present the N.E.I. to Japan,
march into South Africa, pinch the
London-Cape route and invade South
America, all by taking over French war-
ships and with them sinking the British
Navy. And he’s going to do that while
U.S.A. is involved in a Presidential
election.
“The coming revolution in Germany
will have a better background in Germany
than the Communist revolution which
began during the last war.” Stalin is
alleged to have written that. Not in
“Pravda,” but in “Tarybu Lietuva,” the
“Soviet’s official Lithuanian newspaper,”
whence it got to the “Exchange Tele-
graph’s” Switzerland correspondent,
thence to London and thence to our own
Sydney “D.T.,” in whose blessed little
heart hope never dies. Why it wasn’t
published in “Pravda” for all the world
to see isn’t stated.
Maoriland has followed up its ban
on the importation of Judge Rutherford
literature with a ban on the sect. It is
now a “subversive organisation under the
Public Safety Emergency Regulations.”
Banning such bodies only pushes them
underground and gives them the air of
martyrs.
Twitted about it, the N.S.W. Minister
in Charge of National Emergency Ser-
vices (whew!) stated that the civilian
organisation of Sydney could be made
ready in seven days to cope with an air
attack. That may be true, but he said
nothing of readiness in Newcastle or Port
Kembla, which are more likely to be
raided if such a thing ever came to pass.
Funny how all these State politicians
think their one city is the be-all and the
end-all of the nation’s life!
Queensland’s Chamber of Manufac-
tures points out that, although 67
new industries have been started in
Australia since the outbreak of war,
the only one reported in Queensland
is the making of producer-gas plants.
Company taxation runs from 2s. Id. to
6s. 4d. in the £, compared with Is. sd. to
2s. 6d. in other States, so southern manu-
facturers can buy raw materials in
Queensland, manufacture articles from
them in their own State, ship those
articles back to Queensland, and sell
them there at a lower price than a similar
product made locally. Which is precisely
what the framers of the Australian Con-
stitution took a lot of trouble in trying
to prevent.
From a characteristic Sydney Tele-
graph” review of a book written by
“one of the most determined and inspir-
ing leaders of the Spanish Republicans
i.e., Reds and Anarchists:
It was a European and, to a certain
extent, an American democracy that tailed,
because the nations that could have done
something decisive about it, and so
impeded a world war, failed to recognise
that the battle between Democracy f«cj
and Fascism was being fought in Spain.
The solid tradition against “entangling
alliances” has kept the U.S.A. out of the
present war, and the idea of its interven-
ing in a civil broil in Spain, heedless of its
own 20,000,000 Catholics and of the far
greater number in Latin America, is de-
lirious nonsense. Had Britain intervened,
France, hopelessly divided on the Spanish
issue, would have been beaten in jig-time,
and the Empire, then hopelessly unready,
would have been confronted with a far
worse position than it is facing now.
Stalin, of course, would have quitted the
Spanish “Republicans” cold.
You can’t beat these State legislators
when it comes to money matters. Vic-
torian Assembly had fully a dozen mem-
bers present —the Opposition at one stage
actually had its leader and deputy
when the Financial Emergency (Grants
and Funds) Act, 1941, was passed through
all stages. Then the Country Roads
Board Funds Act was passed. Everard
(U.A.P.) complained that the first bill
took away the annual grant to munici-
palities and the second withheld money
from the Roads Board on the ground
that municipalities must be provided for.
Fancy making complaints when every-
body wanted to get away!
A good word was spoken for the Aus-
tralian worker by Robert Wilson, presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Employers’ Federa-
tion, who suggested that if employers
gave the proper leadership industrial
troubles would disappear. He might have
added that the same thing applies to
Labor leaders.
Every time a politician opens his
mouth on the subject it becomes obvious
that all political ideas about repatriation
are centred in shoving returned soldiers
on the land. In view of the horrible
mistakes after 1918, such land settle-
ment needs to be handled with the utmost
care. There must be no more of sending
men into doubtful country to grow wheat
on overcapitalised land, no more shock-
ing waste of money and time on hopeless
fruit projects. Establishment of secondary
industries at neglected ports and in inland
towns ought to be in the programme.
The apathy that has fallen upon the
Sydney Parliament is vividly reflected in
the fact that no new board or commission
has been set up for at least a month.
From “Nineteen Hundred”:
When Menzies chooses to let himself go on
the subject of the Sydney daily press he should
be worth reading. He already finds it difficult
to conceal his contempt for the morning papers,
whose “outstanding-candidates” stunt did his
party so much harm (though not nearly so
much as it did the stunters), and his feelings
about the afternoon paper must be as bitter.
Of the conference at which he offered the
Opposition groups half the portfolios if they
would accept representation in the national
Government he had been trying to form for
months, the afternoon paper wrote that “the
chief object” was “to maintain the status quo
as far as some of the highest offices are con-
cerned.” It went on to suggest that if Menzies
were sincere he would be “willing to sacrifice
his portfolio and leadership”—the latter to
Curtin, of course. This when the man is the
unopposed leader of a coalition which contested
93 seats —74 in the House and 19 in the
Senate —and, in spite of “Herald”-“D.T.” jeer-
ing and “Sun” sneering, came back with 52,
whereas Curtin Labor, contesting the same
number of seats, came back with 35.
Menzies really ought to have a go at these
rags. Lots of Sydney people who have to read
them, there being no alternative, would like to
see him do it, and no one could do it better.


A WOMAN’S A WOMAN FOR A’ THAT.
"An official spokesman said that the army had no control over women’s organisations, which gave themselves any rank they liked—generals, captains or anything.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000.000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Around 5 p.c. Annual Yield
with Safety
Your investment—even as little as £20 —in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
gives you an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies yielding, at
present prices, around 5 % per annum. Moreover, your investment is
definitely safeguarded by Custodian Trustees: Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd.
Now is your opportunity to share in the increasing activity of Industrial
undertakings. Write for Booklet No. 1, post free, on request to the
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Telephone: 85294.
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., LtcL,
General Agents in Australia.
"PERSONAL ITEMS
Frank Beaurepaire, the greatest Aus-
tralian swimmer of his day, and m.d.
of the very successful Olympic Tyre and
Rubber Co., is now Lord Mayor of Mel-
bourne. It is an example to Bradman.
He, too, has brains and energy.
Harold Edward Holt, M.H.R. for
Fawkner (Vic.), becomes Minister for
Labor and National Services at 32. Few
men in the thirties have achieved Federal
office, but Charlie Frazer was Minister
without portfolio at 30 and P.M.G. at 31.
Poor Frazer’s career was too rapid ; a
member at 23, he died at 33.
Thomas Waddell, dead in Sydney at
86, had a term as Premier of N. S. Wales
for two months in 1904, and was a
Cabinet member for six years. He
was born in Ireland, but came to Aus-
tralia as a child, getting his education at
Goulburn. After brief experience as a
shop assistant and civil servant, he be-
came a dealer in horses and cattle, then
went into partnership with his brother,
Col. Waddell, and owned a succession of
station properties which Tom Waddell
managed. Later he was associated with
Sam McCaughey. Waddell’s Parliamen-
tary career commenced in 1887, when he
was elected M.L.A. for Bourke, and closed
in 1934, when his term as a Legislative
Councillor expired and he did not seek
re-election. He was, until his death, a
director of various companies.
Youngsters from England and Hong
Kong and Shanghai who come to Aus-
tralia’s shores with some misgivings must
gaze with a reassured eye upon the bene-
volent figure of the Very Rev. Ronald
George Macintyre, D.D., heading a re-
ception committee on a Sydney wharf.
The former Presbyterian Moderator-
General (he’s now Professor Emeritus of
St. Andrew’s Theological Hall) is chair-
man of the committee responsible for the
reception of all folk from other
parts of the Empire who seek here
a war-time refuge. Dr. Macintyre,
DR. R. G. MACINTYRE.
born in Melbourne and a graduate of
Edinburgh Uni., is no stranger to war-
time service. He was Director of Recruit-
ing in N. S. Wales from 1916 to 1918.
In recent years his work as managing
director of the Burnside Homes, relin-
quished in 1934, kept him in touch with
the lay community. He’s 77, but can
manage a long, strong drive on the golf
links and make a good speech anywhere.
A man of many parts was Dr. T. J.
Henry, of Manly (Sydney), dead at 80.
Born in Sydney, he got his medi-
cal training at Edinburgh Uni., where
Conan Doyle was a fellow-student. Re-
turning to Australia in 1887, Dr. Henry
had 30 years of gen-
eral practice in coun-
try districts in N. S.
Wales, served with
the A.A.M.C. in
Egypt, and then for
several years was a
ship’s surgeon on
overseas and Aus-
tralian liners. He
was the author of
Deuteronomy Smith,
based on his student
days in Edinburgh,
and of a novel,
Claude Garton. Goya
Henry, the aviator, is
a son ; Ernest Henry,
who represented Aus-
tralia as a swimmer
at the 1924 Olympic
Games, is another,
and A. S. Henry,
M.L.A. for Clarence
(N.S.W.), for seven
years, who prede-
ceased his father, was
another.
Passed on suddenly
in Adelaide, at 70,
James Dennistoun
Grace, sometime
manager of Mc-
Ilwraith McEaeharn’s
S.A. branch and
chairman of the
Steamship Owners’
Federation. A son,
Squadron-Leader Alan Grace, joined the
R.A.F. in 1932 and is in England.
John and Mac Alison, who run a graz-
ing property at Dungog (N.S.W.), faced
one of those little crises that come to
brothers occasionally. One could be
spared for war, one had to stay and run
the station. So they spun a coin and
Mac won. He is now a captain in the
A.1.F., and will be missed from local
horse events —he was in the Dungog polo
team that won the Lord Forster Cup.
There have always been Alisons round
Dungog.
Passed over at 81, William Foster
Geach, member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne, and one of the old school
of stockbrokers with a rare market sense.
He was senior partner of J. B. Were and
Son, which he joined as an expert in
foreign exchange in 1889, becoming a
partner in 1906, with Frank Were and
F. J. Fleming. Frank Were, still going
strong at 87, is the doyen of Australian
stockbrokers, but retired from the firm
and from active business in 1916. Flem-
ing died in 1926. Since then Geach has
carried on in partnership with Staniford
Ricketson, now sole remaining partner,
and during this period the firm has put
through many tidy-sized loan and indus-
trial share issues and conducted a con-
siderable stock and share business on
enterprising lines. W. F. Geach loved a
little joke, and this and his penchant for
light verse and artistic photography helped
to hold back the advance of the years.
His high code of honor and business acu-
men won respect; his kindly and
generous nature earned affection.
Edwin Van-der-Nord Nixon, recently
added to the munitions-production staff
with power to ascertain costs and
check profiteering, was born in Jersey.
A leading company director and ac-
countant in Melbourne, he was edu-
cated in Brisbane. He once held a
lectureship in accountancy at Melbourne
University, and has sat on a string of
commissions on taxation, banking and
monetary problems.
Sir Geoffrey Whiskard, Britain’s High
on yc y ’
Commissioner at Canberra, is a lean,
capable Suffolk man whose unassuming
exterior conceals a wide knowledge of
the world and of Dominion affairs and
SIR GEOFFREY WHISKARD.
(Modelled by Frith.)
a goodly share of the scholarship which
distinguishes most British civil servants of
the higher grades. Educated at St. Paul’s
School and Wadham College, Oxford,
where he took firsts in moderations and
Literoe Humaniores, he entered the Home
Office before the last war and became prin-
cipal private secretary to several Home
Secretaries, graduating to the Colonial
Office via a post at Dublin Castle, and
finally to the Dominions Office. He
accompanied the then Minister, L. S.
Amery, on a tour of the Dominions in
1927-28, and on returning to England
became Assistant Under-Secretary. In
1933 Whiskard was made a K.C.M.G.,
and his Australian appointment followed.
In temperament he is well suited to the
job. He is tolerant in outlook, under-
stands men, has a sense of humor, and
in his few years here has acquired a
knowledge of Australian problems and
conditions which many Australians might
envy.
Farewelled at his last lecture by 1000
past and present students was Kerr
Grant, Professor of Physics at Adelaide.
Before he arrived in 1909 to take over the
chair vacated by W. H. Bragg when he
left for Leeds Uni., Kerr Grant was lec-
turer in physics at the Ballarat School of
Mines and Melbourne Uni. He was born
at Bacchus Marsh (Vic.) in 1878, and was
educated at South Melbourne Grammar
School and Melbourne Uni., where he
collected his M.Sc. He is a member of
the committee formed to investigate the
manufacture in Australia of various
optical instruments and lenses, and is the
co-inventor, with D. B. Steele, of the most
sensitive method of weighing yet devised.
On St. Patrick’s Day in 1870 a slim
lad named Hodel landed in Towns-
ville (N.Q.) from Guernsey, Channel
Islands. On October 9, 1940, still in
Townsville after more than 70 years of
sizzling in the heat reflected from the
rocky mass of Castle Hill, broken only
by a trip to Europe, he celebrated his
ninetieth birthday. In the intervals of
a successful and varied business career
he found time to be an alderman
fox many years, to serve a term as Mayor,
to be chairman of the Thuringowa Shire
Council, chairman of the Harbor Board,
a foundation member of the Show
Society, trustee of the Cluden racecourse,
a committeeman of the Townsville
Orphanage, chairman of the Ayr Tram-
way and a member of the Leg. Council
until that august body committed hara-
kiri at Labor’s order. He is still the very
active chairman of the N.Q. Newspaper
Co.
Miss Mary Emilia Mayne, last mem-
ber of one of Brisbane’s oldest fami-
lies, has bequeathed her entire estate,
estimated at some £BO,OOO, to the Medi-
cal School of Queensland Uni. In associa-
tion with her doctor brother she gave the
site for the new Uni. at St. Lucia, valued at
more than £50,000. Dr. Mayne himself left
his entire estate of £113,334 gross value
to the Medical School last year, and Moor-
lands, the fine old family home at
Auchenflower, also passes to the Uni. for
its use. The combined estates are de-
vised on trust for the establishment of
a fund for endowments, scholarships and
equipment for the Medical School.
Col. Percy Gordon Bice, recently ap-
pointed Inspector-General of Ordnance
Stores, has been Civil Defence Commis-
sioner in S.A. for the last 18 months. He
was born at Semaphore (S.A.) 47 years
ago. During the 1914-18 war he was
in command of the 27th Battalion —
Premier Playford and Archie Cameron
were two of his men —and lost an eye ;
offering his services to the Second A.I.F.
he was rejected on this account.
“Chunda,” as he is nicknamed, is chief
storekeeper of the S.A. Railways. Col.
G. D. Shaw, Adelaide’s A.R.P. director,
succeeds him in the civil defence post.
Elliott Frank Playford, S.A.’s Registrar-
General of Deeds, is a son of former
Premier Tom Playford, and, like the
present Premier Tom Playford, was born
ELLIOTT FRANK PLAYFORD.
at Norton’s Summit. At 18 he became a
cadet in the Lands and Survey Depart-
ment. He transferred to the Land Titles
Office three years later, and reached the
top of that ladder five years ago. Always
fond of soldiering, he saw commissioned
service in the 1914-18 war, and was a
major when he commanded Westham
Camp in England. Plays bowls and loves
his garden.


«
Pi
mm
HPH
YOU CAN'T CARRY A FULL-SIZED
RADIO TO THE BEACH OR BUSH . . .
ifiSsi
fin**®**
/Iff #
YOUR full-sized radio is good com-
pany—but you can't take it with you
to the beach or bush. That's why radio
manufacturers in Australia have designed
the handy 1.4 volt PORTABLE set. Light,
and complete, you can take it
anywhere you can walk. Equipped with
Portable Batteries, it is entirely
self-contained simply put it down,
switch it on and tune into your favourite
station. Could anything be simpler,
easier or more enjoyable? Take a 1.4 volt
Portable with you wherever you go
outdoors this summer.
U
s2>s
■
■ ■
3<i
S ■ -
Listen to the news of the day, enjoy your
favourite programme while you sunbake.
HH
xiS«3
mm
m
. •••
m
* ;V
‘itiM
m
mmmm
v'V
mm
When it’s too hot to stay indoors, take your
radio entertainment out into the garden . . .
m
gSi»
s . •
.
fmmmm
TT whole secret of the dry battery portable set
■ is the amazing 1.4 volt economy valve. Operat-
ing on a filament current no greater than that used
by an ordinary torch bulb, it permits of truly astound-
ing economy, extraordinary battery life. Nearly
every set manufacturer in the Commonwealth has
produced a 1.4 volt portable model, including Fislc
Radiola, His Master s Voice, Tasmaport, Hotpoint
Bandmaster, S.T.C., Breville, Stromberg-Carlson,
Airzone, Kriesler, etc., offering you an unequalled
selection—each one equipped with Eveready Port-
able Radio Batteries, because of their proven power
capacity, efficiency and all-round dependability.
Powered witk
'Roadside picnics are much more fun when
takes a 1.4 volt portable along.
EYEREADY (AUST.) PTY. LTD..
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
no-2118
TRADE-MARK
RADIO BATTERIES


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Doddy had a bit of a
selection west of the town from which
he made a pretty fair income. In time
he built a comfortable little house on the
place. A bachelor, the town saw little of
him, and the few visitors to his place
reported that his time was divided be-
tween working the farm and attending to
his pets, which were numerous and varied,
even to a three-legged goanna Doddy had
released from a trap. But the town saw
more of Doddy when Emma came to
work at Dolan’s pub. In the slow way
of the bush, their courtship gradually
progressed until Emma flashed a ring
and Doddy was interviewing the parson.
But within a week Doddy had retired to
the farm and Emma was minus the ring.
It was Doddy who gave the truth of it
later when Emma had departed for fresh
fields. “Yair,” he said, “she was a nice
sort o’ tart, that Emma, an’ would’ve
suited me down t’ the ground. But when
she comes out to me place an’ sees old
Ben the goanna asleep on the foot o’ me
bed she says it has to be her or Ben.
Well, I’ve had ol’ Ben a long time, an’
what I reckon is if a woman can’t put
up with a bloke’s cobbers then that’s all
about it. Let’s have another.”
* * * *
“Snoop”: Airminded small fry will
soon be in despair unless a suitable home-
grown substitute for balsa can be found.
The model-’plane industry is being hard
hit by the restrictions placed on this
American timber. There’s a good market
for the right substitute, but local timbers
don’t seem to fit the bill, unless the sting-
ing-tree suggested by “Atrax” (B.
10/4/’4O) is the goods. All varieties of
stinger that I ever sank an axe into were
as porous as a Gruyere cheese, useless for
anything, except perhaps as a substitute
for sponges.
* * * *
“Wang”: The good-looking young
hand had been working on the farm for
about six months when something came
under Dad’s notice. “That chap,” he said
to Mum one night, “I think he’s sparkin’
up t’ Mary. Sits there makin’ sheep’s
eyes at her. An’ she encourages him.”
“Well,” said Mum complacently, “he’s a
decent hard-workin’ young feller ; there’s
nothin’ against him. He’s just fell in love
with Mary, that’s all.” “I ain’t sayin’
I’ve got anything agin him failin’ in love
with her,” Dad grunted, sensing that sup-
port from Mum for any objection he
might have on the matter would not be
wholehearted, if forthcoming at all.
“It’s the way he’s alwus gawpin’ at her
gets my goat.” Mum chuckled. “You
useter look like that at me when you
useter come round to our place 30 year
ago,” she said, a twinkle in her eyes.
Dad looked a trifle confused for a
moment, then replied rather sheepishly:
“Well, I might’ve. But” —in a forlorn
attempt at defence —“yer wus a far
better-lookin’ girl then than Mary is.”
Mum chuckled again, but said nothing.
“Anyway,” continued Dad, striving
valiantly, “I dunno what Mary sees in
him.” Mum smiled. “That’s what my
dad useter say about you 30 year ago,”
she said. Dad snorted. “Did he?” he
said. “The measly ole nark. Tryin’ t’
put a sprag in a feller’s wheel. The mean
ole” He paused suddenly, looking
foolishly at Mum. Rising, he reached
for his hat. “I think I’ll go an’ see how
the sick mare’s gettin’ on,” he said, and
bustled out.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: On the night of his first
payday, Mat came back to the road-
construction camp a bit under the
weather. The boss, an earnest sort, took
him apart and read him a lecture on the
folly of booze, finishing up with the warn-
ing “Unless y’ take a pull it’ll get y’ in
the end, you see if it don’t.” Mat teetered
“And are all the hens females, Mrs. Brown ?”
on his feet, gravely contemplated the boss
and nodded solemnly. “Y’re dead right,
boss,” he said ; “it got me ol’ man. He
used t’ go f’r it pretty strong. A bottle
o’ whisky a week, then a couple a week,
till the time come when he couldn’t do
without it. An’, like y’ said, it got him
in the end. One night he come home as
drunk as Chloe, an’ the next day he was
dead. He was only ninety-three, too.”
* # * *
“Turon River”: Passing the crow-trap
on my first time over the paddock I
spotted two hefty wedge-tailed eagles
perched in a near-by tree staring
gloomily at the empty, grass-choked
trap. Thinking to get a little
revenge for a lamb slaughtered by
one of the fliers on the previous day,
I skinned four bunnies and threw them
into the trap. I got one bite within half
an hour. The paddock owner, informed,
was greatly relieved when told that I
hadn’t killed the bird. “Good work,”
he said ; “that bloke’ll act as a decoy and
get more hawks in.” I forgot the inci-
dent until about six weeks later, when I
again passed the trap and saw the same
old eagle, still a prisoner with not a
vestige of food or water. I put him out
of his misery and stuffed him down a
hollow log. The following day the fresh
bait thrown in landed another whopper,
and convinced me of two things: (1)
The prince of fliers knows how to fast
rain and dews would provide water ; (2)
the “decoy” idea is a washout.
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: “Boarding-house biddies
are narks orrite,” growled Fretful Fred.
“I came in with a crook paw an’ asked
me landlady if I could have some hot
water with Condy’s crystals in it. Presently
out comes her slavey with a bowlful
for me. ‘Don’t forget to give yer missus
my thanks for the disinfectant water,’ I
told the girl. ‘Disinfectant be damned,’
said she. ‘That’s the fluid we boiled the
supper saveloys in.’ ”
* * * *
“Odd Pint”: I see be the papers where
some blokes from Singapore reckon
they’ve got a kind of lamp over there that
would stoush the Hexham Greys. 1
doubt it. Me an’ old Dick the Dasher
has knocked about a good bit, and we ve
met all kinds of skeeters, from Balranald
Boomers to Tatura Tigers, and reckoned
we had ’em tricked. Y’ see, Dick’s a
brainy old coot, and works out a mixture
t’ smear on our faces. It sets hard, and
no mosquito can get his stabber through
it. We’re camped at Mildura (Vic.) the
summer we tried it out, and people re-
marked on the number of skeeters about
with broken, blunted or bent proboscises.
Later on, we’re makin’ in through
Maitland (N.S.W.) to the coast, and
we hears about the Hexham Greys.
But we just laughed. One night
we camps near Raymond Terrace,
and just on dark we hears a low,
whirring sound, and looks up to see the
Greys chargin’ us. They landed, but
couldn’t make any impression, and me
and Dick snoozes off. Next mornin’
we’re covered with lumps. Yes, them
blankers had got the idea of getting one
to put his point down while two others
whirled him round and round, thus drill-
ing through our enamel. If any bloke
comes from Singapore with a lamp he’ll
have to be an Aladdin to stop the Hex-
ham Greys.
* * * *
“Cape Voltaire”: Yes, the Jap who
retrieved Harry Talboys’s lost pearl was
pretty keen (B. 25/9/’4O), but probably
the weirdest thing ever retrieved from
the nor’-west deeps was a helmet and
corselet picked up by another Nipponese
working out from Moss and Richard-
son’s station, near Broome, in Sept., 1917.
Opened in the light of day the helmet
yielded up a human skull. Then was
recalled the death of a diver who, some
three years previously, had gone down,
but only his broken life- and airlines had
come up. Sent down to investigate, an-
other Jap came up hurriedly with the
story of the water being alive with sharks.
Yet how strange that, on all the wide
acreage of the undersea, clothed, most
of it, with tall swaying weed and
shrouded in eternal twilight, another
human, groping half-blindly, should
stumble on so small an object as a
helmet and a corselet, pitiful evidence
of a grim tragedy.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: I wonder whether the
dead-marine dump at Ebagoolah on Cape
York Peninsula (N.Q.) has yet been sal-
vaged by some enterprising firm of bottle-
collectors for its modern glass value.
Covering half an acre and averaging 10ft.
or more deep, its components must have
held many thousands of pounds’ worth
of joy-juice in the roistering days of 50-
odd years ago. Contents had ranged from
fizz to squareface, imported German and
Yankee beer, ginger and mostly every-
thing in between. Some of their results
are still enshrined in N.Q. legend. For
example, the sad tale of Larry Geegan,
who fell down an abandoned shaft while
navigating back to his camp, found a reef
which exposed gold when he awoke, but
after getting out and sobering up couldn’t
locate the hole again. He searched for
weeks, then found, to his disgust, that an-
other follower of Bacchus had meanwhile
fallen down the same hole, but had not
forgotten its whereabouts and was taking
a small fortune out of it.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: Contemplating the abo-
riginal, I am moved to wonder just how
he conceived the idea, so fortunate for
the white invader: “Black man die, jump
up white man.” As a kid I heard it in
Victoria, and everyone knows that Buck-
ley, the wild white man of Port Phillip,
owed his survival to his aboriginal hosts
accepting him as the white reincarnation
of one of their ancestors. Arrived on
the western side of the continent, I found
the legend held sway there also among
the tribes from the Bibbulmun of the
south-west to the peedongs of the desert
east of Broome. W.A.’s first Governor,
Captain Stirling, was constantly embar-
rassed in his dignity by an ancient dame
of the Perth tribe who persisted in claim-
ing him as her long-dead son, now come
alive again “white pfeller.” The Aztecs
of Mexico believed something similar —
that their god Quatzalcoltz, who had
given them their civilisation, would some
day return as a
white man. Hence
the welcome ex-
tended to Cortez
and his band of pre-
datory Spaniards.
But the Maori had
none of it. To
him the arriving
white man merely
represented cheap
meals.
* *
“Groper”: So
“Carapace” doesn’t
believe in 50ft.
waves (B. 2/10/’4O).
Well, it certainly is
hard to get the
wave to stay still
while one puts the
footrule on it, but
here are a few
ideas on the sub-
ject: S.S. Koom-
b a n a measured
340 ft. from stem
to stern; 47ft.
beam ; 27ft. front
main deck to keel.
Engines, 3000 h.p.
In March, 1912,
she left Pt. Hed-
land for Broome,
sailing into the
teeth of a rising
cyclone. Never
heard of again.
Didn’t strike a
reef, there being
no reefs where
she went. How high the waves
that drove a vessel that size under by
sheer weight of water? Ten years later
s.s. Kangaroo, about half as big again as
the Koombana, struck a similar blow
off Broome. With two sea anchors out
and everything battened down she
weathered it, but lost everything shift-
able from bridge and deck. All the time
she steamed full speed ahead but actually
was driven back more than 50 miles.
In the 1920’s the W.A. Government sup-
plied Beadon, otherwise Onslow, with
a new jetty, £lOO,OOO-worth of con-
crete, warranted indestructible. Came the
usual blow, and the outer half of that
jetty went, chopped down as though by
a giant’s club. What size waves did that
job? And what size wave lifts a lugger
and deposits it 100 yards beyond normal
high-water mark, an occurrence too
common to excite more than passing
notice?
* * * *
“Burra”: “Bogaduck’s” reference (B.
4/9/’4O) to the extraordinary range of
sound recalls the loudest noise ever heard
on earth—the explosion accompanying
the eruption of the volcano of Krakatoa,
lying in the Sunda Strait, which occurred
on April 27, 1883. It was followed by a
tidal wave which resulted in the * os s °j
over 36,000 lives. The effect of the tidal
wave was felt in the English Channel,
over 11,000 miles away, while the noise
of the explosion was heard in Rodriguez,
some 3000 miles off. Reverberations
were also felt in Southern Queenslan .
WOMAN OF THE PLAINS.
The train is racing west again, is racing west
with me;
I know the west is waiting there to set my
sorrow free.
The growing shadows on the plains, the great
white evening star,
The long dim silence of the dusk, the whisper-
ing of belar,
All these and more I know and love beyond
the blue-wreathed range,
All these and more will strive to hide the
knowledge of the change.
But I will know the secret pain, though steady
be my lip,
Since my heart went laughing lightly up the
gangplank of a ship.
The train wheels sing their rolling song, so
like the rhythmic beat
Of hooves upon the road from school when
frost lay on the wheat.
He was so brown from sun and wind, so like
a colt and quick;
He knew the way the plovers have, he knew the
wild duck’s trick.
I hear him shouting in the rain or laughing in
the dark,
Or see him tap a captured frog to “hear the
beggar bark.”
And well I know what thoughts he had, be-
hind the grin and quip,
When my heart went laughing lightly up the
gangplank of a ship.
So tall he grew, his strength aflame and golden
in his eyes—
No ancient god had walked like this, ’neath
burning Grecian skies —
The earth her furrows turned for him, her
harvests freely raised,
And, slow and warm like bushland noons, his
voice her bounty praised.
This was my pride: That I had lived, the
plains and I had made
The seal and sign of a country’s hope that
never the years can fade.
My pride was in the look he gave, in the
strength of his final grip,
When my heart went laughing lightly up the
gangplank of a ship.
The great ships left the harbor’s calm and
moved to the deep sea’s surge,
And trailed their farewell plumes of smoke
to the far horizon’s verge.
And west I go on the racing train, west to
the plains again;
To the dear skies that knew him well and the
stars that know my pain.
The wheat is ripe in the paddocks and the
western breeze is dry,
And I am strong with the western strength—
but not when the curlews cry.
There’s a star out there like a homestead lamp,
above the moon’s sharp tip,
Where my heart goes laughing lightly on the
outward-going ship.
N.S.W.
F. B.


“Aratta”: Dad came into the cow-
yard to find the hand, a city youth,
hopping about rubbing his shins and
cursing. The milk bucket, with a dent in
it, lay in the middle of the yard, and
Strawberry was jerking about frantically
in the bail. “What the devil’s happened
here?” yelled Dad. The hand stopped
massaging himself and said angrily, “The
blarsted ole she-devil’s gorn mad. She
kicked me half a dozen times while I was
gettin’ ready t’ milk her.” “Why the
hell didn’t yer leg-rope her first, y’ fool?”
cried Dad. “I tried to,” said the hand,
“but it seemed t’ make the ole blighter
madder.” “Well, something’s upset her,”
replied Dad, puzzled ; “she’s usually quiet
ernough t’ milk. Sure yer ain’t been beltin’
her?” “Beltin’ her?” echoed the hand
in an anguished voice, rubbing some
more sore spots. “Gripes, it’s her been
doin’ all the beltin’! ” “Where’s that leg-
rope?” barked Dad. He deftly slipped it
around Strawberry’s leg, pulled it
back into the required position, and
knotted the other end of the rope to a
post. The hand watched the operation
with goggling eyes. “Cripes! ”he said, as
Dad straightened up, “is that what you
do with the thing? Lumme! I’ve been
tryin’t’ hobble both her hind legs t’gether
with it!”
* # * *
“James W.”: Binghi, probably the
most remarkable gorger of the human
family, has to bow to Fido when it comes
to meat stowage. A 1501 b. abo. has been
known to scoff 101 b. of meat at a sitting.
Fair enough effort, but two staghounds
and a staghound-kelpie of my acquaint-
ance, average weight 531 b., surrounded
221 b. of veal in under two hours. I’ll
never forget it, because they crawled
under the hut that night to do the carpet-
snake act and sleep it off, and no amount
of bellowing or prodding with a pole
elicited anything but protesting grunts.
* * * *
“White Moleskins”: Not always oblo-
quy attaches to soil erosion. Was once
a member of a navvy flying gang between
Coward Springs and Beresford (S.A.)
when the train ran fortnightly. About
four miles from the hut we found a two-
mile cutting choked with sand about the
consistency of white pepper—though we
didn’t call it white. Not an inch of the
rails was visible. As the train was due
in 12 days the ganger sooled us on to
dean out the cut. The temperature would
have been 117 in the shade if there had
been any shade. A scorching wind kept
the pepper moving in ripples; the water
was undrinkable, the flies unspeakable
and the tucker filled with grit. After
four days of dry cleaning we were all
sick, and there was more sand than when
we started, so the ganger gave us a
spell in the hut. After three days of
non-stop duststorm we set out again
with only five days to go before the train
was due. When we got there the sleepers
from end to end of the cut were swept
dean and the rails shone as if they had
been sand-blasted.
* * * *
‘'Bad Australian”: “I’m lookin’ round
me crop ter see w’en I’ll ’aveter put the
reaper-an’-binder inter it,” said Dad
Barbwire, “w’en a weary-lookin’ knot-
Pusher shuffles up the road, dumps ’is
sw ag in the dust an’, after bitin’ me f’r
“Stop kneelin' there like a prayin' mantis an' give us a hand with the bailin' .”
a pipe o’ terbaccer, taps me f’r a job.
I’m goin’ ter plough the stubble in as
soon as I gets the crop orf, so I tells ’im
’e’s on a job o’ ploughin’, but ’e sez ’e
ain’t never done any before, so I tells ’im
I got a bit o’ fencin’ ter start ’im on.
’E sez ‘I ’ates ter raise objeckshuns,
mister, but I ain’t no good at sinkin’
post’oles ’count o’ a crick in me back
wot ’urts somethin’ fierce w’en I stoops.’
‘Aw, well,’ sez I, ‘wot about a bit o’
grubbin’ an’ burnin’ orf? ‘l’m orful
sorry, mister,’ sez ’e, ‘but that’s w’ere
the cricked back gets me agin ; an’, any-
’ow, stump-grubbin’ makes me ’ead ache
like ’ell.’ So I sez to ’im, ‘I don’t seem
ter ’ave a job t’ fit yer, but if yer goes
up the road as fur as old Australorp’s
’e might ’ave a job f’r yer.’ ‘Wot kinda
job?’ ’e asks, givin’ me a calkilatin’ sorta
look. ‘Well, ’e might put you on to
a settin’ o’ eggs,’ I sez.”
* * * *
“Merrangbaur”: “Poets!” snorted Bert
the barman. “We ’ad one onct in the
Anglers’ Club. Never again! This bloke
don’t seem to do much fishin’, but ’e
pays ’is way an’ don’t try to read us ’is
pomes, so we puts up with ’im. One
Sund’y we’re goin’ down the bay early,
an’ this poet bloke Rudolph says ’e’ll
come too. Seems ’e wants to see the
dawn burstin’ from the ocean’s bosom
or somethin’. Before we gets out of the
Yarra Rudolph’s dead crook on it, an’
only comes alive when we takes the
crown seals orf our mornin’ tea. They’re
bitin’ well, an’ even Rudolph pulls in a
few. After lunch it’s so ’ot even ’is nibs
loses ’is enthusiasm for sunlight. We ’as
another ’elpin of lunch, tosses out the
empties an’ settles down for a snooze,
leavin’ Rudolph, who’s writin’ ’ard, to
see we don’t drift too far. Old Shandy
McGuinness, who’s been givin’ the lunch
a terrible ’idin’, is down to it an’ snorin’
’ard inside a minute. I’m first awake, an’
it’s nilly dark, a half-gale’s blowin’, we’re
shippin’ a foot of water an’ Rudolph’s
stretched on the cabin scribblin’ away be-
side the port ridin’ light. We ain’t far
orf the beach be the sound of the
breakers, an’ it looks like Queenscliff lyin’
ahead, though there’s only a couple of
lights showin’. We just ’ad enough juice
to make it.” Bert wiped down the bar.
“Poets!” he growled. “Well, that one
got what ’e wanted.” “How?” I asked.
"I'll say this for Henry — he's where he is today through his own initiative."
innocently. “’E saw dawn burstin’ from
the ocean’s bosom all right. So did we —
from King Island, ’alfway to the Speck! ”
* * * *
“Cou”: The white-ant is commonly
thought to feed on wood alone, but that
is only the half of it. Wood is cellulose,
and no animal can digest that material.
The termite gets over the difficulty by
harboring a stomachful of half a dozen
varieties of protozoa. These bacteria
assimilate the cellulose, multiply and die
rapidly. Their corpses are the termite’s
tucker. It is thought that some billion
years ago the white-ant fed omnivor-
ously, but there came a time of want
when only wood was available for food.
Those termites, “diseased” with protozoa,
were alone able to survive, and so the
fashion started. If Europe has many
more wars it is possible the resultant
famines and disease epidemics will equip
man with a stomach enabling him to eat
and digest the bacteria-filled soil of his
Fatherland.
* * * *
“Chink”: If one may say so, The
Bulletin’s Service Department got off
the track for once in stating that three
species of Australian birds had become
extinct since white settlement began, and
that one of them was Nestor productus,
the Phillip Island parrot. Actually, the
Phillip Island in question is not the one
off the coast of Victoria but the speck
lying out near Norfolk Island (the two
are frequently confused), and Nestor pro-
ductus has never been seen in Australia
except as a captive. Possibly the last one
known here was a specimen which John
Gould, the English birdman, records
having seen in a cage in Sydney exactly a
century ago. But the night parrot
(Geopsittacus occidentalis ), is certainly not
extinct; small numbers have been re-
ported twice recently by dwellers in Cen-
tralia. It is true that certain other species
that were once fairly abundant have be-
come exceedingly rare during the last
hundred years; but the only ones that
are known definitely to have slipped into
“the nothing all things end in” are two
kinds of emu which had established them-
selves on Kangaroo Island and King
Island respectively.
* * * *
“J.E.S.”: Four cats went with the prop-
erty bought by a Moora (W.A.) cocky,
and in little time the family had multi-
plied to 17. For a while the cocky con-
sidered that their usefulness in keeping
down rodents in the barn and hay shed
outweighed their nocturnal disadvantage,
but during a spell of nerves the wails and
fights of the 17 got him on the raw.
Deciding to settle their hash in one go,
he dropped a piece of cyanide as big as
a walnut in the dish of left-over
milk usually set out for the tribe
in the evenings. It was with no
little relish that he saw them
stagger over to the barn, after they
had lashed into it with their usual
vigor. Up early next day for the
obsequies, the cocky was greeted outside
the back door by the whole 17, groggy
but thirsty and far from dead. The
milk had acted as an antidote to the
poison.
THE CALL.
I'm back in the hills again, to stay
In the freedom of wind and star,
For an engine called in the yards one day
As we drank in the Buffalo bar
“Away!” the engine called, “Away!”
We were railwaymen from our northern home,
From the west and the far-off south —
Noses buried in fragrant foam,
Ice-cold beer in each mouth —
Men from the tracks where the steel rails run
Through frosty mountain vales;
From the desert roads where the noonday sun
Beats down with its scorching flails.
Gathered together by plain or chance,
We’d met in the Buffalo bar,
Where the little devils of laughter dance
And the imps of mischief are.
We’d sworn we would never go west again,
Or south or east or north:
Let other men toil in the sun or rain,
Let sillier fools go forth!
Then over the way in the Redfern yard
A galloping engine yelled ;
With throttle open arid pulling hard,
Like a buffalo bull she belled,
Gathering speed for the roads that run
Where freedom’s pennons fly,
Where nights are velvet when day is done —
“Hi-yi!” she howled, “Hi-yi!”
And we suddenly saw the roads reach out
In the shimmering summer glare,
Or twist by grades where the funnels shout,
Long leagues from anywhere,
Where we watch the tracks for them to go
To Booligal or Bourke . . .
Saidmy lanky mate from Ivanhoe,
“I’m kickin’ off back to work.”
And so I’m back in the bush today—
He’s out ’neath the desert stars,
Since a western engine called that day
With a load on her coupling-bars . . .
“Away!” the engine called, “Away!”
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should he expected to become your
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence.
The Symbol of
Security!
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria)
2 O’Connell SYDNEY.
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
>9*
S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ; J. Beresford Grant (Vice-
airman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; Hon. Colin A. Sinclair, M.L.A.;
E. Heath, C.M.G. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING ~&TSMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends \
Ist 2nd
Net Piet. Pref.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7i p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
£ £ £ £, £i
1930.. 73,742 9000 18,750 7 p.c. = 42,000 304,489
1931.. 49,973 9000 18,750 4 „ „ 24,000 362,712
1932.. 72,056 7750 15,234 5 „ ~ 30,000 381,784
1933.. 93,394 9000 18,750 8 „ ~ 48,000 399,428
1934. .109,103 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 60,000 420,841
1935. .121,777 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 60,000 454,868
1936. .140,148 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 60,000 513,266
Share premiums, £99,933.. .. .. 613,199
1937. .165,049 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 64,164 686,334
Share premiums, £67 .. .. .. 686,401
1938. .170,087 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 79,750 755,588
1939. .172,503 9000 18,750 10 ~ ~ 81,000 819,401
1940. .207,053 9000 18,750 10 ~ ~81,000 917,704
First profs, reduced to 6 p.c. and seconds to 5.8 p.c.
under Interest Reduction Act from Oct. 1, 1931,
till July 31, 1932.
“So far we in the retail trade have not
been affected by the war, and that....
applies generally to Australia,” says
chairman Charles Lloyd Jones. During
the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts there was more money about,
owing to contract sales of our surplus
wool, wheat, metals, dairy produce, etc.,
to Britain at very satisfactory prices, and
to Government spending on war and
other account locally. Together \vith a
high level of employment, due to absorp-
tion of personnel into the fighting services
and to increased factory production of
war goods, this spelt keen demand for
retailers. They thus picked up on the
swings more than they lost on the round-
abouts. Also, for the first time, D.J.’s
got the full benefit of trading from the
co.’s new Market-street store. Turnover,
which received a nice lift from Navy,
Army and Air Force clothing require-
ments, shot up to the highest point yet.
And a tight hold was kept on outgoings,
the ratio of exes, to turnover being lower
than for the previous term —a tribute to
the quality of the control.
Difficulties associated with imports,
especially of high-grade fashion goods
these troubles will continue to
grow —haven’t done the co. any harm ;
many lines previously bought overseas
are now made in the co.’s own factory,
where over 1900 persons are employed,
and a lot more attention is being given
to style and design, while larger quan-
tities of Australian materials are being
manufactured into garments. A line
which will call for shrewd buying in the
future is cotton goods ; petrol-rationing
will create some problems on the delivery
side, especially in connection with goods
on appro., and taxation and other costs
can be expected to continue their ad-
vance. But it will probably not be until
arrival of the post-war period that the co.
will meet with the toughest nuts it will
have to crack.
After setting aside a larger but unspeci-
fied amount for the taxgatherer, allowing
£59,456 (up £549) for depreciation and
sending £lO,OOO (same as in the previous
term) to the staff fund (now £61,091),
there was a sharp spring of £34,490 in
net earnings, which attained a peak of
£207,053. This was enough to pay both
lots of prefs. (150,000 6 p.c. firsts and
250,000 1\ p.c. seconds) their full contract
rates and show an attractive 22.1 p.c.
on the £BlO,OOO of ord. capital, compared
with 17.8, 18.5, 21.3, 19.7, 15.6, 13.5,
10.9 and 8.7 p.c. back to 1932. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the year’s profit was equal to 9.7
p.c., so the pref. money is earning more
than its keep. The ord. div. remained at
10 p.c., and the market doesn’t expect
anything better at the moment, notwith-
standing the wide margin between earn-
ings and distributions.
Since the beginning of 1940 the pound
ords., covered by 425. Bd. in net tangibles,
have fluctuated between 355. and 235. in
the market. At 345. 6d., the figure last
week-end, the return is a satisfactory 5.8
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Around 255.
9d. each the first and second prefs. yield
4.7 p.c. and 5.8 p.c. respectively. The net
tangible backing is £l4 3s. Bd. firsts and
£7 18s. 3d. seconds.
The outstanding feature of balance-
sheet movements has been heavy pur-
chase of stocks, which, of course, is
sound business on a rising market:
1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital . . £1,125,957 £1,210,000 £1,210,000
S'undry creditors.. 278,097 391,878 017,408
Mortgages, etc. . . 002,207 652,215 632,132
Total liabilities. £880,304 £1,044,093 £1,249,540
Freeholds .. .. 1,302,369 1,600,047 1,597,650
Plant, etc. .. 351,906 488,262 430,741
Stocks . . . . 552,333 579,998 859,335
Book debts .. 400,752 433,962 502,404
Investments, cash, etc. 137,231 34,360 t 53,747
To carry an extra £279,337 of stocks,
add £68,502 to debtors’ balances, £19,387
to investments and cash, and snip £20,083
off mortgages, the board increased the
amount coming to trade creditors by
£225,530 and reduced the book value of
fixed assets by £59,918. Including stocks,
the year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£166,006) was
£161,779. It all augurs well for main-
tenance of a satisfactory level of earn-
ings during the current term.
Peters American Delicacy Co., Ltd.
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Unexplained additions, £81,432 .. 446,795
1930.. 65,239 13J p.c. = 55,929 9,310 456,105
Unexplained additions, £35,444 .. 491,549
1931.. 43,716 10 p.c. = 42,583 1,133 492,682
Written off investments, £25,000 .. 467,682
Unexplained additions, £32,482 .. 500,164
1932.. 22,779 10 p.c. = 42,583 480,360
Written off investments, £12,435 .. 467,925
Unexplained additions, £19,434 .. 487,359
1933.. 32,266 7.8 p.c. = 31,937 329 487,688
Unexplained additions, £34,779 .. 522,467
1934.. 43,383 10.7 p.c. = 42,583 800 523,267
Unexplained additions, £32,944 .. 556,211
1935.. 55,720 10.7 p.c. = 42,583 13,137 569,348
Unexplained additions, £28,847 .. 598,195
1936.. 68,517 12J p.c. = 49,681 18,836 617,031
Depreciation reserve, £20.276 .. 637,307
Unexplained reduction, £24,388 .. 612,919
1937.. 109,320 16 p.c. = 63,876 45,444 658,363
Added depreciation res., £21,277.. 679,640
1938.. 113,491 8.9 p.c. = 35,486 78,005 757,645
Added depreciation res., £26,434.. 784,079
1939.. 96,812 8.9 p.c. = 35,486 61,326 845,405
Goodwill ( £i25',250), freeholds, etc.,
sold to subsidiary, and £397,446
of bonus scrip issued from profit . . 870,655
Depreciation reserve disappears,
£453,423 417,232
Div. on bonus shares, £70,972 .. 346,260
1940.. 87,537 8.9 p.c. = 72,991 14,546 360,500
After carrying the row about bonus
scrip from one Australian court to an-
other and then to the Privy Council,
shareholders composed their differences,
and the board went ahead with its
original proposals, agreed to by a
majority in 1937. So, during the last
term, the freehold, goodwill and most of
the plant were sold to a subsidiary,
Peters Ice Cream Pty., formed for the
purpose, and £397,446 of the profit on the
deal was capitalised on a paid-up-capital
basis, pound for pound.
In addition £39,414 of cash-paid capi-
tal was gathered, mostly by calling an-
other 4s. Bd. on the contribs., making
them called to 9s. 4d. each and leaving
4s. Bd. per share (£39,491) still at call.
That made paid capital £834,306 when
the books closed. The cake had an extra
coat of cream, too, 8.9 p.c. p.a. (£70,972)
being paid by way of divs. on the gift
scrip as from 1937, when the div. on the
old scrip had been lowered from 16 p.c.
to 8.9 p.c., which now becomes equal to
17.8 p.c. on old holdings. Moreover, the
bonus scrip was tax-free. In the adjust-
ment of accounts, the old depreciation
reserve of £453,423 disappeared ; much
of it appears to have been genuine profit.
The question that now arises is whether
gift-distribution has been overdone. The
answer depends largely upon what a very
uncertain future holds, and that embraces
the course of competition as well as the
war and post-war economy. On the basis
of last year’s earnings, the present capital
structure is not top-heavy. One danger
lies in the possibility that the war might
ultimately call for severe curtailment of
expenditure on all but those things which
are essential to our war effort; another
and later one is the possibility of a sharp
shrinkage in national income, from taxa-
tion of which a swollen debt has to be
serviced.
Last term competition in the ice-cream
business in Sydney got more of an edge
on it. However, the co.’s creamery at
Taree is reported to be giving a good
account of itself ; it is now turning out
dried and condensed milk, as well as
supplying the subsidiary with cream, and
another £30,000 is to be spent on the ven-
ture, making total outlay thereon
£lOO,OOO. The offshoots in other States
are “doing business well above expecta-
tions.” After providing for taxation and
setting aside what looks like a liberal
£19,423 for depreciation—the subsidiary
provided a further £10,582 in its own
accounts —the net result was £9275 lighter
at £87,537, equal to approx. 10.5 p.c. on
capital as it now stands.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1935. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. £397,440 £397,446 £397,446 £834,300
Sundry creditors 29,522 80,841* 95,335* 57,736*
Freeholds, etc. 245,645 260,838 285,345
Plant, etc... 485,495 548,540 687,281 117,831
Shares workg. co. 783,046
Other shares,
etc. .. 152,926 149,300 212,051 158,311
Stock . . 19,495 25,447 39,897
Book debts. . 14,274 11,115 23,238 165,701
Cash.. .. 99,772 180,084 108,115 65,207
* Includes provision for taxation.
The growth of £436,860 in capital, the
disappearance of freehold and contrac-
tion of £569,450 in plant, together with
the appearance of shares in the working
co. and addition of £142,463 to debtors'
balances, are due mainly to creation of
the new subsidiary and the bonus-scrip
issue already referred to. The co. is very
well equipped financially. When the
books closed, cash alone more than
covered the outside debt.
Fears that competition might cut into
earnings sent the price of the f.-p. 14s.
shares down to 15s. lOd. a couple of
months back. Recent sales were at
21s. 6d., at which figure the return is 5.8
p.c. on an 8.9 p.c. div. basis. On the
same div. basis, the contribs. at 13s. 4d.
yield 6.2 p.c. Obviously the market doesn’t
expect any further call to be made on
these shares. The net tangible backing is
visibly 28s. Bd. per pound of paid capital.
Queensland Cement and Lime Co.
Net , Dividends N To Re- Re-
July, Profit. r~ Pref.—Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 30,064 10% 8% 8% = 20,502 9,562 28,976
1931.. 18,843 8 „ 6 „ 6„ „ 15,601 3,242 32,218
1932.. 15,831 8,, 6 „ 6„„ 15,601 230 32,448
1933.. 15,725 8 „ 6 „ 6„ „ 15,601 124 32,572
1934.. 21,078 9,, 7 „ 7„„ 18,051 3,027 35,599
1935.. 25,963 10 „ 8 „ 8„ „ 20,502 5,461 41,060
1936.. 20,779 9 „ 7 „ 7„ „ 18,052 2,727 43,787
1937.. 19,715 9 „ 7 „ 7„ „ 18,052 1,663 45,449
1938.. 20,838 9 „ 7 „ 7„ „ 18,052 2,786 48,235
1939.. 21,560 9 „ 7 „ 7„ „ 18.052 3,508 51,743
1940.. 20,833 9 „ 7 „ 7„ „ 18,052 2,781 54,524
Another 4s. a ton was chipped off the
price of the co.’s cement early in the last
term, making a reduction of £1 9s. a ton
since 1927, mostly in the past half-dozen
years. The co.’s selling charge for ton
lots is now £4 145., as against £4 17s. 6d.
in Sydney.
Latest cut is the outcome of continued
growth in output, a plant modernisation
and extension programme which has cost
more than £lOO,OOO over the past two
years, and the use of coral from the co.’s
own leases on Mud Island, Moreton Bay,
where supplies are practically inexhaust-
ible, in manufacture of the whole output.
The costs-reduction means that the co.
is now in a position to meet competi-
tion from any quarter, inter-State or
overseas —the latter has never been great,
and is non-existent at the moment —
according to chairman P. J. Symes.
The co. is the only cement manufac-
turer in the Sugar State. It took a decade
after the commencement of production
in 1918 for the ords. to get into the pic-
ture, but the position has since become
very comfortable. Last year sales
attained a new high mark. With more
efficient manufacturing, this combined to
offset the price-cut and the tendency for
many costs to rise, and net earnings were
maintained at a level only £727 lower,
despite heavier provision for depreciation
(£15,000, up £3000), tax and other con-
tingencies.
The £20,833 called profit was suffi-
cient to hand the ords. 6 p.c. and then
show 2.1 p.c. on total capital after meeting
the minimum pref. charges. Actually divs.
were maintained at 9 p.c. to the firsts
and 7 p.c. to the seconds and ords., those
rates including an all-round 1 p.c. bonus.
The new kiln opened in May has in-
creased capacity of the Darra works to a
figure “ample for all present needs” —
possibly for many years to come, too.
Recent expenditure has been nearly all
financed from the co.’s own resources:
1931. 1936. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £245,061 £245,061 £245,061 £240.061
Creditors* . . 8,057 15,965 46,520 43,382
Freehold, etc. 28,605 30,710 20,976 20,976
Plant, etc. . . 313,890 321,644 401,309 429,276
Stocks . . 50.816 37,811 53,167 <>6,3oh
Book debts . . 11,082 23,741 40,111 33,491
Cash, etc. . . 17,578 97,491 49,346 33,396
* Including- provision for taxation.
The chief earning asset appears at “cost,
less amounts written off” ; in addition, a
depreciation reserve of £218,532 has
been accumulated. Despite last year’s
modernisation and other outlay, the con-
traction in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£89,864) was only £6239.
The £245,061 of capital is in 44,878
first 8 p.c. and 182,183 second 6 p.c.
cum. prefs., both participating point for
point with the ords. beyond 6 p.c., and
18,000 ords., all of £1 each. At 31s. 6d.
and 265. respectively, the firsts and
seconds on the basis of last year’s divs.
yield 5.7 p.c. and 5.4 p.c. The net tan-
gible cover is £6 13s. 6d. firsts, £1 7s. 1 Id.
seconds and £4 os. 7d. ords. Any falling-
away in ordinary State “works” is ex-
pected to be made up for by defence
spending.
Australian Knitting Mills (Melb.)
( Dividends , To Re— To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Old. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931 . . 31,003 74 p.c. 5 p.c. 27,221 3,782 162,649
1932 . . 27,138 74 „ 5 ~ 27,750 162,037
July,
1933*.. 24,538 74 „ 5 „ 27,750 158,825
Profit on sale of shares, £BBO3 . . • • 167,628
1934 . . 59,445 74 p.c. 74 p.c. 41,312 18,133 185,761
1935 . . 39,894 74 ~ 7 ~ 38,550 1,344 187,105
1936 . . 28,054 74 „ 7 ~ 32,583 182,576
Unexplained addition, £l7OB . . . . 184,284
1937 .. 19,070 74ip.c. 74 p.c. 14,906 4,164 188,448
1938 .. 18,848 74 „ 74 „ 14,906 3,942 192,390
1939 .. 17,656 74 „ 74 „ 14,906 2,750 195,140
1940 .. 28,736 10 „ 10 ~ 20,625 8,111 203,251
* Thirteen months.
A twofold increase in demand kept the
Richmond (Vic.) mills working at high
pressure last term —normally there is a
surplus of plant capacity in Australia for
the fine-knitted products in which the
co. specialises and that was a help
towards restraining the upward course
of unit costs. Most of the extra business
was the result of stocking up by retailers
and others. Defence bookings repre-
sented only a tenth of turnover ; but they
will occupy a much larger slice of work-
ing time in the current term, so another
busy year looks indicated, even should
the abnormal trade demand slacken down.
After writing off £10,815 for deprecia-
tion and appropriating £lO,OOO for taxa-
tion the latter was lumped with
“administrative exes.” at £3390 in 1939 —
the net result was the best since the
shaking-out of share interests four years
back, when the holdings of 308,000 Yarra
Falls shares and 25,000 in Austral Silk
and Cotton, together with £10,750 in
cash, were distributed among those on
the register as part-return of capital. On
capital as it now stands, the £28,736 (up
£11,080) ran out at 13.9 p.c., as against
8.5, 9.1 and 9.2 p.c. since the co. became
entirely dependent on its own manufac-
turing. Ord.-holders participated in the
higher profit to the extent of a further
2\ p.c., the all-round 10 p.c. sent out
leaving £Blll for reserves.
Deducting: the valuation placed on
goodwill (£25,000), these now stand only
£2999 short of the share-register total,
so that earning power on total share-
holders’ funds is still moderate. It indi-
cates something of the keenness of the
competition Golden Fleece and Kooka-
burra woollen under- and outerwear and
Golden Ray art.-silk garments and
hosiery have to combat.
As usual, finances are in fine trim:
1935. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £550,000 £206,250 £206,250 £206,250
Liabilities . . 22,525* 67,133* 20,642 44,472
Freehold! .. 109,511 112,840 110,104 110,023
Plant, etc. . . 72,005 102,042 96,397 86,284
Stocks.. .. 143,635 215,491 185,825 177,074
Book debts . . 45,520 42,177 29,985 53,781
Cash, etc. .. 15,998 1,040 11,325 50,552
Shares in assoc.
cos. .. 394,936 198
* Including tax provision.
Cash and Consols (together up £39,227)
alone exceed the debt by £5OBO, while
the surplus of all more or less liquids
moved up from £206,493 to £236,935.
In the current term the co. will be
paying even more for its raw materials
(including a loading of p.c. above
appraisement prices, as against a farthing
a pound last term, for raw wool), other
costs' are on a similar tack and taxation
is still an uncertain factor. Still, the
market expects the 10 p.c. div. to be
maintained, paying 1 Is. 3d. for the 7s. 6d.
ords., compared with Bs. 3d. 12 months
ago. On a 10 p.c. div. basis the higher


Public Notice.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES LIMITED.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
THE FIFTY-THIRD ORDINARY GENERAL
MEETING of Members will be held at the
Company’s Offices, 23 and 25 O’CONNELL
STREET, SYDNEY, on TUESDAY, 6th
NOVEMBER, 1940, at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS.
To receive the Directors’ Report and Balance
Sheet to 30th September, 1940.
To elect Two Directors in place of Mr. Cecil
Howe Doyle and Mr. Alfred Edward Bond,
who retire under Clause 81 of the Articles of
Association, and who offer themselves for re-
election.
To elect Auditors in place of Messrs. Robert
W. Nelson and Co., Chartered Accountants
(Aust.), who retire under Clause 124 of the
Articles of Association, and who are elegible
tor re-election, and to fix the amount of their
remuneration.
To consider any other business of which due
notice shall have been given in accordance with
the Articles of Association.
By Order of the Board,
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager.
Fermanem Trustee Building,
-v/? 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
23rd October, 1940. J
PATENTS.—Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and genera] engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists,
—Advt.
v * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attornevs, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10
0
0
0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend; Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Viyella
3SOH
rzvA
%&ss&
.
sm
&S
aIVH
me
GtiVGNVIS
Viyella Socks are available in a wide range of colours, includ-
ing regulation Khaki and Air Force Blue, @5/6 per pair.
THE FOOT RULE ABOVE IS YOUR
MEASURE BEFORE AND AFTER WASHING
IF THEY SHRINK WE REPLACE
mm.\
price yields 6.5 p.c. The net tangible
cover is 15s. 3d. The handful of 7y p.c.
participating prefs. aren’t listed.
North’s accounts record an even better
year than indicated in the preliminary pro-
fit-announcement. Including £75,000 (up
£45,000) tabbed for depreciation and
for stores replacement, the year’s
surplus was £520,338, as against £356,841
in 1939, so there was an interesting mar-
gin between earnings and the £280,000
distributed in divs. That was after allow-
ance of £105,000 more for taxation
and royalty (together £146,000). The
relative disparity between North’s and
South’s latest earnings reflects the for-
mer’s increased production. Thanks to
recent plant outlay, the North end of
the Barrier is now being burrowed into
in unprecedented style—probably not all
the benefit of last year’s £105,000
expenditure in this direction has yet
shown up, either —less and less metal con-
tinues to get away in the residues and
more ore is being opened up than is taken
out each year. For the duration of the
war the prosperity of the Barrier is
dependent mainly on the Imperial metal
contracts. These are assured for another
10 months at least, though a slightly re-
duced quantity of lead will be taken.
Spelter, the other chief mine product, is
in keen demand, but the lack of adequate
Empire smelting facilities may present a
problem.
* * * *
An official report by geologist J. H.
Reid is to hand on the Drummond Range
(Q.) oil-shale deposits (B. 16/10/’4O). He
wants to see more concrete evidence of
the seam before committing himself, but
points out that it may be of great signi-
ficance and may possibly shade N. S.
Wales torbanite seams. A weathered
sample 4ft. wide gave 44gal. of crude oil
per ton, but as it was perished stuff Reid
expects the fresh shale to go much better.
The prospector who bored the seam
under cover says it gave 6ft. to Bft. of
clean shale in each hole. Hugh Ander-
son, of Mantuan, seems to be interested
in the deposit, and it looks as if others
will be shortly. It’s mostly torbanite-type
shale, but some is canneloid. There’s a
good index bed available to plot out the
position of the hidden outcrop, as the
seam hardly makes a natural exposure.
Further proving is now in progress on a
line of shallow shafts.
* * * *
The old Hodgkinson goldfield (N.Q.),
one of the late Dr. R. L. Jack’s favorites,
is producing again in two of its oldest and
most reliable mines, the Minnie Moxhani
and the Tyrconnel. The latter has had a
crushing of 300 tons, averaging about
9dwt. fine gold per ton, from stone that
would average 4ft. to sft. through. Pick-
ing seems to be indicated to keep the
average up to commercial grade, but un-
doubtedly the old “Tryconnel,” as every
miner in N.Q. calls it, is the biggest lode
on the field and the one with the most
signs of permanency. Minnie Moxham
had a crushing of 50 tons for a shade
over an ounce per ton, and has another
50 tons in hand. Together they keep
some 30 men employed.
* * * *
Support for Sandy Creek, operating
along the tributaries of the Bulolo, in
New Guinea, is showing up. The co.
handled more wash in the year to April
30, but earned less owing to the lower
gold content, which reduced costs failed
to offset. Details from the start:
Year Treated, Yield, Costs, Net , Divs. ,
April, C.y. C.y. C.y. Profit.* Share. Amt.
1936 f. 21,370 3/9* £229 Nil Nil
1937.. 116,518 3/o* 1/7.8 5,216 Nil Nil
1938.. 196,500 2/5* 1/3.7 5,689 -/3 £7,750
1939.. 206,751 3/9 1/3.2 19,173 -/6 15,500
1940.. 232,017 2/5* -/11.4 11,736 -/4 10,333
* After writing off £3328, 1937 ; £3969, 1938 ;
£4804, 1939 ; £4557, 1940. t Four months.
Market activity at the moment is con-
nected with the acquisition of an option
over 330 acres of river flats and terraces
on the Bulolo, now under test. The co.’s
main area is of large extent, but as little
proving has been carried out because of
the prohibitive cost the outsider isn’t
able to see very far ahead. Co. also has
a small interest in the old Upper Watut
leases. When the books closed more or
less liquids exceeded the £1822 of debt
by £15,450.
* * * *
Spargo’s Reward (W.A.) reports head-
way. Profit for the year to June was
£11,182. After writing off past losses of
£5789, earmarking £2733 for depreciation
and paying the previous year’s directors’
fees (£300), £2344 goes forward. Liabili-
ties a year ago totalled £15,526, with no
funds to meet them. At June 30 they
had been reduced to £11,954, while a cash
balance of £5128, after adding £690 to
mine stores and spending £1896 on addi-
tional equipment, etc., had accumulated.
Mining of 16,000 tons of ore during the
year cost 225. 6.4 d. a ton, and treatment
of 30,000 tons of ore and sands 14s. 8.4 d.
a ton. Expenditure on development
totalled £2073, including £1404 for shaft-
sinking. Ore reserves are estimated at
16,660 tons actual of 6.B2dwt. grade and
11,500 tons probable of 7dwt. value.
Recent operations have given encourag-
ing results at depth, and working surplus
for July and August (£4841) enabled
clearance of one-half of the £7128 deben-
ture liability. A bank overdraft guaran-
teed by the directors which enabled funds
to be obtained to continue operations
when the co.’s till was practically empty
has been cancelled. The board is hopeful
of developing additional ore reserves right
away and of reaching the dividend stage
by and by.
* * * *
Ora Banda South’s enthusiasm about
the future of its distant Marble Bar
(W.A.) goldmine has waned. In July last
the manager spoke of seemingly unlimited
supplies of ore, and mentioned that
others, including Mines Department offi-
cials who had inspected the workings,
were greatly impressed with prospects.
Now the directors state that intrusion of
jasper has greatly delayed progress and
increased working costs, and that, in view
of the difficulty of exercising control and
supervision, they might decide to ask
shareholders’ permission to sell out and
look for something nearer at hand. Before
going to Marble Bar the co. unsuccess-
fully tried its luck at Ora Banda (W.A.)
and then at Mundubbera (Q.). On June
30 it had £lO9 in cash and owed £1384
for stores, wages, etc. There was also
£2747 outstanding on account of the
£5OOO purchase consideration.
* * * *
Burbidge, operating near Southern
Cross (W.A.), is offering shareholders at
a premium of Is. 20,000 of its 2s. reserve
shares, one for nine. Several well-known
Kalgoorlie mining men are interested in
the co. Treatment, begun in June, has
been satisfactory, and profitable work-
ing is reckoned assured. To meet addi-
tional expenditure on plant 50,000 reserve
shares were issued at par in May, and
in August 15,000 more were taken by
option-holders at a premium of 6d. The
directors recommend purchase of one
group of leases for £2200 this month, and
that of another for £950, payment to be
spread over the next four months. The
manager estimates future working costs
at 12s. a ton, plus Is. a ton for develop-
ment. Recoveries are expected to aver-
age 265.
* * * %
Blue Bird (W.A.) laid golden eggs to
the value of £63,898 during the year
ended June 30, compared with £70,120
for the previous 12 months. Respective
profits were £43,767 and £59,437. Hatch-
ing is still proceeding. Empress, a next-
door neighbor, collected £5413 in Blue
Bird dividends last year, and shows a
surplus of £4184.
* * * *
Equipment purchased by Freney Oil
has arrived in the West, and is expected
to reach the bore site very shortly. Mean-
while attempts are being made to cheei
up the market.
* * * *
Carbine and Groundlark, two hitherto-
unlucky Westralian triers, have exercised
options on goldmining ventures which
they have been prospecting for some time,
Carbine believes it has a prize in Bellevue,
at Ora Banda, for which it has paid
£ll,OOO, together with 30,000 paid shares,
In the last year 2767 tons from the prop-
erty yielded 20960 z. Groundlark is pin-
ning its faith to the Lily—by the way,
neither of nor in a valley. Vendors re-
ceived £15,000 cash and 6000 contributing
shares.
* * * »
“O.B.”: How many dealings in gold-
mining shares come under the heading of
gambling pure and simple? I reckon at
least 75 p.c. The average speculator
cares nothing and, in the case of the
small man, rarely knows anything about
intrinsic values or prospects of perma-
nency. He looks for a market profit, the
bigger the better, on his speculation in a
minimum period. He is ready to swallow
reports with unfavorable points left
out. Experienced mining men are
not so easily caught. They are
generally shrewd judges of mining
speculations. Wandering around the gold-
fields in America I found that if a mine
there was any good the promoter and/or
his friends generally worked it without
calling on the public for financial aid.
Many profitable goldmines in the United
States are in the hands of a few holders,
sometimes only one owner. When they
show signs of exhaustion they are fre-
quently put on the market. Occasionally
there is sufficient ore left to enable divi-
dends to be paid almost from the date of
flotation. This greatly impresses the
credulous public. But before the end
comes the promoter and his associates
ha . v< r 8 0t out and B one on their
rejoicing,
BRIEF ANSWERS,
1.G.R. : Not now. War has put a brake
on home- and other building, changing the out-
look somewhat for those dependent thereon.
J.H. : The Harrietville (Tronoh) dredge will
dig 350,000 c.y. monthly to 130 ft.


OUT OF THE
PAST
J-H-M. ABBOTT.
Dutch Australia
ALTHOUGH the mainland of Aus-
tralia is divided up into provinces
inhabited mostly by Britishers who
have called themselves, or been
called by other Australians, Cornstalks
(N.S.W.), Sandgropers (W.A.), Crow-
eaters (S.A.), Gumsuckers (Vic.) and
Bananalanders (Q.) in that order of
seniority, the fact remains that the people
of Westralia, with their somewhat insult-
ing and libellous nickname, dwell in a
part of the continent that was known to
Europe nearly 200 years before the Corn-
stalk State came into existence. The
975,000 square miles occupied by the
Sandgropers has a historical seniority to
the remainder of the Commonwealth that
is outstanding.
In 1627 a Dutchman named Gerritsz
drew a chart of the western coastline of
the continent which is the earliest known
to have been engraved and published,
and according to this the first discoveries
of Dutch navigators along Australian
shores ran as follows.
Dirck Hartog, in the Eendracht, sailed
into Shatk Bay on October 25, 1616, and
afterwards explored the coast between
26deg. 36min. south latitude. On the
northern extremity of Dirck Hartog’s
Island (Cape Inscription) he planted a
post with a metal plate affixed to it on
which was engraved a record of his visit.
Almost a year and a half later (May 11,
1618) the Zeewolf made a landfall in the
neighborhood of 21deg. 15min. south,
and in July Lenaert Jacobez, in the
Mauritius, driven out of his course,
sighted land in 21deg.45min. south. At the
end of the month he landed on an island
whose most northerly point lay in 22deg.
south. This point has never been quite cer-
tainly identified, but the Willems River
marked on the chart recording the dis-
covery, and named after Supercargo Willem
Jansz, is supposed to be the Ashburton.
Frederik Houtman, in the Dordrecht,
one of a squadron which had sailed in
company from Holland, sighted land in
32deg. 20min. south on July 19, 1619,
and on the 29th came on a “level, broken
country with reefs all round it” which
was really the rocky isles and reefs that
Gerritsz marked on his map “Houtman’s
Abrolhos.” At the beginning of 1622 the
Leeuwin (Lioness) sailed round the s.-w.
corner of the continent, and examined
the coast as far as King George’s Sound.
Next year Jan Carstensz, with the Pera
and the Arnheim, made the notable voyage
which took him into the mouth of the
Endeavour Straits, his report of which
dissuaded the Dutch Government from
attempting to plant colonies on the main-
land of New Holland. These are the
voyages marked on Gerritsz’s chart.
Between 1627, when the Gulden Zee-
paart sailed round the Leeuwin and
examined the coast eastward for about
1000 miles, and 1642, when Tasman
found Van Diemen’s Land, Francis
Pelsart and others made various voyages
of more or less importance in these seas,
and after Tasman’s second expedition
in 1644, during the rest of the seventeenth
century there are irregular records of still
further Dutch discoveries. In 1696
Willem de Vlamingh, in the Geelvinck,
entered the Swan River. It was during
this voyage that he found the plate left
by Dirck Hartog at Cape Inscription 80
years before. Vlamingh took it to
Batavia, but replaced it with another on
which the old inscription was recorded
together with one of his own, and this
plate is now in the museum at Amsterdam.
This brief chronicle of the romance
of early Westralia brings us to the time
when an Englishman first came on to
its coasts. William Dampier is the
original “Sandgroper,” and the account
he has left of what a heartbreaking job
it is to search for water in sandy deserts
where there isn’t any is amongst the
classics of maritime exploration. Eight
years before Vlamingh’s voyage Dampier
arrived on the n.-w. coast as a member
of the crew of the pirate ship Cygnet,
and came there again 11 years after-
wards as captain of H.M.S. Roebuck.
From piracy to the Royal Navy is a
unique experience confined to Dampier,
though his short naval career was ter-
minated by a court-martial and “the
Order of the Sack.”
Ruaparaha
THE outstanding Maori personality
of the early nineteenth century
was, of course, the redoubtable
Hongi, first of his race to realise
adequately the great blessing conferred
upon mankind by the possession of fire-
arms.
He had been taken to England by the
pakehas, made, much of a lion by the
bucks and big-guns of the Regency, and
overloaded with valuable presents which
he quietly swapped for 300 Tower mus-
kets and the necessary ammunition. Then
he returned to his own country and
played merry hell on a lesser Napoleonic
scale. He revolutionised the principal in-
dustry of his compatriots, which was war.
But south of the Bay of Islands and
Hongi’s stamping-ground one of the
cleverest and most unscrupulous leaders
of his clever race began to be notice-
able, a gentleman named Ruaparaha. He
was the leader of a tribe with head-
quarters at Kawhia, on the west coast,
which stood in deadly fear of annihi-
lation by the Waikatos and had no fire-
arms. In 1817, however, Ruaparaha saw
the light. He had been on a raid which
swept through the North Island right
down to Cook Strait, where he had heard
of a pakeha trading centre in Queen
Charlotte Sound, across the waters. So
he decided to establish himself beside
it, and make of himself in the south
what Hongi had become in the north.
He gradually collected to his allegiance
one after another of the smaller tribes
who feared the Waikatos. The great Te
Heu Heu, overlord of the Taupo coun-
try, became his ally, and this added enor-
mously to his mana. He moved slowly
southward, sometimes overwhelming
those who stood up to him, and some-
times securing them as allies under
friendly treaty, until his following was
firmly established from the Wanganui
River to the Strait, where he selected
the island of Kopiti as his principal base.
When he had established himself in
this strategic position, Ruaparaha began
the invasion of the South Island. He
consolidated his territory across the
Strait, from Cloudy Bay to Tasman Bay,
by occupying the intervening country,
and thence began a series of sanguinary
and ruthless raids which extended as far
south as Akaroa.
His uncle was killed during an attack
on Kaipoi, and for this he took terrible
vengeance. Contriving to persuade the
master of a British ship—by suitable pay-
ment in flax —to transport a contingent
under his personal command, he arrived
in Banks Peninsula. When the ship
reached there Ruaparaha and his war-
riors hid in the hold, whilst the pakeha
skipper lured on board the chief of the
Kaipoi tribe and all his family, who were
detained on the ship. At dusk Ruaparaha
made a sudden attack on their village,
butchered everybody he found in it, and
brought their bodies on board to be
cooked in the ship’s galley. The chief
himself was tortured before being
knocked on the head.
It was this gory deed that roused
the authorities in Sydney to interfere in
the domestic politics of Maoriland. They
felt that they could hardly stand by and
see such bloody work carried out with
the active assistance of a British subject.
So eventually, in 1832, James Busby was
sent by the Colonial Office to be British
Resident in the islands. Ruaparaha had
been the means of starting British Maori-
land.
Busby’s powers were very limited. He
was expected to make bricks without
straw, and has never had the credit due
to him, but it is clear enough now that
he didn’t do so badly, considering his
handicaps. At any rate, he managed to
check some of the Napoleonic ideas of
conquest entertained by the enterprising
Ruaparaha.
Ensign Barrallier
Francis luis barrallier
died in London on June 11, 1853,
with the brevet rank of lieutenant-
colonel in the army, just half a
century after he left this country, but his
place in Australian history amongst that
dauntless band of pioneer explorers which
included Bass and Flinders makes him
altogether a celebrity of our own.
He was the son of a French emigre
who had been a surveyor in the British
Admiralty, and his own exceptional gifts
as a cartographer are a marked instance
of heredity. Arriving in Sydney with
Governor King in April, 1800, he was
appointed to an ensigncy in the N.S.W.
Corps in July. But his work was always
scientific rather than military, and his
first job in the colony was as architect
of a building designed for an orphan
asylum at Parramatta. Next year he
accompanied Lieutenant Grant, R.N., in
H.M.S. Lady Nelson, on a voyage south-
ward, and was almost wholly responsible
for the excellent charts of Jervis Bay,
Western Port and Bass Strait which re-
sulted. Later in the year, still in the
Lady Nelson, he charted the Hunter
River to a point nearly as far up as the
present Greta coalfields, and the Williams
to where the town of Dungog afterwards
came into existence.
In recognition of these services the
Governor appointed him engineer and
artillery officer to the garrison. King
regarded him highly, both for his rare
abilities and his personal qualities, and
convinced himself that in Barrallier he
had found a man who might succeed in
crossing the baffling ranges west of the
Nepean River and be able to find out
what lay beyond their further slopes.
At the time, however, his Excellency and
Lieut.-Col. Paterson, O.C. the Rum
Corps, were not on good terms, and, to
annoy the Governor, Paterson declined
to give leave to Barrallier to absent him-
self from his military duties.
But Captain King, a resourceful
seaman, countered this by appoint-
ing Barrallier his personal aide-de-camp
—a move which enabled him, with his
tongue in his cheek, to send the young
officer on a diplomatic mission to “The
King of the Mountains,” a purely hypo-
thetical personage invented for the
occasion.
So the mission set out from Parra-
matta on November 6, 1802. Four men
made up the personnel of his expedition,
and for transport there was a dray drawn
by two bullocks. They travelled to a
point about 40 miles up the Nepean
River from its junction with the Grose,
and slightly s.-w. of the present position
of Camden. Close to here Barrallier made
a surprising and important discovery.
“We entered a valley where there was
a herd of wild cattle. I counted 162
of them peacefully pasturing.” These
were descended from the four cows and
two bulls that had strayed away in the
earliest days of Phillip’s settlement on
Sydney Cove.
Barrallier never got across the moun-
tains, and no one else did for another
11 years. His journals, on this expedition
as on others, were kept with the greatest
care, and his astronomical observations
for ascertaining latitude and longitude
are as exact as if he had been at sea.
Nothing in the bush escaped him, and
his description of scenery and appraise-
ment of the country for settlement and
pastoral purposes are as accurate as they
are informative. The abos. were of the
most absorbing interest to him, and if
he had come across “The King of the
Mountains” we should have had a very
truthful and fascinating account of that
potentate, his manners and his customs.
As it was Barrallier left many good stories
of lesser lights amongst the original Aus-
tralians he encountered on his travels.
Thunderbolt
IN September, 1863, a prisoner named
Frederick Ward succeeded in accom-
plishing one of the few escapes made
from the penal establishment on
Cockatoo Island in Sydney Harbor. It
used to be a tradition that he swam across
to the northern shore of Port Jackson
in his leg-irons, but that may be taken
with a grain ot salt. Leg-irons in ’63
weighed heavy.
However, he got away to his native
valley of the Hawkesbury, and then into
the country about the head of the Hunter
River, the Liverpool Plains and the New
England districts. It was not until
seven years after his escape from the
island prison that his career as an outlaw
came to an end, when he was shot dead
near Uralla (N.S.W.) by Trooper Walker,
of the Mounted Police.
In the meantime, under the nom-de-
guerre of “Thunderbolt,” and for the
most part single-handed, he had levied
a highwayman’s toll. He robbed mail-
coaches, stores, stations and travellers
with a coolness and daring that made
him famous but, somehow, never got him
seriously disliked. One of the most
extraordinary features of his career was
his association with a good-looking half-
caste woman, who assisted him in various
ways and shared his lonely camps in the
ranges. She is said to have borne several
children to him, and was devoted to
him until the end of her life. He was
always good to her, and when she lay
dying in the ranges west of Muswellbrook
(N.S.W.) he risked everything to find her
shelter and human companionship.
But at last it came to a duel with
Constable Walker a few miles outside the
little town of Uralla, when the policeman
chased him, separated from his horse,
into a waterhole. Here they faced one
another, and “Thunderbolt” called out:
“Who are you?”
“Never mind who I am —surrender!”
“Are you a policeman?”
“I am. You surrender!”
“What is your name?”
“My name is Walker.”
“Have you a wife and family?”
“I thought of that before I came here.
You surrender!”
“No —I’ll die first!” cried Ward.
“Then it’s you and I for it!” Walker
shouted, and spurred his horse into the
waterhole.
“Thunderbolt” rushed forward and
tried to pull the trooper out of his
saddle, but luckily for Walker he still
had a round in his revolver. Just as
Ward was dragging him into the water
he managed to press the weapon against
his opponent’s body and pulled the
trigger.
With a scream Ward staggered away.
The heavy bullet had torn through his
right lung and come out through his
back. He lived only a minute or so.
It was never known what Ward had
done with the money stolen during the
seven years of his bushranging. Since
he had always worked alone it could
hardly have been used to subsidise sym-
pathisers or “bush telegraphs,” and it
was generally supposed he had planted
a hoard of treasure somewhere in the
mountains. It looks as if this were really
the case, for in 1890 a boy bird’s-nesting
near the Goulburn River found a pickle-
bottle in a cave known to have been
occasionally used by “Thunderbolt’
which contained a large number of bank-
notes. They were almost in a condition
of pulp, but the number-- of a few could
be made out. If it was Ward’s the hoard
was doubtless intended to be used as a
means of getting out of the country, but
Trooper Walker and Sergeant Death in-
terfered with that plan.
"Is this where Steve's gettin' married , mate?"


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
L*.
'niij
111
* HI Mi I
mmw
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W206! (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“When a person is unusually lazy, what is
the best thing for him to do?”— Correspondent.
Nothing.
❖ 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘Sheen navy’ is a new color announced for
women’s frock material.”
It should match perfectly the five-year-
old suits of those who will pay for it.
4* 4*
“Old talkie films are boiled down and con-
verted into patent leather for shoes.”
— “World’s News.”
Still squeaking and getting laced.
•i* *i* 4*
“Bloodvessels don’t burst so easily as many
laymen believe.”— Medical journal.
This is disheartening news for those
who have been trying to train their blood-
vessels to burst at will.
•J* 4* *i*
“Sarah Schwartz, of Hollywood, yells for a
living.”— Talkie guff.
Why blame Sarah alone, though?
Aren’t the theme-song composers equally
culpable?
+ 4* 4*
“Men may live 300 years.”— “World’s News.”
This will enable radio comedians of the
future to be as old as their gags.
•£• •£«•£• q.
Dressed to Kill.
“Careful budgeting provides a fair margin
for clothes even when the pay envelope isn’t
very fat.”— Woman’s paper.
It can be managed, but you’ve got to
be a keen student of form and figures, as
two consecutive losers give the gas money
a nasty shake. Women are positive
masters of the art of budgeting. My wife
needed two afternoon frocks, one dinner
gown, one spring coat, three pairs of
ihingumabobs and a bathing costume. So
she tripped along to Stingem’s and ticked
'em up to me.
I needed a suit, topcoat, hat, singlet,
socks and boots. So I enlisted.
P. O. M. C.
* *2* * *k
“Sometimes his wife refused to give him
any dinner.”
Cold-shouldering his pleas for food
’Twas tongue she named as winner ;
Dinning on subjects for his good
She was his dinner.
H. M.
“As the food situation deteriorates the ties
that bind the German masses to their guns-
before-butter masters will inevitably become
loosened.”— “D.T.”
One preconceived notion they’ll need to
revise:
As they tighten their belts so they loosen
their ties.
4* +
Peculiarly enough, it’s the shallow
women who get a man into deep water.
|J«
“An actor may appear on the screen for
years before the public and his studio wake
up to his merits.” — Woman’s paper.
Aren’t the last three words redundant?
4 1 4 1 4 1 4>
“Her husband used to tear up clothes if
asked to dig the garden or mow the lawn.”
—Plaintiff in divorce.
Less violent husbands merely tear up
the street to the pub.
4* 4* 4*
“Most short stories should have surprise
endings.” —Literary course.
The biggest surprise being when they’re
published.
“ We've got to run him—can't let the public down."
Stymied.
“If married men would only devote as much
time to their domestic affairs as they do to
golf there would not be so many unhappy
marriages.”— Women’s paper.
He was a mashie sort, and when he
saw her approach he knew she’d suit
him to a tee. It wasn’t long before he'd
persuaded her to drive down the fair-
way of matrimony with him. Her par
was all right, but her ma proved the
bogey. She caught him in a lie one
day and put him in the rough with his
wife. For a while he was bunkered, then
he gave her a bitter pill to swallow by
telling her that her daughter was nothing
but a cheap repaint.
Paton.
4* + 4*
“Ten years ago one of our well-known
jockeys was riding donkeys in Yugoslavia.”
—Sporting paper.
Some of his mounts now must make
him homesick.
A modern girl may not be pretty, but
her face is always something out of the
box.
+ 4* +
The trouble with many men is that
they don’t become high-spirited till the
spirits are getting low.
“All of life’s evils are worse when the
stomach is empty.”— Woman’s paper.
What about indigestion?
+ + +
A pessimist is a man who won't look
on the bright side of things in case he
gets eyestrain.
Appeal to Arms.
“No Spinsters in This War.”
—Newspaper poster.
They’d get engaged in days gone by,
And, though the lady yearned
To be a soldier’s wife, she’d sigh
And wait till he returned.
But now she weds her man before
He leaves to join the fray,
And thereby starts a private war
Without undue delay !
P. M.
Coda.
“Factory work can become very tedious,
and nothing helps to lighten the daily grind
like a spot of music. —“ Music Maker.”
The idea is all right provided you take
pains over the selection of the numbers
fo be played. When I introduced music
into my factory, where I produced arti-
ficial steering wheels for back-seat drivers,
f failed to take into account the fact that
in their movements the operatives natu-
rally fell into the rhythm of the music
amplified. Coming out of my mana-
gerial suite after playing “Fluke” Wel-
lington’s “Deep Sorrow Blues,” I was
astonished to find my employees over-
come by lethargy. Many of them, moved
by the mournful note expressed in this
composition, were quietly sobbing over
their work.
I thought to remedy this by playing
another of my favorite numbers, “Bats”
“White-hot Rag,” but so
terrific was the tempo that, before the
record ended, all but the hardiest of the
manual assemblers dropped to the floor
exhausted, their arms flailing wildly to
the last. Such was the shock to their
nervous systems that the works doctor
ordered them a month’s complete rest,
and the total compo. which an unmusi-
cally minded Beak ordered me to pay
allegro assai practically ruined the enter-
prise.
P. S. C.
Ashes of Success.
“Watch out for mealy bug when removing
plants from pots. Mealy bugs will not survive
a painting with methylated spirits.”
—Radio garden talk.
I decided to try the metho. method.
Catching the bugs was the hardest task.
Mousetraps failed to attract them, and
though I smeared the place with bird-
lime all I got were next door’s cat, a
hawk moth, the kid’s marbles and
black looks from the wife. However,
persistence has its own reward, and even-
tually I succeeded by disguising traps as
pot-plants, into which several of the mealy
things fell.
Painting them called for close and deli-
cate handling. Firmly gripping the bug
by its left antenna, I gave it a good coat
of metho. on back and sides, and was
about to turn it over for the stomach
treatment when a tiny yell attracted me.
Seven mealy bugs, showing their teeth
and dancing about in bellicose attitudes,
were coming straight at me. Then the
awful truth burst on me like a thunder-
clap—they’d been at the metho.! Getting
the family outside, I locked all the win-
dows and doors and set fire to the house.
That settled ’em.
CAULI LUPIN.
A Cow of a Time!
“Bottled milk costs. Breakages, losses
heavy.”— “S. M. Herald.”
I was stiff enough to have a milk run
in Darlinghurst. The regulation-shape
bottles kept disappearing, and I won-
dered why until early one morning I was
crowned with one of them that had been
filled with metal road screenings. They
were popular because they could be easily
kept in the hip pocket before use.
Increasing costs forced me to sacrifice
my weekly collection of beer bottles. The
customers didn’t mind the new-style
bottles, as resale to the bottle-o brought
down their milk bills. I was compelled,
however, to drink double my usual
amount of beer in order to keep up my
supply of empties, and my overdraft at
the pub was easily outstripping my re-
ceipts for the milk. I might have got
over that, but when my cows went dry
one day I milked the cerise giraffes in-
stead, and, the milk they gave being
very strong, I broke it down a bit. . It
was a health inspector with his stupid
adulteration test that finally put me out
of biz.
E. VERRELL.
I Was a Diplomat, I Think.
The Diplomatic Service! It has ever
a magic ring for me, that phrase, for I
come of a long line of diplomats.
Ever since Aubrey St. Buckhound, my
ancestor, established the tradition, the
ninth son of each generation of our
family has gone into the Diplomatic
Service. One, my grandfather, Sir Bohn-
dohm St. Buckhound, sacrificed his life
to it.
He was selected to smooth out some
difficulties that had arisen with the Pan-
jandrum of Ngaspa, in the Friendly
Group. He had instructions to pursue a
strict policy of appeasement, because a
war in that quarter would be unpopular
with the press because of the high cable
rates.
When Sir Bohndohm had outlined the
policy of the Foreign Office, the Panjan-
drum made threatening motions with
a spear. Sir Bohndohm threatened
to get a strong protest sent from
the F. 0., and with great dignity
informed the Panjandrum that savages
couldn’t lay violent hands on the sacro-
sanct person of an ambassador extraordi-
nary. He was still saying that when they
lit the pot under him.
Literally from boyhood diplomacy was
ground into me by precept and practice.
Echester and Oxbridge, of course, finish-
ing off with a private tutor, an ex-ambas-
sador, who taught me how to misinterpret
signs and portents at foreign Chancel-
leries, bow correctly over a duchess’s
hand and talk with tongue in cheek —no
mean feat when one is smoking a pos-
sibly drugged cigar and using a sibilant
language like Spanish.
My first important appointment was
as temporary assistant fourth under mes-
senger to the embassy at Paramaribo.
After ten years, in which I rose meteori-
cally to be temporary third under mes-
senger, I had mastered the habits, cus-
toms, language and drinks of Dutch
Guiana down to the last detail. Especially
the drinks.
To Reykjavik then as a full second
under messenger. Riding my bicycle over
the ice with vitally
important State
papers was ardu-
ous work, but after
seven years I got
my reward—l was
appointed personal
assistant to the
chief clerk of the
Under - Consul at
Zagreb. I was
now well on the
ladder of success.
My really big
chance came when
I was 68. I was
at Bangkok when I
received an urgent
call from the F.O.
to proceed to San
Gorgio to take
over the Under-
Consulate. I was
warned to expect
trouble. Pausing
only to consult the
map to find out
where the place
was, I dashed off
post-haste to bring
my diplomatic powers to bear on the
problem.
Arrived at San Gorgio, I saw at once
that I would need all my diplomatic bril-
liance to stave off an international crisis,
for the Chancellery was a hotbed of in-
trigue. Great pressure was being brought
by the German ambassador, Dorptswine
von Lardhead, to prevent the renewal of
the doll’s-eye and mattock-handle conces-
sions which British interests had enjoyed
for many years.
Coming into the Chancellery one night,
I paused behind a giant aspidistra
as I heard a guttural voice talking in
code. It was Von Lardhead, his audience
the San Gorgian Secretary of State. Whip-
ping my decoding book from the false
heel of my boot, I translated as he spoke.
Too late ; the German ambassador had
bribed the Secretary of State with
2,000,000 marks, payable in mouth-
organs, to transfer the concessions to
Germany.
I have but recently retired, but, despite
my successes, lam a sad man. I had
eight sons and had great hopes. But
since then I have had 17 daughters, and
now, at 97, I am beginning to despair of
there being a ninth son to carry on the
tradition.
Still, you never know.
BO.


ē
THE FIR ST *B AN K IN AUSTR A L I A
ĕ
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Standard Oil and Baerami
Behind last week’s announcement of a
projected £2,500,000 co. to exploit the
Baerami shale deposits in the Goulbum
River Valley, near Merriwa (N.S.W.),
there is a longish story. The ambitious
aim of the sponsors is to produce
30,000,000 gallons of petrol a year. The
applicant was granted Treasury permis-
sion to raise the capital. The Standard
Oil Co. of Australia, which has been
exploring the leases up to the present
stage, really had its beginnings in Adel-
aide in 1919, acquiring the Baerami leases
in 1937. The “live wire” behind this
enterprise is a man named J. H. Moate.
A report and balance sheet of the
Standard Oil Co. of Australia dated Sept.
17 carries with it accounts of Adelaide Oil
Exploration Co. and Chilian Oil Fields
(S. America). All are interrelated limited
cos. The collection of accounts is marked
“private and confidential.”
Adelaide Oil was formed in 1919 as a
result of some discussions by “Adelaide
patriots.” These people, says the
1940 report, were C. H. Angas, T. B.
Harrington, Walter Hutley, J. Langdon
Bonython, J. T. Moate, R. A. Duncan,
B. V. Scrymgour and H. C. Richards.
None of them is a director of the co. to-
day, the first-named five being dead.
Though it would appear that £280,432 of
cash has been extracted from the public
on share issues since the beginning, there
was only £527 at credit of the three cos.’
banking accounts on June 30 last.
Paid capital of the three cos. combined
was then £638,142, of which £357,710 was
issued for consideration other than cash.
Freeholds and plant of the three cos.
totalled £6570, licenses, leases and proper-
ties £89,000, shares in associated cos.
£389,103, shares in other cos. £252, de-
velopment, establishment and preliminary
exes., plus losses, £162,207, debtors, etc.,
£22,705, cash £527.
According to the story of J. H. Moate,
present chairman of Adelaide Oil, alter
some years of hunting for flow oil the
co.’s adviser, “a Californian geologist
named Wright,” “emphatically recom-
mended that we discontinue to look for
commercial quantities of flow oil.” He
directed the co. to shale-oil deposits in
nor’-west Tasmania and N. S. Wales.
“In the preliminary exploration and
research, Adelaide Oil spent approximately
£80,000.” In 1922 Standard Oil was
formed to look after “at least two areas
of great promise and value.” Adelaide
Oil got three shares out of the new co.
in exchange for one of its own, and the
two cos. “pooled their interests.”
The story of J. H. Moate in parts is
a trifle hazy, though always voluble.
“The search for flow oil and pre-
liminary investigation into the co.’s
shale deposits in Tasmania were
carried on during overlapping periods.
It was not until 1934 that we completely
discarded all idea of obtaining satisfac-
tory results from flow-oil searching on the
advice of our American experts. But
testing in the Tasmanian shale deposits
had been carried on from 1922 to 1925.”
Shareholders are assured that the
“prime concern of the co. during all this
period was to conserve shareholders'
funds.” That goes to show how the
best of intentions can go astray. At
June 30 last Adelaide Oil and Standard
Oil had intangible assets (losses, exes,
capitalised, etc.) of £170,523, and these
were quite apart from what additional
intangibles exist in the large quantity of
inter-company paper held.
Mr. Moate observes that “it is one
thing to have shale deposits or a produc-
ing oilwell. It is quite another to make
profits out of it.” V. V. Jacomini and
his Renco retort came from America to
see what could be done about the Latrobe
shale deposits; he proved (to his own
satisfaction and the co.’s) that 45 gallons
per ton could be extracted, “and this im-
mediately presented us with a commer-
cially feasible proposition.” But what
happened? Here arose the difficulty,
Mr. Moate again:—
In order to further our purposes in Tas-
mania it was natural that we needed the good-
will and help of the Tasmanian Government.
How did we stand with them? Major T. H.
Davies, Minister for Mines, in the Assembly
on Nov. 4, 1937, amongst a great many other
things, said this: “The whole of the co. s
activities might be described as a blackfellows
corroboree for the Moate family. It may also
be likened to a fourth-class American jazz
band which is without tune or harmony. It
has no real progressive policy for unfortunate
shareholders.” He suggested that our figures
were false as to extraction by the Renco
“Come, Anderson —try adding it up just once more."
retort, and he said, “the whole position of the
Adelaide Exploration Co. may be summed up
by saying that it is a go-getter, and I think is
a menace to the mining public generally.”
You might say that these are rather harsh
words. You will agree with me that they are
decidedly on the blunt side, and you may
wonder why I recall them to your mind in some
detail. I do so because they weren’t true,
nor justified. The Moate family—l and my
brother —are not ashamed of the pioneering
work which we have done for you and for
the nation. 1 am telling you this to give
you some idea of the difficulties we have had
to surmount.
“We have done in N. S. Wales such
work as we commenced to do in Tas-
mania four or five years ago,” continues
Mr. Moate, “and we have been thanked
by the N. S. Wales Government for per-
forming developmental work which we
would have been able to complete on the
Latrobe field at least two years ago.”
It appears that the co. is enthusiastic
about the Baerami field in N.S.W. It has
been “able to show on irrefutable evi-
dence that the Baerami field was a thor-
oughly sound commercial proposition,
with promise of excellent profits to our
shareholders.” It may be beside the
point to add that the Newnes-Capertee
venture of George Davis has yet to pro-
duce “irrefutable evidence” that it is a
sound commercial proposition. At least,
Davis doesn’t talk in that language,
though he isn’t in National Oil Pty.
merely for health reasons.
“Bear in mind that the Baerami field is
much bigger than Newnes,” says Mr.
Moate ; “it can produce three times as
much motor spirit per annum; it is
assured of a much longer life ; it will be
equipped with a very efficient design of
retorting machinery.” And so “a very
large c 0.,” to be known as Standard Oil,
Ltd., is to be formed with a nominal
capital of £3,000,000. The new co. will
pay to the old cos. 250,000 £1 shares for
the Baerami leases and rights. Accord-
ing to Mr. Moate (under date of Sept.
9), the two preliminary directors of the
new co. will be B. S. B. Stevens, late
Premier of N.S.W. (also late M.L.A. for
Croydon and late contestant for the
Federal seat of Lang),' and Alex. J.
Gibson, engineer. The co. is “informed
by gentlemen interested.... that no diffi-
culty is anticipated in raising the neces-
sary capital.”
The Bulletin has endeavored to get a
line on the Baerami shale deposits, and
in doing so it finds the Jhree-times-as-
much-as-Newnes talk of Mr. Moaie
is peculiarly his own idea. t rom
the latest available official reports puD-
lished it seems that the probable s
exposed at Baerami is about a third tne
area of that at Newnes. Further tne
Baerami seam has an average thickness
of s^ ale shale’ at
against 32 to 34 inches O
Newnes. While the shale yield oi o
ma y be taken at about 100 gallons to tne
lon both places, cannel coal returns
on j y a f rac tion of that figure,
f COU rse the Baerami field has not
cuu ‘ luc ? , n-rdnoirallv A
yet been fully explored geologically. A
beginning of actual mining operations
m ] eac j t 0 further discoveries. But
t m not based on accepted
optimistic talk not D . should
methods of proving shale reserves should
have no place in a mining venture of this
kind. Actual figures would have been
more to the point than the “much-
greater” stuff supplied by Mr. Moate.
Many shareholders in Adelaide Oil
and Standard Oil are worried about calls
made on their shares. Last balance day
Adelaide Oil showed arrears of calls at
£40,006, and the Standard co. showed
arrears of £43,832. Adelaide Oil origi-
nally issued 14,790 £lO shares for cash
and 3800 £lO shares for other considera-
tion. Standard issued 13,771 £lO shares
for cash, 2350 shares in respect of N.S.W.
leases, and 24,621 shares were given in
exchange for 8207 shares in Adelaide Oil.
Chilian Oil Fields, which issued 50,000
£1 shares for a property in Chile, put
out 124,276 £1 shares for cash, on which
7s. 6d. a share is uncalled, and about
£20,000 in calls is unpaid. This co. paid
£73,250 for shares in its associates.
The past has been a very dreary one
for shareholders in this group of cos.,
and it cannot be said that the future is
any more certain of bringing profits.
Those who have paid up their shares in
full may feel that those who haven’t
should be forced to do likewise. That is
what has been threatened officially, plus
forfeiture. But it is a pretty dismal
picture taken from any angle.
Steamships Trading Co., of Papua and
Mandated New Guinea, is managed by
Captain A. S. Fitch. It is interested in
river and coastal shipping, merchanising
and trading in copra, etc., and it owns
rubber plantations. Last term it made
a profit of £19,052, compared with
£17,995 in the preceding year, and it paid
an all-round 8 p.c. on its capital, an un-
changed rate. Before arriving at profits
copra stocks at Port Moresby were
written down to £3 ss. a ton. Paid capi-
tal is £142,143 in 93,933 £1 ords. and
50,000 7 p.c. cum. par. prefs. The ords.
have a market in Sydney at 17s. 6d., the
prefs. at 18s. 6d. The co. has increased
its debt from £41,336 to £58,353 over the
past two years; this money, £27,250
added to capital and £14,244 of profit left
for reserves have largely gone into
plantations, stocks, debtors and free-
holds, ships, etc. Rubber at present
is at a profitable figure, but copra is hard
to dispose of. The goldfields are still
highly prosperous.


THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine ana
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United”
A. C. DAWSON,
Ben. Manager.
is an Australian Institution.
T. 0. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen. Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT, with a desire to assist the Red Cross Fund, has decided to
allot £lO,OOO from the proceeds of Mammoth Casket No. 37 for this worthy purpose. You can DO
YOUR PART by purchasing your Ticket by return mail and persuading your friends to do likewise.
In successive Mammoth Caskets, same proportion will be allotted to the Patriotic and Comforts Fund.
Special Golden
Opportunity
To Assist the
RED CROSS
Special Golden
Opportunity
MAMIMOTH casket
No. 37
INVESTORS
have the oppor-
tunity to assist the
Red Cross Fund
by pure hasing
Mammoth Casket
Tickets immedi-
ately. Do not
Delay!
ALL CASH PRIZES
200,000
Tickets at 15/ ■ Each
Plus 4d. postage for Return of Ticket and Result Slip.
First Prize - £40,000
SECOND PRIZE . £lO,OOO
THIRD PRIZE . . £5,000
FOURTH PRIZE 3,000
FIFTH PRIZE 2,000
SIXTH PRIZE 1,000
SEVENTH PRIZE 1,000
EIGHTH PRIZE 1,000
NINTH PRIZE 1,000
TENTH PRIZE 1,000
ELEVENTH PRIZE 1,000
TWELFTH PRIZE 1,000
THIRTEENTH PRIZE 1,000
FOURTEENTH PRIZE 1,000
FIFTEENTH PRIZE 1,000
SIXTEENTH PRIZE 1,000
SEVENTEENTH PRIZE ... 1,000
EIGHTEENTH PRIZE 1,000
NINETEENTH PRIZE 500
TWENTIETH PRIZE 500
TWENTY-FIRST PRIZE 500
TWENTY-SECOND PRIZE . . 500
10 PRIZES AT £2OO EACH . . 2,000
15 Prizes at £lOO each . . 1,500
20 Prizes at £5O each .. . 1,000
200 Prizes at £lO each .. . 2,000
2000 Prizes at £5 each .... 10,000
FULL -I £ / THIRD SHARE £ /
VICKETS ID'" TICKETS O
ALL PRIZES
ARE PAID
FREE
OF FEDERAL
AND STATE
INCOME TAX
Advise Your Many
Friends and Form
Syndicates
The more Tickets You
Buy the more You Assist
REMEMBER
This is YOUR chance to
win £40,000 and your
opportunity to assist the
Red Cross Fund.
32 MAJOR PRIZES—THE LARGEST NUMBER EVER OFFERED.
POST YOUR APPLICATION TO BOX 1008., G.P.0., BRISBANE.
Postal Note No ORDER FORM
Please allot me tickets in the Mammoth 15/- Casket.
£ enclosed herewith.
SYNDICATE NAME (OPTIONAL)
Name
Full Address
Date State Country
Please write plainly.
Subscribers are requested to keep a record of Postal Note Numbers Remitted until Tickets are received.
Australians paid £144,397,334 in taxes
last year; £90,010,663 of this went to the
Commonwealth and £54,386,671 to the
States. Commonwealth taxes represented
£l2 17s. 4d. a head and State levies £7
15s. lid. The total of £2O 12s. lOd. a head
compared with £l7 19s. 6d. in 1938-39
and £4 14s. 4d. in 1914. Last year’s'in-
crease was mostly for Commonwealth
purposes. Direct taxation yielded about
40 p.c. of last year’s revenue. Of the
indirect taxes, Customs and excise revenue
contributed 37 p.c., sales tax 8.45 p.c.
and motor taxes 5 p.c. Defence expendi-
ture was largely responsible for last year’s
increased taxes, which will be heavier
still in 1940-41.
* * * *
Trade-union unemployment throughout
Australia in August was 7.4 p.c., the
lowest figure since the same month of
1927, when 6.7 p.c. was recorded. In
May this year the figure was abnormally
high at 10.5 p.c. because of the coal strike.
=*=**’!'
The sharemarkets touched a new high
level for recent months on Thursday of
last week. At 131.53 the industrial-share
index compared with 136.54 on Jan. 16,
and that was the peak of the rearmament
boom in this country. On Friday there
was a slight reaction among leading
stocks, but there were more rises than
falls taking the market as a whole.
Closing price for B.H.P. was 445. 9d. ;
this stock hasn’t been so spectacular as,
for instance, Felt and Textiles (up to
345. 6d. ex rights), Yarra Falls (455.),
Bradford Cotton (415.), Davies, Coop
(295. 3d.), Australasian Paper (325. 6d.),
Tooth (535. 3d.), Carlton (675. 6d.), Drug
Houses (275. 9d.), Die Casters (345.), Aus-
tralian Cement (395. 6d.) and Kandos
Cement (325. 6d.). North Broken Hill
has had a particularly strong rise to
425. 6d., with an inclination to weaken
later, South moving up less noticeably to
28s. and receding to 265. 9d. Mt. Lyell
was only slightly firmer at 295. 6d. Zinc
Corp. ords. at 665. 6d. are a more pon-
derous stock, though here, too, the mar-
ket has been firm.
It is no longer a buyer’s market.
Absence of bears has given an artificial
buoyancy to prices, and very little caution
is being exhibited. The low yields offer-
ing from Consols and public-body loans,
and the restriction on new capital issues
generally, have had an influence, too.
There are isolated cases of stocks which
haven’t risen to the same extent as the
general body of the market—Wool-
worths shares, for instance —but with
most industrial investments now offering
the “bargain” element has largely dis-
appeared. There are a number of dis-
turbing factors, such as drought, taxa-
tion, war waste, etc., which in the long
run can do industries generally no good,
of which sufficient notice does not appear
to have been taken.
* * * *
In Maoriland a Finance Bill has just
.been passed by Parliament to “protect
people who had been induced to buy
shares at *a price far above their value.”
Under the new legislation a co.’s directors
were empowered to refuse registration of
share transfers where the price paid was
“known to be unconscionable.” The idea
is to prevent “robbery of the cruellest
type.” “Here is a company whose shares,
if measured on the basis of its assets,
might be worth £6,” Mr. Nash said. “Be-
cause of public opinion they could be
sold for £lO, but there are persons going
round the country buying shares for £lO
and selling them within a month for up
to £5O. There are one or two companies
—in the main, operating in Australia, I
think, in collision with people here—
who are cruelly robbing people.”
* * * *
Broken Hill South’s unchanged div. of
2s. a share for 1939-40 was received with-
out particular enthusiasm by the market,
which has been going hot and strong for
North scrip lately. Actually, in compari-
son with South shares, Norths have been
on the undervalued side for some time.
A rough-and-ready way of estimating the
comparative worth of the two mines for
years has been to assess North shares at
a price half as high again as Souths. That
method will have to be revised, since the
proportionate length of life ahead of the
mines is becoming different each year,
South’s shorter life becoming still shorter
in comparison with North’s. At South’s
meeting Colin Fraser gave some idea of
the marketing problems at Broken Hill.
He said that in former years profit fore-
casts were based on statistics and trend of
metal production and consumption, and
industrial conditions that prevailed
throughout the world, particularly in
Europe. Today the position had changed
entirely. Australian lead-zinc miners were
delivering the greater part of output to
meet war requirements of Britain. These
war-time metal contracts provided for pay-
ment on an f.o.b. basis, whether shipped
or not. The contracts for both lead and
zinc were subject to termination on de-
livery of agreed quantities, which might
lead to their cessation in August next year.
Extension of these contracts depended
on Britain’s requirements. How far
any disturbance to existing conditions in
Britain could be counterbalanced by
parallel manufacture in the United States
at. present was a matter for conjecture.
Shipments of lead to the United States
from Port Pirie were not commercially
possible at present prices.
* * * *
One of the unlisted shipping cos., Mc-
Ilwraith, McEacharn, Ltd., earned a profit
of £61,418 during the year to June 30,
compared with £46,651 and £50,034 in
the two preceding years. The co.’s chief
passenger vessel, the Kanimbla, was taken
over by the Commonwealth Government
early in the last term, but this doesn’t
seem to have adversely affected earnings,
though the charter rate is 9s. per ton per
month. There was a 10 weeks’ coal strike
during the year. The directors say that
increased running costs and reduced pas-
senger traffic hit shipping earnings, but
returns from overseas agencies improved.
Net earnings from trading were £38,363
(£25,444 previous year), after providing
£63,231 for depreciation, and investment
income was £22,329 (£21,208 in 1938-39).
Paid capital is £1,000,000, half in 7 p.c.
prefs. and the rest ords. This year’s div.
was 7 p.c. prefs., 3 p.c. ords., unchanged,
and calling for £50,000 altogether. At
balance day the co. s assets comprised
freeholds £295,122, ships £656,820, coal
stocks £18,252, Government stock
£171,633, shares in listed cos. £45,491,
other shares and mortgages £101,237,
debtors £93,584 and cash £53,767. Credi-
tors appeared at £115,647, and reserves
totalled £287,759.
* * * *
Hoyts Theatres is to submit a proposal
to shareholders asking permission to in-
crease the div. rate on 6 p.c. A and 5 p.c.
B pref. shares by 1 p.c. as from July,
1940, and that a special bonus of 1 p.c.
be added to the distribution for 1939-40.
In return, these pref. shareholders will
be asked to forgo the participation
rights up 1° 8 p.c. which were arranged
in 1934. Pref. arrears amounted to
£222,000 last balance day, representing
three years on the As and 3 \ years on
*1 Ba - The arrears cm .he As are pay-
able first, but current minimum divs. on
both classes of scrip have preference over
arrears. The C non-cum. prefs. come in
after £lO,OOO p.a. has been paid off
arrears. Hoyts’ capital is £1,810,000 in
400,000 A prefs., 450,000 B prefs.,
935,000 C prefs. of £1 each and 500,000
ords. paid to a shilling. The C prefs.
and the ords. are mostly held by Fox
Films.
......
if t h e merger between Greater Union
anc j Hoyts comes off, in Sydney all tlie
principal picture theatres except the
p r j nce Edward and St. James will be
un der the one management; in Mel-
bourne, all except the State, Majestic and
Liberty ; and in Brisbane, all except the
Metro,
According t 0 Norman B. Rydge, wl.o
succeeded | tuart p Doyle as chairman,
:r ~ . V t • -rul nmnn l-k
the Greater Union Theatres group has
been doing better for itself of late. ine
satisfactory profit this year is due to the
adequate supply of quality film available,
For the 40 weeks to October 5 G.U.T.
and its subsidiaries earned £43,905, com-
pared with £1705 for the whole 1939,
a l° ss °f £ 11,495 in 1938 and a deficit
of £14,329 in 1937. The following a u-
shows detailed and to a resi \ s °
the . S rou P over the last three trad,nB
P enos -“
193 ° - (40wks.)
Loss. Profit. Profit,
Greater Union Group £11,495 £1,705 £43,905
Greater Union Pty . .. 25 , 06 3 , 2?949 31,059
J Profit. Profit.
British Empire Films 5,131 14,498 8,782
Cinesound Productions 10,989 935 1,888
Nat Th ea.re Supplies 2?«2 L °m 2,176
The bank overdraft was £289,217 on
October 4, compared with £343,364 on
January 3, 1939. Mr. Rydge said that he
hoped for a merger of operations with
Hoyts Theatres as from January 1, 1941.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
IN BOMBED BRITAIN.
[All passed by the British censor, the eyewitness
accounts here condensed, mainly from British news-
papers, some from American, make clearly evident
the staunch courage displayed by British people all
round. They range over the period from the second
week in September to early October. Cables last week
recorded Berlin casualties for Sunday night, Oct. 20, as
2821, “considerably more than double the highest number
suffered in any night raid on London”; but the full
story of the R.A.F. pounding of Germany will come
out later. The aim here is to show in many human-
interest details what the British, especially Londoners,
have been withstanding so heroically—actual experience
which should have inspirational and instructional value
in places so far luckily untouched. The first item
is from a general report sent from .London by a New
York “Times Magazine” representative.]
This is total war in its most brutal and cruel form.
None save those who have lived here, sharing the
troubles of the people of this stricken capital, can
understand what they have been through, and none
who has been here will ever forget their cheerfulness
and calm throughout a crisis in their history.
Day in and day out all around the clock, London’s
millions have lived under the shadow of sudden death.
Thousands of homes have been bombed. Tons of
explosives have rained down on churches, hospitals,
crowded shelters. Blocks of houses have been
levelled. The streets of Central London as well as the
city’s outlying sections have been torn up. Tops of
modern office buildings have been blown off, and
thousands of houses look out on the world through
bleak-looking broken windows. The number of
homeless refugees increases every day.
Residents of the poor East End can be seen on a
nightly tragic hegira westward in search of what they
regard as better shelters, further away from their own
quarter, which in the early days bore the brunt of the
attack from the skies. They are a weary and be-
draggled horde, carrying their blankets and clutching
cheap, battered old suitcases.
One awaits and anticipates the sound of the sirens
as a patient shrinks from the dentist’s drill. The
pressure is never off ; try as one will, it is almost
impossible to live a normal life or think normal
thoughts.
*****
Heroes of the Home Front
(London “Daily Express" reporter.)
Some of the Auxiliary Fire Service men have
their names in Debrett. All of them find their work
in debris.
We used to smile a little at them sometimes. The
spit-and-polish firemen some people called them. And
there were others who used to talk about “Three
pounds ten a week for playing darts.” The A.F.S.
took it all with a shrug—in much the same way as they
now take the chorus of “Thank God for the A.F.S.”
They didn’t seem to be doing much in the old
days, when we all slept in our beds at night. There did
seem to be a lot of polishing, and cricket in the back-
yard, and painting of wheels.
Then the balloon went up, and the A.F.S. went
into action. There never was a force in the history of
service that had a more terrible baptism of fire.
* * * * *
(London “Daily Telegraph” reporter.)
London’s 150,000 civil defence workers, paid and
unpaid, men and women, rose to their Herculean task
with unexampled courage and devotion. Many died
at their posts of duty (the precise number is not yet
known); scores were injured ; all worked hour upon
hour through the night without fear.
The tales of brave acts performed by the man-
in-the-street in a steel helmet are legion. They will
live imperishably in the memories of those Londoners
who were privileged to witness them.
In indescribably exacting conditions, rendered
perilous by a hail of bombs, they helped to fight ex-
tensive fires. Conflagrations which at one time threat-
ened to match the classic fires of history were chal-
lenged, limited and brought under control. Women
of the A.F.S. were as unflinching as the men.
Doctors, nurses and auxiliary hospital workers
vied with each other in the risks they took to succor
the wounded. Ambulances raced through the streets
heedless of the dangers from overhead. No hazard
daunted the rescue workers, who entered buildings on
the brink of collapse, on their errands of mercy.
Brawny, cheerful demolition and repair squads “car-
ried on” at their vital tasks. Other workers filled
bomb craters, repaired water and gaS mains and
restored telegraph and telephone lines while the raids
were at their climax Street wardens cheered, com-
forted and marshalled women and children into the
shelters.
The same story can be told of the police and their
auxiliary units, telephonists, women’s aid services and
countless other unknown civilian volunteers. In short,
the human element was grand.
* * * * *
(Manchester “Gut&dian” London correspondent.)
During the dockland fires a riverside street was in
flames. The local rector and women helpers working
at evacuating the inhabitants of the doomed houses
found that they themselves had been cut off by the
flames, which by now closed each end of the street.
A firefloat out in the river threw them a lifebelt and
rescued them one by one. But before they left the
shore every one of the people who lived there was
safely away.
*****
(London “Daily Express” reporter.)
Nurses in their nightdresses did the work of nav-
vies rescuing sick old women who were bombed in a
big general and maternity hospital in a south-east
town. There were 24 women they could not save —
all had been killed.
Three bombs fell on a section used for chronic
cases. Wards were wiped out in a flash. The patients
were buried in a cataclysm of broken masonry, twisted
bedsteads and splintered bricks.
Sister Gantry, sleeping a little distance off, jumped
out of bed and put an overcoat over her nightdress.
Then she snatched a hypodermic syringe, charged it
with morphia and began a job that lasted for perilous
hours —crawling among the ruins and giving a shot
of the mercy drug to the patients lying twisted, some
half-buried, in the crater.
Fifty nurses and the hospital A.R.P. staff worked
with quiet urgency to move the debris with their
hands. Parts of a tottering wall kept falling down as
they worked. Dust spread over the glass of their
torches and had to be wiped off. Doors in premises
adjoining the wards had been jammed tight by the
blast. Most of the patients were magnificently brave.
One old lady, close on 75, was dug from the col-
lapsed floorboards of the top storey. She was still
perky when they pulled her out. All she said was:
“To hell with Hitler!”
Jimmy, the mortuary attendant, was too angry
to be horrified. “See this one!” he blazed. “This is
a girl they came for twice. You know why she was
in hospital? Because they machine-gunned her last
Saturday.”
*****
(Manchester “Guardian” London representative.)
Children sleeping in perambulators and mothers
with babies in their arms were killed when a bomb
fell directly on to a ventilator shaft measuring only
about three feet by one foot —the only vulnerable
place in a powerfully protected underground shelter
accommodating over 1000 people. Although explo-
sions could be heard in all directions and the scene
was illuminated by the glow of the East End fires
civil defence workers labored fearlessly among the
wreckage. Nine doctors saved lives by improvising
tourniquets. They dressed wounds by the dim glow
of torches.
One man, when the smoke and noise died down,
searched for his wife and found her lying dead on
the ground. Hours afterwards one woman, her head
and arm swathed in bandages, was in the refuge room
of the shelter waiting for news of her two children.
She did not know that both were dead.
This shelter had been used by families night after
night since the air war on London started. They had
taken their beds down into it, had sung songs, held
impromptu parties, made new friends and met ad-
versity in the true East End spirit. Now in the shelter
perambulators and corrugated-iron sheeting lay en-
tangled. There were heaps of bed clothing and
pillows, blackened gas-masks, toys and the remains
of meals.
A.R.P. and A.F.S. workers said that in spite of it
all there was no panic. “The women were magnifi-
cent.” A policeman and an auxiliary fireman set an
outstanding example. The fireman was Mr. H. Beare,
an ex-soldier. A reporter found him searching about
for a purse which his wife had lost in the wreckage.
“I am not so much bothered about the money inside it
as the ration cards,” he said. “I rushed to the shelter
to see if my wife was all right. There were ter-
rible sights. Some of the commandeered stretcher-
bearers seemed to boggle at their duties, but I reassured
them. After that everything went along quickly. The
policeman—l don’t know his name —was splendid and
set a grand example. When we had extricated the
dead and injured we came back to the survivors. I
tried to get them to sing, but they would not. They
sat quietly along the sides of the shelter away from
the wreckage, and we organised parties to give them
drinks of water.”
*****
Eyewitness Tours
(H. R. Knickerbocker in London “Daily Express”)
After touring hours by daylight and hours by
night throughout the city, during raids which formed
part of the heaviest assault ever perpetrated upon any
city except Rotterdam, it is the considered opinion
of this observer that no people ever stood up better
under cruel punishment, that they will never sur-
render to mere pain and terror.
London is not as bad as Rotterdam, where 20,000
were killed by the Luftwaffe in 20 minutes, but it has
suffered worse than any other city in my experience
in Spain, China, Abyssinia and France. London has
not got the faintest idea that Britain might fail. Yet
the tragedy of this furious attack on civilians can
hardly be exaggerated.
I reached a hall where upwards of 500 refugee
men, women and children were imprisoned in the
ruins, from which only about 100 were extricated, all
dead but one. A fresh air raid signal sounded as I
approached this colossal mortuary. Everyone but
rescuers had taken shelter. In this district shelter
caves are the only habitable places left.
*****
(London “Daily Express” reporter .)
In the dockland district of London I walked in
the heat and steam and the stench of damp cinders to
reach the heart of the blaze which had silhouetted
half London against a background of flame and pink,
billowing smoke. Men and women were bearing with
fortitude the ordeal of sorting out the charred remains
of their homes in the hope of saving belongings which
in this working-class district have been hard earned.
“Come and look at my new piano,” said one man.
“I saved up for this for years.” Only the strings and
a little twisted metal-work remained. Some of his
neighbors came in to look, and found it possible to
laugh for a moment, forgetting that just as little re-
mained of their own homes and radio sets and hire-
purchase furniture and Sunday clothes.
About 100 women and 60 children had been
shepherded from their homes through fires which
almost encircled them in their district. Their men-
folk had taken charge of them, had kept them together,
had helped some of the women with their bundles
and quieted some of the children who cried with tnght
at the noise of the bombs and the menace or the
flames which followed.
“Even the birds in the little copse which used to
be our recreation ground found they couldn t escape,
they said. ' “They flew in one direction—at least 100
sparrows and other birds —but were driven back by
the flames. They tried in another direction and were
beaten back. Then they all came to roost on our bal-
conies. When we came back this morning we found
scores of them dead, huddled together for protection.
Even a couple of mice had tried to take shelter with
them. We found them dead in the middle of a row
of sparrows.”
The tarred wood blocks of the road surface
floated in a mass which seemed solid until you stepped
on it. Tramlines reared up as high as a man over
craters in the road. ,
Some of the people who had suffered said: Let s
hope that Berlin gets the same as we’ve had.” Others
said: “It’s bad luck. We must make the best of it.”
* * * * *
(New York “Herald Tribune” London representative.)
For an hour, until the foul air and the depress-
ing atmosphere became unbearable, this correspondent
travelled from station to station at night in the tube
between Liverpool-street and Piccadilly Circus. Every-
where it was the same sad scene, thousands of families
making their homes along the platforms, escalators
and labyrinthine corridors until the sirens should blare
the “all clear” at dawn.
At Liverpool-street, crowds besieged ticket
windows for a bit of pasteboard which cost lyd. and
entitled them to a night of peace in the depths of the
earth. Trains were jammed with East Enders going
west to where the tube dips to safety 100 or 150 feet
under the street level.
At the Bank station, below the Bank of England,
young mothers with their babies were settling for the
night at 6 p.m. These Madonnas of the subway sat
calmly in the stifling air, hugging young ones swathed
in woollen shawls and towelling. Some of the babies
were being nursed. The only drinking water came
from a faucet which leaked on to the platform. There
was no pail to catch the drippings, and some one had
built a tiny dam of sand to keep the water from flow-
ing under the sleeping people.
Behind a chalk line which ran parallel to the tiled
walls at a distance of eight feet the parents were stak-
ing claims for places to sleep. They spread old over-
coats, rugs and tattered household curtains on the con-
crete and sought some privacy by piling suitcases and
bundles beside their humble fraction of an acre.
The scene was the same at St. Paul’s, Holborn,
Covent Garden, Leicester Square and Piccadilly Circus.
Finally, you give up, your eyes brimming with
the sight and thought of these Londoners sticking it
out below. You shoot upward on an escalator, and
you wonder whether, before the war is over, babies
will be born in the subway, and whether in time young
couples will meet and court there.
* * * * *
(New York “Post” London representative.)
The street was wide and you became aware with
some surprise that there was enough light in it to see
by. The full moon was up and there were no dense
shadows from the houses as in other streets. You
discovered then that most of the houses were gone.
Piles of brick and glass marked where some of them
had been, but mostly the broken iron gates swung
inward upon smoking craters. It seemed as if the
plaster dust would never be done drifting.
“You can’t go in there, lady,” said the policeman.
“It’s not safe.”
The woman was young, well-dressed, rather pretty
—and desperately serious. “I must look,” she said
quietly. “There’s where my house was. There’s
where I lived. There’s where I left my little boy.”
“He’s all right,” said the policeman. “He’s in a
shelter down there around the corner.”
She stared at him for perhaps 10 seconds before
she collapsed. The stretcher-bearers appeared out of
nowhere and picked her up.
This observer went away aware that he would
never forget the uncomprehending horror of her white
face in the dust-filled moonlight.
* * * * *
(.Manchester “Guardian” London representative.)
At night we had heard the bombs fall on part
of Central London and seen the glow from the burn-
ing buildings. At midday buildings were still burn-
ing. A.F.S. men were playing their hoses on the
flames ; workmen in cloth caps and mufflers were get-
ting at the mains.
The buildings had spilt themselves into the road.
Those that still stood had lost their windows and their
window displays, and their fronts were scorched,
splintered and blackened. One restaurant was a gutted
mess except for a bowl of fruit, clean and bright and
pretty, standing on the counter at the back. The
telephone was ringing. “Let it ring,” said the police-
man.
In one street a fire was still raging at a litho-
grapher’s. All one wall had gone, so that the machinery
could be seen from the street. “Thousands of pounds’
worth,” said a fireman sadly. He had no idea, it
seemed, of what the machinery was, but he got sadder
and sadder as he talked. “Hundreds of thousands of
pounds’ worth” it was when I left him.
Over all the damage hung the pall of dust, which,
more than the heat and the smoke, gets into the eyes
and lungs, so that even to tour a damaged area for a
few minutes is physically uncomfortable ; to work on


it for hours on end is one of the least dramatic but
one of the most real difficulties of the fireman’s job.
*****
(New York “Herald Tribune” London representative.)
There is a scurry to be first out of shelters, just
as there is to be in line when the raids are coming.
This writer visited one which accommodates
20,000 East Enders. The shelter was a huge vault.
There was no cleaning or disinfecting. “Tube” or
“shelter throats” were prevalent. Coughing was almost
continuous. Some effort had been made to serve tea,
but the metal pots in which the beverage is brewed
are not easily washed when a raid is in progress, for
water has to be fetched and that means losing your
place.
In this colossal structure thousands have passed
night after night without change of clothing since the
first mass visit of the Germans. Little eight-candle-
power bulbs provided the only light. Luckily, smok-
ing was not permitted. Cockneys mingled with Indians
and negroes. But as one shelter-denizen said: “Who
cares about little things like that? It’s life we are
seeking to keep.”
*****
London Changes
(New York “Herald Tribune” London reporter.)
The air raids have changed everything, including
sleeping habits. Londoners become cave-dwellers as
soon as it turns dark. Early in the morning the people
stream out from their underground refuges.
It has turned every London civilian into a sol-
dier. This constant terror from the air is directed
against him and he is fighting back as best
he can by keeping cool and cheerful, taking
shelter when necessary, helping his neighbor
and carrying on his work. But he is losing
sleep every night, and the strain is bound to
tell on his health sooner or later.
Communists are hard at it, encouraging
demonstrations and a defeatist attitude among
the dispossessed.
How does the civilian population take it
generally? Stoically and, on the whole, cheer-
fully. No city has yet had to face such pro-
longed terror on such a scale. The firemen
of Glasgow have volunteered to come to
London and take over the job while the
exhausted Londoners go north and get a rest.
* * * *
(New York “Times” London representative .)
There are fewer evidences of fear and
fatigue among Londoners than there were
earlier. One reason is that people can get
used to anything. Another is that the defend-
ing guns now make more noise and tend to
assure London’s residents that they are giving
as well as taking punishment. Still another is
that they have come to have confidence in the
accuracy of the statements of their own
Government, because they have seen for
themselves what happens when British fighters
meet enemy raiders.
* * * *
Sometimes the bus-driver stops, some
times he goes on, but if he stops and unloads
people on to the pavement ten miles from
their home (a thing that has been happening
over scores of London routes) the passenger,
young or old, has to decide whether to seek
an air-raid shelter, in which to spend prob-
ably nine hours, or make for home on foot.
Most of them, according to Mr. R. C. Morri-
son, M.P., prefer to take all the risks of walking
home these long distances rather than face a night
in a public air-raid shelter.
♦ * * * *
Hitler has set London on its feet again. Not
since the general strike of 1926 have so many city
workers been seen walking to their work —business-
men, stockbrokers, clerks, men and women alike.
* * * * *
C London “Daily Express” reporter.)
All Britain is preparing to turn shelters into bed-
rooms. There has been a rush on folding camp-beds,
deckchairs, rugs. One city store had a big supply of
hitherto unwanted bus and tram seats. Now they are
being bought—as shelter beds. Very good beds they
are, too.
*****
(New York “Times” London representative.)
Chemists are doing a landslide business in ear-
plugs and sleeping-powders. Sleep is a major problem
for Londoners, and the latest theory is that you shut
out the noise of guns and bombs with plugs, then take
a sleeping powder. The combination, according to
advertisements, virtually makes night raids a pleasure.
*****
(Manchester “Guardian” London representative.)
The glare of the flames in the docks area lit the
sky for miles and suggested that London had been
dealt a deadly blow. A friend told me that his queer-
est experience was walking up Holborn and seeing
the sunset at each end of the street. Rumor was busy
with the damage. But as the night wore on one could
see Londoners acquiring air-raid wisdom every minute,
learning to tell gun from bomb and to assess how far
away an explosion had been, learning that rumor at
such times is worthless, learning that the house does
not collapse when it wobbles, and finally sleeping
peacefully in their shelters. As a fighting community
we shall be all the better for this experience.
*****
(London “Daily Express.”)
A knock at the door in a London suburban street,
where a good many windows are somewhat the worse
j°r a bomb. It is the window-cleaner. “Any windows
left to clean?” he asks. The answer is “No.” So he
hands over a little card which reads:
. “In expressing regret for the damage to your
windows, we thank you for past favors and trust your
windows will be speedily repaired, when we shall
esteem a continuance of your former patronage.”
** ***
In Darkest Suburbia
New York “ Times ” London representative.)
Civilians residing on the fringes of the metro-
politan salient are “getting it both ways,” so to speak.
“ our new high-velocity barrage guns bump us toward
London, then the bombs jolt us back again.”
Thl s barrage is so violent that a heavy electric-
kettl e has been seen to dance along a bedroom hearth.
Keys J um P from the rattling doorstop and there is a
constant trickle of grit down the chimneys, the crash
of shell splinters against garden fences and tiled roofs,
Morning, afternoon and night, with but short
breathing spells, this racket in the defence of London
Exceeds. ? flen at n'S ht *e defences for a long time
he d °gg° until somebody in authority presses a
button - Then what a spectacle! The flashes of near-
y g uns illuminate a normally well-blacked-out
room ’ anti-aircraft shells flicker the heavens like stars
in the desert night, bombs “crump” near and afar and
red § lows com e and go in the sky, here and there lit to
a ghostly Arctic white with parachute flares.
Between “rounds” there is an uncanny silence,
One whispers when a moment before one had to
shout. The echoes of gongs, firecarts and ambulances
sound unreal. There is the piercing high-noted siren
of a red-flagged truck rushing a “suicide squad” to
deal with a time bomb. It passes all traffic lights and
cuts over sidewalks in blocks to save every second.
Some parts of darkened suburbia get a plague of
these time bombs. The volunteer wardens listen for
—New York “Post.”
THE OAK STILL STANDS.
their whine and thud. Then a massed search with
shaded torches begins in gardens, woods and outhouses
for the telltale hole. “Here it is—it must weigh a
ton,” shouts a Boy Scout. Whistles blow, neighbor
arouses neighbor, the police fix the limits of the danger
zone and call out the bomb squad. All the area must
be evacuated instantly. In the darkness families grab
already-packed grips and maybe fifty, maybe five
hundred men, women and children, with dogs on leads,
start to walk to the nearest “rest house.” Perhaps it is
a cinema, a public hall or a requisitioned block of
apartments. There they sit joking, chatting and curs-
ing throughout the night.
All depends on whether the bomb squad can get
the fuse out in time. Failure means that these people
go to temporary homes.
*****
Dover Cave-dwellers
(New York “Herald Tribune” reporter.)
More and more people here in Dover have taken
to life in “the caves,” where they can sleep without
fear of rude awakening. These subterranean cavities,
some of which date back to 1740, when they were used
as wine vaults by cross-Channel traders, run deep into
the chalk cliffs between which the town nestles. More
recently the caves have been used to grow mushrooms.
Women and children of the poorer classes and
all men not engaged in active war work take their
lunch to the caves, stay for tea, supper and the night,
and emerge in the morning only to buy provisions, or
at odd moments later on to heat a pot of tea.
Children play up and down the alleyways, beat-
ing toy drums, fondling their teddy bears or otherwise
improvising entertainment, while mothers cuddle their
frequently wailing young beneath their coats.
There are 50 or more caves in the town.
*****
Ghost Trains
(London “Daily Telegraph” reporter .)
Britain’s railwaymen on the main lines have been
recognised as doing a wonderful job of work. The
equally determined spirit of those on the smaller lines
was brought home to me when I travelled 50 miles
down the coast at night.
The journey was uneventful until we arrived at a
junction which has received a good deal of German
attention. From then on it was one of the ghostliest
journeys I have ever made. Voices issued from the
darkness, but no one could be seen. We could hear
the hum of German aeroplanes overhead.
As we rumbled slowly from station to station the
guard told me of the war history of each place. “It’s
a proper reception area for bombs here,” he said. I
remarked how magnificent I had found the spirit of
the people of Dover. “Thank you,” said a bodiless
voice from the corner. “I am from Dover.”
These men conduct these ghostly coast trains regu-
larly night after night, meeting every nerve-racking
experience with a detached look at the sky and a
grimly humorous joke.
*****
Rural Scene
(London “Daily Telegraph” reporter.)
Farming, with its leisurely routine, based on the
eternal changing of the seasons, continues in this
much-raided Kent area, without conceding to Nazi
antics a precious moment more than is avoidable.
I had proof of this when I visited Mr. Hobbs, a
fine young Kentish farmer over 6ft., and completely
imperturbable. I had been talking to him for a quarter
of an hour, with ’planes overhead, when he asked,
“Did you hear the all-clear in the town?” I replied
that what I had heard was the warning. He called to
his wife, a Saxon type of healthy beauty, “There’s a
raid on.” Both looked up at the sky, and he said,
“That explains all this.” German and English fighters
seemed to fill the sky directly overhead.
Mrs. Hobbs remarked, “I think I had better take
the children in.” Little Mary and Martha, with
hereditary lack of nerves, said “Is there a warn-
ing?” and trotted off to the cellar. During
the worst of the battle Mrs. Hobbs prepared
to feed the fowls and beasts. Chickens, she
informed me, don’t mind the fighting, but “We
can tell how near they are by the turkeys’ noise.
Sometimes,” she went on, “it seems that the
birds become depressed because there is no
space for them to fly.”
Mr. Hobbs has been gathering the corn
and the men have been working from 6 a.m. to
nightfall. One of the men was machine-gunned
by a Messerschmitt while he was hoeing wur-
zels. He got into a hedge and the Nazi
machine-gunned the hedge to within four yards
of him. “He is the only one of my men,”
commented Mr. Hobbs, “who looks about a
bit when he hears them buzzing around. The
others don’t take a bit of notice. You can’t
hear anything when you are in a tractor. I
was in one the other day and I knew nothing
until a bit of shrapnel fell near.”
* * * *
Northern Region Reactions
(Manchester “Guardian” reporter .)
Within a few hours of the bombs being
dropped in this Northern Region town the
people they made homeless had been collected
into the emergency shelter of a neighboring
church schoolroom, and there they were living
and being communally fed till other accom-
modation was found for them. Some had
been found fresh homes within two days and
had been back hunting in the ruins for any
redeemable furniture.
“This was my house. May I go in and
look for things?” This I heard an elderly
woman ask quite calmly of a police officer.
“If there’s anything to be saved go in and
get it, hinney,” he answered kindly, and then
he said to me, “The courage of these women
amazes me. After all, these were homes till two nights
ago, and these women come searching for their bits of
furniture with never a sign of shock or distress.”
I saw one woman climbing the exposed and lit-
tered stairway saying she might find some bedding or
odds and ends that would still be useful. One of the
many children who had returned to sit about the less
damaged doorways said that when the bomb dropped
near they heard nothing in their brick shelter. “We
must have been deafened by all the noise,” she ex-
plained. Another dispossessed housewife was trying
to coax away to new quarters her own pet from among
four black cats that were decently licking their coats
and enjoying the sun ; and a man who had taken his
boy to view the ruins soon took him away again with
the remark: “Come on, mon, there’s nowt here but
bricks.” And another onlooker, speaking of the author
of these crimes, said with fine contempt: “The lunatic
ought to be poisoned.”
Watch the East.
(Condensed from a London “Weekly Review” article
by Anatole V. Baikaloff.)
Nobody can pretend to say with absolute cer-
tainty what Hitler will do next. It seems, however,
that the chances are now heavily in favor of a Ger-
man offensive in the Middle East.
Hitler must take into consideration the difficul-
ties with which Italy is faced. As long as the British
Navy maintains mastery in the Mediterranean the
position of Italian possessions in Africa will remain
uncertain. Mussolini cannot be sure of the morale
of his people, and should he suffer a debacle in
Africa internal conditions in Italy might become
strained. There is good reason to believe that the
Duce is urging his master to limit operations against
England to sea-and-air blockade and bombing, and
concentrate his main effort on the campaign in the
Mediterranean basin.
As far as the Western part of this basin is con-
cerned the task is, comparatively speaking, simple.
The collapse of France deprived the British of practi-
cally all naval, air and land bases in this region, leav-
ing only Gibraltar and Malta, the offensive value of
which is negligible.
The Eastern Mediterranean is more difficult; a
good deal of spade work must be done there by the


enemy before he can attack British positions in the
Middle East. The first item in this programme was
the subjugation of the Balkan countries. Hitler per-
formed this task with considerable skill. War in the
Balkans was prevented, and a satisfactory German-
Soviet-Italian agreement about the partition of the
Balkans seems to have been arranged. As far as
available information and intelligent anticipation per-
mit to judge the details of this deal are as follows: —■
Germany is to obtain full economic and political
control over Slovakia, Hungary and Rumania, and to
annex northern provinces of Yugoslavia (Croatia,
Slavonia and Bosnia);
Italy is to place Greece in the position of a vassal
State, and to annex the Yugoslav provinces of Dalmatia,
Herzogovina and Montenegro;
Rumania will have to undergo a further surgical
operation: she will be forced to cede considerable part
of Transylvania to Hungary and Dobrudja to the
Bulgars;
Yugoslavia will be reduced to the size of the pre-
-1914 Serbia;
Greece will be also reduced in size; western
Thracia with the zEgean port of Dedeagatch and
southern Macedonia with Salonika will be transferred
to Bulgaria;
Soviet Russia is to get the lion’s share of the
spoils. She has already taken possession of Bessarabia
and Bukovina, and it might be expected that she would
soon present Hungary with the demand to surrender
Ruthenia (Sub-Carpathian Russia) under the pretext
that the population of this province belongs to the
Russian branch of the Slav race. Hungarians can
hardly repudiate this claim, because in their quarrel with
the Rumanians they used the same racial argument.
Also, the Soviets are most likely to take under
their protection Bulgaria and Serbia, where pro-Rus-
sian sympathies have always been strong. With Bul-
garia a vassal State the Soviets will gain control over
the mouth of the Danube, and obtain two important
naval and military bases (Dedeagatch and Salonika)
in the Eastern Mediterranean. If these plans mature
the Black Sea will become a “closed area” secure from
any attack by a hostile navy, and the Soviets will be
placed in an advantageous strategic position with
regard to Turkey. The demand for a joint Soviet-
Turkish control of the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles
will be vigorously pressed.
Hitler has hardly consented to concede such a fat
share in the Balkan spoils without having Stalin’s
promise to co-operate against the British in the Middle
East. Molotov may swear till he is blue in the face
that “Soviet Russia will not take part in the imperialist
war,” but the value of his assurances is too well known
to be accepted without suspicion.
Two items of recent news give good reason for
such suspicion. They seem to confirm that the
Soviets are making preparations for the invasion
of India. First, the U.S.S.R. concluded a trade agree-
ment with Afghanistan ; secondly, a railway commis-
sion from Iran has left Teheran for Moscow to discuss
transit problems. Soviet agents and dupes may assure
us that these moves have “no political or military sig-
nificance.” I refuse to accept these assurances because
I am too familiar with the technique of the dictators:
they always first negotiate trade agreements with their
prospective victims and then invade them. I am
sure in my mind that the Soviet moves in Afghanistan
and Iran were made in full agreement with Berlin.
All these moves in intrigues create in the Middle
East a situation pregnant with dangerous possibilities.
Should the partition of the Balkans be effected in the
manner outlined, the strategic position of Turkey
would become extremely grave. She will be sur-
rounded on all sides, and her sea communications
will be cut. Would she be able to resist combined
German-Soviet-Italian pressure for a free passage of
German armies through her territory?
From the military point of view any encroach-
ment on the sovereign rights of Turkey, especially the
Soviet demand for the control of the Dardanelles, will
have the same significance as the handing over of the
French navy to the Nazis. What guarantee will the
British have that the Soviet Black Sea navy—some 70
submarines, 30 destroyers and five cruisers—will not
join the Italian fleet in the Eastern Mediterranean?
Soviet hirelings and sympathisers are trying hard
to persuade the British public that the Soviet expan-
sion in the Balkans is really a blessing in disguise
because Stalin, by fortifying his position in the Black
Sea region, is blocking the way for Nazi penetration
in the Middle East. Molotov’s speech destroys this
stupid illusion. It provides clear evidence that the
German influence in the Kremlin is stronger than ever
before, and that there is in existence a full agreement
between Stalin and Hitler about the destruction of the
British Empire by a concerted action. I suggest that
this action will take place in the Middle East.
Watch the East! An attack on Palestine, Iraq
and Egypt may prove as momentous for the existence
of the British Empire as an invasion of England.
Plan for a Slave World.
(i Condensed from an American “Mercury” article by
Eugene Lyons.)
What kind of world will this be if Hitler’s Third
Reich is completely triumphant? Hitler himself and
his anointed spokesmen have answered —in words
and in the language of deeds in regions already under
their control. It adds up to Hitler’s blueprint for a
slave world.
The Hitler-minded, in Germany and elsewhere,
abhor the “confusion” and “inefficiency” of many
sovereign countries and many conflicting opinions and
free economic relations among men. They hate the
“turmoil” of democratic liberties. Theirs is a deep
passion for organisation and order —the ordered and
organised life of a well-run prison, in which they are
the wardens, their totalitarian allies the trusties, and
all lesser breeds the inmates.
Only after the German Volk has attained the
world leadership to which it is divinely ordained can
the world expect peace —an armed Pax Germanica; to
quote Mein Kampf:
A peace supported not by the palm branches of
tearful pacifist professional female mourners, but founded
by the victorious sword of a people of overlords which
puts the world into the service of a higher culture.
Neither Italy nor Russia, vassals who are for the
moment more useful as ostensible allies, can derive
much joy from the Nazi vision of the world-to-be.
Of 11 Duce’s people the Fiihrer said that “The Italians
can never be trained to become a warlike people, nor
has Fascism ever understood the real meaning of the
great upheaval of our era.” As to Hitler’s opinion of
Russia and the Russians, it is too notorious to need
repeating. The alliance with Stalin which touched off
the present war was a manoeuvre, a stratagem, with
no more intrinsic validity than any other Nazi com-
mitment. Whether the Kremlin clique will be allowed
a seeming autonomy, or whether their capitulation to
Berlin will be more open, the essence of the matter
remains the same: Russia will be an economic append-
age to Germany, should the blueprint become a reality.
Already German specialists are infiltrating Russian
economic life, German officers are active in the Red
Army. To the Nazis the Slavs are useful only when
properly handled by a superior race.
When German domination is accomplished, Hitler
has said, “there will still be the class of subject alien
races ; we need not hesitate to call them the modern
slave class” That he means this literally is already
evident in the fate meted out to Poles, Czechs, Slovaks,
Norwegians, Danes, Austrians. Not all these domi-
nated peoples are treated alike. Those who, like the
Austrians and Sudeten-Germans and Danzigers, are
regarded as sharing the precious Germanic blood are
absorbed. Others, regarded as closer to the Aryan
stock, are given a degree of autonomy ; the Danes and
the Dutch, for example, may expect this preferential
status. The rest are scheduled for exploitation, like
domestic animals: work-beasts, hundreds of millions
of them, protected and used by the armed Herren- class.
Poles, Czechs and other conquered peoples are
herded into slave armies. In appointing him Governor-
—New York “Daily News.”
“Don’t worry, Joe — it’s aimed at the U.S.A.
You and me got to be friends."
General of Poland, Hitler ordered Dr. Hans Frank
to turn the country into “a supply area for the Third
Reich.” There is no room in such an order, obvi-
ously, for the democratic foolishness of culture for the
masses, literacy, universal education. The Fiihrer has
only contempt for the “stupidity” of the British in
permitting colonial peoples to acquire knowledge and
ambitions unsuited to their racial status.
Only the Reich will be armed —control of death-
dealing weapons, like literacy, cannot be trusted to
inferiors and half-apes—and all the guiding strings of
world economy will be in the fists of the Reich.
In the past the end of a war meant a new stabili-
sation of national entities. Though stripped of land,
colonies and influence, the losers continued to live
their own type of life internally. Though defeated
by Bismarck in 1870, France continued to live its
French life and to work out its own political and
social patterns. That sort of tolerance is over, should
Hitler win. The losers will be told how to live, whom
to obey. In the Nazi conception there can be no peace,
but at most a pause in the dynamics of German con-
quest. Theirs is a “permanent revolution” as long as
there are corners of the globe to be revolutionised by
force. Whether through native Fascist groups or
direct German tutelage, the dominated regions will be
“integrated” into the larger scheme. The domination
will necessarily express itself also in economic terms —
through a “managed” currency, planned world trade,
large-scale monopoly barter.
Such is the blueprint for a slave world. This
grandiose undertaking may fail —I believe ultimately
it must fail. That, however, does not relieve us of
the duty to understand what the Nazis are aiming at.
Even if it fails utterly, Hitler’s blueprint for a slave
world will remain the most extraordinary project ever
evolved by the fevered mind of man.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
Some years ago Mr. Harold Denny, then the
correspondent of the New York “Times” in Moscow,
wrote a series of articles about Russia from outside
that country, where censorship could not restrict him.
The articles were the subject of diplomatic protest, but
Mr. Denny was permitted to return to Moscow. For-
tunately for him, he is an American citizen. Unfor-
tunately for her, his secretary was not. So it was she
who was spirited away one night by the Ogpu. No
word of her has since been heard. New York
"Times”
* * * * *
This challenge by the Nazis is ultimate. If they
have their way, then nothing can be discussed. There
will be no right or wrong, neither good nor evil; even
the priest at the altar may be one of the secret police.
Slavery is bearable, but the mind in chains is not. I
know that British traditions and affairs may perish if
this subversion of the mind is resisted, but they will
surely perish if no resistance is made. That is all the
choice we have. — H. M. TomlinsonAtlantic
Monthly.”
* * * * *
This time the British police were prepared for the
war. At the opening of hostilities they gaoled some
400 of the best German agents. Later raids tended
to show that the backbone of the organisation was
broken then. The involuntary confinement of more
than a thousand Britons, mostly followers of Sir
Oswald Mosley, further cleared the air. All in all,
foreigners in Britain have the impression that the
several branches of the very competent British police
are masters of the situation. With British patriotism
at the white heat of today under threat of invasion,
the fate of confessed Fifth Columnists in Britain
would be short and unenviable. — From on official
report by Colonel William J. Donovan, who visited
Europe on behalf of the U.S.A. to survey the progress
of the war to date. [lncidentally, a letter-writer in
Manchester “Guardian,” attacking sentimental oppo-
sition to the wholesale internment of aliens, made the
interesting suggestion that that all-in interning may
have had a good deal to do with the invasion delay.]
* * * * *
Radiomen and press correspondents stationed in
Berlin may know that the railway system has broken
down (they have seen exhausted passengers sleeping
in overcrowded stations while waiting for trains that
come either half a day late or not at all); they may
know that many German families are eating dog-
meat (I have confirmed many instances), that hos-
pitals have run out of ether (doctors have told me of
it), that Goring yesterday had a terrific quarrel with
Ribbentrop (it is well known that they have no love
for each other). They may know many things kept
secret even from the Fiihrer, but they don’t dare try
to get them through the censorship. The authorities
do permit some unfavorable news to get through. For
the Nazis learned a lesson from Russia. The bom-
bastic self-praise and 100 per cent. Communist propa-
ganda from Moscow made the world lose all faith in
Russian reports. The Nazis feel that others will be
more inclined to believe Berlin dispatches when they
contain occasional adverse material. It is the ticklish
job of the Blitzkrieg reporter to know just how much
of this unpleasant material he can salt into his reports
and still not be thrown out. — From an article in "Cur-
rent History and Forum” (U.S.A.) by Ernest R. Pope,
until lately a correspondent in Berlin.
* * * * *
What do Americans really think about Col.
Charles A. Lindbergh? An investigator hunting the
answer to that question in metropolitan newspapers
might conclude: “Not much.” He could read that
the former hero of millions of Americans must now be
denounced as a Fifth Columnist and traitor. But if
he knew our extraordinary nation well enough, he
might have some reasonable doubt as to whether
New York City newspapers truly reflect American
opinion. I have been granted access to the bales,
boxes and heaps of letters and telegrams which came
to Col. Lindbergh following his recent radio addresses.
The story that these communications have to tell is
very different from the sensational newspaper version.
The sheer number of the unsolicited letters and tele-
grams is little short of astounding. But this striking
evidence of the young man’s immense popularity
among his fellow-citizens is not the extraordinary part
of the story. The amazing fact is that over 94 p.c.
of these thousands of letters and telegrams express
ardent approval of the colonel’s anti-war position
Paul Palmer, in "Scribner’s Commentator”
* * * * *
Lord Shaftesbury, Lord Lieutenant of Dorset;
Lord Cranborne, M.P.; Lady Glyn, wife of Sir
Richard Glyn; and Lady (Sybil Emily Martin)
Hambro were among 20 people who were each fined
£2, with £2 costs, at Blandford for having bought
butter at a price exceeding the prescribed maximum.
They were said to have obtained the butter from Major
Edward William Fuidge Castleman, lord of the manor
of Chettle and ex-chairman of Blandford Bench, who
was fined £l5, with £l5 costs, for having demanded
an unreasonable charge —namely, 2s. 6d. a pound for
the butter. — Manchester "Guardian.”
*****
In spite of the ambitious plans ventilated last
year by Mr. Pirow, Minister of Defence in the
Hertzog Government, there were only some 18,000
trained men in the Union last September when General
Smuts took over, and only about 2000 were actually
under arms. The organisation for the supply ot
munitions and equipment was of the sketchiest. Now
the armed forces of the Union are on a scale compar-
able to those of the other great Dominions, and men
and supplies are steadily pouring northward. South
African factories are turning out military explosives,
shells, aerial bombs, grenades and rifle ammunition j
trench-mortars and guns ; and military vehicles of all
descriptions, including armored cars. In regard to
’plane engines, etc., South Africa lies outside the war
zone prohibited for American shipping, so munitions
bought in the U.S. can be shipped hither in American
vessels. The Union Government has constantly in view
the possibility that the theatre of war in Africa may
become considerably enlarged if Spain and Portugal
should be forced in with the Dictators. The Union
has Portuguese colonies on two sides. The Bel-
gian Congo, another near neighbor, may also become
susceptible to German influence. Thus the defence ot
Africa for the Empire may shortly have to be con-
ducted in large part from the territory of the Union."
Johannesburg correspondent in London "Tunes.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Beau Vite clinched his Melbourne Cup
claim by a brilliant win from Ajax and
Beaulivre in a thrilling race for the W. S.
Cox Plate at Moonee Valley on Satur-
day. Only half a neck and half a head
separated them at the finish, but honors
were with Beau Vite, who took the
lead over six furlongs from home.
Rumors that the Maorilander was de-
veloping a splint proved groundless, and
bookmakers who offered slightly longer
than the ruling price about him for the
Cup were quickly silenced.
Defeat for Beau Vite, who started
favorite at 7 to 4, probably would have
brought the critics down on rider Ted
McMenamin. Trainer Frank McGrath
himself was one of the most surprised
men on the ground when Beau Vite hit
the front so early. He had instructed
McMenamin to keep on Ajax’s “wheel,”
and not permit the latter to gain a break.
Instructions, however, cannot always be
followed to the letter, and McMenamin’s
initiative was a big factor in Beau Vite’s
win.
Realising that Badger on Ajax was
attempting to slow down the field, he de-
termined that the race should be run to
his liking, not Badger’s, and so took Beau
Vite to the front. It was a bold stroke,
but McMenamin knew the calibre of the
horse under him, and stated later that he
was never in danger of defeat. He added
that Beau Vite had run right up to the
form that had enabled him to win four
successive races in Sydney before his
departure for Melbourne. The Maori-
lander has now won £17,710 in stakes,
and is likely to earn another £7OO in the
L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes next Saturday.
Although beaten, Ajax demonstrated
that he is still a great horse. It was not
until the day before the race, when he
was inspected by one of his part-owners,
A. W. Thompson, that it was decided
definitely that Ajax should run. His
immediate retirement would have been
considered seriously had his form con-
vinced his owners that he was on the
toboggan, but they expressed themselves
satisfied with his performance, and Ajax
will have another “crack” at Beau Vite
in the L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes.
Badger thought he had Beau Vite beaten
when Ajax ranged alongside that horse
coming to the turn, but the winner fought
on too well. Ajax, however, also fought
on gamely, and Badger’s subsequent
remark, “Beau Vite is a really good
horse,” can be construed as a tribute to
his own mount.
Beaulivre’s third was an impressive per-
formance. He went for an inside run
when Beau Vite shifted slightly at the
top of the straight, but the opening closed
immediately, and it was not until close
to home that he was able to obtain a
run between Beau Vite and Ajax. Actu-
ally he was doing better than the first
and second horses right on the post, and
some of his backers opined that he might
have made the finish even more interest-
ing had Dewhurst taken him to the out-
side in the straight. Dewhurst, however,
deemed it better to wait for an opening
rather than risk Ajax veering out and
taking Beaulivre with him. Beaulivre
met Beau Vite lib. worse than Cup
terms, but, even allowing that he might
have been a shade unlucky, Beau Vite
is still the more attractive Cup proposi-
tion. Rivette, though fourth, was three
lengths behind Beaulivre. She will meet
the latter and Beau Vite on better terms
next Tuesday, but her chance of winning
a second Melbourne Cup does not appear
particularly bright.
A hostile demonstration from all parts
of the course followed Gilltown’s all-the-
way win in the Moonee Valley Gold Cup.
He had weakened over the last furlong
and finished only fifth in the Werribee
U P, run over 10 furlongs at Mentone
three days earlier, and backers who took
to 1 about him for that race found it
hard to reconcile his improved stamina
° v er an additional three - furlongs on
Saturday. It was almost a repetition of
last year, when Gilltown won the Moonee
Valley Cup three days after he had been
beaten by Sir Grey in the Werribee Cup.
A demonstration followed that perform-
ance, though many of the demonstrators,
being of opinion that L’Aiglon had won,
were voicing their disapproval of the
judge’s decision.
Oliver Triggs, Sydney owner of Gill-
town, who was ridden by W. Cook, de-
clares that there was absolutely no justi-
fication for Saturday’s outburst. Before
the first race he informed The Bulletin
representative that his trainer, Leo O’Sul-
livan, was far from confident of success,
O’Sullivan did not think the gelding was
at the top of his form, and advised him
to halve his bet. Triggs duly cut his in-
tended bet by half, and advised his
friends accordingly. Gilltown’s starting
price of 20 to 1 revealed the lack of
stable confidence in his chance, but his
hard race at Mentone, his first race since
his arrival in Melbourne, obviously had
done more for him than his trainer antici-
pated.
Few jockeys are more at home on a
free-goer than Cook, and he excelled on
Gilltown. He gave his mount a couple of
breathers during the race, and this, com-
bined with the seeming fact that several
other riders seemed to think that he
would come back to the field, enabled
him to shoot Gilltown farther away on
the bend. Gilltown was not in danger
of defeat subsequently, and won clearly
from Apostrophe and Katanga. Katanga
had every chance. He had the run of the
race, but only plodded on at the finish.
Gilltown carried his original Melbourne
Cup weight, 7.12, but has been reweighted
at 8.3. He ran twelfth with 7.7 in last
year’s Melbourne Cup.
Gilltown’s improved form was not the
only Moonee Valley Cup sensation. Caul-
field Cup runner-up Gladynev, starting
favorite at 5 to 2, fell about three fur-
longs from home. Gladynev dropped a
good way out of his ground early, and
seemed inclined to hang, but, although
making a forward move at the time of his
mishap, he was too far behind the leaders
to look a possibility. His rider, N. Sell-
wood, reported by the club surgeons to
be suffering shock and rib injuries, was
sent to hospital for an X-ray, and an in-
quiry into the cause of the fall has been
adjourned until he is able to give
evidence.
From a Melbourne Cup viewpoint,
Apostrophe and Wilson were most im-
pressive of the Moonee Valley Cup
runners. Apostrophe, as usual, began
slowly, and six furlongs from home was
second-last, about 20 lengths behind the
leader. Carrying his exact Melbourne
Cup weight, 7.11, he unwound a remark-
able run to get within a length and a
quarter of Gilltown at the finish, and the
longer stretches and longer distance at
Flemington should be more to his liking.
Wilson had eased out of the Melbourne
Cup market as a result of recent failures,
but fading hopes were revived after his
fast-finishing fourth. Apart from Apos-
trophe, he finished better than anything
in the race, but the Adelaide gelding will
meet him 41b. better next Tuesday.
Waxwings, winner of the S.A. Derby,
and a candidate for the Victoria Derby
next Saturday, might not be able to beat
Lucrative, but his second to The Decora-
tion over the mile of the Phoenix Handi-
cap was a good performance. Losing
two or three lengths as a result of being
squeezed out near the half-mile, and
forced to go outside four horses on the
turn, he was unlucky in defeat. Wax-
wings, who is owned by Lady Muriel
Barclay Harvey, wife of the Governor
of S.A., finished ahead of other Derby
candidates in Fur Trader and' Night-
beam, and, as he was having his first race
in Melbourne, may improve.
Wide barrier positions at the mile start
at Moonee Valley are looked upon with
disfavor by backers, but Early Bird, start-
ing from No. 14 for the Phoenix Handi-
cap, was sent out a clear-cut favorite.
The bustle to get across and take the
lead probably contributed to her failure
to run on, but the winner, The Decora-
tion, aided by a light weight, was able to
overcome the disadvantage of No. 15 at
the barrier. She shot through at the turn
and won nicely from Waxwings and
Mohican. Latter hit the front for a stride
or two at the top of the straight, but
weakened. Bankshaw, second favorite,
jumped into the barrier at the start, got
the lower strand in his mouth, carried it
with him for some distance, and lost all
chance. The Decoration, who is trained
at Ballarat by O. N. Marshall, well-
known in the trotting game, gave W.A.
apprentice T. Unkovich his second win of
the day. Unkovich, who had won the
previous race on another outsider, Orteli,
has ridden about 100 winners in the West,
and has now forced himself under the
notice of Melbourne owners and trainers.
Form said so little for Orteli’s chance
in the Dundonald Handicap that she was
practically neglected in the betting at 33
to 1. This three-year-old filly had per-
formed poorly among horses of her own
age at Ascot four days earlier, and her
defeat of hot favorite Pure Gold on
Saturday was a severe blow to punters.
Appreciating the drop from 8.12 to 7.3,
she shot through at the turn, appeared
to carry Pure Gold a little wide, and,
straightening quicker than the favorite,
held him off at the finish. Adelaide mare
Dreamsome came home nicely in third
place, and should pay the expenses of her
trip. Operatic and Aspire weakened
from the turn, and Tel Asur disappointed.
Orteli was an entrant for the V.R.C.
Wakeful Stakes (for three-year-old fillies),
but was withdrawn from that race last
Friday.
A 425-guineas yearling, Gitano (Lo
Zingaro-Lady Alaric) gave bookmakers a
good result when he recorded a narrow
win from King of the Mist and the un-
lucky Status Quo in the first division of
the St. Albans Handicap. Gitano is
owned and trained by Steve Murphy, but
there was very little money for him on
the course, his price easing from sevens
to twelves. Hero, winner of two succes-
sive races in Adelaide, was backed from
7 to 2 to 9 to 4, but he is only a small
colt, and just missed a place after being
in front 100 yards from home.
Pierre, winner of the second St. Albans
division, was bought by “G. Capesthorne”
on the recommendation of Sydney trainer
George Price. A son of Ronsard and
Aerophyte, Pierre was passed out of the
sale ring at 110 guineas, and Price ad-
vised “Capesthorne” that he was a likely
proposition. Latter, without having seen
the colt, purchased him privately, and
gave him to W. Duncan to train. Pierre’s
race on Saturday was his first, and the
manner of his defeat of Marcoperi and
Basalt suggests that further success will
come his way shortly. Marcoperi tried
to lead all the way, but it was not a lucky
day for his Sydney owner, F. W. Hughes.
Latter had also finished second with King
of the Mist in the first division, while
another of his horses, Dashing Cavalier,
who started third favorite for the Moonee
Valley Cup, was never a real danger.
Laveur, warm favorite for the Broad-
meadows Steeplechase, lost his chance in
unusual circumstances. He was side-on
when the barrier rose, jockey L. Meenan
subsequently informing the stewards that,
being of opinion he had taken up his
wrong position at the barrier, he pulled
out and swung round to take up his cor-
rect position just as the tapes were re-
leased. Stewards were satisfied that no
blame could be attached to the starter.
Laveur lost about 20 lengths, and, reveal-
ing no dash until the race was almost
over, finished a poor sixth. Dornford
carried his 12.9 to a race-record win
from Highland March and Tornarsuk,
thereby taking his steeplechasing record
to six starts for four wins and a second.
First as a hurdler, and now as a ’chaser,
Dornford has been a fine bargain at the
150 guineas he cost owner-trainer F. W.
Hoysted about three years ago.
The attendance at Randwick on Satur-
day reached 20,000, that number, how-
ever, including a big sprinkling of sol-
diers. The tote turnover was £27,469.
We have recently had a surfeit of Satur-
day sport at Randwick, and a change to
other courses will be welcomed by race-
goers and probably the A.J.C. staff.
Teddie Rion, who had recently run
well at provincial meetings, gave the
books a good start in the Warwick Trial
Handicap. He did not run unbacked,
but, as he was at 10 to 1 at the close of
business, his win was not appreciated by
many punters. He led throughout, and
from the time he turned for home ahead
of Australasia, Airoon and Mainray there
was no doubt as to the result.
It was reckoned the mile would suit
the favorite, Airoon, but he failed to run
on after being well placed at the top of
the straight. Again commencing slowly,
Dewar was a pronounced last along the
back, and then came home so well that
he finished sixth. The first time he runs
at a mile and a quarter in ordinary open
company he will be worth backing. A
winning turn for Widden should not be
long in coming, but despite her good
track work last week Marlong was again
a failure. Fairly placed approaching the
straight she made a forward move at the
leger, but weakened badly before reach-
ing the winning-post. A mile in 1.37 i
was smart going for novices.
It’s Funny, who ran second at his two
previous starts, had an easy win in the
Greystanes Juvenile Stakes, and is an-
other advertisement for the Kia-Ora Stud.
He is by Constant Son from Roscome,
by Rossendale from Comic, by Absurd,
and was a 375gns. yearling. Milanja and
Limonite (a Limarch filly) led into the
straight from It’s Funny, Magi (by
Brueghel) and Avocation, but over the
final furlong It’s Funny had matters
all his own way. Dick Whittington
again commenced slowly, and was
a fair third, without ever being a pos-
sible winner. It was against him that in
a field of 18 he was only one from the
outside. Goldbrook, who was also wide
out at the barrier, looked very bright, but
did not do as well as at his previous start.
Red Thespian was the early leader in
the Macquarie Grove Handicap, but the
task of winning all the way was beyond
him. Climax was with him at the straight
entrance, and at the leger half a dozen
horses appeared to have chances. Then
Willie Green drew out and, finishing
better than Bestop, beat him three,
quarters of a length, with Metallic a close
third. Willie Green is trained by N.
McKenna, and, as his team has not re-
cently included many winners, it was a
pleasant change of luck for him.
Climax again failed to run up to track
form, and though Leif is wearing a
healthy appearance she is still a long
way from the form that enabled her to
win the Final Handicap at last year’s
A.J.C. spring meeting. A 71b. apprentice
allowance did not help Peekmond, who is
not an easy horse to ride. Dollar did
well enough to suggest he may shortly
pick up a race in moderate company.
Jazbeau, who has been a very useful
horse for A. G. Papworth, won the
Varroville Handicap in a fashion that
pointed to further success for him in the
near future. His opponents included
some smart sprinters, but, taking charge
when the field settled down, Jazbeau
gave nothing else a chance after turning
for home.
Forward outstayed Benburb for second
money, and, though Penthides was fourth,
FOR FLEMINGTON.
By “ SENTRY .”
Wakeful Stakes: Trueness, 1;
Tranquil Star, 2 ; Session, 3.
Maribyrnong Plate: All Love, 1 ;
High Title, 2 ; Dapper, 3.
L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes: Beau
Vite, 1 ; Beaulivre, 2 ; High Caste, 3.
Victoria Derby: Lucrative, 1 ;
Pandect, 2 ; Waxwings, 3.
Cantala Stakes: Mildura, 1 ; Gold
Salute, 2 ; St. Constant, 3.
Hotham Handicap: True Flight,
1 ; Wilson, 2 ; Pantler, 3.
SECOND DAY—TUESDAY.
Melbourne Cup: Beau Vite, 1 ;
Historian, 2 ; Apostrophe, 3.
By “PILOT.”
Victoria Derby: Lucrative, 1 ;
Pandect, 2 ; Tidal Wave, 3.
Cantala Stakes: Mildura, 1 ;
Gold Salute, 2 ; Remarc, 3.
Melbourne Cup: Beau Vite, 1 ;
Historian, 2; Wilson or Apos-
trophe, 3.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(By “ PILOT .")
Maiden Handicap: Sunstreak, 1 ;
Royal Head, 2 ; River Valley, 3.
Juvenile Stakes: Milanja, 1 ;
Limonite, 2 ; Magi, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Mar-
theus, 1 ; Midnight Blue, 2 ; Over-
joyed, 3.
Carlton Mile: Asnazu, 1 ; For-
ward, 2 ; The Kite, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Aristo-
crat, 1 ; Enatic, 2 ; Masterpiece, 3.
Flying Welter Handicap: Jocular,
1 ; Novice, 2 ; Benburb, 3.


i
m
■ -
m
YOUR TAILOR . . .
has all the Crusader Pattern
Books. , • • Ask to see them.
to
cit
What you
choose
—you get!
■p VERY CRUSADER CLOTH is
always in stock. You will never be
disappointed by making a selection and
finding it "Sold out” l Crusader Cloth
offers you not only the utmost in appearance,
but a remarkable wear. This is ensured by the
positive guarantee that no Crusader Cloth will
fade or shrink. Consequently, cleaning and
pressing restores your suit to its early freshness.
, ... In your own interest, remember that!
COOLANA —The Ideal Summer Suiting!
Here is an example of how the manufacturers have succeeded in producing the exact
cloths for Australian conditions. COOLANA (a Crusader Cloth) is a worsted made'
from the finest wool; attractive in pattern and so light, airy and cool that it takes the
sting out of summer.
In a Coolana Suit*you are “air-conditioned.”
(Trosaiter
CLOTH
• SCISTEIIEO TMPt U A UK
guaranteed never to fade o r shrink
Blinky Bill impressed me most of the un-
placed lot. He is again in excellent trim,
and at a mile or further he should shortly
take a lot of beating at one of the
suburban meetings. Caesar commenced
with his customary slowness, but though
towards the end he made up some of his
leeway he never really raised the hopes
of those backers who took a short price
about him. Six furlongs would appear
too short for him, and a mile too far, so,
as there are very few seven furlongs
races, he would appear Jike continuing un-
profitable for his trio of owners.
After many failures Yours Truly re-
turned to the winning list in the Home-
bush Handicap. Thompson shot him to
the front at barrier-rise, had him well
clear of Bel Oiseau at the seven furlongs,
and after that the latter looked the only
one likely to trouble him. At the home
turn he reduced Yours Truly’s lead, but
had no chance in the run down the
straight. Fearless, doing a little better
than Mischief right at the end, gained
third money, while, as Binnia Hero did no
better than the previous week, perhaps he
may need a short let-up. Nothing in
the field looked brighter than Seven Fifty,
but, as he was last home, evidently the
higher scale of weights was not to his
liking. By comparison with the other
races, the time, 2.5|, was on the slow
side. It was Yours Truly’s first win since
last March, and his third in his present
ownership.
• •••••
F. Dalton, who trains Yours Truly,
had another winner in Asnazu, who was
much too good for the pacemakers,
Novice and June, at the finish of the
Welter Handicap. It was not surprising
that Asnazu started at a long price. He
made such a poor showing in the Ken-
sington Handicap at the A.J.C. meeting
that he unpleasantly surprised his trainer,
but now that he has returned to form an-
other win or two may soon be credited
him.
After entering the ■ straight there
appeared little likelihood of the winner
coming from outside the three that
eventually filled the places. There was
strong support for Scarlet Circle, also
backing for Edifice, Aladdin and Anne.
Not one of that lot ever really threatened
danger, but, as there must have been
reason for the support accorded them,
they may not be long in improving upon
last week’s form. After losing several
lengths at barrier-rise Hydra ran well.
* * * *
Beau Vite won the W. S. Cox Plate,
but not in a fashion to kill interest in
the L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes. There
was so little in it at the finish that Ajax
and Beaulivre will not lack backing at a
mile and a quarter against last week’s
winner. There is also the possibility of
High Caste being one of the field.
According to some of his backers he was
unlucky not to have won the Caulfield
Cup with 9.2, and the quarter-mile-
shorter distance should be in his favor.
In summing up his chance it can be
added that he beat Ajax at a mile in the
Melbourne Stakes, and the latter practi-
cally proved himself as good as Beau
Vite at nine and a half furlongs. At the
time of writing High Caste is still in the
Cantala Stakes, and there is, of course,
the possibility of the stable regarding
that as easier than the w.f.a. race, not-
withstanding he will be meeting Mildura
a few pounds worse than in the Epsom.
However, fast track work at a mile
and a quarter suggests that High Caste
will start in the L. K. S. Mackinnon
Stakes as a winding-up run for the Mel-
bourne Cup. It is no secret now that
High Caste “makes a noise,” but though
it was thought that even mild respiratory
trouble was bound to affect adversely
such a big horse it did not tell against
him in the Caulfield Cup. Although he
missed a place he never really shaped
better at a mile and a half.
I can recall one Melbourne Cup place-
getter that was affected in the wind, and
he subsequently won long-distance w.f.a.
races. I refer to Mountain King. Enter-
ing the straight in the Cup nothing
looked more like a winner, but the last
furlong pulled him up. At that time his
owner, the late John McDonald, would
not admit there was anything amiss with
him. He was too keen a businessman
to make any admission that might be
detrimental to Mountain King’s value as
a stud proposition. Towards the close
of his racing career Mountain King was
a pronounced roarer.
Before Mountain King ran in the
Melbourne Cup a well-known veterinary
surgeon said to his owner, “Would you
have any objection to Mountain King
being operated on?” “No,” replied
the horse’s owner-Mhe vet. smiled in
anticipation of a payable job—“but,” he
continued, “you would first of all have
to convince me that he does roar.”
Knowing McDonald had no intention of
being convinced, the vet. gave it best.
* * * *
W. S. Cox Plate running proved that
Ajax was far from a back number. He
was beaten by only a half-neck, and
was giving 41b. to the winner, Beau Vite.
We have been accepting the latter as a
horse out of the ordinary, and his recent
deeds support that idea. Consequent on
Beau Vite, Ajax and Beaulivre finishing
so close together, it can be argued that
not one of them can be a real champion.
Perhaps so, but each is undeniably good,
though 1 range myself on the side of
those who declare none of them is a
Phar Lap.
Ajax is practically certain to be a
runner for the L. K. S. Mackinnon
Stakes, but, though in that he may be un-
equal to turning the tables on Beau
Vite, a win may be credited him in the
Linlithgow Stakes. The Melbourne Cup
is bound to take some of the dash out
of Beau Vite, Beaulivre and High Caste,
and that will give Ajax an advantage. If
High Caste should miss the Melbourne
Cup he will be a tough opponent for
Ajax at a mile, but his preparation points
to him as a runner for Tuesday’s race.
I am writing before acceptance day.
* * * *
In the last two Victoria Derbies
Nuffield and Reading repeated their
A.J.C. Derby wins. Pandect’s con-
nections expect him to do like-
wise, but though he outstayed Lucra-
tive at Randwick it is far from certain
he will do so at Flemington. Luck in
running was against Lucrative in the
A.J.C. Derby, and, though there is con-
siderable difference between a mile and
a mile and a half, the style in which
Lucrative won the Caulfield Guineas
pointed to improvement after his defeat
at Randwick.
If the Guineas had been run at Caul-
field perhaps less importance would have
attached to Lucrative’s win as bearing
on the Victoria Derby, but though the
run from the three furlongs should have
given those colts with Derby pretensions
every chance of showing staying form
Lucrative increased his advantage in the
run down the straight. Pandect made up
ground towards the end, and finished
strongly, but it is improbable even an-
other half-mile would have enabled him
to bridge the wide gap separating him
from Lucrative.
There seems little likelihood of either
Warbird or Velocity improving upon his
Guineas form, but as Positron did well
towards the finish of the Guineas he may
fare better over the longer distance. He
is by Windbag—sire of one Victoria
Derby winner in Liberal —from Bahlaka,
by Saltash from Galtee Maid, by Linacre.
Scientist’s prospects are favorably re-
garded by his trainer, but though excuses
were made for his A.J.C. Derby failure,
and he won the Members’ Handicap, 1|
mile, in good time, it is questionable
whether that form took him up to Lucra-
tive and Pandect.
Sun Valley does not read as well as
either Lucrative or Pandect, and Tidal
Wave has scarcely made the progress
anticipated since his Rosehill Guineas
win. His fourth in the Werribee Cup
with a pound over weight-for-age was a
fair effort, but if as good a stayer as
previously supposed he should have won.
As it was, the place-getters held him right
at the finish. South Australian colt Wax-
wings is unlikely to cause a surprise,
though he ran well on Saturday, and
it seems to me it will be the A.J.C. Derby
again so far as the first two are con-
cerned, with Lucrative reversing positions
with Pandect.
* * * *
Of course it is possible for Beau Vite
to get beaten in the Melbourne Cup, but
Moonee Valley running did not greatly
add to the number of his dangerous
opponents. Notwithstanding it is claimed
by some backers of Beaulivre that he
should have defeated Beau Vite in the
W. S. Cox Plate, it is improbable he will
be as well suited by the two miles as the
latter. Scientist and The Adjutant will meet
Beau Vite on much better terms, as will
Rivette, but it is doubtful whether they
will improve sufficiently to make them
dangerous.
After the Caulfield Cup Apostrophe
was selected as a horse likely to give a
good account of himself in the Melbourne
Cup. Boiled down neither Apostrophe
nor Katanga showed form on Saturday
that assured their defeat of Historian, for
one, next Tuesday. The former will again
meet Historian on the same terms, and
Katanga will be only 21b. better off. As
Dashing Cavalier failed to get a place at
a mile and five furlongs in the Moonee
Valley Cup, I question whether a drop
of 51b. will enable him to win a severe
two-mile handicap.
Wilson’s form in the Moonee Valley
Cup was the best he has shown recently,
and he may, after all, act up to last
season’s belief that he would eventual >
prove a genuine stayer. Pantler may ao
V. , . .. \


GRACE 880
•• ' •
I
NOVEMBER
SHOP-EARLY
I
a
DEDUCTED
FROM
YOUR BILL
6.
m
©
&
m
&
©
USUAL PRICES:
£9/9/- £lO/10/- £ll/11/- £l4/14/-
LESS 10%
£BlO/- £9/9/- £lO/8/- £l3/4 6
CRAFTSMAN
TAILORED
IN
LONDON
Take advantage of
this unique offer,
which includes
Greys, Fawns and
Navy English
Worsted in a large
number of fittings,
and each garment
is in perfect con-
dition.
......... J
1 1
Mil
'■■•r
m
m
I
M
lilt
li
1 :
B
pnn
isiislil^lg^iilillll
Without Exception!
THE WHOLE OF THE HUGE RANGE
OF ENGLISH CRAFTSMAN TAILORED
CLOTHING IS SUBJECT TO THE
10% DISCOUNT. THIS INCLUDES:
ENGLISH DRESS WEAR, TOPCOATS,
RAINCOATS, AND LOUNGE SUITS,
WHICH ARE AVAILABLE IN THE
FAMOUS 131 FITTING RANGE.
GRACE BROS. PTY., LTD., BROADWAY,
SYDNEY.
’PHONE: M 6506


better than suggested by his position in
the quotations. He has 7.11, which is
only a pound more than when he finished
strongly in third place in the Metropoli-
tan, and, though he subsequently ran
badly in the Waverley Handicap with 8.8,
he does not give the impression of being
a weight-carrier.
Maikai’s connections still give him a
good chance ; but, though he can run
two miles, 9.4 will trouble him. True
Flight’s Caulfield Cup run sent him out
of favor, but in his case improvement
is possible.
The Derby should determine the rela-
tive merits of the three-year-olds up to a
mile and a half, and though Lucrative
may win that race Pandect may prove
his master over two miles. Form
does not encourage the idea that
this year’s Cup will go to a three-year-
old, but perhaps, as on other occasions,
we may be inclined to underrate them.
Saturday’s results may introduce another
possibility or two, but, in trying for a
collection likely to give more than one
place-getter in the Melbourne Cup, it
seems difficult to go beyond Beau Vite,
Historian, Apostrophe and Wilson.
:p * * *
Beaten out of a place at a mile and
a quarter at Werribee last Wednesday,
Gilltown won the Moonee Valley Gold
Cup on Saturday, leading all the way. The
crowd thereupon made remarks reflecting
upon the integrity of Sydney racing
men, a fact that greatly perturbed owner
O. F. Triggs. As he knew his horse tried
at Werribee he should not have allowed
the demonstration to worry him. The
same people who cheer an owner one
day are likely to hoot him the next, or
vice versa. An owner should not be
greatly flattered by the applause of race-
goers nor upset by their disapproval.
With most it is a matter of how a result
has affected their pockets. Anyhow, that
£2200 prize-money and a couple of nice
bets at long odds should have been balm
for Triggs’s feelings, and more than com-
pensated for lack of cheers when, for the
second time in succession, Gilltown beat
a good field in the Cup.
* * * *
Mildura has done well since he went
to Melbourne, and is likely to head the
Cantala Stakes quotations, notwithstanding
the idea obtains that the heavy bettors
associated with Jamieson’s stable will send
Gold Salute out favorite. The latter’s
recent second to Aurie’s Star after getting
away badly emphasised what a good horse
he is, but he is now very close to Mildura
in the weights. The latter has 21b. less
than he carried in the Epsom, and he
would probably have won that race if
quite as forward in condition as a few
days later when he gave Beau Vite 51b.
and ran him to a half-head in the Craven
Plate.
* # * *
It would be interesting to know how
much more money is held by the books
than is put through the totalisator at
Randwick. According to the returns given
in a Sunday paper the amount put on
Fearless for the Homebush Handicap in
thirteen bets of £2O or over totalled
£630. That was placed with eleven book-
makers, and they of course would take
many other bets from £lO to £1 on the
same horse. Four of the other five
runners were well backed. There were
at least 70 other bookmakers operating
in the paddock, and in the leger and
on the flat there would jointly be
nearly another 200. The full amount that
went through on the totalisator on the
Homebush Handicap —paddock, leger and
flat —was about £2600. The other day
I wrote that the bookmakers turned over
at least six times as much money as the
totalisator, but, going on the above
figures, that would be a very conservative
estimate.
* * * *
The win of most merit at Kensington
last week was that of Liege Maid in the
Kensington Handicap. One of the
whippers-in along the back, and still a
long way from the front entering the
straight, she finished too strongly for
Silver Arbor after the latter looked a
winner. It was Liege Maid’s third suc-
cessive win, and, a light little mare, she
is very much better than she looks. She
is by Irish Prince (son of Rangag), and
her dam is an unnamed Cavalry mare.
Cavalry was by Carbine.
* * * *
A. E. Cooper was back in Sydney to
see his filly Fairy Glass run in the third
division of the Flying Welter at Kensing-
ton, and the price at which that filly
started suggested her success surprised
him as much as it did all other backers.
When an outsider wins at a mid-week
meeting it generally receives credit for
being the medium of a starting-price coup
running into thousands. As that was
not said or written of Fairy Glass pre-
sumably her win benefited the “off-the-
course” layers as much as those who were
legitimately betting at Kensington. Fairy
Glass’s previous form said nothing for
her, but on breeding she should be a gal-
loper. She is by Peter Pan from Lady
Beth, by St. Anton from Marjanah.
* * * *
Applying Melbourne Cup figures
Wilson and Pantler should play promi-
nent parts in the Hotham Handicap.
Wilson has 51b. less than in the Cup, and
Pantler only 21b. more than in that race.
Old Rowley might run well in the
Hotham, likewise Mac Rob, but if they
have any chance of success in the Cup
either Wilson or Pantler should win. St.
Constant is fairly in with 8.11 —31b. more
than his Melbourne Cup weight—but he
is also in the Cantala Stakes, and I am
writing before the acceptances for that
race.
* * * *
Fearless Fox was outclassed in the
A.J.C. Derby, and was well beaten in
the Queensland Guineas, but his short
stay in Brisbane has done so much for
him that, in the Q.T.C. Derby, he may
uphold the good opinion G. Price formed
of him last season. At Brisbane Tatter-
sail’s meeting on Saturday he won the
President’s Handicap by five lengths and,
in cutting out the mile and a quarter
in 2.2%, equalled the Queensland record
for that distance. Although he carried
only 7.3 it was a brilliant effort, and the
Guineas winner, Bold Step, who started
favorite, was one of the unplaced runners.
He was giving Fearless Fox 71b., but the
latter beat him more than that.
* * * *
If Beau Vite should win the Mel-
bourne Cup he will not make a weight
record for a four-year-old, but he will
be the first to win that race and the
Metropolitan since the distance of the
latter was reduced. Some horses have
gone on from a minor placing in the
Metropolitan to success in the Mel-
bourne Cup, but that double has not been
won in one season by the same horse
since Tim Whiffler in 1867, the Metro-
politan distance then being two miles.
Mooltan won a Metropolitan with
6.13, but a penalty that sent his
weight up from 7.1 to 7.11 stopped him
in the Cup. He was beaten a half-head
by Apologue, who was second to him
in the Metropolitan, and met him 241 b.
better. Mooltan, by the way, only
squeezed home in that year’s Metropoli-
tan, but comfortably won again the fol-
lowing year with 9.2.
San Fran won the Metropolitan with
8.8, but 9.7 put him into second place
behind Revenue in the Cup. Kennaqu-
hair made a good try for the double,
but a rise from the 8.4 with which he
won the Metropolitan to 9.0 in the Mel-
bourne Cup proved more than he could
manage. He was beaten by a good
stayer in Night Watch, who had only
6.9. Poseidon, Piastre, Westcourt and
Nightmarch each ran second in the
Metropolitan, and then won the Mel-
bourne Cup, but at the time of writing
there appears doubt whether Reading,
second in the Metropolitan, will be a
Cup runner.
* * * *
It is improbable that anything
approaching an outsider will win the
L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes, but, as in some
previous years, it is possible a horse
beaten in that race will win the Mel-
bourne Cup. Comedy King, The Pari-
sian and Spearfelt were unplaced in the
w.f.a. race, and then won the Cup, while
Windbag and Nightmarch ran third in it
prior to winning the big handicap. As
form has been somewhat topsy-turvy,
perhaps a minor-place getter in the
L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes may win the
Cup. The following horses beaten in
the Stakes won the Cup:
Position in
Cup Winners. Stakes.
1891— Malvolio, 8.4 Eighth
1892 Glenloth, 7.13 Eighth
1894—Patron, 9.3 .. .. Second
1898—The Grafter, 9.2 .. .. Second
1902 — The Victory, 8.12 Second
1903 Lord Cardigan, 6.8 .. . . Second
1907—Apologue, 7.9 .. Second
1910— Comedy King, 7.11 .. .. Sixth
1911 — The Parisian, 8.9 Sixth
1912 — Piastre, 7.9 .. .. Third
1917 —Westcourt, 8.5 Third
1920 —Poitrel, 10.0 .. Third
1925 — Windbag, 9.2 .. Third
1926 — Spearfelt, 9.3 .. Unplaced
1928 — Statesman, 8.0 . . Third
1929 — Nightmarch, 9.2 .. .. Third
1935 —Marabou, 7.11 .. .. Second
* * * *
Success in the Melbourne Stakes (now
the L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes) has
caused several horses to start favorite
for the Melbourne Cup, but a seeming
pull in weight was outweighed by the
fact that they were running out of their
distance in the latter. Ruenalf, Lancas-
ter and St. Carwyne were specially not-
able instances, They respectively car-
ried 7.7, 7.10 and 7.3 after winning the
Melbourne Stakes, but were unplaced in
the Cup. Duke Foote, another Mel-
bourne Stakes winner, missed a place in
the Cup with 8.3, and Silvius, who was
also successful in the w.f.a. race, and
had only 7.7 in the Cup, was beaten
by Trivalve, 7.6. The following list shows
how L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes winners
have fared in the Cup since 1901:
L. K. S. Mackinnon Position in
Stakes Winners. C U P-
-1901—Wakeful .. Unplaced, 8.10
1903—Wakeful .. .. Second, 10.0
1905 Tartan Third, 9.0
1906 Solution .. .. Unplaced, 8 4
1907 Poseidon .. .. Unplaced, 10.3
1908— Peru Unplaced, 8.12
1909 Alawa Second, 9.3
1911— Trafalgar .. .. Unplaced, 9.9
1912 Duke Foote .. .. Unplaced, 8.3
1914—St. Carwyne .. .. Fourth, 7.3
1920 — Eurythmic Fourth, 9.4
1921 Eurythmic Unplaced, 10.5
1922 Harvest King .. .. Unplaced, 9.1
1923 Rivoli Second, 9.1
1925—Pilliewinkie .. Third, 8.13
1927—Silvius Second, 7.7
1929 High Syce .. .. Fourth, 9.11
1930 Phar Lap .. First, 9.12
1931 Phar Lap .. Nowhere, 10.10
1932 — Peter Pan ... .. First, 7.6
1933 Rogilla Unplaced, 9.4
1934 Peter Pan .. .. First, 9.10
1935 — Sylvandale .. .. Third, 9.4
1937—The Trump .. First, 8.5
1939—Ortelle’s Star .. Lost rider, 8.4
Bje * *
Maoriland horses have a good record
in Australia, but some of that country's
cracks purchased at high prices for racing
over here were far from profitable. These
included New Zealand Cup winners in
Canteen, The Banker and Chide. Runny-
mede, a high-class performer as a young
horse in his own country, was a
failure in Australia, and Silver Scorn,
though a winner, never acted up to her
best Maoriland form. Presumably change
of climate did not agree with them, but
Beau Vite and Beaulivre are certainly
not among those adversely affected by a
change.
* * *
Victoria Derby and Melbourne Cup
double lists issued in Sydney on Monday
pointed to Lucrative starting a hot
favorite for the former, and the odds
going against Beau Vite straight-out for
the Cup were about a third of those
offered about Apostrophe, second on the
list. The order for both races was as
under:
Victoria Derby.
Lucrative.
Pandect.
Tidal Wave.
Waxwings, Scientist.
Positron, Sun Valley, Nightbeam.
Melbourne Cup.
Beau Vite.
Apostrophe.
Historian, Maikai.
Beaulivre, Lucrative, Pandect.
Pantler.
High Caste, Scientist, Wilson, Tidal
Wave.
* * * *
Opponents of early two-year-old racing
can point to the Maribyrnong Plate as
a race that strengthens their case. New-
haven won the 1896 Maribyrnong Plate
and the Melbourne Cup the following
year, but no winner of the former has
since been successful in the longer race.
Since Newhaven’s year, Maribyrnong
Plate winners also successful in the Vic-
toria Derby were Beragoon, Rampion
and Nuffield.
* * * *
Victoria Derby winners have fared
badly in the Melbourne Cup since Hall
Mark won both races in 1933. They
have not supplied a place-getter, notwith-
standing that some were heavily backed.
When Wotan won in 1936 Talking was a
3-to-l favorite, and ran seventh; while the
following year Hua,who shared favoritism
with The Trump and Sir Regent, did not
do even that well, finishing fourteenth.
Nuffield, the 1938 Derby winner, did
worse than Hua, beating only four in a
field of 22. Last year Reading, at 12 to 1,
was fifteenth. On actual form it cannot
be claimed that any of this year’s Derby
colts are superior to those mentioned ;
and no matter what may win on Saturday
there is little likelihood of it heading the
Cup quotations.
He * * *
Hunter White’s resignation lost the
A.J.C. a good committeeman. As
breeder and owner he was in touch with
the requirements of the turf. There will
be keen competition for the vacancy, and
one candidate assured of strong support
is A. G. Potter, prominent in business,
keen sportsman and a horse-owner.
# * * *
Royal Chiefs win in the Wellington
Handicap, 1 mile 3 furlongs, at Welling-
ton last Saturday, proved that he was
nearly, if not quite, at his best again, and,
in the absence of Beau Vite and Beau-
livre, he should again win the Canterbury
Cup, H mile* at w.f.a., at the New Zealand
Cup meeting next month. When he won
last year he easily defeated a better
favorite in Beaupartir. If Royal Chief
visits Sydney next autumn, which is prob-
able, Australian-trained horses will nave
difficulty in preventing Maonlanders
making a clean sweep of the w.r.a. races
It is certain Beau Vite and Beaunvre will
be here.
* * * r i •
Gilltown has not been over-penalised in
the Cantala Stakes for his Moonee Valley
Cup win. The additional 51b. takes him
up to 8.4, but it is not so much the weight
as the distance that may be against him.
Early bustling in the Cantala Stakes may
not permit him to find his legs in the
fashion that enables him to show lorm
over a longer distance. After winning
last year’s Moonee Valley Cup he ran
in the Cantala Stakes with 7.12, but was
never dangerous.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
I have been asked over here what 1
think is the main difference between Aus-
tralian and American players. My reply
is: Confidence. This one word describes
the only attribute the best Australian
players lack in comparison with the well-
known American players. For many
years now I have maintained that Aus-
tralian golf courses are as good as, if
not better than, overseas courses, while
I have been of a similar opinion about
our players.
My visit to England gave me this im-
pression in 1936, but after seeing the
best players and courses in the United
States lam now certain. Our leading
players, both amateur and professional,
would be the equal of those here if they
developed sufficient confidence in their
ability and worked at the game as do the
U.S. players. Our golfers possess equal
knowledge and shot-making ability.
With the financial inducement ever
before their eyes the American players
can afford to be bolder players than our
own. A close study of the players here
has shown me that they pay particular
attention to the short irons and the game
around the greens. From the tee and
through the green the Americans do not
display any more control than our own
players, but when they get 125 yards and
less from the pin they concentrate very
noticeably. With average length from
the tees and reasonable accuracy any
golfer can become successful if he has
several one-putt greens during the round.
In fact, of late years in the United States
the pro. who has the confidence and sinks
the putts comes out to receive his cheque
at the conclusion of the tournament.
Confidence carried Jimmy Demaret,
Ben Hogan and Lawson Little, the open
champion, to the top this year. Demaret
and Hogan have won 14 major events
between them in four months of play,
having the feeling that they are supreme
at the moment and are unbeatable. Law-
son Little, till three weeks before the
open, was returning 74’s and 75’s, and
was even doubtful of qualifying for the
event. During several practice rounds
with me in Chicago before the qualify-
ing test he told me his doubts about mak-
ing the grade; but suddenly he began
holing putts from all over the green, to
begin doing 67’s and 68’s. His four
practice rounds before the qualifying
were 67, 69, 68, 67, while he set quali-
fying record scores of 65, 69 ; total, 134,
the lowest ever.
Down in Cleveland his putting con-
tinued to be sensational ; he averaged 61
one-putt greens for the championship, to
tie with Sarazen, and had seven one-putt
greens in the 18-hole playoff, to win the
title. In all, including the qualifying,
Little had over 40 one-putt greens in
seven rounds.
Although he drives a long ball from
the tee, about 15-20 yards past my aver-
age shot, his fairway game is not in any
way outstanding, but once around the
greens Lawson is deadly. His excellence
in this part of the game is due to prac-
tice ; hours of time spent on chipping,
pitching and putting turned him from
just a good putter to a great putter. A s
an amateur hej won the British and Ameri-
can titles in 1934 and 1935 after brush-
ing up his siort game, and he is con-
vinced that tie confidence he gained by
holing some tood putts gave him his vic-
tory in the cpen.
Retiring a: ter 48 years of teaching i*
Cyril P. Sihrader, sports master of
Sydney High School for the last 12 years.
He turned down prospects of promotion
to headmastetships so that he could bring
High on in Various sports. He was an
all-rounder himself ; a grade cricketer and
footballer, an athlete and a surfer.


PROUDLY U/EAR
m
TAf£ EMBLEM OF
REMEMBRANCE
NOVEMBER Bth
SUNDRY
SHOWS
ė
“Foreign Correspondent”
One of the best melodramas seen for a
long time, this Sydney Regent offering
kicks off with an American newspaper
editor’s complaint that his reading public
is being turned into a race of nervous
frustrates by European news of the
“a- reliable - authority - reports-that-it-is-
believed” kind, and then takes reporter
Joel McCrea off to Europe and involves
him in a sequence of hair-raising exploits
which should satisfy readers of the most
bloodcurdling journals. Before Mr. Mc-
Crea is through he has barely escaped
from being done in by a couple of furrin
agents, just missed being shoved off a
lofty London tower, and just got away
with his skin from a flying boat after
it has been shot down in mid-ocean.
The film has more dramatic content
than might be gathered from any bare
outline of its story. The director has
managed to make a fairly comprehensive
job of a rather involved yarn, and to
Charles Zoli and John Howard (Francois Villon ) being inspected by Ronald Beck
and Leslie Victor (Louis XI) in “The Vagabond King,” at Sydney Royal.
infuse it with a good vein of suspense
that rises to the right peak before the
climax of each of Mr. McCrea’s adven-
tures. An excellent cast is headed by
George Sanders, Robert Benchley, Her-
bert Marshall, Albert Basserman, Ed-
mund Gwenn —and Laraine Day as the
most pleasant of Mr. McCrea’s troubles.
* * * *
“The Ghost Breakers”
They’re a disappointing lot, the spooks
in this current item at Sydney Prince
Edward. One of ’em —a “zombie” or a
living corpse or something—is a nasty
piece of goods to all appearances, and a
rather uncouth sort of lout, but he’s not
to be compared with the slavering, fiery-
eyed monsters of old. The other shade
is a singularly well-behaved prowler who
contents himself with a midnight walk
around a couple of columns and back
to his chest again.
There are, of course, plenty of ghost
effects —storms, thunder, lightning, weird
noises, steamy tropical jungle, an old
castle with subterranean passages and so
on —but altogether they’re no more alarm-
ing than the ghost who does his duty
every Friday. On top of which, one of
the sound effects which Hollywood has
fallen back on for a diabolical chuckle
turns out to be the hearty laughter of
Jacky Kookaburra. It’s unmistakably
Jacky’s laugh pealing out from the dense,
steamy undergrowth, and, horrible as it
may sound to an American audience, it’s
not likely to put the wind up an Aus-
tralian one.
What it lacks as a stretch of spookery,
however, the film makes up in the comedy
line. Paulette Goddard is the goil who
inherits a haunted Cuban castle, and Bob
Hope the ghost-breaker who goes along
to rid it of spooks; between them they
keep up a good fire of wisecracks, with
some bright comedy interludes. One of
the funniest moments of the film is a
stretch of pure clowning, with Mr. Hope
trying to unwind himself after several
hours in a suitcase.
* * * *
“South of Pago Pago”
At Sydney Plaza, and another of
the gossamer-light tales of the South
Seas with nothing much to be said
for or against them. Plot follows
familiar lines, with Victor McLaglen and
Paul Lukas, as rascally master and mate
of their own lugger, and cafe wench
Frances Farmer off to an unknown isle
after pearls. They find the native inhabi-
tants leading an idyllic existence and
soon have them hard at it pearl-diving.
The native heir apparent, Jon Hall,
reckons his people are being victimised,
and forbids further diving. Thereupon
cabaret wench is told off to dispose of
Jon, which she does by marrying him
and carting him off elsewhere on a
honeymoon. He returns in time to lead
his people in a successful attempt to cast
off the yoke, and Frances makes amends
by stopping a bullet meant for Jon, who
duly marries the right goil.
One original touch is an endurance
record, established by Jon. He stops a
bullet in the chest which would go clean
through his left lung. Thus handicapped,
he has a brawl with McLaglen, is
chucked overboard, climbs back on the
boat and up ropes to the crow’s nest,
hurls one of the occupants out and stages
a mid-air brawl with the other (McLag-
len again), follows his victim out along
the yardarm, does a 50ft. dive into the
drink and finally disposes of Mac by
holding him under till he drowns. Nice
work!
* * * *
“When the Daltons Rode”
Films of early American outlaws
follow much the same pattern —persecu-
tion of some family, an accidental killing,
burning of the old homestead and the
sons of the family taking to the bush —
and this Sydney Capitol film is no excep-
tion. It has, however, more than the
usual measure of ridin’ and shootin’ and
an excellent cast headed by Broderick
Crawford and Brian Donlevy. Randolph
Scott and Kay Francis provide lurv.
* * * *
One of England’s national assets in
these times is the voice of the Gaumont
British newsreel. Its quiet English tone
is in pleasant contrast to the hysterical
bellowing of the Yank commentators and
others who ape them. Untroubled by the
war, the British newsreels continue to
arrive on schedule. They bring piteous
scenes of a war-torn England, but the
familiar, quiet, concise commentary with
its touch of dry English humor is spoken
proof that the Germans haven’t Buck-
ley’s chance of breaking or even bending
the British character.
* * * *
Barrage balloons haven’t been much
heard of lately, but current newsreels
show them on the job, and proving their
nuisance value. Sown everywhere in
great numbers, they are a constant
nuisance to Nazi pilots, who are readily
lured by such an annoying and seemingly
easy target into a frequently disastrous
anti-aircraft fire. Newsreel shots show
the Nazis shooting down balloon after
balloon, but as soon as one is shot down
another is sent up in the same place, and
in due course it is a Nazi ’plane which
goes down.
ę


IN MIDDLE-AGE-
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going into middle age note a
Blowing down of the healthy bladder action of
youth. While this is to be expected to a de-
gree, if passage is frequent and scanty, ac-
companied by burning and smarting, Nature
may be warning that there is something
wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of
taking the excess acids and waste out of the
blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a day
or about 3 pounds of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your
blood, when due to functional kidney dis-
orders, may be the cause of nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swelling, puffl-
ness under tire eyes, headaches and dizziness.
Don’t wait I Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the lo
miies of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
waste from your blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day. They are a
special remedy for the kidneys and will gi 7B
ouick and lasting benefit. Old and young
alike can take DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEI
PILLS with perfect safety,
A WOMANS
LETTER
Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony, with
Professor Georg Schneevoigt, packed
them in the aisles at the Sydney Town
Hall last week. This was one of musician
Georg’s farewells to Sydney, and it was
done in the grand manner with a special
chorus —the Hurlstone Choral Society
and the A.B.C. Wireless Chorus. The
Hurlstone choir is better known than the
town clock. It has a mountain of Eistedd-
fod awards to keep polished up. It has
given over 300 performances for good
causes, as well as innumerable broadcasts.
That’s just to show you what a terrific
concert this was. Truly, Georg, one of
this Letter’s favorite orchestral leaders,
handled his instruments and players with
a superb hand, and the audience was
spellbound. Sigrid Sundgren (Mrs. Georg
Schneevoigt when she is not at the piano)
bent her thoughtful, benign expression to
the piano in the “Emperor” concerto.
Her black frock with its wide pink panel
and crossover bodice of pink suited her.
Talking about coloring, there was no-
thing wrong with the pansy-blue skirt
topped with white worn by singer Maria
Markan and the silver brocades of
Dorothy Helmrich. Heddle Nash and
Harold Williams added tenor and
bass. Lady Gowrie came to the con-
cert ; with her, Ivie Price. Gladys Mon-
crieff, with the Lashmar couple, was an
attentive listener. The Moore Cosgraves,
Dr. Marie Hamilton, the Professorial
Dakins, Sir Hugh and Lady Poynter and
singer Alice Prowse were a few among
the many.
The Musical Association doesn’t do
things halfway. It set out to buy an
ambulance, and, behold! it has collected
almost enough money for two. Not only
that, it provided a model of what it in-
tended to buy for the inspection of con-
tributors. Drawn up outside the principal
entrance to the Conservatorium on the
night of the association’s concert last
week, was a full-grown ambulance with
two stretcher-bearers beside it. In the
interval people of the audience went and
looked at it, then hurriedly spoke of
something else.
The corridors of the Con. were
thronged with Sydney’s musical-minded.
Edna Andrews, the association’s secre-
tary, in black and silver, kept one eye on
business and one on the door behind which
Maria Markan was preparing some notes
for her session. Mrs. Roland Foster sold
programmes, a cyclamen chiffon cape
floating from her shoulders. The Alex-
ander Gordon lady and Mrs. Charley
Lloyd Jones had been active spirits
behind the concert, though for the
other entertainments, resulting in almost
£9OO, the musicians had danced to
their own piping. The Gordon lady
put an extra spark on her dazzling little
personality with green orchids on a black
lace dress. Mrs. David Roper’s blue and
black stripes had rather an Empire-period
look. Rich blue were the moires in Mrs.
Lloyd Jones’s dress. Dr. Bainton and
his wife were in the audience ; so were
Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax, Chief Justice Jor-
dan and his wife, the Lawrence Godfrey
Smiths, Mrs. J. Foster, the Harry Twig-
dens, of Manly, and the John Holmes
couple.
After midnight Nelson’s Blood got so
much into the atmosphere of the conser-
vatory that had been turned into a bar
that the bright boy of the party named
it “Nelson’s Breath.” The party was
for war comforts for the Australian and
the Dutch Navies, and it was so well
arranged it might be called a model
among money manoeuvres. The big ball-
room at Retford Hall was used for
bridge, the second for games of chance,
the conservatory for the bar and the
verandah for fortune-telling. Such tales
of the seer’s powers were bruited abroad
under the electric-starred, moonlit trees
that there was a queue from here to to-
morrow still waiting when she shut up
shop shortly after midnight.
The bridge prizes were worth while
taking home. Frank Albert had donated
them —a solid gold compact for the un-
beatable lady, a carved cigarette-box for
the man. Then the booby prizes would
amuse the children —a sailor doll who
wore a jaunty cap inscribed Queen
Mary, and a Dutch sailor boy who had
his blazoned with Joh. v. Oldenbamey-
veld. They had been given by two of
the organisers, Mrs. Muirhead-Gouid and
Mrs. L. Blok. There were only three
committeewomen. The other was Mrs.
Elink Schuurman, wife of the Consul-
General for the Netherlands. Arranged
in little more than a week, the results,
£l3O or so, were a triumph. Besides her
organising labors, Mrs. Blok turned ten
dozen carnations into posies, which were
sold by young beauty in the cause.
Also contributed were 600 sandwiches
“just in case.” But as the sandwiches
weren’t needed, they went to the Pyrmont
soup kitchen. There were darts and
romantic songs distilled by strolling
players, and a dozen of champagne for
lucky numbers. Mrs. Blok won the very
last. The Navy was well to the fore at
this Trafalgar night make-merry. Mrs.
J. G. Grace’s silver lame and pearls were
admired. Mrs. Dick Allen, Ivie Price,
Mrs. David Roper and Mrs. John
Brunton were noticed.
All in rose-pink, popular Nell Star-
ling, daughter of Mrs. H. F. Starling,
was piped down the steps of St.
Matthew’s, Manly, on the arm of her
Brigadier Harold Taylor on Wednesday
night last. The drums and the skirl of
the bagpipes echoed along the Corso as
the Nineteenth Battalion A.I.F. Pipe
Band did honor to their O.C. and his
bride. The wedding was one of those
rush affairs that are upon us of late, as
the Brigadier had only four days’ leave
before going to Bathurst, where he
commands the 22nd Brigade, Bth
Division, A.I.F. Nell has always been
an eager worker for Village charities, and
has been doing her bit in the knitting
line. She is fond of golfing and a keen
motorist. The ’groom is a dinkum war-
rior. In the 1914-18 war he commanded
the University Regiment (he is a doctor
of chemistry), also organised the 30th
Scottish Regiment and was an officer of
it for years. Captain W. C. P. Andrew
stood by the Brigadier at the altar, and
Nell’s brother Jack gave the bride away.
Sister Dorrie, wife of Macquarie-street
medico A. W. Dean, was matron of
honor in a burgundy frock and hat to
match. Relatives gathered later at the
Manly Golf Club.
When artist Louis McCubbin was
appointed Director of Adelaide National
Gallery five years ago, he took with him
from Melbourne a bride, the former
Mrs. Sprers-Jackson, and her schoolgirl
daughter Pat. The mother, acknowledged
as one of the most beautiful women in
Adelaide society, died last year after a
long illness. The daughter was married
last week on her 21st birthday to air-
pilot John Chapman, of Sydney. They
will live in S.A.
Popular and pretty Constance Rouse
has probably collected as many pre-
wedding parties as any bride St. Mark’s
at Darling Point has blessed. The
fashionable and mellow old church will
surround the wedding of Constance and
Sub-Lieutenant John Bovill this after-
noon. Following the gleam of her white
satin and tulle will step matron of honor
Mrs. J. K. Thompson (Rose Marie
Waddy till a few weeks ago), Alison
Bowman, Anne Hill and Shirley Poynter.
Constance is the daughter of the H. H.
Rouses, of Darling Point. Norton
Trevaire photograph.
Is there a better training ground than
the country newspaper for an Australian
editor? All its life the country paper
is dealing with matters vital to this island
of ours. Roadmaking, rainfall, crops,
stock! If questions about any of them
had been suddenly fired across the
Mayoress’s rooms the other day, there
wasn’t a man present who couldn’t have
answered. The drawing-rooms were
packed with the men of the country press.
With their wives and friends they were
enjoying their first afternoon party dur-
ing the conference of the N.S.W. Coun-
try Press Association. This writer liked
the young man in khaki from Holds-
worthy camp, representing the Narro-
mine “News,” who, being introduced,
launched into subscriptions, weekly and
yearly, of his paper, added the advertis-
ing rates, and finished up that it came out
every Tuesday and Friday if the girl
didn’t forget to turn the calendar.
The portraits of former mayoral ladies
fascinated a group of the visitors, and
some canaries from a hotel opposite
nearly drowned the voice of one of the
speakers. The council chamber proved
another spot of interest. Mayoress Crick
talked Melbourne Cup chances with some
of her guests, and the Mayor and his
secretary, Frank Crane, saw that every
hand held a glass. A notable personality
among the conferrers was Mrs. Gordon
Vaughan, who, with her husband, owns
the Wyong “Advocate” and Entrance
“Guardian.” Mrs. Vaughan writes the
leaders, and knows all about the printing
side of a newspaper.
On November 21, when Dorothy
Helmrich’s tour with the A.B.C. has
ended, she will give a recital in the Con-
servatorium to aid the Sunbeam Free
Kindergarten at Surry Hills. The Kelso
King lady formed a committee to work
up the concert from the front-of-the-
house point of view, at a meeting in the
Australia last Thursday morning. Mrs.
Harold Bott is the secretary.
Here’s Wilma Gregory, who has been
“The Country Girl” and “The Quaker
Girl” and is to be the Canadian girl who
has the name-role in “Rose Marie.”
Wilma is one of the noted in amateur
circles for her presentations of leading
parts. She played the Quaker Girl for
Mosman Musical Society, the Country
Girl for Petersham Society. This talented
pupil of Hilda Marks has a lyric soprano,
and as she is only a teemold its youthful
sweetness is undimmed. Wilma is a new
recruit to the musical-comedy stage. She
played her first part as lead in “Three
Musketeers” for the Petersham Society
early this year. “Rose Marie” is billed
for the Cremorne Orpheum on November
6, 7 and 8.
The R.A.A.F. Comforts Fund has now
a central area committee. It is settled in
cosily at No. 2 Bridge-street, with Edith
Raine as secretary-for-love. Mrs. Bertie
Kelly is the president, and she has a
scheme for founding a group in every
suburb, each group to raise £5 a month.
When it gets the number of groups it
visualises working, the committee will
have an income of £12,000 a year. The
Cup Day party in every home is to be
the first “all pull together, boys!” After
that, Kathleen Robinson, who produced
and managed plays in London, will see
about getting up entertainments for funds,
and others for the amusement of the
R.A.A.F. in camp. There’s talk of recrea-
tion huts garnished with billiard tables
and other equipment for passing time
out of the air. There’s also talk of an
after-Christmas big and gay “do” to rake
in the doubloons. When not pursuing
money for causes Miss Raine pursues art.
Latest news of pianist Valma Sullivan
is that she is still in London, unafraid
and quite confident of Britain’s victory.
Valma was giving her bit of help with
the children, and was tremendously
absorbed in her piano study and the
■method of her teacher, the famed
Solomon. She was “thrilled” at the ap-
pearance of the Australian soldiers in
the streets. “They look,” she writes,
“purposeful chaps with their fine
physique and cocked hats, and seem
quite capable of winning a war on their
own.” And if that’s not the spirit, what
is?
“This, by the help of God! This, by
the help of God!” The voices of three
' young English boys harmonising a
song of Poland, which they had learned
on the ship which brought them to Aus-
tralia, greeted this Letter on her arrival
at the young evacuees’ camp at North
Head. The three were sitting in one of
the rooms opening off the verandah. Evi-
dently they Were taking this chance to
rehearse the song before they moved over
to Keera House, their temporary home
at Dee Why. There were only about 30
of the youngsters left —little fair-haired
girls ; tall-for-their-age brunettes , Billy,
who has just turned 11, and who had
been surprised by a birthday cake
specially baked to celebrate. There are
some fine cricketers in the making judg-
ing by the length of limb of some ot the
lads.
A small Raleigh was performing a last
act of fealty for the V.A. he adored by
blacking her shoes. There was a young
man from York busy getting his traps
together to go off smiling to his new
home at Bondi. Another lad (he was
from Surrey) was going to be billeted in
an eastern suburb. “Have you come to
collect somebody?” a small girl with the
bluest eyes in the world asked. Easy to
get acquainted with were the two Rudge
brothers. They have the quick smile of
the North and they are Tynesiders. Blue
sky and blue sea glinting in the near dis-
tance, the day was spangled with health
and brightness for the youngsters. Red
Cross commandant Da Silva Waugh and
her V.As. had pride in the cheerful look
of the bedrooms (no loneliness here;
there were three to each room), the
dining-room, and the big kitchen full of
cleanliness, a huge fuel stove and an
appetising smell. There was talk, too
ice-.cream for tea.
To the wild skirl of the pipes Billy
Hughes drove into Graythwaite last
Saturday. Graythwaite is the soldier
home for which half the women on the
North Side work all through the year.
The yearly fete is always a great money-
raiser, and this year, as usual, was pre-
ceded by parties to help the expenses.
The music party at Mrs. Dan Kelly s
Kirribilli home was one of the most suc-
cessful. The stalls in one of the long
rooms of the home were laden with what
might be called prize exhibits from this
land of plenty.
Any woman’s heart would turn over at
sight of the babywear stall. The stitchery
was exquisite, the knitted goods stirred
desire to buy them all up for the babes
of the men of the trawlers in the North
Sea, All too soon the cold of an English
winter will be on them.
Never have there been better hams
and bacon, butter and honey than stocked
the produce stall; and as for the cakes,
fragrant and rich and cream-full, they
vanquished the most rigorous slimmer
among the women visitors. A good idea
was having Christmas cakes and puddings
as prizes on the wheels of chance. Many
a housewife took home a positively noble-
looking composition of fruits and
almonds and icing in exchange for three-
pence.
The wedding of Barbara Hitchins, not-
able woman flier, must not go unrecorded.
Her bridegroom, too, travels the sky. He
is Pilot-Officer Kenneth Selby Brown,
R.A.A.F., and All Saints’, Woollahra,
made the twain one last Saturday night.
The woman who wore anything but a
really cool hat and frock to Randwick
last Saturday was badly dressed. The
day called for salad dressing, but some-
how got gingered up with the patriotic
note, and red, white and blue were flown
gaily. The effect was got by cunningly-
introduced stripes, as exemplified by the
red and blue bands on one girl’s white
frock. Other times a red handbag, a
blue frock with touches of white and a
white hat achieved the effect.. As this
summer goes on white will be more and
more popular. The sight of Joyce Car-
penter’s shady panama with its high
crown reminded that the favorite milliner
says that the panama is going to be the
hard thing to get. Probably some of the
powers agree with her. Cool-as-water
blue was worn by Mrs. John Ayers, ot
Adelaide. Mrs. John Brunton’s grey
linens were as welcome as a palm in the
desert.


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL JOHN McKENZIE, son of the late
Robert Peter McKenzie, of North Auckland,
New Zealand, last heard of in Forbes, New
South Wales, in 1932, and Coonamble, New
South Wales, in 1934, or anyone knowing his
whereabouts, please communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Whangarei,
New Zealand?
EDWARD CHARLES PRESSEY, a son of
THOMAS and MARGARET PRESSEY, will
hear of something to his advantage if he com-
municates with MESSRS. J. WELDON
POWER & BENNETT, Solicitors, Horsham,
Victoria. Any person knowing of his where-
abouts is requested to communicate with the
said firm.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1363 of 1940.
BETWEEN THOMAS JAMES DAVIDSON
Petitioner and
RUBY MAY BURDETT DAVIDSON Re-
spondent.
TO RUBY MAY BURDETT DAVIDSON late
of Enngonia New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said THOMAS
JAMES DAVIDSON has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
habitual drunkenness and neglect of domestic
duties for three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Eleventh
day of January 1941 and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of October
1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
CHARLES WM. ROBINSON, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” (JJ.S.A.).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting
13/3 (2 years £l/2/9) to “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chaffer
Out to Moonee Valley for the Cup
went punters in high spirits, but with no
great confidence in their hearts about the
weather. A furious wind blew grit in the
eyes and leaves in the hair. It might have
rained, or the temperature might have
dropped suddenly to a winter level, but
neither calamity happened. On the
course the stands were a helpful protec-
tion from the gale, and any heavy hearts
that went homeward at the end of the
afternoon were just the usual outward
signs of inward hopes crashed financially
after a day of outsiders.
As a great treat Mrs. W. S. Cox
brought a small schoolgirl daughter to
stand on tiptoes and peer through the
rosebushes for the presentation of the
golden Moonee Valley Cup and W. S.
Cox Plate. All set in pastel-blue was
Mrs. Paul Northey; lightweight wool
frock and hat with biggish brim firmly
anchored under swirl of hair. Paddy
Wilkinson’s violet hat was accompani-
ment for a quilted linen coat and a frock
figured in blues and purples. Biddy
Howitt’s short-sleeved navy linen suit
worn with white accessories would be
welcome in any young girl’s wardrobe.
Also in navy, a color most popular for
the afternoon, was Mrs. Osment Smith,
who topped off her apparel with a purple-
grape headpiece.
“Three musketeers,” brave men and
true, not only went to a women’s tea-
party at the Quamby Club last week,
but came away with “play lunch,” other-
wise packets of birthday cake. The trio
consisted of C. J. Harris, father of Com-
missioner of Railways Norman Harris,
railways publicity officer H. J. Hodgens
and A. R. Millis. The party, given by
Mrs. Norman Harris to the executive
committee of the Silver Door, was a first
birthday party, with a cake and one silver
candle, for it is just a year since the base-
metals sorting rooms for the Free Kin-
dergartens were opened. Early in its
career Mr. Hodgens gave the movement
the benefit of his experience in propa-
ganda ; his younger confrere, A. R.
Millis, is treasurer, and announced at the
party that £5OO was the sum raised by
workers at the Silver Door during the
year. The money took a heap of getting.
Sorters now work day and evening ses-
sions, classing with accuracy and care
mountains of silver paper and toothpaste
tubes.
A special guest at the party was Mrs.
Chas. Hartman, who cut the cake (an
artistic masterpiece made by Coral, other-
wise Mrs. Harris’s “treasure”). Mr. Hart-
man was invited to the little celebration,
but found his knees trembling at the
thought of it; thus his wife—a worthy
deputy. It was he who invented the new
sorting tables at the Silver Door with
pockets for aluminium, tin, lead, etc.,
which gadgets speed up the work con-
siderably.
Members of the Aero Club Ball com-
mittee thought that the presentation of
cheques to the R.A.A.F. Locker Fund
and to Air Force House was worthy of
a little ceremony—no big party with
plates of food and masses of flowers, but
a little get-together at the Windsor, with
a drink or two and a speech or two and
a cheque of £67 apiece for Mrs. Dickie
Williams and Mrs. J. V. Fairbairn, rep-
resenting the respective beneficiaries. A
tax of £36-odd was a sock on the jaw for
the ball organisers, but as they couldn’t
find a mousehole of escape they paid up
without grumbling (much). Dr. and Mrs.
Hugh Mitchell did the honors at the
presentation. Tom Mitchell and “Mick”
Power were there ; also Squadron-Leader
Reg Francis, representing the R.A.A.F.,
in uniform.
The J. D. G. Medleys came within
range of the general public’s eye last
week. Mrs. Medley’s innocent work was
propag an( J a f or new L a( jy Hunting-
auu F^ ee Kinde rgarten in the wilds of
Abbotsford . (with a bait of fish and
chip S and ice-cream in the University
uttet for those asked to spread the news),
pouse J.D.G. was on another plane,
spreading his Vice-Chancellor’s wings
where angels fear to tread or fly, de-
nouncing in no shaky tone of voice the
prevalence of women war workers in
uniform.
The Medley indictment of uniforms as
waste of time, money and material was
spoken in an address to the women of
the University Patriotic Fund. The
women who complain that they can’t do
certain jobs in their ordinary clothes can,
according to Mr. Medley, wear their old
clothes, and what’s wrong, he wants to
know, with cheap overalls?
Speaking to the N.C.W. General Jess
seemed to see eye to eye with the Chan-
cellor. The General thinks some badge
of office is necessary for women war
workers, but he has no sympathy for their
use of titles such as “wing-commander,”
“captain,” etc., nor for their appropria-
tion of military apparel. As chairman
of the Commonwealth Man-power Com-
mittee, he also deplores the fact that
materials and labor are being deflected
from their rightful channel, the man-
power of the services.
Peter Fox made this portrait of Mrs.
Frank Beaurepaire, who has emerged
from a life of home duties and garden-
ing to take her place in the civic lime-
light. She likes living quietly with home,
husband and children as principal in-
terests, but now that the die is cast and
Cr. Beaurepaire has been elected Lord
Mayor his wife is ready to back him up
deed for deed and speech for speech.
The couple have two children —lan, aged
eighteen, who rows in the Scotch College
crew, and Betty, who is eleven and a
pupil at Stratherne, Hawthorn.
Mrs. A. W. Coles welcomed her suc-
cessor as principal guest among council-
lors’ wives drinking cups of tea in the
Mayoress’s suite. Later in the day Mrs.
Beaurepaire, accompanied by her sister
Mrs. Bob Cuthbertson (husband Bob is
one of the spark plugs of the Carry On
Ball committee), went to another party
a few floors lower down in the Town
Hall. There those who work side by
side for the Australian Comforts Fund
said “good-bye and good luck to you as
a politician’s wife” to Mrs. Coles and
“welcome to our midst” to Mrs. Beau-
repaire. Also among the guests were the
cheery and kindly fire brigade men who
have given up their days off duty to
drive lorries for the Comforts Fund.
Into the bosom of the A. J. Lucas
family, of Yamala, Frankston, have ar-
rived two lucky young evacuees from
France —lucky because they are with very
welcoming relatives who live in a beautiful
home with lots of room for girls and
boys and the noise they love to make—
though Billy and June Aslongue haven’t
yet shown signs of being noisy. Having
lived in Paris most of their lives they
are more sophisticated than Australians
of their generation. Their mother, who
before her marriage was Nina Lucas, is
now on her way to Australia. She is a
widow and with her children (Billy is
seventeen and June fourteen) escaped
from Paris when the roads were choked
with refugees.
Nina and June travelled in a baby car,
Billy was in a friend’s car. One car lost
the other, and there were some bad hours
before the little family were united once
more on a Channel boat. The children
say that Eve Curie was on board, but
this famous and beautiful woman did not
win their hearts —their verdict being that
she’s snobbish and had more trunks with
her than anyone else. Young June wants
to leave school and learn ballet. In her
younger days mother Nina was one of
Jennie Brenan’s front-line pupils.
First-nighters for the Bodenwieser
Ballet entered the Apollo from a Bourke-
street that looked as usual, with cable-
trams rumbling up the track with all their
usual clanging bells and buckjumping
gait. After the show they met the town’s
newest acquisitions. Gone were the old
trams, and double-decker buses snoop
along silently in their stead. The tram-
ways ran their last cable-car in secrecy —
they’ve suffered in the past from scalp-
hunters out souveniring, who moved
everything detachable from the “last
tram” in the twinkling of an eye.
Menzies, P.M., had a private engage-
ment in his notebook, to make the open-
ing speech at the exhibition of pictures
by his old pal Harold Herbert, but out of
thin air and a lot of running around in
circles there suddenly came into being
a National Advisory War Council. When
the art show commenced politicians were
at Canberra stalking one another in the
game of complicated negotiations. Men-
zies stayed on the job and sent apologies
by telegram. Norman Trenery stepped
into his pumps upon the dais for as
happy a speech as has been heard at an
art show for many a moon. Harold Her-
bert’s friends are many and varied, and
include business and professional men,
University professors, the Savage Club
en masse and Allegro and Reno from the
Italian Club, who don’t like the war any
more than Australians do. They were at
the opening. At war or at peace Italians
must have some art in their lives or they’ll
die of ennui.
Among others present were Mrs.
Herbert, in figured coat over pastel-blue
frock; Mrs. Lloyd Brind, in hat with
upward-tilting brim; Mrs. Frank
Brelaz ; Mrs. Harry Dennett, hatless and
with her shoulders sheltered under ap
ermine cape; Mrs. J. B. Tait, the Monty
Grovers, the N. Chaldjeans and Mrs.
Max Moffatt, with her hair swathed
around with red fishnet and a couple of
flowers poked into the knot just for luck.
The Roy Grounds couple were there, he
in an arty-crafty tie of lime-yellow, she
in grey suit and crisply-starched linen
blouse.
Also present was Mrs. W. J. Young.
Last year she and Prof. Young sent
medico daughter Sylvia a Harold Her-
bert picture for Christmas, a home-from-
home touch much appreciated not only
by Sylvia, but by other Australians in
Palestine who have seen it. Sylvia went
back by air three months ago to her job
of medical officer attached to an Arab
hospital in Jerusalem. She does a lot of
travelling by car, visiting clinics andi
patients in outlying districts.
In Broothorn’s photo, is Paddy, elder of
Dr. and Mrs. C. N. Finn’s two young
daughters. Joan is still at Mandeville
Hall. Paddy has no burning ambitions
for a musical career, but She enjoys her
singing lessons from her aunt, Eileen
Castles, and practising at home provided
her work is not too strenuous. She also
plays the piano, drives her own small
car, helps on some young people’s com-
mittees and is her mother’s general fac-
totum at home.
A young man of parts is lan Bow,
who is holding his first one-man exhibi-
tion at Riddell’s Galleries. He not only
paints and directs younger minds in art
(he’s on the art staff of Caulfield Tech.),
but he plays four instruments —flute, pic-
colo, tuba and clarinet. He also reads
prodigiously, and says he got through
half a dozen or more books per week
during his three years’ sojourn in the
country after going through the teachers’
training college. It was there he became
acquainted with Prof. Browne, who
opened the show. lan sold the professor
some of his prints of Oxford, the pro-
fessor became interested in the younger
man’s work and thus a friendship com-
menced.
Youth with the dew still upon it was
present in large quantities, in muslin and
in first long frocks, at the Clyde Old
Girls’ production of “Her Shop.” The
children will be debs, in a year or two
and factors to be reckoned with ; at the
moment they’re at the halfway stage,
hardly appreciative of the shelter of
mother’s wing, but self-effacing as well-
behaved mice when in the presence of a
vast assembly of adults. The play, in-
consequent and sweet as honey, ran for
two nights to appreciative audiences in
aid of the Comforts and the Kinder-
gartens.
Leading lady was Margaret Beveridge,
in the long and tricky role of the shop’s
proprietress—she was never off the stage
for a moment. Pam Faulkner had a
clothesprop part, but possesses a good
voice and carriage. Demands upon
Mollie Officer were to be healthy and
hoydenish. Mrs. Stuart Hancock emerged
from negative middle-age to become
halfway through the piece a well-
groomed businesswoman. A metamor-
phosis also happened to Elspeth Elder —
it all started by a visit to a fashionable
hairdresser. Noela Adams was a hus-
band-snatcher smothered in silver foxes,
and Margot Tucker was a little bit of a
skirt called Lottie, with morals of pure
gold.
Dick Webb, Lewis Tegeart, Norman
Vary and Lars Enberg provided male
support, and the dress interest was
heightened by a parade of evening gowns
which glittered like snakes on the move
or swept the floor from hoops and
flounces. In the interval Lu Conolly,
down for the occasion from his in-
structor’s job in the 2/14th Training Bat-
talion, up at Wangaratta, emerged from
behind the curtain in his lieutenant’s uni-
form to make some announcements about
lucky numbers. Arthur Matear was sit-
ting in the right seat for a sheepskin rug,
which he collected in the wings after the
show.


THE SERVICE MAN
On the A.I.F. Front.
“Ente Marid”: Australians in the
Western Egyptian desert were bombed
by the Italians for the first time on Oct.
21. A lone raider did the job. He
dropped five bombs, and soared into the
blue. . .
The boys reached lazily for their tin
hats, climbed into their slit-trenches and
laid a little money on where the bombs
would fall. There was no damage save
to pay-books, and three days later a full
muster was present to hear a Young
Digger ask Mr. Anthony Eden “When
are you going to let us have a whack at
the Dagoes?”
More and more A.I.F. men are pouring
into the desert posts, and their camps
are a hive of activity as they dig in and
begin to build defence works along the
extended lines of communication which
they are holding. And they are reported
to be in superb training and regarded as
a formidable contingent by the British
Command. ,
The East African fighting zone shows
no sign of waking to liveliness. The
monotonous bombing of ports, swel-
tering desert stations, dust-hidden skir-
mishing and transport columns goes
on, with an occasional change in the
pattern, as when Cairo was attacked tor
the first time early in the week. In the
Red Sea an Italian destroyer was driven
ashore the Italians say she was
scuttled—and an occasional attempt has
been made at ambush, like the one at
Kassala reported on October 24 in which
1000 Italians found the tables turned on
themselves and left behind 50 killed and
400 wounded without causing a single
casualty in the British motorised column
which routed them. The Italian version
says that “the encounter turned in our
claimed to have bombed Port
Said Cairo airfield, “installations east of
Alexandria,” the railway near Mersa
Matruh and elsewhere. In the latter
raids, “vast fires were started. They
also reported having put to flight enemy
mechanised columns east of Sidi Barram.
The British raids extended from Eritrea
—where there is said to be a food
shortage and growing discontent among
natives —to Benghazi.
There is every sign that the war is
waking up in Libya. Gayda, indeed, de-
clares that the Italian spearhead has been
driven a further 18 miles towards Mersa
Matruh, and that it is 36 miles east of
Sidi Barrani. He emphasises the huge
difficulties which face the Italians, but
declares that, despite the fact that there
are 250,000 British troops in Egypt, that
further reinforcements are expected and
that Australia is equipping an additional
three divisions for Egypt, Graziani s ad-
vance “will not be halted.
Another Tall Sea Yarn.
“Nobby II”: The Information Depart-
ment of the Italian Navy seems to be no
more successful than other departments.
Rome’s naval historian topped otf his tall
tale of the glorious victory in the Sicilian
Channel with a new yarn which told how
torpedo-boats attacked “a very large con-
voy escorted by warships in the southern
Red Sea,” and in a fierce night combat
sank six ships, while a cruiser of the
Sydney class which injudiciously came
within range of Italian land guns was
hit several times and staggered slowly off
the battle scene, to be succored by other
British ships.
The Admiralty report brought the tale
into proper perspective. On the night
of October 20 two Italian destroyers
shelled a British convoy and fired tor-
pedoes at the escorts, which chased the
attackers over the skyline. At dawn
H.M.S. Kimberley caught the Francesco
Nullo (1069 tons), sent her ashore badly
damaged after 40 minutes’ fighting, and
blew her up with a torpedo. Kimberley
was then fired on by shore guns, had a
steam pipe burst which slowed her up.
Three of the crew were injured. No other
ship of the convoy or escort was
damaged.
The Navy will have its laugh. Kimber-
ley is only 1690 tons and carries six 4.7’5.
She was finished last year, and she is
about 320 ft. long. But she has not enough
likeness in silhouette to the 7000-ton
Sydney cruisers, which are 560 ft. long, to
deceive even an Italian far away and
going for the lick of his life for the
horizon.
Continental Maneuvres.
“Ek Dum”: While the weather was
keeping air raiders quiet last week,
Hitler, attended by his military chiefs,
had a mysterious meeting in France with
the mysterious Laval. Thereupon he
journeyed to the Franco-Spanish frontier
for talks with Franco. Afterwards he saw
Petain and Petain was permitted to enter
the occupied zone and address French
prisoners of war.
One of the things “considered cer-
tain” by some of the papers is that an
offer of peace was made to France. The
alleged terms provided for France de-
claring war on Britain and handing over
the French Navy and part of the Air
Force. Hitler was alleged to have de-
manded Alsace-Lorraine for Germany ;
Nice, part of the Mediterranean coast
and part of Tunisia for Italy ; Northern
Morocco for Spain, Germany and Italy.
If this is the programme, the Germans
must have lost their grip on realities. The
division of France would saddle them and
their allies with the responsibility for feed-
ing and governing a ring of conquered
provinces, full of hostile inhabitants whom
the Vichy Government at present has to
feed and govern. They would acquire
"Is that a bombproof shelter you're wearin'?"
as an “active ally” a France millions of
whose soldiers and civilians fell under
German shellfire in the last war ; a people
who in this war, saw their country overrun
by vandals, their civilians murdered by
German guns, their refugees rolled flat
by German tanks and their fleeing women
and children ruthlessly machine-gunned
in the ditches of a scorched countryside,
love of which is the very soul of France.
Any French Premier who sold his
country into such a bargain would find
an early grave, and the grave would be
kept desolate as a monument of ignominy.
But fear of famine and pestilence and
desire to regain 2,000,000 prisoners of
war and to get a beaten and suffering
country into some sort of working order
again might force any French Premier to
make some sort of composition with the
conqueror, the French being the realists
they are. Vichy’s own statement is that
Petain and Hitler have “agreed on the
principle of collaboration for the recon-
struction of peace in Europe” and that
“the method of applying the agreement
will be examined.”
If the Germans, in defiance of their
armistice pledges or in defiance of these
latter arrangements, turned the remnants
of the French fleet into a part of the Axis
navies, the Admiralty would be in a posi-
tion to turn the French ships in British-
controlled harbors into part of the R.N.
The ships under British control, taking
them all round, are far more formidable
than those under German and French
control.
On the French surrender, the British
took over in England two battleships, two
light cruisers, eight destroyers and 200
smaller craft. At Alexandria they
assumed control of one battleship, thiee
heavy cruisers, a light cruiser and a
number of smaller vessels. Another
unfinished French battleship was towed
across the Channel and interned. Others
were shattered with explosives on their
stocks
The two 35,000-ton ships which France
did have on the water —completed or
nearly completed —are in African ports.
The Richelieu was on her trial voyage
at Dakar when the blow fell. She was
badly damaged by explosives placed
under her stern by a British naval party
and, though her guns are apparently still
usable, she certainly could not put to
sea without repairs which cannot be
done on the West African coast.
The Jean Bart, her sister ship, was,
in July, in a Moroccan harbor, whither
she had been taken unfinished. She was
in a condition in which she “could not
be fitted for service for some months.”
At Oran, one of the new 26,000-ton Dun-
kerque class was driven aground and set
on fire—the French admitted it—along
with another battleship, the Provence,
while still another battleship, the
Bretagne, was sunk
After the Oran affair, the Strasbourg
(26,000 tons), which escaped, was the
only French battleship not accounted
for. Of the seven heavy French cruisers,
two were in British ports and three at
Alexandria. Much of the residue of
small craft had been destroyed before
the surrender.
A few valuable destroyer-cruisers —
Mogador and her class —went down at
Oran and Dakar, but there are a for-
midable fleet of them still in existence
somewhere. About 60 French destroyers
and a lot of submarines are not specifi-
cally accounted for, but a very large pro-
portion of them are inevitably in British
and Egyptian ports, since the major
vessels which have been mentioned as
being there could not have carried on
their business without strong escorting
divisions of both small surface and
under-water craft.
The usual alarmists have risen up to
strike terror into the hearts of Britons.
A former Paris correspondent of the
Manchester “Guardian” remarks that “if
French submarines are added to those
of Italy, the Axis could muster 200 sub-
marines in the Mediterranean, even
after numerous Italian losses.”
At the beginning of the present year
France had 80 submarines at sea and
22 building. Italy had 106 and 12 build-
ing.
Some of the French, including the
biggest, are known to be in British hands,
and only a comparatively small propor-
tion of the rest were in the Mediter-
ranean. In any case, if an extra 100
submarines handed to Italy only doubled
the damage which Italian submarines are
now doing to British commerce in the
Mediterranean and elsewhere, it would
not matter much.
Seizure of the French fleet would be
all to Hitler’s disadvantage, especially as
Britain has a vast superiority in trained
sea man-power, accustomed to all kinds
of craft and naval artillery.
Along with the suggestions of a French
offensive came reports of Spain joining
the Axis. Here again there is no defi-
nite knowledge of what took place be-
tween Hitler and Franco. It must have
been an important meeting, and the
Germans declare that it took place in
“an atmosphere of friendly cordiality ;
but friendly cordiality is little use in
military operations. The entry of Spain
would not increase British responsibilities
much. Defence of Gibraltar would be
the main British preoccupation, and even
if Gibraltar were lost the R.N. would
still command the entrance to the Straits
of Europe. Spain is already within the
blockade zone and gets her supplies by
grace of the R.N. The Spanish Navy
and mercantile marine are negligible.
The Germans cannot use Spanish harbors
to any extent, because their own ships
cannot go to them and Spanish ships
can get out only when allowed.
Spain has been through a long and
violent war. Even in peace it was a
poverty-stricken country which gave the
impression of being worn-out and thread-
bare. Its condition now must be ter-
rible. It could fight only by submitting
to the presence of a German army of
occupation, and its integrity would be
constantly threatened by a large, violent
and utterly lawless Communist minority
who would delight in the chance of
stabbing the Franco Government in the
back.
The truth seems to be that the Ger-
mans and Italians, who are having their
own difficulties, are trying to bring about
an Axis peace in Europe and China and
to start a peace offensive against John
Bull by presenting him with an accom-
plished (?) fact.
Berlin Catches It Hot.
“Ek D.”: Early last week there
was a lull in the Blitzkrieg on Britain.
The weather as winter closes in is making
raiding more irregular, but there must
have been other considerations.
German machines came over. They
covered a wide area from the industrial
north to the s.-w. counties.
They did considerable damage
in spots, and caused casualties
every day and every evening,
but there were long intervals
of quiet during which Lon-
doners and Liverpudlians were
able to go about their business
almost normally. Scotland
had a daylight raid on
October 24, when London
suffered its 250th attack a
mild affair.
October 25 was fine, and
two formations soared up the
Thames to “prove” for the
251st time in that area what
Hitler said on August 29,
1939:
I will not war against women
and children. I have ordered
my air force to restrict itself
to attacks on military objec-
tives.
The day’s and night’s “mili-
tary objectives” hit included
five tramcars, one church with
rare stained-glass windows
(gutted), a hotel, a shelter and
a number of houses. In one
five persons were injured, and
in another a mother and three
children were buried (“they were heard
calling for help and were dug out”)- The
German version was that fires and ex-
plosions had been caused, and that har-
bors, industrial plants and communica-
tions were “plastered” with bombs.
It was announced in Berlin and Rome
that Italian ’planes had taken part in
the raids on England for the first time,
and “Giornale d’ltalia” wrote of special
formations created by Mussolini for the
purpose of attacking Britain.
Towards the end of the week German
raiding became fiercer, and on Friday
and Saturday enemy ’planes were con-
stantly over the British Isles. Berlin
Radio announced on Oct. 26 that several
hundred bombers had left the French
coast carrying bombs up to two tons m
weight. The feature of the Blitzkrieg >
however, was the number of incendiary
bombs dropped.
During the lull the Air Ministry issued
a very interesting report on the German
preparations for invasion and the meas-
ures taken to scotch them. Concentra-
tions of troops and barges, it seems-
began early in September. On September
5 long-range guns carried on a duel
across the Channel, and the R.A.F. sys-
tematically blasted the concentrations on
the Norwegian, Dutch, Belgian and
French coasts, not a single point of assem-
bly escaping. Dunkirk saw its main qua}
destroyed, along with large quantities
of German war material. Vast damage
was done, and navigation made impos-
sible at Calais ; at L’Orient a barrack fun
of soldiers was destroyed; Cherbourg
was bombarded by warships and bombe
by ’planes ; large concentrations on the
Rhine and Scheldt were destroyed, and-
if Swiss reports are accurate, rivers an


KITCHING’S
TRAVEL Goods Specialists.
Military TOILET SETS
PRICE:
42'-
OTHERS:
32/6 to 70/-
MONEY
BELTS,
6/6 to 9/6.
WET PACKS,
12/6 & 25/-
MIRRORS,
Stainless
Steel,
2/6 and 3/-
Free
Deliverj
to all
Suburbs.
è
VERY NEAT AND HANDY
Comprising:—Hair Brushes, Clothes and
Shaving Brushes, Containers for Toilet and
Shaving Soap and Tooth Brush, also Steel
Mirror, Comb, File, Scissors, and Safety
Razor. In a beantiful Solid Leather Case,
with Zip Fastener Attached.
C. E. KUCHING PTY. LTD.
319 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. 8W7133.
(Near Wynyard Station.)
canals were turned into seas of fire with
phosphorous bombs.
The impression still lingers that Sep-
tember 15 was to have been The Day.
It certainly brought unprecedented air
attacks on England and a movement of
Graziani’s army in Libya. But there does
not seem to have been any actual attempt
at naval invasion or even to pass the
barrier of mines which the R.A.F. laid
all the way down the Channel.
The Ruhr and German naval ports
have been all along systematically bom-
barded, together with the Channel ports,
and a fine mess appears to have been
made of some of them. Though Berlin
has had less than a tenth of the attacks
made on London, it has suffered severely.
Rome Radio estimated the casualties
along the Spree on the night of October
20-21 at 2871., A Stockholm “Aftonblad”
correspondent says the night was one of
unprecedented terror, during which the
R.A.F. pilots showed great courage in the
face of heavy A. A. fire.
There were two raids —one at 10 p.m.
on Sunday, the other at 3 a.m. on Mon-
day. The raiders appeared rollicking
along the Fiihrer’s new avenue of triumph
from the west, paused appropriately over
Moabit, which is the main centre of jus-
tice and punishment in Berlin in normal
times, and cruised round for half an hour
within less than two miles and in full
sight of Hitler’s giant Chancellery, Gor-
ing’s giant Air Ministry and the huge
War Office buildings, which have altered
the skyline round the Tiergarten in the
last few years. They dropped bombs on
central railway sidings and in the north-
west industrial sections of the city. Then,
after a pause of a couple of hours, the
alarms went again and Berliners rushed
to their shelters as heavy--calibre stuff
began to fall like hail in the city itself,
particularly in the railway centres of
Charlottenburg, a big residential suburb
seeded with junctions.
With daylight, Berlin papers were de-
manding “fiercer reprisals” on London,
and 75 trainloads of children were being
prepared for evacuation from the Ger-
man capital.
The R.A.F. contingents came home in-
tact to share reminiscences with the long-
distance Whitleys and Wellingtons which
had been contemporaneously on a jaunt
across the Alps to Italy, during which an
electrical plant in the northern Milan
suburbs and one of the Fiat plants near
Turin and blast furnaces at Aosta had
been given a load of bombs apiece.
The Berlin raids were the beginning
of a busy week for the R.A.F. In an
hour on October 21, it rained 1000 bombs
on battered Hamburg, chiefly round
Blohm and Voss’s shipyards, where a
distracted company is trying to complete
a 35,000-ton battleship and some smaller
craft. The bombs started a chain of
fires, which merged into a huge flaming
mass.
The raiders also tackled an oil re-
finery near Dusseldorf and set it ablaze
in several places, and blew the bows off
an enemy supply ship off the Hook of
Holland. They gave Boulogne and
Gravelines their usual issue, starting
something that looked from England like
a prairie fire.
The Air Ministry then issued one of its
comprehensive bulletins summarising
general results. R.A.F. attacks, it said,
have chiefly been levelled against war
material, and “well-informed foreign in-
dustrialists” estimate that the productive
capacity of the Reich has been reduced
30 per cent, by the ceaseless battering.
Huge oil plants at Hamburg have been
forced to close down, silos near the docks
holding 10,000 tons of wheat have been
destroyed, and Hitler’s personal organ,
Volkischer Beo bach ter,” carries an ad-
vertisement offering long-term employ-
ment to persons willing to help rebuild
Hanseatic Hamburg.” At Gelsenkirchen,
the largest gasometers in Europe have
been destroyed, along with many oil
centres, and there has been wholesale
damage to armament plants— part of
Krupps was put out of action for ten
days by a squadron partly composed of
Australians. Railways, roads, invasion
Ports, aerodromes and air factories and
aaed res * s ave t> een heavily dam-
™ere is no let-up. Sunday’s attack
on Berlin and Monday’s on Hamburg and
other cities were followed by a general-
ised assault on Tuesday night, and an-
otner on Wednesday, when, for the
second night in succession, the German
a Pital was lit up with flames.
Hamburg, Hanover, Gelsenkirchen,
Uixhaven, Bremerhaven, Wilhelmhaven,
n an of which naval ships are building,
otterdam, Le Havre, Emmerich, Miin-
Huisberg, Flushing, Ostend, Dun-
i'k all shared in the damage, and Berlin
had been strangely silent
oout the city’s troubles, admitted that
the inner ring of defences had been pene-
tiaieu oy "weaK torces” wnich dropped
bombs on workers’ and other residential
suburbs; also that fires had been started
in Hamburg. It declared that five raiders
had been shot down and no German
machines lost.
The Air Ministry, however, said that
heavy bombs had been dropped on the
railway yards of the Lehrter station in
Berlin proper, and on other marshalling
yards at the Pulitzers trasse and near the
Templehof, as well as on the great Klin-
genberger power station, which is about
the largest on the Continent, and the Ber-
lin electricity plant in Charlottenburg
environs.
In other words, a very large block of
the main part of the city must have been
crisscrossed right over the roofs of the
Wilhelmstrasse and the West End.
These assaults were the forerunners of
even more terrible ones which swept the
whole of German-occupied territory from
Kiel, which had a severe pasting, to Brest,
in which every kind of objective—oil-
tanks, railways, quays, shipyards, fac-
tories and gun emplacements—was hit.
German machine casualties for the first
three weeks of October were 155, British
75. For the first three weeks of Sep-
tember the comparative losses were Ger-
man, 689 ; British, 221.
Command of the 9th Division, A.1.F.,
has been handed to Major-General Doug
Wynter, who began his soldiering in
Wide Bay (Q.), where Brudenell White
and Glasgow also served their apprentice-
ship. Wynter joined the permanent
forces in 1911, was appointed Director of
Personnel in 1914, held the job for two
years and spent the rest of the war with
the A.I.F. abroad. He went through
Camberley Staff College before he
returned, served as Director of Mobilisa-
tion and Director of Military Training,
held the Northern Command in his old
State at the outbreak of the present
war and then went to England in com-
mand of the units of the A.I.F. now
there. The nucleus of the 9th Division,
which will be used in Egypt, will be
formed from units in England and else-
where abroad, for which reinforcements
are being trained. Wynter is a strong
man, a fine organiser, a born leader. He
will go a good deal further than a divi-
sional command before the war is over.
* * * *
“Nobby II”: There was plenty of
naval activity towards the week-end.
While an air attack by the R.A.F. swept
the Channel coast on Oct. 25, British
guns in Kent shelled a German convoy
of light vessels. Germans then shelled
a British convoy escorted by destroyers
entering the Dover Straits and an air
battle developed over the Channel in
which the Germans were driven off. The
enemy claims to have scattered two con-
voys and hit a naval vessel with a bomb,
and also to have torpedoed the 42,000-
ton Empress of Britain off the north of
Ireland. The Admiralty admits the loss
of H.M.S. Venetia, a 1090-ton destroyer
of the Admiralty V class, built by Fair-
field yards in 1917, but against this an-
nounces that the submarine Swordfish
sank a German torpedo-boat off the
Franch coast, that the submarine Regent
destroyed an Italian 6000-ton supply ship
in the Mediterranean and that it is
believed that the R.N. has destroyed or
captured half the Italian submarines in
the Red Sea.
* * * *
Senator Mcßride, when Minister for the
Army, announced the extension of the
officers’ training scheme to provide 3000
commissioned ranks a year. Duntroon
will cope with 240 pupils a year, No. 1
Training School, Liverpool (N.S.W.), and
No. 2 at Albury—now being constructed
—with 864 each. Medium and field artil-
lery camps at Holdsworthy will train
400 for field, medium and anti-tank
artillery, and there will be 320 in the
heavy coast and A.A. gunnery school at
South Head, Sydney. There will also be
an A.M.C. and transport school at Gee-
long, and a mechanised training school
at Seymour, and physical training courses
will be given at Frankston (Vic).
* * * *
The Bulletin’s London office was
among the Central London buildings
which have suffered in the air raids. It
was at 40-43 Chancery-lane, close to the
Public Record Office, where the Domes-
day Book is kept, the Patents Office and
Lincoln’s Inn Chapel—one of the few
buildings damaged in the western part of
the city proper during the last war. No.
40-43 Chancery-lane was completely
gutted on September 24, everything in it
being destroyed ; but The Bulletin man
writes cheerfully:
These things happen during war, and one
must be prepared for such setbacks. I
am not alone in this unfortunate occur-
rence, for there are thousands of firms
in London in a similar position. There
are few streets in London without scars;
in fact, in some places whole streets have
been wiped out.
The office has been moved to 1 Hare
Place, 47 Fleet-street.
* * * *
“J.W.”: About 3100 Queensland air-
men have been enlisted since the out-
break, and only 272 are on the waiting
list. Of 16,000 from the other States —
N.S.W., 6619; Victoria, 3958 ; S.A.,
2743 ; W.A., 2637 ; and Tasmania, 1034
--3800 are on the waiting list. Selected
air crews total 10,764 for the Common-
wealth, but of these only 2736 have begun
training.
* * * *
The good news has come from Canada
that R.A.A.F. trainees have arrived there
in excellent shape.
* * * *
Two more Australians have won the
D.F.C. for night-bombing exploits. Wing-
Commander R. B. Lees—he is 30 and
hails from Broken Hill —has been in
command of a bomber squadron for
nearly two years, and the citation pays
tribute to his strong personality, devotion
to duty and influence in maintaining a
high training standard and devotion to
duty in his squadron. Flight-Lieutenant
Hubbard, D.F.C., born at Echuca and
educated at Gosford and Grafton
High Schools (N.S.W.), is 24. He
has “consistently shown himself an ex-
ceptionally capable captain,” and “his
keenness, uniform high standard of
courage and reliability set an excellent
example to all associated with him.” As
captain of one of three aircraft on a pro-
longed raid over Germany Hubbard was
jointly responsible for putting part of the
Krupp munition works out of action for
ten days.
Australia Abroad.
ě
FRANK A. COURTIS.
The Air War Day by Day.
October 21-22: Rome Radio an-
nounces that casualties in R.A.F. raid on
Berlin numbered 2871, and gives Italian
losses in attacks on Turin and Milan at
nine killed and 14 wounded.
Widespread daylight raids over southern
England. Quiet night over London, but
active attacks on Midlands —casualties
“not numerous.” Liverpool suffers
200th raid ; houses damaged on Mersey-
side. Germans claim to have wrecked
oil depots, munition works and other
plants in London, Birmingham, Coventry
and Liverpool. Their estimate of machine
losses: two German and two British
machines. Air Ministry loss estimates,
Oct. 1-21: Germans, 150 machines:
British, 69.
In adverse weather, heavy R.A.F.
night attacks on Hamburg naval yards,
severely damaging vessels under construc-
tion ; also on Diisseldorf and several
other German objectives. Bombers work
havoc on Boulogne and Gravelines, dam-
aging wharves and warehouses, a mer-
chant ship in port and another in convoy.
Italians bomb A.I.F. camp—for first
time —without damage. Announced Cairo
suffered first air raid on Sunday: one
killed, six wounded ; little damage.
October 22-23: London has third quiet
night, after desultory day raids. Bombs
dropped on Home and western counties
and South Wales. Middle Temple Hall
damaged.
Berlin authorities announce evacua-
tion of children. R.A.F. raids over Ger-
many limited owing to adverse weather.
Waves of R.A.F. bombers pound
Italian Libyan communications. Alex-
andria raided for fifty-fifth time.
October 23-25: Mass raids on England,
particularly on London, Midlands and
Home Counties. Germans claim to have
plastered south-coast harbors, industrial
plants and communications and to have
caused fires and explosions in London
at night. Air Ministry reports fires started
in Midlands, but casualties throughout
the country “exceedingly small.”
Air attacks on Ostend, Gravelines,
Flushing, Ostend and Dunkirk, a rail-
way yard near Calais, a convoy off Zee-
brugge; also bombing of Berlin (23rd
raid), oil plants at Hamburg, Hanover
and Gelsenkirchen ; works and shipping
in Hamburg, Cuxhaven, Bremerhaven,
Wilhelmshaven, Rotterdam, Le Havre and
L’Orient and a number of railway yards
and power stations. “Strong forces
operated throughout the hours of dark-
ness —one ’plane did not return.” Ger-
mans admit attack on Berlin by “weak
forces,” and on Hamburg, where fires
caused in town and port. They declare
a few persons killed and five R.A.F.
machines shot down without German
air loss.
Berlin and Rome announce that Italian
’planes took part in raids on Britain for
the first time.
Cairo reports raids on Gura (Abys-
sinia) munition dumps, Asmara and Gon-
dar, and dive-bombing against military
concentrations at Tesenei (Eritrea),
Kassala (Sudan), and Sidi Barrani (West-
ern Egypt), without loss of machines.
Italians raid Alexandria and Port Said
without doing material damage; two
civilian deaths and a few wounded.
October 25-26: Intensive raid on Lon-
don during which alarms almost con-
tinuous for 24 hours ; residential suburbs
on outskirts of city suffer. South-west,
Wales, Midlands and parts of Scotland
also raided. In daylight raids 14 German
and 10 British ’planes destroyed.
R.A.F. attacks on enemy territory
from Baltic to French coast continue.
Kiel attacked for two hours, intensive
bombing of Ruhr. Supply ship sunk off
Norway.
Naval barracks at Tobruk destroyed by
R.A.F.; general bombing of Italian
objectives from Libya to Red Sea and
Kenya. Italians claim bombing of Mersa
Matruh, Fuka, El Daba and other points.
October 26-27: Continuous daylight
and night raids over England. Berlin
reports that several hundred bombers
have left Norway and France carrying
bombs up to two tons weight. Large
Midland town suffers greatest number of
air-raid deaths during war.
Berlin and other parts of Germany
and French invasion ports bombed. Sup-
ply ship sunk off Norway. Germans -
declare Berlin raiders driven off except
one, which dropped bombs in suburbs.
Further general raiding in Egyptian-
East African zones.
“Oxmead”: To describe Francois
Villon as a “villainous poet” (B.
23/10/’4O) is surely to misuse the Eng-
lish language, even though one may see
perfectly what the writer was attempting
to convey. Francois was unquestionably
a high-class villain, even by fifteenth-
century standards, and it is equally cer-
tain that he was a very great poet, by any
standards. But to term him a villainous
poet implies that he wrote villainous
poetry, and that assuredly he never did.
His twin claims to celebrity and notoriety
needn’t be confused. I think it is Web-
ster’s Dictionary that sums him up with
admirable brevity as “Poet and Burglar.”
His warmest admirer could take no
exception to that.


é
ê
If f I f ITf
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD • PRESDWOOD • TEMPRTILE • QUARTRBOA&D DE LUXE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth ma<z-4o
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Report on a Pacific Paradise
“Kaloa”: Nauru, for its size, is prob-
ably the most valuable island in the world
and it is probably the happiest.
Its area is 5263 acres —it is an oval 12
miles round. It is walled in by a reef
outside which the water is as much as
250 fathoms deep. Sheltered by the calm
waters of the sea-moat inside the reef,
there are sandy beaches which merge into
a fertile belt up to half a mile wide which
runs right round the island. This is
bounded on the land side by coral cliffs,
about 50ft. high, which turn the centre
of the island into a huge saucer, the sides
of which are pure phosphate.
Not for nothing did Captain Fearn,
who discovered Nauru, call it Pleasant
Island. The people who live among the
coconut palms round the fringes on top
of the beaches number 171 Europeans,
1512 Chinese laborers and 1733 Nauruans.
The Nauruans are unique—they are an
island race which is increasing by leaps
and bounds. In 1923 there were only
1164 of them. Their natural increase
last year was 17.6 per 1000. The Aus-
tralian average, 1932-36, was 7.6 ; that of
England and Wales, 2.8.
Every financial transaction of Nauru
seems to turn over on the right side. The
Administration funds —revenue mainly
royalties—have a credit balance of
£57,344, equal to nearly two years’ expen-
diture. Civil-service and other salaries
work out at an average of about £5 per
head of population.
Rovalties are paid to native owners of
phosphate lands. There are five Nauruans
who average over £lOOO a year from this
source, and nearly a couple of hundred
others share. The sum of £58,563 is in-
vested on behalf of the landowners.
Prosperity steadily mounts —the export
of phosphate at 932,000 tons last year
was 3y times the amount exported in
1931. It was valued at £605,000, so that
the production was equal in value to over
£l7O per head of population of all ages
and races. Australia took two-thirds of
the output.
There is a fine education system for
natives. Some of the boys were last year
sent to Geelong Institute of Technology
for special training.
There is a co-operative society—a
general trading concern for native needs
which has steadily added £l2OO a year
to its capital out of trading profits on a
tumoverof about £20,000 a year.
There is no liquor problem, no drug
problem no s.p., no pub, no income
fax no politician, no Stock Exchange,
and one out of every two native Nauruans
has a savings-bank account with a fat
balance.
The Nauruans are great singers. It is
no wonder.
< ~ T •
“Lid”: Brisbane town-planner Mcinms,
lately in Darwin:—
More of the Payne Commission’s report
[on the N.T.] should be carried out, and
carried out thoroughly. The commission
outlined a very sound land policy, which
would be of benefit to the Territory.
Most Territorians feel the same way. The
Payne report (1937) was conveniently
forgotten and superseded by Minister
“ That’s right; two bob Lucrative , all up Beau Vile.”
McEwen’s report (1938), which was also
conveniently forgotten. And now, with,
perhaps, the exception of Darwin, the
N.T. seems to have been conveniently
forgotten.
* * * *
“Dip”: The police at Newcastle
Waters (N.T.) are speculating on the
mystery of a pair of trousers, with keys
in one of the pockets, which were found
and handed in. Possibly a flight of N.T.
mosquitoes ate the owner out of his pants
while he slept. Anyway, it recalls the
case of Centre Cut Charlie. Charlie was
leaving a Westralian mining town for
Perth by the midnight train, so the fare-
well celebration began about 4 p.m.
Next morning Charlie’s boots and socks
were still with us among the empties.
They were his only boots, so we con-
cluded he was travelling south with bare
feet. Then we found Charlie’s coat and
vest hanging on the gate post. They
also were his only coat and vest, so we
concluded he was travelling south in
his shirt sleeves. Then we found Charlie’s
strides neatly folded on the tankstand
beside the siding. They, too, were his
only strides, but we didn’t like to con-
clude anything.
ij: * * *
“Poi-poi”: The place has gone cotton
mad, and they’re even planting the
stuff in backyards and schoolgrounds.
Central Queensland expects to double its
cotton area, and enough seed for nearly
50,000 acres has gone to coastal districts
and the Dawson and Callide Valleys.
Given a fair go, we should come out of
the war with another industry assured of
a home market.
* * * *
“Norther”: A station hand left Cunna-
mulla early in 1923 to see a doctor in
Brisbane. He didn’t come back, but a
few months later showed up in Winton,
whence he set out for Cunnamulla to see
his dying mother. He failed to appear,
and was next seen by a brother-in-law in
Brisbane in 1926. He said he was with
an Indian horse-buyer, promised to send
his future addresses, departed and van-
ished. Efforts to trace him by newspaper
advertisement and radio (he was a bene-
ficiary under his mother’s will) brought
no result. Two years ago a man
called on Queensland Trustees, executors
for the father’s estate, described himself
as the missing station-hand’s “errand
boy” and asked what would have to be
done about collecting the money,
was told that identification would be
necessary and said he would call again
because he had to get some teetn. ne
didn’t return Now the Supremet Court
has granted the station-hand s sister leave
to swear to his death eo she may apply
for a grant of administration of his estate.
* * . + . ,
“23-4”: The confusion in marriage and
divorce laws got a further airing in the
Queensland Supreme Court when the
Chie f j ust j ce was compelled to consider
whether or not he could recognise a
Grafton (NSW) night wedding ; time,
8 'a q * When it was
between 8 and 9 P-m. WI T
pointed out that Section n or me
Queensland Marriage Act, 1864, con-
tained a provision that no marriage
“should be deemed to be legal or valid
unless celebrated between the hours of
8 a.m. and 8 p.m.,” his Honor remarked
that it would depend on N.S.W. law. If
there was a time-limit on marriage hours
in N.S.W., he would have to be guided
by the Barton case. This concerned a
man married after 8 p.m. in Queensland
in 1874. Later, he married another
woman in England. On his return, three
Judges decided that a “marriage cele-
brated before eight o’clock in the morn-
ing or after eight o’clock in the evening
is not invalid on that account.” Peti-
tioner’s advocate could find no time limit
in the N.S.W. marriage laws, so his
Honor recognised the marriage and
granted the divorce. Still, it should be a
warning to Queenslanders not to
approach the parson during the wrong
12 hours.
* * * *
“Balander”: I’ve got an extra couple
of pennies to rub together this year, the
Forgan Smiths having found that it will
cost me and the rest of the plebs only
£9379 for railway passes for members
and ex-members of Parliament, whereas
last year the amount was £9680. In addi-
tion, members are to get £1777 among
them for special travelling allowances and
£2550 for postage and telegrams. Then
there’s another £2550 for life passes for
former Ministers over all Australian rail-
ways. “Get into Parliament and see the
country free! ” Surviving ex-members
of the old Leg. Council, some of whom
served only a few months before its aboli-
tion, can still travel free by rail. I’ve no
complaint against giving a man a free
pass when he’s travelling on public busi-
ness, but I never could see how a State
politician earned the right to travel free
for the rest of his life. On second
thoughts I think I’ll spend that tuppence
before they get it.
* * * ♦
“Philp”: Darwin is accustomed to
hurried visits from politicians and over-
seas bigwigs, but Darwinians gener-
ally feel a bit hurt if ordinary John Cit
times his departure to follow as closely
as possible on his arrival. Such happened
the other day when a firm of contractors
in Darwin engaged a workman in Perth
and paid his fare to the northern port.
The gentleman arrived, collected his
travelling time from the firm and de-
parted on the same ship. Judge Wells
awarded the firm £ll 4s. 3d. damages
against him.


2q
iuui
si
jS
Zt
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS' con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
BH
WTiWHfoll
CHEMISTS, 319 Georse Street, Sydney.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM
6AM
6KG Kalgoorlie SOO watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George's Tee., Perth
Perth .... 500 watts
Northam . . 2000 watts
Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
“TUMBA”
CATTLE DROVER POLEY
è
£9/17/6
(Complete)
This is a
moderately-
priced saddle
o f splendid
quality. The
seat is of hog-
skin, and the
flaps of good
k i p.
I Send
for
Saddlerij
Catalogue
— FREE!
No. 4. Headstall Fly
Veils, with Leather
Basil Veil.
fin., 4/-; |in., 5/-
WALTHER * STEVENSOM ET?
395 CEORCE ST. SYDHEY ]
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Captain Frank Hurley, whose name
should be familiar to every Australian
who has ever seen a photograph or been
inside a motion-picture house, is in Egypt
with camera and gear to do duty with the
A.I.F. He has been with cameras every-
where from equatorial regions to the
South Pole, as well as through the 1914-
18 affair as Official Photographer, and he
has a knack of turning up wherever
there’s a picture to be had, bombs,
bullets, icebergs and other obstructions
notwithstanding.
* * * *
Major L. L. B. Angas, of Wall-street,
was born in Adelaide in 1893, and edu-
cated at Oxford, where he collected his
M.A. In the 1914-18 scrap, a M.C., a
Croix de Guerre and two wounds came
his way. In London, after the war, the
Major became a stockbroker and “self-
declared student of currency and the
business cycle.” His flair for analysing
market trends has made him a much-
sought-after “investment-counsel” in New
York, his fee for consultations being 100
dollars an hour.
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.”: In 1696 the tragedy
“Queen Boadicea, or the British Heroine”
was first performed in London, and the
“hit” of the piece was the song “Britons,
Strike Home,” the music of which was
composed by Purcell. Charles Knight has
written: “It is affirmed that the music of
this song was played as the great Marl-
borough led his troops to the attack at
Blenheim. In 1805, when the alarm
of invasion was general, George 111
was walking on Windsor-terrace. He
was surrounded by all ranks of
his subjects. The military band was
about to play ‘Rule Britannia,’ when the
King stepped up to them, and with a
loud voice called out ‘No, no! Let us
have “Britons, Strike Home! ””’ And
now another Churchill is using the same
exhortation to his countrymen, as is an-
other King George, to frustrate another
threatened invasion of England.
* * * 4c
It is indeed an all-in war. Even the
journalists of London have formed their
own battalion, which is commanded by
the tall, solemn Major Astor of the
“Times,” who was out here with the
British delegates to the Imperial Press
Conference in 1925. Australians on Lon-
don staffs have enrolled in the force,
which has been incorporated with the
Royal Fusiliers, a regiment affiliated with
the City of Melbourne Regiment.
* * * *
“Avon”: Lately dead at 70, Maoriland’s
leading naturalist, James Drummond,
Fellow of the Linnean and Zoological
Societies. Born at Thames (Auckland
province), he lived most of his life in
Christchurch, where an early acquain-
tance with Capt. F. W. Hutton, curator
of the Canterbury Museum, gave him a
bent towards the study of the indigenous
fauna, particularly birds. For very many
years Drummond’s weekly nature articles
in various M.L. newspapers interested
thousands. He was a journalist by pro-
fession— for many years chief reporter
of the now-dead “Lyttelton Times.”
Shackleton’s 1907-9 Antarctic expedition
made Lyttelton its base port, and Drum-
mond was entrusted with writing the first
account of the expedition, winning high
compliments from the Royal Geographic
Society. Outside his natural-history
books, adopted in the schools, he wrote
biographies of Seddon, Samuel Marsden
and John Rutherford (“The White Chief”).
Old members of the “L.T.” staff will
remember affectionately Sunday rambles
with Drummond over the Port Hills
while “Jimmy” discoursed on the birds
and insects encountered.
* * * *
“Shibli”: Richard A. McKay, begetter
and editor of the beautiful tome
History of New Zealand Printing,
the most artistic and perfectly pro-
duced volume ever published in M.L.,
is in his early thirties and comes
of Cornish stock. He learned the
printing trade in Wellington. His history
is a half-leather, medium-quarto volume
of 250 pages and contains many excel-
lent color plates. In addition to editing
McKay arranged the design and format
from cover to cover.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Poetess Louise Haskins,
whom the King brought into prominence
last Christmas by a quotation, has affilia-
tions in Australasia. Her uncle, F. T.
Haskins, was Town Clerk of Christchurch,
M.L., for 30 years. A • Christchurch
“ Haven't seen any raider around, have you ?”
medico, Guy Haskins, Mrs. L. M. Rich-
ards, of the same city, and Gerald
Haskins, a Melbourne engineer, are
cousins, as well as a Maoriland medico,
Basil Haskins, who has lived in England
since the last war. These are children of
the Christchurch Town Clerk. Dr. Guy
Haskins was an Australian representative
at the Festival Empire Games in 1914.
* * * *
“Leonardo”: Where does “Craiser”
(B. 2/10/’4O) get his theory that the
Huguenots introduced weaving into Eng-
land? The ancient Britons wove and
wore woollen clothes before Caesar’s visit
in 55 BiC., when there were no Christians
and ; therefore, no Huguenots. The old
English, round about a.d. 449, wove and
wore woollen clothes. Has “Craiser” any
evidence that from 449 to about 1549 —
1100 years—the English did no weaving?
Most of our surnames arose in the early
centuries before the Renaissance, and
among them are Weaver, Fuller, Dyer,
Clothier, Calendar, Spinner and Napper.
* * * *
Victim of a German bomb in London
was Hinemoa Roseur, of Auckland,
M.L., a young singer, winner of the
Melba Prize, who went to London for
study. She had commenced a promising
career and had sung before the King
and Queen when the war came, and she
took up nursing. She was on duty when
death came.
Lieut.-Commander F. N. Cook, men-
tioned in dispatches, is a Victorian who
went to the R.N. with the seaplane-carrier
Albatross. He was aboard the Royal Oak
when she was torpedoed at Scapa Flow,
and on the light cruiser Curlew when
she was bombed and sunk in the Nor-
wegian business.
* N= * *
“Colbun”: A British industry particu-
larly hard-hit by the war is that of scent-
making. The basis of most modern per-
fumes is oak moss, mainly produced in
Yugoslavia and the south of France.
And of 150 tons of oil of lavender con-
sumed annually Empire production was
about one ton, the rest from France.
Oil of geranium, for perfuming soaps,
and oil of ylang, a kind of magnolia,
which is a component of many scents,
came from the French island of Reunion.
Orange blossom essence and labdanum,
an extract of rock roses, have their com-
mercial source in Syria, and bergamot,
the basis of eau-de-Cologne, is found only
in Sicily and parts of Italy. The possi-
bilities for commercial production of
some of these in Australia might well
receive attention from the C.S.I.R.
* * Sc *
“Dickie Beech”: Science has obviated
the need for herring fishermen and
trawlers to waste labor and time in mak-
ing trial shots with the nets to locate
possible shoals below. The Marconi
echometer, now fitted in more than 1000
British fishing craft, is primarily a sound-
ing apparatus, operating by the reflec-
tion of projected radio waves from the
sea floor back to a luminous dial. When
a shoal of fish is in the track of the
waves the luminous spot which indicates
the depth of water is accompanied by
subsidiary flickers at the point on the
dial corresponding to their distance from
the surface. With experience it is also
possible to judge the size of the shoal
by these light-spot variations. The
range of observation is anything between
a fathom and five miles.
* * * *
“Bufo”: The first pure-bred barking
dingo on record is reported from Whip-
snade, the country depot of the London
Zoo. The animal’s ancestry is impeccable,
and no suspicion of mesalliance or bar
sinister exists anywhere in its family line
of several generations of English-bred
forebears linking it with pure Australian
stock. The new accomplishment is imita-
tive, and was acquired from some Arctic
sledge dogs which occupy a neighboring
part of the same enclosure, and own the
sharp, ringing voices of their kind. Now
he barks back at them, and joins dogfully
in the joyous uproar when the keeper
arrives with the tucker. The other
dingoes, sticklers for orthodoxy, keep to
the old familiar howl.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
Drumbeats:
G.M.P.:
Each has a soul lie must answer for,
Each has a great human mind,
Each is a part of the Universe:
German folk, are you quite blind?
M. 8.:
Very proudly you are viewing
Any job your Digger’s doing.
If you love him, tell him how before he goes;
Don’t hold back your admiration
Till the padre makes oration.
E.P.: —
God. speed our brave heroes,
Give them fitting farewell—
A hard job lies before them
When they reach the hills and dells.
H.O.E.; A hairy ancient G.T.: Wordy.
. ...M.S.: Not funny... .W.L.R.: Poor old
Maud gets parodied once a week... .J.C.W.:
“Flemington Calls” about as rhythmically as
a horse 1.M.H.: “Three Stars” ought to
have more kick than that 1.G.: Stick to
prose S.S.: A point, but not a poem....
D.R.: Can’t keep that one to ourselves:
The stone which I hold in my hand today takes me
back to fields of yesterday laden with silver
and with gold—that is what the assay told
3oz. gold and 2oz. silver—to sweat and save and
lo and behold to come to the top at a quiver.
Days have passed on to the hill I climbed
upon to gaze at different fields of green:
far away to the hills they seem in
l.ondon town the roads are made
of Australian wood Red Jarrow stayed
to 30 years to knowledge mine like the
price of gold 1 does not decline.
L.E.G.: Not interested in “a little Spanish
night-club in Barcelona’s heart” A.T.:
Don’t want material that’s been broadcast....
R.D.: Try elsewhere M.D.: Off with “Syd-
ney heads” E.G.W.: Twenty-six times out.
M.T.: A will-o’-the-wisp R.L.J.: Sorry,
but “Wouldn’t It?” won’t J.N.A.: Nothing
exciting about that one L.N.S.: Please for-
get about orphans and their faithful dogs
J.O.McN.: Begone with your “Secrets of a
Beach Siren” C.J.P.: If you want to write
about the country, for goodness’ sake don’t
look at it through city windows M.L.C.:
“The Great Inducement” offered none
N.D.: At least your writing is a little better
than your knowledge of naval warfare
H. 1.5.: Not for us, but it should find a home.
. ...C.E.D.: Dull C.G.D.: Cut the long-
winded introduction and come again....
C.H.E.: Cowboys and Indians never get past
our doormat... .N.F.S.: Haven’t seen either
of the yarns you mention—some contributions
from you to another paper were addressed
to us; we sent them on.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.M.: Carefully redrawn it might score a
kookaburra card from a children’s magazine
page... .M.T.G.: Except that its withers are
where its shoulders should be, its head resembles
a bull-terrier’s, its back slopes up to the rump
and it is apparently double-jointed, it is an
excellent study of a horse K.C.: Can’t say
we’ve ever seen beshawled and bebuttoned
coster tarts and blokes in an Australian set-
ting 1.M.: Gag wooden, drawing full of
splinters and rough edges D.P.F.: We sus-
pect that one of the figures is intended to repre-
sent a scarecrow, but you haven’t indicated
which S.E.: Hoary drunk jokes always get
pride of place in the basket... .J.F.: Glimmer-
ing of talent there, but it will need an art
class to bring it out P.T.A.: Sad, very
sad J.N.: If the lady happened to cry, the
tears would run down between her shoulder-
blades. .. .K.E.: It could be used as a surrealist
frieze Woolly drawing of very little interest.
N.K.: No market for those cramped
sketches; open out a bit G.M.S.: If that
airman is looking at the ’plane ahead he must
be cockeyed C.McD.: Your line is still a
little uncertain A.J.: Tell you frankly? Cer-
tainly. You can’t draw for nuts.... J. 8.:
Didn’t know we had Mexican generals in the
A.I.F.


CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne,
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. yan, sq.,
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBEb. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches *nd Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Males, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank°offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
BRANDAUER3
PS
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDAOBK * 00. JM. BIRMIHOHAU.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin tp hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible
Wants.
Experienced dental surgeon seeks position in
city practice, Brisbane. Refs. —8577.
To buy The Protocols of the Learned Elders
of Zion, by A. N. Field, 1934 edition. —8563.
Information Sought.
I am a farmer, aged 39, with a good ele-
mentary knowledge of general engineering, both
theoretical and practical, and used to control-
ling labor. (1) If able to satisfy medical ex-
amination, would I be eligible to join the en-
gineering branch of the A.1.F.? (2) How do
general conditions in engineers compare with
those in infantry ? Are chances of promotion
equal? Are facilities for improvement of
efficiency equal ? —8406.
(1) Until enlistment for the A.I.F. commences
once again you cannot join the engineers or
any other arm. (2) The proportion of en-
gineers to other arms is rather small, and there
is a smaller proportion of n.c.os. and commis-
sioned officers to the number of men in an
engineer.unit than in an infantry unit. Chances
of rapid promotion depend entirely on the
ability of the individual, but may be slower in
engineers than infantry for the reason given.
Details concerning entrance to Royal Aus-
tralian Naval College? —B362.
Candidates for entry into the Royal Aus-
tralian Naval College as cadet midshipmen
are eligible to sit for the examination during
the calendar year in which their 13th birthday
falls. An examination is held in September
of each year, and the entries close in June.
Forms in connection with the examination can
be obtained from the Naval Staff Office, Edge-
. cliff, Sydney, on application about March each
year.
* * * *
(1) How is oil conveyed to Aden, by tanker
or pipeline ? (2) Where is the worlds longest
oil-pipeline? —8249. .
(1) By tanker. Better to talk of a pipeline
system. In America there is a pipeline system
of 4300 miles. Included in this is one pipe-
line from Texas to Arkansas City and Wood
River (Illinois) which is 1400 miles long.
* * * *
Z have six exhausted “Tropex” (45 \.) batteries.
Each battery has 25 cells, each cell consisting of
a thick layer of what looks like carbon, which
surrounds a pencil-like stick of hard, black com-
position. Is this material of any value for
national purposes? —8400.
There is probably a surround sheet of alu-
minium with each carbon stick, and the metal,
as in the case of all aluminium waste, is of
very special value. Send the batteries to the
State Controller of Salvage, 166 Phillip-street,
Sydney, or, if bulky, to the State Controller of
Salvage, Darling Harbor.
* * * *
Method of softening hard, brackish water
so as to make it usable for household pur-
poses? Water is from a basalt spring. —B33s.
It would be necessary to determine if the
hardness is temporary or permanent, also the
exact amount of hardness present, before
any specific advice could be given. Seek
the assistance of the municipality or shire in
which you live.
* * * *
Some information as to Rudolf Friml, com-
poser of “Rose Marie,” ‘‘New Moon,” etc. ?
—8417.
Friml was born in Prague, Bohemia, in 1881.
Visited U.S.A. in 1903 as accompanist to
violinist Kubelik, an engagement that lasted
five years. Friml’s first operetta, “The Firefly,”
appeared in 1912. Among his 30-odd other
operettas “Katinka” (1915), “Rose Marie”, (in
collaboration with Herbert Stothart) (1924) and
“The Vagabond King” (1925) are .best remem-
bered.'. Friml has also composed a great deal
of graceful pianoforte music. He has for many
years lived in New York. “New Moon” isn’t
a Friml work —music is by Romberg.
* * * *
Information regarding the lives and works of
the composers Haydn Wood and Montague F.
Phillips; also pronunciation of the Christian
names of both ? —8522.
Haydn (Hiden) Wood was born in England
in 1882, and achieved some fame as a violinist,
touring the Empire with Madame Albani be-
fore he settled down as a song-composer.
“Roses of Picardy” was his earliest success.
He also composed for orchestra, solo violin and
quartet, and his choral works have some
vogue. Montague (Mon-ta-gu) Fawcett
Phillips, who was bom in England in 1885,
is Professor of Harmony and Composition at
the Royal Academy of Music, and Fellow of
that academy and the R.C.O. His favorite
instrument is the organ. His compositions in-
clude a symphony, a romantic light opera, “The
Rebel Maid,” many songs, orchestral composi-
tions and pianoforte pieces.
* * * *
(1) Salaries paid to Governor-General and
Governors in Australia? (2) Other expenses?
—8287.
(1) Commonwealth, £10,000; N. S. Wales,
£5000; Vic., £5000; Q’land, £3002; S.A.,
£5000; W.A., £2000; Tas., £3OOO. (2) Other
salaries in the same order were £1791, £2977,
£731, £1597, £BO9, £836, £661. Other expenses,
including maintenance of house and ground,
were £25,116, £19,539, £6713, £6318, £947,
£2360, £2783. Figures are for 1937-38.
* * * *
A man dies in Queensland and leaves his
interest in certain properties to his second wife.
Have the children of the first wife an equal claim
with the children of the second marriage on
this property on the death of the present
legatee ? —8431.
Should the legatee die intestate the children
of the first marriage will rank equally with
children of the second marriage, but the second
wife may by her will leave her interest in the
properties to anyone she desires.
# * * ■ *
The footpath in front of my property has
been paved, and I have received an account
for it from the Launceston City Council.
As the footpath in question does not abut my
property, should I have to pay cost of paving ?
The footpath in question is approx. 15 ft. from
my boundary fence, and the land between foot-
path and my boundary is council property
(reserve or park land). —8395.
You raise an interesting point. The Ox-
ford Dictionary, which is a recognised authority
to laymen, defines the word “abut” as having
“a common boundary with or border upon.”
A standard English law lexicon gives the
derivation of the word “abut” as from the
French aboutir, “to touch at the end,” and
states “the sides of the land are properly said
to be adjoining to and the ends to abut on the
land contiguous.” Whether it would be worth
while spending mopey in fighting the council
on the matter is a question for your personal
consideration.
# * * *
If there are four vice-presidents of an organi-
sation, who is. the first vice-president; that is,
who becomes acting-president in the president’s
absence? There is no ruling in the by-laws,
and the four v.ps. were elected on the one
ballot. —8508.
In the absence of the president one of the vice-
presidents takes the chair, as usually provided
in the rules. Should there be no provision of
priority made in that respect, the appointment
should be made by a vote of the meeting.
* * * *
Assuming that there is no question of
damage or unseemly conduct, has a clergyman
any legal right to prevent the entry into his
church of any citizen during a christening ser-
vice or wedding or at any reasonable time ?
8527.
The open door of the church is an invitation
to enter it for religious, not secular, purposes.
A christening or wedding would be a religious
purpose. The guardians or keepers of the
church are the churchwardens, and it is inci-
dental to their office to enforce proper and
orderly behavior during divine service. A
clergyman cannot in the mere exercise of his
will exclude a citizen from entrance to a church
when its doors are open to the public.
* * * #
Particulars concerning the Dodecanese
Islands ? —8363.
They consist of 12 islands occupied by Italy
in 1912 during the war with Turkey, and ceded
to Italy by the Treaty of Lausanne, which came
into force on August 6, 1924. The islands, with
area and population, are Coo, 111 sq. miles,
19,731 persons; Patmo, 22, 3184; Lisso, seven,
977; Calino, 49, 15,247; Lero, 28, 13,657,
Nisiro, 18, 3391 ; Piscopi, 25, 1215; Calchi, 12,
1461; Simi, 25, 6195; Stampalia, 44, 2006;
Scarpanto, 118, 7770; Caso, 27, 1890. The
bulk of the native population is made up of
Turkish and Greek stock.
* * * *
When was a law passed in Denmark making
all Danish surnames end with “sen." —B37o.
There is no such law. The affix of “sen”
to Danish names stands for son. Originally
many people simply called themselves —to take
an English instance —Peter John’s son. If
his son was christened John, he would be
John Peter’s son, and so on. As time went
on some “sen”-names would become the regu-
lar family name and pass on unaltered from
father to son, although the ancient custom
of nomenclature has not entirely died out.
The result was that very many people had the
same family name, and for this reason a law
was passed in 1904 permitting the possessors
of such names to choose some other family
name for themselves, it being the condition that
such a name was not already used by some-
body else. In this way Denmark has been en-
riched by a lot of rather peculiar names.
* * * *
Is it possible to obtain the “Saturday Evening
Post” regularly in Australia ?— -8387.
Yes, on payment of a year’s subscription it
will be posted direct from the U.S.A. Terms
from any newsagent.
*.* * *
(1) What are the prospects for a man enter-
ing Canada to settle on a cattle-grazing
property, and which would be the most suit-
able province? (2) Is Alberta still under the
Douglas Credit system ? (3) What is the rate
of exchange between Australia and Canada ?
(4) What area of land and number of cattle
would I need to obtain a fair living? (5) What
is the price per acre and carrying capacity of
cattle country in the suitable provinces? —B39B.
(1), (4) and (5) These questions have been
referred to the Canadian Government at
Ottawa. War-time conditions are not
thoroughly understood here. (2) Yes. (3) £1
Australian to 3.58 dollars Canadian.
(1) 1 have a life interest in an estate and
am protected by the N. S. Wales Moratorium
Act. Should I come into the interest under
the will would I be protected in the same way
as l am now? (2) / have been advised to
make a will through the Public Trustee. What
is the course to take? Would it be legal to
will my interests under a will to other than
relatives without obligation or the likelihood
of trouble after? (3) Would the Public Trustee
act as the guardian over beneficiaries under age
till 21 years? —B4Bs.
(1) Information insufficient. Cannot lore-
cast the effect of future legislation. (2) See the
nearest Clerk of Petty Sessions or agent tor
the Public Trustee. It is quite legal to make
the will you suggest, but you cannot prevent
claims being made subsequently under the tes-
tator’s Family Maintenance Act by members
of the family entitled under that Act to apply
for maintenance out of the estate. (3) He is
authorised to do so.
* * * *
(1) Under my father’s will, executed 42 years
cigo. / was left a property, but could not inhen t
it until my mother’s death. My mother is now
79, and l am married, in poor health, and
have a crippled son unable to walk. Can I
make a will leaving this property to my son ?
(2) As he is an invalid, aged 20, must I appoint
a guardian to look after his interests ? —8506.
(1) Yes. A will speaks as from the death of
the testator, not as at the date it is signed.
(2) A guardian is necessary only until your
son is 21.
* * * *
(1) A man is committed to a mental asylum
in N. S. Wales, and very little prospect is held
for his release. Can his wife obtain support
for herself and child in this case? (2) Is lunacy
a ground for divorce in N. S. Wales ? —8484.
(1) Application may be made to the Master
in Lunacy for maintenance from the insane
person’s estate. (2) No.
* * * *
How do snakes breathe? Have they lungs
and internal organs like other creatures, and
what occurs to those organs when the reptile
swallows a large meal and becomes greatly
distended ? —8375.
The internal organs, including the lungs, of
snakes are comparable to those of other
animals, bdt they are considerably elongated.
A snake breathes by means of lungs, which are
protected by ribs, but its breathing is much
slower than with other animals, and it can
“hold” its breath for many minutes at a time,
and this happens when it is swallowing its
food. After a large meal, the food having
passed the lungs, the snake breathes ordinarily
and is not inconvenienced.
* * * *
(1) What procedure is necessary to secure a
license for a commercial broadcasting station
in Queensland? (2) Approximate cost of
apparatus ? —8429.
(1) Apply to the Senior Radio Inspector,
Wireless Branch, G.P.0., Brisbane. (2) Cost
of the transmitter is dependent on its power
and the standard of equipment. Get a quota-
tion from a manufacturer of wireless trans-
mitters.
* * * *
(1) What is the age limit for university gradu-
ates who wish to enter the public library de-
partment of the Vic. public service? (2) To
whom should application be made for such em-
ployment ? —8382.
(1) Between 15 and 21. Does not apply only
to university graduates. (2) To the Public Ser-
vice Commissioner, Melbourne.
* * * *
In auction bridge, is the contract made by
the highest-scoring value or the value of the
number of tricks? For instance, does three
spades (27) overbid four clubs (24) ? “Hoyle”
gives highest scoring value, but some players
contend this has been superseded. —Bl4s.
Latest edition of Hoyle Up-to-D.ate says “a
bid of a greater number of odd tricks ranks
higher than a bid of less, number. When two
bids are of the same number they rank no-
trumps (highest), spades, hearts, diamonds,
clubs (lowest).” Any other rule must date
back to the very early days of bridge.
* * * *
Some months ago a representative of the
B.M.A. gave a talk in the course of a Dept,
of Information broadcast, and referred to a
new treatment for epilepsy based on special
diet. Can you give details? —8060.
The talk referred to the fact that some cases
of epilepsy have been successfully treated by
putting the patient on a so-called ketogenic
(or acidosis-producing) diet, the basis of the
treatment being that, in certain severe illnesses
in which fits may occur as a complication, the
seizures are lessened if a state of acidosis is
produced. The diet prescribed is rich in fat,
while carbohydrates and fluids are restricted.
Such foods, therefore, as eggs, fat bacon, liberal
supplies of butter, fried fish, pork or ham, with
small quantities of potato and plenty of green
vegetables, are recommended. Cream cheese
and clotted cream are also given. The pro-
portion of all these fatty foods must be
adjusted according to the presence or absence
of acetone in the urine, for if the fats are
pressed too far vomiting occurs and the diet
must then be stopped. The treatment is best
carried out under medical supervision.
* * * *
What are the chances of employment and
advancement in Darwin ? —8309.
There is. a strong demand for labor in Darwin
at present, even of the unskilled type. The basic
wage is £5 10s. Living is fairly expensive and
accommodation extremely difficult to obtain.
* * * *
What is the origin of the surname of Towt;
is it English, Scotch or Irish, and does it
derive from ancient Horse? —8389.
None of the authorities on the derivations
of names mentions the surname. There can,
however, be little doubt that it is derived in
some way from the old English word “towt,”
which means a piece of old rope, and is con-
nected with the word “tow” —the frayed
hempen rope used for caulking ships. Pos-
sibly the original holder of the name was
associated with a rope-walk.
How is gold made to adhere to leather goods
when lettering is stamped thereon?-— 8467-
Much depends upon the class of leather, it
the leather is not too greasy, take a blind im-
pression of the letters or design you intend to
stamp on the leather, then paint over the im-
printed area with albumin (white of egg), then
place gold leaf over the whole and again force
the letters or design down into the blind stamp-
ing, making sure the two actions register. At
the time of making the impression heat should
be applied to help the gold to stick firmly to
the albumin, and this will give a sharp-edged
letter or design. Brush away the surplus gold
leaf after allowing to dry for one hour. 11
you cannot obtain gold leaf it is better to
employ foils than imitation golds. Foils can
be purchased in all colors.
* * * *
Recipe for wax polish? —Bso7.
Dissolve loz. of beeswax in lOoz. of turpen-
tine by standing container in a saucepan of
boiling water (away from flame —vapor inflam-
mable); add lOoz. of raw linseed oil and tOz.
spirits of salts and stir well. Apply lightly
and polish well. This makes a very slippery
surface. A harder and more durable polish is:
soz. beeswaz, soz. cerasin, loz. burnt sienna,
one teaspoon boiled linseed oil, 4oz. turpentine.
Melt wax and cerasin in gentle heat and stir
in oil and turps.
Brief Answers.
J.A.: The white population of the Union of
S. Afnica was estimated at 2,116,500 at June
30, 1939. Under the S. African Defence Act
1912-22 every person between the ages of 17
and 60 is liable for service in time of war
A.J.McL.: Get in touch with Albert G. Simms,
Wilford-street, Newtown, Noyes Bros., 115
Clarence-street, or S. T. Pearson, 361 Crown-
street, Surry Hills —all Sydney... .H.J.S.: A
majority of the soldiers voted for conscription.
.... J.E.M.: Write to C. Weaver, 11 Carlisle-st.,
Leichhardtj,Sydney... .W.W.: Get in touch with
the Travellers’ Aid Society on Central station,
Sydney....L.J.O’K.: (1) No, Big Bertha was
specially built, strutted, Bin. artillery. (2) Naval
guns differ in mounting length and recoil
mechanism. (3) A 15in. Vickers Armstrong
railway mounted gun has a muzzle energy of
84,550 foot-tons; naval guns the same. (4) A
naval gun is a naval gun; when used ashore il
is merely adapted for land mounting
E. 0.5.: When last heard of the Richelieu was
lying at Dakar. .. .E.V.C.: Cannot trace....
W.1.F.: Write to the Secretary, Department ol
Defence, Melbourne... .1.C.H.: Write to the
Agricultural Department in each State....
W.L.1.: Guelph E. 8.: (1) The long “s,’
resembling an “f,” was used in English printing
up to a century and a half ago, and occasion-
ally later. (2) The Bible would have to be
seen by an expert before any value could be
given R.L.H.: Provided that lemons oi
oranges are cut off the tree leaving about yin
of stem and wrapped in dry paper, there are
few better ways of keeping them than by storage
in cases —repacking every two to four weeks.
Stored in perfectly dry sand without touching
they will keep well, but they must be repackec
once a month. Write to the N. S. Wales De-
partment of Agriculture, Sydney. .. .E.K.: None
obtainable in any State, but there is nc
better ingredient for hop beer than hops, com
bined with sugar. Recipe available if yoi
want it E.K.: K. S. Baker, 12 Royal-arcade
and Laseron Stamp Auctions, 21 Royal-arcadi
—both Sydney J.V.R.: The only way tc
extract carrot juice is by expressing it. Use
heavy weights —a cheese-presser should be effec
tive. But why bother when carrots are mos
wholesome boiled and eaten? A ton of carrot
contains very little actual “juice” W.E.E.:
No more danger than with any make of home
made beer; you take that chance with an;
bottled beer, but it seems negligible J.T.:
Correct mode in each case is “Doctor”
P.T.: The Duchess of Windsor is a brunette
hair, dark brown E.P.: Translations are:
(1) A window which was lit and now is lit nc
more is a sign that my Jeannie is ill. Hei
sister comes to the window and tells me : “You:
dear little Jeannie is dead and buried.” She
was always weeping because she had to sleep
alone. Now she sleeps in distinguished com
pany. (2) I come from Naples. (3) I know
that Nature is deaf And has no compassion
That she cared nothing for our happiness (wlier
she created us) but only for giving us life
C.R.W.: The Official War Historian has nc
information on the matter— .F.R.: The Pacific
Ocean got its name from Magellan in 1520
After a stormy passage round the Cape he was
so impressed by the tranqOillity of the new
ocean that he named it Mare Pacifico 8.R.:
The Reid family are a sept of the Clan Robert-
son (of Strathloch) and are therefore entitled
to wear the Robertson tartan. A book of the
clan tartans can be obtained from the Presby-
terian Bookroom, Sydney, for 7s. 6d C.C
The lessee should pay for the seed he plants
on the property leased to him, and he is en-
titled to the crop produced... .A.McC.: Get in
touch with “Aunt Merry Thought,” Farmers
and Graziers’ Co-op. Grain Insurance Co-
Circular Quay, Sydney J.J.F.: Cannot trace
any Australian manufacturer of these imple-
ments 8.G.: A catalogue of nautical books
has been forwarded to you 8.W.K.: Par-
ticulars of a producer-gas course have been
forwarded J.D.A.: Sydney booksellers hold
no books in stock suitable for your purpose.
E.J.D.: There would be no danger of cross
poil'ination occurring between rock melons, pie
melons and pumpkins should these be planted
close together... .A.S.L.: In L. S. Curtiss
History of Broken Hill (Adelaide, 1908), it is
stated that the aboriginal word Willyama means
“a youth.” It is not contained in any of the
Mitchell Library’s lists of aboriginal words.


JOObd
SJJHOYSAI
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
é
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT’S" Wl RE. WIRE NETTING.
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool Prices.
“Murrawong”: There is much dissatis-
faction with the prices received this year
for wool clips. It is argued that since
the growing season was much drier than
1938-39 this should have meant higher-
yielding wool which should have brought
a higher price per pound to balance
lower weights per head.
Actually, dry weather has affected one
of the most important factors in wool
for appraisement-—length of staple.
Although in many cases the difference in
length is so small as to escape the notice
of the breeder’ it nevertheless brings the
wool down to a lower type worth Id. or
over per pound less.
Hard conditions have sometimes
resulted not merely in a lack of condition
in the wool, but in general undernourish-
ment. Many clips from the N.S.W.
south-western slopes, which have had
quite a fair season and are apparently in
good condition, have been found tender,
and this may make a difference of 2d.
per pound compared with last year. This
question of tenderness must be treated
strictly and impartially in classing the
clip. Where the fleece is tender through-
out, the lines may be all regarded as
tender, and if only a few fleeces are sound
it is hardly worth making special lines.
Few sheds have enough bin room to allow
the handling of a clip which may be half
tender and half sound.
Another cause for complaint this year
has been the careless preparation of
skirtings. Piece-picking is as important
as classing, and the job must be tackled
thoroughly. In the past, where skirting
was fairly heavy classers were content to
make one line of the skirtings from the
front half of the fleece which they
branded “necks.” The rest of the skirt-
ings was picked into “broken” and
'‘pieces.” These necks often contained
the points of the forearm, topknots, jowl
pieces and short, thin patches of wool.
These lines may have suited certain
buyers under the auction system, but now
necks must be trimmed of all short wool
to get full value.
Though the Australian clip is being
taken over by the British Government at
the same average price per pound as last
year, clips are appraised on the same
standards, so that if the wool is not in
such good condition it must bring a lower
price. However, when the sale of the
clip has been finalised at the end of June
next the average price per pound will still '
be the standard and graziers will probably
receive a larger bonus to bring the aver-
age up to the buying price.
Scrub Feeding.
“Ovis”: Queensland Agricultural De-
partment comes out with some useful
hints on feeding scrub to sheep, pointed
with the advice that scrub is only a poor
substitute for grass.
Feeding should begin well before sheep
have fallen into low condition, and it is
better to dole out a little scrub with
other feed for a start, giving picked
material so as to accustom the animals
gradually to the new diet. They should
be carefully watched for digestive
troubles and given a good lick, with about
250 grains of salt for every gallon. The
lick should have ample lime and phos-
phoric acid content.
In most bush trees and shrubs carbo-
hydrates are high, proteins low and
minerals, except lime —usually well sup-
plied—patchy. A sterilised bonemeal is
a good basis for a scrub-feeding lick —60
parts of the meal, 30 parts salt, five parts
Epsom and five parts molasses. As a
supplement to the general feed, a little
meat- or bloodmeal or cottonseed, peanut
or other oilmeal will help.
Sub. Clover in Wheat.
“8.C.”: If you’ve had enough and
intend to reduce the wheat acreage next
year, it might be a good' idea to sow
another crop of wheat or oats on the
fallow together with sub.-clover seed.
Additional cost will only be for clover
“And don't forget t' look both Ways before crossing the road."
seed and the extra bit of super, that might
be necessary.
Growing with a cereal crop and given
a fair chance by not being heavily grazed
during the first year, sub. will send out
long runners and will seed freely. In
its second year the stubble from the
cereal will act as a splendid mulch.
Sub. has a great liking for old culti-
vation land, and will prove its worth
to wheatgrowers who intend to run more
fat-lamb producers on the place. In
addition, it makes a great rotation crop,
and will grow well on country infested
with skeleton weed or wiregrass. Nor
is a heavy rainfall necessary to get sub.
going ; in parts of Riverina where the
season's rain has not been more than
llin. there are good stands.
Rate of seeding varies according to
locality, ranging up to 81b. to the acre
where the farmer is going for a heavy
growth. Probably around 31b. to 51b.
would suit average wheat land.
Another advantage of sub. in loose and
friable soils is that it acts as a binder,
its matted roots holding the ground and
stopping loss from water run-off and
wind. Asa grazing proposition it is
hard to beat, and stands up to dry
weather.
Weed Control.
“H.A.L.”: Dr. H. C. Trumble, of the
Waite Institute, Adelaide, says that weeds
invade a pasture or crop because the con-
ditions of soil fertility and available
moisture there are more suited to the
lesser requirements of weeds than to those
of the crop or the legumes and edible
grasses in the pasture sward. It is of
little use killing out some particular weed
by hoeing or poisoning if soil conditions
are allowed to remain so.
Paddymelon, hoary cress, stinkwort,
Cape tulip, St. John’s wort, etc., are found
where there is a supply of moisture that
is not being utilised by more valuable
plants because of low soil fertility. Weeds
will respond to increased fertility, but
the range over which increased vigor
will take place is far more restricted than
in the better species of pasture grasses
or the cereals.
A policy of fertility maintenance or im-
provement by the accepted methods of
phosphate application, legume develop-
ment and crop rotation is in direct con-
trast to unenlightened practices of over-
cropping and overgrazing, with insufficient
phosphatic fertilisation, and will do much
to solve the weed problem... .Effective
weed control involves not only the eradi-
cation of weeds themselves but their re-
placement by plants of superior competitive
ability and value.
In N.S.W. it has been found that in
getting skeleton weed under control it
is not so much a matter of hoeing out or
poisoning the weed itself as of getting
lucerne established on the infested land
and then, by avoiding overstocking,
cutting the land into small paddocks to
make rotational grazing possible, and
using enough super, as a topdressing
each year to make conditions suit lucerne
and discourage the weed.
The same has been the experience in
S.A. in clearing scrub land and sowing
with sub. clover. Manage the stand of
clover properly and its carrying capacity
continues to rise. As soon as capeweed
and other rubbish appear in the sward,
it is a sign that something like rye-grass
should be drilled in to make use of the
excess of nitrogen which the clover has
put into the soil and to keep the rubbish
out. Overgraze that same stand by
having the paddocks too big and keeping
the stock in them too long, and fail to
introduce a strong-growing and useful
fodder grass at the first signs of nitrogen
sickness, and stock-carrying capacity goes
down and stays down.
In the Kybybolite district (S.A.), land-
owners have found that it is far more
profitable to introduce a harmless, even
if near-useless, grass like sterile brorne
into the clover sward to use up the excess
of nitrogen than to let quite objection-
able plants invade the pasture.
It all amounts to the rule that sound
farming or correct pasture management
aids greatly to keep weeds at bay, whereas
trying to get too much out of the land
and putting too little back defeat their
object by making conditions more suited
to the growth of weeds.
Fodder Saltbushes.
“H.A.L.”: The Waite Institute (S.A.)
has already experimented with native
saltbushes as fodder crops (B. 4/9/’4O).
Tests showed that only one was worth
while in S.A. the creeping saltbush
(Atriplex semibacatwri). Used as part of
a crop rotation it gave excellent results.
After a wheat crop had been harvested
and the stubble had been trampled down
by stock, the land was worked over with
discs and left till autumn. Then 51b.
of saltbush seed was sown after the
opening rain and made good growth,
covering the ground in a dense mat. It
provided as much fodder as a good stand
of lucerne and required ( only half as
much moisture as lucerne would to make
the same growth and carry the same
number of stock.
Men who tried the stunt out on farms
found that nobody could fault the creep-
ing saltbush as fodder in the year after
sowing, but it did not last under intense
stocking. The great trouble was to pro-
cure seed. It had the further drawback
of not being a soil improver, and far
better results followed the use of peas
or clover for grazing as part of the
rotation.
Old man saltbush makes a fine hedge
and has the great advantage on a farm
of being as impervious to lire as a stone
wall. I haven’t met anyone who has
made a success of growing old man as
a fodder. My own experience with a
saltbush hedge tends to show that it does
not grow with a dressing of any of the
artificial fertilisers, such as super, or
sulphate of ammonia.
The soils of the outback areas, where
saltbush thrives, are rich in plant food,
and Nature designed the plant to grow
with the very minimum of soil moisture.
If my experience is any guide, it will
grow without rain falling for a long
stretch, but it must have good soil to
do it in.
Feeding Mouldy Hay.
“Graz”: Mould growth in hay may
cause colic, diarrhoea, botulism and bloat


(Ww* 1
a
tot
•.('.•S'JfwViiiTatSfv
A f
Wt&
tvjv
1
3*
A
Il2|&4*£A°«°oh %
HMn
COMPANV.VI^'^S^^
/AH
Stag-
mb
Bfi
»M*.V \
K
ftrliW
r li;.
i&G/f,
3ST
Gordon’s
St may coil a little mote
but IB WELL wottk it!
3he latest gin. dMUM in the mild
THE COMFORT OF A SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Matter is dissolved, rendered sterile and overflows into the soil.
Fully Guaranteed (7 Years Against Corrosion).
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS.
REPEAT ORDERS PROVE SATISFACTION.
The Commonwealth Government has lately
bought 97 more and the Hunter District Water
Board 13 more.
PRICE, £l7/9/6,
including sales tax and crating.
Write Desk B for Illustrated, Pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
mmnn
ê
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
M. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., King St., Sydney
*
»v**-eo v .
PURE
SOLIDIFIED MOLASSES
STOCK FOOD
SHEEP CATTLE HORSES PIGS
PRICE: £9 per ton Double Hesheen
Paper Containers. £lO per toil Mein*
an<l Wood Containers.
(F.O.R. TUILY, N.Q.)
Carried at Starving Stock Fodder Rates where
those conditions exist. :
Railage to'New South Wales Border £2/1* '
per ton (truck lots).
Order through your usual Merchant.
Enquiries to:
MOLASSES PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.
GORDONVALE, N.Q.
Telegraphic Address “ MolascolicGordonxak.
Molascolic Solidified Molasses
in stock. Strong sunlight will kill mould
organisms, but very mouldy hay is dan-
gerous. Hay less affected and spread out
in the sun for a few days may be used,
preferably mixed with clean hay. Chaff-
ing the hay gets rid of a lot of harmful
mould dust. Cattle are less susceptible
to trouble than are horses and sheep. •
Horses suffering from the results of
eating mouldy hay should be drenched
with one pint raw linseed oil and 2oz. oil
of turpentine. For colic, |oz. of house-
hold ammonia is added and the mixture
well shaken. Also warm, soapy enemas
should be injected every four hours until
pains cease. For diarrhoea the oil-turps
drench is followed a few hours later with
a pint of flour gruel in which 2oz. chloro-
dyne is dissolved.
Symptoms of botulism are paralysis of
limbs and often of the throat muscles,
causing the tongue to protrude. If the
horse can be induced to swallow, a tea-
spoon of Condy’s crystals dissolved in a
quart of warm should first be given. If
unable to stand, the animal should be put
in a sling.
For cattle bloated by mouldy hay a
similar Condy’s drench is recommended.
Gagging and applying stock tar to the
nostrils also helps. Asa last resource
the paunch is tapped.
Save Cocky Chaff.
“W.E.R.”: Even if the wheat crop is
a poor one don’t forget to save the cocky
chaff when you put the header in. It
is a great addition to the fodder reserve,
and sheep will fatten on it if they have
salt, a good water supply and shade.
Chaffsavers are usually made of gal-
vanised iron, and can be tipped from
the driving seat when full. Three times
as much can be saved and a lot of dust
eliminated if a hessian hood is added to
the saver. Bolt a piece of wood about
the size of a fence-dropper to the angle-
iron supports at each side of the rear
of the riddles or straw-walkers, and
stretch your hessian from this to the back
of the chalfsaver, filling in the sides with
hessian. You’ll need a hole or two in the
hessian to allow the fan-blast to get away,
and this will have the effect of carrying
the cocky chaff well back into the catcher.
Hints for the Farm.
“R. Ney”: Yard the sheep for dipping
overnight so as to avoid travelling them
any distance to the dip. Put them through
quietly early in the morning, allowing
them to stand in the yards and drain well,
and stop dipping in time to let them be
thoroughly dry by nightfall. If the day
is one of sudden heat or sudden cold,
postpone the dipping. Watch these points
and you’ll have few losses.
“Mt. Boppy”: Don’t dip thirsty sheep
when they are overheated, and don’t
move them too far after dipping. Dip
ewes and lambs separately, but don’t let
the lambs back to their mothers until ths
latter have had time to dry. Avoid wet
weather and extremes of heat and cold
when dipping.
“Bundalinga”: Phalaris tuberosa takes
about two years to reach full carrying
capacity, so do not stock too heavily dur-
ing that period. Once established, phal-
aris will stand heavy grazing—seldom less
than two sheep to the acre —and will last
almost indefinitely with correct renova-
tion. Best treatment is to use a mould-
board plough, with furrows about 6in.
deep, turning the sward over in autumn.
The grass renews growth better during
the colder months than in summer. Top-
dress with lcwt. to 2cwt. of superphos-
phate per acre annually. White clover
è
Outback Occupations.
ē
there is a moon. But how can y’ tell
when there isn’t one?”
Harnett clears his throat and gives an
abashed sort of grin. “I always go be
the missus’s hair,” he says. “When the
missus’s hair goes curly y’ can bet on
rain.”
“By cripes,” grunts old Bill, “it must
be a damn’ long time since your missus
saw a curl then. All them notions is
just fairy tales. Y’ want t’ watch the
ants. They’re the boys t’ tell. Soon’s
I see ants makin’ for high ground—an’
I seen ’em today on the road in—that’s
when I reckon on rain.”
“You reckon we’ll get it soon?” asks
big Joe.
“Didn’t I just tell y’ the ants is makin’
for high ground”
“Aw, they’re tryin’ t’ find out how
far it is t’ the next waterhole most likely.
There was black swans flyin’ over last
night, dozens of ’em, all makin’ west,
and that’s bin a sure sign of dry weather
ever since I could remember.”
“Well,” you say tentatively, “one of
the best signs I know is the cattle. They
generally start racin’ about an’ bawlin’
when rain’s cornin’ after a dry spell”
Jordan butts in: “How're your cattle
doin’, Jack?”
“Aw, they’re all right, but they’re not
racin’ about the paddock yet.”
“It’ll rain in a week,” affirms old Bill.
“Y’ can’t beat the ants.”
Just then Mrs. Harnett comes in. Hats
are raised. Everybody looks hard at
Mrs. Harnett’s hair. She smiles and
passes on down the store.
“Anyhow,” says big Joe, “the less
notice a man takes of these weather
experts the better off he is. It’s all guess-
work with them, with their isombars and
low pressures and things. I never knew
’em to be right yet.”
“But you just said this Indigo Jones
bloke was pretty good.”
“I didn’t. I just said he was right in
’36. None of ’em can tell. When it
rains, it rains, that’s all. Anybody can
see a big cloud workin’ up and tip rain.”
“Well,” says Jordan, “I’m a bit with
y’, Joe. An’ a man is a mug to take
notice of ’em. What do you reckon,
Bill?”
Bill licks his lips. “I reckon it’s a dry
argument,” he says.
All agree, and there is a movement
from the store to the street and across
the road to the pub. As the four of you
enter, big Joe says “Us blokes on the
land can only hope f’r the best. Listen-
ing to these weather reports only drives
y’ silly .”
‘Too right,” says everybody, as all
move to the bar. The radio music breaks
off and a voice says:
The following report was issued by the •
Weather Bureau at nine o’clock this morn-
ing. Fine to hot on the coast; hot in-
land, with some heavy showers working up.
You become aware that everybody has
stopped in his tracks. As the announcer’s
voice ceases, old Bill pushes up to the
bar. “What are y’ havin’, boys? It’d
better be a quick one ; I want t’ get out
an’ stick a cover on that new hay of
mine before them showers come.”
You down the drink and follow them
outside. Their minds have suddenly
swung away from you. Rain my eye,
you think, remembering the listless cattle.
You hear a distant, roll and look up.
There is a dark cloud standing in the
north-west.
“Cripes,” you say aloud.
But the road is still dusty when you
drive home two hours later, and there
isn’t a cloud in the sky.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4Jd. per line; all others at
2|d. per line.
Double rates for a Victorian who questions whether we are really grown up.
Are We Grown Up?
For the last 20 years we have been
told by poets, essayists and novelists that
Australia reached adult stature as a
nation after the bloody initiation of
Gallipoli and Flanders. I doubt it. In
every phase of our national life we are
confronted with evidence of an outsize
inferiority complex. In politics, it shows
itself in our complete surrender to British
politicians thousands of miles away,
giving them complete power to involve
us in such fiascos as agreements with
down-at-heel States like Rumania.
It crops up again in trade and com-
merce. With America, in particular, Aus-
tralia acts like a kid who finds himself
in a palatial department store with a
penny to spend. We are mighty important
customers to Uncle Sam, more especially
as regards films, petroleum products and
motor vehicles. Therefore it is more
fitting that our accredited leaders should
approach America, not cap in hand, but
conscious of our value to it and proud of
our proved ability to honor our financial
commitments.
On the artistic side, overseas critics
are prone to make the whole of our
island continent appear as a sterile desert.
That’s largely our fault. We’ve got the
musicians, the authors and composers,
but we’re not loyal to them, preferring
to gulp down the second-rate syndicated
products of older countries.— Melton
(Vic.).
Women and Uniforms
The W.A.N.S., who have been resplen-
dent in their new uniforms for the last
two months, have now decided that they
are too hot for summer use, and so a
summer uniform (255.) is the order of the
day. A soldier wears the same uniform
winter and summer.
Women signallers and N.E.S. ambu-
lance drivers are also to have summer
rig.
In a circular calling for recruits for
the W.A.N.S. it was stated that a uniform
would be available at a reasonable price,
but need not be obtained. I pity the
girl who can’t afford to have one. —
Paddy Mac (N.S.W.).
An A.I.F. House ?
Now that an Air Force House is
about to be opened in Sydney, why not
an A.I.F. House? I don’t like to think
of any lonely soldier on week-end leave
having to depend on invitations or Hyde
Park for a bed, or else having to pay out
of his scanty store for a room in a hotel.
I should like to see a clublike hostel,
with a library, writing-room, showers
and clean little bedrooms, of which any
private or non-com. would have the free-
dom.
The rector of St. James’s, recognising
the need and acknowledging that it is
greater than his efforts can supply, has
turned the crypt into sleeping quarters
for some of the lads on leave. In a note
acknowledging a small donation the
rector (Rev. E. J. Davidson) writes: “I
remember from my experience as a
gunner in the old A.I.F. just what a good
bed can mean to a soldier on leave,”
and surely none of us has too little
imagination to understand that.'
Let us have an A.I.F. House modelled
on Air Force House, the committee be-
hind which has worked magnificently
from the word “go.” “A.I.F. House”
would be an address which the lads in
khaki could give with pride.—K. N.
(N.S.W.).
A Coastguard Patrol
Australia has a large and vulnerable
coastline which is inadequately policed
by naval and aerial patrols. Why not
a coastguard patrol with bases all round
|he coast? The service would be a valu-
a,We annex and training organisation for
ne R.A.N. Each base would have on
1 s s . ta ® me n with a good knowledge of
marine survey work, at least two well-
armed light vessels, powerful radio equip-
ment, seaplanes and coastal defence
batteries.
There is plenty of work for coast-
guards. Patrolling our coastline comes
first. Lighthouses would be visited,
shipping derelicts removed, assistance
given to ships in distress, shipwrecked
crews succored, fishing areas patrolled,
wrecked property protected from theft
and further destruction, submarines and
raiders spotted and chased. And there
would be an emergency marine ambu-
lance for outlying coastal centres.
The service would be under separate
management, but in close co-operation
with and answerable to the Department
of the Navy.—S. Nelson (N.S.W.).
Twelfth-century Civilisation
If “J. Sobbi-aski” (B. 9/10/’4O) is
right about “a return to the ideals of
twelfth-century Europe” being the only
means of establishing a lasting peace,
we’ve got some tough times ahead of us.
That century began with civil wars in
England and Normandy, when Henry I
grabbed the crown after his brother Rufus
had been bumped off by Tyrrel, seem-
ingly by arrangement with Henry. He 1
smashed his baron opponents mercilessly
and managed to keep England out of
serious trouble for nearly 30 years, but
most of Europe was in a constant state of
war, famine and misery.
After Henry died in 1135 Stephen and
Matilda started a 19-year civil war of
such virulence as to induce a contem-
porary chronicler to write that “it seemed
to Englishmen that God slept and all His
saints.” Henry II improved matters
a bit till some of his courtiers bumped
off Archbishop a Becket, and another
terrific rebellion began.
When Henry II died in 1189 his three
younger sons were helping the King of
France to start another. His son Richard
preferred scrapping in Palestine and
France to governing, got kidnapped by
Henry VI of Germany, and had to be
bought back by enormous English taxa-
tion. Richard’s brother John grabbed
the throne by double-crossing and after-
wards murdering his nephew Arthur, after
Richard had got himself scuppered trying
to pinch a castle in France.
“J.S.” ought to brush up his history.
The twelfth was about the most brutal
and barbarous century in all the brutal
and barbarous Dark Ages of Europe.—
Colbun (Q.).
Security
Another modern bogey that has flour-
ished along with inferiority complexes,
hard-times talk and other such theories
is the security idea. To succeed and be
happy, say the followers of this racket,
people must feel secure.
Yet, looking back over history it’s
pretty plain that man has never been
secure. Wars, epidemics and changing,
uncertain economic conditions have
always made life anything but secure
for anybody. From day to day and
from century to century, insecurity, in
various forms, has kept man worrying,
working, hopeful and alert.
I would say that insecurity is what is
needed to inspire people with ambitions
and the desire for improvement; and, too,
it keeps them from becoming bored and
indolent. This much-coveted sense of
security would in time produce a race
of flabby ne’er-do-wells. —P. Radwon
(Vic.).
Equality of Sacrifice
I am one of those persons referred to
by P. Radwon (B. 2/10/’4O). I am
undergoing training at a technical college
so that I may fit myself for a position in
one of the Government munition fac-
tories. So far, I am getting the full
basic wage, but I find that, after provid-
ing myself with the things that are sup-
plied free or at reduced prices to all
members of the A.1.F., I have much less
than 355. left over. In fact, I count my-
self lucky if I have as much as 10s.—
Both Sides (Vic.).
Dentists’ Fees
Because I didn’t look after my natural
teeth I had to seek artificial ones, and
approached a number of dentists for
quotes. The first quoted four guineas,
the next five and so on up to eight. The
more expensive fang-wrenchers told me
I should be wasting money if I paid less
than they asked; the cheaper ones
assured me that their teeth were as good
as any others, the saving being effected
by the .elimination of mechanics’ fees.
In desperation I asked a friend where
he had his teeth made, and he told me
of a refugee dentist who was making
splendid dental plates at 15s. a time. (He
has since been discovered in his nefarious
den.)
Here surely is an avenue for the Prices
Controller. Why shouldn’t doctors’ and
dentists’ fees be regulated and controlled
in the same way as sugar and tea? — Scot
(N.S.W.).
Upper Houses
Our forefathers were keen on them.
Partly because most of the leaders of our
colonial politics were great landowners
and wanted efficient protection from laws
that might harm their interests, and partly
because they admired the English system
and its House of Lords. For a long time,
in fact, there was a proposal for estab-
lishing a House of Lords in N. S. Wales.
Australian Legislative Council history
was one of strife, but, even so, at Federa-
tion an velected Senate was decided upon.
A triumph for out-oTdate Conservatism
against a progressive democracy.
An intellectual Frenchman once re-
marked : “If the Upper House agrees
with the Lower House it is super-
fluous, and if it disagrees it is
dangerous.” Our Senate has not even the
justification of the House of Lords that
it contains a large number of experts in
government, diplomats, retired defence
officials, professional men and adminis-
trators. In fact, it has no justification
at all.
In the States, of course, the Legislative
Councils are only more useless than their
Assemblies. Queensland had the sense
to get rid of its Upper House in 1922,
but its precedent has passed unheeded. —
Pip (Vic.).
Voting Systems
Most people will agree that the best
Governments that we have had since
Federation were the Barton, Deakin and
Fisher Administrations. These were elected
by the simple first-past-the-post voting
system —the elector simply scratched out
the names of the candidates he did not
want. Later this was altered so that the
elector put a cross before the name of
the man he wanted and left all the other
names unmarked.
We got plenty of good men under
these two simple systems. And the result
of the elections was known a few hours
after the poll closed, not weeks after, as
is the case now. So it makes an ordinary
bloke wonder whether the present ar-
rangement with its complicated method
of counting the votes is really worth
while. Practically all those just elected to
the House of Representatives, with one
or two exceptions, would have been
elected just the same if we had the old
system. The British Parliament is elected
on this plan, and it seems to manage
pretty well to reflect public opinion.
The present preferential system does
not always reflect the intentions of the
electors. Take the poll at Flinders,
Vic. The last thing that those who voted
for Amess wanted was to see the U.A.P.
man Ryan elected, so they gave their
second preferences, or most of them did,
to Lee, the Labor man. By doing this they
practically elected Ryan, as those 3000-
odd votes ensured that Lee would remain
in second place, and, consequently, that
his second votes wouldn’t be counted.
Had Mann been given the bulk of
Amess’s second votes, he would have
gone into second place ; then Lee’s No. 2
votes would have been counted. Nearly
all would have gone to Mann, and he
would have been elected by a huge major-
ity over Ryan. In cases like this the first
and second votes of all three leading
candidates should have been counted.
Had this been done Mann would have
been elected.
As it was Mann’s second preferences
helped to elect Ryan. The latter would
have won under the old system, so why
bother with the present complicated
system, with its huge total of informal
votes at every election. —J. Grills (Vic.).
A.B.C. Valuation
In the A.B.C. play-writing competition
writers of winning plays earn prizes of
£25 first, £lO second and £5 third, but
prizes of £l5, £lO and £5 go to listeners
who correctly forecast the order of
judging.
Surely talent should get far greater
recognition than mere guessing.— Eureka
(N.S.W.).
Shakspeare and Marie Ney
The Bulletin’s dramatic critic is nobly
patriotic (B. 16/10/’4O) when he suggests
a season of Shakspeare’s historical plays,
but he forgets that there are few parts
for women in them. The actresses for
whom Shakspeare wrote were boys.
These are the sort of parts in which
Marie Ney excels, and why shouldn’t the
public see her in her best roles?
In any case, it would be a public bene-
fit to see a good production of “As You
Like It.” Nor need Miss Ney fear com-
parison with talkie presentations. There
have been only three Shakspearean talkies
—“Midsummer Night’s Dream,” “Romeo
and Juliet” and “As You Like It” —and
all have been failures, despite the dress-
ing-up, because no player could grasp his
or her part. It needs something more
than a good camera to produce Shaks-
peare.
Shakspeare has been tried on the air
unsuccessfully. No radio player ever
manages to suggest blank verse in which
we speak naturally when we are roused.
Miss Ney is a sensitive actress with more
than her share of intelligence, and ought
to be encouraged to play the parts here
which made her famous in London. Giv-
ing her and Shakspeare the bird before
the curtain is up is not like The Bul-
letin. —Thespian (N.S.W.).
Literary Fund
“His One Ewe Lamb” (B. 13/8/’4O),
after stating that five lectures are to be
given at the Adelaide University by Pro-
fessor J. I. M. Stewart and five by Mr.
B. R. Elliott, refers to the grant of £lOO
from the Commonwealth Literary Fund
as becoming thereby “pocket-money for
already handsomely-paid teachers,” Mr.
Elliott is a young Australian writer whose
appointment to lecture on and examine
"I’m SURE there must be some other way!”


in Australian literature in the University
has been made possible by the grant. Pro-
fessor Stewart, as head of the department
within which the instruction is required
to be given, has delivered without emolu-
ment five lectures initiating the new
course. — Registrar, Adelaide University
(S.A.). '
When Homer was well and truly dead,
seven great cities fought for the honor ot
possessing his remains. Through these
same cities the poor, blind poet had
begged his bread. If “I. Literati (8.-
9/10/ ’4O) had lived in Homer’s day he
would doubtless have told the poor old
beggar to find work, or, alternatively, to
sing about pubs and races. At present
he is glorifying the Lawson who is gone
while sneering at the Lawsons who are
alive, and therefore not eligible lor
honor.
Stoning the prophets is not a recent
invention ; neither is sending them back
to work. Burns was graciously granted
a job as exciseman. Kendall was given a
job teaching kids arithmetic. These were
official appointments. Dozens of our
best writers are at present employed un-
officially at much more menial tasks in
accordance with “I.L.’s” wishes.
The Commonwealth Literary Fund is
intended for writers who have already
proved their ability to raise the standard
of Australian literature—if given the
means of holding body and soul together
meanwhile. — Bread or Stone (S.A.).
So “in Australia we seemed to stop
producing original poets when Lawson
died” (B. 9/10/’40)? What about Hugh
McCrae, Robert Fitz Gerald, Furnley
Maurice, Kenneth Slessor and Leon
Gellert, to name a few of the present
day? Read ’em, “I. Literati,” and come
again.—J. S. K. (N.S.W.).
This “Modem” Art
In “modern” art the measuring rod is
not truth; it is the painter’s or the
sculptor’s unbridled whim. Where a
philosopher or a statesman may dedicate
himself to the proposition that all men
are created equal (which though debat-
able has been accepted by nations), a
“modernist” artist can dedicate himself
to the proposition that all women suffer
from elephantiasis; that the natural
color of all human flesh is green ; that
horrible mutilations are beautiful; that
there are no curves in Nature ; that what
the common man considers ugly and re-
volting is the highest form of artistic ex-
pression, propositions which are debat-
able and, to the common man, quite un-
acceptable.
To dare to quarrel with any of these
“modernist” propositions is to invite, at
the best, pitying scorn from the eccen-
trics who uphold them. These peculiar
people are always pleading for tolerance
and broadmindedness, too. They tell us
that any new idea ought to be welcomed
with open arms and warm sympathy. I
suppose if one were to retort that new
ideas must take their chance, according
as they are considered good or bad by the
majority, the storm of indignation from
the “modernist” ranks would be terrific.
They detest the idea of a jury. They
disfranchise all their opponents on the
ground that they are either wicked or
witless. Why? I’m not afraid of what
the verdict of 100 picked-at-random Syd-
ney adults would be on a picture by
Michelangelo or Goya or Rembrandt, set
up cheek by jowl with one by Matisse,
Modigliani or Picasso.
And I’ll advance the new and revolu-
tionary idea that whenever there is a
“contemporary” or “modern” art exhibi-
tion in Australia the promoters should
be compelled to hang on the walls at the
same time at least six pictures by masters,
old or new, who painted what sane eyes
can see, and whose works wouldn’t make
a cat sick. And then, if they’re game,
the promoters could ask the people who
attended the show to vote their prefer-
ences. — Georges Brutaille (N.S.W.)
Memorial to Dr. Maloney
The “Little Doctor” would not want (his
person perpetuated by a stiff model
erected in some public place ; he would
far rather be remembered by a memorial
along the lines of his chief interests. A
bed endowed at the Children’s Hospital
would be the most fitting monument. —
Arev (Vic.).
Memorials
There is a danger of this country be-
coming known as a land of memorials,
and the eyes of visitors being wearied
by endless vistas of stonemasonry.
The latest inspiration comes from Can-
berra, where it is proposed to erect
monuments to many distinguished Aus-
tralians and arrange them in a garden
setting. A tasteful idea no doubt, but
an unwarranted extravagance.
Australia already bristles with costly
memorials. The daddy of them all —the
one in Canberra commemorating the war
of 25 years ago—is still being built. It
would surely be no hardship to forgo
this form of luxury while a major war
has to be fought and hospitals are crying
out for funds. — Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Immigrant Craftsmen
Australia would derive nothing but
benefit from extensive immigration of
skilled craftsmen (B. 16/10/’4O), whether
they come from the Motherland or other
European countries, provided, of course,
the authorities here adopted a sensible
policy of control.
Foreigners originated many of Eng-
land’s most important secondary indus-
tries. The rulers of England, however,
wisely insisted that the immigrants should
not confine the knowledge of their trades
to themselves. By a law of Edward 111,
which was long enforced, a foreigner who
was allowed to establish a business in
England had to engage English appren-
tices only.—D. Aitch (N.S.W.).
Earthen Dams
Earthen dams of the. Indian type (B.
16/10/’4O) are not suited to Australian
conditions. An experimental one built
in this State burst when half-full, and
the loss of 7000 lives has been attributed
“If I have to drop two clubs length away from a tree I use this."
to the bursting of one at Hyderabad in
India in 1908.
During a prolonged drought a dam of
earth or clayey material is liable to deep-
seated shrinkage cracks, and when wet
conditions return may burst without
warning. The dangers inherent in over-
stressed concrete diaphragms have been
pointed out by French engineers for
many years past. Dams of rockfill faced
with reinforced concrete on the upstream
slope have been constructed in U.S.A.
to heights of about 300 ft., but it would
seem that rather much reliance is placed
on this facing, and that it would be easy
to destroy in war-time.
Composite dams of rock, gravel and
earth with a suitable core, and graded
in size to prevent the finer materials
washing through the interstices of the
larger, might prove economical to con-
struct, with materials available, in many
cases. The bywash would need to be of
ample size—important dams have been
overtopped by floods of five times their
bywash capacity. —C. M. N. (Vic.).
Three-chain Roads
With afforestation one of Australia’s
greatest needs at the moment, there are
districts in this State in which (few sheep
being travelled on the hoof nowadays)
three-chain roads are being reduced to
ordinary width. The discarded portions
are leased to farmers, who immediately
destroy the native herbage, cut down the
trees and dig in with the plough.
Surely this is a crazy policy. Where
three-chain roads are now no longer
used by stock a forward-looking policy
of tree-planting should be instituted.
Trees native to the locality should be
planted ; then what was once a stock-
track would become a barrier against
erosion by wind and by flood. And
where roads are of more humdrum width
neighboring farmers should be forced to
line them with trees.
The U.S.A. has found the principal
answer to erosion (and its offspring, dust)
to be trees, trees, trees. — Eucalyptoides
(S.A.).
Drift from the Country
The Education Department of each
State could assist in correcting this drift
from the land. A more intelligent system
of providing staff for country schools
would do a great deal of good. As it is,
teachers at country schools are gener-
ally there only for a short period, await-
ing transfer to the larger suburban and
city centres. They have no interest in
farm life, and in consequence do nothing
to instil a love of the country into the
pupils. School children are very im-
pressionable, and a teacher with the right
outlook and permanently stationed in a
country district could do much to cor-
rect the present unsatisfying position. —
lago (Vic.).
New Markets
Obviously it is time we Australians set
about seriously exploiting new markets.
In the Latin Americas business persons
have been well disposed towards the over-
tures of the International Wool Secre-
tariat. Already the Secretariat has ful-
filled large orders for consignments of
woollen goods to the Argentine and
Since the collapse of the Netherlands
the Dutch East Indies have been cut off
from supplies of dairy products. Why
can’t Australia step into the breach?
We talk in' airy terms about Australia
taking her rightful place among the
Pacific Powers, but we overlook the fact
that she must first earn a right to the
title —and this needs more than sending
an ambassador to Washington or Tokyo.
—Pacifica (N.S.W.).
Advertising
Misleading stuff (B. 25/9/’4O) still finds
its way into the press and oyer the air,
but not much. Every reputable medium
these days does its best to ensure that
the advertising which it carries is bona
fide, and “Jane Matron’s” protection lies
in the very fact which she herself men-
tioned —“very few women are stung
twice.” An advertiser whose product
does not measure up to the standards he
claims for it will inevitably go out of
business.
With regard to radio enjoyment, surely
“Jane Matron” expects too much if she
wants it every minute. The least she
can do is cheerfully to accept the posi-
tion regarding B-class stations (which
are not philanthropic institutions), and
philosophically remember that without
ads., there would be only A-class pro-
grammes on the air. Most pleasure in
this life has to be paid for in some way
or other. —P. S. B. C. (N.S.W.).
Time Payment
There is no reason why “War Sayings”
(B. 25/9/’4O) should regard t.p. as the
curse of the devil and the cause of many
of our troubles today. Actually it is one
of the causes of our high standard of
living and our increasing national income,
and it is the natural result of the enor-
mous increase in our productive re-
sources.
No doubt many people abuse the sys-
tem and buy luxuries which they could
well do without and which they cannot
afford, but by far the larger number use
the system wisely to get a better and a
fuller life, which is their right. And the
money now spent on t.p. would not other-
wise be spent on necessities. Probably
it would be spent on more transitory
luxuries than good homes, good furniture,
motor-cars, refrigerators, radios, etc.
The oft-repeated claim that Australia
would be a better place if everyone paid
cash for everything is open to doubt. The
demand for goods would fall, with a con-
sequent reduction in employment. This
would further reduce the demand, and
another reduction in employment would
follow, and so the cycle would go on —and
there would not be any cash to speak of.
The t.p. system also forms part of an
economic cycle, but with far different
results. Improved methods of manufac-
ture mean increased production, causing
oversupply. This is eventually absorbed
by the t.p. system of purchase, which in
turn causes an overdemand. This stimu-
lates production, which again tends to
oversupply. And every turn of the wheel
means lower cost of production, more
wages and lower selling price, which gives
us our high standard of living. —E. R. S.
(Vic). __
Australian Furs
Australia, in normal times, spends hun-
dreds of thousands of pounds a year on
imported furs, yet nothing has been done
to develop fur production on a systematic
basis in Australia. Fur-farming is a big
industry in other countries, and there is
no reason why it
should not be suc-
cessful here.
For instance,
skins of water-rats
are bringing excel-
lent prices now, and
so many water-rats
are being killed that
extermination of the
animal is a possi-
bility. We have dis-
tricts which should
suit the silver-fox,
bred in Canada,
Russia, Norway
and other countries
as a commercial en-
terprise. Mink,
skunk, racoon,
beaver and deer are
a few others bred
for the fur trade.
Our climate is all
right for breeding
most of the animals
from which our im-
ported furs come,
and it would need
only a little educa-
tion and experience
for Australians to
become successful fur-farmers. Sam
Square (N.S.W.).
Butter
The first official handbook of instruc-
tions for butter-making published in Aus-
tralia was written in 1889 by William
Brown. He said:- —
The keeping qualities or properties of
butter depend upon its purity—upon its
being free of casein, buttermilk and water.
And, positively, were we able to clean the
butterfat of all foreign bodies whatsoever,
salt would be of no possible use to it as a
preservative, because it has no chemical
affinity with it. We use salt to check any
bad effects of the foreign bodies, and as a
necessity with most kinds of food for man's
proper sustenance. The water used must
be pure....
Of factories I have seem, one has to
have its water “chlorinated,” another uses
the town water supply, which has to be
“treated,” and others draw their water
from bores, the water in most cases being
pretty “hard” owing to the minerals in it.
If memory serves correctly, the maxi-
mum moisture allowed for Common-
wealth export was 14 per cent. ; now I be-
lieve it is 16, and not long ago three
Queensland factories were fined for ex-
ceeding that water content.
A few weeks ago Professor J. K.
Murray was reported in the press as advo-
cating the reduction of the moisture con-
tent to 12 per cent, as a means of sav-
ing shipping space. His remarks appeared
in a paragraph and nothing further was
said. — Churner (Q.).
Chaucer
The “Canterbury Tales” (B. 9/10/’4ol
have bedn translated into modern English
at least three times during the last decade.
The best-known version is, perhaps,
Nicolson’s, whose work possesses the
merit of faithfulness —he has added less
and subtracted less than his contem-
poraries, and chosen wisely to translate
instead of paraphrasing. Another
Fellow (S.A.).


Mainly Mail-Order
CYPRUS DE LUXE
15 Jewel Precision
£5/10/-
Watch,
Stainless
Steel.
m
Specially tested to stand tropical conditions.
Fully (ltd. Waterproof,. Shockproof, Dustproof.
Watch Repair Service. Send, for Catalogue.
DIAMOND
g, WATCH
SPECIALISTS
è
112 MARKET ST
SYDNEY.
OPP. DAVIDJONES
TRY "CENTURY" RADIO
—and save 40 p.c.
(up to £2O).
It costs you nothing to try the
“Century” Radio. You can have
FREE TRIAL. in your own home.
Century Radio Sets embody the
latest scientific improvements . . .
wonderful reception assured from
all over the world on Battery and
All-electric sets. Write at once for
Catalogue. If no “Century” Agent
in your district you can buy at
wholesale prices (10% discount).
Write at onee Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
TILLEY LAMPS
é
300 Candle Power. British
Made.
Fool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on li pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYREX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EXIOO All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may-
be' used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging I,amp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 inches.
PRICE, 63/6 Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table, Wall, Vase and
■ Other Lamps.
Obtainable from your localagent or
W. liopsen & Co. Pty., Etd.,
38.0 Kent Street, Sydney.
LAMBS SAVED
ê
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient—
Humane —Safe—and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback —fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection —No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
hi Xwo Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or —
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
UVEUHtNING
Get rid of
HomsBEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMIOAE
DEHOBNBR
Dehorns without bleeding
~ any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle arid keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap,, humane
method. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to’ 50 calves,
6/6. Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-.
HAYES VETERINARY Pott Free -
COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane,
m
SMOKERS!
Here’s Real Value in Tobacco.
A FLAKE cut or FLAKE FINE CUT
tobacco at 8/- per lb. “BEST EVER”
8/- per lb., honestly worth 12/- per lb.
Send 6d. in stamps for a liberal sample.
SUITABLE XMAS GIFTS.
I can offer you the largest assortment
of briar pipes in Sydney. GENUINE
BARFING PIPES from as low as 15/- ea.
Such values are obtainable only at —
ë
TOBACCONIST,
est. »#• years.
7IS GEORGE STREET; SYDNEY
Two minutes from Central Railway.
“GOLF SHOTS”
by JIM FERRIER
Australian Open and Amateur Champion,
IS NOW ON SALE.
Over 100 photographs of the
champion in action reproduced
from a slow-motion film.
Every shot fully explained.
Price only 3/- per copy from
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.
Box 252 188, G.P.0., Sydney, most
Newsagents or your Club Pro.
Pelmanism
Scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
Pelmanism trains the observation to
speed and accuracy, increases the
power of concentration and streng-
thens the will. It is a complete
mental training and it devc!jps
personality.
The Pelman Institute
3a Gloucester House, 3i)(i Flinders Fane,
Melbourne (Cnr. Market St.).
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4|in. knee pads. Sin. this'll
pads. 4*in. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
J n yj> | i"V Manufacturing Saddler,
. r. lALIT 6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
ē
LIMBING
TOMATO
1 8^FEET
Amazing New Imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEARS FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 3001 b. per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-20 feet. 2/6 packet posted.
erb
MAKES
iALTH
PURE WHITE
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism.
Sciatica, Gout,
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID!) Sup-
Disease free! Drought proof!
flavor!
DELICIOUS JAM.
2/6 Packet, posted.
ĕ
15-DAY TIMBER KILLER!
Kills all trees, roots to top, large
o/ small, in 15 DAYS! New method,
NO RINGBARKING NECESSARY!
Prevents Suckering. Will not in-
jure the soil. 5/6 Tin, Post Free,
N.S.W. SEED CO., 75 George St., Sydney
in Times of
Stress
Reading’ offers the best relaxation and
entertainment.
Arid you can get the best new books by
joining Readers’ Union; and get them,
riioreover, at a quarter of their original
price.
Write for particulars of this wonderful
Book Club.
It will cost you nothing to join and
only a small sum each month.
Details from
ROBERTSON & MULLENS, LTD.,
107-113 Elizabeth St., >leib., Victoria.
BRIGGS&STRATTON
Air-cooled 4-cycle
SINGLE-CYLINDER
PETROL MOTORS.
S, to 5 HORSEPOWER
From £lB/17/6.
Also Petrol Electric
Generators from £25.
Agents all States.
Illustrated Bulletin with
prices gladly forwarded.
V
aMPLIOh (A/SIA) PTY LIMITED
382 Kent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
BATTERIES DIRECT AT
WHOLESALE PRICES.
Cut your costs in half. Every
type of wet battery for car, truck,
cycle, radio, home or theatre lighting
approximately fifty per cent, cheaper
than retail. Marshall Batteries are
entirely new throughout and guaran-
teed in writing. Our 16-page cata-
logue on how to choose and look after
batteries is yours for the asking. The
Marshall Battery Mfg. Co., 38-42
Harbour Street, Sydney.
/
■t-
fj
OILSKINS
for long, hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are our
best advertisement
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for Free Catalogue -and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1893),
1218 REGENT STREET, SYDNEY.
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
ė
FROM £5 UPWARDS.
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
Al] States —See ’Phone Book.
Smoker’s Service
"Make your Post Box your nearest store.”
From Manufacturer to you.
HIGH CLASS FLAKE CUT at 8/-
per pound.
PIPE & CIGARETTE MIXTURES
from 6/9 per pound.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
Write direct to Manufacturers:
HILLMAN TOBACCO Co. Pty. Ltd.
11 Commercial Road, BRISBANE.
WINCHESTER
WITH STEEL ROLLS
SKATES
17/6-21/-
COWLES
and DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY
ę
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 'COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion Grounds. Machines are'
still going strong.
Has no equal
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
r... Girt.. .
3 Jabez St., Marrickville,
N.S.W. ’Phone: LM4794.
DEAF?
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDL, 1i.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney.
REDUCE
YOUR
WAIST
The GOYERNA BELT will reduce
your waistline and give a slim
athletic figure. Supports delicate
organs. By gentle, changing pres-
sure, waistline bulge is eliminated
with every move you make.
7 DAYS' TRIAL OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will he
3in. smaller . . . 3in, of bulge
and strain gone . . . OR NO
COST! Write for full illustrated
details of 7 DAYS’ TRIAL
OFFER
GOYERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
ě
RUPTURE
RCTS
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. .Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEJO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. .Yor
will at once witliou
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes
tine in its cavity
Write To-day fo
\ LIKE THE HflllD FREB LITERATURE
It AH HERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 37T), 35 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
jwk
brings
instant relief
TO ACHING FEET.
Based upon recent X-ray dis-
coveries, the “EOOTHELP” brings
new hope to sufferers from painful
foot, troubles. This amazing new
invention contains NO METAL
PARTS WHATSOEVER and is as
light as a feather add moulded to measure.
14 DAYS FREE TRIAS
Write to-day for full details and TRIAL OFFER.
Satisfaction guaranteed no matter where you live .,
JOHN H. UNGER (Dept. 12C),
65 York Street, Sydney.
CATARRH SUFFERERS
Insert in Noj
m
Blow Here.
With a few drops of COI.D-
MASTEU Inhalant in this, the
COLD.WASTER VAPORISER,
you can force your own
breath a' powerfully germicidal
steamless vapour deep into the
infected sinuses . and remote
cavities of your head, aud in-
stantly dispel all running er
congested mucus which hitherto
lias been beyond the reach of
ordinary inhalation. Each treat-
ment insures dry and germ-free
nasal passages for hours.
The price of COLDMASTER with
bottle of COLDMASTER IN-
HALANT is 10/- POST FREE.
Extra Inhalant obtainable at
2/9 per bottle ONLY direct from
S. McKEON, Ist Floor, 16 York
Street. SYDNEY.
e
TEETH RE-NU-MENB
Mends cracks or breaks
Rejoins teetli. Does filling''',
relines and moulds. Fit*,
tight loose wobbly plates.
Replaces gum shrinkage
Anyone can use—just paint on: dries ready
to wear in 20 mins. Non-detectable, un-
breakable, natural guui color, 6/6 Tube.
Also Pocket Radio. 42/-- 75 other lines
Agents required. RE-NU LTD., opp. Rich -
mond Station, Melbourne.
MAKE OLD DENTAL PLATES NEW AT
HOME. MEND TEETH, CRACKS.
HOLES, ETC. Also, LOOK! Petrol
Savers, fit all engines. Reduce Petrol
bills by half. Two for 35/-; also Liquid
Nu - Metal —pou r through plugholes, saves re-
bore, 6/6 tube; and Pocket Radio, 42/-, 68/-.
WHY s r CORNS AND BUNIONS
THE MAGIC CORN RUBBER
Nothing is so painful as a Corn or Bunion, or
so easily removed if done the right way. Qur
Magic Antiseptic Corn and Bunion Remover
removes the corn or callus instantly. You uo
not have to pare or cut the corn, just rub it
gently with the Remover and all hardness,
callousness and the soreness is taken away. Does
not.make the corn sore. No pain, no danger
from cutting. No nasty stuff to put on for a
week'. v Just a simple, scientific and antiseptic
instrument that will last a family for years.
Removes corn in less than a minute. Posted
to Any Address on receipt of One Shilling postal
note or Stamps of any State. Try one and
tell your friends. THE UNION M. ■& A. CO.,
299 Elisabeth Street, Melbourne.
è
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEIi < CO.,
DEPT. :>7. 84 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
30/10T40 (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss.
Cut this out and send with your "Wants" to the Service Department. "The Bulletin"
Office. Sydney or Melbourne.


The Head Office Building of
the T. & G. reflected in the
River Yarra.
*•>*£
-
■
?•' *
mm
M
■
Hi Mi lIS
I it ill 111
HUM I
m
Hi HIM
yy ; :
>tiSS
i
te<3
ip
IN the 64 years of its existence this Society has lived through a large part of
Australia’s history. In peace and in war, during good times and bad, it has
steadily increased in size and in ability to benefit the community, until today it
is recognised as one of the strongest Life Assurance Societies in the British Empire.
A Progressive Society with a Reputation for Stability and Service
