

'
/
/
/
/
BOOHS
SM88«
INTERNATIONAL
TIPPING
TRUCKS
4«
capacities
hton to S-ton capacities
Chassis with wheelbases
to suit trays from 7 to
long .
PANEL VANS
UTILITIES AND
WELLSIDES
a full range of \
Inf emotional chassis is
:avoiSoble for t, 1 1, : 2, ■ 3, \
4, and 5-fons capacities as \
well as giant six-wheelers.
THAT International trucks ore built
from the ground up for truck work*
THAT International trucks give more ton-
miles per gallon and users everywhere
acclaim the low maintenance cost.
THAT Internationals are a profitable investment
for any kind of business trorssporf, and last/but by
no means the least important—
THAT o vibit to our showrooms will convince you
there's an International in the comprehensive range
that is built to fit your job exactly.
Come in and investigate, or, if you prefer,
write for full particulars. /
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD.. HOBART, AGENTS FOR TASMANIA
With 4-cyL
ahd 6«eyl.
engines to
suit all kinds
of deliveries
With 4-cyl. and
6-cyl. engines .
m
903
The Bulletin
The Bulletin,” Vol. 62. No. 3184.
Wednesday, February 19, 1941.
A Life Assurance Supplement
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


iilikJ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligationyour Neih Free
Booklet explaining lunu to Write for Profit, as
advertised ■in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 241
The Red Page
"BANJO."
Don’t tell me that “The Banjo’s” dead —oh, yes,
I’ve heard the tale —
But “Banjo” isn’t dead at all, he’s caught the
western mail.
He has a lot of friends, you know, among the
western men,
Lie wants to look into their eyes and grip
their hands again;
He longs tor spend some, quiet nights beneath
the western stars
And hear the evening wind again among the
green belars.
So if they tell you “Banjo’s” dead just say
that it’s a liet
He comes from where they breed ’em tough and
“Banjo” will not die.
They say that Clancy sent him word, he’s at the
Overflow
With many more old mates of his who knew
him long ago.
The man from Snowy River’s there from
Kosciusko’s side
Who brought the wild mob in alone and
showed them how to ride;
He’s got his mountain pony, too, as tough
and wiry yet
As when he chased the brumby mob and colt
from old Regret.
Another chap—now, what’s his name? He
comes from Ironbark —
He thought the barber cut his throat and
didn’t like the lark.
All these old mates of his are there, with others
on the way,
And when he got a call from them, well —how
could “Banjo” stay?
There’s Gundagai and Saltbush Bill, a rough
, and rugged pair—
I bet that there will be some fun when “Banjo”
meets them there.
Old Trooper Scott is coming, too, to represent
the force,
And Andy Regan (or his ghost) on Father
Riley’s horse.
They’re making for the Overflow, and when
they all arrive
You’ll see that “Banjo” isn’t dead, he’s very
much alive.
They’ll hold a racing match of course—you bet
your life they will!
And there’ll be fun Mth Gundagai and tough
old Saltbush Bill.
Old Pardon will be hard to beat —they say he
knows the track—
But Swagman p’raps may run him close with
Ryan on his back.
And, near at hand, old Rio Grande is sure to
make a claim,
With bold Macpherson riding hard, a horseman
grim and game.
I see them racing neck and neck, and as they
near the post
Old Faugh-a-Ballagh hits the front with Regan
(or his ghost).
Old Faugh-a-Ballagh hits the front, but as
they pass the judge
A yell goes up for Mongrel Grey, the poor
old station drudge
(Who, with the boy strapped on his back,
through swirling flood and foam,
Swam bravely through the pitch-black night to
bring the youngster home).
Old Mongrel Grey has beat ’em all, an honest
horse and true,
And Clancy’s glad to see him win, and so is
“Banjo,” too.
Then glasses clink, and healths are drunk, and
. many a tale is told
Of roving days and droving days that never
will grow old.
The seasons come, the seasons go, and little
here abides,
But good old “Banjo” will not die as long as
Clancy rides.
As long as bushmen love a horse or wild black
swans go by,
As long as there’s a Southern Cross, “The
Banjo” will not die.
So send the joyous news abroad, through hut
and shearing shed,
And tell the bushmen not to grieve, for “Banjo”
is not dead.
victoria.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.
Write—Or Be Damned!
In the title to his brief orgy of num-
skull walloping published by Angus and
Robertson, Brian Penton roars out to
Australia at large Think Or Be
Damned I (He does not use the exclama-
tion mark; or perhaps the Halstead Press,
these being exclamatory times, was out
of them. He can have ours.)
Similarly, Sacheverell Sitwell, saying in
his book of graces published by Faber
and Faber, “If this appeals only to a
few persons, so much the better. It will
not die so quickly,” nevertheless hangs
up on it such a title as Sacred and Pro-
fane Love.
Authors are wisely given to these catch-
penny tricks. In the face of the competi-
tion “ ‘Hell! ’ cried the Duchess,” should
be in some form the insignia of them all.
There is no other positive similarity
between the two here bracketed together.
Penton has an angry short statement to
make, and makes it as directly as a punch
on the jaw. Sitwell has a host of varia-
tions to play out on his stated theme, and
this he does with the air and accomplish-
ment of a virtuoso.’ Sitwell’s style and
tastes are floral and perfumed Penton’s
language is purposely as rough as bags.
Thus Penton’s masculine profanity has the
value oT an antidote against
Sitwell’s sumptuous feast
surfeiting the senses, though
that is not the only reason
for taking them together.
• Says Penton, making his beginning:
“You will find this homily ill-mannered,
cantankerous, unpatriotic, subversive and
destructive.” Immediately, thus early in
making his statement on straight and
crooked thinking in Australia, he reveals
how loaded those fearful swearwords are.
Thus; “It is written,” says Penton, “in
a mood somewhere between horror, fear,
anger and irrational faith in the future of
this continent.” Obviously, while Penton
can be as ill-mannered as you like, can-
tankerous as they make ’em, and, in his
own peculiar sense of the blessed word,
subversive, he cannot at once be un-
patriotic and enjoy feelings of horror,
fear, anger and irrational faith in the
future of this continent. He will tell you
what he is up to, dear salamander, if you
will wade through his brimstone. This
is what he soon comes to:
....Before we can discuss new orders,
political reconstructions, trade adjustments,
national aims or any other quality in our
days to come we must submit ourselves
to an astringent, almost masochistic pro-
cess of self-clarifying thought, aimed to
expunge from our national vocabulary
every word, slogan or inflated poetic dictum
which cannot be proved to have a mean- ‘
ing.”
What could be less subversive, or more
patriotic?
As Penton describes it, his is a treatise
on a method of thinking towards political
action ; it can be added—also on his own
claim —“by a professional cynic.” Yet
there is a strangeness about this argu-
fying, apart from the strangeness of direct
polemics coming as pat from the pen of
Landtakers and Inheritors as the message
from the doorstep gramophone of
Jehovah’s (lately itinerant) Witnesses.
“Brian Penton,” says a blurb which
has the originality of being incorporated
in the book, “is a realist... .Brian Penton
is worried as to how we Australians are
going to fit ourselves into the new world
pattern that will emerge after the present
world conflict has been decided.” Also,
“In Think—Or Be Damned he gives us
‘a technique of thinking’ that will help
us to do it.”
Yes. But what is this “world conflict”
the blurbist talks about? Isn’t the term
a fearful backsliding from Penton’s doc-
trine? Isn’t it just a woolly way of
saying War —and be damned? Penton
displays an affectation of burning in-
terest in the polemical Australian scene,
the legalistic niceties of its limits and pos-
sible limitations to the civil liberties, the
timeserving performance of its poli-
ticians. -Is not WAR written black
against, totally eclipsihg Tor now, the
whole body of that minutiae?
If there is to be talk in this camp of
“realists” and “straight thinking,” the
threat of that, let alone the actuality
of it, must be' enough to put all else
merely polemical into abeyance. There
is no real escape, though there are worn
runways and ladders. And why any need
for escape? Why must it deaden the in-
spiration of creative minds and cow
imagination in an empty shelter? Yet it
seems to have spread a blight of literary
defeatism through the literary camps at
large.
It may not be right to accept—though
this is an impression—that in professing
an absorbed interest in such minutiae
Penton is turning his back on War as a
pattern of death now putting all of it
into eclipse'. It may be that he is intel-
lectually fearless. Or it may be that he is
unaware and uncomprehending of War
in that realistic sense; as he is uncom-
prehending, or steeplechasing by hobby-
horse, when he insists that this country
“is not yet loved.” He should remember
in this context that Lawson died a
generation ago ; and he should sound out
the sincerities of those Diggers who are
abroad, not in their reason for going, but
in the nostalgia of their looking back.
Maybe it is not loved by creative writers ;
it puts a tough job up to them, and gives
them little for attempting it.
Is it then that he is escaping the impli-
cations of his own thesis in thus turning
away, not from the realism of War as a
pattern of death putting these interests
he parades into total eclipse, but from
the realism which should insist on the
proper function and exercise of the
creative faculty—and be damned to all
else? Sitwell has a word on this: “Art
is what should come first with the artist;
poetry with the poet, and not politics,” ’
This other writer bracketed here cer-
tainly looks at War as a pattern of death.
Sitwell looks, and shudders, and goes all
of a twitter there are bombs falling near
Sitwell. This, he says in his beginning,
“is written in the dark days, when there
is evil in the air. No one knows which
way to turn or what to work for. It is no
use to seek out the wilderness. There
will always be an aeroplane overhead.”
What a refuge from the toils of
creative effort is therein opened up, and
what a pack of refugees can be seen
bolting towards it! As it happens, Sit-
well himself is not among therti. Shud-
dering, twittering, he still does not bolt
in that direction. He flees back to an
amusing and a bemusing past —to Vienna,
and Strauss writing his waltzes, dyeing his
hair, trying to look young and succeed-
ing in looking a relic; to wandering
hordes of gipsies in Central Europe and
elsewhere; to the London of Cruik-
shank’s caricatures and George Scharf’s
drawings (“To look at this drawing, and
contemplate the possibility of walking
down that Strand, is a prospect to make
the mouth water”); going on from place
to place largely by a process of follow-
ing the free course of associations of
romantic ideas. A negress holds, of
course, a golden orange in her hand.
There is a shell which is “the shell cap-
tain of all the seven seas.” There is
an entire circus company stranded at
Marseilles, who, out of necessity, parted
with everything—animals, props and be-
longings, even their suits of clothes, keep-
ing only their tights and spangles.
Every day and every evening, they
could be seen walking the streets, in the
rain and, on more than one occasion, in ,
the snow. Their hurried walk was described
to me, hurrying because it was so cold,
which made them appear to be fictitiously
busy, as though sent upon an errand or late
for some appointment. They had been at
Marseilles for weeks, or even months, and,
by that time, may have lost all certainty and
direction, whether to go on trying to
embark, or to start on foot and leave this
starvation for further want and hunger on
the foad They became thinner and
thinner... .In those same tights and
spangles they will have eaten from stalls
in the slums, and have lain on bare floors
in the poorest lodging-houses. What poetry,
of starvation, in the cold dawn light of
January, or February, to see their checks
and diamonds staining the grey air.
In this wandering and exploring back
he has a preference for the company of
harlequin and clown ; beggars on horse-
back ; a family on foot with dancing
bears ; child prodigies ; eccentrics in all
shapes and clothes ; a low London cat’s-
meat shop, its walls hung with prints of
pugilists, its keeper a frowsy old girl, and
what could have been her interest in the
sport of the Fancy? He scents and
colors his sentences with jasmine! and
jacaranda, crocus and sandalwood. His
words are “porcelain,” “languorous,”
“galleons,” “sorceress” —all the proper-
ties of romance, of the starry and color-
ful, the picturesque and the picaresque,
and places where “even the cold list of
names would be poetry.” After his
shuddering and twittering beginning,
there is* the impression that this is
an individual escape from War and its
pattern of death. He has none of
Penton’s cynical attachment; he is
eager to immerse himself in a past
scented, for the greater part, by mag-
nolia, and, to a somewhat lesser degree,
though plentifully enough, by a romantic
distillation of the smell of rags and bones.
No doubt he would have gone there,
just as he has done in this work of art,
War or no War, pattern of death or no
such present pattern. Still, apart from
the general absorption in a lost romance
era, there are such things as the foot-
note to his essay on the London of
Cruikshank, “Begun off 13 June, 1940,
the day the German ‘ armies entered
Paris,” the shudder, and the urgency and
completeness of the leap he at once takes
to get back into that former London.
Before he starts back there to his
close hobnobbing with gipsies and prodi-
gies, clowns and eccentrics all, from
ancient oddities down to Little Tich, he
offers a comment on this present calami-
tous age that has its point of interest,
having in mind the indirect and the
direct —or, you might say, the Sacred and
Profane—employment of genius, as in
creative effort or soapbox demagogery:
It is only by spiritual and imaginative
increase that the world can be saved.
A great deal has been paraded here of
what would fall under the second head
of Sacred and Profane in Sitwell’s state-
ment of theme. That is fair enough, for
the Profane easily overrides the Sacred
in his narrative. This will do as a pas-
sage, in proportion, under the other head,
the setting, of course, a convent;
....These devotees or priestesses of
Sacred Love have a mystical or psychic
poetry which must reveal itself to anyone
who thinks of them; splendors and miseries
that are beyond compare; austerities that
are like, in kind, to feats of athletic en-
durance ; rapturous experiences that have no
parallel; miracles of fasting; marks of the
stigmata, with bleeding where the nails
were, and the marks of scourgings; ecstasies
that no 'poet or musician has experienced;
all for Sacred Love, with no reward upon
earth.
Other examples are the Puritans and
like bodies, in a sweep of scene ranging
from Holland to the early Atlantic coast
of America. But his theme, under both
heads, is always implicit rather than ever
clearly stated. “To speak of Sacred and
Profane love is to write down all poetry
in two words alone.” It is woyen in the
texture of his essays ; for that' seems the
proper technical classification of his
chapters—essays in variation on a stated
theme.
liven in this- technical sense such a
chapter of Sitwell as “A Beggar on Horse-
back” can be taken out whole, to be as
fine as an example of the kind as it is
magnificent in its substance. But gener-
ally he represents a complete breaking
away from any patterned formality. He
has stated his theme and these are chap-
ters in continuous variation on it. But
in reading them it is to Montaigne and
Lamb that the straying thought reaches
out. This is not a reckless attempt at
literary canonisation, which can be left
to look after itself. It is a matter of
kind, not of degree. In parts there is a
confusion of mind that Lamb would have
smiled at and Montaigne pitied, but no
writer who ever wrote an essay would
have disowned “A Beggar on Horseback.”
Taking the book as a whole literary
statement, it is like a groping in the half-
light of Time’s counterfeit blackout, with
sudden surges and flashes of magnifi-
cent light. It has its own shadowy humor,
without any real occasion for laughter.
Lamb might say “The Widow Blacket, of
Oxford, is the largest female I ever had
the pleasure of beholding” and go on
chuckling. Sitwell would be interested in
the Widow Blacket, but he wouldn’t want
to laugh at her. He would romanticise
her, and translate her bodily into the
fictitious company of his oddments.
As for the effect of Sitwell’s conjur-
ing with the past, it can be had without
the pleasure of reading him, by looking
along crowded Pitt-street through any
sort of wearing glasses that will throw
people, neon street-signs, diminutive
pony with cartload of pineapples, scent-
shops and ragshops, Diggers passing on
a lorry, and all the rest of that pellmell
pageantry just a trifle out of focus.
In that distorting-mirror view all the
dwarfs and gipsies, the prodigies and
eccentrics, will be there — to the ordi-
nary sight ordinary, commonplace, every-
day Australians; these people that
Penton is so worried about that he has
to shout angrily at them “Think —Or Be
Damned! ” It may be that they are think-
ing, some of them ; not with the down-
right realistic clarity of Penton, but stil£"
in their way, thinking. Of what? Of
War as a pattern of death? Or of their
own innumerable peculiar obsessions
with small perfections and small imper-
fections?
To the naked eye they are Fenton’s
potential audience. He has the job in
front of him. Put on the distorting
glasses and they are Sitwell’s singular
cronies. But still, plain or fancy, not
Sitwell’s readers—not more than one in
ten thousand! Fenton’s average should
be better than that.
And this is the conclusion, that the
right choice for the creative writer now
is Sitwell’s—to make a work of art.
Stalin’s Kampf: M. R. Wemer (Jar-
rolds). Extracts from Stalin’s speeches
and writings, so that the publishers are
able to describe it as “Joseph Stalin’s
credo, written by himself.” Damning all
right; but damnably dull.
The Rape of the Netherlands: E. N.
van Kleffens, Netherlands Foreign Affairs
Minister (Hodder and Stoughton). The
familiar story of the German invasion ;
parachute troops and thp ferocious bomb-
ing of Rotterdam. Clearly told and, of
course, authoritative.
The Storm Breaks: Frederick T.
Birchall (Hale). Yet another narrative of
the hectic ’thirties, by the veteran New
York “Times” correspondent, who was
his newspaper’s chief European represen-
tative, 1932-39.
Twice the Clock Round .- George Sava
(Faber). Day in a surgeon r s life on the
outbreak of war. The author announces
that his day begins at nine, “that is, after
I have finished swallowing two cups of
tea, eating three small slices of toast
with honey.” He does more interesting
things than that as the day goes on, but
he never loses the habit of chatty Small-
talk.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —more than a slogan, a law at Anthony Horderns
“THE SENIOR STORE"
LARGE HEATING
ECONOMY
!/f
©
<r electricity
£& Ml'**%%!'
yl m at your costs!)
In constant readiness day
and night ESSE COOKERS
are continuous burning.
Using coke, they provide
a safe and uninterrupted
cooking service day and
night. Running costs are
the lowest possible, con-
sidering the flexibility to
meet sudden cooking de-
mands. And ESSE is defin-
itely an asset . . and it will
keep your fuel bill down
enormously.
Premier With Auxiliary
The Premier ESSE can be supplied with Auxiliary oven,
as illustrated, which gives extra cooking space as well
as ample "hot-cupboard" room. Smaller and larger
models may also be inspected in Showroom on the lower
ground floor, Pitt Street.
A PRACTICAL COOKER
WITH EVERY FACILITY
The three roomy extra high ovens are evenly heated and
give three different cooking temperatures, maintained
automatically by a thermostat. They provide healthy,
fume-free cooking and conserve the essential juices and
flavour of the food.
BETTER, EASIER, SAFER COOKING.
The Premier ESSE is simple and safe in
use. It is always ready for service at
correct cooking temperatures, and is so
flexible under thermostatic control that it
will respond quickly to exceptional de-
mands. Chefs and cooks all over the
country express delight with the ample
accommodation and the improved flavour
of the food.
u
m
mm
TW" 'll:'
t
M
IK
Hi
m
m'M
• : Mmm
5
Mi
iiii
*
■ is
3
Jk
e
e
d^eauL
of an "Esse” will delight you and it will reduce work in the
kitchen to a minimum.
iciency
of an "Esse” will interest you. You expect a modern
cooker to be practical . . . you do not cook just as well
on the "ESSE” —you cook perfectly!
D,I
It is a Heat Storage Cooker with scientific heat
distribution to enable roasting and baking to be
done in the same oven.
of an "Esse” will delight you.
PRICES AND CATALOGUES GLADLY SENT ON APPLICATION
VJ
S 3
Esse Cookers—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt St. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Phone M 2401 Day and Night- FAMOUS LOW PRICES Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


PERSPECTIVE
By H. DRAKE-BROCKMAN.
OUTSIDE, the build-
ing had an inspiring
enough lin e—
wouldn’t make a bad
drawing from the street
corner: that sweep to the sky, diminishing-perspective
sort of construction which, come to think about it,
Old Findlay seemed rather fond of featuring. Doone
wet his lips with the tip of his tongue. What he needed
was a drink—or he could go inside and ask for Old
Findlay. He wet his lips again and went in.
Inside, he had to wait under the eyes of the girls
at the inquiry desk, which wasn’t so good. He nearly
cleared out—would have, only he’d given his name
to one of the girls and heard her repeat it into a
buzzer first, and then to the girl alongside: “Lance
Doone—hear that? Must be the artist chap.”
It was the second girl showed him to the lift.
“First door on left, second floor, knock and go in,”
the formula ran all-of-a-piece off her lips. Nothing
t 0 her—seeing Old Findlay'
After the how-d’ye-do of the office downstairs it
was a shock to walk right in on Old Findlay himself
without any more roundabout. Worse than a fool,
Doone felt, after he stammered out his business, and
after Old Man Findlay looked at him from under a
pair of hairy brows the barber should have clipped
and said slowly: “So it’s my advice you want? Why
come to me? What’s wrong with your own father?
He went away to the last war, didn't he?”
“Yes. He did.” That was the trouble. Doone
stumbled on: with those eyes fixed on his face he’d
got to go ahead, say something, attempt to explain
how the dad only looked at everything from his own
point of view. The dad had wanted him to go into
the business, hardware and all that, “just aboutraised
Cain when I refused, took up etching and so forth.
The dad isn’t the sort of man you can discuss things
w j t jp\_
“u/Kof f L- r t
What makes you think I am?
~ ,
Doone was already asking himself that; no need
for it to come hurtling across the desk at him! What
a fool he d been ever to hope for an instant that any
one of these old soldiers would understand! Well,
hed have to make the best of it and get out as soon
as he could make a break. You build things. You’re
-go-ahead. I You even buy pictures.”
Old Findlay tapped the desk with an impatient
pencil, tap, tap at Doone s hesitation. “I’m a con-
tractor, young man. I admit I even buy pictures,
Your own etchings, for instance. At least when they
happen to—er—commemorate some of my own works,
On the walls here, if you care to look round”
Must be properly worked up, Doone thought, not
to have noticed that! There they were—proofs of
Findlay’s north-coast bridge, the whole set—and a fine,
big etching that looked, offhand, as though it might
be a Frank Brangwyn of ships building . . .
“All of them connected with construction, you
see. I’m a businessman. I prefer facts to theories,
If you feel your theories of life and individual rights
and civil liberties and freedom of expression and so
forth must all be scrapped because, and if, you get
into uniform, then take my advice and stop out of
it.” Suddenly the steady voice had an edge on it.
That s what you wanted me to say, wasn’t it? In
my experience, young man, when people ask advice,
all they ever really want is to have their own opinions
handed back to them, stamped ‘approved’.”
The pencil stamped the desk, tap. Doone
struggled to his feet. “It—it wasn’t exactly that”
What a fool. He might have known Findlay wouldn’t
be any different! “I think I’ll get along”—
Findlay also rose. He moved rapidly across to
one of the pictures and spoke over his shoulder.
“It was your feeling for perspective I most admired,
Mr. Doone,” he remarked pleasantly, and added,
turning: “Rather a pity you seem unable to carry it
with you into everyday life.”
The sting flared Doone’s nostrils. He went head-
long into it, mad with Findlay, mad with himself,
“You needn’t sneer. I thought there was something in
the reputation you have. They say you’re a good boss,
they say you consider your men—give them chances —
never drive a hard bargain. I’ve heard the sort of
big-bellied, big-noise chaps I can t stand call you soft.
That s what made me come. That s what I wanted
t 0 out ’ how a man who likes to build could go in
for destruction, how a man I’ve heard called soft
ecaus u e he ’ s « ot understanding can be a good sol-
T , lei „ can stan d d- Good-day, Mr. Findlay,
m as our time-
had his hand already on the door-handle
when he heard Findlay laugh.
taa l s s h? Frightened you wouldn t be
a . m stand up to it? It you care to be seated
a S a in Jll tell you a story.
Doone didn f move.
It s a very gnm story," said Findlay walking
f 1 Wlth hls hands , h * It happens
* * ° ne aboUt myself-one I have never yet told
an ? nce } used . 0 wake u £ ln n ‘B h * and
"°t Set to sleep too easily, remembering. He faced
° 00 " e S “ dde , nl >'’ B “‘} v * never had “7
theres no doubt about that. Never And its
a lo "® “” e smce 1 ev “ *° Ugh , t . about “’
The buzzer rang. Findlay lifted the thing, said
into i t: “What’s that? Oh, yes—well, tell the board
-T J . c ’ , 1£ ,
they 11 have to carry on without me for half an hour.
j have an urgent matter to settle . . . That ’ s correc t,
isn ’ t it? ” when he smiled Doone rem embered other
gossip he ’ d heard __ how old Findlay could twist men
round and get his own wayj how chaps sparred about
t 0 get j obs under him. He went over and sat down,
<< I T happened in France in T 7. I a major at
1 the time. A bit of a push was on. Bad weather
—snow to the knee where it wasn’t slush. We went
right through in our sector, but by the time we reached
the Boche trenches we’d lost a lot of men. We lost
a few more cleaning up. By the time I’d had a quick
look round I realised we weren’t likely to hold our
position long either, unless we got assistance quick
and lively. The attack on the left had failed ; I couldn’t
discover what had happened on the right. It was
black as a tunnel, and I felt as cut off and helpless as
you feel when the engine stops and you’re left in the
dark knowing nothing. There was a lot of gunfire
still. It was pretty obvious that I’d have to get word
back to headquarters about our difficulties tout suite.
“I told the only other officer who’d come through
to find me runners, have them standing-by till I got
some sort of a report written up. We’d been scrap-
ping for the past twenty-four hours solid. The men
were all-in. You could see they were put to it not to
drop asleep and be damned to it. I hadn’t much to
spare myself.
“I picked my way back over the dead or near-
dead lying in the trench with the snow already begin-
ning to cover them, and crawled inside the only dug-
out left that was likely to afford warmth and possibly
shelter, I had to get my fingers so I could use them
“I shall be home at eight bells, Henry."
to write with, and I had to
get a bit of silence so I could
think what 1 had to write.
A lot depended on being
accurate. If, back at head-
quarters, they reckoned the manoeuvre on our left had
also succeeded, there might be a nasty mess. If, on
the other hand, they reckoned we too had failed and
the enemy still held our trench—well, we’d done in all
our Verey lights ; at any moment we might get wiped
out by our own gunfire. Not a pleasing thought. I
sat down on a box, got out my notebook and
started in.
“Then the sergeant turned up. He’d discovered
young James. James was a popular lad —one of the
most likely youngsters I’ve ever seen. Could handle
men, too. The sergeant, thick in the voice, said he’d
collected a bad one. Bayonet. Dying, the sergeant
said. No chance for him —but it was cold outside in
the snow, and couldn’t he be fetched in out of the
wind? I said yes, go ahead, but let me get on with
my message or we might all be dead by the morning.
“They fetched James in. Wasn’t unconscious—
but wasn’t properly conscious either. Pretty horrible.
They fixed him up in a corner as best they could and
I went on with my job. It was all right for about
five minutes. Then James started. Men don’t always
die quietly. Stood it as long as I could, but there
wasn’t much room in that dugout. Brain was foggy
already. I couldn’t think, not with James making the
row he was. And if I went outside my fingers would
freeze so I couldn’t write.”
Old Findlay stopped. He’d picked up the pencil
again. It went tick, tick, tick on the desk.
“I called the sergeant back. Made him lift James
out into the snow again. It would be over sooner out
there, and my report had to be written.”
Just that, no i,.are. Then silence, except the
tick, tick, tick of the pencil. Doone felt gagged in
his chair, dumb before this machine monstrously un-
aware of flesh and blood. The fellow could sit there
and tell a tale like that and not care! The calm, steady
voice went on again without a quiver, might have
been detailing the day’s expenditure.
“I got the runners away. Then I called the ser-
geant. ‘Fetch Mr. James back,’ I said. He looked
at me, hesitated, opened his mouth. ‘All right,’ I said,
‘if that’s the way of it, go and look after the rest of
them.’ I called him back from the entrance. ‘Did it
—take long?’ He said no, it hadn’t. He added: T
hope you’ll recommend him for decoration, sir—l
never seen a youngster put up a better show.’ I said:
‘Too late. He’s dead ; and anyway no officer can
merit more than his men, sergeant—the best lead is
no good if the men don’t rise to it.’ When he’d gone
I sat down and wrote to James’s mother.”
Doone burst out: “If you think that’s the kind
of story to make me feel you’d ever understand a
damned thing but your own comfort”
Findlay cut in on him with that hard-as-steel
voice. “Young man, if you are anything of a man
you’ll learn something about selfishness before I’m
done. Listen to me.” Heat in the steel now, passion
like an electric current, alive and biting. “I learnt on
Gallipoli. At Lone Pine. Eighteen months earlier.
When we were digging a trench connecting up with a
salient just captured. I’d gone away in the ranks —
been given my commission only the night before.
“ T UST get this layout straight. There was our
trench, and there, not more than a couple of
hundred yards ahead, was the enemy salient. Before
the attack we’d put out tunnels into no-man’s-land
and joined the heads less than a hundred yards from
the objective. The night before, we opened to the
surface, at regular intervals. The attack was timed
for dusk. I went up with a detachment of men, along
with the attacking party. Orders were to set my men
digging as soon as the first wave went over. Two of
the tunnel-heads were to be extended into communi-
cation trenches to enable us to hang on after taking
the objective. One trench for supplies and ammuni-
tion, one for getting out the wounded. No time now
for safe deep-dug tunnels, it had to be an open com-
munication cut.
“We started before the boys went over. I can
hear the O.C.’s voice now: ‘Five minutes to go, lads.
Ease your packs and take a spell ... Two minutes to
go, lads. Tighten up. When the whistle goes, up and
over —and no cheering’ . . .
“The whistle went. The first wave went, but we
were already digging like demons. The second wave
went. They took the trench. But a hundred yards in
a blizzard of gunfire—you can imagine what happened
to the first wave. An officer had been detailed to give
us a line from the other end. He never got through,
nor any of his men. Nothing happened from the other
end to help us. Presently, after dark, I realised we’d
never have our job through by dawn if we went on
as we were. I said to the men ‘l’m going out on top.
If I can live, you can.” Soon they were all up. I
grabbed some of the rifles lying round and pegged out
a line for both parties to work on, right over to the
newly-taken trench. The O.C. was wounded himself.
No men to spare me to dig back ‘But for God’s
sake get your communication through ; we can hold
on tomorrow if we have ammunition and supplies’
“I went back to my men. They were right into
it, the dirt was flying. But there were other things as
well as rifles lying round. Most weren’t worrying us,
but some were crying out for help, for stretcher-
bearers, for water —could see ’em crawling and


“Look out, Jock —dive bombers !”
twisting in the starlight. Men didn’t like it. Neither did
I. I let them carry one poor kid back. Then another.
And another. We wasted a lot of time helping the
wounded back, and most of them too hurt to last for
long, anyhow. When dawn came one of our trenches
wasn’t more than waist deep.
“Next day the enemy made a counter-attack. We
held on all right. One communication was deep
enough for ammunition and supplies and reinforce-
ments. But the other. My fault for being soft. And
I had to watch. It was mostly the walking wounded
who got it —chaps too busy dragging themselves along
to keep their heads down or too hurt to care —sniped
off they were, one after the other. Chaps who would
have stood a chance of being alive now if I hadn’t
minded the cries for help from the other poor devils.
“Well, I learnt my lesson. Never since, Mr.
Doone, have I let ray emotions undermine my reason.
At the cost of maybe one or two saved lives and a
momentary personal satisfaction, 1 consider myself
directly responsible for the loss of many other lives,
and God alone knows what other wrecks
“I told you I’d a grim tale to tell, Mr. Doone.
I’d hundreds of other lives to consider the night 1
let James die in the snow. There are times when no
personal emotion or individual life can be considered.
It is, you see, largely a matter of perspective.”
For the second time Doone got to his feet. He
heard Findlay sigh—or thought he did —the voice was
still hard enough. “I fear I’ve made no impression,”
it commented. “I hoped to. I happen to admire your
work, Mr. Doone, and hoped my story might help to
get your mental perspective sufficiently straight for me
also to admire yourself.”
Doone gripped the back of his chair and leant
forward over it. “Why couldn’t you control yourself
better?” His voice came forced and tortured by the
chair biting into his chest. “Surely you could have
put up with a few groans?”
Abruptly Old Findlay rose. He walked to the
door and held it open. “My dear Mr. Doone, 1
gathered from your earlier remarks that you were in
some doubt as to what you, a sensitive man, could
yourself endure for the sake of —shall we say?—civil
liberty and the right to be human. You should not
question my shrinkings. I had lives to protect. I had
a report to write. I found I was unable to write it
with James dying at my feet. I was not strong enough
both to keep him there and refrain from comforting
him. And time mattered. I can see I’ll have to tell
you the whole story after all. James was not all his
name. We’d enlisted together. He’d just got his first
pip and been drafted to me. He was my brother.”
For the life of him Doone didn’t know what to
say. He wanted to get out the door, have it shut
between him and, not Old Man Findlay, but his own
stupidity. He’d nothing i :ay.
Then suddenly he remembered: James Findlay,
V.C., on the honor board, with the little red dot. “For
individual courage....” Looking the old man in the
eye, finding speech sure and easy, he said: “You’re
right about individuals not counting—no lead is any
good if the men don’t rise to it, Mr. Findlay, and no
liberty secure if men won’t defend it —I’ve got that
much straight. But I’m afraid a few will always have
to stand out in order to give a line for the rest. If
you don’t mind, I want to say it seems to me the ser-
geant’s eye couldn’t have been any straighter than
mine—it was the wrong Findlay he reported.”
TRAVELLHMG
LIGHT
By OLAF RUHEN.
IT’S where you find it,
all right, and it’s all
yours, once you’ve
found it. But you can
have it for mine, and wel-
come. I tried it one year,
and I did all right out of it
at that; got away from the
game, too, though it was
five years before I could
pick up a shovel without
itching to wash gravel.
That was the winter I
ran into Lofty Bambridge.
Johnny Matson, who was
mates with me, and I settled
on a river beach, and were
working the top six inches.
We had a big, heavy gold
cradle with a self-emptying
box pretty near as big as a
Long Tom. She could put
the stuff through, and it
meant a lot of shifting. This
day we’d just steadied up
the platform again on a sort
of flat schisty reef against
deep water, and I was
settling down to a steady
rock-and-dip, rock twice
and then dip, when I saw
this big, tall fellow come
breasting through the willows where the beach ran into
the hill half a mile down.
I kept on cradling, and Johnny was too busy to
see him, I suppose. I didn’t say anything, because
we had a good many more visitors than we wanted on
the beach. We were moving too fast to bother staking
it, and some of the locals were beginning to get the
idea we were making good wages—which we were.
But they didn’t cotton on to the idea of top gravel,
and when they dug down they hardly got a color.
Anyway this bird watched us from a distance and
guessed we hadn’t seen him, I suppose. He turned and
climbed steadily up the bank until he could see into
Dugdale’s yard, and I began to realise why he was
walking the river instead of the road, which ran
parallel about three hundred yards away. He waited
awhile, and then came on along the beach. When he
repeated the performance at Martin’s I was sure of
him. Martin and Dugdale were both at home, so his
luck was out. But it was orchard country, and there
were a lot of houses between the road and the river.
When he came up close, though, I liked the look
of him. He was about six-foot-five, with an easy grin,
and he looked a deal surer of himself than of his
hopes of high heaven. He had a coat over his open
shirt, blue denims and light-enough shoes, but he’d
used them.
“Travelling light?” asked Johnny. The stranger
didn’t carry a roll.
He assented and asked his own questions.
“You been covering a lot of country,” he said.
“You haven’t shifted much of it. All on the surface,
eh?”
I tried to look dumb, but inwardly I was pleased
enough. We’d taken enough advice about getting down
to reef to fill a book. The place had been China-
manned sixty years before, and all the gold was in
what the river had gouged out of the bank or laid
down since. But Johnny wasn’t so pleased. “We got
the time to answer questions, but we’re getting tired of
it, mate,” he said.
“Glad of it,” said the stranger. “I’m with you on
that.”
I laughed. “He’s ’way ahead of you, Johnny,” I
pointed out.
I don’t suppose we’d have seen him any more,
but little old Mrs. Lovatt, who had a derelict orchard
quarter of a mile upstream, came down to her bit of
beach with an axe just then, as she usually did in the
afternoon, and started pecking away at some of the
driftwood.
“Here’s a cup of tea for me,” said the stranger.
“A woman hadn’t ought to be doing that sort of
thing,” and he grinned.
“If you want to make it a meal come back to our
camp,” I told him. “It’s just across the road here.
The old girl’s a widow, and damn’ hard up.”
“I don’t aim to stop. But thanks all the same.”
He did a good job of work on the driftwood. I
watched him clean it up. And later he took up our
invitation after all, and dossed down with us that
night.
The next night he called in again.
“Permanent resident, eh?” said Johnny.
“Thinking of it,” he said calmly. “I’m taking
over the old girl’s orchard on half shares.”
“D’you know the game?” I asked him.
“It’s only commonsense, I suppose.”
That wasn’t what I meant, and I explained.
He laughed, “I’ve seen a lot of orchards round
here,” he said. “I haven’t seen any big houses and
damn’ few cars, ’less there’s about forty acres in the
section. I don’t aim to make a fortune on half of
five. But a man might as well be doing something.”
“That’s your funeral then,” I told him, and felt
kind of sorry for him. That was the beginning of the
winter, and it would be a long time till the apricot
cheques came in in January.
CD RETTY near the first job he did showed that he
* had a head on his shoulders. He cut about eight
feet off the big, old packing shed, and with his extra
timber and iron he built all the benches that Mrs.
Lovatt had lacked, patched the roof and the side walls
and built himself a bunk in the corner.
That was only the start of it. When I first saw
him building, I thought I could give a shrewd guess as
to how he had acquired his nails and oddments. I
remembered his actions along the river bank the day
he arrived—but I was wrong. He paid for everything
he used—paid in kind.
Financially, Mrs. Lovatt was in a bad way. The
place was practically owned by Dugdale, who had
sold out of the store and taken over an orchard for his
rightful dues, while he kept a tight fist on half the
other properties in the neighborhood. The new store-
keeper was pretty chary with his credit. Lofty paid
him partly with firewood, partly with rabbit-skins.
For clearing scrub, the cocky on the hill side of the
road lent him a team of horses on odd days, and gave
him a rabbiting block. Lofty was up at sparrow-blink
on the rabbits, and filled out half the week on the
scrub. The rest of the time he worked on the orchard.
He ploughed it with his borrowed team and a
borrowed pony-plough. He tightened the fences and
hoed round the tree-boles. Wet days he put in making
half a dozen bee-skeps, doing odd carpentering jobs
about the house and so on ; but the days had to be
wet. Odd times, for want of something better to do,
we lent him a hand.
There was the pruning, which had been forgotten
for too long. He sprayed the orchard twice, and Mrs.
Lovatt didn’t have to stretch her credit any to get the
spray. Dugdale lent him the plant; rubbing his hands
at this amelioration of his rotten security. And when
the early spring came Mrs. Lovatt’s vegetable patch
and her woodpile would have done your heart good
to see.
Dugdale was always talking about Lofty. “The
right kind of lad,” he used to tell us. “He’ll go a long
way, you mark my words. Comes here without a shirt
to his back”
“He had a shirt,” said Johnny. Johnny couldn’t
help being childish. Neither of us liked Dugdale.
| T was getting well on in November when Lofty
* came over one night and got us out of bed to light
smudge fires. A late frost, it was. We did our best,
but there wasn’t much to do. We used up most of the
widow’s woodpile and a heap of old car tyres that
Lofty had been collecting against such an emergency,
lacking fire-pots. We concentrated on one end of the
orchard, and saved about an acre, or an acre and a
half. We stuck there, for want of anything more to
burn. And when the sun came up we watched six
months of Lofty’s life shrivel and die on the apricot
branches.
The widow was there, of course, and we couldn’t
look at her. She went into the house and made
breakfast for all of us. Lofty stayed there after we
went out, and half an hour later he joined us, tidying
up the mess in the orchard. He was dressed in a coat
over an open shirt and blue denims and light shoes.
“I’m travelling, boys,” he said. “There isn’t
enough crop for the two of us. The old lady can make
out, and I guess she’ll be able to get help to get it
picked and cased.”
We chatted awhile before he went, and it im-
pressed itself on both of us that he struck out for the
river bank instead of the road.
Everyone seemed restless that day, and no wonder.
A six-degree frost in a fruit-district in mid-November
is the sort of thing that makes local history. As we
went back to the camp, Dugdale and his wife passed
us in their car. He was getting an idea of the extent
of the thing, I suppose ; to find out whom of his ex-
clients he’d have to carry for another year. I won-
dered if he was wise leaving home, and said so to
Johnny, but he didn’t catch on. I was right, though.
When he got home again he got the police out. He
had a broken desk and forty quid missing. But the
roads were black with fruit hands leaving the district,
and they never suspected Lofty.
The widow did all right out of her apricots.
Johnny and I picked them for her, for half shares.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
I'fyme efWie meiloume££midJ/mq/ue^
Seppelts
GARDEN OF THE CLOTHWORKERS’ HALL .
Within “less than a stone’s throw” of Fen-
church St. Station, the smallest, ugliest and
most inconvenient of London’s termini —
it has been called “the gateway to Australia
and the Orient” on account of its connections
with Tilbury and much of dockland —is
located, in a crowded quarter, the head-
quarters of the rich and powerful Cloth-
workers’ Company, one of the oldest of
the City Guilds. Its hall looks out upon the
veritable rus in urhe illustrated herewith, which
in the long ago was the churchyard of All
Hallows Staining (or Stone Church) founded in
the twelfth century, and so designated to dis-
tinguish it from other, ecclesiastical edifices of
the same name, but built of timber. All that
remains of the old structure —which curiously
enough escaped in the Great Fire of 1666—is
the tower, a portion of which appears to the
left of the illustration. The Clothworkers’
Guild has an interest-possessing romance which
singles it from among the other City Companies.
A notable member of the Guild was Sir Wil-
liam Hewett, Clothmaker and Lord Mayor of
London in the year Queen Elizabeth’s Corona-
tion took place. When Old London Bridge had
“residences built upon it,” in one of these
Sir William lived, and with him an apprentice
named Edward Osborne. This is how honest
old Pennant relates what is perhaps better
known than most other portions of the history
of this bridge:
“About 1536, when his master lived in one
of these tremendous houses, a servant maid
was playing with his only daughter in her
arms, in a window over the water, and acci-
dentally dropt the child. Young Osborne,
who was witness to the misfortune, instantly
sprang into the river, and beyond all ex-
pectation, brought her safe to the terrified
family. Several persons of rank paid their
addresses to her when she was marriageable;
among others, the Earl of Shrewsbury; but
Sir William gratefully decided in favor of
Osborne. ‘Osborne,’ says he, ‘saved her,
and Osborne shall enjoy her.’ In her right
Osborne possessed a great fortune. He
became a sheriff of London in 1575, and
Lord Mayor in 1582, when he received the
Honour of Knighthood at Westminster. On
the 18th August, 1675, Sir Thomas Osborne,
great-grandson of Sir Edward, was raised
to the peerage by the titles of Viscount
Latimer and Baron Kiveton, in the County
of York, and in the year following, Earl of
Danby, and April 20th, 1680, Marquis
of Caermarthen, and on May 4th, 1694,
he became the first Duke of Leeds.”
Thus from this gallant act of an apprentice
may be traced the origin of the great ducal
family of Leeds, though the Hewett family had
for generations before and after figured largely
in the commercial, political, religious and social
history of England. Members of the Hewett
“clan” have, too, played their part in the life
of Australia. It may parenthetically be added
that each year the Guild of Clothworkers makes
a present of several bales of different colored
cloths to the Lord Chancellor and other high
officers of State.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62—No. 3184.
Wednesday, February 19, 1941.
THUMBS DOWN!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
Darfd Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane .
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London. E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months. 12s. 6d.;
s months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and mter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months. £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months. £1 25.;
3 months. 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth. New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
A WEEK BIG WITH EVENTS.
Delight and pride were felt by all Australians worthy
the name when the nation learned that H.M.A.S.
Sydney had arrived in her home port, and these
emotions were revived, especially in the city after
which she was named, by the captain’s glowing
account of her experiences, and by the actual presence
among the people of her officers and crew.
Though the ship bore the marks and brands
of war, the men looked as if they had returned from
a peaceful cruise to the Islands, instead of having
come through a score of actions against “other sur-
face craft” (two of which were sent to the bottom),
“submarines and shore batteries,” and threescore
bombing attacks, all in the process of blockading an
enemy superior—on paper—in sea power and air
power. For six months they were thus engaged, and
the strain must have been great, while the food was far
below Australian standards. But officers and men
alike had a cheerful and confident bearing, and gave
the impression that they would be ready for anyone
and anything when duty next summons them to
wherever they have to go.
Second Sydney set out on her voyage of 80,000
miles with a piece of the hull of the Emden
mounted in an alleyway. Beside it now hangs
a shell splinter, taken from one of her own funnels,
as a memento of the sinking of the Bar-
tolomeo Colleoni. With a far greater proportion
of Australian-born officers and men than her great
little predecessor carried, she has given a new glory
to the name ; and in victorious hours her Tasmanian
captain showed himself as compassionate and chival-
rous to a beaten enemy as did Captain Glossop when,
catching up with the troopships first Sydney had pro-
tected against the Emden, he “signalled a request that,
in order to avoid adding to the mortification of the
wounded Germans lying on her decks, there should
be no cheering.” In the same spirit Captain Collins
did all that an officer in his situation could do to
rescue Italians from the destroyer Espero, which had
“put up a game fight against hopeless odds” ; and it
is a spirit which will not perish as long as there are a
Royal Navy and an R.A.N.
A point spontaneously stressed by the returned
wanderers is that they and the officers and crews of
the other Australian warships serving under the com-
mand of Admiral Cunningham have been treated like
real brothers in arms by their comrades of the Royal
Navy, and are full of admiration for the great quali-
ties of seamanship and leadership which have brought
the Italian Navy so low. These sentiments are known
to be shared by the Australian soldiers and airmen
brigaded with the forces of General Wavell and Air
Marshal Longmore. A Sydney artilleryman, writing
to The Bulletin from Libya, testifies that they and
their British companions have been “drawn together
by a true friendship and understanding.”
How they have co-operated in action, you must have
heard. In free moments you can see them together
everywhere, Tommies asking and being told about
Australia and our chaps listening to tales of the Old
Country.
This happy association has been a factor in the vic-
tories which have sent Mussolini scurrying for help
to his former disciple, now his master, and it will con-
tribute to the winning of the battles for which the
more formidable enemy is marshalling his forces. And
it will have consequences that will outlast the war ;
political consequences among them. For one thing’
when the British race has shown once more that’
fighting in its own cause in its own way, it cannot
be beaten, what set of politicians or merchants of
moonshine will dare to propose a foreign policy based
on European alliances and on guarantees, with lavish
credits, to countries like Rumania?
During a week big with events, that dingy king-
dom —or whatever it is now—came into the picture
again. The British Minister at Bucharest asked for his
passports, and the Foreign Office explained, in a
scornful note addressed to the Nazi puppet Antonescu,
that he and his staff had been recalled because “your
Government has become entirely dependent on Ger-
many,” and because Germany is “building up in
Rumania all the elements of an expeditionary force,
using Rumanian territory as a military base, in
furtherance of her plans for prosecuting the war.”
These measures have been taken without one word of
dissent from you.
Mr. Churchill had declared, in a speech delivered
on February 10, that not only were the Germans in
Rumania in “considerable” force, but they had “thou-
of ground personnel occupying Bulgarian air-
fields” and had made “many preparations for the move-
ment of troops into or through Bulgaria—perhaps this
form of movement has already begun.” This was
denied by a Sofia newsagency, but presently Bul-
garians were talking of their “claims” against Greece
and hinting that the “claims” could and would be satis-
fied by an unopposed German march through Bul-
garia to the Greek coast, an operation which would
also turn the positions of the Greeks who have been
conducting such a valiant campaign against Hitler’s
battered partner. The extrication of that partner from
the Albanian morass in which he is engulfed has no
doubt become necessary to Hitler, and perhaps, like
the young Napoleon, he has decided to turn away
from the invasion of Britain and strike at his indomit-
able enemy in the Mediterranean zone.
Of far greater immediate concern to Australians
were statements made and action taken in their own
country by the Acting Prime Minister and responsible
men associated with him. Continuing the warnings
issued the previous week, Mr. Fadden said on Wednes-
day night that “the disabling of Australia” had “now
become a major strategic objective of the enemy” ;
that “it should be realised by everyone that our imme-
diate future holds some very grave possibilities” ; that
“our enemies are preparing a great offensive which
may well be launched in the first days of the
European spring,” and that, though “most probably
the mam assault will be directed against Britain her-
self, they will also strike on other fronts.” Hence “we
find ourselves in serious danger of hostile action
near, if not on, our own coastline.”
It is not an unavoidable danger—far from it —but it
is certainly real, and we must pay serious and urgent
regard to it.
He repeated his appeal for unity, and for “a sustained,
determined, single-minded effort,” as a “national
necessity.”
Thursday brought confidential cables which the
Advisory War Council, sitting at Sydney, regarded as
very grave. So much so that the Council decided to
adjourn its own proceedings and ask the heads of the
three fighting services to attend a meeting of the War
Cabinet on Friday, joining in the invitation Sir Robert
Brooke-Popham, Commander-in-Chief of the British
Forces in the Far East, who had been in Melbourne
since February 9. On their own behalf Mr. Fadden,
Mr. Curtin and Mr. Beasley issued a joint statement
which, premising that “what the future has in store
is at present not precisely clear,” affirmed that “Aus-
tralia’s safety makes it essential that there should be
neither delay nor doubt about the clamant need for
the greatest effort of preparedness this country has
ever made.” They added these paragraphs:
We think we should tell the people of Australia that
it is the considered opinion of the War Council that
the war has moved to a new stage involving the utmost
gravity.
At the meeting today a complete review was made of
the existing situation and its implications. These can
only be described as of a most serious import.
It is necessary to say that various contingencies of
the next few weeks have been taken into account and
effective preparatory measures taken.
Presumably as part of the preparatory measures,
15,000 Second Division A.M.F. trainees who were due
to leave camp on February 15 were notified that their
training period had been extended for three weeks.
Synchronously there were city marches of militiamen,
many thousand of them, and if there were hostile ob-
servers about they must have been impressed with the
quality of the lads who are being licked into shape
by an obviously competent body of instructors. If
the equipment available is as good and ample as the
manhood, the possibility of invasion should present
no terrors except to those whose hearts have an un-
fortunate tendency to slide to their boots.
When the service chiefs arrived in Sydney their
cheerful demeanor was noted even by the sensational
“Sun.” “They smiled and joked,” it seemed ; “they
submitted jovially to the flashlight bulbs of news-
paper photographers,” and they parried questions
addressed to them on the gravity of the situation
with such remarks as “I haven’t had my breakfast
yet (Sir Charles Burnett), “Well, it’s no use crying
about it, is it? (Sir Ragnar Colvin) and “We want
to hear what the Cabinet has to tell us” (Sir Robert
Brooke-Popham). Lieut.-General Sturdee, for his part
was reported to have said “If you can tell me what
I am here for I shall be glad.” The public would
have been equally glad ; but the boo-boo boys of the
press were running wild. The “Telegraph” had that
morning come out with a story—one of several like
it that when “a cable reporting the rapid
deterioration of the war position” was “passed round
the Cabinet table ’ to Mr. Hughes, “the last to receive
it,” the old man “burst into tears” and “left the Cabinet
room, saying This is too much for me.’ ” It was not a
bit like Billy, and next morning the paper had to
publish his wrathful denial.
The War Cabinet and Advisory War Council dis-
cussions did not last very long. That afternoon Sir
Robert Brooke-Popham left Sydney. He was followed
m the evening by Sir Ragnar Colvin, Sir Charles
Burnett, Lieut.-General Sturdee and “some members
of the War Cabinet and the Advisory War Council.”
And Mr. Fadden was photographed getting his hair
cut and congratulating a jockey whose mount he had
backed to win £2 10s. Meanwhile he announced that
there had been “no further deterioration in the posi-
tion,” and that the Government would “keep the public
fully informed of developments.” He added later
that “the position, though serious,” was “not
extremely critical.” Rumors had been circulated (one
was that a troopship had been sunk); “I cannot sug-
gest too strongly,” said Mr. Fadden, “that Australia
should discount and check rumors.”
The war has been in progress for nearly 18 months,
and during that period there have been many grave
crises. From our experience we know that at times wild
rumors are certain to be circulated, but 1 ask level-
headed Australians to cast their minds back to the
dark days of May and June and the dark period
through which the British Commonwealth of Nations
passed. That crisis was met with resolution and the
immediate danger of those days was turned aside.
Mr. Hughes came in with the assurance that, “while
the situation is grave, it is not alarming.” “While I
am no jingo or alarmist, I have to admit that the posi-
tion has worsened in the Pacific in the last 48 hours,”
said Mr. Forde. “We would be deluding ourselves if
we failed to appreciate the realities of the position,”
said Mr. Stewart. Mr. Curtin contented himself with
an assurance that “what is in hand is rightly in hand ;
we are in entire agreement with what the Government
is doing.”
All this was very interesting, though not at all
revealing as to what gave rise to the succession of meet-
ings and warnings ; and persons whose business it is
to study foreign news dispassionately and watch the
markets were mystified on other grounds. For one
thing, Mr. Churchill, though he spoke for 36 minutes,
did not refer to the situation in the Far East, nor did
anything disquieting about it come from London or
Ottawa—nor, it has been stated, from Mr. Menzies or
Sir John Latham. On Tuesday, at the foot of a “Sun”
column of Ominous News from the East, it was men-
tioned that the Americans had reduced war-risk insur-
ance rates on cargoes consigned to Australia by the
Cape route, and during the week there was no altera-
tion in the Japanese Government’s marine war-risk
insurance rate —and it is very low ; 10s. per cent.
On Wednesday, which found Mr. Fadden in so
grave a mood, Mr. Roosevelt was asked at Washing-
ton whether he thought there was danger of war in
the Pacific. He replied “No,” adding presently that
he had “merely answered a direct, though awfully
‘iffy,’ question.” On Thursday, Secretary Hull told
the press that he had “no official knowledge of reports
of an urgent situation which prompted a meeting of
the Australian War Council, nor of other reports
that Dutch ships in the Far East have been ordered
into neutral harbors.” That same day, Mr. Hattori,
who is to be Japanese Consul at Sydney—
where he was Chancellor, 1927-28, and Vice-Consul,
1929-33—arrived from Shanghai, with Mr. Yoshida,
who is to be Chancellor at the Legation to be estab-
lished at Canberra. They brought the news that
members of the legation would arrive by the next
ship from Japan, and that the Minister, Mr. Kawai,
would leave for Canberra at the end of this month.
This news of Mr. Kawai’s movements was con-
firmed by a Japanese spokesman at Tokyo. Invited
to comment on Mr. Fadden’s “Our-own-coastline”
speech, this spokesman said: “Japan is anxious to
maintain and increase peaceful relations with Aus-
tralia, as has been demonstrated by the exchange of
diplomatic representatives.” He said also, however,
that the atmosphere is serious, and we must be
prepared against every possible contingency,” and
then struck another reassuring note —“It is true that
there are lots of rumors afloat, but nothing will
happen. On the same day Foreign Minister Matsuoka,
who likewise sprinkles his speeches with sugar and salt,
intimated in the Diet that Japan was “seeking to reach
an understanding with Russia” and that “Russia also
is accelerating the conclusion of a commercial pact,
prospects of which were hopeless last year.” The
approach to Moscow, which would sell its grand-
mother to save its hide, is one of the really disturb-
ing features of the situation.
In Washington on the following day Admiral
Nomura presented his credentials at the White House,
and was reminded by the President that “there are
developments in relation to the United States and
Japan which cause concern.” The Admiral admitted
that the developments “have unfortunately been such
as to cause considerable concern on both sides of
the ocean,” and assured the President that he was
resolved to do all possible towards bringing about a
better understanding of each other’s position, in order
to secure the interests and well-being of our countries,
thereby preserving peace in the Pacific.”
• a T ha ] German y the whole thing may be
judged from a German radio bark that “Admiral
Nomura’s mission will be hopeless.” Every time the
U.S.A. moves closer to Britain—and, with the Lend
or Lease Bill going through Congress, it has moved
closer than ever before—Hitler tries to stir up trouble
for the English in every part of the world to which his
influence reaches. He is striving with all his fell
might to bring Japan into the war, and though it is
an increasingly unfavorable period for Japanese war-
mongers far more unfavorable than before Italy was
knocked kicking, and before Mr. Roosevelt was re-
elected on the programme of all aid for Britain short
of war—no man can say that he may not yet succeed.
So our Government is justified, not only in taking every
possible precaution, but in preparing the minds of the
people for any eventuality. It can be sure that, if the
worst happens, the nation will face it in the spirit which
animates the men of the R.A.N., A.I.F. and R.A.A.F.
But Australians are not children, and they should
be told as much as can be told without injury or pos-
sibility of injury to the common cause. The judg-
ments of members of the War Cabinet and War
Council are not infallible, and there is a very wide-
spread feeling that during the last agitated fortnight
some of these gentlemen said too much or too little.
People not hitherto friendly to Mr. Menzies have
been heard to remark that if he had been in Aus-
tralia there would have been no such amateurish
handling of official pronouncements; certainly he
never loses his head and always weighs his words.
And people not hitherto friendly to Mr. Cameron can
now realise how much the Government, as well as, the
Country party, lost when that uncompromising realist
resigned from both.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Canada Gives a Lead.
The Mackenzie King Government called for a report
on a plan for turning Canada into a unified Dominion
instead of an aggregation of mendicant provinces,
together with a central authority lacking sufficient
powers. The report —largely the work of Dr. Sirois,
a Quebec professor of constitutional law —was pre-
sented, and last month the Premiers of the nine prov-
inces were asked to meet the Cabinet at Ottawa to
discuss it.
The gentlemen from Saskatchewan, Manitoba,
Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island and New Bruns-
wick were willing to come to an accommodation. So,
with reservations, was the gentleman from Quebec, a
province which, with a population 400,000 larger than
that of N. S. Wales, has less than a fourth of its debt
and has had no deficit since 1935. But Premier Hepburn,
of Ontario, shouted that the report was a “well-cooked
nefarious deal,” and also hostile were Mr. Patullo, of
British Columbia, and Mr. Aberhart, the Douglas
Credit Premier of Alberta —he demanded that Ottawa
should leave the provinces alone, except for guarantee-
ing the Albertan debt.
It was the subsequent proceedings which were
refreshing. Instead of caving in in the Canberra
manner, Mr. Mackenzie King cut short the discus-
sions and sent along his Treasurer to say that the
national Government would increase income tax,
ration petrol—on which the provinces largely depend
for taxation —cut out its 40 p.c. contribution to pro-
vincial unemployment funds, institute an inheritance
tax —the provinces levy heavy succession duties —and
generally jump into the main provincial taxation fields
with a resounding wallop.
Then the P.M. adjourned the conference and sent
the Premiers home to their electors, with a parting
remark that possibly only the fringe of war-finance
needs had been touched. One Canadian paper
reported that the three objectors went away looking
“thoughtful.”
The shadow of events in Canada should make the
seven Australian Governments extremely thoughtful.
Case of Senator Arthur.
The Senate, which can rarely find anything to do in
the first two or three weeks of a session, should give
some attention next month to the case of one of its
own members, Senator Arthur (N.S.W.). This
Senator’s association with a concern grandiloquently
titled Producers Oilwell Supplies, Ltd., which has fallen
on very evil days, should certainly be probed by a
select committee.
On the public platform in the course of a share-
selling campaign and on the floor of the Senate,
Senator Arthur outrageously boomed this company,
of which he has been a director. For example, in the
Senate on December 8, 1939, he described it as “an
Australian company representative of four of the
States,” which was “drilling for oil and endeavoring to
find it,” under the direction of a Mr. Max Steinbuchel,
an American “with a magnificent record as an oil
producer.” The Senator had “personally checked up
Mr. Steinbuchel’s record,” and he reported progress
as follows:
Of the nine wells now being drilled, seven are being
superintended by Mr. Max Steinbuchel, whom the
Government tried to ship away from this country so
that oil would not be found here. At Portland, in
Victoria, the company has drilled to a depth of 1100 ft.
and oil is expected to be discovered at 2700 ft.; at
Nelson, in Victoria, it has a bore down to 1400 ft. and
expects to find oil at 2350 ft.; at Mt. Gambier, in
South Australia, a bore is down 500 ft. and oil is
expected at 2000 ft.; at Lake Boga, in Victoria, its bore
is down 700 ft. and it expects to find oil at 1600 ft.
In portions of Australia there extends a band of
hard rock which the geologists persist in calling granite,
and they prophesy that no oil will be found below it.
Mr. Steinbuchel points out that in many parts of the
U.S.A. this hard rock has been proved to be a micaceous
sandstone. Two of the wells now being drilled under
his supervision are down to that depth and are being
continued through the micaceous sandstone. Mr.
Steinbuchel believes that the formation is exactly like
the Kettleman Hills dome in California, where the
28 wells were drilled to the “hard streak” and the
29th well drilled through the “hard streak” made
250,000 barrels a day—the largest producing well in
the world.
Senator Arthur held forth in this strain on other
occasions, and he also made privileged attacks on indi-
viduals, some of them distinctly libellous. Now it has
been admitted at a meeting of the unfortunate share-
holders that the stabs for oil have yielded nothing
(though the Senator said in the Senate on May 29,
1940, that “Mr. Beattie,” a fellow-director, was
“brutally assaulted at the top of William-street, Sydney,
because he had found petroleum oil”), that the “nine
wells” somehow diminished to three and an interest in
a fourth, that nearly all the money collected from
shareholders has been spent, that at least portion of
it was raised regardless of requirements under the
National Security regulations, that accounts were
not written up for nearly a year, and that though
the company ran five cars it has no auditor.
It is certainly a case in which the Senate should
take some action. Even if nothing more is established
than that Senator Arthur behaved like a reckless and
abusive ass, that should be placed on record. Where
people’s savings and reputations are concerned, the
Senate cannot afford to let one of its members behave
like a reckless and abusive ass and go unreproved.
The Premiers Disagree.
The Sydney Premier’s suggestion that the States should
hand over income tax to the Commonwealth —it has
been a Bulletin suggestion for 20 years—got a poor
reception from the Melbourne, Adelaide and Bris-
bane Governments, and not wholly because of the
catch in it—which is that the Commonwealth would
be expected to find as much for N. S. Wales by its
one tax as N. S. Wales is finding by its two taxes.
The Dunstan-Cains were quite nasty about it:
Mr. Mair’s scheme might suit States with high
taxation, like his own. States that have been careful
to avoid large deficits would then have to suffer for
having guarded the interests of their own taxpayers,
would be forced to pay for the extravagances of States
not so wisely governed.
Two-thirds of Victoria’s revenue, it was said, came
from income tax —£6,400,000 out of £10,500,000 —and
under the Mair scheme Victorians would have to pay
more for maintenance of State services and be taxed
to pay for the deficits of other States. “The small
amount of extra war revenue received, which would
be only a few millions, would not be worth the
upheaval” which would follow.
This calm dismissal of big money as “only a few
millions” is one of the reasons why the average State
taxpayer becomes periodically maddened with State
government. As for the “upheaval,” it is doubtful if
it would be felt anywhere outside Cabinet rooms in
State capitals. Certainly the taxpayer would find the
business of making returns simplified, and he would
not be taxed on taxes. And those drawing income
from more than one State would no longer be bled
by two provincial Governments on the same income.
Mr. Cooper, the Queensland Treasurer, also
allowed himself a gibe at the Sydney Government’s
“unfortunate increase in its deficit and the extremities
to which it has to go to extricate itself,” and signified
that he preferred to leave it to stew in its own juice.
Mr. Playford, of Adelaide, isn’t giving anything
away. His State’s policy is to be kept a dark secret
until the Premiers’ Conference, He can see nothing
new in Mr. Mair’s proposal.
That proposal—without the catch—must be
adopted sooner or later. Unfortunately for Mr. Mair
he is still carrying the baby left on his doorstep by
the wizard of Delhi and none of his fellow-Premiers
likes the look of the child. All the same, it is neces-
sary for Australia that, according to range of incomes,
income tax should be the same everywhere in Aus-
tralia, as it is the same everywhere in Britain, Maori-
land and South Africa, and selfish provincialism should
not be allowed to stand in the way.
Nutrition at Low Cost.
“Treq’s” meed of praise:
Ever since the pamphlet “Economy in Planning the
Family Dietary” was issued by the Commonwealth Depart-
ment of Health from the Institute of Anatomy at Canberra, it
has been assaulted by critics from all sides, not the least
being the Queensland Trade-unions’ Advisory Committee,
which describes it as “rather an insult to the intelligence
of the working-class housewife.”
To me .^ le P arn Phlet offered a way out of the problem
created by increased commodity prices and heavier taxation,
ri ,i ai ~ ow a famil y °f could be adequately fed on
£1 19s. 6d. a week. Of course, I found some difficulty in
obtaining 3flb. legs of mutton at 7d. per lb., 20 oranges at Is.
a dozen, fish at Bd. per lb. and so forth, but persistence had
its own reward and I finally secured the commodities. The
fact that I had to spend 3s. 2d. in fares getting to the right
places can be dismissed as merely incidental. There was also
the painful development at the first meal, when the family
fell on the 3flb. of mutton and wiped it out at once, but I
firmly pointed out that it was supposed to last a week and
warned them against any repetition.
My wife openly sneered at my efforts and muttered things
about being better off on the dole, but I reminded her that
it was war-time and I was determined to do my best. More-
over, I pointed out what every married man knows, i.e., that
no woman has any idea of running a home by method and
system. Though she retorted that this remark wasn’t
original, that probably it was being passed in the days of
the Apostles, I replied that its truth remained.
After some weeks on the new diet my eldest son showed
its beneficial effects by getting himself a job, with keep, on a
farm out west. My eldest daughter’s charm was so increased
that she got married. My wife went to New Zealand. The
three smaller children have been arrested by the Child Welfare
Department and charged with malnutrition, and I am on the
point of signing a contract with Firth’s Circus to go on circuit
as the “Thinnest Man in the World.”
Thus the diet has given me freedom, a good job, a chance
to see the world and the first real happiness I’ve known. Of
course, I get a bit peckish now and then, but that is a minor
discomfort. I hereby signify my unqualified support of the
pamphlet.
Orders from Moscow.
“It is said that I take my orders from Stalin. I plead
guilty.”— Harry Pollitl, head of the British Communist party,
in London on April 3, 1940.
The Australian Communist party adopted and printed
the programme of the Communist International as its
constitutional base. One paragraph in this lengthy
document reads:
In the U.S.S.R. the world proletariat for the first
time acquires a country that is really its own.
And the country is expanding. There were taken
to Stalin’s bosom last year the little States of Estonia,
Latvia and Lithuania. They were solvent and pros-
perous and had favorable trade balances, even labor
shortages.
First, Stalin grabbed “defensive” military and
naval bases “to secure the safety of the Soviet Union
and consolidate the independence of the Baltic States.”
The peoples of the Baltic States were told in
October, 1939, that the changes “in no way affected
the sovereign rights of the contracting parties, their
political structure, social and economic system, or
military measures.”
But their national Governments were heaved out,
under Soviet Union threats, and new ones adaptable to
the “new order” were inducted. These “Governments”
introduced the death penalty for sabotage—sabotage
covering everything from making a face at a Red
soldier to reading a church paper—-legalised the Com-
munist party, which had been outlawed in all three
States, and disbanded the volunteer defence forces and
police, the visiting Red Army taking over their duties.
It became expedient to hold elections. So
Vyschinsky, the prosecutor who has talked thousands
into the liquidation chambers, went to Latvia ;
Dekanosov, the Moscow Under-Secretary for Foreign
Affairs, to Lithuania, and Zhdanov, one of the
Moscow “Big Four,” to Estonia, accompanied by huge
staffs from the Moscow college in which Australian
Communists have done a training course. “The Work-
ing People’s Union” was formed to run the elections.
All candidates came from this body. All others were
denied nomination on the ground that they were
“enemies of the people.” Candidates to a man de-
clared that, though the Soviet system would be intro-
duced, the Baltic States would “retain their indepen-
dence.” At Riga the tender-hearted Vyshinsky cried
“Long live free Latvia!”
The elections were held on July 15, 1940. Each
voter had to bring his passport, which was stamped—
passports are necessary to “free” Russianised peoples
on their own soil. The elector’s name was written on
the back of his ballot paper, so that history would
know whether he was a sabotager. And the Working
People’s Union party got 100 per cent, support.
On July 21 the three “Parliaments” met, sang
“The Internationale” and voted their “independent”
peoples into the Soviet Union. The Communist party
took over the sovereign power. Within a few days,
ex-Ministers, their wives and families, M.Ps., party
leaders and others disappeared. Hundreds of people
of less note were struck down in the prime of health.
Measures taken since have included socialisation
of industries (the “borjoice” Governments owned
more than half the shares in most of the big ones);
confiscation of all farms over 75 acres ; conversion of
all banks into branches of the Moscow State bank ;
confiscation of private jewellery and valuables ; limi-
tation of the right of purchase of all types of goods
to persons presenting passports ; introduction of the
death penalty in the civil service for persons failing
to perform their duties properly during the change-
over to a Communist personnel; a ban on societies
fostering friendship with Britain ; expulsion of British
nationals, after expropriation ; prohibition of the
broadcasting of national songs ; complete closing of
the frontiers; conversion of railway lines into the
Russian broad gauge ; adoption of Soviet time ; com-
pulsory teaching of Russian in schools ; and diversion
of deep-sea shipping to Murmansk.
Resolutions expressing the joy “of the liberated
peoples” and their “gratitude to the great Stalin, the
father of nations,” sometimes reach the outside world
via Moscow Radio.
Six a Shilling.
Mr. H. L. Anthony, who came from the banana
country of northern N. S. Wales to become M.H.R.
for Richmond, and then Assistant Minister for Com-
merce, seems to have been handed a restless baby in
the Commonwealth apple and pear acquisition scheme.
He was heard announcing from Canberra the
other day that “any attempt to frustrate the work of
the Apple and Pear Board would not be tolerated.”
He assured retailers that if they bought fruit from
“unauthorised sources” they would be prosecuted. The
1941 scheme, he claimed, meant reasonable returns
to the growers, and regular supplies at reasonable
rates to consumers.
A lot of the growers, particularly in Victoria, dis-
agree with him. There has been a constant simmer
of discontent and a group of Mornington peninsular
growers has come out with an “emphatic protest”
against the rate of compensation for unscheduled
varieties. Meantime another peninsular group was
reading advice from the N.S.W. Fruitgrowers’ Defence
League that it intended to test the validity of the
acquisition scheme. And the N.S.W.F.D.L. has
issued a warning that the taxpayers will be up for
another big deficiency (last year’s was reckoned at
£750,000) if the present scheme goes on.
In Sydney shops there are no pome fruits at less
than Id. each and plenty are charging 2d. The old
difficulty of obtaining fresh fruit in the back country
is as pronounced as ever. There is no doubt that Aus-
tralians will eat good fruit if they can get it; but
many families can’t afford the prices charged. Between
that fact and the demands of the growers lies Mr.
Anthony’s problem. He might get somewhere if he
could persuade the growers to drop their sectionalism
and get together on a scheme to make their produce
available to all Australia at reasonable prices.
Hands Across the Sea.
“Put your trust in us. We shall not fail or falter;
we shall not weaken or tire.”— Churchill to Roosevelt.
Over the seas a hail,
Words with the glow of fire:
Whosoever assail,
Whatsoever transpire,
“We shall not falter or fail.
We shall not weaken or tire.”
Firm as our fathers were,
Leal to our far-flung line,
All in one task may share,
All in one faith combine.
There is the pledge and there
Password and countersign.
Over the seas a call,
Drawing our nations nigher;
Though deadlier days befall
And the nights bring tolls more dire,
Resolute, one and all,
We shall not falter or tire.
Over the world a wire,
Telling anew the tale,
Swelling the message higher:
Until the right prevail
We shall not weaken or tire,
We shall not falter or fail.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“E.V.”: It is a serious offence against
naval tradition to call for “Three
cheers for the captain” when the crew
is present to be honored as well —far
more serious than cheering a football
captain and ignoring the team —but it was
done in Sydney last week. It brought
no reproof such as I once heard at a
municipal swarry at which an admiral
was the guest. “It must be a proud
thing, fellow-citizens,” droned the
Mayah, “to be in a position in which
you are saluted by every man of the
British Navy wherever you meet him.”
Whereat the Old Sea Dog interrupted
sotto voce —but not too sotto voce :
“Yes, and it’s a proud thing for every
bandylegged something in the purple
Navy to have the right to be saluted by
every bloody admiral he meets.”
* * * *
“Craiser”: “F.Q.’s” account (B.
5/2/’4l) of the doctrine of Jehovah’s
Witnesses isn’t complete, the way I heard
it. As far as I could gather from the
member of the sect who explained it to
me on my doorstep, God’s kingdom is
on this earth, and after the final cataclysm
the risen dead and the saved will enjoy
an eternity of felicity on this planet, sin
having been banished. “Will there be
marriage amongst the immortals?” 1
asked him. “Certainly there will be,” he
answered. “And begetting of children?”
“Yes.” “And will the children enjoy the
boon of immortality like their parents?”
He couldn’t see any reason why they
shouldn’t. Leaving out of consideration
the millions of the risen, I made a swift
calculation and suggested that in a
couple of hundred years mankind would
be standing ten deep on each other’s
shoulders. He had evidently never con-
sidered this aspect of the question and
gently suggested I should buy one of the
books he carried in his satchel in which
I would find an answer to every question.
Then he went away to ask Judge Ruther-
ford about it.
“The R.E.”: Evidence in a Queensland
case against Jehovah Witnesses showed
that the Australian, irrespective of
creed, is still Australian and likely to
revert to the national idiom under
stress. A policeman stated that after
a mix-up between a police car
and a truck and between police
and J.Ws., one allegedly armed with
an axe, an elderly J.W. approached, wav-
ing his arms and crying “Jehovah God,
I am proud of the damage you have done
to these hierarchy blankards!” It re-
minds me of Tom, a southern plumber
who became converted and was called
upon to testify in one of those mission
tents frequently seen on spare suburban
allotments. “Are you washed? Are you
clean?” demanded the evangelist, using
the allegorical terms. Tom reddened.
“ ’Course I am,” he snapped back ; “do
y’ think I’d come ’ere in me new clobber
Without ’avin’ a bloody bath?” It en-
tirely destroyed the sanctity of the occa-
sion.
“T.”; An Australian Mayor has evi-
dently seen too many news-reel pictures
of Franklin Roosevelt. Unconsciously,
perhaps, he has fallen into the habit of
imitating the Roosevelt gestures and
oratorical style. He also essays the
Roosevelt smile, with painful results;
for the President smiles easily, the Mayor
with difficulty. In one respect his Wash-
up is trying to improve on his model.
In no news-reel has Roosevelt ever been
heard to sing. The Mayor rather fancies
himself as a warbler, and being near —
too near —a microphone he burst into
song when a band struck up a popular
ditty. He has a high-pitched voice, and
he was off the note ; and the effect was
harrowing.
sfc ♦ * *
“S.T.S.”: Novelists can find a ready-
made plot in a recent S.A. Criminal
Court case. The charge was perjury. A
woman separated from her husband had
sworn, in getting a decree nisi, that there
had been no practical attempts at recon-
ciliation. A lady barrister who defended
her very ably said that a man who
had been “pestering her with attentions”
was aware of the defendant’s mild per-
jury and gave her the choice of coming
to him or being given away to the police ;
after “suffering more than from any term
of imprisonment,” plus a nervous break-
“ I'm sure they didn't air this suit It feels damp!"
down, defendant preferred the police.
The husband stated in court that they
had come together again, and that the
separation had been mainly his fault.
The Court with some hesitation released
the woman on bond.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Carlton (Melbourne) police
got an urgent ’phone call the other
evening informing them that a fracas was
in progress in their suburb, that dozens
of people were desperately fighting and
that the casualties could be expected to
be numerous. They rushed to the scene
with civil ambulances in pursuit and,
stalking a house, found it already full of
peaceful policemen. The astonished
Johns were giving a jolly farewell to
a popular sergeant.
5)! * * *
“Hamer”: A mild reflection about
what has become of the “S. M. Herald’s”
“miniature editions” was brought to me
by the paper’s centennial splash. The
introduction of photographic reproduc-
tion made the midget productions pos-
sible ; and Granny brought out a small
replica of its own Commonwealth
Inauguration issue on January 1, 1901,
which sold by the hundred thousand.
That success inspired a similar reprint of
the “Herald’s” sixtieth anniversary issue
the same year ; repetitions have become
almost a habit. How many of these
midget papers now remain of the hun-
dred thousands sold? My resolve, like
that of all the other purchasers, was to
keep the copies I secured as mementoes
of historic occasions; but the resolution
soon went. In the depression period an
acquaintance announced with some ex-
citement that he had turned up amongst
his preserved treasures many copies of
the first 1901 venture and some others
which he intended to convert into cash,
His effort brought him nothing but deep
disappointment. Age has apparently
given the mementoes no value, although
those kept must be very rare indeed.
‘
“Brunser”: A really serious threat to
the war effort arose in Melbourne the
other day when a number of shirtraakers
went on strike. For a while it looked as
though the thing might spread, stopping
all shirt-making in the country. Stocks
in stores are not high, and possibly would
have been rushed, if not cornered by the
wily, and Melbourne might have been
forced to face the coming winter without
a shirt. In one way this might have done
much to stop Sydney growls about
centralising war work in the south, for it
is certain that the War Cabinet could
never have endured a Melbourne winter
nnshirted
•'•• • - •
“Colonel Bungstarter”: In his early
days of power Hitler issued an edict re-
quiring all makers of shirts to build their
goods 2in. shorter than the usual length
in front and behind. The reason given
was that of saving material in the in-
terests of national economy, but any man
who has ever had to endure a too-short
shirt will realise that the real underlying
purpose was to create in every German
male of shirt-wearing ages an inferiority
complex combined with intense subcon-
scious exasperation and a strong ten-
dency to sadistic violence. The loftiest
of characters cannot withstand the
demoralising effect of a practically tail-
less shirt, its unsightly ruckings-up at
the waist band, the chilly results of its
withdrawal in the rear, and the disturb-
ing button-complex inevitably created by
its steady climb in front. Regard closely
any picture of any gathering of Hitler’s
beshirted minions and you will read in
their anxious eyes the furtive desire to
seek such privacy as will permit them to
shove their shirts down.
* * * *l»
“K.P.”: The town of Childers (C.Q.)
has acquired a definite place for itself on
the world’s map of obstetrical oddities.
A young wife, herself a twin, was ad-
mitted to the maternity hospital. On
January 31 her first child was born;
two days later it was followed by
a second. They were premature
infants, but both did well. The odds
against twins are about 96 to 1 for all
births, though somewhat reduced in this
case by the fact of the mother being
one. A delay of two days before the
birth of a second twin is extremely rare,
but the odds against twins being born at
such an interval in separate months begin
to approach stratospheric figures.
* * * *
“Snatcher”: As General I. G. Mackay
pushes round Libya with his Australians
I wonder if he ever recalls the thrilling
moment when, with Colonel Stevens, he
walked up Dead Man’s-road at Pozieres
in July, 1916, to the junction of the
main road to plan the advance and in-
struct company commanders, and stood
surveying the scene. That corner was
under almost constant shell-fire, the
battle itself was still being fought, nerves
were taut and anxiety mounting when a
panting messenger stumbled over the
broken ground and handed Mackay a
message marked “Urgent and secret.”
Hurriedly ripping it open Mackay read:
“A number of cases have lately occurred
of men failing to salute the Army Corn-
mander when passing in his car, in spite
of the fact that his car carries his flag
on the bonnet. This practice must
cease.” Slowly and sadly Mackay and
Stevens went back to their headquarters.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Elimination of Mel-
bourne s slums has its difficulties The
Housing Commission recently decided o
demolish 130 condemned shanties n
North Melbourne and replace hem with
modern dwellings. Immedia y
was an uproar. House-agents complained
of interference with their busi . ,
tenants complained of inhuman treatment
by the Government, inasmuch as ey
had been given only 30 days to qui . e
fact js that slums are better commercia
propositions than properties in °° ra
or the outer suburbs. Value of one shack
was assessed at £3O. The landlord drew
15s. a week. In another case four houses
had changed hands for £144. Rents
totalled £96 p.a,
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: At first sight, Mr. Bumbles
terse and scathing description of English
law would seem to be justified by a recent
case in which a widow proceeded against
herself and was awarded £659 damages,
In reality it was based on complete corn-
monsense. Her six-year-old son had been
killed in a car accident, his father being
the driver. The father had held a car-
insurance policy protecting him against
claims for accidents to passengers, and
the company had disputed a claim lodged
on behalf of the boy. As administratrix of
her son’s estate inherited under his late
father’s unaltered will she therefore sued
the administratrix of her late husband’s
estate—herself—and won her case. In
her latter capacity she was, of course, a
nominal defendant only, and the com-
pany was obliged to fulfil her responsi-
bility to herself in the former capacity by
paying the damages awarded against her.
All perfectly plain and simple when you
know the circumstances.
* * * *
“Zake”; I imagine that the ultimate
in ecstasy for the average Yankee tabloid
reporter would be to be right on the spot
at a railway accident where the victim
had been cut completely in half, and to
have his rapid-fire questions as to what
it felt like to be pulped by the engine
wheels answered by the still-animate top
half of the corpse. One of the tribe
interviewed Marshal Petain at Vichy, and
the syndicated result of his “grilling” of
that weary and harassed old man was
splashed around the globe. Let us
listen in:
We talked first of France’s defeat. I
asked his opinion of published theories
concerning the possibility on June 7 last
of continued French resistance in North
Africa as an alternative to the Armistice.
To this probe at a wound to the spirit
of the Victor of Verdun came the reply:
Discussion at this stage as to whether
it could or should have been attempted can
surely have no more than historical interest.
The Frenchman is ever polite. Plain as
a pikestaff, the old warrior meant “what
the hell’s the use of asking such a stupid
question now?” but even that shaft must
have fallen blunted from the scribe’s
pachydermatous hide. At long last, after
his tortuous catechism had ended, “he
said good-bye. There was a Minister
waiting. Doubtless there were more
worries for the Chief. But the Chief likes
it.” And then the Chief’s chief worry
pocketed his notebook and/‘scrammed.”
THE GREAT CHARTER.
“Magna Carta, as amplified for our modern
democracy, may be held to require that news, as well
as justice, shall not be denied or delayed to any
man.”— “S. M. Heraldchafing at London censor-
ship.
When barons forced from John, that tyrant-
king,
The Charter of our rights at Runnymede,
Those rights to which tenaciously we cling
As solemnly and safely guaranteed,
It’s clear they couldn’t think of everything.
In days when few could either write or read
And print was non-existent, who could guess
At such an institution as The Press?
They laid it down no freeman be denied
Swift, unbought justice, trial by his peers
And several other benefits beside,
Preserved unchanging through the changeful
years,
Which John would certainly have modified
Had he not feared those belted mutineers.
But nowhere is there hint of any views
About the sturdy freeman’s right to news.
News! What to that baronial brotherhood
Was news? The very word they couldn’t
know,
The men between the banks of Thames who
stood
And set their sprawling signatures arow,
Making a king concede then what they would
Some seven centuries and more ago.
How might they feature news, in times ahead,
As patent a necessity as bread?
So, brothers, let us amplify the Great
Charter and deck it in more modern dress,
Bringing it reasonably up-to-date,
Stressing the sacred right we all possess
To have our mental tucker, swift and straight
All hot, despite the censors, from the press,
With one proviso only, you’ll admit.
Viz., the ability to pay for it.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Wodgil”: The most impressive
speakers I have heard over the air these
last few months —more so than any-
one in the 8.8. C. stable —are Austra-
lians : Peter Russo, the Ballarat-born
Professor of Modern Languages at
Tokyo University, and Captain Collins,
of H.M.A.S. Sydney. Peter, I am told,
was not at his best, but he con-
trived to be exceptionally interesting
for all that. Captain Collins spoke at
Sydney Town Hall and said what he
wanted to say ; and he said it in crisp
sentences, racily descriptive, humorous,
modest as to the cruiser’s performances,
just to the companion services and gener-
ous to the enemy—a perfect model of
a speech on such an occasion. Captain
Collins was educated at the Christian
Brothers’ College in East Melbourne.
The Brothers must have done a very
good job.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: If a philologist wants to
write a learned thesis let him take some
music-hall joke and trace it back to its
primitive origins, though he would prob-
ably have to write a library about it. Re-
reading Maupassant’s Sur L’eau I came
across the story told by an English com-
mercial traveller on the French Riviera
of the English feminist, addressing a meet-
ing, who ends her peroration by remark-
ing that, after all, there is a very little
difference between a man and a woman.
“Hurrah for the little difference! ” shouts
a male voice in her audience. A couple
of hours later I was sitting in the Mel-
bourne Tivoli and heard the eminent Mo
trot out the same jest.
♦ * * •
“Mac Hoots”: It is being told of one
of Sydney’s black-and-white artists, a
tribe prone to grand and fantastic
gestures, that, arriving home in that state
of mind when roaring
battle is more welcome
than otherwise, he found
his landlord on the
premises: a wonderful
opportunity for venting a
grievance if only he had
one. He remembered the
ice-chest. It had been
leaking for weeks. “Don’t
you think you better fix
that colorful ice-chest?”
he demanded. Landlord
rejoined that the ice-chest
had been in good con-
dition when the flat was
let, and it was the tenant’s
place to fix it. “If you
don’t fix the colorful thing
I’ll pitch the colorful thing
in the colorful harbor!”
threatened the artist. The
landlord refused point-
blank to fix it and went
off to a paler atmosphere.
The artist reflected. As a
man of honor there was
only one thing he could
do. He shouldered the
ice-chest, marched down
to the ferry wharf and, to
the great interest of the
onlookers, heaved the
offending box into the
water. As he was stalking
away he thought he heard
a snigger. He turned,
thrust out his jaw and
fixed the sniggerer with an indignant eye.
“What’s so colorful funny?” he wanted
to know. Nobody enlightened him.
“Adelaide”; Judge
Cleland, of S.A., has
given another of his
commonsense judg-
ments. Two men
had been fined a
nominal 10s., with
10s. costs, for having
“exercised a lottery'
contrary to the laws
of the State that
licenses betting-
shops. It was a foot-
ball-club affair, with
threepenny tickets,
to raise funds for a
country trip. On an
appeal by the Crown
that the fines were
inadequate and even
“contemptuous,” the
Judge said it was
“rbout the same
pen y as imposed
on a certain lady”
(the Countess of
Bective) “who en-
gaged in a lottery
for the Red Cross.
Is there any appeal
in that case? No.
These are poor men,
and the same penalty
is to them infinitely
greater.” His Honor
then referred to “a
cricket club in my
day, sixpence in and
the winner shouts.”
Appeal dismissed.
“Feng-Shui”: Alor Star, in the Malay
States, where British troops are reported
to have assembled, is the capital of Kedah,
whose sultan was suzerain of Siam when
Captain Light, father of the founder of
Adelaide, was acquiring Penang for the
East India Company without its know-
ledge. Captain Light left his mark on
the Malay mind, there being still a
popular song about him. One of his
legendary devices for settling his island,
now one of the largest ports in
the Empire, was to fill a cannon with
silver dollars and fire them into the
jungle. In the search for the treasure
Chinese immigrants felled half the forest
cover. Kedah was absorbed into the
Malay States by negotiation. I was in
Alor Star when there were not more
than 30 white men in it. The English
club, of which they were all members,
had a unique custom. If any member
felt a desire to quench his thirst it was
a sacred obligation for him to shout
for everybody on the premises, including
strangers and native rajahs ; consequently
the flow of drink was practically con-
tinuous. Otherwise life was dull in
Kedah in those days, the only excite-
ment during my sojourn being a suicide
in the sultan’s harem and the decision
of a female elephant belonging to the
ruler to have a baby bang in the middle
of the main road between Alor Star and
Bangkok. As the period of labor for
elephants is a fortnight and the angry
bull was standing over the mother, traffic
had to be provided with a detour.
“El V.”: “Reynolds’s Newspaper,” a
London rag which is sometimes quoted
by the Sydney press as if it were the
oracle of Delphi, has just found itself
landed with verdicts for £350 each and
costs in actions brought by the three Sit-
wells, whose vogue the paper described as
“among the literary curiosities of the
nineteen-twenties.”
Now oblivion has claimed them, and they
are remembered with a kindly, if slightly
cynical, smile.
For the plaintiffs it was contended that
the article presented them as “persons
of no literary ability, whose arrogance
and conceit constituted their sole claim
to prominence.” “Reynolds’s” put for-
ward the astonishing plea that the
writers had started the action to gain
publicity, and their cross-examination was
based on this premise ; but when critics,
publishers, a novelist and booksellers
went into the box for the sister and
brothers, the defendant newspaper and
the critic who wrote the article did not
emulate their example, a fact which was
caustically commented on by the Judge.
It was “Reynolds’s” that picked out Aus-
tralia as a refuge for the mortally-ill Pope.
* * * *
“Bo” : A protest, solemnly earnest but
sadly at variance with reality, made by
the Auckland Scotchbyterian conference
after hearing the dreadful tidings that
44,000 gallons of beer had been dis-
patched to Maoriland troops in the
Middle East, will raise a good-humored
grin from old and new Diggers. Especially
the two reasons adduced, viz., “that
liquor would weaken the men in the face
of danger and shipping space should be
conserved for necessities.” Doubtless the
elders of the kirk visualise kegs strung
along the front-line trench every few
yards, with a bibulous sar’-major liberally
“Come on, make up y'r mind!”
“Cad, Prendergast, these barracouta'll bite at anything!
ladling out the foaming amber to troops
who, too shot (metaphorically) to dis-
tinguish a Bren gun from a pull-through,
hop up recklessly on the bags and wave
tin hats full of beer at the goggle-eyed
wops opposite. Admittedly, a swig of
something strong, like rum, taken a few
minutes before zero hour, has been
known to have quite a demoralising effect
on the troops. But the troops were those
who had to face the charge of the
i-diddle-durmsoaked ones. And the in-
ference that beer is not a necessity will
raise a loud horselaugh from the Black-
shirt-chasers.
* * * ♦
“Sarah Sands”: The usually-staid Mel-
bourne suburb of Brunswick has been
given an exhibition by a modern Spring-
heeled Jack. He was chased by a man
in a car. Rumor spread that the quarry
was one of the escaped German internees
(they were captured 80 miles from the
internment camp after having been away
for a week) and more people took up
the hunt. The quarry jumped a
locked gate, then scaled a higher
one, tore through a backyard and
leaped another gate, then jumped two
fences to find himself facing the hunters.
He promptly doubled back, jumped a
couple more fences, scaled another, raced
up a street, jumped another fence, tore
along and cleared some
more fences. He slowed down to ask an
official at the vaccine depot the time, got
it and departed again as the crowd sighted
him. He hasn’t been seen since.
* * * *
“C.R.”: The holder of the blue
ribbon among habitual offenders turned
up at the Coburg (Vic.) police court the
other day when a man was charged with
having been found drinking methylated
spirits and warning passers-by that Hitler
would be here in the morning. A con-
stable stated that this was the prisoner’s
60th conviction, the first being in 1885!
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.” sighs for the good old
days;—
The N.S.W. capital is an unusually pic-
turesque place today but has never equalled
since then the delightful aspect it presented
from the harbor in the first three months of
its existence. Sydney Cove was the most
attractive of the many inlets of Port Jackson,
and in its natural condition, before January 25,
1788, must have been very lovely. The little
creek —the best Phillip, Hunter and Bradley
could find in their first hasty exploration of the
harbor’s coastline —“silently stole along through
a very thick wood” down the valley, and its
banks were shaded by tall gum-trees. Some
of them were very big—the “Sydney Gazette,”
recording in August, 1803, that working parties
of soldiers had just levelled out the streets
of the township, says: “They have removed
from their places of nativity 32 stumps of
trees, many of which were of monstrous bulk.
One in particular deserves remark. Its cir-
cumference measured nine yards and employed
16 men six days to loosen and bury it in a
gulph that was necessarily prepared on the
spot in which it grew.” On the right, as you
came into the Cove, a fairly level ledge about
200 feet wide ran back from the waterside and
was walled by a rugged and rocky hill —“The
Rocks” —extending from Dawes Point to where
Grosvenor-street came later, continuing south-
ward with a more even contour. On the left
were cliffs above the shore, which merged into
another hill towards the south. From each
side of the valley the land sloped gently to the
banks of the rivulet. And set among the timber
in orderly array were the gleaming white
tents and little huts of tree-fern that were the
first Sydney. But in those days its title was
“The Camp, Sydney Cove.”
STAB IN THE BACK.
“The use of coemetics and nail polish by women’s
auxiliary services has been restricted.”
They were natty and neat in their uniforms
gay, . .
And they aided their charms in the feminine
way
With warpaint and polish unending.
But their loveliness pleased not the Powers
That Be,
And upon the poor dears, like a tempest at
sea,
The commandment fell cold and unbending;
“There’s no need for a soldier to seem what
she ain’t,
So go easy, you girls, with the powder and
paint.”
By blazing sun and teeming sky
Their splendor had been unconfounded;
Their paint was fresh, their powder dry.
No stint of pigmentation bounded
Encrimsoned nail or black-lashed eye . , .
Until that dreadful edict sounded.
With incredulous ears the Amazons heard.
And in column of threes they blenched at the
word
(Though the powder and paint hid their
blenches).
They shuddered, as men would have shuddered
to hear,
In that Britain of oldj fearless Boadicenr
Declare to her warrior wenches;
“There’s no need for the army to paint d la
mode.
So go easy, me gals, with the ochre and woad! ”
Now they must keep the bitter law
That tolls both Art and Beauty’s knell,
And one, obsendng face and paw,
Will find henceforth the martial belle
No longer red in tooth and claw,
But merely pink—an naturel.
N.S.W.
P. M. L.


CRAVEN A *. *
10 for 10«>.
20 for 1/8
E
SPECIALLY
PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
No doubt the cry of “Wolf!” lately
heard in Australia was based on a
genuine conviction that the verbal dust
on the horizon was raised by an animal
of some sort. All the same, it would be
well for politicians to make dead sure
of it before giving way to their alarm,
otherwise people may take a lot of
convincing if the real thing should come
howling along the back fence.
Going into the War Cabinet room with
General Sturdee, the Minister for the
Army was asked whether he had “any
further developments to report.”
Mr. Spender stopped and said: “There
is a tendency to think that everything is
going to collapse about our ears. It is
rather important to keep one’s head on
such occasions as this.”
That was Percy having his tit-for-tat with
Artie.
Sydney’s Macquarie-street circus wasn’t
going to be left out of last week’s carni-
val of calamity-howling. The ringmaster
called a special meeting of the troupe on
Friday and ordered all hands to prepare
for action. Said action included the
“commandeering of transport” (“cars
and trucks will be used for transport of
men and equipment, while motor-cycles
will be engaged in the carriage of dis-
patches”). It’s a pity the populace missed
the spectacle of State officials rushing in
all directions while the Commonwealth
defence authorities tried to straighten
things out. It might have brought home
to many the sort of thing that is apt
to happen in a real emergency with seven
different Governments trying to run the
show.
“If,” says Sydney “Sun,” “danger
threatened Australia in the immediate
future, it is considered certain that a
move would be made by the State Gov-
ernment to postpone the elections.” It
should also be considered certain that
in the face of real danger the Federal
Cabinet would assume full control and
order the State futilities to shut up shop
for the duration, which ought to have
been 'one months ago.
True to his promise when stepping
down from the High Court Bench that he
would help Australia’s war and post-war
efforts in any way he could, Dr. Evatt
has agreed to assist the Government in
“special war work,” and so has that good
fellow Ben Chifley. Acceptance of their
appointments drew a yelping protest from
the ill-conditioned Ward, so they must be
doing the right thing.
Exit, per bullet, jn a Washington pub
bedroom, General Krivitsky, alias Poref,
alias Ginsberg, who ferreted out the facts
about Stalin’s crawl to Hitler and pre-
dicted the Nazi-Com. “pact” six months
before it was signed. Whether he shot
himself to save his family from “liqui-
dation” or was plugged by a Soviet killer
has not been established. The indefati-
gable Dies is on the trail.
Under the new petrol restrictions users
of cars for pleasure are reduced from
4000 to 3000 miles a year. All existing
coupons become worthless after March
31, and after that coupons will be issued
in two-monthly periods. Apparently there
has been an effort by motor owners to
save petrol—a great many of the coupons
issued have not been used —but, even
allowing for this, reduction in consump-
tion under the present system is not more
than 20 per cent., and 33£ per cent, is
needed. Sporadic efforts are being made
to promote the use of producer gas, so
far with unimpressive results, though it
is no fault of the gas.
A general election is due in Maoriland
in October or thereabouts, and parties
are picking their candidates as if the idea
of postponement had never entered any-
one’s head. But if the Government thinks
that the war situation warrants a post-
ponement it can point to a perfectly good
precedent furnished by the other side.
The 1914 election was held on Dec. 10
and there was not another till December
19, 1919. Actually, there were two post-
ponements, each based on special legis-
lation.
Britain is turning savagely on Commu-
nists and near-Coms. Saying that Pritt,
K.C., represents neither the Labor party,
which put him in, nor more than an in-
significant minority of the electors, North
Hammersmith Laborites have demanded
his resignation from the Commons. And
Gallacher, the Scottish Com., who had
the face to ask for “a committee to in-
quire into the personnel and member-
ship” of the House, got a crushing answer
from the P.M., who said that if such a
committee were formed it would “have
to inquire into the evil of the selection
of candidates who may be pawns and
ANOTHER DOCTORS’ DILEMMA.
utensils in the hands of foreign organisa-
tions.” “Pawns and utensils”—superb!
Curtin made an excellent speech at the
A.W.U. convention, and seems to have
been equally effective in addressing the
N.S.W. State Labor members, though
what he said to them wasn’t reported.
The man from Fremantle delighted the
A.W.U. men by denouncing “the stupid
frivolity of the leisured class,” meaning
in particular photographed fools of both
sexes who hang round flash Sydney jazz
joints. He pointed out that, while these
imbeciles seem to have more time for
guzzling than ever before, the men in the
factories and workshops have to sacrifice
a lot of their home life, and he dwelt on
the feelings of the dog-tired artisan who
reads in some gloating sheet what “social-
ites” have paid for their hats and frocks,
and what a glorious time Johnny This
and Sissy That had at Spagoni’s. Old-
union men cheered, but cockerel-and-
flapper rags were annoyed, and one
showed temper —though it took care not
to mention the cause.
What U.A.P. papers called “the im-
provement in State finances” continues.
For seven months to the end of January
excess of expenditure over revenue was
a mere £2,519,100. From the fact that
Canberra agreed to finance another
£694,000 of deficit it is augured that a bit
more may be shaved off wages tax, and,
with stacks of loan money available,
doubtful electorates anticipate lavish
spending before the general election. But,
with McKell and Lang united once more
and the Hands Off Russia boys in eclipse,
A.L.P. prospects have improved much
more than the State finances.
Sometimes these sensational rags bowl
themselves out. At the foot of a column
of Ominous News from the East, a
Sydney flapper-paper mentioned that
war-risk insurance rates between the
U.S.A. and Australia via the Cape had
been reduced.
In Washington last week there was a
scene without parallel in the history of
war. The Senate’s Foreign Affairs
Committee was taking evidence on the
Lend-or-Lease Bill, and before it ap-
peared Wendell Willkie, whose paternal
grandfather and grandmother were Ger-
man, with a stirring plea for aid to the
British —“send them five to ten destroyers
a month, reconditioned in United States
yards.” Following Willkie came “Little
Flower” La Guardia, the Italo-American
Mayor of New York, who was equally
eloquent in supporting “all-out aid to the
British people”—“when the epic of the
defence of their homeland is written it
will be the epic of civilisation, while the
names of Hitler and Mussolini will be
used only to denote a sort of mental dis-
order.” The greatest cause in which a
people ever fought could have no more
splendid justification.
In a Darlinghurst (Sydney) flat raided
by the police, two women and a man
were found sending Randwick odds by
’phone to s.p. bookmakers; and there
were five ’phones. Asked how it came
about that a lawbreaker (and tax-dodger)
could have so many ’phones installed in
a flat, a departmental boss coolly replied
that when such applications were made
no questions were asked. Wonderfully
convenient for lawbreakers (and tax-
dodgers), to say nothing of other people.
This is one feature of Commonwealth
administration which gives the Common-
wealth a bad name.
By placing Bob Semple in control of
Railways, Transport and Marine, Maori-
land Labor has set another useful
precedent for this Commonwealth, where
transport has so many bosses called
Ministers, Commissions, Boards and the
Lord knows what else. And Semple,
though a socialist, is not going to do
away with commercial road competition ;
“as long as private enterprise plays its
part,” he says, “there will be no inter-
ference.” In Australia there is nothing
else but interference, chiefly in the in-
terests of Government railway depart-
ments which are bankrupt, though they
never admit it.
All Queensland Labor Ms.L.A. who
faced selection ballots got through. There
was a lively interlude at Charters Towers
when somebody grabbed a bundle of
ballot papers and bolted. At Innisfail
the booth ran out of papers, and voters
had to extemporise on letter paper, their
votes being kept separate in case of chal-
lenge. The five defeated candidates at
East Toowoomba entered protests against
the winner on the score of canvassing.
He, for his part, protested against four
of them.
The N.S.W. Premier is a farmer, and
a good one. As such, he would never
think of starting one subdivision fence
until an earlier one was completed, nor
stop work on the seeding of one paddock
to begin on another. Yet his Govern-
ment is running a State littered with un-
finished jobs—the city railway, the Sandy
Hollow-Maryvale railway, the Sydney
water scheme, the Wyangala water scheme,
Circular Quay wharves, goods
yards and so forth ; a lot of
them halted on the plea that
there is no money to finish
them. Now it is to start a
traffic tunnel under King’s
Cross, on the ground that the
thing will serve as an air-raid
shelter.
Looking round Victoria,
Opposition-leader Hollway dis-
covered a State Labor Bureau
in Melbourne with 41 branches
in the suburbs and 175 in the
country, also a Commonwealth
labor office, with a “consider-
able staff,” to recruit labor for
munition works. So he fails
to understand the need for
Commonwealth inspectors of
labor in each State at £486 to
£664 a year, complete with
staffs. But Canberra is never
happier than when it is ap-
pointing inspectors. When
Blakeley lost his seat (Darling)
it named him an inspector to
“police awards.” Now there
is a flock of inspectors policing
awards.
Victoria’s Housing Commis-
sion decided to extend its re-
housing scheme to country
towns. Then it discovered that
what country towns needed
was inhabitants for their empty houses,
residents having drifted to the bloated
city. But it still thinks some of the larger
towns are in need of its largesse.
With Justice Davidson, of the N.S.W.
Supreme Court, as its chairman, the Com-
monwealth Coal Board is now part of the
landscape. It has power to control coal
supply, distribution, storage and use,
machinery and equipment and contracts.
It can order the supply of coal to any
person and order that person to accept
it. Its seven members include Nelson,
president of the Miners’ Union, Arm-
strong, president of the Combined Col-
liery Owners, and representatives of the
Ministry of Supply, the Department of
Commerce and the N.S.W. railways.
There is provision for compensation to
owners of property or plant requisitioned
by the board.
At the end of June, 1935, there were
81,845 registered unemployed in N.S.W.
At the end of December, 1940, there
were 28,583. And there was, of course,
a corresponding difference in the number
paying unemployed-relief tax, though it
isn’t called that now the Government
levying the fraudulent impost finds a new
fancy name for it every year or so.


'
mm*
I
j
M
m
m
m
mm
1
i|u|
if
■
■
m
m
m
m
%- .
mm
!»
■ . >: ■-...
%s
H
M
' *<■
: :
1
i
f f _ w
'jAe (yuiijaJji mhM
*ll
»r A
0 tanks, no guns, no armoured cars obey the order that issues today, for this is an order to a new
army, in a new front line.
It’s the army of the factories that responds. Men, women, youths, girls, who day in and day out
control the machines in Australia’s industrial plants that supply the essentials of war.
“The front line runs through the factories says Britain’s Prime Minister for this is a war of
national industrial strength against national industrial strength. Every man, woman and machine of
the nation is just as surely a weapon of total war as every soldier, gun and tank.
df
Today in the Yarra Falls Mills largest Textile Mills in
the Southern Hemisphere huge quantities of Australian
wools are being converted into fabric for the Empire’s
defence. This company is proud to believe that its organisa-
tion, its plant and equipment, its 1,550 employees are all
playing a great part in the most momentous effort in Australia’s
history. It is especially proud of the great effort displayed
by its personnel .... so apparent in the excellence of the
Yarra Falls materials.
YARRA FALLS
ABBOTSFORD, VICTORIA
L
T
D
MANUFACTURERS OF WORSTED FABRICS AND YARNS
W.J.H. 1303


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ~£1,230,000
Capital Issued •. • • 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up •• •• •• £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. •• •• 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE. W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
110 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
exchange business transacted.
&M
ds
THE SKY-WAYS ARE TODAY’S HIGHWAYS
Pre-war standards of efficiency and comfort are being
maintained by Empire flying boats on the air route
between Sydney and Durban, via Singapore, Palestine
and Egypt. A new regular service between New Zealand
and Sydney is operated by Tasman Empire Airways.
Travel Interstate . . . Inter-Dominion . . . throughout
the Empire ... in shipboard comfort at Airways
speed ... by Qantas Empire Airways.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
(Incorporated in Queensland)
SHPtL.Ii HOUSE, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. ’PHONE; 8W4481.
Also at BRISBANE and MELBOURNE.
Bookings at any recognised Travel Agency throughout Australia.
BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6% per £lOO
Minimum Premium £ 1/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
(Incorporated in New Zealand),
19-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
J. Harrison, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
PERSONAL ITEMS
Victorian State Ministers saw a sur-
prising thing in the bush on the ranges
near Marysville the other day—gum-
trees being turned into paper at the Aus-
tralian Paper Manufacturers’ factory in
a way that experts once said couldn’t be
done. The outfit employs a staff of 750.
Chairman of directors is Norman
Brookes, former world tennis champion,
who represented Australia in Davis Cup
contests nine times. Like his fellow-
sportsman, Lud Mayor Beaurepaire,
Brookes is a hefty man of business and
director of many companies.
Percy Jenkin, lately Chief Censor and
now Director of Information, is a jour-
nalist of varied attainments. He writes
verse, light and seri-
ous, and has been
right up the scale in
the “Herald” chain of
papers, ending up as
editor of the “News”
in Adelaide. A man
of tact, Jenkin has a
distinguishing lock of
white hair and an
appeasing manner.
Frosty-powed T. J.
Clyne, who becomes
first headmaster of
the newly-established
Newcastle (N.S.W.)
Technical High
School, which cost
over £450,000, was a
master at Sydney
Tech, and Fort-street
(Sydney) in the early
post-war years. He
was first headmaster
of Murwillumbah
High and West Kemp-
sey High. He’s a
graduate of Sydney
University.
A. H. O’Connor,
who has been ap-
pointed Crown Solici-
tor of N. S. Wales in
succession to J. E.
Clark, qualified as a
solicitor in 1911,
has been an officer
of the Department of Justice since 1914
and chief clerk since 1933. He is a son
of Richard Edward O’Connor, original
Senator, first Vice-President of the Execu-
tive Council and Justice of the High
Court.
Furled the banner for the last time at
Northcote (Vic.), William Edwin Blas-
kett. For 60 years he was in the service
of Salvation Army journalism, begin-
ning in London at 17, when General
Booth had just started printing the “War
Cry.” Blackett served the “Army” with
his pen in various countries before he
came to Melbourne.
H. T. Curtis, latest honorary Comforts
Fund commissioner to go abroad, is a
Melbourne man who has sons overseas—
Captain H. F. Curtis is in the 3rd Divi-
sion Signals and Flight-Lieut. V. Curtis
is in the R.A.A.F. The father served with
the 16th Lancers in the Boer War. In the
motor business for 25 years, he is vice-
president of the Chamber of Automotive
Industries and a director of Preston
Motors.
S.A. School of Mines, which had Lang-
don Bonython as chairman (and a per-
fectly efficient one) till he died at over
90, has now lost by resignation two more
veterans: George Jeffrey, who started
the school’s wool-classing department,
now grown into a big thing, and J. A. V.
Brown, who had for 15 years been chair-
man of finance. The new members are
H. T. M. Angwin, engineer-in-chief, and
R. M. Steele, an authority on commercial
and financial matters.
Captain John Augustine Collins, of
H.M.A.S. Sydney, was one of the first
graduates of the Australian Naval
College. He served with the Grand
Fleet in the last war, qualified as
a gunnery expert in 1923, did the
staff course at Greenwich 10 years
later and was executive commander of
H.M.A.S. Sydney for two years before
he became Director of Naval Intelligence
in 1937. Sydney’s business and public
world got to know him a little better
than the average deck officer when he
CAPTAIN COLLINS.
(Modelled by Frith.)
was the naval representative on the 150th
Anniversary Celebrations Committee. As
soon as war was in the offing, he was
marked as the obvious captain for
H.M.A.S. Sydney in view of his thorough
executive knowledge of her. When he
J ed his crew through the Sydney streets
last week on their ship s triumphal return
r °m the Mediterranean, he looked as if
he were enjoying the march itself like a
schoolboy on holiday; afterwards he
l° oked as if he were enjoying the speeches
as mu ch as a pleasant Sunday afternoon
In a Gestapo concentration camp. The
contrast provides the index to his char-
. Retired from the Commonweal h ser-
vice, and resting in Rockhampton (Q.), is
Barney Mcßryde, who for 27 years was
a driver on the East-West line between
Kalgoorhe and Port Augusta. He drove
the Ministerial party on the great occa-
non when the two ends were linked in
1917 and afterwards piloted the Dukes of
Windsor and Gloucester.
J. W. Bligh has completed 50 years
in the Ward Lock publishing concern,
whose Australasian G.H.Q. are in Mel-
bourne. Early in his career the office
staff consisted of Steele, the g.m. (whom
Bligh succeeded), Bligh, Willie Steele —
even then a rising organist—and a seven-
bob-a-week cub—since an Australian
editor for nearly quarter of a century, off
and on —who was sacked after a one-
round go with Willie, no hits or holds
barred. Ethel Turner, young, charming
and modest, was then the house’s stand-
by, and Bligh still hopes to discover a
writer of girls’ books as good, being one
of those inextinguishable optimists.
A special magistrate who has not heard
any court cases for 26 years is Robert
George Peake, general manager of the
S.A. Harbors Board, who will retire on
April 23. He was appointed an S.M.
while paymaster of the Palmerston and
Pine Creek railways in the Northern Ter-
ritory (then controlled by S.A.), and re-
tained the title when he transferred to
the harbors service in 1914 as port super-
intendent at Wallaroo. Peake became
accountant of the board in 1921, secre-
tary in 1924 and g.m. in 1935. Narra-
coorte was his birthplace.
Just been recommended to the N.Z.
University for an honorary degree of
Doctor of Literature, Maoriland-born
knight William Sinclair Marris. He was
educated at Wanganui and Canterbury
colleges and at Christ Church, Oxford.
Beginning his association with India in
1896, when he became an assistant magis-
trate, he was successively Governor of
Assam, 1921-22, Governor of the United
Provinces till 1926 and a member of the
Council of India. For a decade he has
been principal of Armstrong! College,
Newcastle-on-Tyne. In 1912 he published
an English translation, in verse, of the
Odes of Horace.
Guy Johnston, dead in M.L. at 68,
was a son of knight Charles Johnston, a
one-time Speaker of the Leg. Council.
Educated in England, he joined the
firm of Johnston and Co., Wellington,
founded by his grandfather, of which he
was managing director at the time of his
death. He was also a director of the
Wellington Publishing Co., owner of
the “Dominion.” For services in pro-
moting trade with the Dutch East Indies
he received the Order of Orange Nassau.
Johnston saw military service in the S.
African War and again in 1914-18.
Colonel Walter James Urquhart, who
takes over the Northern Command
(Queensland), was born in Melbourne 46
years ago. His father, F. C. Urquhart,
now dead, was a onetime Police Com-
missioner of Queensland, and served as
Administrator of the Northern Territory
from 1920 to 1926. The colonel has been
a professional soldier since he entered
the Royal Military College at 16.
He was on Gallipoli as a lieutenant in
1915, and was brigade major of the 3rd
Col W. J. URQUHART.
Light Horse at the capture of Damascus.
In the intervening years he has held
administrative posts in various cities.
Edmond John Hogan, Minister of Agri-
culture in Victoria since 1935, has been
E. J. HOGAN.
M.L.A. for Warrenheip since 1913, and
his long figure and curly hair are an in-
stitution in Spring-street. He was born
near Ballarat, and was a farmworker’ and
roadmaker in Victoria until 1904, when
he crossed over to W.A., becoming secre-
tary of the Goldfield Timber Workers’
Union. Elected for Warrenheip on what
was to have been merely a return trip,
he soon made his mark in Labor politics
and was one of the depression Premiers.
Hogan helped to pass the Premiers’
Plan, went to England, lost the
A.L.P. endorsement, was turfed out of
the Labor party because he refused to
repudiate the Premiers’ Plan, and landed
back into Ministerial office via the Coun-
try party. He is vitally interested in flax,
has a Gargantuan specimen pinned up in
the departmental lift, and has a farm at
Ballan, where he cultivates it. Has three
sons —two in the Army and one at col-
lege. Is 56.
Next “celebrity” conductor to be
brought to Australia by the A.B.C. is
Leslie Heward, who waves a baton over
Birmingham’s City Orchestra. He’s 43,
was destined for a musical career from
the outset, and up to 1917, when he
became music master at Eton, held vari-
ous appointments as organist. He suc-
ceeded Sir Adrian Boult in Birmingham
in 1930.
Roland Kelsey, dead in Adelaide after
a long illness, began and ended his career
as a journalist on the “Advertiser.” But
he had a long Westralian period as
daily-paper and “Hansard” reporter,
and was secretary to Dorrie Doo-
lette in the Bullfinch mine days.
After war service he returned to Adel-
aide. He was a fine tennis-player and
one of the pioneer team of S.A. to visit
Victoria, about 1895; Bowen, Baker
and Penfold Hyland were the others.
Appointed S.A.’s chief assessor of war
injuries, Keith Thorvald Alexander Bent-
zen is a native of Gulgong (N.S.W.), and
was a fire-insurance man in Sydney
before transferring to Adelaide in 192?
as manager of the Western Assurance
Co. In the 1914-18 war he enlisted at
18 and served on Gallipoli. Bentzen is
chairman of the Fire and Accident
Underwriters’ Association.
Frank Austin, dead at 71 in Melbourne,
was one of Victoria’s foremost pastoral-
ists and came of one of its oldest pioneer-
ing sheepbreeding families. His father
was Albert Austin, who founded Wan-
ganella. His four brothers all established
famous studs —Ernest at Booriyalloak,
Harry at Ewan Elwan, Arthur at Brin-
gagee and Albert at Bolac.


k !
r r.>J
y r
' 1 1
W
mj
Say—
t i
NO
M rather
have a
V e jC«P^l
m
>:
j
am
, .
r
■s
v;
?s-f
Sv
Vi
1
y
Time for a
CAPSTAN
. tWe* * etter
they *® bl ®
—that's why they are the
Empire's favourite cigarettes
tm
m
■
10 for 7" • 20 for I'2
ALSO FLAT AND ROUND FIFTIES
Capstan Special Mild . . . Red Packs
Capstan Medium .... Blue Packs
Capstan Full Strength , . Brown Packs
1011 E-1.41


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
-ESTABLISHED 1834. .
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITA!. PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly In the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,013 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout;
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should be expected to become you”
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence.
;
m
The Symbol of
Security !
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria )
3 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair,
M.L.A. (Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A, B. Heath, O.M.G. J
Robert C. Wilson. Manager; J. G. H. Shipway.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Hume Steel, Ltd.
i Dividends >,
Net Pref. Towards
Sept., Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 23,362 5,567 Nil 17,7.95 70,630
1930.. 15,281 5,567 Nil 9,714 00,916
1931.. 977 Nil Nil 977 59,939
1932.. 2,535 Nil Nil 2,535 57,404
1933.. 7,787 5,567* Nil 2,220 55,184
1934.. 12,682 6,124 Nil 6,558 48,620
74 p.c.
1935.. 13,400 6,531 Nil | . rIQ . oin7
Now share issue exes., £350 J G, ° l9 42,107
1936.. 8,704 7,500 Nil 1,204 40,903
1937.. 40,312 7,500 Nil 32,812 8,091
Reserves.
1938.. 41,703 7,500 Nil 34,203 26,112
24 p.c.
1939.. 32,984 10,312 6,250 16,422 42,534
Goodwill written off, £60,476 . . 103,010
1940.. 29,810 11,250 0,250 12,310 115,320
*Met by issue of fully-paid B prefs.
Better than might have been expected.
The co.’s chief product is concrete-lined
pipes made from steel fabricated by
B.H.P. ; and sales of these depend largely
upon expenditure on public works, etc.
The danger, therefore, lay in the possi-
bility of defence expenditure affecting
outlay on water supply and other schemes
in which the co.’s pipes are used. During
the 12 months covered by the latest ac-
counts, defence expenditure was met
largely by the use of central bank credit.
So there was plenty of money about,
and there was no let-up in the States’
expenditure on such works. Indeed,
more work came the co.’s way. After
allowing £13,698 (about the same as for
1939) for depreciation, the trading profit
was £10,326 better at £60,810. Of the
increase £5655 was in respect of income
from general investments—during the
year £75,000 of f.-p. 5 p.c. cum. partici-
pating prefs. (on which p.c. was paid)
was received from Hume Pipe (Far
East) as final consideration for the sale
of patents and plant for making steel
pipes in Malaya and China.
The contraction of £3174 in the final
profit figure was due entirely to extra
Government bleeding. The allowance for
taxation was £13,500 heavier at £31,000,
or over 50 p.c. of the profit claimed. The
£29,810 netted was enough to pay the
pref. div. and show 7.5 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal, compared with 9, 13.6 and 13.1 p.c.
for the three preceding terms. The ords.,
which got into the picture for the first
time in 1939, received 2\ p.c. again.
Until about five years ago it was doubt-
ful whether the business would ever be
worth much to the vendors of the rights.
However, following improvements to
plant, etc., costs were greatly reduced,
thus placing the co. in a stronger com-
petitive position.
The £75,000 received in pref. shares
during the year was used to write down
the book value of foreign patents (now
£25,900). But £14,524 spent in develop-
ing an asbestos deposit in Maoriland, in
which the co. has a half-interest with
Hume Pipe (Aus.), was capitalised, thus
making the net reduction in intangibles
(not treated as an asset herein) £60,476.
Over the twelvemonth, the book value of
the improvement in the net tangible posi-
tion amounted to £72,786, the cover for
the ords. advancing from 3s. 4d. to
Bs. sd. per share.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1935. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £350,000 £350,000 £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 70,470 184,888 174,529* 263,929
Freehold and
leasehold . . 16,500 17,979 20,002 20,308
Plant .. 102.305 143,055 126,663 119,066
Stocks .. 32,091 69,569 59,681 92,910
Contracts . . 39,004 52,409 65,165 105,219
Book debts .. 37,101 90,724 125,201 143,413
Cash and de-
posits . . 15,817 36,423 37,599 42,032
S'hares in other
cos. .. 174,528 194.528 194,628 268,117
* Including- tax provision.
The most heartening feature there is the
sharp increase of £40,054 in the value of
work done on contracts in hand. These
include one for over half a million
pounds from the S. Aus. Government for
pipes for the Morgan-Whyalla water
supply scheme, and the work is expected
to last for about two years. This and
other contracts in hand augur well for
the current year’s earnings. To handle
the extra work plant (down £7597)
required no additions. Stocks rose
£33,229. To meet the outlay and carry
an extra £18,212 of debtors’ balances
the amount coming to sundry creditors
was increased by £89,400. The im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£119,645, excluding shareholdings)
was £6258. Altogether the co. is in a
much stronger position than it was a few
years ago.
The market prices the prefs., covered
by 68s. 9d. (book value) in net tangibles,
at 225. 3d. as against 19s. about six
months ago. The return at 225. 3d. is 6.7
p.c. The ords., which originally went to
parent Hume Pipe Co. and to W. R.
Hume for rights, are not listed.
Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 34,027 74 pc. = 25,397 8,630 58,430
1931.. 24,302 6 „ „ 21,000 3,302 61,731
1932.. 32,538 8 „ „ 28,000 4,538 66,269
1933.. 26,575 7 „ „ 24,796 1,779 68.048
1934.. 35,861 8 „ „ 29,600 6,261 74.309
1935.. 39,481 9 „ „ 33,300 6,182 80,490
1936.. 43,948 10 „ „ 37,000 6,948 87,438
Share premiums. £8692 .. .. 96.130
1937.. 47,690 10 p.c, = 39,178 8,512 104.642
1938.. 51,875 11 „ „ 44,000 7,875 112,517
Goodwill disclosed. £30,429 .. 82,088
1939. . 59,891 12j p.c. = 50,000 9,891 91,979
1940.. 56,173 12 „ ~48,000 8,173 100,152
This energetic manufacturer of high-
grade canned foods and condiments is
well equipped to win whatever profits are
to be had from the trade. It began at
Richmond (Vic.) in 1910 with a capital
of £lOO,OOO. Progress was sluggish until
the war of 1914-18 ended ; but during
the decade to the close of accounts in
1929 £200,000 of fresh capital was
gathered, £25,000 of bonus scrip was
issued, and divs. averaged 13.3 p.c. Also,
trade was opened up with Britain, Canada
and southern Asia, new lines were added
to the list of manufactures and new fac-
tories were erected at Rosebery and
Windsor (N.S.W.), Adelaide (S. Aus.) and
Risdon Park (Tas.). Slump brought a
glut of canned fruits in the market, and
other troubles. Still the div. never
dropped below 6 p.c., and the business
kept on expanding—a controlling interest
was bought in Jonathan Reeve Pty., Bal-
larat, and another factory, to treat berry
fruits, was put up at New Town (Tas.).
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, sales showed a “good
increase,” and were the highest yet re-
corded, thanks to the larger business
done with the U.K. in jams and with
India in general lines, especially during
the first half of the term. Also, there
was expansion in the sale of pickles made
in the co.’s Adelaide factory. The im-
provement in gross earnings (£238,528)
was £19,183. Exes. (£183,433) took all
the increase and £ll7l besides. That
was after increasing the allowance for
taxation (£22,000) by £5OOO. Allowing
for minor reserve adjustments, the net
result (£56,173, down £3718) was 14.1 p.c.
on capital, compared with 14.2, 12.9, 12.1,
11.8, 10.6, 9.7 and 7.5 p.c. back to 1933.
Half a point was chipped off the div.,
reducing it to 12 p.c., and making the
average over the last decade 9.3 p.c.
As for the current term, the co. is well
stocked with supplies of all kinds, in-
cluding tinplate, of which sufficient was
held to meet this season’s canning re-
quirements ; and there isn’t likely to be
much, if any, shrinkage in Australian
demand for the co.’s products. But ex-
port of canned fruits has become in-
creasingly difficult, owing to allotment of
shipping space according to the nutritive
value of cargo. This, in turn, will tend
to reduce demand for fresh fruits locally ;
but the position in this respect has been
partly relieved by seasonal conditions.
The market, mindful of the co.’s his-
tory, notes the margin between earnings
and distributions and expresses its confi-
dence in the business by pricing the
pound shares at 505., which was approxi-
mately the price a year ago. The return
at 50s. is 4.8 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis.
Visibly the backing is 255. in net tan-
gibles.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
193.'). 1 938. 1939. 1940.
Capital . . £370,00-0 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Creditors,
deposits, etc. 15,878 49,678 39,350 57,564
Property ) * 2 9 8 153 *239 191 1 168 > 172 169,507
Plant, etc. | 239,121 | 50>230 r>B ; au
Stock.. .. 202,254 286,925 221,385 331 573
Debtors .. 73,037 89.384 69,938 78 488
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 6,224 1,767 88,599 16,014
Including goodwill, etc., now disclosed at £30,429.
Outstanding feature last term was the
sharp growth of £llO,lBB in stocks. To
meet the outlay and add £8550 to debtors
and £4710 net to fixed assets the amount
coming to outsiders was increased by
£18,214 and cash, etc., was drawn upon
for £72,585. The year’s growth in the
more or less liquid surplus (£368,511) was
£27,939.
Mosglel Woollen Factory Co. (M.L.)
Writ-
. ten To Re- Re-
let., 1 rent. Dividends, Off. serves, serves.
„ £ £ £ £ £
1928.. 22,963 10 p.c. = 9,538 11,000 2425 48,951
Profit on sale of assets, £875 .. 49,826
1929.. 15,990 10 p.c. = 9,538 5,000 1452 51,278
1930.. 16,172 10 „ „ 9,538 5,000 1634 52.912
1931.. 16,415 10 ~ „ 9,538 5.000 1877 54.789
1932.. 10,825 10 „ „ 9,538 5,000 2287 57,07 c
1933.. 17.305 19.3,. ~ 18,470 5,000 50.901
1934.. 16.204 10 „ „ 9,538 4,000 2666 53,567
1935.. 15,636 10 „ „ 9,538 4,000 2098 55,665
1 936. . 18,121 10 „ „ 9,538 4,000 4583 60,248
1937.. 17,203 10 „ ~ 9.538 4.000 3665 63,913
1938.. 14,898 10 ~ ~ 9.538 4,000 1360 65,273
1939.. 15,293 10 „ „ 9,538 3,000 2755 68,028
1940.. 19,631 10 ~ „ 9,538 5,000-5093 73,121
Founded in 1871 by A. J. Burns, a
grand-nephew of Bobbie Burns, this co.
has paid divs. averaging over 8y p.c.
from the beginning, and only once, in
1876, has it failed to make an annual
distribution. It is well equipped, finan-
cially and otherwise—the woollens, rugs
and blankets it makes have won awards
all over the world—to gather whatever
profits are to be had from the trade. In
common with other Maoriland manu-
facturers, the co.’s biggest problem at
the moment is rising costs, including taxa-
tion. Import restrictions, exchange con-
trol and the natural protection which war
conditions provide have virtually given
Dominion textile manufacturers a mon-
opoly in their home market. Here, with
employment at or near the full and large
defence orders rolling in, demand has
run ahead of plant capacity.
Last term, Mosgiel spent £13,710 on
additions to plant, etc., and allowed
£8389 (up £5389) for depreciation. To
get the full benefit of the new rates of
depreciation fixed by the commissioner,
the book value of plant was written up
and a depreciation reserve of £48,121
created, which has been deducted from
the asset in the published accounts. The
net figure at which all fixed assets ap-
peared at the close of accounts in 1939
was less than half the value the tax-
gatherer now apparently places on plant
alone. Here is the position as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1930. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £90,380 £95,380 £95,380 £95,380
Liabilities* .. 13,011 19,501 23,177 64,086
Plant & property 44,006 35,071 32,473 41,184
Stocks. . . . 49,341 36,024 28.633 46,235
Book debts, etc. 26,281 22,410 29,206 23,428
Cash and in-
vestments .. 61,813 106,280 117,415 142,998
* Includes unspecified amount for taxation.
The year’s net growth in the book value
of fixed assets was only £B7ll, for
reasons already explained. The sharp
growth of £40,909 in outside liabilities
was due entirely to provision for taxa-
tion, which amounted to £45,000, or 2j
times the amount shown as available for
distribution among shareholders. How-
ever, this provision for taxation, together
with the year’s surplus earnings, enabled
the co. to finance the extensions to plant,
carry an extra £17,602 of stocks and
strengthen cash and investments by
£25,583. When the books closed, cash
and investments (the latter are mainly
Government securities) were equal to
approx. 30s. per pound of paid capital.
Stock and book debts were together more
than sufficient to cover the amount com-
ing to outsiders, including the tax-
gatherer.
After providing for taxation and visibly
allowing £5OOO for depreciation (shown
as written off in the introductory table),
the profit claimed (£14,631, up £2338)
was 15.3 p.c. on capital as against 12.8,
11.4, 13.8, 14.8, 12.2 and 12.7 p.c. back
to 1934. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.
As for the future, the international
situation, both for Maoriland and Aus-
tralia, bristles with so many possi-
bilities at the moment that he would be
a bold man who would venture to predict.
The duty of all, including corporate
bodies, is to strengthen the national effort
irrespective of profit or gain.
The market expresses its high opinion
of ihe stock by pricing the £5 shares
paid to £4 at £lO 17s. 6d., at which figure
the immediate return is 2.7 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. Visibly the net tan-
gible cover is 355. 4d. per pound of paid
capital.
Lamson Paragon, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1928.. 11,376 124 p.c. = 9,375 2,001 48,430
Reserves capitalised, £12,500 .. 35,930
Premiums on new shares, £6O . . 35,990
1929.. 10,437 10 p.c.« 7,710 2.727 38.717
1930.. 3,106 Nil 3,106 41,823
1931.. 3,640 4 p.c. = 4,000 41,463
1932.. 6,728 5 „ ~ 5,000 1,728 43,191
1933.. 7,072 6 „,, 6,000 1,072 44,263
1934.. 9,311 7 „ „ 7,000 2,311 46,574
1935.. 10,256 8 ~ „ 8,000 2,256 48,830
1936.. 11,525 9 ~ „ 9,000 2,525 51,355
Premiums on shares, £6250 .. 57,605
1937.. 13,091 10 p.c. = 10.000 3,091 60,696
Loss sale factory, £4OOO . . . . 56,696
1938.. 15,162 10 p.c. = 12,500 2,662 59,358
Premiums on shares, £6250 . . 65,608
1939.. 15,795 10 p.c. = 12,500 3,295 68,903
1940.. 19,198 10 „ „ 15,000 4,198 73,101
This co.’s earnings are a fair indication
of the level of business activity gener-
ally. It specialises in the manufacture of
all kinds of commercial stationery and
office requisites. Factories have been set
up in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and
Perth (the last-named operates as a sub-
sidiary), and there are distributing
branches at Adelaide, Hobart and Broken
Hill. Also, close association exists with
the Lamson organisation in the U.S.A.
and, before the war, Europe.
For the dozen years to the close of
accounts in 1929 shareholders averaged
11 p.c. In 1930 the profit dropped to
3.1 p.c. on capital, and, for the first time
since the public became interested in
1910, shareholders were passed by. They
got 4 p.c. in 1931, and a point was added
to the distribution for each of the next


\AV>
v\v:
E
A
r
ii-1
o 5
\^ N
vhh
-4
f'k
H
t
-
O
ml
///
///
//
/ /
V.
l/'il
V/
%
if/
fS
/i
a
? i
LI
i
A
MSAT/. \)
■hW3I
■ ;-w r*
&y* “ -
l&M i
1
"A
II
I-''
1/ «gp :\ | lip; »Ai
IK f
> /
-
■ it«i
9PW w
-»-
.
H
I
■
-ij
Hi
WJ
H ais
■
|gi||i
VJ
Hi
2:
11
■
m
»
■
m
1
ft?. •.
e.'.l
m i
■i
%
H
■ ■■■■ '
m
:
.:J
V
;
I
■
«ipt «
«• C >% *
■■ 11111*11ili
H
HP
*
■lii«
inHMHH
I W ” : - 4 -' - •'!
A / .
,
mm
' ■Bi
/ »
H :
*j vf"??: - v
U. mm
"BBHiinii .- ■••■■ v .#PP
SHALL WE WHO BENEFIT
FAIL THEM WHO SERVE US WELL?
Heroes, all of them, the men of the navy and merchant marine of Britain in their battle-
scarred ships bring us goods and apparel that we in Australia may not suffer discomforts
through war.
How little they ask in return. Seeking no favours, they gladly welcome those, who,
of their own accord join them to fight this war against evil forces that ridicule and
seek to destroy everything our British Commonwealth of Nations stands for.
Yet how much we can give. .men..money..labour..munitions. Shall we be found wanting?
Australian Paper Manufacturers Limited places its full resources in the
nation's hands. It is proud that its machines , its men and women employees
are working every day and helping to contribute to Australia's war effort.
8061 HTM
.P.M.
Inserted by AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD
Sydney and Melbourne


GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, SOy Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agent: A. L. Frost, Esq., Launceston.
n ' on Xn 5 C °. R P ' US he%e*» **
• to ' ° 9 .i„ n of petrol . Beo iol
then *
free
extra
c.o*
co
otoio 5
the
e%tro
it»i\es.
extro P
ovrer
Kiev. "'=° ns :::. 0 «oy isjlw
for
w
icker 9 C *
„d „».«»«• > w ,s o sere" g 0..--
.■—nd tl«' eS * B.T-U- ■ w will
title
these
thot
i\\on
ro tion
ed
nto»o s
oh
n^ofe
fill
Ben* 0 *
tV '°°- P the di** erenCe
of
c.o*
p\os
pfove
*(B
of
ritish
fhertnal
) the?
the
voor
star
ds,
,t dat'd
ttteas tire
power
units
calorific
TAKE YOUR RATION
TICKETS TO THE RED,
WHITE & BLUE C.O.R
PUMP and obtain the
benefits of Australia’s only
petrol-benzol blend ...
British petrol plus Austra-
lian benzol.
fattkae
the commonwealth oil refineries
(Commonwealth Government and Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A C. DAWSON. X. 0. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager, Asst. Gen. Manager,
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
THE
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorn y ,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, syan yi
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents, a
He He * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament X j’
hydraulic, electric and general engineers,
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of a.i cia»
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
He He * * 1
Troubles of a technical nature are investigatedl y
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building,
Street, Sydney. Analysts, Assayers and Metaimi^^
v * * * Je
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temp l
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Austrauai
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
half-dozen years, making it 10 p.c., at
which figure it has remained since 1937.
Last year expanding turnover of traders
generally strengthened the demand for
the co.’s dockets and other requisities.
The spring in gross earnings (£86,485)
was £13,137. Including £1312 sent to
the staff superannuation fund and £11,957
set aside for the taxgatherer, exes,
(£67,287) took £9734 of the gain, leaving
the net result (up £3403) at 12.7 p.c. on
capital (of which there was an extra
£25,000 to feed), compared with 12.6,
12.1, 12.7, 11.5, 10.2 and 9.3 p.c. back to
1934. The fresh capital gathered during
I Up i q'jq fprm 5 it c interest only
fnr thnt ve/r
d i y r. f ~ ( - nn
Balance-sheet figures reflect the action
taken by the management to guard
against rising prices and
Paid capital. . £lOO,OOO £125,000 £i50,000 £150,000
Liabiiities 4 „ 1B8 * 20 787* I 42 ’
Tax provision j ’ * 1 13,200
Premises .. 42,233 59,287 65,047 63,643
stock’. . etc ‘ ;; 39,202 64*935 ei’Jel 93,785
Book debts .. 40,929 48,400 55,085
Shared 2i.i1l 25,10 i 21,1 it 2i’,000
* Including unspecified provision for insurance.
Outstandirtg feature last year was the
sharp rise of £31,921 in stocks. Pro-
vision for taxation, now shown separately
at £13,200, was previously lumped with
outside liabilities (up £22,035). Taking
provision for taxation and shareholdings
into the reckoning, the year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£115,250) was £3410.
At 365. 6d. (345. 6d. a year ago) the
pound shares, covered by 295. 9d. in net
tangibles, return 5.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. Though it is doubtful whether
last year’s rate of earning will be main-
tamed for long, there is nothing at the
moment to suggest that the 10 p.c. is
in danger.
. r . . ,
V.ctoe... Electr.o..y Com m . s s.<.n Loan
A sum of £300,000 is asked for, 1
years, rate £3 Bs. 9d. per cent, at par.
Security is the revenue of the commis-
s.on, plus a Victorian Government guar-
antee as to principal and interest The
loan is a trustee security m Victoria,
Queensland and Tasmania. The com
of which interest (£1,125,814) Bnci sinking
fund (£519,029) took £1,644,843. Other
costs were £2,260,909. Contingency and
v[sions totaUed £34 4,664, leav-
a lus of £126.513. Present
lo ° n js wanted to expand the undertaking
at Yallourn, and should bring in addi-
tional revenue. Interest offered is Is 3d.
cent, below that on two recent Vic-
torian public-body offerings, but in the
present state of the bond market it should
be well received. lan Potter and Co. are
the underwriters, and applications may be
lodged with the National Bank. Subscnp-
tion lists close not latei than March 3.
7
The war price of tin gives the Northern
Queensland coastal belt a chance to prove
its tin-dredging potentialities, for there
is a streak of lode-tin country right from
Charters Towers outskirts to Cape York,
And there has been much stanniferous
granite rotted down, as m Malaya to
provide possible dredging deposits. Table-
land Tin, around the Mt. Garnet district,
may push the case with marked em-
phasis, and now Broken Hill Proprietary
has moved its plant from Garnet to try
a new area on Hidden Valley, a tin area
on the inland slopes of the coastal range
near Ingham. It is not especially distin-
guished as a lode-producer, but then
Malaya and Stanthorpe proved that there
is little relation between economic lodes
and payable dredging. And the same
case may apply here, as on the upper
reaches of the Running River system
there are at least considerable areas of
waste granite wash from the ranges, ajj
carrying a little tin. Leads in these will
be the job of the B.H.P. to unravel. It
is not far from the Kangaroo Hills field,
already a not unimportant producer of
lode tin. 8.H.P., if disposed for other
types, could well give a “look-see” at
such possible opencut propositions as the
Surprise, where a 15ft. lode has pro-
duced 10 p.c. ore, and where there might
be a very big mass of, say, 2 p.c. These
greisen and chlorite lodes of N.Q. may
very well prove the forerunners of new
tinmining methods — i.e., new for N.Q.
• * * *
“Strike Me”: Clermont (C.Q.) pro-
duced over 600 oz. fine of alluvial gold
during December. It’s a great jump-up
over previous production, and shows that
the old field is more than staggering
along on dry-blowing old dumps.
* * * *
Two associated Westralian goldmining
cos. controlled from London, Youanmi
and Mt. Magnet Mines, have issued their
latest annual reports. Youanmi receipts
totalled £170,000 compared with £168,000
for the previous 12 months. Working
costs took £118,151, London expenses
£4536, depreciation £16,827 and develop-
ment £21,812, leaving a profit of £9298,
against £9543. Ore reserves at 192,450
tons, averaging 7.ldwt., show an increase
of 55,194 tons. Management is optimistic
about the mine’s main gold-carrier con-
tinuing underfoot. During the year L. S.
Amery retired from the chairmanship of
the co. on his appointment as Secretary
of State for India, and A. T. J. Fraser
has taken his place. A London financial
journal says that shareholders, pref. and
ord., who have not yet received anything,
are hopeful of getting dividends some
day. Mt. Magnet’s net revenue was
£51,680. Costs absorbed £50,129, leav-
ing a working surplus of £1551. But with
depreciation (£3693), development (£4003)
and London exes., including £BOO direc-
tors’ fees accrued but not paid, chipped
off, this surplus was converted into a
debit of £8403. Early last year the local
inspector of mines reported that the
future of the co.’s mine looked very
uncertain.
* * * *
Linden’s latest intentions regarding its
Westralian goldmine are to discontinue
further development, extract the remain-
ing ore, estimated at about 1000 tons, and
mill it, and call tenders for the purchase
of 14,000 tons of tailings of about I.sdwt.
gross value. If a reasonable price is not
offered co. will treat the tailings itself.
Mine plant is stated to be in good order,
and the directors are hopeful of obtain-
ing another mine.
* * * *
Malloch Bros., Ltd., machinery sales-
men, Perth, suggest that provision be
made in the proposed new Westralian
Companies Act to facilitate holders of
old and mostly abandoned goldmining
leases with a past forming small syndi-
cates limiting the liability of shareholders
to the interest they have, say one-quarter,
one-tenth, or whatever it is they hold.
Mallochs claim that there are numbers
of leaseholders seeking financial backing
to open up and reopen many promising
old shows in the West, and would be able
to get it if the aid they suggest was forth-
coming. But where are these many pro-
mising old shows? Neither the Mines
Department nor a Bulletin man on the
spot knows of them.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Blue Spec, a small Adelaide
co. with a show on an auriferous out-
crop “more than 12 miles long” at Nul-
lagine, was given a boost by chairman
W. Harvey at a recent shareholders’
meeting. Probable ore reserves, he said,
were 20,000 tons of at least ounce value,
prospects in the main workings were rosy,
a borehole had proved that a parallel
reef had widened in depth, and, lastly,
strong overseas interests had been at-
tracted and had made an inspection.
Crushings had been handicapped by a
shortage of water. Independent reports
concerning the Spec is that it is also
handicapped by the difficulty of extract-
ing the gold from refractory ore and
uncertainty about permanency.
jfc *
In a while-I-live-Fll-crow report,
Freney Oil Co. (W.A.) states that the whole
of the new coreheads bought in America
are expected to reach the bore site very
shortly. When they do the market is
expected to cheer up. Announcing a
stoppage some weeks ago, co. said that
owing to the persistence of gas showings
it was considered unwise to proceed with
deeper drilling until new equipment came
to hand. It further said that equipment
which was usually efficient for ordinary
rock-drilling had been found totally in-
adequate.
* * * *
Arguing that Collie coal is not made the
most of, a Westralian critic points out
that valuable by-products from coal not
saved at Collie are saved in other coun-
tries. At Collie coal is not the coking
type, and its alteration to a product re-
sembling anthracite would, the critic
says, overcome many of its present dis-
abilities, such as sulphur content,
friability and tendency to disintegrate
under atmospheric action. In addition it
would be much better fuel for steamers
when so transformed. Distance from
Newcastle and other coal ports is also in
favor of its use, and Bunbury could be-
come a fuelling port on a large scale. At
present Collie’s biggest customer is the
State railways. Little business is done in
bunkering.
* * * *
“Brook”: Further information on the
magnesite deposits at Copley, S.A. (B.
22/1 /Ml), emphasises their exceptional
size. A trench has been put down across
the field ; one vein is 12ft. thick and an-
other 10ft. In fact, there is so much mag-
nesite that the spaces between the veins
are narrower than the veins themselves —
it is more like a solid mass of magnesite,
with veins of other material. Except for
deposits in Austria, it is claimed that no
known occurrences of magnesite are so
great. In addition to the spectacular uses
of magnesite derivatives for bombs, flares
and aircraft manufacture, this mineral
is a No. 1 requisite of big manufacturing
druggists and warehousemen, as its
elements go into all sorts of magnesias
and particularly Epsom salts. This
helped to influence A. F. Scammell, of
Paulding’s, to take out his Copley claims.
Leaping ahead of the naturally cautious
estimate of 50,000 tons made by Assistant-
Geologist Segnit, Scammell estimates that
there is a million tons of the stuff.
General development plans are on foot,
# * * *
From London: Clifford Johnston,
chairman of the Association of Invest-
ment Trusts and well known in the City,
has an “adventure-worth-adventuring”
plan to set unused gold moving. He
urges that in order to restore gold as
an international currency a large invest-
ment trust be formed with joint American
and British capital to invest in British
and American Government securities.
The trust, says Johnson, would then
borrow on a bond issue secured on a
first charge of all assets a large amount
of the unused gold of the world at a
low rate of interest and invest the same
so as to obtain the best results for the
world at large. Johnson appeals to
political leaders of those nations who
have gold to spare to let experts chosen
from both hemispheres have the loan of
this surplus gold, which has been with-
drawn from circulation and lies dormant
in the bowels of a Kentucky fortress.
Thus, he argues, unused and therefore
worthless metal would once again be put
out to usury to earn for war-stricken
nations the goodly dividends of pros-
perity and peace. Some financial authori-
ties hold that Johnson’s scheme would
require modification of U.S.A. gold laws,
a very large measure of U.S.A. goodwill
and a change in existing war-time British
legislation. They think it would be dif-
ficult to put such a project into operation
under war conditions.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Anxious: The co. is still in existence, but
there is no market for the bonds. They ar £
of little realisable value.


m
111
m
HI
I HI
Pf li!
iiffili
m in
iiiiai
Ml
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLEr Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“London recipe for bottled stockings.”
—“D.T.”
Metho. addicts who have sampled the
new beverage declare there isn’t the
slightest kick in it.
“Man comes home, says thunderbolt hit
him.” —“Sunday Telegraph.”
Perhaps it was only a lightning blow
from his wife.
4*
“Men beaten with broomsticks.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Naturally they bristled at this.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“He hated Mr. Down because of his
tyranny, especially to himself. The manager
was always finding fault with him.” — “D.T.”
The office was a scene of wars
Which bred a hatred grim.
For he was down on Down because
Old Down was down on him.
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“No matter how often I told him, my words
never bore any fruit.”
—Wife in divorce case.
She might have been more successful
if she had pruned them a bit.
“A.I.F. officers, ranks and nurses are to
attend a celebration dinner to entertain a young
sergeant and his fiancdes, who are to be married
on Saturday.”— Sun.
Probably the parson will demand
piecework rates.
4* 4* 4< 4*
“He had only spoken one word to his wife
in ten years.” —Sydney paper.
His wasn’t a marriage, but a listener’s
license.
4 1 4* 4*
When first I saw that fatal she,
I said “I’ve met my destiny !”
But now, with freedom in the tomb,
I merely say “I met my doom!”
N.
“Anyway, the expected baby should put a
stop to the eternal scrapping between Errol
Flynn and glamorous wife Lili Damita.”
—Movie mag.
Or provide a referee.
•i* *f* *b
“It has been suggested that, as most articles
formerly sold at a penny are now twopence, a
twopenny piece should be minted.”
Why rush in like this? A threepenny-
piece will serve the purpose shoitly.
4* *b *b •&
“Shortage of Union Jacks reported.”
Japanese factories must be busy on
other orders.
Daily paper editors must often wonder
how they filled up corners before the
quiz was thought of.
•i* O
“The panto, and young audiences. Are the
jokes for the children?” — “Truth.”
Well, the kids reckon they’re a bit
tame.
Love’s Dangers.
“Millions of germs are transferred by the act
of kissing.”
Men ever were so careless of
The hurt that rises from romance,
And in the blindness of their love
At ambushed microbes never glance;
So, lured by ogle, slap and shove,
They are prepared to take a chance
And taste the unhygienic bliss
That lingers only in a kiss.
Though deadly streptococci lurk
Upon the lip with fell intent
To put across their dirty work.
No swain on osculation bent
Would, even if he saw them, burke
The lover’s seal and sacrament;
No could make a fellow miss
The poison of his good-night kiss.
P. M. L.
Overcapitalisation.
‘Wine consumption during the last financial
year represented a per capita consumption of
1105 gallons valued at £1 2s. Id.”
—The “West Australian.”
I didn’t get my share. I remember
going into the Farmers’ Arms with
£1 2s. Id. and a firm determination to
drink my eleven hundred gallons or
burst. So as not to have the serious
business of the evening disturbed by
financial worries I gave the barman the
money and told him to warn me when
1104 gallons had gone, so that I could
linger over the last.
I thought at the time the fellow gave
me a queer look, but little did I realise
that he was hopelessly intoxicated, as he
afterwards proved to be. I’d just con-
cluded a preliminary refresher of 44
small glasses (about llgal.) when he
solemnly handed me a penny and told
me that I had cut out. When I remon-
strated with him he called in a police-
man. I was so disgusted that I didn’t
even bother to resist arrest.
I still don’t know what happened to he
other 11031 gallons. I suppose the bar-
man and the cop added half each to their
own quotas, which would give them each
1656| gallons. No wonder people get
drunk.
How.
Morale and Memory.
“The visit of Mr. Menzies to the battle areas
must mean a lot to the morale of the men.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
The troops were lined up in what was
left of the main street at Tobruk. Before
“There must be some Dago Word for ‘Hands up .’”
them was a dais on which an official
party was gathering.
“Hey,” whispered Snowy to Nobby,
“ain’t that ol’ Tom Blarney?”
“ ’Course it is, y’ dope! ” answered
Nobby. “Shut up!”
“Who’s that with him?” whispered
Snowy.
“Menzies,” replied Nobby.
There was a short silence, then;
“Who’s he?” Snowy wanted to know.
Nobby looked hard at his cobber, then
said coldly, “He’s the son of old Men-
zies, o’ course ; who’d y’ think he was?”
Snowy took this in, stood a little
straighter, then said: “Gripes, I wonder
who’s lookin’ after the pub while he’s
away?”
M8.
Fiery Thought.
“My fiance refuses to marry me because I
smoke.” — Heartburst to Dorothy Dix.
“A girl who smokes is fast ” says he;
‘‘She’ll never get my name.
For where there’s smoke, you must agree,
There must have been a flame.”
Eve.
Make-believe.
“It’s fun to stop being yourself once in a
while —to pretend for several riotous hours
you are somebody else.” — Woman’s paper.
“Where’d this come from?” demanded
my wife, removing a blonde hair from
the shoulder of my coat.
“June Swyft,” I admitted.
“And this?” wiping lipstick from my
cheek and flaunting before my eyes the
ruby smudge upon her handkerchief.
“June Swyft,” I sighed.
“Why, you brute, you bluebeard, you,
you” Words failed her.
“Darling, be reasonable,” I pleaded.
“After all, we were only having fun. I
was awfully tired of being myself, and
thought it’d be jolly pretending I was
June’s boy friend. June had nothing
better to do tonight, so she feigned she
was you.”
“Really! Well, let’s pretend this is
made of rubber,” exclaimed my wife as
she let fly with the breadboard.
PERCIVAL.
A Little-known Profession.
“Bankrupt said that formerly his business of re-
tailing domestic pets had been a lucrative one,
but the war had caused it to decline.” — “D.T.”
Not only are the profits on the re-tail-
ing of domestic pets microscopic, but the
work is so exacting and hazardous that
what little profit one makes is swallowed
up by the many bottles of nerve tonic
one needs afterwards.
When I started
a puppy shop the
fellow I got to do
the signwriting on
the window was
anxious to whip in
a hyphen when-
ever he could. The
sign read:
All Types of Pets
Re-tailed Here.
I hadn’t got the
shop open more
than a few hours,
and was idly play-
ing a Bach fugue
on the peter for
practice when a
large snuffling
woman came in
holding a big
ginger cat under
one arm. She took
a deep breath that
caused her bosom
to totally obscure
four cages of
budgerigars on the
other side of the
shop and let her-
self go.
“My goodness I’ve been searching Syd-
ney for weeks for a place where I could
get Tworkums’s tail renovated the poor
dear had the end of it mangled by a
brute of an Airedale owned by the people
in the bottom flat they shouldn’t be
allowed to have big dogs roaming around
where cats are but it’s just what you could
expect from people like they are of course
I forgot you don’t know them he-he how
silly of me when I saw your notice up
I was that pleased how much would you
charge for having it done?”
I looked at her blankly. “Madam,” I
began. “I’m a retailer of pets, not a
magician. Now if you would like a St.
Bernard I have a beautiful one here. It’s
only two years old, not fully grown, and
would make an ideal lapdog for you.
If you happened to get lost in the snow
this dog will. I’ll guarantee, find you
within three days, and, moreover, it will
arrive with a bottle of whatever stimu-
lant you favor. Now if you wished you
could trade Tworkums in for it —I could
allow you 2s. sd. on the cat. Or if you
desire you can put it on the lay-by.”
My first customer looked at me, her
mouth open like a snapper’s when you’re
taking the hook out.
“1 haven’t the faintest idea what you’re
talking about,” she said when she had
got a deep breath. “You claim to be
able to re-tail pets I want one put on
Tworkums he looks awful like he is now
and mind I want a perfect match how
long will it take to do I hope he doesn’t
fret while he’s here I always give him
an Oatbix with cream of a morning and
he doesn’t eat between meals he has
what we have for dinner and only a light
tea otherwise he snores and don’t have
flowers in the room where he sleeps or
he gets hay fever.”
Obviously it would be easier to have
a go at putting a tail on the fummy
than try to explain to her about the
hyphen. I told her that, counting the
trade discount I’d have to charge her
under the Weights and Measures Act
and the new tax on re-tailed pets, it
would set her back four guineas. She
agreed.
Fortunately I had among my stock-
in-trade a cat which, though not exactly
ginger, had a grey coat that would easily
take a dye. Docking its tail at the first
joint (I sold it later as a Manx), I attached
the caudal appendage to what was left
of Tworkums’s with the aid of glue. As
I had to put this on hot Tworkums
objected. I counted 147 scratches later.
However, I flatter myself that the mixture
of dark tan boot polish and strong tea
that I soaked it in got pretty close to the
cat’s original color, if you didn’t look at
it in a strong light. When its delighted
owner collected it I warned her not to
hold it up by the new tail until the
stitches had dissolved.
The experience I thus gained gave me
increased confidence to tackle the re-
tailing of all sorts of pets. Perhaps my
greatest triumph was the re-tailing of a
Pom. that had chased a cat past a circular
saw. To get the requisite twist I had to
buy the back half of a pig at the butcher’s.
The pig’s tail, dipped in office gum and
sprinkled with horsehair, then glued on,
was quite presentable, and, except that
the dog grunted, nobody would have
known it wasn’t its own tail.
I even had a go at re-tailing a gold-
fish. It was quite a delicate job trans-
planting the flowing tail while under
water, and once or twice I thought I
should get pneumonia or become water-
logged. Except for the fact that the
goldfish had to swim upside down with
one nostril permanently out of the water
it was quite successful.
One day a woman fetched in a pam-
pered-looking Peke whose rudder had
got mixed up in the vacuum cleaner. She
was silly enough to get out of her big
flash limousine right outside the shop,
and so I confidently fixed the price at
ten guineas.
Its tail, it seems, had been particularly
bushy, and I had great difficulty in getting
anything to suit. Then I thought of the
skunk I had imported. Taking it out of
the steriliser which I had made its cage,
and putting on my gas mask, I hoisted six
inches off the end of its tail and trans-
ferred it to the stump of the haughty-
looking Peke’s. Unfortunately, the dog,
as soon as it could struggle free after
sinking its molars in my hand, lit out the
door at top speed in a frantic endeavor
to get away from what it must have
thought was a mixture of bonedust, sul-
phuretted hydrogen, old cabbage water
and asafoetida immediately astern of it,
and is probably going yet. I still don’t
believe the truth of the claim the owner
made in court later that the lost mong.
was a champ, worth 150 guineas. Un-
fortunately the jury did believe it.
Bo.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Old-timer”: Transporting a 901 b.
swag through the Goulburn Valley (Vic.)
“Red” Stevens was doing a bit of a
starve when he struck a farmstead out of
Kanyapella and put it to the woman who
answered the door. She seemed a bit
reluctant, and the desperate “Red” an-
“Must you feed those birds on my washing day ?”
nounced, “Aw, I don’t want it f’r nothin’,
If there’s a job I can do” She
showed him the woodheap and “Red” got
busy. After about an hour, with a
decent stack of stove-wood cut and his
stomach crying aloud for sustenance, he
went to the house. He was handed a
plate on which was a small bit of cold
mutton and a few shreds of lettuce
Struck dumb by the spectacle Red
retired to the woodheap polished oft the
meal m one mouthful, thought deeply
and within a minute was back with the
empty plate Missus, he said, I hale t
f°“ be m u™ r h
that I left the plate t wash me han .
There was a blowfly an a grasshopper
le l re .’ d n . % hl ,'". gry , cows must a
pohshed it off while I wasn t lookm.
Unless I get a bit mom 111 be too weak
t get off the place. This time he got a
whole cold chop and a bit of bread and,
* * * *
“0.G.”: We were carting in the
meadow hay. The crop was pretty
rough and the old man was on top, tak-
ing it. At last he couldn’t stand it any
longer. “Why the hell can’t y’ call out
when you’re goin’ to pitch up a thistle?”
he yelled, “Think a man’s hands ’re
made of ruddy greenhide?” “All right,”
answered Dave. Thereafter came
“Thistle!” “Thistle!” as, with nearly
every second toss, we slung it up. By
the time the load was nearly finished it
was gettin’ a bit monotonous, so
“Sna-ake!” Dave called, just for a bit
of a change. The old man left the stack
head first an’ over backwards.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; The big fellow was
pushing through the sand on a blazing
day out of Lake Cargellico (N.S.W.)
when an earnest individual in a car
offered him a lift. Mat dropped the curse
in the back seat, wiped the sweat from
his brow and remarked, “Blimey, what a
day t’ change a quid!” The driver gave
a non-committal sort of grunt. More
miles went by. Said Mat, “Y’ know,
after y’ bin out in it on a day like this
it makes y’ appreciate the feel of a long,
cold beer.” Still the fish refused to rise
and still more miles went by. By the
time the rooftops of the Lake were in
sight Mat had almost given up hoping
but made one last effort. “I,” he re-
marked, “am as dry as a wooden god.”
The driver turned upon him an ex-
asperated eye and said coldly, “I’m a
teetotaller. I am opposed to strong drink.
Young man, don’t you ever drink water?”
Mat absorbed this slowly, then came his
reply, “Yair, but never within 20 miles
of a pub. It spoils y’r thirst!”
* * * *
“Telluride”; “Underhand” Sandy was
on shift below when an oversized slab
of ore detached itself from the back of
the stope and finished up on his foot.
After a month in hospital he limped into
the office to claim compensation. The
clerk proved inquisitive. Sandy pain-
fully explained that a bone in his foot
was broken and proving slow in mend-
ing. The doctor had warned him against
possible infection—the wound was not
healing too well. “Is it gangrene?” in-
quired the clerk. “Gangrene, be damned! ”
growls Sandy. “Mon, it’s as black as
the ace o’ spades.”
* * * *
“Wippegong”: The recent spectacle of
the moon laced neady bet Ween Jupiter
and Satum _ close cobbers o£ late _
stirred Long Harry out of his customary
retic a » d nex { d he was eloquent.
.. Did > u . em? - he asked. “Soon
(he sun dipped the big fellow showed
wi(h (he dose b s eside him then
it got dark enough to see the little
£e jj ow , c 0 i b ere she was sitting fair in
the m!ddle ’ of . em , she hung halfway
between * em f or a while, then started to
slither under the little chap, and when I
turned j n they’d both raced away and
were s jtting well up to the nor’-west of
He continued, till I casually men-
honed that .herewas a pan .bom the
phenomenon in that day s paper. Was
there?” he cried. Followed an incredu-
l°us P aus ®> then: Well, fancy those
blokes noticing it too.
......
“Atrax”: Whether it really is Cun-
ningham’s comet strayed off its pre-
dieted beat or a breakaway thereof, seen
from coastal S.Q. in a clear sky the
present visitor from outer space is a
beautiful object. Bearing about s.-s.-w.
at 8.30 p.m. the head shows as a dull
golden glow covering an area as big as
a second-class star. From it an arched
tail stretches up towards the south-east
like a shower of fine gold dust across the
dark-sky background. Astronomers favor
the breakaway idea because if it
really were the Cunningham discovery
it should be showing in the south-east
about 4 a.m. Biela’s comet is the clas-
sical example of disintegration in
cometary circles. Discovered in 1772, it
reappeared every 6| years down to 1845.
Then it threw off a fragment of similar
shape, remained visible in its double
form for four months, returned for
three weeks in the same form in 1852,
and has never been seen since. Its
remains show up at intervals as a swarm
of meteors.
♦ * * *
“S.T.S.”: The strangest thing in the
recent S.A. floods was the detailed state-
ment of a farmer and his wife, near
Murray Bridge, that from their home
they saw a motor-car with several occu-
pants engulfed in a flooded creek. Yet
nothing has - been found —and a car
is mostly too heavy to drift far; and
no family is reported missing. So either
this car was one of many which were in
trouble that day but (contrary to the
evidence) got out; or a whole unknown
motoring party, presumably from Vic-
toria, is somewhere at the bottom of
the Murray.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”; Puzzling how subter-
ranean water gets where it is. Take the
Kalgoorlie and Boulder (W.A.) locality.
It would be flattery to speak of even a
6in, rainfall. Dust was the most promi-
nent feature of the landscape. Yet deep
underground was water. But not too
deep. At about 100 ft. one became awaie
of a dampness. At 200 ft. one met the
full flow. Three hundred found the
stream reduced to a trickle, while four
hundred found dryness again, though
there were exceptional shafts that struck
a big flow as deep as 600 ft. And, taken
all round, there was plenty—sufficient at
least to support a population of not less
than 20,000 and keep a dozen big mines
going. But distillation was necessary ;
every drop was salt. Some shows bailed
for years without diminishing their flow ;
paid dividends selling the fluid to mines
that really had gold but very little water.
Where did all that water come from—
for it certainly never fell locally as rain?
And why was it so salt when other places
not so very far away lifted water at least
good enough for stock?
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Unless kangaroo-
shooters are tinged with that truth-
stretching tendency generally ascribed to
fishermen, their occupation, at least in
far-west Queensland, appears to afford a
short cut to affluence. Three brothers
from Toowoomba (Q.) went out on a
Tooing trip for sport two years ago, and
found that it paid so well that they have
since carried it on as a profitable busi-
ness. According to a press interview with
one of them, they killed 14,000 in the
last 12 months, mostly round Winton,
Cloncurry and Boulia, and received an
average price of 4s. for smaller skins.
ranging up to 10s. for the biggest. Taking
a low average of ss. per skin all round,
these figures show a gross return of
£3500 p.a., or nearly £6B per week
through the year. But one hates to think
of the shocks which the poor lads will
receive when “Please Explain” letters
begin to pour in on them from State and
Federal Taxation Departments.
» * * s
“Langshan”: Each year a pair of blue
kingfishers rear their family in a ter-
mites’ nest in the top of the old dead
messmate. During winter the termites
seal up the hole, and regularly as nesting-
time comes the kingfishers hollow it out
again. They are an aloof couple, and
dislike magpies extremely. One pair of
magpies always bring their three
squawkers to feed on household scraps.
As sure as Mr. and Mrs. Mag are extra-
busy stuffing' the gaping beaks of their
ever-hungry offspring, a shrieking blue
streak with snapping beak whizzes by,
causing the whole family to duck franti-
cally. Then Mr. Kingfisher, with a string
of vituperation, flies up to the old mess-
mate to watch them regain composure.
Yesterday his Majesty lost his cockiness
for a while. Flying at his usual speed
he failed to realise that the trees ahead
were mere reflections in a big window,
and hit the glass with terrific force. He
was too stunned to resent first aid being
rendered, and it was half an hour before
he could fly groggily home and tell the
missus what had happened. Today he
is shrieking and darting about as usual,
and, noting the look in Pa Magpie’s eye
as his tormentor flashes by, I am expect-
ing to see dire reprisals on his part
shortly.
* * # *
“Bogaduck”: Meat - ants, eh (B.
5/2/’41)? Here’s my recipe, long-proven
effective, for outing them. If the nest is
on a path or a place where I’m never
likely to want to grow anything, I
fill up every hole with hot sump oil.
It not only kills out that colony but no
other colony will ever make a nest in that
patch of ground—even years later. If
the nest is in the garden or on the pasture
land, put a bit of cynogas down each of
the holes, sealing them down with wet
clay. Three days later I visit the now
defunct ant nest, dig up every inch of
it to full spade depth, rake it down to a
fine tilth, and sow it with clover seed.
* * * *
“Kingsman”: “Yair, Sandy’s on ’is
own,” said Old Mac; “an’ I’ll tell
y’ why. I’m out after quail with ’im
one day, an’ goin’ well, too. All uv a
sudden Sandy stiffens, an’ there’s a bird
about twenty yards away, straight in front
uv ’im, I lets go with the right barrel,
an’ waits f’r Sandy t’ collect it f’r me.
But Sandy don’t move. I looks down
an’ gits a ’orrible shock, f’r ’e’s all
twisted up, with ’is tail an’ ’indquarters
stickin’ out at right angles, like as if he’s
got distemperance or somethink. I drops
me gun an’ tries t’ undo ’im, but Sandy
jist growls quiet-like an’ looks up with ’is
left eye winkin’ like mad. Me, I’m stand-
in’ tryin’ to make it out, when I ’appens
t’ glance along Sandy’s tail. An’ I’m
damned if there ain’t another bird dead
in line with it. Well, I pots that with
the left, like Sandy indicated with his
lamp. Then he unloosens an’ brings ’em
both back f’r me.”
* * * *
“Merrangbaur”: “There ain’t no such
thing as justice,” growled Steve. “Me
an’ Joe’s workin’ fer a boatbuilder one
time, an’ ’e gets an order fer an eighteen-
footer from one of these well-lined
blokes wot fancies theirselves in brass
buttons an’ white britches. Me an’ Joe
are just layin’ the keel when along comes
this cove, wot we calls Brasso be’ind ’is
back, with a couple of ’is china plates.
They’re orl enthoosiastic coots —calls
theirselves shiplovers or somethin’ —an’
they dithers aroun’ wantin’ to lay the
keel with their own ’ands. Well, the
boss is away an’ it’s warm work, so Joe
tips me the wink an’ starts tellin’ Brasso
wot an important job it is layin’ the
keel an’ ’ow we’ll get into terrible trouble
if the boss finds out we’ve let ’im muck
about with the boat before she’s fin-
ished. Brasso tells Joe ’e’s been studyin’
up ’ow boats is built an’ ’e knows they
can ’andle the job theirselves. ’E slips
Joe a quid. Joe ses ’e’s sure the job
couldn’t be in better ’ands, an’ orf we
ducks to the Sailor’s Ghost. We ambles
back late in the afternoon an’ finds
Brasso an’ ’is mates oozin’ pride an’ per-
spiration. Joe looks the keel over with a
bleary eye an’ pernounces it perfeck.
When we ’ad ’er finished, Brasso brings
orl ’is cobbers down fer the launchin’.
With orl the fuss y’d swear she was a
luxury liner. Bang goes a bottle of
bubbly on ’er bows an’ away she trundles
down the slipway on ’er trolley. She
’its the water with a splash, but the
cheers stop sudden as she goes straight
under. Gripes, y’ should’ve seen the
owner’s dial! ’lm an’ ’is cobbers ’ad
some’ow bolted the keel to the trolley!”
A. B. PATERSON.
His banjo sings no more;
The player’s hands are quiet;
Yet maybe on that shore
His lyric song runs riot;
And down the mountain-sides
The brumbies’ heart-strings quiver
As after them there rides
The Man from Snowy River.
Or in the dim night-tide,
The Geebung riders rally
To beat that other side
Of riders from Death’s valley ...
Quick hoofs, in beating rhymes,
And polo mallets ringing . . .
Those were the days and times
When Banjo’s verse was singing.
Along the Castlereagh
They’ll sing his songs for ever,
With Conroy’s sheep that stray
Beside the singing river;
And in the dusk or dawn
The black swans will fly over
As they have always gone
To cheer the happy rover.
The Banjo still sings on
To tell of “visions splendid”
When youth’s bright glory shone
“On sunlit plains extended.”
Old Gabriel’s music pours
And we’ll be lonely, knowing
For him on those far shores
The Fourteenth Trump is blowing.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“ How's that?”
END OF A SNAIL.
Gone is the hated sun
With his great glare and glow;
My day is now begun,
Forth to feed I go.
With dignity I creep
Among the cool and lush
Leaves; while the birds sleep
I bite, I crush, I crush.
When the east grows grey
I seek my secret place,
Close my darkling day,
My shining track retrace.
High in the blinding sky
My ancient enemy
Blazes, while I lie
Low in my secrecy.
A rustling and a stirring
Break into my rest,
Sudden wings whirring—
The thrush on his quest.
I am found, I am found,
Dragged from my chink;
Hurled against the ground,
I bleed and I shrink.
My house is wrecked,
Helpless and bare,
Hustled and pecked,
I squirm in despair.
I am violently seized,
Battered and jolted,
Hurriedly squeezed.
Mouthed and bolted.
I draw no more breath;
Unware of harm,
I go to a sweet death
In the dark and the warm.
, MAORILAND. ARNOLD WALL.
* * * *
“Bulong K. Kanowna”: Joe, like
other cockies in the Westralian wheat-
belt, never missed an opportunity of
charging his car into a mob of emus. It’s
the surest way of “eternalising the pests,”
Joe maintained —that is, until the other
day, when he roared his old bus up to a
mob of ’em as they spanked along a
banked-up gravelly road at an easy 35
m.p.h. As he neared the lanky fowls
Joe gloatingly pushed the accelerator
down to the floor. But as he craned his
head around the dust-covered windscreen
to get a better view of the impending
massacre, a big pebble flung back from
one of the flying feet got Joe fair be-
tween the eyes. The car shot over the
bank and turned over a couple of times
before coming to rest. We heard from
one of the hospital nurses that Joe
spent all one afternoon composing a
letter to the Air Minister, pointing out
the excellent practice which the R.A.A.F.
gunners could get by using the emus as
ground targets.
♦ * * *
“Horsetailer”: What is the fox’s favor-
ite fruit? On The Gorge, near Wanga-
ratta (Vic.), Reynard sometimes even
climbs the old quince-trees about the run
for the fruit; and Arthur Wright, the
manager there, assures me that, poison-
ing on rabbit trails with quinces and
strychnine, an occasional fox is found
stiff and stark.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”; With the primitive abo.
fire was precious. On the march burning
brands were carried, the task of fire-
bearer being the last useful work of the
ageing gins. And not small was their
knowledge of woods that were long-burn-
ing and not liable to go out. Jarrah, for
instance, was never any good as a fire-
stick—it went out at the least provoca-
tion. But banksia would keep alight for
a day, with only an occasional wave in
the wind to renew the glow. The etiquette
of fire-begging, too, was elaborate. Per-
haps an abo. family might get caught in
the rain, firesticks quenched, fire-making
tools too damp for use. On finding some-
one more fortunate and with a blaze
going, the tireless women kept well back,
as modest women do when encountering
men other than of their own family. With
slow deliberation the male then ap-
proached the fire and its owner, pausing
several times to sit and appear as if not
too much concerned. No hostility being
shown, he finally reached the fire. With-
out speaking, he then, after a suitable
pause, would draw out two lighted twigs,
and, after tapping his request in a sort
of Morse code, lay them crosswise. In
granting the boon the owner drew out
another two sticks and laid them on the
first. The needy stranger then had his
fire, which he carried to his women, it
being their duty to get the family fire
going.
* * * *
“Bohemian”; As to the belief that
horse hairs turn into eels (B. 1/1/’4l)
any schoolboy—in my time at least—
knew the origin. Put into water the
hair would, when partially submerged,
coil round and round, keeping up its
movements for an indefinite period. We
never attempted to find how long the
gyrations lasted. It was not until I asked
a scientist the cause of such apparent
vitality that I learned that the law of
capillary attraction was the reason. The
hairs being tubular, the water flowing
through them caused the gyrations. After
a couple of days, sometimes less, the
hair became waterlogged and sank to
the bottom motionless. As boys we fully
believed that if left long enough in the
water the hair turned into an eel.
* * ♦ «
“B. A. Ker”; Choom looked, and
acted, like a comic artist’s conception of
a new hand. He knew nothing about
horses, less of cows, and his technique
on the woodheap was deplorable. But
to Joe the rousie he was a gift from the
gods. Every conceivable trick for the
humiliating of newchums the humorist
worked, from teaching the unsuspecting
victim to ride on an unbroken colt (so
they’d both learn together) to putting
burrs in his boots and a dead snake in
his bunk. One night, long after Choom
had returned from his nightly eel-fishing,
patiently undone the barb-wire entangle-
ments from his blankets and retired, a
sudden commotion from Joe’s bunk
awoke the hut. “Snake! ” he yelled ;
“I’ve been bit!” We tried to tell him
him that he’d only had a nightmare ; but
he was adamant that the wriggler had
crawled across his face and got him in
the neck. Examination showing the tell-
tale punctures, someone was about to cut
the piece out, when a gurgle of hys-
terical laughter drew attention to
Choom’s bunk. On the floor a long
bamboo with an eel and two pointed
wires attached to the end explained
everything. That was one joke Joe didn’t
see. Neither did he see the straight
left and right cross that stopped
both his headlong rush and
thoughts of revenge.
* * * *
“Pinjarrah”; So wild pigs are
increasing in numbers on pastoral
Queensland! They used to be like
that in south-west Groperland, but
now are as scarce, almost, as hens’
teeth. The cure is to market
them. True, the adult wild porker
is apt to be lean and stringy, but
every generation harks back to the plump
porcine type. The rule is, catch them
young. Anything below adult size, if
yarded into the homestead and put on
the regulation “dairy-fed” diet, will pile
on the fat good enough to pass muster
in the average butchery. Makes good
bacon, too.
“Gryllus”: A curious feature
of Australian bird-life is the
number and variety of species
which tunnel underground for
nesting. Those dinkum Aussies
the diamond birds excavate a
spacious nursery at the end of
a tunnel two feet or more long.
Usually they choose a bank of
dry soil, but the earth carried
up with the roots of a big
windfall tree is also a desir-
able site. Rainbow birds dig
even longer tunnels in soft
soil but don’t worry about
picking a vertical surface or
lining the nursery. Blue and
red-black kingfishers burrow
into the banks of streams or
billabongs; the sacred mem-
ber of the family likes to dig
into a termite nest in a tree,
and big brother Jacky’s predi-
lection for branch spouts is
fair evidence of a leaning to-
wards the family tradition.
Sometimes be follows the
example of his reverend rela-
tive and chooses a tree-termite
nest. Some of the rarer par-
rots burrow into white-ant
nests on the ground. White-
back swallows, the Australian
equivalents of the European sand-
martin, put 3ft.-long drives into a bank
and finish off inside with a comfortable
nest. Mutton birds dig their under-
ground nurseries into thousands of acres
of sandy soil round our coasts. So do
other species of shearwater, also prions
and petrels. How and why has it come
about that the tunnel-nesting method is
practised by more than double the num-
ber of species in the Australian region
than in any other?
* * * *
“Fitteridge”: Crocodiles in North
Australian waters are on the increase.
Records of a hundred years ago mention
their existence but also remark on their
scarcity as compared with places like
India. Captain King encountered only
an odd one or two in the ’twenties,
and Grey (1837-38) failed to see
even one. Yet the localities visited
by the two explorers today swarm
with the brutes. Popular explanation is
that the decay of the abo. now leaves
untouched crocodile nests which in earlier
times would have been stripped to the
last egg. Constant looting of the nests
did keep the saurian population within
narrow limits ; but I think the advent
of “white-pfeller” tucker rather than
tribal decimation allows the croc, egg
to ripen to fruition. Mrs. Binghi prefers
the treacle and flour of the mission station,
the mutton and beef offal of the cattle
ditto, to the haunting of swamp and
stream, however succulent may be the
shelly fruit of the crocodile.
♦ * * *
“Acombe”; “Just seen Joe,” said old
Peter. “Passed ’ere a bit ago. He’ll be
down at the other pub about now playin’
‘sezta.’ The lads gets ’er goin’ ev’ry
Sunday, and Joe ain’t bad at it.”
I bit. “What do you mean playing
‘sezta’?” “That might only be my name
for it,” said Peter, “but I suppose you’ve
played often enough yourself. Some
feller’ll open up with ‘What was the
rights of that row y’ ’ad with So-and-so,
Jim?’ an’ you’re set. You’ve had time
since the row to think of all the things
you could have said if you’d thought of
’em, so you say ’em now. The gang
know you’re lyin’, but that’s the game,
anyhow. You must keep ’er rollin’,
though ; if you stop for breath someone’ll
say ‘That’s like the time I’ an’ you’re
out.” Enlightened and a bit sheepish, I
walked down to the group of half-axes
lounging in the shade of the “other pub.”
“So I sezta the lousy old coot ‘Look ’ere,
y’ ” The speaker turned, following
his companions’ eyes, and joined the
quietly chorused “Good day”; then
added, “I don’t suppose you want an-
other man next week, Mr. Acombe?”
“You’re right, Joe,” I said. “But I’ll be
looking for a picker-up about four this
afternoon, if it’ll suit you.” “Okay,”
said Joe. “If you’ll call at the old man’s
for my swag I’ll be waiting.” So I sup-
pose I’ll be “it” next Sunday.
» * * *
“James W.”: A while back I believed
the feasibility of an Aboliar’s contention
that a snake is unable to crawl out of
enamelled vessels. Now I don’t. I’ve
got a corrugated-iron tank, newly-painted
and as smooth as glass, and the other
day I spotted five and a half feet of black
snake climbing up the side of it. I
reached up to whang him with a Dutch
hoe and put a small hole in the tank. Joe
had moved like lightning even on that
surface. The next whack brought him
down in a nose dive. My backward
leap was interrupted by an unnoticed
elderly shirt spread out on the grass to
dry. The shirt tangled round my feet
and Joe and I sprawled on the ground
together. I must have moved faster than
Joe because he’s dead and I’m not.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: A recent Bulletin
drawing of a bullocky navigating his sub-
merged team from a boat recalls Denny
O’Brien and the inquisitive newchum.
He had finished loading up at the river
jetty and was making ready for an early-
morning start when the visitor hap-
pened along in a car, full of interest in
his first close-quarter view of a real
bullock team. For half an hour he
asked questions about the apparatus and
technique of the ox-conducting profes-
sion, and learning that the outfit would
be passing the Boggaville pub next after-
noon invited Denny to stop there for a
drink. As the car faded into the distance
a slow smile cracked the bullocky’s hard
dial and he strolled over to where Cin-
galee Jack, the local fisherman, repaired
his nets. Next day the team and wagon
creaked to a standstill outside Rogan’s
hostelry, each bullock bearing on one of
its horns a large net-cork with a neat
roll of twine attached to cork and horn
at each end. The inquirer into Aus-
tralia’s outback ways was on the verandah
and noticed them at once. “I didn’t
see those corks on your animals yester-
day,” he prattled. “Whatever are they
for?” “Well,” drawled Denny with a
minatory glance at Rogan in the bar
doorway, “I forgot ter tell yer yestiddy.
Y’see, I gotter cross the Ten-mile Swamp
this trip an’ it’s pretty deep in places,
so w’en the team sinks outa sight I ’as
ter perch up on the load an’ use them
corks ter steer ’em by.”
“S' many are knittin' for the boays, John, I thought I'd do some for
the girls”


URGENT!


The M.LC.
For Your
LIFE ASSURANCE
THE MUTUAL LIFE & CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
Founded 1886
Assets Exceed £30,000,000
Payments to policyholders exceed £40,000,000
LIFE ASSURANCE SUPPLEMENT
War and Life Assurance
All life assurance policies, so far as
The Bulletin knows, taken out in lead-
ing Australian offices before a day in
September, 1939, give full cover to men
now on active service and those who
may enlist later on. There may be ex-
clusions on some policies relating to
Air Force and submarine work, but men
of the A.I.F. are looked after. Thus a
man who assured for, say, £lOOO in
August, 1939, and whose policy had
accumulated £l5 in bonuses since, could
rest assured that his dependants would
get £lOl5 in cash in the event of his
being killed in action with an A.I.F.
division in Libya. If he is not killed,
and if he keeps his premiums up, bonuses
go on accumulating on his policy even
during the war, thus increasing its value
at whatever time and in whatever cir-
cumstances death occurs
It is true that, in anticipation of an
unknown and unmeasurable crop of early
death claims resulting from the war,
coupled with the prospect of low in-
terest returns and heavy taxation, Aus-
tralian life offices have for the most part
cut down substantially the rates of re-
versionary bonus additions to policies,
This is no more than prudent policy, a
feature of Australian life-office manage-
ment, would suggest. But in the event
of casualties in the war zone being light,
of net interest returns on invested funds
being better than at present anticipated,
and of administration exes, showing no
great increase, the present cut in bonus
rates isn’t something that is going to be
lost to policyholders. The profits re-
tained will improve future bonus pros-
pects and add to the general soundness
of the office.
So far as men now enlisting in the
A.I.F. are concerned, if they take
out new assurances they pay a load-
ing on their premiums, which is removed
should they return to Australia healthy
enough to pass as a first-class life.
Life assurance, in peace or war, re-
mains an essential part of our living
arrangements. Its value for payment
of probate duties has increased rathei
than diminished in view of the difficulties
higher taxation rates may bring
„° , the . iqmc * position of owners of
E a , s ora P ro P er h e s, city businesses, etc.
, uca J°” a , endowments, etc., for chil-
, n sh ° not overlooked in the
* tres ? of the P resent moment, and chil-
%* as fiances generally, especially
os f therein the child carries on pay-
“®nt P rei jmms on reaching maturity,
s 1 as desirable as ever.
* ar . only a little inflation has
occurred in the cost of living, and very
*ttle in the value of the Australian
P° und . Our economy is being capably
managed, on the whole, and, taking a
lon S view > the future of life assurance
hardly less bright than the past,
the taxation exemption on life assur-
, ance premiums paid by the taxpayers
ln most States is a particular attraction
of life nssurance as a protection and
investment in present circumstances,
Se*le*rt!na the* Pnlirv
* elecrin 9 Tne rOUCy
The original form of life assurance
was whole of life. You took out a policy
and the proceeds became available only
on the death of the assured. This is still
the most favored form of life assurance,
It most specifically provides for loss of
the breadwinner.
But the evolution of endowment assur-
ance, whereby the prime object is to
establish a savings fund payable at a
certain age (but with the very valuable
addition of the payment of a guaranteed
sum, usually with bonuses, at previous
death), has extended the field of life
assurance greatly in recent times. With
many people an endowment assurance
policy is the best form of saving they
know, because of the semi-compulsory
nature of it; others regard it as the safest
and most profitable investment they
know—even shrewd investors have diffi-
culty in earning an income, year in and
year out, equal to the bonuses which
accumulate on a participating policy in
a sound life office.
There are still only three basic types
of business transacted by life offices. The
offices offer to provide (a) a sum of
money at death of the assured in return
for payment of periodical premiums,
( b ) a sum of money at death of the
assured or upon his reaching a certain
age (whichever event happens first) in
return for premiums, and (c) they offer
regular income until death in return for
a lump sum. Type c is called an annuity,
and by itself it is the least frequent type
of business appearing in a life office’s
books. But by coupling it with types a
and b it has become very popular.
A life policy can be taken out for
many different purposes. The object may
be to provide for dependants in a great
or small degree, to make provision (by
means of endowment assurance) for a
retiring endowment, or to make sure of
having cash on a certain date for any
anticipated event where cash will be re-
quired ; and there are many other uses.
A policy may provide for payment of
probate duties, for funeral expenses, for
redemption of a mortgage or other debt,
for the purchase of a house, for educa-
tion of children, for a marriage dowry,
for a world tour or special holiday, for
regular income to a bereaved family, or
for income to the assured himself.
Then there are annuities. An annuity
represents worry-free income to the
annuitant, though in this case he takes
a bigger monetary gamble than with a
life policy. The office is sure of the
amount it is going to get, but the annui-
tant doesn’t know how much he is going
to draw (nor does the office know how
much it wifi have to pay), as death termi-
nates the annuity. The annuitant does
know, however, that he will be paid a
regular income during his lifetime, and
that money won’t be much use to him
afterwards.
One of the understandings in regard
to life assurance is that a policy, once
taken out, should be maintained in force
until maturity. Maturity is the date on
which payment becomes due to the assured
or his estate, by death or otherwise.
To get the greatest return for one’s
money a policy therefore must be kept
going until it matures.
If a policy is surrendered in its early
years there is naturally a loss on it; the
office must make deductions in respect
of the death risk it has run to date. As
the contract grows older its surrender-
value increases, but still it does not pay
to surrender, though near maturity even
the surrender value may be more than
the total premiums paid in.
Once a policy has been taken out it is
difficult, if not impossible, to have its
terms altered, except that it may usually
be converted into a fully-paid-up con-
tract of reduced amount (without loss),
It is obvious, therefore, that a pros-
pective assurer should consider thor-
oughly before paying the first premium
which form of cover it is that he really
wants. If he is assuring mainly for cash
at a certain age, with death cover as a
secondary consideration, an endowment
assurance is called for.
If he is principally concerned with pro-
viding for dependants or for probate or
funeral exes., a whole-life policy is the one.
A man may take out what is commonly
called a “death” policy (otherwise
“whole-of-life”), paying his premiums
until death ; when that happens he may
have contracted that the lump sum he has
assured for shall be retained by the life
office, but his dependants instead shall
receive a regular periodical income until
the death of the chief dependant, usually
the wife, on which event the annuity
terminates. Thus it is that, by combining
the principle of the whole-life policy
with an annuity, the “family-income”
contract has been evolved. This type of
policy, very popular in recent years, has
been elaborated on in many ways. Some
policies, in return for payment by the
assured of a higher premium (or
acceptance by the dependants of a
smaller annuity), provide for a lump-
sum payment to dependants at death of
the assured, and a life income to the
principal dependant, and a lump sum at
death of the dependant, thus providing
in a measure for possible children of
minor age.
Further adaptations have taken place
latterly. Endowment assurance policies


CUT OUT
EXTRAVAGANCES
The Federal Government, through its leader, the Prime Minister, has
appealed to the public to cut out extravagances and to save as much
money as possible.
In this connection the premium paid on your Colonial Mutual Life
Policy constitutes a real and safe saving, and by virtue of the fact that
a large percentage of the funds of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is used for the support of Government loans, you are, therefore,
indirectly aiding the Government’s financial policy.
Standing back of your policy contract and guaranteeing its fulfilment
are Funds, soundly and diversely invested, amounting to
£25,404,524
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
Principal Office: 316 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Head Office for N.S.W.: 14 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
An Investment in
SATISFACTION
Si
is
MEMBER HARVESTS £1032
From Weekly Sowing of 4/5
Highly Productive A.M.P. Policy
NO SURER CROP
NO man could harvest a surer or a better crop than that recently gathered in
by the man who invested in A.M.P. policy No. 278986 in 1900. Yet the harvest
is a typical one.
The arrangement this member made with the Society was that he would pay
a premium of £ll/8/4 a year (equal to 4/5 a week) until he reached 55, in 1940,
when the Society would pay him £5OO plus bonuses; that, if he died before 1940,
the money would be paid to his heirs.
He lived the full term, by which time the bonuses had grown to £532, so
that he was paid £1032. A great crop for so small a sowing.
Ask that we send an experienced man to talk over the best way lor you to
share in the benefits of the A.M.P. You commit yourself to nothing by enquiring".
Enquire to-day. If you prefer, ask that we send you a free copy of "Peace of
Mind," a book that may give you a new financial outlook. Write to-day. You
must sow before you can harvest.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir SAMUEL HORDERN, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., A. E. WEBB,
General Manager and Actuary. Manager for New South Wales
Head Office: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
w °uld You {JJJ rI £, “wllk
Your Business? . • •
. al l likely that any sane
T 1 15 ado pt such a course.
1 person would of your
Why then ‘eav J^caltics, aggravated
Estate, with US » fdend or lativ e
by your death. QUt the duties,
qmte unfitte losses (often
I" SUch . almost inevitable,
irreparable) _ he Union Trustee
On the other an pipped and
Company 18 . y undertake such
specially organised to ha?f
work. Its ample experience m
a century of P' f Estates guarantee
bundling all manner, on suUatiin***-
efficiency-
.• !.i&sSSSSSSm\S' rail
lil
3!J OOUINS
. c. WP ‘TMiw« <>»»“- M *""
%L’S‘£°«- g ‘"‘h
have been combined with the annuity
principle to provide income for de-
pendants at the assured’s death before
his reaching a certain age, or an income
to the assured himself and dependants
after attaining a certain age. This may
be described as a type of self-selected
pension scheme, with provision for de-
pendants in the event of early death.
“Income policies” have particular at-
traction for an assurer who does not trust
his own or his dependants’ judgment in
the matter of investing proceeds of an
endowment or whole-life policy when age
or death matures such policies.
"Mutual"
. . ~ , ~, „ „ .
What is mutual assurance. It is a
co-operative arrangement for the protec-
tion and benefit of policy-holders and
their dependants. It represents a pooling
of savings instalments, the living confirm-
ing to contribute and those who die ceas-
mg to pay, their dependants receiving the
sum assured, plus bonuses. In the case of
endowment assurance the assured himself
may collect the proceeds of the policy on
, a certam age in the event
of his dying before reaching the specified
age his dependants would collect.
The life office represents a pool with a
stream of contributions entering and a
represent^a"* larger
tributions in a good office. This is
achieved by reason of the fact that the in-
vestment of policy-holders’ contributions,
while those funds remain in the office,
brings in—through a side-stream—a
revenue greater than the business ex-
penses and early claims put together.
Profits after providing for claims and
probable claims, expenses, dividends (in
some cases) and reserves are distributed
among policy-holders in the form of re-
versionary bonuses. Reversionary bonuses
have their full face value only when the
policy matures ; if cashed as soon as
declared the office usually discounts them
heavily, the fundamental idea being that
they, like the policy, should be left un-
touched until maturity.
Healthy rivalry among leading Austra-
lian life offices has had the result of keep-
mg expenses and other outgo down and
increasing the surplus for policy-holders,
who get it in the form of bonuses.
The effect of the many transactions
that take place m a life office is that those
who live contribute towards the depen-
dants of those members who die. A con-
tnbutor may live a long while and pay a
long while: but : if . has at partidpating
policy m a sound, bonus-paying office, he
should lose no capital in the venture.
And, of course, when he took out the
policy neither he nor his dependants
could be sure that a long life was ahead
of him, or that his policy would not
become a claim within a few days, a few
months or a few years.
It is because of these factors that all
types of life assurance can be regarded
as an investment by one who assures in
a good office. The assured is assured so
long as he keeps his payments going ; the
gamble as regards the capital of the
assurance is on the part of the office. The
far as the policy-holder is
concerned is practically limited to the
question of bonuses. He can almost
always be certain of his premiums back ;
and often he receives excellent interest,
as well as death-cover for his dependants,
Past experience shows that, once a life
office has established itself, it should
begin to pay bonuses, and then, subject to
unaltered economic conditions, improved
bonuses. Depression upset bonus rates,
but only for a time ; disturbance by the
present war should also be temporary,
even if unpleasant for a time. Not
often does an office reduce its pre-
mjum rates; if results improve and the
o fj| ce j s a bj e to run its business with
i ower expenses and claims than it first
bargained for, and if returns from invest-
ments are better than expected, the
assure r gets the benefit, not in cuts in the
p a yments he makes to the society, but in
bonuses. He originally contracted to
ma k e certain periodical payments for the
assuranC e of a lump sum at a certain age
or at dea th ;in the end he gets a con-
siderably greater sum.
j n t be important matter of selecting a
]jf e office, regard should be given to ex-
-perience inves,-
me , nt resel , ve ,l set aside for
P°hcy liabilities, and the nature of in-
vestment of the funds. All assurance con-
tracts are not of the same value. It
depends on the bonus-paying capacity,
present and future, of the office. Some-
times, also, an office is more liberal on
the point of surrender and loan values
than others.
If a life office doesn’t fully distribute
surplus profits, and adds part of them to
reserves, it increases its future bonus-
paying ability.
We hear of terms like “the basis of
valuation.” This often means the basis
D f anticipating the future. If an office,
f or example, up to the present expecting
a 4 p c re turn on its investments, is able,
by increasing its reserves, to count on
onl a 3 x p c return and still
pay the
same bonuses, its bonuses are obviously
going to be higher if it actually nets 4 p.c.
on the strengthened funds.
g the same token, if an office budgets
for high expenses and high mortality,
and both those forms of outgo are below
eX p ec t a tions, another source of profit
accrues
A life office is a continu i n g entity, and
J
old policy-holders benefit by new ones
coming in. As an inducement for new
members to join up, prospects must be
made appealing by strengthening bonus-
paying possibilities. So, generally, policy-
holders should be more pleased than
otherwise when they see portion of the
actuarial surplus going into reserves in-
stead of out in bonuses. Only by thrifty,


Head Office: Melbourne.
idti
is -a (P&dac ojj
SERVICE
SECURITY, because the T. & G. is as
strong financially as any Life Assurance
Company in the British Empire. Every
£34,000,000.
SERVICE, because the T. & G. is purely
mutual, and is conducted in the interests
of its policy holders it has no share-
holders.
“A TOWER OF STRENGTH IN TIME OF NEED”
policy is backed by assets exceeding
I
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance Society lAd.
(Incorporated in Victoria, 1876.)
careful and far-seeing management can
a sound, bonus-paying life office be
built up.
The Growing Field
Life-assurance offices were one of the
first types of business to recover frorff
the shock of the big 1930-34 depression
in /vustralia. They are even up to the
present affected by the lower interest
rates, etc., that were introduced by legis-
lation to enable other types of industry
to cope with altered economic circum-
stances, but the general solidity of life
concerns during a period when the whole
financial world seemed to be falling to
pieces brought to them a much wider
popularity. The Mutual Life and Citi-
zens’ Co., for instance, had what was up
till then a record income for the year
ended Dec. 31, 1934. The A.M.P. had
a similar experience. From that time
onward until the outbreak of war, nearly
every Australian office continued to
write increasing business.
To-day Australians hold, on the aver-
age, more life-assurance cover than most
other people of the world. And in few
countries has there been such keen and
healthy competition among life offices as
exists on this continent. Helped
by the favorable deathrate, results
of life offices here are, on the whole, not
surpassed by overseas offices; and so it
isn’t surprising to find several of our big
mutual concerns selling assurance in
Maoriland, England, S’Africa and other
red-colored parts of the map. Results
to policy-holders from life-assurance ven-
tures have been so pleasing in the in-
stance of high-class offices that there
has been a tendency in recent years for
assurance to sell itself ; and if that ten-
dency continues it should result in lower
assurance costs, or, in more obvious
language, in improved bonus rates —sub-
ject, for the present, to war-time con-
ditions. Bonuses are the results of favor-
able deathrates, low expense and satisfac-
tory interest returns from funds invested
by life assurance offices.
Strength makes for strength in life
assurance. The better established offices
become, the stronger their business-get-
ting position is likely to be, unless com-
petition is carried to extremes. But,
as we have said here before, in
the long run it isn’t salesmen that sell
life assurance. It is the bonus and other
results of the separate offices. The sales-
man is a most necessary service, un-
doubtedly, but he has to have figures to
put on the table.
How Millions Multiply
The growth of the life-assurance move-
ment all over the globe has many re-
markable aspects. Next to savings
accounts in banks life assurance is the
world’s most popular investment. Like
the joint-stock company and other finan-
cial institutions of comparatively recent
evolution, the life-assurance policy has
come into its own during the last hun-
dred years. It has been one of the worth-
while social developments of modern
times.
In Australia most pronounced develop-
ment has been since the Great War, with
a special fillip following the depression.
Adverse times seemingly emphasise the
need for life assurance.
In 1920 there were 692,000 policies in
force in the Ordinary departments of life
offices operating in the Commonwealth ;
the sum assured was £168,257,400. In
1933 the figures had lifted to 877,173
policies, assuring £292,469,000. By 1938
there were 1,181,412 O.D. policies, giving
a death or endowment cover of
£403,813,927. The average amount of
cover taken per Ordinary policy has
greatly increased in late years. In 1933
it was £333 ; in 1937, £342.
Industrial assurances numbered 904,000
in 1920, assuring £26,227,000. In 1933
there were 1,667,531 of these policies in
force, granting cover amounting to
£72,180,000. The year 1938 found no
fewer than 2,368,340 I.D. policies on life
offices’ books; cover granted was
£105,452,157. Here again the trend has
been to take out larger policies. The
average for 1938 was £45. Needless to
say, especially in a country where mutual
and semi-mutual assurance is demanded,
larger policies mean more economical
cover for all concerned.
Life offices operating in Australia have
contracted to pay to policy-holders a sum
which still exceeds the total of all sav-
ings-bank accounts within the Common-
wealth. And it is just as much a poor
man’s investment as a rich man’s; the
great number of Industrial policies in
force demonstrates this. Industrial assur-
ance is usually paid for in small weekly
or monthly premiums, and, therefore, by
reason of the cost of getting in these
small and frequent premiums, there is
usually less profit for policy-holders than
in the Ordinary department. But though
policies in the O.D. of a sound life office
represent the best in life assurance, the
popularity of Industrial assurance demon-
strates that it fills a want. The collector
is (or should be) a spur against allowing
such policies to lapse where lapses are
liable to be only too frequent. In an era
when time payment and cash-orders are
prevalent, the undiminishing popularity
of life assurance is an encouraging sign.
Popular Uses
The first step by any young man or
woman towards establishing a lay-by for
themselves or their possible dependants
should be a savings-bank account. The
next step is life assurance —for the single
woman, endowment assurance. The need
for life assurance usually grows as the
assured grows (and multiplies); but it
is one of those things which have to be
well established before that actual need
arises.
A person is never too young to assure
after he or she passes the infant stage.
Early assurance is low-cost assurance.
Even with regard to infants, deferred
assurances cannot be begun too early.
There are restrictions on the payment of
straight-out assurances on the lives of
young children, but there are no restric-
tions on the assurance of a healthy parent
in favor of those children. Also, by what
are called deferred assurances, the founda-
tion of an assurance policy, to be paid on
the death of the assured after he or she
comes of age, can be established by a
parent at low premium when the assured
child is young.
Assurance, as far as the assured is con-
cerned, represents a combination of fore-
sight and thrift. The will to assure and
continue to be assured is as important
as the actual putting away of money to-
wards payment of premiums. There are
few people in the world regularly em-
ployed during their working life who
haven’t had an opportunity to assure.
There are few who haven’t assured that
don’t regret the neglect.
Independence in old age is a great
thing. Freedom from worry on the part
of a breadwinner and his family is also
a thing eagerly sought after by many.
Neither is easily achieved, as a rule, and
either is rarely won without previous
planning and saving years ahead.
Life assurance was designed and has
been evolved with the chief aim of pro-
viding capital and income to the aged
and bereaved when income is hard to
come by. Another use of assurance has
also become apparent; that of establish-
ing in the years of full employment the
beginning of a savings fund in antici-
pation of some expenditure that is to take
place in a few years’ time. The building
of a home, the cost of a trip abroad
(when such a thing becomes a possibility
again there will be a great rush), the
education of a child while the assurer is
still in his prime—saving for such a pur-
pose can be wholly or partly carried out
by means of life assurance.
House-purchase Assurance
House-purchase assurance, still being
featured by several offices, has had a wide
appeal in recent years. It has done good
service, too. Most people want a home,
and the combination of home-building
and life assurance is a welding of two
worth-while social services.
On approved properties (and where the
life is first-class) an advance up to 70 p.c.
is made on the figure determined by a
competent valuer; the home-purchaser
must take out a policy of endowment
assurance equal to the amount of the
mortgage, which it eventually discharges.
Premium and interest (at about 5-6, p.c,
p.a.) are paid monthly ; the term of the
policy may be any reasonable period,
depending on the age of the house bought
and the life assured.
The mortgage in most cases is the usual
contract, and the assurance policy an
ordinary endowment, the sum assured
being paid on a certain future date or at
previous death. It participates in bonuses
until maturity. On a reasonably-priced
house, over a term of 15 to 20 years, it
works out as being moderate rent; if the
assured should die meantime the mort-
gage is immediately discharged out of the
proceeds of the policy, and the property
passes free of encumbrances to his wife
or other beneficiaries, who also become
entitled to the accumulated bonuses, pay-
able in cash.
In one office, where the assured is
aged 40 at the commencement and the
period is 20 years, £lOO may be borrowed
for 17s. Bd. per month—which includes
premium and interest. A £lOOO loan
could thus be arranged for £8 16s. Bd. a
month, or £2 4s. 2d. a week. Bonuses
(at pre-war rates) at the end of the period
should result in a cash surplus of several
hundred pounds. Rates are lower now,
but they will rise again later on. The


I. ft
UJ
Head Office:
CORNER HUNTER and BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
Ufye
CITY MUTUAL
LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LTD.
m
An Insurance Society which
belongs to its Policyholders
and operates ONLY in the
Commonwealth of Australia
Assets Exceed - £10,000,000
Founded 1878
effect of these bonuses is to reduce the
actual interest rate to well below the rate
nominally paid.
Assurance of this kind thus has special
attractions for young home-builders. It
deserves wide popularity and success.
Assuring Women
Life assurance often makes little appeal
to the woman who is thinking of taking
it out on her own life ; indeed, it may
be said af once that assurance against a
woman’s death is not a necessity in
nearly so many cases as it is in a man’s.
A man is usually the breadwinner for a
family, and, so far as money is con-
cerned at any rate, his death is a much
greater loss to the home. Where, how-
ever, a woman is the breadwinner for a
young family, the desirability of assur-
ing her life is obvious.
In the case of single women, it is not
assurance against death that they will
be interested in, but assurance against
want in old age. There is a definite form
of policy that provides for such a contin-
gency, and it is very valuable in its
service.
The endowment assurance policy be-
comes payable at a certain age or at
death before that age. This is a form of
compulsory saving that should appeal to
every woman, particularly those who are
in business or who have taken up a pro-
fessional career.
The disadvantages of such a form of
saving in its early years become its ad-
vantages as the policy grows older. It
begins essentially as compulsory saving ;
no inducement is given to cash the policy
in its early years, because its cash value
is then negligible compared with the pre-
miums paid in.
The moral inducement to keep paying
the premiums until maturity is increased
by the system adopted in the sounder
offices of declaring “reversionary
bonuses.” These have little immediate
cash value, but if allowed to accumulate
until the policy matures usually total a
very substantial sum.
Women are frequently bad investors as
far as shares or “bond contracts” are
concerned, and it is almost invariably the
single woman, to whom a nest-egg in her
later life is most necessary, who falls
victim to the guile of the go-getter. Most
of such women have the false impression
that life assurance is a provision only for
dependants in the event of death.
The woman who has put her savings
into an endowment policy and who is
intrigued by some get-rich-quick scheme
hawked by go-getters is likely easily to
resist temptation to surrender her policy
and turn the cash into shares or “bonds.”
With a “young” policy the loss in doing
so would be considerable, and the con-
templation of it would do much to curb
enthusiasm for the new “investment.”
The comparatively small surrender
value of a policy in its early years may be
a disadvantage where the need for the
money is a real one —such as might hap-
pen in the case of illness or unemploy-
ment —but after the policy has been in
force for more than three years it always
has some surrender or loan value, and
this grows rapidly as the policy gets
older.
With an endowment policy, as with a
whole-life, the payment of premiums may
be discontinued after three or four years
and a paid-up policy of reduced amount
taken out in place of the original. The
paid-up policy is payable under the same
conditions as the original, is free from
further premiums, usually participates in
bonuses, but is generally of an amount
reduced to a portion of the original policy,
equal to the ratio which the premiums
actually paid bear to the total premiums
payable.
Endowment assurance can be put to a
less serious use than a provision against
poverty. Say a band of confirmed
bachelor girls, aged 21, decide to go on
an overseas trip when they are 35. An
annual premium of about £l3 14s. will
' assure each for £2OO with bonuses at 35 ;
the bonuses in a good office should bring
the endowment up to £3OO. Less than
£2OO would have been paid in during the
14 years.
It is possible to arrange for an annuity
to be paid upon the attainment of a cer-
tain age, instead of receiving the sum
assured in a lump. For an annual pre-
mium of £2B ss. one office offers a
woman of 25 an annuity of £lOO per
annum payable from the age of 55 until
death. Should the assured die before the
annuity is entered upon the premiums are
refunded without interest. This kind
of policy is called a deferred annuity.
After she has safely passed the child-
bearing age a woman is considered to
have a longer expectation of life than a
man; consequently, she has to pay more
than a man for an annuity in most
offices.
An immediate annuity is one which
starts immediately from the date of pay-
ment of a lump sum into the assurance
company. To obtain an immediate
annuity (or income) of £IOO payable
from 55 onwards it would be necessary
to save up over £ISOO and pay this into
the office at 55.
Instead of depositing the money in a
bank the £ISOO could be provided by
means of an endowment policy matur-
ing at 55 ; an annual premium of about
£3B paid from the age of 25 onward
would provide immediate cover for £I2OO
payable at death at any time, or upon
reaching 55, and bonuses in a good office
should make £ISOO at maturity a cer-
tainty.
An attractive proposition for a woman
with no responsibilities is the double-
endowment policy issued by one office.
For an annual premium of £4 14s, 7d.,
paid from age 30 onward, a sum of £IOO
will be paid at death, or £2OO should the
woman live to be 60. No medical exami-
nation is required.
After a whole-life or endowment
policy has been 10 years in force it should
have a very substantial surrender value.
A loan up to 90 per cent, of this value
will be granted at any time by most
offices. Where premiums are allowed to
fall into arrears on a 10-year-old policy
the surrender value should keep it “alive”
for several years.
Children's Assurances
When an assurance policy is taken out
for the benefit of a child it need not be
taken out on the life of the child itself.
In fact, as the loss of the father —the
breadwinner—through death would prob-
ably mean a severe financial blow to the
family, it is often better to assure the life
of the father.
If he were assured under an endow-
ment policy the money would become
available after the required term (say,
10, 15 or 20 years) had elapsed, if he
lived that long ; or if his death was un-
timely the endowment would become pay-
able as soon as his decease had been
proved to the assurance office.
The advantage gained in assuring the
parent costs little more. It should be
understood, too, that the payments which
may be made by a life office on the death
of a child assured under a policy are
limited by law. The office would in any
case be allowed to return the premiums
paid, but otherwise must not pay more
than £5 on the death of a one-year-old
child or more than £45 in the case of one
nine years old. If the child’s life were
assured in more than one office the total
assurances payable would be limited to
the amounts mentioned or to the total
premiums paid. The aim is to make it
impossible for parents to benefit from a
child’s death.
But a policy may be taken out on a
young child, and the death risk is covered
after he or she reaches the age of 11.
If an endowment assurance payable in
24 years’ time were taken out on an 11-
year-old child the annual premium in one
office would be £3 11s. The premium for
an endowment covering the same term
but taken out on the life of a parent aged
31 would cost only about 10s. a year
more. If the term selected was shorter
than 24 years—say the assurance was in-
tended as an endowment for the child
upon reaching 21 —the term would be re-
duced to 10 years, and the proportionate
difference in the premiums would be
reduced.
It often happens that the assurance of
a child is not intended for educational
or similar purposes, the parents’ object
being to encourage thrift in a son when
he starts in life. In such a case it is pos-
sible for the parent to take out an endow-
ment assurance policy upon a newly-born
son, payable when the latter reaches any
particular age, such as 50 or 60, or at
death after reaching 21. Such a policy
secures a low premium for the boy, and
when at 21 he starts to pay the pre-
miums for himself the policy has already
been in force 20 years and has a con-
siderable value.
One example of this kind of policy
offered by an Australian office is based
on an annual premium of £lO. For that
sum a child turning five may be insured
for £B9B (with bonuses), payable at 60 or
at death after 21. Should the child die
before coming of age the premiums are
refunded with interest at 4 per cent.
The policy would carry a guaranteed
surrender value of £176 at 21 —£16 more
than had been paid in. This amount
could be claimed by the parents should
they desire for any reason to cancel the
policy when the child reached 21. For a
small extra charge the policy is made
free of premiums until 21 should the
parent responsible for their payment die
in the meantime.
Where a parent’s sole aim is to protect
a child should it be orphaned before be-
coming of age, an arrangement for a
“temporary contingent annuity” can be
made with some offices.
Say a parent aged 35 has a four-year-
old daughter. To secure an endowment


'
£
?
M
77? e Metropolitan Building,
Corner Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney .
Australian
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company, Ltd.
Incorporated 1895.
Incorporated in Queensland in 1895, the Australian
Metropolitan is one of the old-established Life Offices.
It has 43 years of faithful service to the public behind
it, and has earned a reputation for its liberal and
sympathetic treatment of policyholders.
As its liabilities are conservatively valued, its Funds are
ample for all purposes —but, even so, these Funds are
backed by substantial Reserves, so that its financial
position is impregnable.
At the end of 1939 the assets were made up as follows:
DIRECTORS:
DR. A. MURRAY WILL.
W. A. H. ALLWORTH.
D. F. STEWART.
COL. A. SPAIN.
J. A. HENDERSON.
GENERAL MANAGER:
J. A. HENDERSON.
SECRETARY:
GEORGE LESLIE, A.F.I.A.
ACTUARY:
W. J. COOKSEY, F.F.A.
BRANCH OFFICES:
Victoria:
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 89-91 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
Queensland:
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 367-9 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
South Australia:
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 22 WAYMOUTH ST., ADELAIDE.
of £IOO for the child when 21 or an
income of 10s. a week should the parent
die before the child comes of age, an
annual premium of about £8 is asked,
which ceases upon the child reaching 21
or at the parent’s earlier death. If the
child dies before reaching 21 premiums
are returned without interest.
Where the parent lives until the child
comes of age it will be found that con-
siderably more than £IOO has been paid
into the assurance office ; it must be re-
called, however, that the annuity risk of
10s. a week might have involved the
office in heavy payments in the event of
the parent’s early death.
Australian Life Offices
The A.M.P., like other life offices, has
had to readjust its outlook since Aus-
tralia became involved in war. It is not
seeking business on lives of A.I.F. men
(though assurances can often be arranged
where the appropriate loading is paid),
and it doesn’t want assurances on
R.A.A.F. men ; the risks are as yet in-
capable of accurate estimation, and in
the latter class are considered so high as
to make the business undesirable, from
the point of view of R.A.A.F. men as
well as policy-holders. For parallel
reasons the A.M.P. is not doing monthly
income business; the possibility of a
policy-holder proceeding overseas, becom-
ing a war casualty, and the society find-
ing itself landed with a liability to pay a
monthly income for a great number of
years, followed by a cash sum payment,
for which it had received only a year or
two’s premium, is too likely an event to
make the business satisfactory. On the
other hand, all those policy-holders who
were assured before war broke out have
full cover if they have since enlisted in
the A.I.F.
The greater part of the society’s busi-
ness, as formerly, has been completed
under the whole-life and endowment
assurance forms, these being, broadly, the
most satisfactory and most widely applic-
able types—types, too, that may be had
in amounts suitable to every pocket.
They predominate in group and in Indus-
trial life assurance.
The A.M.P. is linked with the war m
its specifically overseas phase, and is also
linked with operations on the home front.
Contributions to war loans have been
extensive; thus all assurers, large and
small, are making some contribution to
the financing of the war effort.
Premiums paid to life offices like the
A.M.P. are really a substantial help to
the war effort.
The Commonwealth and most of the
States allow life assurance premiums up
to a prescribed amount as a concessional
deduction from taxable income. The
recent great advances in income taxation
have thrown into prominence the value
to the individual taxpayer of taking the
fullest advantage of this concession— i.e.,
putting into life assurance premiums the
maximum allbwed by law. Where a resi-
dent of N. S. Wales on £IOOO a year pays
£IOO a year in life assurance premiums
he saves £33 in income tax; on £2OOO a
year he saves £55. In effect, the £IOOO-a-
--year man gets his assurance for £67 a
year instead of £IOO, and the £2OOO-a-
-year man gets his for £45.
The A.M.P. recommends endowment
assurance as a practically tax-free invest-
ment. To begin with, the premiums up
to £IOO are deductible from taxable in-
come, and then the claim moneys at
maturity are free of income tax. As most
A.M.P. maturities have in the past re-
turned 3 p.c. to 4 p.c. “straight” (i.e.,
on premium payments considered alone),
the actual “investment value” of the com-
paratively small sums set aside yearly is
greater even than the 3 p.c. to 4 p.c.
When this is considered in relation to
the cover in the event of death during
the term of the policy, endowment assur-
ance represents good value for the money
invested.
Probate duty is another matter in
which life assurance is a big help. With-
out a reserve of cash an estate may be
jeopardised on the death of the owner.
This is particularly so in the case of
station properties, partnerships, other
businesses, etc, A life policy matures for
probate purposes just when it is wanted
—at the death of the assured. The cash
becomes available immediately, and, pro-
vided the amount is adequate, there is no
trouble about death duties.
The A.M.P. is opening a full-time
branch office at Canberra.
•i*
Ever since its establishment the
National Mutual Life Association has
shown continued progress. In 1869 the
funds were £6 ; in 71 years they have
grown to £47,495,193. The history of this
development is a romance of finance, and
a testimony to the farsightedness of the
association’s founder. Col. J. M. Temple-
ton, who as a young man became imbued
with the idea of establishing a life-
assurance office along original and enter-
prising lines. He determined to make it
a mutual office, so that every penny con-
tributed to the funds was the property of
policy-holders alone —all benefits would
be shared mutually. The National
Mutual has no shareholders. The direc-
tors are themselves policy-holders, and
are elected to manage the affairs of the
association in the interests of the policy-
holders.
Right from the inception the non-
forfeiture principle was applied. The
National Mutual was the first office in
the world to introduce this protective
condition of non-forfeiture, which is now
in general use, and has saved policy-
holders millions of pounds. Other con-
ditions —such as reckoning age from
nearest and not next birthday—are
features which commend themselves to
assurers.
The success of the association through
the years is jointly due to able manage-
ment, careful selection of business and
low administration expenses—perhaps
the low rate of premiums has helped to
attract business at reduced cost.
In the field of home-purchase assur-
ance, the association is performing a
valuable service by making home owner-
ship readily available. Up to 70 p.c.
of the value is advanced, and the repay-
ments, which may be extended up to 25
years, seldom exceed rent. In the event
of the policy-holder’s death during the
currency of the loan, the home becomes
the immediate debt-free property of his
dependants. Home-purchase policies,
however, apply only in selected building
areas.
The association is the largest mutual
office in Australasia transacting ordinary
life business only. Policy-holders have
good reason to feel pleased with results
achieved and prospects for the future.
4*
The M.L.C. —Largest of the offices
which allot most of their profits to
policy-holders but which have share capi-
tal in addition, the Mutual Life and
Citizens’ is now 54 years old. Noted
for the keenness and economy of its
management and for its great financial
strength, the M.L.C. is one of the major
life offices, and it transacts Ordinary,
Industrial and personal accident business.
Life policies in force at December 31,
1939, exceeded 688,000, insuring (with
bonuses) more than £89,000,000.
The constitution of the M.L.C. has the
special feature that a body of share-
holders guarantee an expense rate and
other matters, and are remunerated by
a share in profits. This has applied to
the Ordinary Branch for some 50 years,
and to the Industrial since 1925. The
claim is made that this system combines
the advantages of individualism and
mutuality, as the shareholders can make
no profits without earning a larger
amount for policy-holders. Whatever the
theory, the result in this case has been
successful.
All types of contracts are issued, and
the office is ever alert to introduce new
forms or to adapt existing ones to new
needs.
The M.L.C. has for decades been
noted for the strength of its reserves,
and as far back as 1901 adopted a strong
3 p.c. valuation basis that was then
unique in Australia. Reserves have since
been increased still further, and last year
the actuarial valuation was on such a
sound footing that liabilities could be
met if the rate of interest fell to 2\ p.c.
in the Industrial branch or 3 p.c. in the
Ordinary. This strength is, of course,
a particularly important feature at a time
of national emergency such as the
present.
At the same time the M.L.C. is not
lacking in expansive spirit, and 1939 was
a year of record growth.
Persons employed in the one firm may
effect Ordinary branch policies on
specially favorable terms by becoming
members of an M.L.C. group. Premiums
are deducted regularly from wages and
are remitted to the co. by the employer.
It is the experience that a regular pay-
ment at short intervals is suitable to
people of moderate means, and this sys-
tem has supplied a convenient method of
saving for many.
In the Industrial branch many attrac-
tive contracts are available. A feature
of policies on adult lives is that double
the sum assured is payable if the assured
dies as a result of an accident, while for
the main infants’ table all future pre-
miums are waived if the assured’s father
is accidentally killed. These additional
benefits are provided free of charge and
in no way reduce the normal benefits.
That they are of real value is proved by
the many appreciative letters the office
has received from claimants.
The M.L.C. has always been a con-
sistent investor in Government securities.
At the end of 1939 no less than 62.5 p.c.


A Romance
.
In 1869 the Funds of the “National Mutual”
were £6/0/10 . . . being the first quarterly pay-
ment on a £lOOO with profits life policy, effected
on his own life by the founder
of the Association, J. M. Tem-
pleton, then aged 30.
To-day, 71 years later, the
Funds total £47,495,193 a
unique record of consistent
success.
śf
ds
In 1869, Colonel Templeton personally canvassed
Col. J. M. Templeton.
his friends to secure the first
100 Policyholders.
To-day the “National Mutual”
approximates 250,000 mem-
bers, and has branches
throughout Australia, the
United Kingdom, South
Africa, New Zealand, India,
Ceylon and Straits Settlements.
Wide vision and wise planning have made the
Association one of the largest and most soundly
administered Life Assurance Offices in the Empire.
The “National Mutual” was
the first Office in the world to
introduce the NON-FORFEI-
TURE PRINCIPLE, whereby
the surrender value of a
policy is applied to paying any
overdue premiums. This prin-
Lsrtf
i
ciple is now universal, but at the time of its adop-
tion it marked an epoch in life assurance history.
The Association is PURELY MUTUAL—there
are NO shareholders, so policyholders alone share
all benefits.
A “National Mutual” policy is a wise and most
attractive investment.
Figures from the 71st Annual Report:
Total Funds at 30/9/’4O . . . . . . £47,495,193
Total Income for year ended 30/9/’4O , , £6,323,079
23,750 New Policies Issued assuring . , £8,596,926
Payments to Policyholders for year . . £3,816,246
(The above figures relate to Ordinary Assurance business only. The
Association does not transact Industrial Assurance business.)
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION </ A/ASIA. LTD.
(Inc. in Vic.)
ESTABLISHED 1869
350 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
The Association has funds available for loans at current interest rates on
municipal and public body debentures and first mortgages of suitable city
pastoral and agricultural properties.
■operation
Modern banking includes much more
than accepting deposits and granting
loans. It makes available a wide
range of services and facilities, which
are not only useful, but are essential
for the conduct of modern business.
The protection of its customers’
deposits is one of the main duties
of the Bank, and in carrying out
that duty, the Bank makes loans to
trade and industry and invests in
Government bonds. In so doing it
assists business, encourages sound
enterprise and helps to provide means
for carrying through community
efforts.
iiii
1
NATIONAL BANK
of A ustralasia "Limited
(Incorporated In Victoria)
446 Offices and Branches
in Australia
92—1 C—41
of the total assets of £30,173,335 was
represented by loans to Governments and
local-government bodies. During 1940
£1,500,000 was subscribed to war loans.
Other assets are equally healthy, compris-
ing principally loans on the co.’s own
policies and loans on mortgage.
Prior to the war the M.L.C. played
an important part in supporting building
societies. There is an attractive little
suburb out Eastlakes (Sydney) way built
with the support of M.L.C. funds which
furnishes a fine example of modern hous-
ing. For some years past it has been
clear that increase in business would
make it necessary to extend premises,
and the M.L.C. has, therefore, recently
erected imposing new offices in Sydney,
Melbourne and Wellington (N.Z.), which
are an addition to the architecture of
these cities. No difficulty has been found
in securing tenants for any space not at
present used by the co. in these buildings.
4* 4* * 4*
The City Mutual Life Assurance
Society has in the past been modest about
its age ; it has claimed that it was estab-
lished in 1879, that being the year which
marked the completion of its first year
of operations. Actually, however, its
certificate of incorporation shows that
the society was registered on November
20, 1878, and in future it is the inten-
tion of the office to name 1878 as the
date of establishment.
The City Mutual was incorporated on
a phrely democratic basis ; it has never
had any shareholders ; it is controlled
by a board of directors elected from
policy-holders by the policy-holders, each
of whom has one vote for each £lOO of
assurance held, with the rights of small
policy-holders protected by the provision
that no member shall have more than 20
votes.
The City Mutual lays emphasis on the
fact that it operates in Australia only,
and in the present state of world affairs
that fact no doubt increases the satis-
faction with which members view the
results of their policies, for, taking as an
illustration a whole-of-life policy issued
in 1915 —that is, a policy in force during
the Great War and the depression of 10
years ago—it is found that each £lOOO of
the sum assured now provides insurance
cover of £lB4l. Bonus additions in the
period of 25 years have amounted to
over 84 p.c. of the original sum assured.
*l* -2* 4*
The T. and G. (Australasian Temper-
ance and General) is a very progressive
office of the mutual type. It has made
great strides over the past 20 years par-
ticularly, in both its Ordinary and In-
dustrial branches. It writes all classes
of policies and declares satisfactory
bonuses.
❖ 4* •!* 4*
In these days of increasing specialisa-
tion, parents have more than ever to con-
sider provision for higher education
and/or special technical training for
their children in order to fit them for
the future.
Higher education costs money, and
too frequently it is found impossible to
face up to the higher commitments that
are involved in such education, and a
quite promising child is sometimes forced
into wage-earning earlier than should be
the case.
Every parent can, however, provide
for such educational costs by commenc-
ing, when the child is very young, to
make regular annual payments towards
an endowment payable in 15 years’ time,
and so accumulate, over a period, all
that will be necessary to do just what
he would wish for his offspring.
The Australian Metropolitan Life
Office has recently issued a new form of
contract which is mainly intended for
the advancement of a child. It is a con-
tract that participates in profits, and
provides for the payment of a definite
amount in cash at the end of a specified
term of years. Should the child not
survive for the endowment period, all
premiums which have been paid will be
refunded with interest.
Provision is also made for the cessa-
tion of premiums in the event of the
death of the parent effecting the endow-
ment before the child attains the age of
21, if the contract runs so long, and no
better form of saving for a definite object
is possible.
Car Insurance
Third-party and Other Risks.
In spite of the war and petrol ration-
ing, there were still 890,991 motor
vehicles registered throughout the Com-
monwealth on Sept. 30, 1940. Australia


INSURE
Wm
WITH
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY—
Established 1878
FIRE,
ACCIDENT, MOTOR CAR
PLUVIUS (Rainfall) INSURANCES
HOUSEHOLDERS & HOUSEOWNERS'
COMPREHENSIVE (Combined)
INSURANCE
CROPS. STACKS and OTHER AGRI-
CULTURAL INSURANCE
BE PATRIOTIC. INSURE AUSTRALIAN
PROPERTY IN AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE
COMPANY.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
KELSO KING. Managing Director.
THE SOUTHERN CROSS ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
(.Incorporated in Victoria .)
Head Office: SOUTHERN CROSS BUILDINGS, 315-317
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND AND SOUTH AFRICA. LONDON AGENTS.
The Company transacts Modern and Comprehensive
Life, Endowment, Accident and Sickness Insurance.
Head Office Directors:
ALFRED AUBREY, Esq., F.A.1.5., F.C.C.S., Chairman of Directors and
Managing Director; HORACE E. WALDUCK, Esq., J.P.; JOHN K. CANNAN,
Esq., Solicitor and Notary Public (Queensland); JAMES VICARS, Esq., M.E.,
M.lnst.C.E., M.lnst.E.Aust., F.R.A.I.A. (New South Wales); HENRY L. LYALL,
Esq., J.P.
Actuary: Managing Director:
L. B. DENBY, Esq., A.I.A. A. AUBREY, Esq., F.A.1.5., F.C.C.S.
AN AUSTRALIAN OFFICE
THE
Company Limited
Established 1849
C lncorporated in Victoria .)
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
HEAD OFFICE;
44-46 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
The Bank of Australasia
INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND BY ROYAL CHARTER 1835
(The liability of the members is limited)
ENC
C
Vi
<
■x; : ' :'v
111
ui
-A
t
U
X
rn
m M ,N DJAN
I ■
i OCEAN
Hfe. ‘ * .........
0*
J'
o
With Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, two offices in
London, and with accredited agents and correspondents all over the
world, The Bank of Australasia offers a comprehensive service covering
every phase of modern banking business.
The oldest Bank now trading in Australia as originally constituted.
runs about fourth place (on a per-head
basis) among the world’s greatest motor
users. There was a big growth among
new users both before and after the
depression.
The advent of motor transport de-
manded new types of insurance. The
tendency first was to leave car insurance
in the hands of companies formed for
the sole purpose of granting such cover,
but it was not long before old-established
institutions whose activities had been con-
fined chiefly to, say, fire insurance began
to cater for this class of business Not
ony have prem.um rates been substan-
tially cut back as a result of experience
and standardisation, bu, at the same time
greatly extended benefits have been
offered at the lower cost.
As in other forms of insurance, the
i j, r A
losses of the few are spread over the
contributions of the many. Under the
original “comprehensive” policy of 30
years ago, the amount insured on the
rar W3C the limit nf indemnitv for all
car was the limit ot indemnity tor an
purposes, including third-party liability.
Additional third-party cover was obtain-
able on payment of an extra premium,
which was also clapped on if it were
required to have more than one person
. ” „„„
drive the car. Damage to the car had
to be the result of “impact with an
object” to come within the scope of the
policy, and there were other restrictions
which have since gone overboard. One
of the most important was the proviso
that the insured must bear the first £5 to
£lO of any claim himself.
The modern comprehensive policy
usually covers loss or accidental or
malicious (by other parties) damage of
any kind whatsoever to a vehicle, in-
eluding theft of it or any of its acces-
series; unlimited legal third-party
liability to persons or property; the
liability of other persons (with a driver’s
license) driving the car, and the insured’s
liability when driving other people’s
cars; an allowance for medical expenses
in respect of bodily injuries, and personal
accident benefits for the insured or other
occupants of the car. Cover, of course,
can be taken out independently against
one or more of these contingencies, but
such policies are relatively more expen-
sive than the fully comprehensive type.
The motor-owner who doesn’t carry
third-party cover is a menace to pedes-
trians and other car-owners unless he
happens to be personally well-off. And
if he is well-off, he isn’t fair to himself
in carrying the liability which may accrue
if he accidentally injures or kills some-
one.
A well-known Australian office, in its
comprehensive policy, indemnifies the
insured against loss, damage or liability
resulting from the driving of the vehicle
a ii censec j driver. The loss or damage
- n respect of the actual vehicle, of course,
- g ii m i tec i to the amount insured against,
“£> ama g e ” includes cost of removal of
the ve hi c i e to the nearest “repairer or
pj ace Q f sa f e ty.”
This particular policy is very simple in
- ts t£rms relati to third-party risk. The
th ird-party cover is unlimited:-
* ... . , . f , , • clir . H
jjg*—“afT*CtSSS
sa tion for death or bodily injury to persons
caused by the use of such vehicle.
“N™ ns " sh , al ‘. not “ ud ' : ~ , h ,
(1) Any relative or friend of the insured
ordinarily residing with the insured.
( 2 ) Any person engaged in and upon the
service of the insured at the time of
such death or bodily injury.
Liability at law for damage to property
(exdudjn | pro p er ty 0 f the insured) caused
the use of such ve hide.
Law costs which are incurred with the
written consent of the co. or which the
insured may be ordered to pay in any
action wh ' c h he defends with the written
consent of the co.
... . . _ .
The principal exclusion of the opera-
U° n °f the insurance is where the driver
incurs the loss, damage or liability while
under the influence of liquor. This ex-
elusion does not apply when the car is
being driven by some unauthorised
person.
Sometimes a limit is placed on the
insuring office s indemnity as regards
public risk ; often, as mentioned before,
Ike indemnity is unlimited. The position
should be ascertained by the insurer
before taking out his policy. He will
hud that terms usually vary, inasmuch
as the coyer may extend from himself
to his relatives, employees, employer, etc.,
as drivers.
One big advantage of third-party in-
surance, apart from the obvious ones,
is that the onus of disproving ground-
less claims, sometimes resulting in heavy
litigation costs, is transferred from his
own shoulders to those of the insuring
company.
Nowadays all the adequately insured
driver has to consider on meeting with
a mishap is whether it will pay him
better to fork out for the extent of the
damage or lose his “no-claim” bonus,
usually a 20 p.c. rebate, made on pay-
ment of each renewal premium.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
JAPAN AND THIS WAR.
(From a long, careful study of “Far Eastern
Diplomacy” by A. Whitney Griswold in the American
“Foreign Affairs.” The portions here condensed are
mainly those of special interest and significance for
Australia and New Zealand.]
It should be noted that Japan has exerted little
influence on the balance of power in Europe. When
the hour of trial came for England in 1914, far from
relying on Japan’s assistance. Sir Edward Grey tried
to persuade the latter to stay out of the war. Japan
made no contribution to her ally’s war effort in Europe.
Japan’s war against Germany consisted of seizing as
many of the latter’s Far Eastern possessions as she
could get away with.
Even with Japan a full-fledged military ally of the
Axis and a Russo-Japanese treaty in process of nego-
tiation, it is doubtful if Hitler can expect much effec-
tive Japanese assistance in Europe. While Japan
might contribute indirectly to an Axis victory by
diverting American or Russian attention from Europe,
the point is that, until the outbreak of the present
war, the Far Eastern balance of power has always
been determined by the balance of power in Europe,
and never vice versa.
Since 1931, Western and Russian influence com-
bined has barely sufficed to hold in check a process
of overseas expansion which has long seemed immi-
nent and may, with the invasion of French Tndo-
China, actually have begun. With England
fighting for her life, France and the Low
Countries under the German yoke, the United
States preoccupied with the defence of an
entire hemisphere and the survival of Eng-
land, how much of that restraining influence
remains today? Is the latest scene-shifting
just one more in the old Far Eastern political
drama, or is it the curtain-raiser to a New
Order?
The world has forgotten Germany’s lost
colonies in the Pacific, and Hitler, to placate
his Japanese ally, has not pressed his claim
to them. The Marshalls and Carolines, Ger-
man Samoa, German New Guinea, Tsintao,
Kiaochow and the Shantung Peninsula were
all once outposts of German empire, trade
and missionary work. Germany came out
of the Great War having been harried from
her islands by Japan, Australia and New
Zealand, pushed out of Shantung by Japan,
and with her businessmen rounded up and
deported from China by the British.
Starting from behind scratch, Germany
then proceeded to build up a thriving trade
with China and Japan and to rehabilitate her
political influence in both countries. After
a half-hearted, or at all events unsuccessful,
effort to mediate peace in 1937, Germany
—already associated with Japan in the Anti-
Comintern Pact—recognised Manchukuo.
Loans and barter agreements with both
Manchukuo and Japan followed; Hitler
called home the last military experts from
China; and the foundation of the recent
triple alliance was completed.
In addition to her commercial and poli-
tical interests in China and Japan, Germany
has considerable trade interests in the East
Indies, mostly of imports of tin, rubber,
tobacco, oil and bauxite. While Germany’s
dependence on the East Indies for these re-
sources is by no means as great as Japan’s,
it is great enough to stimulate her concern for
the future of the islands. In a purely negative
sense, it might be of value to Germany to
deny unfriendly Powers access to them, to
use them for bargaining purposes. More-
over, the Australians have discovered rich gold de-
posits and are on the trail of oil in what was once
German New Guinea. With these economic incen-
tives, what more logical price might Germany demand
for the evacuation of Holland than the return of her
former colony and substantial concessions in the
Dutch East Indies? For the time being, Hitler is
content to use Japan as a scarecrow in that cornfield.
His victory in the war would place him in a posi-
tion to dictate to his ally, and the rich East Indies is
a possible sphere of conflict between the two. But
though Germany’s economic interests in the Far East
are significant, Germany’s present Pacific interests
are chiefly political and wholly subservient to her
interests in Europe.
Great Britain’s war-time relations with the Far
East hinge obviously on her success in withstanding
the German air siege and preserving her sea power.
But in the background of the present situation we can
discern a trend in the Far Eastern policy of Britain
which is often overlooked. The fact is that British
sea power has been on the decline in the Far East
ever since the Great War, and perhaps longer. As
Japan gained naval command of the Yellow and China
Seas, Britain (and the United States, too, for that
matter) lost it. England recognised this fact, as was
evident in her desire to renew the Anglo-Japanese
Alliance in 1921. Her Pacific Dominions concurred
in the wish, believing this to be the only way to pro-
tect themselves against the rising power of Japan. But
all three, the Mother Country and Australia and New
Zealand, were thwarted by Canada and the United
States. The Alliance was terminated.
Britain thereupon fell back on the Washington
Treaties as a poor substitute for the Alliance, on
Singapore as the surest bulwark of her Pacific de-
fences, and on the naval co-operation of France, Hol-
land, Australia and New Zealand. She hoped that
the American fleet, based in the Pacific while she kept
her fleet in the Atlantic, would act as a deterrent to
Japanese incursions into Australasia or the East Indies.
Thus, while Britain continued to share equally with
Japan three-quarters of all foreign investments in
China, and to endorse with the United States the
principles of the Open Door and the territorial integ-
rity of China, her post-war policies were primarily
aimed at defending India, Malaya, the East Indies
and the Dominions rather than her stake or her prin-
ciples in China.
Since the beginning of the Sino-Japanese War,
British diplomacy has waged a rearguard action against
the advancing Japanese, doing much to support the
Chinese currency, suffering the indignities of the
Tientsin blockade and the virtual blockade of Hong
Kong, clinging doggedly to the old points d’appui in
China and, most recently, reopening the Burma Road.
But there is no talk in London of restoring British
influence in the Far East to its nineteenth-century
peak. There is no hope of forcing Japan to abandon
her campaign in China. There is only a desperate
effort to prevent that campaign from sweeping down
along the Chinese littoral until it cuts off Singapore
from the rear. The Japanese are already based in
Indo-China, less than 700 miles from Singapore by
sea. They are speaking loudly in the councils of
Thailand. Let them cow Thailand, or bribe her into
submission, and not only will they have cut off Singa-
pore by land, but they will have placed themselves
—New York “World Telegram.”
SOUP’S ON!
virtually on the shores of the Indian Ocean and the
edge of the Burma Road.
Meantime, all roads lead to London, even those
of the Dominions most in jeopardy from Japan.
Australia and New Zealand have a combined popu-
lation of less than nine million, and though they are
responsible for contributing to the active defence of
Singapore they are concentrating on the training of
fliers and troops for service in England and the Near
East. They are likewise building up their territorial
defences. But their primary concern is that England
and the British Navy come through their present
ordeal. And even the restoration of British influence
in the Far East on an ante bellum scale promises
them such a precarious security that they are turning,
hopefully, to the United States.
Japan’s goal today differs little from her goal
during the First World War. Nor are her policies very
different. She is ready, quite free from moral or ideo-
logical scruples, to associate herself with the winning
side in the war in Europe. If she succeeds in doing
this she will have a reserved seat at the Peace Con-
ference, a chance to pick up crumbs from the tables
of the mighty. Her alliance with the Axis means
that she has bet on the Axis to win. Or, if we accept
the thesis that the Triple Alliance sprang from Ger-
man initiative, she has bought a premium from the
high-pressure Nazi insurance salesman. In either case,
it is hard to see how Japan can contribute directly to
an Axis victory in Europe, e.g., by dispatching thither
her troops, ’planes, warships or munitions. She did
not do this in the First World War. With the “China
Incident” still on her hands, she is even less free to
do so now. Nor does the Axis need or expect that
kind of help.
Japan can make her contribution to an Axis vic-
tory in indirect ways. She could embroil the United
States in the Pacific, and that would divert American
energies from assistance to England. She can help
Hitler kill Stalin with kindness.
But Japan does not need to fight either America
or the Soviet in order to make some minor, though by
no means insignificant, contributions to her allies.
Merely by threatening the Dutch East Indies, Malaya,
Singapore, the Philippines, Australia and New Zealand,
she anchors the American Navy in the Pacific, and
draws to the Philippines American bombers that
might otherwise be doing service over Germany. A
Japanese invasion of the Dutch East Indies alone
would not strike either Britain or the United States a
mortal blow. In the first place, it would be no easy
task for Japan to dominate a land area of 734,000
square miles, extending 3200 miles from west to east
on both sides of the Equator. Here is a theatre of
war in which the Dutch, British and Dominion naval
and air defences, though small, could harass the in-
vader indefinitely. Secondly, Japan could not cripple
the British nor prevent an American war effort by
stopping the flow of oil and rubber from tile Dutch
East Indies. Both nations have abundant alternate
sources of oil. Their dependence on East Indian
rubber sources is greater, but both England and the
United States are far more dependent for this com-
modity on the Malay States (from which the United
States draws nearly 70 p.c. of its supply), a region
under perhaps greater danger from Japan than the
more conspicuous East Indies.
Should Japan occupy both territories,
or put herself in position to control the sea
routes to and from them, Britain and the
United States could still get rubber from
Ceylon, and sustain themselves on reserves,
substitutes and reclaimed stocks. But the
practice would be expensive and hence would
constitute a Japanese tax levied on Britain’s
defence against Hitler and on American
assistance to Britain.
If it is true that Japan will make no
direct contributions to the Axis cause in
Europe, it is also true that Germany and
Italy will make no direct contribution to
Japan in her war on China. The Russo-
Japanese relationship works both ways. Hitler
can aid Japan indirectly by merely continu-
ing to do what he is already doing in the
Balkans. He can hobble Stalin with non-
aggression pacts or admit him to partnership
in the New Order. He might even compel
Stalin to abandon his support of Chiang
Kai-shek and dictate a Sino-Japanese peace
which would free Japan for an outright
assault on the British Empire. The idea has
certainly crossed his mind. The more his
prestige feeds on success in Europe, the
easier it will be of execution. Moreover, by
keeping his armadas in the air over England,
he attracts in that direction American re-
sources which otherwise might be employed
against Japan. But so long as Britain sur-
vives, the American fleet can remain at Pearl
Harbor, the one last western counter in the
Pacific scales of power.
Japan’s Axis Pact.
(Condensed from an article in New York
“Times” by its Tokyo correspondent .)
The commitments that Premier Prince
Konoye’s Government undertook when
Britain’s fate seemed to be settled are pro-
ducing their consequences. Britain’s fate is
not settled, and inevitably Germany and Italy
have begun manoeuvres to bring Japan’s
powerful fleet to their assistance.
Horror at the prospect he foresees has
been the keynote of Foreign Minister Mat-
suoka’s recent utterances. He “shuddered to think'’
of war between Japan and America and said such a
war would be Armageddon, bringing destruction to
civilisation.
Before Mr. Matsuoka signed the Three-Power
Treaty the Japanese Government and army and navy
investigated all its possible consequences. Armageddon
was looked in the face last August and the risk
accepted. Mr. Matsuoka’s dismal prophecies are the
result of new discoveries and are not inspired by
Japan’s obligations written into the Three-Power
Treaty. That document does not commit Japan irre-
vocably to go to Germany’s assistance if the United
States enters the European war.
The absence of a clear definition in the operative
clause of the treaty gives Japan almost unlimited
latitude in deciding whether any given event obligates
her to move against the United States. Mr. Mat-
suoka’s jeremiads lose their point when it is remem-
bered that only the Japanese Government’s action
can let Armageddon loose in the Pacific and that
action is dependent on Japan’s own interpretation
of a sentence purposely worded so as to furnish an
escape.
When the time comes, as come it will whenever
Hitler’s needs demand it, that Japan is asked to restrain
American aid to Britain who will interpret the Jap-
anese Government’s obligations? On the visible
evidence, the answer is that those forces which were
able to lead Japan into an alliance aimed against
America will be strong enough to interpret the mean-
ing of the alliance when the time comes. But in try-
ing to foresee Japan’s course it must always be
remembered that one major factor is concealed. The
movement that for a decade has been driving Japan
along is not out in the open where it can be measured,
but is entrenched in the fighting services and
bureaucracy. The dynamic strength of this movement
has been proved by all policies of the past decade;
but it is also evident that it has to struggle against


native conservative forces which, although they cannot
restrain it, are perpetually trying to steady it.
The conservative school is intent on settling the
war in China. It would limit Japan’s expansion to
the Far East and avoid foreign entanglements. It
expects a showdown with Russia, but rejects war with
the United States as a dangerous and useless adventure.
The other school believes that the “decisive law” of
international politics is force. The international
situation is held to offer rising Japan an opportunity
that “occurs only once in a thousand years,” No
country can stop Japan, this school believes, and if any
Power attempts it “we should smash it.”
Those quotations are taken from the army
magazine “Totariku.” What civilian patriots think
was expressed by the Tokyo “Nichi Nichi’s” New
Year’s number: “We pledge ourselves to strive for
boundless and untrammelled expansion.”
The expansionist trend in Japan’s national policy
since 1931, the successive surrenders of the so-called
liberals as the country was organised on Nazi lines,
the successive acts of Governments that have tied
Japan to Europe’s dictators’ bibs —these are strong
witnesses to show Mr. Matsuoka’s pessimism justified.
If nothing existed on the other side except the hitherto
ineffective influence of conservative circles, war might
be inevitable in 1941. But an actual imminent pros-
pect of war in the Pacific with a first-class Power
would awaken deep-rooted though imponderable
factors on the side of peace.
First, even the Jingoes know war with the United
States would bring no advantage to Japan.
Second, the triple alliance is an opportunist affair
devised for temporary co-operation between Powers
that have no common interest except exploitation of
that once-in-a-thousand-year opportunity, and its claims
will be interpreted in the light of the principle that the
Japanese Government’s first duty is to the Japanese
Empire.
Third, the belief cherished by Japan’s fighting
services is that their swords are for the service of their
Emperor alone. Any proposal to throw the Japanese
Fleet against the United States as part of an Axis plan
for European victory would arouse deep national
instincts in opposition.
Fourth, immediate danger of a war between
Japan and the United States would crystallise all the
internal opposition that has been inhibited since the
start of the war in China.
Considering that the United States does not want
to carry the war into the Pacific and that the Japanese
Government does not want war with the United States,
there is still room for hope that both Governments
will find a means of averting a conflict.
China in Danger.
(From an article in the “Nation,” U.S.A.)
A highly pessimistic report of political and eco-
nomic conditions in China is contained in a dispatch
from Edgar Snow, one of the best-informed American
journalists in the Far East, printed recently by the
New York “Herald Tribune.” It would seem that
despite the prospect of increasing aid from the United
States China is threatened with defeat, not because
of Japan’s superior military power but because of
growing internal dissension.
This dissension has its roots in the extremely dif-
ficult economic situation which has developed in free
China. The full cost of three and a half years of war
is now making itself felt. Prices have skyrocketed as
much as 1000 per cent, since last March. Widespread
profiteering and hoarding have intensified the short-
ages resulting from the war and blockade.
The existing discontent has found expression in a
renewed conflict between right-wing elements in the
Kuomintang and the Communists. Antagonism be-
tween these groups has been smouldering throughout
.the war. On several occasions it has flamed vp in fight-
ing that was close to civil war. Snow fears that the dis-
pute may become intense enough to precipitate civil
war in the spring.
If China is to be saved from defeat, there must
be measures to relieve the acute economic situation.
Here responsibility falls primarily upon the United
States. Immediate assistance on a large scale —or
even news that such aid was on the way —would lessen
the discontent and prevent a collapse of Chinese
resistance.
What to Expect of Stalin.
[Despite all that has happened, up to and including
the Nazi-Soviet New Year Pact of Friendship, cables
continue to foster wishful thinking on possible Soviet
moves against Germany. The views on Stalin’s real
position here given are condensed from a London
“Nineteenth Century” article by George Soloveytchik.]
With the utmost self-satisfaction diplomatic cor-
respondents trot out inspired comments about Russia
mobilising on the German border (or vice versa) ;
they write gleefully about an inevitable breakdown in
the much vaunted Russo-German economic collabora-
tion, or quackishly interpret the Axis-Japan alliance
as being primarily directed not against Great Britain
but against Soviet Russia. Even when these puerile
or deliberately misleading contentions are promptly
belied by the actual developments, it is for some
reason considered necessary to play down or mis-
interpret these ominous developments. Such com-
ments would be ridiculous in their mendacity were
they not so consistent and were not the perpetuation
of wishful thinking about Soviet Russia in the long
run really rather dangerous.
The fact is that there is not one shred of evi-
dence to justify belief in the deterioration of the
Russo-German partnership, or, still less, any reason
to assume that Stalin will move so much as a little
finger to help the Democracies in their fight against
his fellow-gangster. For that is yet another “beauty”
of the systematic misrepresentation of Soviet Russia’s
position; not only is she purported to be breaking
away from Nazi Germany at almost any moment, but
it is apparently Stalin’s sacred duty to immolate him-
self on the altar of that very democracy and civihsa-
tion which he himself has done so much to destroy.
That kind of approach to the Russian problem is
not only devoid of any reality, but is dangerous and
unmitigated nonsense. Stalin, first and foremost, is
concerned with maintaining his dictatorship over the
terrorised two hundred million slaves who now live
under his rule. Secondly—to keep out of the war
a t any price. Neither the internal political nor the
economic position of the Soviet Union enables Stalin
to risk an armed conflict with anybody.
Under a system which regularly decapitates
the army, because able and popular commanders are
considered as a political danger ; which places the real
power in the army in the hands of political com-
missars ; a system, moreover, where economic and
social conditions make it impossible to organise supply
even with the minimum of regularity or adequacy.
R is clearly undesirable to risk a war against any
ma j o r Power. Full-scale mobilisation constitutes a
threat in itself, for Stalin has no certain knowledge
whether once armed, the millions of peasant serfs
j n Russia would not turn against their Bolshevik
eao lers and executioners rather than fight a foreign
f oe —whoever he may be.
Hitler needs Stalin as much now as he did in
2939 an h the association between the gangster of
Berlin and the gangster of Moscow remains mutually
profitable. In 1939 Stalin’s greatest value to Hitler
was a strategic one. To avoid war on two fronts
was as important to Hitler as avoiding any war at all
was v i ta i to Stalin. The economic support to be ob-
tained from Soviet Russia was then only a secondary
consideration. The Germans knew full well the
—New York “Times.”
THE STAR WITNESS.
unsatisfactory state of Bolshevist industry and trans-
port. Moreover, they had stocks enough to carry
them through a short war —as they seem to have be-
lieved it would be. Since then the position has
changed. By now Hitler must realise that the war is
bound to last much longer than he anticipated and
that not even the looting of all the captive countries
will fully cover his requirements in certain raw ma-
terials or even in industrial production. If his experts
can reorganise and successfully operate Soviet indus-
try and transport, the economic value of Russia may
prove as great to him, he hopes, as the support of
the U.S.A. will be to Britain.
If victory is achieved by Germany there will
always be time to turn against Russia. And until such
victory is achieved there is every advantage for Hitler
in keeping Stalin on his side. It is worth his while
to exercise a certain amount of pressure on the
Japanese to reconcile them with Moscow —that is if
the Japanese need pressing ; there is ample evidence
that they are only too willing to improve their rela-
tions with Moscow of their own accord, without being
pressed. As to Italy, she has always been verbose in
her condemnation of Bolshevism, but extremely active
in doing business with Soviet Russia. Stalin has been
quite a good client to the Italian shipping yards, for
instance, whereas Mussolini’s navy has found Soviet
oil extremely useful.
From Stalin’s point of view the advantages of
prolonging or extending the arrangements with Hitler
and his friends are even greater. Not only does it
mean avoidance of war, but the economic deteriora-
tion of the Soviet Union has gone so far that assist-
ance from a Western Power is a vital necessity. Ger-
many or some of her captive countries are the prin-
cipal source of equipment or technical skill to which
the Soviet Union can turn after all her “triumphant”
Five-year Plans in order to avoid the complete col-
lapse of her industry and transport.
It is in Stalin’s interest to prolong the war to
the utmost of his capacity. It has always been Mos-
cow’s nightmare that one day Soviet Russia would be.
attacked either by Britain or by Germany or by both.
Stalin wants this war to last long enough to exhaust
both sides to such a degree as to make it impossible
even for the victorious one to attack him. He cer-
tainly does not wish a speedy victory either for the
democracies or for Hitler. Now that he sees Britain not
merely “taking it,” but showing unflinching determina-
tion in holding out until victory is achieved, he has
every incentive —from his point of view—in prolong-
ing the struggle by sustaining Germany suffi-
ciently to make sure the war goes on. He can help
a great deal by not standing in the way, e.g., in Ger-
many’s conquest of Rumania or in her drive towards
the Black Sea and beyond. Needless to say, he will
only do it at a price.
That Hitler has his eye on the oilwells of Iran
and Iraq is too obvious to require elaboration. What
is the quid pro quo he could offer Stalin foi a free
hand in that part of the world? Is it too far-fetched
to assume that the two gangsters have agreed on carv-
ing up Turkey, and perhaps even Iran, as they did
Poland? And could they not agree to establish a con-
dominium over the Straits, which would be mutually
profitable to them as long as they remain friends?
But Turkey is Soviet Russia’s ally, it will be objected.
And a condominium over the Straits would be of
little help if ever the two dictators fall out with each
other. . . ,
As far as Moscow’s “friendship” with Turkey is
concerned, neither Hitler nor Stalin has ever felt any
hesitation in “selling out” friends for an immediate
advantage. Think of the Spanish Republicans or the
German Communists, whom Stalin dropped in a most
cynical manner when the time for a get togethei
with Hitler arrived. He would not hesitate to betray
Turkey if he could thereby secure the southern shores
of the Black Sea and a free hand in Iran, any more
than he would think twice about abandoning China
if a profitable deal with Japan became possible. All
sorts of things may happen, and Germany is nowhere
near winning the war. If such a danger were to
become acute, Stalin can always “sell out” to Britain
—for he has closed no doors.
Meanwhile, all his interests are on the other side,
and it is high time this were grasped and taken into
consideration when determining our own
line of policy. It is no use arguing that the
association between Hitler and Stalin is “an
uneasy partnership.” Most partnerships are
uneasy. The Axis is an uneasy partnership,
and our alliance with France was in many
ways uneasy, too. But what holds Stalin
and Hitler together is not only the respect
of two efficient gangsters for each other but
the realisation that together they have a far
greater hitting power —even if this means
distasteful compromise to either side or both
—than if they operated alone. Their two
strongest links, however, are their joint fear
of revolution and their implacable hatred
of Great Britain.
Mediterranean Sidelights.
(Condensed extracts from an article by William P.
Carney in the January issue of “Sign,” U.S.A.)
It is doubtful if many know that Count
Ciano, the son-in-law whose faults Musso-
lini is said either to be unaware of or to
ignore because of his devotion to daughter
Edda, is principally to blame for the Italian
defeats in Albania, irrespective of what may
be the reasons for the reverses in North
Africa.
I have learned from trustworthy Italian
sources that the ambassador sent by Ciano
to Athens gave the most confident assur-
ances to Rome, before the invasion of
Greece, that the Duce’s forces would meet
with no resistance, but instead would be
welcomed with open arms. Relying on
these assurances, Ciano assumed complete
direction of what began as a purely
political, rather than a military campaign. No crack
troops were used in the beginning ; only Blackshirt
militia would be needed, it was decided. These
relatively untrained men were commanded by another
of Ciano’s favorites in the diplomatic corps, the
former military attache of the Italian Embassy in
pre-war Paris. He was poorly qualified for much
active army service, but he looked well in his uniform
and could lead a parade impressively.
When the Greeks fought like demons and pursued
the retreating Italians deep into Albania, even after
seasoned troops and officers had replaced the militia,
it was necessary to find a scapegoat, and Marshal
Pietro Badoglio’s retirement was clearly intended to
save Ciano’s face.
» * * * *
When the Spanish conflict began and Franco
lacked vessels to ferry his African Legionary and
Moorish troops across the Strait of Gibraltar to the
mainland, he appealed to Italy for transport ’planes.
His request was addressed, of course, to Count Ciano,
Minister of Foreign Affairs, who was surprised and
indignant to find the Italian General Staff opposed
to giving Franco any help, because Marshal Badoglio
felt the country should have no further military in-
volvement of any kind until it had a breathing spell
after the Ethiopian campaign.
In the face of Badoglio’s disapproval, Ciano con-
vinced Mussolini that Franco then needed only twelve
Savoia-Marchetti bombers to become the ruler of
Spain, which would naturally fall into Rome’s orbit.
Once embarked on the Spanish adventure, against
Badoglio’s wishes, it soon became obvious that Italy
would have to give more aid than just twelve ’planes
before Franco could triumph. Ciano ordered the
recruiting of 60,000 Fascist militiamen from the ranks
of unemployed workers and peasants, who really
thought they were being enrolled to colonise Ethiopia.
They were sent to Spain under the command of
officers of no high military calibre, many being just
politicians who had never been inside an armory.
* * * * *
The visits to Berlin of Suner, Franco’s Foreign
Minister and brother-in-law, were not for the purpose
of discussing when Spain should enter the war, as
was generally surmised. Suner went to urge Hitler
and Ribbentrop to use all their powers of persuasion
to convince Mussolini and Ciano that an attack on
Gibraltar, which would force Spain into the war on
the side of the Axis, was inadvisable. Ciano, rather
than Hitler, was said to favor this move.
* * * *
It is not true that there are at present a con-
siderable number of German troops in Spain, News-


paper columnists and commentators, lacking any
reliable source of information whatever, have re-
ported as many as 100,000 Nazis garrisoned in various
parts of Spain. This canard can be traced perhaps to
the indiscreet hospitality of the military commander
of the Bidassoa frontier at Irun, who invited a large
number of German officers and men stationed on the
French side of the border to attend Pamplona’s bull-
fights during the San Fermin Festival last summer.
Shortly after his German military guests were seen
in full uniform in Pamplona’s Plaza de Toros, the
frontier commander was relieved from his post at Irun.
* * * * *
Franco would abandon his non-belligerency
immediately and fight if the British ever tried to
engineer in the Moroccan Protectorate another blow
—in the De Gaulle pattern—at the Vichy Govern-
ment’s overseas prestige. Franco’s programme for
Spain’s imperial resurrection calls for expansion in
Africa. He feels there is historical justification for it.
He may dream of extending the Spanish Protectorate
far south of Casablanca, until Morocco is joined with
Rio de Oro.
But it is ridiculous to suggest that Franco or any
responsible Spaniard today seriously contemplates the
re-conquest of Cuba, the Philippines, and all the lost
possessions in the New World. Only in Africa, where
the French began whittling down the zone of Spanish
authority 50 years ago, are Franco’s aspirations con-
centrated now. If he can prevent it, Tangier will
never again be internationalised.
* * * * *
Marshal Petain was the fifst French Ambassador
to Spain after Franco had won his victory, mainly
because long previously there had been a very strong
bond of friendship between the two men.
Marshal Petain is believed to favor a restoration
of the monarchy in France. French royalists sym-
pathised strongly with Franco during the Spanish
Civil War and they almost persuaded Petain to lead a
movement in France to restore the monarchy, when
the French Popular Front under Leon Blum’s leader-
ship was giving a great deal of support to the Spanish
Loyalists. But Petain said then that it was not the
moment to strike.
Many well-informed Spaniards believe Franco
would restore the monarchy in Spain soon after Petain
had put a king on the throne of France,
* * * * *
The published reports of a desperate food short-
age in Spain are grossly exaggerated. American corre-
spondents, crossing Spain hurriedly several months
ago on their way from defeated France to Lisbon to
board a homeward-bound Clipper or steamer, again
demonstrated their celebrated ability to make lightning
surveys of conditions wherever they find them.
The truth is that there is a shortage of wheat
and corn in Spain that Franco would like to remedy
with imports. In the past the country produced almost
enough wheat for its own needs, requiring only a
little high-grade Canadian grain to mix with it in
order to get better flour for whiter bread—just as
France and Italy had to do. Enough maize was grown
to feed the livestock —and Spaniards, like some other
Europeans, never considered corn fit for human
consumption.
The present scarcity of meat, poultry, eggs and
dairy products results naturally from the shortage of
grain and fodder. Crop failures, due to weather con-
ditions, are not to blame.
Spanish wheat is not being shipped to Germany
to pay for war aid and material furnished to Franco,
as some opponents of an American loan to Spain
now claim. The only explanation for the present wheat
shortage is the lack of necessary nitrates for fertiliser.
*****
The British Government is more interested than
the United States in keeping Spain out of the war,
but it is being more realistic. It did not make its latest
trade agreement (whereby Spanish oranges, cork and
wine will be exchanged for wheat and badly needed
raw materials) conditional on guarantees that Franco
would never enter the war now going on in Europe
as an ally of the Rome-Berlin Axis.
England must know from experience that Spanish
goodwill usually can be won with an initial friendly
gesture. Also, it is not in the quixotic tradition, which
by no means is dead in Spain, for Franco to wait
until Britain’s military attention is heavily engaged
elsewhere before risking an attempt to recover Gibral-
tar by force.
Peace Terms for Italy.
(From a London “Nineteenth Century” editorial.)
When Italy’s fatal hour comes, and she is com-
pelled to ask for terms, it would be a disastrous
blunder to impose a ruinous and humiliating peace
upon her. There can, of course, be no peace with
Mussolini. However pragmatic a view we take of
politics it would be grotesque, indeed outrageous,
if Mussolini were tolerated in the new Europe
that will emerge from the war. Italy would have to
surrender the islands that should belong to Greece.
Certain strategic exactions would have to be imposed
so that the British command of the Mediterranean
could be made permanently unchallengeable. Pan-
tellaria would have to be surrendered. Albania, which
gives Italy the absolute command of the Adriatic,
should be restored to independence. But Italy should
not be so weakened and despoiled that she would
cease to be an influence in the councils of Europe.
On no account should she be robbed of her status as
a leading colonial Power,
An African resettlement under which England,
France, Italy and perhaps Spain would exercise a kind
of condominium might be established. Such a con-
dominium might promote the security and well-being
of all Northern Africa, provide Europe with a flourish-
ing market and help to stabilise the whole Mediter-
ranean situation. The Italian nation should be allowed
to see in a separate treaty not despair but a new hope,
the possibility of recuperation, of lasting peace, of
stability at home and abroad, of freedom from the
disastrous, degrading and intensely unpopular associa-
tion with Germany, of trade and enterprise overseas.
of pride and profit in colonial achievement, of lasting
friendship with England and the security that friend-
ship will ensure.
Italy, like Russia, is only a menace when she is
associated with Germany. She has grown aggressive
in the margin of German rearmament. Once the
power of Germany has been broken, England has
nothing to fear either from Italy or from Russia —
provided, of course, she does not reduce her own
armed might by disarmament, by “collective security,”
or by any form of practical internationalism.
A generous peace with Italy is, therefore, sound
politics and safe strategy. It is a necessary stage on
the way to the achievement of England’s essential
war aim, that the armed might of Germany be broken,
as well as of her essential peace-aim, that the armed
might of Germany be kept broken —an aim that is in
the Italian interest and can be achieved the more
effectively with Italian co-operation.
Norway Under Quisling.
[Nine out of ten reports on German-occupied
countries now published are made from outside; hence
it is always hard to say how trustworthy any of them
may be, even when based on the best available informa-
tion. Here, for a change, is a report direct from
inside Norway. It is condensed and pieced together
from an article by Demaree Bess in the “Saturday
Evening Post” of January 11, Mr. Bess having secured
German permission to visit Norway. Two points should
be noted: (1) Mr. Bess is no disguised German propa-
gandist; an article he wrote last year on the Gestapo
caused him to be barred from Germany. (2) The
“Post,” while having no doubts as to Mr. Bess’s integrity,
appears sceptical about parts of his report, e.g., it
points out in a footnote that there have been attempts
on Quisling’s life, and other violent evidence that the
Norwegians are not taking it all so quietly.]
In Norway the dominant Power’s position is
maintained by a disciplined army and unobtrusive
police agents, working with a local Government of its
own choice. The German commissioner in Norway
possesses his own elaborate administrative staff, and
exercises his power of veto over any local action which
—New York “Daily Mirror.”
AND A GRUB AT THE CORE.
displeases him. He naturally rules primarily in the
interest of his own country, and the interests of the
local population are a secondary consideration. In such
situations much depends upon the chief representa-
tive of the dominant Power, and upon policies formu-
lated in a distant capital, which in this case is Berlin.
As far as the Norwegians are concerned, the
foremost question is whether German domination
is a temporary expedient which will be relinquished
or relaxed at the end of the war, or whether it is
intended to be permanent.
That is, perhaps, the chief issue between Quisling,
on one hand, and his numerous political opponents,
on the other. Quisling is acting upon the assumption
that German domination is temporary and that free-
dom will be restored to Norway when the war ends.
His opponents contend that Germany’s rulers propose
to reduce Norway to a permanent colonial status. The
final answer to that question will become clear only
after the war ends, and may well depend upon the
balance of forces which is then struck in Europe.
But there is already no doubt that Germany, if
she wins the war, intends to perpetuate in Norway,
as in all other European countries, some form of
government closely analogous to her own. That fact was
demonstrated last September, when Quisling’s party
was made the only legal party in Norway, contrary to
the wishes of the majority of the Norwegian people.
I know that the majority does not support this
Government, because Quisling himself told me so.
He admitted that most Norwegians do believe that
England will win her war, but he himself has no doubt
that Germany will win, and he has risked his political
future and perhaps life itself upon that assumption.
I discovered that Quisling commands more re-
spect in Norway than he does in Britain or the
United States. Some of his most determined political
opponents assured me that he is sincere, even though
they believe he is tragically mistaken. I asked Quisling
whether he was aware that his name had entered the
English language as a synonym for treachery. He
replied unsmilingly that he was well aware of that,
but added that he was willing to submit to the
judgments of history, which, he pointed out, are often
revised in later and more rational periods.
Quisling says he is not anti-British. In 1931 he
wrote a book entitled Russia and Ourselves, in which
he advocated an alliance between the Scandinavan
countries and Britain to repel the advance of Soviet
imperialism. In this book he expressed the hope that
Germany could be drawn into such an alliance. Even
today Quisling says he hopes for a reconciliation
between Germany and England, and considers Russia
the greatest menace to Scandinavia. He spent several
years in Russia as military attache to the Norwegian
legation, and accompanied Nansen as his principal
assistant on the Norwegian explorer’s last voyage in
Russian waters.
There were other Norwegian parties besides Quis-
ling’s which favored co-operation with Germany, but
they have all shared the fate of anti-German parties
and been dissolved. I talked with Quisling in his rooms
on the upper floor of an Oslo office building which
was guarded by uniformed Norwegian storm troopers
on the German model. Quisling said that he has
organised seven regiments of these troopers, which
are the only armed forces permitted to Norwegians,
outside of a regular police force.
Quisling frankly expressed to me his distrust of
Parliamentary government with its numerous parties.
He shares that distrust with the present rulers of
Germany. He admitted that he could not have attained
his present position in any form of free election. In
the last general elections his party attracted less than
3 p.c. of the popular vote.
Quisling’s Minister of Propaganda, Gulbrand
Lunde, to me admitted surprise that the changes
in September were made with so little resistance and
that his Government had so promptly found wide-
spread support among farmers and workers. With
very few exceptions, he declared, trade-union leaders
were co-operative, which also was true of permanent
officials and police. I confirmed the truth of this
claim in conversations with Quisling’s opponents, who
were distressed because co-operation had been so
prompt and general.
But it is apparent in Norway that this small
country, like most countries in Europe to-day, is
experiencing a form of civil warfare. Partly due to
the restraining presence of the German army, partly
as a result of the calm Norwegian temperament, this
civil war has proceeded thus far with little violence.
The issues at stake are no less important because
they are being fought without bloodshed, and because
most of the citizens of Norway are taking little active
part in the struggle. Except for a few active politicians
on both sides, the Norwegian people either are con-
tent to remain mere spectators of the conflict within
their country or have remained quiescent out of fear.
The Norwegians seem to realise that the outcome of
the civil war in their homeland probably will not be
decided by the Norwegians themselves. They under-
stand that their domestic struggle has been swept into
the infinitely larger struggle between two great Powers
with opposing interests and ideas. So Norway waits
today, as the little countries in Europe often have
waited, for others to settle its destiny.
Canada’s Great War Effort.
(Condensed from a New York “PM” article by
Alexander H. Uhl.)
Torn out of the wilderness in an Eastern Canadian
province is a huge airport that would give no odds for
completeness to La Guardia Field or Tempelhof or
Croydon. A year ago on that same site there were
rolling hills, rocks and the flaming yellows and reds of
Canada’s maples. Today, there are a half-dozen huge
hangars, rows of barracks, a 60-bed hospital, a signal
tower from which flashes a busy traffic light, earth-
covered ammunition and bomb magazines and great
stretches of runways.
The field symbolises for Canada more than a
year of hard, unspectacular, sometimes almost stolid
labor thrown into the war in defence of the Empire.
From one end of the country to the other there are
fields like it. They swarm with pilots, observers, air-
gunners. Student airmen by the thousands crowd their
classrooms, clumsy-looking Link trainers for blind-
flying dip and sway as novice pilots plot imaginary
courses, ’planes land, hop off, manoeuvre in the sky.
“It took the jolt of the invasion of the Low Coun-
tries and the collapse of France to wake us up,” a high
Canadian official said. “But we’re getting somewhere
now. By late spring and early summer we’ll be turn-
ing out pilots, gunners and observers on a regular
Ford assembly line at the rate of 25,000 a year.”
Canada’s war effort, of course, involves more
than training an air force. Week after week convoys
steam out of her ports bound for Britain with muni-
tions, ’planes from the U.S.A., food, supplies, lumber.
She has two divisions abroad, three air squadrons,
naval units.
Canada’s chief assignment in the present war is
to serve as the training ground for airmen. Under the
British Commonwealth air plan, she is carrying this out
methodically and on a scale that should represent real
weight within the next six months. Today’s plan—
not the one with which the war began—calls for full
production in 1941. By the end of 1940 twice as many
pilots had been trained as was originally contem-
plated ; 48 schools of various kinds were in opera-
tion as against 36 called for in the original plan.
Canada is getting more and more ’planes from the
U.S.A. There is scarcely a modern training ’plane in
Canada today that isn’t American. On every airfield
there are scores of them.
French Canada, so hostile to conscription during
the last war, showed little opposition this time. The
example of the U.S.A. in establishing a year’s com-
pulsory service in a country that isn’t even in the war
is contrasted with Canada’s 30-day period. How kindly
Canadians will take to an extension of the time remains
to be seen. Meanwhile, every man now in Canada’s
active war service, whether at home or abroad, is a
volunteer. There have been no difficulties in getting
all the men needed. Canadian officers in every ser-
vice report waiting lists.
Canada is now entering upon the first stage of
making her weight felt. “It’s been only a trickle so
far compared with what we can do,” said one official
closely in touch with the war effort, “but by next spring
and summer well be in there really punching.”


fds
PRODUCTS
INCREASE PRODUCTION
. . . REDUCE COSTS!!
M.V, Products speak for themselves. The praise you hear of their performance is that expressed y men
who are actual users of Moffat-Virtue equipment. We make no claims that have not been multiplied by thousands ot users o
M.V. Products.
When, many years ago, Moffat-Virtue introduced Ball Bearing Shearing Machinery, they were ahead of the times. This large an
complete organisation is still keeping ahead of the times, continually bringing to the Man on the Land new ideas in equipment
that save money, labour and time. There is no guesswork about Moffat-Virtue Products. They are designed by expert
technicians and practical men and built by skilled Australian engineers who have “perfection constantly before them. ere
Products of any kind are praised as Primary Producers are praising Moffat-Virtue equipment their quality and value must
command respect and admiration. Our proud boast is:
“WE MADE THEM GOOD—USERS MADE THEM FAMOUS”
A
11
£
SHEARING GEAR
The outstanding Shearing Machinery to-day
is the M.V. Possessing many exclusive
features, including full floating transmission,
the M.V. has established a reputation for
extraordinary efficiency and economy. That
is why Representative Graziers throughout
Australia and New Zealand to-day are using
the M.V. They will tell you that no other
gear can compare with it. Get rid of that
old-fashioned Shearing Machinery—that was
designed years ago when sheep carried only
half the wool they do to-day—and install the
new M.V. Ball Bearing gear.
It will pay you.
M.V. Conversion gear enables you to bring
your old plant, no matter what make, up
to date at the lowest possible cost.
JETTING
The range of M.V. Combination Jetting
Plants and Fire-fighting Outfits is most com-
plete. Hand power or engine operated—
from one to four guns stationary and
trailer models. It is an excellent investment;
the number of sheep the M.V. Jetter will
save in one year will more than pay for it.
Also invaluable for destroying ’Hoppers and
Caterpillars, disinfecting sheds, etc., spraying
orchards.
DIESEL ENGINES
M.V. Diesels will give you reliable horse-
power for all purposes. The fully-balanced
crankshaft reduces vibration and ensures
smooth running at all speeds. All parts are
totally enclosed, dust proof and oil tight.
Sweet running is assured by the sensitive
governor, balanced crankshaft and solid type
flywheel. The cyclonic turbulence cylinder
head ensures complete combustion and very
low fuel consumption. Obtainable in the
following sizes: h.p., 5 h.p., h.p., 8 h.p.,
16 h.p.
PETROL AND
KEROSENE ENGINES
Stationary and Portable Types. Without
doubt the most modern engines of their class
and the greatest value obtainable. Fully-
balanced crankshaft reduces vibration to a
minimum. The M.V. Petrol Engines provide
the cheapest and most dependable power for
general farm purposes, and possess special
features that ensure exceptionally long life.
All working parts are automatically lubricated
and totally enclosed against dust and dirt.
Instant starting in all weathers is assured by
the high-class Rotary Magneto. These and
other features place the M.V. in a class by
themselves.
Obtainable from 2J H.p. upwards.
MILKING MACHINERY
The simplest, most hygienic and economical
Milker on the market—the culmination of
over 30 years' practical experience. Not a
single adjustment is ever necessary—it is so
very easy to clean and to assemble and a
child can operate it. £1 7 only is the initial
outlay for a plant to milk 40 cows. Let us
show you how you can reduce overhead costs.
Solve the labour problem, install a M.V.
ELECTROLUX
REFRIGERATORS
The world's greatest Refrigerator.
Thousands of housewives throughout Aus-
tralia can tell you the great difference the
Electrolux Kerosene-operated Refrigerator
has made in their lives. Perfect continuous
Refrigeration that costs only a few pence per
day to operate. The good health of your
family and yourself is the best investment
you can make.
There are no working parts to wear out or
cause noise.
The Electrolux will cost less to own, use and
enjoy than any other Refrigerator you can buy.
Guaranteed for five years. Easy Extended
Terms available.
HOME LIGHTING
No matter where you may live, you can
enjoy perfect Home Lighting at the cost of
a few pence per day.
Safe, inexpensive and always dependable, a
M.V. Electric Home Lighting Plant will make
your home brighter and much more comfort-
able and actually save you money. Enjoy
the conveniences of electric labour-saving
devices, Irons, Toasters, Fans, Vacuum
Cleaners. Every M.V. Lighting Plant is
thoroughly tested before it leaves the Factory
and our Service Department is always at your
disposal. Obtainable in a full range of sizes
in Petrol, Petrol-kerosene or Diesel driven
types.
Enjoy the comforts and conveniences that
make life worth living.
ORCHARD SPRAY
PLANTS
Here is the Plant that will reduce spraying
time and operating costs. The M.V. is the
best outfit that modern engineering skill can
produce. Owing to the special design of the
pump a constant pressure of 4001 b. per
square inch is possible, thus giving greater
Economy and Reliability. Also obtainable
in Junior Models with pressure up to 2501 b.
WINDMILLS
The M.V. Simplex Ball Bearing Windmills
have proved themselves under the most trying
conditions and represent a new era in
dependability and economy. For over half
a century the experience of building quality
Windmills has been sifted and research work
carried on to produce the Simplex.
When you see the remarkable Simplex and
study its exclusive features—its low price—
its economy in operating costs, you will
instantly realise it is the very Mill you need.
Let us tell you about the Simplex.
IRRIGATION
The Spray Irrigation System that has been
proved and accepted as the most efficient
possible. It waters crops and pastures
evenly, economically, and is entirely depend-
able. There is no worry with choked Sprays
—no worry with joints. The couplings are
the strongest made and the fastest to use.
We also specialise in Flood Irrigation.
Let us help you solve your water problems.
y
Other M.V. Products include Sawbenches, Hay Presses, Chaffcutters, Fumigators,
Sterilisers, etc., etc.
WHEN YOU ARE IN SYDNEY FOR THE SHOW VISIT STAND 47, MACHINERY
AND DON’T FORGET TO CALL AT OUR SHOWROOMS, 44 BRIDGE STREET—A
WELCOME AWAITS YOU.
AVENUE,
HEARTY
Remember that we are
experienced Engineers
and Manufacturers, and
are in an excellent posi-
tion to give sound
technical suggestions
and advice.
’Phone: FL5214 (6 lines).
Telegrams: “VIRTUE,” Sydney.
Moffat -Virtue ltd.
ENGINEERS. MANUFACTURERS
AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS
* ||-25 PALMER STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.. a*d at BRISBANE and LONGREACH, Qld.
NEW SYDNEY SHOWROOMS: 44 BRIDGE STREET (opp. Winchcombe Carson, Ltd.).
If you have any
mechanical problem to
solve or need advice on
any matter whatever,
you are cordially invited
to consult our Experts.
There is no obligation—
we will be only too
pleased to help you.


OUT OF THE
PAST
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
Abel Tasman
IN 1636 a man of broad vision became
Governor-General of the Dutch East
Indies—Anthony Van Diemen —and
one of his main curiosities was to find
out what it might be possible to discover
of the vague continent that was known
to lie to the south of the lands and seas
over which he ruled in the name of the
Government of the Netherlands.
He sent a very able navigator named
Abel Janszoon Tasman to solve the
problem for him, and fitted out two
ships, the Heemskerck and the Zeehan,
for his use. They sailed from Batavia
on August 14, 1642, but bad weather
compelled them to put into Mauritius
for an overhaul. It was not until October
that they continued their voyage.
Tasman’s instructions were to deter-
mine the extent of the continent, and
to find out whether a passage, north or
south of it, might lead into the South
Seas. So he shaped a south-easterly
course after leaving Mauritius until he
reached the latitude of 49deg. 4min. S.,
when he changed it to E. by N., with a
vague intention of gradually working
northwards to the Solomon Islands. Land
was sighted on November 24 on the west
coast of the country which he subse-
quently named Van Diemen’s Land, in
honor of the Governor-General. His
landfall was probably a part of the coast
a little to the north of Cape Sorell and
the entrance to Macquarie Harbor—so
fearfully infamous in the days of the
British occupation of the island nearly
200 years later, and so well described
by Marcus Clark in For the Term of
His Natural Life.
Violent gales drove them off the land,
and they saw little of it until they had
rounded South-west Cape, when a north-
erly wind carried them comparatively
comforably along the southern coast to
South-east Cape. Thereabout, Tasman
bestowed many names, some of which
still survive. They were given to the
outlying islands and to some of the steep
mountain peaks inland, which he mistook
for islands. These were called, for the
most part, after members of the Dutch
Council of India —De Witt, Sweers, Mat-
suyker, etc. After rounding South-east
Cape he turned northward round Tas-
man Head, on Bruny Island, and en-
tered Storm Bay—only to be ejected from
it by a fierce nor’-west gale which drove
the ships far out to sea.
On December 1 he rounded a promon-
tory which he named De Zuyd Cap—it
is now known as Cape Pillar, from its
columnar basalt characteristics —and
called the neighboring island after him-
self. He anchored that day in Marion
Bay, on the s.-e. coast of V.D.L. On
December 3 the carpenter of one of the
ships, Jacobszoon, swam ashore through
the surf and planted the Dutch flag on
the shores of a little inlet on Forestier’s
Peninsula, taking possession of the coun-
try on behalf of the Netherlands. It
was this same petty-officer who, seeing
the toe-holds of aborigines cut in tree-
trunks many feet apart, came to a con-
clusion that the country was inhabited
by a race of giants. This may possibly
have accounted for the fact that the
Dutchmen made no real landing in
V.D.L. Tasman was always chary of
venturing himself or his men ashore any
more than was absolutely necessary for
such purposes as procuring wood and
water—a faet which induced Governor-
General Van Diemen to write a little
indignantly, “He who makes it his busi-
ness to find out what the land produces
must walk over it, which these discov-
erers pretend to have been out of their
power.”
He sailed again on December 4, in-
tending to follow the coast northward
until he found a convenient watering-
place. However, he met with strong
headwinds which kept him far out to sea,
and decided to sail towards the east. He
named Maria’s Eylandt (Maria Island),
Schouten’s Eylandt (Schouten Island), and
Vanderlin’s Eylandt—which was really a
peninsula. When he departed from the
coast of V.D.L. he made a most re-
markable passage of nine days across the
stormy sea which now carries his name
to the west coast of the South Island
of Maoriland, a little south of Cook’s
Strait. It was over a century and a
quarter before any Europeans came
again to V.D.L.
The Blaxlands
j HE Blaxland brothers came to
f Australia in very different circum-
v j stances from such pioneers as
John Macarthur, William Cox,
Simeon Lord, Mr. Underwood and such
others of the earliest vintage. They
were of a type of settler which Lord
Castlereagh was eager to secure for the
colony of N.S.W. at the beginning of
the nineteenth century—so eager that he
offered the brothers a grant of 8000
acres and the labor of 80 convicts for
18 months, together with free ocean
transport to Sydney for themselves and
their families and the stores, stock and
implements they proposed to take with
them.
They had been recruited and recom-
mended by Sir Joseph Banks, and that
was enough for Castlereagh. For their
part, they agreed to employ in the de-
velopment of their colonial estates at
least £6OOO.
The Blaxlands were Men of Kent,
and good men at that. Gregory was the
first of the pair to reach Sydney, in
April, 1806, and immediately fell foul
of Governor King, who did not like the
intrusion of free men into his dominion
of lags. His brother John further com-
plicated matters by coming out in his
own ship, so that King’s successor,
Bligh, was ordered to give him still larger
concessions, which he did with a bad
grace, being already pretty sick of John
Macarthur’s demands. In Bligh’s esti-
mation all these people were merely
soulless moneygrubbers who bought
cheap and sold dear with little regard to
the public good. Macquarie didn’t like the
brothers any better than his predecessors,
and they had further disputes with Bris-
bane. Their claims were not finally
settled until Darling’s time, when John
was appointed to the old Legislative
Council nominated by the Governor.
John Blaxland was one who preferred
the strict minding of his own business
to mixing in the troubled waters of
local politics. At Luddenham, on the
Nepean, and near Broke, on the Wol-
lombi, he bred and fattened cattle which
were slaughtered and salted for export
at Newington, his estate near Parramatta.
He was as much the pioneer of cattle
as John Macarthur was of sheep, and
in the development of the country his
work was of immense importance.
But history has most to say of
Gregory. The management of the
cattle-runs up country had always been
his share of the partnership, and soon
after his settlement at South Creek his
investigation of the Blue Mountain
gorges close at hand began to interest
Macquarie as a possible solution of the
problem of crossing the hitherto impreg-
nable ranges, and finding out what might
lie beyond the barrier. It was with the
Governor’s enthusiastic encouragement
that Blaxland led the first party to cross
them in May, 1813. For his services
with Wentworth and Lawson he received
a grant of 1000 acres in the country he
discovered west of the ranges, but it
was inevitable that he should in some
measure share in the disfavor with which
Macquarie regarded his brother, and his
great achievement never received the>
recognition that was properly its due.
About 1816 Gregory Blaxland settled
at Brush Farm, near Parramatta, and
planted a vineyard with vines from the
Cape. Here he made the first Australian
wine, so successfully that he was awarded
medals for it by the Royal Society of
Arts in England in 1823 and 1828. He
introduced at Brush Farm, also, the
cultivation of buffalo grass and of oats
for hay, neither of which had hitherto
been grown in the colony. In 1825 he
established salt pans at the mouth of
the Hunter, on the model of his brother’s
experiment at Newington. A couple of
years later he was selected by an in-
fluential committee of colonists to carry
to the House of Commons a petition
praying for the rights of tr, il by jury
and representative government for New
South Wales. During the later years of
his life he lived in retirement, breeding
cattle on the Upper Hunter. He died
at Ryde, pear Sydney, on January 1,
1853.
There were not many of the pioneers
who did better work for this country
than the two Blaxlands Although they
were both most concerned with their
own interests, and took little share in
public affairs, the value of their work
for the development of the country could
not be exaggerated. And they founded
a breed of good Australian that has
always been, quietly and without adver-
tisement, useful to Australia.
A Pioneer Store
A LITTLE over 100 years ago a
young immigrant named Alex-
ander Harris, after having colonial
experiences such as cedar-getting
in Illawarra and on the Williams River,
took up a cattle-run in what was then
known as “The New Country”—the dis-
tricts south of Goulburn Plains in N.S.W.
There, on his wife’s suggestion, he
decided to open a store. The bush store
is still one of the most important institu-
tions of country life throughout the Com-
monwealth, but in the old days—when
Sydney or Melbourne or Brisbane was
many weeks’ journey by bullock-dray
from back-country communities —the
store was the most notable establishment
in the district and its centre of civilisation
before any other. Often, indeed, it repre-
sented the only sort that existed within
a week’s ride or even more.
In a book published in London in
1847, Settlers and Convicts, Harris gives
some details of his bush merchandising
which are of much historical interest.
“My wife,” he says, “was almost sole
manager of this portion of our affairs,
from the beginning to the end, which was
better than seven years. My occupation
consisted in bringing the goods from
Sydney, looking after our cattle and get-
ting in every year such a crop of one
thing and another as quite covered
our own consumption—wheat, maize,
potatoes and tobacco being the staple....
The stock consisted of the following
articles, of which the lowest sums stated
were the cost price, as per invoice deliv-
ered with them in Sydney; the larger
sums are the selling price up country.
“Tea, 2s. per pound cost price, ss. per
pound retail price.
“Sugar, 3d. per pound cost price, Bd.
per pound retail price.
“Tobacco, Is. 6d. per pound cost price,
6s. (excellent Australian).
“Soap, 4d. per pound cost price, Bd.
per pound retail price (excellent Aus-
tralian).
“Plums, 4d, per pound cost price, Is.
per pound retail price (excellent Aus-
tralian).
“Currants (account lost), Is. 6d. per
pound retail price (excellent Australian).
“Pocket-knives, 9d. each per dozen, 3s.
each singly.
“Trousers, 3s. 6d. to 15s. per pair, 17s.
to 255. per pair.
“Jackets, ss. upwards, 11s. upwards.
“Lace-up boots, 6s. per pair, 11s., 125.,
145., according to size.
“Shirts, 15s, per dozen ; 30s. to 365.
per dozen, 2s. 6d. to 3s. each.
“Calico, 4d, per yard to 7d.; Bd. to
Is. 6d.
“Prints, 4d., 5d., 6d, per yard; Bd.,
10d., Is. per yard.
“Blankets, 15s. per pair; 30s. per pair.
“Silk handkerchiefs, 3s. 6d. each ; Bs,
each.
“From the above list it will be per-
ceived how great are the profits on some
articles. On the bulk of articles, how-
ever, the profit is not more than 100 per
cent. Still, on account of the much larger
percentage on the goods that sell in
greatest quantity, as tea, tobacco, pocket-
knives, etc., the average advance on the
invoice prices in a retail store is consider-
ably over 100, perhaps over 200 per cent.
“On the other hand, the expenses are
heavy. The carriage of the goods so
many miles of road by drays, which are
often delayed several days, and even
weeks, by the loss of their bullocks, or
breaking an axle, or by floods, is very
expensive. Taking the whole of our little
trade together, we cleared rather above 100
per cent, during the first twelve months ;
and afterwards more than that, nearer,
I should say, to 150. A large proportion
of our sales, however, it must be remem-
bered, were to settlers, and therefore
wholesale ; these were, of course, effected
at much inferior rates.... Our sales went
steadily on for some years ; other dealers
after some years sat down in the neigh-
borhood, and then it declined. Still, with
both a reduced sale and a reduced profit,
we made, up to the time we ceased to
have any connection with it, £3OO per
annum, one year with another. Alto-
gether this species of speculation may be
set down as one of the most profitable in
New South Wales.”'
There were various points about the
business, says Alec, such as a good situa-
tion, with no competitor close at hand,
and a good laboring population within
a ten-mile radius. A well-assorted stock
was necessary, and the faculty of form-
ing quick and sound judgments as to the
trustworthiness of individuals. “I am not
aware,” he adds, “of any test for dis-
criminating ‘good marks’ from bad ones,
but careful and close study of the popu-
lation with immediate regard to this
specific question.”
Benelong
BENELONG POINT, Sydney, de-
rives its name from the most
notable of the real Australians
with whom Governor Phillip and
his First Fleeters came in contact. De-
spairing of establishing friendly relations
with the natives, Phillip kidnapped an
inhabitant of Manly Cove named
Arabanoo and proceeded to civilise him
with a view to getting into closer touch
with his fellow-countrymen, but just when
he was beginning to pick up some Eng-
lish he died of smallpox. Two others
from the same locality, Benelong and
Colbee, were then shanghaied up to Syd-
ney Cove, the latter escaping in a few
days. Benelong got away, too, in about
a month, but liked the white men’s treat-
ment and tucker so well that he volun-
tarily returned with his gin a little later
on, and ultimately a hut was built for
him on the point that carries his name.
While he was away a whale stranded
in Manly Cove, and the polite Benelong
sent the Governor a junk of it as a
present. Phillip went down to Manly to
see him, and found the harbor beach full
of natives feasting on the stinking carcass.
Benelong presented some of his friends
to the Governor, and while one of them
was being introduced Phillip stepped for-
ward with outstretched hands to greet
him, but the native, fearing he was going
to be made a prisoner, picked up his spear
and threw it at the Governor, the barb
penetrating the shoulder and coming out
on the other side. With characteristic
humanity Phillip forbade reprisals, and
ten days later met Benelong at Kirribilli,
opposite the settlement, when amicable
relations were renewed.
Phillip, returning home in 1792, took
Benelong with him and introduced him
to George 111. Benelong was lionised in
London, and when he came back to Syd-
ney became a sort of principal black-
fellow in the colony.
Scarcity of coin was a heavy handi-
cap to commerce in Australia’s early
days, and in the reigns of Governors
Hunter and King made it necessary to
use flour and rum for the payment of
debts. The Government brewery in 1804
bartered beer for wheat, barley, hops,
casks or iron hoops. King issued two-
penny tokens in copper, and declared
Johannas, ducats, mohurs, pagodas,
dollars, rupees and guilders legal tender.
Even with this motley collection in use
coins were still scarce, and traders often
issued their own promissory notes, rang-
ing in value from £1 to 3d., which were
known as “currency.” This paper money
had acquired such a low repute in 1816 as
to induce Sydney merchants to agree that
£1 “currency” was worth only 13s. 4d.
“sterling.” Macquarie’s “holey” dollars
relieved the situation a little. They were
coins of Mexican silver, legally worth ss.
each, out of the centre of which he
ordered a middle piece to be punched,
and this “dump” was decreed a value of
Is. 3d., whilst the outer rim retained its
original value. Macquarie’s happy
thought carried the colony on until 1825,
when the “holey” dollar declined to 35.,
and all sorts of foreign coins came into
use again, with values varying from lOd. to
4s. 4d. This queer state of affairs continued
until 1829, when Governor Darling finally
settled the muddle by proclaiming that *
thenceforward all financial reckoning
must be made in terms of the ordinary
English currency.


E
~Z2>
W'
h
n
J?
f*
?>>
! r p)
*£S£3S5.
'i
m
c>
dr
cz&b
rS
i
&
<<5T
v.
m
n
W
y/
x
//
<k
V/
//
%
"f
mi
f.
m
i
//.
i
M
111
'/
<f
AUSTRALIA ADVANCES!
another notable achievement is to be
recorded in the history of Australian progress.
To supply water to Whyalla and northern districts
of the Spencer Gulf in South Australia, Hume
Steel Limited have contracted with the South
Australian Government to supply concrete lined
steel pipes for the Morgan - Whyalla Water
Supply Scheme.
To this huge undertaking will be contributed the
labour of more than 1,000 skilled Australian
workmen and all the experience of Hume
Industries, an organization which has played such
ah important part in Australian industrial
development.
HUME INDUSTRIES
HUME PIPE CO. (Aust.) LTD. HUME STEEL LTD.
Pioneers of New Methods, New Industries, that have spread
throughout the world.
Gigantic Pipeline Enterprise
Some interesting facts:
Length: 236 miles of concrete
lined steel pipe.
Highest point above sea level
at Hansen: 1550 feet.
Water supplied: 2,100,000,000
gallons per year.
Weight of steel used in the
pipes: 36,000 tons.
HUME
PIPES
The “Humeogeneous” concrete pipes manufac-
tured by the new Hume Process are of “True”
concrete, impervious to water and particularly
suited to high pressure water supply. They
give twice the value, strength and durability of
any other pipe.
114 King Street, Melbourne, C.l - All States, New Zealand and Tasmania
W.J.H. 1306


Business,Rollery,Etc.
“Aladdin” Hadley in N. S. Wales
Lest anyone, anywhere, should imagine
that Percy Arthur Hadley, who has
appeared as a director of Tyres
Consolidated N.S.W. Pty., Ltd., has
not had extensive experience in patents
relating to tyre-retreading, “tyre-rebuild-
ing,” etc., The Bulletin can at least
assure such persons that Mr. Had-
ley has had quite a bit of experience as
a vendor of such patents and as a com-
pany promoter.
Somewhere about 1932 Tyres, Ltd., of
Auckland, sold—through Tyres (Queens-
land) Pty., Ltd.—the Queensland patent
rights to the Hadley tyre-rebuilding
process and the Watson tyre mould to
Aladdin Tyres (Queensland), Ltd., for
£21,500 in cash and 50,000 deferred
shares of Is. each. The Watson patent
was originally issued to a Maorilander
—G. D. Watson, an engineer, of Christ-
church. P. A. Hadley wrote a fore-
word to the “History of Aladdin
(re-built) Tyres,” which was part of
the sales-talk of the Queensland float.
In it he stated that “it is the introduc-
tion of the Watson patent tyre mould that
revolutionises and will undoubtedly elimi-
nate the retreading business.” After
eight years the retreading business is still
going strong in Queensland, but The
Bulletin isn’t quite sure what has be-
come of Aladdin Tyres (Queensland),
Ltd. It is perfectly satisfied, however,
that it hasn’t succeeded in earning the
£96,981 a year estimated by P. A. Hadley
on a proposed capital of £102,500. The
flamboyant prospectus of the Queens-
land float was scintillatingly optimistic,
garrulous in parts but obscure in others.
By 1938 Mr. Hadley was active in Vic-
toria. He appeared as a director of Sum-
mit Tyre and Rubber Co. (Victoria), Ltd.,
which was to acquire from Tyres Con-
solidated Investments Pty. a license for
Victoria to use the “Watch-case” and
“Summit” type of vulcaniser incorporat-
ing the “Watson Patent Sectional Time
Control System of Vulcanisation.” Con-
sideration was £25,000 in £1 shares and
£lO,OOO in cash, to be handed over in
proportion to the public response to
the share issue the first offering
was 62,500 £1 shares at par. Royal-
ties were also payable. A second issue of
62,500 was to raise plant capacity to
3000 tyres per week. Though £36,385
was set aside for plant, the prospectus
made no provision for outlay on
premises. On an output of 1500 tyres a
week a profit of £69,240 was estimated,
subject to tax and amortisation, and
modest divs. of 20 p.c. were spoken of.
Though in this case it was said that
“retreading must be superseded by the
Summit process,” Hadley and his friends
again proved bad prognosticators. The
only people who appear to have suffered
from the flotation of the Summit Tyre
Co. are those members of the public who
put money into its shares. In short, it
has done no good for itself, whatever the
reasons may be, and in its present state
20 p.c. divs. would call for the use of
Aladdin’s lamp.
About 1939 Percy Arthur Hadley
bobbed up in N. S. Wales as a director
of Tyres Consolidated N.S.W. Pty. This
co.’s principal object was to acquire from
P. A. Hadley a license to use an improved
method of vulcanising tyres. It started
off with a nominal capital of £2025 in
four A shares of £5OO and one B share
of £25. Later on it was increased to
£15,975 by the creation of 27 more A
shares and 18 more B shares. Hadley
was to participate substantially if the
option over his patents was exercised.
Copy of a contract filed with the
Registrar-General, Sydney, showed that
in the first place the co. was to acquire
a five-fiftieths interest in the N.S.W.
rights under Hadley’s patents for £l5OO
in cash. If it exercised an option over
the balance of the N. S. Wales rights it
was to pay £9475 to Hadley—l 9 B shares
of £25 each, six A shares of £5OO each
and £6OOO in cash in three half-yearly
instalments, the third being due on July
I, 1942. To what extent this agreement
has been carried out isn’t quite clear
from the public records.
Tyres Consolidated N.S.W. Pty. has
the appearance of being the preliminary
step to something bigger. It is a private
syndicate more than anything else. But
if the public should be invited in The
Bulletin will await with great interest
Mr. Hadley’s estimate of profits in this
case, and also any announcement he may
think fit to make about the imminent
decease of tyre-retreaders generally in the
State of N. S. Wales.
The talk about “the clamant need
for the greatest effort of preparedness
this country has ever known” caused a
fall in last week’s declining market. On
Friday B.H.P. scrip was down to 425. 6d.
and North B.H. had slumped to 355. 9d.
Highest price for B.H.P. during the first
two months of 1941 was 475. 9d., and
highest for North scrip was 425. 3d.
Tooth fell to 50s. Associated Pulp
crashed to 275. 7d., and Australasian
Paper to 335. 3d. All Malayan and
Siamese tin stocks were much weaker.
The downward movement in the market
really began in this section. Malaya is
the focal point of present interest in the
Pacific situation.
A little more than a fortnight ago
the index of Sydney industrial-share
prices had risen to 134.30, the highest
peak since the downfall of France sent
the index to 107. It had been moving
down since, and after a few days of
comparative stability above 130 it fell
sharply to 128.79 on Thursday of last
week. On Friday, following the
announcement from Canberra about
Australia’s danger, it fell further, steady-
ing at 127.40. Adelaide ’Change hur-
riedly reintroduced its anti-bear regula-
tions.
The situation is, obviously, full of
possibilities. But again The Bulletin
sees no cause for sacrifice of shares.
It strongly recommended holding shares
during the Blitzkrieg of May and June
last year, and it is just as emphatic again.
Whatever sacrifices or suffering we have
to bear, there is no reason to believe that
money will hold its value any more than
shares in cos. making things for the
Australian market from Australian raw
materials. It is impossible to forecast
what damage might possibly be done
to any particular Australian industry in
the event of any enemy warship or aero-
plane getting within striking distance of
our manufacturing centres. That is
purely a matter of chance.
Should there be a spread of the war
to the Pacific and the closing-up of that
ocean and the Indian Ocean on shipping
plying to and from Australia, the partial
isolation of this country might seriously
affect certain importing and exporting
industries. Possibly that is why there
was such a heavy fall in the price of
Barrier stocks last week, and why Henry
Jones scrip was noticeably weaker.
Announcement of more severe petrol
rationing was in keeping with possibilities
of the situation as Canberra saw it,
with still greater restrictions imminent
if those possibilities became realities.
British Tobacco also fell sharply ; it is
dependent on overseas for much of its
leaf, though it probably has very large
stocks on hand. Mt. Lyell, which ex-
ports none of its products, suffered only
a minor fall in the market on Thursday
and Friday, though it has been weaken-
ing gradually for some time, apparently
other reasons prompting the decline.
Though there are reasons, perhaps,
for weakness in particular stocks, mainly
on the grounds of vulnerability to
attack, exchange difficulties and possi-
bilities of further interruption in our
communications, the outlook is not one
to call for markedly differential treat-
ment between money and shares.
Equities in industries are no more sub-
ject to war’s depreciating effects than
is money. If shares go, money goes.
And if neither goes, it is nearly always
found that afterwards the value of shares
appreciates.
♦ * * *
Federal Treasurer Fadden has re-
iterated the Government’s intention to
carry on the war without inflation as far
as possible. Inflation would help the
enemy, he said, adding, “Our funda-
mental problem is one not of money,
but of production. The more we can
enlarge the volume of real production,
the lighter will be the burden of war
costs. A liberal monetary policy, such as
the Government has followed, is essen-
tial to the attainment of a maximum out-
put.” Mr. Fadden referred to a report
that the boilermakers and ironworkers
had decided to continue their ban on
overtime because he had promised higher
taxation in the next Budget. It was
entirely presumption that unionists or
anybody else would be subjected to
higher taxation in the next Budget.
While it is clear that war expenditure
will continue rising in the period ahead,
and that the next Budget will be bigger
than the last, it is for Parliament to de-
cide how funds will be raised,” Mr.
Fadden said. He added that 290,000
more people were at work in the Com-
monwealth compared with 16 months
ago. This represented an “absorption
into civil employment of 220,000 people.”
* * * *
Mr. Fadden last week told an Adelaide
audience that an even bigger Budget
than the 1940-41 record effort was in
prospect for 1941-42. It was to be
“much bigger” than the last, in fact.
In the last eight months the rate of
spending on war had doubled, said the
Acting Prime Minister, and it continued
to mount rapidly.
• * * *
A committee to inquire into the opera-
tions of cash-order cos. has been
appointed by the Federal Government.
The Capital Issues Advisory Board has
said that it is not satisfied that the ac-
tivities of these cos. are being conducted
in “a manner beneficial to the public and
national interest in time of war.” Mr.
Fadden said last week that “a reasonable
opportunity will be given to all parties
interested, including the general public,
to give evidence before the committee.”
Its members will be H. W. Chancellor,
of Flack and Flack, M. C. McMahon
(formerly N.S.W. magistrate), J. B.
Chifley, M.H.R., and a Melbourne busi-
nessman. H. L. Tilley, of the Crown
Law Department, will be the secretary.
* * * *
Wool appraised in Australia to date
this season totals 2,458,314 bales, valued
at £39,328,967, an average price of 12.25 d.
a pound—about a farthing a pound less
than for the corresponding period of last
season. Growers have received £34,081,807
so far.
* * * *
The Federal Government has decided
to cut the petrol ration for private users
from the equivalent of 4000 miles a year
to 3000 miles. The first rationing scheme
failed to produce the desired drop in
consumption. Though no one doubts the
necessity for a general reduction in petrol
consumption, it is a fact that the con-
scientious motorist who applied for a
4000-mile ration under the old scheme
has done his part, whereas the flash lout
with plenty of hide has put in for far
more than the 4000-miles-a-year-quota,
and in most cases has got it, thus defeat-
ing the whole arrangement. The scheme
was badly policed from the start. It is
sincerely to be hoped that strong meas-
ures will be taken against those who hum-
bugged the scheme. There have been
applications for excessive “special allow-
ances,” traffic in official and forged
coupons, and unfettered sale of petrol
by some garages. Unless all these abuses
are cleared up a state of affairs will arrive
where the selfish and unscrupulous will
have all the petrol they want and the con-
scientious motorist will have little or
none.
* * * *
For the first seven months of 1940-41
the Australian trade balance is consider-
ably worse than for the same period of
1939-40. Exports show a fall of
£1,252,000 sterling, whereas imports have
risen £8,259,000 sterling. Here are par-
ticulars of merchandise figures compared
with the preceding period:
-—Seven Months—-
1939-40. 1940-41. Movement.
£Stg.looo. £Stg.looo. £Stg.looo.
Exports 64,706 63,454 -1252
Imports 58,769 67,028 +8259
Excess exports.. 5,937
Excess imports.. 3,574
Gold-production figures are excluded.
In place of a favorable balance of
£5,937,000 sterling for the same part of
the previous financial year, the adverse
balance this time is £3,574,000—a total
slip of £9,511,000. At the end of December
the slide had reached £9,820,000 sterling,
so there was really a slight improvement
in January, when imports showed a sub-
stantial fall. Exports, too, showed a
fall in January, but that may have been
due to shipping difficulties. We get paid
for our wool whether it is shipped or
not.
♦ # # »
Because of war’s effect on the cost
of assuring in the case of new policies
on the lives of soldiers, sailors and air-
men, and because of the distraction
caused by the war generally and by new
taxation rates, not so much new business
is being transacted by Australian life
offices. The M.L.C. wrote £6,643,702-
worth of new business in its Ordinary
department in 1940, compared with
£8,388,170-worth in 1939. In the Indus-
trial branch the latest figure is £3,872,897,
compared with £4,596,793. In 1941 it
is likely that the Federal exemption on
income used to buy life assurance (up
to £lOO a year), which is also granted
in some States, will be used as a special
argument by life offices in order to
attract new assurers.
* * * *
N.Z. Perpetual Forests has returned
to shareholders a first liquidation div.
equal to its paid capital of £197,536.
More is to come. This co., founded by
Smith and Wylie, was promoter of the
first big Maoriland reafforestation enter-
prise, which was a few years ago separ-
ated from its parent under the name
of N.Z. Forest Products.
* * * *
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Ltd., is
reducing its debenture indebtedness by
£150,000. The co. explains that when it
was formed in 1926 part consideration
to the vendor (the Samuel Hordern estate)
was a debenture for £1,000,000 at
7 p.c. over all the assets of the co., sup-
ported by a mortgage over the co.’s real
estate. In 1936 the debenture was
satisfied, and a new arrangement was
entered into, giving a debenture for a
reduced amount of £600,000 at 4| p.c.
over all the co.’s assets, again supported
by a mortgage over the real estate.
This debenture deed contained a proviso
that the debenture could be cancelled
when the debt of £600,000 was reduced
to £450,000. The co. is now going to
reduce the amount to £450,000 and cancel
the debenture. The debt will be secured
in future by a mortgage on the co.’s real
estate alone.
* * * *
The return of Robert Reid and Co.’s
£lOO,OOO of first preference capital,
authorised by shareholders and the
Court, will take place on March 5.
* * * *
Normanby Tin, N.L., working a
property near Cooktown (N.Q.), has
renewed sluicing operations, and open-
ing-out the paddock has returned 4.2
tons of tin concentrates from 4800 yards
—an average of slightly less than 21b.
a yard. The 2s. shares (paid to Is. lid.),
which have been as high as 2s. 3d. this
year, were at Is. Bd. last week.
* * * *
Sydney Cotton Mills has quickly
reached the div.-paying stage. It was
formed a little over two years ago to
weave cotton-goods in Sydney ; it didn’t
propose to spin yarn. Two ex-employees
of Bradford Cotton started the co. off,
and it now has a modest paid capital of
£67,500 in fully-paid shares. The pro-
moters took 12,000 £1 shares paid to
10s., paying the balance in cash. The
div., half-yearly, is at the rate of 8 p.c.
p.a. In the term to June 30 last profit-
earning was begun. The co. has come
into production at a very opportune
time.
* • * *
Adelaide Steam’s interim div., payable
March 18, is at the rate of 6 p.c. p.a. Last
term’s interim was the same; final at the
rate of 7 p.c., making p.c. This co.’s
chief passenger vessels are under charter
to the Commonwealth, otherwise it would
be doing extraordinarily well under pre-
vailing shipping conditions. Charter rates
aren’t high, but there may be adjust-
ments when the war is over. In any case,
Adelaide Steam is a snugly-financed con-
cern, and in buying the scrip prospects
are worth paying for. The immediate
return offering is 4 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div.
basis, or 4.3 p.c. if the 6\ p.c. p.a. is
maintained.
* * * *
Swans, Ltd., a Sydney plumbers and
builders’ supplier, isn’t very active as an
investment stock, but its trading experi-
ences are a guide to those of others. It
reports that, owing to the acute shortage
of steel and copper caused by the great
demand for defence purposes, the building
trade has been restricted. This has
affected the co.’s sales, “although to
a much smaller degree than might
have been expected, considering the
prevailing conditions.” The ord. in-
terim div. has been reduced to
1\ p.c. p.a. from 8 p.c., but the co. says
that if the movement in connection with
the Federal housing scheme meets with
success, and it is possible to make more
material available for building purposes,
the position should be much brighter.
Between Dec., 1939, and Dec., 1940,
the retail prices of food and groceries in
30 Australian cities and towns rose 5.3
p.c. In six capital cities the upward
movement was about the same. These
prices cover some imported items, such
as tea and tinned salmon.
* * * *
Associated Pulp has allotted North
B.H. 29,500 £1 shares, B.H. South 37,833
shares, Electro. Zinc 37,333 shares and
A.C.I. 8334 —total, 113,000 shares, all in
repayment of that much debt owing to
the respective cos. Associated’s ords.,
which were up to 325. 3d. early this year,
collapsed to 275. 7d. last week.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
ACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Ability to condition a horse for an
important handicap without prior racing
is one of the chief attributes of a trainer
who knows his job, and Lou Robertson
recorded one of his greatest triumphs
when Zonda, racing for the first time
since last June, easily defeated Operatic
and Flying Knight in the Oakleigh Plate
at Flemington on Saturday.
The stable kept its secret well. As
Zonda is trained privately at Aspendale
Park, only those closely associated with
the stable were aware of her progress,
and, although her late entry for the
Futurity Stakes at a cost of £5O indicated
that she had been satisfying Robertson
in her work, bookmakers and backers
generally were unprepared for the spec-
tacular plunge which preceded her win.
Even her jockey was in doubt until
almost the last moment. Most people
were under the impression that “Scobie”
Breasley was to ride Celeris, and they
were mildly surprised when he was sema-
phored as Zonda’s jockey. The switch
had a happy sequel for Breasley, as
Zonda, backed from 33 to 1 down to
eights, hit the front just after passing the
two furlongs, and won by three lengths
in time, 1.4 j, which equalled Aurie’s
Star’s Australian record for furlongs.
The ease of Zonda’s win had the
natural effect of elevating her to the top
of the Newmarket quotes, notwithstand-
ing that she can be penalised up to 101 b.
over her original weight of 7.12, which
was 11b. less than she carried on Satur-
day. Her rehandicap will not be an-
nounced until after next Saturday’s meet-
ing, when, with a 71b. penalty taking
her weight to 9.4, she will be a runner
for the Futurity Stakes. Her form in
that race should afford an even better
line on her Newmarket chance.
A four-year-old by Manitoba from
Mistral, Zonda was one of the best
juveniles of her age. She was within
about 71b. of High Caste, to whom she
finished second in the V.R.C. Sires’ Pro-
duce and Ascot Vale Stakes, but lost
form subsequently, and won only one
race before the Oakleigh. That was over
10 furlongs at Moonee Valley last April.
Teeth troubles had retarded her de-
velopment, and she caused Robertson a
great deal of worry. A spell of three or
four months in rich paddocks at Mort-
lake worked wonders, and Zonda, having
again struck form, might now live right
up to her early promise. An interesting
phase of her Plate success was the fadt
that she changed ownership on the eve
of the race. She was previously raced
on lease by the trainer’s brother Andrew
from Mrs. S. O. Wood, but the latter
agreed on Friday night to sell her to
well-known Melbourne businessman and
studmaster G. A. Nicholas. Andrew
Robertson is still the lessee, though on
Saturday he missed the pleasure of see-
ing the mare win. He was in Maoriland.
Operatic ran one of his best races to
finish second, and the Sydney gelding
Flying Knight gave a great account of
himself, considering that he had the huge
weight of 9.2 for a three-year-old. Dhoti’s
complete failure was inexplicable. The
English horse had been impressive in
his track work, and, although some people
had been doubtful concerning his ability
to win from an outside barrier position,
they had a return of confidence after
seeing High Title win down the outside
in the Federal Stakes. Result was that
Dhoti, against whom 7 to 1 was bet before
the first race, firmed to favoritism at 7
to 2, but, although well placed early, he
dropped right out over the last three fur-
longs and finished nearly last. His per-
formance puzzled rider M. McCarten,
who declared that the form must have
been all wrong, as Dhoti did not run
within lengths of his track gallops.
Precedent was against All Love, but
her backing from 20 to 1 down to eights
suggested that her party was fairly con-
fident she would win where other great
horses in Heroic and Woorak had failed
with 151 b. above w.f.a. as two-year-olds.
All Love was well-placed for the greater
part of the trip, but the older horses were
much too good for her at the finish, and,
stopping badly, she beat only two home.
No excuse was possible for heavily-
backed Phoines, who failed to reproduce
the brilliance he had shown in an amaz-
ing track trial two days earlier, but Gold
Salute, third favorite, bled badly during
the race, and was pulled up and dis-
mounted opposite the stands. Unishak
weakened, and seemingly prefers to race
round a turn, but Scarlet Toi came home
well, and will be better suited by a little
longer distance.
Nothing is calculated to upset form
and figures more than a muddling-run
weight-for-age race. Tranquil Star’s
defeat of High Caste in the St. George
Stakes afforded another striking example
of the uncertainty of racing in this re-
spect, as High Caste met the filly a
stone better than when he had finished
ahead of her in the C. F. Orr Stakes a
week earlier. The slow pace, plus
“Scobie” Breasley’s ability to size up the
position and run the race to his own
liking, was the chief factor in Tranquil
Star’s success at the comparative outside
price of 7 to 1 in a field of four. Breasley
was instructed to ride his own race, and,
being left in front early, decided to slow
the field down and sprint away on the
turn. Things worked out exactly as he
planned. He gained a break of about
four lengths on Beaulivre and High
Caste on the turn, and that break stuck
to him at the finish. Tranquil Star lasted
just long enough to win by a head from
High Caste, who was in front a stride or
two past the post.
Rightly or wrongly, backers who laid
the odds on High Caste were harsh in
their criticism of rider Ted Bartle. They
contended that he overdid his waiting
tactics, and had been outwitted by Breas-
ley. High Caste did seem unlucky to
lose, but the question should be decided
definitely next Saturday in the Futurity
Stakes, in which High Caste will meet
Tranquil Star 41b. worse. Tranquil Star,
a Gay Lothario-Lone Star filly who cost
600 guineas as a yearling, deserved a
good win if only as compensation for
her spring seconds to Lucrative in the
Victoria Derby and to Session in the
Oaks. There can be no question of her
ability, even allowing that she looked
lucky on Saturday.
Dashing Cavalier enhanced his Aus-
tralian Cup prospects by finishing well
in third place in the St. George Stakes,
but Beaulivre was a big disappointment.
He had galloped well during the week,
and his owner was confident that he
would run a great race, but Beaulivre
showed no fight at all in the straight
and finished last, three lengths behind
Dashing Cavalier.
Equal Australian Cup favorite with
Tidal Wave during the week, Apostrophe
rushed to clear-cut favoritism after his
impressive win from Saul and Saki in
the Bond Handicap. He appeared to be
hopelessly pocketed about a furlong and
a half from home, but when pulled to
the outside by Creighton, who will also
ride him in the Cup, he stretched out in
earnest and won going away. Apos-
trophe carried 41b. more than his Cup
weight of 8.8, but has become liable to
a rehandicap, which, if any, will be an-
nounced after next Saturday’s racing. The
Adelaide-owned and -trained gelding is
much better than when he raced unsuc-
cessfully in Melbourne in the spring,
and, a proved stayer and weight-carrier,
looks an ideal Australian Cup proposi-
tion. Winners of the Port Adelaide Cup,
a race Apostrophe won with 9.0 three
starts back, have a splendid record in the
Australian Cup, and success for Apos-
trophe in the Flemington marathon will
be another triumph for his trainer, J. M.
Brett. Latter won the corresponding race
last year with Indignity.
Even allowing that Apostrophe may be
rehandicapped, he should again beat in
the Cup all the horses that finished behind
him on Saturday. Saul, who carried
21b. more than his Cup weight, has been
unlucky with four successive seconds, but
he was fairly outstayed by Apostrophe.
The Cup distance may be beyond Saki,
who battled on gamely enough after
trying to lead throughout, and Telergy
failed where he was generally expected to
shine —at the business end. Wilson, how-
ever, shaped fairly in fourth position,
and should be all the better for the race,
which was his first since November.
High Title’s brilliant win in the Federal
Stakes proved him the best of Victoria’s
two-year-olds. Heavily backed, notwith-
standing a general aversion to horses
drawn on the outside in races up the
straight, he stuck to the outside rails
throughout, led all the way and won
comfortably from High Road and Beau
Port, latter of whom was also on the
alleged “slow” side of the track. Whisper
Low, backed to favoritism, did not
appear to get away well from her
position in the centre of the track, and,
inclined to run about subsequently,
finished only seventh. High Title, a colt
by Duke John from Paper Flower, has
started four times for three wins and a
second, and has been a fine bargain at his
yearling cost of 250 guineas. He blotted
his copybook when Tea Cake defeated
him in the Stradbroke Stakes, but
obviously was not himself that day.
Keen judges now expect him to be a
worthy rival for All Love in the V.R.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes, and it does seem
that All Love will have to be at her best
to beat him. High Road, who is likely
to be all the better for Saturday’s race,
is not eligible for the Sires’ Produce
Stakes, his sire, Caledon, not having been
nominated.
Topsy-turvy form characterised the
opening of the V.A.T.C. autumn meeting,
Coylton and Sir Romeo improving on
their form at their previous starts to win
the Warrein Hurdle and Salisbury
Welter respectively. Stewards opened
and adjourned an inquiry into Sir
Romeo’s apparent reversal of form as
compared with his performance in the
first division of the Newport Welter at
Mooney Valley a week earlier.
Sir Romeo was always well in the
market in the Moonee Valley race, in
which he was ridden by N. Creighton,
but was never a danger and finished
ninth of 11 runners. On Saturday, with
H. Olsen in the saddle, he started at 20
to 1 after a little 33 to 1 had been bet,
and, running to the Adelaide mare Queen
Baccha just when the latter momentarily
looked the winner, went away to beat
her comfortably, with Lord Windburra
third. Queen Baccha ran up to the form
that had enabled her to beat a moderate
sprint field in good style at Ascot three
days earlier, but whether she is brilliant
enough to win the Newmarket with 7.2
is another matter.
One of the noisiest demonstrations
heard at Flemington for years began be-
fore Coylton reached the winning post in
the Warrein Hurdle, and continued until
he returned to the enclosure. Coylton
had run badly when favorite at a short
price for the Mentone race won by Boz-
zago a fortnight earlier, but on Saturday,
when backed from 11 to 2 to favoritism
at 4 to 1, he led all the way, jumped
faultlessly, and won easily from Bozzago
and Penfield. It was a pronounced re-
versal, and, although some backers are
always inclined to talk through their
pockets, the hooting was not really sur-
prising. No doubt a perfectly good ex-
planation would have been forthcoming
had the stewards inquired into his im-
proved form, and, in subsequently open-
ing and adjourning an investigation into
Sir Romeo’s apparent reversal, they left
themselves open to a charge of incon-
sistency. That’s the big trouble with
retrospective inquiries.
* * * *
Kensington attracted a big crowd on
Saturday, and, though the fields were
not exactly high-class, they provided in-
teresting racing. Winners included three
favorites, and most of the others were
well in the market, Novice, at 7 to 1,
being the longest-priced winner of the
afternoon.
Perimond, who had been out of the
winning list for over two years, came to
light in the Kensington Handicap, de-
feating eight others. He outstayed Court
Gossip, who, after appearing beaten at
one stage, ran on again. Calruin gal-
loped with unusual freedom, leading in
the early part of the race, and then
could not finish in his customary fashion.
Of the remainder Val Eaton was the only
one reasonably close to the place-getters,
and he merely plugged along over the
last furlong. A mile and a quarter at
Kensington is not an easy distance, and,
with 9.0, it proved too much for Climax,
notwithstanding that at her previous start
she won at 11 furlongs at Canterbury.
Over the last half-mile she was always
well back.
Novice and Merry Warrah won their
respective divisions of the Flying Handi-
cap, the former finishing strongly to
defeat Brazandt, who had Tarn beaten
after going half a mile. Jean Melfort,
in third place, made a good showing, but,
though Captain Gore was never further
back than fifth and finished fourth, the
pace was a little too lively for him
throughout. The time, 1.7, equalled the
course record. In the second division
Merry Warrah caught John Mac at the
top of the straight, and was too solid
for him over the final half-furlong.
Samurai ran well, without his chance
being a winning one over the last
quarter-mile, and though they shaped
fairly neither Rosmead nor Camsion ever
really raised their backers’ hopes. Beau-
caire is not improving.
Brucas led throughout the Fourteen-
two Handicap, and, despite his 9.3, cut
out the five furlongs in 1.2|, a Kensing-
ton record for ponies of his height. Lady
Lirnarch ran another good race, and,
making up ground from the top of the
straight, was defeated only a half-head.
Eager Fox, who was favorite and ran
third, was not suited by the distance,
and, last along the back, could not make
up his leeway. Kentucky was second
to the turn, but his years are telling upon
him, and Miss Armidale now has enough
weight to stop her.
In the Juvenile Handicap Fort Morgan
proved his gameness. He was being hard
ridden in third place behind The Hussy
and Sparklet two furlongs from home,
was alongside them soon after entering
the straight, and then worried Sparklet
out of it. There was only a head between
them, with The Hussy, who died away at
the end, a couple of lengths off. Of the
others Cape Hero (a Harinero colt) did
best, though Drifter also shaped fairly.
Dyne, though slow in finding her legs,
greatly improved upon her previous
week’s form at Randwick, and won the
first division of the Novice Handicap in
a fashion that suggested she will have no
trouble in getting a middle distance.
Petronius did the early pace-making, then
giving place to Sunstreak, and the latter
was passed in turn by Dyne and Wallace
Foote. Lady Marconigram was fourth,
and there was no merit in the form of
any of the other runners.
Connette and Kenil Gem fought out
the second division of the Novice, and
the former, who led with Simple Simon
until nearing the turn, beat Kenil Gem
by a neck. Picaroon, in third place,
gave his backers a fair run, but, as
Decelea was never dangerous, she may
be in need of a let-up. Rogerwood, an-
other who was expected to shape well,
was also disappointing.
Scientist outclassed his Welter Mile
opponents, and though it was not until
halfway down the straight that he ran
FOR CAULFIELD.
(At Flemington.)
(Before acceptances.)
St. Clair Trial: Son o’ Val, 1 ;
Phocion, 2 ; Radama, 3.
Alma Stakes: Astrid, 1 ; High
Road, 2 ; Beau Port, 3.
Woodcliff Handicap: Wilson, 1 ;
Tetianui, 2 ; Saul, 3.
Futurity Stakes: High Caste, 1 ;
Lucrative, 2 ; Mildura, 3.
Stanley Steeplechase: Nevizes, 1 ;
Laveur, 2 ; Baldasair, 3.
Hawksburn Handicap: Flying
Knight, 1 ; Scarlet Toi, 2 ; Unishak,
3.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(efore acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Dublin Lad, 1 ; Overjoyed, 2 ;
Good Morning, 3.
Juvenile Handicap (colts and
geldings): Lagoon, 1 ; Marcovelian,
2 ; Sponsor, 3.
Juvenile Handicap (fillies):
Double Rise, 1 ; All Cerise, 2 ; Con-
gratulations, 3.
St. George Handicap; Teddy
Rion, 1 ; Many Ways, 2; Glori-
ous, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Buzzal,
1 ; Plutus, 2 ; The Kite or Prince
Cacique, 3.
Flying Welter: Mortine, 1 ;
Tobasco, 2 ; Table Talk, 3.


SAVE MONEY
ITS
THRIFTY
TO "g
NEW
CHAMPIONS
iw.
CHAMPIONS?
Bring SMOOTH MOTORING
If your engine is not pulling
smoothly and evenly be sure
to check the spark plugs. Fouled
and worn spark plugs may he
robbing you of the economy
and pleasure of a smooth-
running engine. Install new
Champions for greatest speed
and power, and for the real
economy that only these su-
perior spark plugs can give.
An Empire Product—made in Windsor, Can,
fOR WEAK M£N AND IVOMfN
Loss of vitality and premature feeling
of old age are due to failure of certain
glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY.
T. JONES & CO.,
GLAND
TONIC
TABLETS
Chemists, i »7 % I
319 George St., Sydney ■--
%
*
*/
'N
Sole
Agents: JOUBERT O- JOUBERT
PTY
; D
past Silver Arbor he won very easily in
three-quarters of a second faster time
than Dyne put up in her race. Pen
Name, though backed, never got in it;
Miss Heroic was not favored by a good
run, and Pimm’s weakened after looking
a possible place-getter in the straight,
Sign On, the early leader, dropped right
out in the run home, and John Dory is
likely to do better over a longer distance.
* * * *
As Zonda was backed from 33 to 1
down to 8 to 1 for the Oakleigh Plate—
tote price 14 to I—she took a very large
amount out of the ring. Supporters of L,
Robertson’s stable include some heavy
bettors, and Zonda must have satisfied
her trainer that her chance was excep-
tionally good. Winner of three races
at two years, and second to High Caste
in the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes and
Ascot Vale Stakes, she was disappointing
at three years, as though placed on
several occasions, she won only one race,
a mile and a quarter handicap.
* * *.*,.* , *
She was seventh in last years New-
market with 7.10, and nowhere in the
Oakleigh Plate with 7.11. Saturdays
win evidenced that she had returned to
her earlier form, and, if she gets the
maximum penalty of 101 b., that will send
her weight up to only 8.8, so it is not
surprising that she is now a popular
selection for the Newmarket. Caulfield
Futurity Stakes running will throw
further light on her Newmarket chance,
In the former she will carry a penalty,
and will consequently meet most of her
probable Newmarket opponents on a
few pounds worse terms than in that race,
Still, if her Newmarket prospects are as
bright as now supposed, she is bound to
play a prominent part. The last mare
to win a Futurity Stakes was Waltzing
Lily, who had 9.10 when she beat Clos-
ing Time (9.7) and Kuvera (9.10). Cuddle
had 9.8 when she was second to Regular
Bachelor (9.0), so, if Zonda is as good
as her Oakleigh success has led backers
to believe, she may not find her weight
an impossible one.
• • • . • •
Apostrophe’s Bond Handicap win con-
firmed the idea that he is much better
now than in the spring. His Adelaide
doings pointed that way, but there is
generally an inclination to discount South
Australian form to some extent. Apos-
trophe did all that was expected of him
last week, and although he is sure to be
rehandicapped for his win—and that will
be necessary in order to give some of
those he beat a chance—he is such a
good weight-carrier that it is difficult to
say what extra poundage will stop him.
Pantler, Telergy, Bianca and Lanarus
were not impressive in the Bond Handi-
cap, and the same applies to Sun Belle
and Companion, who ran in the Salis-
bury Welter. Companion was an out-
sider, but Sun Belle was well backed.
Saul and Saki did best of those beaten
by Apostrophe, and Wilson’s form was
not bad, but it is probable that three of
the toughest of Apostrophe’s opponents
will be Mac Rob, Keelie and Tidal Wave,
who were not runners last
* * » *
There is a difference in the quotations
of some bookmakers, but on Monday
the majority had the most fancied horses
for the Newmarket Handicap and Aus-
tralian Cup in the following order:
NEWMARKET HANDICAP.
High Caste, Zonda.
Dhoti, Mildura, Lucrative,
Beaulivre, Scarlet Toi, Chatsbury.
All Veil, Gold Salute, Industry, Moon-
ray, Queen Baccha, Unishak, Reading.
AUSTRALIAN CUP.
Apostrophe.
Tidal Wave.
Dashing Cavalier.
Companion, Saul, Wilson.
Mac Rob, Our Boy, Tetianui.
* * * *
Duke John, sire of Melbourne’s crack
two-year-old, High Title, is by Bland-
ford from Orcelone, by Orby. Bred in
Ireland in 1932, he was imported by
J. K. Angas in 1936. As Duke John was
not among the stallions nominated for
the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes, High
Title is not in that race.
* * * *
If High Caste does not win the
Futurity Stakes he will greatly discount
his Newmarket chance even with 41b.
less weight. Seven furlongs should suit
him better than six, and, with the ex-
ception of Neutron, he will meet every-
thing better than Newmarket terms.
Compared with Mildura he will be 31b.
better off, and is giving Zonda 161 b.
against the 321 b. at present separating
them in the Newmarket. If the latter
should be penalised the full 101 b. in the
Newmarket she will still be in receipt
of 221 b. from High Caste in that race.
If Moonray should happen to strike his
best English form he would be trouble-
some in the Futurity, but, as things are,
High Caste reads like winning, with
Mildura, Zonda and Tranquil Star his
most dangerous opponents.
* * * *
Dashing Cavalier has 9.4 in the Aus-
tralian Cup and Apostrophe 8.8. How-
ever, as the V-A.T.C. handicapper has
put only 31b. between them in the
Woodcliff Handicap, the chances are that
the V.R.C. handicapper will take a some-
what similar view of their relative merits
when he rehandicaps Apostrophe, If
so Apostrophe will, at least, go up to
9st. in the Australian Cup. Incidentally
handicapper Hill must have a good
opinion of Saul, who is getting 111 b.
from Apostrophe in the Woodcliff Handi-
cap. In the Bond Handicap the latter
gave Saul 101 b. and beat him comfortably
by a length.
* * ♦ «
Beau Vite is an entrant for the King’s
Plate at Flemington on March 6 and
the C. M. Lloyd Stakes on March 8, but,
on top of his recent racing and an ease-
up, a somewhat hurried trip to Mel-
bourne might be inadvisable. The value of
each of the races mentioned is £lOOO,
but, in order to have him ready for the
A.J.C. autumn meeting, the Rosehill Raw-
son Stakes of £5OO on March 29 and
the Chipping Norton Plate of £650 on
April 5 will give him all the racing that
is necessary, and may see him fresher
than horses that went right through the
Melbourne campaign.
* * * *
The Australian Cup has often been
productive of upsets, and, in view of the
probability of Apostrophe’s penalty send-
ing him up to somewhere near the 9st.
mark, it is worth recalling that since
Tartan won with 9.6 in 1906 the heaviest
weighted winners have been Pilliewinkic
(9.6), Spearfelt (9.13) and Heroic Prince
(8.5). The 7st.-odd division has sup-
plied the last four winners. Indignity
scored with 7.7 a year ago, and the
minor places were filled by Morvren (7.4)
and Companion (6.10). Two and a quarter
miles with a light weight gives a great
chance to any horse with average staying
pretensions.
* * * *
There is an idea that American buyers
will be in the market for Ajax when he
goes to auction in Melbourne next
month. For the sake of the sellers it is
to be hoped so, but it is doubtful in
view of the fact that America purchased
several stallions in England last year. At
one time Ajax, in response to an Ameri-
can query as to his price, was quoted at
£40,000, but he then had a racing value
in addition to his potential stud value.
Most of our Australian breeders are well
stocked, so far as stallions are concerned,
and in view of war’s alarms, and with-
out being unduly pessimistic, there is the
doubt whether Ajax will realise the price
that would have been forthcoming for
such a great performer in normal times.
* ♦ » *
Accounts of the St. George Stakes
suggest the possibility of Bartle having
slightly underrated Tranquil Star, and
waited a little too long with High Caste
before attempting to run her down. As
I did not see the race it would be im-
possible for me to give any definite
opinion on that score, but if Bartle erred
it was excusable. In the C. F. Orr Stakes
High Caste gave Tranquil Star 281 b. and
a beating at a mile, therefore there would
not have seemed much to fear when con-
ceding her only 141 b. at nine furlongs.
Tranquil Star was fourth in the C. F.
Orr Stakes, and those racing men who
contended she was a trifle unlucky not
to have got even closer to the front were
evidently correct.
Tranquil Star was a good second in the
Victoria Derby, and though Session beat
her in the Oaks the opinion was general
that the latter’s success was not so much
due to her superiority as to Munro’s
horsemanship. Now Tranquil Star looks
like being a formidable opponent for
Lucrative in the V.R.C. St. Leger, which
is run on the second day of the meeting.
If the latter is to be a Newmarket runner
there is, of course, the probability of his
not being one of the St. Leger field, as
it would be asking a great deal of him to
tackle it on a sprint preparation. If they
do not meet in the Melbourne St. Leger
Lucrative and Tranquil Star may do so
at Randwick, both being in the A.J.C. St.
Leger, and, with the addition of Tidal
Wave, Pandect and Scientist, that race
should be very much more interesting
than last year, when Reading, at 14 to 1
on, had no difficulty in disposing of his
two opponents, Dashing Cavalier and
Bronze Flight. It was a poor return to
the club for £l5OO.
* * * ♦
It is easy to play the “after game,”
but there was nothing remarkable in All
Love’s failure in the Oakleigh Plate —
the wonder is that she was so well backed.
Brilliant as she had shown herself, it was
expecting a lot of her to win with 151 b.
over weight-for-age. She was meeting
practically a Newmarket field. At Caul-
field, with a turn, it might have been
different, but Saturday’s race meant a
sustained effort from barrier-rise, and it
is not surprising that after showing pace
for three furlongs All Love wilted at
the finish. The fact that when Ajax won
the Newmarket as a three-year-old he
had only 71b. over weight-for-age gives
a fair idea of the stiff task set All Love,
even though she was running at a half-
furlong shorter distance. All Love may
have fared better if she had run in the
Federal Stakes, but that is far from cer-
tain, as she had the steadier of 9.7, and
High Title, with 9.1, cut out the five fur-
longs in 59£. Though All Love did 58i
when she won the Byron Moore Stakes
she carried only 8.7.
• ••••#
A rise of 141 b. might have made con-
siderable difference, and it is to be hoped
All Love’s V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
chance was not affected adversely by
Saturday’s race. In that she will have
no penalty. Beau Port in third place
gave a good account of himself in the
Federal Stakes, and before the yearling
sales in Sydney come round he may give
Beau Pere’s stock a boost. That horse’s
older representatives have done well this
season, but his two-year-olds have not
been greatly in the limelight.
* * * *
Beaulivre’s form in the St. George
Stakes must have greatly disappointed
his owner and trainer. He read like
being defeated by High Caste for one,
but that he should have run last and, at
level weights, finished three lengths be-
hind Dashing Cavalier was a complete
upset. A little while ago Beaulivre
showed slight lameness, but though he
seemed quite right when he left Sydney
his running of last week gave the im-
pression he could not be himself. The
pace in the early part was so slow that
the time for the race was 1.56 i, equal to
about 1.43 for a mile. That should not
have told against Beaulivre, but though
he was with High Caste at the straight
entrance he did not run on as well as
the latter. In the Caulfield Cup Beau-
livre came home better than High Caste.
* * * *
Unishak did not do as well in the
Oakleigh Plate as I anticipated, and it
seems certain now that the straight run
at Flemington is not to his liking. He
displayed all the pace expected, but the
final half-furlong found him out. His
weight drops 61b. in the Newmarket
Handicap, but as he has already failed
twice in that race probabilities seem
against his success at a third attempt.
Some horses beaten in the Oakleigh Plate
when it was run at Caulfield subsequently
won the Newmarket, notwithstanding the
longer trip was supposed to be against
them, but it would savor of optimism to
suggest that Unishak was likely to add
to the number, with both races run on
the same track. The Hawksburn Handi-
cap next Saturday may give Unishak a
better chance than the Newmarket.
* * * *
Pure Gold and Chatsbury did not do
sufficiently well at Flemington on Satur-
day to add to their Newmarket sup-
porters, but the latter did the better.
Chatsbury, third last year with 8.2, has
61b. more this time, and, though improve-
ment is expected as a result of his Oak-
leigh Plate run, he does not now read
as well as others of the beaten division in
Operatic, All Veil, Phoines, Industry and
Scarlet Toi. The greatest shock of all
was Dhoti, whose track work appeared to
put him a long way in the Oakleigh
Plate. As a three-year-old he greatly
disappointed in the Two Thousand
Guineas, for which he was favorite, and
in another race. He ran well at his only
start in Australia prior to the Oak-
leigh, but though he commenced
smartly on Saturday evidently did not
put any heart into his work. In the New-
market he may show his form was all
wrong, but it would now be only a plucky
backer who would care to support him.
* * * r
Jockeys’ last-moment tips on Sydney
and provincial racecourses are going to
be more difficult to obtain than in the
past. The stipendiary stewards have made
a move to that end, and some pur-
veyors of jockeys’ information, as sup-
plied from the jockeys’ room, will find
their occupation gone. A few individuals
have made themselves somewhat noto-
rious in this respect, and, even though
they did not interfere, trainers were not
unaware that their riders occasionally
told more than they should.
$ * * *
In a recent issue I mentioned that
when the old-time owner-trainer J. Tait
had his horses in good racing trim he
did not believe in keeping them to look
at. He thought nothing of running them
twice a day, and in long races. Looking
over results at the 1866 Melbourne Cup
meeting, I noticed that on the concluding
day Tait won the third race, the V.R.C.
Handicap, 1| mile, with the aged gelding
Warwick, and then, with a 71b. penalty,
which took his weight up to 9st, ran
Warwick in the Free Handicap, \\ mile
and a distance, the last race the same
afternoon. Warwick won from 12 others,
and Toryboy was second in both races.
In Sydney the same season A. Bowman’s
Bulginbar won Tattersall’s Cup, two
miles, with 8.0, and the following race,
the Duke of Edinburgh Stakes, If mile,
in which he beat 13 others. He started


WE ARE
SPECIALISTS
IN
COWBOY SADDLERY
Three-quarter rigged, with one cord
cincha, 15 / - less. This is a very
popular line, quite equal to saddles of
the same class made in U.S.A. It is
made of brown leather, without fancy
stamping, and the seat and cantle are
in one piece of heavy leather.
Weight, about 281 b.
JV.S.W. Freight on Saddles Paid for Cash with
Order.
COWBOY BITS, SPURS, BRIDLES,
CHAPARAJOS, TAPADEROS, ETC.
0 ;
\\ TEXAS -RflNGeft
DOUBLE RIGGED.
VALTHER i, STEVEMSOM
39S CEORCE ST. SYDHEY
at 5 to 2 for the Cup and at 8 to 1 for
his second race. In that he had 9.5, and
won easily in 3.16. His Cup time was
3.39*.
* * * *
Mahmoud, English Derby winner, was
fairly rushed on his arrival in America.
His list for this year quickly filled at a
fee of $lOOO, with the concession of a
return for mares not proving in foal.
* * * *
Minor place-getters in the Oakleigh
Plate have subsequently won the New-
market, the last being St. Ardent in 1929,
and his time of l.lOf is still a record for
the race. Sunburst and Molly’s Robe
ran second in the Oakleigh Plate prior
to winning the Newmarket in their re-
spective years, while Aurie’s Star im-
proved upon their efforts by winning
both races in 1937. William Tell did the
same in 1886, and Wakeful in 1901. This
year, with both races run down the
straight at Flemington, the Oakleigh
Plate should give a better idea than usual
as to the possible result of the New-
market. At one time it used to be argued
that it really took a good miler to win
the Newmarket, but of recent years that
idea has been disproved more than once.
Aurie’s Star, a winner with 8.5 and
second with 9.13, has never shown he
could get a mile, and smartness as a
beginner is as useful at Flemington as
on most other courses.
* * * *
First run in 1874, Maid of Avenal
won the Newmarket in 1.17, and 1.16 i
was the best until Malua did 1.15? in
1884. Cranbrook cut that time down to
1.14 y in 1888, and Amiable to 1.14 in
1898. That was a record for the race
until Queen o’ Scots did 1.1 2 j in 1911.
The latter’s time held until 1923, when
Sunburst did 1.12, which has since been
beaten nine times, the best being St.
Ardent’s l.lOf. Jockeys could not then
afford to ride waiting races in the New-
market any more than at present, and
even allowing for an improved track
and different methods of horsemanship
the times quoted give a fair idea of the
extent to which our horses have improved
in speed.
Dreadnought was the first horse to
break 4min. in an Australian Cup, his
time in 1890 being 3.59 L That was not
improved upon until 1901, when Dream-
land won in 3.58|. In the following 20
years that was beaten on several
occasions, Harriet Graham’s 3.53£ being
the best during that period. Spearfelt,
with the big weight of 9.13, did 3.51-J
in 1937, and three years later Nadean
recorded 3.501. In 1938 Marauder made
a record for the race of 3.471, and last
year Indignity won in 3.511. The largest
Cup field was 23, when Harvest King
won in 1922. He was a three-year-old,
as were Carry On and Sylvandale, who
respectively won in 1931 and 1935.
* * * *
Nearly all the Futurity Stakes have
been won by penalised horses, and it
is long odds against this year being an
exception to the rule. The only un-
penalised horse in the race is Neutron,
who has an allowance of 2lib. The
last winner with an allowance was
imported five-year-old Lucknow, who,
benefiting to the extent of 221 b., carried
only 7.7. Eurythmic’s 10.7 (inclusive of
201 b. penalty) is the most weight carried
by a winner, while Sir Foote, after win-
ning with 6.10, took the Newmarket
with 8.0, and the Doncaster with 9.4.
* * * *
Costing 1150gns. as a yearling, three-
year-old Almanza had the third start of
his career at Ascot (Melbourne) last
week, and won a £66 race. He has been
difficult to train, and is now a gelding.
Almanza is by Manfred from Loorama,
by The Night Patrol. Nearly all the
yearlings sold for 800gns. or over in
1939 have yet to distinguish themselves.
Lucrative, Caulfield Guineas and Vic-
toria Derby winner, was a 450gns. pur-
chase.
# * * *
It was proposed to take motion pictures
of every race run at Santa Anita at the
meeting now in progress. If the pictures
were made they were to be shown on
the following morning in order to permit
of officials taking time to study them for
any violation of riding rules on the part
of jockeys, and to study the behavior of
the horses in the race. Owners and
trainers were to be invited to the show-
ings. Jockeys should have been accorded
the same privilege, as it would have
shown them their actual positions in a
race, and not where they imagined they
were. In Australia the statements of
some jockeys after a big race are ofteh
amusing. That they started and finished
was palpably the depth of their know-
ledge concerning the running of the race.
* * * *
There have been 140 races run on 21
days at Randwick this season, and of
these 46 were won by absolute favorites.
In three other races the winner shared
favoritism with another runner, and in
another race three horses were equally
in demand. Consequently followers of
favorites had an interest in 50 winners—
a high percentage. Still, while second
and third favorites also did their share,
things were scarcely so bad for the books
as the foregoing figures might suggest. On
Sept. 7 five of seven races were won by
favorites, but a 20-to-l chance in Head
Check brought some relief. On Boxing
Day four absolute favorites and another
sharing favoritism were successful, and
the only glimpse of sunshine for the
layers that afternoon was Sioneel at
15 to 1.
At three meetings, however, every
favorite was beaten, Nov. 23 being a
red-letter day for the books. In addition
to the failure of the favorites, three win-
ners ranged in price from 14 to 33 to 1.
There have been 13 winners at odds on,
and they did little good for the small
bettor, while the following list of double-
figure winners benefited the books.:
Odds.
Home Rule 33
Head Check .... 20
Hydra 20
Tel Asur 20
Dewar 20
Forward 20
Seven Fifty .... 20
Cassar 20
Decelea 20
Red Wendy 20
Linemond 20
Half Way 16
Sioneel 15
Fire Jax 14
Hash 14
Odds.
Asnaza 14
Bel Oiseau 12
Gilltovvn 10
Mag Mort 10
Merry Smile 10
Masterpiece 10
Pierce 10
Hope 10
Overbold 10
Teddie Rion 10
Jazbeau 10
Adios 10
Bronze Flight .... 10
The Miller 10
Tuckerbox 10
Entrance and acceptance fees often
cover the full amount given for a jump-
ing race in England, but it is unusual for
any Australian club to have that experi-
ence in connection with flat races. Gos-
ford went close to it last week, when
entries and acceptances for one race were
so numerous that it had to be run in
three divisions. The prize-money totalled
£6O, each winner getting £l7. The actual
cost to the club for those three races was
a little over £6 each. As there was a
large attendance, and more bookmakers
than usual were operating, the profit for
the day must have been sufficiently great
to make some of Sydney’s mid-week clubs
envious. Some improvements at the
course are mooted, and horse-owners
have every confidence they will not be
overlooked in these days of Gosford’s
prosperity,
* * * *
The next race meeting at Randwick
will be on March 8, when, as the most
prize-money for any flat race is £4OO,
apprentices entitled to allowances will be
able to claim them throughout the after-
noon. A programme of seven races in-
cludes a six-furlong two-year-old handi-
cap, the first of that distance at the
A.J.C. headquarters this season.
* * * *
Owner C. S. Howard, who was an
easy first in last year’s list of American
owners with nearly £A 100,000 to his
credit, finished well when his colt Yankee
Dandy won the California Breeders’
Champion Stakes, of $15,965 for first,
at Santa Anita on Dec, 28, and the
cable informs us that he has made a
good start this year at that track.
Last week his colt Porter’s Cap won the
Santa Anita Derby, worth $43,000 to the
winner. The track was heavy, and the
nine furlongs took 1.52 f. As a two-year-
old Porter’s Cap won three races of the
total value of $32,200. He is by Sweep
from The Blonde, and was a compara-
tively cheap yearling, costing about
£A4OO. What with Seabiscuit, Mioland,
Kayak 11, Yankee Dandy and Porter’s
Cap among his winners, Howard is one
of the most fortunate owners America
has known.
* * * *
Impersonation of jockeys for tipping
purposes is too well known in Australia,
but formation of a syndicate of that kind
is unknown here. In San Francisco,
however, five men were arrested on a
charge of forming a ring which, imper-
sonating jockeys or jockeys’ agents, oper-
ated by making long-distance calls to a
selected list of credulous backers —
“suckers” is the American term —giving
tips on supposedly fixed races, and ask-
ing that money be wired to be wagered.
All of the group were booked as
vagrants, their bail being fixed at $2OOO
each.
M.p. and Rafferty
The whole story of the meeting of
Bobby Rivers (10.11) and Jack Brander
(list.) at Leichhardt last Thursday night
is that Bobby was a shade too foxy for
Jack. As far as fighting went, Jack
took the first four or five rounds, mak-
ing the fight and scoring very well with
lefts aloft and rights to the body, but
in the third round Bobby doubled up
complaining of a low one, and was given
a few minutes to recover, and then again
in the fifth crumpled and fell to the
canvas, doubling up apparently in agony
from another low one ; so Jack no doubt
lost those two rounds. Bobby made the
most of his injuries, especially on the
second occasion, but that did not prevent
his coming out in the sixth and fighting
at his top, to take it and successive rounds
after it up to the tenth, when he sent
Jack spinning along the ropes with a
heavy right to the jaw. He went still
closer to a knock-out in the twelfth, when
he dropped Jack with a clinking right
cross. Jack bounced up at once, but
with an expression on his phiz like that
of Clancy’s mate —“And we don’t know
where he are.” Though Jack weathered
the round, anything else that happened
in it he could only have gathered by hear-
say afterwards, and Bobby took a points
verdict in what was a hard and at times
willing but mostly muddling and not
particularly interesting scrap.
There was a good deal more color
about the 10-rounder, Ron Warner (9.8)
v. Gordon Maloney (9.8). Both lads
were in excellent fighting trim, Ron the
better boxer, Gordon possessor of a more
lethal punch. Ron was twice on the
canvas —in the second and the fifth —but
was still able to take a points decision
by a fair margin. A nice style of an im-
proving lad who always puts up an
attractive performance, Ron is perhaps
too fragile about the jaw to go very far,
but, however far he goes, he’ll be pretty
to look at.
Nineteenfh Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
The Gulf Stream Club at Delray
Beach, in Florida, has one of the finest
courses in the United States. Owned
and maintained by a small group of
wealthy New York businessmen, it is one
of the “most exclusive” clubs in the
country. With an extremely short play-
ing season of approximately four months,
the club costs its few and select members
£7500 in course upkeep alone, apart from
clubhouse expenses and other items. If
it were not for cheap colored labor this
figure would be in the region of £lO,OOO.
The 18th fairway is reputed to be one
of the most expensive in the world ; the
club several years ago turned down a
cash offer of a million dollars from a
real estate co. It runs along the Atlantic
Ocean. The head greenkeeper told me
that he puts 50,000 gallons of water an
hour on the course during the hot
weather.
• •••••
The club pro. is none other than
famous Bobby Cruikshanks, one of the
best Scottish golfers ever to go to the
United States. Winner of practically
every title in America except the open,
in which he has been runner-up on two
occasions, Cruickshanks gives 3000-
dollars-worth of lessons at the club in
the three-months’ season he is there;
this, added to his club and ball sales and
salary, makes him one of the best-paid
club professionals in the country.
If any Bulletin reader wishes to join
this club he will be faced with an
entrance fee of £1750 and a subscription
of several hundred dollars a year for the
few days’ play he would have each
season. It is the only club I have seen
in the States that does not allow its pro-
fessional the use of the clubhouse. In
this land of democratic principles that
is indeed unusual. Cruikshanks has been
there for two years without seeing the
inside of the palatial building.
The surprise of the 10,000-dollar
Miami open championship was Ed
(Pork) Oliver’s picking up in the fourth
round after starting with a 72, 77 and
77. The bad greens upset his game,
and he didn’t hole out at the seventh
after missing a short putt. In the third
round he took 43 for the first nine
holes, doing the back nine in 33 for
a total of 224 for 54 holes. A favorite
for the event, Oliver’s practice rounds
included a clinking 65, five under par.
Sam Snead journeyed over to Havana,
Cuba, after the Miami event, and de-
feated the local champion, R. Gonzales,
in a 36-hole medal-play match for a
wager of 5000 dollars between a wealthy
Cuban sportsman and a New York mil-
lionaire. Snead’s rounds of 69 and 68
were five strokes better than his Cuban
opponent’s. Gonzales had been unbeaten
in Cuba for a number of years, and is
a fine player.
Hamilton Wright, publicity director for
Miami, produced 10,000 silver dollars the
day the big event started and had them
displayed on a table at the first tee,
guarded by the usual heavily-armed
Yankee police, complete with machine-
guns. After most of the competitors had
run their hands through them before hit-
ting off, the dollars were taken back to
the bank, where they were counted four
times, with the same result —10,001 dol-
lars. How the extra dollar got in no one
knows.
Women fill a good 40 p.c. of American
galleries at Miami. The local Ladies’
Golf Association sold 1309 gallery tickets
the week before the event started, and
also turned up in great numbers to follow
the play. Each of the stars has his own
female admirers, and before Sam Snead
married in September the long-hitting Vir-
ginian was the girls’ favorite.
Ben Hogan’s third place in the Miami
open gave him an undisputed lead of 30
points to win the Harry Vardon memorial
trophy from Sam Snead. The trophy is
recognition of being the outstandingly
consistent player of the year. Hogan’s
prize-money totalled 10,655 dollars.
Byron Nelson, P.G.A. champion, was
next with 9658 dollars.
Ins cmd Outs
Some of the old hands still refuse to
admit that Barnes is a first-class batsman,
but he continues to get the runs. Against
Victoria at Melbourne the young man
got his sixth century this season —185.
Lack of practice notwithstanding, Mc-
Cabe made a sparkling 82, and Chegwyn
weighed in with 78, but the rest did little ;
all out 416 (Dudley three for 46, John-
son three for 49). The Victorians, who
were without Tamblyn, replied with 326,
thanks chiefly to Lee, 67, the very useful
Johnson, 60, and Fothergill, the foot-
baller, whose 63 delighted the crowd.
His one mistake was when O’Reilly
trapped him on the leg side. Bill was
in great form—6 for 60.
Barnes in his second dig was out for
79 —he hit one from Dempster on to his
wicket —and now has totalled 999 runs
for the season. On Monday afternoon
N.S.W. had lost six for 251.
“Pilot”: The death took place on
Sunday of J. C. Davis, one of my
oldest and most esteemed colleagues.
A contributor to the “Referee” from
its earliest days, he subsequently be-
came its editor, and as “Not Out”
and “The Critic” his standing as
an authority on cricket and foot-
ball was world-wide. I doubt whether
there could have ever been a more con-
scientious worker for any paper than he
was for the “Referee,” and he meant
everything he wrote. The Bulletin also
knew —and valued —his “copy,” A better
citizen would have been almost impos-
sible, and, while we all have to go and
are generally quickly forgotten, “Jack”
Davis will be Jong remembered by a large
circle of friends and admirers.
* * * *
“Sturt”: The crop of international
cricketers’ sons following (or trying to)
in father’s footsteps continues in Adel-
aide. To Arthur Richardson’s Brian and
Vic Richardson’s Douglas is now added
a very young son of “Nip” Pellew. John
Bradman has yet to be heard from ; but
he is not yet two.
“S.T.S.”: In bowls, how much depends
on (1) individual skill, (2) luck, (3) com-
bination? The championship of S.A.
has been won by Gwynne, of Gawler, a
second-division team —and Gwynne does
not claim to be champion even of that.
Yet single-handed he went unbeaten
through about 200 of the city’s best; and
the two leading first-division clubs didn’t
have a man in the last eight.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM
6AM
6KG
6GE
Perth
Northern. .
Kalgoorlie
500 watts
2000 watts
500 watts
Geraldton 500 watts
St. George's Use., St* George's Tee., Perth
THE SERVICE MAN
Tanks Below Benghazi.
“Ek Dum”: The actual story of the
wiping out of the last Italian resistance
in Libya was not told in the Common-
wealth till a week after the victory. So
far from there having been no battle,
as was at first thought, there was a great
one, and that on ground chosen by the
British with well-conceived strategy. It
was selected to enable them to use small
and medium tanks and armored vehicles
to the best advantage and to gain in
speed, mobility and numbers what they
lacked in the way of a heavy armored
spearhead.
Between 60 and 70 miles south of Ben-
ghazi, the country where the Tripoli road
crosses it is open and wind-swept desert,
in contrast to the fertility of the north
mountain coastal districts. It is the sort
of country which ancient generals sought
for their major engagements—flatter than
Hohenlinden and Blenheim, as flat and
unimpeded as the cold plain at Chalons,
beside the creek which they there call
the Marne “River,” where Attila met
his match.
Here was a crucial point on the line of
Italian retreat from the Cyrenaican capi-
tal. While the northern lines of the A.I.F,
drove towards the baths and Chianti of
Benghazi, the British cavalry at Mekili
away to the south of Derna decided to
advance and arrest the deprived
Benghazi garrison on its way to Agheila
in the crease of the Gulf of Sidra. They
set out on Tuesday, Feb. 4, moving
south-westerly.
Eratosthenes, who invented geography,
was a citizen of Cyrene, and the Nile Army
juggernauts were not long in discover-
ing where his laboratory was. The first
30 miles from Mekili had apparently
been used as a wadi dump over which
the movement of a whole British
armored brigade was a penance rather
than a military exercise. After that
the going was better as the brigade
approached the Tripoli road. The force
had divided so that the welcome would
not be concentrated and the pleasures
of the Italians too confined in time.
One section, well-equipped with salut-
ing gear—field guns and anti-tank guns,
armored cars and a battalion of infantry—
deployed across the road about 70 miles
from Benghazi and 170 miles from
Mekili. Ten miles north of this recep-
tion committee, another section headed
by Hussar cruiser tank squadrons—the
gorgeous “Cherry Pickers” now fight in
things that look like badly-made coal-
scuttles—reached the track on Feb. 5,
after 36 hours on the way, just in time
to extend a glad hand to refugees who
seemed to be in a hurry, and to be far
more numerous than had been expected.
A playful slap on the flank with a
tank squadron induced the hurtling
Italian column to turn its head, so that
the anti-tank guns could spit in its eye
and prevent it from blundering through
the lighter force planted further down
the road, which was all oblivious of the
weight of metal preparing to descend
on it out of the north. If the Italian
leaders wore a somewhat dazed look,
they could not be blamed, having regard
to the kind of terrain which the British
brigade had crossed and the speed with
which it had arrived.
The British timing was beautiful. The
enemy was too late to turn back and
laager, too early to deal with the lighter
British force first. And the unsuspecting
Italians had obligingly organised them-
selves for flight instead of fight, having
placed tons of light vehicles and gear
in the van. When the Hussars got
among them, with superior speed, armor
and armament, prisoners were seen
dripping through their fingers, as it were.
And their embarrassments were added
to by the fact that there were women
and children among the refugees.
At the same time, a tank column is
unfortunately an animal which is apt to
think with its tail and to divide like a
lizard when there is room for it to move
sideways. After the first shock the
Italians joined willingly in field sports
and athletic exercises which included
hide-and-seek among the claypans, hop,
step and jump over dunes and Chase-
me-Charlie wherever a cruiser tank could
follow a little fellow and the going was
good._ Giovanni had 120 medium tanks
—which means six tons upwards a
large number of armored fleas in the
four-ton class or lighter, a few 75’s,
which are death op armored vehicles,
and a fair helping of other anti-tank
guns.
What with big tanks whizzing after
little tanks and anti-tank guns gun-
ning for big tanks and non-combatants
wandering in on Hussars while the latter
were deep in the mysteries of war, and
buses full of alarmed Calabrians dodging
round burning vehicles and General
Berganzoli—known in the Italian army
as “The Saint” and in the A.I.F. as
“Electric Whiskers” —strolling round the
tortured landscape, there was plenty of
liveliness for all. And there were pleasant
surprises, such as the concentration of
70 Italian guns on one small knoll, off
which there was difficulty in scraping
them because of their habit of sliding
whenever a brigade arm reached out to
grab them.
On Thursday morning, Feb. 6, when
the game was going a little stale, a
second helping of Italians arrived from
the north, this time exclusively tanks.
The tired Hussars and their henchmen
waded in, bagged 46 leviathans and
were congratulating themselves on hav-
ing reached the bottom of the bag, when
enough dust appeared towards the
Mediterranean to suggest that Musso.
himself was retreating. Underneath it,
still another 70 tanks moved among a
museum of armored cars, trucks and
buses.
British engines were full of dust.
Drivers were panting; so were the
gentlemen who live inside, like the
yolks in eggs. A large number of
vehicles were out of commission, and
the zest had gone out of the fight for
the weary British, who now had to take
on in places the role of defenders. The
Italians repeatedly charged in mass.
Once 25 of their juggernauts were within
a few hundred yards of British head-
quarters, but the Hussars’ cruisers swept
them off.
That evening the spearhead of the
A.I.F. reached Benghazi, and our lads
had every reason to thank their stars
for the armored brigade, A.0.T.N., which
was keeping occupied, while they them-
selves consolidated, a highly dangerous
enemy of which they did not suspect the
existence on their southward flank.
The fight went on all through the
night of Feb. 6 and the dawn hours of
Feb. 7. It finished with a spectacular
fray at daybreak in which 20 British
tanks chased 30 Italians into the arms
of the British infantry battalion equipped
with a.t. guns across the road. Vast
amounts of equipment were captured
with 10,000 to 12,000 prisoners. And
the extraction was almost painless for the
operators, since the A.O.T.N. armored
brigade in 36 hours’ fight lost only one
killed and three wounded. Only four
British tanks were knocked out, though
many suffered breakdowns.
It was the first real battle, as the term
is ordinarily understood, in the African
war, and the first in military history on
such a scale between armored vehicles.
No Rest for Mussolini.
“El V.”: Important progress was made
in Italian Somaliland with the cap-
ture of Kismayu at the mouth of the
Juba River by S. African, African and
R.N. forces which advanced from Kenya
Colony—it is more than 100 miles from
the border. Kismayu was ceded to
Italy by Britain in 1925 with a vast slice
of Jubaland. It is important because it
gives the British command of the Juba,
up which, from Kismayu, the steamers
run to Bardera halfway to the Ethiopian
border. It also gets rid of the worst
obstacle on the march to Mogadisco,
the capital, which is 250 miles further
up the coast. The Juba River will pro-
vide another avenue of approach to
Abyssinia and pave the way for using
Bardera as the base of a pincer movement
to co-operate with the forces which have
crossed the Abyssinian border at Moyale
—that is, if the Abyssinian forces do not
collapse under the weight of the Eritrean
drives in the meantime.
In Eritrea there has been a check be-
cause of the concentration of Italian
troops at Cheren. They apparently
realise that if they do not resist here
they cannot resist at all.
The Army of the Nile is consolidating
for the march on Tripoli. German aero-
planes have been raiding Benghazi, drop-
ping parachute land mines of the type
which did devastating damage in British
towns. In the broad streets of Benghazi,
the attacks were ineffective.
On the other side of the Mediterranean,
American pressmen in Rome spent most
of the week trying to get “a big
story.” The story was that British para-
chute troops, in uniforms, with R.A.F.
caps, and armed with “tommy guns,”
wire clippers, liras and other lethal
weapons, landed in the Calabrian hill
country in the western toe of Italy on the
night of February 10 and early next
morning, intending to attack viaducts,
hydro-electric works, irrigation and rail-
way systems. The Apulian viaduct draws
water from this region to serve 302
towns and 3,000,000 people.
The Italians reported that 11 para-
chutists were arrested in one batch, seven
others a mile further on. A captain shot
a couple of Italians, but no casualties
were reported among the invaders. There
may be a good many visitors still loose.
Calabria has a lavish supply of hide-outs.
Rome admits disorganisation of railways
in the south, including all stations in
the Naples area.
It transpires that 144 were killed and
323 wounded during the British naval
bombardment of Genoa—at least that is
the Italian report.
Italian airmen raided Xanthe, in
Greece, and various parts of Crete. In
the Albanian front line, despite heavy
counter-attacks, the Greeks hold the
initiative everywhere and have inflicted
heavy casualties on the enemy with the
help of the R.A.F., which has continued
its heavy bombing raids on military
camps, transport and troop concentra-
tions. Two Italian and two British
machines were shot down north of Berat,
in the oil region.
R.A.F. Retains the Initiative.
“Aileron”: Hitler may intend to
attack, but the R.A.F. has certainly had
the raiding initiative all along the North
Sea, as in the Mediterranean.
On Feb. 10 the Royal Navy shelled
the Flanders coast while the R.A.F. made
heavy raids on industrial Germany and
occupied-territory along the Channel. A
German report that squadrons had
attempted to reach Berlin and had been
driven back was denied) by the Air
Ministry. The Germans admitted the
bombing of nine localities, including Han-
over —an important concentration centre
—but claimed that they had brought
down 33 British ’planes, including one
destroyed by the Reichsmarine off Nor-
way. Two German machines (they said)
were missing. They added that the raid
on Dunkirk was a “complete military
failure.”
The attacks were evidently on a vast
scale and Italy suffered comparably.
Next day the Navy continued to pour
broadside after broadside into Ostend ;
the thunder of the guns was heard in
England 70 miles away. There was “no
news that our forces suffered any serious
opposition.” Germany, Holland, Den-
mark and Norway all had chances to
observe the excellence of the Coastal and
Bomber Commands at work. London
suffered only a short alert and a little
aimless bomb-dropping which did next
to no damage.
On Feb. 12, things were still quiet, on
the whole, over England, though there
was desultory raiding of the west
coast. The Germans issued a flamboyant
claim to have wrecked 38 British
machines since Sunday, which encouraged
the Italians to boast that they had
destroyed 50 in the same time. The Air
Ministry reported that the actual losses
were 13 over Germany, in the Medi-
terranean on the previous Saturday night
four, and over Britain none.
The merciless R.A.F. sweeps of the
invasion ports and of parts of Germany
continued throughout the week, cul-
minating on Saturday night in a vast
attack which started a chain of fires in
almost every town along the low-lying
coastline between Ostend and Boulogne.
The whole width of the Channel was
lighted by the glare, and the rumble and
shock of the guns kept windows quiver-
ing and walls shaking along the coast of
Kent and far inland. The attackers were
met with withering A.A. fire, but refused
to be driven off, and destruction was
carried into the heart of the Ruhr.
The German High Command is learn-
ing by bitter experience that the “nation
of shopkeepers” has marked up its prices
for attempted invasion and that the tariff
against actual landings in Britain is now
likely to be prohibitive.
The Victor Ship.
From fearful trip the victor ship
Comes in with object won.
— Whitman.
“Nobby II”: The captains of the Aus-
tralian warships which served gloriously
in 1914-19 were all R.N. men ; so were
most of their executive and commissioned
officers. Over 22 years elapsed between
the foundation of an Australian Naval
College (March, 1913) and the appoint-
ment of the first wholly-Australian pro-
duct of R.A.N. training to captain’s rank
—George Moore, on December 31, 1935.
At the outbreak of the present war
there were only five R.A.N.-produced
deck officers who wore four gold stripes
on their sleeves. Moore was seconded
to the R.N. temporarily, commanding
H.M.S. Dauntless, one of the light
cruisers which came to Australia in 1924
with Hood and Repulse. Harold Farn-
comb (June, 1937) commanded H.M.A.S.
Perth. J. A. Collins, now of H.M.A.S.
Sydney (promoted Dec. 31, 1937), was
Director of Naval Intelligence. Harry
Howden commanded H.M.A.S. Yarra,
and Joseph Burnett (both were of the
1938 vintage) was doing a captain’s course
at the Imperial Defence College.
It was only with the promotion to
command of these men that it was pos-
sible to have an Australian warship in the
true sense ; for a ship in naval concep-
tion is a living thing, consisting of more
than the cold steel and armor of a gun
platform. She and her captain may be
likened to body and brain; her “divisions”
and their equipment to the vital parts
of a human being. What seems at first
to be an autocratic military organisation
is really an aggregation of co-ordinating,
brain-directed agencies represented by
the different ranks and specialist bodies
whose functions interlock to produce the
life and energy of the ship, and whose
efficiency and smoothness of working are
based on inherent and instinctive func-
tions, privileges and mutual respect. The
ship and all men aboard her are con-
stantly guarded against humiliation or
infringement of their rights and dig-
nity. (“Leading seamen.... must be
treated with the consideration which is
due to the positions of trust they hold.”)
Every time a ship is approached it is a
matter of ceremony, and she is accorded
all the respect due to an Amazon. She
is never referred to with the prefix “the,”
which would mark her as inanimate.
H.M.A.S. Sydney is “Sydney.” Nor
does she have flags and ensigns “hung”
upon her ; in the parlance of the King’s
Regulations, she “wears” them, like a
shining garment. The same regulations
dowered her with an immortal soul.
This resides in her ship’s bell and history
scroll, which, when she dies, pass on
by law to her next namesake.
She has a sense of humor, too ; wit-
ness the fact that her “general salute”
to her familiars. Sunrise and Sundown,
and those old friends of hers the bhoys
of the flag ranks, is out of “lolanthe.”
The captain is the source of the life
which begins to course through her only
when, after she is commissioned, he
performs his first duty to her and
assembles a party of officers to inspect
her anatomy, as presented by the Lords
of the Admiralty. From now onward
he is the force that sets the pace of her
heartbeats. No door may open save by
the captain’s keys that he keeps in the
glass-faced “important” and “maga-
zine” boxes in his cabin or ante-room. On
him alone devolves the duty to keep her
“at all times in readiness for war,” and
“in time of war” he must, “every even-
ing before dark, cause the quarters to be
cleared and every other arrangement
made for a night action and to prevent
surprise.” His alone is the task in
harbor of being “constantly and
fully prepared to repel” any attack; on
him lies the charge which has come
down to him since the days of Drake
“not to approach a foreign ship at any
time without being prepared to defend
his ship in case of necessity,” though
“without giving reasonable cause for
offence.”
In war the captain is on duty 24 hours
a day in his uniform. In battle he must
not sneak into action hiding behind bil-
lows or skulking under foreign names and
colors like a German raider; he is “to
see that two ensigns are always displayed
in a conspicuous position without inter-
fering with signalling.” Thus gallantly
showing his front, he uses the ship as his
own fist, and from the time he leaves
his comer to give battle none inside his
ship (save flag officers) disputes his will or


STYLE SMARTNESS
+
SUMMER COOLNESS
: X ' ■
mmm
m
m
I
js
m
HZ
wm
H
v.
YOU’LL feel fresh as a daisy
on the hottest day when you’re
wearing a Soltine suit. Here you
see the authentically designed
Soltine pattern 5031. It’s a Clus-
ter Stripe design that’s good to
look at and comfortable to wear.
It’s woven with extra twists in
each thread so that it keeps its
shape without sagging or creas-
ing. Ask your tailor or store to
show you the 90 really attractive
Soltine Cloths. They’re the best
that money can buy.
Born, Shorn, Woven and Worn in Australia
If unable to obtain, write to Box
489 G, Post Office, Melbourne, and
we’ll advise you where you can get
Soltine Cloths.
dictates his fight tactics. He is not com-
forted even by the presence on the bridge
of his executive commander (“The
Bloke”), who usually, as first reserve, is
parked carefully in the ship’s interior.
The creed of a captain is written by
the Admiralty and Naval Board and
sworn to by him before he is charged
with the safety of several hundred lives
and £1,000,000 to £8,000,000 worth of
Lieut. G.
Every, M.M.,
Sen. Inst.,
Army School
of Signals.
steel and the right to “engage the enemy
wherever found.”
So great is his power that the Navy
knows him as “The Owner” ; but for all
his prestige and authority he pays dearly
when he errs. One mistake or hesitation
may destroy his ship and all in it. And
if he is a wise man he carries himself
carefully and hides a large dose of per-
sonal humility under his singlet.
Back from her Mediterranean honey-
moon Sydney arrived at Circular Quay
—first saluting the colors of her pre-
decessor wearing a tasteful costume
of black and white stripes like the danger
signals at German railway crossings, a
long scratch of rust on her nose, and
some aerated millinery perforated with
this season’s bomb holes. Her ensign
staff was packed away in the tin trunk
and she wore her colors on the main-
mast gaff like a bandanna in her
hair. She gave the impression of need-
ing a bit of powder and rouge and a
manicure, but of still being in a condition
to exert a fatal charm upon Italians and
other susceptible foreigners.
So far from being worn with toil and
leaned by terror, her hearty complement
—four-fifths Australian-born —were ob-
served to have matured nicely out of the
steer age, packed on meat over the loins
Lieut. C. Starkey,
Adj. and Q.M.,
Army School of
Signals.
and acquired con-
siderable heart girth
room and 10 per
cent, better block
tests.
Diarists who
watched the re-
actions of French
and Belgians to the
German invasion re-
peatedly remark on
the lack of displays
of fierce patriotism
and mass flag-wav-
ing noted in 1914.
Most of them saw
the symptoms as
ominous. There have
been people inclined
to suspect a similar
attitude among Aus-
tralians. But the
home-city scenes
which marked the
march of Sydney’s
victorious o ffi c e r s
and men would soon have dispelled any
misgivings as to whether Australians can
be moved to emotions of intense patriotic
pride.
Any careful observer who paced the
route over which those 400 magnificent
human specimens passed in the imperfect
naval marching style which, in its effects,
is as perfect a thing as there is in the
world could have carried away in his
mind a dozen scenes in which all ages and
classes of people were involved and in
which tears were an ingredient. It was
a moving spectacle, and historic, pro-
viding as it did the first demonstration
in which Australians were able to give
way to the feelings which English port
dwellers have known for centuries and
which are consequent upon the whole
ownership of a victorious naval ship,
home freshly blooded from large-scale
war.
War and Rumors...
“Ek Dum”: The suspense of waiting
for an invasion of England, about the
chance of which Mr. Churchill and John
Dill, Chief of the General Staff, linked
themselves in warning, has been enlivened
for the spectators by the normal diversions
on the sidelines. These as usual have
been presented with such realism that
hysterical papers have been apt to mis-
take them for the main fixture.
No possible centre of attraction has
been neglected. There was the resig-
nation of M. Flandin as Foreign Minis-
ter. There is so much disturbance with
so little finality about France that one
might be moved to feel that it is the
result of a pseudo-military operation
engineered from Germany which keeps
on making demands but does not pluck
up courage to enforce them. Admiral
Darlan has become deputy chief of
State, with a sheaf of portfolios, and
that should settle the talk of the sur-
render of the fleet. French Admirals
are like others about fleet surrender.
There was the whoop that Count
Volpi had gone somewhere from Italy
as a preliminary to seeking peace with
England. The suggestion was plausible
enough in itself, since Volpi would be
a most likely emissary. But the rumor
went hand-in-hand with the news that
Musso. and Franco were meeting at
Bordhigera, and there were suggestions
that this gathering might lead to the re-
vival of the idea of a Latin bloc with
France and Spain supporting the Axis.
The Spaniards have enough troubles of
their own. They have had to ask
Britain for oil and have tried busily to
get 100,000,000 dollars from the U.S.A.
as a relief loan ; and Spain has South
American and French Moroccan opinion
Major S. J.
Hill, Chief
Inst, and C.O.
Army School
of Signals,
Liverpool,
N.S.W.
and the British Navy and Portugal to
consider. Even the suggestion of a
Spanish shift of policy calls for British
military and naval caution. Lisbon’s
safety means more to Britain than that
of almost any other port outside the
Empire. It is a vast British transhipping
and oil depot.
Next, there are the eternal Balkans:
“German invasion expected in Bulgaria.”
Bulgaria is a country entirely surrounded
by high mountains save on the Turkish
and Rumanian sides, and approachable
only by passes and bridges. Its northern
border is the Danube. I don’t know
what the Danube is like this year, except
that the year has been a record for cold.
Last time I saw it, at the end of a
February near the Bulgarian border, it
was running a banker as wide as
Sydney Harbor, full of whirling ice
blocks which would have cracked a
battleship. It has few bridges. The
snow in the Dragoman Pass was so
heavy that it took two days to drive
through it —the first car through in three
months. Most of the rest of Bulgaria
and Thrace was mud.
Adolf is a bit early for an invasion
of Bulgaria. His object presumably
would be a drive from Rumania into
Greece or Turkey. If he goes for
Salonika he is likely to catch it on two
flanks, and when he gets there he has
nothing to gain with Corfu and the
Adriatic and Crete in British naval
hands.
The Russians are in it, too. “U.S.S.R.
Fleet assembles at mouth of the Bos-
phorus”—that is, at the very gates of
the fashionable environs of Istanbul and
within big-gun shelling distance (18
miles) of the centre of the city. The
Soviet Fleet has no guns with an 18-
mile range, and if it tried to “force the
Bosphorus,” which is in places less than
half a mile wide, the shepherd boys
would drop rocks on it.
Then —British diplomatic relations with
Rumania having been severed—it came
out that Germany was “ready to strike”
in the Balkans, but would “confine her-
self to western Bulgaria and an attack
on Salonika so as to avoid antagonising
Turkey.” Any drive to the TEgean sea-
board is likely to be a casus belli with
Turkey.
The scene shifts to the Far East. From
a “most reliable source at Shanghai” it
was learned that “a Japanese battle
Captain A. K. Cummins, Sen. Inst.,
Reg. Wing, Army School of Signals.
fleet” was concentrated off Haiphong.
Shanghai is only 1400 miles from Hai-
phong, as the crow flies, with seething
provinces and a war in between. And
it is only round the corner from Hong
Kong. The news seems to have passed
straight over Hong Kong and made a
beeline for Yankee correspondents be-
side the Whang-poo. Hong Kong
atmosphere has a damping effect on
sensations. Few come direct thence.
There is a situation which needs watch-
ing in the Orient. It is being watched
and dealt with calmly. British, Indian
and Malayan troops and the R.A.A.F.
and R.A.F. have been distributed in
northern Malaya. Singapore and Hong
Kong are in a condition of defence. But
this does not necessarily mean that there
is immediate danger of shots being fired.
If there were, Sir Robert Brooke-Pop-
ham would scarcely have come to Aus-
tralia on Feb. 8 and remained in Australia
for so long.
Amid all the furphies, threats, promises
and sparring, it is almost a relief to hear
that there is actual fighting somewhere
and that the war is not merely a bad
dream.
The mopping up needed after Benghazi
marks the end of the Cyrenaican cam-
paign, while pursuit troops and the
R.A.F. and R.A.A.F. are firing the open-
ing rounds of a new one to repeat the
eastern victories in western Libya. The
weather has begun to break in Albania,
where desperate counter-attacks have
pounded fruitlessly against the Greek
lines, and at last there has been a further
Greek move toward Valona—three miles
in one operation—with raids on Tiranna,
the capital, and Durazzo, which seem to
presage a campaign to snatch the whole
of Albania from the Italians.
"Prendergast."
Introducing a breezy book:
The R.A.N. certainly sees life. A little over
a year ago Rear-Admiral Custance, who had
been in Sydney a couple of years, left for
England—unhappily, he died on the voyage.
FTe left behind as deputy and commodore
Captain Wilfrid Rupert Patterson, R.N., his
C.O.S. and flag-captain (in H.M.A.S. Canberra).
Captain Patterson, a long, cultivated Belfast
man in his middle forties, with the polished
naval manner which the foreigner (to his cost)
so little understands —it is usually a cloak for
icy courage and deadly efficiency—is one of
the world’s best gunnery experts. The Bulle-
tin artist “Lock” used the figures of the rear-
admiral (with monocle) and his C.O.S. (but cer-
tainly not their characters and habits) as models
for his Prendergast pictures, and none enjoyed
the fun better than his victims —Rear-Admiral
Custance kept a file of the pictures.
H.M.A.S. Sydney men report that in the
Mediterranean “Prendergast” has been very
active. Australian warships have formed the
habit of addressing each other by his moniker
in those signals which ships throw about for
Lieut. D. B.
Knock, Wire-
less Officer,
Army School
of Signals.
practice to enliven dull hours ; and Royal Navy
are sneaking into the harbor”). Captain Patter-
son is proving that he is a man who can afford
an affectionate i° ke at his expense by taking
S’^“or^V^tawhi
Halifax to the United States,
One of the originals of the Prendergast pic-
tures was chosen by the wardroom of Sydney
as a present for Captain John Collins when they
dined him somewhere in More Nostrum after
the B. Colleoni and other victories. Thereupon the
recipient wrote to the artist, who had celebrated
a certain accident, that the picture had given
him “the first real laugh I had over the episode
when I saw it in The Bulletin,” and that
“since then our crumpled stern has become
quite a feature of the ship, and I think we
should all be sorry if they took the dents out.”
“Prendergast” has now turned up in book
form (Prendergast of the Silent Service, by
Lock, published by Frank Johnson, Is.). All
the drawings have appeared in these pages,
and the artist acknowledges his debt to Frith
and Ted Scorfield for “landlubbing his naval
language.” Apart from the fact that most
of the drawings—sandwiched in between
chanties and the verse and prose of many
Bulletin writers, including E. J. Brady and
J. H. M. Abbott—are likely to have a per-
manent appeal to all naval ranks, they will
not shock the conventions of either ships’
tailors or architects. Lock himself has been
a lieutenant-commander on the active list.
Ship losses for the week ended Feb. 3
were: British, 11 ships, 40,429 tons;
Allied, three ships, 13,872 tons ; neutral,
one ship, 2962 tons; total, 15 ships,
55,263 tons. The Germans claimed
63,777 tons. January losses averaged
34.000 tons, which were, roughly, half
those of December.
Late in the week, the attack on a British
convoy by a 19,000-ton German raider —
armed with Sin. guns, some reports say
—marked the reopening of determined
sea savagery. The attack was made be-
tween the Azores and Madeira. Berlin
claimed the sinking of 14 ships totalling
82.000 tons. Six ships from the convoy,
four British, two Greek, have reached
Funchal.
* * * ♦
The R.A.A.F. based on Singapore
suffered its first loss when a ’plane went
missing in Malaya with five officers and
men —Flight-Lieut. Barnes (S.A.), Flying-
Officer Ryan (Vic.), Corporals Rose
(Vic.) and Campbell (N.S.W.) and Lead-
ing Aircraftman Butler (Vic.). Simul-
taneously it was reported that Pilot-
Officer Dodgshun (Vic.) and Leading
Aircraftman Gordon (N.S.W.) had been
killed near Wagga (N.S.W.). Their ’plane
crashed a few yards from a homestead
before horrified members of the house-
hold who were in the garden. But there
was a worse crash at Amherley (Q.) in
which four men were killed in a ground
collision between two machines; and
Lieut. H. W. Ross was found dead be-
side his R.A.A.F. machine near Moss
Vale (N.S.W.).


19 Z\
STATE ELECTRICITY
COMMISSION
OF VICTORIA
Constituted Under Act of Parliament of Victoria
LOAN OF
£300,000
Issued under Authority of the State Electricity Commission (Financial) Act,
1937, State of Victoria
RATE OF INTEREST £3-8-9 per cent, per annum.
PRICE OF ISSUE: PAR (£100).
CURRENCY, 16 YEARS.
The Loan, which is secured upon the Revenues of the
Commission, is a Trustee Security in Victoria, Queensland
and Tasmania. Principal and Interest are guaranteed
by the Government of Victoria.
APPLICATIONS
may be lodged with the Commission’s Banker, The National Bank
of Australasia, Limited, at any of its offices in Australia (either
directly with the Bank or through members of recognised Stock
Exchanges in Australia) or at the Head Office of the Commission,
22-32 William Street, Melbourne.
Allotments will be made in full as far as practicable in order of
receipt of applications.
Interest will be payable on Ist March and Ist September in each
year, and the loan will be repayable at par (£100) on
Ist March, 195 7.
Interest will be payable and principal repayable free of exchange
in Victoria and all capital cities in Australia. Application money
and instalments also will be accepted free of exchange in Victoria
and all capital cities in Australia.
Cash subscribed to the loan may be paid either in full on appli-
cation or ten (10) per cent, on application, and the balance in
instalments up to and including Ist June, 1941.
Stock will be inscribed or Debentures issued at the option of
applicants.
Inscribed Stock and Debentures will be interchangeable free of
charge.
Brokerage at the rate of 5/- per cent, will be paid on all allot-
ments in respect of applications lodged by and bearing the
stamp of members of recognised Stock Exchanges in Australia.
Early application will be made for the listing of the Loan on the
Stock Exchanges of Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane,
Perth and Hobart.
The Loan has been underwritten by lan Potter & Co., Members of
the Stock Exchange of Melbourne, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Copies of the full Prospectus, with Application Forms, are obtainable
from The National Bank of Australasia, Ltd., at any of its offices
in Australia; from Members of recognised Stock Exchanges in
Australia; or at the Head Office of the Commission, 22-32 William
Street, Melbourne.
THE LOAN IS NOW OPEN
FOR SUBSCRIPTION
and will be Closed on or before 3rd March, 1941.
STATE ELECTRICITY COMMISSION OF VICTORIA.
Head Office: 22-32 William Street, Melbourne. G. G. JOBBINS,
14th February, 1941. Chairman.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872,
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— -James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W H Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq-:
F E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES. . .
n*ith offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 147 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Males, also r epresentatioa
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank '’offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletr
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Window-dresser desires meet member of same
profession from abroad, view to obtaining in-
formation, books, photographs, etc., concern-
ing latest display methods in U.S.A. —9102.
Young baritone, exp. stage and radio, urgently
desires position as announcer-copy writer, city
or country broadcasting station, any State.
—9461.
Dentist, skilled operator, accustomed sole
charge busy practices, Australian and Conti-
nental exp., desires position Brisbane. Refs.
—9381.
Salesman wants position as advertising and
printing canvasser on country paper. Refs. —
9612.
Small quantity of timber of Telopea oreades,
Victorian waratah, wanted. —9430.
To buy printed copy or gramophone record
of a song the opening words of which are
“ Twas years ago in the springtime, my lover
sailed away. And I saw his white sails
gleaming like wings in the dancing bay,” by
Pinsuti. Also “Blue Pacific Waltz.” —9423.
To buy light canoe suitable one or two
persons. Quote price.—94l3.
To buy The Moon in Scorpio, by William J.
Wollman.—92lo.
To buy, new or second-hand, Old Days, Old
Ways, by Mary Gilmore.—9o9B.
To buy Isles of Illusion, by “Asterisk.” —
9074.
Words of poem “Dan Drew,” by C. J.
Dennis. —9075.
Words of “Jim Master’s Ribbon” commenc-
ing; “You ask why 1 wear this ribbon, Such a
faded strip of blue.” —9440.
Information Sought.
Do naval men at present stationed in the
tropics get leave after they have been there a
certain period? If so, after how 10ng? —9029.
Naval ratings are entitled to six weeks’ recrea-
tion leave each year if service conditions permit.
Men serving in the tropics usually put in two
years, provided they are medically fit.
# * * *
(1) Is there a maximum period in Great
Britain or Australia for which a man may be
imprisoned without a charge being made against
him, and, if so, what is it? (2) What are the
charges against Sir Oswald Mosley, Captdin
Ramsay and other members of the House of
Commons at present imprisoned ? —9525.
(1) An arrested person must be taken with-
out delay and by the most direct route before
a justice to be charged, unless the circum-
stances reasonably justify a departure from these
requirements. Apart from the time occupied
in doing this, he cannot be detained without
a charge being made against him. He cannot
be arrested merely for the purpose of asking
questions. War emergency legislation has tem-
porarily broken down these rules in certain
cases. (2) They are being detained under the
Emergency Powers (Defence) Act 1939 and
regulations, which provide that the Secretary of
State may, if satisfied with respect to any
particular person that, with a view to preventing
his acting in any manner prejudicial to the
public safety or the defence of the Realm, it
is necessary to do so, make an order directing
that he be detained. No charges are in this case
necessary.
r * * *
(1) Does the Department of Munitions em-
ploy women as helpers in canteens for girl
munition workers ? (2) Where can I obtain
particulars of wages and conditions of women
munition workers and accommodaton for
same ? (3) Are conditions in any way similar
to those at Woolwich Arsenal and women’s
canteens in conjunction with same during
1914-18? (4) Are references required when
applying for positions as mentioned? If so,
from whom ? (5) Are there any positions in
aircraft factories suitable for women ? —9404.
(1) No. (2) From the Area Controller, Labor
Supply and Regulation, Ministry of Munitions,
C/o Department of Labor and Industry, 53
Martin-place, Sydney. (3) Not known. (4)
References are required. References from any
persons of known repute would be sufficient.
(5) Application should be made to the Aircraft
Production Commission, Lord-street, Mascot,
for information on this matter.
# * * *
What opportunities are there for Australian
lads during war-time to join overseas shipping
lines, especially the Port line? Previously the
Port line used to call up a certain number of
cadets annually and train them on a special
cadet training ship. Is this practice still carried
0n?— 9366.
The Port line never ran a cadet training ship.
All its vessels have accommodation for four
apprentices, almost all of whom are drawn
from the U.K., though in certain cases appli-
cations received from Australian boys have been
accepted. Under present conditions no hard-
and-fast rule obtains. Applicants should write
giving brief details as to education, etc., also
age, and enclose with letter reference from
headmaster, also a clergyman, certificate of
general health from doctor and Board of Trade
eyesight certificate. Boys are not accepted under
16, but should commence as soon as possible
after reaching that age. Applications are for-
warded to London for consideration.
* * * *
Is it legal in N.S.W. to employ an adult
male worker at less than the basic wage with-
out a permit? —9so7.
Yes, provided he is not subject to an award.
The basic wage merely fixes the figure at which
award rates commence. In other words, no
award rate can be fixed at lower than the basic
wage.
* * * *
(1) What yearly salaries are paid to N. S.
Wales Leg. Assembly members, also yearly
salaries of members of the Federal House of
Representatives ? (2) Are such salaries free of
State and Federal taxes ? (3) Do members of
both Parliaments contribute towards war-time
taxes, and, if so, in what proportion ? —9365.
(1) Federal members, £1000; State, £B5O. (2)
and (3) They are subject to all forms of taxa-
tion, both Federal and State.
* * * ♦
Do Queensland Federal and State members
pay income tax on salary, travelling allowances
and incidental expenses ? If so, how much to
each Government, and how much are they
allowed as exemptions from tax ? Do State
members pay State development tax, and are
Federal members exempt? —B9o3.
All members of Parliament, Federal and State,
are liable for both Federal and State income
tax and other forms of income tax in their
respective States, such as unemployment relief,
social services or State development tax. The
only special provision as to deductions from
their salaries is an allowance as representing
general expenses incident to the holding of their
Parliamentary positions of —in the case of
Federal members, £100; State members, metro-
politan £5O, rural £lOO.
* * * *
What vocation would be open to a person
{woman) prepared to specialise in high-speed
shorthand writing ? —9609.
Professional reporting such as public meet-
ings, court work, conferences, deputations, any-
where that persons are allowed to speak just as
quickly as they can, and where there is always
some amount of excitement adding speed to the
utterance, and adding difficulties to the short-
hand writer —difficulties which can be coped
with only by a person possessing a speed of
at least 200 words per minute, and having a
good general education, good judgment, nerves
of steel and good general health. There is
one other occupation, shorthand teaching, pro-
vided that the woman has the temperament and
the qualities of a teacher.
* * * *
Twelve largest cities in the world, their popu-
lation, and dates of census when these figures
were obtained? —9545.
In order, they are: London (Greater),
8,203,942 (1931); New York, 6,930,446 (1930);
Tokyo, 6,830,523 (1938); Berlin, 4,250,000
(1935) Moscow, 4,000,000 (1939); Buenos
Ayres, 3,670,000 (1939); Shanghai, 3,418,000
(1936) Chicago, 3,376,438 (1930); Leningrad,
3,191,304 (1939); Osaka, 3,000,000 (1935); Paris,
2,793,000 (1936); Philadelphia, 1,950,961 (1930).
* * * *
What is the cause of soil erosion, and in what
parts of Australia is it worst? —9447.
Erosion occurs when the topsoil becomes
loosened and is either blown away by wind or
washed away by water from rainstorms. Thus,
if a well-timbered hillside is cleared of all
the timber and heavy rain rushes down the slope
it cuts away the soil and erodes deep gullies,
in time carrying away all the soft soil and
leaving only the clay and stone. The same
thing happens when stock are allowed to eat
away all the grass on the slope. The roots
of trees and grasses help to bind the soil; when
trees and grasses are killed and the roots
die the soil has nothing to hold it. The Mallee
wheat districts of Vic. and S.A., where the soil
is loose and the scrub cleared away for farm-
ing, probably lose more soil each year from
wind action than any other part. Water erosion
is bad wherever there is cultivation of slopes
and heavy rainfall. This is being overcome to
some extent by new methods of ploughing
and the building of banks across the slopes to
check the water runoff. In N. S. Wales it is
fairly bad in the wheatbelt and on parts of
the coast.
* * * *
Information pertaining to the water rat, its
habits, diet, etc., and best way to trap same?
—9542.
Water rats are the most interesting of native
rodents because their special adaptations for
aquatic life, such as the paddle-like and partly-
webbed hind feet, have been developed within
the Australian and New Guinea regions. Bur-
rows up to 15ft. long are made in banks, and
food consists of snails and mussels, crayfish
or yabbies, frogs, fishes and even water birds,
young poultry and eggs. They are harmless
excepting when too plentiful near river or
lakeside homesteads, and are considered useful
animals in some districts because of their
feeding upon the yabbies which burrow into
irrigation canals, and the snails which carry
the liver-fluke of sheep. Water rats are simply
trapped in ordinary strong rat traps, baited
with any kind of meat, unseeded raisins and
various fruits; and some vegetables, such as
pumpkin, also cheese, could be tried. Recent
demand for the fur, owing to the falling supply
of foreign skins, has led to exaggerated accounts
of their value and plentifulness. It can be


Learn Ticket & Showcard Writing
fds
This New Easy Way
Under H. & R. guidance you
quickly become proficient.
The H. & R. course is the most
modern and up-to-date tuition
available. Write for brochure.
Department of Distribution,
Hemingway & Robertson,
Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne.
38A Barrack House, 16 Barrack St., Sydney,
unices in all capital cities, Newcastle and
Launceston. 38AA/TS4.
SIMLi
«WXW>Sv-'
x<-:<-x<t>:-:
"i-i-nmonnunnnuiignflat^
* '' &Ts" ‘‘ Wv *»WBBisi
is
Ctt
to
:^t-Ct
K
m
m
"pHE safe storage of grain is one of the most acute problems the
farmer has to face at the present time. Bags are scarce and
stocks may have to be held for long periods. To meet this situation,
many wheat-growers throughout the Commonwealth are erecting
grain silos of the type illustrated above. Constructed throughout
of Galvanized Iron, they are valuable permanent additions to any
property, yet cost far less than those constructed of other building
materials. A complete description, with specifications, of these
and other types of grain silos may be had, without cost, on applica-
nt tion to any office of John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
■ • j •. ‘urn -
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd
SYDNEY MELBOURNE ~ BRISBANE ADELAIDE FREMANTLE
definitely stated that the peculiar and slow-
breeding rats are unsuitable for “farming”
projects. That their numbers will not support
continuous exploitation is shown by the fact
that the Victorian Government recently declared
a close season for the summer months.
* * * *
(1) What is the length of the longest sea-
horse found in (a) Australian, (b) N. S. Wales
waters? (2) Any world record? —9530.
(1) (a) The common sea-horse {Hippocampus)
grows to 10 inches overall, but the leafy sea-
dragon ( Phyllopteryx ), sometimes washed up on
Sydney beaches, grows to 16 inches. ( b ) Same
as (a). (2) The largest species of true sea-
horse {Hippocampus) are H. ingens, of Lower
California, and H. kelloggi, in Japan, both a
foot in length, closely followed by the lOin. H.
obdoininalis, of Australia and M.L. The N. S.
Wales leafy sea-dragon is a kind of sea-
horse, however, and may be awarded the world’s
record.
* * V
(1) Has Frank Clewlow ever adjudicated at
an Australian eisteddfod ? Any other bio-
graphical particulars ? (2) Any particulars of
Leslie Rees? —9546.
(1) Frank D. Clewlow adjudicated in the
Speech Sections at Brisbane in 1932, Melbourne
in 1934-35, Sydney in 1935 and Bendigo in
1940. He is English, born at Stone, Staffs.
Educated at Alleyne’s Grammar School, Stone,
and Birmingham University. Came to Australia
in 1927 as stage director of Allan Wilkie. As
Federal Controller of Productions is in charge
of all A.B.C. drama and other productions
throughout the Commonwealth. (2) He is the
A.B.C’s. Federal Play Editor. Spent several
years abroad and was engaged in dramatic
criticism in London. Has written several plays.
* * * *
(1) How can I increase the growth of Kentia
palms {now about 1 ft. high)? (2) How can I
increase the growth of aspidistras? (3) How
can I get white stripes in aspidistras ? —9471.
(1) To force growth on Kentia palms the
soil should be a mixture of equal parts loam,
peat, rotted manure, sand and leafmould. During
hot days pack peatmoss into the top of the
pots to conserve moisture. (2) Aspidistras can
be forced by applications of weak liquid cow
manure once a month. Do not allow the soil
to become dry at any time. In dry weather
the leaves should be sponged regularly to get
rid of dust and dirt. (3) The white-striped
aspidistras {Lurida) can be obtained from nur-
seryman, from which in two years can be taken
rhizomes (root pieces) to increase your supply.
* * * *
Is there anything known that will kill {perma-
nently) the creeping convolvulus ? —8937.
To eradicate convolvulus permanently it is
necessary to sterilise temporarily the soil, using
a chemical such as sodium chlorate or coarse
common salt. Chlorate may be used dry or
in solution provided it is used at the rate of
lOcwt. to 15cwt. per acre, while it is necessary
to use 10 to 12 tons of salt. This, of course,
is only recommended where the infestation is
very small. When in cultivated and pasture
areas it is necessary to undertake a modified
system of crop rotation and temporary pastures.
* * * *
Correct method and quantities of materials in
making the best mortar for laying bricks ?
—9056.
In engineering and other important works
the mortar is usually a cement one, and the
proportions are one part of sand and three
parts of cement. For all other works the
mortar is usually a lime mortar, and the method
depends upon the type of lime secured, although
the proportions are generally one part of lime
to three parts of sand. The unslacked lime
should be first slacked in a box or tank, and
while in liquid form mixed with the sand. In
practice, however, this desirable method is not
always adopted, and the procedure is to make
a heap of the lime, surround it with sand, slack
it and immediately mix the whole together.
The hydrated lime does not need this slacking,
and can be immediately mixed and used. One
bag of hydrated lime (which weighs 501 b. and
contains 1.4 cub. feet), mixed as stated, should
lay 250 bricks in average class brickwork.
* * * *
My kangaroo dog, aged eight, has developed
a rough, hard scaling on the black surface of
his nose. The nose seems slightly swollen and
the surface slightly pitted. Cracks have
appeared at the junction of the black outside
surface with the mucous membrane inside the
nostrils. This has been in evidence for about
four months. Treatment ? —8702.
Try a mixture of equal parts of oil of cade,
green soft soap and methylated spirit. Rub
this in the affected part twice daily. About
every fourth day cleanse with vaseline and re-
peat until cured.
* * * *
(1) My daughter, aged 12Jr years, won a State
scholarship of £lO per annum, plus £2O board
allowance annually. Federal deduction for each
child under 16 years is £5O, State £3O, for in-
come-tax purposes in S. Aust. Would the £3O
per annum to my daughter be an item of my
income and therefore set off against this allow-
ance ? (2) If not, am I entitled to claim full
amount of maintenance allowed or portion
thereof? £3O per annum does not cover total
expenses of upkeep whilst residing away from
home, which is necessary. —B9ss.
(1) No. (2) Full deduction may be claimed.
Scholarship payments (£3O) need not be shown
at all in income-tax return.
* * * *
(1) How old was Jack Carroll when he re-
tired? (2) When did he retire? (3) From
whom did Carroll win the Australian welter-
weight championship ? —9409.
(1) 32. (2) When he outpointed American
Jimmy Leto in Melbourne on February 22,
1938. (3) Carroll first won the Australian
welterweight championship by knocking out A 1
Burke in seven rounds at Sydney Stadium
on March 31, 1928, and lost it when disqualified
for fouling Charlie Purdy in 11 rounds at the
same stadium on December 1, 1928. Billy Jones
became welterweight champion of Australia in
1932, and Carroll regained that title by knock-
ing out Jones in 10 rounds at West Melbourne
Stadium on February 4, 1933.
* * * *
Did Jim Corbett ever fight Peter Jackson ?
if so, how many rounds did they fight and who
won ? —9481.
Corbett and Jackson fought 61 rounds to a
draw at San Francisco on May 21, 1891.
* ># * *
(1) Is the Sheffield Shield being contested this
season ? (2) How are points awarded for Shef-
field Shield matches? —9547.
(1) No, but there have been inter-State
matches; a portion of all gate receipts is
given to war funds. (2) An outright win, five
points; win on first innings, three points; draw
or tie, two points; loss on first innings, one
point. When a match is abandoned two points
are allotted to each team.
Brief Answers.
E.J.K.: Australian equivalent of $5 is about
£1 13s. 4d E.A.C.: The bonds are worth
between £2O and £3O each, but there is no regu-
lar market... .H.H.C.: Anthony Hordern and
Sons are communicating with you U.M.M.:
Work on the treatment of bauxite and the
production of aluminium at the Sydney Tech-
nical College was carried out under the direc-
tion of Dr. Ing. R. K. Murphy, Lecturer-in-
Charge of the Chemistry Department. R. W.
Dye has taken out a patent for the recovery of
alumina from bauxite. Copies may be obtained-
from the Patents Department, Canberra....
J.C.: (1) He is not exempt from repayment,
but you cannot take any legal steps to enforce
payment without leave of the Court. (2) No
claim can be enforced by garnishee on Air
Force pay H. 8.5.: The ears of a wire fox-
terrier should be V-shaped and small, of
moderate thickness and dropping forward close
to the cheek, not hanging by the side of the
head like a foxhound 8.A.G.: Impossible
to say without knowing full details of existing
patent rights. You could not apply for a
patent yourself. See a patent attorney
A.8.F.: Applications for meteorological officers
are called through the daily press when re-
quired. Trainees are not required in this
branch and necessary qualifications are adver-
tised when calling for applicants... .R.V.A.: It
has not been drawn yet C.C.J.P.; A
method of eradicating silverfish was published
by the C.S.I.R. in its quarterly journal, Vol. 12,
1939. Copy of relevant extract has been posted.
. ...S.H.D.: (1) Coon can and rummy are
played in so many variations that rules are
in many cases a matter for agreement between
players. There is no provision in the latest
Hoyle rules of coon can for the use of joker
or deuces wild. (2) Hoyle gives rules of 15
varieties of solitaire or patience. Can’t answer
your question without knowing to which you
refer... .S G.McD.: No. 2 method is correct.
Argument (Tweed Heads): Can’t find any
such rule in latest edition of Hoyle Up-to-Date.
. ...R.L.J.: Boothby (S.A.), J. L. Price; Hume
(N.S.W.), T. J. Collins; Denison (Tas.), A. J.
Beck; Reid (N.S.W.), C. A. A. Morgan; Grey
(S.A.), A. O. Badman; Gippsland (Vic.), T.
Paterson; Adelaide (S.A.), F. H. Stacey; Lilley
(Q’land), W. A. Jolly ; Maribyrnong (Vic.),
A. S. Drakeford; Franklin (Tas.), C. W. Frost;
Kennedy (Q’land), W. J. F. Riordan.... A.L.;
Would have to see the notice... .R.G.G.: All
sections are open; those mostly contributed to
are Abo., Society, 0.F.M., Verse, Stories,
Stories are returned if accompanied by stamps;
cannot promise to return pars, or short articles.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
M. :
Loud do they bark, the world docs hark,
More vicious deeds proclaiming ;
Napoleon soon will meet his doom,
Mad Caesar’s bulk is waning.
N. :
The British Forces in Egypt,
They play me da dirty da treeck,
They surprise attack my army
And overtook them queeck.
They captured my men in thousands,
My position looka blue.
My troops they withdrew to Libya
And I don’ta know what to do.
E.R.:
We who remain can but await
The healing fires of Time
To vaporise those mires of Hate
And hail chaste Peace sublime.
T.L.S.: Epithets hackneyed.... W.G.H.:
Not up to others on the same theme
M.W.: Album verse....J.J.L.: Somewhat
“umbriferous” .... N J.: Commonplace ....
F.C.F.: Must you say it with roses? ... .P.D.:
Read what we do publish... .P. 8.: “How
doth the boozey little bee” is beautiful, but
you didn’t improve the shining hour... .A.D.:
Worthy, very worthy... .M.H.: Excellent for
children... .L.H.; That “Sea Saga” has been
done and done and done... .F.H.: Try a
woman’s paper... .C.L.: “The Mercantile
Marine” is a tramp G.P.: Pale 1.M.8.:
Try it elsewhere... .A.R.: Written to a conven-
tion... .E. 0.8.: Keep trying R.C.: Outed
the robot racehorse... .8.5. G.: Heavy-handed.
. ...M.J.M.: Yours, t 00... .T.L.S.: Slight....
S.H.S.: Afraid we have to reject it, even
though you are “prepared to take half-rates if
it is not quite up to standard” A.D.:
Animal stories have to be much better than
that D.J.F.: Three suicides and five
murders! Is that all you can get into 3000
words?... .S.W.: Even the office boy dis-
misesd “Simon Jones, Detective” as too ele-
mentary... .S.S.M.: Come again when you’re
not so anxious to write The Great Australian
Short Story E.R.: Your effort to rhyme
“£ s. d.” with “stingy” is the week’s best....
T.R.S.: “The Candidate” didn’t poll a vote.
D.A.R.: Don’t like mournful damsels who
talk to “the whispering waves.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.P.: Need for long, hard study is painfully
evident 8.5. C.: You view the world
through queerly-focused spectacles... .K.L.:
Don’t doubt you “took considerable pains with
the uniforms,” but why display them on
dummies? P.S.: We take it that when it
rains horizontally the sky is packed with serried
loaves of bread Bert C.: The office sleuth,
after spending four days trying to track down
the joke, gave a hysterical shriek and went
out for a bottle of 1y501... .L.M.: The Bft.
woman is being carted home... .A.K.: Don’t
cramp your figures so much... .M. 8.: No
market here for illustrated acrostics... .L.J.:
Woeful pun, but the drawing isn’t without
promise... .P.T.S.: Your prospectors failed to
get on to pay-dirt... .M.C.: Tedious.


CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. . . A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
Doctors say your kidneys contain 15 fiilleS
of tiny tubes or filters which help to purify
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
of waste.
An excess of acids dr poisons in your blood
are the cause of frequent or scanty passages
With smarting and burning, nagging back-t
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swollen feet
and ankles, pufflness under the eyes, head-*
laches and dizziness. __
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
feet rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat-
ter, your body will take up these poisons'
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait 1 Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully
the world over by millions of people. They
giro quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS fit ypur chemist
pr {store,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
C. S. Forester has named one of his
Captain Hornblower books The Happy
Return, and that’s what the coming
home of H.M.A.S. Sydney was, for she
brought back all her men safe and
sound. They looked it, too, as they
marched through the streets —they looked
fighting fit!
It was hard to imagine those white-
clad figures (they might have been
dipped in pipeclay from the shoulders
down) stripped for action, grimed and
sweaty. As they came to anchor, like
a disciplined snowdrift, before the Town
Hall, the police band clashed “Sons of
the Sea,” and could scarcely be heard
for the cheers. The crowds, thick along
all the route, about here were densely
packed. The police allowed small boys
and girls to sit on the kerb inside the
barriers, and before the arrival of their
heroes they had sung lustily “Advance,
Australia Fair,” and all the old-time
patriotic songs. A pair of three- or four-
year-olders (twins) went proudly dressed
as sailors.
From the island of fuchsia-red carpet
on the landing flowed right down the
Town Hall steps a river of the vivid hue.
The civic fathers, Sydney’s Mayor Crick
in the middle, were grouped to welcome
Captain Collins and his men; and to
present to ten representatives of units
of the Sydney’s company replicas of the
bronze plaque which had been unveiled
by the Mayor on the cruiser earlier in
the morning. The clockwork precision
of the salutes, the correct pacing back
to position in the line, the smart swing
of the face-about as the men stepped for-
ward, took the plaque, and retired to the
line of comrades edging the top step,
would have made Hitler blench. The
men who could take the trouble to prac-
tise so many small actions to perfection
aren’t going to be daunted by any task or
any foe.
W. M. Hughes got the biggest hand
of the day apart from the heroes. As
he popped up the Town Hall steps the
crowd broke out into cheers and claps.
Services decorating the function were the
Navy (Rear-Admiral Grace), the Army
(Lieut.-General Miles), and the Air
Force (Air-Commodore Anderson). From
the balcony watched Mayoress Crick
and a bright-frocked company. Later,
while the men were being placed for
lunch in the body of the hall, which was
bright with flags and ensigns, Captain
Collins and his officers were being greeted
in the Mayor’s rooms. Lord Wakehurst
came to this informal reception and to
the luncheon. And of all the little girls
who watched the march none was
prouder than Captain Collins’s Gillian.
Watching over her were her grandmother,
Mrs. Alec McLachlan, and her nurse.
Among sailors’ wives who thrilled to
the excitement of the H.M.A.S. Sydney’s
home-coming were Mrs. John Collins
(she’s an artist of note), Mrs. L. S. Dalton,
whose husband is Commander Dalton,
D. 5.0., Mrs. J. C. Bacon, who
was Myra Dalton, of Orange, and
Mrs. W. E. Thruston, whose respective
husbands are lieut.-commanders of the
gallant cruiser. Surgeon-Lt.-Commander
Ward’s wife, who lives in Melbourne,
was in Sydney for all the doings. Lieut.-
Commander Handcock’s wife was
another of the happy company.
Mrs. W. H. Hilless and Alice Gould,
who have been practical war-workers
ever since the outbreak, and a group of
other women, just as keen, are now a
unit of the R.A.N. At least they are
to be on duty with the R.A.N. ambu-
lance. The women drivers are drawn
from the National Emergency Services,
and theirs is the first group of women
voluntary workers to be appointed to a
regular job helping the fighting services.
The ambulance was presented to the
R.A.N. by the girls’ high schools.
Saturday night was perfect for drink-
ing a tankard and listening to good music
under the stars. The stars shone as
though they had been newly polished ;
the moon did her bit in lighting the
heavenly trail, and Chinese lanterns and
many colored electrics burned among the
green boughs. Wyldefel Gardens was
the setting. The Kaloola soldier hut was
the beneficiary. At least it will be when
winter winds blow cold, for the money
raised is going to make the always-warm
Kaloola welcome still warmer. Central
heating and hot showers are to be
installed.
Organiser of the froth and stardust
revel, Mrs. Clive Scandrett, and her
chief of staff in the venture, Mrs. Watson
Mason, were very proud of the fact that
before Saturday night 500 tickets at ss.
had been sold. In addition the pounds
were piled up by a leg auction. Pairs of
pretty legs were displayed beneath a
screen on the dance floor (this had been
laid down on the tennis court, and was
the only expense of the night), then to
the accompaniment of good sales talk
the legs were auctioned. The highest
bidder for each pair had as prize a
dance with their owner. Minister for
the Army Percy Spender, W. Crowle, who
had lent the grounds, and Frank Paul
were candidates in an ugly man’s com-
petition. There was housie-housie, there
were chocolate wheels and a beer garden
scintillating with light and movement.
Lastly supper was served in the lovely
old Potts Point home. The Fire Brigade
Band was responsible for the night’s hot
rhythm, cooled with classic interludes.
Lorraine Bennett White is one of the
posy of girls picked to add their twinkle
to the revue at the Mosman Town Hall
on February 20. Lorraine is a daughter
of Mrs. Bennett White, who organised
the Cheer Oh Girls, famed for their
money-raising for the 1914-18 war funds.
Lorraine will sing a song of her own
and G. A. Hill’s composition. It is titled
“Wings.” The Mosman and Cremorne
Comforts Fund will benefit. Norton
Trevaire photograph.
Camouflage is a new labor to which
the Women’s Auxiliary of the National
Defence League is putting its hand. Nets
are what they’re busy on now, and some
of them look large enough to catch
whales. But whether they enmesh some-
thing the size of a prawn or a whale
is a thing you’d never guess looking down
from the air. Even a magnifying-glass
run over an aerial photograph doesn’t
reveal the secret. But, of course, the nets
are not put over the military objective in
their raw condition. When finished the
nets are dyed the required shade of
obliteration and then is added the deceit
decor, so to speak.
The net-making had quite an academic
beginning. Professor Dakin, of Sydney
University (his subject is zoology), is keen
on camouflage work, and at his request
some experts in the subject taught a group
of the women of the N.D.L. Now these
in turn instruct others, and almost every
day finds 30 to 35 busy on the thousands
of knots that go to the making of each
net. The sizes range from 14 x 14 and
24 x 24 to 35 x 35. The fishing twins
of which they are made is a bit hard on
the hands, but trust women. They get
over that difficulty by wearing finger
shields —so, rosy and green, they flash
among the strong, fine cords. It takes
an average worker 48 hours and an
expert 25 to make a 14 x 14 net.
The N.D.L. (Kae McDowell is its
clever organiser) is proud also of its
transport unit. There are 100 expert
women drivers who can handle the largest
of trucks, can do any job of repairs to
their vehicles (a course in mechanics at
the Tech, sees to that), can do blind driv-
ing with the best, and when on duty look
smart as paint in their khaki slacks and
shirts.
On parade the women of the N.D.L.
wear a workmanlike, trig khaki uni-
form. They train recruits to know
all about concealment (from a mili-
tary point of view, of course), gas, map-
reading, signalling, A.R.P., first-aid and
canteen cooking. Mrs. Murchison Kater
is their commandant. Incidentally, if you
want to become a weaver of nets you
must be prepared to give at least half a
day every week.
The sailors weren’t the only ones
cheered on their march through the city.
Men of the militia, 5000 of them, swung
along in fine style between rows of
admiring onlookers last Friday. These
splendid-looking columns stepped out
like veterans, though many, in reality,
had had only about ten weeks’ training.
Lord Wakehurst took the salute from the
Town Hall steps, and in the group about
him were many soldiers whose ex-
perienced eyes took in the good shaping
of the beginning warriors. There was an
informal gathering in the mayoral rooms
after the march. Lord and Lady Wake-
hurst were among the guests.
Lady Wakehurst was smart in fawn-
flecked boucle. Her guest, Lady Colvin,
wife of Admiral Sir Ragnar Colvin, wore
a small white hat, and her navy silk frock
wore white coin spots. Pretty June Lloyd
was with her parents, the General Bertie
Lloyd couple. Lieutenant-General
C. G. N. Miles and Mrs. Miles, Mrs.
C. P. Johnson, making a film of the
march from the balcony, the Walder lady
and daughter Mrs. John Human and
Shirley Crick were at the party. State
Premier Alec Mair and Minister for
Transport Bruxner were among the im-
portants.
Child education must play an important
part in the building-up of the post-war
world. If there is to be a newer, more
kindly order of things, then the babe of
today, no matter how the bombs destroy,
the guns roar, must have its mind trained
in friendly ways. That the kindergarten
is the avenue to good citizenship has long
been recognised. Its work still makes
strong appeal to the student in Australia.
This was made evident last week, when
no fewer than 78 girls were enrolled at
the Kindergarten Training College,
Waverley. The college year had an open-
ing complete with speeches, when an
address was given by Dr. W. G. K. Dun
can, Director of Sydney University’s
tutorial classes. Mrs. Bernard Muscio
presided because the chairman of the
College Council, Peter Board, was too ill
to be present. Principal Jean Wyndham
welcomed her new flock. Some of the
new students are following in the foot-
steps of their mothers, who also trained
as kindergarten teachers. Mrs. Windeyer
and Mrs. Hugh Poate, Heather Cell,
Florence Sulman and the Hon. Henrietta
Loder were at the ceremony.
Margaret Doyle is the first girl an-
nouncer appointed by the A.B.C. to the
staff of the national stations. Margaret
has a warm, rounded voice. Behind the
voice are good looks and a keen intel-
ligence. Before her present appointment
she was with the Pickwick Club as
librarian.
Historian Dr. Eris O’Brien, who is also
parish priest of St. Joseph’s, Neutral
Bay, was included in the latest Vatican
honors list, and is now a Monsignor. He
has sustained parties of congratulation
from writing-men of all denominations
and politics. Last week the Warringah
Hall in Neutral Bay resounded with good
music and speeches divided by the con-
fetti of chatter at a conversazione in his
honor. That it was the coldest summer
night in the living memory of man
affected the warmth of no one’s laughter.
Maude Telfer and Austin Punch were
the soloists, and the voting would have
come out about even on Maude’s singing
Landon Ronald’s “Down in the Forest”
and Austin’s “Brown Bird Singing.”
There were piano numbers by Mrs. Byrne
and Mrs. Brewer and sprightly recitations
by a lady in pink. Artist Dora Jarret
designed the night’s programme. One
speaker coined a nice phrase. He spoke
of such occasions defying “the malice of
time.”
What an army of helpers keeps the
good work at the St. Andrew’s soldier
hut going! It was inspiring to see these
alert and smiling girls and women, 900
of them, in the yellow, mauve, blue and
white or flowered prints of their special
day uniforms, first at the special service
in the Cathedral and later at the reception
in the Chapter House. Archbishop Mowll
and his wife must have been proud of
that assemblage ; and no doubt Lieut.-
General C. G. N. Miles was duly im-
pressed. At any rate he would guess
that, with so many willing cooks, the
lads of the Services wouldn’t starve on
leave days in the city.
With the General was Mrs. Miles, and
they both seemed to enjoy this first birth-
day party of the hut as much as the
workers. All the work at the hut is
voluntary, and in the 12 months since its
opening the serving of meals has been
continuous. Even during the celebra-
tion the hut was staffed, and its watch-
word was “business as usual.” Some idea
of the service can be guessed from the
fact that about 250,000 meals have been
served to soldiers in the 12 months.
Mrs. H. F. Gaffney, a sister of Marie
Narelle, sends some further notes on the
well-known Australian singer. She says
that Marie revisited Australia about 14
years ago. Altogether she resided in
New York about 26 years. Her husband,
H. A. Currie, was for years chief elec-
trical engineer of the New York Central
Railroad Co. Since his death six years
ago Marie has divided her time between
England and America. Her only
brother, J. A. Ryan, and sister, Mrs.
H. F. Gaffney, reside in Sydney. Mrs.
C. J. Burchell, wife of the Canadian
High Commissioner in Canberra, is a
sister-in-law.
The Redfern Day Nursery now has an
infants’ department. It was opened last
week by Premier Mair, and already 20
babes were in possession of their cots.
This means that 20 more mothers can go
carefree about their day’s work knowing
their little ones are being properly looked
after. A Tresillian nurse is in charge, and
the youngsters are fed and have their
sleep and their play according to the best
health-giving schedule. The mothers pay
6d. a day if they can. If they can’t pay
the baby is just as welcome.
Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Johnson during their
liftime gave the Day Nursery, and a gift
from their estate is mainly responsible
for the establishing of the infants’
annexe. That the Government is planning
to extend a helping hand to the shopping
mother was revealed by the Premier.
Nurseries close to railway stations is one
of their plans. Here mothers can leave
the children for a small fee while they go
off to attend to their household buying.
During the afternoon a tablet to the
memory of the J. P. Johnsons was un-
veiled. Present were a son, Lieut. C. P.
Johnson, and his wife. Mrs. Mair, Mrs.
T. P. McElhone, president of the Day
Nurseries’ Association, and many of its
friends were others.
Just as this Letter was about to make
another public appearance friends of
General de Gaulle in Sydney were toast-
ing the success of the Free French move-
ment at Prince’s. They were also dis-
cussing ways whereby the widest pub-
licity might be given to the deeds of the
Free French and funds might be raised
to help the cause. Linking enthusiasm
for the cause of which he is the leader
in this State Andre Brenac will broad-
cast a message to the Thomas Smith
home, Grong Grong, in Melbourne’s
Toorak, on Friday night during the ball
being held there in the financial interests
of the movement.
Katharine Bathgate, the Red Cross’s
new publicity woman, has a cheery look
and a breezy outlook. Publicity is the
bread of life to her. She was for nine
years on the staff of George Newnes.
During the last war she did publicity for
the Scottish Women’s Hospitals and the
Women’s Royal Ajr Force Hospitals.
She was for some years on the London
“Daily Sketch” ; and she has an expert
knowledge of motoring and aviation.
Miss Bathgate, who is a Scot, first came
to Australia about four years ago, and
even when she returned to her native
land she longed to come back to see us
again.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1762 of 1940.
BETWEEN ADOLF WURZ Petitioner and
JESSIE MYRTLE WURZ (formerly Jessie
Myrtle Millar) Respondent.
TO JESSIE MYRTLE WURZ (more generally
known as JESSIE MYRTLE WATTS) late
of King’s Cross near Sydney New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ADOLF
WURZ (more generally known as WATTS)
has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a disso-
lution of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Honorable Court
on or before the Second day of May One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one and in
the event of your not so doing within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit will be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of February, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
M. B. GILES, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
10 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friend.
THOMAS JAMES and ALICE MINNIE LOW,
children of ARTHUR MARTIN and ALICE
KATE LOW (nee SMITH), wish to contact
those who advertised for them some years ago.
Will any relative or person having knowledge
of same please communicate with advertiser
No, 3261, CENTRAL NEWS AGENCY, LTD.,
Smith Street, Durban, South Africa?
Melbourne
Chatter
Blarney House has had its face lifted
and its ears washed. To start with, this
institution was for utility only, with all
thoughts bent upon good meals and good
beds. Social activities and even a bit of
homely decoration had to take a back
seat. Now the gloom has gone with
the dirty-brown paint upon the walls.
Today they’re cream with a washable
surface, and the whole effect is bright
and airy. Chairs and lounges have been
covered in green and burgundy hessian,
and nobody is going to worry about
sooty hands and heads—detachable slips
in the same material clip upon arm-rests
and chair-backs.
In honor of the finished product some
members of the Blarney House Auxiliary
met for tea and biscuits in the canteen.
A photographer hovering upon the out-
skirts focused his lens upon house com-
mittee president Mrs. E. I. Kennon and
treasurer Mrs. Jim Fitzgerald, who
played the game by moving alongside
a pair of shy lads in khaki and induc-
ing them to brush their hair out of their
eyes and get down to what in a photo-
graph would pass for a serious game of
checkers. The boys were tickled pink ;
they want some copies of that snap for
the girls at home.
Among those who called in were Mrs.
Russell Clarke, Mrs. B. T. Zwar, Robert
Knox (who timed his visit nicely to just
miss tea), Mrs. Geoff Christian, Mrs.
Bryan Foster and Miss M. K. Stuart,
who must hold some sort of record as a
long-distance worker. She’s on several
committees as a buyer, takes Comforts
Fund and Red Cross meetings in her
stride and often knits half a dozen gar-
ments per week. Since war broke out
she has finished 250 articles, everything
from pullovers and long stockings to
scarves and mittens. She says she’s lucky
in her parcels, and everything she has
sent abroad up to date has arrived safely.
Some went to her brother, Brigadier-
General Stuart, who was in the retreat
from Dunkirk.
Among the Blarney House young con-
tingent present were Paddy Wilkinson in
a dash of her favorite purple; Roma
Alston, dressed for an autumn morning
(there were several last week) in a check
suit; Betty Ince, prepared for anything
up to a storm at sea in a bright raincoat
and rubber boots ; Mrs. Colin Anderson,
in grey coat and brown ribbon round
her Titian locks; Joan Latham, in a
purple-heather coat; and attractive
cousins Margaret and Meryl Anderson,
Noela Adams and Pam Faulkner. Mrs.
T. C. I. Paterson was there looking well,
but with not even a sunburned nose to
tell a tale of her holiday in the family
house at Portsea.
Big attraction of the Greek Appeal
Day was the march of 4000 Bonegilla
boys in shorts and shirts. They were a
fine and healthy lot with brown knees
and arms, and deserved every cheer.
The march was a 10 a.m. fixture. A
lot of people didn’t know about the early
hour and missed it. Others were on the
lawns of Alexandra-avenue with the
larks and the early worms at 7 a.m.
when the troops set up a temporary
sprucing-up station. They shaved with
river water, cleaned their boots, ate stew
and enjoyed it and appreciated cigarettes
and chocolate from the Comforts and
the Greek funds. They had been on
bivouac for several days and were glad
of a few hours’ let-up in pleasant sur-
roundings even though they were in
arrears about sleep.
Regarding collection-days generally,
it would seem that this city has
had too many of them. The novelty’s
over, and some new ideas are badly
needed for the next big drive.
People are saying “Why the street?
Couldn t it be in the gardens?”
and Why a weekday? This town is as
dead as Douglas Credit on Sundays;
why not jog it into life?” And it’s no
good worrying about the weather in this
defeatist climate. To prepare for the
worst and hope for the best seems the
only way of licking it into submission.
Major Gorman popped into Melbourne
last week to fulfil a large number of
engagements for a small space of time.
Among dates in his book for one day were
a legal luncheon, two meetings and an
eight-o’clock uniform—or boiled-shirt—
appointment in the Lord Mayor’s rooms
of the Town Hall. An incidental hap-
pening at the last-named fixture was the
presentation to the president of Anzac
House, G. W. Holland, of a cheque by
the president of the R.S.L., L. Elsum,
deputising for the Sandringham branch
of the Returned Soldiers’ War Service
Comforts Fund. The cheque, worth £l5O,
will thus go to the A.I.F. through the
channels of Anzac House. A previous
donation from the same Sandringham
society was a cheque for £270 which
covered the cost of a truck for overseas.
The luncheon was at Menzies, where
the food and the company came up f o
expectations, though as a result there
might have been some slowing up of
work in various legal firms during the
afternoon. The hosts were the Bar of
Victoria and the Legal Institute of Vic-
toria ; the guest of honor was Major
Gorman, and the place bristled with
Judges, lawyers (K.Cs. were like mush-
rooms after rain) and magistrates. An
irreverent junior spread dismay in his
corner by giving utterance to the appal-
ling thought that the function might never
end if all those “not unaccustomed to
public speaking took the opportunity of
saying a few words.”
When Major Gorman got up he held
the stage for half an hour, straying
among various interesting subjects and
extorting smiles and winks from solemn-
visaged gentlemen and a guffaw from an
eminent Judge on an assertion that it is
incorrect to regard the Australian sol-
diers as lineal descendants of either Alex-
ander the Great or Lord Chesterfield.
Speaking more seriously. Major Gorman
paid tribute to the Australians abroad and
to the British forces generally, and he
called the Libyan campaign “a magni-
ficently co-ordinated Empire enterprise.”
Regarding military topics, he declined
to be drawn, saying “I know all the ques-
tions but none of the answers.”
Inset from Antoine is Blanche, second
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Lief Due, who
became engaged last week to Archibald
McMeekin Paton, R.A.A.F., otherwise
known as Mack. He’s the elder son of
J. S. Paton, of Ernebank, Tallangatta,
and the late Mrs. Paton. Blanche and
Mack first met during their schooldays
at Geelong. Six months ago they met
again by chance, and so the romance
began.
Blanche was one of the first air
hostesses to be engaged by A.N.A., but
she gave up great heights in favor of a
prolonged station holiday up at Alpha,
Queensland, with her brother Einar,
who is overseas with the R.A.A.F.
Younger brother Dick, aged 18, will also
be in Air Force uniform very soon.
Blanche is now in her second year train-
ing as a nurse at Geelong Hospital. She
and Mack hope to be married on his
return from overseas.
Last July a handful of women who
can sew a fine seam made up three par-
cels of their goods for the Red Cross
shops in the city, at Malvern and
Prahran but not once since that
bright winter morning have they had
the chance to repeat the procedure.
First, friends got to know about
the quality of the goods; next,
friends’ friends, and so the ripples spread.
Thus ten women pledged themselves, as
“the Nic Nacs,” to sew every Thursday,
rain or shine, and sometimes in between.
They’ve raised £l6O, which they have
shared between several patriotic appeals,
including the Seamen’s Mission. Their
meetings are at Mrs. Gerald Kaye’s home,
677 Toorak-road, Toorak, to which every
woman brings her own “play lunch,” put-
ting down her work long enough to ap-
preciate Mrs. Kaye’s cups of tea. Every
Thursday someone seems to bring in a
new idea, not always acclaimed a winner
by her fellow-workers, whose thumbs-
down attitude is, however, always mis-
placed—the proof of the pudding being
in the always-empty stock basket. The
goods sell themselves as soon as com-
pleted. Among doubtful inventions which
went over well were small bottles of per-
fume for .handbags. Included with each
bottle was a cover of colored suede. One
gross of these bottles of eau-de-Cologne
was sold in a few days.
Mrs. Kaye and Mrs. Ernest Cohen
have turned the lowly “housewife”
(mostly large safety-pins and black darn-
ing wool) into a glamorous affair known
as a chatelaine. It’s useful without look-
ing too much so, and 400 have been sold.
Mrs. Cohen also makes beautiful even-
ing bags, often to order out of someone’s
heirloom of material. Also in the work
group of ten are Mrs. Archie Michaelis
and Mrs. Orwell Michaelis, Mrs. Arthur
Treloar, Miss Linda Cohen, Mrs. Oswald
Benjamin, Mrs. A. Leicester, Mrs. Hubie
Jacobs, Merrie Cohen and (after school)
Mrs. Kaye’s young daughter Cherry, who
has proved that even 14 years can have
neat fingers.
The Nic Nacs’ prices are moderate,
and there’s something to suit all bank
accounts. Fitted workbaskets, for in-
stance, are from 7s. 6d. to 475. 6d. In
great request are flower-picking hold-alls
of oiled silk, etc. Popular trifles are tail
combs in cases, suede name-plates for
umbrellas and covers for petrol ration
tickets. There’s a same day made-to-
measure service for compacts and cigar-
ette cases, which may be ordered in the
morning and collected in the evening.
Two orders for tape measures that roll
up tight like snails brought in further
orders for 50 dozen of same. A Sydney
visitor who forgathered one Thursday
with the Nic Nacs went back to her own
city and started up a small but flourish-
ing body on similar lines known as the
Needlenuts.
Spencer Shier made this portrait of
Margaret Thompson, who was among
the dozen or so women present at Vic-
toria Barracks one morning last week
when a cheque representing the price of
a training ’plane plus some extra equip-
ment was handed to Acting Priminister
Fadden. Miss Thompson is secretary of
the junior branches of the A.W.N.L. It
was with these juniors that the idea
originated of a gift to the R.A.A.F. of a
’plane from the women of Victoria.
As hon. treasurer of the fund, Mrs.
Cairns Officer made the presentation,
whereon she took the opportunity of
mentioning that no expenses had been
incurred in collecting the handed-over
£1832. The money was raised by indi-
vidual donations from women in town
and country at the cost of small self-
sacrifices, plus none of the fun of par-
ties, raffles, etc. The A.W.N.L. has
some 20,000 members on its books, so
its feelers crop up quite often in the
community. Not all members are poli-
tically minded—quite a few know
nothing about the U.A.P., the party with
which the League is affiliated—but they
are interested in A.W.N.L. welfare activi-
ties and its home-nursing and first-aid
classes. Another batch of classes is
commencing this week.
Any annual report sounds ominously
like dull reading ; as unimaginative as
bread-and-butter pudding. An exception
is the recently-issued 1939-40 report of
the Children’s Bureau of the R.5.5.1.L.A.,
not a lengthy document but containing a
miscellany of interesting information.
The bureau is in Anzac House, and its
purpose is to keep well children well.
It serves children of the R.S.L. and the
A.I.F. aged between two and 14, who are
brought along by appointment. Its
aim is preventive rather than curative.
If the children when examined are found
to be 100 p.c. healthy their parents take
them home with light hearts. If the
children are ill they are told where to
go ; if they’re not ill but a danger signal
is visible it can often be nipped in the
bud and a lot of bother saved in the long
run.
A medical officer is in attendance and
Sister Florence Grylls is in charge—she
has held this responsible position since
the bureau’s inception eight years ago.
In her report she gives a lot of useful
tips for healthy living, also explanations
for parents and children. For instance,
an unsuspected evestrain might cause
irritability and personality changes
(not for the better). Or a backward child
otherwise doomed to become a dirty and
destructive sub-normal adult will benefit
by applied psychology ; he might grow
up feeble-minded, but he has a fair
chance of being clean and happy.
Sister Grylls mentions inadequate
facilities for dental treatment and
stresses the urgent need for clinics in
every suburb. The average mother of a
poor family can’t afford dentists’ fees, and
it’s no holiday picnic to take a couple
of children, plus a baby, to the over-
crowded Dental Hospital, where she’ll
have to wait all day and perhaps even
then come home disappointed. While in
America Sister Grylls found that that
country places a much higher value on
its children’s teeth than we do. Clinics
are plentiful. There are not enough
qualified dentists to go round, but the
congestion is relieved satisfactorily by
nurses and trained part-timers coping
with the simplest cases.
Sister Grylls says there’s never a let-up
on noses —nose troubles being among the
most prevalent in the casebook. “Use
your hankie” and a bad-tempered slap
often come the way of an unhappy little
snifiier who may be sleeping on a kapok
pillow when it just happens that his nose
doesn’t take to kapok, but would get
along quite well with hygienic wool,
flock or sponge rubber. On other occa-
sions the sniff may come from a much
more complicated cause.
Country children are assured of special
interest from the bureau. The majority
of these rural offspring who attended last
year had some health problem which
could not be dealt with at home. In
several cases they were referred by their
doctors to the bureau’s medical officer
for further advice and investigation. Ry
the irony of fate there are on the books
the names of town and country lads of a
few years ago who are now fighting
overseas as their fathers did.
A function, smallish as functions go
but successful nevertheless, took place in
the Nurses’ Home of the Eye and Ear
Hospital. It was in aid of comforts for
the sick nurses’ quarters, and was organ-
ised by the past and present trainees’
association, which believes that charity
should (sometimes) begin at home.
Crockery, for instance, is badly needed
for nurses who for the time being be-
come patients. Principal attraction at
the evening parly were singers, violinists
and a saxophonist, and the flowers pro-
duced by a wave of the hand by Sister
Maquire were much admired. Matron
McPhail was present (ex-Matron Johns
is now at Puckapunyal). Heading the
committee responsible for the organising
were president of the association Miss
L, A. Jones, treasurer Mrs. Jervis Hamil-
ton and secretary Mrs. H. O. Challman.
Mrs. Challman brought her husband as
escort. He wasn’t worried about the
risk of his being the only man present,
for his wife had impressed upon him that
he’d have moral support at least from
several members of his own sex among
the musicians.


Stay at the Wentworth, and enjoy the REAL hospitality for which
this hotel is famed. The Wentworth is close to business and social
centres yet free from traffic noises. Modern appointments include
new bedrooms with telephones, private bathrooms and toilets.
TARIFF; Room and Breakfast from 13/6, inclusive from 20/-. Our
tariff remains constant the year round; we do NOT follow the
policy of increasing tariff during Christmas, Easter or any other
season.
STAY AT THE WENTWORTH
Wanted to Buy.
COMPLETE volumes of Cambridge Medieval
History. Prices and particulars before Febru-
ary 28 to “Student,” Box 74, Post Office, Bal-
larat, Victoria.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
Newsreels and Commentaries
“Christmas Under Fire,” showing cur-
rently at most Sydney film houses, is
every bit the equal of its predecessor,
“London Can Take It.” The link be-
tween the two is the commentator, Quen-
tin Reynolds, an American journalist who
has been in Britain throughout the war.
Reynolds has a quiet but deep rich voice,
a trace of the characteristic American
accent —most pleasing in a modified tone
—and a turn of phrase which at times
borders on sheer poetry. He is an object-
lesson for some local and overseas com-
mentators, upon whom some sort of a
brake should be applied, and applied
hard.
These commentators delight in sneer-
ing at the enemy, being apparently too
thick in the head to perceive that this is
tantamount to belittling the efforts of our
own men. They convey that the North
African war is a walkover ; that we are
meeting absolutely no resistance; that
the Italians are lining up and marching
round in search of British patrols to im-
prison them.
There is a current newsreel of the cap-
ture of Tobruk which is prefaced by
General Mackay sending a message to
Australia. He speaks of the wonderful
work of his men, the courage they have
shown, the odds they have been up
against, and he implores Australians to
drop the idea that there is no resistance.
His very words are: “This is not fair to
Australian soldiers,” and “Not one
Italian captured at Bardia or Tobruk
surrendered before he was compelled to.”
This is then followed by scenes at the
fall of Tobruk complete with a com-
mentary along the very lines that the
general deplored!
The best punishment for these talkative
birds is that they be given “Christmas
Under Fire” for homework every night
for at least a month. Then they might
realise what real commentating sounds
like.
* * * *
“Rangers of Fortune”
At Sydney Capitol, and a vigorous
adventure piece on a theme that never
fails to rope ’em in. It’s all about three
husky adventurers somewhere in the
vicinity of Mexico who barely escape
being shot by a firing squad for gun-
running, and then return to the danger-
zone to assist an ageing newspaper pub-
lisher and his grandchild in getting out
a sheet which is conducting a lone war
against law and disorder in a small
Mexican hamlet. There’s any amount of
shootin’ and hard fightin’ and sufficient
of the “two strong men” stuff to pro-
vide the necessary highlights in the
action.
Two factors which contribute largely
to lifting the film above the general run
of Westerns are the well-sustained atmo-
sphere apd excellent settings of the old
Mexican settlement, and the very capable
directing of Sam Wood—most Westerns
gallop along as haphazardly as the horses
in them, but in this present offering the
usual accessories to action pieces are
nicely shaded off from the main theme,
which runs strongly right through the
film.
Acting, too, is more than a cut above
average. Joseph Schildkraut, as the
villain of the piece, is as sound and as
menacing as ever ; Fred Mac Murray and
Gilbert Roland are both admirably
suited to their roles as two of the foot-
loose and trouble-seeking vagabonds.
But Albert Dekker, as the third member
of the trio, walks off with the histrionic
honors. A few months ago he was seen
in Sydney as the huge, lumbering killer
in “Strange Cargo”; shortly after that, in
“Seven Sinners,” he appeared very effec-
tively in a completely different role as
a whisky-sodden ship’s doctor clinging
rather desperately to a few tattered rem-
nants of gentility ; now, in this offering,
he appears in another role bearing not
the slightest resemblance to the others.
He’s a broken-down Cockney pug. rely-
ing only on his fists to keep him out of
trouble. Voice, manner and general ap-
pearance are ip complete accord with the
role, and some of the acting he puts into
it would leave a few of the Hollywood
“stars” and “award winners” standing.
* * * *
“Gold-rush Maisie”
Sydney State has a double offering of
the two very consistent M.-G.-M. “series”
films —further adventures of “Maisie”
and of “Dr. Kildare.”
“Gold - rush Maisie,” w'ith Ann
Sothern, has this bright lass once more
bringing rays of happiness to broken
lives. She runs into a bunch of farmers
—failures at their chosen way and now
on the road, seeking whatever livelihood
is in the offing. Maisie gets to work,
wins the hearts of a cold, self-centred
young landowner, and soon has her road-
trekking friends settled down to a new
start in a share-farming scheme.
“Dr. Kildare Goes Home” has the
familiar set of characters—Lew Ayres,
as the budding Dr. Kildare, and Lionel
Barrymore, as his tutor, Dr. Gillespie.
It’s a good entertainer, and this time the
Doc. gets round to marrying the nurse.
* * * *
“You’ll Find Out”
Apparently Amurrican radio celebrities
take to filmwork as easily as their local
confreres enter the fourth estate. This
comedy-thriller at Sydney Civic has Kay
Kyser, a wisecracking band-leader and
radio “quiz” conductor, and his band.
They provide comedy, while Boris
Karloff, Bela Lugosi and Peter Eorre
dish out the thrills.
Supporting item, “Ride, Kelly, Ride,”
is f.a.q. light stuff. It is a racing film
without the usual theme of the family
homestead banked on Horsefeathers in
the big race. Nor does it deal with
owners and trainers, but with jockeys,
providing some interesting details on ex-
ponents of this noble profession in
Gahd’s Own.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Was not as impressed as
I should have been by Chaplin’s “The
Great Dictator,” now being extensively
viewed by Melbourne at the Capitol.
Any sort of skit on Hitler and Mussolini
is bound to go down well at the present
Dr. Gillespie (Lionel Barrymore ) easing his blood pressure at the expense of
Dr. Kildare (Lew Ayres ) in “Dr. Kildare Goes Home,” at Sydney State.
moment. But Chaplin hasn’t budged one
inch from the line of music-hall panto-
mime-patter with which he started his
career in vaudeville in London. Nor
does he depart one inch from his one
and only role of the self-pitying little
man who calls his conditions the cause
of his misfortunes. Such are bound to
be trodden underfoot by enormous, in-
calculable forces like the Hitlers. But
if the Hitlers were removed they would
have to find something else to blame for
their misfortunes —in most of Charlie’s
pictures it is the policeman or a girl
who doesn’t want him.
Charlie’s peroration at the finish i°
magnificent from the point of view of
feeling —he wants a better world, but
doesn’t everyone? The only difficulty
is how to get it. He doesn’t explain how
the dictator countries are to be defeated.
A significant comment I heard on the
Chaplin opus was that Left-Wingers were
flocking to it and reading into it precisely
the same favorable opinion as true-blue
conservatives.
STAGE AND CONCERT
An Australian Ballet
Sighting the lights of Sydney Con.
through the timber line above Mac-
quarie-street on Saturday night, a
Bulletin man in search of the first
performance of the “Ballet Nationale”
Company pushed ahead. Sighting the
queue outside the place he stopped in
his tracks and searched for confirmation
of the date, momentarily harried by the
thought that somebody had hired the
Con. and turned it into a picture show.
Where else, in these days, could one
expect to find a queue as long as that?
But all was well. The “8.N.” con-
cern was in possession, directed by Leon
Kellaway and H. E. K. Swallow, and,
after a serious tussle with the unexpected
rush for seats, got under way before
an audience notable for the proportion
of young people in it.
Nice to sit in there holding a pro-
gramme of nice Australian names and
watch nice Australian girls and youths
dance with enthusiasm and sincerity.
Nice to push De Basil and his alleged
Russians, with their professional poise
and long experience, out of mind. Nice
to forget any standards de ballet and
settle down to enjoy a programme worth
seeing.
Of the three ballets, “Gipsy Dance,” to
music by Dagomyzhsky, was the best —
possibly because it was the final offering
and the dancers knew they had the
audience with them by that time, though
any suggestion of perfunctoriness had
gone out of the applause very quickly.
Tiny Lynne Golding and very-slightly-
bigger Moya Beaver cavorted and tripped
with dainty efficiency, there was un-
doubted dancing and dramatic ability in
Alfred Ross’s Golliwog, while Eric
Coates’s music was enhanced by the
dancers in “North Wind and Snowflake.”
Feodor Pellach’s concert orchestra
lent able support and Mr. Kellaway
issued a few sounds of gratification at
the end. He and his fellow-workers
should be encouraged both by their re-
ception and the performance, but why
not, as everything is so Australian, call
it the National Ballet Company and him-
self producer and be done with it? The
nightingale and the rose would have lost
nothing by being a wagtail and a waratah
—no nightingale could dance like a wag-
tail—and there should be a great chance
for a ballet with a bushfire theme, say
a lovely clump of clematis wilting be-
fore the dancing flames.
* * * *
Before the world’s most expensive
backcloth, the £32,000 Tiepolo, the Vic-
torian String Quartet gave another recital
in the Stawell Gallery of the Melbourne
National Gallery. The hall was full, and
the light, graceful strains of the Men-
delssohn quartet, Op. 12, No. 1,, re-
bounded from the silent rows of pic-
tures as well as the richer texture of
the Cesar Franck quintet, in which Carl
Bartling assisted at the piano. The piano
part was especially well done. Muriel
Cheek got an ovation for her singing of
a Purcell panel and other old ditties. The
programme was shortened to enable list-
eners to make a tour of the galleries, but
most of them went straight home, appar-
ently too glutted with the musical art to
be interested in the depictive.
* * * *
The N. S. Wales Police Carnival at
Sydney Sports Ground can generally be
recommended without qualification to all
those attracted by colorful, open-air
spectacle —splendid, shining horses on
the green oval, the band giving off rous-
ing tunes, displays of the brawn that
hides under the copper’s uniform, exhibi-
tions of fancy driving by the traffic cops,
and, of course, Zoe the Alsatian. This
year’s presentation included a spectacu-
lar tableau made up of 21 policemen
sharing three motor-bikes and driving
around the oval on them ; some trick
driving by traffic cops which even the
worst offenders couldn’t hope to equal;
and Zoe, who has learned to drive her
own car. And last, but by no means
least, as a great clock face, formed by
members of the force, indicated the dif-
ferent hours, the flags of the Dominions
unfurled and Peter Dawson, assisted by
the Police Choir, rendered manfully and
well the appropriate songs.


LYS
IS
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
wm
m
■
ML
Bm
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSASHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Footrot.
“Murrawong”: Since the rains, out-
breaks of footrot have been reported
from several N.S.W. districts.
Weather conditions have been ideal.
The soil had been well warmed before
the rain came, and as temperatures con-
tinued mild and further showers fell a
soft luxuriant growth of grass and herb-
age shot up. Sheep started to go lame,
but, although footrot has been blamed,
in almost every case the trouble is foot
abscess.
Real footrot is caused by an organism
which enters the sheep’s hoof from the
soil. It cannot live in the soil for more
than a few days. It is carried from year
to year inside the feet of certain sheep
and spreads only during a wet season. It
is therefore possible to clear a property
by getting rid of those sheep which carry
it. The rot attacks the hoof and, as a
rule, there is no pus. It spreads rapidly
through a flock and affects all classes of
sheep, including young lambs. An animal
may have more than one foot affected.
Foot abscess, on the other hand, is
caused by a germ in the bowels of sheep.
So far, no method of eradication is
known. The germ is contained in sheep
droppings, so that camps and yards after
rain form ideal sources of infection. The
germ enters a sheep’s foot by any minute
crack and forms an abscess within the
hoof. As the horn of the hoof is not
weakened as in true footrot, the animal
first goes lame. If not attended to, the
abscess breaks out on the leg above the
hoof. If neglected, it may damage the
foot irreparably.
Note these points of difference with
true footrot. Foot abscess seldom attacks
lambs or affects more than one foot at
a time.
Watch your sheep carefully when
there is lush green feed. If a sheep
shows signs of lameness, any visible
breaks in the hoof or abscesses break-
ing out above will render diagnosis easy.
If the feet appear sound, feel them care-
fully till you locate one that feels hot.
Pare the hoof away with a sharp-pointed
knife. A frequent site of infection is
the front of the toe. As soon as the
abscess is reached, pus will spurt out.
Open up the hoof, cutting away the horn
and any diseased matter with sharp
secateurs so that the pus can drain freely.
In true footrot the hoof will already be
broken and soft, and it should be cut
away similarly. The treatment of both
footrot and foot abscess from this stage
is the same. Strong bluestone paint may
be applied with a brush —dissolve 31b.
powdered bluestone in Igal. water.
Stand all affected sheep in a footbath
for 15-20 minutes. The sides of a con-
crete floored pen may be raised to give
a level depth of 3in.-4in. of solution. It
is an excellent plan to concrete the floor
of the sheep-branding race. It can then
be used as a footrot bath and will always
maintain a firm clean foundation free of
puddles at shearing time or when sheep
are being drenched.
The footbath may be a 10 per cent,
solution of bluestone or a 5 per cent, for-
malin solution. The advantage of for-
malin is that it does not stain the wool
like bluestone and if bought in bulk is
just as cheap. It has the further advan-
tage of being much more quickly and
easily made up. To make up a blue-
stone bath, dissolve 11b. powdered blue-
stone to every gallon of water. For a
formalin bath mix Igal, formalin in
19gal. water.
A New Drench.
“Graz”; In the bluestone-nic.-sulph.
dispute nothing has been said about
phenothiazine and tetrachlorethylene
emulsion.
From a mob of 12,000 weaners 200
of the worst infected were used in a
C.S.I.R. trial. The phenothiazine group
were dosed with 15g. of powdered thiox
in 2oz. of watep; the second mob were
first given a 3 c.c. dose of 11b. bluestone
to Igal. water mixture before drenching
with 3.5m1. tetrachlorethylene in 20ml.
water or liquid paraffin; and the b.-n.-s.
lot were given loz. of the 2 p.c. solution.
Phenothiazine won easily, 56.5 p.c. of
the sheep showing an egg-count reduction
of 90 p.c. or more, compared with 44 p.c.
by the tetrachlorethylene and none by
the b.-n.-s. mobs. Only 8.6 p.c. of the
phenothiazine-dosed weaners showed less
than 50 p.c. improvement, as against
"’Adn't y ’ better rest a while in the shade, Ma?”
20 p.c. with tetrachlorethylene and 66.6
p . c . with b.-n.-s. Three sheep in the
tetra. group and nine in the b.m.-s. lot
failed to show any improvement, the oeso-
phageal groove having apparently failed
to close, allowing the mixtures to become
too diluted before reaching the fourth
stomach.
Phenothiazine is equally effective in
capsules, indicating that a direct passage
to the abomasum is unnecessary. This
drench has no ill-effects, and is deadly to
Trichostrongylus, H. contortus and Oe.
columbianum, the three worst worms,
Owing to war restrictions, the drug is
not at present available in large quan-
titles.
Copra for Pigs.
“Pore”: During the recent drought
copra meal was widely used for feeding
sheep. Because of high oil content the
pure meal did not give satisfactory re-
suits, but in a balanced food it did well,
Dried copra contains 60 p.c. to 70 p.c.
oil, about 6 p.c. protein, approximately
20 p.c. ash, fibre and carbohydrate, and
roughly 10 p.c. moisture. The feeding
value is about twice as good as that of
bar A l£ y- . .
A carcass of a New Guinea pig which
had been ted entirely on green copra was
recently brought to Sydney. Unfor-
tunately it had not been killed until it
» h y “ r f °if and il Carri , ed r
tat to be of any commercial value. The
dressed weight was 310 lb„ yielding
2441 b. of bacon, the meat of excellent
texture and quality and the fat very
firm.
Copra can be fed satisfactorily to all
classes of pigs, provided it is limited to
about one-third the daily ration. M.L.
authorities suggest that copra be used
for feeding growing pigs but that it be
cut out of their ration for about six
weeks before killing. A ration of about
11b. pure copra meal per head per day
included in the feed is suggested.
At present copra is obtainable in Syd-
ney at about £9 15s. per long ton,
Grinding charges work out at about 15s.
per ton, bringing the cost of the meal
to £lO 10s.
Bencubbin in Victoria.
“B, Cubbin”; Although Ghurka is still
the main wheat variety in the Victorian
Mallee, its percentage is dropping slightly.
The 508,115 acres sown last year made
up 41.1 per cent, of the total grain acre-
age in the Mallee; in the two previous
years the percentages were 41.8 and 42.9
respectively. Ranee and Ranee 4H, second
on the list, dropped even more heavily,
while Bencubbin, sown on 95,050 Mallee
acres last year, increased by more than
2 per cent, and was third on the list.
Victorian agricultural experts call Ben-
cubbin a “tall, fairly early-maturing
variety” and consider it the most suitable
dual-purpose type for the Mallee. Two
others likely to find more acres are Bald-
min and Regalia—the latter formerly bore
the unwieldy title of “crossbred Ranee x
Free Gallipoli W 5807 J 5-1-1.” Baldmin
has a white chaff, matures early and is a
high yielder. Like Bencubbin it can yield
well under low rainfall, and both of them
are finding support in the northern part
of the Mallee.
Regalia, recommended and named in
1938, just failed to reach 50,000 acres last
season. It matures very early and has
better straw than most early types. It has
outyielded Ghurka and Ranee 4H at
Walpeup over seven years and at Werri-
mull was the best yielder in a six-year
test,
In milling and baking tests Baldmin
consistently gave a medium strong flour,
Bencubbin beat Ghurka and Ranee 4H
as a low-strength wheat and Regalia’s
flour characteristics closely resembled
those of Ranee 4H and were superior to
both Ghurka and Rajah.
Based on field trials in recent years,
~ J ’
the Agricultural Department
S lves the following sowing plan for the
Mallee: In the north, for main sowing,
Ranee 4H, Ghurka, Regalia; limited
sowing, Ghurka Selection, Baldmin, Ben-
cubbin, Sepoy. In the south, main sow-
ing, Ghurka, Ranee 4H ; limited, Bald-
min, Dundee, Regalia, Free Gallipoli,
All probably in the order given for
preference.
_
World Wheat.
“Julpin”: Canada harvested 551,000,000
bushels of wheat in 1940, and the
Dominion is facing storage difficulties,
sbe has an export surp ius of 700,000,000
bushels, and can’t hope to ship more than
200,000,000 by July of this year. Thus
she will have a carryover of 500,000,000
bushels with the neiv crop coming in. In
July ast y ear tbe carryover was
273,000,000.
Argentina has an area under wheat for
1940-41 almost as large as in the previ-
ous year-—17.6 million acres as compared
with 17.8 million in 1939-40. In 1938-39
her acreage was 20.9 million. Production
is expected to reach 290,000,000 bushels;
last year it was 119,000,000. Surplus on
30/11/ ’4O was only 7,000,000 bushels,
and, as a precaution against overproduc-
tion, producers are required not to in-
crease their acreage next year, and to
reduce it by not more than 10 p.c. if
need be.
U.S.A. expects more than 800,000,000
bushels from the 1941 harvest. When
the carryover of 400,000,000 is added,
U.S.A. will have 1,200,000,000 bushels for
1941-42, which means an export surplus
of 500,000,000. These figures are de-
pendent on the accuracy of present fore-
casts, and the anticipated carryover is
well above any American figure for the
past 20 years. Thus the North American
export surplus figure (Canada, plus


r> »
'* K
i I »
Product of Scotland
“BIRKMYRE”
WATERPROOF TARPAULINS
Made from Scottish Canvas by British Trade Union labour,
"BIRKMYRE" tarpaulins give maximum protection. The famous
"BIRKMYRE" proofing process is recognised as the World's
Best, it is IN the canvas not ON the canvas and —it stays
IN ! In various weights and colours. If difficulty is experi-
enced in getting supplies, write Wholesale Distributors ;
GOUROCK ROPES AND CANVAS LTD.
(Incorporated in Scotland.)
BRISBANE MELBOURNE SYDNEY
IT PAYS YOU
TO PAY BY CHEQUE
Of jj
§
IT IS SAP
IT IS ECONOMICAL
IT IS MORE CONVENIENT
IT AFFIRMS YOUR CREDIT STANDING]
IT MAKES BOOKKEEPING EASy]
IT IS A PROOF OF PAYMENT
IT PROVIDES A RECORD
IT IS SIMPLE
Open a cheque account to-day with the
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
577 C.
THE FIRST BAN K IN AUS TR A LIA
Position Vacant.
Married man, station hand, rabbiter, Riverina
property, wife do part-time work laundry; good
wages. —Apply with references to HUGH
ANDREW & SON, LTD., Berrembed, Matong,
N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE
THE HYGEIA DISSOIVENATOR
THE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM.
Patent Nos. <5790/1927 and 109981/1939 (improvements)
APPROVED BY THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
Has 1 2 years’ sterling performance behind it and is backed by worthwhile
guarantees of an old-established reputable firm.
Many other chemical systems have come and gone during this peno ,
but the sturdiness, efficiency and longevity of the Hygeia Dissolvenator
are indisputable.
PRICE £lB/8/- (includes Sales Tax and Crating), f.0.r., Sydney.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED —Write for illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: 81052. Or Leading Stores.
U.S.A.) is still at the 1,000,000,000 bushels
here mentioned late last year.
In its most recent statement the Aus-
tralian Wheat Board said it expected to
receive about 62,000,000 bushels from
the 1940-41 drought harvest, making
about 87,000,000 bushels to be sold. It
expects to reserve about 64,500,000 for
home use and export flour, leaving about
22,500,000 for sale as export grain.
It looks very humble beside the
1,000,000,000 bushels for export in North
America.
Fertilisers.
“Ager”: It would be well to look to
fertiliser supplies. Previously we’ve im-
ported about 11,000 tons of potash annu-
ally from Germany, France and Pales-
tine. Research has begun in W.A. to
find a means of extracting potash from
alunite clay. The bed of Lake Chandler
has roughly 2,000,000 tons of clay of
more than 60 p.c. alunite. From this we
would get approx. 250,000 tons of pot.
sulph. or pot. chlor. We can burn our
stubble instead of ploughing it under if
we think the soil is potash-starved. In
orchards prunings and dead wood can be
put in heaps between the tree rows and
burnt and ploughed under. On farms
near the coast seaweed might be made
use of. Seaweed ash sometimes contains
a fairly high percentage of potash.
For nitrates we can fall back on green-
manuring. The ploughing-under of a
green crop not only enriches the soil by
adding humus, but also forms carbonic
acid. It consolidates sandy soils and
helps to aerate and loosen clayey soils.
Sow a quick-maturing legume between
rows in the orchard, and plough it under
just before it is mature. By this means
you can add about 1001 b. of nitrogen to
the acre —equal to over 4cwt. amm. sulph.
or Bcwt. dried blood per acre.
Rock phosphates and guano are now
luxuries. Try bonemeal, bonedust or
ground bones. One of the best methods
for using is as follows. Lay the bones
on the ground, cover with a layer of lime
(about half the depth taken up by the
bones). Top with loam—the same depth
as the lime. Repeat these layers until the
heap is a convenient height. Don’t put
too many bones in each bone layer. Make
holes into the heap from the top and
pour water in to slake the lime. The
mass will become hot and remain so for
some time. The bones will become
friable. You can then mix the whole
heap up and apply to ground.
“Jesmond”: Dick Grayden has a stand
of lucerne on Phillip Island (Vic.) grow-
ing on what was formerly bare wind-
blown beach sand (B. 15/1/’4l). It’s on
high ground, open to all the winds that
blow. With only an occasional light
dressing of fertiliser, it gives up to four
cuttings a year, as well as providing valu-
able grazing for the owner’s Jersey herd.
“Yeno Ham”: Buffile grass, introduced
to Australia from Afghanistan some years
ago, has done well in W.A., and is getting
a start in N.S.W. Small plots were sown
in several districts last year. Germina-
tion was delayed because of lack of
rain, but the buffle grass shot up later
and yielded a heavy growth of fodder.
Some samples 2ft. 6in. high carried abun-
dant flag that was tender and succulent.
“Gumeraka”: S.A.’s first commercial
flax crop for just on 20 years has just
been harvested—grown at Meadows by
Norman Brookman with less than
six inches of rain. There were 38 acres
of Blue Riga, 20 of Punjab (for linseed),
and two of the improved Liral Crown
from Northern Ireland. The fibre varieties
were put in in September with 701 b. of
seed and a bag of super, p.a. When
reaped, the Blue Riga was 2yft. high and
the Liral Crown. 3yft. As mills demand
straw of 21in. or more the crop more
than filled the bill in this respect. The
Liral Crown gave nearly three tons p.a.
and the Blue Riga about 2\ tons. As
a binder was used some straw was lost
during harvesting, but this was more than
offset by savings in labor and wages.
The grower—under contract to the Vic-
torian Agricultural Department, will re-
ceive about £5 an acre, giving a profit
of just on £l2 p.a. on a yield of three
tons of clean sound straw. He intends
to sow more this year if a mill is estab-
lished. The straw will be treated at
Hamilton (Vic.).
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.')
Could you give hints on rearing young pigs
from birth until about six weeks old, feeding
with cows’ or goats’ milk ? What quantity of
milk should be given ? Number of times daily ?
What increase as pigs become older? —9310.
Start the pigs on whole warm, fresh cows’
milk six times a day. After three weeks re-
place whole milk with separated milk. The six
feeds daily may be gradually reduced to three
feeds daily. When the change from whole to
separated milk is being made, a trough of a
dry meal containing 90 p.c. pollard, bran, maize-
meal or wheatmeal and about 10 p.c. meat-
meal should be kept in the pen with food
always available to the pigs. This trough must
be sheltered and kept dry. There should
be a constant supply of fresh drinking water.
It is not necessary to have a bottle and teat
to start the young pigs off—a shallow dish
serves. The warm milk should be placed in the
dish about Jin. deep and the pigs taken one
at a time and stood in the dish. The pig is
Ifeld firmly over the top of the neck, its head
placed down into the milk and held there
long enough for it to get the taste of milk, but
not long enough to allow it to inhale the milk.
This may have to be repeated a few times at
each feeding. After two or three such lessons
the piglets will give little trouble. When the
piglets are drinking well the dish may be re-
placed by a shallow trough. Cleanliness of
utensils and freshness of food are essential
to avoid digestive disorders.
Outback Occupations.
No. LVII.
HELPING THE WAR EFFORT (2).
Having agreed to permit the District
Echelon of the Women’s Land Army to
make a training camp on your property
and to assist the Commandant —who is
the wife of your bank manager—in train-
ing the recruits to “carry on the national
primary industries while the sons of the
land are abroad defending their glorious
country, etc.,” you arise one fine morning
to find four tents erected on the creek
and ten young women in khaki riding
pants, boots, leggings and shirts lined up
before the substantial figure of their Com-
mandant.
Your wife comes out on to the veran-
dah and stands beside you as you watch.
Jack, your eldest son, also appears. He
is wearing a collar and tie. Tom, his
younger brother, is wearing his pyjamas.
“Where are you off to?” you ask of Jack.
He doesn’t reply.
“Huh,” says Tom ; “he’s dolled up for
them wimmen.”
Just then the Commandant is heard
uttering a sharp word, the rank of women
stiffens and the Commandant turns and
comes up to the house. As she nears
you see she is wearing, in addition to
her official accoutrements, what you men-
tally define as a winning smile.
“Huh,” says the missus; “got war-
paint on as well as plumes!” and backs
into the house. Tom also removes him-
self and his pyjamas. Comes the lady:—
“Oh, good morning, Mr. Fordcubbin.
We’re here, you see. It’s customary to
have an inspection. As you are to be
our mentor, we should be thrilled if you
would officially inspect the camp and
the girls.”
So, trying to look dignified, you set off
beside her. Just behind you is Jack. You
look back at him frowningly, but
he refuses to meet your eye. Youi
find yourself before a single row of
females, most of them young, ranging in
build from Clydesdale to thoroughbred
filly. The Commandant begins to walk
slowly before them, you beside her. At
each face she stops, performs an intro-
duction and moves on. Each girl gives
you a quick salute. You can’t help won-
dering where Jack has got to, and
whether the missus and young Tom are
watching this.
After that there’s a lot of talk. You
look the tents over, wondering who paid
for them and thinking you could do with
one yourself. Then you leave and make
back for the house.
You sit down to breakfast, waiting for
the wife. When she comes in you hardly
know her. She is wearing a cool-looking
dress with pretty little flowers all over
it, her hair is in soft rolls and her cheeks
and lips are redder than they’ve been
for years.
“Gripes,” you say, grabbing a plate of
porridge, stealing looks at her. She
doesn’t speak and looks as though she’s
waiting. Suddenly it dawns on you.
“Gosh, missus,” you say, “you look
well this morning.”
She is pleased, gives you a quick smile,
busies herself over the stove.
“Where are the boys?” you ask.
“Tom is milking Jessie, Jack is down
at that camp,” she says. Then she sud-
denly comes over to you and leans down
and says, looking straight into your eyes,
“Jack, you wouldn’t do anything behind
my back, would you?”
You know the queer, confused feeling
of getting out of his depth which every
married man feels when this sort of thing
crops up. “Cripes, missus,” you mutter,
“I’m no kid. What are y’ cornin’ at?”
She doesn’t say any more. Tom arrives
with the milk. Breakfast proceeds. You
wonder what sort of a day it’s going to
be, what the girls will want to be taught
first. You hope they don’t expect you
to lecture to ’em. You tried that once
at an Agricultural Bureau meeting, and
—well, you know you’re no lecturer.
Jack bustles in, looking mighty pleased,
says “I’ve had breakfast, thanks, Mum,”
goes to his room, rummages and bustles
out again. He’s getting on for 20, that
youngster, and getting a bit hard to
handle.
“H’m!” says his mother, looking after
him.
“Thinks he’s in big with them tabbies,”
snorts young Tom.
You get up and stretch. “Well,” you
say offhandedly, “s’pose I better get
down to the camp.”
“Yes,” says your wife. You look at
her. She isn’t giving anything away. You
put on your hat and start for the camp.
But you can’t help feeling that a couple
of eyes that you’ve been married to for
over twenty years are boring holes in
your back.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4j|d. per line; all others at
2|d. per line.
On top this week is a Queenslander who has a crack at believers in current
crazes and superstitions.
Educated ?
Australia spends as much per head on
education as any other country in the
world, but here are some of the reasons
which make me think that a lot of the
money is wasted:
Practically every cafe in my town em-
ploys a teacup-reader or palm-reader
whose services are not only tolerated but
actually sought by customers.
Droves of papers print astrology pages,
radio stations have astrology “sessions”
and astrology magazines apparently thrive.
Many papers carry lottery-agent ads.
inviting the public to share their “luck”;
thousands of people buy their tickets from
a particular agent because they think he is
“lucky,” and the Government points out
that the low numbers are “just as lucky”
as the high ones.
Journals, allegedly printed for adults
and subject to paper restriction, devote
pages to the adventures of Mickey Mouse,
Flash Gordon and Mandrake the
Magician.
Whether “educated” or not, believers in
astrology, teacup reading and the like
are intellectually on a par with the witch-
doctors of darkest Africa. — Smilax (Q.).
Housing
Frederick Harold Stewart is one man in
politics from whom we hear consistent
good sense, and his statement to the
building societies is up to standard.
Thanks to his efforts the Federal Gov-
ernment may yet be induced to realise
that to cut down expenditure on the
building of homes is bad economy.
Homes are the best inducements to
family life, and this, ultimately, is what
we are fighting for. But houses cannot
be built in a day, and, unless we
are to duplicate the problem of Lithgow
and Port Kembla, we cannot begin too
early to plan for the influx of skilled
artisans if we haven’t sufficient here.
Slum clearance should not be de-
ferred until after the war or any other
time. There will be big, immediate
problems to concern us when the war
ends, and meanwhile we can do no better
than plan along practical lines homes
for our people and build them. —
Mortar (N.S.W.).
In Defence of Eire
“Erin Go Bragh” (B. 5/2/’4l) trots cut
the old jests. To him Eire is a puzzle.
What is puzzling about a neutral coun-
try wanting to remain neutral and want-
ing possession of its own territories?
The existence of the Irish playboy is
admitted. He has his counterpart the
world over. That he is typical of the
Irish race is the assertion of those who
want to make a springtime out of one
swallow.
As for the industrial agitator, the Irish,
no doubt, have a tendency to put prin-
ciple before pelf. A foolish thing mone-
tarily (the only standard “Erin Go Bragh”
understands); but in moral conduct
money must be ignored as a guide. As
for the Irish and “brass bands,” has “Erin
Go Bragh” ever heard of a band of pipers
(not bagpipers) and a Kerry dance? And
as for “team work,” is there anything
more solid than the Irish struggle against
an army of occupation having a com-
plete stranglehold?
“Pulling down the pillars of Britain,”
is it? Let “Erin Go Bragh” consider what
would happen if the Irish joined Hitler,
and with him swore unchristian hate and
revenge. If they looked one-half so much
towards revenge for their wrongs as
towards rectification of them they would
be with Hitler; but they are not. —
M. L. K. (S.A.).
Women in Uniform
The women’s services in England, which
are doing magnificent national work,
were possible only because the members
were organised, trained, uniformed and
disciplined before the emergency arose.
Is it ridiculous for our women to prepare
for the similar emergency which, we are
often told, threatens us here? And are
their denouncers, who declare that these
women only care for uniform and dis-
play, giving up as much of their leisure
for service of any kind? If not, have
they the right to criticise?
Incidentally, the W.A.N.S. are doing
an immense amount of unobtrusive but
inyaiuable social service now by assist-
ing almoners and welfare workers, whose
work has greatly increased since the war,
by helping day nursery and free kinder-
garten staffs to care for the children of
women factory workers and in a host of
other ways.—J. M. O. (N.S.W.).
What to Do with War Prisoners
The prisoners-of-war problem is likely
to cause Britain acute embarrassment.
Of this she could be relieved by Australia.
The Libyan tally could be utilised to
some useful purpose, such as on defence
works in the hinterland of Australia.
Italians are inured to conditions that pre-
vail in these areas, and should be accus-
tomed to the toil. Empty transports from
the Middle East could be advantageously
used on their return trip, financial re-
adjustments with Britain would offset cost
of maintenance of our A.I.F. overseas,
and, most important, the construction
of vital essential defence works would be
achieved at a minimum cost. —W. E. C.
(N.S.W.).
Honor the Cockney
I never heard or noticed when I
used to dwell in his midst that the Cock-
ney was a modest fellow who didn’t like
hearing himself praised, so without em-
barrassment it is possible to express un-
limited admiration for the men and
women of London Town, It isn’t easy to
realise without being in it what they are
standing up to at present, or what sort
of a mess the barbarians have made
of the vast address of the Cockney,
but all his fellow-Britishers can grasp the
courage and faith that animate his mag-
nificent steadfastness. No reward can
ever be given him for the standard of
bravery and endurance he has set up for
other human beings, but a suggestion may
be made as to marking the sort of appre-
ciation of his conduct that would, if only
from the fine conceit he has of himself
(and herself), be most welcome to that
valorous bloke. Why shouldn’t the Lord
Mayor of London, confer upon every
individual Londoner by birth the Free-
dom of the City? That is to say, upon
all Londoners who are not actual native-
born inhabitants of the little City itself.
Nothing could be a higher reward to the
Cockney.—J. H. M. A. (N.S.W.).
An Australian War Aim
One of Australia’s war aims, possibly
the most important one, should be a
refusal to take part in any peace
conference, sign any peace treaty drafted
by such a conference, or join any league,
federation or other allegedly altruistic
body formed to keep the world in the
form decided upon by the conference.
In the post-war world Australia would
then have to have a foreign policy of her
own, and this would allow her to make
her voice and her influence felt in the
expression of an Australian point of
view instead of her being merely an
Empire nonentity forced, through her
contracted allegiance to the treaty (no
matter how unjust or unwise), to follow
the policy of the league or federation
into any morass of “sanctions,” “collec-
tive security,” or any other piece of war-
mongering into which the Litvinovs and
the Edens of the future may choose to
lead it.— Austfirst (S.A.).
Invasion Difficulties
V. W. Germains (Uncabled Ads., B.
25/12/’4O) reveals an ignorance of the
technicalities of warship design. Take
those immense floating gun platforms
which he visualises our enemy using ; it
would be possible to build 45,000-ton
vessels of the monitor type, and to build
them fairly rapidly, but it is utter rot to
say that they could carry eighteen 18in.
guns. They could carry four such
weapons with ease, and possibly six or
even eight, but no more. The immense
and heavy mountings needed to bear the
terrific strains imposed when such
weapons are fired are so weighty that if
more than eight of the guns were car-
ried there would be nothing left over for
that belt of “20in. armor over the ship’s
vitals” or anything else.
There would be no need for our
battleships to run undue hazards in action
with these monitors ; to aid an invasion,
the monitors would have to come within
range of Britain’s formidable shore bat-
teries—and even the most reckless of
naval commanders fights shy of the heavy
shore battery. In the first attack on the
Dardanelles we lost three battleships and
had three more severely damaged, but
we knocked out only five of the 67 heavy
guns which guarded the Narrows.
It’s also nonsense to talk of construct-
ing a vessel which would prove to be
immune to that most lethal of all
weapons, the torpedo. And what a
target a huge, waddling monitor would
provide for our motor-boats and tor-
pedo-carrying ’planes!
The invasion by sea of a heavily-
defended island is the most hazardous of
all the operations of war. The advance
across the water would have to be car-
ried out at slow speed, since mine-
sweepers would need to go ahead to deal
with the minefields. In the case of an
attack upon Britain, the main thrust
would have to be directed at the east or
south coasts, since to attack elsewhere
would deprive the attackers of the in-
dispensable aid of short-range fighter
’planes, operating from aerodromes on
land close at hand. In addition to mine-
fields, running the gauntlet of our coastal
motor-boats, our Air Force and the
R.N., the attackers as they neared the
land would have to pass through a hail
of shells from our lighter guns, and then
would come the electrically-controlled
mines in the shallows, the belts of barbed
wire and the hail of machine-gun fire
from the defending troops, before one
man could set foot on the shore.
Hitler is said to be willing to sacri-
fice a million soldiers in the attempt. It
looks as though his estimate of the
casualties is on the optimistic side. — Tom-
pion (S.A.).
Syndicated Stuff
A few months ago I submitted a short
story to a Queensland weekly paper
which usually prints three short stories
(all syndicated) in every issue. The story
was rejected, and so I dispatched it to a
monthly which specialises in stories
written by Aussie writers. A few weeks
later I received a cheque.
I’ve beep paid more for two short pars,
by a Sydney rag with red covers than I
received for a 1000-word article in a
Queensland weekly.
It all proves that Aussie writers are
good enough, but because editors and
newspaper barons are suffering from a
“syndicate complex” there is little scope
for the home writer. — Zend Avesta (Q.).
The Archibald Prize
When J. F. Archibald established the
art prize which bears his name he in-
tended that it should prove an inspiration
and encouragement to young Australian
painters. To a great extent it is. Hun-
dreds every year strive for the recogni-
tion that winning would bring and the
money that in normal times could pro-
vide for study abroad or at least mean
financial security for a time.
But Archibald consulted no one when
he granted the bequest, and he forgot
to specify that the prize was intended
for competition by the younger artists.
Now year after year finds the prize being
carried off by painters whose fame is
established.
What chance has the average young
artist in his twenties against a man of,
say, 50 or 60 with a lifetime of experi-
ence behind him, including years of train-
ing at art schools in Paris or London ?
In the 20 years the prize has been carried
off by such well-known men as Mclnnes
(seven times), Longstaff (five times), Mel-
drum (twice) and Lambert (once). Only
five times has it gone to artists of the
class for whom it was intended.
If a man with the ability of any of the
foregoing enters and his work, as it is
almost bound to be, is the best in the
show, then he deserves and must get the
prize. But can’t something be done to
make the prize what Archibald intended
it to be—a fillip to portraiture, certainly,
but for our young portraitists?— Guy W.
Warren (N.S.W.).
Popularising the Art Gallery
That is a good idea to popularise the
Sydney Art Gallery by providing beer
and swing music. At least the beer
may be good and one would need to
be half-sozzled to appreciate most of
the pictures in the gallery at present.
They were no good when they were
painted and they are no good now,
though they once fulfilled some current
fashion.
If the Sydney institution wants to
make itself interesting to the public
it should shove “Queen of Sheba’s Visit
to King Solomon” and its melancholy
fellows down in the basement and throw
the space thus made available open to
every kind of artist for an annual ex-
hibition, charging the artist a small
rental. Modernists, futurists, vorticists,
old ladies who paint cats, orthodox
painters and anybody whatsoever who
can get paint to stick on canvas should
be admitted without having to submit
their work to a selection committee.
Around the gallery there should be
open-air cafes dispensing the wine of
the country with symphony orchestras
discoursing music. And any wild-eyed
individual who can get the ear of the
public should be allowed to lecture.
There is not the slightest possibility of
the present committee recognising a
genius until he is dead and has the
prestige of society; nor is there the
slightest possibility of its making a better
selection of pictures by its methods than
the gallery would get by mine. Com-
mittees in the past have always thought
that the contemporary geniuses were
asses and the contemporary asses were
geniuses, so why wouldn’t it be just the
same today?—F. S. (Vic.).
The Group-selling Business
This much may be said for cash
orders: money borrowed is passed over
the counter of local stores. It is only the
interest that leaves the town. The cash-
order system has that advantage over
what is known as the group-selling plan.
In one area of Queensland I recently
encountered four representatives of
“ Wot'sh the game? It'sh not closin'-time yet!”


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
group-selling systems. Each had a dif-
ferent class of product, which suggested
some arrangement to obviate overlapping.
Group-selling ought to be investigated
and strictly regulated by legislation. It
is a high-pressure method of business
getting that causes people to contract
beyond their means, takes trade from
provincial stores, depletes circulation of
cash in localities and generally adds to
the decline of rural towns.
I do not say that participators in the
group-purchase system do not receive
value for money. But the bait is that
each month, in each group, one investor
must win £l5 or £2O of goods for an
initial outlay of 30s. or £2. The invest-
ment is made on a gamble in luck.
A method employed to establish
groups of purchasers is that a person of
repute in a district is selected, and his
or her name used as an advertising
medium. Lesser fleas in many areas go
into the groups as ants go into sugar, hope-
fully anticipating that they will be the
“lucky investors.” They keep on hoping
until they have paid their £l5 or £2O.
Glib tongues and the advertising value
of a well-known district “lucky investor”
keeps the system going on balloon tyres.
—Pay Cash (Q.).
Uncle’s System
“Medici Pills” (B. 22/1/’4l) and other
ungrateful nephews have had their pick
at me. What about my side of the
question? I lend a chap £2O. If he has
brains and energy he may make a lot
more than £6O out of it in ten years.
In the meantime it may save him from
ruin. I have the goods which may de-
preciate to zero before I get my £2O
back in instalments. Most of my stock
is of no value except to the original
owners. I can’t even pawn it with
another uncle, though I’d like to.
But not every “moneylender” has three
balls over his door. Every man who
insures his life is a Shylock and expects
his pound of flesh to be delivered, plus
interest and bonuses, in so many years,
or to his dependants if he is unavoidably
absent. In the latter case the “usury”
may be ten times as high as mine, but
it is never refused by the heirs.
Holders of bonds and shares and
mortgages are all “uncles” out to get
the highest interest possible. If the in-
terest is low it is not because of their
generosity. With shares the rake-off is
limited only by the market. My profit is
pegged by the law.
Millions who can’t or won’t lend cash
lend themselves out at so much per week
to the boss, and they don’t always stick
to their bargain, but often use direct
action to raise the “interest” on the loan
above that which is written in the bond.
The chief difference between my
customers and myself is that I put my
profits back into my slow and legitimate
business while they often try to get rich
quick by investing in risky ventures that
promise to pay big “dividends” but run
up lanes.
So why pick me? I’m only doing
openly what everybody else is doing
more or less privately; and wouldn’t
there be a howl among my relatives if
I closed my shop and put all my ready
cash into interest-bearing Government
bonds for the duration! Friend in
Need (S.A.).
Unearned Increment
A conservative valuation of £lOO a foot
is placed on land occupied by shops in
the busiest part of our suburb, a typical
middle-class one situated some 15
minutes’ train journey from the city. A
fortunate owner of a shop and dwelling
in this favored locality recently admitted
to me that when he bought the site 35
years ago it had cost him £2 10s. a foot,
and that the shop he built on it returned
him 12s. 6d. a week. The present tenant
pays £4 10s.
The landlord doesn’t live in the district.
Successive tenants painted the interior
at intervals, and one even spent more
than £2OO on a modern shop front.
Nowadays, the shopowner can com-
“Pardon me, but could you tell me what size m socks
General Mackay takes ?”
placently count upon his original capital
outlay being returned to him every
two and a half years in the shape of rent.
Any suggestion that a much heavier land-
value tax should be levied upon him sends
him scurrying to the local member with
a tale of woe.
It is the fashion for modern economists
to scoff at those single-tax enthusiasts
who maintain that freehold land should
bear the brunt of all direct Government
taxation. Yet perhaps there is a stratum of
truth in their claims. At all events, if land
tax were substituted for income tax, the
burden would not be a penalty on effi-
ciency but on unearned increment. —
Melton (Vic.).
Overtime
“W.R.D.” (B. 5/2/’4l) is off the track.
No concern will pay time and a half if
it can get a hand to do the same job in
ordinary time. If a company decides
to teach a chap to “tend a machine or
fire a furnace” an amount of skill is re-
quired. Not only is it going to take the
newchum time to learn, but it is going
to take the skilled hand from his job to
teach him, which is more time wasted.
That is why a company prefers to work
its men overtime than to get new hands
—R. A. J. (N.S.W.).
Inter-State Transport
A certain businessman has been a
great supporter of diversion of land
traffic to the railways. Since he has
been unable to get marine transport for
his inter-State trade he has discovered
that the rail freight between Melbourne
and Sydney would add £l4 a ton to his
prices quoted on a sea-freight basis.
In desperation he sought road trans-
port, and he found:
1. the haulier could not get a license
from the Victorian Transport Board to the
N.S.W. border, and, if he did, then —
2. Under the Transport Act in N.S.W.
he would have to register in the two States
and pay N. S. Wales tax of 3d. per
ton per mile on the gross load capacity
of his truck both ways, which, with a four-
ton tare and four-ton load, would cost 2s.
per mile, or approximately £36 tax for
Albury to Sydney and £36 back—equal
to £lB per ton, plus cost of operations, etc.
The barriers to inter-State trade are
greater today than before Federation
when Customs officials taxed goods going
inter-State.—A. V. T. (S.A.).
Wasting Food
Being only an ordinary workman with
a wife and four kids, I’m not much inter-
ested in the women’s section of the
papers, but I just happened to see an
article the other day that fair made my
blood boil. It was headed “It’s No Crime
to Be Beautiful,” and underneath it said
that some foods used externally were
more palatable and just as beautifying as
when used internally. It raved over the
marvellous effects of a “Lettuce Pack,”
which was “an ideal summer food for the
skin.”
Then it had a paragraph about a
“Tomato Bath,” which was recommended
as being “an excellent way of removing
sallowness from the skin,” It did not
mention that eating tomatoes is an excel-
lent way of removing the pangs of hunger
—probably the writer had never thought
of that.
The next item on the “menu” was
strawberries—in the form of a strawberry
face pack, which, according to the article,
“sounds very enticing.” Perhaps the
writer of the article has never looked in
a window at boxes of strawberries which
looked very “enticing” and not had
enough cash to buy any.
Anyway, it seems a darned shame that
papers should be allowed to take up
space in telling our bright young things
how to waste as much time and food as
possible. Such articles should be cen-
sored as strictly as war news. — Waist
Knot (S.A.).
Shearers and Selectors
Shearers, shed-hands and scour-hands
all received a rise from a recent sitting
of the Queensland Arbitration Court.
Fallon, the workers’ representative, put
up an argument that convinced the
Court. He didn’t convince the selectors,
who had their second big curse for the
year. The blowfly scored the first curse ;
the worst year since 1917.
Fallon claimed that 5000 sheep would
give a return of £4OO. I’d like to know
how he achieved this result, particularly
in respect to the interest bill, which in
many instances must be somewhere near
the £4OO mark. A selector who has £5O
a year for himself can consider he’s a
lucky man, yet the average shearer would
reckon £4OO a poor twelvemonth’s work.
All sections of labor are now having
a cut for increased wages. Reason is
rising costs of living, yet there is no
indication of an advance in the average
price per pound of Australian greasy.
—Julia Creek (Q.).
Domestic Labor for Farms
The only solution of the problem of
provision of domestic labor for the over-
worked Australian farmwife would seem
to be the introduction of colored labor
of some sort (B. 25/12/’4O).
This could be done in a manner that
would not threaten to undermine the
White Australia policy—the servants im-
ported could be carefully selected and
only families of repute allowed to engage
them ; the authorities could keep a con-
stant eye on them, and they could be
repatriated after serving a specified term.
A source of supply worth consideration
would be St. Helena. The people of this
island are of mixed European, negro
and Asiatic stock. They have won a high
reputation as domestic servants in South
Africa. Many would welcome greater
opportunities for employment abroad
than they at present enjoy.—A. D.
(N.S.W.).
A Manufacturing Nation
Practically overnight Australia has be-
come a manufacturing nation and Aus-
tralian workmen have proved themselves
the equal of the world’s best in the manu-
facturing field. Before them now lie all
manner of fertile fields, from shipbuilding
to typewriter manufacture.
What the nation must guard against
after the war is that these benefits, paid
for in Australian blood and money and
sacrifice, are not lightly surrendered.
Never again must we complacently swal-
low the furphy that we are first and last
a primary producing nation. On the
contrary, we are in the singularly happy
position of being able to assume a lead-
ing place in both farming and manufac-
turing spheres.
Geographically, Australia and Canada
are ideally situated to be the Empire’s
industrial hubs, and for herself Australia
can point to a proud record of achieve-
ment that should at least merit an equal
partnership in the manufacturing and in-
dustrial interests of the Empire.— Ricardo
(N.S.W.).
Let the Oldsters Work
I know many able-bodied men who
have skill and the desire to help in muni-
tion work, but are prevented from doing
so just because their hair has whitened.
There must then be thousands who are in
the same case throughout Australia. Insur-
ance companies object to their being em-
ployed, and those on the pension would
lose their rightful claim to this amount.
Most of these men could give good
part-time service. Many of us would
be willing either to close our offices for
half the day or allow our staff to carry
on under our half-day supervision
Among those who come to mind are
the former manager of one of the largest
wood-working firms in Australia, an engi-
neer who has had control of large works
in Australia, Maoriland and India, and
the one-time engineer-manager of exten-
sive saltworks. Then there are engine-
drivers, blacksmiths, wheelwrights and a
great number who have graduated from
engineering shops to sales staffs.
Four hours a day at the bench would
keep me in perfect health, whereas under
present conditions I have to seek diver-
sion by motoring, reading or otherwise
being a drag on our war effort. — Sixty-
four (N.S.W.).
In Defence of Grousers
If “L.L.” knew his history he’d realise
that nearly all of the worth-while
changes wrought throughout history were
the result of grousing. The peasants of
France groused because the nobility was
living in luxury while they starved, and
the French Revolution was born. Dickens
wrote books grousing about the terrible
social conditions prevailing in England a
century ago, and awakened sufficient
public indignation to bring about im-
provement. Lincoln had a grouch against
Americans who bought and sold human
beings like cattle, and in time slavery in
America ceased to be. A few women
in England started grousing because
women had no vote, and the suffragette
movement swept the country. These and
other instances show that grousing has
its uses after all. If everyone were con-
tent to maintain the status quo it would
be a sad day for the human race. —
Pierrot (N.S.W.).
Treatment of Binghi
Although agreeing generally with
“A.W.B.” (B. 4/12/ ’40) that missions and
depots do not meet the question satis-
factorily, I contest his statement that the
abo. was healthy and happy prior to the
“concentration” movement. Forty-five
years ago in the south-west Q. districts
a large proportion of the abos. were dying
from syphilis and t.b. absolutely un-
attended. A trip today from Windorah
to Birdsville via Canterbury and Betoota
would reveal very few remaining.
The treatment of the abo. during the
last quarter of the last century —1875-
1900 —represents a black page in Aus-
tralian history. Pastoralists took up
country and literally enslaved the “boys”
that they needed to work stock, hounding
the warrigals into camps and denying
them access to their natural hunting-
ground. It was a sin of unneighbor-
liness to employ a “boy” who nominally
“belonged” to another station. If a
“boy” were granted “walkabout” and
overstayed his leave he was usually
brought back with a stockwhip behind
him. The police distributed blankets
each year, and the station blacks who had
jobs got first pick. A boy who had been
with the police or Customs officers was
sure to be considered useless because of
the better times he had enjoyed.
In the opinion of many old bushmen
with whom I have discussed the problem,
the best way to deal with the abo. today
is to give him at least part of his country
and keep the whites out. Some duly
recognised officer would be necessary to
patrol. — Consett Davis (Q.).


amly Mail-Order
CYPRUS DE LUXE
Stainless
Watch,
15 Jewel Precision
£5/10/-
Steel.
Specially tested to stand tropical conditions.
Fully Gtd. Waterproof, Shockproof, Dustproof.
Watch Repair Service. Send for Catalogue.
DIAMbND Vy a ft l>2 MARKETS!
fr WATCH SYDNEY>
SPECIALISTS iiMwir OPP. DAVIDJONES
LEARN TO BUILD RADIO
BE-NU, below, Illustrated Match Box Size Pocket
Radio! Fits pocket. Also, 50 RE—NU Most
Popular Quick-selling* Everywhere RADIO, all parts,
simple A B 0. Plans free. We buy all sets you MAKE.
IT’S HEBE-WORLD’S SMALLEST 1911
RENU POCKET RADIO
NO Tubes - NO Batteries
NO Electricity
Weighs 'onlj* 3oz. Dong distance re-
ception, clear natural tone, no crystals
to adjust, no upkeep. Can be used in
Hotels, Boats, Beds, etc. ; takes few
seconds to connect. s—year Guarantee;
Price 42/-. Also 1- and 2-Valve
Dynamic Speaker, Battery or Electric
Portable SetsJ from £4/19/6; inter-
state and overseas reception guaranteed. RE-NU,
LTD. (Est. 1932), opp. Richmond Stn., Melbourne.
75 other lilies. For particulars, employment offers and
free sample send KM. stamps, refundable first order.
ds
LATEST - RADIO SETS
£2O Below Retail Price.
You can buy direct from factory if
no Century Agent in your District,
and thus save up to £2O on retail
prices. Marvellous tone, sensitivity
and economy; world-wide reception
brings overseas news direct to your
home. Absolute satisfaction is
guaranteed by FREE TEN DAY
TRIAD TO INTENDING PUR-
CHASERS. Illustrated catalogue Of
Battery and All-electric sets post
free on request.
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
J. P. TALTY
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4-Jin. knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads. 4jin. to Sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St... Sydney.
DEAFNESS
DEFEATED /
Allen and Han bury’s famous Bonochord
midget valve amplified hearing aid can
overcome the most advanced cases of
senile, nerve and catarrhal deafness.
Fitted with crystal microphone, this
model can be concealed in a gentleman’s
vest pocket or within ladies’ wearing
apparel.
Call for free Audiometric test of your
hearing and trial of this 1941 model
British hearing aid.
GEORGE J. TOSI,
Suite 6-10, 2nd Floor, Prudential Bldg.,
39 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
A REAL -m
COMFORT
5/6
TO SMOKERS.
The Genuine “Cavalier
Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
for 5/6. Honest Value, 8/6
“Barling” silver mounted for 15/
The value, 23/6.
In cigarette papers I can offer you “Zis
Zag,” “Repeater,” “Tally Ho,” “Bafra,' !
“Papier Ambre” and “Kiz 1,a.”
SOL LEVY
713 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Goods sent C.O.D. if desired.
DEAF?
New Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural heaping.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-elettric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
B. A. NOEDL, 8.1.8.5. T.,
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney.
HIS MASTERS VOICE
Portable Gramophones
We have a number of reconditioned
portables, in perfect order and equal
to new. The usual price is £9/9/-,
but we will send you one along
freight free with three records and
needles for
£4/10/-
Full money returnable if dissatisfied
Can be sent C.O.D. if preferred.
THE TALKERIES,
161 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
nmrcntn
J WrfWWWWWfflflTflWr
ANYWHE RE
ANYTIME
HP-L!
PORTABLE UNITS
By
Briggs & Stratton.
A small, compact
Petrol Electric
Generator, ‘with
everything a car
engine has.
SCO WATTS 12 VOLTS
Running cost 1/- per
week.
Details gladly posted.
Ema
ds
For Home Lighting.
Battery Charging:
Will operate twelve
25-watt lamps.
Runs 12 hours on
Igal. of petrol.
383 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
The Best Book About
Australia
The Great Australian
Loneliness
by Ernestine Hill
A fascinating description of the
Outback and life along the coasts.
Full of curious facts and adventures.
Illustrated.
Price 9/-, posted 9/5.
ROBERTSON & MULLENS LTD M
107-113 Elizabeth St., Melb., Victoria.
RIMING
Get rid of
w JHoms BEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAL
HEHOKNEK
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for. 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
method. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves.
6/6 Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-.
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane.
E
LAMBS SAVED
fds
By Using- the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient—
urncine —Safe —and asjnuick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection — No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or —
A. H. BAY,
Daronx Em’kscnlators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
f
FROM £5 UPWARDS.
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States —See ’Phone Book.
WINCHESTER
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 15/-
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 17/6
Complete with Batteries. Postage Extra.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THROWING THE BOOMERANG
A New Sport with the Fampus Aus-
tralian Weapon. Full Battle Size,
length, two feet. Every Boomerang
carefully tested by an expert and
fully guaranteed. Will traverse a;
circle of 60 feet or mojje in dia-|
meter and return to thb. thrower,*
and, with practice, a secoW
of 30 feet across can be
before the Boomerang comes
back. Proficiency quickly sr
attained! Great fun and \
-excitement with two Boome- \
rangs in competition. Full »
directions for throwing sent \\
with each Boomerang; failure Vv
impossible. Price' 3/6. or Two
for 6/-, carriage paid. Obtainable only fre
THE UNION MFG. & AGENCY CO..
299. Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
TILLEY LAMPS
dsf
300 Candle Power. British
Made.
Fool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10- hours on 1\ pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYREX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EXIOO All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
be used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
l9 inches.
PRICE, 67/6 Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table, Wall, Vase and
’ Other Lamps.
Obtainable from your localagent or
W. Kopsen & Co. Pty.. Etd.,
380 Kent Street. Sydney.
CLIMBING
TOMATO
Amazing New Imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEARS FOB A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001 b. per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-20 feet. 2/6 packet posted.
PURE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID t) Sup-
□
erb flavor! Disease free! Drought proof!
MAKES DELICIOUS JAM. 3/6 Packet, posted.
dsf
15-DAY TIMBER KILLER!
Kills all trees, roots to top, large
or small, in 15 DAYS! New method.
NO RINGBARKING NECESSARY!
Prevents Suckerlng. Will not in-
jure the soil. 5/6 Tin, Post Free,
N.S.W. SEED CO., 75 George St., Sydney
m
■>Ki
m
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
in ad e absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 In use. Saves 80% on fencing cbsts
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
S.A. Agents: Goldberg Bros., Nth Ter., Adelaide.
dsf
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition, ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
.Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ItOUSSRI, M’l’i.' WE CO..
DJEFT. 37, 81 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
]wk
light as a
~rbrings
instant relief
TO ACHING FEET.
Based upon recent X-ray dis-
coveries, the “FOOTHELP” brings
Hew hope to sufferers from painful
foot troubles. This amazing new
invention contains NO METAL
PARTS WHATSOEVER and is as
feather and moulded to measure.
14 DAYS FREE TRIAi
Write to-day for full details and TRIAL OFFER.
Satisfaction guaranteed nn r matter where you live.
JOHN H. UNGER (Dept. 12U).
65 York Street, Sydney.
FAT, FLABBY
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOVERNA BELT supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAD OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of
bulge and strain gone . . .
OR NO COST 1 Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAD OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
&
DIAMOND RltftlS ON APPROVAL
israisi
£7/10/-
‘Tvvin Heart’"
£2O
'‘New Radiance’ 1
By arrangement with
the nearest Bank to you,
Angus &. Coote will
send a selection of
Bings at whatever price
yon wish to pay. This
means that you see the
rings in comfort and
privacy, and absolutely
at your leisure. When
writing for Bings on
Approval, state whether
you would like white
or yellow gold.
Catalogue is free.
ANGUS & COO'
500 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
BATTERIES DIRECT AT
WHOLESALE PRICES.
Cut your costs in half. Every'
type of wet battery for car, truck,
cycle, radio, home or theatre lighting
approximately fifty per cent, cheaper
than retail. Marshall Batteries are
entirely new throughout and guaran-
teed in writing. Our 16-page cata-
logue on how to choose and look after
batteries is yours for the asking. The
Marshall Battery Mfg. Co., 38-42
Harbour Street, Sydney.
Ventriloquism
A;f
LEARN VENTRILOQUISM
quickly —my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the YENTRILO you can imitate many kinds cf
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
EPRF Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
ilv L h Xrieks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St.. Sydney. 52 Swanston S't., JVlelb.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscnption rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
C Subscribers living, outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN" SERVICE COUPON
1912 j’4l (See Page 42)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to the Service Department, “The Bulletin
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


IS
■■ ■
wmm
■»
HB
•p ■ *■ , . - 1
mmmrm
pi iI I ■ * ■
'a
- _V'J
■■■■
■ >”■• ■■'■'< Ww
.;?■• ? .■? ;
| Ska. «*.< V' . s t j
-x< - ; - £„v" ?-<<■ '■;'4 ■&&'•
i
■m**. u -»
i& - . .. r&m
V''v« v j , V v ■< >ss V-- , s s>■
: i's,:®■ ■ , ... ~ :■ .:> .B®i
■ v .:■■ ■ ' .»?.'
*;o
Hi
*;*< m
is
*r*
o
illiiSS
«i»
■ ■
>
••••■ ■:■' ■-
:
**&*
: ." : v';>
ill
:H
\
$
§.
S&"
j.
UM : -
I
-
t*
■ ;
HI
.ffin , * "vU i I
HHIHHHSI
N
.. •■ .|
Mlßllii
i
, ; ?)5S5^-;'.; ,
■
:
IbHII
&
9H
&■■■
-SfesV’T* t ~
I'! 1 111 S ■
ImshNhl
■, i: . " : " •'
•Av "/ <** -
.a 5
a
•'i
r .. ;<
■
«.'«» ITKUI
s©l
=p*
C 7
P
5<r l
I; &-S3ss'
...
FIRST
Interdependence? absolute? foreseen, ordained f
decreed!
To worh ye 9 1l note at any tilt an 3 every rate
of speed 39
JO wrote Kipling, almost as If referring to the effective organisation
needed for Australia’s War Effort.
We, of Commonwealth Rolling Mills Ply. Ltd., are heart and soul behind
every organised effort that will make for greater accomplishment.
Our complete production facilities ore at the Service of the Nation.
Whatever Is demanded of our men and our plant will be cheerfully
and efficiently undertaken. We salute the “Spirit of Co-operation”-the
mighty, unseen influence that makes for victory, both in the pursuits
of peace and in the tragedy of war.
PT Y. LTD.
tv
(THE ARMCO-LVSAGHT ORGANISATION)
ARMCO-LY S AGHT SHEETS
KEfABLA ROAD, PORT KEMBLA
BORN OF RESEARCH
