

There Is No Substitute
for QUALITY
- *
, ">
*
**Ll v Noim
DOWN through the centuries the Imperial Spirit
has advanced with ever-increasing strength,
inspiring the pioneer and transforming the wilderness.
As an all-Australian link in the Imperial chain of
industrial achievement stands the wonderful success of
WILLIAM ARNOTT FTY, LIMITED. An out-
standing success, too, based on the highest standards of
integrity and efficiency ... National standards, unaltered
by time or distance.
It is therefore an inspiring thought to Australians that
the rich yield of their own fertile countryside can be
converted into a perfect product with a world-wide
demand, and that the process of manufacture is
unsurpassed in efficiency and hygiene.
',;■ ■.
U~-8
V ‘ --
i-; W*wA»«*«w “
r£ v*.
i ,5V*.
mm
*IKZ S>i. |
.*■' SV
•>•-* ~-.‘t j-v'» . .
.j.
•^-.-. •<',
I* * r «’«-•*■■ *■ • «i. imlp
»' . ' i »* m' ■» * * am 'in i
'•V
MB
: •!
\
'S^ s A"j
*JI
i'- - .., V .
.
- '“T -r
- W "--
«s» *** .. . « .}»&&,■;
Arnolts Facroiy
af Homebush.lNew South Wales
-'•csi*
t
'u
ARNOTTS FAMOUS
BISCUITS
ALWAYS ASK YOUR GROCER FOR ARNOTT'S "THEY ARE BETTER THAN EVER"
Fll
The Bulletin
"The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3220.
Wednesday, October 29, 1941.
More from the A.I.F.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


"Storu Writing
v 3 ivi y ot home
Particulars Free to You!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne ,
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, particulars of your
Home-Study Course in BOOKKEEPING, as advertised
in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
M U Address
The Red Page
MORE FROM THE A.I.F.
Like the fantasy that the Diggers in
the last war turned down conscription—
they voted for it—there is a comfortable
theory that the men who are overseas
don’t resent such apathy or cynicism
about the war as is shown from time
to time in Australia. That there is
a gx-owing indignation obviously
mounting as the need for reinforcements
becomes more acute —shows clearly in the
most recent batch of A.I.F. contributions
that have reached this office. Sergeant
Paul Buddee (Tobruk) sums up both for
the anonymous bard who wrote “My
Friends Who Stayed at Home” —more
than 30 copies of which have been sent
in—and for a number of Digger-poets
who have sent in verses matching his in
honest indignation but not in versecraft:
More and more, the verses from the
Middle East come to resemble the poetry
of the last war. Greece, Crete, the stand
at Tobruk and the prospect of a long
war ahead have brought every Digger
face to face with the grimmest realities
of war as well as with its compensations.
Written in the first year of the war, Cor-
poral Val Anderson’s “Sand” might have
been just a humorous ballad: now it is
something more; tragedy and nobility
have found their way into it:
In “The Stunt at Fort Regina,” Ser-
geant “Bill,” now of Tobruk, gives a
picture of the first realisation of what
the words “in action” mean;
Then Sergeant Eric Irvin analyses the
burden and pride of responsibility in “In
Command”: —
Tip Kelaher sees “The Wounded from
Tobruk”:
And there are the memorial poems.
Many have come in, all striking the same
note of heroic acceptance and strange,
calm beauty. There is space here for
only two of the best, one set in Syria,
one in Crete. Shawn O’Leary’s tribute
to “N.R.L., killed in action, July 9,
1941”: —
“What the Bullets Sang,” by Maurice
Biggs:—
Recalling the Murrumbidgee and the
golden paddocks, Biggs touches on an-
other of the traditional themes of the
soldier-poet—the longing for home.
“Bold Mibbin hills, Dulguigan plain,
far distant Terranora height”—these are
the places for Lem Partridge, looking
back to “Springtime on the Tweed”:
Tip Kelaher yearns for Randwick:
R. S. Byrnes sums up for them all —
“Looking South”;
One aspect of the inevitable nostalgia
of the Diggers in which The Bulletin
has a special interest is the fact that the
men are still turning to “Banjo” Paterson
and C. J. Dennis to recapture the spirit
of Australia. Gunner J. C. Dudley, of
the 3rd Anti-tank Regiment, sends a letter
home from Tobruk:
Someone among the new Diggers will
have to become the new “Banjo” or the
new Bloke. Tip Kelaher, whose ballads
have the real touch of it, seems to be
donning their mantle ; and his “Ginger
Mick” shows that he’s well aware of the
tradition into which his rhymes must go:
There’s another contestant, too, for
bardic honors in the A.1.F., and there
couldn’t be a more appropriate one —the
“Banjo’s” son, Hugh Barton Paterson.
Here is “Banjo” junior on “The Stately
Homes of Tobruk”:
When the last Red Page of A.I.F. verse
was published the theory was advanced
that the best of the war poems, from
the literary point of view, would always
be the more tragic ones. Obviously, that
remains true. The dark side of war is
moving such sensitive writers as Maurice
Biggs to poetry as fine as anything that
was written in 1914-18 ; Biggs may be-
come another Leon Gellert. But Lieut.
A. G. Austin, who was represented by
a sombre poem on the previous Red
Page, is the exception to the rule this
time:
Sing a song of nasty men,
Of skunks and things that smell,
A song about the blokes at home
Who fill our jobs so well;
Sing a song of strikers
Who strike for higher wage,
While here their mates do man-sized work—
My God! it makes me rage.
Sing of five and sixpence
They pay the blokes at war,
While home in quiet Australia
They make a mighty roar
About the poor old working man
On thirty bob a day,
Who hasn’t any danger but
Still strikes for higher pay.
Sing about the Home Front,
Of giving all you’ve got,
About the cushy jobs still there,
While here wc cop it hot.
And sing about disunity.
And give M.Ps. the prize.
Whose leaders cry “No party strife”
And fail to compromise.
Sing about the whole darned war,
You might as well as fight,
While here we blighters do our stuff,
While you at home sit tight.
Get into your flaming work,
Be glad it’s safe and tame;
Or come into the army here.
And try to play the game.
Then sing a song of good intent
To win the rotten war.
Sing a song to victory
And homes that we adore.
Sing about our unity
At home and at the front,
And Hitler’s beaten then, me lads,
And dragged to death—the Runt!
I am writing from my billet in the Sand —
Egypt’s Sand —
And the glamor of the East
Doesn’t stir me in the least
For the desert’s just an endless waste of Sand-
Sands that lift and whirl and race
O’er the desert’s dusty face
When the khamseen shrieks its fury through the
land—
Stinging, blinding, choking clouds of desert
Sand.
As I squat beside the cookhouse in the Sand —
Gritty Sand —
I am conscious of a new
Sort of flavor in the stew —
It is covered with a greasy film of Sand.
“Hell, the weather’s blasted crook!”
Growls the surly, dirty cook,
As he hands me out a mug of tea and—Sand.
Yes, we breathe and eat and drink and wash in
—Sand.
I’ve lost some cobbers out there in the Sand.
Howling Sand
Seared our eyes and choked our breath,
While the screaming hail of death
Sought, and found, them as they battled in the
Sand
In that blinding, shrieking hell.
Where they fought and, fighting, fell
For the honor, faith and freedom of their
land!
God be with them where they sleep beneath
the Sand.
We knew we had to hold the Pass,
Which we couldn’t do for long,
For he’d twelve thousand troops and tanks,
V/c were four hundred strong.
The boys took up their possies,
The faces keen and brown;
Their dads had licked the cows before.
We mustn’t let them down.
We knew the show had started
By the whine of lead and shell,
How any bloke could live through it
Was more than we could tell.
In a minute fear was over
And we all were right as rain,
And for everything he chucked at us,
We hurled it back again.
We did our job and checked him
With little loss of men;
We fought for six hours solid
From four till just on ten.
Then off we went on that nightmare trip
From Regina back to Barce,
And we left the Hun to lick his wounds
On Fort Regina Pass.
On a time it was felt to be simple
Assessing the task and reward,
But now it is blind intuition
With death as the trembling cord,
Suspending the hideous keenness
Of a fateful Damocles’ sword.
For life is a bout with decision,
A flirting with ultimate ends,
But once in its course there’s a juncture:
A phase without love, without friends;
A void when all beauty is ugly
And all that is pleasant offends.
One knows that the sweet, idle hours
Of the past have been the wrong school
In which to nurture cold reason—
For the dux has turned out the fool.
O cast out the spell of self-pity
And a man is no longer life’s tool!
It is then that the deep core within him,
Untouched by the canker of doubt,
Calls a man to the colors of freedom
And its whisper of strength is a shout
To defy all the past, to discover.
Though for once, what this life is about.
You come limping down the gangplank or
you’re carried down instead,
Covered by a dusty blanket with a boot be-
neath your head,
And you all look lean and hungry underneath
that Aussie grin,
Sick of bully beef and biscuits, but the sort
who don’t give in.
P’raps you’re smiled at by a bearer who is
muscular and big,
Fishing fags out of his pocket with a “Have a
cigger, Dig?”
And you hold it while he lights it and you
give the old, wry grin,
Making little of your troubles—but there’s no
one taken in.
For they know that you’ve been through it
and there’s nothing much to say;
You’re a base job or a Blighty and they’ll
help you on your way ;
For the sky was thick with zoomers and the
sandbags near you shook
Like the beach ’neath Bondi boomers when
you blocked ’em at Tobruk.
And I’m proud that I’m Australian when I
look at men like these;
They’re the men who marched beside me back
at Ingleburn—in threes,
In the days when life was rosy, full of laughter,
leave and beer.
And I never thought I’d see them carried down
the gangplank here.
Well, they’ve done their best for England and
they’ve done their best for home.
For the girls they left behind them and the pals
who could not come;
And may Aussie not forget them when they’re
invalided back
Nor leave them poor and jobless for the dole
queue or “the track.”
This hour we lay you with the cypress trees
Always in one poor thinking mind shall live;
And though no footsteps leading out can give
You of the world again . . . remember these:
The scent of jasmine wafted on the night
And the moon, pale as a wraith, silvering
The thicket by the pool where bul-buls sing;
Grey olive trees against the hills; the kite
Wheeling o’er the desert; the morning sun
Levering over the horizon’s sill;
The camelthqm; the swirling sands that spill
Along the wind and sleep when day is done;
The flight of white gulls mewing by the fall
Of cliff; grey rain on ocean hissing; and
Soft spray the surf throws all along the sand.
Remember these! But more than all recall
The hand of friendship gripped before the guns
(With each of us not sure we could be brave!)
Remember this.. . and know down in your
grave
That I shall walk with the remembering ones.
! saw Death, once, sprawled in the sunny grass,
His bullets spilled, his rifle flung away,"
Oblivious to the chattering Vickers guns . . .
He came from where the Murrumbidgee runs
Through golden paddocks of obeisant hay
And grass more sunny than this Cretan pass.
What was the song—what did the bullets sing?
Was it to have the spirit’s old desire —
Storm up a skyey fortress, all alone,
Buttressed with bannering clouds, where lost
winds moan,
And thunder thrills down peaks of plashy fire,
And, conquering, be reckoned as a king?
Or did the bullets sing another hymn?
Was it of home, and rivers that he knew;
And peace, and clean-limbed love, and free-
dom’s sons,
Far from the mutinous grumbling of the guns,
The stench of rotting men that made him spew,
And steel more strong than body’s heart and
limb?
And when Condong plains with clover
Blossom white again, I plead,
Please God, this homesick rover
Will see springtime on the Tweed.
Are the two-year-olds still racing down the
Randwick mile,
Do thudding hoofs still shake the Randwick
turf,
Do flowerbeds and gardens still produce their
springtime smile,
Does the ring-roar match the booming of the
surf?
The mellow days of summer’s end have come to
Palestine,
The sun-drenched air is drowsy and the winds-
in caves are curled:
Yet night and day my dreaming sees us south
across the Line,
And one little home the centre of the world.
We see the darkening stubble all along this
fertile plain
Where Samson fought the Philistine and fell
by woman’s hate;
But we’d sooner see the spring-touched hills
of Hawkesbury once again,
Or the Mountains when the afternoon grows
late.
A tinkling Jilt of laughter lights the old earth’s
Middle Sea
With sunsets streaming up the west in chang-
ing greys and reds—
Still our hearts can hear the singing of the
swift surf running free
Or a southerly a-blow through Sydney Heads.
In fields where history reaches down from
Canaanite and Jew,
With centuries of hatreds born of plenty or
of dearth,
Our thoughts are in Australia where all history
is new
And the dew of dawn is still upon the earth.
We joined their bloody battles: we have won —
or lost —the day!
(By chance we fight for Europe and her woes
that never cease.)
But we cherish in our exile one dear land so
far away,
And the glory that belongs to her in peace.
They can have their ancient splendors, they can
watch their ancient walls
—We’ll leave the Jew his lending and the
Arab where he delves—-
They can keep their fruitful seasons as their
shining summer falls —
We shall hold and build our own land for
ourselves.
Someone in the mob’s recitin’ while I strive to
do some writin’,
But my letter home can wait a minute more,
For I find I can’t help listenin’ to the humorous
“Bush Christenin’ ”
And other tales of scrub and bushiand lore.
Now the fellow with the bottle gives us
“Waratah and Wattle,”
We can almost feel Australia in the breeze;
The game is quickly spreading, everybody
leaves his bedding
And we settle down to telling some of these.
“Blue” forgets about his liver, gives “The Man
from Snowy River,”
Tells us all about that fast and thrilling ride,
How the sturdy mountain pony ran the
Mountain steep and stony,
How he cleared the fallen timber in his
stride.
Next one takes us overlanding, past the sheep
and cattle branding
Or toiling down to fetch the wool away;
It's great to be romancing, see the flannel
flowers dancing,
Ride with teamsters shipping down along the
Castlereagh.
Someone bobbed up with a solo ’bout the
Geebung logs and polo
And past us come these figures in a stream —
Clancy, Harry Dale the Drover, Lawson’s
Billy boiling over
And the “Boree Log” made every bushman
dream.
Now if a mortar cops me when the shells are
falling thick
I hope I’ll go where battlers go and meet old
Ginger Mick.
He’s the cove that Dennis wrote about who
came and had a go
On the rugged slopes of Anzac over twenty
years ago.
This Mick was Dinkum Aussie, and his mates
were all the same;
I hope they'll come and greet me when the
devil calls my name;
For we’ll all have much in common ’spite
of twenty years between,
They will know the tracks I’ve travelled and the
places where I’ve been.
I know I’ll mix with all those blokes; they’ll
speak my language, too;
They’ll talk of beer and fights and fun the
way they used to do.
We’ll all sit down and roll a smoke, and yarn
of this and that,
From Bulyeroi to Bendigo, from Bourke to
Ballarat.
But, Ginger Mick —I’m dreaming! For you’re
here with us today!
With a fag stuck in your hatband in the same
old careless way.
And Lofty Craig of Queensland is walking by
my side,
Eating miles up like a camel with his lanky
four-foot stride.
And Little Smith of Collingwood—you bet he's
with us, too,
Giving cheek to sergeant-majors in the way
he used to do.
There’s the cove who wore pyjamas—yes, the
bloke who cleaned his teeth!
And the chap who’s neat and natty with a
polished bayonet sheath.
I guess they’re much the same today as Diggers
ever were.
They play up while on Cairo leave and drink
and fight and swear.
They’re considered hard to handle, and they
moan about the stew —
But it’s “SEND THE BLOOMING ANZACS”
when there’s dirty work to do!
A general’s stately dugout
Is built on lavish plan —
Persian and Turkish carpets.
Armchair and divan,
With silver taps for hot and cold,
Electric light and fan.
The walls are hung with tapestry.
And wondrous silken screens
Show Derby Day at Randwick
The Taj Mahal and Greene's,
A midnight raid on Prince’s
And other homely scenes.
A colonel’s is more simple:
A man severe, aloof.
He sits alone in comfort
Beneath his sandbagged roof
Reading detective novels
And drinking overproof.
The stout, fire-eating major,
If one believes what’s said,
Has captured German weapons
All draped around his bed
And up above the mantelpiece
An “Iti” general’s head.
A dugout’s easily known
In which lieutenants live:
They like to seem artistic
And this impression give
With photos, of the can-can
And Toots of Tel Aviv.
The company-sergeant-major
Has no artistic plan,
He merely likes his dingus
So that if need he can
Dive swiftly from his dwelling-place
And crime the nearest man.
The dugout of a private
Is unlike all of these;
It’s like a wombat burrow
He enters on his knees;
Wherein with drawn bayonet
He braves the rats and fleas.
But be it ne’er so humble.
There’s not the slightest doubt
Each one’s loved by its owner
And, hastily sought out,
Seems better than a palace
When Stukas come about.
In my cave lives a solitary rat
(A celibate rat
I can vouch for that);
He hasn’t a mate for miles around
And he lives on what he finds on
the ground,
Though the country’s such
That that’s not much.
I don’t like he
And he can’t stand me
But we need the roof, so there we be.
In my cave lives a type of flea
(A scurrilous flea
Believe you me);
And though he’s such a tiny thing
His bite is worse than a scorpion’s
sting.
He lives on Rat,
But worse than that
He lives on me,
This scurrilous flea
With all his numerous progeny.
Near my cave lives the octave bird
(The queerest bird
You’ve ever heard);
He sings eight notes as he climbs
the scale
Though the topmost note is known
to fail.
He's very small,
Just like us all.
So in we fit
Though we’re cramped a bit—
Old Rat,
And Flea,
And Bird,
And Mel


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —always
THE SENIOR STORE”
BLINDS Keep Your Home COOL In Summer
Attractive Blinds for All Weathers
Anthony Horderns' specialise in all styles of VERAN-
DAH BLINDS AND AWNINGS . . . Choose from our
comprehensive range of multicoloured linens or
ducks . . . Smart, crisp tones in the fastest dyes pro-
curable . . . Shades of Orange, Fawn, Brown, Gold
and Red ... 72 inches wide. At Anthony Horderns'.
Sizes and Prices: 72" White Cotton Duck, 15 oz,,
9/11 yard, 12/11 yard; 36" White Cotton Duck, 12
oz., 4/11 yard; 54" Red Striped Linen, 5/9 per yard.
ALL BLINDS MADE IN OUR OWN FACTORY UNDER EXPERT
SUPERVISION—Write for samples ... We will send our expert
fitters to measure and advise on all styles of Verandah Blinds
and Awnings anywhere within the Metropolitan Area.
ESTIMATES FREE!
m
nsm
mm
■
I
SZ
I
Venetian Blinds Keep Sunny Rooms Cool
INTERIOR ASPECT—AII Venetian Blinds are manufactured in our own
factory from well seasoned timber, painted any desired colour with
three coats of paint. Fitted with best quality Carr s ladder tape and cord.
FOR INSIDE USE—
Constructed of 2£in. laths @ 2/G per square foot. Minimum charge, 14 square feet, 35/-
Constructed of 2 in. laths @ 2/8 per square foot. Minimum charge, 14 square feet, 37/4
Constructed of Ifin. laths @ 2/9 per square foot. Minimum charge, 14 square feet, 38/6
Constructed of laths @ 3/3 per square foot. Minimum charge, 14 square feet, 45/6
Cover laths, — /G per foot extra. Angle Brackets, — /9 per pair extra
When ordering, please ‘ state if width given is "Thin Blind Lath or Top Pulley Lath
measurement.
FOR OUTSIDE USE, TOO!
Constructed of Sin. laths and supplied with iron guide rods @3/3 per
per square foot.
Minimum charge, 16 square feet, 52/- each.
Or fitted with chain ladder tape. Special prices on application,
ALL PRICES SUBJECT TO FLUCTUATION.
The choice of all who seek a long-lasting, good looking Verandah or
Porch Blind. The "AEROLAX" for general purposes, and the ' LOOVA-
LAX" for sleep-outs, are built by an ingenious machine which takes
faultless pine laths and links them with famous patented "Lock Link
of 18 gauge galvanised mild steel. The laths are evenly spaced . . .
give privacy and protection and allow for adequate ventilation.
"LOOVALAX" LOCK LINK BLINDS
Laths overlap . . . absolutely excluding light . . . used and recommended
for sleep-out sections, of verandahs or porches or parts exposed to strong
sun. Not recommended for complete verandah surrounds but as part of
a general surround in conjunction with Aerolax the effect is excellent
and the privacy and protection afforded is perfect. At Anthony Horderns .
Widths 4 ft. 5 ft.
4ft. Gin. drop 23/11 29/6
sft. Sin. drop 28/2 34/8
6ft. 9in. drop 31/10 40/3
7ft. Gin. drop 35/7 44/6
These prices are for Blinds painted Green or Brown complete with cords,
pulleys and our new patented spring tensioned stay wires and fittings.
SPECIAL SIZES Prices as next size in advance plus 2/- alteration.
lJenc/ian d^iindi
Introduced by ANTHONY HORDERNS 5
Arc Fitted In The
KING GEORGE V. MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
and other New Buildings
Recommended with equal confidence for
use in Private Homes
Steel Venetian Blinds are constructed for easy operation . . .
they are highly rust-resistant and are further protected by
enamel which is baked on under controlled temperature.
Due to the "S" shaped construction of the flexible steel laths,
they can be drawn up to take a minimum of space. When
opened wide, the "S” steel lath admits 25 more light. ..
and when tilted at 45 degrees, the position of indirect hgh -
ing without glare, the steel lath admits 77% more light.
• Furnishing Drapery Department—Third Floor, Pitt Street. Delivered free within our delivery area.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
■Phone: M 2401 (Day or Night) FAMOUS LOW PRICES Post to Box 2712 C. G.P.0.. Sydney


ROYAL
PURPLE- PARA
lime cfwie imllcnmeUmidlmiqmt
Seppenlt's
SALISBURY CATHEDRAL.
Some eighty-three miles from London by
the Southern Railway, the charming
little Cathedral city of Salisbury is
reached. Its glory and pride is the noble
Cathedral, commenced in 1220 and com-
pleted 38 years later, a perfect specimen
of Early English architecture. The tower
and spire (400 ft., the highest in England)
are later additions (1330-75), and belong
to what is known as the Decorated
period. The building comprises a nave of
10 bays with aisles, a choir of six bays
with aisles, two transcepts, one with four,
the other with three bays in each wing,
and a Lady Chapel at the east end. Much
damage was done to the building in
1782-91 by the misnamed restorer, James
Wyatt. The beautiful cloisters date from
about 1280. To Empire military forces,
since 1915 the Cathedral has become
better known than possibly any other
ecclesiastical edifice in Great Britain, for
the reason that it stands practically in the
centre of Salisbury Plains, those undulat-
ing chalk downs, intersected by fertile
and well-wooded valleys. Rising in the
midst of a widespread, well-kept grassy
lawn, surrounded with trees, the best
general view of a Cathedral to be had in
England is presented, the various parts
being displayed to the greatest advantage.
Modern Salisbury is also known as New
Sarum, in contradistinction to an ancient
and deserted borough two miles away,
once a considerable city, and by the
Romans called “Sarbiodunum.” William
Pitt made his first appearance in Parlia-
ment as a member for this “rotten
borough.” In church history it figures
somewhat prominently. The Bishop had
a castle here, but the see was removed to
Salisbury in 1219. Prior to the Reforma-
tion, the most celebrated liturgy in use in
England was that styled the Sarum
Liturgy, compiled by Bishop Poore, who
occupied the see in the eleventh century.
After the Cathedral, the next notable
sacred edifice possessed by Salisbury is the
Roman Catholic Church, designed by the
great reviver of the Gothic in architec-
ture, Arthur Webley Pugin. It is a struc-
ture of much beauty. In what may be
termed later-day literature, Salisbury
figures in the novels of that illustrious
writer Thomas Hardy as “Melchester.”


STUDY IN RELATIVE IMPORTANCE.
“What’s all this fuss about, mister?”
“Where ’are you blokes bin ’idin’? The ’unger-strike ’eroes, o’ course!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
„ Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
INew Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0.).
T Wellington.
London ; 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
f-? ee to . ANY addr ess in Australasia,
weekly : 12 months. £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6a.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign ) ;
12 months £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months. £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
“COURAGE,'HE SAID.”
SpEAtaNG on his predecessor’s Budget, Mr. Curtin said:
• * n Sht remedy for having seven taxing authorities
is to substitute one taxing authority.” “Give us the
practical remedy,” Mr. Fadden interjected. Answering
him, Mr. Curtin pointed out that the Fadden Govern-
“in charge of the country at this juncture”
and could take the requisite steps, if it had the
courage to do so—the steps to bring about one taxing
authority in Australia.”
The Fadden Government was defeated on its
Budget, and a Curtin Government is now “in charge
of the country” with power to resort to “the right
remedy.” It had a majority of three on the Budget
division, and, since there are a few national-minded
men on the other side, it would be assured of stronger
backing in the House, as well as overwhelming sup-
port in the constituencies, if it substituted one taxing
authority for seven taxing authorities. With Section
109 always ready for exercise, there is no Constitu-
tional or any other impediment. All that is required
is courage—-the courage which Mr. Curtin implied that
his party possessed and the other parties lacked—and
energy.
Income tax is levied on income for the year to
June 30. Total and all particulars are or should be
in the possession of the Commonwealth Taxation
Department. Practically all that Mr. Curtin needs to
do is to tell his able Commissioner in round figures
how much he will want from each group of taxpayers
for war expenditure and how much can be spared
from that all-important purpose for the services of
the States ; there is no occasion for departing from the
graduation and other principles embodied in existing
Commonwealth income-tax legislation or for altering
the methods of collection now in force. The essential
information furnished, the Prime Minister would soon
have in his hands draft measures by virtue of which,
after consideration by Cabinet and debate in Parlia-
ment, all the money required for war and provincial
services could be raised without extortion from indi-
viduals or injury to industry and, above all, without
the waste, worry and chicanery with which the existing
chaos is associated.
Income tax began as a war tax in the time of the
second Pitt, and a war tax it was considered by Pitt’s
illustrious successors, notably Disraeli. Events have
given it the same character in Australia, Yet in Aus-
tralia we have the intolerable spectacle (unknown in
Britain, Maoriland or South Africa) of provincial
Governments whose functions correspond to those of
English County Councils having first cut at the
national income and the Government responsible for
the prosecution of the war taxing what is left. And
since provincial rates of tax differ everywhere and the
Commonwealth Government has hitherto exempted
provincial exactions from taxable income, there is no
uniformity anywhere, though in war taxation uniform-
ity should be the first essential. And since returns have
to be furnished to two or more Governments where
income is derived from two or more States, there is
vast waste in every branch of the idiotic business-
waste in the preparation and examination of returns,
waste in the assessment and collection of taxes,
waste in the employment of persons engaged in these
tedious and repetitive processes, many of whom are
of military age. Administrative costs are necessarily
terrific, and the resentment of taxpayers subjected to
this accumulation of unnecessary evils is sharpened
by the feeling that flagrant extortion is practised at
their expense.
This was admitted by Mr. McKell in trying to
justify what he calls the Income-tax Management Bill.
“The policy followed under N.S.W. law,” he said,
“is quite inconsistent” ; and he gave a few instances:
Investment income earned out of the State by a
resident is liable to unemployed-relief tax and social-
services tax. If it is earned in another State, a rebate is
allowed in respect of some States, and the income is
exempted under reciprocal arrangements with others. If
it is earned in the United Kingdom or in New Zealand,
it fs taxed without rebate, even though it may also be
taxed in these two places. On the other hand, some
salaried incomes earned outside the State are taxed for
State income tax subject to a rebate if taxed elsewhere,
while still others are exempt from State income tax.
It is legitimate and necessary for the Common-
wealth to tax income from all the States and from
overseas, subject to its arrangements with overseas
countries to prevent double taxation. For a State
to do it is as iniquitous as it would be for the Bir-
mingham County Council to tax income derived from
Staffordshire—if that were possible. But Mr. McKell,
who makes such a show of being a reformer, pro-
poses to make the legalised robbery permanent by
taxing income from other States and other parts of
the British Empire, “subject to rebates,” which are to
be calculated at some indefinite time and in some hazy
fashion. Not only individuals but companies are to
be taxed in this way, and companies registered in
other States are to be taxed 6d. in the pound more
than companies registered in N. S. Wales, which are
to pay 3s. in the pound. What is worse, dividends
are to be taxed not only at the source, but also in
the hands of shareholders ; and income derived from
company investments in Commonwealth securities is
also to be taxed if the oracle can be worked. More-
over, a £lOO exemption limit is to be set to gifts to
patriotic and charitable institutions, hitherto tax-free,
while a man on, say, £4OO a year who can claim deduc-
tions amounting to £230 is to be taxed on the dif-
ference, not at the rate on £l7O, but at the rate on
£4OO.
All this has been decided upon regardless of the
Commonwealth’s war requirements and of what the
Commonwealth Government is doing by way of satis-
fying them. Mr. McKell promised to abolish the wages
tax, and his way of abolishing it, as far as most of
those on £2OO p.a. and upwards is concerned, is to tack
it on to the income tax and try to get £lOO,OOO more
than both imposts produced. He introduced his
Budget on September 16, and it took him a month to
think out his precious tax plan, some features of
which he doesn’t seem to understand himself. Be
that as it may, he admits that he is taking more from
incomes in excess of £l5OO than was taken by the
two taxes —three, if unemployed-relief and social-
services can be reckoned as two. If State tax-pay-
ments are still to be deductions from Commonwealth
taxable income, this will mean that there will be less
from this group of incomes for war purposes and
more for provincial purposes, and that the Govern-
ment with the dread burden of the war on its shoulders
will take second place to a selfish and greedy Adminis-
tration whose vision is bounded by the County of
Cumberland.
It is inconceivable that Mr. Curtin will submit to
this outrage. He more than Mr. Fadden is in a posi-
tion to apply “the right remedy,” to “take the requisite
steps,” and if he fails to do so it will only be because
he, as well as Mr. Fadden, is without “the courage.”
As the nation’s war leader it is his manifest duty to
make his words good and to bring in one income tax
and distribute among the States sufficient for their
reasonable requirements as grants-in-aid. What they
received from their welter of income taxes in 1938-39
would be far more than sufficient, considering how
little unemployment they have to provide for now
(10.4 p.c. in July-September, 1939, it was 3.6 p.c. in
May, 1941) and how the Commonwealth has taken
on itself the whole burden of child endowment. In
the first quarter of the year in which Mr. McKell is
grabbing another £lOO,OOO from State taxpayers,
N.S.W. child-endowment and food-relief expenditure
was £538,400 less than in the first quarter of 1940-41.
Events Pushing Uncle Sam.
By all the signs and portents the sheer pressure of
events is forcing the U.S.A, closer to taking an open
part in the war. The Yanks may not be coming
just yet, in the sense of taking up a man-
power fighting part in the very near future ; there
is still—despite the surge of national anger over such
German affronts to them as the torpedoing of the
U.S. destroyer Kearny —considerable reluctance about
taking on that role. But they have come so far already
since the Presidential campaign assurances that they
would not be actually involved in the war that very few
more such events may be needed to enforce the decision.
With the astuteness that has characterised his
leadership all through his third term, President Roose-
velt has put away his conjuring apparatus and stepped
off the stage. The issue has passed beyond the con-
trol of himself or any other individual; henceforth
it is a matter of the American national reaction to
repetitions of such events as the attack on the Kearny.
That incident —with more to follow it —must have
been expected from the moment President Roosevelt
gave the U.S. Navy orders to shoot on sight in a vast
area of the Atlantic, and also to patrol and practically
convoy ships of any nation in those waters, even
where the area overlapped that defined by the Ger-
mans as a combat zone. But the fact that it was only
to be expected made no difference when it happened.
There is no such logic about national feeling. It
happened, and the instant result was a burst of anger.
If anything, it seemed all the more outrageous because
it was only to be expected.
This anger over the Kearny incident was dif-
ferent in kind and degree from that caused by the
earlier Nazi affronts. For the first time tempers
became really inflamed. This was, however, not a
result of that incident alone, or of its having involved
loss of American life. It was a symptom of accumu-
lated anger, contributed to by the earlier attacks on
American and part-American shipping. An anony-
mous “prominent student of American affairs” has
been given in cables as authority for the statement
that “A few more Kearnys will mean public meetings
at street corners demanding that Roosevelt declare
war.”
The President cannot declare war, which is a
matter for Congress ; but that is a detail. Full-page
advertisements were appearing in leading American
newspapers some time before the Kearny incident
urging the President to move in that direction. He has
refrained ; there is no need now for conjuring. Events
almost certainly will stir up such public feeling that
a declaration of war, or its practical equivalent, can
safely be left where it Constitutionally belongs—to
the American people, represented by Congress.
Early this year Hitler served notice to that effect :
Whoever believes he will be able to help England
must definitely know one thing: Every ship, whether
with or without a convoy, that comes before our
torpedo tubes will be torpedoed.
In his shoot-on-sight broadcast the President gave
what can be taken as the American reply to that
declaration:
No act of violence will keep us from maintaining
intact two bulwarks of defence: First, our line of
supply to the enemies of Hitler, and, second, the
freedom of our shipping on the high seas.
The President further put it up to Americans:
There has now come a time when you and I must
see the cold, inexorable necessity of saying to these....
seekers of world conquest: “You shall go no further.”
....Upon our naval and air patrol falls the duty of
maintaining the American policy of freedom of the
seas—now.
With the issuing of that order America took the
fateful step. There could now be no going back. The
President himself stated in a recent article in “Col-
lier’s” that the incidents likely to lead to war “would
be the loss of American ships or American lives or
American property while they were in neutral or
combat areas of war.” Not only Hitler’s threat to
torpedo indiscriminately makes it as good as certain
that just those incidents will be forthcoming. As well
as the calculating efficiency which has remoulded the
Germans into such a formidable fighting machine,
there is more than a streak of fanatical madness about
the whole Hitler regime. Its acts have already
greatly assisted President Roosevelt in his difficult task
of making Americans realise that their own national
self-interest demands the defeat of Hitler’s Germany.
Hitler and co., too, are in the grip of the compulsion
of events. The survival of their Germany depends
on the defeat of Britain ; they could not therefore stop
at one Kearny incident.
The Kaiser’s Germany could not stop. After the
sinking of the Lusitania and the Arabic in 1915, it
promised America —in answer to a protest —that there
would be no more sinkings. It kept its word for six
months ; then the sinking of the Sussex involved the
loss of many more American lives. It again climbed
down in the face of another American protest, and
there was no further incident for another nine months.
Then —later in 1916 —Kaiser and crew thought they
saw the opportunity of completely blockading Britain
by submarine ; a matter which, with Hitler and gang,
is not so much one of opportunity as of necessity. In
January, 1917, the American Government was advised
of the reopening of unrestricted submarine warfare.
Inside two months 10 American ships were sunk;
President Wilson addressed Congress, and within four
days America was at war.
All this is happening over again, with differences.
One of the most striking differences is that any diplo-
matic protest to today’s Germany would turn its
makers into a laughingstock for the world. Asked
if the United States intended lodging such a protest
on the torpedoing of the Kearny, Secretary of State
Hull replied “with some asperity”: “One doesn’t often
send diplomatic notes to international highwaymen.”
Another important difference is that on the former
occasion America was a neutral and was trying to
remain one. By all international standards up to the
present war, America is in this struggle a positive bel-
ligerent. By many declarations —including that of the
Atlantic conference —it is committed to ensuring the
survival of Britain and the defeat of Hitler’s Germany.
Very few now believe that those ends can be
achieved without the actual involvement of Americans
in a fighting role. Not even the diehard American
isolationists believe that role can be avoided ; their
whole outcry is caused by the conviction that it must
come ; that either by way of the Atlantic or by way
of the Pacific, America is definitely headed for war.
Not that Americans today want war any more
than they have done all through. Except that under
President Roosevelt’s guidance the great majority of
them have openly taken sides with Britain, they have
not freely approached the war; the war has made its
way to them. They no longer have a really free choice.
The war has got beyond anybody’s control; not any
individual, but its events and incidents will hence-
forth decide the shape of things to come. Only the
incredible event of Hitler’s Germany suddenly acquir-
ing sanity could end that compulsion. Since that can
be written off, America’s entry into the war now looks
to be only a matter of time, plus one or two more
incidents.
Even now the 1917 slogan, “The Yanks are
coming,” will not hold good if by any means entry
can be avoided. In a cabled report of Neutrality Act
amendment proceedings, held in camera, Mr, Hull was
credited with stating that the steps he favored “would
not be equivalent to a declaration of war, but would
be short of war.” Senator Hiram Johnson, a non-
interventionist, commented: “Mr. Hull testified that
he would be no more in favor of going to war than
I would.”
There never was any truth in the Australian flapper-
press picture of an America hogging for action; and
today the still-powerful body of isolationist sentiment
gets practically no hearing in cables. The real truth
is that, apart from the avowed isolationists altogether,
there is still ‘deep-rooted national opposition to any
idea of another A.E.F. for Europe. Significantly, the
Pacific is never mentioned in this connection. The
decision of the U.S. Maritime Commission, announced
on October 23, to call a halt to Pacific shipments of
war materials to Russia —“henceforth they will be
sent by the shortest route, from Boston to Archangel”
—might be interpreted as indicating that Uncle Sam
is not madly hogging for “action” in this quarter,
either, if diplomacy can serve. It is, however, a
plainly evident, if curious, fact that any move by
Japan that brought America in at' the present stage
would bring in a much more closely united America
than would at this time go into the European conflict.
Japan’s leaders must be well aware of that curious
fact; and it alone —without the concrete assurances it
must be presumed he had—could have warranted Mr.
Curtin’s recent reference to “the cohesion of the demo-
cratic Powers in the Pacific an extraordinary
advance on what might have been considered possible
a year ago.” In the Pacific, apparently, there would


be little boggling even at the idea of an A.E.F. On
the European side that would still raise a delaying
force of opposition all over the country. Entry there
by way of naval or air participation would be quite
another matter, Americans would appear to be ready
for that. Before the vote on the arming of merchant-
men was taken in Congress a shrewd observer declared
that if such a vote was taken it would actually be a
test vote on war; that Congressmen who voted in
favor would have already made up their minds to
vote for war if, and when, that final issue came up.
On that basis, 259 against 138 of Congress are ready
to vote for war.
If the Yanks are coming reluctantly—true of every
other country involved in this war, except Germany—
they will now be coming pretty well prepared. They
have had more than two years—longer with regard to
the navy. Their war production is now properly into
its stride. Despite impatient adverse criticism, it has
reached huge proportions and is now substantially
increasing from month to month.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Black Book with Blank Pages.
Newspapermen and radio speakers—or some news-
papermen and some radio speakers—were righteously
indignant when it was revealed in Lord Gort’s dis-
patches that the British Army in France was short of
every requisite for making war against a mechanised
army, save clothing, boots and food —and in the last
phase, “when our lines of communication were com-
pletely cut and no more reserves were available, the
B.E.F. was on half rations.” They blame the War
Office and Mr. Hore-Belisha and (of course) Mr.
Chamberlain and others who were “in it,” and the
list of blameworthy persons and institutions grows
whenever the melancholy subject is discussed. But in
the catalogue of the culpable other entries will be
made by history in pages which are now blank.
Truly the Gort report came as a dreadful shock
to good people who gave full faith and credit to what
they were told ; but they should not reserve all their
anger for politicians and brasshats. They were grossly
misled in other quarters. They were informed that
not only the British Army but the French Army was
ready to the last button. They were assured that
Ironside and Garaelin were geniuses; that France
was a united nation actuated by an implacable deter-
mination to remove the German menace “once and
for all” ; that Poland was a first-class military Power,
and that in equipment, numbers, financial strength,
material resources, everything, the Allies would begin
the war with a pronounced superiority.
Going further back, these trusting people were led
to believe that the first shot fired from a German gun
would bring the United States in as a belligerent.
Their doubts, if any, were allayed by an arithmetical
formula as simple as Mr. Micawber’s: so many mil-
lions in the Democratic line-up ; so many fewer mil-
lions in the Axis line-up; result, victory. It was put
to them a thousand times, also in the Micawber style,
that collective security would sustain them to the end.
And though the British empire grew up on the prin-
ciple of non-intervention, they were told that its his-
toric mission was altogether different; that it was
charged with the duty of tackling aggression wherever
it showed itself: in Austria, Czechoslovakia, China
and, above all, Spain. They were urged to send arms
to the “democrats” in Spain and to rail at the Cham-
berlain Government until it should be obliged to place
all its forces at the disposal of the “democrats” along
with those of “united” France, meanwhile sneering that
the ships of the Royal Navy, restrained from aiding
the “democrats” by the “Fascist” Government, were
H.M.S. Unriskables. As for aggression in other parts,
they were assured that it could be scotched without
resorting to conscription or any nasty and expensive
thing like that. It would be necessary merely for Mr.
Eden to Warn the aggressor in his best Eton-and-
Oxford manner ; then the aggressor would curl up and
be good—or as good as he could be.
Who fed the people with these fancies and
furphies? Newspapermen and radio speakers. And
in spite of the Gort report and of the cruel losses
suffered by the fighting and auxiliary services off
Norway, France, Greece and Crete, and in the Battles
of the Atlantic and the Mediterranean, some news-
papermen and radio speakers are still demanding “an
offensive in the West,” though it would be a sentence
of death to many more officers and men of the Royal
Navy and the Merchant Navy, which have saved us all.
Heroes Come Home.
“El Verdugo” lets himself go:
The two Communist hunger-strikers, Thomas and Ratliff,
were released from internment last week by order of Cabinet
on the advice of its Attorney-General and its Army Minister.
Sydney papers performed as usual —reporters followed
them round, photographed them, hung on their words and
recorded their social engagements and expeditions. If they
had been Victoria Cross winners they could not have attracted
more laudatory attention. They were given a greater press
welcome home than sailor heroes or any of the wounded
soldiers from Tobruk. A lady of the Civil Liberties League —
which has another cause for rejoicing in the bajnning of the
“Comrade X” film in the name of civil liberties —announced
that she proposed to organise a public function “in honor
of the two men.”
In these exhibitions of elation there was no mention of
the report of the tribunal, headed by Justice Pike, which con-
sidered the case, or of a series of documents found on the pre-
mises which the pair occupied in the bush at Como, near Sydney.
One, headed “Confidential, please destroy when read,”
announced “a socialist competition” to recruit members for
the Communist party —then an illegal body campaigning surrep-
titiously for the stopping of the “imperialist war” —of which the
basis was set out in the following terms:
“War industries and other key industries, which include
munition annexes, steel works, mines, engineering shops,
wharves and seamen, textile and clothing factories, etc. —
three points for each recruit.
“Other factory, dental and professional workers not engaged
directly in war work —two points for each recruit.
“Housewives, artisans, unemployed, etc. —one point for
each recruit.
“This has been worked out in accordance with the decision
of the [Communist party] State Committee meeting and on the
basis of Lenin’s slogan, ‘Every mine, factory and workshop a
fortress of revolution.’ While some branches and even some
districts have no key industries in their area, nevertheless
workers reside in their localities, and the points will be to the
district recruiting the member irrespective of whether the
factory is in that district or not.”
Another paper, “on the question of illegal work,” advised
as to methods “to be employed to carry on the activities of the
party in such a way as to render it extremely difficult for the
police to trace such activities to their source.” “The tactics
to be assumed under police examination must be No state-
ments incriminating any comrade, no names, no address,
not a single fact that can possibly be used directly or indirectly
against the party, its organs or individual members. No
explanation in this respect. Absolute denial even when per-
sonally confronted with the persons and despite the evidence
given by police spies and agents provocateurs.”
There was advocacy of “a guerrilla movement growing in
space and time” to “undermine the war effort propaganda....
until preparation is made for something big Influencing the
youth against the war, and for the fight against conscription
and compulsory military training is an immediate question.
Growth of youth organisation demands our attention.”
The solicitor for the defence stated that “he was not
disputing that these documents fairly summarised the views
of the men before June,” but said that “their actions in future
would be guided by their belief that, so far as the Australian
war effort was concerned, every endeavor must be made to
assist, in particular, the U.S.S.R., and their activities in future
would be directed to that end.”
The tribunal found itself “in very considerable doubt
whether any undertaking given by” the fellows “will be carried
out.” But they were released nevertheless on guarantees given
by themselves and by the Sydney Labor Council, which once
had a secretary who vaunted that “Revolution” had “stepped on
the stage” in Australia. Army Minister Forde bleated that “the
release will remove what might have been otherwise a source of
serious industrial friction, and will promote production in war
industry.” So that’s how he interprets his leader’s promise
that the Labor Government will govern!
Distraction on the Feminine Front.
“Miss Harris” : My gracious, did you hear what that
General Mackay said about Australia trying to win
the war without disturbing herself? It’s the last word.
What I mean, he is handsome and brave and I think
Iven a perfectly charming first name, but where on
earth has the man been to talk like that? Heavens
above, doesn’t he know how disturbed we girls were
when that nice Mr. Spender stopped being Minister
for the War, or whatever it is, and they put Mr.
Forde in his place?
And now those silly Canberra persons are making
a dreadful fuss about the W.A.A.A.F. and they’ve
stopped building a perfectly lovely camp that was to
cost £BO,OOO, and they’re talking about stopping
women’s recruiting and not letting us have uniforms
any more. It’s positively outlandish, really it is.
We’re feeling awfully devastated, because it looked
as though he, Mr. Forde I mean, was going to be quite
nice and understanding about it all. What I mean,
it’s fearfully important that women should serve and
even people in places like Capricornia must know that
much. Mr. Forde, they tell me, likes everybody to
call him Frank and he seemed quite friendly and
charming and agreed with Major-General Downes
that we would “improve the morale of the soldiers
generally.” Some of us girls weren’t sure what morale
meant, and we asked that old lift-driver in our head-
quarters because he was a soldier in the last war, and
all he gave us was a hideous grin, the silly old fool.
Everything was too, too splendid and then those
awful Labor persons had to go and spoil it all. It
just shows what dreadful people get into politics and
just when I had ordered a new uniform, too. And
now we’re not sure that they’re going to send the 800
V.A.Ds. abroad at all, though the Palm Beach and
Potts Point sets enlisted as one girl and some of
them paid a lot more for their things than the £37
allowed for a uniform. It’s a perfect shame, because
V.A.Ds. were to get as much as army nurses, and in
the W.A.A.A.F. they get perfectly lovely undies and
things and a girl can keep up her appearance.
But think what it will mean to the brave darlings
fighting over there when they hear we may not be
coming. They’ll be horrified, really they will. It’s
all that General Mackay’s fault. You know he asked
what was going to happen to them, and if they were
going to be left there to fight on and on until they
can fight no more, and us girls think he must have
had a dreadful effect on the Government to make it
act like that. The poor man seemed terribly worked
up about it.
So I’m really sorry about poor Mr. Spender,
though some of us girls think Frank, I mean Mr.
Forde, should make himself a Lieutenant-Admiral or
something so he could wear a uniform too, and give
orders and make decisions without listening to a lot
of silly old Ministers and people like General Mackay.
And we’re all quite upset, really we are.
"Comrade X" and Two Jobs.
Australia runs to six Attorneys-General (effete
Britain somehow gets along with one), and the Sydney
member of the union, a Mr. Clarrie Martin, was very
busy last week.
As member of a Cabinet sub-committee, Mr.
Martin recommended a veto on N.S.W, exhibition
of the film “Comrade X,” a mild skit on Russia which
Maisky himself found unobjectionable, and which
has recently been shown in Victoria and in Queens-
land, where it is running yet. Mr. Martin is or was
a pillar of the Left Book Club, so this example of
humorless intolerance on his part is understandable ;
Left Book Clubs and Civil Liberties Leagues are like
that. It was expected, however, that a broad view
would be taken by the Premier, Mr. McKell, and that
at least a show of consistency would be made by the
“Colonial” Secretary, Mr. Baddeley.
But, no ; N.S.W. exhibition has been vetoed. “I
understand” said Mr. McKell, “that the film is a
comedy in which certain aspects of Russian life are
burlesqued” ; so he vetoed the thing without seeing it.
Mr, Baddeley had said that the people who urged him
to veto it had previously (and successfully) urged him
to lift the ban on the Leftist play “Till the Day I Die,”
and that they couldn’t “have it both ways.” But they
are to have it both ways. What a Premier and what
a Cabinet!
Presumably flushed with victory, Mr. Martin inter-
vened actively in the affair of two vacant professor-
ships at the Sydney Law School. Major Shand,
M. had asked in the House whether the Uni-
versity Senate was “contemplating” the appointment
of strangers of military age when “three other appli-
cants,” all qualified, were “fighting overseas” and an-
other, also qualified, was a returned soldier. There
followed an emotional outburst by Mr. Landa, M.L.A.,
who asserted that some members of the Senate, “adopt-
ing Nazi and Fascist tactics,” were trying to prevent
one of the professorships going to a Jew because he is
a Jew.
It transpired that the Senate had, by 12 votes to
10, chosen from 26 applicants two Maoriland law pro-
fessors, both aged 34 and one the Jewish gentleman
championed by Mr. Landa —he was born in Britain. A
rescission motion was presented at the instance of
Justice Halse Rogers (he is Chancellor), Justice David-
son, former Attorney-General Manning and Legislative
Council President John Peden, who was one of the
previous incumbents. Before it was put to the vote,
Mr. Martin arrived, having just been appointed to the
Senate “as representative of the Legislative Assembly.”
Mr. Martin spoke and voted for the Maoriland
nominees, but it was not his lucky day; the rescission
motion was carried by 13 votes to 10. It is now for
the Senate to decide whether to call for fresh appli-
cations or to place the Law School under temporary
control until the war is over.
Regardless of the views of Mr, Martin and Mr.
Landa, the claims of legal men in the fighting ser-
vices must be considered. They have enlisted in very
impressive numbers in all the States and it would be
monstrously unjust if their honorable and dangerous
service were to disqualify them from appointment to
positions like law professorships and the like. On
the day which saw Mr. Martin rush down to the
University to vote for Mr. Landa’s protege and the
other gentleman, news arrived that Captain Windeyer
had died of wounds received at Tobruk. One of the
two soldier sons of W. A. Windeyer, K.C., themselves
legal men —the surviving brother has also fought at
Tobruk, and a cousin fell at Passchendaele —their
family has had an unbroken association with the
N. Bar since 1835. Captain Windeyer’s death is
a mournful commentary on the attitude of a Govern-
ment that has been so effusive in its promises to fight-
ing men.
"Keep Off My Railways."
Mr. T, J. Hartigan, Commissioner for Railways in
N.S.W., gave very revealing evidence on certain aspects
of commission control at a coroner’s inquest at Casino.
Mr. Hartigan didn’t want to give evidence. The
Casino Coroner invited him to do so after an elderly
man had been killed by a train at the West-street
level crossing, Casino. Twelve days later, satisfied
that Mr. Hartigan didn’t intend to accept the invita-
tion, the Coroner subpoena’d him, an act which seemed
to startle a lot of people who apparently believed
that commissioners were exempt from such pro-
ceedings.
However, Mr. Hartigan duly appeared. So did
a solicitor for the Transport Department, a District
Superintendent of Railways, a Divisional Traffic
Inspector and Mr, Hartigan’s secretary. Therms
nothing like doing these things in style. Mr. Harti-
gan admitted that there had been 205 crossing acci-
dents in 12 months, and that 12 people had been killed
and 22 injured in them, and admitted also that his
department had received numerous requests for safety
devices at level crossings. Except where the Main
Roads Department had bridged the crossing or con-
tributed to a gate-keeper’s wages these applications
had not been granted.
Mr. Hartigan held that “railway lines were con-
structed under an authorisation Act and having com-
plied with that Act his responsibility ended.” Yes, he
remembered deputations about the Casino crossing and
somebody saying that somebody would be killed there.
He also remembered refusing the deputations’ requests
for certain measures. Asked to remember whether or
not he told a deputation that he was not concerned
about the safety of people on roads, but only with
that of those on railways, he made his attitude clear.
My responsibility is iior the people on the railways;
the safety of others is not my legal responsibility. I
believe there have been two accidents at the crossing
since my last visit to Casino. They did not affect
my decision in the matter.
Asked if it were not possible to slow down trains
over crossings he replied that there were 450 of them
between Sydney and Casino, and to slow down would
lengthen the journey by 3 hours 21 minutes. But
nobody suggested slowing at all crossings, nor did
anyone ask which was the more precious, human life
or a railways timetable. Obviously the Coroner meant
crossings like the one concerned, regarding which
there was a statutory declaration that 750 people and
vehicles had crossed it in one day.
The railways solicitor had his say. All about the
Act and “executive instructions” and the Commis-
sioner’s “legal” responsibility and so forth.
The Coroner: How many people have to be killed at
the crossing before something is done?
The Solicitor: I submit that question is put to the
wrong authority. It should, in law, be addressed to
the road authorities.
The Coroner: But there is a perfectly good and safe
road there. It becomes dangerous only when Mr.
Hartigan runs his trains over it.
A very determined person that coroner. He
found the driver of the train guilty of negligence in
approaching the crossing at “a speed dangerous to
the road traffic he might reasonably expect,” but
held that such negligence was due to the driver’s obey-
ing departmental instructions and was therefore not
criminal. He added that the Commissioner’s state-
ment that he was not concerned with the safety of
road-users was “reprehensible.”
Thereupon Mr. Hartigan and his retinue returned
to Sydney.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS”
“R. Volt”: The Post Office’s textbook
of phrases for soldier cables doesn’t
satisfy all cases. The happy mother of
twins in Melbourne asked her father to
acquaint her husband overseas with the
glad event, and he went to the phrase
book. There was “daughter born” and
“son born” but no provision for any
plurals. If the new arrivals had been
of opposing sexes “son born, daughter
born” might have been sufficiently in-
telligible, but they happened to be boys.
“Son born, son born” is how the message
was sent in the hope that the father would
come to the correct conclusion. Seems
to be a pretty slender hope.
* * * *
“Fernlander”: Maoriland’s most whole-
sale murderer, 40-year-old Stanley
Graham, could have expected no mercy,
and certainly got none, when, after 12
days at large, he was spotted by armed
police, though he said afterwards he was
giving himself up. He was shot in the
chest while covered with a dozen rifles
and died in hospital a few hours later.
One of his hands had been blown off
and there were other wounds in his
neck. He had shot dead six of his pur-
suers, including four policemen, and
evidently was mentally deranged. Graham
lived in a wild and isolated district, his
milking-shed had been condemned, and
he firmly believed that some prize cows
of his had been poisoned. He took
three rifles, two revolvers and a big
supply of ammunition into the bush after
killing four men who tried to arrest him,
and his knowledge of the district and his
prowess as a marksman made the subse-
quent chase a dangerous and protracted
business. It was not anticipated by any-
one that it could have any end short of
Graham’s death.
“Smilax”: I used to wonder why news-
papers illustrated references to foreign
affairs with so many maps. I don’t now.
I remarked to a fellow-passenger on the
tram that we might wake up one morning
to find the little brown gentlemen at our
gates. “Never,” he replied confidently.
“They’ll never get past Gibraltar!”
Shortly after that I asked a young woman
if her brother in the A.I.F. had been sent
abroad. “No,” was the answer. “He’s
at Singapore.”
* * * »
“Clooter”: You never know what
women will say, as a Sydney legal man
discovered when defending a wife
accused of assaulting a female whom the
wife suspected of being “the other
woman.” Cross-examining the victim of
the wife’s attack, the defender asked
“Have you been friendly with Mr. So-
and-so?” “I. have been friendly with Mr.
So-and-so, just as I like to be friendly
with everyone, even with you, Mr.
Costs,” came the answer. Counsel’s
reaction isn’t recorded, but he succeeded
in getting the wife released on bond.
“Avon”: War is a business that the
Maori thoroughly appreciates and under-
stands. He revels in it. A reception
given to some Maori soldiers, returned
wounded, at Wellington, is typical of the
relish with which the race dramatises
military events. The address of welcome
opened:—
Welcome! Hearty greetings to you all.
You have crossed the broad ocean of the
ever-opened eye of Kiwa; you have looked
upon the narrow pathway of Tane, and you
have seen the descendants of the most
famous people of the world of other ages
which have passed away. The perfume of
your heroic deeds has been long since
wafted to us along ocean’s northern
breezes, and our hearts have risen in
praise and thankfulness that you have re-
turned safely from the very jaws of battle.
And the peroration was:
Welcome to Wellington, the capital city,
so that your brown Maori skins may be
again laved by the incense-breathing and
bedewed breezes which guide along those
messengers of spring, the shining cuckoos.
Welcome! May you all live long under the
shining sun!
Apirana Ngata and the Queen of Raro-
tonga were there, and there was a great
flood of Maori oratory. Maori girls
“S’pose you understand you'll have to get your parents’ consent.”
sang a war song, and proceedings culmi-
nated with the ceremony of hongi (nose-
rubbing), so a great time was had by all.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: There must have been an
extraordinary advance in the standard of
athletic achievement since the days, 45
years ago, when “Professor” Peart’s
“death-defying dive” packed circus tents
night after night. Peart dived from a
platform 40ft. to 50ft. high into a huge
tarpaulin filled with water. The deed
was emulated by hundreds of small boys,
and broken arms became an epidemic
amongst them. In Sydney Peart grazed
the side of the tank one night so slightly
that he gave no indication of pain ; but
when he reached his dressing-room hd
collapsed and was dead in a few minutes.
His act was the biggest drawcard of the
circus business of my recollection ; but
it would probably have no appeal today.
Scores of young men who don’t call
themselves professors can do dives from
much greater heights than Peart ever
attempted.
* * * *
“Si Anu”; There was a quaint lin-
guistic muddle at Melbourne’s Spencer-
street station when hundreds of Victorian
Chinese assembled to welcome the
smiling Minister of their country. Dr.
Hsu Mo could no more make himself
intelligible to his fellow-countrymen
than a Swede could to a Spaniard if they
didn’t speak each other’s language. He
had to address them first in Guan Hwa,
the official language known only to
Northern Chinese and educated people;
his words had to be translated into Can-
tonese for those who spoke that lingo,
which is the case with 99 out of 100
Australian Celestials; then the Can-
tonese had to be translated into English
for the others. The popular notion of
China as a unified nation is up against
the fact that only the written language
is the same, people as far apart as only
ten miles pronouncing the common sym-
bols in as many different ways as people
of different European nations pronounce
our common mathematical symbols. I
once attended a Chinese jockey club
dinner in Shanghai where Shantungese,
Cantonese, Fukienese and Szechuanese
were obliged to converse with one an-
other in Oxford, Harvard and pidgin
English.
* * * *
“C.W.8.”: “Cheesed Off” (B.
15/10/’4l) used as a pen-name one of
the many English expressions for “fed
up” used extensively in the Middle East
as well as Singapore. “Brassed off” and
“browned off” are pretty common, too,
and the antonym for “pukka gen.” is
“duff gen.” Expressions of derision and
abuse for rookies on service are legion:
“Get some (service) in,” “Get your knees
brown,” “Get a number,” “Join up.”
Things are rated “good show” or “bad
show.” A lucky bloke is “spawny” ; a
seasoned regular is an “old sweat” ; some-
thing extra good is “whizzo.”
* * * *
“D.E.”: A word I hate is “reliable.”
It was never much of a word, and I
doubt whether lexicographers of the
Johnson school would have admitted it
to their dictionaries, but as used in these
unquiet times it has become an abomina-
tion. “It is reliably reported”—when you
read that you can be sure that the re-
porter is a most untrustworthy person,
who hasn’t bothered to ascertain, much
less verify, what he presents as facts. At
best he is guessing; at worst he is lying ;
and in between he is believing—and ex-
pecting others to believe—what he wants
to believe. “Reliable authorities state” —
they are always anonymous and can
always be dismissed as being neither
authoritative nor careful, nor even truth-
ful. In the lexicon of war terms there
is no more sinister expression. It should
be spelt “reliarble.”
* * * *
“El V.”: It seems to me that that 24-
year-old prisoner who escaped from
Prince Henry Hospital, Sydney, to
enjoy a few hours’ freedom might be
more useful elsewhere than in gaol. His
record showed that when he was first
caught in Parramatta in a terrace of
houses he escaped by swinging along
window-ledges to the end of the terrace ;
and before the coppers grabbed him he
had insinuated himself into a lady’s dress
and hiddefi in a wardrobe. In 1937 he got
away from Long Bay, and after several
days’ furlough was found in Bathurst.
In his last escape he downed a warder
and a nurse, sprinted through a ladies’
ward wearing only a pyjama coat, suc-
ceeded in changing his clothes twice, went
to a picture show in Sydney and was
picked up in the evening in Parramatta,
20 miles or so away on the other side
of a city in which every policeman was
on the lookout for him. And mark that
he was supposed to be a hospital case.
The military authorities ought to be able
to use a lad like that on the Iranian fron-
tier or somewhere. He sounds capable
of breaking the heart of the Luftwaffe
by pinching Goring’s decorations.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The present vogue of
subscription concertgoing is producing a
new musical intelligentsia in Melbourne.
A young man approached a matron in
the foyer during the interval at “Judas
Maccabeus” and nervously asked:
“Excuse me, where did you get your
libretto?” Evidently thinking that the
young man wanted to take a rise out of
her, the lady acidly retorted: “I’m not
Handel!” “I beg your pardon,” stam-
mered the young man, retiring in con-
fusion. “I meant your programme.”
* * *
“S.T.S.”: Surely it must be mere leg-
pulling when a man with “Oxmead’s”
fine grasp of the language seems to con-
fuse “ever so often” with “every so often”
(B. 15/10/’4l). “Ever so” is just a rather
meaningless phrase for “very,” and could
be applied to any other adverb or adjec-
tive just as well as to “often.” But
“every so-often” —as it ought to be
printed—is an extension of the doctor’s
familiar “every four hours” ; and means
“the thing happens at intervals, but I
don’t know just what the intervals are.”
Quite a useful phrase and quite modern,
as “Oxmead” says, to be ranked with
“umpteen,” that handy suggestion of any
number large but unknown.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Unlike “Plum”
(B. 15/10/’4l), I have never worn
trouser-cuffs nor frequented company
where it was necessary to keep my money
constantly in my hand. As a revenue-
producer, my sole experience leads me
to regard the trouser as incomparably
superior to the pant which “P.” quotes.
“Whunttz intherdeer deddays urv lawng
aggow,” as the drawing-room tenor of
the naughty ’nineties used to sing, I re-
turned to my Edinburgh lodging after
assisting to celebrate Hogmanay by
throwing bottles at Tron Church. It was
a wet night in every sense, and to save
my trousers from the rather carelessly-
kept street surfaces of Scotia’s capital
I had turned them up at the hem before
setting out for the evening. As the room
came to rest after one of the seismic
waves which are so prominent a feature
of the country at that season, a yellow
gleam attracted my attention io a star-
board trouser hem. Investigation revealed
it as coming from a half-sovereign stuck
firmly inside a worn portion of the
leather chafing-strip which was, and still
is, an essential feature of any properly
constructed trouser. My entire assets
on setting out had amounted to four and
six, so that a net profit of over 200 p.c.
makes “P.’s” pant-recovered zack a puny
effort in comparison. And, be it remem-
bered, in Edinburgh !
* * * *
“Parra-boy”: My recollection of the
couplet quoted by “Kingy-eye” (B.
22 /10/’4l) is that it read “Couldn’t catch
a butterfly!” Anyhow, threescore years
ago T.K.S. boys were more concerned
with punches than couplets, and insults
by the local “Flying Gang” were settled
with bare knuckles in Alfred-square. It
was only the cry “Here comes Latimer”
(the police head) that brought an armis-
tice, and finally the wounds were healed
with a pint of “vallack” at the Currency
Lass or the Woolpack. But some of the
schoolmasters were very touchy. When
Shaw’s English XI played at the Parra-
matta Oval in December, 1881, one of
the visitors was shown over the school,
then the old Government House, not for-
getting the tree where Lady Fitzroy was
killed. “But,” said the visitor, “what are
those big buildings over there to the
north? Are they part of the school?”
He couldn’t understand the frigid “No!”
until informed that the buildings were
the gaol, the mental asylum and the
home for uncontrollable girls!
* * * *
“Chevroford”: An interesting example
of evolution is proceeding in Melbourne
over the gas-producer putfits. Some
private cars carry them in sections star-
board and port abaft the engine ; others
have them stuck out in front like the
nose of an ice-breaker; some have them
precariously perched aft on the counter ;
some tow them behind like a dinghy ;
some have them hidden under the poop
and some have them in the waist amid-
ships. A lorry I saw the other day had
the contraption perched on the roof of
the driver’s cubicle like a submarine’s
conning tower. The endeavors of novices
to manoeuvre cars fitted with the new
contraptions add a complication to the
traffic problem, A smart young woman,
out for the first time in a luxurious sedan,
in backing against the kerb in a narrow
street shoved the trailer containing the
gas outfit through a haberdasher’s
window.
LUXURY GOODS.
“Mr. Curtin is urging Australians to cut out buying
luxury goods, but, so far, hasn’t defined them (13.
22/10/’41).”
Luxury goods, luxury goods,
Those wares that furnish their livelihoods
To a host of citizens roundabout
Who vend us things we could do without.
Still, it’s not so easy to make a list
Of what such articles consist,
And I have a fancy to ask you gents
if six—out of seven—Parliaments
In this particular neck of the woods
Aren’t the dizzy limit in luxury goods?
There’s a Latin saw which the spot might hit;
Into my metre it will not fit
But, roughly rendered, I’ll set it down:
“What isn’t needful’s dear at a brown.”
Yet to fix a limit is hard indeed
’Twixt the goods you want and the goods you
need.
A wild indulgence for one may be
For another a sheer necessity.
From a pair of shoes to a motor-car,
It all depends upon who you are.
Orchids and truffles and diamond rings,
Along with heaps of imported things—
Though every month these grow more few—*
Are purchases we should all eschew.
Furs such as musquash, and gorgeous frocks,
Stuff from the beauty parlor’s stocks,
Suits that are priced in some classy store
At sev’nteen guineas or rather more,
All these, it’s certain, one might define
As odds and ends in the luxury line.
But what I think you might fairly call
The costliest luxuries of all
Are wagers booked on the speed of gees
And tickets in bursting lotteries.
Those mammoth gambles in which the Stat_
Bids whoso will to participate.
So, Curtin, now that a move you’ve made,
I wish you luck in your new crusade,
And, since needless luxuries you condemn,
Why in the world not start on them ?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Ike Hollar”: While new words and
phrases are pushing into the language
old ones are naturally becoming obsolete.
“Turn in his grave” should be one of
them, but it isn’t. Shortly after a Sydney
man whose father had been a zealous
churchman with a hatred of racing and
gambling had bought a noted racehorse
an old acquaintance of his dad stopped
him in the street. “My boy,” he said,
“your father would turn in his grave if
he knew of this folly.” “Not a chance,”
declared the sport cheerfully. “We
cremated him.”
* * * *
“Bumpk”: Can’t help being amused at
the art storm in N.S.W. over the con-
stitution of the Gallery trustees. Critics
are concerned because one is 84, another
70 and others well on the wrong side
of 60. Their curative proposal is the bril-
liant notion of retirement at 65, just like
the civil service. But what has know-
ledge of anything got to do with age?
Bernard Shaw at 84 would hardly be said
to know less than Clive Evatt, the Min-
ister of Education ; Titian painted a great
picture after he was 90; Goethe was still
ahead of all the science of his day when
he was 80 ; and at 76 Socrates was no
fool, though he may have been regarded
by his fellow-citizens as a scoundrel. On
the other hand, the youths of the modern
movement who are criticising the trustees
aren’t wiser than their elders; they are
only in a newer fashion.
V H*
“Galluper”; “Oxmead” asks (B.
15/10/’4l) what authority there is for a
certain change of idiom. The only
authority in all such matters is common
usage. Consider the way in which Van
Gogh yellow has come into popular
favor. Half the youth, male and female,
of Melbourne use it in their shirts, their
jerseys, their ties, their scarfs, their socks
and their bedroom decoration, and they
have not the remotest notion in the world
why they do it. But once upon a time
Van Gogh set out in his little Breton
village or a Paris attic to paint a bowl
of sunflowers and produced a peculiar
shade of yellow which had never been
seen before, and immediately focused
people’s attention on it. No doubt some-
body or other started to wear the color,
somebody else copied him, some manu-
facturer cashed in on the racket and it
became a world-wide fashion. It is the
“Arrest me be blowed! It's a job for the Water p'lice .”
same with language, the only difference
being that, after a word or a phrase has
passed from the pubs to the higher intel-
lectual reaches, some solemn owl of a
professor embalms it in a dictionary.
* * * ♦
“Shellgrit”: “Youanmi’s” correction
of Ron McCuaig (B. 15/10/’4l) for using
the line “Or a tender steak from her ribs
to fry” reminds me of a Melbourne man
of my acquaintance. He married a girl
whose housekeeping experience was a bit
“It's a hopeless search , Prendergast! You telephone your missus and
I'll get the ship ready for sea!"
sketchy. A few weeks after the wedding
he overheard a dialogue at the back door.
“Good morning, butcher. Have you any
nice, tender steak, please?” “No, m’m,
I’ve no steak today.” “Have you any
chops, then?” “I’m sorry, no chops,
m’m.” A pause. “Then what other kinds
of meat are there?”
JP * * #
“Loo”: Can’t uphold the suggestion
that we follow America’s example and
carve the likenesses of our political gents,
from mountains (B. 15/10/’4l). Poli-
tical favorites being not nearly so perma-
nent as the blush on a modern girl’s
cheek, we’d run out of mountains p.d.q.
A better idea would be to throw a sheet
over the mountain and project a likeness
of the current political favorite on to it.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: I see that the attentioh
of Senator Fraser, the new External Ter-
ritories Minister and Minister Assisting
the Minister for Commerce (I wish they
didn’t have these long names, they make
a man dry), has been directed by the
Wine Board to the inadequacy of the
channels for distribution of wine within
Australia, but the board seems to think
it is a matter of transportation. There
are plenty of channels, but when I take
my channel into a public-house in Mel-
bourne I find there is a bottleneck, firstly
in the publican’s prejudice against Aus-
tralian wines and, secondly, in his belief
that it is made from ambrosia or some-
thing, and has to be charged for in
accordance. If I take my channel into a
cafe I find that wine is regarded by the
authorities in the same way as they
regard arsenic, luminol or cocaine, and
that even severer transport restrictions are
put on it than they put on the chemist,
who can at least sell dangerous drugs
on a doctor’s prescription. I also find
that an excellent wine can be obtained
at as little as fivepence a gallon if you
go to the grower. So it isn’t the cost or
the lack of channels but the official alti-
tude which is the trouble.
* * * *
“F.S.”: “In these days of so-ca’led
equality of the sexes, is it not about time
that those responsible for the choice of
artists to paint the portraits of the various
Prime Ministers and other officials gave
our women artists an opportunity?”
writes one of the sex in Melb. “Argus.”
It isn’t a question of equality of the
sexes. The artists are selected by com-
mittees, which invariably take the valua-
tion of society as to who are the good
artists —good artists in social estimation
being those who have got a lot of com-
missions, made a lot of money, have had
their works bought by national galleries
and been hung in posh exhibitions. Yet
the vast majority of the great artists of
the past never measured up to any of
these criteria. Of all the thousands of
official portraits of kings, popes and
statesmen that have been painted in the
past, nine hundred and ninety-nine out of
a thousand were painted by persons
who have been completely forgotten.
Only a handful were painted by artists
who are still remembered.
J* V ***
“Colonel Bungstarter”: What is the
origin of the “touch wood” gesture?
Frazer’s Golden Bough has nothing
to say about it. According to
Cruden, wood is mentioned 37 times
in the Old Testament and twice in
the New, but none of the texts listed by
him or Dr. Eadie throws any light on
the matter. The most likely guess is a
connection with the fragments of the
True Cross which were venerated in large
numbers in the Holy Land and medieval
Europe through the Middle Ages, but I
can recall no literary reference to support
it.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: So the Australia-Soviet
Friendship League demanded that “Com-
rade X” should be compulsorily with-
drawn because it is a “travesty on the
Soviet Government” (B. 1 /10/ ’4l) and the
N.S.W. Government yielded to the
demand. Compared with Communist
literature, “Comrade X”
is milk and soda-water.
I may be dull, but it
seems to me that if the
A.S.F.L. can justify the
banning of “Comrade
X” it automatically
justifies the banning of
Communist propa-
ganda.
* *
“Qwert Yuiop”: A
new and popular de-
velopment in American
lunchrooms is a kitchen
where customers can
cook their own meals
if they feel like it. All
required ingredients are
on sale at usual shop
rates, utensils are sup-
plied, aprons and chef
cans are provided to
gratify the American
love for dressing the
part, and the establish-
merit does all the washing-up. Charges
run from 10 p.c. to 20 p.c. below
ordinary menu rates. The original
idea was that the innovation would
appeal mainly to business girls who
wanted a change from the diet of hostels
and boarding-houses, but many men have
taken advantage of the chance to show
off their cooking abilities. Flat-dwellers
and roomers also find it convenient for
cooking an extra portion or dish to take
home.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: I met a matron hurry-
ing off to a war charities committee meet-
ing, and she handed
me a letter she had
written to a daily
about these muni-
tion girls who
spend part of their
earnings on perms,
and finery. I have
a violent prejudice
against these grizzle
columns in the
papers, and her
epistle didn’t make
me want to be
polite to the lady.
“Very nice,” I said,
handing her back
her effusion, “but
haven’t you the
reputation of being
one of the most
fashionably-dressed
women in the
city?” “I believe
so,” she answered;
“but what has that
got to do with it?
My husband can
afford it.” “That
may be so,” I said,
“but how can you
justify your self-indulgence without
justifying the self-indulgence of the
munition workers? If you spend your
husband’s money on expensive im-
ported creations, why do you object
to the girls spending theirs on frocks
made in Australia?” “Oh,” she said,
“that’s an entirely different matter.”
But the letter didn’t appear in my morn-
ing paper.
* * * *
“Western” recalls the beginnings of a
city: —•
Bathurst, with the exception of Parramatta,
only recently elevated to such a status, and
Newcastle, is the oldest “city” outside Sydney
in N.S.W. Major H. C. Antill records .its
solemn and somewhat pompous inaugura-
tion by Macquarie on the occasion of his Ex.’s
visit to the place in 1815: “A thick foggy morn-
ing, which soon cleared away as the sun got a
little power. A little after breakfast assembled
the whole of our inhabitants, civic, naval and
military, 75 in number, in front of the large
tent, and the British flag was displayed for the
first time, the troops saluting it with three volleys
and the rest giving three cheers. The Governor
then delivered a short speech to Mr. Cox and
Mr. Evans as having through their exertions
been brought to so fine a country, thanking the
latter for having explored it with so much
perseverance and success, and the former for
having with considerable labor made so good
a road for upwards of a hundred miles in so
short a time and so difficult to perform. He
then named the place and new town to be
marked out ‘Bathurst,’ and each drank a
bumper, some in wine and the rest in rum, to
the King’s health and success to the town. We
adjourned to the Governor’s marquee, where
divine service was performed. The men were
orderly and attentive, and the day was spent
with cheerfulness and good humor, and
closed by giving the men another dram.”
* * * *
“Looby”: To a girl in a Pitt-street
tram last week a post office is a place
for very simple transactions. Passing
Sydney’s new G.P.O. building, she re-
marked indignantly to her friend: “Now
look at that for a waste of money!
Wouldn’t it have been cheaper for them
just to put up a few dozen more stamp
machines here and there?”
w * * *
“X.S.”: Lud Mayor Beaurepaire, of
Melbourne, will have to go deeper into
the matter if he wants to evoke enthusi-
asm from the crowds that assemble to
witness military marches. An impressive
array of mechanised fighting vehicles fol-
lowed by 3000 first-class fighting men in
battle dress marched through the city,
shaking the buildings, and an audi-
ence of tens of thousands remained
almost completely silent. Why? A previ-
ous march of the Air Force was showered
with ribbons and confetti and greeted
with a continuous run of cheering, largely
from the women. I suggest a reason.
The circumstances of the defence ol:
Britain have surrounded the air fighter
with a halo. The aura of romance has
been increased by the newspapers and
the movies. On the other hand, tanks
are less familiar than aircraft, and the
look of them doesn’t appeal much to the
imagination. Aeroplanes do.
* * * *
“T.McN.”: The inevitable Yank pro-
fessor is up again with a suggestion that
if food runs low in England the people
can eat grass. “I have eaten grass my-
self,” says he, “mixed half-and-half with
flour and baked into soda biscuits. It
is nutritious and tastes really fine.” To
which, no doubt, the entire English nation
will reply “Baa-aa!”
PRIMITIVE MAN.
He lived in a cave by the sea
Some cycles and aeons ago,
Or roosted high up in a tree
Secure from aH dangers below.
For weal, as it seemed, or for woe,
He broke from the simian clan
into heir of the ages to grow,
Our ancestor, primitive man.
His weapons were scant, you’ll agree;
With a club and some flints and a bow
He held himself armed, cap-a-pie,
To face or to fall on a foe.
These also sufficed, as you know,
To furnish the hunter with scran
Required for the status in quo
Established by primitive man.
From harassing laws he was free;
No dun ever dogged him for dough;
No medico charged him a fee;
He’d never to dig or to hoe,
Or get himself measured for do’,
Or tinker a pot or a pan.
No taxes to pay (or to owe)
Were levied on primitive man.
As lakewards he loped from the lea
Or wild through the woodlands he ran —
Whatever prim parsons decree—
Or smug sociologists plan—
I think he was luck'er than we,
Ingenuous primitive man!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


fd
ABSOLUTELY
SAFE and
SILENT
NO PRICKING
NO PRIMING NO PUMPING
Hot instantly. Only one fuel
Kerosene. New long life
wool wick. No expensive burn-
ers to replace. See your local store.
'pwmii
LANE'S
GENUINE
BLU E FLA M E
KEROSENE STOVE
POLITICAL POINTS
When Curtin announced the names of
his Ministers, Frank Brennan warned him
that 19 was an excessive number, and
suggested that consequences might be
awkward. Now it’s contended that when
questions of Government policy arise the
19 Ministers should vote in Caucus as
the majority has decided in Cabinet.
Though the 19 are in a minority of the
whole Parliamentary, party, they can out-
vote the other Labor Ms.H.R.
For three months to Sept. 30 McKell,
who says he is “abolishing” wages tax —
which means for those who contributed
the bulk of the proceeds that it is being
added to income tax, with various tricky
devices designed to bring in £lOO,OOO
more this year than wages and income
taxes furnished last year —spent £248,300
less on food relief and £290,100 less on
child endowment than was spent in the
corresponding period of 1940. By way
of giving an appearance of necessity to
his shameful bleeding of the taxpayers in
the third war year, he is charging up part
of the Taxation Department’s expendi-
ture to the unemployed-relief and social-
service fund.
A long-dead Westralian Government
buried a rabbit-proof-fence boundary-
rider and debited the cost to “Develop-
ment of Agriculture —Loan Vote.” The
day is approaching when an outraged
public will plant the Sydney Government
and Parliament, but will do it at its own
expense.
Two elderly Westralian Labor politi-
cians have been mournfully discussing
the position their State Parliament has
reached. Said W. D. Johnson, who has
been an Assemblyman, off and on, for
40 years, “The Loan Council controls us
and we are disciplined by the Disabilities
Commission.” Said Teddy Needham,
who was once Opposition leader in the
Senate, “By unification of the purse we
have, in effect, unification in the
States... .Whatever sovereign rights this
Parliament had have been taken from
it.” All the same, neither gentleman has
any violent objection to “this Parlia-
ment” indefinitely prolonging its useless
existence.
Bishop Burgmann’s description of
Russia as “God’s gift to the British
Empire” was a feature of a Canberra
meeting at which medical aid for Russia
was demanded. Unfortunately it coin-
cided with a Perth meeting of the State
A.L.P. executive at which the Westralian
Medical-Aid-for-Russia organisation was
denounced as kin to the Australian-
Soviet Friendship League, and Westralian
Laborites were warned that to join it
would mean expulsion. Perhaps there
is something wrong with the liaison work.
If, as one of its Ministers told “S. M.
Herald,” the N.S.W. Government pro-
poses to hold a referendum on the aboli-
tion of the Leg. Council, it should be
challenged to make it a referendum on
the abolition of the whole Macquarie-
street caboodle. But it wouldn’t be game.
Horribly narked because the other
shop insisted on amendments to his curi-
ous Western Lands Bill, Tully, the N. S.
Wales Minister for Lands, declared that
if certain Ms.L.C. “framed this amend-
ment with the knowledge of its impli-
cations, then they stand exposed to the
world as guilty partisans of a crime
against the people.” No doubt the world,
when it hears about it, will stand appalled
that such things could be.
All the coal S.A. burns comes from
N. S. Wales, and Premier Playford is
worried at its increasing dearness —his
Railway Department paid £1 6s. 4d. a
ton in June, 1940, and £1 18s. 2d. in Sep-
tember, 1941. He regards it as a sign
of “injudicious use of bank credit.” This
may be disputed, but anyone who thinks
he can do so is welcome to answer an-
other Playford argument that “as much
as possible” of the war expenditure should
be financed out of current revenue; “it
is the only way to cut down the high
volume of luxury spending and to avoid
inflation, and it would help immensely in
solving post-war problems and prevent-
ing depressions.”
Australia gets bushels of advice nowa-
days from kind strangers. Every Chinese
gentleman who comes this way invites
it to regard China as its first line of
defence, though the British Navy has
held that position magnificently for 153
years. And an editor from Batavia, a
Mr. Ang Jan Goan, urges Australia to
send an expeditionary force to Dili!
immediately to “prevent further Japanese
infiltration in the island,” said “infiltra-
tion” being “a menace to the security of
Australia.” Apart from the fact that
landing an expeditionary force in Portu-
guese territory would be an act of war,
the “infiltration” complained of must be
a far greater menace to Dutch security,
seeing that the Dutch are part-owners of
Timor. What are they doing about it?
Though the McCahills’ Western Lands
Bill is alleged to be of continent-wide
importance and to involve the great prin-
ciple of popular sovereignty or some-
thing, only one Opposition member was
present when amendments made in “an-
other place”—the last fortress of fester-
ing conservatism —were considered. Many
champions of popular sovereignty being
missing also, the lone Oppositionist
“Ex-Premier Stevens has assured Mr. Beasley of his earnest wish to serve Mr. Beasley’s
Government and his complete readiness to carry out its wishes.”
“Go outside, sahib, and stay there till I’ve finished this letter I’m writing to
you."
called for a quorum, and two more wan-
dered in. Presently one of the new-
comers called for a quorum. There were
“only eight Government members in the
House.”
There are 90 N.S.W. Assemblymen, and
they get £875 p.a. and free passes for
almost everything. In Maoriland, where
there are 80 members and war measures
to debate and pass (the Sydney Parlia-
ment has nothing to do with the war) the
pay is £450 p.a. and travelling exes, at
the beginning and end of a session.
“Isn’t it odd that Australia’s part in
Britain’s war effort is so much better
known in America than Canada’s?” says
the New York “Post,” quoted by Sydney
“D.T.” Then, looking for the nigger
in the woodpile, you read that “Aus-
tralia’s well-managed publicity office in
New York,” which has one writing boy
at £2500 Australian p.a. and another at
£l5OO Aust. p.a., “takes care to keep
the United States informed.” Isn’t it
odd that this puff should appear (and
there was any amount of others) just
when Ashley, the new Minister for Infor-
mation, is thinking of wiping out the
“well-managed publicity office” as an
imposition on the taxpayer!
Victoria’s Parliament has given a lead
to the people of the Empire by staggering
hours for mealtimes. By an informal
arrangement one House goes to its tucker
an hour before the other, reason given
being that there is a temporary shortage
of labor. The magnificence of the gesture
is somewhat marred by the fact that the
shortage is caused by the increased de-
mand for cooks and waiters during the
racing season.
In a sodomy case in Queensland, it
came out that the beast in the dock,
though an old offender, had been per-
mitted to adopt an orphanage boy
through the State Children’s Depart-
ment, in spite of a standing order
that the bona fides of persons asking for
adoptions should be referred to the
C. 1.8. Said Justice Philp, with just in-
dignation, “The person who disobeyed
that order should be standing in the dock
with this man.”
U.A.P. leader Hollway and Premier
Dunstan continue to enact the roles of
nagging wife and resigned husband.
After Hollway had spent a week com-
plaining of the deficiencies of Dunstan,
Dunstan wearily retorted with a recital
of his own virtues, concluding by saying
that it was difficult to know what Holl-
way wanted, unless it was an alliance
between his party and Labor. Husbands
and wives seldom quarrel over the thing
that is really biting them.
Charged with sly-grog selling, a King’s
Cross (Sydney) restaurateur pleaded (un-
availingly; he was fined £3O or 60 days)
that “the liquor on his premises belonged
to other people.” Important people:
Mr. Brian Penton, of the “Daily Tele-
graph,” is a regular customer. He always
has liquor with his meals. I had about
£35 worth of drinks belonging to Mr.
Penton.
Mr. Fenton’s paper has been shouting
that “We” —yes, we —must “do something
desperate to help Russia.”
Extract from “Newsweek,” “the lead-
ing American news magazine,” which,
according to the Sydney paper that buys
its stuff, knows more about the war than
anybody else:
In Libya....the Italians and Germans
possess the advantage of shorter communi-
cations, which are subject to British attack.
But the British admit that three of four
Axis transports are reaching their destina-
tions.
Cunningham, C.-in-C. of the Mediter-
ranean Fleet, quoted by the same Syd-
ney paper;—
Not half the supplies and reinforcements
sent by Italy have ever arrived intact in
Libya. During September 30 p.c. of
Italian shipping sailing for Benghazi and
Tripoli has been sunk and 20 p.c. damaged.
Apparently Cunningham doesn’t read
“Newsweek,” which is a pity. A little
laughter now and then might relieve the
strain.
If the McCahills are anywhere near
right, Sydney must be the most corrupt
city on the face of the earth. Any-
way, they announce a crusade of
trust-busting, monopoly-mangling, slum-
shifting and a general Blitzkrieg against
mysterious persons accused of every-
thing from skullduggery to barratry on
the high seas. Strangely enough, nobody
is worried.
The first award for meritorious service
by a politician in this war has been pre-
sented in Queensland. It was received
by G, C. Taylor, M.L.A., from the
Townsville secretary of the Painters’
Union, in the form of a gold medal “for
his courageous stand in defying the
Q.C.E. dictators on the Aid to Russia
issue.” The A.L.P. declares that Taylor,
by refusing to dissociate himself from
the Australia-Russia Friendship crowd,
is no longer an A.L.P. member.
Taylor declares he is. The Painters’
Union was “expelled” from the A.L.P.
12 months ago.
The N.S.W. Cabinet is “considering”
an increase in Sydney Harbor Bridge
tolls “because of the marked falling-off
in road traffic caused by petrol rationing.”
It doesn’t seem to have occurred to it
that a reduction in motor registration fees
might keep a lot of cars on the roads
that are now going off the roads.
Down on Victoria’s Mornington
peninsula the flames of revolt are burn-
ing. Residents at a public meeting urged
the opening of an electioneering campaign
to support only those candidates, irre-
spective of party, who support abolition
of all Government boards that control
the marketing of commodities. As
Lawson once remarked, the trouble with
these provincials is that they have too
much time to think.
Westralians seem to be tardily dis-
covering what a delightful thing it is to
be an M.L.C. at £6OO p.a. (and that for
six years), and lots of time to spend in
a comfortable club and library and using
a pass which is good for all the Govern-
ment railways of the Commonwealth and
Maoriland. Anyway, nine gentlemen are
out for a metropolitan seat left vacant
by the death of John Nicholson, a mem-
ber for 23 years and a former Mayor of
Perth. One of the nine helped to carry
the Secesh petition to Westminster. The
idea that now absorbs him, Secesh being
dead, is a Commonwealth grant big
enough to enable the Willcock Govern-
ment to take 25 p.c. off the State income
tax. Willcock is willing but not hopeful.
The Secret Fund inquiry:
It took a startling turn when Monahan, K.C.,
as counsel assisting the commission, asked Jus-
tice Raise Rogers to reject the evidence of
Hughes and Fadden “as to the purpose for
which” £3OO “was made available.” Previously
Hughes, in the box again, had altered the date
of Nelson’s alleged visit to him from March
“3 or 4” to March 7 (the Miners’ Fed. presi-
dent reported that there was no visit and
called evidence in rebuttal), and Fadden denied
that he had had an interview with Frank
Finnan in the Carlton Hotel on March 2—the
assertion of Joseph Winkler, previously denied
by Finnan. “Money paid over for purposes
which have never been carried out and no in-
quiry ever made —it is almost absurd,”
Monahan, K.C., contended, “that such evi-
dence should be given.” His Honor replied
that counsel’s submission amounted to “a very
serious charge against Mr. Hughes and Mr.
Fadden,” and that if he brought in a finding
in such terms “it will cast a slur upon them
which will be hard to remove.” Previously
he had remarked: “There has been quite an
amount of perjury on one side or the other.”
He decided to let Hughes and Fadden brief
counsel “so as to have the matter argued”;
and the inquiry stands adjourned till Nov. 10.


THE ONLY ODDS THEY’RE BOTHERING ABOUT.
“Eight to one, bar three! You come in Bren carriers and go away in limousines!”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised . .
Capital Issued
. . £1,250,000
. . 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..
£1,250,000
1,000,000
1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
w
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
NEW TAXES AND THEIR INCIDENCE
AUSTRALIAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
November Issue on Sale Saturday.
PRICE 21- PER COPY or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Many of those gnawing, nagging,- gainful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can be
relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
in the blood. These poisons may cause fre-
quent and scanty passages-with smarting and
burning, nagging backaches, rheumatic pains,
loss of pop and energy, getting up nights,
swelling, pufflness under the eyes, headaches
and dizziness.
Don’t wait I Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN'S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
that will make you well and Jseep you sell.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Walter Nash, Maoriland’s Finance
Minister since 1935, who recently crossed
the Tasman on business bent, had three
years in a lawyer’s office and 10 in a
bicycle factory in England before he
arrived in M.L. to set up as a manufac-
turers’ representative. He brought with
him a set of extremely radical ideas, made
these known in congenial circles and
early in the post-war period became sec-
retary of the N.Z. Labor party. Since
1929 he has represented Hutt. His niche
in the party has always been analogous
to that of Snowden in British Labor
circles —a “sea-green incorruptible” in
his adherence to socialistic principles.
But, like Snowden, he produces not at all
unorthodox Budgets.
Victorian Premier Dunstan has again
been lucky. The day after he had made
a special appeal to citizens to get the
Government out of its hospital pre-
dicament, Royal Melbourne Hospital an-
nounced the receipt of £138,860 from
Ernest and George Connibere as a
memorial to their late brother Charles,
himself a generous donor to philanthropic
works during his lifetime. Charles was
the founder of the softgoods firm of Con-
nibere, Grieve and Connibere, and was
president of the Eye and Ear Hospital.
The brothers’ gift is one of the biggest
of its kind in Australian history, and will
pay the whole cost of the Nurses’ Home
at Parkville.
Reported killed in air operations off
Malta, Sergeant Edward Harry Brenlon.
Born at Cottesloe (W.A.), he went on to
the Inky Way in Melbourne and was the
“Herald’s” political roundsman at Can-
berra from 1928 to 1929. Then he be-
came sporting writer for the “Star” ; but
a return to Canberra as representative of
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” gave him an,
opportunity to get a pilot’s license. When
Hitler erupted he enlisted and was sent
to Canada. When his number went up
he was observer on an R.A.F. machine
piloted by a volunteer of British-Argen-
tine stock.
BROOKE-POPHAM.
Inter-State birdologists have elected
A. H. Chisholm and A. G. Campbell the
first Australian Fellows of the Royal Aus-
tralasian Ornithologists’ Union. Both are
non-academic —Chisholm is a journalist
and Campbell (son of a noted birdman
of other days) runs an orchard. In recent
years Chisholm has raked in similar
honors from the British and American
Ornithologists’ Unions, the Zoological
Society of London and the Royal Zoo-
logical Society of N.S.W., and he was
awarded last year the first Australian
Natural History Medallion. In 1938 he
discovered in England a considerable
body of valuable Australiana, including
the diary kept by Gilbert the naturalist
on the first Leichhardt Expedition of
1844-45, and this has been rendered into
a book which Angus and Robertson are
to publish shortly.
IVEN MACKAY.
(Modelled by Frith.)
Chris Webb, of Sydney, known to
all open-boat sailing men, was 75 the
other day. He will be handling sails in
a N.S.W. representative 18-footer at the
Brisbane River championships in January.
Webb offered his services for the war in
any capacity, and might have been
accepted if his age hadn’t been dis-
covered.
“El V.” discovers another wanderer:
These Australians run through strange
careers. Call Frederick Matthias Alexander,
aged 72. Began by scratching an education
for himself in the Speck. Got a job with a
mining co., but left when an uncle found him
something better with a contractor firm in Mel-
bourne. Became an amateur violinist and re-
citer, then a professional reciter. Contracted a
sore throat and, observing himself, decided it
was due to the way he held his head. From
this developed a theory of control and a tech-
nique of treatment which so impressed the
Sydney medical profession that they sent him
to England in 1904. British medicine was
equally impressed—it performed a feat rare in
the B.M.A. of backing the conclusions of a lay-
man who has since had many distinguished
men as patients and disciples, including Bernard
Shaw. Schools have been established to teach
his methods in all white English-speaking
countries save his native land. And to crown
his career, the British Army has decided to
say good-bye to the ramrod back and adopt his
stance and methods. Last time I saw the old
boy in London he was a fine advertisement for
his own teaching. Under a whitening and pro-
lific thatch, he sparkled at the world with a
pair of orbs which would have done credit to
a beauty-boy.
lan G. Fitchett, appointed official war
correspondent with Australian forces in
Malaya, is a grandson of the Methodist
minister who wrote Deeds That Won the
Empire, Fights for the Flag, How Eng-
land Saved Europe, Wellington’s Men
and Nelson and His Captains in the clois-
tered shades of the Public Library of
Melbourne while he was principal of the
Methodist Ladies’ College. lan Fitchett
went overseas with a N.S.W. battalion,
earned a sergeant’s stripes and was then
appointed official correspondent with the
troops in Palestine. His account of the
capture of Jarabub Oasis in the Western
Desert was as graphic a description of a
battle as anything his granddad gleaned
from books. Before the present out-
break lan was on the staff of the Sydney
“D.T.” and before that was associate to
Judge Starke, of the High Court,
James Hamlyn Willis, whose Victorian
Fungi was recently published by the Vic-
torian Field Naturalists, was a Forest
Commission field officer before his trans-
fer to the Victorian National Herbarium
in 1939. His B.Sc.
came from Melbourne
Uni. in 1940.
“Cauboy”: Moshe
Menuhin, father of
violinist Yehudi and
pianist Hephzibah,
who each married a
member of the Mel-
bourne “Aspro”
Nicholas family, is
having domestic
trouble. His daughter
Yaltah, who married
and was divorced
from a New York
attorney, has eloped
with a soldier, Bud
Rofe by name, and
paterfamilias is re-
ported as saying: “It
will take time to swal-
low and digest the
news. I hardly know
him.” The Menuhins
are a most devoted
family. When they
stayed at Menzies, in
Melbourne, a member
of the staff found
them out on the land-
ing by their suite
strenuously engaged
in some activity a
ouarter of an hour
after their arrival. “I
am putting them
through their fire
drill. I always do it at a new hotel,”
explained the father.
Dead at 45, Harold McManus, the
man responsible for the technical quality
of Bulletin and “Australian Woman’s
Mirror” illustrations and a fellow of infi-
nite cheerfulness who, only three days be-
fore the blow fell, had been playing golf
with old staff companions. He had had
charge of The Bulletin’s process en-
graving department for many years,
having started as apprentice. He took a
tremendous pride in his work, was widely
respected in “the trade” and samples of
his skill have found their way all over
the world, both in color and black-and-
white. One of the happiest of men, he
had a fund of stories about “Hop,” Low,
the Lindsays, S. H. Prior and practically
every artist and writer of note of the last
25 years. He was a native of Bondi
(N.S.W.).
Murray Griffin, who is to paint the
Digger in his new habitat in Malaya, is
a product of the Melbourne National
Gallery school, and teaches at Melbourne
Technical College. He has specialised in
lino, cuts and color prints, and a fresco
of his based on abo. motives decorates
the vestibule of the National Museum in
Melbourne.
Latest president of the Vic. Baptist
Assembly is a layman, B. Montgomery,
general manager of Warburton Franki.
Born at Ballarat and educated at its
School of Mines, he is an electrical
engineer by profession, with a lifelong
interest in the Church,
Lieutenant David Charles Siekmann,
awarded the M.C. for “boldness and ini-
tiative” at Tobruk, is the youngest son
of a major who saw service in the 1914-18
war. Adelaide-born, Siekmann _ was
educated at St. Peter’s College, and is the
first “old boy” of that college to be
decorated in this war. In July he led a
patrol into the enemy defences, attacked
a roving enemy patrol, killing three and
capturing a German corporal. In spite
of a subsequent encounter with a larger
patrol, he succeeded in bringing back his
wounded and the prisoner, though
wounded himself,
A. C, Dibdin, who becomes manager
of the Brisbane branch of Australian
Estates, Ltd., is a Queensland-born 1914-
18 Digger, now Commander of the State
Home Guard. His sport is cricket and
he is a vice-president of the Q.C.A,
Into the night after life’s long day:
In Sydney, at 74, George Wirth, last of the
four circus brothers. Youngest of the quartet,
he was merely a boy when he was recruited to
the business that became his life-work. A
whole tribe of Wirths carries on the tradition.
At Wellington, M.L., aged 78, George Alex-
ander Troup, an architect who had charge
of all Governmental building-designing before
he retired in 1924. London-born, he arrived
in M.L. at the age of 21, having served a
cadetship to his profession in Edinburgh.
Within six years he was chief draftsman in
the Railway Department. He was a pillar ot
Presbyterianism, a company director and chair-
man of municipal bodies. He was knighted in
1937.
At 86, Francis Brady, of Karori, M.L. He
fought in Von Tempsky’s battalion against the
Hau-Haus, he married a daughter of Lt.-Col.
Adams, who commanded a British regiment in
that war, and his mother was first matron of
Auckland Hospital.
At 71, in London, H. A. Thomson, onetime
pianoforte teacher and examiner at the Mel-
bourne University Conservatorium. Member of
the Tonkunstler Verein when Brahms was presi-
dent, and friend of Paderewski, he went back
to England during the present war to take up
the intelligence work he did in the last war
for the War Office. He was the father of
Donald Thomson, whom the Federal Govern-
ment appointed as a special protector for the
abo. in the N.T. Another son, lan, has an
R.A.A.F. command, and a third is doing medi-
cal work in England. A daughter was bombed
out of her business in London during the Blitz
last year.
F. W. Bampfield, in Adelaide, at 77. He was
till recently secretary and librarian of the
city’s “Circulating Library,” which he joined
as a cadet just 60 years ago; he saw its member-
ship grow from under 500 to about 5000.
Squadron-Leader Harold Francis
Taylor, the subject of Coventry’s
diagram, has command of the largest
ground personnel training centre of the
R.A.A.F. in S.A. He is 46, was born in
SQUADRON-LEADER H. F. TAYLOR.
Victoria, is an architect in civil life, and
in more peaceful times was in the service
first of the Victorian Government and
then of the Federal Government. He has
been a flier for close on 30 years, and
was a lieutenant with No. 5 Squadron,
R.F.C., in the 1914-18 war. Before his
present appointment he had command
of an Embarkation Depot, Adelaide,
which followed a term as Southern Area
works officer.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
ill
Mill
ill
m
ii«
III!!
ill
in!
i
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
" METROPOLE," Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“When yon want to serve potato-salad to
‘special’ visitors, try adding thinly-sliced Brazil
nuts.”— Woman’s paper.
And for those “special visitors” you
don’t want back again, slice in the shells
as well.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Many a woman previously with little to say
begins to chirp as soon as she’s married.”
—Sunday paper.
Well, in many cases, she’s picked up
a worm.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Aircraft Carrier Furious.” — “Age.”
No doubt fed up with being con-
stantly sunk by Musso.’s Navy.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Making storm scenes for “Arise, My Love,”
Claudette Colbert was knocked down by a fake
wave.” — Woman’s paper.
They put one over her.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“After the fire, he spent some time in hos-
pital suffering from Burns.” — “D.T.”
Loyal Scots will be incensed at this.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Divorce: Drake v. Drake; Codd Cc
respondent.”
The charge is that fish was made oi
one and fowl of the other.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In spite of her hectic reputation, she was
the toast of the town for many years.”
—Biographical item.
She wasn’t always quite correct
In what she did, but you’d expect
The lady to be rather hot
When she was toasted such a lot!
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Marriage gives a woman poise. I know
many women who, when they were single, were
shy and terribly self-conscious. But with mar-
riage they almost miraculously gained pelf-
confidence.” — Woman’s paper.
She’s telling us!
“We have hundreds of these second-hand
pianos, and we stand behind each instrument.”
— Advt.
Isn’t it more usual to sit in front of
them?
“The author spent six months roaming the
fringes of the Sahara. He has seen strange
things in the dessert.” — Booh review.
The worst we’ve seen in it is the
waiter’s thumb.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He didn’t even attempt the slightest caress,
but stood looking mutely at her tear-dimmed
eyes. They were close together at that
moment.”— Short story.
Perhaps after she dried them they’d go
apart again to the normal width.
4- 4- 4- 4*
These days there is more laying-by
than lying-in.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The hero of the piece was convincing enough
in a difficult role, but the work of the heroin
was disappointing.”— Dramatic critic.
Didn’t make him go to sleep?
“Sorry I cant coom to your send-off, passon—business before pleasure,
y know.”
“For sale, hairdresser, tobacconist’s business,
in conjunction with sweets, ice-cream, milk bar,
ammunition.”— Adelaide ‘‘Advertiser.”
It should go off.
“What gives a film star ‘oomph’?”
— Advt.
Her press agent.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Take care of your feet.” — Woman’s paper.
Your plates of meat may benefit
From being pressed and whittled. Still,
When payment for the treatment’s due.
You’ll find it hurts to foot the bill.
Bunyon.
4* 4* 4* *¥*
“The first mouth-organ was introduced here
by an actor more than 60 years ago.”— “Argus.’’
To know all is to forgive all.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Eloise remembered then the queer taste of
the drink that the sinister Spaniard had given
her. Through the fast-gathering fog in her brain
ran one clear thought. It was a rug. What
was she to do now?” — Short story.
Beat it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Novelty Numbers.
“Novel Accessories.” — Fashion headline.
Just a few:
A spare tin of petrol,
A doting, admiring wife (his own) on
the arm of a man married for 20 years.
Water on the costume of a 1941 beach
girl.
Music in a crooner’s voice.
E.
“All police cars were warped to keep a look-
out for the missing car.” — “D.T.”
They were bent on getting it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Glossary of Words and Phrases.
(A Guide to the Public Service.)
Act (Noun). —Always refers to the
P.S. Act unless otherwise specified, and
more particularly to its interpretation by
the various bush lawyers of each depart-
ment. Nothing can be done outside the
Act, as this would be ultra vires, and
what can be done inside it is so obscure
or unspecified that the word
Act (Verb) is rendered mostly harm-
less.
Assistant to the Chief Clerk.—
The public wrongly imagines that this
official helps the Chief Clerk turn over
the pages of the files in front of him
and tidies up his desk when it gets over-
crowded. Actually his job is to initial
papers put in front of him by a clerk
and then hand them to a junior, to be
taken to the Chief Clerk for confirmation.
In short, he saves his senior from the
fatigue of having to think before initial-
ling anything.
Book Time. —For signing on and off.
At starting time (war-time conditions
8.30 a.m.) all clerks must sign in book
time of arrival at office before hanging
up hat. At 8.35 a.m. room boss draws a
red line under last name appearing, and
the lateness of those entering after that
is easily discernible and not easily deni-
able. After ten “lates” the offender offi-
cially “busts” and starts all over again.
Should a clerk be late more than 20
working days in any month a “black”
mark may be entered on his history sheet
(c.f.).
Chief Clerk. —Also known as “The
Pigeonholer.” His job is to initial forms
and shoot deftly into various compart-
ments of the pigeonhole on his desk the
papers he marks to the various officers
concerned for their inaction.
Clock. —See Watch.
Files. —Typewritten records of depart-
mental correspondence. After the first
letter is written on any subject the letter
is allotted a number by the Records
Clerk. It then becomes a file. If no
answer is obtained within six months the
file is resubmitted to the officer who dic-
tated the letter, and he may send a “fol-
low-up” if it is to a member of the public.
If it is to another department 12 months
may be allowed. Not until the affair is
completely closed are the papers marked
“file” and laid reverently among the un-
numbered dead, grouped in the year in
which it originated. For this purpose
they are kept open only for a decade.
Forms (Paper). These are vari-
colored, and are identifiable by a number
in the top right-hand corner, e.g., Nile-
green form AT 703 must be filled in by a
clerk if he wants time off to get a haircut
or get measured for a suit. Should he
have run short of pins he will fill in
form XZ 879, submitting it, with the old
empty packet, to the assistant to the
Chief Clerk. Should that official deem
the request reasonable and necessary, he
will initial it and submit it to the Chief
Clerk, who will automatically mark it
“Recommend” and send it on to the
board for approval. On this being ob-
tained it will go to Stores, which
will in due course supply or, if tem-
porarily out of the line, advise on pink
form LF 219 to this effect and suggest
a substitute, say staples or No. 14 nails.
If this is acceptable to the formee,
acknowledgment is made on buff form
PS 927, in quadruplicate. A move to
create a Form Drawing-up Department is
now being considered.
Millboards. —Two stiff pieces ol 1
board, the top half carrying a flap on
which is written the record number of
the dying and dead files, for which they
act as a shroud.
Personal Clerk. —Also known as “The
Watchdog.” He may be a personal clerk
to the Assistant to the Chief Clerk, per-
sonal clerk to the Chief Clerk himself, or
personal clerk to a personal clerk. Very
confidential duties, ranging from recog-
nising the boss’s wife’s footsteps or tele-
phone voice to knowing his size shirt and
bank balance, if any. Is privileged to
sign his principal’s letters with his rubber
stamp. Important duty is to sool away
Unauthorised Persons or choke off any-
one who is complaining that the letter
he sent last May 12 months hasn’t been
answered.
Roster, Leave. —Method of arranging
the staff’s annual holidays. Around
November of each year Staff Clerk sends
roneo’d list of three-weekly holiday
periods throughout next year, against
which each of staff in order of seniority
will put his desired date. No junior
clerk has ever been known to get the
coveted Easter period. On record that
one Chief Clerk voluntarily put himself
down for July. After examination by
panel of alienists he was retired by board.
Rules and Regulations. —Certain R.
and R. may vary according to each par-
ticular department, but by and large
they are applicable to all, especially vital
ones, such as the rule forbidding lighted
matches to be thrown in wastepaper
baskets, thus avoiding possible destruc-
tion of important documents.
Sheet, History. —Complete dossier of
clerk. Includes, records of reprimands,
warnings, etc., birth-marks, any uncles
who were subject to warts and haemo-
philia, and if subject has ever submitted
ideas for saving ink, forms, etc. Chief
ambition of every clerk is to get hold of
history sheet (they are kept locked up
by Staff Clerk) and have a good laugh
over past warnings, etc., given.
Tape, Red. —Used for tying up depart-
mental files and hopes of public. Though
frail-looking, is stronger than any steel
cable, and has tanglefoot qualities
superior to any known flypaper.
Watch. —See Clock, more intensely
during the hour preceding lunch and
knock-off times.
80.
Nutty.
“There will be a shortage of several varieties
of nuts this Christmas.” — News item.
Where are the nuts of yesteryear ?
Aml where the figs ? Eftsoons,
I care not though there disappear
The prisms and the prunes.
No Barcelona nuts we’ll crack.
Yet, list, my fairest Kate —
Although the outlook’s pretty black.
We still may keep a date.
Q.
The Genius.
Jusplayne Battie, modernist literary
giant on whom, it was claimed by his
admirers, the mantle of James Joyce had
fallen, lay in his hospital bed and gnawed
the end of his pencil. The famous author
had broken his leg when, as he had in-
sisted to the ambulance men in violently
denying his landlady’s contention that
the reverse had been the case, he had
fallen i/pstairs.
When the accident occurred he had
been about to commence the final chapter
of his latest and greatest work, “The
Honkblubbled Treacle Couldn’t,” and the
consequent upset had temporarily side-
tracked his genius. The magnificent
speech which he had allotted to his chief
character, Bollington Splatt, the psycho-
analysed offal-sorter, to open it with
still eluded him.
As Jusplayne Battie waited for the in-
spiration which he was confident his rare
genius must sooner or later command a
patient was wheeled in from the operating
theatre and put in the bed beside him.
Shortly strange sounds began to stream
from the lips of the newcomer as he
tried to claw his way back to conscious-
ness. At the sound of them J.B. sat up,
gave a shout of pure joy and started
writing swiftly on his pad.
And that’s how the speech of Boiling-
ton Splatt, acclaimed by some critics as
one of the greatest in modern literature
and a supreme example of the artistic
genius of its author, came to commence;
“Givusablud givusablud edrink strike-
mehoo ray piller piller Iwannapiller ullo-
doc gooroledoc yuledoomee puterthere
handus merazor wannashaye glorg ow
haha yairmetoo wattayugot I gottoo
ovvakind yorzan up abob ha ha bushted-
flush ullomary goorole gurl giveshkish eez
over agoal! bonza try goorolemick yare
schkooner for me gurgle gurg ow ooh!”
K.
So Near and Yet...
“Queues at stamp counters. G.P.O. con-
gestion.”—“S. M. Herald.”
In among a score of others (typists,
shoppers, kids and mothers), you line up
in heat that smothers waiting there to
buy a stamp. Slowly forward then you’re
shuffled as behind you comes some
muffled swearing from some fellow
ruffled who’s developing a cramp. As the
minutes go on leaping and you’re stand-
ing up while sleeping toward the window
you’ll be creeping by the slowest of
degrees, till there’s just one bloke before
you; but the stamp girl won’t ignore
you—she’ll slam down the blind and
floor you with a curt “Next window,
please! ”
ELM.
Positive Pull.
“Have you ever noticed, when walking down
a road, how some houses attract you while
others don’t?” — Woman’s paper.
Some houses home, sweet home express
’Mid flowers, trees and shrubs.
Again, some tell of dire distress
And gloom, but houses that possess
Most charm for me are pubs!
P.C


ABORIGINALITIES
“Gee”: Young Australia had spent the
week-end at the lake and was recounting
adventures. “We caught two pickle-jars
full o’ poddy mullet, shoved ’em in the
fire an’ ate them, and it was the best feed
ever we had,” he boasted. “Didn’t you
clean them first?” asked Mum aghast.
“Gripes, what’d we want to clean 'em
for?” demanded Y.A. “They couldn’t
git dirty swimmin’, round all the time,
could they?”
» * * *
“Flight”: One of the hardest things
to find in the bush is the nest of a swamp
pheasant (pheasant-coucal). Usually it
is in the crown of a tussock of blady-
grass. Identity of the coucal and the
cuckoo have often been confused, but
the swamp fellow and his missus make
their own nest and hatch their own
chicks. Perhaps they are aware that the
monstrosity they have hatched would
frighten any other bird to death. It’s
about one-third a gaping hole that is a
beak; its blue bruises on each side of
its head are eyes; the shapeless lump of
solidified jelly is the body; the naked
stumps are wings and legs; the three-
days’ bristle of an unshaven drunk are
the beginnings of feathers. And it makes
a noise to suit its appearance—a grating
sound like an ancient gate swinging on
rusty hinges.
“Gryllus”; A few days ago the dollar
birds returned from their northern holi-
day to prepare once more for family
duties. A handsome sturdy pair garbed
in blues and greens, with the silvery
“dollar” patch on each extended wing
and red bills and feet, they gave the wag-
tail who imagines he owns this property
a hot reception when he fussed across
to order them out of the tall dead grey-
gum which they chose as observation-
post and nursery-to-be. From sundown
till well after dusk they collected dinner,
each in turn sitting watching and shrilling
their harsh “treek-treek” whilst its mate
cut amazing air capers in chase of flying
insects. Soon they will be clearing out
the lofty nesting hollow which they used
last year, and after that it will be as
much as Willie’s skin is worth to come
within twitter-range. By December
life will be one of constant toil, cram-
ming the two hungry youngsters with in-
sects ; in January they will be giving
them their first lessons in aerobatics, and
on some moonlit night late in February
the household will leave for the long
northward trek. Bold travellers, their
kind range from India and the Philip-
pines clear down into Victoria.
“B. A. Ker”: Since most birds love to
preen themselves in fine, warm rain, it
is not surprising that those caged budgeri-
gars —alias shell-parrots, lovebirds and
grass parakeets —enjoyed the fine spray
of a hose (B. 15/10/’4l). But I’m willing
to gamble next month’s petrol-ration
tickets that they never once indulged in
a fair-dinkum bath as does the maligned
starling (who started this argument). No-
body suggested that the bird “shuns
water” as a drink ; my contention was,
and still is, that the budgerigar doesn’t
believe in bathing. In the bush I’ve
noted redheads, diamond sparrows, all
varieties of finches, wrens and a host of
other birds enjoying a morning splash,
but never a budgerigar. Moreover, my
bush-bred pet budgie has never once in
his eight years of life accepted the aviary’s
bathing facilities to the extent of wetting
a feather.
“D.R.H.”; Not far from our South
Australian share of the Murray lived all
through the summer and autumn a very
interesting community. They began the
day’s work early, and were regularly and
punctually joined by workers from other
centres who arrived a little after sunrise,
always travelling the same well-defined
roads about 30ft. above the gum tops.
Breakfast over and luncheon arrange-
ments duly made, all hands began phy-
sical exercises and drill —obviously a
form of compulsory training. Manoeuvres
completed, their politicians retired to an
elevated timber platform where they
began the day’s business, the hoi polloi
composing themselves to listen and to
learn. At lunchtime all hands turned
to. Further exercises followed till it was
time for the reassembly of parliament.
And so they lived their ordered day, the
outlanders returning to their homes in the
dusk along exactly the same roads. Occa-
sionally they varied the programme with
an afternoon’s fishing, usually under the
stern of our home. But now they are
gone, sweeping in matchless pride along
new roads to the watering-places and
holiday resorts of their kind, where,
doubtless, they will do the same things
and work just as hard as does a less wise
race in the same circumstances. But
what we want to know—having explored
our own reaches and lagoons thoroughly
—is where the deuce do pelicans nest?
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It was blazing hot as
Mat, in a lather of sweat, pushed his
swag-loaded bike through the dust to the
pub at Tipdray Creek. Outside the pub
verandah the heat shimmered on the bare
road, and the hummer sitting on the ver-
andah eyed the newcomer hopefully. Mat
got off the bike, leaned it against a post,
wiped his face and had a foot on the
verandah when the hummer said “G’day,
mate. Coin’t’ turn it on?” Mat wasn’t
the sort to refuse a man a drink, but he
preferred to make the invitation himself.
He unleashed a grin and said “Hot, ain't
it?” “Too flamin’ right,” was the quick
answer. Mat considered, then, “Dry,
too,” he said. “My oath,” came back
the other, hardly able to refrain from
bolting to the bar. Mat indicated the
pepper-tree near by. “Well,” he said
“ London: Tear-gas Bombs Dropped. Civilians Caught Without
Masks.” —Headline news.
kindly, “y’ ought t’ get in the shade,
mate, before y’ frizzle up. I wouldn t
stand out in the sun like that.” Mat was
halfway through the second pot before the
first wild burst of profanity hurtled in
from the dust outside.
“Simple Arith”: Cheers to “Mat’s
Mate’s” cobber (B. 24/9/’4l) who was so
meticulous in his counting of the 2865
railway sleepers between Echuca and
Balranald. At that distance of 127 miles
it works out at one sleeper to every 78
yards of track. But perhaps Mat, in-
stead of the time-honored custom among
knot-humpers of pacing the sleepers,
walked Blondin along the rail and cut a
notch in his swag strap at every sleeper
in case he lost count during the long
intervals.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Old Yanga Ned, camped
in the Slab Hut country down the
Murray, woke up one night to find a
dingo’s face not two feet from his own.
Yanga did a sort of Immelman turn and
double-back somersault out of bunk, then
rushed for his gun. By that time the
dingo had vanished. Yanga shook the
bunk up and got back in, dead sure that
the warrigal had got the worse fright.
Just before dawn he woke again, and
there were the bright eyes and prick ears
of the same or another dingo. Yanga
let out a yell this time, and it was the
dingo that did the back somersault before
bolting. Wondering mightily, Yanga got
out and was pulling his boots on when
an odor hit his nostrils. He took a look
and found a honey-filled bee nest in a
cleft of the Murray pine at the head of
his bunk. Ever after, when setting dog
traps, he always smeared them thickly
with honey. He used to make fair pocket
money out of scalps, too.
* * * *
“Rossmayne”: Answering a call at the
door, the bush ambulance-bearer was
accosted by one of the town drunks who
was armed with an axe. “Do ush favor,
will y’?” he asked. “Cut thish snake
crawlin’ up and down under shkin of
me back. Doeshn’t marrer if y’ don]t
kill it sh’long as y’ just cripple it sho it
can’t keep crawlin’. I wanna go to
shleep.”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Met men who owned to
fear of the dark when forced to sleep
alone in the bush, but never heard any-
body give more than passing attention to
curlews (B. 22/10/’4l), whose perform-
ance is limited to a few minutes, not an
all-night crying. Few who really know
the bush are afraid of it by night or day,
imagination or no imagination, knowing
the most fearsome thing in it, south of
the crocodile country, is themselves. The
sensation of a “tight hemisphere of dark-
ness closing in” has never come to me in
years of lone camps outback, but I’ve
had it pretty bad in city parks and doss-
houses. Except on heavily-clouded nights,
which are rare, there is no real darkness
in the bush, I’d sooner be alone under
that dark-blue canopy with its millions
of bedlamps, listening to the far bugles
of westing swans or the wistful curlew
crying, than tucked into the best bed in
the city with a bellpush and room tele-
phone. Cities have me bluffed, but not
the bush, from the Pilliga scrubs to the
Pinnaroo mallee.
* * * *
“Kilop”: Wrong to assume that be-
cause it happened to one man “many a
quiet horse has been led through a gate
and has stood while his boss bent over
behind him to fasten the gate,” then
lashed out when the gate clicked (B.
22 /10/ ’4l). Practically any man leading
such a horse would have the reins looped
over an arm and the horse would swing
round and be facing the gate when it was
being shut. And why should a “quiet
horse” be frightened by a gate clicking,
a sound with which it would be quite
familiar?
* * * *
“Wang”: “At a place where 1 useter
go harvestin’ each year out from Moree
the snakes were plentiful,” said Dan. “It
wus all open, flat, treeless country an’,
there bein’ no sticks t’ dong ’em with
when y’ met ’em, the Blakes had easy get-
aways from most of us. But they weren’t
so lucky with ‘Stumpy’ Kelly, the dis-
trict’s champeen killer. I s’pose it wus
the absence of sticks what made him
become so expert in sneakin’ up behind
’em as they lay stretched out snoozin’
in the sun, grabbin’ ’em be the tail and
then crackin’ ’em like a stockwhip. Then
one summer I turned up at harvest-time
agin, an’ bumped agin Stumpy, ‘Hullo,
Stumpy,’ I ses, ‘how’s the snake-killin’
gettin’ on these days?’ ‘No good,’ he ses,
doleful-like ; ‘the cows has woke up t’
me. They all go t’ sleep with their tails
in their mouths now.’ ”
* * * *
“Old Camp”: Rutting bulls used to be
common around the W.A. goldfields in
the days when the oont was the principal
means of transport; but the ’Ghan
accepted them as all in the day’s work.
Never heard of anyone getting around
after one with artillery (B. 1/10/’4l), for
who would shoot an animal worth £7O?
Abdul had his own methods, the favorite
being a smack right on the end of the
nose with a stout sapling. It took nerve
to stand up to an apparently frantic bull
and administer the sally-winder, but the
average ’Ghan never had anything but
contempt for the camel, no matter what
its mental condition. That good smack
given, the recalcitrant usually hooshta’d
promptly. He would then be tied down,
legs doubled up and strapped, with a
couple of ropes across and pegged like
a tent. Abdul then administered a dose
of “medicine” of his own manufacture
which speedily brought on a nausea.
Within 24 hours the most single-track-
minded bull would be reduced to a
bachelor-like placidity.
« * * •
“Capricorn”: Where did “Bogaduck”
get the idea (B. 24/9/’4l) that the dingo
and the mountain-devil lizard are the
only creatures the abo. keeps as pets?
Unless hard put for tucker, a blackfellow
will rarely kill baby game, and often
will bring back to camp as pets baby
birds or animals, especially if he has
killed their dams. Baby possums are
particular favorites, and a pretty sight
it is to see a comely young gin with a
tiny knot of silvery grey fur nestling
sound asleep in her raven locks. An-
other favorite is the mud turtle, the shell
of which lends itself to decoration with
totemic designs in colored ochres. Others
are galahs, magpie geese, ibis (especially
the spoonbill type, which tames easily
and is very intelligent and amusing) and
wallabies. There are many legends that
tell of friendship between the blacks and
animals and birds. For example, that of
Kudjo, the hunter, and Tapunga, the
kangaroo, which is told from the Timor
to the Bight. Kudjo adopted Tapunga
after finding him as a joey in the pouch
of a doe he slew. He “grew him up,”
as Binghi puts it, taught him what to eat
and used him as a decoy in hunting. They
lived long together as mates, and had
many stirring adventures. Then there is
the tale told in the Gulf Country about
Pandak, the famous dancer, who had a
ballet of brolgas. Perhaps the reason
for the name “native companion” was
that the bird had been seen by early
settlers in the company of blacks. On
the Daly River (N.T.) I saw a mammoth
boar that had been raised from a tiny
sucker and had travelled hundreds of
miles with the family to which it be-
longed, living as one of them and re-
ceiving from everyone as much respect as
a tribal elder.
RIVERINA NIGHTS.
While searchlights quest o’er the coastal skies,
Wandering, wavering nigh and far.
I’m thinking tonight of times less wise
Or wiser, maybe, than times that are:
Let others praise, if they wish, the Present,
Its rich achievements and crowded days;
To me who roam through the Past ’tis pleasant
To muse at moments on bygone ways.
To travel old ways, such as those I trod,
Feet tuned in to a lilting rhyme,
All careless of Care, that rode roughshod
Over my dreams in its own grim time:
Fine is the wine that Age makes mellow
And fine, fine, too, is the Past to trace,
When the leaves of the trees, grown warped and
yellow,
Turn green again for a moment’s space.
For watchers watching by beach and cape,
Searching the gloom of sea and sky,
From vigil by night there is scant escape,
Scant time to muse on the days gone by;
Long days of labor and days of leisure,
Nights spent in quiet and kind release,
Good slumber that followed on toil and
pleasure.
And dreamless rest in the lap of Peace.
As over the coast glide pencilling lights,
Charting the sky with livid lines.
Tonight I’m thinking of gala nights
Sweet with the incense of inland pines;
When to fiddle-and-bow or to concertina
Youth danced through the hours with shining
eyes,
And over the plains of the Riverina
No lights of menace perturbed the skies.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUIÑN.


“Oh, boy, are you CROOK!”
“Arev”; Bill Jupp couldn’t stand the
ladies of the sewing circle. Reckoned
they were the biggest gossips in the
district, and didn’t know why his
wife bothered with them. “Oh, but
we do good work for the Comforts
Fund,” Mrs. Jupp said. “They’re meet-
ing here today.” Bill glared. “Well, you
won’t see me till teatime.” Working out
in the far paddock, he missed his after-
noon tea in his anxiety to avoid the
“maggers,” as he called them. When tea-
time came Bill felt ready to eat a horse.
Silence reigned as he entered the kitchen
and kicked off his hobnailed boots.
“Where are you, Mum?” he called.
“Those old cats have gone, I s’pose?”
From the sitting-room came Mrs. Jupp’s
quick answer. “Why, of course! I got
Joe to put them in a bag and drown
them in the creek, poor things. But come
in. Bill, and meet the members of the
sewing circle. They’ve just been asking
about you.”
* * * *
“Akrabo”: That contention (B.
17/9/’4l) that a bee by using its sting
suffers death is an old yam which had
its origin in faulty observation. Nature
is not such a mug as all that. True,
when a bee stings it leaves the sting—
which is really a sac of acid —in the
victim, but by so doing it does not part
company with an irreplaceable portion of
its innards. The bee grows another sting
complete with venom sac.
* * * *
“Taylor Ville”: We were camped at
the Old Myrtle sheepyards in tableland
country on a rise as bare as the south
end of an egg. It was blowing a gale
from the north, with the weather so
threatening that after tea all hands rolled
out the nap. Making our bunks on the
ground with the camp sheets open to the
south, we were just ready to crawl in
when the wind dropped. In that minute
or two of vacuum-like calm we got ready.
And then, with a shriek, the wind tore
down from the south, ice-cold, with drivr
ing rain. Camp sheets flew in the air
and we battled ’em down like topmast
hands. Within a few minutes everything
in the camp was soaked. We lay in pools
of liquid mud, clinging with hands, toes
and teeth to our nap. In a chill numb-
ness, wind-battered, the frigid hours
crawled past till between 2 and 3
a.m. the gale subsided and the rain
stopped. We dragged ourselves out, stiff
and aching, blue with cold. There wasn’t
a stick dry enough to make a fire, although
there were matches in a door pocket of
the truck. And then some genius brought
half a gallon of petrol from the tank,
and pretty soon there was a fire that
would have shamed the devil. That was
years ago. And I still shiver to think
how the boys are getting on now that
petrol’s scarcer than beer at a Band of
Hope beano.
♦ * * *
“Canoozer”: Struck this line in one of
Mary Gilmore’s poems, “His sheep are
white on a thousand hills,” and it set
me to thinking that on the thousand hills
I’ve seen from Maude to Barham, from
Tocumwal to Ivanhoe, I’ve never yet seen
“white” sheep. I have seen brown, slaty,
yellow, red and just plain dirty sheep.
Even after shearing our sheep are only
white —or yellowish—for a few days. In
England my eyes opened a shade wider
at seeing pink sheep, but this is due to
their being dipped with some chemical.
But certainly Dame Mary’s line is not
true of the Australian scene “White”
sheep is on a par with “golden” wheat —
unless “golden” is poetic license for the
more prosy brown.
* * * *
“J.R.L.”: “D.R.H.’s” gibe (B. 1 /10/’4l)
about the cocky who didn’t know 60's
from 160’s quality in wool is typical of
the saying that everybody knows how to
farm except the farmer. About 75 p.c.
of woolgrowers don’t know 64’s in wool
when they see it; that’s the buyer’s job.
But they do know good wool when they
see it. Anyway, if “D.R.H.” put all his
64’s in one bale regardless of staple he
would be due for a rude awakening at
the sales.
* * * *
“T.F.L.”: Dad, after inspecting the
young and rather flighty draught-horse
the agent was trying to sell him, decided
to try him out in the plough forthwith.
So he sang out to the new hand, who
was chipping some burrs near by, to go
up to the house and bring
back his newest collar.
About half an hour later the
hand returned and handed
Dad a collar and tie. “Mum
was over at Grogan’s,” he
explained. “I looked in y’r
wardrobe but there was no
new ’un there, so I irons one
that I seen in the clothes
basket.”
* * *
“Murlonga”; Probably
the most decorative hairdo
and face-grass effect favored
by our nigs, is the one
adopted by bucks of the
desert tribe west of the
Georgina (Q.) and down
towards the Toko Ranges at
the headwaters of the Mul-
ligan, For the old boys of
high rank distinctiveness is
gained by having the scalp
shaved except a crown top-
knot that is bound with a
bandeau of roots or teased
spinifex fibre and dyed red.
The top lip is also shaved
clean. But the beard is the
main adornment. Done in
the Von Tirpitz mode, the
hair is lengthened with
fibres worked into the origi-
nal with grease and ashes.
And to see an old boy push-
ing a bifurcated whisker
whose points dangle on his
potbelly is a sight not easily
forgotten.
“B.R. 109”: There’s at least one
Afghan hawker in N.S.W. who doesn't
possess the maximum faith in our bank-
ing system. He has a current account
in a Northern Rivers (N.S.W.) town, and
regularly once each month he calls in,
withdraws all the money from his
account, carefully counts it to make sure
that nobody has pinched any, then pays
it in again and goes contentedly upon
his way till the next audit date.
* H! * *
“Sailor Bill”; The gastronomic feats
of the emu threaten to be shaded by
horses around our district (Sarina, N.Q.).
When early spring grassfires swept the
grazing areas they hopped into the new
needles sprouting from the tops of low
grass-trees and the fronds of the water-
loving pandanus or screw palm. No man
can pull a handful of needles off a grass-
tree without having his hand slit open by
their razor-sharp edges, but to try to
pull a handful of fronds off a pandanus
is like having a few hacksaws at work
on his hand at once.
H: * * Hs
“N. Sylvester”: “Bogaduck” (B.
24/9/’4l) certainly put over a newy when
he told of the abo. lady giving her pet
Moloch horridus a drink by immersing
it in water. I’d love to meet the abo.,
male or female, that kept one as a pet.
Certainly I’ve seen abos. with them, but
their fondness for the queer little lizards
was purely of a mercantile nature —as a
medium for the procuring of chuga,
bacca or even beer. Anyway, in his wild
state, which included being carried on a
naked abo. shoulder, Moloch didn’t re-
quire total, or even partial, immersion
to enable him to obtain sufficient of the
fluid so essential to life. Nature equipped
him with a blotting-paper skin so that
he could obtain enough moisture merely
by absorbing the dew usually fairly
copious on the rock outcrops which on
the far-western plateau formed his
favorite camping places. Many a Moloch,
hatched out in extra-dry spots, lived out
his whole little life without seeing a body
of water large enough to drown a fly.
“Starlight”; That flathead caught by
“Dickie Beach’s” small cobber (B.
8/10/’4l) must have been a half-breed,
the other half being tailer or some such
fighting fish. The only pure-bred flat-
head I have ever caught picked up
the bait, led it to the edge of the water
like well-trained horses, then probably
spat out the hook, retired to deeper water,
came back, gnawed the bait a bit more
and then with a soporific sigh went to
sleep on it, only to wake up and give one
feeble kick as they were being hauled into
the boat.
* * * *
“St. Anu”: In Bali there is an immense
extinct crater, Batur, 40 miles across anc
with lips a thousand feet in height and
on the old floor half a dozen active
youngters. One of these has erupted
periodically for centuries, and the history
of the eruptions is written for all to see
in the superimposed flows of lava, the
blacker being the recent and the greyer
older, owing to the remarkable fact that
the brittle, glasslike substance actually
supports a low form of plant life. The
last big eruption occurred when I was
on the island. After flowing 10 miles
the lava congealed and, like a huge frozen
wave, hung over a native village in
which the men, women and children, all
priests, supported by the whole population
of the island, were dedicated to the ser-
vice of scaring the volcano demon back to
his vomit by dances and incantations. On
this occasion the priesthood danced and
incanted and threatened the demon up
to the last minute, and was so successful
that he stopped at the largest pagoda in
the village, which still stands halfseas
over, like the tower of Pisa. If he
hadn’t stopped there would have been
no escape for the devoted necromancers,
as there was a five-mile front of molten
lava and the 1000 ft. cliff to be sur-
mounted, Twenty years later I climbed
down on to the floor of the crater and
interviewed one of the veterans of the
battle. The old Methuselah was polish-
ing up his dancing, as Batur was once
more showing signs of irritation.
• ♦ * »
“Historical Henry”: No vegetable,
fruit or berry, with the exception per-
haps of the potato, has done a better
job of establishing itself in Australian
gardens than the tomato. Now who can
tell me the date of its first introduction?
Most Victorians, for instance, regard it
as a comparatively recent arrival, dating
only from the late ’eighties. But digging
down through W.A. records I find
tomatoes on the Swan River as early as
1833 —the timepost being the imprison-
ment for three months of a Malay sailor
caught looting them from a Swanside
garden.
* * *
“Nor’-west”: One of the oddest things
about the primitive abo. was his ability
as a swimmer. When pearling “broke
out” on the North Westralian coast abos.
from the Gascoyne, 1000 miles south,
were roped in by the score and taken
north. Later the actual north-west natives,
at first too hostile, were brought into the
game. They could all swim and dive
like South Sea Islanders. Yet when Grey
discovered the Gascoyne 100 years
ago it was as dry then as now. Coastal
abos., of course, just had to learn. But
abo. swimmers were found 100 miles
inland, even in the far Nullagine and
up the only-periodically-flooded Fitzroy.
And the original inhabitants, from the
billabongs of the Murray to those of the
Nullagine, knew that trick of evading
pursuit by submerging in deep water and
breathing through a long reed.
“Come away, dear-I think he has the mumps”
BLASTING SONG.
“Powder Monkey Oliver,”
Navvies know me by;
In my bonds, like Gulliver,
Mighty forces lie;
Till 1 lift the barrier,
Pass Miss Spark along,
Let old Geliy marry her,
Burst his throat in song!
Washington and Bolivar
Founded mighty States,
Powder Monkey Oliver
Wipes things off the slates;
Fixing wire and battery
Fuses short and long—
Everything that’s scattery
Echoes in my song.
When I push the plunger in,
Singing soft and low.
Like a bloke that’s conjurin’
At a vaudeville show,
Then the heavy mats arise
Pushed by Geliy’s breath,
Then the rocks like rats arise,
Booted from beneath.
N-S.W.
WILL LAWSON


A Man’s
First Thought
is for Bis Family
Through hard work, careful planning and
often by self-sacrifice, a man accumulates an
Estate to safeguard the future security of his
family or other dependents.
But so that his life’s work and good intentions
shall not be jeopardised, and, to avoid hard-
ship being inflicted on his family, he cannot
do better than follow the lead of many
thoughtful men and women in taking three
important steps:—
1. Consult his Solicitor and have his Will drawn in precise
legal language to save misinterpretation and costly litigation.
2. Appoint an Executor and Trustee who is competent and
trustworthy in place of one who may not live to complete
his trusts.
3. Have his Will revised regularly to meet changing conditions.
The appointment of The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited as Executor or Co-Executor and Trustee
ensures that the estate shall be managed with the experience,
intelligence and fidelity which have characterised the Company’s
service for more than 63 years. Security is ample. Fees are
fixed and moderate. Consult your Solicitor or write or call for
full particulars.
IS#
oS
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
jttd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £958,760.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS-.
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; John Fordyce;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, 0.8. E.; G. S'. Colman.C.B.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS':
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ; W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager; W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
,>• -
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383. . , - .
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
City Mutual Life
Writ- Added to
ten Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
£ £ £ £ £
1900 . . 55,7X3 24,450 16,265 1,950 13,048
1910 .. 121,588 39,352 28,961 7,388 45,887
1915 . . 230,727 107,188 33,740 9,029 80,770
1920 .. 464,079 158,487 70,134 665 234,793
1927 .. 1,094,045 441,648 116,964 11,488 523,945
1929 .. 1,362,027 588,700 153,978 2,580 616.769
1930 ..1,419,440 696,604 141,922 31,080 549,834
1931 ..1,303,300 780,703 155,069 13,401 } „o, 127
Reserved for contingencies, £120,000 ) ’
1932 .. 1,316,891 767,756 163,556 762 | 2g4 gl7
Reserved for contingencies, £lOO,OOO J ’
1933 .. 1,236,329 755,195 149,766 2,700 I 99R
Reserved for contingencies, £lOO,OOO ) ’
1934 .. 1,039,535 512,522 111,306 8,356 407,351
1935 .. 1,152,200 509,602 134,961 25,700 481,937
1936 .. 1,240,053 519,098 150,892 20,596]
From bonus equalisation account, j- 579,467
£30,000 J
1937 .. 1,290,641 543,115 165,354 11,289) SR ,
To staff fund, £5OOO j 01,0,80,5
1938 .. 1,355,648 600,763 160,031 19,268)
To bonus equalisation account, £30,000 [540,496
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. ..J
1939 . . 1,368,133 732,398 172,415 21,755 441,565
1940 . . 1,432,037 650,433 188,272 40,698 552,634
Assets written down, £322,307.
The basis of valuation has been
strengthened, and the City Mutual has
dropped some of the weight it formerly
exhibited without affecting its constitu-
tion. So far as policy-holders are con-
cerned, chief effect is a further cut in
bonus rates. These aren’t broadcast now,
but a couple of years ago they were
handsome, and they are still compara-
tively high. Really fat bonuses aren’t
fashionable in war-time, and aren’t likely
to show up here until the delayed rewards
of a more conservative investment policy
start accruing and war risks become
clearer.
The fat bonuses of the past came
largely from a high interest return, which
was the outcome of mortgage and prop-
erty investments on a rising market.
When conditions were reversed in the
early 1930’5, the co. found the margin of
security on some of its assets, and more
besides, had disappeared, while legisla-
tion pulled down interest rates and froze
some of the mortgages. But a well-
established life office, whose liabili-
ties mature over a long period, is in a
position to nurse back to health assets
which may become temporarily sick.
This the City Mutual did in many
cases. Meanwhile, the co. continued to
pay bonuses at reduced but satisfactory
rates, and there is nothing at the moment
to suggest that it isn’t likely to keep on
doing so. Also, a change in control
brought with it a change in investment
policy, more attention being now given
to Government securities, which at the
end of 1940 accounted for 24.9 p.c. and
mortgages for 31.8 p.c. of the balance-
sheet total. The proportions were 14.8
p.c. and 55.1 p.c. in 1930. As for
investment policy at the moment, “the
society is mindful,” the chairman says,
“of the need of contributing on a large
scale to new Commonwealth Government
loans. Consequently, during the war
period, there will be a restricted amount
available for other investments.”
Now that litigation following contests
for seats at the board table is out of the
way, the management is in a position to
make further progress. A ballot held in
July last by direction of the Court resulted
in Wm. Bennett (managing director since
George Crowley’s death in 1933 and
now chairman). Dr, R. J. Taylor and
C. B. Kearney being elected to the board.
The other two members are G. E. Bryant
and O. J. McDermott, who had been
appointed by the Court as “receivers and
managers” because the board couldn’t
function for want of a quorum. The two
last-named now retire in accordance with
the articles, and together with three others
offer themselves for election. A postal
ballot is to be held.
In April last chartered accountant
Milton F. Johnson was called in chiefly
to investigate the position in respect of
the co.’s freeholds and loans on mort-
gage. He put the estimated excess book
value of freeholds at £231,851 and of
loans on mortgage at £408,600. A com-
mittee since appointed by the board went
more fully into the position and recom-
mended that £322,500 be written off
loans on mortgages and that the book
value of freeholds be reduced by
£234,808; a total of £557,308. The
board accepted the recommendations, and
the cut has been made —£222,308 from
contingency reserve, £lOO,OOO from bonus
equalisation fund and £235,000 from an
inner reserve previously deducted from
mortgages in the published sheet. That
left the assurance funds intact and a
visible £230,643 for contingencies besides.
The co.’s assets as they appear in the
published accounts are as follows:
1939. p.c. 1940. p.c.
Govt, securities., £2,444,640 23.2 £2,675,236 24.9
Mortgages, etc.. . 3,436,149 32.5 3,404,820 31.8
Loans on policies 1,248,890 11.8 1,259,431 11.7
Properties.. .. 2,354,979 22.3 2,200,714 20.6
Shares and
debentures, etc. 878,007 8.3 878,266 8.3
Cash and sundries 204,502 1.9' 290,091 2.7
Net reduction in the book value of mort-
gages last year was £31,329 and in free-
holds £145,265. Government securities
increased by £230,596, and they are worth
about £lBO,OOO more than their book
value.
The year’s operations were pleasing,
war and other conditions considered.
There was a shrinkage of £244,778
in the amount of new business put
on the books (£2,030,835). But the
average amount per policy (£394) was £l9
better, and surrenders (£108,327) were
£37,675 lighter. Excluding taxes (£36,928,
up £11,103) and depreciation (£40,698, up
£18,943), exes, took 16.2 p.c. of the
year’s net premiums as against 16.4 p.c.
for the previous term. Also, the rate of
valuation has been lowered from 3* p.c.
to a 3 p.c. net premium basis, which
means that protection for policy-holders
has been further strengthened. After de-
ducting taxes, the net effective interest
return on assurance funds was 4.61 p.c.
as against 4.76 for 1939.
The spring in the year’s gross takings
(£1,432,037) was £63,904, of which
£19,406 came from interest and rents
(£489,993) and £44,498 from net pre-
miums (£942,044). The amount added to
assurance funds was £552,634 (up
£111,069), raising them to £10,324,226.
The contraction of £146,454 in the
£235,000 surplus available for distribu-
tion among policy-holders was largely
because of the reduction in the basis of
valuation already referred to.
Bradford Cotton Mills
—Dividends > To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 12,514 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 8,340 4,174 6,099
1936.. 21,591 6 „ 124 „ 12,645 8,946 14,045
Surplus revaluation assets, £22,406;
reserves capitalised, £21,500 .. 14,951
1937.. 26,966 6 p.c. 15 p.c. 18,525 8,441 26,892
1938.. 24,871 6 „ 124 „ 19,384 5,487 32,379
1939. . 29,001 6 „ 12| „ 22,976 6,025 38,404
Capital assets reserve, £105,379 .. 143,783
1940.. 48,499 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 33,310 15,189 158,972
Capital assets reserve, £47,190 .. 206,162
1941.. 66.087 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 55,382 10,705 216,867
Australia’s cotton-textile industry has
shot ahead under demand created by war
conditions, just as woollen textile and
many other local industries did during
and after the war of 1914-18. This Brad-
ford co., whose expansion has been pro-
nounced over the last couple of years, is
now engaged largely on defence contracts
which have priority over ordinary civilian
business. However, the chairman says,
excepting a small section of the plant
producing purely military requirements,
all equipment recently installed —and
there is much of it —turns out yarns and
fabrics for which there is an extensive
demand in peace-time.
The co,, which has given a good
account of itself, was set on its feet in
Sydney by the Keighleys, of Bradford,
before the slump of the early 1930’5. The
public became interested in 1935, from
which point the introductory table picks
up the story. For the seven years since,
shareholders have averaged 11.8 p.c.
Issued capital ascended from £202,742 in
1938 to £690,039 in 60,000 first and
93,104 second prefs., both 6 p.c. cumu-
lative, and 536,935 ords. at June 30 last,
when there was £15,557 still to come on
the ords. The capital increase of £487,297
was made up in this way;
April, 1939, 20,000 6 p.c. prefs. to share-
holders.
Mid-1939, 43,000 f.-p. ords. and 93,104
prefs. to shareholders in Austral Silk and
Cotton.
Dec., 1939, 34,000 f.-p. ords. to Dunlop-
Perdriau and 240,193 ords. to share-
holders.
1940-41 term, 57,000 f.-p. ords. issued
in payment for Camperdown (N.S.W.)
premises.
The exchange of scrip with Austral Silk
and Cotton has helped the co. out on
the yarn side and provided a link with
a valuable customer —Dunlops! This link
was further strengthened by purchase
(for scrip) of the Barnet Glass co.’s
Footscray building early in 1940. The
building now houses the plants of spin-
ning and weaving subsidiaries, to help
finance which 240,193 ords, were issued
for cash at the end of 1939. The differ-
ence between the book value of net assets
and shares exchanged for them has been
placed to a capital assets reserve (now
£152,569, up £47,190 last term as a result
of the Camperdown purchase).
Here is the position looked at from
another angle:
1938. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital .. 202,742 222,742 641,517 674,482
Liabilities . . 26,765 59,545 80,300 208,248
Freeholds .. . . 49,068 54,292 154,981 284,123
Plant, etc. . . 117,938 140,964 152,726 163,830
Shares subsidiaries 13,000 230,719 455,984
Advances .. . . 341 72,258 57,199
Stocks . . . . 66.906 100,097 120,542 132,587
Debtors . . .. 28,672 31,644 44,456 66,697
Cash, etc 16,957 43,070 602
To increase shares in subsidiaries by
£225,265, add £129,142 to the book value
of freeholds, £11,104 to its own plant,
£12,045 to stocks and £22,241 to debtors,
the board drew upon cash for £42,468,
went outside for an extra £127,948 and
gathered £132,965 of fresh capital. Ex-
cluding shareholdings, the more or less
liquid surplus (£48,837) was £151,189 less
than at the previous balance.
The subsidiaries consist of C. and D.
Mills Pty. and Sanforizing Services of
Aust., both in N. S. Wales, and Austral
Silk and Cotton Mills, Bradford Cotton
Spinning Mills and Bradford Cotton
Weaving Mills, all in Victoria. The spin-
ning mills came into operation about the
end of May, but only about half
the weaving plant is yet at work. There
is thus a lot of money that has not yet
had an opportunity of contributing to
the pool.
Last term the spring in gross earnings
from the co.’s own trading (£94,183) was
£12,912. Divs. (£19,838) turned in an
extra £4798, making gross earnings from
all sources £17,710 better at £114,021.
Including provision for taxation, etc.
(£29,900, up £9845), exes. (£47,934) took
only £122 of the increase, leaving the net
result at £66,087 (up £17,588), or suffi-
cient to pay the pref. divs, and show
12.3 p.c. on average ord. capital, com-
pared with 16.1 p.c. and 16.2 p.c. for the
two preceding years. The div, was kept
at 10 p.c.
The market expresses its confidence in
the co. by pricing the ords. at 38s. 3d.,
at which figure the return is 5.2 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The first prefs. at
255. 6d. yield 4.7 p.c., the seconds 4.9 p.c.
at 245. 6d. Net tangible cover is £l5 2s.
4d. firsts and 28s, Id, ords.
Since the close of accounts a further
205,645 ords. have been issued at par,
to help reduce the debt and pay for
more plant.
McWhirters, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Net To Re— Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 35,750 61 p.c. = 35,750 125,000
1932.. 27,500 5 „ „ 27,500 125,000
Loss.
1933.. 4,000 2 „ „ 11,000 110,000
Profit.
1934.. 22,148 4 ~ „ 22,000 148 110,148
1935.. 26,200 4$ „ „ 24,750 1,450 111,598
1936.. 22,348 4J „ „ 23,375 110,571
1937.. 23,331 „ „ 23,375 110,527
1938.. 28,665 5 „ „ 27,500 1,165 111,692
1939.. 31,428 5 „ ~ 27,500 3,928 115,620
1940.. 37,072 6 ~ ~ 33,000 4,072 119,692
1941.. 34,605 6 „ „ 33,000 1,605 121,297
In capital invested, this is Brisbane’s
largest department store. A decade or
so ago it was the store. Then chain-
store and other competition around
Queen-street began to entice shoppers
away from the Valley 5 and, though of
recent years signs have not been lacking
that custom is returning to the Brunswick-
street end of the city, only keen values
and service have done the trick. That,
of course, has meant narrow margins,
and earnings and divs. aren’t what they
used to be.
The northern metropolis hasn’t reaped
the same benefit from defence spending
as the southern States; still, it has had
the advantage of British purchases of
most of its primary produce, and recorded
retail sales advanced another 5.8 p.c. last
year, compared with Sydney’s 12.3 p.c.
Shrewd buying of imported cottons, silks,
linens, etc., and Australian manufactures,
which the management was able to offer
at attractive prices, ensured that Mc-
Whirter’s got its share of the bigger busi-
ness, both over the counter and by mail-
order. Most of the improvement in gross,
however, was absorbed by war-time
additions to the co.’s own costs:
1928. 1936. 1940. 1941.
Gross profit .. £261,380 £166,779 £212,708 £222,081
Exes.* .. 186,379 140,431 159,926 167,817
Profit* .. £75,001 £26,348 £52,782 £54,264
* Before providing for taxation.
That net earnings experienced their first
reverse since 1936 was ehtirely because
of taxation (£3948 higher at £19,659). On
capital the £34,605 (down £2467) shown


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated Dv
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
% Jjt *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
Mining Notice,
Redbank Dredging, No Liability.
TENDERS addressed to the Company at the
Registered Office, 379 Collins Street, Melbourne,
C.l, will be received up to 5 o’clock p.m. on
25th November, 1941, for the purchase of the
following:—
BUCKET DREDGE
STOCK OF DREDGE SPARE PARTS
Specification and form of tender are available
at the office of the Company as above, or will
be posted on receipt of written application.
A preliminary deposit equal to five per centum
of the gross amount of the tender price must
accompany the tender. The highest or any
tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Meetings.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES LIMITED.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
THE FIFTY - FOURTH ORDINARY
GENERAL MEETING of Members will be
held at the Company’s Office, 23 and 25
O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, on
TUESDAY, 4th NOVEMBER, 1941, at 2.15
p.m.
BUSINESS.
To receive the Directors’ Report and Balance
Sheet to 30th September, 1941.
To elect two Directors in place of Sir Thomas
Buckland and Mr. Francis William Hixson, who
retire under Clause 81 of the Articles of Associ-
ation, and who offer themselves for re-election.
To elect Auditors in place of Messrs. Robert
W. Nelson and Co., Chartered Accountants
(Aust.), who retire under Clause 124 of the
Articles of Association, and who are eligible for
re-election, and to fix the amount of their
remuneration.
To consider any other business of which due
notice shall have been given in accordance
with the Articles of Association.
By Order of the Board,
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager.
Permanent Trustee Building,
23 and 25 O’Connell Street,
22nd October, 1941.
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS Of HUMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should be expected to become your
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence
gas.”
V'' - ' '-v.
27ie Symool of
Security /
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF ACSTKAUA.
LIMITED
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
(Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir
Robert C. Wilson.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
3 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ;
Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A.
Manager: J.
Colin A. Sinclai
E. Heath, C..M.G.
G. H. Shipway.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ; Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend; Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
df
Correct belt tension, the all important factor
in power transmission with belting, can now
be automatically controlled by Ludowici
Pivot and Torque Drives a great step up
in belt drive efficiency.
The 23 different stock sizes and types of
Ludowici Pivot and Torque Drives cover
every possible application. Increase pro-
duction, eliminate belt slip, lengthen belt
and bearing life by installing an A.T.C.
drive in your plant.
Victorian Office: 20 Queen's Bridge Street,
SOUTH MELBOURNE. Agents All States.
fd
d
f
r. ttdsvi i. amt
///
ms
',■¥ B
a
St:
i iQRK
BELTING
PULLEYS • BEARINGS • SHAFTINGS • COUPLINGS • ALL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT
to shareholders was 6.3 p.c., as against
6.7, 5.7 and 5.2 p.c. for the three years
before. Div. was kept at 6 p.c.
Finances are on sound foundations, and
stocks appear sufficiently diverse and well
bought to ensure another satisfactory
year’s trading;
1930. 1932. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £050,000 £550,000 £550,000' £550,000
Overdraft .. 7,817 109,395 117,097 133,681
Creditors . . 50,153 37,917 33,837 36,860
Freehold and
plant . . 324,500 453,000 438,940 436,974
Stocks . . 296,908 262,092 *299,380 *314,262
Hook debts . . 109,710 115,484 113,892 119,294
Cash, invest-
ments, etc.. . 40,605 5,772 3,266 8,505
* Includes goods in transit, previously lumped with
cash, etc.
Stock-in-trade was added to by £14,882
last term —this at a time when cotton piece-
goods from Britain have been drastically
rationed, the Japanese market has been
closed and Australian manufacturers and
the co.’s own workrooms are working
at, high pressure on military orders. The
favorable surplus of more or less liquids
(£271,574) lifted £6570.
From 13s. 6d. a year ago, the pound
shares have improved to 155., to yield
8 p.c. at the current rate of div. At
the higher figure net tangibles are bought
at a discount of 9s. sd. per share. The
potholes ahead appear more numerous
than those just left; but McWhirter’s
control is longer-headed than many.
Golden Plateau, Cracow, Queensland’s
second gold-producer, hasn’t yet met with
any luck in the bottom level, and reserve
ore has shrunk to two years’ mill supply.
At 160,100 tons, latest estimate of the
proved and probable total is 15,000 tons
down in volume, grade fractionally better
at s.o9dwt, Immediate hopes of further
ore appear to depend on behavior of the
Sunrise shoot to the east between Nos. 1
and 4 levels, where there is a 350 ft. depth
of ground unprospected, and on the reef
under the end of the West drive on No. 3
horizon, where a connection is to be made
with the bottom level 200 ft. below. For
the year to June crushing performances
recorded little movement:
1938. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Treated, tons 56,912 80,010 79,035 81,770
Gold, ox. . . 25,729 22,698 22,711 22,061
Dwt., ton.. 9.04 5.67 5.75 5.54
Recovei’y, p.c. 94.65 94.05 93.7 93.4
Silver, oz. .. 20,353 18,008 28,633 18,508
Dwt., ton.. 7.1 4.5 7.2 4.5
All-in costs, ton 31/7 23/3 26/3 25/-
Profit . . £135,936 £128,202 £115,322 £123,691
Divs. Amt. 126,000 126,000 84,000 126,000
Share . . 3/- 3/- 2/- 3/-
It was a lighter charge for development
(£23,349, down £11,626) that enabled the
improvement in profit to be shown. The
same factor favorably influenced unit
costs, though other mining outgo lifted.
Recoveries so far in the current term
have been in line with last year’s experi-
ence, but the grade of sdwt, placed on
reserve ore raises queries as to how long
they will continue. Acting conservatively,
at 6s. 9d. per share the market values
the mine and surplus liquids of £74,000
at £283,000.
* * * *
Reports that Labor is reviewing the
ban on entry into uncontrolled areas of
the Mandated Territory brought out
speculators in Melbourne for Enterprise
of New Guinea, and share prices have
doubled. The board has been seeking
an oil-prospecting permit for over four
years, but past Administrations have been
adamant. Since abandoning its alluvial
gold areas in early 1940, co. has concen-
trated mainly on its Edie mine, where
proved ore is put at 125,000 tons, grade
6.7dwt. gold and 4.20 z. silver, with
418,000 tons of probably lower-value
material considered possible. Overall
grade, however, isn’t payable at the
present level of air freights, and the co.
is awaiting construction of the coast-
Morobe road.
* * * *
Most active on the Carshalton anti-
cline, which is the chief of Bendigo’s
western lines of reef, Golden Carshalton
earned enough from 3453 tons of ore
(recovered grade 5.4dwt.) to show a sur-
plus of £7lB in its latest six months. That
was £1778 less than for the period before
owing to lower tonnage and grade fol-
lowing depletion of the 347 ft. level stopes.
The co. hasn’t yet dug up anything in
bulk to take their place, and present
market isn’t very exuberant. Spurry
formations occurring in fractured coun-
try are the chief lode features of the
mine, which, previously in B.M.L. hands,
now has its own 10-head battery.
SK * * *
Commencing regular production in
1932, Aberfoyle Tin, on the side of Ben
Lomond (n.-e. Tas.), has missed but. one
quarterly div. since. Full distribution
last year was £12,500 (Is. a share) from
a surplus £2930 lower at £14,353. The
slip reflects the reduced price at which
the co. js now compelled to sell its out-
put to Australian smelters. Ore-treat-
ment was maintained at 16,270 tons of
1.5 p.c. ore for 323 tons t.o. and 26 tons
wolfram concentrates, a nice sweetener
at the moment. Total of proved and
probable ore is computed at 93,100 (up
9000) tons, putting the mine nearly six
years ahead of the mill. Flotation has
been introduced for removal of the sul-
phides, giving a less bulkier and richer
concentrate.
JF * * ♦
Burbidge G.M., of Adelaide, is the
most shiny recent Westralian gold float.
From its Great Victoria mine, on the
Yilgarn, it is drawing ore from aurifer-
ous formations exposed in the initial
opencut benches for a length of 900 ft.
and a mean width of 100 ft., which may
extend up to 150 ft. as mining progresses
into the marginal laterite. South-west is
the 100 ft. deep opencut of the old co.,
beyond which further extension of pay-
able values is looked for. The ore is
easily worked, and a couple of men are
breaking up to 4000 tons per month. Co.
has a second string in the Grand
National, a mile to the south, still in
the exploratory stage. With costs around
12s. a ton and 90 p.c. recoveries, 2.Bdwt.
heads are showing a nice profit on the
£20,000 of capital. No computation of
reserve ore has been worked out; previ-
ous owners spoke of several hundred
thousand tons, which the present man-
agement reckons isn’t likely to be “far
out.” Between 1906 and 1927 Great Vic-
toria produced 208,000 tons of 3.3dwt.
ore; little was subsequently done till the
present control, which is now testing the
sulphur possibilities of pyritic material
in the sulphides, took over.
* * * *
Crushing on a “highly payable com-
mercial scale” within six months is pre-
dicted by Swan Bitter, a neighbor of
Hill 50 at Mt. Magnet (W.A.). At the
annual meeting on Friday the board
hopes to announce conclusion of arrange-
ments to finance the “fairly heavy”
expenditure involved, thus obviating the
need for shareholders to dip deeper
into their pockets something they
showed no enthusiasm about when
offered forfeited contribs. last term. Co.
plans to work the newly-acquired Morn-
ing Star and its old Broken Bond leases
from the new property. Down to 300 ft.
Morning Star was credited with a pro-
duction of 86,5500 z. gold from 150,000
tons before }oz. costs took a hand in
pre-1916 days. The Star reef is said to
be showing 7dwt. values over Bft. for
120 ft. at 300 ft., and samples from the Big
Lode —actually, like Hill 50, a series of
lenses —assayed lldwt. over 18ft. Old
diamond-drilling is said to have estab-
lished values to 614 ft. Main lode on
the Broken Bond, where there is 5000
tons of sands stacked, is also said to be
living down.
❖ * *
Freney Oil Co. (W.A.) sprung a sur-
prise by suspending boring to overhaul
equipment. It hopes to resume drilling
in a few months. In breaking the news,
chairman C. R. B. Saw said there was
about £6500 in hand, which State and
Federal Governments had been asked to
supplement by subsidies up to £7500
each. All now lacking, except, of course,
the discovery of payable oil, was efficient
plant. He reckoned that expenditure of
£2OOO to £3OOO would place it in good
condition. When boring was suspended
4082 ft. of vertical drilling had been
done, the last 271 ft. costing £6 a foot.
An impressive contingent of geologists
and oilmen is visiting the bore-site.
* * * *
Investors and others interested in Vic-
torian mining will find the Mines Depart-
ment’s “Mining and Geological Journal”
a first-rate shilling’s-worth. Bendigo and
the new Red Robin discovery on Hotham
Heights are the subjects of special review
in the latest issue, and general items in-
clude a survey on the source, use and
world distribution of war metals.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
FROM DUNKIRK TO MOSCOW.
[This historical survey and explanation of Hitler’s
various moves and shifts in the war following his failure at
Dunkirk and leading on to the attack on Russia is
condensed from an American “Free World” article by
Walter Duranty.]
Winston Churchill called the German invasion of
Russia the fourth of the “intense turning-points” in
this war. I think that now we see things somewhat
differently and understand that the German drive on
Russia was in reality no more than the natural, logical
and almost inevitable consequence of the one true
turning-point, which was Dunkirk.
Dunkirk took the lightning out of Hitler’s Blitz-
krieg and determined the character of the war there-
after as a long-drawn, grinding struggle between Ger-
many and the whole strength of the British Empire,
supported and multiplied by the wealth and industry
of the United States.
Dunkirk was indeed the crucial turning-point
because it proved that France’s defeat was not Hitler’s
final victory. Marshal Petain thought it was, and
hitched France to Hitler’s star. Mussolini was even
more nimble in his haste “to run to the aid of the
victor.” And the crafty Matsuoka threw Japan to
the Axis, with an eye on the Dutch East Indies.
Hitler planned and wanted a Blitzkrieg, a quick
sharp series of blows to win Europe and England,
too. He won Europe, but England stood, with
America behind it. Once he saw that the Blitzkrieg
had failed, he changed his tactics and set himself to
reorganise Europe, in Germany’s interest, to compete
with Anglo-American war production before it became
too late. What he wants, and has almost obtained, is
a United States of Europe under German domination,
terrorised, beaten, bamboozled or cajoled, but har-
nessed to his chariot, slave of the German lamp. He
has almost unified Europe and holds it by the might
of the German army and the menace of the Gestapo.
For the first time in its bloody history Europe will be
forced to ignore its confusion of moneys and lan-
guages, its racial and tariff barriers, its political and
economic rivalries and old musty hatreds—to ignore
all this and work as a single unit, under the German
whip.
That was Hitler’s programme, but two factors
threatened its success: first, the pressure from without
of British bombers —perhaps later even a British in-
vasion—and of the British war effort in general,
supplemented in an ever-increasing degree by the in-
dustrial assistance of the United States; second, the
existence of Russia as a non-participant and potentially
hostile element in the “New Order” of Europe which
Hitler planned. This begins to explain the question:
Why did Hitler invade Russia? But there is another
question, which cannot be so easily answered: Why
did Hitler choose the particular moment he did for
his action?
No one will deny that the secret of the appalling
Nazi war machine is timing and co-ordination. Read
the factual story—not the newspaper story—of the
German campaign in France last year, and you will
see that it had perfect judgment of time, speed and
place.
The Germans, one presumes, had planned their
spring campaign with their usual meticulous care, step
by step. The first step was Bulgaria, accomplished
without bloodshed or trouble. The next would be
Yugoslavia, and then they would turn to Greece and
say “You must now yield ; there is no hope for you,”
And Greece would have yielded. Then Turkey, en-
circled and frightened, would have fallen into line. A
deal had already been made with French Syria and
likewise with Iraq. Iraq would explode in rebellion
against the British and, before the end of April or the
middle of May, the Nazi forces would have submerged
Palestine and be ready to batter at Suez before the
summer sun had reached its full intensity.
Iraq did explode in rebellion, but the rest of the
plan missed fire and the British were able to suppress
the outbreak without much trouble. They saw what
the game was by that time and took Syria in their
stride.
The Germans overreached themselves when they
demanded the demobilisation of the whole Yugo-
slavian army. They had promised, of course, that they
would not move troops through Yugoslavia. It was
an honest promise, if one uses the word “honest” in
a Hitlerian sense. That is, they wouldn’t move troops
through Yugoslavia because there would be no reason
to move them. If the Monastir road was open the
British would tell the Greeks, “We cannot support
you, make what terms you can” ; the Greeks would
give way, and there would be no need to move troops
through Yugoslavia. This sounds like the House
That Jack Built, but it is real and important.
As things happened the Yugoslav military leaders
were alarmed and infuriated by the German demand
for demobilisation. They refused to accept it and
promptly threw out their Government, which had
already signed on the German line. Whereupon the
British, against the advice of their Middle East com-
mander, General Wavell, took a chance. They stripped
North Africa of troops —with the result that the
German-Italian forces in Libya recovered in three days
the whole area from Benghazi to Tobruk —and moved
them into Greece in the hope, which proved illusory,
that the Yugoslavs could hold Monastir, As Churchill
said, it was a gamble. But the German troops broke
Yugoslavia to pieces before it knew it was fighting,
and captured Monastir. This enabled them simul-
taneously to turn the Greek left flank in Southern
Albania and the Greek-British right flank in Thessaly.
Greek resistance then collapsed and the British made
another of their “successful evacuations.”
All that took time, and the Greek-British resist-
ance in Crete was also time-wasting. It was only a
matter of weeks, but the danger with nicely calculated
plans, dependent on perfect timing, is that if the time
is deranged the whole plan may go askew. Iraq shot
its bolt on the original time schedule, and the British
were able to deal with it, and did. Thus when the
Germans looked at their hand at the end of May,
they saw that the cards were somehow wrong.
They hadn’t got Iraq, Syria or Palestine, and
Crete was no more than an island. The sun was reach-
ing a heat so intense in the deserts around Egypt that
soldiers had to undo their first-aid packs and wrap
bandages around the metal work of their rifles in order
not to blister their fingers. The apparently futile Yugo-
slav resistance and the British gamble in Greece, which
Wavell (so correctly from his own standpoint) de-
plored, had thrown out of kilter the meticulous Ger-
man plan. Instead of being ready to smash at the
gates of Egypt, they were still no nearer than the
borders of Turkey. The date was thus quite wrong
for any attack upon Egypt.
But what could the Germans do? Invade Britain?
Far too dangerous. Occupy Spain and Portugal and
North Africa? Not before securing their eastern
frontier. Leave the machine to rust? Then what of
morale and the dynamism of dictatorship, which must
always drive forward? There remained only Russia.
North Africa and Dakar —the last preparatory steps
against the United States in the Nazi drive toward
world domination —would inevitably come after
—Cleveland “Plain Dealer,” U.S.A.
WATCH YOUR STEP, ADOLF!
Russia had been dealt with. Finally, Hitler shared
witn the American State Department and other
eminent authorities the delusion that Stalin’s regime
was so unpopular in Russia that one swift blow would
bring it crashing down. So there you have the story.
Par la force des choses Hitler was bound to march
against the Soviet Union.
U.S. ’Plane Production.
[The items on American war production here con-
densed strike a somewhat more optimistic note than
those given under the heading “U.S. ‘Popgun Arsenal’ ”
in last week’s “Uncabled Additions.” The first article is
from the “Wall Street Journal.”]
Men, executives and workers who are building
America’s war ’planes have done the impossible.
In cold figures, here is the record. President
Roosevelt issued his call for ’planes in May, 1940.
The output of the entire industry that month amounted
to 450 ’planes. Production was at an annual rate of
5400 units. In August, 1941, production had jumped
to 1854 war ’planes, or an annual rate of 22,248. By
December it is hoped to have the figure boosted to
2700, or an annual rate of 32,400.
To accomplish the results so far, it has been
necessary to increase factory floor space from
13,115,421 square feet on January 1, 1940, to
41,896,347 on August, 1, with many more millions
under construction or in the blueprint stage. The
89,893 workers on January 1, 1940, grew to 303,749
by August 1, 1941. Another army of workers is on
the way as they finish training course.
All these figures apply only to the aircraft in-
dustry itself. They do not include the thousands
and thousands of suppliers and sub-contractors who
have geared their production capacities into the air-
craft industry.
For those who are not statistically minded, here
is what has happened. Overnight, a vast new industry
has sprung up. There hasn’t been time for it to grow
up gradually and slowly fit itself into the economic
life of the nation.
A bare handful of men have provided the guiding
genius which has shaped this growth. Upon their
shoulders has fallen the task of developing produc-
tion methods and techniques so that workmen, many
of whom never before had operated a machine, could
build one of the most complicated and delicate
mechanisms yet produced in this century.
Still others have shaped up the sub-contracting
programme whereby companies and workers who had
never built ’plane parts are able to contribute to the
general effort. It is nothing for one plane builder
to depend upon hundreds of sub-contracting com-
panies, and many of these in turn depend upon sub-
sub-contractors. To provide a steady flow of materials
and parts has required planning so complicated as to
make a train dispatcher’s job simple in comparison.
Of course, mistakes have been made ; more will
be made in the future. The big wonder is that there
haven’t been more —that the industry has accomplished
within the framework of democracy in such a short
time what it took Hitler seven years to do. And he
had to put the German nation in a straitjacket to do it.
* * * * *
Ships
(From New York “Herald-Tribune:'’)
For two decades our [American] seafaring tradi-
tions were forgotten. Between 1922 and 1937 only
two ocean-going freighters were launched in the
U.S.A. Only 35 p.c. of U.S. seaborne commerce was
carried in American bottoms.
Today we can’t build ships fast enough to meet
our own needs, to keep pace with the sinkings, at a
rate of between 5,000,000 and 6,000,000 tons a year, to
meet the shipping requirements of our pledge to aid
Great Britain, Soviet Russia and China in their resist-
ance to aggression. That does not mean that our ship-
building is not bold enough or big enough. You
cannot, after shipbuilding has been neglected for 20
years, launch a vast fleet overnight.
When the present shipbuilding programme is
fully under way next year ships will be launched at
the rate of more than two a day.
* * * » ♦
Other War Production
(From New York “Times.”)
John Biggers, United States lease-lend director in
London, said that “When Hitler chose his mechanised
war effort he certainly chose an effort that is right up
our alley.”
Mr. Biggers said he was aware of British criti-
cism of United States production, but he declared he
was positive the “first major wave of United States
production will be harvested in December of this
year.”
He exhibited production charts that showed: —
Small-arms ammunition. —Production now double
what it was a year ago. By December present pro-
duction will be doubled.
Machine-guns.—Present production high, but will
be almost doubled by December.
Machine tools. —Production now four times its
previous peak.
Merchant ships.—A big jump in August of this
year.
Military rifles. —Production twice what it was a
year ago.
Smokeless powder.—Four times what it was a
year ago and will increase 20 p.c. by December.
Tanks. —A good many hundreds are being pro-
duced each month. Total will be doubled by
December.
Twenty and 37mm. guns.—No production a year
ago ; fair production now, which will be doubled by
December.
“I know there has been disappointment about
American production,” Mr. Biggers said. “But you
must remember the very nature of mass production
means you consume a lot of time getting started.
Once you line up your industries you get your harvest
of effort.”
The Murder of Hostages.
(Condensed from a New York “Herald Tribune” article.)
Their shooting of hostages convicts the Germans
on still another count of the primitive and sadistic
stupidity which underruns the whole of Nazism. It
is true that they have so taught the world to expect it
of them that one can read the accounts with no great
shock of surprise. But that very fact is perhaps the
most damning of all indictments against Herr Hitler’s
“New Order.”
Civilised peoples learned long ago the futility of
murdering hostages as a means of controlling a victim
of conquest. The last occasion on which a Western
Power took hostages (to say nothing of murdering
them) as a pledge for the fulfilment of a peace treaty
is said to have occurred in 1748.
Writers in the pre-war years noted instances in
colonial wars in which hostages were taken to secure
the obedience of the local population or as subjects of
reprisal, and the Germans did something of the sort in
1870 ; but even the Germans did not shoot the host-
ages, and the practice of taking them at all was
condemned,
Moore’s Digest of international law, published
in the civilised atmospheres of 1906, makes no men-
tion of hostages. Nor do the Hague rules, adopted in
1907 ; they provide that an occupying Power must
respect “the lives of persons,” and forbid the imposi-
tion of any “general penalty” on a population for acts
of individuals, but it evidently did not occur to the
jurists that there was any necessity, in their enlightened
times, to prohibit the murder of innocent persons as
a means of keeping “order.”
In their early days in Belgium in 1914 the Ger-
mans are said to have taken hostages ; even so, when
the International Law Association in 1928 sought to
codify the rules for occupying Powers, they made only
a parenthetic reference to the subject: “No inhabi-
tant may be arrested on any ground whatever (as


.
m
■ "ylf.
m
.
y
■ft
• "1
m
THE NAVY, THE ARMY, THE AIR FORCE use
B ATT E RIE S
ILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
hostage, civil prisoner or otherwise) unless it be for the
definite infringement of the laws and regulations in
force.”
These were the works of civilised men, looking
back upon the accumulated experience of the ages.
The shooting of hostages was inconceivable to them,
because they knew it to be a device as demonstrably
futile in the affairs of men as it was primitively brutal.
They did not foresee the rise of Nazism, a great
power which, like the cheat who can live just so long
by exploiting business confidence with forged cheques,
was to advance and prosper by exploiting every rule of
social ethics and violating every law which others had
learned to observe. It does work, of course —for a
time.
Auchinleck Annotates a Nazi Diary.
[This (condensed) item has the interest of expressing
the fighting soldier’s view of the enemy and of his own
fighting job—as distinct from flapper press views of such
things." It was written by General Sir Claude Auchin-
leck for publication in the troops’ official magazine,
issued at Cairo.]
The German illustrated paper “Signal” of Sep-
tember 1, 1941, contains an account of actions fought
in mid-June last around Solium and Capuzzo. The
account consists of extracts from the Tagebuch ernes
Deutschen Halfaya Kampfers —that is, the diary of a
German Halfaya ex-hero.
I think these are worth studying, and I have added
my comments [which appear in italics] to each extract.
The diary.—The last golden glow of the setting
sun fades. I have just finished my round of the ad-
vanced posts. Everything is in order. Although they
have to sacrifice all comforts and pleasures, the lads
are in good spirits. They are German outposts in
Africa and they know it and are proud of it. These
fellows are good soldiers; they know their fob and
mean to do it.
The diary.—At last the oppressive heat abates.
We now get some respite from the flies, which nearly
eat us alive. It is hopeless arguing. They are un-
welcome guests. We sent about 150 of them into the
hereafter out of one tent alone. Then we gave it up.
We are not the only ones to suffer discomfort. The
Huns are probably worse off in this respect than we
are, as we know more about looking after ourselves in
these out-of-the-way countries than they do. All the
same, we must keep up to the mark in all these things
which affect our health and comfort so we shall be
fighting-fit when the time• comes.
The diary.—A wireless message from Corps ;
“Hold on.” We promise old Rommel we will do that,
all right. We would have held on even without the
message, to the last man. Even if the British took the
position (but it’s not theirs yet) they would not take a
single German soldier alive. As I have said before,
these chaps have guts and know their job. We have
guts, too, and we must know our job even better. As
for taking them alive, we do get a German soldier now
and again. We want a lot more of them. I hope you
will get them for us.
The diary.—Last night I fell asleep over my diary.
Sleep has worked wonders. I feel like a new man.
New supplies of ammunition have come in. Although
we were not completely sold out, it strengthens our
feeling of superiority when we see those huge piles
of ammo. You see, he is still wondering how the
Germans managed to stand up to our attack. He talks
about the magnitude of the British defeat. That is
natural, even though it was not a defeat. He is pretty
short on sleep and obviously has had a bad time. If
he had been kept with no sleep a little longer he might
have cracked. Remember this when you are feeling
all in—another hour or two may make all the dif-
ference as to who cracks first. His remarks about
ammo are interesting, too. We have the bulge over
them as far as our supply arrangements are concerned.
If we can go on long enough to run them out of
ammo they are beat.
The diary.—Eating and sleeping had become
things of the past. We were choking with thirst —but
we finally forgot about drinking, too. No one talked.
Silently and deliberately we did what had to be done.
They are tough and worth beating, these Germans.
The diary.—Since the letters that I wrote last
week are still in my pocket, I open them again and
add a few words: “Everything fine. Am fit and well.
I’m glad I was there when the British were given
the thrashing they deserved at Solium.” I hope we’ll
have him under the sand or in the bag before long.
Human Cargo.
(Condensed from a New York “Times” report .)
The Spanish freighter Navemar, packed like a
cattle boat with refugees from Germany and Nazi-
dominated lands of Europe, docked in Brooklyn,
U.S.A., at the end of one of the war’s strangest
voyages, an odyssey in reverse.
The ship was known to New York harbor in
former years as an ordinary freighter with passenger
quarters for 15 persons. There were now 769 pas-
sengers lining the ship’s rails or reclining on their
soiled bunks and rickety steamer chairs down below.
Eleven hundred and sixteen had sailed originally on
the ship, from Seville on August 6 and from Lisbon
on August 16,
Of these 11 were landed at Bermuda and 330 at
Havana. Six died during the voyage, four at sea,
where they were buried, and one each at Bermuda and
Havana.
After seeing the ship, with its improvised outside
kitchen, the two “decks” of tiered bunks down below
in the windowless holds, the hulls and shells of grape-
fruit, oranges, pineapples and other foods lying about
the decks, officials expressed surprise that “casualties”
had been so few.
Passengers themselves said it was a miracle. They
said the voyage was “criminal” and “unbelievably
cruel.” Hours after the gangway went up from the
pier some elderly women were still lying in the bunks,
exhausted.
Nevertheless, the general opinion seemed to be
that what they had endured on the trip was far less
than the tortures they had undergone in Europe. They
had left behind them concentration camps, hunger,
physical punishment, oppression and terror, and, as
one of them said, “It has been terrible and almost un-
bearable, but it hasn’t been so terrible as what we
came away from.”
Scandinavian Confusion.
('Condensed from an article by a New York “Times”
Scandinavian correspondent.)
Faced by the greatest peril in its history, the
European North stands disunited. The gentler senti-
ments and ties founded in pre-war times have lost their
significance. Finland, Norway and Sweden differ
profoundly in the objects of their hatred, fears and
miseries.
In Norway a new heroic saga is being written.
At least two Swedish newspapers recently headlined
editorial comment on the situation there “Norway’s
Day of Greatness.” The stubborn fight of Norway’s
NAZI HARVEST.
—Providence “Journal,” U.S.A.
men, women and children against an army of occupa-
tion, which at one time numbered 10 p.c. of the popu-
lation, and a completely ruthless group of some twenty
or thirty thousand home-made traitors, is doing more
for Norway’s future and that of the entire North than
any victory on the battlefield.
In Norway today there is no doubt or hesitation,
but a singleness of purpose and communion in a
hatred which has swept away the traditional indi-
viduality of the Norwegians and made them a closely-
knit unit, hating, loving and hoping as one man. The
Norwegians know exactly that, with a German vie-
tory, they would be enslaved like other “inferior
races.” Even more than military domination of a
foreign country they are resisting attempts to replace
their centuries-old democratic order by a new one,
This is what makes their fight so bitter. This is also
what makes their faith in British victory so unshakable,
This is also what will make them rise as one man the
moment the first soldier of liberation puts his foot on
Norwegian soil.
Finland, on the other hand, is between her attach-
ment to democracy and her hatred of Russia. Like
most Scandinavians, the Finns are deeply democratic,
It wouldn’t be an exaggeration to say that before the
beginning of the second war with Russia 80 p.c. of
the Finns were wishing for a British victory over
Germany.
But there is Russia. Hatred of Russians has for
ages permeated every private and public move on the
part of the Finns. Today the Finns believe they are
facing the following problem: If they win—and this
can only mean if Germany wins the war —they will
be forced into the German “New Order,” which they
instinctively detest; but if the Germans lose, the entire
nation will be wiped out by a victorious Russia.
Situated between Norway, which hates Germany,
and “Finland, which is an ally of Berlin, Sweden offi-
cially loves everybody. Unofficially the situation is
more complex. The Swedes hate the Russians and
the Nazis ; they hope for a Russian defeat, but not if
it means a British defeat, too ; they warmly admire
and approve the Norwegians and want to help the
Finns, although not to the extent they did in 1939,
Sweden’s problem is how to keep out of the war.
By a miracle of subtlety she has succeeded up to now
and her chances of remaining neutral seem better
today than at any other time since the beginning of
the conflict. The situation would, however, change
completely if, for instance, the British attempted an
invasion of Norway. Then all would depend on
whether the Germans would or would not present
acceptable demands on Sweden.
The future of the Scandinavian countries can be
predicted with certainty. If Germany wins the war
they will become just another component part of the
“New Order” —just three or four more German-vassal
States. In the other case, there is a great likelihood
that the idea of a federation will be revived and put
into practice. Of all the parts of Europe this is one
where it can be realised with the least difficulty. The
greatest mistake Russian diplomacy made was to veto
a Finnish-Swedish-Norwegian alliance, which could
have completely changed the position and attitude of
Finland. There is some reason to believe that
Moscow realises this today.
Strategic Afghanistan.
[Lying along an extensive stretch of the Indian
border and bordering also on Iran, Afghanistan is of the
greatest strategic importance with the war moving
towards India. The following general information on
the country’s position is condensed from a New York
“Herald Tribune” article by Hiram Blauvelt.]
With consolidation of
the Russo-British position
in Iran, there is wide
speculation as to what will
happen in the neighboring
country of Afghanistan.
Regardless of align-
ments in Europe, there has
been friction between
Russia and Great Britain
in this part of the world
for a century. Rudyard
Kipling did not exaggerate
it, and the essence of
Afghan politics always has
been to play England
against Russia, or vice
versa, and get juicy plums
from each. This policy
no longer is tenable be-
cause of full co-operation
between the Soviet Union
and Britain on the Indo-
Asian fronts.
History has reversed
itself violently on the
famous Khyber Pass. For
centuries every effort has
been to keep the pass
closed against the Afghans
and other invaders from
the north. Now traffic is flowing the other way
through the pass, and Afghanistan is absolutely depen-
dent on India for sugar, silk, cement, iron, ammuni-
tion and many other vital supplies.
The Germans pursued their routine policy and
methods of penetration in Afghanistan, just as in Iraq
and Iran. Nazi agents came in largely as members
of diplomatic staffs and as technicians. Even before
the war Germans made a survey for a sugar-beet fac-
tory at Bagland, Afghanistan. They did all the engi-
neering preliminaries, surveyed land and prepared esti-
mates, and then mysteriously recommended the Skoda
firm for the job. In fact, they secured the job for the
Skoda works. The sugar-beet industry, to be sure, is
highly developed in Czechoslovakia, but now it is defi-
nitely felt that, with diabolical foresight, the Germans
knew they would be controlling Skoda shortly. Upon
the annexation of Czechoslovakia the chief engineer,
who was a Czech, fled to India, and the Nazis took
over the job and finished it in 1939.
The largest hydro-electrical plant in Afghanistan
was also built by Germans. This type of penetra-
tion through construction of factories and hydraulic
stations has been duplicated in other countries in this
part of the world. The Germans had a large job in
Tehran, the capital of Iran, and have a job in Tibet.
The No. 1 key position in Kabul, capital of
Afghanistan, is held by Walter Rodenstein, formerly
of the Berlin Reichsbank, financial adviser in the in-
dustrial department of the National Bank of Afghani-
stan. He meets and interviews all foreigners coming
into the country. Since no one can be hired without


his approval, he is in the most valuable listening post
in the country and knows what is going on every-
where, including England. This is interesting, since
the money advanced for the cotton factory, on which
only the looms are of British construction, is English
capital—a loan granted by the London branch of the
National Bank of Afghanistan.
This illustrates that the democracies cannot buy
their way into power and how the Nazis have negated
tactics of the democracies, even turning democratic
money to their own benefit.
The importance with which the Nazis considered
this part of the Middle East may be judged by the
fact that they have sent some of their best men out
here.
A very serious development for Germany is that
with the embroilment of Russia in the war all of Ger-
many’s contracts in the Middle East and Asia are at
a standstill, since she is unable to get the materials to
them. Machinery for the Afghanistan work formerly
came through Russia.
The great change in modern armies and military
tactics was never so forcefully illustrated as in the
case of Afghanistan. In times past Afghans have been
the toughest mountain fighters of any part of the
world. Today—as witness the other fine fighters of
ancient reputation the Serbs, the Greeks, the Abys-
sinians, the Viking Norwegians and the stubborn
Dutch —bravery hasn’t got far against modern
mechanical warfare. Afghanistan has a “ceremonial
army,” all right for parades and tribal warfare but
little suited to modern tactics. In an army of 100,000
men, only 50,000 are effectives, with the balance of
cooks, camp followers and hangers-on found around
Asiatic army camps.
Equipment is mostly hand-down stuff from the
greater Powers, including six different kinds of rifles
—Russian, three types of Japanese, British Lee-
Metfords and Martini-Henrys and even powder-and-
ball blunderbusses, muzzle-loaders and flintlocks. It
is estimated the army has enough ammunition for
about one week of war.
The present tendency of the country is pro-British.
This is partially due to the bad impression the German
engineers have made 'on the native population, and
partially to the fact that the Afghans realise their
best market for their trade and produce is in India,
while many of their staple necessities must be imported
from th£re.
Roosevelt’s Millennium.
[American “Saturday Evening Post” looks for the
realities underlying the Churchill-Roosevelt “Declaration
of the Atlantic.”]
When the memoirs come to be written, especially
the second memoirs of Mr. Churchill, we may find out
what happened to the millennium at the meeting of
the President of the United States and the British
Prime Minister somewhere in the Atlantic.
We have learned to know a good deal about
Mr. Roosevelt’s tenacity of idea and purpose. There-
fore we cannot doubt that he took with him his four
freedoms.
First: “Freedom of speech and expression—
everywhere in the world.”
Second: “Freedom of every person to worship
God in his own way —everywhere in the world.”
Third: “Freedom from want —everywhere in the
world.”
Fourth: “Freedom from fear —anywhere in the
world.”
In his famous message to Congress last January
he set them out very carefully in that order of value
—and this was no vision of a far-distant time, he
said, but “a definite basis for a kind of world attain-
able in our own time and generation.”
He must have taken with him also the State
Department’s annunciation, by Mr. Welles, of the
two essential conditions for bringing that world to
pass: First, to abolish offensive armament under some
power of international control, and, second, to estab-
lish “fully and adequately the natural rights of all
people to equal economic enjoyment,” because, “so
long as any one people or any one Government pos-
sess a monopoly over natural resources or raw
materials which are needed by all people, there can
be no basis for a world order based on justice and
peace.”
We have never been able to make sense of such
words as the “natural rights of all people to equal
economic enjoyment.” Suppose the Japanese should
insist, as they once did, that for their equal economic
enjoyment they must be permitted to settle in Cali-
fornia. Certainly the words do not mean that.
Then do they become rhetorical and mean only
equal access for all people to natural resources?
Among our natural resources we count the fertility
of lowa land, and water power at Boulder Dam and
Grand Coulee. Shall all people in the world have
equal access to these resources? If so, how? Do
they mean, perhaps, only raw materials?
There is a world market for all raw materials
at world prices. To whom in time of peace are raw
materials denied at the world price? For her war
machine Germany bought rubber and copper in Lon-
don right up to the outbreak of war, and essential
raw materials all over the world.
The doctrine of underprivileged nations that
must be appeased for the peace of the world belongs
to a phantasy of international Socialism ; moreover,
it partly concedes the Hitler thesis that, because the
natural wealth of the world was not equally distri-
buted by the Creator, he is justified to redivide it in
favor of Germany by force. Nevertheless, it is ideal-
istic and Mr, Roosevelt believes it ardently, thinking
of it, perhaps, as a New Deal for the whole world ;
and, as we say, he undoubtedly took it with him to
the rendezvous, along with the four freedoms.
What did he bring back?
Only two of his freedoms—the lesser two. Only
freedom from want and freedom from fear were
written into the Declaration of the Atlantic, and these
not as a definite basis for a kind of world attainable
in our own time, but as a desirable feature of a peace
which “the President of the United States and the
Prime Minister, representing his Majesty’s Govern-
ment in the United Kingdom,” say they “hope to see
established” after the final destruction of the Nazi
tyranny.
Freedom of speech and freedom of religion were
left out. Were they omitted, perhaps, in deference
to the sensibilities of the Russian dictator? If so,
we should impute it to Mr. Churchill’s magnificent
and somewhat impish sense of political realism. Yet
Mr, Roosevelt appears to have been somewhat con-
scious about it, afterward. When he sent the Declara-
tion of the Atlantic to Congress, for its “information”
and “for the record,” he said: “It is also unnecessary
for me to point out that the declaration of principles
includes of necessity the world need for freedom of
religion and freedom of information.” A slight
change there. Not his own “freedom of speech and
expression—everywhere in the world,” but “freedom
of information.” We don’t know quite what that is.
Nor was that all.
The “natural rights of all people to equal economic
enjoyment,” to be fully and adequately established,
fared badly in the sea air, and came home like this:
“They”—again the President of the United States and
the Prime Minister, representing his Majesty’s Gov-
ernment in the United Kingdom, announcing certain
common principles in the national policies of their
respective Governments—“will endeavor, with due
respect for their existing obligations, to further the
enjoyment by all States, great or small, victor or
—Baltimore “Sun,” U.S.A.
HEILING IS NOT ENOUGH.
vanquished, of access, on equal terms, to the trade and
raw materials of the world which are needed for their
economic prosperity.”
The principal “existing obligations” of his
Majesty’s Government are those of the British Empire
to its economic self—very rightly and properly so.
As he left the deck of the Augusta, U.S.N., Mr.
Churchill’s person must have bulged with the trifles
he got away with. Not the millennium. That was
nothing. He probably dropped it overboard. What
else had he got?
He had got a formal, irrevocable declaration of
purposes in common: first, a purpose to destroy
Hitler; second, a purpose to disarm Germany for
ever; and, third, a purpose to restore the overturned
sovereignties of Europe.
He had got his Anglo-American alliance for the
duration of the war, in writing.
He had got the signature of the United States of
America, by its President, to an unlimited under-
taking to save the British Empire.
And what did he give for what he got? To what
did he pledge his Majesty’s Government? Only to
forgo the thought of aggrandisement, territorial or
other, and to share with the United States the job
of policing and minding an Anglo-American post-
war world.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
Aviation research and accomplishment have been
pushed ahead by at least a quarter century in the
laboratory of war. Some day peace will return, and
when it comes dawn will break upon a new era of
transportation, an era which promises to bring as
vital changes to the economic structure of the country
as did the introduction of the railroad and the auto-
mobile. —“Wall Street Journal.”
* * # * »
Remarkable as are the contributions which the
Dominions are making in every field of the common
effort, in no other field is their contribution likely to
prove more decisive than in the air warfare for which
their men have shown such exceptional aptitude. In
the early days there was difficulty in providing air-
craft for the number of airmen trained and being
trained. As production increased it seemed doubtful
whether the recruits enrolled could be given adequate
training—and any idea of lowering the standard of
training was rightly rejected—in time to man them.
With the rapid growth of the Empire scheme, and
with the enthusiastic co-operation of the Dominions,
these difficulties are being overcome. The Royal Air
Force—with the air forces of the Dominions and the
squadrons of our Polish, Czech, Dutch, Norwegian and
Free French Allies, some of which have magnificent
exploits to their credit —is rapidly growing into a
mighty instrument of war, as the Germans are now
being made to feel. — London “Times”
* * * * *
It has cost Czechoslovakia at least $1,000,000,000
since the Nazis marched in two years ago. That esti-
mate is one of material costs ; it takes no account of
the incalculable exactions which have robbed the
Czech people of all freedom and made their country,
not a protectorate but a slave-State under Nazi domi-
nation. Military occupation was quickly followed
by commercial penetration. German interests now
control Czech banking, industry and commerce —and
the profits all go to the Reich. “Funny money” has
been introduced. The Czech crown has disappeared
as a monetary unit, and movable property valued at
a huge sum has been bodily transferred to Germany.
—Montreal “Daily Star.” •
* * * * •
Iran was the twenty-fifth country to be involved
in hostilities of world-wide scope. At the height of
the 1914-18 conflict, 28 countries were engaged. Those
currently involved are Great Britain and the British
Commonwealth, including Canada, Australia, New
Zealand, the Union of South Africa, India and the
British colonies; Belgium, Bulgaria, China, Denmark,
Estonia, Finland, France, including French Indo-
China, French Equatorial Africa, Syria and Lebanon ;
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iran, Iraq, Italy, includ-
ing Libya, Italian Somaliland, Italian East Africa
(Ethiopia) and Eritrea; Japan, Latvia, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Manchukuo, the Netherlands, Norway,
Poland, Rumania, Russia and Yugoslavia. Britain and
the Commonwealth are counted as one country
despite the fact that the Dominions have the power to
act independently. Czechoslovakia, although she has
a Government-in-exile in London and is engaged in
hostilities, and Austria are omitted from the tabu-
lation because they had been absorbed by Germany
before the conflict involved a clash of armies.— New
York “Times.”
* * * * *
Although the United States is at peace, the war
has already taken toll of many American lives, and
on American soil. These fatalities have occurred as
the result of industrial accidents that stem in most cases
from the accelerating defence programme. Such mis-
haps were 20 per cent, greater in the first quarter of 1941
than in the same period last year. In most instances
the rise in industrial accidents has been much greater
than the expansion of production. In Wisconsin, for
example, while employment expanded by only 9 per
cent, during the first half of this year, accidents were
up 28 per cent. The National Safety Council foresees
that some 100,000 lives will be lost this year in acci-
dents because of the pressure of emergency work and
the employment of inexperienced labor. Preoccupa-
tion with the expansion of defence production will
inevitably bring about some relaxation of usual safety
methods and standards. — American “Journal of Com-
merce.”
*****
The civilian population of Belgium suffered
greater casualties in the 18-day battle on her territory
in May, 1940, than her armies. There were 10,000
civilians killed, while the number of military dead was
7500. Soldiers wounded numbered 18,583 and
approximately 200,000 were taken prisoner, of which
130,000 have since been released. A million and a
half Belgian citizens took temporary refuge in France,
most of whom have now been repatriated. Among
those who fled overseas, 25,000 went to Britain and
5000 to French Morocco, Portugal and the United
States. — New York “Times.”
*****
Wing-Commander James asked the Minister of
Aircraft Production how many pilots of the Air Trans-
port Auxiliary Service had been recruited in America
at the rate of £1937 17s. 9d. a year, free of United
Kingdom income tax ; what were the durations of
their contracts; and upon whose direction and
authority, and if with Treasury approval, such con-
tracts were entered into.
Lieut.-Col. Moore Brabazon. —“The number of
American pilots in the Air Transport Auxiliary is
162. Their contracts are for one year. The contracts
were entered into under the authority of my Ministry
and their terms received Treasury authority.” The
position was that the American airmen were doing
extremely valuable work. They were flying four-
engined and two-engined machines and fast fighters,
and although the figure was high it was not high com-
pared with what they could get in America. Many of
them wished to return there in order to get more
money. — From London “Times” Parliamentary report.
*****
All ninety schools of Canada’s gigantic air-crew
production plant for the British Empire Air Training
Plan have now been completed. Some 1860 build-
ings have had to be constructed at nearly 100 airfields.
Paved runways, if extended into a standard-width
highway, would reach from New York to Indianapolis,
about 800 miles. The staff required to administer,
maintain and provide instruction totals 40,000 men.
American volunteers compose from 9 to 10 per cent,
of the young men now being trained for air crews.
About 8 per cent, are Australians, 4 per cent. British,
5 per cent. New Zealanders, and a trickle of volunteers,
mostly British subjects, has come from Argentina,
Mexico, Chile, Peru, India and faraway British
islands. Canadians form more than 70 per cent, of
the trainees. — New York “Herald-Tribune.”


GRACE
NOVEMBER
SHOP-EARLY
I
m
VM
; i
m
•;x
'
x: ! i
mt
am
■ I
■■
S ■
DEDUCTED
FROM
YOUR BILL
ft
6X
G
%
S
(2
USUAL PRICES:
£lO/15/- to £l7/171-
LESS 10%
£9/13/6 to £l6/1/6
CRAFTSMAN
TAILORED
IN
LONDON
Take advantage of
this unique offer,
which includes
Greys, Fawns and
Navy English
Worsted in a large
number of fittings,
and each garment
is in perfect con-
dition.
ii
;.i«j
fa •***»
.. y> /> vy ; *< •> •.* ■••• •. *.* <*,*> *» >*
SmS
,
GRACE BROS. PTY., LTD., BROADWAY, SYDNEY. ’PHONE: M 6506
Without Exception!
THE WHOLE OF THE HUGE RANGE
OF ENGLISH CRAFTSMAN TAILORED
CLOTHING IS SUBJECT TO THE
10% DISCOUNT. THIS INCLUDES:
ENGLISH DRESS WEAR, TOPCOATS,
RAINCOATS, AND LOUNGE SUITS.


htS
LYS
i
proof
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
*
rm
g JfV ‘*J li‘J ta*
~,#*■ ‘ I- >„ -If ••'■• 48r
|* |"’ | . 'I ■ ■ • ■ ”", v ’
9aI !M Suioiiaj
SJ.HOVSAH
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I’M SENDING It TO GRAZCOS.”
The Year in Wool.
“Ghanam”; Last season was the first
in which every bale of wool for sale
in the Commonwealth was handled under
the appraisement scheme, and the scheme
worked well. In no previous year had
such a clip been dealt with so quickly or
—as Dalgety’s usual comprehensive
Annual Wool Review shows —so smoothly
and satisfactorily to all parties. The bulk
of wool handled was nearly double that
in the last war, period for period. Be-
tween 1916-20 the average annual hand-
ling was 1,913,610 bales. In 1940-41 the
appraisement scheme handled 3,506,038
bales.
The total weight of the 1940-41 clip
was 1,044,039,4991 b. Its appraised value
was £55,251,133. The average appraised
price was 12.085 d.—just on 90 p.c. of
the British purchase price of 13.4375 d.
Australian manufacturers last year
bought their wool at appraised prices,
plus per cent., plus extras and de-
livery charges. As the difference between
appraised and full British price was a
little under 11,2 per cent., they were at
a slight advantage over the British Gov-
ernment, and growers also lost any extra
profit which might be derived under the
sharing scheme—the British Government
is to share the profit on resales with the
growers after the war. This year Aus-
tralian manufacturers are not so lucky.
They are to pay 15 per cent, over ap-
praised prices, plus delivery charges.
Last year defence orders built up local
manufacture to an unexpected extent.
About 333,000 bales had been excluded
from the appraisement scheme for the
benefit of Australian mills. The quota
had to be revised, and they took 376,000
bales —the record year was 1938-39, when
they converted 378,694 bales. In the
second year of the last war only 136,000
bales were manufactured in Australia. It
seems a pity that drastic steps cannot be
taken to greatly increase Australian
manufacture. A lot of the wool in stores
would probably be of much more advan-
tage to the country if it were instantly
available for use in manufactured form.
However, progress has been steady. At
the end of the last war there were nine
woollen mills employing 1650 and treat-
ing 3,600,0001 b. Last year there were 24
mills employing 7500 and dealing with
16,200,0001 b.
The total yield to the growers for the
two war seasons has been roughly
£126,150,000, of which sales last year
represented £60,937,986. The future pro-
mises well.
One effect of war-time conditions has
been to spread the selling of wool to pro-
vincial ports which had no hope of re-
cognition under the old auction system.
Whether this innovation will work to the
good remains to be seen. The shipping
position is acute. During 1939-40 only
two-thirds of the clip got away—and
ships are compelled to concentrate their
loadings at ports where they can fill up
with cargo quickly.
Entero-Toxaemia in W.A.
“H.C.”: In W.A. it’s frequently called
“braxy-like disease,” and is more preva-
lent in British breeds than merinos be-
cause the former usually are run on
better country. Few lambs are affected
until eight or ten weeks old (in N.S.W.
heaviest losses occur among fat lambs
three to six weeks old). Greatest mor-
tality occurs during a lush season, when
soft feed lacks roughage and sheep feed
without much walking. There is heavy
toll in dry seasons in W.A. when ingested
flowering stinkwort injures the bowel
wall. Symptoms are lassitude, chewing
of small stones or sticks, unsteady gait,
discharge of frothy saliva or diarrhoea.
Post-mortems reveal haemorrhages on the
inner surface of the heart, intestines
ballooned out with gas, kidneys of older
sheep enlarged and pulpy. Extremely
rapid decomposition follows death. All
carcasses should be burned, as they harbor
infection.
Remove affected sheep to paddocks
where the feed contains crude fibre, to
scrub country, or supplement the grazing
with chaff or hay.
Vaccination is a preventive and should
be done in April or May. Two doses of
vaccine for the ewe, the first six weeks
“Pre-sent ARMS!”
before lambing, the second two weeks
before. Lambs are vaccinated when about
six weeks old. Use a hypodermic syringe,
which should be boiled daily. Make the
injection under the wool on the free skin
inside the thigh. Lambs can be done
by sitting them on a rail. Consult local
authorities as to vaccine supplies and
permission to vaccinate.
Buffalo Fly.
“Mackay”: The buffalo fly is small,
dark grey, about half the size of the
ordinary house fly, and easily dis-
tinguished by its iridescent wings. It
appears incapable of surviving any length
of time away from its host. Usually it
gathers in swarms around the eyes, on
the withers, neck, dewlap, shoulders and
protected parts of the body. It works
down close to the skin and lives on the
blood. When heavy infestations occur
cattle suffer irritation, lack of rest, loss
of blood and condition. To alloy irrita-
tion beasts rub themselves sore and cause
raw, granulating wounds. The worst in-
festations usually follow summer rains,
In Queensland the only exit for cattle
from fly areas is overland. There is a
spraying plant at the railhead of the main
stock route, and this has a specially
boarded-in race 108 ft. long. Sprays within
the race are so placed that backs and
heads, bellies and legs of cattle are well
saturated, about 2\ gallons of spray
being used per head. The complete soak-
ing of the hair and skin destroys the fly.
Once trucked, cattle are given regular
examination en route. Horses, being
more highly strung, are usually hosed
with spray by hand. No simple method
of control has yet been evolved. Without
general co-operation of pastorahsts in
infested areas, State authorities could not
keep the pest in check.
„„ ~
Whey for Calves.
“Daisy’s Valet”: Calves will do well
on whey where large quantities are avail-
able. When whole milk is being sold to
the cheese factory get back whey for the
calves.
Give ’em whole milk for the first fort-
night, then gradually substitute whey dur-
ing the next three weeks. If it can be
done, a £lb. of linseed meal or linseed
and pollard to the gallon of whey is use-
ful, but they’ll do well on whey alone
by the sixth week.
Try this: First week, up to 121 b. of
whole milk; second week, 121 b. whole
milk; third week, 91b. milk, 51b. to 101 b.
whey; fourth week, 61b. milk, 101 b. to 151 b.
whey ; fifth week, 31b. milk, 151 b. to 201 b.
whey; sixth to twenty-fourth week, 20ib.
to 301 b. whey. This is per head per day,
half at morn and half at eve, both fed
at 90deg. F. The whey must be sweet,
fresh and undiluted, and the calves should
have good pasture, supplemented when
necessary with good hay. In warm
weather the older calves may drink much
more whey than listed above.
Don’t use a concrete container; the
lactic acid in the whey will wear it away,
Galvanished iron is immune; so is wood,
but the iron is easier to keep clean. In
Victoria the law prohibits the use of
milkcans for carting or storing whey.
ad* • n .•
A Hivenna Rotation.
“Bar Elian”: A rotation that worked
pretty well in stopping wind and water
erosion on a western Riverina wheat-
farm of 800 acres went like this on each
of the 200-acre paddocks; 1936, all
fallow ; 1937, half of each area sown to
wheat, half to Wimmera rye and wheat;
1938, the 100 acres of wheat stubble and
W. rye were left and oats sown for graz-
ing on the rest, the lot being worked up
in spring ; 1939, rye was again sown on
100 acres and oats on the other half for
hay or grain ; 1940, back to fallow as in
’36 and the rotation started again, except
that the rye went on to the other half
of the paddock.
It meant two crops of wheat and one
of oats off each paddock in eight years,
but from the 800 acres each year came
200 acres of wheat off fallow and 100
acres of oats off short fallow. This was
found to keep the cover on the ground,
provide all the grazing required and
ensure animal manure being returned to
the soil. In good years what was left
of the oat grazing stand was ploughed
in for green manure.
The legumes responded well, natural
trefoils coming away well all the time
and binding the soil, as well as fixing in
it a good share of nitrogen. They
answered dressings of super, quickly, and
kept a fair mat over the surface without
much rain.
Hints for the Farm.
“Long Awn”: Wherever there’s a
fairly lush growth of meadow hay bale
it and stick it under weatherproof sheds
or in well-sheeted stacks. Sales are
easier to handle than loose hay; they
take up less space and make less waste,
Cut the grass while green, just as the
pollen begins to stick out from the
flowers, then form into windrows and
cock before the sun bleaches the color
out. Bale as soon as it is dry enough
not to heat. Rush the job, because every
shower of rain on the cocks reduces their
food quality, and if they have to be re-
cocked to dry more of the grass is
exposed to bleaching. When stacking
the bales, make sure the base of the stack
isn’t likely to get wet through shower run-
off and see that the stock can’t get at
the stack.
“8.C.”: Two things are likely to be
scarce this harvest-duplicates and labor.
Get in early on the first by listing the
parts you’ll most likely need and order
them at once. A lot of agricultural im-
plement factories have swung on to war
work, and there is also likely to be some
scarcity of material. Good hands will


LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd- King St., Sydney
REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Egelabra Merino Stud
H. E. KATER & SON,
Warren, N.S.W.
Established 62 years.
Four times winners of
Stonehaven Cup.
Grand Champion Ram and Ewe
Sydney Show, 1940.
Rams for Sale.
Tel., Warren 10.
HYGEIA Dissolvenator
THIS SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM
PROVIDES THE SAFETY AND COMFORT OF A
SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY.
d
NO SMELL, NO FLIES, NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No emptying or other unpleasant
jobs. All matter is turned into a
sterile solution which automatically
runs off. Over 1600 in use.
Health Comfort Economy.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
PRICE, family size, £lB/8/- F.O.R. Sydney, including
10% Sales Tax, plus 20/- war surcharge.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. 81052. OR LEADING STORES.
Fully guaranteed
as to longevity,
efficiency a n d
mechanism.
It is a complete
sanitary system in
itself and is not
just a modified
closet pan.
It displaces pans
and saves sanitary
rates.
The sterile solu-
tion soaks away
in the under-
ground sump.
Can be used where
septic tanks are
not practicable.
IlfeP
ir
(Wm* 1
i)
MilhSib
massim
texc-3*hssL
JH f'Hri •liV'jls’.t’SHiin.
8 n wMfe-
.'y.hrt'u
ggfe-.
OCM0 CM r tv' 1 'LI
BT APPOINTMENT
C-OVEQ
'•Op,
Wf.-J
«-H
A/
me
itt
&
*i»»
tUJ
S't M ,
mm
m
1
t? y * Ar o / w lo w don. 4;
pi An
° w * eoMP*NV'.i* ,^^Kj
/iff;
'* r '*«!^sssßSor
'•'XT
‘nu
"er T
m)
M**.V
EpA
f Sri fa
=\-{'p
Dfty
S®m.
-
Gordon's
Jit may eoit a little mote
hut IB WELL wotth it!
i
3he Udifcu
be in demand, and, where one or two
have been hired, it mightn’t be a bad
idea to sign them up on contract for the
harvest.
“Splodger”: Farmers with second-class
to inferior land might consider giving
burr trefoil a flick. It is a poor winter
relation of lucerne. It grows prolifically,
seeds abundantly, spreads well and offers
an immense crop of foliage. The last
straw can be eaten. The burr which
gives it its name is a tiny hook on the
end of the seed-pod. It would be but
slight detriment, if any, to wool. Against
it must be noted the fact that it bloats
readily—it can give lucerne a start and
a beating in that regard—but when stock
are inured to it that can be discounted.
Also it taints milk, and for that reason
is useless to dairymen, but as a fattener
for sheep and as a heavy winter crop
on poor lands it stands high.
“Brecko”: Albany (W.A.) pea-growers
have tried a modified type of potato
manure “H.” The application was equiva-
lent to 671 b. of sulphate of ammonia,
8201 b. of superphosphate and 2551 b. of
sulphate of potash per acre on marly soil.
Germination was generally satisfactory,
but differences due to treatment showed
up early. To improve early growth,
copper was used in some plots, man-
ganese in others. Most robust top growth
came from copper and manganese in
combination. Copper had a marked effect
on yield, but addition of manganese
proved a further advantage ; best types
of peas came from copper-manganese
plots.
“X.T.”: The number of sheep in the
Commonwealth at the end of 1940 was
an all-time record —121,363,845, an in-
crease of 10,886,000 in two years. That
looks something like a miracle in view
of the weather.
“Ben”: An early estimate of the
N. S. Wales wheat crop places it
at 43,000,000 bushels from an esti-
mated grain area of 4,228,000 acres.
This suggests that estimators are deter-
mined to be safe, the State average
over the past decade being well above 12
bushels an acre. Total average yield for
the previous 10 years was 60,149,000
bushels a year. With a drop more rain
in central and southern parts of the
wheatbelt and good finishing weather in
the north-west, the estimate will very
likely be increased by the time headers
are humming.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department .>
What is the outlook for share-farmers on
dairy farms in Victoria? —2658.
Terms are a matter for private arrangement
between proprietor and share-farmer. Most
give a third share in proceeds, but some may
give even up to a half. There is a big de-
mand for share-farmers, and a newspaper ad-
vertisement or application to auctioneers at
places like Dandenong and Warragul or to
Melbourne registry offices ought to get an
immediate response.
Outback Occasions.
No. 7.
THE FAMILY PORTRAIT.
The occasion of getting the family
photograph taken was wished on to us.
Some one or other of us had from time
to time been given or bought or won in
a church raffle a box camera, with which
we usually photographed everything from
the “Homestead at Evening” to the
draught mare’s foal when it was three
days old. Only about one in every 20
of these pictures was ever any good, and
that was generally one of a magpie on
a post, taken to finish off the spool of
film, which turned out beautifully as a
picture of our sister’s hand.
Attempts were made with these
machines to record impressions of the
family but were never successful. The
one of Mother would magnify her feet
and the one of Father would have a broad
white streak across his face, and lesser
members would say we did the one of
them deliberately and then there’d be a
row. After we’d had the camera about
six weeks enthusiasm would wane, the
camera would be stuck away on a shelf
or swapped with somebody for a skin-
ning knife, and photography would be-
come a lost art.
One day a smartly-dressed cove came
to the farm and chivvied Father until
Father agreed to take the entire family
to town on the following Saturday and
have a group taken. As he explained to
Mother, “When we get old it’ll be nice
t’ have somethin’ t’ remind us.”
As Saturday drew near all of us be-
came enthusiastic about that picture. We
used to hold meetings after tea and plan
how we’d stand, and some of us used
to sneak away and look hard into a
mirror and try various kinds of what we
thought were pleasant looks. Father said
“Y’ have t’ look as though y’ know y’re
goin’ t’ get somethin’ decent but don’t
know what it is. Sort of happy expec-
tation, see?” Our brother said “I know,
like a bloke with a achin’ tooth waitin’
t’ get it out.” But nobody laughed ; it
was too serious for that.
Well, the Saturday came and there was
a lot of rushing around by lunchtime.
Mother made us all have hot baths, and
laid out clean shirts and sat down and
cried when Spieler, our pup, rushed in
fresh from a wallow in the tank and
jumped all over the shirts. Father got
the gun and took after Spieler but
couldn’t find a cartridge, and our sister
couldn’t find the hair ribbon she’d ironed,
and there was what Father called a “fine
how-do-you-do.”
In the end there we were, all dressed
up to the nines and ready to get into
the car and go. We hardly knew Father,
with his moustache trimmed and his hair
parted and a youthful look about him.
Mother was trying not to be excited, and
we would have bitten anybody who so
much as touched us.
We all went out and got in the car and
waited for Father. After a bit Mother
got anxious and called out to him, and
Father came on to the verandah with a
stricken look and cried “I can’t find me
hat!” Mother got out of the car and
went to look for it, and we sat awhile
until she came out and called out to know
if we remembered seeing it anywhere.
So we got out, too, and went and looked
for that hat. We searched our home
from front to back, eaves to cellar, but
there wasn’t a hair or hide of Father’s
hat anywhere. So some of us went and
searched the shed and stables without any
luck, and when we came back Mother
clipped us for getting dusty and made
us go and brush ourselves.
In the end we all went and sat on the
verandah, tired of searching, and Father
fulminated about never knowing where
anything was. Our brother said, “Well,
why worry? Y’ ain’t goin’ t’ wear the
thing when we get taken, are y’?”
Father looked fiercely at him and said
“Of course not, y’ silly goat; but
wouldn’t I look lovely drivin’ inter town
without me hat? The blokes’d think I
was a Boy Scout or somethin’.” Mother
said he’d have to wear an old hat, and
she and Father squabbled about that, but
Mother won and Father pulled an old
hat on and we all went to the car. And
there was Father’s lost hat where he’d
put it, in the driving seat. Mother got
“that look” on her face and Fathers
mouth went tight, so we didn’t laugh.
When we got into town Father drove
round to the studio and we got out and
went inside. Father and a man talked to
each other and we looked at the pictures
on the walls, inwardly noting the wooden
eyes and glazed grins and feeling down-
hearted as we saw there was small hope
of our coming out as we had imagined.
Then the photographer took us into a
room with wide windows and draperies
and sat us down and stood us up and
pushed us back and pulled us forward,
and moved us about like a bloke playing
draughts on his own till we had a crick
in our back, and Mother complained
about the heat and had to be taken out-
side and fanned and have water poured
into her.
After a while he had us where he
wanted us and said “Now, just try and
look pleasantly past my shoulder,” and
while we were working our face up he
jerked something and then walked oyer
to Father and they started talking again,
Then we discovered we’d been “taken”
and went outside to the street to see who
was in town and spend our money. But
we couldn’t do much because Mother had
us so spick-and-spanned we weren’t game
to touch anything or let anything touch
us. And later on we went home,
When the picture came we gazed at
our wooden eyes and glazed grins and
then went up the paddock, weighed down
by a future in which friends and rela-
tives would be shown the thing and would
get us to stand while they rapturised
about the likeness.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4Jd. per line; all others at
2£d. per line.
For pointing a moral with some humor a Tasmanian goes on top this week.
Temperance
“Blue P.’s” ideas for a reformed tem-
perance campaign (B. 8/10/’4l) have
come too late for Tasmania, as witness
this ominous declaration made at a recent
Baptist Union assembly at Hobart: “The
temperance movement is dead, and we
might as well admit that the liquor trade
has beaten its church opponents”
There is rejoicing in the camps of the
ungodly. The footsteps of workers taking
a short cut through Franklin Square
(Hobart’s pocket-handkerchief edition of
Sydney’s Hyde Park), as they crunch
over crayfish shells and dead marines,
relics of the previous night’s revels, sound
the requiem of the disciples of Cold Tea.
The death-knell of temperance in the
bibulous island began to toll in the early
years of the last World War, when 11.30
closing was superseded by the farcical
six o’clock “Time, please, gents.” The
“reform” caused a lot of people to take
to the demon Drink with extra enthu-
siasm, the slight spice of danger incurred
in defying the Lor being an added attrac-
tion. The Speck has now switched back
to 10 o’clock, which seems a fair thing,
the only difference being that the army
of “nit-keepers” employed by Bungs
have lost their jobs.—R. H. P. (Tas.).
Comforts ?
A speaker at the Women’s Temperance
Convention in Sydney complained that
troops abroad are getting beer before
comforts. What a silly statement to
make! If a vote could be taken among
Diggers as to what they consider the
greatest comfort on the hot desert sands
80 p.c. would plump for a bottle of beer.
It is a refreshing tonic to men fighting
to the point of exhaustion, and over-
indulgence is rare because the pocket
can’t stand it. What does the complain-
ing person suggest for the parched mouths
of our heroes —patent medicines for the
troops to keep their pecker up and
Adam’s ale to keep their temperature
down? Beer does both. — Jika (Vic.).
Drink and Immorality
Temperance zealots have found another
mare’s nest in the alleged increase in
immorality. The evidence produced to
support the contention will not bear
analysis. Generally, the women and girls
to be seen drinking recklessly in hotels
were well seasoned before they adopted
that course. Tippling is the aftermath.
Cocktail drinking in posh hotels is a
rather mild diversion with most of the
participants. It has become a sort of
social rite, and is not having the bale-
ful effect that some try to make out.
1 have been in close touch for several
years with an institution which handles
“mishaps.” A majority of the inmates
come from the country and very few
had ever tasted liquor. Even amongst
those from the city area the number
familiar with drink is insignificant. Blam-
ing drink is putting the cart before the
horse. The assertion (if true) that the
number of births in the seventh month
of marriage is greater than in the tenth
is no indictment of drink, rather the con-
trary. When the frail victim indulges in
“spotting,” marriage is seldom the follow-
up.—Fitzjay (N.S.W.).
Was It Ever Any Good?
Norman Lindsay’s cartoon (B.
8/10/’4l) depicting the voluntary system
as a “good horse in its day” prompts the
query whether the horse ever really was
any good.
No nation has given the voluntary sys-
tem a longer or fairer test than the
U.S.A., and having tried it in five wars the
U.S.A. has taken care that if it enters this
one it does so with a system wholly com-
pulsory, the watertight “selective service”
system. The U.S.A.’s first trial of the
volunteer system was in the Revolution,
when the colonists were attempting to
overthrow a tyrant and establish a democ-
racy. To keep his volunteers in the field
and augment their numbers, Washington
had to resort to bribes and to pay boun-
ties of as much as 750 dollars and 100
acres of land, and still not enough were
to be had. Similar steps had to be taken
in the war of 1813 and in the Mexican
War, in which officers were offered four
dollars a head for recruits.
In the Civil War, Lincoln’s call for
100,000 militia in the dark days of 1863
was answered by only 16,000, and these
only for a year’s service. Enlistment in
the Federal Army for the term of three
years was rewarded with a bounty of 100
dollars, but even this amount did not lure
sufficient volunteers into the army. The
history of the Civil War from the Federal
side is one long call for men and more
men. In 1917, when American democ-
racy and the liberty of the world were
put up to Young America as reasons for
fighting, only 200,000 out of 20 million
eligibles volunteered, and of these a big
percentage were for non-frontline units.
The American General Staff didn’t waste
time arguing with the system, but by
May, 1918, had the draft law in opera-
tion.
Australians don’t need bounties to
induce them to do their duty. Lack of
appreciation of what the Empire is up
against, not pusillanimity, is keeping back
recruiting, and the only system to over-
come that is one in which liability to
serve is the universal and accepted lot of
all. —W. K. D. (Q.).
Exiled, impotent perhaps, but still
greedy, the League of Nations is the
world’s Number One dowager. Having
held Britain confined to the point of suf-
focation in her skirts, she is still levying
toll on Australia’s war effort. The only
moratorium likely to be effective against
the Geneva Girl is conscription.
Conscription in Australia would affect
four classes of young men. First, the
battlers who, having worked their free
way along half the roads of Australia,
are unwilling to submit to army disci-
pline ; once broken-in, many of these
would make grand non-com. material.
Next, those men who are held back by
family or moral ties which they are un-
willing to break. Third, the men who
have failed to realise that this is their war.
And last, the people who hide in shallow
ditches dug with “intellectual” tools.
The last two classes are direct contri-
butions to the League. For 20 years
ideals of national service and fighting
pride have faded and weakened. News-
papers, teachers and parents who were
swayed by the easy theories of the
League are to blame. During those
years the Geneva Girl erected a screen
behind which life could be lived com-
fortably, a barricade behind which poli-
ticians could shelter from the dangerous
necessity for compulsory military ser-
vice. And now she is exacting her price.
Conscription is necessary not only to
win this war but to avert future strife.
The more men Australia can put into
khaki the stronger will grow the national
tradition of comradeship in arms. — Prop
(S.A.).
Aids to Recruiting
If we are to accept the voluntary sys-
tem, obstacles that are militating against
enlistments must be removed without
further delay. From my own experience
in the A.I.F. I would say that the chief
deterrent to enlistment is the hardship
it entails financially, especially in the case
of a married man. This would very
largely be removed if the system of de-
ferred pay was eliminated and the full
amount due paid fortnightly.
Secondly, it is not sufficiently recog-
nised that the ability and qualifications
of trainees in the various technical
branches of all arms of the service entitle
them to a reasonable pay differentiation.
At the present time men with more or
less high technical qualifications are being
asked to abandon well-paid jobs in civil
life and enter the various services
at an army rate of pay common to
skilled and unskilled men. Naturally
they are reluctant to do this.
The increased expenditure necessary is,
of course, the chief objection to more
liberal pay for specialists. However, it
is necessary to face up to the question
and admit that the chief brake on en-
listments is an economic one.
Cannot money which is being spent
in vain to cure the recruiting lag be
diverted to improving the lot of those
who are already in the services? If that
were done I am convinced that the results
w'ould be many times more effective than
the most adept propaganda could attain.
A tax on the incomes of eligible single
men who are in receipt of more than the
basic wage and who have no dependants
might well yield the necessary balance.—
A. B. (N.S.W.).
Conscript Wealth
In his speech delivered at the new war
loan rally at Sydney on 7/10/’4l the
Prime Minister said he was confident the
Australian public would find the hundred
million voluntarily.
Most Australians will agree, but the
fly in the jam is that a lot of people
who should and could subscribe will sit
tight, and it will be the same people who
support every war effort that will find
the money.
If Mr. Curtin knows his Australia as
well as he should to hold such a respon-
sible position he must be well aware of
the fact that many well-off people never
respond to an appeal for war funds or
even to minor patriotic ones.
He hopes to let the world know the
Australian people are heart and soul in
this war for victory, but there are some
who think the other fellow should bear
all the sacrifice and they do the flag-
waving. If everyone is behind the Gov-
ernment in a 100 p.c. war effort there
should be no hesitation in allocating how
much each individual’s contribution
should be. In brief, an equitable con-
scription of all our resources, including
man-power.— Dinkum (Q.).
The Military Pensioner
The military “service pensioner”—the
man who as a result of active service is
a physical wreck before his time—is
allowed 21s. 6d. a week. If he has suf-
fered such injuries as to induce Repat.
to grant him a war-disability pension, it
is possible for him to achieve 345. weekly
in combined disability and service pen-
sion.
With house and room rents what they
are, and beer and tobacco continually
rising in price, the pensioner is having a
hard struggle to exist these days. On an
annual questionnaire submitted by Repat.
he is asked for a statutory declaration
of his casual earnings during the preced-
ing twelve months. As he believes (prob-
ably rightly) that disclosure of any such
perks would result in a deduction of the
year’s total from his pension he perhaps
varies the truth a bit in his return. W'hy
not cut out the questionnaire? Soldiers
should be granted their pensions without
prejudice or pestiferousness.— One-of-’em
(N.S.W.).
War Savings Certificates
Why worry about raising the maxi-
mum (£250) for holdings of war savings
certificates per head (B. 8/10/’41)? Clubs,
associations and people with lump sums
to invest can put their money into a loan
if one is open or as an advance subscrip-
tion to the next loan and receive the in-
terest rate from the date of deposit. Most
people seem to miss the significance of
the war savings certificates idea. It is in
the middle word “savings,” the idea being
to save out of current income and so
reduce the consumption of non-essential
and, to a lesser degree, essential goods
and services. What are needed for war
production are labor and materials— not
money.
By saving we put off buying goods and
services, and these, instead of being used
up to satisfy our demands, can be used
in war production. The sooner these
demands of ours are cut to the bone the
better. We need something more drastic
than war savings certificates, which mean
that the willing ones save and the rest
spend.
Three practical ways of reducing these
demands are available, viz., taxation,
compulsory savings and rationing.
Although rationing is cumbersome it has
the great advantage that it can restrict
consumption of any particular class of
goods. Of course, the big fellows’ capi-
tal expenditure must be restricted, too.
What is done with the money doesn’t
matter nearly so much at present so long
as goods and services are not consumed
unnecessarily. Incidentally, deferred
spending power will be a great asset to
our economy after the war, when, after
the first boom of repatriation, we may
have to meet a depression. Spending
power will then be in the right hands
(the wage- and salary-earners) to get the
wheels of industry turning again. But it
must be released gradually, not all at
once during the first boom period.—
F. W. G. (S.A.).
Jobs for Diggers
A soldier invalided home from the
Middle East with a bad heart applied to
the Government for the job he had been
promised would be waiting for him. He
got one —in a service department where
strenuous toil and long hours were the
order of the day. In a few months the
natural happened and he was discharged
“medically unfit for duty.”
There are many positions in the Gov-
ernment service in which this soldier,
and presumably others, could and should
be placed—those jobs of which we have
often heard said “What a great life!”
This is the type of work which should
be reserved for partially disabled ex-
servicemen. Would it be asking too much
to insist that the responsible administra-
tive officials apply to each individual case
under their jurisdiction a little of that
native intelligence with which we are all
endowed?
Bureaucrats must be made to realise
that this country owes, a debt to these
men and that they are charged wiih the
responsibility of seeing that it is at least
part-paid. We cannot sit idly by and
watch returned men compelled by neces-
sity to undertake such work as will soon
render them totally disabled and incap-
able of ever earning a living wage. They
have earned the right to compatible work,
and in giving them “any kind of a job”
we are falling far short of our obliga-
tions. — Forus (N.S.W.).
Problem for Labor
I see that Mr. A. E. Monk, of the Mel-
bourne Trades Hall, has arrived in New
York to attend an International Labor
Conference. What he hopes to do except
subscribe to pious resolutions it is difficult
to discover, but he would be better em-
ployed dealing with his immediate
environment in Victoria. Since the war
started Trades Hall officials seem to have
unresistingly accepted every old-fashioned
notion that had been blown out in the
last war. When Britain required large-
scale production in the last war it was
“An wol's your order for the week-end ?”


thought that 12-hour shifts and con-
tinuous working would do it. All that
was produced was sick and fatigued
workers and diminished production, and
it was decided that a social and economic
mistake of the first order had been made.
In this war the same thing happened,
and the perpetrator was a Labor Minis-
ter for Labor. The mistake is stated to
have been remedied in Britain, but it *s
in process of being repeated in Victoria.
Scores of factories which were making
domestic oddments and so forth have
switched over part of their production to
the war effort. They work 12-hour shifts,
and anybody who wants to see the effect
on the workers has only to take a bus, tram
or train ride in the early morning any-
where around Melbourne. If a worker
objects to excessive overtime he is told
that he will be replaced by a more
energetic worker.
It is the same in Government muni-
tions factories. A doctor of my acquaint
tance who works amongst one of the
forests of new factories that have
sprouted in Melbourne tells me that most
of his patients are munitions workers
whom long hours and a monotonous
occupation have turned into neurotics.
Since he can’t change their conditions he
gives them a bit of a rest and prescribes
a tonic.
The Trades Hall has done its best to
protect the privileges of its own members,
but all this has done is to throw a bit of
the burden on the non-union worker. The
Government says it wants skilled men in
the factories, but it has to observe a dilu-
tion-of-labor agreement which sets the
arbitrary age limit of 21 on trainees. A
youth of 19 or 20 is too old to become a
regular apprentice and too young to be
admitted to a technical college under the
technical training scheme. But he is at
perfect liberty to go into a factory and
work a 12-hour night shift at some soul-
deadening and relatively unskilled occu-
pation.
If the war lasts a few more years he
will have spent the formative years of
his life on a job that will be no use
to him when the war is over. There will
be tens of thousands like him, and they
would constitute a threat to the stability
of any society. What effect will the
resolutions Mr. Monk and his friends will
be passing at the New York conference
have on this problem?— Cauboy (Vic.).
For Sailors Ashore
“Steamship” (B. 8/10/’4l) suggests that
men of the Merchant Marine should
share the privileges of the men of the
Army, Navy and Air Force in canteens,
etc. I have to advise that whilst work-
ing at the Catholic United Services
Auxiliary Hut in St. Mary’s-road, Syd-
ney, I found a number of merchant sea-
men enjoying the privileges extended to
men of the fighting forces. —M. S.
(N.S.W.).
Unionists* “Freedom”
Owing to the increasing dictatorship of
union bosses the working man has prac-
tically no freedom. No one can stop him
thinking, of course, but he is afraid to
voice his thoughts, of being called a
“scab,” of being victimised by the
arrogant minority.
Labor speakers are always claiming
that “the rights of the worker must be
paramount.” Surely one of his basic
rights under union principles is freedom
to express his opinion without fear of
victimisation. Despite the grandiose
claims made by Labor spokesmen, we find
that over 80 per cent, of the men are being
led by the nose very effectively, albeit
unwillingly, by a small minority. If this
is freedom for the worker then I’m
thankful I’m not a unionist.
Why do the 80 per cent, allow this state
of affairs? There must be a reason
somewhere. Spectators like myself are
eagerly watching and waiting for the 80
per cent, to wake up to the fact that the
excellent principles of unionism are being
prostituted by a crude form of dictator-
ship. Let the 80 per cent, have the
courage to lift their voices and be heard.
—P.R.T. (N.S.W.).
Mortgage Banks
Mr. Forde apparently thinks a Gov-
ernment mortgage bank would cure all
the landman’s ills. If he had a farm he’d
know better.
Mr. Forde can’t control supply and
demand, nor can he control world
markets, therefore he can’t control the
gross-receipts end of the farmer’s busi-
ness. If he means what he says he should
start at the cost end. Mortgage banks,
with resultant interest bills, would be
found right there.
“Borrow, borrow, borrow” is the eter-
nal cry of the politicians, who never think
to try making the country live within its
income, as most of its citizens have to do.
Jf. Mr. Forde really wants to prove his
love for farmers he should come down
hard on extravagant city schemes and
supply cheap transport and central depots
where farmers can buy their goods at
cost, plus administrative charges.
I very much think Mr. Forde’s
“primary producers” are Mr. Wilson’s
wheatgrowers ; still he could start on them
by setting up a farm co-operative chain
whereby primary material could be pro-
cessed at country centres and distributed
straight to consumers. And if he cares
to build a munitions factory or two, install
a few irrigation-power schemes and set up
permanent country military and air force
barracks, a lot of the produce could be
eaten on the spot.
But I’m afraid Mr. Forde looks on
Australia as a narrow band of popu-
lation round the coast, made up of sub-
sidised areas and a few cities. A great
many landmen would sooner have re-
inforcements for the A.I.F. than mort-
gage banks. You can’t hit an enemy with
a bank. — Julia Creek (Q.).
Canberra Capers
My importing business is small by some
standards, but the lines are good. With
the outbreak of war these goods, as
luxury lines, were placed upon the
“totally prohibited” list of imports. This
“Divine service will be held in the two-up school at oh-nine-oh-oh on
Sunday
was quite understandable, dollar exchange
being needed for such things as petrol,
machine tools, etc,, so the position was
accepted philosophically, although many
years’ work looked like going by the
board. An unexpectedly generous offer
from overseas put a different complexion
on the matter.
In order to retain markets and keep
faith with users, a heavy shipment would
be forwarded on consignment to be paid
for after the war. This looked good on
paper, the only difficulty being priorities
in shipping, so Canberra was approached
for a permit. It was flatly refused, not-
withstanding the fact that dollar ex-
change would not be affected; that the
Government would receive duty upon
the goods when landed ; sales tax upon
them when sold, and income tax upon
the profits. Yet I am assured that apples
are being imported from Canada after
most of our own crop, estimated at 11
million bushels, had been “buried under
supervision” or allowed to rot on the
ground. —B. R. 11l (Vic.).
Gallup Polls
Why this opposition to Gallup polls
on controversial questions?
The critics’ knowledge of Dr. Gallup
and his highly-scientific methods must be
meagre indeed. The Gallup poll has been
successful in American Presidential and
other elections, as well as in getting a
line on other matters —a fact recognised
by the country’s leading newspapers and
others who pay big sums of money to
keep it going.
If there’s one thing that stands out
clearly in Australia at present it is the
fact that the majority of the people are
uncomplainingly accepting many a raw
deal simply because they can’t make
themselves heard without doing things
that would harm the war effort and the
safety of our boys overseas. If the Gallup
poll gives us just an occasional chance
of becoming articulate, then I’m for it,
and I know a lot of others who are, too.
The Bulletin has already indicated a
couple of subjects that should have early
attention —conscription and the abolition
of State Governments —and when they
are disposed of there will be plenty more.
As for the “ugly possibilities” mentioned
by “Colbun” (B. 8/10/’4l), about the
ugliest is one of his own suggesting,
namely, that a Ministerial edict might be
allowed to prevent publication of a
“straw” vote which didn’t happen to
please the Minister. — Jack Point (Q.).
Divorce Reform
The recent diocesan synod at Grafton
(N.S.W.) carried unanimously a motion
advocating radical reforms in the State
divorce law, in particular the substitution
of domestic courts for the existing divorce
courts, aiming at conciliation rather than
legislation, and presided over by specially
qualified magistrates assisted by medical
men and psychologists.
In my opinion, legal dissolution of mar-
riage should be granted on the applica-
tion of the parties when all attempts at
reconciliation have failed. Divorce pro-
ceedings in this State are both inhuman
and antiquated. It is monstrous that two
intelligent people who have come to the
conclusion that a dissolution of their
marriage would be best for all con-
cerned have to conceal their agreement
and resort to the degrading publicity of
desertion and adultery charges.
Marriages are smashed long before
they reach the divorce court; and the
multiplication of obstacles to dissolution,
far from remedying the evil, intensify it.
Its effect in America was to send the
divorce figures ballooning until they
reached the astounding figure of one in
every six marriages. On the other hand,
in Sweden, where a marriage may be dis-
solved by mutual consent, divorce is six
times less frequent than in the United
States.—E. H. (N.S.W.).
The Country Doctor
I know from practical experience the
great difficulty many country doctors
have in getting anything like an adequate
remuneration for the work they do. From
my office every month doctors’ accounts
go out for work done, and I can say with-
out fear of contradiction that no store-
keeper or other businessman would or
could continue giving the service that a
country med. gives, and apparently is
expected to give, for such a poor return.
If country people would pay their
doctors reasonably, there would be no
need to consider the advisability or other-
wise of registering men from countries
where the standards of medical know-
ledge and experience which we in Aus-
tralia demand from our country doctors
are in the main inferior.
Now, what with petrol rationing pre-
cluding many who would otherwise
travel to the surgery from doing so, the
country doctor is expected to go to them,
mostly when the relatives of the patients
have “knocked off” for the day, but it
takes many applications for payment or
until someone requires the doctor’s ser-
vices again before they will pay for the
previous service.
If the rural districts would only realise
that the med. has to pay for his petrol
and oil before he gets it, that an adequate
car has to be kept and maintained, that
he and his family require at least three
meals a day and a few clothes, then we
would hear a great deal less about the
difficulty of getting doctors for those
districts. — Public Accountant (N.S.W.).
Stopping the Drift
Prizes are given for Australian
“Venuses,” racehorses, bulls, etc. Is there
not among us a benefactor who will offer
a reward for the best thesis on how to
stop the drift from the country areas?
Is there no party or Government that will
take up this matter seriously and in a
practical form and cut out the over-
whelming pile of words and substitute
action? —E. E. C. (Vic.).
Universities and Technical Training
“Pawang’s” par. (B. 8/10/’4l) about
endowments of universities by “self-
made” men reminds me of the disgust of
engineering and business executives at
the lack of aptitude
shown by univer-
sity students during
vocational training
and, if accepted as
trainees, during the
often long period of
adjustment to the
business of earning a
living. The lad of
15-18 starling work
is quick and eager ;
the educated man of
21-25 is mature, and
consequently finds it
considerably harder
to adapt himself to
an atmosphere of
real things among
ordinary people
without frills or
subtlety.
Much might be
said for the sugges-
tion to send a boy
to school until 15 ;
put him to work
for three years to
acquire the touch of:
life and work;
finally give him 12
months abroad.
After which, if he
still desires to go to
a university, its teachings will be of infi-
nite value to him ; and if he doesn’t it
will be so much good money saved. —
C. W. B. (N.S.W.).
For the Defence
In B. 8/10/’4l James Joyce was roasted
by “T. the R.” in verse and “Schizo” in
“0.F.M.” Let me quote the opinion of
a man who moves and figures in the
world of literature and not in the atmo-
sphere of wowserism—novelist L. A. G.
Strong, one of Joyce’s countrymen. In
“John o’ London’s Weekly” last January
Strong said:
If I had to put my faith in any novel
written in our time, if such judgment as
I have were to stand or fall with a novel,
I would choose Ulysses. It has faults,
the general economic welfare of the State
and of employment generally.
What does “Schizo” say to that? But
Strong goes further;
Its subject is the human spirit. It is
profoundly, shockingly moral. It is brutal,
tender, lyrical, delicate, heavy-footed,
coarse and religious.
This of the book ex-Minister Harrison
banned, an action “Schizo” greets with
something akin to a hallelujah at a
prayer meeting.
In the same issue of “J. o’ L.” a writer
recalls the action of Mr. Allen Lane, of
Penguin fame, who broke down the offi-
cial boycotting by sending from Paris to
his London firm a package boldly
marked: “This parcel contains a copy
of Ulysses, by James Joyce.”
It got through without Customs inter-
ference, And then came the first issue
of 1000 copies at a price which makes
one green with envy—one hundred
signed by the author at six guineas, and
the balance, unsigned, at half that price.
“J. o’ L.’s” final comment is; “Today
many people wonder what all the fuss
was about. The ban created a paradoxi-
cal situation, for long before it was re-
moved eminent critics were agreed that
Ulysses, if not a work of art, was at
least a highly important literary experi-
ence. Moreover, there was rarely any
suggestion in responsible quarters that the
book could be considered damaging to
public morals.”— Hugh Stone (N.S.W.).


Want to give Your car
greater power?
To enjoy all of your car’s power, provide the
strong, hot sparks that produce complete
combustion without waste of fuel. Install
Champion Spark Plugs. They have ex-
clusive features that ensure
longest, strongest, cheapest
ignition and will actually
| pay for themselves in the
fuel they save. Factories,
Feltham, Eng. Windsor,
k Can. Tbledo, USA.
m
m
$
A
ns
saa
ns
S'nh
■'•Vi
25*»i*f>
**»*«?
K»«
*»«
3.V
rS
df
Sillm ent seals
Champions against
troublesome leak-
age, at the shoulder
and past the center
electrode, common
to ordinary spark
plugs. This paten-
ted feature corrects
rough, uneven and
wasteful engine op-
eration caused by
leaky, overheated
spark plugs.
Install new
Champion Spark Pings!
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ; F. E. Loxton, Esq.;
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., 0.M.G.; E. E. D. White, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,_ this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
OurServiceDepartment
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Station bookkeeper, 44, single, 18 years'
exp., wants position N.S.W. or Queensland.
Refs. Not eligible for further military service,
—2761.
Young man, 21, exempt from military ser-
vice, desires position learn farming, good home.
State wage to commence. —2728.
Publicity manager, research and journalistic
exp., wants position industrial enterprise, Mel-
bourne or Sydney.
To find good home for young English setter
bitch. Pedigreed, handsome and healthy.
Splendid pet for lady.—2631.
To buy pair of vernier gauges, reputable
make, reading l-128th in., depth gauge
attached. —2758.
To buy Outline of Literature (Drink-
water), Outline of History (Wells), Everyman’s
Dictionary or Encyclopedia or other Everyman
books, any Phaedon Press books, “Royal
Academy Illustrated” (any year); also wanted
words and music of "Rio Nights,” published
about 1922.—2688.
To buy The Joys of Life, an anthology
edited by E. V. Lucas. —2718.
To buy Basqueria, by Eleanor Mercein. —
2677.
Words of poem containing the lines; —
Regrets for the long vanished days of iny childhood
When earth knew but pleasure, and love knew but
joy.
—2742.
Information Sought.
(1) What per cent, assay in nickel-bearing ore
will return a profitable result ? (2) Price of
nickel per ton ? —2368.
(1) Varies with the size of the mine. Large
cos. are working ore containing less than 2 p.c.
New Caledonian ore contains about 4 p.c. It
is unlikely that a small mine would pay its way
with an ore content of less than 5 p.c. nickel.
(2) Latest London quote, £190 to £195 per ton
for home consumption.
* * * *
Biographic details of the late Justice R. E.
O’Connor ? —2595.
Richard Edward O’Connor was the son of
a Clerk of Parliaments in N. S. Wales. He
was born in Sydney, August 4, 1851, educated
at Sydney Grammar School and University
(B.A., 1871; M.A., 1873). In 1871 he entered
the public service as a clerk in the Leg. Council,
at the same time doing journalistic work and
reading for the Bar in his spare time. He was
called to the Bar in 1876, and 12 years later
was nominated by Parkes to the Leg. Council.
In 1891, when Dibbs defeated Parkes and
formed a new Ministry, O’Connor took the
portfolio of Justice. He resigned in 1893, but
four years later was one of the 10 N. S. Wales
representatives who discussed Federation under
Reid’s scheme. He was also one of the three
members of the committee that drafted the
Constitution and took an active part in open
convention when the provisions for deadlocks
were being modelled. His most difficult and
least conspicuous work, however, was the
attempt to carry through the N. S. Wales Leg.
Council the bills and resolutions needed to en-
sure the passage of the convention’s recom-
mendations. With the advent of Federation
Barton made O’Connor Vice-President of the
Executive Couqcil in the first Commonwealth
Ministry. This office carried with it, as soon
as O’Connor was elected by N. S. Wales to
the Senate, the leadership of that body. Here
his legislative experience stood him in good
stead, but the tasks, both successfully accom-
plished, of carrying a protectionist tariff and
the naval agreement of 1902 through a House
markedly freetrade in its views and extremely
suspicious of the agreement, impaired his health.
In September, 1903, he withdrew from politics
to become one of the first three Judges of the
Federal High Court. Two years later he was
appointed first President of the Commonwealth
Court of Conciliation and Arbitration, but re-
signed thankfully in 1908, and thereafter con-
centrated on the solution of the numerous con-
stitutional difficulties which were constantly pre-
sented to the High Court. He died, still in
active work as a Judge, on November 18, 1912.
* * * «
What are the maximum and minimum air-
pressures necessary to operate an air-brush, as
used by artists and ticket-writers, and for how
long would a lank containing one cubic foot
of air at maximum pressure operate the spray
before reaching the minimum pressure? —2296.
Air-brushes are driven on a pressure of
20-301 b. per sq. inch, and use air at the rate
of about one-sixth cub. ft. per minute. There-
fore, a tank of a cubic foot of air and at a
pressure of 301 b. per sq. inch will last only
about three to four minutes without an auxiliary
supply of compressed air. The compressed air
is usually supplied from a compressor or a
compressed-air cylinder. A one-sixth h.p. com-
pressor is sufficient to drive six to eight air-
brushes. Hand and foot pumps are used.
* * * *
A friend, an officer in the Home Defence,
asked why he did not join the A.1.F., stated
that he could not get a transfer from his
present military duties to the A.I.F. Is this
correct ? —2459.
Nearly all the officers who are serving in
the Home Forces, both eligible and ineligible,
have volunteered for service overseas, and it is
a fact that a great number have tried to get
away on many occasions, but are not allowed
to go. This applies particularly to the technical
services, such as artillery and coastal defence.
* * * *
What are the Royal Horticultural Society’s
standard and points for (1) summer sweet-peas,
(2) roses? —2588.
(1) The standard should be broader than
high. It may be waved, fluted, frilled or
plain, but should neither be hooded nor re-
flexed. The tips at the base of the standard
should come as low as possible. Double and
treble standards are allowed. The wings should
not lie back against the standard and should
point forward rather than outward. They
should be evenly balanced and in the same
relative position on each side of the keel. They
may be waved or frilled. The keel should not
be “split.” There should not be less than
three flowers to a stem, and they should be
placed alternately down the stem at approxi-
mately equal intervals. The standards should
be not less than l|in. wide and the stems not
less than 12in. long. Points: Form of flower,
one; freshness, one; size of blooms, one;
arrangement of flowers on stems, one; number
of flowers on the stems, half; length and
proportion of stems, half. For the whole ex-
hibit a maximum of an extra five points may
be given for wide distinctiveness of varieties,
color blending and arrangement of flowers in
vases. (2) Form: Implies petals abundant and
of good substance, regularly and gracefully
arranged with a circular outline and having a
well-formed centre; maximum points two.
Size: Implies that the bloom is a full-size
representative specimen of the variety; maxi-
mum points one. Brightness: Includes fresh-
ness, brilliance and the purity of color; maxi-
mum points two —total, five points. In judg-
ing a “decorative” rose the form of the flower
above all should include daintiness and light-
ness rather than solidity, not the quality of
form which is required in “exhibition” roses.
(1) At what age should an Airedale pup’s
tad be docked ? (2) Length ? (3) Correct way
to proceed? —23o3.
(1) two or three days old, before the car-
tilage has become bone. (2) Cut off about one-
third. (3) Draw the skin on the tail towards
the rump, cut off the required length with a
pair of sharp, sterilised scissors, then pull
the skin back again. The mother should be
taken well away during the operation or she may
attack the owner. It is certain that she will
remember and probably never forgive the person
hurting her baby. Immediately the operation
is over she should be brought back. She will
lick the wound and keep it clear of infection.
* * * *
How can I remove varnish from oak furni-
ture, restain and polish? —246o.
Use varnish-remover or glass-paper, working
down to the original surface, then smooth with
finest emery-paper. A rich honey-colored finish
can be attained with raw linseed oil, rubbed in
and polished again and again for some weeks,
no stain being necessary. For french polish,
melt 6oz. orange shellac in one pint methylated
spiHt 5 thm or thicken with more or less spirit.
Apply with fluffless rag and polish with pad.
experiment first on a piece of similar wood.
* * * v
Particulars of the Library Training Grant
administered by the Australian Council for Edu-
cational Research ? —2644.
Through the Carnegie Corporation of New
York, which has provided a special fund, a
limited number of scholarships are available
€acn year to persons desirous of being trained
as librarians or to improve their qualifications
in library work. Those not already employed as
librarians must have attained an educational
standard at least equal to that necessary for
admission to the University. They must be
prepared to spend a year at a centre approved
for training. Arrangements, varying according
to individual cases, may be made for shorter
periods of training for those who at present
hold positions as librarians. The general rate
of allowance paid to successful applicants will
be approximately £2 per week. Travelling ex-
penses may also be approved in the case of
applicants who desire to attend a centre of
training in a State other than that in which
they reside. Application forms and further
particulars may be obtained from Dr. K. S.
Cunningham, Director, Australian Council for
Educational Research, 147 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, C.l. Applications for 1942 must be
lodged at that address by December 6 of this
year.
* * * &
What would be needed to set up a small back-
yard factory for broom-making ? Electricity
is available? —23l2.
If you intend to shape the wooden parts of
the brooms a lathe (which could be driven by
an electric motor) will be necessary. Apart
from this the usual carpentering tools should
suffice, including, for preference, some form of
power-driven saw. The insertion of the millet
fibres would presumably be done by hand for
that type of broom —for the brush type the
hairs could also be inserted by hand and glued
into place.
* * * «
Recipes wanted for (1) salting or similarly
preserving green beans, (2) pickling gherkins?
—2374.
(1) To preserve beans; (a) Put French beans,
whole and perfectly dry, in layers alternately
with salt in large jars, each layer of beans
being covered well with salt. Seal to keep
airtight; when needed wash the beans in fresh
water. The beans must be freshly picked and
mature. ( b ) Put whole beans upright in dry
wide-mouthed jars or bottles, fill to top with
salt water (one cup of salt to two quarts of
water) and stand jars on straw or cloth in
boiler filled with cold water. Bring to the
boil, then keep at simmering point two hours,
keeping water up to bottle necks, then cork
and seal while hot. (2) To pickle gherkins,
put them into brine strong enough to float a
fresh egg, leave till they turn yellow, then take
out, wash off brine, put them into hot, dry jars,
pour over them hot spiced vinegar and
keep till they turn green; pour off, cover with
a fresh lot of spiced vinegar, seal and make
airtight. Spiced vinegar is made by boiling two
tablespoons black peppercorns, one tablespoon
allspice, one dessertspoon salt and three bay-
leaves in one quart of vinegar.
Brief Answers.
A.E.M.: Arrow Smoking Pipe Co., 77 Taylor-
street, Annandale, Sydney P.R.D.: Malua
won the 1884 Melbourne Cup and also had a
Grand National Hurdle, Newmarket Handicap
and Australian Cup to his credit, but the best
example in support of your argument is
Poseidon, who in 1906 won the A.J.C. Derby,
Caulfield Cup, V.R.C. Derby and Melbourne
Cup... .N.P.W.: Sir James Stirling was a Lord
of the Admiralty for a short time in 1852 and
Commander-in-Chief in the East Indies and
China in 1854-56. Died at Guildford in Surrey,
April 22, 1865 C.L.T.: The Australian
whiting is a different fish from the one sold
under that name on the English markets. The
English fish is related to the cod family; the
local whiting belongs to a group of perch-like
fishes J.G.M.: The Royal Standard reached
Melbourne on her first voyage in February,
1864. She was an auxiliary steamship of 2000
tons, built by the White Star line, at that time
under the control of Pilkington and Wilson,
of Liverpool. She made a few voyages under
steam, was then converted to a sailing ship, and
was lost off Cape St. Thorne in August, 1869,
while on a voyage to Melbourne H.8.F.:
Though there are simple offhand methods of
preparing liquid soaps, the exact process re-
quires some chemical knowledge, also apparatus.
If cost has to be considered, better buy the
prepared line. For immediate use, you could
dissolve lib. soft soap in one or two pints
methylated spirits, perfume with a few drops
of lavender or citronella oil, and bottle. Heat
must not be used in dissolving the soap. The
chemical recipe is: Caustic soda |oz., caustic
potash +oz., cottonseed oil 5 fl. oz., methylated
spirits 50z., water to make H pints. Dissolve
one and two in three fl. oz. water; add methy-
lated spirits, and then the oil in small amounts,
stirring well. When thoroughly combined add
balance of water. Stand aside for a week be-
fore decanting the clear liquid soap. Per-
lume as desired... .E.W.: The sentence “Chop
the parsley finely” is correct... .G.A.G.:
Ravioli is savory forcemeat put into thin pastry
cases and boiled. Make pastry, fill with any
desired savory stuffing, fold pastry over, seal,
and steam or boil (as boiled dumplings). The
little patties may also be steamed or baked, but
lose their special appeal in that case P.M.:
Hotchkers’s The Game of Bowls, 4s. 3d.;
Webber and Fisher’s The Modern Technique of
Bowls, 12s. 6d., from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney... .A.L.R.: (1) No work of the same
type has appeared since the publication of
Baker and Smith’s Eucalypts and Their Essen-
tial Oils, but a considerable volume of re-
research has been carried out, most of which
will be found recorded in the journals of the
Royal Societies of the different States, publica-
tions of universities and publications from the
Technological Museum in Sydney. Many
papers appear also in overseas journals, par-
ticularly the Journal of the Chemical Society,
London. There are also a few comprehensive
books of overseas origin, e.g., Finnemore’s
The Essential Oils (Bonn, 1926), which deals
systematically with the oils of all types of
plants, and includes much reliable data on
eucalypts_ and other Australian genera, and
Simonsen’s The Terpenes, two vols., dealing
systematicaly wnth the chemistry of these com-
pounds, but also giving information on botanical
sources. (2) As far as is known here, the
principle you describe for seasoning timber has
neither been used in practice nor tested in the
laboratory. Although interesting, there would
not seem to be much hope of success for it on
a commercial scale, since it would be very
slow, and almost certainly much more expensive
than methods now in use C.McG.: Arm-
strong’s Grey Wolf (Mustafa Kcmal), 10s.,
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney E.L.:
Infra-Red Radiation, by Beaumont, second
edition, 1 Is. 6d.; Therapeutic Uses of Infra-
Red Rays, by Troup, third edition, 18s. 6d.,
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney A.A.:
No books on the subject available P.W.F.;
The difference in the degree of solubility in
petrol of various motor oils, including the
brands you mention, is so slight as to be of no
practical importance H.C.: A George IV
penny, 1826, is worth 6d. in Mint condition:
3d. worn.
Answers to Correspondents
No nolice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped, blame and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
A.I.F. and other Services: A representative
selection of A.I.F. verse is published on this
week’s Red Page. All other Service poems re-
ceived up to October 20 —crowded out in
the rush—are hereby acknowledged with thanks
and regrets... .The Muse aroused:
D.McD.:
She’ll remember in her kind old way,
When all her troubles are o’er,
That the youngest of her vast Empire
Did help her win the war.
G.R.T.:
You would sing us to sleep, Dolfy dear,
With that voice we hate to hear,
For we know it’s gun and shell
And you’d blast us all to hell.
What ho! you naughty little wizard.
We’d like to ram them down your gizzard.
... .C.S.W.: Vice and virtue may indeed mingle
at King’s Cross; but not “in a surge of dis-
content” W.J.: Flat 1.M.G.: Not even
the editor of Aboriginalities would be game
to maintain that plovers mourn over dead
ducks... .E.D.: It doesn’t add much to what’s
already been sung of “Merchant Service Jack.”
. : Prosy... .T.H.: Come again
D.C.M.: Surprising, anyhow A.D.G.: “All
this I must then hasten to repair, lest I lash my
languid spirit with reproach.” Verily
H.N.M.: There are flashes in “The River”;
but your versification's full of snags P.W.:
Why do you imagine that a Yankee tag will
pass for Australian wit? M.R.: Not for us.
J.D.: Timms is a dull d0g....M.W.: No.
F.H.L.: Very nearly S.W.: Still not
close enough... .R.C.G.: “Gods of Fortune”
not for us W.E.C.: Old stuff... .D.M.S.:
Too long for what’s in it J.E.N. and H. 8.:
Animal yarns have to be better than that
R.W.: O. Henry did it better F.T.W.; Ordi-
nary Z.V.W.: “Hogan’s Guest” not merry
enough... .A.L., D.D. and N. 8.: No
M.E.K.: Dreadful J.W.: “About Me” not
very interesting S.W.: Not Quite E.F.:
Not suitable... .H.M.O’M.: Every romantic
young lady thinks artists are like that
T.G.R.: Your “Wondrous Oozlum Bird” sent
the ornithological editor prowling about the
wilds of the nearest pub R.T.P.: “Casey
and Cassidy” are still fighting like mad in the
w.p.b.... .P.R.: Remarkably bad.... W.N.D.:
“I’d be tickled pink to see this published in
The Bulletin.” You’ll have to find another
way of changing color A.L.: “Farewell, My
Friend.” Farewell.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.G.C.: Your passion for false noses is lead-
ing you up an artistic cul-de-sac... .V.M.:
Away with your goggle-eyed, wasp-waisted
beach brats and their dull small-talk!
L.R.J.: Crowd of schoolkids with toy balloons
for heads sent on an extended holiday....
R. : Idea far too involved for a cartoon....
S. Streaky wash and freakish designs....
E.T.H.: Your knowledge of the outline of the
female form is sketchier than a cloistered
monk’s... .N.C.: Too much niggly detail and
heavy cross-hatching J. 8.: Some humor in
it, but that style demands a perfect line; keep
0n... .Bert C.: Sump oil isn’t the best medium
to work in, and your sash tool brush badly
needs rehairing P.L.8.: Conversation be-
tween barmaid and parson submitted to re-
ligious editor for report.


PETROL RATIONING...
CREATES MANY NEW
POSITIONS
FOR DIESEL
OPERATORS
For several years now, the number of Diesel engines being installed has been
growing bigger and bigger each month as thousands of truck, bus and tractor
owners, power plants, mines, ships, etc., change to Diesel, the more economical
and more efficient engines. Now the war is making still more power users
Diesel-minded, for Diesel fuel is not only more economical but safer and
easier to transport when shipping space is restricted. The result is that there
are more positions for Diesel operators than there are trained men to fill them.
Why shouldn’t YOU have one of these jobs that bring you six, seven or
eight pounds a week? Don’t go on envying those who have a trade in which
there’s always plenty of well-paid work! Become a Diesel operator and you
will always be able to command higher pay yourself.
YOU
CAN QUALIFY AS A
DIESEL OPERATOR IN YOUR
SPARE TIME AT HOME
You don’t need any previous knowledge of engineering and you don’t need any high
educational standard. The Diesel Engineering College course teaches you the whole
subject in your own home, covering both transport Diesel (tractors, buses, etc.) and
stationary Diesel (mining and other power plants). The course has been prepared with
the co-operation of leading Diesel authorities, and the Diploma awarded you on
completion is recognised by employers all over Australia. Post the coupon below and
full details will be sent you by return.
f *
GO
n .=
A>.
<53
v
1
<5?
m
<s>
Mm
J*f
' 4|
. y
r
WHAT THE DIESEL ENGINEERING
COLLEGE HAS DONE FOR OTHERS
IT CAN DO FOR YOU
£9 PER WEEK AND KEEP
File No. 52. This student says in a letter dated
9/ 11’41 : “I wish to thank the College for having
taught me so thoroughly, enabling me to pass
the Government Examination. This has enabled
me to obtain a very good position, which I
would not otherwise have been able to apply
for, as a Diesel operator.”
GENEROUS INCREASE IN PAY
File No. 51. This student says in a letter to
the Chief Instructor of the College : “It is owing
to your method of teaching that I have been
transferred to a better position at work, which
is working on Diesel trawlers and colliers. This
transfer naturally provided a generous increase
in pay.”
£7 PER WEEK
File No. 34a. Received his diploma seven
months after commencing training, and obtained
a position as Diesel operator at £7 per week.
Scores of other cases like these .
NEW SIMPLIFIED SYSTEM MAKES LEARNING DIESEL EASY
This College does not sell you a pile of textbooks and leave you
to wade through them, nor does it fill you up with a lot of compli-
cated mathematics. By a simple home-study course, the Diesel
Engineering College teaches you just what you need to know to
operate and service Diesel engines efficiently. As soon as you enrol,
PRACTICAL TRAINING FOR GOVERNMENT
CERTIFICATES IS GIVEN TO STUDENTS
RESIDENT IN SYDNEY.
‘/IOK/Voiy/
AND GET THIS FREE BOOKLET.
d
f
Those who get in early reach the top first.
Tear off and post this coupon now for free
booklet describing the Diesel Engineering
College course. There is no obligation,
so don’t put it off! The best intentions in
the world are useless if you don’t ACT!
practical coaches take you in hand. You are guided step by step
with the aid of easily-followed instruction papers and diagrams.
Everything is made clear. You’ll be amazed to find how quickly
you become familiar with the workings of the Diesel. Many
students have qualified for positions in as short a period as four
months. The fees are low and payments easy.
RESULTS PROVE OUR TRAINING THE
SURE WAY TO SUCCESS IN DIESEL
A wonderful future lies ahead in Diesel engineering for ambitious
men who get in early with the proper training. But you must be
properly trained. The success of Diesel Engineering College students
at Government examinations tells its own story of the thoroughness
of training at this College.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the Diesel
Engineering College course.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 29/i'6/4f.
df


0
The Lesson of the
Stable Door
THE old adage about not waiting to shut the door
until after the horse has gone applies to the lives
of men and women as well as to horses.
You should not leave the planning of your financial
happiness and security until trouble comes or health fails.
By that time the Society might not accept you as a
member.
’Tis true that the A.M.P. Society’s way of providing
protection for your family, and happiness and security for
yourself, is trouble-proof and certain, but it is has one
limitation:
It won’t work if you wait too long before you make a
start on it.
So ask the Society to send a man to suggest a plan
to you. If you prefer, ask that a copy of a booklet, "Peace
of Mind,” be sent to you. It deals with many ways of
planning for happiness and security. Write to-day.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY!
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.B.E. Chairman of the Principal Board
A. W. Sneddon, F.I.A. .. General Manager and Actuary
C. M. Martin Chief Inspector and Secretary
A. E. Webb Manager for New South Wales
HEAD OFFICE; 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart and Canberra, A.C.T.
District Offices throughout all States.
C, .
Sr ft 'K
•It is not a simple matter to carry out the terms of a Will. Trusteeship demands
knowledge and capacity which few laymen possess. How many of your friends, for
instance, are fully familiar with investment conditions ? Have you a friend possessing
security greater than the value of your estate ? Could you rely on your friend to give
time 'to your business instead of his own ? You will be wise to appoint Burns Philp
Trust Company Limited, either as your sole executor, or jointly with a relative or
friend. Such a step solves a score of problems. May we send you a free booklet
which explains the advantages fully ?
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
'Phone : B 7901 Box 543 B, 5.P.0., Sydney
Business Rollery, Etc.
Bank Credit
In Canberra Labor’s Budget there is
the probability of the use of some “bank
credit” to help finance the war effort
now being made by us. The use of this
bank credit has been strongly advocated
by some sections of Labor as an alter-
native to taxing (though never so lightly)
the lower-income-earners who poll so
heavily at election time. Now that Labor
is in power, it is interesting to observe
developments. Fadden proposed to use
a maximum of £62 million of bank credit
in a total war expenditure of £217 mil-
lion. It is extremely doubtful whether
Curtin will be persuaded by the more
radical of his followers to propose a
much greater use of bank loans.
The Prime Minister, by his recent
statements, seems to be alive to the value
and limitations of bank credit. Labor,
fed by, and in a measure prone to fall for,
the fallacious opinions of “authorities”
who say bank credit can be created —and
put to useful work—out of nothing, has
already suffered some shocks in the
matter of this “bank credit.” Mr. Curtin
has been urgent in his request for a
voluntary reduction in spending in order
to leave more goods available for the
war effort, which is in itself a severe
reverse for those writers and talkers who
have advocated “the liberal use of bank
credit in order to obviate the necessity
for oppressive taxation and lower living
standards.” Mr. Curtin is in reality say-
ing that you can’t have a war and your
old living standard, too. But up to the
present he is asking for a purely volun-
tarily-reduced living standard on the part
of those earning a taxable income of
under £2OO a year. People on this tax-
able income, or near it, represent a large
portion of Australian consumers.
Why is bank credit different from, say,
taxation or borrowing as a source of war
finance? The difference is largely a
matter of ownership and “spendability”
of the money. In the case of taxation,
the Government definitely and finally
takes away from the Australian citizen
some of his spendable money, and, with
restrictions increasing in the matter of
cash-order facilities, etc., the citizen finds
it impossible to spend as much as hitherto
because he has less money after he pays
taxes and is unable to borrow as much
as before. Instead, the Government
spends part of what was his money on
munitions.
In the case of borrowing from the citi-
zen, whether in the shape of war-savings
certificates or bonds, the Government
gets the money from the citizen without
having the same guarantee that the citi-
zen won’t either sell his certificates or
bonds, or raise money on them and spend
just as much money as before. This is
one of the inflationary features of bor-
rowing. It doesn’t legally detach spend-
ing-power from the citizen like taxation,
but it does slow down civilian spending
to some extent, as in cases where the
civilian neither sells nor borrows on his
securities.
In the case of bank credit (bank loans)
the banks lend to the Government the
deposits of citizens and companies. The
savings of the people are put at the dis-
posal of the Government through the
intermediary of banks. The trouble here
is that the citizen is in no way separated
from his spending power; he can with-
draw his deposits at any time and com-
pete with the Government in spending
for whatever goods available. Thus
his money may be asked to do two jobs
—spend for himself and provide funds
for the Government —because after he
has withdrawn his deposit the banks can’t
ask the Government for a return of
what they have advanced. A fictitious
state of affairs may soon exist. In such
circumstances price inflation, with the
possibility of actual monetary inflation
following, is clearly in sight, especially in
view of the non-reproductive nature of
war expenditure.
Mr. Curtin recently said:
It is a fact that, if the public were to
reduce spending by an amount equivalent
to that which the war will cost the Govern-
ment in one year, there would be no need
to increase taxation above the level of pre-
war days, and war finance could be pro-
vided by the Commonwealth Bank.
It is a fact that the war could
be financed that way. And it dis-
poses of the ideas of some credit
“authorities” that the Commonwealth
Bank can enter £lOO million in a book
and then, by this mere stroke of the pen,
give the Government £lOO million to
spend without obligation as to interest
or repayment. It is quite impossible thus
to create wealth or war production out
of nothing.
The Prime Minister indicates that if
the people buy less and put £lOO million
in the Commonwealth Bank and leave it
there the Government can safely spend
that money without fear of inflation. That
is sensible. But that doesn’t provide for
the fact that after the war the Govern-
ment will owe £lOO million without hav-
ing anything but left-over ammunition to
pay interest and repay principal, nor does
it provide for an equitable contribution
from each citizen. Under the voluntary
system the willing horse carries all the
load and the spendthrift goes short of
nothing. Therefore, from every point of
view except that of the vote-catching poli-
tician the ideal system of paying for war
is by taxation. The Government obtains
its spending power by depriving the indi-
vidual of part of his in an equitable ratio,
there is no inflationary competition for
goods, and when the war is over there
is no debt. The books balance, and we
are no poorer than we seem to be.
The cost of living in Australia has
risen 10.3 p.c. since the outbreak of war.
That is based on the Commonwealth
Statistician’s table of necessities that go
to make up the basic wage. \Yages gov-
erned by Commonwealth awards have
been increased in proportion to the rise
in living costs, and in many thousands
of overtime and margins for skill
have increased the wage-earner’s income
beyond the lift in his outgo. With the
spread of incomes among wage-earners
there has been a stimulation of spending
on most classes of production, and, since
motor cars are no longer an available
luxury, spending has been concentrated
on other things, in many cases Austra-
lian-made goods. Such has been this
spending that even the Prime Minister
has appealed to the people to spend less
and contribute more to the war effort.
But he is not going to resort to compul-
sion yet. Meantime, Commonwealth
bondholders and shareholders in many
companies are having to put up with an
unchanged or reduced income, have to
pay income taxes at war-time (often
double) rates, and at the same time re-
ceive none of the cost-of-living compen-
sation that the wage-earner does under
directions from the Arbitration Court.
Meantime, certain Labor members con-
tinue to rant about the “enormous income
of big companies,” and ask for total
exemption from war taxation of people
earning under £2OO a year, with light
taxes up to £4OO p.a.
Accompanying a roll of English-made
photographic color film is a statement
that it is presented to the public at a cost
of millions of pounds. A moral attaches
to that. The particular manufacturer
may not have sunk even one million
pounds in experimenting in photography
in color, but the trade throughout the
world very likely has spent several mil-
lions, with any decent return on the
money away in the future. Television is
in a similar position, and in Australia
there are dozens of other kinds of com-
panies which are now apparently pros-
perous only because they have cut their
past losses by jettisoning much of their
capital. The motive of profit has
prompted enterprises to persevere with
apparently hopeless tasks, success coming
in the end, where otherwise no effort
would have been made. Yet in Aus-
tralia there is a growing tendency to
criticise the making of any kind of profit.
It is a very foolish and self-injurious kind
of belief. Australia’s industrial strength
has grown to its present position on the
profit motive—the motive prompting both
the employer and employee. Where no
profit motive exists we have such things
as obsolescent State railways. There are
such things as excessive profits, but the
notions of many critics of the profit
motive are clumsy, selfish and absurd.
* * * ♦
Objection was raised in the Victorian
Assembly last week to the operations of
Australian Paper Manufacturers in the
Gippsland forests. McKenzie, Labor
M.L.A., said careful examination should
be made of the effects on the forests. A
bill to authorise a grant of £200,000
from loan funds for forestry work was
under discussion. Mr. McKenzie ad-
mitted that the co. had established an
industry employing over a thousand
people and had set up a new township,
but when the Woodpulp Agreement Bill,
granting rights over 500,000 acres (a six-
teenth) of the State’s forest areas, had
been before the House, he had said the
State was giving too much away. Forests
Minister Lind replied that the Commis-
sion allowed only waste timber marked
by its officers to be used by A.P.M. The
bill was passed.
* * * *
In Chicago last month Federal Judge
John P. Barnes imposed fines totalling
54.000 dollars on nine out of 12 defen-
dants charged with manipulation of
200.000 shares in Esquire-Coronet, Inc.,
publishers. He also gave them gaol sen-
tences, but granted probation provided
the fines were paid. Alfred Smart and
David Smart, owners of “Esquire,” etc.,
and Arthur Greene, their broker, were
sentenced to two years and fined 10,000
dollars each. Lesser penalties were im-
posed on the other six convicted.
* * * *
Cellulose Australia, Ltd., which is es-
tablishing a mill to produce cardboard,
etc., at Millicent (S.A.), is still in the
throes of preparations. And “throes” is
right; difficulty in getting fitters and
other skilled labor —and difficulty in
getting machinery parts —has thrown the
schedule back so severely that produc-
tion is not now due until Christmas, a
year or more later than anticipated.


Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
In Equity.
No. 1360 of 1941. atta
IN THE MATTER OF AUSTRALTA-ITALIA
SHIPPING COMPANY LIMITED (IN
LIQUIDATION)
AND IN THE MATTER OF THE COM-
PANIES ACT 1936.
By direction of the Master in Equity the
creditors of the abovenamed Company are re-
quired on or before the 31st day of December
1941 to prove their debts or claims by filing
an affidavit verifying the same at the office of
the Master in Equity Supreme Court Building
Elizabeth Street Sydney N.S.W. and lodging a
copy of such affidavit at the office of the under-
signed. In default they will be excluded from
the benefit of any distribution made before
such debts and claims are proved. Forms of
proof of debt may be obtained from the under-
signed and should be applied for promptly.
DATED this 24th day of October, 1941.
H. W. MACKISACK. Official Liquidator,
28 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
... tf YOU CAMT {MUST
flhC.
*3
r a-
mm
x¥>
m
mm
\yyy.
m*
is*.
>-Sr=:Mil I|l I 11 i*
IH&S
n
;Xv£
*
Those who are already applying all their skill in
the munitions factories have done wonderful work.
But besides the fighting front and the industrial
front there is another front—the money front.
Contribute everything you possibly can to the War
Loan—postpone spending until the happier days
of peace—and in the meantime let your money
fight for the victory which will fill that peace with
freedom. The need is urgent! Spare every pound
you can from past savings and current earnings for
the War Loan. Bonds can be bought for as little as
£lO, and this can be paid by instalments.
Apply at once, at any bank, money order post office,
or stockbroker. Interest is 2\% for 4-5 years or 3\%
for 9-16 years. Subscriptions may be paid 10% deposit,
balance in 6 instalments to 2nd May, 1942.
PUT YOUR MONEY ON ACTIVE SERVICE
Buy WAR LOAN BONDS
CRAVEN A
..aieso
■
MS*
C*
ElB6B
10 ror 10 d -
-20 for 1/8
m
■ iiimimi
i N 3 A 3 d d
The sharemarket has reacted substan-
tially from the high peak touched a lew
weeks ago. McKell s Budget in N. S.
Wales took the starch out of support for
shares in that State and threw an atmo-
sphere of uncertainty over the whole
picture. Then came the Fadden Budget
and a further slackening. With the fall
of Fadden the whole scene altered, no
one knowing what Labor had in mind
in the way of war finance, but all feeling
that it would not particularly favor in-
vestors. At this stage came another scare
from the direction of “the East,” and
markets became exceptionally dull, with
little activity indeed, but what there
was of it at low prices. B.H.P. in par-
ticular fell back. A.C.I. at 445. is also
down over 6s. On the 1941 highest price,
Bradford Cotton at 38s. 6d. is cheap, and
Australian Paper at 355. is lower than
for some time. For longish holding there
are a number of stocks offering at the
moment which should be good buying.
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop, shares at 365. 6d.
last week were down to the lowest level
in many years. Previous lowest in 1941
was 375. 9d. The political situation in
which this co. finds itself is no credit
to Canberra Labor, especially the noisy
Forde. If justice is done to B.H.P. as
it is done to other cos. —why isn’t Labor
upset about breweries and A.C.L, for
example?—then shareholders would be
unwise to sacrifice their holdings at
present prices. Unless Australia is to
descend to destructive class warfare
then concerns like B.H.P. should be
able to make up for the present modest
yield to shareholders in the post-war
period, when only the possibility of
crack-brained politicians standing in the
way should prevent this country from
experiencing general industrial develop-
ment at a great rate.
* * * •
B.H.P.’s div. remains at the unchanged
rate of p.c. p.a., an interim being
payable on November 26. The contribs.
will get a share.
* * * *
Having fallen to 15s. 6d. last week,
Woolworths shares (of ss. each) were the
equivalent of 625. per £ of capital. They
compared with a price of 625. 9d. for
G. J. Coles £1 ords. Both classes of
scrip pay p.c. p.a., and the yield from
each is £5 11s. per cent. Because of
its Sydney domicile, Woolworths will
become subject to tax on its inter-State
income where the inter-State rate of tax
is lower than the N.S.W. tax. There
are Woolworths subsidiaries in Victoria,
S.A., Queensland, Westralia and Maori-
land. The McKell taxes have therefore
put Woolworths in a rather more difficult
position than the G. J. Coles co., though
it should be remembered that in the past
Woolworths has paid U.R. tax on its
ex-N.S.W. income, and the additional
burden may not amount to as much as
would appear at first sight. So far as
taxes on divs. are concerned, N.S.W.
shareholders in both G. J. Coles and
Woolworths will be subject to the same
conditions. At last week’s price of 15s.
6d. Woolworths shares seemed to present
opportunities, and the market later
thought so, too. Since Sept 30 the
price has fallen from 175., with little or
no drop in G. J. Coles.
United Provisions, the Foggitt Jones-
Hutton’s merger, had its best term for
several years during the period to Sept,
an J subs f diaries showed
earnings of £133,589, compared with
f f57j490 ’ in ’ the two preced-
ing periods. The latest result was equal
to 10.2 p.c. on ord capital allowing for
the Prefs., compared with 2, 2.2 and 3.6
P.c. in the three preceding years The
parent kept its ord. div. down to 4 p.c.,
which compares with 1} p.c. in the 1939-
40 *? nn . and nearly £60,000 ot the year s
P«*t was left lor
some^recovery 3
there were Government contracts float-
ing round for several million canned
sausages. Whether U.P. participated isn t
known, but most likely it did. there
were also opportunities of picking up
Army order* for canned rashers It
was apparently on the canning side that
the co. made most recovery George
Farmer, another bacon-curing co. of high
standing, showed a slightly lower profit
in its last term. United Provisions ords.
have been one of the most disappointing
stocks listed on ’Change, largely because
of conditions in the bacon trade. Until
last term little real recovery has been
shown since the depression, when an ex-
panded capital account had made the
going harder than it would otherwise
have been. Sceptical of a continuance
of profits on last year’s scale, the market
pays 9s. 2d. for U.P. 20s. ords.
** ~ J*. • *, i ,
In 1940-41 Britain took only 670,3
gallons of Australian wine, compare
with 3,369,144 gallons in the
term. This drop of neaily 2, ,
gallons in the trade with our biggest
overseas customer was impossible to re-
place, though the Netherlands Indies took
335,752 gallons, against 28,628 gallons
previous year. Total exports to countries
other than Britain were nearly 1,000,000
gaUons In Australia sales expanded con_
4720,000 gallons, and sales of all types
were in the vicinity of 5,250,000 gallons,
There is some talk of making power
alcohol from the Australian vintage, said
to be uneconomic but thought to be
necessary. Many drinkers will regard it
as an indication of the desperate nature
of the petrol position.
Edments, Ltd., a Melbourne co. operaL
ing eight chain stores in all States except
Queensland, is proposing a new issue of
34,000 £ ] shares, to be offered in the pro-
portion of 64 for 100. The money is
wan t e d f or the repayment of debts, which
j s p ro bably the reason why the issue is
pj e j n g sanctioned by the Capital Issues
g o ard. It was previously stated by the
Treasury that new issues to establish
f ur4 her chain stores would not be per-
mitted. Capital at present is £105,000 in
equal numbers of ords. and p.c. prefs.
E arn i ngs to June 30 last were equal to 16
on ord cap i t al a fter allowing for
pre f requirements, compared with 11.4
j n the preceding year. The ord.
djv has been steady at 10 pc< fox-
seyeral s The co ; s stores stoC k
gQods of considerable vari ety and, unlike
tbe usua j chains, covering a wide price
B '* * *
British Governmen , has asked the
Australian Wool Committee to hang on
to all sound and light nbby sheepskins
carrying *m. or less of wool, indicating
that it will find good use tor them
by paying fair prices. From August,
1940, until now these skins have been
rejected. Premiums are being offered
packing houses for longer-woolled skins
suitable for dressing.


THE SERVICE MAN
Soviet Armies Retire.
“Ek Dum”; The beginning of the fifth
month of the Russian war found the
forces of the U.S.S.R. in a parlous posi-
tion. They had fought seven great
battles and had been worsted in all. They
had lost territory equal in size to N. S.
Wales, Victoria and Maoriland, in-
habited by about 65,000,000 people. They
had shown unfailing gallantry, but had
nowhere been able to stem the German
advance in a great battle.
All their strategic railway systems west
of the Don were disorganised. Their
main metal-mining and most of their
coalmining areas had been taken away.
The destruction of the Dnieperstroy dam
had robbed most of the Ukraine of its
power resources, and the Don and
Donetz and west Dnieper industrial area
had been entered.
Above all, the Moscow area, greatest
and most centralised, with about
8,000,000 people packed into country
roughly 100 miles square, had been pene-
trated on three edges and its outer fac-
tory ring was under bombardment. Of
ten railways serving Moscow seven had
been cut. Only those to Archangel and
Kazan (Trans-Siberian) —two connec-
tions, one of which goes by Gorki —were
open. The main rail linkage with Rostov
and the Caucasus was under fire.
The third industrial and armament
centre, Leningrad, was surrounded. In-
deed, European Russia was in immediate
danger of losing the last of its armament
and grain resources. Already Estonia,
Latvia, Lithuania, Russian-occupied
Poland, the White Russian and Ukrainian
republics, with the exception of Kharkov
and a little bit of the eastern Donetz
Basin, together with Bessarabia and a
strip of the Russian Soviet Republic 500
miles long and, on an average, 140 miles
wide, were under the heel of Hitler. The
Finns had recovered everything they had
lost in the war of 1939-40 ; the Russian
fleet in the Baltic was virtually locked
into the Gulf of Finland ; Hango and
Dago, last outposts of the U.S.S.R. west
of Kronstadt, had been captured, and the
Crimea was in a state of siege.
The amateur strategists of London and
Sydney were yelling for a “diversion”
which would claw Hitler off the back of
the bear. Judging by the scale and swift-
ness of German advances, no operation
which would not take six weeks to initiate
and every available ship to service would
have been of any use. And in those
weeks all the chances would be that the
fate of the campaign west of the Urals
would have been decided.
From October 20, exactly 120 days
after the war began, Moscow was de-
clared to be in a state of siege. Com-
manders with full military powers of
government, both inside the city and
round its approaches, were appointed. The
Soviet Governmerft and the embassies had
moved to Kuibyshev (formerly Samara)
on the Volga, 520 miles south-east of
Moscow. It is a fairly busy industrial
centre of 300,000 people—once its kumiss
made it a great resort for consumptives
—only about 90 miles from the Asiatic
border.
London reported the same day that
the Russians were counter-attacking on
both wings of the central front. “Pravda,”
for its part, declared that tremendous
losses were being inflicted on the enemy,
driving him from important road junc-
tions near Kalinin, north of Moscow ;
also that gigantic tank battles were in
progress south of the city, where the
Germans had pushed eastward, to
the Moscow-Rostov-Caucasus railway at
Ryazhan, and occupied long sections of
the Ryazhan-Tula road. The Russians
mentioned also “stubborn resistance on
the firmly held main road near Mojaisk
and in the direction of Maloyaroslavets,”
45 miles to the south and 72 miles from
Moscow.
Mojaisk was Napoleon’s headquarters
after the battle of Borodino opened the
way for him to Moscow. Maloyaro-
slavets is on the edge of the Moscow
plain. It was there that Napoleon re-
ceived his first check after he had turned
towards Kaluga, whither the Russians
had retired after Borodino. From there
the French turned northwards to meet
the tragedy of the Beresina. This time
the invaders had reached Kaluga, still
further to the south.
It was morally certain then that the
centre was not for the moment the main
preoccupation of the German armies.
The Leningrad front, where, “Red Star”
reported, “the initiative is in Russian
hands,” had ceased to interest them as
an immediate battle area.
The centre of gravity of their drive
was again being shifted to the southern
Ukraine, where Moscow admitted that a
new mass offensive had been launched in
the direction of Rostov. This was a
natural sequence to operations in the
central zone. The German High Com-
mand makes the most of its superior
communication facilities to move the
weight of its pressure points.
The Rostov advance is now the strategic
key to the general campaign. The Black
Sea forms a shield along the whole south
of the German front, and the drying up
of Russian oil supplies and of armament
supplies from Asia is the most important
objective of Hitler’s offensives. He is
impelled to hurry because of the weather
and because the existence of large British
armies beyond the Caucasus must cause
him uneasiness.
On Oct. 20, within sight of Rostov, he
was 600 miles by air from the Baku oil-
fields, about 350 miles from the nearest
oil area, 400 miles from Astrakhan at
the Volga mouth and less than 250 miles
from Stalingrad further north.
Driving to any of these points, he might
isolate the whole of European Russia
from all the oilfields and leave all the
Russian forces retiring to the north
towards the Urals, with his Panzers dan-
gerously on their southern flank. He
would be 200 to 400 miles south of
Kuibyshev, the new temporary capital,
and about the same distance from the
railway connecting that city with the in-
dustrial centres of Siberia. If these were
cut, the only safe lines for the Russian
retreating armies would be deep in the
Siberian hinterland.
Very evidently, the enemy had no in-
tention of carrying on this new stage
until he had carved up the resources of
the Donetz and the Don and forced the
gates of Kharkov.
He began to capitalise the rips which
his armored divisions had cut as far
back as the beginning of October through
the industrial region north of Mariupol.
On October 21 he announced the
capitulation of Stalino, near the end of
the Caucasian pipeline, 75 miles from
the Azov shore. Though a mushroom
city (population nearly 500,000), it is one
of the most important armament centres
in the U.S.S.R. The Soviet High Com-
mand declared that the city had cost
the Germans 50,000 lives. The surrender,
confirmed after the usual delay, marked
the end of a south-eastern Ukraine cam-
paign. South and west of a line from
Chernigov to Rostov no Russian forces
could exist unless encircled or cut off, and
the new German front formed a maw in
which it held the whole of the Donetz and
Don industrial area, with Kharkov sitting
on its tongue. There was also an embryo
loop forming behind the Kursk iron-
fields and threatening the retreating Rus-
sian armies of the centre.
The Ukraine operations proceeded
steadily, even when attention was
switched again to the centre. Moscow
Radio suddenly went off the air one
night. Berlin announced that German
forces and stores were being built up
along the Moscow arc, where 100 divi-
sions and 4000 tanks already had been
concentrated. The unfortunate Russians
were kept hopping from one foot to the
other from day to day as feints were
made on the Kalinin and Kaluga
approaches.
Large-scale withdrawal to a new Rus-
sian line was the natural concomitant of
the withdrawal of the central Govern-
ment from Moscow. The military with-
drawal would have to be long—and
perilous, in view of the Ukraine flank
position. The nearest available line was
the Volga.
The new front would swing eastward
from the north on Leningrad, east of
Kalinin to Yaroslav, thence following the
river to the Don region and perhaps
the Caucasus. By adopting this posi-
tion it might still be possible to keep
the Archangel railway open for supplies.
At first glimpse, this sounds an impos-
sible feat in winter, but the far northern
situation stands in Russia’s favor during
the Arctic night. Penetration to the
Archangel line from the Finnish border
would be a perilous adventure for the
enemy. Keeping a railway open is an-
other matter. The Russians built the
Murmansk double line during the Arctic
night in one year of the last war
—built it with Chinese labor and that of
prisoners of war.
The certainty that the withdrawal
would be on all fronts was sealed when
Marshal Timoshenko, who had begun the
war as C.-in-C. of all Russian forces,
and who still ranks as the senior marshal,
handed over the central command to
General Zukhov, Chief of the General
Staff, so that he himself might supervise
the stupendous retirement operations of
the main armies. His new command
included the Rostov front. Marshals
Voroshilov and Budenny also assumed
new commands in the retirement lines.
The Soviet communique on October
23 made no mention of Moscow, but the
Germans claimed that, in spite of terrible
weather, which has buried the front in
snow and mud, the outer defences of the
capital had been breached at several
points in the south-west and west along
the Mojaisk-Maloyaroslavets sector, and
that spearheads were now 38 miles from
the Kremlin. Moscow had been heavily
bombed nightly. Every workman there
was said to have been called up for imme-
diate service. Saboteurs and deserters
were reported to be facing firing squads.
There was a “last-stand” atmosphere
about the whole battle, which was clos-
ing in on the Moscow valley as fast as
was conceivably possible along such a
large and intricate encircling front.
There was characteristic ruthlessness
in the language and tone of Berlin Radio:
The workers of Moscow have been
called up. We again warn the Soviet
Government. The fate of Warsaw should
be sufficient warning.
But the Russians had the example of
Leningrad, still undestroyed, to cheer
them.
It was announced that Marshal von
Runstedt, reinforced by Rumanians, had
mustered 1,500,000 men for the final
assault on the Donetz Basin. This was
presaged by a withering blast on the
approaches to the Crimea, into which the
Germans are gradually pushing. “Izvestia”
reported intense fighting in the Donetz
region, in which the Germans on October
23 already had left 10,000 dead and
wounded.
It did not slow down the tempo of
the advance towards Rostov. This city
of 500,000-odd lies on the Don just at
the eastern point of the Azov Sea,
Long tank columns were reported on
October 23 to be moving towards the
front between Stalino and Taganrog, get-
ting into position to outflank the city.
The Russians now admitted the capture
of Taganrog, at a cost of 35,000 men to
the Germans.
The Germans claimed the capture of
Lisichansk, 80 miles north and slightly
to the east of Stalino. This point is well
east of Kharkov. Forces reaching it
would form a trawl with the Azov-shore
armies to catch the forest of big indus-
trial cities of the eastern Ukraine.
On October 23 the Soviet High Com-
mand made no bones about the fact that
“the situation in the south is very grave.”
That this was no exaggeration was
proved before the week-end. On October
25 the enemy claimed that Kharkov had
fallen, though “Red Star” denied it.’ The
great grey industrial city, with its 850,000
people and its huge tank, tractor, loco-
motive and electrical works, was one of
the main keys to the continuance of all
the Russian offensives.
The break-in came from the south-west
from Poltava. It was made by Panzer
divisions which encountered opposition
that seems to have been less stubborn
than usual; anyway there was for some
days scarcely any mention of fighting
in the immediate region of Kharkov. The
Germans declared that a two-day artil-
lery and air attack preceded the assault
on the city, which was reported on fire.
Panzers also pounced on the important
junction of Byelgorod, 50 miles n.-e. of
Kharkov, which lies outside the Ukraine
border on the north. This was part of
another scooping movement to bag the
Kursk ironfields and the central Black
Earth region, the other side of the bag
being the drive further north by Orel to
Ryazhan, which also formed a wall of
the Moscow scoop.
On October 27 the position could be
summed up as follows:
The Ukraine was completely under Nazi
occupation, save for a little lip on the east,
where the last two great industrial cities,
Voroshilograd (213,000) and Makheevka
(250,000), whose suburbs join those of
Stalino, were under imminent threat. With
the conquest go 70 p.c. of the iron output,
60 p.c. of the steel, 80 p.c. of the coal,
95 p.c. of the manganese ores and 75
p.c. of all the machine production of the
U.S.S.R. not centred in Moscow and
Leningrad.
The attack on the Crimea was growing
in strength with the arrival of Rumanian
reinforcements.
The Germans were on the outer skirts of
Rostov; there, as Moscow reported, the
position was “deadly serious.”
Further north, the Kursk iron region was
threatened with envelopment and the com-
munications between Moscow and the
southern Volga and the Caucasus with
complete severance.
Moscow had been heavily bombed night
after night. There was evidence that the
Germans had closed in as far as the outer
suburbs.
Divisions in the Kaluga region, south-
ward, were forcing the Oka River on a
wide front to take Tula (pop. 272,000) and
secure control of the main line of railway
to Kuibyshev, the new capital. This line
branches out of the Kharkov-Moscow line
at Tula, though there is another feeder to
it via Kolomna a little further east.
Of the Leningrad area, Finnish Radio re-
ported on October 25: “Giant fires pierce
the pall of smoke hanging over the city,
which is burning amid falling bombs and
the scream of artillery shells, which fall
incessantly. It is unbelievable that the
city can hold out long under the terrible
punishment it is receiving.” •
Every fact on every front pointed to
the validity of the deduction by U.S.
Naval Secretary Knox that “only a
miracle can prevent the collapse of Rus-
sian organised military strength.”
The German tide could not be stemmed
when the Russian armies were at their
peak, served by the Ukraine, Moscow
and Leningrad rooted in their rear lines,
and covered by a long chain of fortifi-
cations 70 miles deep stretching the
whole length of the border. River sys-
tems, railways, supply-base positions,
accessibility of man-power and the moral
advantage of fighting for their own soil
have all been on the side of the Russians,
and they had nearly two years to pre-
pare, with the lessons of the campaigns
in the West to guide them. Yet they
have so far failed in every battle, how-
ever desperate their resistance and how-
ever amazing their individual courage.
The British Empire must again recon-
cile itself to the possibility of having to
shoulder the whole burden until the
U.S.A. moves beyond “all aid short of
war,” as at present interpreted. Unfor-
tunately, propaganda from and for the
U.S.S.R. has created a false perspective
regarding the probable results, and a
false feeling that defeat of Russia would
automatically mean defeat of Britain. It
is forgotten that the Empire carried on
alone for a whole year.
The Russian campaign has given and
is giving a valuable breathing space. It
has dislocated large areas from which the
Germans immediately were obtaining oil,
grain and metals. It has resulted in the
death, wounding and capture of huge
slices of German man-power and has
worn out units both in men and material-.
There will have to be an immense over-
haul or replacement of German arma-
ment and a building up of ammunition
before another major German campaign
can be attempted.
Large quantities of German and Italian
shipping, thousands of units of the Luft-
waffe have been destroyed or heavily
damaged. Another country, the vastest
of all, will have to be held down by
German troops through a bitter winter
and afterwards through a famine-struck
spring which cannot fail to fill almost
every big Russian city with disease, hav-
ing in view the destruction wrought, the
imperfections of sanitation in Russian
cities and the crowded nature of all Rus-
sian city living conditions.
And if the Empire has to stand alone
once more, the volume of military sup-
plies from Canada, from U.S.A., from
Australia and from Britain’s own fac-
tories is increasing out of sight. And
next year there will be great increases in
shipping available, which will be all to
the good, wherever the campaign is
fought.
Britain's Share.
“Nobby II”: The Stinking Caviar party,
whose slippery platform is based on the
insulting doctrine that Britain and her
Dominions have done “nothing” while
Russia has given “all,” has little support
in actual facts or figures.
Were it not for the R.N., the British
mercantile marine and the R.A.F. Ger-
many already would have Palestine,
Egypt and North Africa, since the small
holding forces which have been located
there could not have been serviced and
maintained without them. Wavell’s
armies today do as much for Russia as
if they were in the Moscow lines.
Sir Andrew Cunningham remarked
during the week-end that in September
33 p.c. of Axis ships bound for Libya
were sunk, and more than 50 p.c. sunk
or damaged. Italian submarine losses,
he said, were about 33 p.c., and the Italian
Fleet had been reduced to perhaps four
or five battleships, two heavy and 10 to
14 light cruisers. Said the admiral:
It is a wonder the Italian merchantmen
still go to sea in the Mediterranean.
Probably they are driven by the Germans.
Last week an armed Italian merchant
cruiser of about 5400 tons was torpedoed
by a British submarine. The loss was
followed, in the natural course of things,
by the usual ghostly Italian sally, in which
a naval formation “sank” a 10,000-ton
British transport and seriously damaged


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 554 of 1941.
BETWEEN LILLIAN DOROTHY HARRIET
NICHOLAS Petitioner and
CYRIL JOHN THOMAS NICHOLAS Re-
spondent.
TO SYDNEY JOHN THOMAS NICHOLAS
late of South Street Adamstown Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LILLIAN
DOROTHY HARRIET NICHOLAS has com-
menced a suit against you in this Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Court on or before Friday the Four-
teenth day of January One thousand nine hun-
dred and forty-two and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of October,
One thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, JOHN COR-
CORAN & CO., Solicitors, 2 York Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1043 of 1941.
BETWEEN ERIC ARTHUR SINCLAIR
TAYLOR Petitioner and
MARY WINSOME TAYLOR Respondent.
TO the Respondent MARY WINSOME
TAYLOR late of Lavender Bay Sydney and
care of Godfrey and Godfrey Solicitors
Melbourne.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ERIC
ARTHUR SINCLAIR TAYLOR has com-
menced a suit against you in this Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the ground that you have without just cause
or excuse wilfully deserted him during three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the 20th day of February
1942 And in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-second day of October,
1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
McDONELL & MOFFITT, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 6 Wynyard Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENS-
LAND—ROCKHAMPTON.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
TO CLYDE CLOW whose last known address
was Cloncurry in the State of Queensland
(but whose present address is unknown)
formerly Bridge Carpenter but whose
present occupation is unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action No. 55 of
1941 has been commenced against you in the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Rockhamp-
ton by petition filed therein and writ of sum-
mons issued thereout on the Third day of
October 1941 by JEAN ADELINE CLOW of
Dalma Scrub in the State of Queensland
married woman claiming a dissolution of her
marriage with you on the ground of your de-
sertion for five years and upwards and it has
been ordered that service of the said writ
of summons and of the said petition by filing
and sticking up on the notice board in the
Registry of the Supreme Court of Queensland
at Rockhampton a copy of the said writ of
summons and of such order an office copy of
the said petition and the affidavit verifying the
same and a copy of this notice and by advertis-
ing this notice once in the Sydney “Bulletin”
a newspaper published at Sydney in the State
of New South Wales shall be deemed to be
good and sufficient service on you of the said
writ of summons and of the said petition If
you desire to defend the said action you must
within Thirty days from the date of the last
act done in compliance with the said order
cause an appearance to be entered for you at
the said Registry and in default thereof the
said Jean Adeline Crow may by leave of the
Court or a Judge or Registrar proceed therein
and judgment may be given against you in your
absence.
DATED the Twenty-second day of October
1941.
(1.5.) F. J. RUSSELL,
Registrar.
THOS. J. HALLY, Solicitor for the Plaintiff,
Sharpe’s Chambers, East Street, Rockhampton.
another. Nobody hears of these things
outside Rome.
The actual vigor with which the R.N.
has carried on its work and the risks
of its campaign are advertised by the fact
that a week or so ago 35 ships, ranging
from battleships and the 23,000-ton air-
craft-carriers, were having their war scars
healed in U.S. dockyards. H.M.A.S.
Perth in a few months staved off 304 air
attacks.
Every day 2000 British ships ply the
seas carrying foodstuffs, armament and
raw materials. The millions of tons of
sinkings testify to the fact that the mer-
cantile-marine war has been as persis-
tent and deadly as the more spectacular
one on the Russian front.
If any Russian feels that Britain is not
doing all she might, he can reflect that,
while the U.S.S.R. was still feeding Ger-
many with grain and had so far
acquiesced in the conquest of Greece,
Yugoslavia and other countries as to
refuse to recognise them diplomatically,
British sea-power, strengthened by ships
of countries which Moscow repudiated,
made the Middle East safe. Had it not
been for that Russia would certainly have
been attacked on two fronts instead of
one. The Germans would have long ago
invaded the Caucasus from the south if
they could have got at it, which they
could not while the R.N. commanded the
Mediterranean and Wavell’s armies
existed.
The sea effort is a dispersed effort, and
because of the nature of sea war it is a
silent effort fought without Losovskys.
It, therefore, is not driven home to the
ordinary follower of events that there
are at least 500,000 men constantly in
the front naval and mercantile sea-lane
lines, most of them in imminent danger
of attack day and night.
Air operations, too, have become so
much routine that the public does not
realise their magnitude or what their
effect must be on the eastern front cam-
paign. The Air Ministry remarked the
other day;
The heavy R.A.F. offensive is bringing
aid to Russia on a scale that few imagine.
Continuous sweeping by Coastal Com-
mand and light bomber forces and inces-
sant switching of major target localities
compel the Germans to keep thousands
of machines in the west to guard the
2000 miles of coastline from the Biscayan
Spanish border to the Arctic Circle.
Hundreds more have to be kept in the
Mediterranean. Thousands of German
A.A. men and mobile weapons have to
be maintained in the German industrial
areas to prevent complete dislocation of
armament production.
What is more, while German factory
areas are almost continuously harassed,
British cities have for five months been
almost free of heavy attacks and thus
have been able to step up production.
That and the lack of wastage in fighters,
due to limited activity by the Germans
in the west, will count heavily toward
ultimate victory. Not least important
has been the increased speed of naval
and mercantile-marine building.
September figures support the Air Min-
istry’s contentions about what the R.A.F.
is doing.
It made 189 raids last month against
German-held objectives—2B against in-
dustrial areas and military points and
128 on ports, airfields and ships. The
R.A.F. and F.A.A. destroyed 53 ships in
the North Sea and 48 in the Mediter-
ranean. Normally, unless the weather
is very bad, 200 bombers, mainly heavy,
light out from Britain alone on most
nights. A detailed outline of the opera-
tions Oct. 20-25 gives a fair cross-section
of what is being done:
October 20: Fighters over France derailed
ammunition train, damaged two others,
raked a barge concentration at Calais and
various objectives at Cherbourg, Boulogne
and Dieppe. Seaplane base and factory
bombed in Denmark. At night, Bremen,
Wilhelmshaven and Emden strongly attacked
by heavy bombers —nine machines lost —
and several minor raids carried out.
October 21: Fighter Command attacked
oil storage near Ostend, goods train and
tank wagons near Abbeville, hangars and
German troops near Le Touquet. Sweep
over the Pas de Calais downed 12 German
fighters. Blenheims bombed a convoy
guarded by A.A. ships. Three bombers
and nine fighters were missing from the
Channel operations. At night aerodromes
in Holland were machine-gunned, Bremen
and other n.-w. German ports, Brest
and Lorient (France), harbor fuel stores at
Aarhus (Denmark) and a drome at Lan-
veoc (Brittany) attacked. Naples heavily
raided by long-range bombers.
October 22: Widespread raids on western
Germany, particularly on Mannheim, and
attacks on Le Havre and Brest. Much
fighter patrol activity.
October 23: Naples has third heavy
raid in a week. It lasted 5J hours. Power-
ful bomber forces penetrated the industrial
areas of western Germany—Hamburg and
Kiel included. Docks at Brest, Cherbourg
and Le Havre blasted.
Coastal Command attacked ’dromes
round Calais, and Blenheims under fighter
ecsort bombed the vast aerodrome which
has been established at Lannion (France).
October 24: Bombs dropped over a wide
area in western Germany in bad weather,
the Rhineland rqost affected. Docks at
Brest blasted. Shipping attacked off Nor-
way, large supply ship left m flames,
Several fierce dogfights over Channel ports.
Heavy raid on Naples, with attacks on
Ragusa (Italy) and Licata (Sicily). Thou-
sands of incendiaries and h.es. dropped.
October 25: In showery, squally weather
Coastal and Fighter Commands attacked
French and Dutch coasts. Heavy bomber
raids on western Germany,
Added to its European activity, the
ra.F. carries out incessant bombing
up and down the whole length of the
]sf or tfa African zone—Tripoli had one
s tr a fg lasting 7j hours immense
reconnaissance, patrol and shipping
protection work, provides adequate
f orces f or fp e Singapore guard, and
s t an( j s ready for an emergency behind
the potential fighting line which stretches
f rom Xobruk to the Indian border.
Its effort rates a long way above
&
hOining,
More U.S. Ships Sunk.
“Nobby II”; Asked whether the U.S.
Government intended to send a diplo-
matic protest to Germany against the
attack on U.S.S. Kearny, which cost the
lives of 10 American seamen and the
wounding of 11 more, Secretary Cordell
Hull replied warmly: “One doesn’t send
diplomatic notes to international high-
waymen,”
Next day there was announced the
sinking of two more U.S.-owned ships—
one sailing under the flag of little
Panama, which has been used as a subter-
fuge to overcome the restrictions placed
by the Neutrality Act on U.S. shipping
bound for Britain and other countries
involved in the war.
The two ships were the 4900-ton
Lehigh (U.S. flag) and the former Danish
ship Bold Venture (3222 tons). A U.S.
ship in British service, West Amargosa
(5462 tons), has been sent to the bottom.
The tanker Teagle, U.S. owned but under
the British flag in convoy, also was tor-
pedoed.
The record of U.S. sinkings is now nine
—one in June, five in September and
three in October, apart from ships under
the British flag.
The Lehigh was running in ballast
after discharging cargo at Bilbao (Spain)
when she was torpedoed off the west
coast of Africa, 100 miles from Free-
town. Two boats with 37 seamen were
still missing at the week-end ; 22 men
had been picked up by the British vessel
Vimy. Mr. Cordell Hull described the
sinking as “a perfect example of the
Nazi policy of attempting to create a
reign of terror, frightfulness and abso-
lute lawlessness on the high seas.”
The Bold Venture was sunk by a sub-
marine on October 16, several hundred
miles south of Iceland. There were no
U.S. citizens in the crew, of whom 17
out of 49 have been saved.
The news of the last two disasters
reached Washington while the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee was hearing
evidence on the amendment of the
Neutrality Act. Presently the Navy De-
partment assumed control of all shipping
routes and destinations of U.S. ships.
President Roosevelt has declared a
defence week in U.S. from November 11.
It is clear that Uncle Sam is gradually
drifting into war, whether he likes it
or not.
Mr. Forde's Grim
Determination.
“Ek Dum”: Iven Mackay is proving
as fearless on the platform as in the
front line.
Ever since his return from Libya he
has spoken his mind frankly. Last week
he said that he felt strongly about re-
cruiting and he knew that men overseas
felt the same way. It was “not being
done very effectively.” The numbers of
the A.I.F. were lessening, the depots held
few men and few were coming forward.
The men in the Middle East had fare-
welled him with the plea; “Whatever
you do, get us some more recruits.”
Those men had seen their comrades
killed and faced the immediate risk of
being killed themselves, and no niceties
restrained them from expressing their
minds:
Are they to be left there to fight on
and on, until they are unable to fight any
longer? It seems to me that we are trying
to fight the war without disturbing ourselves.
There is too much in evidence the senti-
ment “What can I get out of it?” That
is the bugbear of Australia. If we cannot
rise above such petty thoughts, we have no
right to consideration as a nation.
Mr. Forde, the new Army Minister,
talked the same day in a strain which
suggested that he might have had a suc-
cessful inoculation with the Percy Spender
virus when he took office.
He declared that “he knew nobody in
Australia doubted the grim determina-
tion of the Government to finish the task
it had begun”:
We shall shirk none of the responsibilities
or problems of office. There is no greater
responsibility than the one we bear to our
army overseas I put it to you with all
the force I can muster that we have a duty
to keep these men of ours strongly sup-
ported with all they need.
And “we are pledged to maintain our
army in the field,” so that “either today
or tomorrow or in some other tomorrow
not very far away every Australian
eligible must make the decision of his
life whether he will help defend his
country.”
As things are, he need not lift a hand
to prevent the Germans winning.
Mr. Forde and his colleagues also are
at liberty to go on talking about “grim
determination,” so long as they don’t
show it by implementing the measure
which Britain and Maoriland long ago
adopted—general compulsory service.
A day or two after General Mackay
and Mr. Forde spoke, a Sydney paper
reported that “a first-class row” was de-
veloping between the Army and the
R.A.A.F., because the Army won’t allow
the R.A.A.F. to recruit men from the
land defence forces, so that the Empire
Air pool of reservists is being drained.
The position would be like something
out of Gilbert and Sullivan if it were
not so “grim.”
British naval casualties since the out-
break of war are reported at 22,500 and
those of the R.A.F. at 8500. The figures
are a sufficient answer to the stay-at-
home critics who accuse the two services
of not pulling their weight. The R.N.
figures represent nearly one-sixth of the
naval personnel just before the outbreak
of war.
* * * *
North Africa had a quietish week, save
for Tripoli, which caught it hot in de-
vastating raids on the harbor. Over
Tobruk raiding was lighter than in many
weeks, but there was considerable patrol
activity, both round the perimeter and
further east along the Libyan border.
Some British reconnaissance units have
worked down over the escarpment 200
miles from the coast, where they are dog-
worrying the Axis flank as far as 25
miles inside the Libyan border fence. The
R.N. has filled in some spare time shell-
ing Axis positions along the coast. This
may be a prelude to greater land action.
* * * *
“Ek D,”: The extent to which Tobruk
is under fire was pointed out when
Major - General Morshead unveiled a
memorial to fallen A.I.F. men in the
sandy little cemetery. Because of the
danger of bombing, only one man from
every battalion was allowed to attend.
Over 500 soldiers now lie in the en-
closure, and their memorial is a cement
cenotaph fashioned by their comrades,
and now a landmark in the dust beside
the Bardia road. On its face it bears a
plaque of the rising sun badge.
* * * ♦
“More than 60,000 men are now in the
R.A.A.F.,” said A. S. Drakeford, the new
Air Minister, and “the position is moving
rapidly toward the point where its
strength will be substantially greater than
that of the A.I.F. abroad.” It is already
greater, he said, than the strength of the
R.A.F. before the British defence expan-
sion programme began. Two days after-
wards, speakers at the Sydney Domain
mentioned “the serious lag in recruiting
and the poor response of men fit and
able to aid Australia in her hour of
peril.”
* * * ♦
Chief Air Marshal Hugh Dowding and
Acting Air Marshal L. A. Pattinson, two
air commodores and a group-captain
have been retired from the R.A.F. There
was no need for the fuss and conjecture
which followed. Air Marshal Dowding
has been chief of the Fighter Command
since 1936. Under him has been built
up the current technique, and he fought
the Battle of Britain last year. Five years
of that kind of strain is enough for any
man, especially when he is on the point
of turning 60. Air Marshal Pattinson
was at Wesley College, Melbourne. He
took honors in history at Cambridge
before he went to the last war as a second
lieutenant, sth Durhams. He is only 51,
but he has held a training command,
and training commands are susceptible to
sudden changes in a swift-moving war.
There have been other retirements from
high R.A.F. positions during the war.
Chief of the Air Staff Cyril Newall be-
came Governor-General of Maoriland
last year.
* * * ♦
A heavy convoy turned up in a British
port during the week with thousands of
Canadian reinforcements, hundreds of
airmen, A.T. gunners and U.S. techni-
cians. Apparently the same convoy which
the Germans claimed to have sunk
almost to the last ship a few days before.
• ♦ * ♦
Pilot-Sergeant W. H. Millington is re-
ported missing over the Channel, “pre-
sumed killed in action.” He had a repu-
tation for taking on anything which
came in his way. In August he tackled 15
Domier bombers escorted by fighters,
shot down a Messerschmitt, damaged a
bomber and another fighter and, wounded
and with his machine on fire, made a
crash landing. A few days before that
he had shot down two Heinkels out of
a formation of 60. Sergeant-Pilot K. B.
Chisholm, who has won the D.C.M. and
has shot down six German machines and
damaged a seventh, is a prisoner of war.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: A mysterious invasion of
French Somaliland was reported on Oct.
25. Next Vichy announced, on the
authority of the Governor-General, that
British troops had made the invasion on
Friday, but had retired on Sunday. The
British Government said it knew nothing
of the invasion.


FOR COMFORT AND DURABILITY
No. 163.
"TUMBA"
“PRIDE OF THE ROAD.”
d
£ll/8/3
(COMPLETE)
A high-grade
Saddle with
narro we s t
possible grip
and comfort-
ab 1 e no n-
chafing seat.
Fi r s t - class
materials used
throughout.
N.S.W. freight on
saddles Paid for Gash
with Order. Our Catalogue
is Free I Send for one.
WALTHER *. STEVEMSOM CTJ.
395 CEORCE ST. SYPHEY
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 Hl)iVrti( SLdijirS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
AH classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager.
T. O. REYNOLDS,
£eet. Gen. Manager.
fd
fOR W£4K M£N AND IVOMfN
Loss of vitality anti premature feeling
of oltl age are due to failure of certain
glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
821
sins&i
OINOI
QNV-IO
BEATS THE HEAT
LOOKS A TBEAT
2iz *
SS-SR'A?
gPipl
»K!s?sa«
Mii
>■;■; S
IP
»®3
n
«
ig
COOL and smart, free
and easy, a sports suit of
Soltine Cloth is just what
you want this Summer.
Soltine is woven so that the
fabric "breathes” and
keeps you cool whatever
the weather. Soltine doesn’t
sag or crease either —that’s
why you can be thoroughly
at ease and yet look smart
in Soltine. Your tailor or
store will show you all the
new patterns. The Glen
Urquhart Check coat and
plain grey trousers illus-
trated above, make a fine
outfit for the well-dressed
man.
Born, Shorn, Woven and Worn in Australia
If unable to obtain, write to P.O. Box
J/89G, Mtlb., or 30i2NN } Syd., and we’ll
advise you where you can get Soltine Cloths.
a
ESI PATON
SUNDRY SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
Up to the Cup-time schedule that it
has observed from remote antiquity, the
Greatest Show on Earth has turned up
in Melbourne, this time back at Olympia,
instead of under canvas. It is as good a
show as ever, if not better. Because
of the war, a much reduced staff has to
be augmented by the performers, but
the fact that those aristqcrats of the ring
the acrobats and trapeze wizards have
to set up their own flimsy-looking
apparatus doesn’t detract from their
prestige in the reverential eyes of the
assembled small boy. Miss Hama, of
New York, does a crisp act on the tight-
wire, and Kaichi, the only person in the
world to think of making a living by
ascending 12 steps on his head, is a
wonder. The French musical comedians,
one freshly equipped with a wondrous
pair of bare feet, are as funny as ever.
Philip Wirth puts his ponies through
their paces, and the popular skit on Mel-
bourne’s classic, with the monkeys as
jockeys, is repeated,
* * * *
Current bill at Sydney Tiv., “Black
and Blue,” is decorated, if anything,
better than usual by the Tiv. lovelies,
who are done up, if anything, in even
better than the Tiv.’s customary good
taste. Mo, in fine fettle, is with them,
and is aided and abetted by Charles Nor-
man and Elsa Stenning. The usual quota
of jugglers and acrobats is also there, plus
a ventriloquist who is so good that it
becomes doubtful whether he or his dis-
embodied voice is the most substantial
performer.
❖ * H* %
A well-mixed grill was served by
Sydney Con. Orchestra at its sixth con-
cert of the 1941 series. Most satisfac-
tory performance was that accorded to
Haydn’s “Londoner” Symphony, last of
the dozen commissioned by fiddler-entre-
preneur Salomon, and almost certainly
written in London, which gave the ageing
composer some of the happiest hours of
his life. The symphony shows how well
he responded to fame and prosperity.
Elgar’s “Enigma” variations, in parts
inspired, everywhere the work of a master
craftsman, was given a conscientious if
rather dry reading.- Prokofieff’s “Romeo
and Juliet,” full of quips and quirks and
light-hearted dancing on the village green,
nowhere threatened to wither the laurels
won under the same label by Tschaikow-
sky, Gounod or even Bellini. Walton’s
Viola Concerto, though that very fine
player William Krasnik was soloist, made
no very deep impression. The scoring
is clever in a brittle, contemptuous
fashion, but there is nothing for the mind
to dwell upon and store. Dr. Bainton
conducted.
* * * *
Sassiety stuffed Melbourne Town Hall
with furs and feathers and.furbelows for
the Friedman concert in aid of the
A.C.F., Free French Appeal and Polish
Red Cross, and listened to a magnificent
programme, orthodox in cut but none the
worse for that, and some fine playing.
The pianist led off with the three appro-
priate national anthems, played two deli-
cious fragments and then launched him-
self at the “Appassionata.” Schumann’s
“Carnaval,” with its 21 assorted pieces,
next engaged him, then he threw off a
handful of Chopin and finished up with
Debussy, Paderewski and two of his own
works, including a setting of Schubert’s
“Old Vienna.” Encores were still being
demanded at a quarter to eleven.
* * * *
Lack of versatility isn’t one of the
faults of Edith Harrhy, who gave a con-
cert of her own compositions at Mel-
bourne Assembly Hall. Not content with
writing the whole of the items on a
generous programme, she played three
of the pianoforte pieces and sang a panel
of “Songs for Australian Children” based
Armament-baron Robert Morley, Professor-of-Greek Rex Harrison and
a.-b.’s daughter Wendy Hiller, all contributing to the progress of “the
Army” under G. B. Shaw’s supervision—“ Major Barbara,” at Sydney
Century.
on words by Bronnie Taylor, a local
writer. For the rest of Miss Harrhy’s
varied collection of songs, ballads and
duets, she had the services of Thea
Phillips and Arnold Matters, two of the
best of Melbourne’s singers. The com-
poser has a gift for melody, and can
elaborate a subject without losing the
emotion.
9fC * Jfc *
In Rosamond Lehmann’s “No More
Music,” put on by Brett Randall’s Mel-
bourne Little Theatre, a young artist goes
to a West Indian island to paint the tropi-
cal landscape and puts up at a guest-
house full of a strange assortment of
characters with the girl who has shared
his joys and sorrows for several years
in other nlaces. Before he can set up
his easel, however, he meets and becomes
interested in another girl, and thereafter
is developed an excellent statement of
an ancient problem. Acting was re-
markable : David Reid, Nancy Sum-
mers and Joan Denyer were excellent;
and Henry Allen, Brett Randall, Loveday
Hills, Kay Clarke and Dorothy O’Keefe
were suitably in the picture. Despite the
dimensions of the stage, the tropical en-
vironment was just as well given as in a
more pretentious playhouse.
ARTBURSTS
up a very adequate water-color tech-
nique. There’s a coarse, healthy Hogar-
thian touch about some of his sketches —
“School Sports,” “Girls on the Corso”
and “In the Park,” for instance —that is
much more promising than the facility,
elsewhere exhibited, with which he
imitates current decadent styles.
* * * *
An unusual art effort in Adelaide is a
small show hung in the anteroom of the
Regent Theatre by leading members of
the Society of Arts, the sight of foreign
scenes being supposed to encourage re-
cruiting. George Whinnen, the president,
scores heavily with a Durham view, and
Milston, lately from Prague, has a lurid
bombing-of-Berlin. Webber imagines
Malaya, Ragless deals with Canada, and
Jeff Smart with Rhodesia. Quite a worth-
while show, apart from its psychological
effect, if any.
* * * *
At Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries, Syd-
ney, the Photographic Society of N. S.
Wales puts on its annual show —and a
very good one, too. Bromoil seems to be
growing in favor with members, or they
are growing more adept at the manage-
ment of this fascinating process, since
many of the most effective prints were
thus prepared. Molly Bamberger,
A. E. F. Chaffer, G. S. Currey, H. D.
Dircks, J. W. Metcalf and Bert Whitfield
are the leading practitioners of this
method. Workers with straight bromides
who catch the eye are John Berney,
Keast Burke, C. J. Burmeister, Arthur
Bade, M, Fitzpatrick, Paul Horne, S, T,
Symonds and C. T. Rudge. In the non-
members’ section such noted photo-
graphers as Harold Cazneaux, Dr, Julian
Smith and Monte Luke are represented.
About the most attractive bit of straight
printing in the show (among landscapes)
is W. E. Buckle’s “Haven,” and the most
effective portrait is Max Dupain’s study
of Max Meldrum. A feature of the show
is a daily exhibition of projected color
photographs by A. W. Gale, G, A.
Pratten and C. F. Walton.
Cedric Flower, who has a show of
colored pen drawings, water-colors and
so forth at the Macquarie Galleries, Syd-
ney, has times when he feels like Phil
May and times when he feels like Modi-
gliani. He can draw, and he has picked
AT THE TALKIES
“Hold Back the Dawn,” at Sydney
Prince Edward, is an entertaining comedy
romance with Charles Boyer, Olivia de
Havilland and Paulette Goddard all turn-
ing in good work. Boyer is a high-class
European tourist parasite who, finding
business falling off in the Riviera, looks
to the U.S, as a potential field of wealthy
females, age immaterial. He lights out
for Mexico with the idea of sneaking
over the border into the U.S., but bumps
into the American quota system of con-
trolling immigration. Immediate pros-
pects seem to be an eight- or ten-year
wait in the border town, when Paulette
comes on the scene as an ex-partner of
Charles and now a U.S. citizen. She
passes the golden secret for quick entry
to the States—marry a U.S. citizen.
Charles lingers not, and in the rather good
time of 12 hours and seven minutes
Olivia, a young schoolmarm chaperoning
a carload of her charges on a visit to a
Mexican fiesta, finds herself the blushing
Mrs. Charles. Thereafter and for the
best part of the film, the inevitable pro-
ceeds inevitably to happen, with Olivia’s
sweet innocent charm gnawing remorse-
lessly at Charles’s callous heart and con-
science. Good support is offered by a
couple of shorts, including an engaging
piece, “The Tale of a Dog.”
* * * •
A second inspection of the film ver-
sion of Shaw’s “Major Barbara,” current
at Sydney Century, bears out the first im-
pression of it —its main attractions are
Mr. Shaw’s mental conjurings and the
excellent performances of highly-capable
English players, Robert Morley leading
a team of them. A new supporting film,
“The Man at the Gate,” is also an excel-
lent English job, with Wilfred Lawson
turning in his typically fine work.
* * * *
Sydney Capitol has “King of the
Zombies” and, for the benefit of those not
versed in Hollywooden black magic and
voodoo lore, be it known that the Zombie
is a creature remarkably akin to a type of
Australian politician—a walking corpse,
mentally and spiritually dead and with no
mind of its own. At all events a couple
of adventuresome lads crash their ’plane
on a tropical island and find themselves
entirely surrounded by Zombies and their
master mind, who turns out to be an
agent of a foreign Power trying to wrest
vital secrets from a captive U.S. admiral.
Eventually the admiral is rescued in the
nick of time, the master mind comes to
a sticky end and the Zombies, when last
seen, were, and probably still are, march-
ing, slow time, single file, arms rigid and
eyes fixed vacantly ahead.


VICTORIA RACING CLUB, FLEMINGTON
CUP WEEK
DERBY DAY Ist NOVEMBER
CUP DAY 4th NOVEMBER
OAKS DAY 6th NOVEMBER
C. B. FISHER PLATE Bth NOVEMBER
£7500 Added to Melbourne Cup and Trophy valued £2OO.
£5OOO Added to The Derby.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary.
SPORTING NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVSE YOUR HAIR A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by “PILOT”)
Beau Vite consolidated his position as
Melbourne Cup favorite by defeating
Tranquil Star and Laureate in the W. S.
Cox Plate at Moonee Valley on Satur-
day. Starting at 3 to 1 on, he led most
of the way to win the race for the second
successive year and to take his record
to 29 wins for £24,225 in stakes.
Opinions differed as to the ease of Beau
Vite’s win. He wound up with a length
and a half to spare, but some keen judges
considered that Tranquil Star had him
flat out from the half-mile to the turn
and that he could not have done much
better. Rider D. Munro, however, ex-
pressed complete satisfaction with the
horse’s performance, and the fact re-
mains that Beau Vite is a lazy galloper
whose action can be deceptive at times.
Obviously he is as good as ever, but
whether he is good enough to win the
Melbourne Cup with 9.10, where he
failed last year with 9.7, is another
matter.
• •••••
Tranquil Star ran really well, and
critics contend that she might have made
the finish even more interesting had
Sheatt exercised more patience. The
mare pulled hard in the early stages,
however, and no doubt Shean considered
it better to let her run along rather than
pull her about. There is still a chance
of her returning to her good autumn
form, but Beau Vite is a stumbling-block
in the w.f.a. races, and further improve-
ment will be necessary for her to win
the Melbourne Cup.
Laureate did best of the six three-
year-olds that contested the Cox Plate,
his form emphasising the probability that
the terrific pace set by All Love was
responsible for his failure in the Caul-
field Guineas. Bumped .at the start,
behind five horses at the half-mile and
forced to go wide on the turn, he rattled
home strongly enough in third place to
indicate that he will repeat his A.J.C.
Derby win in the Victoria Derby next
Saturday. Owner Roy McLean also con-
cedes his colt a good chance in the Mel-
bourne Cup, in which he will also be
represented by Lucrative. Laureate came
from behind It’s Funny on Saturday, but
the latter battled on gamely in fourth
position, and his trainer, J. W. Cook,
considered it a satisfactory Derby trial.
It’s Funny is also to be a runner for the
Melbourne Cup, in which he will be
ridden by J. Conquest.
• ••••«
Gay Revelry, whose close third in the
Caulfield Guineas raised Victoria Derby
hopes, performed moderately, and Ver-
mont, though he shaped fairly in fifth
position, did not impress from a classic
viewpoint. Galliard, considered by some
people to have been unluckily defeated
by Laureate in the A.J.C. Derby, did not
run on as well as expected, but he
will not have to be bustled so
much in the early stages next Saturday.
His trainer, J. T. Cush, considers that
Galliard is essentially a stayer, and will
do better over the longer distance.
For the third successive year a hos-
tile demonstration was associated with
the winner of the Moonee Valley Gold
Cup. Gilltown was hooted when he won
in 1939 and 1940, and a section of the
crowd resented Yours Truly’s improved
form in winning the corresponding race
on Saturday. In each instance the
Moonee Valley win followed failure in
the Werribee Cup three days earlier.
Starting at 20 to 1, Yours Truly’s defeat
of True Flight and Son of Aurous in
a desperate finish contrasted with his lack
of dash at the finish of the Werribee Cup,
in which he started favorite, only to
weaken into seventh position.
Frank Dalton, trainer of Yours Truly,
must have listened to the demonstration
with mixed feelings? He stated that he
did not put a penny on the Maori-
land-bred horse, but at the same time he
did not agree that Yours Truly was re-
sponsible for a startling reversal of form.
He argues that Yours Truly is a one-
paced horse, and was “run over” by
faster horses at the finish of the 10 fur-
longs at Mentone, where the Werribee
Cup was run. The pace was slower over
the three-furlongs-longer trip on Satur-
day, and Yours Truly, assisted by a rails
run m the straight, was able to plod on
and outstay True Flight after the latter
had looked all over a winner. Only half
a head separated them, and True Flight
was unlucky in being hampered when
Reading hung out on the turn.
True Flight did well with 41b. more
than his Melbourne Cup weight, but no-
thing finished better than Son of Aurous,
who made up a tremendous amount of
ground to finish a close third. He was
tailed off at the half-mile. Katanga
(favorite) was never really dangerous,
Frill King lost ground over the last fur-
long, and Gilltown was upset by Read-
ing’s attempt to lead all the way. Gill-
town likes his own way in a race, and
his effort to get on terms with Reading
near the half-mile left him without any-
thing in reserve for the finish. The race
is likely to improve him, however, and
he might pay expenses before returning
to Sydney.
Doubts existed almost to the last
moment whether Reading would be a
runner. The American-owned horse in-
jured a heel two days beforehand, and
Flemington track regulars questioned his
fitness to race. The matter created con-
siderable controversy, but W. J. Smith,
who manages the Australian racing affairs
of Louis B. Mayer, decided, after a con-
sultation with trainer J. T. Cush, that
the trouble was not as serious as gener-
ally thought. Reading wore a special
aluminium bar shoe which kept his heel
off the ground, and his troublesome heel
certainly did not affect his freedom of
action. He led to the home turn, and,
although beaten into fourth position,
finished less than two lengths behind the
winner.
Slow to begin, and a long way out of
his ground early. Regency, a colt by The
Buzzard from Kaditcha, recorded an im-
pressive performance to justify his even-
money favoritism for the first division
of the St. Albans Handicap. He won
running away from Portsmouth and
Carruca, and, with two starts for a first
and a second, must be considered one of
Melbourne’s most promising juveniles.
Unfortunately for owner W. R. Kemball
and trainer H. Hilton, he cannot be given
his chance against Hesione in the Mari-
byrnong Plate next Saturday. Accelerate,
another of Kemball’s horses, was nomi-
nated for that race, but Regency’s entry
was omitted. Regency, who cost 300gns.
as a yearling, will contest minor races
during the V.R.C. spring meeting,
Sydney trainer C. Ryan began his Mel-
bourne visit in fine style by landing a
double with High Flight and Martheus.
High Flight was always a warm favorite
for the second division of the St. Albans
Handicap, but 15 to 1 was bet against
Martheus, who started at 12’s for the
first division of the Dundonald Handicap.
Both were riddgn by Sydney jockey W.
Cook.
High Flight had been involved in a
track mishap during the week, but his
injuries were only superficial, and his
easy defeat of Hudson Bay and Cavort
in time 1| second faster than recorded
by Regency in the first division stamped
him as one of the best colts of his age in
training. He raced on Saturday more
for experience than monetary gain for
his connections, and, even if unable to
defeat Hesione in the Maribyrnong Plate,
should be equal to a place at least in
that race. He was unlucky when a close
third in the Breeders’ Plate at Randwick,
and impresses as sure to improve. A son
of Melfort and Queen Balak, High Flight
is cheap at his yearling cost of 210gns.
Hurdled off at the barrier, Martheus
bounced out in front in the first Dun-
donald Handicap, and was not after-
wards headed. The Pentheus gelding is
reputed to show little fight when chal-
lenged for the lead, but he had matters
all his own way on Saturday and won
decisively from Cushla Machree and the
fast-finishing Crojick. The latter, who
was uneasy in the market, was unlucky
in meeting with a check halfway through
the race. All Love again cost her sup-
porters a mint of money. Flat-footed at
the start, her brilliance carried her into
second place at the half-mile, but she
was beaten before the turn and finished
a long way back. All Love obviously is
not as gqod as she was in the autumn.
Needful’s success in the second divi-
sion of the Dundonald Handicap added
to the numerous wins gained by trainer
F. Godby for inter-State owners. Need-
ful, a five-year-old gelding by Treat
from Zealanda, is owned in Westralia,
and, although a remarkable rails run
made things easier for him, he won styl-
ishly enough from Operatic and Con
Naru to indicate that more will be heard
of him before he is much older.
Omapo, a visitor from Sydney, upset
general calculations when, assisted by an
inside run, he defeated the favorite, Bur-
rabil, half a head in the Phoenix Handi-
cap. His 10-to-l win, however, was no
surprise to owner-trainer V. P. Bernard,
who stated after the race that he was
undecided whether to run Omapo in the
Melbourne Cup or to reserve him for
the mile Yan Yean Stakes the same day.
No decision had been reached at the time
of writing. Bernard was associated for
many years with Maoriland trainer F. D.
Jones, but Omapo is the first horse he
himself has raced in Melbourne. Manu-
rere did well to finish a close third, and
Two’s Company, who is engaged in the
Wakeful Stakes next Saturday, finished
a creditable sixth. Hydra, second
favorite, weakened to finish fifth after
leading to the turn.
* * * *
Rosehill was not overcrowded on
Saturday, but it was a fair attendance
considering it was an indifferent pro-
gramme, and, in addition, many Sydney
followers of racing are in Melbourne.
Seven races were won by fancied horses,
and only for the success of the
10-to-l chance Hazaden the books
would have suffered severely. Business
on Melbourne events was brisk, and wins
by five Sydney horses took a lot of money
out of the ring.
Flying Knight, who was favorite
throughout for the Flying Handicap, led
into the straight from Trade Mark, Line-
mond and Merrimba, but the last-named
had him beaten nearly a furlong from
home. Then Valve put in his claim, but
though he struggled gamely he was not
doing as well as Merrimba at the win-
ning-post. It was Merrimba’s fourth win
at Rosehill, and he will improve still
further. Trade Mark was fourth, but
was not a winning possibility in the run
home; nor was Linemond, though there
was support for him.
Santa, who closed a slightly better
favorite than Mischief for the Cumber-
land Handicap, slipped right away from
the other three runners commencing the
back stretch, and did not after give them
a look-in. He is in such good trim that
he is bound to win again shortly. The
only surprise in connection with the race
was that Mischief, after being second
when half the distance was covered, tired
so badly that he finished last. Santa is
owned in India by trainer A. Higgins,
and may go to that country next year.
Radio Star won at a long price the
previous week, and in the belief that a
71b. penalty would not trouble him he
was sent out at a very short one for the
Macarthur Stakes, Backers who expected
great improvement on the part of Radio
Star were disappointed, as though third
at the turn he could not make any im-
pression on Jungle King, who led from
the first furlong. Radio Star was second
a few strides from the winning-post, but
was cut out of that position by Sequel.
Young Valais jumped away smartly, and
then, after dropping back to the rear of
the field, ran on well to finish fourth.
Tahmoor, a Royal Sun colt, showed pace,
being Jungle King’s closest follower at
the straight entrance. Jungle King, who
is by Harinero from Causina, by Cis-
tercian from Donna Elsa, was bred by
his owners, W, J. and W. D. Wyatt.
Oriole landed the odds laid on her for
the Lady Fitzroy Stakes, but after being
in charge soon after barrier-rise, and, lead-
ing into the straight, it was by a narrow
margin she beat Flying Shuttle. The
latter looked like winning just after com-
mencing the last furlong, but was out-
stayed by Oriole, who, shifting out
slightly in the straight, hampered Flying
Shuttle sufficiently for a few strides to
cause a protest to be entered on her
behalf. It was dismissed. Fire Bird, who
ran third, is by Winooka. Hat Garden
was prominent to the turn, but Miss
Cullen finished better than any of the
unplaced division. Oriole, the first of
Oro’s progeny to race, was bred by
F. W. Hughes, and is out of Volonte, by
Silvius from Chrysau.
• • • • • *
Hazaden led throughout the first divi-
sion of the Novice Handicap, the only
one to threaten him being Queanbeyan
Boy, who ran up second at the top of the
straight. However, Hazaden did the
better in the run home, Letascar and
The Catch were always prominent, the
former getting third, and behind the
placed horses Simple Simon and Be
Friendly finished best.
In the second division of the Novice
Handicap High Stepper, £ Spearfelt geld-
ing, was quickly in front, and led into
the straight. However, Cadger, who was
his nearest follower from the start, had
him beaten at the leger, and then stalled
off Belle Money (a Beau Pere filly).
Cadger, whose recent form has been very
consistent, is by Silverburn from Ginaton,
who is out of Ginwheel, a half-sister to
Prince Bardolph, a Sydney Cup winner.
The favorite, Haripur, was fourth, but
never looked a winner, and Sir Tenny-
son (by Silverado) made the best showing
of the remainder. Ginger Lass was also
doing fairly at the end.
In the third division of the Novice
Handicap J. King had his second winner
of the afternoon in Pancerta (Pantheon-
Lacerta), who was quickly in the lead,
and though joined by Celebration at the
straight entrance, with Fermanagh close
up, hung on well to win by half a length
from the last-named. Panel’s third was
good enough to put her in line for an
early win, and Celebration is worth fol-
lowing. She looked as if the race would
benefit her. Mrs, Caudle was backed,
but met with interference. She, too, will
improve with racing. This division was
run in 1.131, against Hazaden’s 1.14 and
Cadger’s 1.1 H.
John Dory, with 71b, off his back in
the way of an apprentice allowance, was
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(Before acceptances.)
(Our Melbourne Representative.)
Wakeful Stakes: Two’s Com-
pany, 1; Wheat Sheaf, 2; Beauty
Spot, 3.
Maribyrnong Plate: Hesione, 1 ;
High Flight, 2 ; Bayard, 3,
L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes: Beau
Vite, 1 ; Lucrative, 2 ; Rimveil, 3.
Victoria Derby: Laureate, 1 ;
Skipton, 2 ; Galliard, 3.
Cantala Stakes: Panka, 1 ; Ever-
green, 2; High Caste or Rimveil, 3.
Hotham Handicap: Triggerman,
1; Gill town, 2; Yodvara, 3.
SECOND DAY—TUESDAY.
MELBOURNE CUP.
VELOCITY 1
BEAU VITE 2
LAUREATE or SKIPTON .. 3
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT.”
Brush Hurdle Race: Tartanus, 1 ;
Festoon, 2 ; Punarua, 3,
Flying Handicap; Brazandt, 1 ;
Camsion, 2 ; Valve or Henchman, 3.
Two-year-old Stakes; Flying
Shuttle, 1 ; Easy Mark, 2; Corro-
boree, 3.
Canterbury Handicap; Aristo-
crat, 1 ; Cable Boy, 2 ; Cryon, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Rox-
ford, 1 ; Fan Dancer, 2 ; Home Rule
or Bruegalong, 3.
Ashbury Handicap; Pimm’s, 1 ;
Red Bruce, 2; Überous, 3.


Missing Friends.
ARTHUR PERCIVAL WATSON.
LAST heard of over six years ago at Walcha,
near Tamworth. The above is requested to
communicate with QUEENSLAND TRUS-
TEES, LIMITED, of 395 Queen Street, Bris-
bane, when he will hear of something to his
advantage. Anyone knowing his whereabouts
or whether he is dead is requested to com-
municate with the abovenamed company.
SMITH. —Would IRENE MAY SMITH or
DAWSON, daughter of Henry James Smith, of
Rylstone, deceased, or any person knowing
her whereabouts, please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney?
too good for his half-dozen Parramatta
Handicap opponents. Mustapha, after
being last most of the way for the first
half-mile, moved up so smartly at the
three furlongs that he had the measure
of the pacemakers, Bel Oisseau and
Levraut, soon after entering the straight,
and his chance appeared a winning one
until John Dory put in his claim. It did
not take John Dory long to put the
result beyond doubt. Überous and Bel
Oiseau dead-heated for third, the former
overhauling the latter in the last few
strides.
Sydney had a good innings at Moonee
Valley on Saturday, and, though
it is unlikely horses from the Harbor
City will do quite so well at Flem-
ington on Saturday, two or three
wins are in sight. Hesione, despite
her 71b. penalty, will take a lot of run-
ning down in the Maribyrnong Plate.
She may not be quite as fast as last
year’s winner, All Love, and that may
not be necessary. Her strongest oppo-
nents may be two other Sydneyites in her
stable-companion Hall Stand (if started)
and High Flight, who won the second
division of the St. Albans Handicap in
a second and a quarter faster time than
Regency put up in the first. However,
though Regency may be better than sug-
gested by his time, he was not entered
for the Maribyrnong Plate, so he does
not enter into calculations. Great Britain,
who created such a good impression
when he won the Maribyrnong Trial
Stakes at his first start, was later beaten
by Ducal, and as it was subsequently re-
ported he was suffering from shin-sore-
ness he may again be unable to act up
to his first run. That would leave Ducal
as the real danger to the Sydney young-
sters, but, though he is good, he may fall
slightly short of Hesione’s standard. If
Hesione should win she will stand out
as the best two-year-old of the spring,
and further emphasise the luck of
yearling buying. In Sydney some high
prices were paid for yearlings, but as
Hesione was not among those catalogued
buyers were not afforded the chance of
securing her.
V * * «
The Victoria Derby field will be un-
usually large, and, as in the Caulfield
Guineas, there is the possibility of an
upset. Laureate greatly disappointed in
that race, but it might pay to overlook
that run and attach much more import-
ance to the fact that he came home
strongly to win the AJ.C. Derby
in time which has only once been beaten,
Phar Lap doing 2.3 \\. The Trapper
and Gay Revelry are good, but,
though they finished well ahead of
Laureate and Skipton in the Guineas,
it is probable the last-mentioned two
will be better suited by the longer
distance. In the case of Skipton he has
still to be taken a little on trust, but
those associated with him must be
credited with sound reason for their
belief in him as a potential stayer.
Little can be said for the prospects of
Sydney’s representatives. Laureate was
too good for them in the AJ.C. Derby,
and there is little likelihood that they
have made greater improvement than he
since they raced at Randwick. Tranquil
Star made a good bid for last year’s Vic-
toria Derby, and in Primavera another
good filly will contest that race. She has
done well at the finish of her recent
races, and breeding is not against her as
a potential stayer.
* * * *
High Caste’s track work points to a
recovery of form, and, if that is so, he
is bound to make a good bid for the
Cantala Stakes. High Caste has shown
his ability to handle weight at Fleming-
ton, carrying 10.1 when he dead-heated
St. Constant for the Yan Yean Stakes.
Rimveil and Evergreen will meet him
slightly worse than in the Epsom, and
though the latter did not do as well as
expected in that race excuse was possible.
Caulfield Cup running proved that he
and Rimveil had gone on the right way
in Melbourne, It was stated that Rim-
veil’s owner was anxious that he should
tackle Beau Vite in the L. K. S. Mac-
kinnon Stakes, but, writing before the
declaration of acceptances, I should say
it was probable he would be a competitor
for the richer prize, the Cantala Stakes.
If he runs in that he can be relied on to
play a big part in its decision.
Panka failed in the Toorak Handicap,
but some of Melbourne’s good judges have
not lost faith in him, and look to him
to make amends on Saturday. Warbird,
a Toorak Handicap place-getter, must be
given a chance, as must Crojick, who
was fourth in that race and finished very
fast to get third in Martheus’s division
of the Dundonald Handicap. Lower
down Hydra, if he jumps away fairly, will
give his backers a good run, but in face
of his disappointing efforts at his last two
starts I shall stand High Caste to win.
♦ * * *
In Sydney on Monday Laureate was
most in demand for the Victoria Derby,
and Beau Vite was a pronounced favor-
ite for the Melbourne Cup. Layers varied
a little in their prices, but with most
the order was as follows:
VICTORIA DERBY.
Laureate.
Skipton.
Primavera.
Galliard.
The Trapper.
Gay Revelry, It’s Funny.
MELBOURNE CUP.
Beau Vite.
Velocity.
Laureate.
Lucrative.
Skipton. »
Saul.
Son of Aurous.
Tranquil Star, Triggerman, Maikai.
* * * m
I am writing before the declaration
of Melbourne Cup acceptances, but
Beau Vite’s W. S. Cox Plate win dis-
posed of any doubt as to his being a
runner. Regrettable that last week his
owner should have suggested there was
such a possibility. When Beau Vite came
to Sydney it was reported that the Mel-
bourne Cup was to be his special mission,
but subsequently backers were kept guess-
ing. Because of his Caulfield Cup failure
—which was quite excusable—it appeared
in print that some of Melbourne’s best
judges were of opinion that he was not
as good as formerly. Now it appears as
if the supposed deterioration was some-
what imaginary, but a Melbourne Cup
win with 9.10 is still going to be hard
for him.
In the Cup he will meet Tranquil Star
61b. worse than last Saturday, but he
should again beat her. Laureate, who
came home well to finish third, will be a
much stiffer proposition. He will meet
the Maorilander 111 b. better, and that
is sufficient to make a great difference,
especially as he won the A.J.C. Derby
like a stayer. It’s Funny, Gay Revelry
and Galliard were behind Laureate in
the W. S. Cox Plate and I think it will
be the same in the Cup, notwithstanding
that he will be 81b. worse off by compari-
son with Galliard. If Laureate should
win the Derby it is on the cards for him
to start favorite for the Cup.
A good three-year-old must always be
respected, and though nearly every year
we say of the Cup field “A poor lot of
stayers”—and then they upset that idea
by putting up fast time —this year does
appear to afford a greater opportunity
than usual for the success of a three-year-
old. Skipton is expected to prove a
stayer, but though he did better than
Laureate in the Caulfield Guineas I doubt
whether he is as good as the latter.
With his original weight of 7.11 I
looked to Velocity to win the Cup, and
though his penalty has taken him up to
8.7 his chance is still excellent. It is
only 41b. more than he carried in the
Caulfield Cup, which he won as a result
of outstaying his opponents. Very few
of those which finished behind him can
be given any chance of beating him, and,
bearing on winners of both races, it can
be recalled that The Trump and Rivette
each won the Melbourne Cup with 71b.
more than they carried in the Caulfield
Cup. When Velocity was third in the
A.J.C. St. Leger he did well over the
last half-mile to finish within four lengths
of Lucrative and Pandect and to beat
Tranquil Star.
Triggerman may have been a trifle un-
lucky in the Caulfield Cup, but as he
goes up 111 b. he will meet Velocity 71b.
worse. That difference reads like dis-
posing of him ; and, though I had a fancy
for Saul, the fact of his having bled in
his work last week seems sound reason
for dropping him. In addition his trainer
says that if he fails to do well in the
Hotham Handicap he will not be a Cup
runner. Lucrative, a proved two-miler,
must still be put among the possibilities.
Yours Truly won a New Zealand Cup
at two miles, but with 101 b. more than his
Moonee Valley Cup weight will meet
True Flight so much worse than in that
race that a win looks beyond him, and
Caulfield Cup form scarcely gives the
latter as good a chance as Velocity. South
Australian Yodvara is bound to receive
support, but a better bet may be Son of
Aurous. He is an Adelaide Cup winner,
and, though seven years old, his run from
a long last at the half-mile post to finish
a close third in the Moonee Valley Cup
is proof that he is very close to his best
earlier form. He may be badly placed in
the early part, and will therefore be
lucky if he escapes interference when
beaten horses commence dropping back,
but he will be plugging along at the end.
Rivette ran respectably in the Caulfield
Cup, but scarcely as well in the Moonee
Valley Cup. Maikai is evidently coming
on again. Both are stayers, but have
plenty of weight. Last week I selected
Velocity, Laureate, Beau Vite, Lucrative,
Reading and Saul as the best collection
for the Cup. Omitting the last-men-
tioned two, I shall substitute Son of
Aurous as a good outsider. To cut it
finer I expect Velocity or Laureate to win.
* * * *
Tidal Wave did so last year, when he
ran third in the Cup, but few horses
beaten in the Victoria* Derby have
turned the tables on the winner of that
race when they met in the two-miles race.
Lord Nolan was a marked exception.
He finished behind Alawa and Parsee in
the Derby, and was so far away from the
former that, though he had only 6.10 in
the Cup against Alawa’s 7.6, there did not
seem much hope for him. Lord Nolan
was a lightly-framed colt, and the drop
of 2st. in his weight made a different
horse of him in the Cup. He won from
Tulkeroo, while Alawa, favorite at 9 to
4, was unplaced. Lord Nolan started at
16 to 1. Another pronounced upset was
by Artilleryman. Beaten by Richmond
Main in the Derby, he won the Cup from
the latter in remarkable fashion. He
ran right away from his opponents over
the last two furlongs, and, though the
official verdict was six lengths, the margin
was nine at least. The last seven Vic-
toria Derby winners—Theo, Feldspar,
Talking, Hua, Nuffield, Reading and
Lucrative—ran in the Cup, but none of
them gained a place. Talking was
favorite for the Cup at 3 to 1 ; Hua
shared favoritism with The Trump and
Sir Regent at 11 to 2 ; Nuffield was
second-favorite at 11 to 2 ; Reading was
a 12-to-l chance; and Lucrative started
at 20 to 1; likewise Feldspar in 1935.
* * * *
It is strange that some of our enter-
prising newspapers have not offered
prizes for Melbourne Cup dreams. The
most vivid could be retailed to their
readers before the race, not after. “Never
heard the horse’s name before” is the
statement of many allegedly successful
dreamers. On one occasion when the
result of a big race came through I heard
a follower of racing exclaim “I dreamt
that,” which drew from a friend the
caustic comment: “I always thought you
knew more about racing when you were
asleep than when you were awake.”
* * * r
The percentage of successful Mel-
bourne Cup favorites for the last thirty
years has not been very high, the most
fancied winners being Phar Lap (11 to
8 on in 1930), Peter Pan (1932) and
Bitalli (4 to 1), Marabou (9 to 2) and
Rivette (5 to 1), while The Trump, at 11
to 2, shared favoritism with Sir Regent
and Hua. The longest-priced winners for
that period were Old Rowley and Wotan,
100 to 1 each ; Catalogue, 25 to 1 ; and
Kingsburgh, 20 to 1 ; and the shortest-
priced beaten horses were: Phar Lap
(1929), evens; Duke Foote, 6 to 4;
Beau Vite, Manfred and Lanius, 7 to 4
each ; Pantheon, Strephon and Spearfelt
(1924), 9 to 4; and Rogilla, 5 to 2. Of
that lot Phar Lap, Manfred, Strephon
and Pantheon were minor-place getters.
Phar >Lap was favorite for three succes-
sive Cups.
* * * «
The Maribyrnong Plate is a race in
which, in these days of speed, a record
has stood an unusually long time. Ram-
pion did 59-? in 1925, and that time has
not been improved upon. All Love’s
time last year was 1.2 i, but later she
did 58i over the same course. Duke
Grafton was the first to break 1.2 in a
Maribyrnong Plate, his time in 1902 being
l.lf. That remained the record until
Sweet Lady did l.Oi in 1917. Four of
the last seven Maribyrnong Plates have
been won by fillies, and Hesione appears
to have a decidedly good chance of
adding to the number.
* * * ♦
Assuming the Warwick Farm meetings
will again be held on that track there
will be 32 days’ racing at Randwick next
year. July is the only month in which
there will not be a meeting at head-
quarters.
* * * *
A Hotham Handicap win has brought
many horses into prominence for the
Melbourne Cup, but very few have
brought off that double. King Ingoda
did in 1922, likewise White Nose in 1931,
but a drop in weight has failed to assist
various Hotham winners to success over
the two miles. Sarcherie won the
Hotham, and then ran second in the
Cup, while in 1938 Catalogue, after run-
ning third in the Hotham Handicap with
8.4, won the Cup with the same weight.
In successive years Second Wind and
Yarramba were third in the Hotham,
and moved up to second in the Cup,
and Willie Win was second in both races.
Last year Dashing Cavalier won the
Hotham with 8.8, but was nowhere in
the Cup; while Old Rowley, unplaced
with 8.1 in the Hotham, won the Cup
with 7.12. The extra half-mile makes
a considerable difference, but this year,
with the Cup field not including many
proved stayers, Hotham form may be
worth a deal of attention.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Wholly by reason of Billy Britt’s
natural toughness, “the Australian heavy-
weight champion’s” engagement with Ron
Richards at Sydney Stadium last Thurs-
day night went nine rounds of the
scheduled dozen. Bill never looked in the
hunt. He first hit the canvas in the
second round, being then down for
“nine” to a couple of right swings. There-
after he went down with painful fre-
quency-nine times in all—till his iron-
bark toughness gave out and a left hook
spreadeagled him for the full count. Ron
showed that his 10 months or so out of
the game had done him no harm, though
the scrap couldn’t be called a real test.
After all, Bill won the “championship”
as the title certainly had never been won
before —merely by beating a raw novice
in a scrap at Sydney Arena that would
scarcely have passed muster as a boxing
booth prelim. His mill with Ron wasn’t
for the title ; but Ron, if he wanted them,
could take back all his three Australian
titles on successive evenings. At 11.12,
he gave Bill something over a stone.
* * * ♦
Earlier in the week Alf Blatch tried to
make a comeback, meeting George Elliott
at Leichhardt Stadium. He went pretty
well, too, for a while, flooring, and nearly
outing, George in the fifth, and sinking
him again in the seventh. In the eighth
George turned on an amazingly vigorous
attack, considering what he’d taken, and
after absorbing some of it Alf fell
through the ropes and was still outside
when the count ended. He’d be a wiser
Alf to make outside his permanent
residence.
* * * *
To its own satisfaction —if nobody
else’s—Melbourne Stadium took the
Australian welter title off Hockey Bennell
and bestowed it on a local lad, who has
been dished by others who, in turn, had
never been capable of trouncing Hockey.
One of the best of these, Ron McLaugh-
lin, has made it a draw with Hockey on
several occasions. Now these two are to
meet in Melbourne for the title. The
Yarraside stoush authorities, who won’t
admit that Hockey already holds the tiling
and has held it for a year or two, are
consequently stumped as to how to label
the contenders. The best they’ve been
able to manage in ads. is to refer to Ron
as “claimant for the title,” and to Hockey
as “N. S. Wales title-holder” ; who, in
their view, is national champ, isn’t stated.
The scrap is billed for Cup Eve on the
Footscray football ground—an appro-
priate place for it if Hockey and Ron
perform as they did in their last meeting
in Sydney, when both were disqualified.
“Outer”; Refusing a “safe” job to join
the R.A.F., Kenneth Faroes had barely
received his wings when he was killed in
a flying accident. One of the tallest Test
cricketers Australia has seen —he was
6ft. 4in.—he was here with the England
XI in the 1936-37 Tests as a fast bowler,
and was second to Voce with an average
of 11 for 23.36. In matches against the
Australians in England in the 1934-35
tour he had the best figures with 10 at
22.9, and in the 1938 season he took 17
at 34.23. A schoolteacher, he had
played for Cambridge University and
Essex County and wrote Tours and Tests.
He was 30.
* X! * ♦
Tantanoola (S.A.), of “tiger” fame, pos-
sesses Sinks. W. J. Whitty, the old left-
arm international, in between times of
driving the milk-cart (petrol rationing
brings back the geegees) to the local fac-
tory and rearing jumbucks, put the local
championship in his golfbag.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(Before Acceptances .)
By “PILOT.”
Maribyrnong Plate: Hesione, 1 ;
Ducal, 2 ; High Flight, 3.
Victoria Derby: Laureate, 1 ;
Primavera, 2 ; Skipton, 3.
Cantala Stakes: High Caste, 1 ;
Evergreen, 2 ; Crojick or Panka, 3.
Melbourne Cup: Velocity, 1 ;
Laureate, 2; Son of Aurous or
Beau Vite, 3.


Vv v'vJ
&
-
V s
&
v\
'H
*6
■vsss
tCr.£:M
■>*>’
*
gfw
Nx>*
m
SS>
k
.i23S
, , 'ssZ-
m.
«
'f-s*,.
'.r.; ..
/
SS^jr^i
U
BEARING THE BURDEN!
In equipping Australia to carry the
burden of her ever-increasing war effort,
vast changes in her industrial machinery
have been necessary ... In the machinery
of finance, however, she has been
spared the need for large-scale
reorganization... Australia's banking
system has met every new obligation
without faltering ... and the Bank of New
South Wales, true to its long-established
traditions, has kept its place in . the
forefront of financial service to industry.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
THE FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
Reprinted from “Smith’s Weekly ** 25th January, 1941, page 7^
TWENTY PER CENT. MORE MILEAGE
FROM YOUR PETROL
Says “Smith’s Weekly”
"JTROM 1936 to 1940, the frequency with which young
Sydney motor engineer Frank Kleinig won petrol con-
sumption tests and hill-climbing contests in N.S.W. caused
his opponents to wonder how the devil he did it!
But this fair-haired youngster had a secret, and he
wasn't giving it away to his opponents.
Once he averaged 48.8 miles a gal-
lon in an eight-cylinder 28 h.p. ear,
Including coasting.
When they cut out the coasting
on a subsequent contest, he averaged
41.68 miles to the gallon.
These figures showed at least 10
tn.p.g. over usual test consumption
figures, and easily won him the
contests.
Valuable Invention.
With the advent of petrol ration-
ing young Kleinig’s device became
valuable, and he took out rights for
it in June last, and has set himself
up in a business of his own at 404
Parramatta Road, Burwood, where,
with a staff of six, he is busy manu-
facturing and marketing his device.
At a cost of 12/6 his device can be
fitted to the carburettor of any ear
in a matter of ten or twelve minutes.
20 Per Cent. Cut
He guarantees a 20 per cent, cut
in petrol consumption. In some
cases the gadget will cut the con-
sumption by as much as forty per
cent. At 12/6 a time, that seems
more than worthwhile.
Suits ’Planes Too
It can be adapted to aeroplane
engines, too; and anyone with any
experience knows how these engines
absorb petrol. Kleinig is quite pre-
pared to demonstrate to the Air
Board or any private owner.
Army vehicles number several
thousands. Only the Military Board
knows how much petrol they use.
If it can be cut by only twenty per
cent.—what a saving! We might
even get a bit off our income tax.
At a cost of 12/6 it is worth a trial
by the military authorities.
In the interests of Australians,
if the army won’t do it, “Smith’s”
is prepared to pay the cost of the
gadget for a month’s trial on an
army utility.
Young Kleinig’s invention con-
sists of two small units —an atom-
iser and a Hi-Power transformer.
Atomiser is attached to carburet-
tor. It is composed of two pieces oi
conical-shaped copper gauze, of dif-
ferent mesh, fitting into each other.
When petrol is sucked from pump
into carburettor it passes through
gauze. Friction caused by gauze
generates heat and immediately
gasifies petrol.
Ends Petrol Waste
Kleinig claims this obviates any
waste and makes mixture more
combustible, more volatile.
He guarantees a 20 per cent,
petrol saving to all who use his in-
vention—and better running.
Hi-Power Transformer, which
costs extra, is a small plug which
fits into top of distributor. It con-
sists of a series of chemically-treat-
ed insulated plates and a coil.
Kleinig claims his transformer
breaks up a single spark into thou-
sands that oscillate between points.
It will fire through oil and water!
When he broke the Bathurst Pan-
orama Circuit record he drove
through blinding rain, his engine
saturated with water.
Kleinig has used these two units
in all his record-breaking runs.
« 8
FRANK KLEINIG, who has
solved the petrol problem.
He has had several attractive of-
fers for agencies for his gadgets, but
prefers to plough his own furrow.”
The above enthusiastic report was published
by “Smith’s Weekly ” page 1, 25 th January,
1941.
The sincerity of this report should be suf-
ficient guarantee that Kleinig’s invention
deserves your immediate attention. If your
engine is in a normal running order and you
want to cut your petrol consumption 20 per
cent., write now to Frank Kleinig, J/O'iS
Parramatta Road, Burwood, N.S.W, State
the make, type and model of your car or
lorry, and enclose with your letter a cheque,
money order or postal notes for 88/6 — the
price of the complete outfit of the Atomiser
(12/6) and the Hi-Power Transformer
(£1). (Add exchange to country cheques
and 1/- postage.) Any man with limited
technical knowledge can hook up these units
to his engine in a few minutes. Used to-
gether they will cut your petrol consump-
tion 20 per cent, and give you far better
running.
SPECIAL DISCOUNT GIVEN TO
GARAGES TAKING DOZEN LOTS
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
times in one day; and Mundaring, with
a capacity of 4,650,000,000 gallons, sup-
plies most of the W.A. goldfields and
the hamlets and farms along its route
from the Helena River eastwards. So
what sized artificial lake the Ord would
provide if dammed can be imagined. It
is considered that impounding would be
comparatively easy, since the gorge in
the Carr Boyds is in places very narrow.
Irrigation and reticulation of the Kim-
berleys, providing ample water during the
dry season, would go a long way towards
realising the dream of a German scien-
tist who once contended that that corner
of Australia might readily support a
population of six millions.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: May one correct a trifling
slip in “Ente Marid’s” finely-written
obituary notice of that notable Austra-
lian the late Arnold Wienholt (B.
22/10/’41)? It is in the sentence “Bom
in ’77, he was sent to Eton, where Win-
ston Churchill became a (lifelong)
friend.” Winston was at Harrow.
* * * *
“S’ship”: Until recent years regarded
as a waste product, molasses is as valu-
able a product of sugarcane as the raw
sugar itself. Additional storage tanks
have been erected in most of the main
ports of Queensland, the distillery in
N.S.W. has been enlarged and one has
been built in Victoria. Three vessels
carried part cargoes of molasses before
the war; now one has been converted to
carry nothing else. Each of these vessels
has its own specially-constructed pumps
for discharging the bulk molasses at the
distilleries, and many thousands of tons
a week are carried. At the distilleries
it is converted into power alcohol, white
spirit, methylated spirit and acetone.
Even the waste gases are compressed
into cylinders for general commercial use
or made into dry ice.
* * * *
“W.”: They’re tough in western
Queensland. A correspondent out there,
reporting an accident, remarked that the
victim suffered “a few broken ribs, though
no other injury.” What’s a few broken
ribs?
That Abo. Problem
“P.D.”: Like most of his predecessors,
Senator Collings, now Minister for the
Interior, discovered the “abo. problem”
almost as soon as he was in office. So he
is
going to see that the whites keep their
marauding hands off, and that these people
are given a chance to live like human
beings and not slaves and chattels.
“Slaves and chattels” is ridiculous —if
anything, the semi-civilised abo. has a bit
more freedom than is good for him. He
has, of course, suffered to some extent
from “marauding hands,” but the reason
rests largely with himself and with people
who fail or refuse to recognise that fact.
Once an abo. has sampled the white man’s
pleasures he won’t stay away from them;
he gravitates to the towns, which are the
worst of all places for him to be, and
there degenerates.
If the Senator wants to keep “maraud-
ing hands” off the abo. his best plan is
to see that the uncivilised blacks are kept
in their native surroundings, and that the
partly civilised variety are confined to
stations and other places well removed
from the towns. And if he wants some-
one to carry out that policy he has none
better than the N.T. police, who know
Binghi as well as anyone knows him.
Other evidence that the Senator might
consider is that Binghi is a human being
and is no more anxious to have his exist-
ence run by anthropologists, civil ser-
vants and the like than any other human
being ; and that compounds, such as the
one that was built at Darwin at a cost of
many thousands of pounds (fortunately
some other use was found for it), are the
last word in folly.
Yet more evidence lies in the expense
sheets of the N.T. Native Affairs Depart-
ment. In 1934-35 they were compara-
tively modest:
Superintendent Darwin Compound .. £402
Matron Darwin Half-caste Home . . 100
Superintendent Alice Springs Half-
caste Home .. .. ■ • ■ • 276
Matron Alice Springs Half-caste Home 75
Abo. Affairs . . . . • • • ■ 4,741
Assistance to Missions .. .. 1,120
£6,714
Now look at the 1940-41 list:
Adviser on Native Affairs .. .. £1,500
Secretary .. .. .. .. .. 638
District Officer .. .. .. • ■ 606
Patrol Officers (two) .. .. .. 824
Cadets (two) . . .. .. .. 608
Superintendents (two) .. .. . • 770
Assistant Superintendent .. . . 392
Head Teacher .. .. 434
Matrons (two) .. 354
Clerks (three) .. .. .. .. 1,128
Assistant .. 358
Typist .. .. 282
Abo. Affairs .. .. .. .. 13,689
Assistance to Missions 4,250
£25,833
A precise account of benefits which
have accrued to Binghi in the seven years
during which the Native Affairs staff has
grown from four to 18 and its expendi-
ture from £6714 to £25,833 would be
interesting.
“D.”: How seriously our Queensland
politicians take themselves and their
works! Our Public Works Organisation
Act was passed with this preamble:
An Act to provide for improving the
general economic welfare of the State and for
the encouragement of employment generally
by providing for an orderly planned system
of public works and constructional utilities
by means of the marshalling and co-ordina-
tion and control thereof and for other pur-
poses.
Another Act passed in the same ses-
sion has this high-sounding preamble:—-
An Act to aid in the improvement of
the general economic welfare of the State
and of employment generally.
The Act was the State Development
Tax Act, and its sole object was to im-
pose another tax upon incomes.
:J: ❖ i?
“Nor’-west”: Australia is a dry con-
tinent, not because it lacks sufficient rain-
fall but because its waters during the
rainy seasons mostly run unchecked to
the sea. The Ord River, by no means
the largest of North Australian streams,
has recently been the subject of engineer-
ing study. A gorge in the Carr Boyd
Ranges, about 100 miles south-east of
Wyndham, was selected and estimates
made from the high-flood marks on the
canyon walls. From these it was calcu-
lated that the flow during a normal rainy
season ran at 50,000 cubic feet per
second. This flood, if impounded, would
fill a reservoir the size of Mundaring five


Death Notice.
OWEN. —October 25, at 61 Toorak Road,
Camberwell, Ronald Basil Clutterbuck Owen,
second son of the late Colonel Charles Lanyon
and Florence Louise Owen, of Southsea, Eng-
land, devoted husband of Francis Elizabeth,
and loving father of Florence (Mrs. H. S.
Whiteside), Ruth (Mrs. W. T. Hotchings), and
Betty, aged 69. Formerly manager New
Zealand and Australian Land Estate Company*
Women's Letters
From Sydney
Emotion and pride stirred in every
heart of the 900 dancers at the A.I.F.
Ball when service men with their best girls
marched into the ballroom of the Troca-
dero on Thursday. Here were men of
1914-18 who had created the A.I.F.
tradition, men who had carried it on
through Bardia, Tobruk, Greece and
Crete, and younger men still, many of
them mere striplings, who were waiting
for the word “go” to do their bit in
seeing it through. These 20 officers and
their partners formed a square near the
official table, and were presented to Sam
Walder’s lady, the president of the ball
committee. For this ceremony she had
to step from behind the barrage of sand-
bags, topped with machine-guns, that
bordered the official enclosure.
Tender young gums and Australian
wildflowers hi ought a b.eath of the
bushland to the scene, a rising sun of
waratahs (on which rested the Crown)
glowed warmly above the khaki table-
cloth on the official table.
There is never anything stiff or
formal about this dance, but this year
there was even a greater feeling of com-
radeship, perhaps due to the fact that
almost every other man was in the
uniform of one of the three services.
Among the importants of the night were
Col. A. W. Hyman, president of the
R.S.S. and A.I.L.A. (he was chairman
of the dance), and Mrs. Hyman, the
latter in gleaming oyster satins, Lieut.-
General C. G. N. Miles —to whom were
presented the nine debutantes —and N.E.S.
Minister R. J. Heffron (representing the
State Premier), who was accompanied by
Mrs. Heffron. Earlier in the evening the
Sam Walder couple were the guests of
the ball committee at a cocktail party.
Proceeds of the ball go to Furlough
House and Anzac Buffet.
Japan’s Consul-General Goto and his
wife gave their first reception last
Wednesday in the ballroom of the Aus-
tralia. Mrs. Goto’s kimono was an
artist’s dream. It was of the softest blue,
its obi embroidered in palest pinks and
mauves. The party was timed from five
to six-thirty, and Sydney notables in
political, commercial and military circles
filled the room with carefree talk and
pleasant smiles.
The Kelso Kings were in the company ;
so were knight Tom Gordon and his
lady, Brigadier-General Anderson, and
Professor Sadler and his attractive wife.
Mrs. Maurice Gulson’s black frock
boasted an ornament that looked as
though it had been born in the Rue de la
Paix. It was a marguerite, its centre a
tiny gold heart, its petals alternately in-
scribed in French : “He loves me. He
loves me not.” The Snowden lady was
picturesque in a black lace afternoon
frock. The Church was represented by
Archbishop Mowll, the Navy by Rear-
Admiral J. G. Grace, the Army by Lieut.-
General C. G. N. Miles.
Under the blue sky and in the freshen-
ing breeze of last Wednesday, all its
friends trekked across to the Phillip
Park Children’s Library. It was a great
day for the youngsters, who are regular
attendants, for an exhibition of their arts
and crafts was being opened by Lady
Wakehurst. For a long time now the
children have been doing pottery, carv-
ing and embroidery, and the collected
work this year shows a great step for-
ward in artistic perception. Sydney’s
Mayor Stanley Crick murmured his
praises of the good work being done by
this free library movement. When he
said the council had approved the add-
ing of a crafts studio to the present build-
ing, there was loud applause. The crafts
room will cost almost £lOOO, and is to be
built very soon. Lady Wakehurst voiced
the feelings of many women visitors when
she said she wished she had time to come
and learn some of the crafts taught at
the library. Mrs. Mary Matheson, who
was one of the founders, received the
official guests.
The Gipsy Fair at the Graythwaite
Home for Disabled Soldiers is one of
the highlights of Sydney’s fete season,
and to William Morris Hughes always
falls the star turn of declaring it open.
This he did as neatly as usual at three
o’clock on Saturday, after passing down
an avenue bordered with blue-clad V.As.
But long before this the friends of the
home had been spending money. One
of the biggest attractions was a £5 basket
of groceries. This had been presented
by the inmates, and the busiest assistant
of the day was the soldier who had
undertaken to sell the tickets for this
prize. Junior Red Crossers, in their crisp
white frocks, flitted about the lawns and
the stalls in the big recreation-room,
giving a helping hand wherever needed,
and the whole of the day’s business was
done to the accompaniment of music sup-
plied by the University regimental
pipers and a group of strolling gipsies.
All last week there was hung in the
Gloucester room of the Australia Hotel
an exhibition of photography of absorb-
ing interest to the beholder, because, of
course, almost all of the pictured came
to see themselves. The subjects of the
pictures were Australian women and girls
noted for their good looks, and with
their consent, and John Lee’s camera, they
smiled on or gazed beyond the visitor
in the cause of the Red Cross. Pro-
grammes were sold at one shilling, and
the shillings popped into the pounds
almost while you blinked the eye. The
Ranee of Sarawak was a visitor on the
opening day, and passed many discern-
ing and appreciative comments. Rania
Single of this photograph and an equally
good-looking sister were among the
greatly admired. Rania and her sister
are both students of Sydney University.
John Lee photograph.
Captain and Mrs. Seymour are the
richer by two sketches because they went
to the dance given by the members of
the Royal Art Society. The dance was
set in the midst of the annual exhibition
in the Education Gallery. So that there
should be a fair field and no favor the
committee asked one of the orchestra
to decide on a spot and call it lucky.
Then the couple who were on that spot
when the music stopped would each be
handed a drawing. The pianist decided
that just beside the big Norman Lindsay
was the spot where gold should be found.
Now the Seymours have a drawing by
Erik Langker and one by F. A. L. Butler.
Estelle Oxnard Smith (Mrs. Andrews)
entertained a party; so did the Erik
Langkers, the A. J. Shermans and many
other members and office-bearers.
Elizabeth Griffiths (she is a sister of
Mrs. Walter Swinson) has started out as
a dealer in antiques, and on Monday
there was a constant stream of visitors
to her room in St. James’s Building—all
coming with the same object, that of
wishing success to the new venture.
A wrought-iron stable lamp, its bracket
a very realistic rooster, immediately
caught the eye, and the modern-
minded saw it as an unusual and
highly attractive electric porch light. Here
were also some exquisite pieces of Aus-
tralian pottery, but what an Australian
collector would be most interested in is
the round eight-legged cedar table which
was sold from Government House in
1834 (Governor Bourke’s time), and
which for some years found a home at
Roxburgh Hall.
With Cecil Brunner roses in her hair
and at the waist of her white crepe after-
noon frock, Clarice Caldwell was one of
the attractive brides of the week. The
’groom was Ray Allen. The ceremony
took place at the home of the bride’s
parents, the H. L. Caldwells, of Concord,
and afterwards Mrs. Caldwell entertained
immediate relatives and Ray’s parents at
luncheon.
On the Thursday members of the N. S.
Wales Women’s Hockey Association
gathered at the Girls’ Secondary Schools’
Club to launch their honorary acting
secretary on the seas of matrimony, and
after listening to the speeches made by
Dr. Marie Hamilton, the association’s
president, and other members it was a
very blushing Clarice who went home
loaded with gifts, among them a crystal
salad bowl, handed over by Nancye
Wicks on behalf of the Woollahra sec-
tion, and a bread board, the gift of the
association, presented by Dr. Hamilton.
From Melbourne
As tricky a job of picking winners at
the Moonee Valley Cup was a bet on thfe
weather —would it hold, with a wind and
a grey sky? Or would it pour and send
everyone home drenched to the skin?
Most women played safe with coats and
parked umbrellas and few risked their
newest, most fragile hats. But the bark
was worse than the bite, and odd rain-
drops were the only mischief scattered
en route. In apparel that suited the occa-
sion were sisters-in-law Mrs. Bill David-
son and Mrs. Dudley Challingsworth, both
accenting brown, the latter with a bird
upon her hat, of sparrow size with
plumage long and lustrous. A sufficiency
of beauty gave Mrs. Geoff Brewer con-
fidence in an ensemble of vivid electric
blue (the kind that might make even a
good skin look like dough), worn with
emerald-green anchorage to inconsequent
hat.
Venturesome in white was Mrs. Arthur
Laver, whose accessories were bur-
gundy. In sailor’s uniform was young
Peter Grant Hay ; sister Alison, in black,
wore lily-of-the-valley upon hat and
shoulder. Man of blarney Doc. Garnet
Leary also has a penchant for the same
springtime flower, or maybe he wore his
sprig of it just to get his leg pulled by
his pals. Another irrepressible masculine
lapel belonged to Roberty Lee —there
bloomed a bit of purple stock. Enid Hull
wore a lobelia-blue coat and tied her hair
up in a turban. T. C. I. Paterson, in navy
suit, striped skirt and plain jacket, had
at hand snaps of the baby daughter of
sister Mrs. Alan Tully, whose home is in
Atlanta, Georgia, in the same street as
Gone with the Wind’s Margaret Mitchell,
described as a neutral-tinted little woman
with no obvious flush of success upon
her brow.
Inset from Broothorn, Mrs. Montague
Brearley, who is one of the ticket secre-
taries for the Town Hall concert on
Derby night in aid of A.C.F. and the
Queen Victoria Hospital. Success is
assured, for an able committee is at work,
and violinist Jeanne Gautier, pianist
Anderson Tyrer and conductor Mon-
tague Brearley are contributing with the
Symphony Orchestra. Apart from musi-
cal value, there’s further interest in any
programme where the names of Brearley
and Tyrer appear together. When the
1914-18 war broke out Mr. Brearley and
Mrs. Tyrer (then Laura Evans) were both
promising young violinists studying at the
same college in the Hartz Mountains.
They escaped on the same ship from
Hamburg without passports neither
wants the same kind of excitement again.
They met again last Easter at a choral
concert in Melbourne, recognition being
mutual, with a follow-up of an introduc-
tion of respective wives and husbands.
Mrs. Brearley, who is American-born,
lived most of her life in England, but
spent several years in Germany, where
her husband returned to study soon after
1919.
Pivot of interest during last week was
in the V.A.Ds., who have worked
long, hard and unobtrusively without
glamor attachments. Names were
divulged for the first draft, but the young
women themselves were in such a whirl
that they had little time to sit down and
smile in the sudden spotlight. Some
hadn’t time to get their uniforms before
their call-up parade at Stonnington;
others, managing their shopping by a
whisker, were an hour before the bugle
blew in town trying on greatcoats and
getting summer suits off the hook without
even a try-on. The rush was just as
frantic over the notification that the girls
were successful applicants; those in jobs
had little more than 24 hours to give
notice to their various employers, to say
farewell and shed a few tears over a
good-luck gift from the staff.
At the Stonnington parade the girls
felt their war service really close upon
them when their received their paybooks
and identification discs, and from the
Red Cross (for which they raised three
cheers) a mattress and electric torch
apiece. Stretchers were on issue in the
courtyard, looking like a Customs shed
with trunks, suitcases, kitbags and hold-
alls in various stages of being packed with
pale-blue for wards and summertime.
With the navy winter suits and greatcoats
the V.A.D. uniform is (but for the anti-
seductive grey cotton stockings) as attrac-
tive as any around.
Among those who supervised was
Miss E. J. Wells, a maternal-hearted
V.A.D. of the last war, who wears a
gold stripe. Two-stripers present were
Mrs. R. A. Appleyard, who would like
to be going away again (she was a nurse
and a matron at the last war), and Doreen
Townsend, and assistant commandants
Yvonne Levey and Peggy Williamson.
Fifty per cent, of the Victorian quota
are girls who have been at Heidelberg.
Many chosen have been V.A.Ds. long
before this war, their interest beginning
with St. John’s exams, and continuing
with practical work in hospital wards.
Among them they represent many walks
of life, particularly clerical jobs; many
gave up excellent salaries to be rankers
on 4s. per day—6s. when abroad and
Is. 6d. deferred pay.
Also represented were saleswomen,
dress-designers, the public service and
pharmacy and the good cooks that now
and then emanate from home duties.
Wealth, influence and family trees played
no part in this State’s selection, and those
who are beautiful but dumb hadn’t a
dog’s chance. Good health was im-
portant, and only A -plus applicants
passed the same searching medical test
as the A.I.F. nurses. Among first public
appearances of the first draft of mem-
bers were church parades on Sunday,
26th (choice lying between St. Paul’s and
St. Pat.’s), and an inspection on Monday
afternoon by Lady Dugan, herself in
V.A.D. uniform, for she’s District Com-
mandant.
In Melbourne last week (which was
much too short for the seeing of many
pals) were the Bunny Hammonds looking
well on the fresh air of Cootamundra.
Mrs. Hammond says all the women there-
abouts are learning to ride bicycles—
she’s still at the stage where she hauls
herself along a picket fence or solicits
help around the park from Mrs. Bill
Field. Dr. Field’s injunction is “Keep
off the main road ; we’ve no room in
the hospital for reckless riders.”
Every year the standard achieved by
the Arts and Crafts Society becomes
higher. By a process of evolution guided
by good taste, the movement has emerged
through the years from mild milk-and-
water beginnings to a plane of fine arts
where competition from any country
could be faced with confidence. This
year’s showing was for three days and
nights at No. 9. Interesting develop-
ments are noticeable in Frances Burke’s
hand-blocked materials (in spite of seri-
ous difficulty in procuring dyes and
fabrics), her most recent experiments
being with abo. designs. Among half a
dozen potters of excellence are Allan
Lowe and Mrs. G. D. Sutherland —the
latter has found in gourds of her own
growing models for her lamps. A new-
comer hereabouts is Mrs. L. F. Giblin
(wife of the prof.), who with Canberra
clay and her own vivid imagination and
sympathy with primitive art (here again
the abos. are noticeable) has turned out
some pieces agreeable in their simplicity.
For those whose hearts are in a garden
there is Kathleen Miller’s work in
cement. After much experimenting (much
fun and several disappointments) she’s
found out how to mix the stuff for any
texture on wet days or dry. Now, with-
out petrol, she can’t be choosy in col-
lecting her own sand, and is thinking of
attaching a trailer to a bicycle. Lucy
Newell shows blocked fabrics, Helen
Ogilvie lino.-cut Christmas cards, Thelma
Crawford and Mrs. E. Felstead expert
needlework. Mrs. Felstead’s applique
cowboy quilt, a thrill for any small boy,
was bought by Mrs. Harry Creswick
when she opened the exhibition. Cath-
erine Hardess and Edith Grove are rep-
resented by hand-woven fabrics; W.
Rowcliff and Alfred Coleman by wood-
work. Very popular are Mr. Coleman’s
fireside bellows and brushes (here again
the abo. motif. At last this country has
become Black Brother conscious).


CALL OF THE WILD
BY OLAF RUHEN.
IT was a ragtime outfit we had anyway, so when
the stick blew out of her rounding the Denmark
head we eased her into Awa to pick up a new
one. The tide had just turned ebb, and we laid
the old Julio right up on a fairly flat shelf of rock by
the landing-place to save the bother of setting out
moorings in the stream, where the tide ran fairly fast.
We only had one decent pick at the time if I remember
right.
After we had made things tight and she was
lying over on her side we took the axe and went up
the road looking for white pine. We found a fairly
decent stand of young stuff in a swamp alongside a
little bush mill, and hopped right into it before anyone
could come along and tell us it was a sanctuary or
a reserve or somebody’s private stamping ground.
They have these things right through the bush ; and
in fact it’s darned hard to pick up a decent bit of
timber without paying for it or running for it. We
got five nice sticks—a thirty-five foot mast, a couple of
light spare booms and two ten-inch logs to chop
paddles out of.
We called in at the mill afterwards to see if we
could hire a horse or something to get the stuff down
to the landing, and that’s where we ran into Felton.
He was a cocky little bird, pasty-faced and on the
softer side of plump, and he was laying down the law
about the city life.
“No more stiff collars,” he says. “I’m done with
all that. This is the life for me, out in the wild. I
been twenty years in the city, and I’m telling you now
I’m not ever going back. No, I’ll live the rest of my
life here, where one man’s as good as another, and
you can look ’em both in the eye and hold your
head up.”
The boss looked over his shoulder at us and
winked. “Well, there aren’t any jobs here just now,”
he said. “Still, if you hang round and get the feel
of it, as you might say, we might want another man
some day. You never know.”
It was a new mill, or else they had just shifted
recently. The hauler, a big old steam donkey with
a Scotch marine boiler, was set up right behind the
skids, and a hundred yards up the gully there was a
small gang laying tram.*
The foreman came over to us and we got the
promise of a nag. He nodded over to the newchum.
“I wish you’d take him away,” he said. “He’s been
talking like that half the afternoon. I’ve a good mind
to give him a job, just to give the boys something to
talk about.” While we were talking, someone up
in the bush yanked at the whistle-string, and the
donkeyman set about getting a log in. They seemed
to be having a lot of trouble with it —the whistle never
stopped tooting, and the safety valve was sporting a
long white-plumed feather —so we decided to go up
and have a look. The ex-stiff-collar-man came too.
It was a muddy way, as it always is following
the big lead-in wire. We weren’t so badly off in our
sea-boots, but Felton got in a bit of a mess, hopping
all the time from one dry spot to what he imagined
was another.
The boys couldn’t do much with the log ; we
could see that as we came up. It was a big rimu, with
a slight bend about ten feet from the butt, and I
thought at the time that they would have done better
to have made two hauls of it. She had slid off the
top side of the track into an eighteen-inch broadleaf,
just too solid to pull over, and they were chopping it
out as we came up.
Then the bush-boss yanked at the whistle-string,
and away back at the mill the hauler took up the
strain again. The big rimu eased up on top of the
stump, poised a moment, and rolled clear over the
lead-in wire. It skidded clear across the track, greasy
as the skidways at a launching, and made straight for
a little black maple right above us. I heard someone
yell “Timber” as I cleared the lead-in wire and hit the
new bush on the other side of the track. Tom was
right with me, and the bush-gang could look after
themselves I guess. One of them had been able to pull
the whistle-string, anyway. I hadn’t heard it, but when
I looked round the wire was stationary. I saw some-
thing else, too. It was Felton, standing staring at the
green top of the maple as it came down on him.
“Good night. Brother,” said Tom, and grimaced.
But the newchum was all right. How he missed any-
thing solid in the top was a mystery, but all he had
lost when they chopped him out was the value of his
clothes and a fairsized patch of skin here and there.
Even his faith in the Great Outdoors was still intact.
WE put up at the boarding-house that night and
met him officially. We decided to step the mast
in Awa and save our petrol on the long run up the
coast. We were headed for Lyttelton, and that was
a fair step. Besides, we had all the time there was any-
way. Our main object was to strike the Marlborough
Sounds in time for the Christmas tourist season, and
catch ourselves some fun and enough pickings to
carry on with.
Felton turned out to be quite a decent sort of
bloke, a bit lacking in ordinary gumption, but that’s
nothing uncommon, after all. He kept on talking
about the free-and-easy life of the bush, and all the
rest of it; and he kept trying to draw us out on a few
anecdotes. Tom filled his ears with enough to last him
the rest of his life, all mainly intended to demonstrate
the inferiority of everyone else to the members of the
fishing-fleet, and the nature of the dangers that were
dismissed daily with an airy wave of the hand by the
likes of Tom.
There had been one or two bits of small craft in
the river when we came in, and by-and-bye one of the
owners, a big lout native to the place, dropped in and
started yarning. He told us he had a big permanent
order for groper and blue cod, but he couldn’t handle
it till the weather cleared. Down in those small ports,
they like to see it so flat calm that the drinking water
won’t spill—and they keep it in open kegs. So we
tossed him ten bob, and took over his contract. I
could make a little cheque that way while Tom
trimmed the mast and did a few shore jobs. Person-
ally, I was no carpenter.
Felton wanted to come out, and in a weak moment
I agreed, although I've never liked passengers unless
I’ve had someone to share the laugh with.
Next morning I dropped a dozen danlines when
I got out to forty fathoms. By the look of the craft
in the harbor, ! reckoned that would be virgin ground :
it was about sixteen miles offshore. The first three
dans I pulled were bare ; but the next had twelve
fish and a ling and a little Jock Stewart on fourteen
hooks. I dropped anchor in a hurry, put down two
hand-lines, and started pulling fish. I had ninety in
the cockpit when the tide slackened and they stopped
biting. They averaged about forty pounds weight, I
suppose —they went twenty-two cleaned —and the
launch was well down aft. The cockpit, a self-emptier,
had about fifteen inches of water in it.
I called Felton up from down below. The fuss
was over then, and passengers generally like a chance
to hang out over the side. But of course the first
thing he did was take a header into the water on deck.
“Don’t forget our resolution , Lil. Soldiers only.”
I put him in the fore cockpit out of the road, and
stowed about forty of the groper in with him. I had
to to trim ship, because I had the other danlines to
pull. When I steamed the anchor out, the bankline
caught him as it came inboard and knocked him down
again. He enjoyed seeing me pull the last of the dans,
though.
When Tom saw the freight —I got another thirty-
two on those last eight lines —he agreed with me that
we should stay on awhile. It topped twenty quid for
the day, and I was home by ten in the morning. But
the job blew out after the third day. The stuff was
going to a fish-shop, not a merchant; and he told us
he couldn’t handle the quantity.
As we were leaving Awa I took my last screw
at Felton, and the view was sort of typical. He was
with the party that had been working the beach gold.
They sledded the sand up at low tide, and put it
through the Long Tom during the rest of the day.
Felton was standing on the sea-side of the sledge,
facing aft, and shovelling like a good one. The nag
must have known enough to keep the sledge out of
water. He started off when a breaker rolled in from
nowhere just as we were passing. Felton must have
been standing on the spreader-bar, because he took
a header right into the greenback.
•Tom laughed. “Wonder what he’ll try next?’’ he
said.
“There’s always ’possum-trapping,” I suggested,
“or maybe he might be able to land a nice quiet
country job leading a stallion or bossing dairy cows.”
“Bet you he’s back in town wearing a clean collar
every day within a month,” Tom offered. I didn’t take
it up. But Tom was wrong.
IT was twelve years before I saw Felton again. It
* was after I landed the job I’ve got now, selling fire-
extinguishers for the Laymay people. I breezed into
Awa one evening, and called at the boarding-house.
I could hardly believe the voice I heard coming from
the seat under the verandah.
“I used to wear a stiff collar myself once,” it
said. “Never no more. This is the life for me, out
in the wild, you might say. I been here twelve years
now. I’m not ever going back. One man’s as good
as another here, and you can look them both in the
eye and hold your head up.”
It was Felton all right, and I wasn’t back in the
present day before he turned round and spoke to me.
“You wanted someone?” he asked.
“I was looking for the landlady,” I told him.
“You’ll mean Mrs. Bogen. She hasn’t been here
for a long time. Was it something special?”
“Just a bed.”
“Well, I’m your man. There ain’t no landlady. I
bought in some years ago. Used to work here for
a time, and then I bought the place.”
He had no reason to think that I would be inter-
ested, but I was, a little. After supper he kept talking
to me, and still about the Great Open Spaces. I
thought once or twice of reminding him where we
had met before, but I let it go.
KING IN EXILE.
I walk a narrow plank; no handrail gives
Assurance, for all things are shot away
On which I leaned —the towers that assert
Sharply my country’s past —resounding commerce
The pomp like- flame fencing authority
And, more than these, the heart’s high interest,
Pursuing faces that I knew but as
A blurred ecstasy, a massed and murmurous love.
But here no face is quick with knowledge, suffused
With zeal, but only the cold homage of pity
Stares on my exile. Yet, had they eyes to see.
Not alone I walk; for, as in retinue,
March steady hopes and saturnine resolves,
And grief at elbow —my new, surprising queen.
O land that wore this image so that my face
Fathered the hut and the pride-luminous mansion,
Let not the interlude of tears besmirch
Affections that have bannered ages, but grip
With stubborn memories your heritage ;
And through all smoke and fury of derision
Expect the trumpet hour of restoration.
MAORILAND.
J.R.HERVEY


LAND
“It's that new lipstick of hers with the whisky-and-soda flavor .”
By LES ROBINSON.
WHEN, and almost as soon as, you acquire a
block of ground in an outer suburb,
you begin, whether sociable or not, to make
the acquaintance of a number of people
whom it is improbable you would otherwise have
met. All—or, at any rate, most —of these acquaintance-
ships are, in a manner of speaking, thrust upon you.
First you get to know the man who sold you the
block of ground. He will be constantly calling round
to collect the instalments and, whether he is a more
experienced suburban backwoodsman than you are
or not, to give you the benefit of his advice. He is
followed about, as a rule, by various relatives,
accomplices and dogs.
You will find it equally difficult not to see as
much or more, if he too lives near by, of the man
who, as he is never tired of explaining, very nearly
acquired the same block of ground himself. He
will dilate upon the defects of the allotment, and will
strengthen you in your resolve not to expend too
much energy in quarrying, draining and terracing
the area, or in striving to eliminate the jungle by
which, more likely than not, it is completely over-
whelmed. He, like the allotment’s former owner, is
bound, whilst meandering about, to be accompanied
by full-grown relatives, dogs and kids. You probably
never quite realised before how many people there are
in this world who seem to have nothing in particular
to do, oceans of time on their hands, and, though aim-
lessly mooching, to be followed everywhere all day
long by relatives and dogs. The relatives dog their foot-
steps and the dogs all seem to have relatives and
friends who dog theirs.
Though most of these wanderers seem aimless, there
are, of course, exceptions. Canvassers, for instance,
search for you tirelessly. More numerous and more
leisurely, however, are the census-takers, the directory-
enlargers, the air-raid wardens, the pest-exterminators,
the clothesprop, ■ watercress, edible berry, gumtip,
bracken, wildflower, firewood and weed gatherers.
The seekers of shade, water, birds’ eggs, leafmould,
clay, gravel, sand, charcoal and seclusion, of
missing hens, lost parrots and canaries, straying
horses and goats, and of snakes, leeches, herbs,
bandicoots and frogs (for medical purposes) abound
too. Your allotment seems to be exactly suited to
their requirements. Furthermore, you evidently look
the kind of man who always knows what time it is,
where everybody in the district lives, has plenty of
matches, tobacco and cigarette-papers, and is willing
to cease whatever, if anything, he happens to be doing
in order to talk about nothing in particular for hours
at a stretch.
The neighbors who for years and years, in all
probability, have used the allotment as a rubbish-
tip are bound to wonder what on earth you are doing,
or intend doing, with such an inconvenient junk of
primeval wilderness. They are sure to wonder, too,
whether you are going to set fire to the jungle, and
will hover round, whenever you boil the billy, in the
hope of being in time to save their paling-fences from
destruction.
Curiosity may have killed a cat; but, though
extremely prevalent, it does not altogether or satis-
factorily explain the number of dead cats you find
as you stumble about and force your way through
the dense thickets encumbering your estate. These
extinct and. odoriferous felines, plus the cadavers of
rats, mice, fowls, etc., and the immense amount of
rubbish you are likely to encounter, may have a
bearing, you surmise, upon the density, toughness
and luxuriance of the surrounding vegetation.
Among those who are bound to get in touch
with you, sooner or later, no matter how you may
try to conceal yourself, is the building and health
inspector. “It has been brought to my notice,” he
probably says, “that your allotment is in a disgraceful
condition, and I must, therefore, instruct you to
remove all the rubbish, defunct fauna and garbage at
once.” As there seem to you to be several trainloads,
and the only utensil suitable for removal purposes
of any kind that you possess is a kerosene-tin, you
wonder how the devil you are going to comply with
his demand. It is unlikely that he will omit to inform
you either, while he is having a look round, that by far
the thickest, toughest and thorniest of the forest or
jungle which (by monthly instalments) has begun to
be yours is “noxious vegetation.” Failure on your
part to get rid of it, he warns you, will inevitably
result in prosecution.
If you have been so rash as to have erected a
rude habitation of any kind —a shed, perhaps -in
which, sheltered from the sun, the wind and the rain,
you can recline and wonder vaguely what the deuce
you are going to do with the land now that, within
the next hundred years or so, it may possibly belong
to you, the inspector is bound to tell you also that
no building of any kind must be erected before plans
and specifications have been submitted to the council
and have received its approval. You must, therefore,
he informs you, eyeing the shed, gunyah or humpy
coldly, demolish it at once.
At last, in desperation, if you have not been able
to induce anybody, even by means of a bribe, to take
the block of ground off your hands, you probably
abandon it, or else present it, as a going concern, to
the Wild Life Preservation Society.
THE WIZARD WATER-WHEEL
By JAMES HACKSTON.
THERE had been no rain, and the parched lips
of the earth were cracked and peeling. Farmers
and squatters near and far were sky-gazing for
the grey of the rain, and in certain quarters
prayers had been hinted at. Water was being carted
from the river in the south to places up beyond the
hills and over the ranges, while, as my father said,
billions of gallons in the river ran to waste instead
of being brought over the hills in channels. So, mak-
ing hay while the sun shone, he invented a water-
wheel that was to drive water uphill. As he said, the
time was ripe for such an invention, and, of course,
there would be (as usual) a fortune in it.
The model of the Wizard was fathered in our
old, rickety back shed, which father had built tem-
porarily, and which had stayed temporary for years.
Here for five long, dry, perspiring, fly-laden months
father fed the model with God knows how many
pieces of light wood, small bits of tin, and glue and
solder. It was made mostly of wood so that it wouldn’t
be too heavy to move about. When it neared com-
pletion it looked like a cross between the Sydney
bridge and a Chinese puzzle. In the blistering shed
as the days burned by and the country complained,
father saw the drought-stricken world thirsting for his
invention ; a salvation to man, and with it; too, an
end to his own parched and empty pockets.
This jungle of miniature scaffolding, this com-
plicated, mathematical maze of bits and pieces, claimed
every minute of my father’s days, and at night in bed
you could almost hear him thinking about it. He
worked like a demon to get it finished. In a way, he
said, it looked as if fate was being kind to him.
Although he didn’t like to see people suffering, still
at the same time it would bring home to them the
worth of his magical wheel. Thank God he had
struck the invention of his life.
At the end of the five months he called mother
out to see him putting the last touch to it. “The
Wizard Water-wheel is complete, Mother. I’ll make
arrangements this week to give a working demonstra-
tion.”
Late that afternoon the sun dimmed, and a slow,
enveloping greyness began to creep over everything—•
a mild, soft, misty grey that spread and thickened,
taking over every part of the once-burning sky until,
by four o’clock, all I could see was one little blue
space left like a solitary blue eye over our shed.
Then it slid back behind the greyness, pulling the
great leaden door to behind it; and from then on our
part of the world sank deeper into the greyness, soft
and damp.
All the outlying paddocks curled up in it, and a
fairy, gossamer drizzle came, so light in its tread, so
undemonstrative that if you were out in it you would
hardly have felt it. Then the trees, dead leaves and
the earth breathed out, and you smelt the perfume of
the rain, lifting your nose to it. It was a misty rain,
and so elusive that father kept putting his hand out
miserably to make doubly sure that it was raining.
By evening it was a sober, determined, time-defying
rain that was taking things calmly, without hurry or
flurry. We heard it that night, heard its steady fall-
ing ; no sudden bursts, no temperamental flutters, no
slapping at windows —just a steady rain.
But it was of no use to father; he wanted
the country to be thirsting for his invention, and he
wanted a while longer. He could have withstood a
short, violent, quickly-running-away spurt of rain that
would have left the country thirsting for more. But
t hi s ra i n had not stopped from its first gentle patter,
anc j bad j ncrease( j £ 0 a steady Marathon rain without a
moment's let-up or a sign of letting up, while father
ii S | e npd dkmrvinlatplv
grey sky had completely merged
~°°J J , ■,
n‘o the earth, and the tops of the trees stood «*-
and lost m the dun am Little gushes of water
had nsen to hfe and had begun to jump and tumble
fast our home. All that day we listened to the ram
driving down on us, with father standing at the-door
or moping by the window , and our second night came
dripping down to us and then sank into oblivion.
Again we listened to it, so mercilessly steady, so un-
relentingly even, with never a respite nor break in its
whirring drone. Morning came with the wet barrage
still shooting down. I put on a bag and had a
look about our place and at the paddocks. Swift little
races were rushing turbulently down slopes, falling,
bubbling and boiling like waterfalls ; streams swelled
and tore along to join other streams. Like veins on
the earth s surface, they pumped and jumped along,
They came churning from all quarters, tumbling
hither and thither, and sudden frothing falls answered
other falls, and the open echoed the fall of rushing
waters. Growing creeks leapfrogged over logs and
cut new beds in the soft earth, the fallen limbs and
leaves of the bush lay in discarded heaps,
After three days and three nights of it our place
began to look as if it had been built on an island ; for
streams had come to life all round us, and it was not
i ong before the water sneaked up to our back door,
bung motionless there for a second, then, breaking
j nto sma ]| rivulets as nimble as quicksilver, slid over
the q oor> Soon it was inches high, sucking at the legs
q£ furniture and at our own.
our hoU se was on a slight rise and the water near
to was not &0 deepj but farther ou t—at the back—
a strong current was tearing along. Logs and limbs
sk B imming our some , ike porpoises>
fe . dancfag and jumping abou t in the water ;
uke little paddle steamers, fussing and churn-
some tant looking like destro yers nosing
» . p . and some shooting th e yellow
Neyer befor(; had
we known
such a flood> and wbile f at h er looked hopelessly on,
and mot b er made the best of it, the children stood up
Qn the f urn i tU re by the windows and waved excitedly
as their “boats” and “ships” went by.
The channel my father ha cu a ® ac s
dram had jumped to a full-sized river an ‘
ing along like a small Murray in flood. Landma
like the stump at the back had gone, and wenow
had no backyard and no road m front of us. H f
mile away the old creek had come back to life aga ,
we could hear it. Then it leapt its banks and came
our way. With night, our table lamp was mirrored in
the water below, and the light from the window wen
streaming across the moving sea outside. Throug
the night we heard the ram and the roar of the flood,
but when morning came the sky had cleared and e
rain had stopped. Our old back shed had disappeared
and the Wizard had gone.


fd
Mainly Mail-
* a
CYPRUS
DE LUXE
The ideal watch for
(he Service Man.
Waterproof, Shock-
proof, Dustproof,
Anti - in a gr n e t i c.
Stainless steel case,
£7.
Fully Guaranteed.
Regimental Colour
Patch Brooches,
2/6 each.
DIAMOND
S- WATCH
SPECIALISTS
HiuJc^otdk
112 MARKET ST
SYDNEY.
OPP. DAVIDJONES
REDUCINE
fd
Cures your Lame
Horse painlessly, and
you can work him all
the time. Price, 12/6
per can. Postage 1/-
extra.
Cures Splints, Curbs,
Sprung Tendons,
. < « T , 1
Windgalls, Bog Spavins and all Joint
Bursals Enlargements.
Write for Free Advice and Booklet.
T. G. DOYLE,
9 KING ST.. KANDWICK, N.S.W.
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
f
AT ATTRACTIVE PRICES
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States —See ’Phone Book.
STOPoup Rupture
Worries/
Mark ® LocaHon.
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL, AI*PL,LAIVCE CO.,
DJSI’T. 27, 84 PITT ST.. SYDXEV.
WINCHESTER
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
2
3
-cell, 750 ft. range, each .... 17/6
-cell, 1000 ft. range, each . . . 19/-
Complete with Batteries.
Postage Extra Outside N.S.W.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Speed & Accuracy
in all mental
movements
follow the Pelman
training.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, posted free on request. Write to
The Pelman Institute,
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders lane,
Melbourne. Telephone: MU3355.
■mi
d
ELECTRIC
CHARGER
Standard Model, £6/12/6. Battery Extra.
Be Luxe Model, £B/14/6. Battery Extra.
The new Be Euxe Model gives greater
efficiency in' low rainfall areas.
Send for FREE illustrated leaflet.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE CO.,
207 George Street, SYDNEY.
CERTAIN DEATH
THE SAFEST. SUREST AND MOST
ECONOMICAL SOLUTION OF THE
RABBIT MENACE.
The only way to carry the maximum
number of sheep is to clear out ALL
the rabbits, and that’s where Cyanogaa
comes in. because Cyanogas WILL
clear out all the rabbits—quickly,
safely and certainly.
D^nogAS
guzacott^folseleY
iron. MARKET STREET SYDNEY.
I Obtainable from all Storekeepers In Australia.!
LATEST RADIO SETS
£2O Below Retoil Price.
You can buy direct from factory if
no Century Agent in your District,
and thus save up to £2O on retail
prices. Marvellous tone, sensitivity
and economy; world-wide reception
brings overseas news direct to your
home. Absolute satisfaction is
guaranteed by FREE TEN DAY
TRIAD TO INTENDING PUR-
CHASERS. Illustrated catalogue of
Battery and All-electric sets post
free on request.
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
Limbing
TOM'ATO
teEET
Amazing New imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEARS FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001 b. per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-20 feet. 2/6 packet posted.
PURE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID!) Sup-
erb flavor! Disease free! Drought proof!
MAKES DELICIOUS JAM. 2/6 Packet, posted.
fd
15-DAY TIMBER KILLER!
Kills all trees, roots to top, large
or small. In 15 DAYS! New method.
NO RINGBABKING NECESSARY!
Prevents Suckerlng. Will not In-
jure the soil. 5/6 Tin. Post Free
N.S.W. SEED CO., C 93 George St.. Sydney.
DINGO TRAIL'
for attracting Dingoes to Traps or Baits.
Per toz. Bottle, 21/-
lr«m Gnlgong. N.S.W.: “Since using it
my loss from the ravages of the dingoes
•has been practically nil.”
Prom Queensland: “ ‘Dingo Trail’ acts
admirably before the dogs get in amongst
the sheep.”
DINGO TRAPS
Double Folding Spring Din. jaw, 16/-,
Klin, jaw 18/6 each (carriage extra).
GIBBS’ RABBIT DECOY
A bottle costing 13/6, post paid, will treat
1300 baits. Instructions given.
FOX DECOY WHISTLES V« each.
Por all station supplies write—
RI RPOWN Dept. B, 29 Bligh
. J. DKUWII Street, Sydney.
f
Are you
watching
his health?
If your dog’s
coat is dull,
loose or ragged
—if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —
start him now on
a course of
BARKO Condition Powders. He will soon he
lively and eating with his old healthy appetite.
BARKO tones up a dog’s whole system.
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists.
You may be a
future
TEX
MORTON!
Learn the
HILLBILLY
GUITAR.
Hawaiian Guitar
Spanish Guitar or Ukulele in 30 MINUTES!
Let Norm. Scott, the singing stockman,
teach you!
His simple but complete Postal Instruc-
tion course costs only 3/6 a week.
Write today for complete details.
NORM. SCOTT, Hawaiian Club,
Dept. B, 396 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Tune in to 20 B every Sunday 9.45 a.m.
d
NATURTON
for the DEAF and Hard
of Hearing.
“Naturton” is a new British invention which
has a particular appeal to those afflicted with
deafness owing to its comfort and unobtrusive-
ness. No batteries, wires or headbands are used.
“Naturtop” is unique in that it is the only
hearing aid of its type with double sound
chambers and vibrators. Call or write for
particulars and 30 days’ trial offer.
R. A. NOEDI, 1.i.b.5.t.,
sth Floor, The Bloch*
4!JB George Street, SYDNEY.
TRULY AMAZING!
31 YEARS WITHOUT COUGHS, COLDS
OR INFLUENZA.
Now Sixty and Living Quite a Careless Life,
Never Worrying About Draughts, Hail, Rain,
Wind, Snow or Anything that Froduces
Coughs, Colds or Influenza.
Brief Truthful History of My Own Case.
Up till I was 29 I had Colds and Flu in plenty and
spent many a day in bed. During 1910 I made a
keen study of cause, cure and prevention of these
wretched complaints and finally made up a COM-
POUND which put me on the road to COMPLETE
IMMUNITY, as X have not had an attack since nor
have I taken any of the medicine in all those
years, now 31. No fussing, coddling, drastic diet-
ing or extreme dosing. A short course fortified me ;
why not you? Give yourself a chance. Prices 5/6,
10/6, 15/6; full course 20/-. WRITE BERRY’S
COMPOUND, 84 Pitt St. (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
fd
J. P. TALTY
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
44in. knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads. 4'iin. to Sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
CLOCK-WATCHER
(Memory Jogger)
f
Ideal for Presents.
AMPLION (A/sia) Pty. Ltd.
Set it for any time to
remind you, when the
gong strikes, that;—
@ The eggs are boiled.
• To tune into your
favourite programme,
• To keep that appoint-
ment.
e To time that cake,
etc.
Contains a simple
rugged clock mechanism
fitted in plastic case.
Automatic re-setting.
Type 57, reading 0-S0
minutes 12/
Type AlB, reading
O-GO minutes 17/6
POST PEER.
683 Kent Street,
Sydney.
FAT, FLABBY
===
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOVERNA BELT supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAD OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of
bulge and strain gone . . .
OR NO COST! Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
HALF PRICE FOR NEW
BATTERIES.
Buy your battery direct from the
manufacturer at half the usual retail
price. All Marshall Batteries are
fully guaranteed. All types of
batteries for cars, trucks, cycles,
radio, home and theatre lighting
direct to the public at factory
prices. Write at once for 16-page
catalogue on how to choose and look
after batteries.
The Marshall Battery Mfg. Co.,
38-42 Harbour Street, Sydney.
THROWING THE BOOMERANG, (
A New Sport with the Famous Aus-
tralian Weapon. Full Battle Size,
length two feet. Every Boomerang
carefully tested by an expert and
fully guaranteed. Will traverse
circle of 60 feet or moore in dia-
meter and return to the> thrower,
and, with practice, a second
of 30 feet across can be '
before the Boomerang come
back. Proficiency quickly
attained. Great fun and
excitement with two Boome-
rangs in competition. Full
directions for throwing sent
with each Boomerang; failure \\
impossible. Price 3/6 or Two
for 6/-, carriage paid. Obtainable only from
THE UNION MFC. & AGENCY CO,
299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne. C.l
Ventriloquism
df
LEARN VENTRILOQUISM
quickly —my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds cf
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
FRFF Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanston St., Melb.
Refreshingly Different!
The “Thumbs Up” Series of Greeting Cards
specially designed by Armstrong.
Por those who like their personal Greetings
to convey good humour and originality.
Series of six cards.
“Those Australians sure give me da head-
ache!” “I dell you, Goebbels, der woman’s
a comblete stranger to me!” “Ve haven’t
got these ersatz mirrors quite right yet,
Ben!” “Dinky-di, Nursey—am I really the
first man you’ve ever dressed!” “Ps-ss-t,
Hermann —you’ve got a medal showing!”
“Who you think you vas—the It.A.P. ?”
Price 3/- Per set, post free.
H. B. ARMSTRONG,
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
LAMBS SAVED
d
By Using: the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS.
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One band holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient —
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the fastest
knife. Lambs suffer no setback —fatten
weeks earlier. No risk of Infection —No
losses. Don’t judge this instrument by othei
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/
Also LAMB DE-TAILER, £3/5/-. From
all agents or the distributors: HAIN &
SEARIGHT, 19b O’Connell Street, Sydney.
t
s
i
Send for the new in-
genious toy—a battle-
ship that you can build
and blow up again and
again. Made in sec-
tions ; easy to assemble.
15 inches long. Strongly
made. Packed in an
attractive carton.
I
A genuine and Instruc-
tive toy. An Australian
patent. Priced at 5/6.
Postage paid to any
part of Australia.
Write to John Sterling,
Fisher’s Chambers, 554
George Street, opposite
St. Andrew’s, Sydn
RNIIVG
Get rid of
Horns BEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAL
DEHOKNEB
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months,
apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
method. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves,
6/6. Large size for 210 to 300 calves, SO/-.
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane.
E
f
i'vV
TILLEY LAMPS
For the Farm, Camping
or Fishing.
British-made Kerosene Lamps
providing a steady 300 c.p. light
without flickering and without
smoke or smell.
Model EXIOO (illustrated)
can be used as a Storm
Lantern, Table Lamp or Hanging
Lamp. Reflector slips off when
not required. Burns for 10
hours on 1} pint.
Price, 70/- complete.
Write for catalogue of Radiators
and all types of lamps.
Obtainahlejrom your local agent or
W. Kopson & Co. Pty., Ltd ,
376-352 Kent Street, Sydney
MAfifflSfi.
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
29/10l’41 (See Page 26)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants" to The Bulletin Service Department.
For local office address, see Page 6.


m
«
i : . »
;
s-.
ms
■ ;:'
.*■
•v
M
★
*
Wi
Mm
■'■■■■■••■' ■ '
Odds on “lightning", it is “odds
on” that the slide fastener you are using is
made by Imperial Chemical Industries of
Australia and New Zealand Ltd, It is “odds
on,” too, that you have never realised that
1.C,1,A,N,Z, made slide fasteners. Have
you ever bothered to examine the tabs on
the slide fasteners you use every day? If
you do so you will find that most of them
bear either the word “Lightning” or the
word “Zipp,” These are the brands of the
original slide fastener first made by Light-
ning Fasteners Ltd,, England, and since
1932 by 1,G,1,A,N,Z„ Melbourne. In fact,
the only slide fasteners made in Australia
are “Zipp” and “Lightning” brands. The
slide fastener of the “Zipp” and “Light-
ning” type was invented as far back as
1893, but not until 1916 was machinery
devised to make it in quantity. To-day
the slide fastener is everywhere, the stan-
dard fastening alike on such articles as
tobacco pouches, handbags, golf bags, slip-
pers; on clothes of every description—men's
jackets and trousers, women's dress, chil-
dren's rompers, sportswear* Yet it is no
longer a utility fastener alone* It has now
established itself as a decoration, and the
coloured slide fastener in metal or plastic
material is to-day recognised as a fashion
accessory, combining colour with conveni-
ence* War has increased the range and
utility of slide fasteners* They have been
found invaluable for many purposes, from
Air Force flying suits, gauntlets and helmets,
Army map cases, field wireless covers, to
anti-gas valises and containers for con-
fidential papers* This general acceptance of
the slide fastener is largely due to the years
of development and untiring research, and
the exacting standard of
quality put into both ‘‘Light-
ning” and “Zipp” brands by
LCX and LCXAJNLZ*
mm
. -
asa
“Behind the Empire Throughout the ”
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND
CIANZ
NEW ZEALAND LTD.
Subsidiary Companies :
, C.|. ALKALI (AUST.) pty. ltd. IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES (N.Z.) ltd.
NOBEL (A/ASIA) PTY. LTD,
