

■•IJ
ißgn
/
:: .
a
C.-T
-s=-.455£
eg
w
:'■!: ■'
:■;■■■
.R-
M
■ ■■ ••.•I ■■’
R:
;?*Vf
F
-r
Jai
*-<
rrl
/ 4>
&
■
m
g>
■v
/•S5
•ft
ti
■ -■■
aar/W
■yllllll
mi‘
sss~
r— ■ -V
r%£
t-
MART^-XSb
JuVf:SJCOH"
g HOST HOLBROOK says:
"The Swan Inn at Lavenham, Suffolk, was
built nearly 500 years ago when this now peaceful
little town was one of the great wool centres of
England.
In the seventeenth century the spinning trade
fell away. Lavenham settled down to sleep, and
is only now being re-awakened by tourists who
come to enjoy its old-world fascination.
My Worcestershire Sauce is made from an
old English recipe, and is matured in vats until
mellowed by age. Ah, indeed! It adds a
delightful relish to every meat or savoury dish."
jhe lAjrlds Appehser
HOLBROOKS
S AUCE
WORCESTERSHIRE
;
Sr
/ :
So^WORCESTt^f.
■■ ■■ ■
The Bulletin
"The Bulletin,” VoL 62. No. 3188.
Wednesday, March 19, 1941.
Uncle Sam Shapes Up
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


ml*
sliw
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, vrithout obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised la the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 141
The Red Page
REVIVAL IN POETRY?
Recalling the astonishing renaissance
of poetry in England during the
emotional turmoil of the last war, the
Red Page has- several times discussed
the possibility of a revival in Australian
literature to correspond vqith the in-
vigorating of the nation in the present
crisis. It is beginning to look as if
something of the sort is happening.
So far there is little evidence that new
poets are appearing or that established
writers have been stirred to greater pro-
ductivity, but there is definite evidence
of an increased interest in what has
been written by Australian poets. As
many as four anthologies of verse are
likely to appear in 1941.
Immediately the Red Page made its
recent suggestion that there should be
annual anthologies of Australian poetry
and short stories as a sort of summing
up of the year’s effort and a spur to
the next year’s, Angus and Robertson
got in touch with The Bulletin, and
it is now likely that both anthologies will
make their first appearance this year.
Preparation of the volume of verse is
already under way.
The other anthologies likely to appear
are Dr. George Mackaness’s selections
from Australian poetry from its begin-
nings to the present day (a collection
previously mentioned on this page); the
customary Jindyworobak Anthology,
where the young writers have their fling ;
and a collection of contemporary
writings which the Red Page under-
stands is being prepared by a well-known
critic for the Limited Editions Society.
The Commonwealth Fund is to make
a valuable contribution to the year’s
output. Its latest list of books “under
consideration or in course of publication”
included one that has long been over-
due: a collected Brennan. Also on the
list were Bernard O’Dowd’s collected
verse and'a critical study of six Aus-
tralian poets —McCrae, Neilson, O’Dowd,
Baylebridge, Brennan and Fitzgerald-
by T. Inglis Moore.
All this activity indicates at least a
desire to sum up, to collate and evaluate
the work of the past. This is a stage
from which a new departure is possible.
Though nothing of importance has as
yet been achieved, there are two indi-
cations that something is stirring, that
vital writing is likely to emerge before
very long. One is that, all the way from
Adelaide to Brisbane, poets and would-
be poets are showing an intense interest
in modern experimental verse and in the
possibility of evolving a distinctively Aus-
tralian version of the modern movements.
The Jindyworobak productions, published
in Adelaide but accepting contributions
from all over the Commonwealth, have
let loose some extraordinarily bad verse.
But that doesn’t say that the movement is
without significance. It is proof of a
desperate desire to write poetry —and to
write a valuable kind of poetry, based in
a pantheistic interpretation of the Aus-
tralian landscape —and it is more likely
than not that some genuine poet, in
whom the group’s feelings coalesce, will
emerge.
A somewhat similar group, though
wider in range, not so dominated by a
single idea as the Jindyworobakians, is
gathered around Brian Vrepont in
Queensland, and has just issued the
second of its Meanjin Papers, consisting
of “modernist” verse, with an introduc-
tion by James Picot discussing contem-
porary giants and the importance of the
long poem. Here, too, desire seems to
outrun performance: but it is worth
noting that the desire exists, and the
effort towards important poetry is being
made.
According to a note the Red Page has
received from Queenslander Victor Ken-
nedy, the Jindyworobak Club is prepar-
ing a critical study of the state and pros-
pects of Australian poetry. Leading
poets and critics are to be invited to
answer the question “What do you think
of the new verse?” and the resultant
essays will be published in book form.
Something valuable, it’s certain, will come
out of this widespread awakening of in-
terest in what one must (vaguely and
inaccurately) call the “modern” move-
ment.
The second pointer to a genuine poetic
revival is something which could safely
have been prophesied, but which will
come as news to most people outside
newspaper offices: that is, that an in-
creasing stream of verse is beginning
to flow back to Australia from men
abroad with the A.I.F. It’s coming, obvi-
ously, from men who have never written
poetry before—probably never thought
about poetry since they had to learn
“Lucy Gray” by heart at school—but
who are finding, away from the radio and
the talkies and the rest of it, that poetry
is the natural speech of the awakened
emotions. So far, most of the verse
that has come to The Bulletin has been
pretty bad. But it’s certain that some-
one will emerge to express what so many
men are feeling.
War as Adventure.
The main theme of the war novelists,
when their flood was at its height, was
that war had lost all its attractions of
high adventure. Brooke, Grenfell, etc.,
were not merely sentimentalists but arti-
ficial, their poetic inspiration flowing
from romantic literature, not from any
real feeling. The old false notions of
war which they perpetuated demanded
to be debunked. The right thing to do
in toasting the memory of Nelson was
to see that it fell off the fork.
There seemed to be something fal-
lacious about all this, though at the time
it was heresy to say so. The suggestion
that the war novelists generally were
presenting a false picture never failed
to bring scorching accusations that the
reviewer was alternatively a militarist
or a coward. The enthusiastic theory
advanced —a belief that gave the literary
coarseness of the bulk of the war books
a certain fictitious validity—was that here
was being written an epitaph on war
to stand for all time.
Yet for one who had had some ex-
perience of war the war books left the
impression of being in the bulk post-
mortem findings, not on war, not even
on that war, but on a very limited and
circumscribed portion of that one war.
They were like an Australian novel set
in the Mallee, within their limits true
enough. All Quiet on the Western
Front and its numerous imitators gave
a representation of the war in any such
single sector as the Passenchendaele
morass as near as could be true to the
life. Books like Blunden’s Undertones
of War, which achieved a wider and far
more representative coverage, were, of
course, extremely rare. As a poet of
landscape, BlundenJiad an eye for what
was to be encountered away from the
oozing mud-and-corpse slopes of Belle-
warde and Westhoek. The clean land-
scapes are in his book, too, and besides
giving if balance they are true. Also,
though writing in retrospect when de-
bunking at ail cost was the general
fashion, he retained and included in his
book some sense of war as adventure.
The bulk of the war novelists purposely
assailed that idea: the major purpose
was to give it flat denial.
In that they did not correspond with
common experience. Disillusion came
along before it .jwas all over; but the
experience was that earlier, before monot-
ony, the worst bugbear of all, blunted
feeling and expectation, it had been
adventure of an extremely high and
exciting kind. An Australian who left
in 1914 and knew Egypt and Gallipoli
knew Adventure personally. He would
know that if Brooke, Grenfell, etc., were
not expressing universal feelings, they
were, at any rate, expressing genuine
feelings, by no means peculiar to them-
selves. After drawn-out experience in
the French and Flanders bogs they
might be considered anachronisms, but
they could not be wiped off as merely
artificial. Of how many of the flood
of war novels, now exhumed and con-
sidered against a background of experi-
ence, can that be said? The truth prob-
ably is that not only did the huge
majority of young men go to the last
war largely out of craving for adventure,
but also that the same urge has taken
them off again. Because disillusion may
follow hardly establishes that the earlier
feeling was not authentic, or, as the
war-book writers tried to insist, that it
was never really entertained at all.
As anyone who has attended Diggers’
Anzac Day gatherings must have noted,
the aspects of war most readily forgotten
by most returned soldiers are those most
diligently exposed by the war novelists.
This is not to suggest that what the war
novelists set forth was false, in itself:
focus on a week or two in the line in
1917, and the crudest coarseness they
But that sort of focusing is what most
of them did, and for that reason their
statement on the war as a whole was
overstatement, and therefore, as literature,
melodramatic. The inference to be drawn
from it all is that there was never any
spirit of adventure. The impression to
be had from many a gathering of the
surviving Diggers of that time is that
not only was that spirit there, but also
that it was so fortified by the experience
that that past, despite all the efforts of
the debunkers, became for many the peak
adventure and total justification of their
existence. It could never have been
that if the war novelists had been telling
the whole truth, or even if what they set
down was a valid synthesis of war, or
of that war.
There seemed to be this further
definite fallacy in the acceptance of the
war novelists as complete and final. Their
books were inescapably personal state-
ments. With hardly an exception they
recorded personal individual experience.
This, of course, was a literary virtue:
it was their main literary merit. But
that is something very different from a
synthesis of total, or even reasonably
representative, experience. The experi-
ence recorded, in fact, was of a peculiar
kind —that of a specially constituted small
sprinkling of men, sensitive and intel-
lectual, and anything but representative
of the general run. Therefore their re-
corded experience, while genuine enough
in itself, had scarcely any representative
validity.
They would seem, moreover, to have
been singularly unfortunate in their ex-
periences. They struck the worst of the
war, and the worst only. If what they
represented was totally true, the recol-
lection of it would be so horrifying as
to be a maddening nightmare to those
who went through it, instead of, as it
would seem to be to a great many, a
pleasing enough bridge over time to a
nostalgic other life.
Probably if they belonged to the first
instead of the last of the great human
trinity of writers, skiters and fighters,
former Diggers would debunk the de-
bunkers by setting down their generally
different experiences, admitting, above all,
that adventure pulled them quite a lot,
and came to be theirs, too. Most of
them, given the inclination and ability,
would no doubt now write war books as
different from that former fashionable
flood as one that has just come along.
This is Blockade and Jungle (Hale, Ltd.),
a book of sheer adventure in that last
war, edited by Christen P. Christensen
from the letters, diaries, etc., of Nis
Kock, a South Jutlander who was one
of a chiefly Danish crew on a German
ship which took a cargo of war materials
from Wilheimshaven down through the
British, blockade to Mansa Bay in East
Africa, Then he served on the German
side through the East African branch of
the war. His book gets additional
novelty from his employment there as an
itinerant munitions factory, shifting from
place to place as the British advance
hunted his outfit from one stronghold
after another.
By its nature, this is a very different
sort of experience from that suffered by
most of the war novelists. It is natu-
rally more romantic and adventurous to
be thus taking part in a guerrilla war
than to be wallowing knee-deep in the
mud-and-corpse ooze. But there is as
well a great difference in the personal
outlook. Any one of a score of the war
novelists could have, and would have,
made of these same experiences a pass-
ing masterpiece of supremely revolting
exposure. The voyage down through
the blockaded seas must have been harsh
and grim enough for anyone bent on a bit
of debunking. It is not romanticised in
this record, but neither is it debunked.
It is set forth without prejudice, but
without denial of the fact that it was to
the author, and to others aboard, as it
must have been to anyone of their
adventurous sum of years, a wildly ad-
venturous experience.
Similarly the whole of the East Afri-
can campaign. This could all easily be
turned upside down and debunked into
a dragging, painful experience. As set
forth by this author every minute of
it is full of the spirit of high adventure.
Crowded with incident, written with an
eye for the setting and an interest and
liking for the human element in the
author’s white comrade and his Man
Friday, it makes first-rate adventure
reading ; but there is more to it than that.
Without setting out consciously to do
anything but record experience, its author
reaffirms, what the war novelists earnestly
endeavored to deny, but what many
Diggers, if nobody else, know to be true
—that that past war, whatever may be
true of the present one, did hold out a
strong lure of adventure to the adven-
turous. The special disqualification of the
war novelists lies in their purposeful re-
fusal to admit that natural fact.
Gibbings on Thames.
Note from Dent and Sons on the
author of one of their latest publications
to hand, Sweet Thames Run Softly :
Robert Gibbings, now gold-bearded, six-
feet-two and proportionately broad, was
born in Cork in 1889. He fought and was
wounded in the last war. Since he gave up
the direction of the Golden Cockerel Press
he has been Lecturer in. Book Production
at Reading University—one of the very few
such posts in the world. He is now a
Home Guard, engaged on patrolling the
river which he knows so intimately.
He will not be found guilty of giving
away information on that river to the
enemy. Save for a few place-names and
some bits of description he gives the
river no special identity.
In the woodwork department of Read-
ing University he had built for him in
14 days a small boat which in Australia
would be called a punt. In this, after
following the Bellocian example of going
up and inspecting the source of the river,
he made a leisurely way down part of
the Thames. He shows an antiquarian
and a naturalist interest in the general
natural and historical phenomena of
the stream and its shores, but seems
really more interested in humanity:
whenever a human being crosses his line
of vision—from a nymph racing along
the bank in pouring rain in the altogether,
to a couple of men sitting outside the
Trout Inn discussing a cure for a mangy
dog—the telling at once livens and the
depiction becomes visible reality. A
touch of Irish humor helps r- 1 -
My father was a parson, a canon at
that, and he could have been a dean, the
Dean of Ross, no less. But he was a large
man, and when he went to inspect the
deanery’he found that there wasn’t a room
in the house in which he could sleep with
his legs straight unless he put his feet
through a window, and so he was com-
pelled to remain a canon.
In the course of his exploration Gib-
bings came to the Black Horse, and
there learned of “Mr, John Faulkner, a
jockey, who but lately had taken his
last hurdle.”
He had lived to the age of a hundred
and four, had ridden his first winner at
the age of eight, and was still in the saddle
when over 70 . . .
“An’ didn’ ’e ’ave a wunnerful funeral.
Four black ’orses drawed the wagon to
the church.”
“Wasn’t one of them ’orses painted,
Bill?”
“Well, ’e warn’t the same color a week
afore.”
The ancient jockey’s last words were
to ask for a glass of beer. “When he
was unable to drink it his family knew
that ‘the old man was finished.’ ”
In case anyone should want to give
it a trial, the cure for a mangy dog was
“six drachms of creosote in a half-pint
of sweet oil” ; shake, and rub just enough
on the dog to moisten the skin. “The
creosote kills the bugs and the oil feeds
the hair.” Testimonial: Before using,
a cocker spaniel’s ears, “red Weedin’
raw” ; after using, his coat so thick that
“I’ve heard that dog following me on
a frosty night, and the icicles on his
ears knockin’ together and ringing like
church bells.” For anyone who, lacking
a dog, may have tonsilitis: Port wine ;
“not a-glass after lunch and a glass after
dinner, but several glasses of it after
lunch and several glasses of it after
dinner, and a glass in between meals as
well.” Recommended by a doctor; his
bill subsequently paid with pleasure.
These personal asides give the book
its character and quality, rather than the
references to the natural scene, bird’s
eggs, fish and the like, which somehow
in the reading seem less like real things
than studies for the woodcut engravings
of them which Gibbings has done for
this book (and for many others) in his
own distinguished style, which is one of
masterly exactness, definiteness and
clarity.
Rhyme Marches On!: Mary Patricia
Treacy (Paterson’s Press Ltd., Perth).
Light, gay, sentimental verses for
children.
Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats:
Old Tom Eliot’s charming verses for cat-
lovers, young and old enough to know
better. New, very handsome edition
from Faber, decorated in color by
Nicolas Bentley.
The latest issue of “Art in New
Zealand” quotes figures to show that its
publishers, H. H. Tombs, Ltd., have in
effect made a donation of £1464 to the
cause of art in Maoriland over the past
12 years. Only in one year since its
establishment has the quarterly paid its
way; that was in its second year, when
it made a profit of £6. Losses in other
years range from £6O to £170; somebody
must have gone happily mad when the
war broke out,, for the 1939-40 loss
was only £2B. The same firm publishes
N.Z. Best Poems, and presumably doesn t
do that for money either.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING" —our assurance and your guarantee of its accuracy .
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Introducing . . .
The New Autumn
OVERCOATS
Officers Trench Coats
London-tailored Officers' Trench Coats
made from a British Army pattern.
Fawn proofed Gabardine, interlined
E7W-
with oiled Batiste and lined throughout with check. These
ideal weather coats are correct in every detail. At
Anthony Horderns', Price £7/15/-
English Raincoats
English Raincoats for style and smart
appearance. Button-to-neck fly front, full
skirt and tailored in a range of proofed gabs.
featuring Mannish Fawns. These are fine examples of
English "Rain Resisting" Topcoats. At Anthony Horderns'.
Pric ©s 105/-, 126/- and 147/-
Gabardine Raincoats
105'-
Smart Overcoats of all-wool fast-dyed Navy
Gabardine ... a coat that will give several
season s useful wear. Cloth is proofed against
rain. Belted Raglan styles and fully lined with art. silk.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price 95/-
95 7 -
m
r
n
M
/
m
m
\
; 5£
: i¥Ss
¥
«
m
SSW^VVVV
■
• Men’s Clothing
Ground Floor, George
Street. Freight paid to
all railway stations in
N.S. W. and seaports
in the Commonwealth.
The Very Newest
SPORTS COATS
The latest Sports Coats. All-wool lightweight
worsteds, tailored by Anthony Horderns'.
Featuring new shades of Blue, Brown, and
Green, with fine overcheck that forms a perfect colour
blend. 34 to 46 inch chests. At Anthony Horderns', 49/6
Worsted Sports Slacks
Sports Slacks made from all-wool
worsted ... a material that will wear
and retain its shape. Available in
Blues, Greys, Fawns, Greens, and
Browns. Angle, hip and fob pockets.
Extended waist band and waist
pleats. 21-22 cuffed bottoms. 24-46
inch waist. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price 25/-
49 7 6
v tw
/ v / /
/ w
7 s
m
y
hA \
\Js'> *•
\ v vh,
| " ''l vl.
V_-
m
v V
v -> U /
PHONE M 2401 DAY OR NIGHT
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Famous Low Prices
POSTAL ADDRESS, BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.


OUT OF THE
PAST
H.M.S. CALAMITY.
J-H-M- ABBOTT
NICODEMUS PHAROAH, the Gunner, dis-
respectfully alluded to in H.M.S. Sorceress as
“Aboukir Nick,” delivered himself of his
opinion with characteristic pomposity as he
regarded the approaching French 50-gun, two-decked
ship Lenoir through the open aftermost starboard
gun port. “She may have heavier metal than we’ve
got, but what I say’s this. Some ’as guns an’ can
use ’em —some ’as more guns an’ can’t make use of
’em proper. We’ll win. But, mark my words, the
Witch is a ship wi’ a curse. Somethink ’orrid’ll ’appen
to us afore yon frog-eater strikes ’is flag. You can
take it from me. Our ship ain’t called Calamity
throughout the Fleet for nothink. Now, then, you
swabs,” he roared to the guns’ crews lining each side
of the frigate’s main deck, “see that the matches arc
alight!”
He stood on a gun and stared out over the foam-
capped waters at the approaching Lenoir, flying the
tricolor from her main topmast, and, as a quickly
dissolving cloud of white smoke appeared ahead of
the Frenchman, called up to the captain on the poop:
“She’s opened fire, sir!”
Captain Mayfield nodded down at Mr. Pharoah,
and spoke to his first lieutenant, standing beside him
at the rail above the quarter-deck. “We’ll hold our
fire, Martin. The first broadside’s too precious to
waste. We’ll wait till we’re sure of every shot going
home in her timbers.”
Another woolly puff of smoke from the French-
man’s starboard bow, and presently a roundshot
howled overhead between the masts.
“Better!” cried Number One.
Captain Mayfield took a glance aloft at the shiver-
ing topsails. “Stand by, Mr. Golightly!” he shouted
suddenly through his trumpet to the second lieutenant,
in charge of the starboard guns. “Give it to her as
your guns bear!” Then, to the two men at the big
wheel below his feet at the break of the poop:
“Helm over — hard! Hold her! Steady, now —
stead-ee /”
The Sorceress came round with flapping canvas,
paused a little, and then rushed down by the starboard
side of the Frenchman, whilst Mr. Golightly’s guns
exploded successively, though almost together, in a
rending crash that shook the ship from truck to keel.
A stifling volume of smoke enshrouded the decks
momentarily, ere the gale tore it to shreds. Every shot
had found lodgment in the upper works of the Lenoir.
“Splendid!” yelled the first lieutenant, waving
his cocked hat as he cheered, and then disappeared
as a ball from the Frenchman struck the deck at his
feet.
The wind-swept fight went on, and as the sun
sank to the horizon line the Lenoir had become a
burning inferno. When dusk came, the British frigate,
scuppers running blood and bulwarks torn and shat-
tered, swung off from the other, close-hauled, beating
her way to windward of the blazing wreck. Roaring
flames were spouting from the latter’s broken bows,
turning the darkening, heaving waters blood-red. Then
suddenly the flames went out, and nothing remained
in the picture but darkness and the faint phosphores-
cence of the curling crests of the waves.
“Gone !” cried the captain of the Sorceress. “But,
dear God, what a calamity! Good Jack Martin—as
fine a seaman and as fine a man as ever breathed!
Calamity, indeed!”
BUT when he went below to his cabin Captain May-
field realised that the death of his first lieutenant
was not the only misfortune that had overtaken
H.M.S. Sorceress. Right aft in the Great Cabin, in
the curve of the paned windows looking out upon
the ship’s creaming wake, stood athwartship the great
walnut desk his wife had given him, and in each
end of it, above the level of the writing surface, was
a neat round hole, of the size that would be made by
a 241 b. cannon ball fired at a distance of not more
than a dozen yards or so away. When he opened with
some difficulty the jammed doors of the desk it was
to find not nearly so much chaos as he had expected,
but that his most particular and sacred line of pigeon-
holes at the back had been completely removed. In
the middle of the row had been a compartment a
foot square in which were kept his most important
personal papers, under an additional door and lock,
and, most tremendously important of all, the secret
orders from My Lords Commissioners of the
Admiralty, which he was not to open until they were
in the latitude of Table Bay, upon a cruise for which
the ship was provisioned and equipped for two years.
Here was calamity indeed, and Robert Mayfield
groaned aloud as he sank into a chair and contem-
plated dismally and dejectedly the neatly-wrecked desk.
Calamity with a vengeance! He turned in his chair,
and sent a hail along the cabin’s length. “Sentry! ”
The marine outside the door stepped into the
cabin.
“Pass on word for Mr. Golightly,” the captain
ordered, and presently the second lieutenant, now
acting Number One, came in from the quarter-deck,
his uniform scorched and powder-blackened, and a
bloody bandage about his forehead which accen-
tuated the paleness of his face. He paused inside the
door and saluted, then leaned against the bulkhead in
sheer uncontrollable weariness.
“You sent for me, sir?”
“Yes, Golightly. You are, of course, in poor
Martin’s place now. Look here—here’s trouble,
indeed.” He waved a hand at the wrecked desk. “The
ship’s earned her nickname once again. My secret
orders—all gone. We must bear up for the Cape of
Good Hope, and see what the Admiral has to say.
Nothing else for it, I suppose? I meant to open them
tonight—since we’re just about in the position where
my general instructions indicated that such was to be
done. Did ever you hear of such a thing? We’ve
lost our prize-money, the first lieutenant and all know-
ledge of the nature of our job.”
“Well, the ship’s all right, sir. She’s making a
little water, but not more than the pumps can rid us
of in an hour or two. Bad luck about Martin and
losing our prize—but the orders gone, that’s bad,
indeed. Nothing but the Cape for it, I suppose, sir, as
you say.”
After a little further conversation, Mr. Golightly
presently took his leave, and went out on to the
quarter-deck. Here he bade the midshipman of the
watch to summon the crew on duty aft. For one
decided course the new first lieutenant had made up
his mind. There was to be no more lamentation of
calamity.
“Look ye, men,” he said to them, crowded between
the breeches of the quarter-deck guns facing him —
“Stare him down, Bartholomew!"
“the captain has appointed me to fill Mr. Martin’s
shoes, and I’m determined upon one thing of which 1
now give you all warning. There is a foolish tale
that his Majesty’s ship Sorceress is dogged by ill-luck.
That isn’t true. We have been in action with an
enemy ship almost a third again more heavily armed
than ourselves —and sent her to the bottom. Tis
true we’ve lost the best first lieutenant a King’s ship
ever had —but, on the other hand, you’ve got me in
his place”—he paused for the cheers and laughter he
knew his fellow-seamen well enough to expect. “Well,
isn’t that something? But this is what I want to tell
ye. The first person I hear make use of the word
‘calamity’ goes to the masthead through each dog-
watch for a week. That’s all. Ship’s company—off
the quarter-deck!”
I lEUT. ROBERT GOLIGHTLY, R.N., told the
1— finish of the story to his friend Major Charles
Lake, second-in-command of the infantry regiment
in garrison, in the latter’s sitting-room
at his quarters in the Military Bar-
racks at Sydney. They had dined in
the Mess, and the Major was listen-
ing to his friend’s account of the
voyage of H.M.S. Sorceress to Sydney.
“So that was the first thing I did
as first lieutenant —made it plain to all
hands that the Witch wasn’t to be de-
famed in the future. All this silly
talk about her being haunted by
calamity and bad luck must cease.
But I assure you that for the best part of a fortnight
the mastheads were seldom unoccupied. Sailors love
to grumble.”
“And did you succeed in giving them a better
idea of the ship’s good fortune?” asked the Major,
smiling.
“No, I’m pretty sure I didn’t —but I stifled dis-
cussion of her bad fortune. I managed to shut em
up—at least, aboard the ship. Yet all the while I
knew damned well the ship was unlucky, and if ever
bad luck was proved it was in our case at the Cape
of Good Hope. We shipped a cargo of it there.
“The captain reported himself to the admiral in
command of the station as soon as we arrived in
Table Bay, and ’twas the beginning of our misfor-
tune that he and the admiral were not good friends.
Some old feud about a girl they’d both wanted to
marry, I believe. Whatever it was, Admiral Pomfrey
undoubtedly scored a very considerable point against
our captain when he came to solve our difficulties
for us.”
“And how was that?”
“He’d had no word about us from the Admiralty,
though word was overdue, so didn’t know any more
than we did what the mission of the Sorceress was.
That didn’t matter much, and only meant waiting for
a few weeks until the ship arrived in Table Bay. We
might have enjoyed ourselves for a month or so in
Capetown, if it hadn’t been for the ill feeling betwixt
Mayfield and the admiral. Pomfrey saw his chance,
and promptly took it. Mayfield would do nothing
but obey orders. And the orders were that we should
proceed to Port Jackson and visit New Zealand, re-
turning to the Cape in six months’ time. T cannot
have your ship’s company idling about here, Captain
Mayfield,’ he said. ‘Such a cruise as this will very
well fill in your time and keep your people employed,
and when you return your orders will have doubtless
arrived from Whitehall.’
“The skipper didn’t mind that so much —he had
never been to New Holland, nor had I —but two days
after his interview with Rear-Admiral Pomfrey we
found the fly that was in the ointment. We were
to carry out a couple of
passengers, and the cap-
tain received a request
to call again upon the
admiral, when he’d be
introduced to ’em.
Well, that didn’t matter
much, either. Poor Jack
Martin’s cabin was
available for one of
the two, and the car-
penter could easily
knock together another
apartment in a corner
of the Great Cabin. So
Captain Mayfield went
along, quite pleased
with everything, and
only hoping that his
passengers would prove
agreeable company. In
fact, he was rather glad
to have them, before he
made their acquaint-
ance that morning. He
was even more glad for
a while after that, too,
but the day his eyes
were opened he wasn’t glad at all only damned
miserable. And mortally afraid.
<< nN E of our passengers was a member of the
nobility—Lord Tenacres—and the other was
his wife, who was as ignoble as they make em. I
mean that. Good-looking as you’d like to see, but
vulgar, common and utterly immoral. Never came
across’a female like her. Gad, how her handsome
face lit up as she stepped on to the quarter-deck when
she came aboard! I was standing by the gangway,
and it was positively awful the way her eyes gloated
and her face flushed as she took in the vision of all
those men in the ship, and realised she was the only
woman amongst four hundred of us. Indecent, it was
—there’s no other word!”
“Ha!” laughed the Major. “Something of a
tigress, what!”
“A tigress! By gad, yes —a veritable beast of '
prey. But, of course, you’ve met her and her mountain


of a husband? Twenty stone, Tenacres must
weigh, if a pound. The queerest assorted
couple I’ve ever met. Well, we pulled up our
mudhook and sailed out of Table Bay, and
the smoke of our salute to Admiral Pomfrey’s
flag had hardly drifted to looard before she
began her little games. And the first she chose
was Captain Mayfield.
“Now if ever there was what might be de-
scribed as a ‘good husband,’ ’tis Bob Mayfield.
Faithfulness personified, our captain is. No
wife in every port for that sailor. You can
understand the shock I got when, in the middle
watch, two nights out from Table Bay, he sud-
denly looms up alongside me on the poop,
where I was keeping the watch.
“ ‘Good God, Golightly,’ he whispers to
me brokenly. ‘That infernal woman’s in my
sleeping cabin and won’t go away. In the name
of heaven, what’s to be done? For God’s sake,
go and get her out!’
“Well, though I didn’t relish the task,
orders are orders, so down I went. There she
was, seductively beautiful, in poor old May-
field’s berth—actually in his cot. I couldn’t
speak for a moment or two. But presently I
managed to get out: ‘The captain’s compli-
ments, Lady Tenacres, but he’s unfortunately
detained on deck. Will you be so good as to
come with me, if you please?’ She looks at me
a moment or two and smiles. ‘Oh, very well, Mr
Golightly,’ she says, ‘you’ll do as well’ Fact, 1 give
you my word, Major!”
“Proceed, my dear Golightly!”
“My God, what a situation! She followed me
from the berth, doubtless intending to come to my
own cabin, when, by the blessing of a merciful Provi-
dence, we encountered his lordship her husband in
the Great Cabin, come out in his dressing-gown to
forage for some whisky.
“I escaped and went on deck, and reported to
the captain. ‘My God!’ he groaned. ‘That hound
Pomfrey! I’ll be even with him for this. But, by
gad, Golightly, we must protect one another at least.
But what of the ship’s company? Pomfrey’s a devil
out of hell to put me into such a position as this.
Oh, my God!’ he groaned. He would not leave the
deck till daylight. Most nights he spent as far as
possible on deck, and ordered the marine sentry to be
posted within the Great Cabin, instead of in his usual
place outside.”
“Well, well,” laughed the Major, “and the rest
of ’em —the ship’s company—how did they fare?”
“Major,” said Mr. Golightly dismally, though
smiling a little, “I’d blush to go into particulars. I
had to shut my eyes to a very great deal. A truly
terrible woman!”
“But how about her husband?”
“Oh, him. He ate enormous dinners each day,
and drank bottles and bottles of the Cape of Good
Hope wine he’d brought abroad. If he was aware of
the lady’s activities, he didn’t seem to care. Tenacres’s
troubles! She might do as she liked, so long as she
didn’t interfere with his boozing and gormandising
and sleeping. They were very well suited to each
other. But what’s amusing you in particular, Major?”
“I was just recalling an encounter I had with
Mrs. Macquarie this afternoon, when I went for a
ride round the Domain. I found the dear little lady
seated at her favorite viewpoint at the end of Anson’s
Point —you know the stone seat that has been carved
in the rock there? She was quite alone, and I dis-
mounted to pay my respects. You know, of course,
that Lord and Lady Tenacres have been staying at
Government House, at his Excellency’s express invita-
tion so soon as he knew they were aboard the Sor-
ceress when you arrived?”
“Yes —yes —I hope General Macquarie’s safe!”
“He is— now,” laughed Major Lake. “After extol-
ling the view of the harbor from Anson’s Point, Mrs.
Macquarie told me that through her exertions the
noble lord had obtained a lease for the time being of
young Pilkington’s house on the Rocks, while Mr.
Pilkington’s over in Van Diemen’s Land on business of
the Commissariat Department.
“She will find the view entrancing from Pilking-
ton’s verandah,” I ventured.
“Mrs. Macquarie smiled a little stiffly as she
agreed with me. ‘And with Lady Tenacres over on
the Rocks,’ she said, ‘I shall be able to admire the
view from Government House.’ So there you are,
Golightly. I think the Governor’s safe, at any rate.”
“And so now, perhaps, is his Majesty’s ship
Calamity,” said Mr. Golightly slyly, “for the Officers’
Mess of the 46th is closer to the Rocks than our
anchorage in the Cove. But I think we really do
justify our name, Major, after that voyage from the
Cape. Don’t you?”
“ Don't Worry, missy , they'll see the signal.”
The Choice.
I did not want you, with your lover’s hands.
To touch and make of me a goddess shrined
In your great love.
I did not ask of you the tenderness
That makes of you a being set apart—
All men above.
I needed all your precious comradeship,
Your understanding wide and comforting
In which to lose
Myself.. . Yet love and loving comradeship
Are one. If asked the one I treasured most,
I could not choose.
TASMANIA.
PHYLLIS GURNEY WRIGHT.
HE SAID “GOOD-BYE”
By J. A. CHRISTOMAR.
I SAW him quite a bit in those last few months
before he got away, and gradually I came to
understand how much he had bottled up inside
him, and how he’d like to get it out but somehow
felt he couldn’t, though he didn’t speak a word of it
to me —nor to anyone else I think.
He was in camp near the city most of the time,
and he used to get a fair bit of leave. He’d come in
just before we always go in next door for a couple
of drinks before going home, and he’d sit and talk
after the others had gone on down —about anything
else at all but what he most wanted to say. I’d wait
with him, talking about books or boats, or telling
yarns, and asking him sometimes about the camp or
how he found life in the army, trying to get him
started, but I never did. And then at last we’d hurry
down after the others to get a pint before six.
When it was time to get off home he’d walk
down to the Quay with me and we’d stand outside
the turnstiles, perhaps not saying anything for minutes
on end, till I’d have to call out “So long, Bill,” and
run for the boat. I gave him plenty of opportunities
to get it off his chest, and I think he knew I under-
stood that what he wanted most was someone to
listen to him, but he wasn’t ever able to get it out.
He’d never been given to talking much about
himself; the sort of chap you could get around with
for a long time, and like, without ever really know-
ing anything about what went on inside of him. He
joined up suddenly—or so it seemed to the rest of
us, who’d all been thrashing the problem out for our-
selves I reckon—and he didn’t say anything else but
that he’d be going off at the end of the week. It
came as a bit of a surprise, for somehow with his
quietness he wasn’t the sort you imagined in the army.
After a while, though he grumbled a bit
about the inconveniences and the red-tape, you could
understand that he liked the life and was pleased to
be doing something. He filled out a lot, too, and
hardened up, and the brown of his face and neck
and hands looked pretty different from the pasti-
ness of the rest of us. After he’d had a couple of
drinks sometimes he’d talk enthusiastically about the
training his blokes were getting, and tell us how he’d
never realised how decent most chaps were at bottom
till he’d gone into camp with a mob. And the time
he came in and showed us the stripe he’d just been
given, though he didn’t say much, you could see that
he was happy and proud about it and dead keen.
He’d been in camp about three months when he
came in one Friday night to tell me he was getting
married next day. It was a girl he’d been taking out
to dances and pictures and parties for a long time,
and though he’d never said anything I’d known it
would come some time. We went down to celebrate and
got jammed up into a corner at one end of the bar,
and after the third round or so, what with the noise
and the goodfellowship and the beer, we got to talking
pretty earnestly about life and marriage and the seri-
ousness and responsibility of it all. But though he
loosened up on most other things that night, and
talked a lot about his hopes and fears and plans for
branching out into a new job and buying himself a
house when the war would be over, you could feel
that he still wasn’t getting any nearer to unburdening
himself of the real things that were filling his mind
and making up most of his life just then. It seemed
to me that he’d probably got them taped out pretty
clearly in his own mind, but that he wasn’t sure they
wouldn’t all sound rather foolish to anyone else.
His wife still kept on at her work, but she went
out to live with his people, and he managed some-
how to get practically every week-end away from
camp. Sometimes on Sundays I’d take my wife and
the four of us would go for a picnic out into the
bush at French’s Forest or to a beach. We had good
days and enjoyed them, but the women obviously
didn’t want to think or talk about the time when Bill
would have gone overseas and there wouldn’t be any
more picnics together, and we never spoke of any-
thing else but what we were doing at the moment. He
was still as keen as ever, and when after lunch the
women would be resting and we’d go off for a walk
together he’d tell me about how well organised things
were now in the military. I got a pretty good idea
of his enthusiasm and earnestness, and I understood a
lot of things about him that I hadn’t before, but he
still couldn’t seem to find the words to explain the
fervor that could be felt boiling behind it all.
After one Sunday that we’d been down to Narra-
been I didn’t see him for a couple of weeks ; then he
rang to say he’d been given eighteen hours’ final leave,
and would I care to come out home?
His mother and father were there, and his wife
and a couple of her friends and an aunt or two. It
was a pretty gloomy affair. Bill’s mother tried to keep
things bright and played some old songs on the piano
while we sang, but every now and again she’d go out
to the kitchen, and when she came back you could
see she’d been weeping. His wife wasn’t too happy
either, and his father, who’s a rather decent old chap
really, snapped at Bill a couple of times for drinking
too much. Bill himself looked tired and fed up, as
though he needed a good sleep and hadn’t had it for
a couple of nights. He didn’t have anything to say
for himself, and only “Yes” or “No” when anybody
asked him anything. All the aunts could manage
towards the conversation were “Are you sure you’ve
got your toothbrush?” and “What size socks is it
again?” I was glad when the time came for him to
leave for the station to catch the train back to camp.
Bill, his wife and his mother and father were
going in the old man’s car, and I went along since
I had to go that way.
Bill brightened up a bit on the way, and by the
time we got to the station he was the only one with
anything to say. The platform was crowded with
soldiers and wives and sweethearts and mothers, and
there was plenty of shouting and laughing and plenty
of tears. We managed to stick together in a corner,
Bill waving and calling to friends who pushed past
us, and talking to his mother and his wife, quickly
and earnestly and happily.
What he was saying was all jumbled up with
warnings to both of them to look after each other,
and assurances that he’d be quite all right, and to
remember that no news was good news and not to
worry. I reckon he thought he was making himself
understood then, and that he felt that at last he was
explaining all the things he’d wanted to explain
about himself for months. I figured out afterwards
some idea of what he did want to say: the reasons
why he’d felt he had to go—dozens of them, and all
bound up somehow with picnics in the bush and the
beaches and the sunshine and the surf —and how he
realised that perhaps he might not be coming back to
all those things, and understood all about what he
was doing, but that somehow it didn’t make any dif-
ference, and he was glad and excited and proud
to be going now. But with the noise and excitement
and jostling and crowding on the platform that night
he went away he didn’t say anything much like that
at all really, and if he had I don’t think any of us
would have heard it or understood it, for we were
all too taken up with our own thoughts, and all he
said that we knew was “Good-bye.” -


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
,//ffelt Him cfWie me/lcwncJSandlouqjuet
Seppelts
THE FISHMONGERS’ HALL.
Among the great Livery Companies or Guilds of the City of London, the Fishmongers’, fourth on the list of precedence, stands actually m the very first
rank in importance, wealth and consequently power. The hall, practically abutting the western end of the north side of London Bridge, is one or t e
best-known City riverside landmarks. The Guilds in their formularies and rituals blend the past with the present and help to -preserve in the British race
that respect and veneration for ancient institutions and manners which is a characteristic peculiarly its own, as foreigners have frequently noted. Ihe uuilds
have played a great part in the history of the Metropolis and of the country. None has been more distinguished for its riches, patriotism and public
spirit than the Fishmongers’. Originally there were two bodies, the stock-fishmongers and the salt-fishmongers, each possessing six halls, two in lhames
Street, two in New Fish Street and two in Old Fish Street. At that early date the members were of high repute. Stow denominates them jolly
Six Lord Mayors were chosen from among them in twenty-four years. Being charged with “forestalling, contrary to the laws and constitutions of the City,
they were fined 500 marks by Edward I in 1200. Later, being detected in similar fraudulent dealings, Parliament in 1382 enacted that no fishmonger
shall for the future be admitted Mayor of this City.” The following year this prohibition was removed, but in 1384 the fishmongers, as well as others concerned in
furnishing the City with provisions, were put under the immediate direction of the Lord Mayor and Aldermen by another Act of Parliament. The salt-
fishmongers were incorporated in 1433, but the stock-fishmongers not until 1509. This separation proving prejudicial to both, they united and obtained a
charter from Henry VIII in 1536, being incorporated by the name of “The Wardens and Commonality of the Mystery of Fishmongers of the City of
London.” The Company has given London some sixty Lord Mayors, and is governed by a prime and five other wardens and a Court ol Assistants.
The present Fishmongers’ Hall was designed by Sir Christopher Wren, as a specimen of his grandiose plan to ornament the bank of the Thames, had his
scheme for rebuilding the City after the Great Fire eventuated. Within the great hall are statues of Sir William Walworth, Lord Mayor and Fishmonger, and
of St. Peter, the patron saint of the Company. Hard by in the Church of St. Michael’s was a monument to Walworth bearing .the following lines:
Here under lyeth a Man of Fame,
William Walworth, called by name,
Fishmonger he was in life-time here,
And twice Lord Mayor, as in Books appear,
Who, with Courage stout and manly might,
Slew Wat Tyler in K. Richard’s sight.
For which Act done and true Intent,
The King made him Knight incontinent,
And gave him Arms, as here you see,
To declare his Fact and Chivalry,
He left his Life, the Year of our Lord,
Thirteen hundred fourscore three and odd.
On the upper left quartering of the shield of the Coat of Arms of the City of London the dagger, to commemorate Walworth’s action, appears.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62—No. 3188.
Wednesday, March 19, 1941.
“GONE INTO ACTION.”
The British people and their Grecian allies need ships....’planes....food....tanks and guns and ammunition and supplies of all kinds. From America they will get
them....Our Democracy has gone into action.” — President Roosevelt.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
W ellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad :
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
UNCLE SAM SHAPES UP.
The popular assumption at present —not an American
invention, though decidedly an American pref-
erence —is that this war can be won without bring-
ing in American man-power. In the midst of the dis-
cussion on President Roosevelt’s Lease-or-Lend Bill
Mr. Churchill broadcast direct for United States hear-
ing: “Give us the tools and we will finish the job.”
With the Lease-Lend Bill safely past the vehement
but minority opposition it encountered, that is what
is now about to be done. A difference that has come
over Uncle Sam’s position is that this big advance in
“all aid short of war” involves risk. This was clearly
stated by President Roosevelt in asking for the addi-
tional powers necessary in implementing his policy,
and the delegation of the extraordinary powers he has
now been given means that Uncle Sam accepts all
the implications of the risk and is practically shaping
up to any who may care to dispute with force his
right of such action.
At all times a United States President has powers
far beyond those vested in Prime Ministers. He is
his own Prime Minister. He not only nominates the
Cabinet Ministers, but they are responsible only to
him. He is head of the armed forces. He has a right
of veto with regard to bills passed by Congress, and
it requires a two-thirds vote of Congress to override
the veto. He can make treaties with the advice and
consent of the Senate. The executive power is vested
in him. He is an actual ruler. By this Lease-Lend
Bill the Presidential powers have been further and
extraordinarily extended. The added powers have
been called “dictatorial,” and were mainly opposed
on that ground. They are not by so much short of
the powers the President would have if the U.S.A.
were already at war. A full statement of their nature
is that they enable President Roosevelt to fulfil the
most generous concrete promises made on behalf of
the U.S.A. to Britain.
The history of the bill has itself been extra-
ordinary—a reflection of its exceptional contents, of
United States legislative procedure and of these sin-
gular times of declared and undeclared wars and signed
and unsigned alliances. Notice of it was given by
President Roosevelt in his message to Congress on
January 6. Accepting, with Mr. Churchill, the
assumption that “those nations which are now in actual
war with aggressor nations” do “not need man-
power,” he said that they did need “billions of dollars’
worth of weapons of defence,” but they would soon
not be able to pay in ready cash. He would not
recommend a loan ; the U.S.A. should say to the
democracies; “We shall send you, in ever-increasing
numbers, ships, ’planes, tanks, guns....We shall be
repaid, within a reasonable time following the close
of hostilities, in similar materials or, at our option, in
other goods of many kinds which they can produce
and which we need.”
In a “fireside chat” broadcast a week earlier
President Roosevelt had cleared the way for the
announcement and eventual passage of his proposals
with the assurance; “The nub of the whole purpose
of your President is to keep you now, and your
children later, and your grandchildren much later,
out of a last-ditch war for the preservation of Ameri-
can independence.” He added, however: “If we are
to be completely honest with ourselves we must admit
that there is risk in any course that we may take” ;
he believed the course he advocated involved “the
least risk now and the greatest hope for world peace in
the future.” In his message to Congress he indicated
the risk, and took a positive stand on it: “We will not
be intimidated by the threats of dictators that they
will regard as a breach of international law or as an
act of war our aid to the democracies which dare to
resist their aggression.” Before the bill went to Con-
gress he convened a “bi-partisan” conference —sup-
porters and opponents of the proposals—and, asked
by House Republican leader Joseph W. Martin what
were the aims of the bill, put it in the plainest of
words: “The aim is to help the British to whip Hitler.”
Thus fairly launched, the bill —one of the most
momentous ever to become United States law —pro-
gressed on these lines:
Jan. 10.—Bill introduced in Congress.
Jan. 15.—Hearings before the House Foreign Affairs
Committee begin.
Jan. 27.—Hearings before the Senate Foreign Affairs
Committee begin.
Jan. 30. —House committee, 17 to 8, approves the
bill.
Feb. B.—House, 260 to 165, passes the bill with seven
main amendments.
Feb. 13.—Senate committee, 15 to 8, approves the
bill.
Mar. B.—Senate, 60 to 31, approves the bill with
additional amendments.
President Roosevelt had intimated at the preced-
ing bi-partisan conference that he was “perfectly will-
ing” to accept any amendments thought desirable,
provided only that he was given sufficient authority
for his stated purpose. Despite the number of amend-
ments, nearly all aimed at trying to limit as far as
possible the extraordinary powers in any case being
granted to the President, the measure thus passed
remained substantially in the form originally pro-
posed. Voting was on party lines up to the final
Senate division, when something of the spirit of non-
partisan feeling underlying the consideration of the
measure all through came to the surface in the voting;
For, 49 Democrats, 10 Republicans, one Independent;
against, 13 Democrats, 17 Republicans, one Pro-
gressive.
The most extreme opposition to the measure and
the most telling support of it were provided by out-
side “witnesses” —against, Colonel Lindbergh ; for, Mr.
Wendell Willkie. Both these witnesses drew crowded
houses, some 1800 persons packing into space in-
tended for 500. Applause for each of them was
equally enthusiastic, and, as with that accorded many
others who testified, was only mildly reproved by
chairmen conducting the proceedings. As well as Mr.
Churchill’s reassuring broadcast “intervention” at an
important stage, the arrival of Britain’s new ambas-
sador, Lord Halifax, per battleship George V and
President Roosevelt’s breaking of all known precedent
to go out in his yacht to meet him seemed nicely
timed for effect.
Dozens of experts and others were called as wit-
nesses before the Congress committees. Each read
a prepared statement and was cross-examined
on it by committee members in turn. The method
bears no resemblance to the discussion of a bill in
Australia, where members alone make their speeches
on it till time is up, and any questions interjected
are usually treated in a purely party spirit as imper-
tinences. It resembles more the procedure at a royal
commission, without the legal atmosphere. The great
advantage of the American system is that before the
bill is passed a very wide range of expert opinion has
been secured on it, and every conceivable flaw or
potentiality of it has been examined, not without dust
and heat, but, in this case at all events, impersonally,
frankly and honestly.
The stand taken by Colonel Lindbergh in oppo-
sition to the measure could hardly have been more
extreme ; yet when his evidence is examined in the
verbatim American press reports—the leading New
York newspapers are an object lesson to Australian
city dailies in this respect —his evident honesty and
sincerity are as clear as his beliefs and opinions are
unpalatable. His whole opposition rested on his
belief that Britain cannot win, a belief mainly
grounded on his opinion of Germany’s air superiority.
Mr. Willkie, who cut short his visit to Britain by
several days to be back in time to appear as final wit-
ness before the Senate committee, was just as emphatic
in his opinion that Britain could not win without the
aid that would be advanced through the bill. He called
the bill “a means of preserving American peace.” The
Senate committee majority, reporting favorably on
the bill, formally described it as “a practical safe-
guard aimed at keeping us out of war.” Secretary of
State Hull began his statement before the House
Foreign Affairs Committee; “We are here to consider
a bill designed to promote the defence of the United
States.” Throughout the proceedings that line of
assurance was the theme of the bill’s supporters. In
the analysis of it made by the Senate committee
majority, “the bill contains no authority for sending
American troops, under any circumstances, to fight on
foreign soil or waters.”
With those limitations and assurances kept in
mind as a guard against overwishful thinking, the
powers granted to President Roosevelt to implement
his policy of aiding “countries resisting aggressors”
can be said to give him a completely free hand. He
can order the manufacture and procurement, with
funds made available by Congress, of any “defence
article” —a most embracing term —and dispose of
such articles to favored Governments by lease, loan,
transfer of title, exchange or otherwise. He can order
the repairing or reconditioning of warships for any
favored Government, or furnish it with defence infor-
mation, plans or blueprints. He has other powers on
similar lines, the main restrictive provisions being
that he cannot transport the defence articles released
and cannot dispose of defence articles belonging to
United States military establishments without consult-
ing the Chiefs of Staffs concerned, the articles to be
disposed of from the United States military establish-
ments not to exceed £406,250,000 in value. He must
also report to Congress every 90 days.
Otherwise President Roosevelt’s hands are free.
With the whole United States industrial strength at his
command, the flow of aid to Britain and other favored
countries is expected to be on an at once enormous
and continually increasing scale. Whether this can
decide the war; whether the assumption that man-
power is unwanted will prove correct or not —these
remain open questions. All that can safely be stated
is that additional man-power is apparently not wanted
now, and if it is possible to win this war without what
has hitherto been a main essential in the winning of
wars, then, with the aid of President Roosevelt’s
Lend-Lease Bill, John Bull should come through to
thank his lucky stars, discerning them clearly enough
flaunting free on Uncle Sam’s flag.
Things Were a Lot Worse.
Some of the events of March, 1941, bring back
memories of April, 1917.
That was the month in which Nivelle was defeated
on the Aisne and many of his soldiers mutinied ; the
month in which the mob and the garrison took pos-
session of Petrograd and the Czar abdicated; the
month in which 354 Allied and neutral merchant
ships of 834,000 gross tons were sunk by submarines,
of which only two were bagged ; above all, the month
in which the United States declared war on Germany.
Considering that dreadful toll of sunken ships,
together with the secret reports from France and
Russia, which rendered it doubtful whether any more
fighting would be done by either —the Russians, as it
proved, were hopelessly beaten and demoralised —
the British Government and the leaders of the fight-
ing services must have spent many grim hours won-
dering whether American help would arrive in time,
especially as they knew that the U.S.A. had few divi-
sions fit to be placed in the field and only a small
merchant marine. But they did not despair, even
when 264 ships of 549,000 gross tons were sunk in
May and 272 ships of 631,000 gross tons in June, and
when the Rumanians followed the Russians out of
the war ; and they saw the crisis pass. The French army
was nursed back to health by Petain; the U-boat was
checkmated by the convoy system ; 2,100,000 Ameri-
can troops were carried to France ; Ludendorff’s last
stroke, shattering at first, failed ; and the war was won.
The present situation is in some respects better,
in some respects worse, than that of April, 1917. It
is worse in the respect that Italy is now an enemy,
Japan a member of the Axis and Russia at best an
unfriendly neutral, too scared of Germany even to
yelp when the German legions took possession of
Rumania and Bulgaria—countries in which the troops
of the Czar fought as liberators in 1878 —and reached
the Black Sea. It is very much worse in the respect
that the French, with Petain as their ruler, are not
only out of the battle with Germany, having been
utterly defeated on land and in the air, but are
threatening to send their still formidable fleet to pro-
tect foodships trying to beat the British blockade.
Their Admiral Darlan, who is Vice-Premier and
Minister for Foreign Affairs, as well as head of the
Navy, was never a friend of Britain, and has been
bitterly hostile since the unhappy affair of Oran. To
the delight of the Nazis, who seem to have had fore-
knowledge of his intentions, he said to a press confer-
ence at Vichy that France was in such a state that
the bread ration would be reduced to two slices a
day failing permission to import 500,000 tons of
wheat, for which he had appealed to England and
the U.S.A. ; that the Germans had “proved more
generous than the English,” having “released 2,000,000
quintals of wheat earmarked for the army of occu-
pation,” whereas England was continuing the blockade
and had seized 14 French ships since January; that
he still hoped for “more generous treatment from
England,” and would “not protect foodships for a few
weeks.” But he was “responsible for feeding 40,000,000
people in France, and other millions in Africa, and I
will feed them, if I have to use force.”
The Admiral did not mention that the Germans
were responsible for the plight of France, and respon-
sible also for feeding all their victims. Of the block-
ade, he said it was “powerless to starve Germany; it
does not harm Germany—it touches only peoples not
participating in the war,” The Germans know better,
if M. Darlan doesn’t. All the same, he has raised a
difficult and many-sided question, which may have to
be referred to the Government of the U.S.A. In that
country, there is naturally deep sympathy for the
French, and men in the confidence of the President
(ex-Ambassador Bullitt, for example) are as active in
their cause as Mr. Hoover. But there is also a lively
sense of the fact that there are two blockades: one
wielded as a legitimate weapon, with every respect
for the humane rules of sea warfare ; the other an
unending carnival of savagery which knows no rules,
ships of all nations carrying cargoes to and from
Britain and British Empire ports being mined, bombed
and torpedoed and their crews left to drown. The
British Government cannot permit a one-sided humani-
tarianism to come between it and its stern task and
duty. If it did, it would be called to account by its
own people.
During the week in which the threat came from
Vichy, it was announced that 29 ships of 148,038
gross tons had been sunk in the last four days of
February and the first three days of March. This is
bad, but not nearly so bad as the losses in any week
of April, 1917, nor is so much shipping required as
it was then, when armies far greater than the British
Empire forces now in the field had to be supplied by
sea with everything they needed. The lessened strain
on shipping is one good feature of the enforced with-
drawal from Western Europe. Another good feature
is that the military problem has been simplified by
concentration.
Thrown back on its own resources and require-
ments, the race has evolved commanders whose fame
is already rivalling that of the great ones of old. The
masterly campaigns in the Mediterranean and Red
Sea zones have added a glorious chapter to military
history, and what Cunningham, Wavell and Long-
more and their officers and men have done against
odds can be repeated in a fair field at the other enemy’s
cost. That enemy is getting what he was spared in
the last war, and what —unlike the British —he has to
demonstrate that he can “take” —doses of his own
explosive medicine ; and the doses will be increased
and accelerated as the R.A.F. grows in strength of
manhood and machines. Whatever may happen in
the Balkans, the Greeks have shown that stubborn
peoples fighting for their homes and liberties still
have to be reckoned with by the forces of evil. And
whether the Americans send men overseas or not, they
are in a far better position to help with every sort of
material aid than they were in the last war, when
even in November, 1918, they were using Allied
guns, tanks and ’planes.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Japan and Australia.
Mr. Kawai, the Japanese Minister to Australia,
arrived last week, thereby confounding the innocent
abroad who —as reported in the papers which syndi-
cate his stuff —asked the Minister-elect at Tokyo
whether, in view of the situation in the Pacific, he
really expected to reach the Commonwealth ; and he
came with courteous greetings to the country to which
he has been accredited. “There may be some people,”
he said, “who think that Australia and Japan must
inevitably quarrel, but there need be no quarrels if
we understand each other’s problems, which, being
neighbors geographically and closely related economi-
cally, it is our duty to do.”
In order to keep the Pacific true to its name, I shall
use my best endeavors to fulfil the duty which I have
been commissioned to discharge.
He closed with a compliment: “Australia is regarded
in Japan as a nation destined to have a great future
as an industrial power, while maintaining its position
as a producer of wool and wheat.”
On the same day Australians learned that France
and Thailand had, under Japanese auspices, arrived
at a settlement of their dispute. The terms seem to
have been as good as the French, in their defenceless
condition, could have hoped to get, and better than
they seem to have expected. They are to retain much
the greater part of their colony. “All ceded territories”
(they all formerly belonged to Thailand) “are to
become demilitarised zones, with French Indo-China
nationals enjoying absolutely equal treatment with
Thailand nationals” ; and two Mekong River islands,
though Thailand sovereignty is recognised, are to be
jointly administered by Thailanders and French, whose
existing establishments will still belong to France.
On general principles it is a good thing that blood has
ceased to flow in this part of Asia, whatever the future
may have in store for France.
On the following day Mr. Matsuoka set out for
Europe, “not to stoke the fires of war, nor to medi-
ate nor to obtain assistance for war with America,”
but “to have a heart-to-heart talk with Hitler,
Goring, Von Ribbentrop and Mussolini,” and “to
explain to them the theory of world peace which I
have held for many years.” The sayings of Mr. Mat-
suoka baffle observers in this part of the world. They
seem to be equally puzzling to Americans, among
whom he spent part of his youth. However, he should
be under no illusions as to the Aid to Britain Bill
and the American nation’s capacity and determination
to transfer words into deeds with no loss of time.
And if he carries illusions to distant Europe, he will
have ample time to get rid of them if he decides, on
the strength of what he sees, that they are not worth
preserving.
Dirty Work on the Wharves.
It is a notorious fact that unions with the worst his-
tories of war stoppages are those in which Com-
munists gained key positions; and in each case
Sydney and Port Kembla are storm-centres.
Chief Judge Beeby had one of these concerns,
the Waterside Workers’ Federation, before him in
Sydney last week on an application for an increase
in the award rate of 3s. OJfd. an hour. He granted an
increase of an hour and additional overtime rates,
but made it a condition that job control should cease.
His Honor said that it had been represented to
him by the Commonwealth Government that stop-
pages in loading and discharging ships in Sydney and
Port Kembla and delays caused by reduction in the
rate of handling cargo are “seriously hampering the
authorities in maintaining services associated with the
war effort.” He had asked for a report from the ship-
owners ; they alleged that waterside workers had
broken their award and their pick-up and shift-work
agreements, there having been 40 disputes connected
with loading or unloading since October 21.
The disputes included stoppage of work to demand
increased rates; refusal to work shifts; leaving work
before finishing time; limiting the number of bags to a
truck and in a sling; refusal to engage; refusal to
work to the Board of Reference’s decision; refusals to
continue work, to work overtime, to engage for night-
work, to transfer from one hatch to another, to con-
tinue after tea, to continue after 11 p.m.; go-slow tactics,
unauthorised “smoke-ohs” and delay in arrival at the
pick-up place.
The shipowners also asserted that “Sydney is by far
the worst port in Australia for pillaging of cargo.”
In the case of overseas vessels Sydney has a pillage
rate per ton nearly three times greater than Mel-
bourne, and there has been “a startling increase” at
Sydney since the outbreak of war. This is true also
of the pillaging of coastal cargo. For 11 months to
November, 1940, six Australian companies had to
pay claims amounting to £7971, nearly eight times the
amount paid in the 1934 year ; for the quarter to
September 30, 1940, claims paid in respect of over-
seas cargoes amounted to £6200 in Sydney and £2359
in Melbourne.
“We are concerned with this problem,” said the
Sydney branch executive of the union, referring to the
charge that theft was rampant. “However, it is the
employer’s duty, as a common carrier, to take what
action he considers fit to protect goods committed to
his care, and the law of the country is there to assist
him.” Which is a very cavalier way of being “con-
cerned.” The branch executive denied that “job
control governs the Sydney waterfront,” and “unani-
mously and unhesitatingly” rejected “the suggestion
made by the Chief Judge that subversive and treason-
able activities by members have been responsible for
recent disputes” or that “recent disputes have had
for their object the delay of ships in important car-
riage of goods.” It refused to give guarantees “unless
decisions in that direction are made by the member-
ship” ; and the general secretary (glorified in the Com-
munist press as Comrade Healy) associated himself
with this refusal.
This union has a very bad war history. Yet it
had a very good record of enlistments in the last
war, and probably has in this war, and his Honor sees
“no reason to doubt that the vast majority of its
members realise that the result of the war will vitally
affect the future of the Commonwealth.” But they
are plied with Communist propaganda (a poisonous
sheet called “The Wharfie,” organ of “the Waterfront
Section, Communist Party of Australia,” has made its
appearance since the Communist press was banned),
and they are too apt to let Communists drag them
into doing Moscow’s dirty work. Communists trade
on the inertia of the steadygoing unionist and on his
natural objection to being branded as a “scab” ; and,
serious as the shipping position has become, the Gov-
ernment merely pleads and scolds.
Silent—But Sensible.
In these days—as in others—of outcry from various
vociferous gentry representing a variety of classes in
the Commonwealth about their alleged sufferings
under “increasing prices,” “tax burdens” and other
things, a singular silence prevails among a class that
suffers more than any other —the middle class of
salaried workers whose incomes look nice on paper
but are apt to fade away by the time the earner is
finished paying out in all directions.
The class on £4OO to £lOOO a year is the target
of taxation, of rising prices and multi-government.
No class is more heavily hit by the new Federal taxa-
tion, by State unemployment and income taxes, by
rising costs ; no class suffers more from the growing
evil of government by board and commission.
A man of this class buys a car on time-payment,
at once supporting a proportion of mechanics, rubber
workers, oil employees and so on. The State taxes
him heavily for the right to use the car ; the Com-
monwealth gets home on him with a thumping petrol
tax. He supports a multitude of attendants and park-
ing stations in the cities; he contributes a steady
revenue in fines to State Governments for petty traffic
offences. Nine-tenths of him buys his lunch every
day, supporting another multitude of eating houses.
He is expected to dress well and to dress his family
well. He. buys a large proportion of the books and
magazines sold every week, supports libraries, churches
and “patriotic fund days,” buys war-savings certifi-
cates.
It costs him heavily in medical and hospital fees
to bring up a family ; he buys more insurance than
any other class ; he keeps the popular holiday resorts
going ; he subscribes to a variety of local organisations
and charities. He is the prop and stay of the Great
Public Schools. Generally, he is no more secure in
his job than the casual road-worker and, if he loses it,
finds himself with a load of financial commitments.
A long illness can burden him with a debt that will
take years to pay. Not many of him are observed in
pubs or s.p. joints, not because he doesn’t like beer or
betting, but because he can’t afford either.
Yet his voice is hardly ever heard in times like
these. Morosely he watches wharfies and ironworkers
on strike and Governments failing to deal with indus-
trial holdups ; he sees overstaffing and overlapping in
Government and quasi-Government departments, en-
counters maddening regulations at every turn. But
he keeps his temper and goes home quietly, probably
because he knows he has a vote and knows how to
use it. That is a fact that the parties now in the
picture will do well to bear in mind.
The Almighty Transport Act.
Commonwealth departments needed electric-power
poles and piles for defence works. R. J. White and Co.,
of Sydney, obtained a contract to supply them.
Timber-getters went to work in the Cloud’s Creek
district, out from Grafton, cutting the big poles. The
contract called for sticks up to 80ft. long. Motor
haulers with trailers undertook to cart the poles to
Grafton for shipment. Military authorities released
R. I. Caldwell from the army to go to Grafton to
supervise the cutting, carting and shipment of the
poles.
Grafton is in N. S. Wales. That State has a
Transport Act. Defence orders or no defence orders,
that there Transport Act must be enforced. It
limits length of poles on trailers to 40ft., unless the
trailers are fitted with special braking equipment
and boosters. The haulers say that the braking and
booster equipment is unobtainable in Australia, that
it would cost £7O to £BO per truck to install it if it
were, and that, anyhow, they can drive the trucks
with perfect safety without it. They also aver that
their use of truck gears and brakes makes them more
careful on declines and that if they had the unobtain-
able equipment it might lead to faster driving at
greater risk.
But N. S. Wales has that there Transport Act
and that there Act is to be obeyed. So police were
instructed to warn haulers against carting the poles.
R. J. Caldwell ordered them to do so, because that
is what the Defence Department released him to do
and because he had been asked to speed up delivery.
Enter Mr. Bruxner, N.S.W. Minister for Trans-
port :
The regulation has been in force for many years.
Mr. Caldwell has declined to ask for a permit. Mr.
Caldwell’s statement is entirely out of accord with the
actual facts. No hauler has been prevented from haul-
ing. Only recently a man and a horse and a number of
bullocks were killed by one of the timber haulers whose
trailer had no brake. There have been numerous other
accidents and some miraculous escapes. The order
about brakes on trailers is being enforced.
Mr. Caldwell, in reply:
A number of haulers have been prosecuted. I have
been threatened with prosecution for telling the haulers
to bring in the poles. It is true the regulation has been
in force for years but was not enforced until recently.
The suggestion that haulers have caused accidents is
unfounded.
In December White and Co. had sent Mr. Bruxner
a letter pointing out that haulers were being
prosecuted for working on Sundays on urgent defence
work and for having loads too long ; that when they
applied for permits it took three weeks for them to
be got from Sydney ; that they were being prosecuted
for being on the roads with timber after dark, and
that they denied being responsible for accidents. Mr.
Bruxner acknowledged the letter.
Representations to Minister Page, who is mem-
ber for the district, resulted in a verbal assurance
that prosecutions would cease, and that permits would
be issued for six months. Perhaps the war will then
be over, or all the timber will have been cut or some-
thing, and it will be insisted again that defence can’t
be allowed to interfere with State Transport Acts.
The only permanent solution seems to be for the
timber-getters to saw the logs into lengths within the
Act and for the builders at the delivery end to nail
them together again.
Soldiers in Overalls.
“X.S.”: The State Government, the Housing Commis-
sion, the zoning committee of the City Council, house-
agents, landlords, architects, people with social
panaceas or ideas about civic beauty and moral uplift
and people with no ideas whatever are all arguing
furiously in Melbourne or writing to the papers
about the over-population problem that has arisen in
Footscray and other cradles of that surprising new
baby the munitions industry. The State Government,
as usual, wants to pass the buck to the Common-
wealth Government. That Government is afraid,
apparently, of antagonising local interests and of not
getting sufficient State and civic co-operation. In
the process the nature of the problem has been
forgotten.
Last week it was sidetracked by an acrimonious
discussion as to whether it would be a good thing
for the morals and health of the workers if they were
accommodated in huge skyraking blocks of flats on
the Russian model, instead of in dinky little suburban
cottages. The controversialists ignored the obvious
fact that it would be quite impossible for at least
several years to give the workers either. In the mean-
time workers are sleeping two to a bed or on veran-
dahs or in districts so remote that the distance com-
pels them to spend most of their leisure coming from
and going to their place of employment.
If the munitions workers were thought of pre-
cisely as if they were soldiers in overalls, which, in
effect, they are, the problem would resolve itself with-
out any difficulty whatever. The relevant authorities
would commandeer sites —there is plenty of vacant
land available —and erect married and single quarters
just as they do for the army. A camp erected at
Mount Martha for the militia is far in advance of
anything private enterprise is capable of providing at
Footscray, and most of the workers would have no
strong objection to occupying similar apartments if
they could get them. After the camps had served their
purpose they could be removed, as the numerous
offices and barracks erected in Melbourne were re-
moved after the last war.
The only people who might be affected are a few
landowners and house-agents.
"To Let."
“Many meetings of public bodies have been held recently
in an endeavor to check people leaving the town for work in
war industries in the city. In the two main business streets,
many shops have ‘to let’ jdgns posted. Many houses are
vacant.” —Melbourne “Age.”
“Belfields” reviews the decline;
The town is Echuca. It should be—as it once was —one
of the most important in Victoria. It is on the Murray, 150
miles north of Melbourne, the junction of four border rail-
ways from Bendigo and the Goulburn Valley in the south,
Balranald and Deniliquin in the north. Districts on each
side of the river produce wool, wheat, lucerne, fruit, butter,
timber, meat and the famous Pericoota oranges.
The town lies between the junctions of the Goulburn and
Campaspe rivers with the Murray. It has, or had, flourmills,
freezing works, a butter factory, sawmills, brickyards, gas-
works, powerhouse, etc., fine churches and schools.
Over the river is Moama. Opposite Moama is as fine a
wharfage outfit as could be found outside the cities, a great
two-tiered wharf complete with sheds commodious enough
to hold the cargo of a large ocean freighter. It was built in
the not-so-long-ago when Echuca was a thriving river port,
with lines of river steamers and their barges taking on and
discharging cargo from the Murray valley, clearing and
receiving passengers from the entire central Riverina. The
wharves are silent and deserted now, but there was a time
when they hummed with activity night and day.
Once Echuca had 70 pubs. Those were the days when
a great stream of teams passed back and forth across the
river, when new settlers went northward to the ’Bidgee and
the Bland, when the near bends flickered every night with
countless campfires. As recently as 1925 there were old-
timers there who professed to remember when Chinese pros-
pectors carried their swinging loads across the river, some of
them to lose their pigtails in the Lambing Flat riots.
Fifteen years ago it was thriving. You couldn’t rent a
house. There were some dilapidated old shops in the main
streets, relics of the old days, but they were gone by 1930,
modern premises in their place. On sale days the air over
the line was full of the dust of thousands of stock; stock
trains went south to the Melbourne markets almost one
behind the other. The swagman had only to show his nose
in the place to be rushed with work. The local football team
was in the Bendigo league and the town crammed special
trains with its followers.
There were those who predicted a future for Echuca,
because of its position, the productivity of its soil and the
irrigation on its southern borders. But they overlooked Big-
City politics, transport-strangulation policies, centralisation.
Now Echuca faces stagnation. It is not alone. There are
plenty of other towns in Australia with “to let” signs in
their shops. Their fate is a warning to the nation of the
fallacy of having nearly a third of its population in two
great cities. The war has merely hastened what was happen-
ing in the days of peace. Echuca is a shocking example of
the failure of State Parliaments to develop their States.
In Echuca and its fellow-victims, Australia has a striking
symptom of one of its worst ailments —metropolitan indiges-
tion, with likely fatal complications.


Sociey
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Jack High”: A manufacturer who
wanted a factory site in one of Mel-
bourne’s closely-packed industrial areas
bought two adjoining properties and sold
the ramshackle cottages thereon to a firm
of wreckers. The morning the cottages
were to be demolished he went down
early and found that the district had fore-
stalled the wreckers. Every man, woman
and child that could handle a tool was
hammering, wrenching and carting away
with a fury that promised a light day for
the wreckers. While the owner stood
looking on a woman moved near to
remark in a superior voice “Disgraceful,
isn’t it?” Agreeably surprised at any
sign of respectability in such a lawless
gathering, he was concurring heartily
when a couple of policemen appeared at
the double. The lady’s affability suffered
swift eclipse. “Hey, Jimmy,” she shrieked
towards the swarming horde, “beat it —
the cops!”
* * * *
“A.G.”: “Fi. fa.’s” account (B.
19/2/’4l) of a woman recovering
damages against herself in England
was paralleled some years ago in Perth.
The secretary of a land-selling company
later became its liquidator; then he sued
himself as liquidator for past wages due
as secretary, obtained judgment and fol-
lowed this up by presenting a petition
against himself, resulting in his being
made bankrupt (as liquidator). At the
ensuing public examination he asked
himself numerous questions and sup-
plied the answers. If the answers had
not been forthcoming he no doubt would
have had himself gaoled for contempt
of Court.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: The Oxford Group is under
fire, A. P. Herbert, of “Punch,” having
launched a motion in the House of
Commons about it. Mr. Herbert, of
course, is an Oxford man and represents
the Uni. in Parliament; and nothing en-
rages your Oxonian more than to have
his Alma Mater confounded and con-
fused with the activities of Dr. Buch-
mann’s followers. A young woman of my
acquaintance once met an M.A., Oxon.,
at a Melbourne party. “Oh,” she gushed,
“how providential! Let me introduce
you to Mr. Moat. He was at Oxford, too,
and you’ll be able to have a lovely talk
together.” But, unfortunately, Mr. Moat
was a newspaper reporter who had never
been out of Melbourne. He had heard
Mr. Ivan Menzies expatiate on moral
disarmament, and been moved so in-
tensely as to join the Oxford Group.
* * ♦ ♦
“Morimoto”: The house in Auburn,
Melbourne, which the Japanese Govern-
ment has leased for two years as the
official residence of Mr. Kawai won’t
convey to that gentleman a deep impres-
“There must be somethin gain on, Mrs. McCabbage—the army's been dashin' to and fro all day."
sion of the beauty of Australian archi-
tecture. There is nothing Old Colonial
about it, inasmuch as it follows the lines
of the last decade of Melbourne subur-
ban villadom. Nevertheless, it has a his-
tory. It belonged to A. M. Nicholas,
who surrounded his house with a garden
which was one of the showplaces of
Melbourne, with a £35,000 conservatory',
hothouses and greenhouses. Then he
built another of enormous extent at Sher-
brooke, 40 miles from Melbourne. Its
winding drives had traffic lights at every
corner, and meandered between scores
of shrubs and trees which had never
before been acclimatised in Victoria. Part
of the acreage of Mr. Kawai’s new abode
has been sold, but enough of the garden
remains to make any tree-loving Japanese
feel at home.
“Spokeshave”: I hope no misguided
individual will take Mr. Kawai to see the
Japanese garden in the Treasury Gardens.
A Town Hall official, deputed to show
some Japanese naval officers round the
town, thought he would give them a sur-
prise by exhibiting this delicate compli-
ment to a friendly nation. “Garden!”
he said. “Yes,” they replied in concert.
“Japanese garden!” said the guide en-
couragingly. “No, no, no! ” shouted the
four in chorus.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: There seems to be some-
thing about flying that tends to the scrap-
ping of unnecessary letters in words. The
process began with “Qantas,” showing
that “Q” can get along just as well with-
out the parasitic “u” tacked on to it. And
if “Qantas” why not Queensland and
hundreds of other words? And now the
R.A.A.F., I note, is defying convention
by rating every member of one of its
grades as an “aircraftman,” the “s” in
“craftsman” and most kindred words
having been eliminated. Again, why not?
Every letter dismissed as superfluous
means time saved in writing, and the
principle is surely capable of much wider
application. If “craftman,” why not
“trademan,” “saleman,” “frontierman”
and so on? When you come to think
of it, we don’t speak of “billiards-rooms
or “railsways.”
* * * *
“Zake”: Summer is nearly over, and
that grand old perennial of the silly season
fill-up, the Irrational Clothing of Sydney
Men, has failed to bloom for the first
time this century. One misses the pon-
derous opinions of captains of industry,
always obviously flattered by being asked;
the never-failing technical explanations of
a meteorologist—the star turn, this —and
the efforts of the legion of innocents
who, on receiving their cue, rushed in
and shouldered the angels aside to tread
the what-our-readers-think columns. After
which six-days’ run the editor barked
“Kill it!” and Sydney’s men sweated on
as usual in serge and tweed.
* * * *
“A Major”: Large questions are
opened up by the remark of a Sydney
alderman that popular rather than classi-
cal music should figure on the pro-
grammes of lunch-hour organ recitals in
the Town Hall. The Sydney Town Hall
organ is one of the largest in the world,
capable of great grandeur and richness
in its outpourings, as well as a variety
of contrasts and combinations of tone
found in no other instrument of the sort
in the Southern Hemisphere. Manifestly
it can’t rationally be used to blare forth
“Roll Out the Barrel” and the “song-
hits” from the most recent Yankee film.
Scarcely a song worth singing or a
tune worth remembering has been pro-
duced in the last quarter of a century.
I’ll back Schubert’s best-known “Marche
Militaire” or Liszt’s best-known “Liebes-
traum” to be as acceptable to any lunch-
hour crowd as “The Music Goes Round
and Round.”
* * * *
“Kilfera”: These English! A 1001 b.
air bomb plunged through a London
house and wedged itself in the floor
without exploding. The residents bolted,
all except a submarine rating home on
leave. The house belonged to a relative
and he didn’t want to see it go up. So
he sawed the flooring away, got the bomb
out and placed it carefully in a wheel-
barrow. Aware that the thing might go
off any minute he told a neighbor to
walk ahead warning people, and his own
son to bring up the rear. Thus he
wheeled his deadly cargo to some waste
ground about quarter of a mile away
and there dumped it —to be arrested, con-
victed of a breach of the regulations and
fined £3. Grateful neighbors paid the
fine by tarpaulin muster.
* * if *
“Adelaide”; A nice point of law has
been settled by the High Court. ' Langdon
Bonython, of Adelaide, who died in 1939,
had in 1919 and 1929 settled on an un-
married daughter property worth over
£lOO,OOO for her life but with power to
himself of revocation. This was never
exercised, but the Taxation Department
held that, as it might have been at any
time, the daughter was not really sure of
her estate till her father’s death; therefore
death duties of £ 10,000-odd were pay-
able. S.A. Supreme Court held that there
had been a trust from the start, and it
was not revoked—though it might have
been ; therefore no duty. The High Court
on appeal has said the same. So S.A.
doesn’t get the £lO,OOO-odd.
* * * *
“Bo”: A newspaper photograph of a
housewife standing hip-deep in the pas-
palum outside her house, with an accom-
panying par. on the damage paspalum
was causing to clothing, must have put
the wind up our outer-suburban Sydney
council, for last week a feverish burst of
scything broke out. One of the first
streets to be tackled was the one in which
Alderman Bumble lives. The footpath
immediately in front of his place had, of
course always been regularly done.
Shortly after lunch Mrs. B. came out
dolled up to the nines and hailed the bus
that passed the door. As she stepped in,
a baker’s cart clattered to her front gate
and stopped. Poking her head out of the
bus window, Mrs. B. sang out: “Oh,
baker, you can leave it in the servery. I’ll
just have a loaf this afternoon.” As the
bus moved off one of the hardy toilers
slung his scythe down, pulled out the
“makings” and drawled to his mate: “So
will we, ’Erb; an’ me lady won’t be able
to pot us to ’er ole man, neither!”
* * * *
“Wodgil”: “M. Tremoulet leaves at
last.” In these words Sydney “Sun” be-
gan an attack on the departing French
Consul-General, who offended the good
Stewart and infuriated the “Sun” by stick-
ing to Vichy—an attack which reached
a new low level for flapper journalism.
The main portion was a photograph in
which the French official was shown
carrying luggage to the ship about to
bear him away. “On his left” was “his
elderly housekeeper, Mademoiselle
D ,” also carrying luggage and
lowering her head, apparently in the
vain hope that her features would escape
the photo.-fiend ; and “behind her” was
“M. Tremoulet’s friend, Miss Cynthia
P ,” both names being spelt out.
In a crowning insult it was alleged that
“both went with him,” and there was a
parting sneer —“M. Tremoulet objected
to the picture being taken, and protested
volubly in French.” Had the outrage
occurred in his own country M.
Tremoulet would have objected with a
challenge to a duel, with no firing in
the air or beg pardons.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: The canvasser was battling
our street with his bag of samples and
was just beaten to one gate by what
looked like a rival. He waited. Presently
he saw the rival leave the front door
and try the back. Evidently repulsed
there, the rival came to the gate.
“No luck?” sympathised the canvasser.
The supposed rival pulled up, peered
hard at him and said, “Lesh she you
have a go.” The canvasser drew back.
“Not me,” he said ; “if she’d knock
you back she’d knock me back.” “Aw,
I dunno,” said the other; “you ain’t
married t’ her.” Whereupon our tame
drunk slithered down by the gatepost
and went to sleep.
* * * *
“Si Anu” remembers:
Returning from Malaya, Major-General
Northcott remarked that Queensland troops
find the climate less trying than Bananaland,
and there is a blest immunity from malaria.
The responsibility for that was the Singapore
Base and Sir Ronald Ross, working in un-
conscious conjunction. Ross spent 15 years in
India getting himself bitten by the different
varieties of mosquito until he located the disease
in the germ-carrying proclivities of the
anopheles mosquito. Twenty years after Ross
had given his discovery to the world I was
stationed on a British islet off the coast of
Borneo. Malaria was endemic amongst the
natives, Europeans came rosy with health
to the place and were sent away sick or carried
off feet foremost, and blackwater fever, the
concomitant of malaria, was common. But
the P.W.D. man who was .responsible for our
sanitation had never heard of Ross and believed
in the three-centuries-old theory of bad air
which made the Portuguese name the scourge
malaria. He attributed his own immunity from
the pest to his habit of drinking two bottles
of English Bass daily. One day I dug an old
textbook of Ross’s, its leaves uncut, out of
the P.W.D. man’s library. After I had read
a few passages from it to the P.W.D.. man he
decided that Ross was a bigger crank than
1 was. I was objecting to the practice
of hanging buckets of stagnant water on the
verandah of bungalows as a preventive measure
against fire, thus enabling us to manufacture
all the anopheles we wanted on our own
premises. Doubtless this medieval state of
affairs would have persisted if the needs of the
Singapore Bass had not forced the authorities
to take a course of Ross to prevent the con-
struction of that monumental work repeating
the history of the first Panama Canal, where
coolies died in thousands. Now Singapore and
much of the hinterland of Malaya are as
healthy as Sydney or Melbourne. But if my
P.W.D. friend survives he is probably still
drinking his Bass and complaining of the fussi-
ness of Government officials.
WINDOW-DRESSING.
What counts the most, in days like these.
When Parliaments are dying,
And Tweedledums with Tweedledees
In bids for votes are vying?
When high resolves and noble ends
Each party is professing,
Both posing as your staunchest friends,
You’ll find that more and more depends
On skilful window-dressing.
No more by logic speakers strive
To leave opponents flustered;
Sheer eloquence—if such survive—
No longer cuts the mustard.
To prove your crowd’s return would be
A priceless boon and blessing,
And that of t’other coterie
A sickening catastrophe,
The card is window-dressing.
Your choicest wares you must display,
The shelves expertly raking
To make the bravest show that they
Are capable of making.
Watch barrowmen along their route
Through city streets progressing;
Mark the technique they use with fruit
And follow it when in pursuit
Of votes you’re window-dressing.
What wins elections nowadays?
The lure of fluent diction?
The reasoned plea or flashing phrase
That carries swift conviction?
Well, these may have some minor share,
But when it comes to stressing
A party’s claim to getting where
Are sweets of office, rich and rare,
I’ll say there’s nothing to compare
With artful window-dressing.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“I told you, Prendergast, that I prefer buckets .”
“Evvet Effendim”: The Pera Palace
Hotel, which was bombed in an attempt
to blow up the former British Minister
at Sofia, has led an adventurous life.
When Turkey entered the last war a
number of old British hands were heaved
out of Constantinople. Among them was
a certain Edwards, who claimed to have
been the first photographer in Molong
(N.S.W.). He, his son-in-law, Colonel
Binns, R.M., and a partner (Swan) in
the big Middle Eastern firm of G. and
A. Baker were among those who left —
the Binns connection with the city dated
back into the mists of time. When the
armistice came Swan returned with the
first delegation of British as interpreter
and go-between, “And my first job,”
said Swan, telling me the yarn with the
relish of a man who had been turned
out of his Mosman bungalow and re-
turned to be presented with the Hotel
Australia, “was to go to the Turks and
order them to hand over the Pera Palace
to me.” One characteristic of John
Turk, by the way, is that he is a realist
who bears no grudges. Members of the
British colony were welcomed back as
old friends.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Wonthaggi (Vic.)
was the first town which made the price
of beer a union matter. Bung tried to
raise the charge from the idyllic three-
pence a mug, and the union, which con-
trols virtually everything in Wonthaggi,
declared a beer strike. When two days
had passed without the sale of a single beer
the publicans decided upon a Machiavel-
lian move to break the strike. But the
union was ready with the reply. Almost
simultaneously with the announcement
that there was free beer in all the pubs
came the declaration that the strike was
off. It was on again as soon as the free-
beer supply was cut off.
* * * *
“Bughouse”: Strolling through the
chain- or the department-store, noting
the alert female faces watching over
every counter, observing, too, the evening
emergence of thousands of smart spinsters
from tall office buildings, themselves so
much like anthills, I wonder if mankind
has started on that evolutionary course
that will lead ultimately to the pre-
dominance of the female and the sub-
mergence of the male. I note also the
general independence of the female, with
her slacks, her thigh-displaying shorts,
her fags and tennis racquet. I note the
way generally that she puts it over the
retiring male, invariably most modestly
clad. Don’t smile, my brothers! Other
civilisations than yours have long ago
brought the male to complete subjection.
Go to the ant, the bee or the termite.
There the whole commonwealth is
handled by the female: food gathered
and stored, young hatched and attended
to, the whole ruled over by the supreme
female, the queen-mother of the entire
hive or nest. Males certainly exist, but
only on sufferance they are fed and
groomed and never asked to work, but
are turned out to starve and die by un-
feeling sisters when their raison d’etre
no longer exists. And not one in ten
thousand is required even for that. But,
most shameful of all, in the beehive,
which to date has been the common-
wealth most accessible to study, the male
is hatched from an egg that hasn’t even
been fertilised!
« * * *
“U’bombi’s” note:
Perhaps because there was too much war,
Hollywood and leg-appeal copy about, none
of the great dailies that circulate out our way
observed that Tuesday of last week marked the
centenary of the landing at Simon’s Bay
of David Livingstone and the beginning of one
man’s effort that opened up a great continent.
In his 30-odd years of African exploration he
covered nearly 30,000 miles, discovered lakes,
rivers and mountains, tribes and customs and
woke the world up to slave raids. For his own
part, Livingstone rejected the idea that he was
an explorer, always insisting that he was a mis-
sionary trying to redeem the heathen. But it
is doubtful if any other explorer has gained
the same niche in history; certainly few others
made such an impression on the native races
which they discovered. Had it not been for
Livingstone, the world would probably never
have heard of Stanley and inland Africa might
have remained a mystery for another half-
century. In these days of allegedly new
theories of living, it does no harm to reflect
that none of the currently popular “isms” has
yet produced a Livingstone or even a colorable
imitation.
* * * *
“Sixth Col.”: In the early days of the
1914-18 war the students of a leading
university gave a patriotic concert. A
singer was billed to sing Schubert’s “Two
Grenadiers,” into which the composer
has cunningly woven the strains of “The
Marseillaise.” Nothing could have been
more appropriate to the occasion. But
the vocalist sang it in German, and sud-
denly the audience was electrified to hear
the words “Mein Kaiser, mein Kaiser! ”
ringing out in tones of adoration. Next
day a representative of the professorial
board had the committee up on the
carpet, and it took the committee’s united
intelligence to convince him that there
was no subversive intention, that “kaiser”
means “emperor” in German and that the
Emperor referred to was Napoleon.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The effect of horror films
on children is being hotly debated in Mel-
bourne. It is absurd to dogmatise about
it. I took a kid once to see Allan Wilkie
do “Macbeth” and discovered after a
while that the child was trembling
violently. On inquiry I discovered that
the unfortunate infant really and truly
thought that the victims of Macbeth’s
insatiate ambition were martyrs to the
cause of public entertainment. When I
explained that the murdered characters
would duly make their appearance on
the stage on the following evening he
recovered his equanimity and enjoyed the
rest of the show immensely. Walt Dis-
ney’s cartoons have a terrifying effect on
some children ; others are quite un-
touched by them. Yet they are as un-
like reality as “Macbeth” is like it. And
if parents and others consider that the
spectacle of characters in a play being
bumped off in horrifying circumstances
is harmful to children, why aren’t they
equally upset at the sight of cities being
bombed, ’planes being blown to pieces,
submarines taking their crews to certain
asphyxiation and all the other spectacles
of real death and destruction being
depicted on the newsreels?
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Amongst the sea-changes
wrought by war has been the creation
of real ocean-refugees sea-wandering
waifs who have no homes but live pre-
carious lives of cargo-seeking and cargo-
carrying. They have no guns or para-
vanes and send no wireless messages, and
their very lives may depend on orders
received from an expatriated owner or
manager in England or America. Some
have not even those slender links with
their former countries but carry on as
opportunity offers —lonely little commu-
nities of lonely men scraping a bare sea-
living as best they can, gratefully appre-
ciative of the stretching of international
sea-laws to permit it. Norwegian, Greek
and Danish are the flags they mostly fly,
but they will have no homes until
Nazidom is destroyed for good and all.
A few are French, but the tricolor has
given place to the Union Jack all
through the southern oceans, and at
Vichy these seafarers are considered out-
laws. There has been nothing like it
before in the history of the seas, and
if seamen have a say in the rebuilding
of a post-war world nothing like it will
be allowed to exist again.
* * * *
“Aquarius” has memories about the
stuff Sydney mixes with its whisky:
Sydney’s water supply, perennially uncertain
in these days, had a rather chancy start that
may have endowed it with' some sort of a
hoodoo. The stream running into Sydney Cove
had its origin in marshy ground at the top of
the shallow valley in which the town was
established, extending from near the present
corner of Market and Pitt streets towards the
line of Elizabeth-street. In the first years of
settlement this was the only fresh water avail-
able, but it was presently found that water
could be had by sinking for it through the
sandstone strata and shale. After a dry spell
in the summer of 1791 had threatened a water
famine, Governor Phillip ordered a stonecutting
gang to carve out tanks in the bed of the creek
for use as reservoirs, and in May the following
year Collins recorded that one containing 7996
gallons, with a well in the middle 15 feet deep,
had been finished. A couple more were dug
afterwards, and were long in use. The principal
tank was cut in the rocks at the present inter-
section of Hamilton and Tittle George streets,
a short distance north of Hunter-street. -■
* * * *
“Nakhoda” : The Australians in Singa-
pore, finding the name Raffles attached
to public places, hotels, monuments and
what not, will be able to reflect that a
prophet is not without honor except in
his own country and at the time that his
prophecies are uttered. In 1818 Raffles,
then an official in the East India Com-
pany, wrote to another official in Lon-
don: “We are on our way westward,
but I much fear the Dutch have hardly
left us an inch of ground to stand on.
You must not be surprised if my next
letter to you is dated from the site of the
ancient city of Singapura.” When he
returned to England many years later
the E.I.C. sued him for £22,272 on the
ground that he had wasted the com-
pany’s funds in purchasing and founding
the city which is now the world’s seventh
port. The name means “city of the lion.”
There are no lions in Singapore, though
there used to be tigers. Few traces of
the ancient city have been found, but it
was once sufficiently important to be
mentioned in Chinese annals. They called
it Temasek.
s|c * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”; About the
queerest diplomatic job today is that of
Francis Osborne, British Minister to the
Vatican. When Mussolini decided to
become Hitler’s ally, Osborne and his
staff lived at a legation in the Italian
part of Rome. They had to clear out
in a hurry to Vatican territory, which is
only 108 acres in extent, so that quarters
are very cramped and recreation or exer-
cise difficult to obtain. The only con-
cession granted Osborne by the Italian
Government has been permission to visit
a barber in Italian territory for shave
and haircut when required. Osborne is
an accomplished water-color artist, and
his Vatican City studies may have historic
value long after Mussolini and Hitler
have become mere evil memories.
“Good evening, miss. Would you care to visit one of the new air-raid
shelters ?”
THE LUCK OF THE SPECK.
“Tasmania has never had a ‘Hansard.’ ”
—R.P.. 12/3/’4l.
You in that island home who dwell
Where luscious berries grow so well
And apples thrive in vale and dell,
On hill- and plain-land,
There’s yet another point of view
Regarding which, if you but knew,
We’ve genuine cause to envy you,
We of the mainland.
Though some there are who’d like to stick
Your territory on to Vic. —
A slur you’re naturally quick
To brand as hateful —
Though year by year you have to go
And bite the Federal ear for dough.
One curse you’re spared for which, 1 trow,
You should be grateful.
Whene’er your legislators prate
And prose in parish-pump debate,
When Ins are raked by tongues irate
Or Outs are pasted,
No corps of chroniclers you’ve got
To capture reams of rant and rot,
And faithfully ensure that not
A word is wasted.
Kinsfolk, your scenery is prime.
Your fruits are winners every time,
And none in such a genial clime
Should find romance hard;
May you pursue for many a day
The even tenor of your way
And keep all alien pests at bay,
Including “Hansard”!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


m
sm
x'Wcr
m
10 for 10 D
20 for 18
50 for 4^2
100 /or « 4
Far greater
smoking enjogment
CRAVENA
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
m
m
2811
POLITICAL POINTS
At Canberra and Wellington there were
secret sittings of both Houses last week.
Saying they had no use for secret
sittings, Ward, Brennan and Blackburn
refused to give the pledge required of
them and stayed away. Cameron ex-
pressed the views of other members when
he said he hadn’t heard a hundred words
at previous secret sittings which couldn’t
have been told to the public. Lay mem-
bers looked astonished when Dr. Evatt
pointed out that “there is no legal obli-
gation upon members to observe secrecy.”
He added that, for his part, he would be
bound in honor to keep any defence
secrets.
Curtin emerged victorious from his
onety-oneth tussle with Caucus recalci-
trants who lean to the Left —in one case
so heavily that it is a wonder the gentle-
man keeps standing on both feet. Beas-
ley was readmitted, but it soon became
evident that he would lose his place on
the Advisory War Council when the
thing was put to the vote. In the blessed
name of unity it was decided to ask
Fadden to add two members to the
A.W.C. so that Government and Opposi-
tion might be equally represented: then
Curtin, Forde, Evatt, Makin and Beasley
were chosen. Fadden said he would be
charmed to comply ; so the doctor goes
on the A.W.C.
Stevens will have no deficit in Delhi.
Members gasped when they learned what
he is to draw, “as from March 4,” m
pounds Australian: Salary, £2500 p.a. ;
entertainment allowance, £1250 p.a.; car
allowance, £375 p.a. ; travelling allow-
ance, £3 3s. a day on land and 10s. a
day on sea or in the air; all plus a
staffed residence as good as that of the
British representative. As for his staff,
one gentleman is to get, in salary and
allowance, £2006, another £1334, and
a third £1125. Maoriland is sending to
Delhi F. R. Picot, its Food Controller
and Director of Internal Marketing ;
salary and staff unspecified.
Arbitration Judge O’Mara adjourned
the metal-trades case last week because
young Mr. Holt, the Minister of Labor,
had called a conference to discuss “mat-
ters very much in issue before me, with-
out paying the Court the courtesy of
notifying it.” On the previous day Minis-
terialists had rapped young Mr. Holt over
the knuckles for committing their parties
to his child-endowment plan without
bothering to consult them. Young Mr.
Holt is much too jazzy in his Ministerial
movements.
Declaring that a false die had been
used for marking soles, Minister Spender
has cancelled a military footwear contract
given to a Sydney concern called Fostars
and stopped payment of £3OOO “pending
further investigation.” One McEvoy, the
managing director of Fostars, said to a
daily paper: “We have not treated the
charges very seriously because we could
not conceive of them as being serious.”
Such charges are serious very serious.
In countries with sterner traditions they
are hanging matters.
“Useless, dangerous and ambiguous”
was the description applied by an oppo-
nent of a Melbourne Trades Hall Council
motion calling upon the Government to
summon “a conference of representatives
of China, Japan, the U.S.A., Russia and
the Dutch East Indies to arrange a peace
pact in the Pacific.” “Idiotic” would
have been better. Nevertheless the thing
was adopted by 84 votes to 52.
Having, with other Ministers, formed
the habit of rushing into print in reply
to correspondents of the peahen press,
Foil now announces that he is tired of it.
So is the public.
Frank Brennan, M.H.R., was in his
best form last week ; and his best is very
good indeed. He got heavily home on
Fadden:
I appeal to the acting Prime Minister,
who has made some crass blunders since
he attained, by accident, the position he
holds, to come out into the open and let
the wind blow upon him and the sun shine
upon him. He has no right to introduce
the Star Chamber here.
Then he had a cut at Curtin and that
gentleman’s part in “needlessly depress-
ing the people by sensational public
statements, without suggesting what the
people are to do.” The War Advisory
Council he described as “a non-Govern-
mental and irresponsible body—a body
foreign to the Constitution assuming
Governmental functions with which it has
“Sez ME!"
not been clothed, and that, moreover, to
the exclusion of accredited Ministers of
State.” Curtin’s reply was more spirited
than convincing.
There is a deep suspicion in the Union
Club that “S. M. Herald” is about to
support Labor for the first time. In a
series of articles on the Abbco bread
case the Old Girl was extremely nasty
to the Mair Government. One was pub-
lished below some lofty compliments to
the Commonwealth Labor leaders on
their Advisory War Council efforts.
Curtin, the Dame said, had “greatly con-
tributed” to the A.W.C.’s “advancement
in prestige.” As for Beasley, no one had
toiled “harder” on the Council or “per-
formed more valuable work in the indus-
trial movement, under the aegis of an
informal but none the less potent
authority derived from that body” ; it
would be “a national loss if Mr. Beasley
were not to remain there.” The club’s
oldest inhabitant is now a prey to the
gloomiest forebodings.
The passing of the Aid to Britain Bill
recalls Woodrow Wilson’s second in-
augural speech, delivered on March 5,
1917 (“We are provincials no longer.
There can be no turning back. The
world must be made safe for democ-
racy”). On April 2he asked Congress
for a declaration that “the recent pro-
ceedings of the German Government”
amounted to “nothing less than war
against the Government and people of
the United States.” The House gave it
to him by 373 votes to 50, the Senate by
82 to 6 ; and on April 6 he declared
war. Roosevelt’s procedure wasn’t quite
the same, but it will be equally uncom-
fortable for “the German Government.”
In the next war, if the staff goes on
growing at the present rate, A.B.C. will
be able to mobilise an army of its own.
For the year to June 30 it distributed
£164,323 in salaries among a staff of 604
persons. Whew!
Premier Tom Playford, letting himself
go at Gumeracha:
During the last war, the highest number
of persons employed in Government muni-
tion works in the Commonwealth was
3600. In this - war 10 times this number
will be required in South Australia alone.
Then Tom went into raptures over “the
foresight of the Government in providing
in our railway workshops the best Gov-
ernment toolroom in the Southern Hemi-
sphere.” A more important factor,
though Tom didn’t mention it, has been
the interest and example of Broken Hill
Prop., which, very naturally, has always
had a soft spot in its heart for South
Australia.
“How to make the public fish-minded”
was discussed at a marketing confer-
ence in Sydney. The average housewife,
paying Is. 2d. per pound for week-old
flathead, could give an emphatic answer.
Referring to post-war reconstruction.
Dr. Evatt mentioned the “fast-lowering
standards of the farmers and the middle
classes,” and saw “some danger” of a
failure to improve the “fast-lowering
standards,” through “lack of organisa-
tion.” The danger is obvious, and it is to
be hoped that the doctor will impress it
on the minds of his fellow-legislators,
particularly when they are considering
taxes. The income tax that Canberra
passed in such a hurry takes too much
from middle incomes and too little from
the highest group. And it doesn’t mollify
the victims to read such things as that
one rich manufacturer recently sold a
horse for £31,000 and paid 13,930 guineas
for a few others, and that another rich
manufacturer has “about 50 horses in
training.”
Being about to go to the country, the
Queensland and S.A. Premiers are
proudly quoting unemployed statistics
and ingenuously inviting the electors to
draw the moral. Forgan Smith’s ac-
count is that “unemployment was re-
duced from 20.3 p.c. in 1931-32 to 3.9
p.c. in the last October quarter.” Play-
ford says his unemployment registra-
tions have declined from “24,909 in
November, 1931, to 3707 at present.”
S.A. has never levied an unemployed-
relief tax as such, making its single in-
come tax suffice. Queensland has an
ordinary income tax and an unemployed-
relief impost—called State development
tax now.
Said the N.S.W. Minister for Agricul-
ture: —
We have a position which challenges
commonsense. The average return to the
producer is low, the average price paid by
the consumer is high, and the average
retailer is making only a bare livelihood.
Such a position, so far as it is not unavoid-
ably due to war conditions, should be
mended.
Then followed the average politician’s
panacea, a conference. It opened with
the usual fanfare of press trumpets, but
nothing has been heard of it since—the
common fate of all conferences on such
matters.
“Mr. Kawai, the Japanese Minister to
Australia, is establishing a home in Mel-
bourne, and this will really be his official
residence, though he will maintain a suite
in Canberra.” Apparently the Sydney
dailies haven’t realised it yet, but wait
till they do, wait till they do!
N.S.W. has an Assistant Minister of
Justice now, Treatt having withdrawn
until a Judge with a royal commission has
reported on the army bread case. The
locum is Manfred, one of the two hon.
Ministers. Manfred will find a ready-
made motto in Byron’s “Manfred”;
It will not last,
But it is well to have known it, though but
once.
Maoriland doctors, other than “those
who hold contract appointments,” have
refused to do g.-p. work for the Labor
Government’s social security scheme.
Their “Medical Journal” explains why:
Being paid from the Social Security Fund
and governed by the regulations, the pro-
fession will be in effect civil servants, but
civil servants without hours of duty, leave,
promotion or pension—civil servants with-
out the status, amenities, protection or
security of civil servants. Advantage would
accrue to those who undertook the greatest
number of patients, contenting themselves
with physiognomic diagnosis and empirical
treatment. There is one course for the
profession to take. Terms may be varied
at any time, but rights and liberties once
surrendered will never be retrieved.
So the profession is engaged in what
Gandhi calls non-co-operation and what
tuckpointers call a strike.
Three years ago 21 Douglas Credit
candidates came out for the Queensland
Assembly. This time not one D.C. hat
is in the ring. The brotherhood has had
enough of urging the inert elector to
“demand” his “national dividend” and
losing real money in the process.
In contested Queensland Assembly
elections three years ago, 250,943 pri-
mary votes sufficed to elect 42 Labor
members, whereas it took 117,694 pri-
maries to elect 12 Agrarians and 69,205
to put in four U.A.Ps. Two Labor
members representing 15,007 electors
were returned unopposed. Conceding
their party 60 p.c. of the votes in a 90
p.c. poll, it failed of an absolute majority
of primaries, which totalled 539,037 ; yet
it wound up with 44 of the 62 seats. That
shows what the Opposition is up against
in Queensland. Nevertheless, the distri-
bution of seats looks democratic enough.
Highest and lowest numbers of elec-
tors in the four divisions were 11,222
and 8783 in Metropolitan (20 electo-
rates) ; 10,057 and 6748 in Southern (23
electorates); 9837 and 5955 in Central
(nine electorates), and 9620 and 6351 in
Northern (10 electorates). If Victorian
Assembly votes were so nearly equal in
value, there would be no C.P. Govern-
ment in Melbourne.


ARMS AND THE WOMAN.
“Women in uniform continue to demand that women in uniform should be sent abroad."


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ~ 1,250,000
Head Office; ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Stree/
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
110 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street. E. 0.3,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
SYDNEY’S GREATEST EASTER ATTRACTION
ROVRUmpiDf
APRIL 7™ to 15!” 1941 V lllllllV
SHOW
BDflyS- 5 NIGHTS-
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, BETTER THAN EVER
Here are some of the Empire Show highlights which will
be featured this Easter: Empire Pageant . . . Empire Home
. . . Empire Exhibits . . . Empire Temple of Beauty and
Womanhood . . . Canadian Exhibits from World’s Fair . . .
British Government Exhibits . . . also Exhibits from Fiji,
Papua and New Guinea . . . Australian Services Display—
Munitions and Equipment.
Outstanding ring events and exhibitions, more industrial
displays, more amusements, something to interest and amuse
old and young.
8 DAYS 5 NIGHTS
Position Vacant.
BUILDING INDUSTRY CONGRESS OF
VICTORIA,
55 Exhibition Street, Melbourne,
Invites applications from persons with organis-
ing and executive experience and possessing the
qualifications necessary for the effective adminis-
tration of the Congress affairs and the further-
ance of its objects. Knowledge and experience
of the Building Industry not essential.
The Congress is a permanent body acting
on behalf of the Building Industry. It was
established in 1931, and its exceptional pro-
gress now warrants an important appointment.
Salary to be in accordance with the qualifica-
tions of the successful applicant and to be not
less than £750 per annum.
All applications will be treated as confiden-
tial, and will close 15th April, 1941.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The resignation of Admiral Sir Ragnar
Colvin, through ill health, will be a
loss to the R.A.N., since in his four years
as First Naval Member he had carried
a full knowledge of the expansion of the
Commonwealth’s sea defence at his
fingertips, and had been largely respon-
sible for building up war-time efficiency.
Having commanded the R.N. War Col-
lege immediately before coming to
the Commonwealth, he was especially
suited to the development of Australia’s
young sea forces, in which the first flight
of Commonwealth-trained officers were
reaching the stage of command. His
regime will always be remembered as the
era in which Australians first became
captains of their own ships as a matter
of course and proved themselves in
battle.
Vice-Admiral G. C. Royle, who suc-
ceeds Admiral Colvin, is a 56-year-old
Englishman who in recent years has had
command of the aircraft-carriers Glori-
ous and Ark Royal, and who at the time
of his Australian appointment was Fourth
Sea Lord and Chief of Supplies and
Transport at the Admiralty. He knows
a lot about the Pacific, having been Naval
Attache at Tokyo from 1924 to 1927.
Nickname is “Ginger,” not only because
his hair’s that color, but because, though
he’s a very quiet-spoken man, he has a
gingering effect on his commands. Till
Vice-Admiral Royle gets here Commo-
dore J. W. Durnford, R.N.. will act as
First Naval Member.
Westralia’s Walter James has a birth-
day this month —he will be 78 on the
28th. He doesn’t look it; but then he
never has looked his age. When Premier
(1902-04) he would have passed for a
stripling in the twenties. James was one
of the 54 delegates to the 1897 Federal
Convention, and he and Isaac Isaacs
are the only survivors. A member
of the Perth Bar since 1888, he has
of late years taken an active interest in
the very solid fortunes of the “West
Australian.”
While Curtin was making the most
impassioned speech Canberra has ever
heard him make —it was in justification
of the warnings issued last month and
in rebuke of Ward Tom Mann lay
dying in England. When Mann was in
Australia in the early years of the cen-
tury Curtin was one of his disciples.
Before he settled into a fierce, unreason-
ing Moscowism, the old chap—he was
just on 85 at the end—changed his
opinions as often as he changed his jobs ;
and he was by turns farmer’s boy, pitboy,
engineer, union secretary, travelling agita-
tor and what not. In one of his trans-
formations he became a publican and was
fined for selling bad beer. The British
worker never quite forgave him for it.
Many workers in Victoria who are
sound in limb today can bless Francis
J. Pemberton, just retired from the job
of Senior Inspector of Factories and In-
spector of Machinery for the State Labor
Department. He was an enthusiast on
the subject of safeguards against indus-
trial accidents, and his study of dangerous
machinery and his supervising of the
measures he created at a time when even
workers themselves looked on these
things as ridiculous fussiness undoubtedly
helped to bring about a huge drop in
the number of bad injuries in factories.
For his long service in this regard he got
a seat on the National Safety Council.
One of the oldest merino studs in Aus-
tralia is owned by L. Mac Smith, of
Borenore, near Orange (N.S.W.), whose
Boree Cabonne stud was established by
his grandfather in 1835. The sheep are
of pure Spanish blood, and their lineage
dates back to 1790, when the King of
Spain presented a draft of merinos to
the King of the Netherlands. Descen-
dants of some of those sheep were
brought from the Cape to Australia by
Captain Waterhouse, and first passed
through the hands of John Macarthur
and Sam Marsden.
Made his last sputum test, at 50, Keith
Russell Moore, regarded as Australia’s
foremost authority on silicosis. Born at
St. Kilda (Vic.), Moore graduated in
medicine at Melbourne Uni. in 1915,
joining the Commonwealth Health De-
partment seven years later. In 1923-24
he conducted a campaign against diph-
theria at Bendigo (Vic.). Before going
to Westralia in 1932 to take charge of
the Kalgoorlie Health Laboratory, Moore
investigated the health and working con-
ditions of miners in Victoria and the
Speck. He passed on in Perth after an
operation.
Alan Villiers, the Melbourne journalist
who made an Indian summer of the twi-
light of the windjammer by a succession
of romantic adventures with ships, is still
afloat, being with the R.N. in the English
Channel. Moreover, he has found time
between U-boat chasing to write another
book and found a publisher to put it
between covers. It is Sons of Sinbad,
and describes a year’s wanderings in the
Red Sea and around the African coast
in Arab dhows. This brings his literary
output up to the baker’s dozen. Villiers’s
most spectacular exploit was his buying
of a Danish training-ship, renaming her
the Joseph Conrad and taking her for a
60,000-mile voyage which crystallised in
the Cruise of t he Conrad in 1937.
K. A. Ferguson, appointed Acting
Judge of the N.S.W. Supreme Court, is
a son of ex-Justice Ferguson, who
graduated to the law from journalism.
The son, like the father, was at Sydney
Uni. He saw service in the 1914-18 war.
William Herbert Ifould, who has been
principal librarian and secretary of the
Public Library of N. S. Wales for the
last 28 years, was born in S.A. 63 years
ago and got his educational polish at
Adelaide Uni. He started his career as
W. H. IFOULD.
a librarian as a cadet in the S.A. Public
Library in 1892. A trustee of the
National Art Gallery of N. S. Wales, he
is Sydney’s most indefatigable opener of
aft shows. Sydney Rotary made him its
president in 1928.
Ernest A. Scott, at 82, reckons he’s the
oldest architect in Sydney in active prac-
tice. He was born in S.A., and came to
Sydney the year Phil May joined The
Bulletin staff. Scott’s first important com-
mission arrived in 1884 the Rockdale
Town Hall. He designed also the A.M.P.
headquarters in Sydney’s Pitt-street,
Dalton House and Cathcart House, also
in the city, and the Hotel Canobolas at
Orange. The firm of which he is head —
Scott, Green and Scott—is at present
reconstructing Toohey’s Brewery. In his
ERNEST A. SCOTT.
young days Ernest Scott was a hurdler
of note ; he’s still spry enough to super-
vise building jobs actively, no matter hov£
tall the ladders. He succeeded Consett
Stephen as president of the Industrial
Institute for the Blind. In a few years’
time, he says, he may take up bowls.
Turned up at a Nazi war camp in good
fettle after having been posted missing
since the B.E.F. evacuation of France,
Captain John Henderson Bolton, a Mel-
bourne medico who enlisted in the
R.A.M.C. in London at the outset and
could have escaped from Boulogne but
stayed behind to look after wounded
soldiers. He was educated at Wesley
College and Melbourne Uni., and was
medical superintendent at the Melbourne
Public Hospital until he went to England
to do research work. A brother is a
lieutenant in the A.I.F.
“El V.” puts an esteemed colleague
out to grass:—
The retirement of Percy Allen from the
staff of “S. M. Herald” marks the passing of
an era. It leaves H. K. Williams, the financial
editor, the only remaining member of the
pre-1914 “Herald” staff. Allen was an all-round
man. Melbourne-born, he had a sound country
newspaper training before going to the
“Argus,” thence to the “Review of Reviews”
under Dr. Fitchett. He celebrated the entry of
the twentieth century on the conservative “Fiji
Times” and then appeared on the Boulder
(W.A.) “Star.” A few years on the Sydney
“D.T.” and “N.Z. Herald” put the polish on
him, and when he resigned to enjoy his second
youth the other day he was celebrating his 32nd
year on Granny’s staff. There he had become an
institution: the office historian and archivist, the
ambassador of the Fairfax family’s confidential
missions, the high priest who could give the
law on “Herald” tradition, who knew everybody
in the city but whose interests were not limited
by it. He was an authority on the Pacific and
its literature, his handbooks on the islands were
standard works, and he was probably the Aus-
tralian journalist best known in Maoriland
newspaper offices, since for donkey’s years he
served as Australian correspondent of N.Z.A.P.
One of his biggest historical jobs was his part-
authorship of “S.M.H.’s” Century of Aus-
tralian Journalism, published to celebrate the
paper’s hundredth year.
In taking the presidency of the S.A.
Taxpayers’ Association, knight Lavington
Bonython follows in the footsteps of son
John Langdon Bonython. The Bony-
thons have strong claims to this position,
as the family pays more taxation than
probably any other in the State —in-
stanced by the £300,000 succession duty
collected from the estate of knight Lang-
don Bonython last financial year. Lav-
ington, who is 65, has chaired many com-
munity movements and services, such as
abattoirs and hospital boards, Chamber
of Commerce and A.N.A. He was
Mayor in 1912-13 and Lord Mayor in
1927-30.
Dead at 76 in Melbourne, Percy
Krone, composer of “The Old Bull and
Bush,” which was popularised by singer
Kate Carney in the early days of the
present century, when even the doors
creaked it. It was the only song Krone
ever wrote. Son of a former Victorian
Registrar-General, he was educated in
Melbourne and articled to a legal firm,
but threw up the study of the law to
go bushwacking in Fiji. Then he fought
in the Boer War and found his way to
England, where Leslie Stuart, the com-
poser of “Florodora,” stimulated him
to write his song hit based on the name
of the famous Hampstead Heath hostelry.
After his one success he settled down
in Melbourne, where he took a deep in-
terest in League football.
Sydney streets lost one of their most
familiar figures when Archibald Joseph
McDonell died at 73. His great figure
and beaming, moustached countenance
gave him the appearance of having
stepped straight out of a book by John
Galsworthy; but he hailed from Taree
(N.S.W.), was educated at Riverviewand
practised for 17 years at the Sydney Bar
before joining his brother Charles in the
old legal firm of McDonell and Moffitt.
With a more specialised brain and a less
kind heart, he might easily have ended
on the High Court Bench, but he abhorred
the asperities of legal contention, loved
knowledge irrespective of its field and
dabbled happily in abstruse science and
chemistry. He had a profound familiarity
with the deeper waters of criminology
which brought him the conduct of
unusual cases like that of Fallieni.
MURRAY, C.J.
For quarter of a century he has been
Chief Justice, Lieut.-Governor and
Chancellor of the University in South
A ustralia.
Dead at 62, Hugh Hamilton Newell,
N. S. Wales Commissioner for Main
Roads since 1932. He was born in
Northern Ireland but educated in Syd-
ney, becoming a Public Works cadet. He
qualified as a civil engineer and occupied
many positions of responsibility before
becoming Main Roads Commissioner.
The Government thought so highly of
his work that, a year or so ago, it renewed
his appointment for seven years.


Consider
the quality
as well as
the price
1057 - 3 41
-the secret is
the 333’s blend
fth*&
choicest
Virginia
tobaccos


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bull-ant Bill”: Today brought the
finish to a week of nightly rat-scamper-
ings above the ceiling, varied by descents
to try their young teeth on foodstuffs or
furniture. They were an unusually trap-
shy lot, and poison baits would have
meant unwanted aroma. Before day-
break there came a swift swishing across
the rafters, followed by a squeak ; then
scampering feet, more swishes, more
squeaks, and we realised gratefully that
Joe was on the job at last. Joe is a
7ft. carpet snake who does us this service
when needed, and does it better than any
cat. Also, he is much to be preferred in
other respects. No carpet snake would
ever dream of having kittens in my shirt
drawer, as our last cat did on two occa-
sions, drat her! They never make night
hideous with amorous yowlings. They
don’t come scrounging round at meal-
times with hypocritical pretences of deep
affection and stick their blasted claws
into one’s leg to attract attention. Nor
do they rouse one up on a winter mid-
night to let them out or stand the con-
sequences. And I don’t mind admitting
that Joe’s most valued service this time
has been to make up Aunt Sarah’s mind
to go home at once in order to be free
from those disgusting rats and danger-
ous great snakes all over the house.
c*T „ * ** XT o * .
E.S.L. : One western N.S.W. cocky
at least now has kindlier feelings towards
an old enemy. A number of sheep were
trapped during a bushfire in a small clear-
ing, from which there was only one small
path to safety. Terrified, they huddled
“ Where's your license?”
together watching the approaching flames
and resisting all efforts to drag them
through the opening. Just as the lad who
had been sent to move them had given
up hope, there was a rushing, crackling
noise, and a big emu tore past. One old
ewe dashed after it, and in a few seconds
the whole mob followed to safety.
* * * *
“Horsetailer”: When the manager
ordered Sandy, the pet kangaroo, to be
shot, only the station blacks worried, as
young Mac, the jackeroo who had caught
and taught it, was miles away droving.
But the abos, ceremoniously buried a
Too, which satisfied the manager. It
was not until the boss was on a holiday
in Sydney that Sandy was again seen
learning to “mix it” outside the men’s
hut. In the end all one had to do to
bring eight stone of ’roo full-hop across
to deliver straight left or uppercut was
to point, an action which the boss in-
advertently did on his return. Nobody
waited to see what happened, but next
morning the blacks were dispatched fish-
ing, and meanwhile Sandy disappeared.
On the days following gins and “boys”
were so upset that they couldn’t work,
and what the boss said about niggers and
pet ’roos nearly buckled the home-pad-
dock gate. Three days later Sandy re-
appeared, hopping after the house gins.
“Well, I’ll be damned!” the boss was
heard to remark. “The blighter finds his
way back from 30 miles out.” Yes,
Sandy still hops around the homestead,
but the boss has sworn off pointing as
a habit
* ♦ * ♦
“Hanko”: Usually the weak-flighted
groundlark sticks close to earth, but occa-
sionally some preaaiory fowl forces it to
adopt altitude, whereupon the small bird
executes an aerial manoeuvre that would
arouse the admiration of a fighter pilot,
It rises to height along an airway that
. approximates in shape the letter S ; dur-
ing part of the evolution the groundie
is flying on its back. But the astonishing
part is that such a seemingly simple stunt-
ing should invariably befuddle the
strategy of such a doughty hunter as the
Nankeen kestrel.
* * * *
“R.H.P.”: “I’ve heard some outback
Queensland coves goin’ lemony about the
train-dawdlin’ they’ve got to put up with,”
said Joe the Splitter ; “but they’re regu-
lar fliers compared with some of the
trains I’ve drove in Tassie in the old days,
One time we steamed into Shag Gully
with a ‘mixed,’ and hears that the
daughter of one o’ the cow cockies whose
milkcans we useter pick up was gettin’
spliced that afternoon to Mick O’Brien,
the tank-sinker. Although it caused a
hell of a fight between me and the guard,
we not on’y goes to the weddin’ but also
stops for the two days’ shivoo that fol-
lered it. But I’ll admit it was worth it.”
“Why,” I queried, “didn’t you want to
stay?” “ ’Course I did,” said Joe. ‘But
the guard wanted to wait for the chris-
tenin’ as wel1 ’ and 1 bucked against that.
xhe Commissioner was pretty fussy in
the Speck them days.”
**' * *
“Dickie Beech”: Two small fish of
drab exterior, neither over 7in. long, have
been interesting the Queensland Museum
and will eventually interest icthyologists
all over the world. They are sucker-fish,
and although taken from a marlin caught
off Lodestone Reef outside Townsville
(N.Q.) are different from any sucker-fish
yet recorded from Australian waters.
Believed at first to be new to science, they
were eventually identified as belonging
to a rare species which has its normal
habitat in a comparatively small area of
the Atlantic between the West Indies and
Newfoundland. Should the identification
be verified, as seems likely, it will afford
new proof of the amazing capacity for
long-distance rapid travel of those fierce
swashbucklers of the deep seas the
marlin spearfishes.
* * * *
“Atrax”: The sarcasm of “Pitt St.”
(B. 26/2/’4l) concerning press accounts
of chicken-killing spiders is completely
wasted. Quite recently the entomologist
of the Melbourne Museum recorded a
well-authenticated instance in which
three-week-old turkeys were killed by
trapdoor spiders in the Mallee. One
was dragged for yards, and had its legs
pulled halfway into the killer’s burrow.
The spider was described as having a 9in.
leg-spread and a body the size of a ban-
tam’s egg, resembling a large rat as it
ran. In another fully-recorded instance
from N.Q. a trapdoor spider was seen
to kill a month-old chicken and to drag
the body more than 50ft. to its lair. Aus-
tralia has several species of bird-eating
spiders which capture wrens and other
small fliers as regular items on their
menu ; so have India and South America.
But the queerest of the lot is an Aus-
tralian spider which spins submarine
webs and catches small fish as well as
water insects.
•N * ♦ *
“Nagheer”: A fortnight of suburban
city life has filled me with a profound
and enduring respect for the hardy and
courageous folk who endure such an
existence continually and uncomplain-
ingly. Their feet have become inured to
the hard, unyielding pavements, their ears
to the constant infernal uproar which
begins with clattering milkcans before
dawn, goes on to the grind of self-starters
and the roar of engines, and merges into
the raucous bellowings of the neighbors’
wireless sets all day and most of the night.
Habit may have accustomed them to the
total lack of privacy if they keep the
windows open and blinds up, or the total
lack of fresh air if they don’t. I might
stand up to all these with practice, but
what would assuredly land me in hos-
pital in a month is the embalmed food
on which they contrive to exist after
cooking it in gas fumes. Only the plen-
teous accessibility of pubs makes city life
possible to us soft-fibred bush-dwellers,
weakened as we are by fresh tucker,
fresh air and peaceful surroundings. (I’ll
admit that the beer is good.)
* * * *
“Gryllus”: This is the time of year
when snake-killing birds get in their best
work. Jacky Kookaburra has no mono-
poly in that line, although he is the best
self-advertiser. Butcher-birds, owls, cur-
rawongs, hawks, magpies, crows, ravens
and even plover are death on young
snakes, and tackle poisonous species just
as hungrily as non-poisonous ones. Of
course, the bad babies haven’t reached
the dangerous stage by now. Other
notable enemies of young snakes are
goannas, native and domestic cats and
wild pigs. The brown snake is the only
venomous Australian snake hatched from
an egg —all others produce their young
alive. The tiger snake is the most prolific
parent, the record family being 109 and
the average 30 or 40, compared with 20
for black snakes and 15 for death-adders.
As a general rule, the cooler the climate
the bigger is the annual nursery.
* * * *
“Back Bobbra”; It has frequently
been pointed out that if Steele Rudd
could come back and see what commer-
cial radio and modern films have done
with his characters he’d probably grab
a gun and go looking for somebody. I
wonder what he’d have thought of a
recent effort in which Dave has returned
from an attempt to enlist and says to
Dad, “They wouldn’t have me ’cos they
said I was illiterate.” Says Dad, “It ain’t
right, Dave. That’s y’r brother Ben.”
Steele Rudd never had to depend on that
sort of thing for his laughs.
* * * *
“Ned Copley”: That newly-painted
corrugated-iron tank may have felt glassy-
smooth to “J.W.’s” touch, but to the
snake that climbed it (B. 19/2/’4l) it
probably felt as grippable as a macadam-
ised road. Snakes being dangerous sub-
jects to experiment with, let him take
a cockroach and try it as a climber on
bright enamelware and a painted surface.
I’ve trapped those pests by the score in
an enamelled sink, yet have seen the
same insects racing with ease up a sheet
of painted iron that acted as a splash-
board. Smoothness at all times is com-
parative. Few things feel smoother to
the hand than a billiard ball. Yet under
the microscope the same ball will show
ridges and valleys so high and deep that
if it could be enlarged to the size of the
earth its mountain chains would far ex-
ceed those of the globe in height.
Similarly we talk of “sharp as a needle.”
Under the miscroscope the needle has a
point like a crowbar, while its shining
smoothness takes on the roughness of a
file.
* * * *
“Hanko”: The water in the bag was
slimy, a brassy sun glared down, and
the stubble glinted and crackled under-
foot. “The beer back there was a bit
too cold, don’t yer reckon, Herb?” We
wheeled about, brittle sheaves clamped
under chaffed arms. Along the road, a
hundred yards off, pedalled a brace of
lightly-clad cyclists. “Yair,” we heard
the pedalling Herb agree. “Ain’t no taste
to the stuff when it’s chilled.” My mate
hurled his sheaves against an almost-
completed stock :* “Why do mugs on
bikes gossip at the top of their voices?”
he snarled. I answered not, but my
bundles of prime oaten went with a
bang. Wearily we set about righting a
wronged stock.
* * *
“Edjudina”: Why underground water
should be brine in one spot yet be fairly
drinkable at another not far distant (B.
19/2/’4l) is a puzzle that could only be
solved by making a lateral borehole-
survey of hundreds of miles of rock.
Coolgardie, which is about 25 miles from
Kalgoorlie, shows water from 100 ft. that
a man might well enough drink at a
pinch. The first deep well sunk by
Martin Walsh in the early 90’s yielded
water which at first was thought would
solve the whole water problem. Results
didn’t quite come up to expectations, for
within a short time the well become
brackish. But its water was always good
enough for animals. At Kookynie, about
150 miles away but still on the line of
gold formations, the water lifted from
the Cosmopolitan mine was so* fresh that
it supplied the town’s swimming baths.
And, though sterile when first lifted, the
water in the baths soon became the home
of numerous water beetles and other
aquatics. Which again starts another
puzzle where were these aquatics be-
fore the Cosmopolitan pumps began to
work, for prior to then the country was
practically devoid of surface water?
* * * *
“Langshan”: Animals, as well as
humans, regret the passing of the mango
season. There is never a mango within
reach or a windfall to be picked up where
horses and cattle have access to the trees.
Horses place a hoof firmly on the end
of a mango and remove the skin with
the teeth before eating. The cleaned
stone is then discarded. The cow has
no such scruples. She chews the whole
fruit and swallows the stone, which is
rejected later when chewing the cud.
Small heaps of stones dotting the pad-
docks testify to Strawberry’s liking for
the fruit. Pigs, too, are fond of mangoes,
and it is amusing to see a litter of young
pigs sucking daintily at the fruit, while
Mum, munching lustily with yellow
juice running down her jaws, regards
them benevolently. Mango trees give
excellent shade, but the trunks must be
protected from pigs, which will ringbark
the largest tree, and even the hard-to-
kill mango succumbs to that.
MATESHIP.
The love of a woman’s a prize to cherish,
And 1 have been loved as 1 never deserved,
But the pulse of a heart some day might perish
And the road that is straight grow steep
and curved.
Jealousy walks with love unknowing.
And new loves call to the stoutest souls;
But wherever I am and wherever I’m going
I’ll trust my mates while the old world rolls.
A mate whom you’ve had in the past, now
hidden,
Is a mate for ever —he’ll never fail
Nor feel he has come to your feast unbidden
As soon as he hears your friendly hail.
And so if you’ve won to the highest places
And seek your mates of the olden times,
You’ll laugh at the sight of the tough, old faces
And pick up threads of their lives like
rhymes.
You’ll ask no questions if times are tender
And shell out cash if the need is there;
There’s never a service a mate won’t render
To a mate who has once been true and
square.
Pride cannot live in a mateship ever
Nor charity chill if mates are true;
Though one may be dull and the other* clever
Who cares a damn? It’s between you two.
Life has its problems too deep for solving;
The wise man leaves them for fools to
probe.
What are we all but ants revolving
Round and round on a spinning globe?
So “stick to your mates” should be your motto.
And if you go to the Barleymow
And leave together, all fine and “blotto” —
Well, only yourself and your mate need
know.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Old-timer”: “Billy the Bug,” driving
through the Victorian Wimmera in the
old days on his round of the bush meet-
ings with betting bag and sweat-wheel,
found an unattended chaff-shed stocked
with prime wheaten. He helped himself
to a couple of bags. An hour later he
was overtaken by a buggy and a fast pair,
driven by a wild-looking agriculturist, who
yelled, as soon as he sighted Billy, “Hey,
where’d y’ get that flamin’ chaff?” Billy
pulled up, got down and walked over to
the suspicious one with his hand out.
“Now,” he said, “that’s what I call real
advertisement. How did you come to
hear about our chaff? Here’s me, travel-
ling the district, trying to get people to
"lts an improvement on the whistling bomb. This'll play ‘ There'll
Always Be An England!'”
inspect the sample I
carry and not making
much of an impres-
sion, and up you come
asking to see it. It’s a
pleasure, a pleasure.”
While the other was
still working this out
Billy stepped back to
his trap, got a double-
handful of chaff from
one bag and presented
it. The other was re-
covering. “It looks
mighty like some o’
mine,” he insinuated.
Quick as a flash Billy
said, “Of course, you
must be Mr. , er?”
“Wheatear.” “Yes,
Wheatear, we’ve been
buying your chaff for
years.” And a molli-
fied cocky gulped and
said, “Oh, you’re from
Mann and Colter’s
chaff store in Dim-
boola then?” After
that the air cleared,
and presently our Wil-
liam drove on, reflect-
ing on the value of a
quick brain and a
ready tongue in the
battling game.
* *
“Padflogger”: Skating the roads of
our continent these modern times one
notes with regret the passing of a fine
Australian art. In the days when the
bullocky and the horse-teamster were in
no particular hurry and camp was made
casually at the creek or the Fifty-mile
Well, and where the beef and horse
conductors were likely to be joined by
a swaggie or two and a shearer or so,
one could sit in to a seance of “blowing.”
What loads would be hauled —and out
of such flooded creeks or bogs! And
the numbers of beasts hitched on and
the wagon tongues pulled right out!
And the hills climbed, the prowess with
the whip and the booze-ups when loads
were delivered! Etiquette demanded that
the teamsters, as owners of the camp and
the fire, should have the first go. But
the barbers wouldn’t be far behind.
Jumbucks by the thousands would be
shorn. Sheds cut out in record time.
Scabs run off the job, perhaps stoushed.
Booze-ups would be recounted far ex-
ceeding in liquid those of mere team-
sters —booze-ups that brought Mick or
Red or Sandy right to the verge of the
“trimmins” and beyond. Into all this
inflated discourse on deeds done or
imagined the swaggies would feebly try
to insert an oar. It was, of course, the
height of discourtesy to doubt the
“skiter’s” veracity such led to the
doubter being branded as a nark, as one
who tried to buy a fight, as one to be
avoided. Nowadays road freight flashes
from place to place on a truck; halts
even for a pot are breathless intervals
indulged in only while the “bus” is
taking in some more “juice.” So “blow-
ing” is no more —no one has time!
$ He $
“Mat’s Mate”: What price the big
bloke rushing down to our camp at
Murray Bridge (S.A.), fishing his best
clobber out of the swag, doing himself
up and then ducking back to the town?
Investigating, I found him carting a
“ It's bonzer in the army , Dad—they let you sleep in till six o'clock”
bonzer-looking girl about, spending his
last few bob on ice-cream and suchlike
vanities and finishing up by taking her
to the pictures. “Never mind about you,”
Mat growled when he got back to the
camp. “Her ol’ man keeps the pub at
Parakeet an’ we’ll be trampin’ through
there on our way to Pinnaroo in a few
days. It’s scrub an’ sand an’ y’ can bet
it’ll be a hundred in the shade an’ we’ll
be broke. Any good?” And with a fer-
vent “Too right!” I turned in.
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”: As soon as I fire a
patch of grass or a heap of rubbish, all
the birds that live on my farm appear
and take up positions on all sides of the
blaze. The ringdoves settle on the
ground and wait patiently for the insects
disturbed by the flames to come within
reach. The wagtails hover between
bough and earth, occasionally diving to
turn over a few dried leaves. The kooka-
burras sit sedately along the boughs,
apparently asleep, but ready to plunge in-
stantly with deadly accuracy upon any-
thing that may move. Wood swallows
hover around in flocks or fly restlessly
from limb to limb. Butcher-birds perch
precariously on the smooth, sheer tree-
trunks —alert. Magpies will hop bravely
right up to the flames, and turn dried
leaves endlessly. But, whilst every in-
sect movement sends all the other birds
into frenzied activity, the blue-faced
shrikes (blue jays) sit with dignified indif-
ference along the boughs. When the
fire dies down and all the other birds
depart they come down. Shortly they
will be seen carefully testing the ashes
with their feet. Once these are cool
enough, the birds go methodically
through them for the insects that didn’t
get away.
w * * *
“Murray M.”; The stranger dropped
his knot on the verandah of the Baldry
(N.S.W.) pub after dark one night and
slipped inside for a cooler. He was on his
second when the police arrived. Names
were taken and explanations offered till
it came to the stranger’s turn. “Are you
a bona fide traveller?” asked the Law.
“Too flamin’ right,” was the reply. “Just
a minute till I get me passport.” He
dived through the door and returned hold-
ing the swag. “That’s good enough for
me,” said the Law, and went about his
business.
* * * *
“Henry Blake”: Indifferent as the abo-
riginal was and is to most forms of physi-
cal pain, he could never stand up to the
lash with anything like the stoicism of
the white man. During the first decade
of the Swan River settlement, the tribes
were very hostile, 25 whites of a popula-
tion of fewer than 3000 falling by their
hands. Robbery, too, was frequent, and,
loath to use the death penalty, while lack-
ing means of imprisonment, the Adminis-
tration tried the effect of a little flog-
ging ; fifty across the back, the usual
measure handed out to recalcitrants of the
21st Regiment, then in garrison on the
Swan. Only two natives were flogged—
for a very real outrage—and it is re-
corded that they crumpled almost into a
state of complete collapse. By 1840 the
Colonial Office had issued a ukase forbid-
ding the flogging of aboriginals. Over-
landers of the ’seventies and ’eighties
driving cattle north to the Roebourne and
De Grey districts found the lash much
dreaded by the native. A mounted
charge, with half a dozen whips cracking,
was sufficient to dispel all notions of a
tribal attack.
* * * *
“Langshan”: When it comes to bush
scavenging meat-ants will make crows
and wild pigs look blundering amateurs.
Countless grubs and insects go to stock
their larders ; the bones of any dead thing
are soon picked clean by them, and the
unfortunate bird or animal rendered help-
less by sickness or accident is doomed
to an unenviable death. All snakes killed
at our old homestead were placed on the
meat-ants’ nests, and we kids would give
those nests a width berth, being con-
vinced that a bite from those ants would
be as poisonous as the snakes, they had
consumed. But the red terrors have an
arch-enemy. On summer evenings after
rain, winged meat-ants, like many other
species of ants, leave the nest in swarms,
but few escape the vigilant dollar-birds.
The raiders are a pretty sight, the silver
“dollars” on their wings flashing in the
last rays of the sun as the birds swoop
and dart.
* * * »
“The 0.D.”: Dirt in a hollow tree is
easily explained (B. 12/3/’4l). Standing
through a summer a tree collects a lot
of dust on its leaves and branches ; when
rain comes a proportion of it is carried
down into the pipe. Field mice, ’possums
and other small wayfarers often enter the
pipe with muddy paws; insects, too.
Over a period of a tree’s life it could
thus collect enough dirt to sink a ship.
* * * *
“Wang”: The applicant for a job
couldn’t plough or milk, he’d never
swung an axe and he couldn’t handle
horses. “I’m afraid, me man, y’re no use
t’ me,” said Dad, not unkindly, “though
I’d like t’ give you a start if I could.
What work have y’ been used t’?”
“Tailoring,” replied the applicant. Dad’s
eyes brightened. “By Jove!” he cried.
“I believe I can fix you up with a job
after all. You’ll be handy with a
needle?” “Naturally,” replied the other.
“Right,” said Dad, “come with me.” In
the barn Dad produced a couple of
hanks of twine, a pair of shears, a pack-
ing needle and a bolt of hessian. “Here’s
somethin’ right in y’r line,” he said.
“You can get busy on this stuff and
make me some bags.” “Do y’ want ’em
big?” asked the hand. Dad scratched
his head, then he said, “Well, I haven’t
any spares handy to show y’. Anyway,
say ’bout as high as me waist an’ jest
’bout as round. Get the hang of it from
that?” “Easy,” said the other. “Righto,”
said Dad, “y’ can get busy. I’ve gotter
go inter the town an’ won’t be back
till this evenin’, so y’ll have an open
go. The wife’ll call you f’r dinner.”
Late that afternoon Dad returned and
made his way to the barn. He found
the hand busily plying his needle. “Well,”
said Dad jovially—he’d met a few friends
in the township—“how’s the tailor gettin’
on?” “Fine!” said the tailor. “I’ve made
a good job of those I’ve finished, con-
siderin’ the class of stuff I’ve had t’ work
on.” “Where are they?” asked Dad. The
hand produced them. “Goramighty!”
cried Dad. “What’s these?” “The bags
you told me t’ make you, sir.” “Bags!”
yelled Dad. “These ain’t bags, they’re
blanky pants.” “That’s right, sir,” re-
plied the hand enthusiastically. “The
style known in the trade as Oxford bags.”
THE BEE-TREE.
The bee-tree stands in the gully, an old-man
gum, with the glory
Of vanished days in his memory, when the
black and crumbling comb
That moulds in his wood could whisper a
glorious golden story
Of bees in the lilac gloaming, bringing the
honey home.
High where a bough was broken by the flail
that the storm-wind wielded.
Leaving a cavelike fissure in the -hoop of
the satin wood,
A queen from a far hive drifting, by the mass
of her dark swarm shielded.
Entered the lofty dwelling and saw that her
choice was good.
Ere long the apartment glittered with gold from
a thousand flowers;
There were hundreds of loaves of bee-bread
for the new-born babes to eat.
The workers were gone at daybreak down
through the dew-drenched bowers,
Filling the sacks they carried with blossomy
flavors sweet.
The dusk of the hive was luscious with riches
and running over;
And summer cooled into autumn and autumn
to winter turned;
The frost was a naked bayonet and many a
pirate rover
Dreamed of the treetop treasure and plotted
and planned and yearned.
The scrub-rat sat on his haunches under the
icy brittle
Fronds of the dripping bracken and wish-
fully sniffed the air;
And the questioning ants came peering and
climbed up the bole a little,
Leaving their earthen larders empty behind
them there.
But the hive in the high boughs flourished,
heedless of looming dangers.
Till a robber swarm came muttering, dark
through the troubled trees;
The honeyed walls were invaded and stormed
by the swarthy strangers;
And the royal rooms were a shambles of
wounded and dying bees.
The fruit of the comb was ravished —the bread
of the slain babes taken;
And nothing remained but silence where hum
of the hive had been;
Those that were left had gathered, weary and
battle shaken,
And fled from the ruined portal to follow
their homeless queen.
Then came the battalions of ants, like a black
tide creeping
Higher and ever higher till they entered the
haunted place
To salvage the scattered syrup that dripped in
a saffron seeping
Deep where the old wood splinters hung in
a tattered lace.
The bee-tree stands in the gully, an old-man
gum, with the glory
Of vanished days in his memory, when the
black and crumbling comb
That moulds in his wood could whisper a
glorious golden story
Of bees in the lilac gloaming, bringing the
honey home!
Tasmania.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


FOLLOW THIS
LINE OF
REASON
(,o*o
A *
55
i
1
«
LONDON
ND
COHMUO 1
I
?Un
iW
m
'•*r
3®*
"/*r
ate
-^h
'?6,
i$G.
'N
£o#/>
GENUINE
LONDON
GIN CAN
ONLY
COME FROM
LONDON
ENGLAND
where
Gordon’s
Gin
IS DISTILLED
II maq cost a
little more but
it's WELL worth it!
Sta ndb
SupW*
THE HEART OF A COOP COCKTAIL
TANQUER AY, GORDON & CO
LTD. LONDON, ENGLAND.
ZJhe UityeSl gin dUtilkhS in the woild
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
25 O'Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
&n.
f
THE SKY-WAYS ARE TODAY’S HIGHWAYS
Pre-war standards of efficiency and comfort are being
maintained by Empire flying boats on the air route
between Sydney and Durban, via Singapore, Palestine
and Egypt. A new regular service between New Zealand
and Sydney is operated by Tasman Empire Airways.
Travel Interstate . . . Inter-Dominion . . . throughout
the Empire ... in shipboard comfort at Airways
speed ... by Qantas Empire Airways.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
(Incorporated in Queensland)
SHELL HOUSE, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at BRISBANE and MELBOURNE.
Bookings at any recognised Travel Agency throughout Australia.
'PHONE: 8W4481.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Finney, Isles and Co. (Brisbane)
To
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £
1931.. 4,949 2*p.c.= 6,906 18,043
1932.. 12,207 4 „ „ 11,050 1,157 19,200
1933.. 18,283 6 „ „ 16,575 1,708 20,908
1934.. 25,027 7 „ „ 19,337 5,690 26,598
1935.. 35,506 7 „ ~ 20,410 15,096 41,694
Profit on sale of property, £13,121.. 54,815
1936.. 45,868 7 p.c. = 25,640 20,228 75,043
1937.. 49,786 8 „ „ 29,454 20,332 95,375
1938.. 51,746 10 ~ ~37,033 14,713 110,088
1939.. 52,853 10 „ „ 37,371 15,482 125,570
1940.. 56,101 10 „ ~37,681 18,420 143,990
1941.. 44,412 10 „ ~ 38,113 6,299 150,289
Trade seems to swirl round Brisbane’s
Queen-Albert - Adelaide - Edward street
block these days, and Finney’s sits pat
in the middle, running right through
from Queen- to Adelaide-street. But
with Coles, Woolworths, Pennys and
other retailers in the vicinity, it is prob-
ably more to enterprising management
and shrewd buying than position that
credit for the attractive results lately
won for this co.’s shareholders is due.
A setback of £11,689 in last year’s
profit was unexpected to those who had
come to anticipate steady annual growth
in the figure for a decade now. More
and better-paid jobs, combined with
prompt payment by Britain for most of
our exportable surplus, put more things
within the reach of most people, and
from a turnover viewpoint 1940 was
among the best yet for Big City retailers.
Finney’s benefited, of course, sales being
“fully maintained.” Trouble was that
“trading conditions vastly different from
pre-war years” involved acceptance of
narrower profit-margins, and it is to the
lighter gross (£261,088) that £8928 of
the profit-slip is attributable. The other
£2761 was the result of increased general
outgoings—£2l6,676, including £7837 for
depreciation and £35,373 (down £880)
for taxes and contingencies, raising that
provision to a comfortable-looking
£55,800.
The £44,412 called profit nevertheless
covered the 10 p.c. div. again with £6299
to spare, the ratio to capital employed
being 11.6 p.c., compared with 14.8, 14.1,
14, 13.5 and 12.5 p.c. going back five
years. Over the past decade shareholders
have averaged 7.9 p.c. ; over the same
period they have seen profit-winning
made easier and the visible free support
for their capital strengthened to the
extent of £132,246.
With something from shareholders,
that money has gone into the provision
of brighter shopping facilities, financing
the larger volume of business and general
consolidation. Finances now leave little
to be desired:
1928. 1934. 1940. 1941.
Capital . . £275,993 £276,243 £376,811 £381,128
Debentures .. 39,000 39,000
Mortgages .. 39,969 44,174
Creditors . . 94,063 18,883 52,307 49,171
Property, plant,
etc. . . 159,566 192,768 355,473 351,596
Stock.. .. 191,580 158,039 213,005 214,016
Book debts, etc. 126,828 39,156 54,197 52,784
Investments and
cash . . 6,431 44,505 15,590 17,048
War loan .. 20,000
The level of stocks suggests satisfactory
solution of the merchandise problem,
despite elimination of many sources of
supply. When the books closed share-
holders could see an excess of more or
less liquids over the outside debt £24,252
stronger at £254,677 compared with a
year earlier. That includes £20,000
lent to the Commonwealth Government
interest-free for the duration as a contri-
bution to the national effort.
With a huge defence bill to be met
public spending may be more cautious this
year, and any difficulty in disposing of
our primary products would be serious
for Queensland, with its great dependence
on land produce. At the moment, how-
ever, ever-mounting costs and taxation
are the most pressing worries of most
traders.
At 265. Finney’s f.-p. pound shares,
covered by 275. lid. in net tangibles,
yield 7.7 p.c. so long as 10 p.c. goes out;
from 8 p.c. divs. the return would still
be 6.1 p.c. But for the probate question,
scrip in similar well-run Queensland busi-
nesses could expect much greater popu-
larity on southern ’Changes.
Australian Motorists’ Petrol (Sydney)
Towards
August, Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £
Preliminary exes., etc., £23,536 .. 23,536
1937 . . 6,747 Nil 30,283
Share-issue exes., £8287 .. .. 38,570
Added establishment, etc., £8903.. 47,473
June,
1938 .. 18,678* Nil 66,151
.Share-issue exes., £1125 .. .. 67,276
Added establishment, etc., £5360.. 72,636
Profit.
1939 . . 10,301 Nil 10,301 62,335
1940 . . 30,032 Nil 30,032 32,303
Share-issue exes., £351 .. .. 32,654
Jan.,
1941 f. . 17,546 Nil 17,546 15,108
* 6-1 months’ actual trading, f Seven months.
This independent Australian-controlled
organisation, encouraged by the success
of a similar venture across the Tasman,
formed to break into the closely-held
N.S.W. petroleum- and oil-distributing
market in March, 1936. From £200,000
in 191,500 ords. and 8500 deferreds, the
latter taken by the promoters for cash,
original issued capital had grown to
£353,110 {less £13,400 unpaid) at the end
of January. Now 100,000 £1 6 p.c. cum.
prefs. are offered (half to shareholders
and half to the public), partly to finance
“tremendous expansion” of business and
partly, in common with other distri-
butors, to increase storage facilities at
the request of the Commonwealth.
Minimum subscription sought is £25,000.
Trading, commenced in December,
1937, showed an adverse result of £18,678
for the first 6j months, but earnings since
have been sufficient to recoup early losses
and all but £15,108 of preliminary
and establishment charges—brokerage
of 10 p.c. was a weighty item. For
the year ended June, 1940, the net
showing reached 8.8 p.c. on total capital,
and that was also the rate of earning for
the seven months to the end of January,
when £17,546 was cleared, after more
liberal provision of £13,243 for deprecia-
tion, £9700 for taxation and £B6lO for
doubtful accounts.
Together, the co.’s Sydney and New-
castle storage terminals have a capacity of
6,000,000 gallons. Annual turnover for the
12 months of 1940 was more than double
that, and worth £1,140,958, as against
£406,103 in the first year of trading. The
co. now has motor-spirit and kero, con-
tracts for the whole requirements of the
fighting services in N.S.W., and all State
departments are also customers. Ration-
ing, of course, has interfered with civil
consumption, but this side of the indus-
try has been stabilised by the formation
of a cartel on a quota basis, with con-
siderable savings in overhead and sales
costs. A.M.P. ships supplies from
U.S.A. under a time charter, entered
into before war, which has another three
years to run.
At present the management is depend-
ing extensively on bank accommodation:
f June Jan.,
1938. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £322,876 £337,549 £339,179 £339,710
Overdraft .. 149,481 188,624 285,163 237,971
Other creditors 11,826 17,876 32,958 19,249
Storage terminals,
etc. .. 136,716 135,496 133,000 1 sna
Plant, etc. .. 115,180 136,174 146,797 J J/4 ’ BUS
Tanker account 17,664 12,821 28.945 19,228
Stocks . . 107,374 80.267 131,766 122.246
Debtors, cash, etc. 41,097 116,955 191,489 182,239
Still, the total debt was covered by more
or less liquids with a margin of £47,265
at the end of January. Fixed assets were
recently independently appraised worth
£289,587, or £14,780 more than the book
valuation.
Investors in the new prefs., which are
to be listed, are offered participation in
any future share issues and representa-
tion on the board —knight Walter Car-
penter, the Island-trading and shipping
man, is their first director —and present
ratio of ord. to pref. capital is to be pre-
served. Without reckoning on the earn-
ing power of the new money, the £6OOO
div. is approximately five times covered ;
net tangible backing, allowing for
brokerage of 5 p.c. payable, would be
86s. per share on full subscription.
The old pound ords. have an unofficial
market around 13s. After both ords. and
the 8500 deferreds get 7 p.c., 25 p.c. of
any residue of profits belongs to the
handful of the latter, in which control is
vested.
Southland Frozen Meat (M.L.)
, Dividends ■, To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. All Shares. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 11,394 11 p.c. = 12,490 129,028
Unexplained additions to reserves, £30,000.. 159,028
1931.. 14,363 12 p.c. = 13,626 737 159,765
1932.. 14,522 12 „ ~ 13,626 896 160,661
Unexplained additions to reserves, £20,000.. 180,661
1933.. 51,085 38 Jfp.c.=43,716 7,369 188,030
1934.. 22,058 16 „ ~18,168 3,890 191,920
1935.. 18,117 16 „ ~18,168 191,869
1936.. 13,386 16 „ ~18,168 187,087
Ronus scrip issued, £227,227 ; from inner
reserves, £147,228 .. .. •• 107,088
1937.. 30,985 6* p.c. =20,585 10,400 117,488
1938.. 21,934 6.6„ ~22,718 116,704
1939'.. 25,358 6.6„ ~22,718 2,640 119,344
1940.. 41,404 6.6,, ~22,718 18,086 138,030
*On capital as at Dec, 31, 1937. t Includes special
25 p.c. cash bonus.
In troubled times like the present, when
economic conditions are changing and
the future is full of uncertainty, the long-
term investor looks for security of both
capital and income rather than a high
immediate return on his outlay. These
conditions are usually satisfied by
soundly-established, well-managed and
comfortably-financed concerns which
trade in goods or services that will always
be in demand.
Southland Meat satisfies all these re-
quirements. Moreover, the board has
the pleasing habit of every now and then
shaking tidy sums out of the family
stocking, thus providing shareholders
with the comforting assurance that the
co.’s position has not been overstated in
the past. Indeed, no other Maoriland
freezer has put up such consistently
attractive performances as this one, which
operates three works at the extreme
southern end of the South Island. In 1937
£227,227 of bonus scrip was scattered,
raising paid capital to its present figure
(£340,777). Previous gift issues were
£45,522 in 1919 and £22,761 in 1912.
Thus 17s. 4d. of each pound of capital
has been provided out of surplus earn-
ings, and the balance has been more than
covered by special cash distributions —
£28,388 in 1933 and £22,761 in 1919
which were in addition to an uninter-
rupted flow of good divs.
Since the outbreak of war, freezers
have been assured of a market for their
products under British contracts. Last
year net earnings lifted £16,046, despite
stinging increases in taxation and the
steady uptrend of costs. But the profit
figure (£41,404) included unspecified sur-
pluses on transactions with the Imperial
Government, settlement of which was
delayed. The £41,404 was 12.1 p.c. on
capital, and the div. was kept at 6.6 p.c.,
which called for £4550 more than 16 p.c.
did four years ago.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1934. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £113,547 £340,777 £840,777 £340,777
Liabilities* .. 222,418 175,233 130,769 268,992
Works . . . 198,318 321,030 343,734 364.865
Stocks.. .. 60,645 112,341 72,251 156,445
Book debts,’etc. 25,622 36,270 34,997 41,215
Investments . . 167,589 122,865 80,001 87,301
Cash .. .. 85,362 51,567 71,265 109,332
* Includes provision for contingencies.
To add £21,131 to the book value of
works, £84,194 to stocks, £6218 to


rr«HtI EN H S ’ ? aVfi y ° U an ldea worth patenting?
Gnflith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys
Asbestos HGnse, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney!
obtam Commonwealth and foreign patents.-Advt!
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament ma?’
hydraulic, electric and gLeral engTneers lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of 111 daises of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial f itl
Martin^Placef>ydney.-iiiv T ?
A T W° U D?E& COMPANY 1 r&G Bui/dTn eS *f? ted K P l
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
V * —Advt.
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— ®
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should he expected to become you**
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence.
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria)
2 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman);
M.L.A. (Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C. ; James Kidd;
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J
Colin A. Sinclair,
A. E. Heath, C.M.G.
r. G. H. Shipway.
The Symbol of
Security 1
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834. ,
THE j
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITA!. PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,013 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J, A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T,
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
m
i - **
mm
hi
m v m
a. >"
d
■
' ■■.-:■■ ■■-....■ :.. liiSiii
Hi
*-
513*
Thus attractive home
imm
mm
. 'N
<
>
m
mm
is a typical example of the limitless designs which
can be carried out in Durabestos (asbestos-cement)
flat Sheets. Durabestos is amenable to all modern
architectural treatments; it provides a rigid weather-
tight. fire-retardant, white-ant proof walling that meets
to-day's demand for permanent construction of low-
cost housing in Metropolitan and country areas.
Manufactured by Wunderlich Limited (Estd. 52 years),
Redfern, Sydney, and Newcastle. Branches in all
States.
f "Durabestos Homes", a
wW * Booklet of designs and
plans. Clip this advertisement, fill in.
Name-,
Address
B
and post to Wunderlich
Ltd,, G.P.O. Box 474aa,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wunderlich Bura
ASBESTOS -CEMENT FLAT BU MLBMN G SHEETS
debtors’ balances, etc., £7300 to invest-
ments and £38,067 to cash, outside liabili-
ties, etc., were increased by £138,223,
which includes an unspecified provision
for contingencies. When the books closed,
more or less liquids exceeded outside
liabilities, etc., by £125,301 (down £2444).
It is plain from the co.’s history that for
many years additions to plant and equip-
ment have been paid for out of earnings
and then from the same source severely
written down, with, of course, conse-
quent benefit to earning power.
As for the current year, Britain has an-
nounced some curtailment of Dominion
meat shipments, but all necessary action
“to maintain the stability of the indus-
try” is promised by the M.L. Govern-
ment. Though costs, including the
already staggering load of taxation, con-
tinue to climb, a 6.6 p.c. div. should not
prove out of reach.
The market expresses confidence by
pricing both classes of scrip at 355. 6d.
per share. The return at this figure is
3.7 p.c. on a 6.6 p.c. div. basis. The
net tangible backing is visibly £lB 6s. Id.
prefs. and 28s. 9d. ords. The prefs.,
which carry a cumulative 5 p.c., advance
with the ords. beyond that rate, have
priority as to capital and share in new
issues.
North Kalgurli (1912) has agreed
to allow Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie to
work its Oroya North block, which is
east of the main North Kalgurli lease at
the north end of the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile. The famous Oroya-Brownhill
shoot passed through the Oroya North,
and a considerable quantity of gold was
extracted from it by the London co.
which then operated the property.
Ground on the north and south sides of
Oroya North is already being worked
by Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie. P. E.
Marmion, the latter’s chairman, has
joined North Kal.’s board.
* * * *
From London: More cos. of the De
Bernales group have held their annual
meetings. All were brief and thinly
attended, and except for one —Anglo-
Australian —which was enlivened by a
spirited exchange of views between chair-
man ex-Westralian Governor Campion
and H. M. Ridge, a former director and
a qualified mining engineer, were rather
tame. Ridge disputed the board’s state-
ment that he agreed that the policy
carried out by the management was cor-
rect. “I agreed with the policy as con-
templated .... but I was far from agreeing
with the policy as carried out,” Ridge
declared. A shareholder at Meekatharra’s
meeting said this mine had “panned
out” before the prospectus had even been
issued.
* * * *
Two of De Bernales’s Westralian golden
group, Gt. Boulder Mining Finance and
Beryl Corporation, have issued their
latest yearly accounts. Those of the
former co. show a surplus of £12,533,
converting a debit of £3802 to a credit
carried forward of £8731. Co.’s best
item of revenue was dividend, presumably
from Yellowdine, and interest, £29,520.
Apart from mine expenditure, main out-
goings were London and Adelaide ex-
penses £9682, and loss on sale of in-
vestments £8197. Co. holds substantial
interests in Yellowdine and Comet mines,
and operates the old Augusta, now called
the Gladiator, at Laverton. This show
is being worked at a profit. Beryl’s
receipts were confined to interest and
tax recovered, £1969. Expenditure in-
cluded management and general £2041,
directors’ fees £1357 and outlay in con-
nection with London Stock Exchange
ban on share dealings and Board of
Trade inquiry £599. There was a net loss
of £2lOl. Co. has taken over the mine
from tributors, and is installing a treat-
ment plant to extract gold from “present,
proved and probable ore,” and also from
accumulated tailings. A monthly profit
of £3230 is expected from the latter.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie inspector of mines Verran’s
1940 comments on the Golden Mile’s
big mines:
Lake View and Star: Most notable de-
velopment is the new lode discovered by
diamond-drilling in the Lake View lease, giving
1 wl , d JL? f , 60f f- a " d g rade of loz. a ton at
the 2600 ft. level. An internal shaft will prob-
ably be sunk from the 2300 ft. level to ex-
ploit this ore-body. After re-treating several
thousand tons from the old Kalgurli dump, co.
has ceased operations owing to the pebbly
nature of the roasted sands. It has applied
for the dump of sands at the Ironside lease,
where the State battery is located.
Gt. Boulder: All mines appear to be in ex-
cellent positions with regard to ore reserves
and grade. Several slopes are producing high-
grade ore. A sound policy of development and
diamond-drilling has been carried out.
North Kalgurli: Nothing new has been dis-
covered, but the mine appears to be in a
good position to be a profitable producer for
years to come. Croesus Prop, plant, second
string to the co.’s ore-treatment bow, is operat-
ing successfully.
Paringa: Several short shoots of rich ore
were discovered in the main workings, and a
number of interesting developments occurred
elsewhere.
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie: Nothing new
of importance was reported. Preparations are
being made to explore the old workings of
Hinchcliffe’s shaft in the Iron Duke lease.
Some good crushings were taken from this area
years ago.
Tributing is now confined to three mines—
North Kalgurli and South Kalgurli three parties
each, and Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie two parties.
Most of the tributors appear to be earning
more than wages.
* * * *
Hill 50, of Mt. Magnet (W.A.), will
make another of its quarterly sixpenny
payments on April 7, bringing the total
distribution to date to £50,000, or exactly
the amount put into the mine in the way
of share capital. In 40 weeks of the
current term mine output has been worth
£78,700, production now running in ex-
cess of £BOOO per four-weekly period. In
anticipation of better things to come
once output is bumped up, the market
pays 19s. 6d. for the 4s. shares without
attracting more than odd holder now and
then.
* * * *
Net profit of London-controlled
Youanmi (W.A.) last year was £stg9297,
compared with £9543 for the previous
12 months. About 87,249 tons, mostly
sulphide, was milled. Treatment of sul-
phide rock has not yet been fully solved,
but the management has hopes. Under-
ground position is stated to be satisfac-
tory. Ore reserves, including those partly
developed, at 192,450 tons show an in-
crease of 55,194 tons, average grade
estimated at 7.ldwt. Savings in both
development and mining costs are also
reported. So far neither 7 p.c. cum, pref.-
nor ord.-holders have received anything.
* * * *
“W.”; The shutters at New Gympie
(Q.) closed down last month. The tribute
syndicate couldn’t carry on alone, and
with a Government loan refused the end
was prompt. About £40,000 has been
spent all told on this northern area of
the field, where apparently the same set
conditions ran on as in the rich Monk-
land sections. Drilling and mine work-
ings, however, showed that though the
plumbago beds were there they were
light on, and this probably made all the
difference, because there was no short-
age of reefs. Still, it’s not the first show
that has had a debit balance, and it
simply had to be tried out. When Colin
Fraser shied at it on behalf of G.M. of
Aust. some years ago, he must have had
a hunch.
* * * *
Batavia field (Cape York Peninsula) has
had as many as 150 men around lately,
some scratching on the outskirts in hope
of new leads, but the bulk at centre
headquarters. Larsens Consolidated has
30 men there working two shifts and
using an Empire mill. The Black Cat
is working both reef and wash in the
one show. Golden Gate is on rich wash,
at times over loz. to the load when
watered down with a couple of feet of
heads which usually have only flyspecks.
But things won’t get properly into their
stride until after March. A bit of blue
sky with all the waterholes full will
make the difference.
* * * *
Queensland Quicksilver Mines has re-
ported considerable improvement in ore
values on its leases at Cinnabar, near
Kilkivan (C.Q.). Production rate has
also increased.


Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night
Telegrams. Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE.” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
ii mill
.iiiini
pilii
111
111
ill
SMOKE-OH!
“When the eyes become twitchy and jumpy
your vision or your health may be at fault.”
—Medical column in weekly paper.
Or you’re sitting on four aces and have
got the school in.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“M.H.R. rebuked for having taken off his
coat in the house.”
It must have been too suggestive of
work.
“People in the flats saw the burglar disap-
pearing over the pence.”— Daily paper.
What was the copper doing?
“ Tch , tch, tch, your ties all crooked!"
“Stole to escape man’s attentions.”
—Daily paper.
He stole a glance to see if he
Could steal her heart that day.
So, knowing she could not agree,
She simply stole away.
E.
“Petrol shortage makes women walk to
health.”
“That’s right, dear,” the missus said.
“And I’m not dieting now, so I’ll thank
you for another pound a week for food.
Oh, and here’s the bill for my two new
pairs of walking shoes.”
4* 4* 4* +
“One bomb fell in a field where two teams
from a near-by ’drome were playing a football
match. Fortunately it was a dud.”
And the ref. didn’t order it to go off!
4* 4 1 4* 4*
“Ice Cream Banned in Italy.”— News item.
But Musso.’s men can still get a licking.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Some women are more concerned with
fashion than with the world-shaking events
in Europe.”— Daily-paper correspondent.
They’re more interested in what’s
going on than in what’s going on.
4* 4 1 4* 4 1
Eye Strain.
“The language of the eyes plays an im-
portant part in love-making.”
- Woman’s paper.
Bright eyes can flash a message bold,
Or one of soft and soulful yearning,
In language that is very old
And needs but very little learning.
Of all the tales by eyes unfurled,
No message travels any faster
Than one black eye which tells the world
Your missus is indeed your master!
D. McM.
Midnight Memory.
“I admire the forceful manner in which you
have put the case for the wine industry.”
— Correspondent, “D.T.”
Like that night when the clocks struck
midnight before you struck the home-
track. There she was, in the doorway,
just putting the milkjug out.
“Ah!” you cried aggressively, standing
as steady as a blade of grass in a gale,
“So you waited up again, eh?”
She looked at you with scorn. You
then called her all you could think of,
and told her that until she stopped spend-
ing the grocery-money on new hats you’d
still spend the rent-money on something
to go to your head. You talked for 10
minutes, after which she said sweetly
before going inside:
“Very interesting, Mr. Soakup, but
how about going next door and telling
all that to your wife?”
E.
To a Typist.
I think, my dainty little thing,
You ought to change your angle :
Too many fellows on the string
May get you in a tangle!
T. W. N.
The Breakdown.
The worried-looking man entered the
consulting room of the great nerve
specialist, sighed, twitched and un-
certainly sat down.
“What seems to be the trouble?” asked
the g.n.s.
“Well, Doc., I hardly know,” confessed
the patient. “I’m Blinkspoop, editor of
the ‘Daily Flapper,’ and I”
“A very exacting occupation,” mur-
mured the g.n.s. sympathetically.
“Yes, rather. Well, yesterday the most
extraordinary thing happened. A positive
catastrophe. I can’t understand it, that’s
why I’m here. I thought my nerves
must be going, or perhaps my memory—
some sort of hiatus, you know—anyway,
I must be losing my grip. I”
“Come now, it can’t be so bad. What
happened?”
“Well, the day went normally. We
had a fine scare line for the front page,
a lovely analysis of the position on the
Liberian border from an American re-
porter, a choice little leader advocating
national government in municipal coun-
cils, a full set of comic strips, the usual
Hollywood scandal-touch, an exclusive
interview with the mistress of a con-
demned murderer and a fine spread of
sport. Doc., I went over that issue with
a fine toothcomb, okayed it and sent the
thing to press. It went on the streets.
And then—and then” He broke off,
trembling, fell back in his chair and
feebly wiped his brow.
“And then?” prompted the g.n.s.
“Then, only then, I discovered that
not only had the man who took the
picture of a girl tennis-player forgotten
to make her pull her skirts up, but I
had allowed the picture to be printed.”
He broke off, shuddering, then resumed:
“She is sitting down, in day-dress. You
see, it wasn’t on the tennis court and —
Doctor, you must do something. Can’t
you see? Not even her knees are show-
ing I Not even her knees” And
with a terrible groan he collapsed.
M8.
Restoration.
Lady Sophia Staggersby hurled a look
of withering scorn across the breakfast
table at her liege lord and master.
This was neatly taken and smartly
returned by Lord Staggersby, who had
often brought the crowd at Lord’s to
its feet with his work in the outfield.
Staggersby Hall was noted for its
huntin’, fishin’, shootin’ and brawlin’.
Lady Staggersby was something of a
sportswoman, too, and could still run,
hop and skip with the best of them. His
lordship had a black suspicion that she
was about to skip with one of the worst
of them.
Lord Staggersby never allowed the
grass to grow under his feet, except nut-
grass. That beats the best of us. Lady
Sophia had fallen desperately in love
with George Barrows, their handsome
rake of a head gardener, who had
wormed his way into her affections.
His lordship was determined that they
would not soil the honor of Staggersby
Hall with such a seedy romance. So
he gave his head gardener the shoot.
When Staggersby gloated over this she
remained calm and gave voice to her
famous tinkling laugh.
Immediately the door opened and
Breeves the butler entered. “Did your
ladyship ring?”
“Oaf!” shrieked Lady Sophia. “How
dare you mistake my famous tinkling
laugh for a common house bell! Get
out!” And a nicely placed shot with
the sugar bowl scored a direct hit on
the spine of the retreating Breeves.
“Bravo! Bravo!” roared his lordship,
the old cricketer surging to the top. “By
gad, that would have had ’em on their
toes at Lord’s!”
Flushed with success. Lady Sophia
hurled everything portable at her lord.
With a roar of delight he grabbed his
autographed bat from the wall and
snicked to leg with perfect timing coffee-
urns, toast-racks and jam-dishes. Even
the grandfather clock he late cut with a
bit of an effort.
Suddenly a soft, sweet calm settled
upon Sophie. “Forgive me, Staggersby,”
she sobbed on his shoulder. “You are
still the great batsman who won my
heart at Lord’s. To hell with the
gardener! ”
“Thank heavens,” sighed Lord Stag-
gersby. “I knew the old sportswoman
in you would conquer!”
D. McM.
Slaughter.
“One inmate of the gaol, convicted of three
murders, caused numerous complaints from
other prisoners by his frequent and noisy sing-
ing.— “World’s News.”
His vocal strains were far from mellow
As through the gaol the echoes rang ;
Still, you’d expect that such a fellow
Would murder everything he sang !
T.W.N,
Without Rhyme or Reason.
“Mr. C. E. H. Jacobs, English poet-
philosopher and retired civil servant, is in
Sydney on a world tour during which he will
complete the world’s longest poem. He will
shortly be joined by his private secretary.
Asked the poet’s outlook on the world situation,
Mr. Jacobs said ‘I describe the conditions....
thus: —
“ ‘Their purpose to perpetuate
Petrification of the past
To stamp prerogative of the past
As if on lithographic stone,
Stood static present, and to own
A future forecast in the press,
Where wheels of time stand motionless.’ ”
—Sydney “D.T.” interview.
Though seemingly unimportant to the
general public, this visit of a poet who
runs to the luxury of a private secretary
is expected to have tremendous reactions
in the world of journalism and letters,
Only those who have plied the rhyme-
ster’s craft can appreciate the many ways
in which a private secretary may render
his employer the most invaluable service,
For example, by sorting spondees from
dactyls, cutting-up blank verse into four-
inch lengths and steering his master’s
Muse clear of the dawn-morn and other
dangerous bomboras.
Imagine the English bard seated at
his desk. Outside the wide mullioned
windows of his country seat a lark
carols high up in the hollyhocks, while
j n the middle distance can be heard the
staccato “zvpft” of the jobbing carpen-
ter’s plane as he trims up the box-hedges,
Dreamily the poet gazes into space as he
says: “See if you think this sounds right,
Meadows:
incarnadined world is doped. Forgive
this
Jf who shout > Encore r encourage
t
Th forces of Hades.
T hj k oj from ..
. . ‘ ..
. '
The private secretary, his sensitive
ear attuned to the cadences, says Di-
da, di-da, di-da,” as he checks up the
metre. Then, rubbing his hands, rm says:
“Er—are there not too many leet m
the first line, sir? lambic pentameter, sir.
‘lncarnadined’ has two leet too many,
sir -”
“I had ‘bloody’ in the original text,
Meadows, but my publisher warned me
against the use of that adjective if 1 don’t
want the book banned in the populous
State of at least one Dominion. No,
we’ll leave ‘incarnadined’ in, Meadows.”
“Well, that ‘Hades,’ sir, in the third
line. Should not the accent be on the
first syllable, sir— ‘Hay- dees’?
“Come, come, Meadows, this is mere
cavilling. I have deliberately left the
accent on the ‘dees’ so as to rhyme it
with ‘Ds.’ You see, I’m working in a
bit of Scotland Yard, starting from the
next line. The poem is to embrace coal-
mining, astrology, a bit of bird-calling,
the romance of fish-gutting, the ballet, a
night queen’s dream and a visit to a
brewery. I’m calling it ‘The Soul of a
Hamadryad.’ ”
Another duty—probably the most im-
portant of all—is to test the poem for
its obscurity of thought.
The poet, having completed his opus,
lies back on his luxurious divan,
lights a double Corona, and says after
his p.s. has absorbed it:
“Well, Meadows, what’s your re-
action?”
“Well, frankly, sir, if I may say so.
I haven’t the mistiest notion what it’s
all about. There is one stanza here,
though, sir, that I think could be altered.
The one that goes:
‘The hare’s thought as it sped through
the seething bracken
Was something that, God wot, none
can conceive.’
Perhaps, sir, you might be able to make
it less clear that it was the hare’s thought,
not the animal, that was speeding.”
“Excellent, Meadows! ”
Poesy has certainly made great strides
—in its economics if in no other way —
since Murger’s poet Rodolfo Moscowed
his pal’s overcoat to provide a feed for
his Mimi. And the fact that there is
a poet actually in our own land who
sports a p.s. will surely stimulate the
local scribes to greater efforts. Soon, if
it bears fruit, one may hear of the free-
lance journalist roaring his butler up for
spilling the beer all over the typewriter,
or for not putting out the lighted cigarette
butts that fall on his MS.
BO.


*»*sa/
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
rni ( r™ lonin!! - 821 °LAND TONIC
,™" tai . n genuine glandular
extract. W' ill definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOA\ for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES h CO.,
CHEMISTS.
319 George St., Sydney,
f
df
4*l
Of.
'/V
BEST
BRITISH
BLADE
d
Sole Agents; JOUBERT <&• JOUBERT PTY LTD i
mnniMiMMriMnininmmnnninnwiiMii i - ’ 1
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters,
ii r» Head Office;
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
• Tasmanian Agent: A. L. Frost, Esq., Launceston.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Drilling for Oil in Papua
Last week the drill of Australasian
Petroleum Co. was spudded in on a site
at Kariava, 75 miles up the Vaiiala
River, Papua. The Vaiiala enters the
sea about 200 miles along the Gulf of
Papua north-west of Port Moresby. It
is a difficult stream to navigate, and the
surrounding country has been hard to
explore. But the testing stage of a costly
experiment has begun.
There is little need to stress the im-
portance of a possible flow-oil discovery
in Australian territory. If a discovery
is made there will be no cause to regret
the cost.
The drill on the job can go down to
10,000 ft. The plant cost over £200,000
delivered at Port Moresby; erected on
the field it stands the venture in at con-
siderably more. Over 3000 tons of
equipment was transported to the bore
site. It is the finest type of machinery pro-
curable. Aerial survey maps have run
away with over £150,000. In 1939, on
geological exploration £72,000 was spent.
By the end of 1941 Australasian
Petroleum Co., which was formed less
than 2j years ago, will have expended
over £900,000 on this Papuan venture.
Australasian Petroleum came into
being in October, 1938, when Oil Search,
Ltd., an Australian co., found itself in-
capable of carrying on a vigorous hunt
for oil on its Papuan concessions with-
out further financial and technical assist-
ance, and it pooled its interests with
Vacuum Oil (the Australian subsidiary
of Standard-Vacuum Oil, New York)
am. D’Arcy Exploration, London (a pup
of Anglo-Iranian Oil). The new interests
each immediately introduced, £135,000 of
cash-paid capital, and Oil Search, through
its subsidiary (Nominated Holdings), came
in for 135,000 free shares in Australasian
Petroleum, plus £45,000 in cash for its
expenditure on the areas. Oil Search
has since taken up an extra 47,000 shares
in the Papuan working co., but, by reason
of larger subscriptions by the two other
partners, its proportionate interest has
fallen from one-third to one-fifth. At
the end of 1940 Australasian Petroleum’s
paid capital was £850,000. It has since
been increased.
Up to the end of 1939 it was estimated
that £1,850,000 had been spent by all
parties in searching for oil in Papua. The
figure now exceeds £2,000,000, of which
nearly half has been laid out by Aus-
tralasian Petroleum in the space of less
than three years. An associate co., Island
Exploration Co., also seems to have sunk
over £300,000 in the hunt. Most of
the remainder was spent between 1919
(when the old Anglo-Persian Co. came
into the search) and 1938, though oil
indications were first discovered in 1911.
In April, 1939, Papua Oil Development,
a Shell subsidiary, announced abandon-
ment of its hunt after spending “more
than £430,000 since Sept., 1936.” Ex-
penditure in the search for oil in Aus-
tralian New Guinea has obviously been
lavish over the past five years. Papuan
Apinaipi Oil, a smaller, wholly Australian
co., has already drilled a deep test well,
and is now preparing to drill two other
wells.
Some indication has already been given
as to where the money goes. No small
co. could do a job in the same manner
as Australasian Petroleum, and few big
cos. outside the oil business could afford
the outlay. It was found impossible to
survey jungle-covered Papua thoroughly
from the ground ; topography and geo-
logical formations had to be mapped by
aerial photography, in conjunction with
an extensive staff of field geologists.
Oil is usually found in rock-basins or
earth-folds acting as containers in com-
bination with porous rocks. There is
usually a. hard cap rock above to con-
serve the oil; and among other con-
ditions necessary are sedimentary de-
posits of a type and age likely to have
produced oil, and absence of past violent
earth movements that might have de-
stroyed the oil or its reservoirs.
In searching for oil-bearing areas,
geological exploration comes first. Seep-
ages, etc., are looked for. Then the
surface rocks are examined ; they indi-
cate the nature of formations beneath
them. Laboratory tests are made of
rock outcrops to determine their type
and age. Aerial mapping has to
be done 28,000 square miles was
photographed by Australasian Petroleum
under weather conditions that allowed
only an effective average of 18 minutes’
surveying per day. Then come the geo-
physical surveys. They are of three
kinds—gravimetric, magnetic and seismic.
Gravimetric surveying discloses the
gravity or density of the subsurface rock
formations. A magnetic survey reveals
other secrets of the rocks —variations in
the earth’s magnetic field. The seismic
method has to do with the system by
which earthquakes, etc., are measured ;
the seismic waves in this case are created
artificially by exploding dynamite. The
harder and more elastic rocks, such as
limestone, transmit seismic waves with
a higher velocity than shales and clays ;
the seismograph picks up the depths at
which limestone, one of oil’s associates,
and similar rocks occur, and, by tests
over wide areas, the existence of arches
or folds can be determined,
Australasian Petroleum’s field staff
consists substantially of Australians previ-
ously employed by Oil Search. Its driller
was flown from Iran after two others
had been “lost by enemy action” en route
to Australia. Other overseas oil experts
are on the job.- Oil Search reported last
December: —•
The structure chosen for the first test
drill has been closely examined and sub-
mitted to intense geophysical surveys by the
field staff, whose findings and recommen-
dations were reviewed by experts in
London and New York before the decision
to drill was made. It should be borne in
mind, however, that a virgin country as
far as oil is concerned is being tapped in
Papua, and, while it is hoped that the
first well will bring in oil, the results may
still be inconclusive. Considered as a
whole, Papua undoubtedly offers excellent
prospects, the value of which may be
gauged to some extent by the fact that to
date Australasian Petroleum Co. has spent
upwards of £700,000 on surveys and drill-
ing equipment.
If the first test well is dry but discloses
a promising structure, other wells will
be sunk. The co. is equipped with a
powerful plant, and drilling has started
in a 23in. hole, which went down 35ft.
on the first day.
Oil Search has an issue of 1,355,436
fully-paid ss. shares. There are also
116,600 contribs. It holds, as stated be-
fore, a fifth interest in the Papuan drilling
venture. Oriomo Oil, an old asso-
ciate of the co., owns approximately
2\ Oil Search shares for every one of
its own shares issued.
Again share prices were steady last
week. The general level was almost un-
changed, though Tooth shares were firm
and B.H.P. paper tended to strengthen
rather than weaken as the date (31st) for
the closing of the new issue drew nearer.
The old scrip sold at 40s. again. Asso-
ciated Pulp was weak at 28s. 9d., and
looked attractive. Even on a 6 p.c. div.
basis the yield here is 4.2 p.c. Austra-
lasian Paper ords. recovered to 365. 3d.
on news of a favorable half-year. Castle-
maine Perkins 12s. 6d. shares returned
5.2 p.c. at 19s. 3d. —an opportunity for
Queenslanders to get into a good stock
in their own State and avoid any double
taxation that might arise in the case of
inter-State issues. Bond’s Industries scrip
ascended to 275. The market is very
hopeful here ; no announcement of profits
has yet been made. The stock has been
almost as active as Selfridges—another
concern (of a different type) that has
pulled up a heavy grade to the div.-pay-
ing stage. Conditions have been particu-
larly favorable to Bond’s since war broke
out, but the market is only guessing on
the question of divs.
W. R. Carpenter shares are weak at
335. If the 10 p.c. div. is maintained the
yield available is 6.1 p.c. The copra-
marketing problem is the cause of the
trouble. The co. has a spread of acti-
vities, however; and in the past its earn-
ings have been disclosed on a very con-
servative basis. Buyers are offering 21s.
for the shares of Burns Philp (South
Sea); there have been no sales above
21s. 6d. for a considerable time. Mauri
Bros, and Thomson ords. were strong
at 685., yielding 4.4 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis. This co. may possibly increase its
final div. this year owing to the heavier
nature of the undistributed-profits tax.
Adelaide Steam continued to lack sup-
port, and the scrip could be got at 295.,
yielding nearly 4.5 p.c. The co. con-
tinues to do well within its narrowed
circumstances.
♦ * ♦ *
Australian Iron and Steel, B.H.P.’s
largest subsidiary, showed net earnings
of £382,417 from its Port Kembla works
during the year to Nov. 30, 1940, which
included the period of the coal strike.
That is an increase of £28,913. Before
arriving at the profit, the board visibly
set aside £572,939 for depreciation—up
£22,167, The fact that heavy allowance
for wear and tear —substantially in ex-
cess of net earnings for some years—
has been allowed shows up in a consis-
tent reduction in the book value of fixed
assets of late. Any expenditure has been
more than offset by depreciation pro-
vision. Last year also patent rights
(£59,593) disappeared from the accounts
without comment. Allowing for one year’s
pref. div. (all arrears are now cleared
off), the net result last term represented
6.8 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
6.2 p.c. in the preceding term. Trade
expansion over the past two years is indi-
cated by a growth of £381,514 in debtors
(now £765,679) and an expansion of
£233,993 in stocks (£876,297). B.H.P.
and sundry creditors (£2,819,384) have
now largely replaced the bank overdraft
—reduced from £1,641,998 to £18,361
over the last couple of years.
» * * *
B.H.P. is a great one for writing off
depreciation. Net profit for the year
to May 31, 1940, was shown at £979,139 ;
depreciation visibly set aside was
£903,354. Provision for income tax was
£650,000. Profits disclosed by B.H.P. in
1939-40 were £452,374 lower than in the
preceding year, in spite of greatly in-
creased output. The coal strike and
higher costs in conjunction with un-
changed selling prices may have had
something to do with the poorer show-
ing. In any case it didn’t seem to be a
reflection of the co.’s real earning power,
and better results are expected for the
year closing in about six weeks. During
the ensuing 12 months B.H.P.’s capital
account will expand to £13,897,000 —-
up £2,500,000 as a result of the new issue,
rights of which are at present available
at near 17s. 9d. On the present market
basis the yield offering is 4 p.c. on a
p.c. div. There should be more than
4 p.c. in it later on.
Though it was announced last week
that the Netherlands Indies required
large quantities of Australian steel to
service its mercantile marine, there was
no excitement in B.H.P. shares. The
position, in fact, is that B.H.P. can’t
supply all its customers even now. Plant
capacity of the co. and its affiliates is
probably 1,600,000 tons or more a year
—a big rise over peace-time levels —but
Britain, India and other parts of Asia
can take all the stuff Australia doesn’t
want. Galvanised iron and barbed wire
are very difficult to buy in the Com-
monwealth, and there have been many
cases of delays in delivery of structural
steels. Defence requirements, naturally,
have the right-of-way, and the requests
of the N.E.I. will have to be considered.
Alluvial Prospectors, Ltd., a £20,000
co. which was instrumental in the flota-
tion of Tableland Tin (N.Q.) and Ngahcre
Gold Dredging (M.L.), is at present
chiefly interested in a new tin-bearing area
at Smith’s Creek, about five miles from
Tableland Tin’s Mt. Garnet property.
Six lines of bores, three chains apart, have
proved the old river channel over a length
of six miles ; average width is 20 chains ;
average depth, 75ft. ; average values,
nine ounces. A 25-acre block, close-
bored with one hole to the acre, gives a
slightly higher value. “It can be safely
estimated,” says the annual report, “that
at least 100,000,000 yards of highly pay-
able dredging ground is available, and
with probable extensions that may con-
ceivably double this figure.” The directors
are to investigate methods of dealing
with the property. They say that “at
least two super-dredges are indicated, with
a capital outlay of three-quarters of a
million.” It will cost £lO,OOO to bore
the property on a large scale by the end
of this year, when Alluvial Prospectors
hopes to be able to do something about
financing the dredging part of the ven-
ture. The Smith’s Creek area is referred
to by the board as “what would appear
to be one of the world’s most valuable
tin-bearing properties.” Malcolm New-
man, Tom Owen and George Davis figure
among the directors. The co. is having
trouble with the completion of Tableland
Tin’s new dredge. Some of the steel has
been commandeered for defence pur-
poses. Erection is hoped to start about
June or July ; it will take twelve months
then before digging can start.
* * * *
Selfridges (A/sia), Ltd., the Sydney
chain-store co. that had a disturbed youth,
announces, subject to final audit, that net
profit for the year ended January 31
amounted to £22,309 (compared with
£18,666), after providing £12,500 for taxa-
tion and writing off an amount of £3OOO
representing expenses incurred in connec-
tion with share issues capitalised in previ-
ous years. A dividend of 5 p.c. is
declared. The shares have had an active
market on Sydney ’Change for several
months in anticipation of a div. They
stood at 20s. 6d. last week.
* * * *
Huddart Parker has been affected by
the war, like other Australian inter-State
shippers. After running at a loss on the
trans-Tasman route for “many months,”
the co. transferred its largest passenger
vessel to the Australian coastal trade,
where cargo offerings were plentiful even
if passengers were few. There were
delays in port, costs rose and wages were
substantially increased. There was also
a coal strike during the year. Huddart
Parker’s declared profit fell from £135,691
to £105,260, and the ord. div. was
dropped from 14 p.c. to 12 p.c. With the
pref. div. it called for £120,000, com-
pared with £135,000 the year before, tak-
ing nearly £15,000 more than the year’s
claimed profit. But, including its share of
the earnings of its subsidiaries, Huddart
Parker’s profit last year was £133,537,
equal to 13.8 p.c. on ord. capital; this
excuses the apparently generous div., even
if reserves, external and internal, weren’t
so corpulent. The co.’s ords., which
ranged between 475. and 60s. 3d. in 1940,
sold at 475. last week, compared with
sales between 525. and 50s. during the
two months to February 28. At 475. the
return is 5.1 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis.
Concentration of activities on the Aus-
tralian coast should favor the current
year’s results,
* * * *
Davies, Coop and Co., like Bradford
Cotton (Sydney), continues to go ahead
rapidly. For the six months to Dec. 31
the Victorian co. reports “satisfactory
improvement” over the same period of
the previous year. Branches in South
Aus. and N. S. Wales have lately entered
production, and are benefiting from the
present great demand for cotton textiles.
Over 1000 new employees have been
engaged as a result. Two complete
spinning and weaving plants from the
U.K. are now erected. Davies, Coop
(Flax Industries) Pty. is putting up a
mill to turn out flax tarpaulin canvas
and flax fire hose ; the factory adjoins
the parent’s tyre-cord plant at Colling-
wood.


UNCABLED UDDITIONS
LEASE-LEND BILL VIEWS.
[On March 8 the U.S. Senate finally passed by 60
votes to 31 the Lease-Lend Bill giving the President
complete control of armament production for use against
the Axis, in any way, by any nation, he chooses. The
bill was introduced in Congress on January 10, and,
in accordance with American legislative procedure, many
witnesses were called before the House and Senate
Foreign Affairs Committees and there read prepared
statements and were then questioned. A huge amount
of often widely divergent views thereby found expres-
sion, not only on the bill, but also on America’s position
and policy in this war, on the chances of the respective
sides, and on various other aspects of the war. The main
aim here is to present, as far as space permits, a repre-
sentative coverage of those views, the chief source
being the extensive reports appearing in New York
“Times.”]
Roosevelt Makes History
In the past week President Roosevelt helped to
make history—a week in which the United States
turned into new paths that led none knew quite where.
On Monday, January 6, the President read to
Congress his annual message, which set forth as funda-
mental policy the determination of the United States
to preserve democracy and to aid to the limit nations
resisting aggression by dictatorships.
On January 8 the greatest Defence Budget in
peace-time was sent to the Congress, a Budget which
outlined the “total defence” of American democracy
and reflected “a world at war.” The defence pro-
gramme summarised:
Appropriations, Authorisations
and Recommendations (June,
1940, 1941, 1942).
[ln Millions of Dollars.]
Army $13,704
Navy 11,587
Expansion of industrial plant .. .. 1,902
Other defensive activities .. .. 1,287
Total $28,480
In London on January 9 Prime Minister Winston
Churchill addressed a luncheon of Britons and Ameri-
cans: “It is no exaggeration to say that the future of
the whole world and the hopes of a broadening civil-
isation founded upon Christian ethics depend upon
the relations between the British Commonwealth of
Nations and the United States of America.”
In Washington the next day President Roosevelt
moved to make Anglo-American relations closer than
they have been since World War days. He asked
Congress to grant him virtually unlimited powers in
extending “all-out” aid to Britain and other nations
fighting the Axis Powers. The President had laid
down a programme. “It is not enough to defend
our national existence,” he said. “Democracy as a
way of life is equally at stake.”
The bill Mr. Roosevelt presented to Congress—
it was labelled H.R. 1776 —would enable him to place
virtually unlimited military aid at Britain’s disposal.
The bill would make the United States a nonbelli-
gerent ally of Britain in all but name. It would also
make the President virtually the sole arbiter of how
much aid should be given.
H.R, 1776 was no lengthy document. Divided
into nine brief sections, it first defined the phrase
“defence articles,” specifying that these include muni-
tions, aircraft, ships and machinery and “any other
commodity or article for defence.” The President’s
control of such articles would be almost absolute. He
would have the right to “sell, transfer, lease, lend or
otherwise dispose of” any such defence article to a
friendly Power. The only conditions were (1) that the
President should deem the defence of such a foreign
Power “vital to the defence of the United States,” and
(2) that the foreign beneficiary should not transfer title
to American-made products without the President’s
consent.
Since September, 1939, more than 1000 American-
made ’planes have gone to Britain and the Empire.
Destroyers, traded for bases, have gone also. So have
rifles, machine-guns, field guns and ammunition. Ship-
ments to Britain have at times reached two-thirds of
the value of the U.S.A.’s entire export trade. America’s
sales have amounted roughly to $2,000,000,000.
sfe sic jfc jJ: A
[President Roosevelt’s address to Congress in advance
of the bill was cabled at length, but some highlights
from it are here included because of their importance
and to complete this record.]
We should remember that the peace of 1919 was
far less unjust than the kind of pacification which
began even before Munich, and which is being carried
on under the new order of tyranny that seeks to spread
over every continent today. The American people
have unalterably set their faces against that tyranny.
Armed defence of democratic existence is now
being gallantly waged in four continents. If that
defence fails, all the population and all the resources
of Europe and Asia, Africa and Australia will be
dominated by conquerors.
No realistic American can expect from a dictator’s
peace international generosity, or return of true inde-
pendence, or world disarmament, or freedom of
expression, or freedom of religion—or even good busi-
ness. Such a peace would bring no security for us
or for our neighbors.
Our most useful and immediate role is to act
as an arsenal for [nations now at war with aggressor
nations] as well as for ourselves. They do not need
man-power, but they do need billions of dollars’ worth
of the weapons of defence.
The time is near when they will not be able to
pay for them all in ready cash. We cannot, and we
will not, tell them that they must surrender merely
because of present inability to pay.
Let us say to the democracies: “We Americans
are vitally concerned in your defence of freedom. We
are putting forth our energies, our resources and
our organising powers to give you the strength to
regain and maintain a free world. We shall send you
in ever-increasing numbers ships, ’planes, tanks, guns.
That is our purpose and our pledge.”
We will not be intimidated by the threats of dic-
tators that they will regard as a breach of international
law or as an act of war our aid to the democracies
which dare to resist their aggression.
When the dictators —if the dictators —are ready to
make war upon us, they will not wait for an act of
war on our part. They did not wait for Norway
or Belgium or the Netherlands to commit an act of
war. Their only interest is in a new one-way inter-
national law which lacks mutuality in its observance
and therefore becomes an instrument of oppression.
In the future days which we seek to make secure,
we look forward to a world founded upon four essen-
tial human freedoms.
The first is freedom of speech and expression—
everywhere in the world.
The second is freedom of every person to worship
God in his own way—everywhere in the world.
The third is freedom from want, which, trans-
lated into world terms, means economic understand-
ings which will secure to every nation a healthy peace-
time life for its inhabitants —everywhere in the world.
The fourth is freedom from fear, which, trans-
lated into world terms, means a world-wide reduction
of armaments to such a point and in such a thorough
—Cleveland “Plain Dealer," U.S.A.
THROWING OUT THE LIFELINE.
fashion that no nation will be in a position to com-
mit an act of physical aggression against any neigh-
bor —anywhere in the world.
That is no vision of a distant millennium. It is a
definite basis for a kind of World attainable in our
own time and generation. That kind of world is the
very antithesis of the so-called “new order” of tyranny
which the dictators seek to create with the crash of
a bomb.
* * * * *
Hull on U.S, and Aggressors
[Secretary of State Hull was one of the first to appear
before the House Foreign Affairs Committee.]
During the past eight years, the United States
Government has striven, by every peaceful means at
its disposal, to secure the establishment in the world
of conditions under which there would be a reasonable
hope for enduring peace.
Observance and the advocacy of the basic prin-
ciples underlying this policy and efforts toward its
acceptance and application became increasingly im-
portant as three nations, one after another, made
abundantly clear, by word and by deed, their deter-
mination to repudiate and destroy the very founda-
tions of a civilised world order under law and to enter
upon the road of armed conquest, of subjugation of
other nations, and of tyrannical rule over their victims.
[Mr. Hull named, in chronological order of their wars,
Japan, Italy and Germany, and traced out the well-
known history of their aggressions. In each case and all
along, he said, the United States Government had done
its utmost to dissuade the aggressor Governments.]
Since then it has become increasingly apparent
that mankind is today face to face, not with regional
wars or isolated conflicts, but with an organised, ruth-
less and implacable movement of steadily expanding
conquest. We are in the presence of forces which are
not restrained by considerations of law or principles of
morality; which have fixed no limits for their pro-
gramme of conquest; which have spread over large
areas on land and are desperately struggling now to
seize control of the oceans as an essential means of
achieving and maintaining their conquests.
The most serious question today for the United
States is whether the control of the high seas shall
pass into the hands of Powers bent on a programme of
unlimited conquest. It is in this light, above all, that
we should order our present-day thinking and action
with respect to the amount of material assistance
which our country is prepared to furnish Great Britain.
On no other question of public policy are the
people of the United States so nearly unanimous and
so emphatic today as they are on that of the impera-
tive need, in our own most vital interest, to give
Great Britain and other victims of attack the maxi-
mum of material aid in the shortest possible space
of time.
The protagonists of the forces against which we
are today forging the instrumentalities of self-defence
have repudiated in every essential respect the long-
accepted principles of peaceful and orderly inter-
national relations. They have disregarded every right
of neutral nations, even of those to which they them-
selves had given solemn pledges of inviolability. Their
constantly employed weapons for the government of
their unfortunate victims are unrestricted terrorisa-
sation: firing squads, deceit, forced labor, confisca-
tion of property, concentration camps and depriva-
tions of every sort.
I am certain that the day will come again when
no nation will have the effrontery and the cynicism
to demand that, while it itself scoffs at and disregards
every principle of law and order, its intended victims
must adhere to all such principles—until the very
moment when its armed forces have crossed their
frontiers. But so long as such nations exist we cannot
and must not be diverted—either by their threats or
by their hypocritical protests.
He * * * *
Why Overlook Russia?
[After Mr. Hull had testified, a good deal of astonish-
ment at his omission of Russia was expressed in news-
paper columns and elsewhere. In the course of its report
opposing the bill the Senate Committee Minority passed
the caustic comments here given.]
Now the criterion is established: “It is not more
unneutral for us to do that” —which this bill would
authorise —“than it is for Sweden, Russia and other
nations near Germany to send steel, ore, oil and other
war materials into Germany every day.”
Think of the irony of this. Russia fixes our
standards today.
The Secretary of State presented an arraignment
of aggressor nations in his testimony, in which he
paints us the terrible picture of the aggressor nations,
terrible, because true ; but in this picture he carefully
refrains from mentioning Russia, and the ink was
scarcely dry upon his written paper submitted 10 the
committee when he withdrew the “moral embargo”
that had rested upon Russia, and apparently Russia
was white as snow and her sins were forgotten and
forgiven—Russia, whose attack upon Finland shocked
the world, and whose rape of half of Poland plainly
demonstrated that she was one of the Axis Powers ;
and her more recent appropriation of the little nations
on her borders has aroused the indignation of all right-
thinking people.
But now Russia is no longer in the category of
aggressor nations, no longer within the category of
predatory nations, ready and willing unjustly to pounce
upon smaller and weaker countries,
* * * ❖ #
Knox on the British Navy
[From Secretary of Navy Knox’s statement before the
House Foreign Affairs Committee.]
The war in Europe must be looked upon as the
latest of a long succession of attempts by dictators
to establish rule over all Europe and, eventually, to
establish dominion over a large portion of the world.
Like all its predecessors, the Nazi regime has found
that the power of its armies alone cannot establish
that rule, because Europe is not self-supporting in raw
materials, and the Nazi armies are powerless to obtain
these materials unless they have control of the sea.
Great Britain has been enabled to survive against
conquest through control of the seas, and also to stifle
the expanding military Powers on the Continent by
denying them access to the sources of raw materials.
The struggle now going on is, fundamentally, an
attempt by Germany to seize control of the sea from
Great Britain.
The United States proclaimed the Monroe Doc-
trine to keep the New World from being conquered
by the Holy Alliance, which was the Triple Axis of
1823. We were successful in maintaining that doctrine
only because of the support of Great Britain, whose
overwhelming fleet could prevent overseas aggression
from Europe. British naval power has not threatened
us for 125 years, and during that time no other Euro-
pean naval power could touch us, since they feared
the British fleet.
Only during the past 50 years has it become neces-
sary for the United States to develop a strong navy.
The circumstances that rendered a strong navy essen-
tial to our safety were the construction of a German
navy to back aggression toward distant lands and
Japan’s expansion into the peaceful lands beyond
her borders.
During the years before the World War we were
threatened by German naval power, because that
power was directed against the continued existence
of Great Britain and its powerful navy. The World
War gave Japan her chance for expansion throughout
the islands of the Pacific. We were able to check
Japan’s further aggressions by moving our entire fleet
to the Pacific when the conclusion of the World War
eliminated the German fleet in the Atlantic.
Since that time we have maintained a one-ocean
navy in the Pacific, and that navy has proved adequate
in both directions only because the existence and the
deployment of the British Navy gave us security in


“Don’t just say PORT
and Be disappointed
—STIPULATE
(^yUwvo#
GOLD MEDAL
and be satisfied.
Good wine is so economical today.* 9
the Atlantic. In effect, both we and the British Com-
monwealth of Nations actually have had a two-ocean
navy operated for a single peaceful purpose.
We still have a one-ocean navy. We are building
a two-ocean navy, but its structure will not be com-
pleted for six years. We need to complete that struc-
ture as fast as we can, because the other part of our
present two-ocean navy is now in grave danger.
The British Navy can survive only if the British
Isles survive. Should the British Isles fall, we can
only believe that the British Navy, which never runs
from danger, will fall at the same time.
Were Britain to suffer defeat, the naval forces
now in the possession of the Axis Powers, or which
are under construction, would greatly outnumber our
own. Our fleet would necessarily be divided, to meet
danger in both oceans. Whether it would be strong
enough to protect even the regions nearest to us is
a matter that cannot now be foretold. Certainly we
could not project our strength across two wide oceans.
Jk sic * #
Lindbergh’s Views
[Following are views expressed by Colonel Lind-
bergh in his statement opposing the bill read before the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.]
When I am asked which side I would like to
have win, it would be very easy for me to say “the
English.” But, gentlemen, an English victory, if it
were possible at all, would necessitate years of war
and an invasion of the Continent of Europe. I believe
this would create prostration, famine and disease in
Europe—and probably in America—such as the whole
world has never experienced before. This is why I
say that I prefer a negotiated peace to a complete
victory by either side.
The policy of depleting our forces to aid Eng-
land is based upon the assumption that England will
win this war. Personally, I do not believe that Eng-
land is in a position to win the war. If she does not
win, or unless our aid is used in negotiating a better
peace than could otherwise be obtained, we will be
responsible for futilely prolonging the war and adding
to the bloodshed and devastation in Europe, particu-
larly among the democracies.
During the study I made of European aviation in
1936, 1937 and 1938, I was forced to the conclusion
that Germany was the natural Air Power of Europe,
just as England is the natural Sea Power. I based
this conclusion upon a combination of factors, includ-
ing geographical and meteorological conditions;
national psychology ; ability in the design, manufac-
ture, and operation of aircraft; and upon a compari-
son of existing European air forces and manufactur-
ing facilities.
I concluded that the United States was the only
nation in the world capable of equalling or excelling
Germany in aviation. But since we in America had
specialised in commercial aviation, and neglected mili-
tary aviation, it was obvious to me that Germany had
a lead in military aviation which could not be over-
come in less than several years.
At the present moment Germany controls air
bases on the Continent of Europe which extend almost
in a semicircle around the British Isles. From these
bases she can converge upon the relatively centralised
industry and aviation establishments of England. This
fact alone gives the German air force great advan-
tage. Even if the British and German air forces were
equal in strength, Germany would have the advan-
tage geographically. Her air bases are now much
closer to the English objectives than the English air
bases are to the German objectives. The German
bomber can carry extra bombs, while the English
bomber must carry extra fuel. And the Germans
have longer warning of an attack than the English have
because of the greater distances that must be flown
over the Continent before important objectives can be
reached. Germany has a much stronger air force and
far greater aircraft manufacturing facilities than exist
in England.
In view of these factors alone, I believe it is
obvious that England cannot obtain an air strength
equal to Germany’s without great assistance from the
United States ; and my personal opinion is that, re-
gardless of how much assistance we send, it will not
be possible for American and British aviation, con-
centrated in the small area of the British Isles, to
equal the strength of German aviation, with unlimited
bases throughout the Continent of Europe.
What we are doing in following our present
policy is giving up an ideal defence position in
America for a very precarious offensive position in
Europe. I would be opposed to our entering the in-
ternal wars of Europe under any circumstances. But
it is an established fact today that our army and our
air force are but poorly equipped on modern stand-
ards, and even our navy is in urgent need of new
equipment.
If we deplete our forces still further, as this bill
indicates we may, and if England should lose this war,
then, gentlemen, I think we may be in danger of in-
vasion, although I do not believe we are today.
I oppose placing our security in an English vic-
tory because I believe that such a victory is extremely
doubtful.
*****
Lindbergh Questioned
[The following views were elucidated from Colonel
Lindbergh in questioning.]
Questioned by Senator Murray, Colonel Lind-
bergh said that “the combined productive capacities
of the United States and Great Britain cannot build
up an air strength in Great Britain to equal that of
Germany, much less excel it.”
Colonel Lindbergh was emphatic in laying the
blame for the present European war on the United
States. Several times he charged that United States
officials incited Great Britain and France to declare
war, with the understanding that the United States
would ultimately participate, although he conceded
that he had no proof whatever that this was the case.
He based his assumption, he said, on the attitude he
found among inhabitants of both countries in 1937
and 1938, when persons with whom he talked regarded
war with Germany as inevitable. All these persons
were counting on the armed intervention of the United
States.
“Your view is that the situation is hopeless and
that Britain might as well give in and take what
terms she can get?” Senator Murray asked.
“The last thing I want to see is England fall,”
Colonel Lindbergh replied. “That’s why I opposed
this war before it started.”
His stand regarding war guilt of the United States
was explained in answer to questioners. He said that
Great Britain and France were confident that the
United States arms embargo would be repealed when
they went into the war.
“Do you think Germany would not have invaded
France if we hadn’t repealed the arms embargo?”
Senator Connally asked.
“After all, France and England declared war on
Germany,” the witness answered. “I think it is doubt-
ful that Germany would have turned west if that war
had not been declared. If we had not repealed the
—Baltimore “Sun,” U.S.A.
SPECTRE IN THE GALLERY.
arms embargo, peace would be under negotiation in
Europe today.”
He repeated his plea for a negotiated peace, but
refused to state what he would consider just terms.
“It would be easy to sit here and say what would be
right in Europe,” he said, “but throughout history
peace has been determined by the results of war. A
better peace could be obtained today than in a month
or a year, both for Britain and France.”
United States efforts to aid the struggling democ-
racies will prolong the war and will not materially
affect its outcome, Colonel Lindbergh said. In a few
years, “those people,” meaning the British, will be
blaming the United States for prolonging the blood-
shed. “I believe it is very important for England
not to be beaten in this war, but that’s not in our
control,” he said.
He added that the German public, at the time of
the Munich conversations, knew that war was inevit-
able and believed that it would be against the Soviet
Union.
Colonel Lindbergh said he believed that the
United States was definitely weaker for having supplied
rifles and other weapons to Great Britain after the
retreat from Dunkirk, a move which Secretary Stim-
son described, in his testimony, as one of the wisest
and most far-seeing ever taken by a President of the
United States. Colonel Lindbergh remarked that the
nations of the world, presumably including the United
States, missed a great opportunity for peaceful adjust-
ment of the difficulties of Europe.
Senator Thomas said that American incitement to
war in Europe, if viewed in its proper proportion,
would be found to be a very small factor in the pre-
cipitation of the present war.
“No, sir, a very large one,” Colonel Lindbergh
insisted.
All he would say in rejffy to Senator Pepper’s
inquiry about the validity of Secretary Knox’s view
that passage of the pending bill would “buy time”
in which to complete American rearmament was:
“I am against buying time by spending English and
French blood.”
* $ $ $ s£
Knox on Lindbergh
[Secretary of Navy Knox appeared before the Senate
Foreign Affairs Committee to speak against views
expressed by Colonel Lindbergh.]
I respect Colonel Lindbergh’s knowledge and
ability concerning commercial aviation. However, his
experience with military aviation has been slight, and
I consider his statements pertaining to the strategic
employment of military aviation as disclosing his lack
of knowledge on this subject.
Colonel Lindbergh’s idea that it might be possible
now to effect a stable negotiated peace between Great
Britain and Germany is a wild fancy. A negotiated
peace without victory can be effected only when a
military stalemate has existed for a long time, and
under conditions where the belligerents feel a reason-
able degree of confidence that the peace terms will be
faithfully executed. In Europe the military situation
is far from stable, and I believe that there are few
British who would care to accept German peace com-
mitments at their face value.
The question to decide is: Would we rather see
Europe dominated by a democratic system or would
we rather see Europe dominated by a Hitler system?
If the Hitler system is victorious, can any of us imagine
that we can return freely to the ways of the peace
which we have known in the past? For my part, I
believe that so long as the Hitler system endures we
will be forced to maintain a tremendous navy and a
very large army in order to continue any sort of
national existence.
Aside from reasons of national safety, we have
many other selfish reasons for desiring to see the
British nation continue in existence. The type of
civilisation that has been developed in the United
Kingdom has conditioned the development of Ameri-
can civilisation. Our social, our economic, and our
political systems were brought to this New World as
transplantations from the British systems. Close
personal contacts and a constant exchange of ideas
between the American and the British peoples have
nourished the sturdy growth of the American national
life whose roots lie embedded in British soil.
From a cultural standpoint, it would be a calamity
for us if British life were uprooted and replaced by
a Nazi growth. Even those of our citizens whose
lineage leads back to parts of the world other than
Britain must feel that their greatest benefits from life
in the United States are connected with stability of
the institutions which Britain originated and which
we have adapted to our own form of civilisation.
* * * * *
Willkie Supports the Bill
[“Crowds unparalleled at any Capitol hearing within
the memory of employees now working there struggled
today (February 11) to force their way into the caucus-
room of the Senate’s Office Building to hear Wendell L.
Willkie urge the Foreign Relations Committee and the
Senate to pass the Lease-Lend Bill. The drama of Presi-
dent Roosevelt’s rival for the Presidency last November
flying back from London to reach Washington for the
closing session of the public hearings on the bill cap-
tured the crowd as nothing has done since Charles A.
Lindbergh, on his return from his first transatlantic
flight in 1927, appeared before the joint Military Affairs
Committees of the Senate and the House of Representa-
tives to testify on the future possibilities of aviation.
Even then, police officials said, there was no such out-
pouring as rushed to the Capitol today.” —New York
“Times.” Following is the main portion of Mr.
Willkie’s statement.]
In general, two great alternatives lie before us.
One is the suggestion that America withdraw within
herself, I am of the opinion that this alternative will
inevitably result in the destruction of our civil liber-
ties, the loss of our freedom and, eventually, war. If
we isolate ourselves, Britain may have great difficulty
in surviving. No man can say, at this time, whether
or not Britain can win this war without our assist-
ance in supplies, ships and armaments. But we do
know that if she is defeated the totalitarian Powers
will control most of the world. Such a calamity would
have two results. First, in order to compete with those
Powers, we ourselves would have to adopt totalitarian
controls. We would lose our liberty here at home.
But, secondly, I believe that the United States would
eventually be drawn into war against one or more of
those Powers. They would so cramp us and hinder
us and infringe upon us that we would be forced to
fight. In that event we would be fighting alone, a
different battle in the same war that Britain is now
fighting.
The idea that we can withdraw within ourselves
has no regard for the way the world is actually built.
Great nations cannot isolate themselves. With our
modern communications and means of transport, in-
cluding the airplane, they are woven into the rest
of the world.
The other alternative that faces the American
people recognises the interdependence not only of
men but of ideas and principles. According to this
view, which I share, an attack against liberty in one
part of the world is a threat against liberty in another
part of the world. If liberty is destroyed in Britain
this constitutes a real and immediate threat to liberty
in the United States.
But we must not make the mistake of narrowing
the entire discussion to the cause of Britain. Within
the German lines there are half a dozen nations where
liberty has been crushed. Our concern is broader than


the welfare of any single nation ; it is that the area
of freedom be as large as possible. If Britain prevails
the enslaved democracies of Europe will revive.
It is only when there is a large international area
of freedom that we can avoid totalitarian methods of
trade. It is only in such an area that we can trade
and compete with free peoples, who love peace as
we do and who have a respect for law. We do not
have to define precisely how large that area must be.
But we know that it must exist in the future, if we
are to exist in liberty.
This is what aid to Britain really means: Not to
work for Britain but to work with Britain to defend
an area of freedom.
The policy of full aid to Britain provides the
American people with their best—and I believe their
only—chance to defend liberty without themselves
going into war.
Our aircraft programme will provide a little help
in 1941, but it will not begin to give Britain supremacy
in the air until 1942.
Britain’s greatest hazard is not the bombing of
her cities. I recently visited many of the northern
industrial towns. The destruction that I saw was
piteous and heartrending, but it was not primarily a
destruction of productive facilities. The damage to
Britain’s industries has so far been relatively small.
Britain’s greatest hazard is, rather, the destruction of
shipping. Britain now breathes chiefly through her
northern ports. It is essential not only that these be
kept open but that they be kept supplied with enough
shipping to meet the needs of the people and the heavy
x-equirements of the military procurement programme.
Yet since May, 1940, Britain lost an average of nearly
60,000 tons of shipping per week, almost three times
her present rate of construction.
Britain needs still more destroyers. Merchant
ships are making the crossing without nearly enough
protection: in some cases 30 or 40 ships may
be “protected” by only a couple of destroyers. If
we are to aid Britain effectively, we should provide
her with from five to ten destroyers a month.
I sympathise with the members of Congress upon
whose shoulders fall the responsibility for decision.
Their load is not made any lighter by the reflection
that their decisions at this time will influence the course
of history, perhaps for generations. No man can
guarantee to you that the policy of aid to Britain
will not involve the United States in war. It is my
solemn opinion, however, that, provided the aid is
effective, it offers the best clear chance for us to keep
out of war. Hitler will make war on us, or on our
friends and allies in this hemisphere, when, as, and if
he chooses. That is his record. But he is far less apt
to be aggressive while Britain stands than if she were
to fall.
Neither is any man able to tell you whether or not
Britain can win. Military and naval experts can help
you weigh the chances on one side or the other, but
I don’t believe any man knows, or can know. There
are too many intangible factors.
For what it may be worth, my belief is that Ger-
many cannot successfully invade Britain. If Britain’s
northern ports can be kept open and the supply lines
can be kept moving, I feel confident that Britain can
survive the shock of the spring and summer cam-
paigns. This is also the belief in high quarters in
Britain.
And if Britain can stand through this summer
then at last the effects of our long-term assistance will
begin to be felt. The tide will turn. Reinforced by
our gigantic resources, Britain may be able to achieve
that effectiveness which the democratic peoples have
temporarily lost.
We must remember, in facing this issue, that it
is not only the present that is at stake. Somewhere
in this confusing world we must find—we must build
—a future for ourselves. The prospect of a future
surrounded by totalitarian Powers ; threatened by dic-
tators whose real desire is for conquest; betrayed by
nations whose word is not to be trusted ; loaded with
armaments and domestic debt, and faced with a declin-
ing standard of living—such a future is not a future
for Americans as we have known them.
If we are to avoid such a calamity we must now
have courage. We must bravely do the things that we
know ought to be done. And we must lay the moral,
intellectual and spiritual foundations for the kind of
world we want our children to inherit. That world
cannot be a closed world. It must be an open world.
It must be a world in which Americans will share with
other nations the responsibilities —and the great pros-
pect —of peace.
F * * * * •
Willkie Questioned
[Mr. Willkie either made his formal statement with
such a clear mind that he really had practically nothing
more to say on the matter, or else he was too astute
when appearing before the Senate Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee to be led into sensational statements. The report
of his examination spread over more than two pages
of New York “Times,” but added little of general
interest apart from the following extracts.]
Questioned by Senator Reynolds, Mr. Willkie
agreed that he should add to his formal statement;
“I do not believe England can prevail without effec-
tive aid from America. If America gives that effective
aid, then America will have the power to determine
whether the captured democracies of Europe survive.
And, in my judgment, the American public sentiment
will require that they survive.”
Senator Barkley; “We often hear the expression
that we have given aid to England. The fact is that
everything England has obtained from this country
has been paid for in cash on the barrel head, and
that the transfer of the 50 destroyers to England was
compensated for by bases which were obtained, which
in my judgment are infinitely more valuable to us
than the 50 destroyers. Have we as a nation, or as
a people, up to this hour, undergone any hardships or
any sacrifice, or made any contribution which is at all
commensurate with what you think is the danger
which exists today to our country?”
Mr. Willkie: “Sir, if I thought we had rendered
effective aid to date, and we had a method of render-
ing effective aid without this bill, I would be fighting
this bill.”
Senator Barkley; “But up to now we have made
no contribution at all, and rendered no aid.”
Mr. Willkie; “I would not want to say that.”
Senator Barkley: “Except that which has been
paid for by England.”
Mr. Willkie: “I believe that is correct.”
Senator Clark: “Do you think it is possible for Eng-
land to achieve victory in such a way as to dictate the
re-establishment of France, Holland, Belgium and coun-
tries like that without the invasion of the Continent?”
Mr. Willkie: “Oh, yes.”
Senator Clark: “Do you mean to say it is pos-
sible to conquer Germany from the air?”
Mr. Willkie: “Oh, certainly. I think if we fur-
nish effective aid to Britain, which will keep the
channels open, and by giving her this equipment, if
Britain is able to resist the invasion, as soon as
Britain gets superiority in the air this thing will begin
to mumble. I cannot prove it. I only know what
the British think about it. I only know what is talked
in Lisbon, that the people of France are 95 per cent,
discontented now. I think that is true of the other
democracies. I think as soon as Britain gets superiority
in the air the Continental situation will crumble very
rapidly.”
Senator Clark: “Let me ask you whether you
base that judgment on a revolt in Germany and
among the Continental Powers, or whether you believe
a military victory can actually be won from the air?”
Mr. Willkie : “Senator, what I think about it is
this: The British people are united, almost beyond
belief. They are a free people. I think millions of
them would die before they would give up that island.
I think enslaved people will not do that, and when the
going gets tough they will force this bunch of robbers
to give up. I do not think enslaved people have the
spirit to fight under these circumstances.”
Senator Clark: “No one can question the won-
derful heroism and spirit of the British people ; but
have you ever heard any military expert express the
opinion that a military victory could actually be won
SENATOR PEPPER:—
“Call it war, or do not call it war. Lay
it down as a premise, America will not
let England fall to Hitler. If this will
not save England, we will save it any-
way. The American people will drive
us into action under the lash of their
demands.”
SENATOR AUSTIN:-
“If ever it becomes necessary for us to
fight, we will fight I”
in the air without invasion? The Germans have not
been able to do it with great air superiority.”
Mr. Willkie: “I say they are fighting against free
people, and not against discontented areas.”
Senator Clark; “Has any war ever been won
without men back on the ground?”
Mr. Willkie: “There never was a war before
where there was real use of airplanes.”
*****
A Variety of Views
[Following are brief extracts from statements made
in the course of the bill discussion.]
Senate Foreign Affairs Committee majority
report: “It is the firm opinion of your committee that,
taking into consideration existing world conditions,
prompt enactment of H.R. 1776 into law is of the high-
est importance to the vital interests of our country —
and even of our civilisation.”
*****
Senator Glass: “I’ve listened to your [Colonel
Lindbergh’s] testimony with a great deal of interest,
but I believe like David Harum ‘Do unto others what
they would do unto you, but do it first.’ I guess I’m
about the only one I know in favor of war.”
*****
When Mr. Tinkham assailed the bill as a step
which would necessitate the sending of American
man-power to save Great Britain if the material aid
should be insufficient, Mr. Stimson replied that “it is
my view that this is the best bet we can make so that
we won’t have to send man-power.”
*****
William Green, president of the American Federa-
tion of Labor, declined Senator Fish’s invitation to
appear before the committee. “I am in disagreement
with you and your associates in opposition to the
general principles of the Lend-Lease Bill now pending
in Congress,” he telegraphed the Republican leader.
“While some details of the bill should be amended,
it is my opinion that the general principles of the
measure should be enacted into law. I regret for this
reason I cannot join you and your associates in oppo-
sition to this measure.”
*****
Representative Jeannette Rankin proposed an
amendment to prohibit the President from “lending,
leasing or sending men” outside the Western Hemi-
sphere for military purposes. It was defeated.
Miss Rankin was one of the two present members
of the House who voted against the declaration of
war in 1917. “If we send the materials,” she said,
“we will later send the men to use them.”
*****
Secretary of the Navy Knox: “The first knowledge
we had that this battlaship, the King George V, was at
sea was when she was approaching the Virginia Capes,
We didn’t know she had been finished.”
****<•
Senator Austin: “We have not embarrassed
Britain by asking what are her war aims, but it is
entirely proper for us, it seems to me, to ascertain
whether, in consideration of the effective aid without
which Baitain could not survive, in consideration of
the indispensable aid which this country is about to
give Britain in the cause of freedom, Britain will not
now make some sort of commitment to us that she
will present our views at the peace table that she
will stand actively with us in the future and not
abandon us as in the case of Manchukuo.”
*****
Senator Bailey: “It is intervention. We may not
regard it as war, and intervention is not necessarily
war. However, it is not to be denied that the totali-
tarians may regard it as an act of war. What of it if
they do? The totalitarian Powers are not moved by
provocation. Provocation means nothing. They will
move without provocation just as quickly as with
provocation, and they have done it over and over
again. I am not advocating that we go to war, I
am advocating intervention. But I am advocating
intervention with all its implications.”
* * * ■ o
Senator Vandenberg (one of the most vigorous
opponents of the bill): “If the United States is going
to war I would go all the way to war, deliberately con-
scious of our decision, and not drift in or back in, de-
liberately pretending to be unconscious of anything
but peace in our hearts. The pleasant idea that we
will not send our boys to fight in foreign lands will
go the way of its associated promise that our efforts
would stop short of war. It will have to go. When
we enter a transoceanic war, we dedicate our total
resources to a transoceanic victory.”
* * * * *
How President Will Act
(Condensed from “United States News.”)
How will President Roosevelt use his authority
to extend aid to Britain and to the other nations that
are resisting Germany and Italy and Japan? The out-
look is about as follows:
Destroyers: This term covers patrol vessels of
all kinds. The American Navy possesses 46 old
destroyers that are being reconditioned for other
service. These gradually may find their way into British
hands. There are many old subchasers from the last
war that still have service left in them. It is possible
that part of the American Fleet can engage in patrol
service in the South Pacific to relieve some British
cruisers and destroyers for use at home. When the
British and American naval strength is viewed as a
unit, many adjustments can be made that will help
the British deal with submarines.
Patrol Aircraft: Next to warships for patrolling
the surface of the sea, the British need long-range
seaplanes for patrolling the sea from the sky. The
American Navy has some of these big aircraft, but its
need for them is very great in the Pacific, and, if
Britain should fall, it would be very great in the
Atlantic. Production of new ’planes of this type is
slow. Consequently, while every effort will be made
to meet British needs, there is very unlikely to be a
wholesale transfer of vessels of this type.
Merchant Ships : A number of steps will be taken
to increase the tonnage of merchant vessels available
to the British. Priorities designed to ration the Ameri-
can merchant marine are under consideration as a
means of releasing vessels for new routes that will
displace British vessels called to the Atlantic service.
It is probable that the United States will acquire
some of the foreign ships tied up in U.S. ports and
then transfer those ships to the British. A building
programme is in addition to other steps to be taken.
Aircraft: Foreign nations —Britain, Dutch East
Indies, China —now are receiving from 85 to 90 p.c.
of all combat airplanes produced for the United States
Army. During the last year the army received fewer
than 400 of the 2800 bombers and pursuit ships pro-
duced in the U.S.A., and the percentage retained is
being reduced. It is entirely probable that, as aircraft
production rises, the British will receive the lion’s
share of army ships. However, the same situation does
not apply to naval aircraft. The navy, as the first
line of American defence, is strengthening its air
force with 119 ships received in November, 171 in
December and 296 in January, giving approximately
2550 aircraft now on hand.
Arms and Ammunition: The British will be given
every spare gun and every spare tank that can be
assembled by the United States. Production of arms
and ammunition is rising rapidly, and an important
proportion of production will continue to go to the
British.
Altogether the U.S. Government expects to pro-
vide Britain and China and other nations resisting
Germany-Italy-Japan with about $7,000,000,000 worth
of goods between now and July 1, 1942. If the British
resist the coming Hitler attack, there is every prospect
that the United States will find it necessary to take
over a very large proportion of the entire problem
of supplv of the British Isles. This, is due to the fact
that the 'British will find their industry crippled by air
attack and their financial ability crippled by the diffi-
culty of export. In exchange for this aid, the United
States probably will find herself with an increased
number of dreadnoughts obtained by barter and with
a miscellany of territory and promises to pay in goods
once the war is over.
With the lend-lease plan in operation, if England
herself were to go down British forces and Dutch
forces in Australia, New Zealand, the Malay States
and East Indies would be assured of supplies with
which to continue resistance to the demands of their
enemies. This resistance would give the people ot
the United States time to decide for themselves
whether or not they would want to fight to maintain
some portion of the world as a sphere of American
interest and influence or whether they wanted to sur-
render world control to the Germans-Italians-Japanese.
The lend-lease machinery will serve as the basis
for an eventual alliance between the forces of the
world opposed to the aggressor group of nations. _
In the showdown that lies ahead, lend-lease is a
flexible grant of power that enables the President to
enter into the war of nerves and of power politics with
weapons that are adequate to the size of the job.


m
■
■
■
I
i
■
5
' X;
msm |
■0
m
11
I
■
■
jgaa a^Mßril
iiiv
11 I
11
m :
.. X;
:
ff:
: :
m i
: ■ ■
9 a
11 11
I iliMiPl I
%:-g*a .
m
HBi : I
; '.. 3:' ':
i
11. :
.HS
Hi
i ■
■
i i
;
ma
BS»?!«|«aiigS
i m
■
P
B
mm
'
i
■ Mi
’■* '
■
-
t-«
m
. „%
WiimM
■
■
■
■ ■ ■■ i .•■ :
■
■
M
ElrS
Si;
Hi
.
®®rr T .
■
v .
innmnruin
m
9m
Wm
m
m
.Vs i
*
OUR FAITH m '■*“ :J
is——- rt“: U—- -
ixrVint is there IO every ■
-r.r-»« ”° k “ °“ b “""°’ k
"Ti*-. ..
rr.on to sees
r* - ~ .. 1M -»- ~
»-- t r- s - -is *
« I VT» .l* - » 4 v“ s„r?—»—*>••
our Force destiny oi our tho ught, tree speech,
unwavering to* m and retain lor all. Iree
defeat repression and
free action. }s pro ud of contribution
—r rZXZZX- — * “•
1
I nserted by
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTD. syd..v.
W.J.H. 1 309,
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd. distributes over
£900,000 annually in salaries and wages to its 3000
employees whose labour and skill have contributed so
welj to the company's development.
From its five mills it produces paper, pulp, and board,
and supplies firms throughout Australia at prices which
ensure the maximum amount of regular employment in
the industry, and assist subsidiary industries to expand.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
A programme of nine races at Moore-
field proved popular, the attendance
being exceptionally large. It would seem
as if increased taxation is causing many
people to give their spare cash a run.
Well-backed horses were to the fore in
several races, but as only three actual
favorites were successful, and Elson was
a 15-to-l chance, matters could have
been much worse for the books. For the
third time in less than three weeks B.
Payten was represented by two winners,
and that trainer will probably be won-
dering what is amiss when he gets down
to one for a day’s work.
Ensign looked as if a race would do
him good, but still his effort in the
Brighton Handicap was not one that was
pleasing to those backers who earlier in
the week were reported to have made
him the first leg of Doncaster and Cup
doubles for many thousands. Rathlin
set up a long lead in the first three fur-
longs, but though Ensign appeared to be
going comfortably when he got fairly
close to the leader going up the hill he
could not respond when Rathlin shot
away again. Then Dollar moved up and,
quickly disposing of Rathlin, won at
his ease in 1.40, time equalling the track
record. Dollar’s previous win was at a
mile at Moorefield in November. He
is not in the Doncaster, but is in the Syd-
ney Cup with 6.12. Cooranga, as usual,
was last early, but finished a fair fourth
alongside Ensign, Binnia Hero did well
for six furlongs, but weakened in the
run home. The fast pace set at the
commencement by Rathlin may not have
been in his favor.
Royal Sceptre’s form against Miss
Heroic at Victoria Park pointed to him
as the probable winner of the Moore-
field Handicap, but, taking Mortine
on trust as a stayer, backers made
her favorite. She was third into the
straight, but was never a possible winner,
and Royal Sceptre, who led from the
first furlong, won easily from Irak, his
nearest follower throughout. Australasia
was fourth, but, apart from that of the
first two, the form was not of much
account. It was Royal Sceptre’s first win
since he dead-heated Beaucaire for the
1938 A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate. Royal
Sceptre is not much to look at, but he
will win more middle-distance races.
St. Andrew struck more than his share
of trouble along the back and after
entering the straight in the first division
of the Three-year-old Handicap, or he
would probably have beaten Loyal Lad.
The latter commenced well from an out-
side position, was third to Status and
Pen Bird entering the straight, and led at
the leger. St. Andrew was half-a-neck
away, followed by Sobersides and Dublin
Lad, who were so close together that
opinions differed as to which ran third.
In error that position was awarded Pen
Bird, who died away in the straight,
and finished a long way back. Happy
Lass was well up at the finish, and will
be better suited by a mile. War Trophy’s
form was below that shown by him
earlier in the week, but the distance was
probably short for him. Hairan and
Black Art were in the field, but need
more racing.
Sweet Auburn was supposed to have
a mortgage on the second division of the
Three-year-old Handicap, but she was
never really dangerous, nor were other
well-backed runners in Panturn and Cape
Amber, the last-mentioned two being out-
paced throughout. Ceres was first into
the straight, but, finishing too strongly
for her opponents, Kama scored nicely
from Sylveroni, who also ran on well.
The winner, who was sired abroad to
Australian time, is a shapely filly by
Dark Legend from Karlova, and her
trainer, G. P. Nailon, has her on lease
for the term of her racing career.
Escutcheon won the first division of
the Juvenile Handicap just as easily as
he did his race at Rosehill last month.
In charge at the end of the first furlong,
he was never seriously threatened by the
other place-getters, Chatham’s Choice and
Jesterine, and equalled the track record
of 1.3 for five furlongs. Awake was
backed against Escutcheon, but she
jumped away badly, and then, after be-
ing hard ridden to get third going up the
hill, died away in the straight. America,
who is furnishing into a fine-looking colt,
did well from the turn after being one
of the rear division for half the trip, and
his fourth makes him worth keeping in
mind.
Sky High, who had been well boosted
from Randwick —not by press represen-
tatives—opened a hot favorite for the
second division of the Juvenile Handi-
cap. He touched a shade of odds-on at
one stage, but at the close of business
receded to 2 to 1. Miss Leonard did
the pacemaking, but Sky High was a
winner a half-furlong from home, second
place going to Arahura, a good-looking
filly by Harinero. As she finished well,
a win should be credited her at one of
the provincial meetings, if not in the
metropolitan area, before long. King’s
Deputy, from W. Kelso’s stable, was ex-
pected to give a good account of himself,
but never got in it.
Masterpiece justified his favoritism for
the Jumpers’ Flat Race. Heracles and
Mab’s Boy, in that order, led up the
hill and were close together at the turn,
but Masterpiece was too solid for them
over the final furlongs. None of the
others showed form that warranted their
being trained for flat-racing, even in the
jumpers’ class.
Commencing from an outside position,
Tarn quickly ran to the front in the
first division of the Flying Welter, but
Irish Sea, who was never far away,
headed her soon after turning for home.
The latter, however, evidently needed a
little more racing to bring him to his
best, as he was unable to respond when
tackled by Elson, who was not prominent
in the early part. Rosmead was a close
third. Gallop, even though assisted
by McMenamin, ran another poor race.
He was slow in finding his legs, and
made up some ground in the straight;
whereas Old Sport, who was badly placed
at the barrier, quickly got into a promi-
nent position, but tired over the last
quarter-mile. Melrose, after showing
pace, came home weakly. Beau Ercil
could not raise a decent gallop at any
stage.
Track work caused Duke Claro to
share favoritism with Brunswick Joy for
the second division of the Flying Welter.
The latter did flatter her backers by
leading when half the distance was
covered, and was still prominent at the
turn, but Duke Claro both commenced
and finished badly. The winner turned
up in My Friend, who shot up smartly
at the turn and then finished too solidly
for Welcome News, who got to the front
after settling Brunswick Joy entering the
straight. Welcome News is sure to im-
prove. Beau Frere did better than in
his recent races, and, only for jumping
over a dog which got mixed up with
the field in the first furlong, might have
been closer. Zel and Wartime were
others with which the dog interfered, and
it is remarkable there was not a bad
accident.
* * * *
Velocity probably ran himself into
a trip to Randwick for the A.J.C. St.
Leger and Sydney Cup when he defeated
Saki and Sir Rona in the St. Kilda Handi-
cap at Flemington on Saturday. His
St. Leger chance would be remote, as
he was well beaten in the V.R.C. St.
Leger, and he was conceded 91b. by Tidal
Wave, with whom he dead-heated for
third, in the Australian Cup. Still, he is
one of the best of the second-class three-
year-olds, and would have a Sydney Cup
chance with 7.5, or 111 b. under w.f.a.
Australian Cup form warranted favorit-
ism for Velocity, but Wilson, whom he
had beaten in that race, was backed late
from fives to threes, Velocity easing to
7 to 2. Wilson was a long way back
when Pander’s fall near the seven fur-
longs prejudiced his chance, whereas
Velocity was always going well. He won
the race when the pacemaker, Sir Rona,
shifted out under pressure about a fur-
long and a half from hime. Purtell
dashed his mount through the opening,
and, immediately challenging Saki, who
had looked like winning, the Veilmond
colt outstayed him to win by three-quarters
of a length. Velocity might not have
won had he been forced to go round
the leaders in the straight, but it was
a game performance for a colt who had
had a strenuous race over 2\ miles a week
earlier, and further improvement is prob-
able. He cost 600 guineas as a yearling.
Sir Rona, as in the Australian Cup,
attempted to lead all the way, but
did not try to make such a big break.
He was never more than three lengths
in front, and, although beaten when
fairly on the way for home, battled on
fairly for third money. Whatever chance
Bathing Beauty possessed was settled
when she almost crashed over Pantler.
Striking the running rail with her head,
she suffered a haemorrhage, her rider,
N. Percival, injuring his foot against
the fence at the same time. Pander’s
rider, V. Hartney, escaped serious injury.
An inquiry into the cause of the fall
was adjourned until he was able to give
evidence.
An unusual protest followed Astound-
ing’s defeat by Swettenham in the Koo-
yong Welter, his apprentice rider, G.
Ross, alleging interference between the
six and five furlongs. He contended
that Swettenham hampered him suffi-
ciently to make the difference between
winning and losing, and, as interfer-
ence so far from home can affect a
horse’s chance just as much as inter-
ference close to the post, his objection
was by no means frivolous. The prin-
ciple of such protests was not altered
by the fact that the stewards did not see
eye-to-eye with Ross, and declined to
alter the judge’s placings.
Astounding’s half-length defeat was
preceded by a plunge which forced his
price from sixes down to favoritism at
5 to 2, and it was unfortunate for his
connections that he should strike Swetten-
ham in a galloping mood. Swettenham
has always known how to gallop, but
backers know to their cost that he seldom
consents to do his best in a race. He
could have been bought at auction less
than a fortnight ago, but a bid of 300
guineas did not reach the reserve, and
his joint-owners decided to persevere
with him. They have had no reason to
regret it, as Saturday’s win was worth
£2BO in prize-money alone. Lord Walla
shaped well in third place and should
repay following, but Royal Comet was
never really dangerous, and Wind Robe
dropped out after being third for home.
The class horse of the field, Zonda,
made an exhibition of her opponents in
the South Yarra Handicap. Never better
than even money, and starting at a shade
of odds-on, she landed some big bets
when she hit the front about a furlong
from home, and cleared away to win as
she liked by three lengths from Historian
and Contact. Zonda, who is due to retire
to the stud next season, is living right
up to the first-class promise she gave as
a two-year-old, and perhaps her connec-
tions are sorry now that she was not
entered for the A.J.C. Doncaster along
with the five other members of Lou
Robertson’s team nominated for that race.
She is not a tall mare, but is compactly
built, and made light of her 9.0 on
Saturday.
Historian ran his best race this autumn,
being one of five horses almost in line
little more than a furlong from home,
and then battling on for second money.
He is better known as a distance or
middle-distance performer, and should be
very close to the money the next time
he contests a race beyond six furlongs.
Contact also shaped like a near-future
winner, but Pure Gold ran below his
form in the Leonard Stakes a week
earlier, and weakened over the last fur-
long to finish fourth. He was well-
fancied by the stable, and failed just
when it was thought he had come right
again. However, it might be advisable
to give him another chance.
The Trapper hammered another nail
in the coffin of the “straight-six theory”
when he won the Orrong Two-year-old
down the alleged slow side of the track.
A fair way out of his ground early, he
had the race won half a furlong from
home, and scored easily from Leo James
and Pireni. The Trapper was always
favorite on the strength of his fourth in
the Gibson Carmichael Stakes a week
earlier, and, with two wins to his credit
up the Newmarket course, he has been
a good buy at his yearling cost of 600
guineas. Like his full brother Fur
Trader, he is trained by former crack
jockey W. Duncan for “G. Capesthorne.”
His dam, Tricycle, was sold last week to
the Shirley Park Stud for 700 guineas.
Pireni, with two seconds and a third from
her last three races, is due for a change
of luck, and Rosmarine, who finished
fourth after leading the fiat-side division
for a good part of the trip, is a colt of
promise. He won at Ascot at his only
previous start. Heavily-backed Her
Highness ruined her chance by running
erratically.
Fourteen hurdlers contested a small
stake at Kyneton last week, but prize-
money of £4OO attracted only five entrants
and four starters for the Narong Hurdle.
It was a disappointing response, yet
owners and trainers of hurdlers would
be the first to complain were the various
clubs to suggest substantial cuts in prize-
money for these races. On the other
hand, it has been suggested, rightly or
wrongly, that the small nomination for
Saturday’s race could be construed as a
protest against cuts already made by the
V.A.T.C. Connections of Bureaucrat,
who was original topweight with 11.12,
seemingly passed over an easy £2BO when
they withdrew the gelding from that race
and ran him in the St. Kilda Handicap.
Incidentally, he was backed from 20 to 1
down to eights, but hurdling is his forte,
and he had nothing to do with the finish.
The Narong Hurdle was supposed to
be a match between Spirak and Frisco,
who started equal favorites at 11 to 8,
but Southern Night upset general calcu-
lations by leading throughout. He ran
down most of the hurdles, but still lasted
long enough to win by half a neck from
Spirak, who was definitely unlucky. A
bungle at the third-last hurdle cost Spirak
the race, and, in addition, he had covered
extra ground by racing on the outside
of Frisco for a good portion of the trip.
Southern Night had failed badly at
Kyneton three days earlier, finishing tenth
of the 14 runners.
Nevizes recorded an overdue win in
the Gordon Steeplechase. He and Whern-
side had a great battle for the lead from
the mile post, and were still together at
the last fence, but, whereas Whernside
weakened and missed a place, Nevizes
carried on to win from Shere Khan and
old Etymology. Last-named ran second
to Laniroi in the Australian Hurdle of
1934, and there is still plenty of life in
him at the age of 15. Nevizes’s win was
a welcome change of luck for his rider,
T. Dynon, who, after following the voca-
tion of taxi-driver for about 11 months,
returned to race riding several weeks ago.
* * * *
High Caste started favorite for last
year’s Doncaster, and with 9.0 81b. over
weight-for-age —was unplaced. S ince
then his wins have included the Epsom
Handicap (9.5), Futurity Stakes (10.6)
and dead-heat for Yan Yean Stakes
(10.1); therefore with 9.12 —121 b. over
w.f.a. —he is not overburdened m this
year’s Doncaster. It is doubtful whether
he is now as well suited by six furlongs
as a mile, and yet with 10.2 he was Jess
than a length behind the winner ot
Newmarket. The extra two furlongs,
more than the drop of 41b., will coun
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Granville Novice Handicap:
Royal Land, 1 ; Charlotte Green-
wood, 2 ; Air Link, 3.
Juvenile Stakes Handicap:
Escutcheon, 1 ; Lord Pentheus, 2 ;
Redbreast, 3.
Westmead Handicap: Gallant, 1 ;
Petruchio, 2; Amiable or Bona
Fide, 3.
Club Handicap: Cooranga, 1 ;
Scientist, 2 ; Veiled Threat, 3.
Maiden Welter Handicap: Ceres,
1 ; Jymjon, 2 ; Casket King, 3.
Rydalmere Mile; Bramol, 1 ;
Knight Folly, 2 ; Miss Heroic, 3.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
(Before acceptances.)
Carlisle Trial Handicap; Jack
Farr, 1 ; Old Red, 2 ; Fiftieth Bat-
tery, 3.
Tankerville Handicap: Dapper,
1 ; Wheatsheaf, 2 ; Pierre, 3.
Kilmorey Trial Handicap: Rad-
ama, 1 ; Curia, 2 ; Prince Ronald, 3.
Eclipse Handicap: Unishak, 1 ;
Riviera, 2 ; Aspire, 3.
Belhaven Handicap; Saki, 1 ,
Dark Felt, 2; Old Days, 3.
Grafton Welter Handicap:
Cumulus, 1 ; Contact, 2 ; Kooren-
been, 3.


Vt hy keep that revolver or automatic pistol?
THE MELBOURNE SPORTS DEPOT
will buy yours at a good price and for cash.
Colt,_ Browning and Webley Models specially
required. Cartridges and Ammunition also
purchased.
We will pay freight if you will arrange to
send yours to the M.S.D., 55 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne, for inspection.
THE QUEENSLAND TURF CLUB
BRISBANE CUP MEETING
3rd, slh and 10th MAY, 1941.
ADDED MONEY £11,125
STBADBROKE HANDICAP—£ISOO Six Furlongs.
BRISBANE CUP—£25OO (and Cup valued £100)—Two Miles.
MORETON HANDICAP—£I2SO—One Mile and a Quarter.
KING’S PLATE (W.E.A.)— £soo—One Mile and a Quarter.
NOMINATIONS for Stradbroke, Cup, and Moreton, Bth April, 1941.
GENERAL ENTRY for minor events, 22nd April, 1941.
Entry forms available and nominations may be made at A.J.C. and V.B.C. offices.
R. U. SLOMAN, SECRETARY, Q.T.C.
in his favor, and his prospects of being
added to the list of heavily-weighted
winners of the Doncaster are excellent,
Mildura, a close second with 9.4 in
the last Epsom, is down a pound, and
will meet High Caste 81b. better. How-
ever, High Caste’s recent form has been
so much better than that of Mildura
that it is improbable the difference in
weight will enable the latter to turn the
tables.
Reading should give a good account
of himself with 8.13, which is 31b. less
than he carried in the Epsom. He was
backed, but though he did not shine in
that race his latest form points to im-
provement as a sprinter. At Flemington,
with 9.6, he was the closest of seconds
to Sun Belle in the River Handicap at a
2i mile, and it might be safe to bet that his
first effort in a big race at the A.J.C.
meeting will be in the Doncaster. Ami-
able at her best would be well in with
8.7, but her doings before then will give
a line as to her chance.
So far as the three-year-olds are con-
cerned, it would at first glance seem that
the best of that division had been well
looked after, but if Ensign, Lucrative and
Rimveil are as good as believed they are
not badly treated by comparison with
High Caste. Ensign and Lucrative meet
him 101 b. and Rimveil 141 b. better than
weight-for-age. Still, sight cannot be
lost of the fact that only two three-year-
olds have won the Doncaster with over
Bst. —Sir William 8.6 and Valicare 8.9.
Rimveil won the Villiers Stakes with 8.2,
but the Doncaster is reckoned by some
of our most knowledgeable trainers to
be a 71b. harder handicap. Some of the
three-year-olds below Bst. may have a
better chance than those above that
weight, and these include Veiled Threat,
Evergreen, Nightbeam and St. Andrew,
all recent winners. There is plenty of
time for further discussion of chances,
but at this stage High Caste and Read-
ing take my fancy most as horses with
which to commence the first leg of a
double.
* % Jfc
Knowing what is possible in the way
of improvement in a week, as the result
of a race and a subsequent gallop, I
have never been an upholder of “reversal
of form” inquiries. It is evidently the
same with our present A.J.C. stipendiary
stewards. If it were otherwise the re-
spective owners of Gilltown and Mosaic
might have been questioned regarding
the rapid improvement of those horses,
notwithstanding all was in order when
they failed to run anywhere prior to win-
ning. After commencing indifferently
Mosaic made a very poor showing in a six
and a half furlongs race at Victoria Park
on March 5, and yet last week won at a
mile in quite his old style, running over
his stable-companion War Trophy.
It was something that upset the calcu-
lations of trainer J. Abbs, as, while War
Trophy was at 3 to 1, Mosaic was at
20 to 1. There are doubts as to Mosaic’s
soundness, but if all goes well with him,
and he continues to improve over the
next month in anything near the same
ratio that he did during the recent week,
he will be a tough opponent for Beau
Vite and everything else likely to run in
the long-distance w.f.a. races.
* * * *
There is a fair amount of business
doing on the Doncaster and Sydney Cup
double, and the combination of High
Caste and Katanga is at a ridiculously
short price. Anyone taking it must be
anxious to bet. It is much the same with
doubles commencing with High Caste
and ending with Feminist or Pandect.
On Monday the order of the fancied
horses for both races was as follows:
Doncaster Handicap.
High Caste.
Ensign.
Rimveil.
Mildura, Reading, Remarc.
Scarlet Toi, Tuhitarata.
Overbold, Amiable, Phoines.
Sydney Cup,
Katanga.
Feminist, Pandect.
Reading, Remarc.
Dashing Cavalier, Proud Fox, Scientist,
Mosaic, Positron, Veiled Threat, Velocity.
* * *
The Dashing Cavalier appeal ended
satisfactorily for the joint owners, trainer
and rider of that horse, but not so for
the stipendiary stewards, who, going on
the evidence of their own eyesight, reck-
oned they were correct in their verdict.
It is easy to be deceived in racing,
especially if a horse has a will of his own,
and that may be the case with Dashing
Cavalier. I can recall a jockey saying
after a race in which his mount cut up
badly: “If I hadn’t known that the
owner’s, trainer’s and my own money
was on, and that the horse had worked
well, I’d have thought I was on a ‘dead
’un.’ ” In Sydney recently I saw a horse
run so well that a week later it seemed
a probable winner when it struck a worse
field. The owner was confident and the
jockey was pleased with his mount, but,
so far from winning, the horse was never
going well enough to give its backers
any hope. Naturally the V.R.C. stewards
have come in for a deal of condem-
nation from backers who had a leg-in
with Dashing Cavalier for the Austra-
lian Cup, and thought they might have
got a run with him if the appeal had
been heard before that race —owner
Hughes says that was doubtful —but mis-
takes in racing on the part of experts or
anyone else are occasionally excusable.
* * * *
Katanga is high in the Sydney Cup
quotations, and is working well. He
has twice won at a mile and a quarter
at Randwick, and has the Q.T.C. St.
Leger to his credit as a stayer. It will,
however, be necessary for him to im-
prove upon anything he has yet shown
to win the Sydney Cup with 8.2, even
though that is 51b. less than he carried
in the last Melbourne Cup. If he has
a Sydney Cup chance he will have to
demonstrate it with 8.5 in the Warwick
Farm Cup, run at a distance that is
definitely within his compass. As the
winner of the latter escapes being re-
handicapped for the Sydney Cup there
should be a large field. Last year the
Warwick Farm Cup did not throw light
on the Sydney Cup, as though the place-
getters— Yours Truly, Own Folk and
Gold Spark—ran in the latter none of
the three gained a place.
* ♦ * *
Peter Pan fell while cantering in a
paddock last week and fractured a bone
in his near knee. A Sydney vet. was hur-
riedly called upon to attend the horse,
whose knee was put in plaster of Paris.
It is considered certain the bone will
knit and that the chestnut will be avail-
able for stud duties during the coming
season. Although it does not seem that
far back, Peter Pan won his first Mel-
bourne Cup in 1932 and his second in
1934, and is consequently rising 12.
Some of his progeny have won recently,
but, while it is to be hoped he adds
to the exceptions, few champions have
sired anything quite up to their own
standard.
* * * *
At last week’s yearling sales in Bris-
bane 75 were disposed of at an average
of a little over 98gns. The highest price
realised was 400gns. for a Rivoli-Golden
Dust colt, the purchaser being Mrs. H.
E. Shirlaw, of Augathella. A similar
offer was made for a Spearfelt-Tea Table
colt, but his reserve was 450gns. Young-
sters by Rivoli sold well, as did those by
A. Maguire’s new English sire Emborough
(Gainsborough-Embarras de Richesse).
Four colts by him, and sold for their
breeder, averaged 205gns., and nine fillies
a little over 126gns. The first crop of
imported Apple Snow’s youngsters sold
satisfactorily, half a dozen realising from
HOgns. to 190gns. Taking a line through
the Melbourne and Brisbane sales, year-
ling prices at the coming Randwick
sales should not fall far short of those of
recent years, even if they do not equal
them.
* * * *
So the first of Ajax’s progeny will
be raced in America. It is announced
that Ajax has been sent to St. Aubins
to be mated with mares W. J. Smith
purposes sending to America, and who
will foal up to March of next year—
equivalent to October in the Australian
season. This means that Ajax’s first
youngsters will be raced in America com-
paratively early in 1944. It is not an-
nounced whether the owner of St. Aubins
has sold the mares he is sending to Cali-
fornia, or purposes trying the American
market as a breeder or the Turf
as an owner, but he is certainly
displaying enterprise. One drawback
in connection with Ajax’s progeny
is that they will not be able to run in
races confined to Californian-bred horses.
The latest rule debars from such races
horses that are not sired as well as foaled
in that State.
* * * *
There should be no lack of class in
the Frederick Clissold Handicap, of £BOO,
six furlongs, at the Canterbury Park
meeting on April 26. The maximum
handicap weight is 9st., and if High
Caste is entered the handicapper will be
puzzled how to weight some of the minor
lights so as to give them a chance. As
the race is run only a week after the
conclusion of the A.J.C. autumn meet-
ing it will find most of the cracks still
in training. The Canterbury Park Cup,
of £B5O, one mile three furlongs, takes
place on May 10, and in that a maxi-
mum of 9st. should also attract good
horses. It is to be hoped the club re-
ceives the recognition from owners that
its liberality deserves.
* $ $ *
The Sydney sales will determine the
number of yearlings going into various
Sydney stables, but, with the following,
G. Price has already got a fair team:
E. J. WATT.
Br. c., by Hellespont-Adored, 425gns.
B. c., by Law Maker-Romaine, 400gns.
Blk. c., by Bulandshar-Cereza.
B. c., by Bulandshar-Visage.
E. R. WILLIAMS.
Br. or blk. c., by Hellespont-Tasty Pie,
275gns.
Br. c., by Manfred-Nem Song, 375gns.
Blk. c., by Enfield-Balkan Star, 950gns.
C. BOYLE.
Ch. c., by Tiderace-Fintry, 450gns.
* * * *
Feminist is one of the Sydney Cup
candidates finding favor with double
backers, but though she is good, and
at her last start won the Anniversary
Handicap with 8.12, success in the Syd-
ney Cup with 8.10 is a different matter.
Wakeful scored with 9.7 in 1902, but
winning mares since then have been
lightly weighted, Noreen carrying 6.7,
Moorilla 7.1, Scarlet 7.6, Gwillian G. 7.0,
and Akuna 7.0. Moorilla was three years
when she won. Feminist has twice
attempted two miles, and had 8.3 each
time. She finished a long way back in
the Melbourne Cup, and sixth in the
Sydney Cup won by Mosaic (8.2).
Feminist may have improved as a two-
miler, but it is possible the Warwick
Farm Cup, with 8.13, gives her a better
chance than the Sydney Cup.
* * * *
According to reports from Melbourne
Pandect is getting through an excellent
preparation, and, as winner of the A.J.C.
Derby, has been given a fair chance in
the Sydney Cup with 7.12 —41b. less than
weight-for-age. His form after his Derby
win was disappointing, but if he is a
good three-year-old he has a handy
weight in the Sydney Cup. The double
of A.J.C. Derby and Sydney Cup has
yet to be won by a three-year-old, but
Winalot and Johnnie Jason ran second
in the Derby in the respective seasons
they won a Sydney Cup. Still, it is a
double likely to be brought off some time
or other, and Pandect may do it. Pandect
was first into the straight in the Mel-
bourne Cup, and was still prominent less
than two furlongs from home, but, then
dying away, finished ninth, a little ahead
of Katanga, who was conceding him
151 b., against the 41b. now separating
them. The w.f.a. scale, however, allows
for 101 b. improvement in Pandect and
none in Katanga from November to
April.
♦ * * *
Remarc’s weight in the Doncaster Han-
dicap (7.13) and Sydney Cup (8.0) should
tempt P. A. Connolly to send him to
Sydney for the A.J.C. meeting. In the
spring Remarc ran third in the Cantala
Stakes with 7.8, third with 8.0 to the
dead-heaters High Caste (10.1) and St.
Constant (8.11) in the Yan Yean Stakes
and then won the V.R.C. Final Handi-
cap, 1! mile, with 7.13 and the Williams-
town Cup with 7.4. In the last-men-
tioned race he easily defeated High Caste
(9.7) in the fast time of 2.29. Connolly
has not done at all badly in big autumn
races at Randwick. He won the Don-
caster with Jolly Beggar, the Sydney Cup
with Dyed Garments and shared owner-
ship with J. O. Peterson when Lilyveil
also won that race.
* * * *
Dry weather is telling against the
training tracV.s at Randwick, and, with
good reason, trainers are of opinion
that greater use could be made of the
outer portion of the course proper. Per-
haps that would tend to spoil the appear-
ance of the track from the top of the
straight, but a desire to have it “looking
pretty” on race days should not prevent
trainers from being given full considera-
tion in the preparation of their charges.
It is the horses, and not the track, that
count with the public, and it is a reflec-
tion on Randwick that trainers should
so often deem it necessary to take their
horses elsewhere for fast gallops.
* * * *
The Queensland T.C. (Brisbane) meet-
ing on May 3, 5 and 10 calls for the
attention of owners in Victoria, New
South Wales and South Australia, as well
as Queensland. The Brisbane Cup, two
miles, carries £2500 and a cup of £lOO ;
Stradbroke Handicap, six furlongs,
£1500; Moretoh Handicap, 1! mile,
£1250. Entries for these close on April
8. There is also a w.f.a. race, the King’s
Plate, of £5OO, 1£ mile, and, as the minor
handicaps range in value from £2OO to
£350, a long entry list for the three days
should gratify the club’s secretary, R. U.
Sloman.
* * * «
Kindergarten continues on his winning
way in Maoriland. At Wellington last
week he won the North Island Challenge
Stakes of £7OO. He carried 9.6, as did
Sir Beau, who ran second. As the seven
furlongs took 1.28! the track was prob-
ably heavy, that idea being upheld by
the fact that Augment (7.6) in winning
the Thompson Handicap the same after-
noon took 1.44| for the mile.
* * * *
During the past year death has been
busy in the ranks of racing men. The
latest to go is J. M. C. Forsayth, owner
of Cheery Jack, winner of the last V.R.C.
Grand National Hurdles. Other well-
known horses raced by him were Royal
Alwyne and Violjan, the last-named run-
ning third in St. Ardent’s Newmarket
Handicap.
» * * *
Herb Norton has dipped into “Miller’s
Guide” for the last time. For upwards
of 30 years he was a figure on Westralian
racecourses as racing reporter for the
Coolgardie “Miner,” the Kalgoorlie
“Sun” and the Perth “Sunday Times,”
and he was a capital judge. He wound
up as editor of the “Sunday Times”
before he retired from journalism.
• * * *
The first American racing tragedy of
this year occurred at Agua Caliente on
February 2, Earl Dew dying from in-
juries received when three horses fell
in a race. Dew, who was in his nine-
teenth year, headed the jockeys’ list in
America last season with 287 wins, and
flew to Agua Caliente from Albany on
the day he was killed for the presentation
of a gold watch emblematic of his cham-
pionship. Taken to the course hospital
with concussion, Dew appeared to re-
spond to treatment, but two hours later
suffered a relapse, and died while being
hurried to a San Diego hospital. Dew’s
mount, Bosca, had her neck broken when
she fell.
* sf? * spr
Three-year-olds have won their share
of Sydney Cups, those successful with
most weight being Carbine 9.0, Wallace
8.12, Lord Cardigan 8.7, Australian Peer
8.6, Johnnie Jason 8.4 and Progress,
Winalot and Mosaic 8.2 each. The
minimum when Progress won was 5.7,
and it was the same a year later when
the three-year-old filly Petrea (7.12) won
in a canter by three lengths from Mar-
tindale. There were 26 runners on that
occasion, and 12 carried weights ranging
from 6.10 down to 5.7, two running with
the minimum and one with 5.8. Nowa-
days it would be almost impossible to
get such a number of lightweights for a
race, especially at two miles.
? * * #
Sydney buyers in W. J. Smith (St.
Aubins) and P. Miller (Kia-Ora) “made”
the sale of mixed stock in Melbourne
last week. According to American
writers Smith got about £31,000 for Beau
Pere, and he has put a lot of it back into
bloodstock purchases. He gave 4000gns.
for Manitoba, and bought several brood
mares, his outlay for the day being
7430gns. As he previously gave 6500gns.
for Ajax—subsequently selling a half-
share—and 835gns. for three yearlings,
Smith’s American money has benefited
Victorian bloodstock owners. Miller did
his part in giving 2200gns. for four mares
and their foals.
* ♦ # «
The Kentucky Derby is to be run on
May 3, and entries closed as late as
Feb. 15. Better then than that they
should be required 16 or 17 months be-
fore the running of the race. The added
money this year is $75,000 (approximately
£A23,100), of which $lO,OOO goes to the
trainers of the placed horses and $3500
to the breeders.
{Continued on next page.)


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM
6AM
6KG
6GE
Perth .... 500 watts
Northam. . 2000 jvatts
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
Gordon Richards has registered for
military service in England, but as it
may be some time before he is called
up he has accepted retainers from Fred
Darling and Lord Astor for this year,
and it was anticipated there would be
a third retainer from either Lord Glanely
or the Duke of Westminster. Richards
has yet to ride a Derby winner, but this
year’s New Derby at Newbury on June
6 may give him a chance. The Oaks
is to be run the following day. Accord-
ing to present arrangements the Ascot
Gold Cup meeting is to take place at
Newmarket on June 18 and 19.
♦ * * •
At the Port Adelaide meeting on Satur-
day Gay Lothario was responsible for
another good winner, Trustee account-
ing for the Sires’ Produce Stakes, for
which he started at 12 to 1. He is out
of Beneficiary, and as a yearling was
sold for lOOOgns. to T. H. Mackay.
Touching on two-year-olds, Brisbane’s
crack filly Triad (Double Remove-Chap-
trel) won a four and a half furlongs race
at Doomben on Saturday with 9.1, Man-
nerheim running third with 9.11. Triad
is in all the big two-year-old races at
Randwick next month, but, with Yaralla
and All Love standing in the way, her
owner may not think it good enough to
send her to Sydney.
• # ♦ •
The trophies for the most successful
licensed jockey and leading jockey at
the Hialeah Park (Miami) meeting took
the form of wristlet watches, specially
imported from Switzerland. They had
all the latest features in stop-watches,
and each was valued at $9OO (approxi-
mately £A277).
* * * *
At one time uncashed tote tickets at
Randwick during a year represented a
large amount and charities benefited.
Now unclaimed dividends go to the
State. In New York the State also takes
the money for uncashed tote tickets,
which amounted to $67,898 (approxi-
mately £A20,900) last year, but the State
Racing Commission recently recom-
mended that in future the Legislature
permit such money to be used for the
relief of ill, superannuated or indigent
turfmen. There will be no difficulty in
finding plenty of the last-named in the
ranks of those who have been directly
associated with racing as trainers, jockeys
or stable employees.
* * * *
Stallions that will be represented by
yearlings for the first time at the coming
sales at Randwick are Hua (Heroic-
Gladioli), Midstream (Blandford-Mid-
summer), Plymouth Sound (Coronach-
Plymstock), Talking (Magpie-Society) and
Tuckiar (Heroic-Miss Dinette). A deal of
interest will attach to Talking’s progeny,
one being a chestnut colt out of Capris,
winner of the Epsom Handicap.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Morgan a Marvel
Australian lightweight champion Tod
Morgan can’t have much more to do to
step on to a pedestal as one of the ring
marvels of all time in these parts. Now
verging on 40, he continues to give years,
weight and wallopings to solid opponents,
the latest of them the N. S. Wales welter
Ron McLaughlin at West Melbourne on
Saturday night,
Perhap’s Tod’s sight isn’t quite what
it was ; these days he feels his way in
to an opponent and does not seem to hit
until he has first made contact in that
curious groping way. Once he has got
there, however, he’s just about as good
as ever he was. He showed great game-
ness in thus going in to McLaughlin,
taking a lot of punishment in doing so,
but, despite this, keeping the fight where
he wanted it, in close, and there concen-
trating mainly on body attack. It made a
capital scrap, Tod taking it well on points.
* * * *
In convincing style at Leichhardt a
week or two back the Noumean south-
paw middleweight Georges Champion
made it clear that he would beat more
of the present Australian crop than would
trouble him. At Newcastle on Saturday
he added the scalp of Alan Westbury to
his belt, badly troubling Alan in the fifth
and eighth rounds particularly, mainly
with weighty body punches. Alan was
at a slight disadvantage in weight, but
his worst trouble was an optic damaged
early in the fray and troublesome to him
thereafter. It was a hard-fought 12
rounds, though actually Georges won it
by a wide margin of points.
* * * *
Meeting over the abbreviated distance
of 12 rounds, A 1 Woods (7.12|) and
Jack Deakin (7.12 H put up a fair
sort of scrap for the Australian flyweight
title at Leichhardt last Thursday night,
A 1 won it on points, fairly, cleanly and
deservedly, but not by such a lot.
An idea of the two of them might be
fairly conveyed by describing A 1 as a
skinny-looking lad and Jack as a little
man. Al, who fights on the straight up-
right stance, is comparatively fall, with
ribs showing clearly through his pale,
fair-complexioned pelt, arms constructed
out of lin. iron piping, a drawn phiz
suggestive of wasting down to the weight
(though eyes bright enough), and
generally a physique that looks as if a
few weeks down on the farm on good
rough tucker would set him up as a
likely bantam at least. _ _ .
By contrast, Jack has the body of a
middleweight arranged more for useful-
ness than decorative effect on a pair of
legs at least a foot too short for it.
His crouching style makes him look
more stumpy still, and in the ring he
looks even older than he probably is.
He has the characteristic noted from time
to time in game scrappers, especially
when they’ve been long in the business,
of grinning heartily when he is most
hurt. He grinned quite a lot in this
encounter,
Nineteenfh Hole
By JIM PERRIER.
( Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
From the tee the majority of the lead-
ing American professionals are long-
a.-££&‘SS
cans are superior from the tee, yet they
have control every bit as good as Aussie
golfers. This arises from a combination
of two features which go to make long,
straight driving possible,
The Yankees when addressmg the ball
generally take it forward that is
they place the ball off either their left
toe or heel. This allows them to-hit t e
ball on the upswing.. Most;i tee ho
have a reasonably-high-flymg tee-shot
which, on landing, has a topspm a
gives it additional •• oijphtlv
comes from the ball being Ihit siightly
up instead of: down,, as in the case of a
non shot. By teeing the ball, trie piaye
has further assistancegivenhim m get-
ting behind the shot and hitting the ball
ot, the upswing and away from htm.
This type of shot, which is greatly
favored by the American professionals,
is the result of the tendency in recent
years to widen the arc of the swing and
keep the clubhead travelling, both to and
fro, on the line of flight as long as
possible. t
Lawson Little hits his tee-shots on the
upswing slightly ; he takes the ball well
forward off his left heel. Many average
club players increase the chance of error
greatly by attempting to play the ball too
far back. This play calls for most accu-
rate swinging at all times, and means that
the ball must be hit fair and square at
the bottom of the arc of the swing, or a
push or pull results. If the ball be taken
a little more forward the margin of error
is decreased, as the clubhead has stayed
on the line for a slightly longer period.
Recently'in Chicago' I had several
games with a promising professional who
is assistant to a former open champion,
The boss has been impressing upon this
youngster that to play consistently good
golf he must widen the arc of his swing
and get away from his boyhood style,
which was a rather flat swing, creating
the danger of a quick hook. This young
fellow’s former swing, like that of many
handicap golfers, was more round his
body than it should be ; thus the club-
head came on to the ball too sharply
from the inside out, and, rolling over at
the same time, had him continually fight-
ing a pulled ball. Today he is working
on taking the clubhead back more in
a straight line before it swings away into
tho back swing ; also he has begun play-
ing his ball off a line level with his left
heel.
steadiness he never before pos-
and a steadiness ne never oeio p
sessed.
j n tbe many go lf “clinics” conducted
by tbe leading professionals the golf
~
tee . shot ’ is th y e one t y hat S is struck slightly
conclusion is yet
anQther indication G f t he proven sound-
ness of the theory for all types of players.
feature of the game of these
g() p c of them favor bo th
hands working together in the swing;
left right hand does any more
Qther in co . op erating to produce
• nnwpr and mntrol Some
}f bdie P ve the left hand should pre-
s durine the backswing and also
f n down the ball;
but the modern Americans say that by
working together the hands have less
chance to go wrong.
NORTH Of
TWENRY-EIGHT
“Lid”: The N.T. unions, which are
applying for an increase in the basic
wage, are asking for two pots of beer
a day, at a shilling a pot, as part of
the regimen. In support of the claim
it was asserted that the Darwin Medical
Officer had stated that workers up that
way should have three beers a day. I
don’t know much about medical opinion
on the subject, and I’m not commenting
on the claim, but in the several callings
I’ve followed some alcoholic beverage
has always been considered an antidote
to the harmful effects of particular
occupations. Goldminers swear by beer
—they say it is the only thing that’ll
irrigate the quartz dust out of their
systems. Becoming a cement-shoveller
I was taught that only brandy would
wash the cement out of me. Two electric
welders I worked with maintained that
copious draughts of port would, in some
miraculous way, relieve that misery of
all miseries, “burned eyes.” “Burned
eyes,” small blisters on the tissue, are
caused by looking at the electric arc
without the protection of a mask. They
make the victim feel as though half the
sand in Centralia has been ground into
his optics.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The curious tempera-
mentalism of the Mekeo people, recently
displayed in a wild outbreak of hysterical
religious mania, in which the head of the
R.C. Mission narrowly escaped being
murdered, is an old problem in Papuan
administration. Mekeo sorcerers were
regarded by William MacGregor as the
most dangerous and disturbing set of
rascals in the British New Guinea of his
day, and he took considerable pains to
counteract their evil influence in the
country inland from Yule Island. Their
power seems to have waned of late years,
judging from threats made by one village
to report the local rainmaker to the Gov-
ernment for allowing the rice crop to be
imperilled by a dry season after having
received his customary professional re-
"Put that tripe back — there's a chamois for cleaning windows!"
tainer for the job. The rice industry,
introduced some ten years ago, has
reduced the previous high level of law-
lessness by keeping all hands too busy
making an income for Satan to find any
idle ones to set to mischief. Strangely
enough, it has also improved the status
of the women —they refuse to work at
the rice crops unless they get a share of
the proceeds, a daring and unprecedented
advance in Papuan domestic life.
* * * *
“Norther”: Those earnest Brisbane
citizens who have been urging the insti-
tution of orchestral concerts in their city
on Sunday afternoons have encountered
a snag in the council by-laws. These
provide that the City Hall can be used
on Sundays only for religious, scientific
or educational lectures, which must be
free and must begin before 8 p.m. Unless
the concert promoters are prepared to
include a religious service or an instruc-
tional lecture in the programme, it seems
that, short of a by-law amendment by
the Governor-in-Council, orchestral con-
certs are out. One of the contending par-
ties in the forthcoming election might
have grabbed the chance to obtain a few
city votes by promising to do something
about the concerts, but party politicians
seldom cater to the cultural ideas of
the community.
* * * *
“Colbun”; The Royal Queensland Art
Society’s annual report deplores the
apathy of the Brisbane people towards
art. Explanation probably lies in the
Randall collection, which for years
monopolised the City Hall art gallery.
It was bequeathed to the South Brisbane
Council conditionally upon gallery room
being provided. The obligation was taken
over by the Greater Brisbane Council,
and the weird agglomeration was carted
across to a fine gallery in the million-
pound City Hall, where it used to strike
visitors dumb with amazement. Last year
the society put up a fight to get the collec-
tion evicted, at least temporarily, and with
the notable support of Ludmayor
Chandler was successful.
* * * ♦
“23-4”; Effect of the cyclones and
floods in the Lower Burdekin last year
is shown in the annual report of the
Sugar Producers’ Association, which
reveals a production drop of 100,000
tons of sugar, compared with 1939
figures. The report mentions that some
of the erosion damage is irreparable. This
year’s yield may equal that of 1939, but
transport and marketing problems are
on a scale never before experienced by
the industry. There is a large quantity
of surplus export sugar in storage, un-
likely to be shipped before June. There
is no likelihood of a sugar shortage in
Australia in this war, such as there was
in the last one, when the country had to
import raw sugar costing £18,000,000
between 1915 and 1920.


A
&
C^Zc/
iu **z
4
S>‘
SS“-
r
r mm
4&>*'
K?
i&
HA
a
Open
cheque account now with the
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
THE FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
580 C
ssssa
». w.
mm
mmm
wm.
immms.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
Sydney Con. Orchestra
It looks as if, for the remainder of
the war period, Australia will be thrown
very much on its own resources in the
matter of orchestral music. A.B.C. efforts
to import an English conductor have
failed it got a nibble from Leslie
Heward but the fish slipped off the hook
—and Bernard Heinze, of Melbourne,
has been released from his professorial
duties for a year to keep the A.B.C.
orchestras in Melbourne and Sydney
(and possibly other capitals) in trim. In
the circumstances Sydney Corn’s orches-
tral concerts under the baton of Dr.
Edgar Bainton assume enhanced musical
importance; they may even become
social occasions.
First concert of the 1941 series had
as the backbone of its programme Beet-
hoven’s Seventh, done neither too heavily
nor too lightly. Sibelius’s “En Saga”
was navigated with fair success, and if
the “Concerto Grosso” of Handel lacked
something in warmth and joviality it was
admirably precise in tempo. “Procession,”
by Herbert Howells, a clever little study
in rhythm, made a good impression.
The night’s soloist was Harold Wil-
liams, whose resonant baritone was
worthily employed in Wotan’s Farewell
from “The Valkyrie” and in Schumann’s
“Two Grenadiers.”
* * * *
“The Astonished" Ostrich”
The bird of this play, by Archie N.
Menzies, is a worldly, middle-aged play-
wright who is suddenly confronted by
the governess of his father’s household
of some 20 years earlier and her 17-
year-old son, of whom he is the father
but of whom he had no knowledge what-
soever. His manservant, who had also
been his father’s, had married the gover-
ness shortly after the playwright was
kicked from under the parental roof, but
had left her as soon as the other man's
son came to light, and thereafter given
his time to amorous freelancing, though
at the same time contributing from his
weekly screw towards the upkeep of his
missus and her son. With the appear-
ance of his son the playwright becomes
submerged in the idea of fatherhood —
to him a kind of egotistical delight based
mainly on possession with no thought for
the responsibilities of or qualifications
for parenthood. Thereafter the play
elaborates on. the son’s gradual realisa-'
tion that the manservant is better
equipped with parental and other quali-
fications than his actual father ; and on
the playwright’s discovery of the same
thing and his return for consolation to
his mistress—an actress whom he had
been trying to lead into marriage when
his youthful affair caught up with him
and who tears through the play in a high
state of feminine indignation over the
whole business.
The moral of the play—such as it is, if
one is intended—is supposed to be deli-
vered in a wrapping of comedy, provided
mainly by a stream of f.a.q. humorous
dialogue. What is also needed—and
what was lacking in the Phoenix Theatre’s
presentation of the opus at Sydney Con.
—is a comedian of the first water in the
role of the playwright, an actor able to
wring the last ounce of humor from
mildly humorous lines, able to provide
additional laughs with his own gestures
and mannerisms, and, essentially, able
to infuse the whole play with his per-
sonality. Clarence Murphy’s acting was
polished and capable, but, on the same
showing, he isn’t a comedian, he made
mildly humorous lines only mildly
humorous, he lacked individual manner-
isms, and he appeared unable to
project his personality very far beyond
his waistcoat.
Much the same criticism would apply
to Alfred Race as the manservant—cap-
able, straightforward acting, but lacking
that measure of imagination or what you
will that should be the actor’s contribu-
tion to the author’s creation. Gwen
Logan, as the actress, added more energy
to the play than anyone else in it with-
out plumbing any great dramatic depths ;
Anne Peck, as the gc ness, offered a
substantial portrayal, though a little more
life would have improved it; Gustave
Buckham (the son) was satisfactory, if
not conspicuous.
Producer was Frederick Hughes and,
subject to the limitations of his cast, he
did a very good job—presentation was
nicely conceived, well managed and car-
ried through without a hitch.
“Black Velvet”
Current at Sydney Tiv., and a tiptop
show guaranteed to entertain all and
sundry, including Mr. Tonking. On the
opening day it ran off with remarkable
smoothness for a first performance, so by
the time it really warms up it should be
a corker.
Bob Dyer comperes with a stream
of patter that brings blushes to the
cheeks of the angels decorating the
Tiv. ceiling and sufficient hearty guffaws
from the audience to blow the same
angels almost off their perches. Anita
Martell, an engaging damsel, man-
ages some juggling feats with top-
hats and rubber balls which suggest that,
even in the domestic sphere with pots,
pans and rolling pins, she could control
half a dozen husbands at least.
All that need be said of “Mo” is that
he is present, engaged in, among other
jobs, secret service work which includes
a secret desk with a secret button which,
when secretly pressed, reveals a secret
arm performing the service of holding a
secret glass of beer.
The Four Lazanders turn on an acro-
batic and tumbling act and make easy
work of fallabout items that even an
intoxicated monkey with spring fever
would be proud to emulate; another
young man does some fancy stunts with
a saxophone, including an arresting ren-
dering of the finale of the overture to
“William Tell”; yet another manages
some impossible mid-air somersaults and
twists.
The Tiv. ballet is there in force in
some very attractive numbers, but, despite
the fact that the dictionary offers a selec-
tion of such descriptives as “symmetry,”
“comeliness,” “pulchritude,” “radiance,”
“Venus,” “Aphrodite,” “Helen of Troy,”
and so forth, it’s still impossible to frame
the phrases that would do justice to the
stunning array of minxes who make up
the ballet.
* * * *
Margaret Black’s Recital
Margaret Black aired a soprano of un-
usually good quality at the Assembly
Hall, Melbourne, last week, in a delight-
ful programme which included a French
group, the Waltz Song from Gounod’s
“Romeo and Juliet” and arias from Puc-
cini, while Carl Bartling accompanied
and Mr. Barklam provided flute obbli-
gatos. The singer has no need to be
ashamed of her vocal equipment, and
for the most part used it to great advan-
tage, especially in the operatic excerpts.
AT THE TALKIES.
“Escape”
Cops and gangsters, hahnest cow-
punchers and rustlers, pioneers and
Injuns, or Nazis and Amurricans, they
all look much alike when Hollywood has
finished with them. And that’s why it’s
disappointing to see Norma Shearer’s
and Conrad Veidt’s talents spent on this
opus at Sydney St. James. All it amounts
to in the end is another bellerdrammer
with Nazi villains and hero Robert
Taylor on respective sides —there is no
penetrating thought or dramatic depth in
it, and, if it weren’t for the topical peg
it’s hung on, it’d probably be played by
second-rate players and tucked away as
the support to “Flames of Passion” or
“My Baby’s a Hotcha,” or something.
It’s all about Robert Taylor’s expedi-
tion to Nazi Germany to rescue his
mother from a concentration camp.
Philip Dorn (a promising actor) is the
doctor who makes rescue possible ; Felix
Bressart the friend who assists ; Norma
Shearer the Countess (American-born)
who hides them out; and Conrad Veidt
the General in love with the Shearer and
who almost queers their plans at the
finish.
The Shearer’s role offers her little or
nothing to work on, and that’s about all
she makes of it; Veidt, of course, is
always impressive, and, mainly on the
strength of his own efforts, his General
is the one thing in the film that has any
savor of reality; Nazimova, as the
stricken mother, is fairly sound; Albert
Basserman appears briefly and as capably
as ever as an aged German lawyer;
Taylor makes a sorry hash of his part
of the business, particularly when he’s
wandering about bawling out “Mother”
like a calf bellowing for the udder.
Like most M.-G.-M. productions,
it is elaborately presented and care-
fully made down to the last technical
detail, but it does represent a good deal
of wasted effort,
# * * *
“Contraband”
Current offering at Sydney State and
an entertaining piece with a light melo-
dramatic story and some arresting depic-
tions of war-time London and of the
English contraband control at work. The
yarn kicks off with the contraband
people holding up a Danish ship, of
which Conrad Veidt is skipper, and
during the delay two British S.S. agents
take the opportunity to visit London on
business. The rules being that nobody
should leave the ship, Veidt follows them
and finds himself swept into a whirl-
pool of international intrigue. Together
with British agent Valerie Hobson, he is
kidnapped by German spies, but his in-
genuity frustrates the blighters. Through
the darkest hours of danger love makes
its presence felt, and Dane and Briton
are ready for the altar by fadeout.
All the film aims at is melodrama, and
it hits the mark admirably ; Veidt, as
might be expected, takes the whole piece
effortlessly, and the Hobson lass appears
to be a good enough reason for any man
to risk his neck in a blackout.
* * * *
“Love Thy Neighbor”
The theme of this frothiness at Syd-
ney Prince Edward is that the Amur-
rican radio wisecrack merchants Jack
Benny and Fred Allen don’t. The verbal
feud between this pair is something of
an institution in America, though not so
well known here, so a good number of the
laughs probably fly harmlessly over the
heads of audiences in these parts. The
two principals, however, and, of course,
Benny’s colored manservant Rochester,
are masters of the wisecrack, and that’s
saying something in a land where this
form of repartee is considered an essen-
tial accomplishment.
The story, briefly, is that Mary Martin,
as Fred’s niece, gets into a Benny show
in an effort to bring about reconciliation
between Fred and Jack. Thereafter the
show subsists quite happily on the re-
sulting complications and misunder-
standings, until Jack and Mary are finally
spliced. The Martin lass throws a neat
glad-eye, has a shapely calf and makes
engaging work of a couple of catchy
tunes.
* * * *
“The Indian Nation”
A western at Sydney Capitol with the
veteran Richard Dix as the stout-hearted
hero. The stoutness shows a tendency
to spread well beyond his cardiac region,
but the lad himself is full of beans and
tiptop for the part. Unfortunately the
filmsmiths have insisted on a lurv interest,
and Richard is no juvenile lead.
It is a Zane Greyish sort of tale of
two cattle families with an age-old feud.
They are mutually honorable in their
feuding, but one side of the argument,
with Victor Jory as the head of the clan,
takes to the wrong side of the law. There-
upon the other half, mainly U.S. mar-
shal R. Dix, proceeds to bring them to
book, and the two families •finally shoot
it out in the main street of the town.
Each man on each side accounts for one
on the other, except for the unfortunate
outlaw, who gets his issue but leaves the
hero standing.
The most remarkable feature of the
show is the title “The Indian Nation.”
They must be one of those vanishing
tribes —there’s not a solitary Injun in the
whole piece.
in * * *
Other talkies opening this week include
“South of Suez,” a rattling good
adventure piece at Sydney Civic, and
“Despatch from Reuters,” at Sydney
Embassy, reviewed on this page in
B. 15/1/’41.
ARTBURSTS.
The Fricke-McNamara Show
R. C. Fricke and C. C. McNamara are
up for inspection at the Athenaeum
Galleries, Melbourne. Mr. Fricke paints
in oils and his friend prefers water-color,
but both like old houses, wharves and
sections of the city which look as if they
had been condemned by the Housing
Commission and are waiting demolition.
Mr. Fricke’s pleasantest pictures are pale
and misty landscapes where Nature takes
a hand in suppressing detail. There
is an attenuated quality about ffie
water-colors of Mr. McNamara which
stands him in ill stead when strong con-
trasts are called for.


THE
lIMITC n insurance
Ulll I E-U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Offices
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A C DAWSON. T. O. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Qen. Manager,
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE BANGER SIGN
Of Tired Kidneys
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do noth-
ing about them. Nature may be warning you
that your kidneys need attention.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
in the blood, causing nagging backaches,
rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, swelling, pufflness
under the eyes, headaches and dizziness. Pre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning show there is something wrong Witu
your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store tor
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
that will make you well and keep you well.
A WOMEN'S
LETTERS
Most of the women on parade in the
W.A.N.S. review were young, some were
not so young, and here and there was
one not young at all. But every one was
100 p.c. fit. Before the arrival of Lady
Wakehurst, who was to lead the march
past the saluting base, and of Lord Wake-
hurst, who was to take the salute, the
girls were drawn up in that grassy clear-
ing which has known the tread of so
many military parades. Deep blues and
fight blues, deep green, fight green, khaki,
their uniforms caught the bright after-
noon sun. Further back rose tall and
spreading trees, and further back still was
a frieze of galloping and cantering riders.
From broadcasters came a running com-
mentary as the importants began to arrive.
Here came Mrs. A. C. Godhard, who
helped to found the movement, Mrs. Stan-
ley Vaughan, the C.W.A.’s Mrs. Beve-
ridge, the Julius lady, the Parker lady,
Kay McDowell, Mrs. Walton (who was
Nancy Bird), Da Silva Waugh and Mrs.
A. W. Keighley. Lt.-General Miles and
Mrs. Miles, Major-General Lloyd and
Mrs. Lloyd, and Major-General Fewtrell
and Mrs. Fewtrell were among the on-
lookers in the official enclosure.
Lady Wakehurst was prompt. She
took over from Commandant D. Wil-
liams. Accompanied by Lady Wake-
hurst, the Governor, on his arrival, in-
spected the long spick-and-span fines. He
made a speech congratulating one and all.
Then the march was op. Out stepped
the units with swinging arms, with
straight backs, with bright faces. The
Girl Guides led ; the National Defence
League Transport Unit ended the pro-
cession. In between came Flying Corps
girls, Signallers, C.U.S.A. and W.A.N.S.
A special word to the transport girls who
made their cars toe the line so neatly
and to the W.A.N.S. without uniform
(they haven’t had time yet to get them)
who walked so well. A kind word, too,
should go to Lord Wakehurst, who
looked as keenly interested in f he last
salute as the first. And there were about
5000 marchers.
Mayor Crick and his Mayoress and
Norman Nock were present. Women
doctors were keen watchers. Dame Con-
stance D’Arcy and Dr. Marie Hamilton
were in front seats. Well-known hockey
girl Annis Rees and Alice D’Arcy weie
in the group. Mrs. Walter Burfitt and
Miss Kate Egan, Joan Tyler, in attend-
ance on Lady Wakehurst, Minister for
Education Drummond and his wife, who
had Dr. Grace Cuthbert with them, and
Minister for the Army Spender and Mrs.
Spender were there; so was Mrs. G.
Hilless. Captain Wilthew, responsible for
the W.A.N.S. military training, looked
proud of the show. The Hon. Henrietta
Loder was another onlooker.
The former home of Woolcott Forbes
at Gordon was opened as the Lady
Gowrie Red Cross Home on Saturday.
The large white stone house with its
green shutters and its lapis lazuli swim-
ming pool, gleaming like a jewel at the
foot of the steps of the terrace, will make
an ideal place for the recapture of health
and happiness of mind. Green lawns,
flowering shrubs and hedge can be seen
from its many rounded windows. At least
one wanderer through the grassy ways
felt grateful that the high hibiscus hedge
had been left to put forth its coral-red
flowers in undisturbed serenity. It was
a setting for nymphs and dryads. But
they didn’t come to the fair. Perhaps
they felt they couldn’t compete with
Annette Kellerman’s mermaids.
These all wore the loveliest even sun-
tan, blue swim suits and red and white
caps, and they were preceded up the steps
to the brink of the pool by soldiers carry-
ing aloft the Union Jack and the flags
of the Allies. The blue and white stand-
ard of Greece came in for a special glance
of admiration. Annette looked radiant,
and to see her before the display started,
conducting the standard-bearers in an
impromptu rehearsal, her baton a baby
bathtub, was a heartening spectacle.
Both Lady Gowrie and Lady Wake-
hurst came in their Red Cross uniforms,
and, with the presidential Snow lady,
Sydney’s Mayoress, Rosa Piper and Da
Silva Waugh, Mrs, Penfold Hyland,
Red Cross chairman Wilfrid John-
son and other importants, they stood
on the high balcony to watch the
Kellerman girls disport themselves.
Around the brink of the pool the Frank
Alberts were noticed. Mrs. Walter Swin-
son, her sister, Mrs. Fagioli, and her
mother and Mrs. Bruce Prior were other
keen onlookers. Thousands of shillings
were taken at the gate, and it is thought
when all is added up that there will be
about £lOOO in the kitty. The tea
marquee was bursting with activity all the
afternoon. Mrs.'A. J. Collins skippered it.
Mrs. Sanders was chief tea-essence mixer ;
Mrs. Toby Browne was one of many who
poured tea. Mrs. Collins was proud of
the pyramids of scones, cakes and sand-
wiches donated by the North Shore
branches of the Red Cross. Margaret
Adams, running a houp-la stall, and Mrs.
Allan Foott, selling tickets for a compe-
tition (a painting by her mother, Mrs.
T. A. Anderson, the prize), were two of
the day’s happy and busy.
Katherine Bathgate, the new publicity
officer for the Red Cross Society, brings
a bright smile, a noble chuckle and a
great deal of experience to her job.
Katherine first came to Australia from
Lanarkshire, in Scotland, in 1937. She
spent a few months here, and after she
had left she longed to come back. She
started on her return journey a few
weeks before the war broke. Miss Bath-
gate is a journalist, and has published
many articles, particularly on motoring
and aviation, in London newspapers. For
some years she was on the staff of the
publishing house of Newnes and later
on the London Press Exchange. She was
one of the very active at the Lady Gowrie
Red Cross Home fete last Saturday. Nor-
ton Trevaire photograph.
Hearts that had gone down with a
thud when the rain splattered on Saturday
afternoon started to sing blithely when
the sky cleared and the moon rose. The
committee of “Serenade to the Stars,”
which had to be postponed from the
week before because of a washout, saw
its party turn into the success its
efforts deserved. Hundreds of supporters
of the Red Cross Younger Set went to
this open-air concert at Fairwater,
Double Bay. Katrin Roselle made a
speech ; and the programme had as many
stars to the inch as the heavens above.
President Mollie Rolleston received the
guests.
Oswald Cheeke had news of a favorite
nephew’s death last week. The young man,
Oswald Marcus Cheeke, was qn officer in
the Royal Navy. Only a few weeks ago
he was decorated with the D.S.O. With
his passing goes another fink with
old Sydney. He was a descendant
of William Long, whose home Tus-
culum (now a hospital) was sur-
rounded by acres of gardens which in
the years have sprouted the flats and
buildings of much of Potts Point. The
Daileys and the Martins are all of the
same clan.
It is good news to concertgoers that
Bernard Heinze, Ormond Professor of
Music at Melbourne University, is to be
lent to the A.B.C. for 12 months. He will
conduct the Symphony Orchestra during
the concert season just.about to break.
At least two full-size choral perform-
ances will unleash Australian voices.
“The Dream of Gerontius” and “Belshaz-
zar’s Feast” are the chosen works. Now
that there’s a scarcity in imported singers
and musicians, the stock of the home-
grown is on the rise; and, as A.B.C.’s
chairman W. J. Cleary says, “These diffi-
culties [exchange and shortage of over-
seas artists] will lead to greater oppor-
tunities this year for our Australian
musicians.” It is to be hoped the oppor-
tunities will not grow fewer with the
return of the days of fair sailings.
Every nice girl loves a sailor. So the
Conservatorium will be bursting with
feminine charm tomorrow (Thursday)
night, when seamen are staging a
revue, “Pleasure Ashore.” Every mem-
ber of the cast is a seafarer, and
many of them, before they took
to the • ocean wave, had done turns
on the London music halls. The
Overseas Club is organising the show,
and it will help to buy a mobile kitchen
for the bomb victims of Britain. Three
shillings and one penny will buy a
reserved seat; and, if you feel like being
unreserved, two shillings and one
penny will do the trick. Kathleen
Gaden, secretary of the Overseas, is
already busy shelling out tickets.
In Robert Ardrey’s “Thunder Rock,”
their Saturday night’s presentment, the
Independents had the clever and the
unusual. “Thunder Rock” is a light-
house to which a disillusioned writer who
feels that the mad world riding its tiger
of war has got beyond him retires, feel-
ing powerless and defeated. But the
lighthouse is not untenanted. It is
haunted by the ghosts of the victims of
a shipwreck, almost 100 years ago. By
the alchemy of his imagination the writer
makes them articulate for a brief moment.
Like himself, they had been defeatists,
all trying to escape to a new land away
from the poignant memories which for
them poisoned the old world. Dennis
Glennie took the part of David Charles-
ton, the writer. Marie Rosenfeld, in
henna satin and velvet, was the glowing
shade of the girl who found a watery
grave in 1850. Jessica Page was also
in the picture. Norman Haire, as the
shadow doctor who had been ahead of
his time in the use of anaesthetics, was
well cast.
Gwen Logan has that rare gift in
actresses, amateur or professional, a fight
touch for comedy. As Louise Dexter in
Archie Menzies’s play, “The Astonished
Ostrich,” she had a thistledown quality
that was just right for the brittle little
play. The “Ostrich” was a Phoenix
Theatre production, and Frederick
Hughes should be thanked for handing
out this souffle of nonsense on its painted
plate of moneyed leisure. Archie Men-
zies, Mr. Hughes told his audience on
Saturday night, has a fink with Sydney,
his mother having appeared on the stage
here.
The German High Command should
have seen the women of Sydney march
through the city streets last Friday.
They’d have thought “with such girls
behind them the Australian soldiers will
be too hard a nut to crack—dash these
Dominions!” The march put fife and
color into Hospital Friday, Among the
3000 women there were hospital nurses,
V.As. and members of the St. John
Ambulance Brigade. There were N.E.S.
girls on motor-cycles heading the proces-
sion. There were kettle-drums; there
were a girl piper or two. There were the
skyey-blue of the V.As., the grey of
hospital nurses, the green of C.U.S.A.,
the deeper green of the signallers. There
was khaki in all its tones. It was a grand
sight. Alexander Gordon’s little lady took
the salute at the base in front of Sydney
Hospital.
A book to warm the heart and fire
the spirit is J. B. Priestley’s Postscripts.
Here within slim covers are the novelist’s
now famous Sunday-evening talks over
the 8.8. C. And this passage seems fit
not only for any Sunday evening but
might have sprung to life in the pulpit
of any great minster of the Yorkshire
to which Priestley belongs: “We have
to fight this great battle not only with
guns in daylight, but alone in the night,
communing with our souls, strengthening
our faith that in common men everywhere
there is a spring of innocent aspiration
and goodwill that shall not be sealed.
Whoever shares this faith and hope, no
matter to what race they belong or what
language they speak, let them be wel-
comed as allies.” If the world can re-
member that when peace comes, then
the world will step straight into the new
order for which all are longing.
The Conservatorium is off on full
wing again. That its year’s activities are
travelling on the steady wind of endeavor
was shown to a crowded house last week.
The first of the institution’s orchestral
concerts drew the musicianly of Sydney,
many of it in uniform. It was thought-
ful of Dr. Bainton to treat his listeners
to the bright graciousness of Beethoven,
the cool waves of Handel. Mrs. Bainton
was in the audience. The Bertie Kellys,
of course, were in good time and place.
Hilda Mulligan, of Conservatorium opera
fame, was busy in the interludes rallying
forces for an entertainment to help Boys’
Town.
Bright-faced Mrs. Rex Bennett came
in a smart-as-paint white afternoon suit.
She had been busy all afternoon on
preliminaries for the Dorothy D’Orn
recital, which she is managing. Com-
mander Urquhart and his wife were
there, her shoulders warmed by dyed
ermine. Mrs. C. Lorenz and Mrs.
Norman McLeod were together, Mrs.
Norman’s gloves and tufted woolly tippet
as green as Ireland. A.B.C.’s Mrs. Moses
and Mrs. Bearup were other listeners.
These women of England! Nothing
daunts them. Last week came a letter
from a friend who has been driven out
of her home by frequent bombings in
its neighborhood, who has to care for
a sick husband, and whose son in the
Navy has had his home bombed twice
—now only the shell of it is left. She
remarks: “We have really, in a sense,
become accustomed to our ‘overhead,’
as we now call them.”
Aileen Alpen, who during her many
years in Poland kept in touch with Aus-
tralia through her newspaper articles,
tells many experiences since the war burst
on Europe. Twice her living quarters
were bombed, once she was literally
blown into a shelter during a raid and
once a piece of shrapnel went right
through the crown of the hat she was
wearing—fortunately it was a high crown.
While in London she did translations in
the offices of various Ministries. Besides
newspaper work Aileen gives radio talks
and has spoken over the 8.8. C. Inciden-
tally, John Gielgud, the actor, is a rela-
tion, and Walter Bethel, writer of articles
, about old Sydney, is a brother-in-law.
The newly-returned one’s address is care
of sister Mrs. Walter Bethel, High-street,
Neutral Bay.
One of the few brides to make her
own veil that St. Canice’s or any other
church within recent years has blessed
was Marie McElhone. She had made
her veil of Brussels lace when she was a
student at the Technical College, and
she wore it last week when she became
Mrs. Bernard Cragen. She accompanied
it with a pearl coronet, a frock of white
satin, purple orchids and a diamond ring
presented by aunt Mrs. W. P. McElhone.
Marie’s parents are the Dr. G. H. Mc-
Elhone couple, of Darling Point. ’Groom’s
father was F. B. Cragen, of Melbourne.
His mother now makes her home at
Bellevue Hill. Reception was at Usher’s
Hotel.


Writing
SEND FOR THIS FREE BROCHURE
It tells you all about the H. & R.
course in Modern Ticket and
show-card Writing, and how you
can earn more money.
Dept, of Distribution
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON,
38A Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne
38A Barrack House, 16 Barrack St., Sydnev.
Offices in all Capital Cities, Newcastle and
Launceston. 38AA/XS9
Legal Notice.
Re Estate of MARGARET CRONEAN,
Deceased.
TAKE NOTICE that the Public Trustee of
New South Wales is the Administrator of the
Estate of Margaret Cronean, who died intes-
tate at Darlinghurst, Sydney, on the seventh
day of September, 1931. The said Margaret
Cronean was born in 1865 at Albion Park in
the said State and had a brother, John Cronean,
who was last heard of about 1900. The said
John Cronean, if alive on the seventh day of
September, 1931, would be entitled to a one-
ninth share in the Estate of the Intestate, or, if
he predeceased the Intestate, leaving children
who survived the Intestate, such children would
be entitled to the said share. Therefore let
the said John Cronean or his representatives
or his children, if any, Take Notice that unless
a claim by them or any of them to be of the
next-of-kin of the Intestate is received by the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney, on or before the Fifth day of August,
1941, the Public Trustee will distribute the said
one-ninth share among the next-of-kin of whose
claims he then has notice.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2109 of 1940.
BETWEEN MARY LOUISE MILLBURN
Petitioner and
KEVIN REX MILLBURN Respondent.
TO KEVIN REX MILLBURN late of Sydney
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
LOUISE MILLBURN has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of your desertion without just cause or
excuse during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Tenth day of June One thousand nine
hundred and forty-one and in the event of your
not doing so within the limited time or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Twelfth day of March, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
G. F. OSBORNE, Solicitor for Petitioner,
77-79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1815 of 1940.
BETWEEN FLORENCE ADELAIDE JONES
(formerly Florence Adelaide Meers) of
Belmore in the State of New South Wales
Married Woman Petitioner and
WILLIAM HARVEY JONES her husband
Respondent.
TO WILLIAM HARVEY JONES late of
Sydney New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said FLORENCE
ADELAIDE JONES has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Eleventh day
of June One thousand nine hundred and forty-
one and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Thirteenth day of March One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
W. ALEXANDER STONE, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 149 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
A high standard efficiency job was the
assuaging of two thousand appetites for
curry tiffin at the Town Hall. No hitches
happened on the big day, all tickets were
sold for all three sessions, the curry was
hot in temperature and just peppery
enough to be interesting without burning
out the innards. The general public came
to the luncheon ; so did friends of the
Queen of the Essential Services and of the
Originality Branch of the Comforts Fund;
also firemen, policemen and a sprinkling
of big and small business all queued up
in the foyer before each session. They
filled the main body of the hall in a few
minutes as the previous session was per-
suaded to vacate chairs and exit via
Collins-street. Acoustically the effort
(it’s considered a record size in midday
meals for this city) was remarkable.
Neither strident voices nor clatter of
dishes turned conversation into an endur-
ance test. Most of the credit must go to
high ceiling and cardboard plates.
The Beaurepaires, Doc. Newman
Morris, Mary Lundqvist, Fred Armytage,
R. C. Evans and various other com-
mittee people sat at the only official
table. Officials who arrived late were
Richard Linton and the hon. general sec.
of the Australian Comforts Fund, C. R.
McKerihan, and someone suggested that
the tardy pair sit at a near-by all-femi-
nine table. There they tackled their curry
practically sharing one chair and smiling
cherubically. A bevy of beauty in white
dresses and red shoulder ribbons sold
Pot Luck cookery books and curry recipe
sheets. The sheets sold as fast as the
girls could peel them off one by one. It’s
a good recipe, tested in the eating by
two thousand, and very simple to make.
Ingredients for the giant meal included
5001 b. of meat, 3001 b. of rice, 201 b. of
butter, 10 gallons of milk, 211 b. of curry,
one case of apples and 161 b. each of sul-
tanas and coconut, also smaller quanti-
ties of chutney, jam, green ginger, garlic
and spice. Peanuts and other accessories
were on each table. Girls from the
“Emily Mac” wept copiously on the
previous day cutting up mountains of
onions.
The Victoria League Hospitality
Bureau, which carries out good work at
Air Force House, made a gesture to
groups of people and representatives of
groups who habitually entertain the
R.A.A.F. through liaison officers at the
Bureau. The at-home happened in mid-
afternoon at the League rooms, where
hostesses Miss Chomley, Mrs. Walter
Carnegie, Mrs. John Mitchell, Mrs. Wil-
liam Riddell, Mrs. A. Pohls and Mrs.
J. C. Harkness, each wearing an identifi-
cation mark in blue posies, introduced
a roomful of guests. Beatrice Brown
played and Frances Dillon sang “The
Last Time I Saw Paris” and “A Nightin-
gale Sang in Berkeley Square,” and
Irene Mitchell read by request from a
November issue of the London “Times”
“Airmen from Overseas,” a poem by
Laurence Binyon.
After a soporific interlude extending
from December right through March
race week Melbourne is waking up.
There’s a party or two mooted, and plans
for dances are taking shape. Though the
young, beautiful and dewy-eyed wonder
pensively where the men are coming
from, they are not showing a drooping
spirit to the world. They’re just hoping
philosophically that something or some-
one will turn up.
For women the dress shows have been
an aperitif before the weighty decisions
of procuring a winter wardrobe —which
might be just walking into a model room
and buying the nicest things on view or
trekking from shop to shop collecting
patterns (while feeling the heart sink
lower and lower at the prices demanded),
and in between times snooping through
the various showrooms memorising ideas.
It seems that there’s a helter-skelter race
after brown, for all 24 hours of the day
or night, and in all shades, from the
strong and spicy to the neutrals in beige
that are sometimes unappetising and the
downfall of any complexion that isn’t 100
per cent, “the skin you love to touch.”
Cann’s clung to their own tradition
and climaxed their show with a bride,
but cut down their schedule of times
to afternoons only, which resulted in
there being no space over for even a
mouse. In spite of the drying-up of Con-
tinental sources of supply, the clothes
lost nothing in interest. Some English
and American models were just out of
their boxes, but the majority were made
locally, credit being given when neces-
sary to overseas designs. Among features
were the printed woollen dinner gowns
and the camel-hair evening coats, so
severely tailored that they could enter an
air-raid shelter on business bent without
feeling self-conscious. One interesting
gown was a theme in three colors, dull
lime-green for skirt, with tomato waist-
yoke and white blouse. A postscript about
blouses was greater fullness for both back
and front,
Berna Nairn, Mrs. M. Kelly (known
to hundreds of soldiers by sight if not by
name for her work at Sleeping Bags Sup-
plies), Pam Forster, Betty Sampson and
Olwen (just Olwen —she’s arrived!) were
among mannequins at George’s show,
where through the microphone voice of
Stephanie Beenie dresses were described
and most of the credit given to local
manufacture. Approbation went to some
suits and beltless dresses with waistlines
creeping downwards, to the tunic sil-
houette and a few alluring dinner gowns.
Except for the Australian Digger hat
martial motifs were not preponderant,
but Pompadour hats were in all sizes
and variations. Furs were self-effacing,
and any leopards on the prowl sent in
small pieces as trimmings. There’s a new
beast abroad called leopard-lapin. An
upstart, no doubt, but it will probably
be popular with anyone who likes the
whiff of big-game hunting.
Inset from a Maxwell Porteous camera
is Mrs. M. Kelly, who is hon. secretary
and, with her mother, Mrs. J. Sheffield,
was also one of the originators of the
Sleeping Bags Supply Fund. Winter and
summer bags are always in request, as
can be judged by the khaki-clad traffic
into 258 Flinders-lane on Friday after-
noons and Saturday mornings. The Navy
and the Air Force also receive bags, but
the largest issues up to date are with the
A.I.F. Letters of appreciation from men
on active service arrive from overseas
from all sorts of never-before-heard-of
addresses.
Sleeping Bags started life in a mild
way with Mrs. Kelly and her mother
running them up on their own machines,
but the idea grew out of all limits, like
Jack’s beanstalk. Manufacturing and
business firms answered an SOS for
extra help, machinists and factory-hands
generously gave their leisure, donations
came in, but more are always welcome,
for blankets even at bedrock prices cost
money. Next function for Sleeping Bags
will take place on Saturday at Rio
Grande, Dandenong-road, for a mild
3s. 6d. per head. Bridge tables may be
reserved, but there will be other attrac-
tions for those who prefer relaxations
on a lighter scale.
Bring a gift and buy a gift, take tea
at four or sherry from five onwards, was
an effort by Mrs. Fred Dennett on behalf
of Primary Products Queen Strella Wil-
son. Most of the afternoon session hap-
pened in the garden, for the combination
of setting and weather was too good
to miss. Among the garden’s attractions
is a fishpond so deep that its brown-
and-gold inhabitants can attain a size of
nine inches without being eaten by
kookaburras. Shags and storks, too,
have also for some reason best known
to themselves abstained from putting the
Dennett pool upon their visiting list. Sue
Dennett and her pal Marie Stable ran
a lucky wheel for the sort of toys that
never fail to get a following as prizes.
Mrs. Norman Robinson won two woolly
lambs and a soldier and was prepared
to carry them off under her arm till
the offer of a lift came from Mrs, Charles
Nodrum, by then the possessor of a
Donald Duck.
Mrs. Herbert Allen called in on her
way home from her day behind the
canteen at the Showgrounds, but her
luck wasn’t in on the lucky wheel. Those
others who failed on the wheel discovered
a contrast to gaze upon in the dining-
room, a spinning wheel, relic of a more
placid age. Compliments were paid at
the party to Mrs. Ernest Darby, maker
of a number of succulent cakes either
eaten on the spot or sold and taken
home. Interest also arose in Mrs. Den-
nett’s little investment at Newmarket in
a Manitoba colt, still unbroken and un-
named.
Recently engaged, the Morris Sall-
manns’ only daughter, Lois, who has lost
her heart to a Sydney man, Eric Abra-
hams, only son of the late L, F. Abra-
hams, K.C., and Mrs. Abrahams, of Belle-
vue Hill. Lois, who returned during
the week-end from spending six weeks
in Svdnev. will he 21 later in the year.
She and her very youthful-looking
mother when stepping out together might
be taken for sisters rather than tall
daughter and five-feet-odd of slim
mother. Lois’s photograph from Athol
Shmith.
Mrs, Laing Hay produced a house-
warming to suit her new flat in Denham-
street, Toorak. It was an informal and
friendly party for old pals like a small-
size edition of the parties parents Mr.
and Mrs. David Robertson used to give
at Cresswell in the halcyon days gone by.
There in the meantime family health has
intervened, and the billiard-room is just
a room, for the superb table and equip-
ment were gifts to the officers’ mess at
Laverton. Other furnishings Mrs. Robert-
son also gave away in the cause of
hostels, welfare movements, etc. She
was at her daughter’s flat-warming and
was, as always, the most diminutive and
the most popular person present. A
well-guarded secret was that the date was
Mrs. Laing Hay’s birthday, but a pal who
knew all about it was Mrs. Sverre Lie
—the two used to eat each other’s
birthday cakes when year after year
they were growing out of schoolgirl
tunics.
Among others present were the
George Sangers (daughter Mary, who
married Noel Armstrong a few months
ago, is for the present living in Sydney
while Noel is in camp in the vicinity).
Dr. Lorna Bray removed a fur coat to
reveal a black lace dress worn with in-
consequent hat and shoes. International
Harvester’s Guy McHenry was jovial as
ever and mentioned the Pink Lady Ball
on the 19th, where he has to ride in a
hobby-horse competition in aid of the
Queen of Transport.
The Tyros, who could have called
themselves the Dynamos, are running a
mannequin matinee at the Comedy on
March 26. Tickets are 10s., ss. and
2s. 6d., but for those prices the after-
noon will not be fashions alone from
preface to epilogue. Jay Whidden will
make his last public appearance with his
band, “Our Glad” Moncrieff will sing
and the National Theatre will produce a
one-act play. In addition, if ways and
means can be found, tea and biscuits may
appear in the foyer. Last, but not least,
and very definitely, there will be no
flowers for sale.
Although there are only 12 Tyros the
little band is a good advertisement for
quality in small parcels. Up till last
November these young women raised
during the odd year or so of their exist-
ence £9OO for various charities. Since
that date they have run a vegetable
cabaret for the Navy and the Kinder-
gartens, and they’ve helped in addition
at all street days. Last Monday they
gave a good-bye and good-luck party to
their ex-president, Mrs. Jay Whidden.
She’s an Englishwoman, very proud of
her nationality, who is soon leaving for
the U.S.A. with her American husband.
The Angliss lady is all smiles and accept-
ance at her invitation to become presi-
dent, for it’s no small honor for a woman
with a daughter of 21 to be taken into
a fold of youth and beauty. Hon. sec.
of the Tyros is Mrs. J. St. J. Curwen, of
the Nordic plaits. Gwen Lloyd is
treasurer and Ruth Wilson is assistant
sec., also ticket sec. for the matinee.
With a very professorial speech Prof.
MacCallum, who’s Dean of the Faculty
of Medicine, opened a show of paintings
of R. C. Fricke and C. C. McNamara,
both art masters at Caulfield Tech.
J. Winkelman, who is head of the art
department at the school, introduced the
professor, who talked a bit about medi-
cine and a bit about art, finally wedded
the two subjects together and got them
off his chest hand in hand—all in earnest
without a twinkle in his eye. Principal
of Caulfield Tech. Robert Dorey was
present, plus his wife, looking distinctive
in grey with touches of fuchsia in her
hat. Among country people at the open-
ing were Kitty and Eileen McNamara,
from Warrnambool, and the Rev. G.
Mutten, who is vicar at Cobden and
R.A.A.F, chaplain at Crecy. All in navy
blue was Mrs. R. C. Fricke, tall, slim
and Scottish, and the possessor of an
enviable retrousse nose. When the couple
were married a year ago artist Fricke
robbed Invergowrie Homecraft Hostel
of Miss Una Brown, one of its imported
lecturers.


THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives the comfort and safety of modern sanitation.
No water supply required.
• NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
nwiiw
Approved by Board of Health.
Over 1550 satisfied users.
Efficiency, mechanism and life
fully guaranteed.
Price, £lB/8/- f.o.r. Sydney.
Including sales tax and crating.
Write Dept. B for illustrated pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
m
THE SERVICE MAN
New Season and New Models.
“Aileron”: The first trials of the new
season’s air forces began contempor-
aneously on both sides of the Channel.
It was an exchange of blows as heavy
as any yet delivered during the air war.
On March 10 the Germans raided
Portsmouth after a preliminary venture
the night before. They dropped thou-
sands of incendiaries and h.es. and left
behind the usual bloody tangled mess of
butchered women and children and the
ruins of churches, homes, cinemas and
shops. There was a roaring battle over
the Thames estuary, while the Luftwaffe
made futile fighter-escorted attempts to
blast a way into the heart of London.
South-east Scotland also was attacked,
and the Germans claimed an assault on
Bristol. Among the enemy bombers
brought down was one shot out of the
sky by a Norwegian freighter.
The British raid over Germany and
occupied territory that night was more
generalised. Features were a long series
of blasts against French invasion ports
and German naval bases and one special
attack on the Hohenzollern bridge, a vast
structure which carries numerous rail
tracks, footways and road traffic ways
across the Rhine from under the shadow
of the great cathedral of Cologne. Bombs
burst on the approaches, which are much
exposed.
Tuesday ushered in a period of bomb-
ing almost as intense and widespread as
any during the terrible months of last
year’s autumn. The Germans bombed
34 areas in Britain. They were over
Portsmouth for the third night; they
gave the west Midlands their worst even-
ing for months. The attacks ended about
midnight.
The R.A.F. replied in kind over Kiel.
Heavy explosions were heard and fires
were seen. Bremerhaven docks were dealt
with severely and single ’planes or small
formations went privateering along
French coastal aerodromes, wrecking
several machines and doing considerable
damage.
Wednesday saw the new war reaching
its crescendo. German raids extended
from north-west Scotland to the south
coast. Liverpool and Birkenhead, its
twin town across the Mersey, where there
are vast stores and warehouses, suffered
a severe raid. But so did Berlin —its first
raid for 82 days—Bremen, Hamburg and
Bremerhaven and a number of other
centres, over which the R.A.F. men hung
for hours, picking out their targets in
brilliant moonlight.
The Air - Ministry reported that
“damage and casualties in Britain bore
no relation to the scale of the attack.”
And there was a new and pleasing feature
in the communiques. Night raiders
hitherto have come through almost
scatheless. But our night fighters, includ-
ing the new Bristol Beau —a twin-engined
job—brought down five raiders for cer-
tain and probably several more, apart
from some accounted for by “other de-
vices.” It was noticed that when the
new fighters did draw a bead on the
enemy no second volleys were needed —
there was just a flash and a trail of fire
and the target seemed to go to pieces.
The Liverpool attack was like that on
Coventry—by coveys of bombers pass-
ing over in clockwork succession at great
height. The Germans mentioned “great
fires” there among the docks and stores ;
also the destruction of an aluminium
works tucked away in western Scotland
at Fort William.
The Berlin raid, which was going on
while Hitler was telling the Austrians that
“England has had her lesson,” was, as
usual, minimised by the High Command,
who numbered the casualties as 16 killed
and 37 wounded, later altered to 26
killed, 28 wounded. Other reports sug-
gested wholesale damage both there and
in Hamburg, which on the following
night got more. And the R.A.F. re-
turned to its seaside naval and oil storage
targets from Rotterdam to Bremerhaven.
A British machine torpedoed and sank
a large German supply vessel off the
Frisian Islands.
German attacks on the night of March
14 were savage and prolonged, but they
were fiercely resisted. Hundreds of Ger-
man bombers, heavily escorted, swooped
on all parts of the British Isles, from the
Clydeside—Glasgow was included in the
savage Blitz —Merseyside and Hull to
the south and south-west. The ports
attacked were main food ports and stor-
age centres. The Clydeside is, as well, a
heavy military shipping centre and a
builder of ships on a vast scale —Hood,
Queen Mary and Queen Elizabeth were
all built there. Industrial damage was
done, as industrial damage must be done
by any raid along the Clyde, but nothing
vital. The Germans declared the Hull
raid the severest which the city of the
Humber has suffered.
Again there was a satisfactory blotting
out of raiders by night fighters. Wed-
nesday’s totals had mounted by later
surveys to nine. On Thursday night 11
were shot down —eight by fighters, one
by A.A. fire and two by “unspecified
means.” It was a record for a single
night during the war. British machine
losses totalled six.
Since the new night fighter machines
are only just available, there is a lot to
be learnt about the technique of their
use, and the same probably applies to
the “unspecified means” which are caus-
ing German machine casualties
Heavy fog militated against attacks at
the week-end. On Saturday night the Luft-
waffe had another go at London ; it was
not on a large scale, but lives were lost
when a dance hall was hit. The Germans
claim to have started fires in the Port
of London, done military damage in
southern England, and sunk two mer-
chantmen of 11,000 tons. They asserted
also that the Friday-night assault on the
Clyde was supplemented by heavy attacks
on Sheffield steel plants, on Tilbury, Ply-
mouth and Southampton and large war
works near Leeds.
The R.A.F.’s Saturday-night helping of
trouble for Germany included a fierce
attack on the U-boat base at Lorient
apd the dusting of Diisseldorf and other
western German industrial centres. The
Germans reported that among other
machines used by the British were long-
with searchlights.
Number of night-raiders destroyed over
the first fortnight of
March was 41 —double the number
accounted for in September and October.
A.A. defences got seven; fighters the
rest.
J. Bull is cheerful, as usual, and so
little put out of his stride that even with
increasing German air forces in
Tripolitania and renewed attacks on
Malta and the threat of more intense
attacks on England, Air C.-in-C. Long-
more at Cairo was able to remark to
a Greek newspaper that “when the time
comes the R.A.F. in the Middle East
will strike the Germans as hard as it
has struck the Italians. The Germans
are different, but we do not fear them.”
Waved v. the Seasons.
“Ek Dum”: Wavell’s forces in East
Africa are being urged on to speed by
the approach of the change of season,
which also affects all countries in the
Middle East below the Taurus. I can
remember celebrating Anzac Day above
the Taurus with snow falling on the
Anatolian plateau, and baking in an
Innaminckan sun eight days later in
Aleppo.
The best that can be said for the
Ethiopian climate is that it is fairly
clear-cut. The cool season begins in
October and tails off into sudden heat
—with heavy rain in parts —at the end
of February. From then onward the
temperature rises, and the coastal and
low-lying land becomes a pulsing oven.
About the beginning or middle of June
the monsoonal rainy season begins, and
till October a great deal of the country
is like a gluepot, impossible for
mechanical transport.
But before the heaviest rains come
Abyssinia, Eritrea and both British and
Italian Somaliland should be dim
memories to Musso. and his generals.
The speed and comprehensiveness of
the advances have been breath-taking.
The eastern group of Italian possessions
has been attacked from six land points
and one sea point. Two advances have
converged on Keren, as a preliminary to
taking Asmara —the toughest nut in the
Italian basket, and the core of resistance,
because it carries the greatest European
population and is the capital of Eritrea
and the brain of the whole of Italia
Orientale. These two advances have in-
volved the crossing of three parts of the
widest part of Eritrea through difficult
mountain country. The R.A.F., and the
R. from the Red Sea side, paid some
attention to Massawa, which was soon
reported to be starving.
The other invasions have been planned
with nicety and advanced with a careful
regard for synchronisation as to time
and distances. This consideration has
made for inequality of speed in move-
ment, but generally has meant that the
further south-east the strokes are made
the greater the distances and the faster
the pace of the attacks.
After the two Kassala forces arrived
in the neighborhood of Keren there was
a lull while the northern forces came
down from Karora, in the n.-w. corner,
to form a nutcracker which is now
tightening its squeeze the shell can
almost be heard giving way. In a few
days the British salvage corps should be
chewing up and carting away the Keren
kernel, while the fighting forces move on
towards Asmara.
Next came the Gallabat advance. It
has joined the stream of insurgent Abys-
sinians in a collaborated movement
which has pushed within 15 miles of
Gondar—a difficult road —on the north
side of Lake Tsana and successively to
Dambacha, via Dangila and Burye, on
the tops of the high ranges south of the
lake. Dambacha by air is about 120
miles from Addis Ababa. The attack is
moving on to Debra Markos.
In the centre of the Kenya line near
Moyale the forces went just across the
border to Mega. Thereabouts they
waited, feeling the defences out, until
the S. Africans further east had made
their hurricane drive to the Juba.
This split into two after making the
pace a welter to Kismayu near the Juba.
One group went like lightning up the
Juba to Bardera and within a week
turned up at Dolo, 300-odd miles away,
and across the Abyssinian border.
At the same time the Mega forces
began to move. By March 12 their ad-
vance guards had made contact with the
Juba river force, which had now driven
another 150 miles into Abyssinia, appar-
ently making for Soddu, the main
southern Italian aerodrome of Abyssinia,
screened behind the 12,000 ft. high
Mendebo peaks, but approachable up
the Dorya valley.
The Juba section of the British-
S. African units in this drive are 600
miles from their positions on Feb. 9.
As travellers, however, they are only
in the bullock-dray class beside the fast
fliers of the expeditionary force, which
divided off from them at Kismayu and
followed the coast in a headlong 36-hour
rush to Mogadiscio, 250 miles away.
Mogadiscio is the Somali capital. With-
out a pause the motorised units then
went on from there for 600 miles on
the way to Harrar, Abyssinia. They
were, a month after they left the Kenya
border, on the Ogadin Plateau over
1000 miles by road from where they
started, not much more than 250 miles
from the Gojjam fgrce coming in on
the west from Lake Tsana to Debra
Markos, via Dambacha, a couple of
hundred miles from Addis Ababa and
within fairly easy reach of Diredawa,
the main Italian depot and aerodrome
of Ethiopia, of the railway to the coast,
and of Jiga Jiga, where a division guards
the road into British Somaliland.
To celebrate this devastating drive—
the S. Africans and their colleagues have
taken or killed over 34,000 Italian troops
since they crossed the Juba —still an-
other attack on Abyssinia was launched
from the south-west at Kurmuk which
went straight to Asosa aerodrome.
All the ring of greater aerodromes
round the marches of Abyssinia and
Eritrea and Italian Somaliland now are
in British hands, except Gambela and
Bako in the s.-w. and Gondar in the
n.-w., but Abyssinian levies were within
15 miles of that at the middle of last
week.
Those remaining in the centre of the
country are incessantly pasted by
the R.A.F., and have no means of
resistance, as the Regia Aeronautica
virtually has been destroyed in that
region.
The Italians at Asmara are near their
Bardia ; those in Addis Ababa are like a
group of bandits hemmed in on every
side by the police and with no chance
of escape. Their doom is inevitable.
They can’t even implement Mussolini’s
intention, expressed after the capture of
British Somaliland, to “go on further,
perhaps to Mosul” —they cannot swim
faster than British destroyers.
Slowing Down in Libya.
“Ek Dum”: The Italians admitted
casualties of 68 dead, 98 wounded and
12,230 missing in North Africa during
February, as well as 2386 dead, 4981
wounded and 5590 missing on the Greek
front.
There has been little land activity in
North Africa, but air reconnaissances
have been ceaseless. On March 8 the
R.A.F. and R.A.A.F, made a heavy
attack on aerodromes throughout
Tripolitania and gave Tripoli harbor and
its surroundings a severe raking over.
Estimates of the numbers of Germans
in Tripoli have dwindled to three
divisions, one armored ; but at this there
was polite laughter at the Horse Guards.
There are Germans operating armored
vehicles and tanks, but there is no cer-
tainty about their being German tanks
and vehicles. Small forces of them have
been found nosing round outposts south
of Benghazi at the foot of the Gulf.
Victorian troops there were bombed
by Nazi ’planes, and a Junkers 88 was
brought down by an R.A.A.F. pilot over
Benghazi. The Victorians’ commander
remarked that Hitler’s emissaries who
turned up at Mersa el Braga, bombing
and machine-gunning from 100 ft., were
foiled by the dispersal of the troops and
then, with every barrel the A.I.F. owned,
“driven back into the sky ; and they have
not come back again.”
Up to Friday, 17 German ’planes
supporting German armored mechanised
units had been shot down, including four
near El Agheila on March 11, and the
mechanised units themselves —the Ger-
man vehicles usually hunt in couples—
have been practising London’s latest
dance, the Tuscana, the movements of
which consist of one step forward and
two steps backward.
At Jarabub Oasis, 150 miles south of
Bardia, which figured in Mr. Churchill’s
relation of the first advance on the Sidi
Barrani line early in December “the
Australian cavalry charged sword in
hand” —an Italian force with a stout-
hearted commander, Colonel Costiani,
is beleaguered by A.I.F. mechanised
units and British artillery. The oasis is
surrounded by desolate country. It is
reckoned that 1200 Italian white troops
are shut up in the town, together with
Libyan troops, of whom 650 have de-
serted in the past few weeks. There is
no occasion for exerting heavy pressure
on Jarabub. Nature will do the work.
Summer is settling down fast in Libya.
If the Germans are choosing this time
for an offensive across 300 miles of
desert against Wavell’s' forces, which
are well entrenched, armed, fed and with
abounding reserves and overwhelming
naval and air cover, they are fitter sub-
jects for the reception house than for the
battlefield.
A Voyage Magnificent.
“Ek Dum”; The transfer of A.I.F.
and N.Z.E.F. troops from Britain to
Egypt is reported by the A.I.F. official
correspondent to have been achieved by
the largest convoy in history.
The first convoy of the old A.I.F.
which sailed from Australia in 1914 was
a record for its time —38 ships carrying
over 30,000 Australians and Maorilanders
with an escort, when it left Albany
(W.A.), of four cruisers—H.M.S. Mino-
taur, in charge, H.M.A.S. Sydney and
Melbourne and the Japanese cruiser


FOR COMFORT AND DURABILITY
No. 163.
"TUMBA"
“PRIDE OF THE ROAD.”
f
£ll/8/6
(COMPLETE)
A high-grade
Saddle with
narrowest
possible grip
and comfort-
ab 1 e no n-
chafing seat.
Fi r s t - class
materials used
throughout.
N.S.W. freight on
saddles Paid for Cash
with Order. Our Catalogue
is Free! Send for one.
WAITHER * STEVENSON'™
39S CEORCE ST. SYDH
Ta4ittj
df
• Thanks to the
Western Electric
Audlphone you can
now take part in
group conversations, hear at greater
distances, enjoy life to the full again.
Neat, inconspicuous, light in weight,
sensitive, and most economical it
possesses mumerous advantages over
other less efficient types. Why not
let us show you? Both bone and air
conduction models available, the
correct type for your needs being
selected only after careful audio-
metric tests. Call for demonstration
at any of the following:
THE ATJDIPHONE CO.,
M.L.C. Building, kk Martin Place, Sydney.
COLES & GARRARD PTY., LTD.,
370-371/ Bourke Street, Melbourne.
TREVOR HENDERSON,
T. & G. Buildings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
LEN G. STONE,
67 G awl e r Place, Adelaide.
SAINKEN & SAINKBN,
6 3 S Hay Street, Perth.
FINDEAYS PTY., LTD.,
Apollo House, Brisbane St., Launceston,
Western Electric
'audiphone'
HEARING AID
Ibuki. Minotaur left the convoy be-
fore the Emden incident.
The distance travelled by the Young
Diggers is given as 15,000 miles. Mel-
bourne “Age” was permitted to mention
that they departed from Glasgow,
bombed last week, perhaps as a belated
and savage measure of retaliation —Glas-
gow had had comparatively little bomb-
ing since July, 1940, when it had 123
casualties in a raid.
They left Britain in the midst of the
worst winter in a generation, and a week
later were “sweltering in the tropics.” Yet
the only time they needed their steel
helmets was during a desultory air alarm
for one enemy aeroplane while they were
in a port.
The voyage from Australia to Eng-
land which these troops previously made
began last May, and must have been
nearly as long. The soldiers were well
on the way to Palestine when the Blitz-
krieg broke in Europe and Italy entered
the war. They turned south-west and
went round the Cape of Good Hope to
Britain.
Theirs, then, has been a record Odyssey
in every way, and the official correspon-
dent has reported it uncommonly well.
They have been absent from Australia
for 10 months. In that time they have
travelled roughly 30,000 miles by sea.
If they had travelled without ceasing,
without any delay in ports to add to
their complements and pick up fuel and
food supplies, it would have taken them
104 days’ unceasing travel at 12 knots
in all weathers to make that voyage of
30,000 miles. Their actual sea running
must have been faster than this. And
the summary of the result is something
to stun the imagination.
The largest convoy in the world, with
tens of thousands of men aboard, pushes
out into the very teeth of a blasting
winter and a devastating war which even
London could not ward off from itself.
It travels in the open sea for over three
months by the most direct routes at the
speed of a crack wool ship and without
any lurking. And on the whole voyage
it does not lose a man or a ship or even
the chart-room cat from the action of a
foe who declares that he has the British
Empire beaten and broken.
The performance has many object
lessons. It is a triumph of adequate de-
fence which could be extended to every
ship which sails the sea by the multi-
plication of naval vessels and sea patrols.
Such a convoy, even if it went out £rom
British ports piecemeal and was
assembled off the African coast, could
not have made its voyage without the
Germans and Italians knowing about it
and that for many weeks. It presented
a vast mark. Its destruction would have
been worth almost any sacrifice to Ger-
many because, apart from the immense
loss of great ships of types which cannot
be quickly replaced and of divisions of
shock troops, its sinking would have had
a moral effect which would have shaken
Britain to the core.
Even at that the German High Com-
mand did not find attack worth the
candle.
It is a magnificent vindication of the
fact that proper convoys properly started
and carried through would mean the
decisive defeat of Germany in the end,
whatever the Luftwaffe may do to civilian
towns.
Balkan Horror and Mancevre
“Ek Dum”: The bomb outrage at the
Pera Palace Hotel, Istanbul, is one of
the most dastardly incidents of the war.
The British Minister from Bulgaria,
with 68 other Britons, arrived at Istanbul
on the night of March 11 by the Orient
express and drove across the bridge
over the Golden Horn from Sirkedje
Station to the hotel. Mr. Rendel paused
to give a press interview.
Most of his party were gathered with
their luggage in the lobby of the hotel.
There was a frightful explosion, and
seven were killed, among them two girl
secretaries on the Embassy staff. Others
killed were Turks—policemen, hotel
porters and passers-by—and 29 were
injured.
Bombs had been hidden in the luggage
of the British travellers, evidently in Sofia.
One was found unexploded in a suitcase.
British authorities believe that the bomb-
ing was planned by German secret police
to embroil Britain with the Turks. The
outrage followed a widespread and ludi-
crous propaganda to the effect that Brit-
ish citizens were passing about various
countries, and particularly Yugoslavia,
armed with suitcases full of explosives.
The cold-blooded comment of German
officials in Berlin that the incident should
be a lesson to the British not to play
round with explosives supports the theory.
The Turks are not deceived. They
will not forget a number of other
crimes which have originated in Bul-
garia, nor the fact that the Bulgarian
Government is so deeply in the pocket
of Germany that it cynically and cold-
bloodedly offered the Dutch and Polish
Ministers in Sofia safe conduct only to
occupied Netherlands and ravaged
Poland.
The outrage seemed to throw into re-
lief the curious quiet which has fallen
over the Balkans, save in Albania.
The Germans, moving down through
Bulgaria from the north in four lines, are
in position along the Rhodope ranges.
At the week-end they had not broken
off relations with the Greeks, but it had
been reported that Germans were leaving
Greece under instructions from theii
Consuls. Apparently Hitler was waiting
for the Greeks to be coerced by, amongst
other things, the greatest offensive the
Italians have made for months. On this
score he and his Axis partner miscalcu-
lated. So far the offensive has been a
failure. It has been fed with the bodies
of young, untrained troops who have
been cut down in swathes, without gain-
ing any ground.
A tight censorship encloses the British
zone round the Aegean save when some
luckless Italian or German station or
ship is blasted.
Reports which originated in Italy that
Canadian troops are in Salonika and
others from Belgrade and New York
that 40 transports have landed troops
from Africa at the Piraeus are not con-
firmed.
Meanwhile the Yugoslavs are not prov-
ing as pliant as the Axis bargained for.
“It is the wish of Yugoslavia,” a Bel-
grade broadcaster said on Saturday, “to
remain non-belligerent, but she is deter-
mined to take up arms, should the neces-
sity arise, to defend her independence.
Any attempt to attack Yugoslavia will be
met with armed force.”
Yugoslavs hate Bulgarians. The years
are milestoned with the deaths of
Bulgar and Yugoslav sentries along
the border. The fact that the Bulgars
have gone with the Germans is enough
to make a large percentage of Yugo-
slavs go the other way.
Then, the new moves of Uncle Sam
must have their effect. Almost every
village in Yugoslavia has its citizens who
went to the fabulous land of America
and came back with enough money to
settle down for life. Tens of thousands
more have near-relatives over the water
who send them money which will be cut
off if they join with Germany. There
also is a large party which has a genuine
sympathy with Britain. More than a
million Yugoslavs are under arms,
and as fighters the Serbian section
is far from negligible. Strategically,
their position is excellent. Hungary would
almost certainly be drawn into any Axis
attack on them. And, with a powerful
enough effort, the Danube could be
closed halfway by the Yqgoslavs—a
nasty thought for Germany.
The crucial fact about the situation is
that it is not safe for Hitler’s armies to
advance southward from Bulgaria until
the Yugoslav issue is settled. If they
attempt to do so, they are putting them-
selves into a bag through the constricted
passes of the Macedonian mountains.
On the east, they would be walled in by
Turks and by the R.N. and the R.A.F.
On the west, there would be the wall of
hostile Serbs, perhaps allowing their long
sea coast to the Adriatic to be used by
the British Navy and Air Force. That
would be a pretty kettle of fish, as the
result of which all northern Italy would
be in jeopardy. The islanded Adriatic
coast of Yugoslavia would become a
series of nests for British mosquito craft
and aircraft. To drive Yugoslavia to the
British side would be to present the
R.A.F. with landing grounds 70 miles
from the Austrian border and within a
few minutes’ flying of Trieste.
The bottom of the bag into which the
Germans would pusl\. themselves, if
Yugoslavia were hostile, is, of course,
well-defended southern Greece. It is
largely made of British naval material
as thick as the Mediterranean itself and
capable of being mended, if it leaks,
from Africa.
No wonder the Germans are think-
ing hard before they move.
Turkey’s attitude is shrouded in silence.
There has been no report of an expected
speech of M. Saracoglu. Dr. Saydam,
President of the Council, after address-
ing the People’s party, is declared to
have been given a free hand with foreign
policy. There need be no fears about
the Turks standing firm. Their existence
is at stake and they know it. They would
not even be a vassal race if they once
became subservient to Germany. Once
the Dardanelles and the Cilician gates
and the other restricted lines of access to
Asia and the Indian Ocean fell into Ger-
man hands, the Hun would never let go.
Increase in Sinkings.
The week to March 3 was a bad one
for British and Allied merchant shipping.
Twenty British ships, eight Allied vessels
and one owned by a neutral were sunk,
the total being 148,038 tons (103,000 tons
British). Though just about half the loss
in the worst October week, it was the
third-highest weekly total since the out-
break of war. As usual and very
properly—tonnage of damaged ships was
not stated, nor were details given of the
losses severally inflicted by submarines,
bombers, mines and other agencies.
When sinkings were comparatively
light, as was the case in February,
Authority warned the public not to be
“unduly optimistic.” Now its advice is
not to be “too pessimistic,” for “there
is no reason to think that losses will
continue on such a large scale,” though
there may be more bad weeks, “because
the enemy is making a supreme and
crucial effort.”
Publication of the Feb. 24-March 3
figures coincided with the signing at
Washington of the Aid to Britain Bill.
The President at once saw the chiefs of
his fighting services, and many over-age
destroyers and “small high-speed naval
craft designed for action against sub-
marines” were booked for Britain. It
is pretty certain that American merchant-
men will also be made available. They
will all be needed.
An R.A.A.F, pilot has been credited
with bringing down a German Junkers
88 —some reports say a Stuka, which is
a Ju 97 or 87B —over Benghazi. The
German came looking for lash before
breakfast and got it. The pilot is from
Killara, a peaceful Sydney suburb where
there is no danger to life save on the
days when Bulletin artist Frith and
some kindred spirits play golf there.
The German was cut in halves.
* * * *
The torpedoing of (1) a 5000-ton Italian
cruiser of the class of Bartolomeo Col-
leoni, Sydney’s victim, and (2) an Italian
transport, the Sicilia, 9646 tons, was re-
ported last week. And a Bristol Beau-
fort bomber a type being built in
Australia —torpedoed a German destroyer
by moonlight in the Skagerrak be-
tween Denmark and Norway. There was
a heavy flash and the destroyer ceased
firing. Germans reported the sinking
of a British destroyer off the English
south coast by an E-boat. There were
567 names in the Admiralty casualty list
last week.
* * * *
Malta was raided five times on March
10, making 11 raids in two days and 400
in nine months, but continues to “take
it.” The King has given Lieut.-General
W. G. S. Dobbie, c.-in-c. of the island,
a K.C.B. “in recognition of the stead-
fast and gallant bearing of Malta’s
garrison and civil population under your
inspiring leadership in the face of con-
stant danger and discomfort.”
* * * *
It has been belatedly revealed from
London that Buckingham Palace was
bombed again. The forecourt, where
Guards officers parade during the daily
changing of the Guard in peace-time,
was turned into a quarry, and a police-
man lost his life.
* * * *
Two members of the A.I.F. in Britain
were killed in enemy air raids, 12 lost
their lives in road accidents and three in
other accidents, three died during or
after operations and one was drowned.
There was only one casualty from direct
enemy action in an A.I.F. camp, though
for six weeks one camp was repeatedly
bombed and the fields around made to
look like a bit of the old Somme battle-
field. The victim was a quartermaster’s
assistant who was killed by a raider’s
machine-gun fire. While in Britain the
Australians were on full duty on guards,
patrols, A.A. work and anti-parachute
work. During the September raids on
London hundreds of them on leave were
to be found wherever the work was
hardest or the danger thickest. About
350 men married in Britain.
* * * *
“T.”: Two lots of ladies in uniform
did some marching in Sydney on Friday
and Sunday, and the flapper press rose
to the occasion, as always. This
appeared in Friday’s “Sun”:
No body of soldiers in all the pride
of victory could have flung more dash
into their marching.
The girls marched not only with the
precision of the Coldstreams, but with an
extra infusion of sheer dash.
As good as the Coldstreams; in fact,
better. Shades of Wellington and
Roberts! But the “D.T.” was almost as
gushing on Monday:
As they marched by a high military
officer remarked “Splendid. They always
drill better than men.”
High military officers are daisies at
pulling flapper-paper reporters’ legs.
* * * *
“Nobby II”: One of the most import-
ant services which U.S.A. will be able
to render Britain under the new aid
scheme is the building of mosquito craft.
The 50ft. and 70ft. m.t.bs. play a great
part in sea patrol, and are much feared
by the Germans. Last war it was Uncle
Sam who built some of the grand “H”
class of submarines whose names will
live in British history. Some of them
were taken direct from U.S.A. without
escort to the Dardanelles, which they
penetrated, playing old Harry with Ger-
man and Turkish shipping in Marmora.
Charles Schwab, of Bethlehem Steel, was
their constructor. The vessels were
about 410 tons, with a maximum speed of
13 knots, four tubes and a crew of 23, and
Schwab turned them out in five months
dead. Beardmores, Armstrongs, Cam-
mell Laird and Vickers built improved
types in 1918-20, ten of which were
still in service when this war broke out.
* * * *
On a fighting family:
The origins of Britain’s great fighting men
make a curious study. Only rarely, like Wavell,
are they the product of generations of regular
army men. Wellington’s father was a
musicianly peer. Nelson’s was a country parson.
The two fighting Cunninghams, one of whom
comipands the Mediterranean Fleet and the
other the forces in East Africa under Wavell,
are grandsons of a St. Andrew’s College princi-
pal and sons of a Scottish professor of anatomy
who was born at Crieff. Afterwards the profes-
sorial Cunningham was one of the great
characters at Trinity College, Dublin, and Edin-
burgh University. He was Dean of the Faculty
of Medicine at Edinburgh, and many a medico
practising in the Commonwealth today and
many a distinguished Australian student now
abroad had their grounding under him. Argyll
Campbell, of Brisbane, afterwards professor of
physiology at Singapore, Professor Schafer’s
assistant and introducer of the box mask for
oxygen administration, was one of Cunning-
ham’s favorite earlier pupils, and put up a
record in his faculty by winning nine medals.
One of the elder Cunningham’s works con-
nected him with Australia in another way—he
was author of a well-known monograph on
the marsupials. In the present generation there
are three sons. One, Lieut.-Colonel John Cun-
ningham, C.1.E., after a distinguished career as
head of the Pasteur Institute and other medical
concerns in India, is now medical superintendent
of the Astley Ainslie Medical Institute, Edin-
burgh. The other two are the general, who
won a D.S.O. and M.C. in the 1914-18 war,
and the admiral, who entered the R.N. via
H.M.S. Britannia, won the D.S.O. with two
bars in 1914-18, and was Deputy Chief of the
Naval Staff and a Lord Commissioner of the
Admiralty just before the latest war broke
out. He is 57.


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq,; M. J. Ryan, Esq.,
F E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South ttales, also a
Unrmo-h the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
et f.dlentfacilities for the transaction of all general banking business
r»i =#ai
“Chico” Invisible Earphones 21/- pr,
• Worn inside your ears. No cords or
batteries. Amazingly effective. Guaran-
teed lifetime. Write for free booklet.
MEAKS EARPHONE CO.— No. 3 State
Shopping Block, Market Street, Sydney^
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletii
readers.
The service is entirely free. AD you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
To hear from amateur dramatic societies seek-
ing to produce Australian plays. —9891.
Words of golf song containing the line “The
dirty little pill went rolling down the hill.” —
9892.
Words of recitation giving a Cockney’s ver-
sion of the death of Lord Nelson. —9893.
Words of monologue beginning “Our
Harbor, which art in Sydney.”—9895.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
seeks typing work; neat and accurate, moderate
terms—9889.
Any information about Katherine Mansfield
material, such as unpublished letters, articles,
also anecdotes, and periodicals or books —
English or foreign—containing literary apprecia-
tions. (Reply direct to Miss Nell Nathan, 1185
Park-avenue, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.)
Information Sought.
Origin of the Christmas card? —9910.
Christmas cards are a modern institution.
The first genuine Christmas card was sent in
1844. It is believed that the sender was
W. E. Dobson, R.A. He had a friend from
whom he had received courtesies, of which he
desired to show some special appreciation.
The time was Christmas, so he made a sketch
symbolising the spirit of the festive season
and posted it to his friend. The sketch was
done on a piece of Bristol board about twice the
size of the modern letter-card. It depicted a
family group toasting absent friends among
appropriate surroundings.
* * * *
(1) When and where was the N.S.W. Gould
League of Bird Lovers established as a State
organisation ? (2) What were its declared
objects ? —9894.
(1) At a meeting in the Sydney Girls’ High
School, December 21, 1910. (2) To protect all
birds except those that are noxious; to prevent
the unnecessary collection of wild birds’ eggs;
to disseminate knowledge regarding our birds
and to help members, teachers and others to
identify them; to secure the general use of
one common name for each bird; to cultivate
a more friendly attitude towards birds by
fostering an intelligent interest in them and
their habits, and to encourage the formation
of bird sanctuaries.
* * * *
Method of softening harness that has not
been used for some time and has become very
hard ?—9818.
Soak well with warm water and soft soap to
remove old blacking and mildew. Place in an
old pan on a slow fire one pint neatsfoot oil,
one cup linseed oil and |lb. beef tallow or
kitchen fat. Stir the mixture thoroughly and
when quite fluid add one gill castor oil and
ioz. lampblack. Strain and apply with a brush
to the various parts when they are nearly dry.
When this application is absorbed give the
leather a second dressing. It will now be quite
pliable and fit for use and in a day or two may
receive harness composition. An oiling every
three months will make the harness wear much
longer.
He * *
What are the shape and proportions of the
true streamlined form ? I wish to know the
nature of the curves delineating the body, the
distance along the central axis of the point of
greatest breadth, and the proportion of length
to greatest breadth?—- 8801.
The best streamline form depends on what
is called the “Reynolds number,” which is de-
fined as VL/v, where V = speed of the body
(ft./sec.), L = overall length along wind (ft.),
v = kinematical coefficient of viscosity
(15,900 at sea level for air, or 123,000 for
water at 15deg. C.). At Reynolds numbers of
1,000,000 or more the best streamline shape
for minimum resistance has an aspect ratio —de-
fined as length (ft.)/maximum diameter (ft.)—be-
tween 2.5 and 3. There is very little change of
resistance between these two values. At values
of the Reynolds number below 1,000,000 it is
advisable to use a larger aspect ratio, four being
the optimum. The shape for a given aspect
ratio may be obtained from the following table:
Distance from Nose of Shape. Diam. at Point.
Total Length. Max. Diameter.
0 0
0.0125 0.2478
0.025 0.3480
0.05 0.4841
0.10 0.6615
0.20 0.8660
0.30 0.9682
0.40 1.0000
0.50 0.9765
0.60 0.9049
0.70 0.7818
0.80 0.6001
0.90 0.3469
0.95 0.1869
* * * *
Recipe for stuffed cabbage leaves? —9880.
Take about 21b. very young cabbage leaves.
Pick out the biggest, blanch them and fill with
a mixture of raw minced pork, rice seasoning
and a little chopped onion. Roll up the leaves,
tucking in the ends to retain the stuffing.
Blanch the rest of the leaves and cut them into
strips. Melt some butter in a saucepan and fill
it with alternate layers of strips of cabbage
and stuffed leaves. Fill up the pan with
slightly-thickened stock, cover and simmer for
three-quarters of an hour. Put the cabbage
into a vegetable dish. Bring the stock or part
of it to the boil, add a little lemon-juice, and
taste to see if it is properly seasoned. Mix
with it some sour cream and the yolk of an
egg and pour it over the cabbage.
* * * *
Any information concerning a material known
as alsifilm? —9884.
Alsifilm is an American invention resembling
paper in appearance. It is made from clay and
is proof against any fire or acid. It can be
produced transparent like cellophane. Possible
uses are as a surface on which to print or
write permanent records, and, since it is taste-
less and odorless, it is a good wrapper for food.
Microscopically it has almost the same structure
as mica and is as good an electric insulator—
actually better, since it is pliable and can be
made into sheets of any size or thickness.
Moreover, it is made from raw material costing
about a penny per pound. It was discovered by
research workers in the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology who were studying bentonite
clay.
» * * *
Details of a bird known as the lesser Lewin
honey-eater ? —9820.
This bird, also known as the yellow-spotted
honey-eater is found in N.Q. from Cape York
to Cardwell. Flocks frequent the scrubs and
occasionally open forest country and mangroves.
The birds feed on native fruits, berries, insects
and nectar. The nest is a rather deep, cup-
shaped structure, composed of bark and dead
leaves, woven together with wild cotton. It is
lined with wild cotton and silky down from
plants. Generally it is suspended from a small
fork of a tree or shrub, usually in dense scrub
and placed at heights up to 12ft. from the
ground. Eggs, usually two, are pearly-white,
boldly spotted with deep chestnut and purplish-
brown markings, confined chiefly to the larger
end. Breeding season is from October to March.
* * * •
Details of Atalanta of classical mythology?
—9879.
Atalanta was a swift-footed Arcadian hun-
tress who took part in the hunt of the Caly-
donian boar and was awarded the price of vic-
tory by Meleager. She refused to marry and
insisted that all suitors should run a race with
her in which the penalty of defeat was death.
At last Milanion —or, according to the Boeotian
legend, Hippomenes —favored by Venus, had
three golden apples from the garden of the
Hesperides given him, and as he ran he threw
them down one after the other. Atalanta,
fascinated by them, stopped to pick them up
and thus Milanion won the race and married
her.
* * * *
List of birds introduced and established in
Australia, together with their normal distribu-
tion ? —9BBB.
Indian turtledove, Afghanistan, India and
Ceylon; red-whiskered bulbul, India, China,
Malay Peninsula and Mauritius; blackbird,
Europe, northern Africa, Egypt, Syria, Persia
and the Azores; song-thrush, Europe, western
Asia and India; skylark, Europe and northern
Africa; greenfinch, Europe to Persia; goldfinch,
Europe, Canary Islands to Egypt, Persia and
Siberia; tree-sparrow, Europe and northern
Asia; house sparrow, Europe to Siberia;
starling, Europe to Siberia; and the common
myna, India and Afghanistan.
* * * *
(1) Life history of thy cockroach ? (2)
Methods of destroying the pest by fumigation?
—9900.
(1) Eggs are laid in small brownish capsules
which are deposited in cracks or holes in walls
and floors, or amongst folds of clothing and
other materials. When first hatched from the
egg the young cockroach is soft and whitish
in color, but it soon takes on the color and
firmness of the adult. Several moults take
place during the progress of growth of the
young insect to adult size. A single cockroach
may produce several batches of eggs in a season.
The interval between the deposition of the eggs
and the hatching of the young is about 20 days.
The time taken between the hatching of the
eggs and the attainment of full-grown size de-
pends a good deal on the available food supply
and the climatic condition. (2) When there are
large numbers of the pests they are best de-
stroyed by fumigation with either sulphur or
hydrocyanic acid gas. The sulphur—rock
sulphur or flowers of sulphur—is burnt in the
proportion of not less than 31b. to each 1000
cub. ft. capacity of the room after ventilators,
windows, chimneys and doors have been
properly sealed. Place the sulphur, moistened
with a little methylated sprirt, in an iron vessel
supported on a brick set in a tub partly filled
with water. Then light the methylated spirit.
Keep the room, filled with sulphur fumes,
closed for eight hours. Then ventilate freely.
Hydrocyanic acid gas is very effective but
terribly dangerous, and should be used only
by experienced persons.
* * * *
What types and breeds of milch goats are
found commonly in N.S.W. ? Information on
composition and quality of goat’s milk ?
9890.
There are numerous types and breeds of milch
goats, the most common type in N.S.W. show-
ing Nubian, Saanen, British Alpine or Tog-
genburg characteristics, and frequently a highly
detrimental admixture of Angora blood. Most
of the goats in N.S.W. are of the Nubian or
Oriental type. They are of various colors _with
no uniform pattern, are lop-eared, and o
special value for the high quality of their
this being the Jersey of the goat breeds, ine
Saanen is all white or of a pale biscuit color.
The Toggenburg ranges in color from a light
fawn to dark chocolate with white markings,
the most striking marks being two lines on
the face running from the eyes to the nostuls.
The British Alpine is similarly marked to tne
Toggenburg, but is black in place of the lawn
or chocolate color. The Saanen, Toggenburg
and British Alpine are all Alpine types, having
upright ears, giving them an alert, deerlike
appearance. These types give large yields ot
milk, which lacks the extreme richness of the
Nubian product, although it is quite equal to
that of a good cow. Goat’s milk is ol high
quality, having a rich flavor. It is slightly alka-
line like human milk, whereas cow’s milk is
acid in nature or reaction. All milk undergoes
a process of curdling in the stomach. With
cow’s milk the curd is large, hard and tough,
which makes it hard to digest. The curd ot
goat’s milk is small, light and flocculent, making
it much easier to digest. Goat’s milk contains,
on the average, a greater quantity of lat and
other solids than milk from cows; the lat
globules, being very much smaller, do not
readily rise to the top of the milk in a distinct
layer, but the fat is readily separated by the
ordinary separator. Butter made from the
cream is white, though otherwise of the same
appearance and taste as butter made from
cow’s milk; artificially colored it is indistin-
guishable from it. Goat’s milk is particularly
suitable for the manufacture of cheese on
account of its large percentage of casein.
* » * *
Supply the following particulars of mountain
ash: (1) Description. (2) size, (3) where found
in Vic., (4) general characteristics of the timber,
(5) timber strength ? —9903.
(1) Tall upright trees, smooth-barked except
at the base of the bole, which is generally rough.
Stem straight and tapering, with a buttress at
the base in the older stages. (2) Occasionally
attains a height of over 300 ft. Diameter is
not usually commensurate with the height, how-
ever, sft. to 6ft. at 10ft. from the ground being
rather above the average. (3) Found principally
south of the Dividing Range on moist, rich,
deep soil on the sheltered southern slopes of
mountain ranges at an elevation of 1000 ft. to
3000 ft., in a rainfall of from 40in. to 70m.
It almost invariably occurs in pure forest,
only slight admixtures of other trees occurring
where adjoining other types. Dense under-
growth of acacias, ferns, bracken, etc., is usually
present. (4) The narrow sapwood band, dis-
tinct growth rings, straight grain, open texture,
white to pale brown color and a superficial
resemblance to English ash are characteristics
of the timber. (5) The density-strength ratio
is very high, and the timber can be used for
all purposes where strength but not dura-
bility is required.
* * * *
Is butter a concentrated protein, and can it
be eaten with starch and sugar carbohydrates ?
—9513.
Butter contains only 1 p.c. of protein with
(on an average) 82 p.c. of fat. It may be, and
generally is, eaten with carbohydrates.
Does Anybody Know?
Can some verse-lover locate a mislaid poem ?
The idea of it is: the Devil came to me, and
said he had been sent to convict me, and be-
fore three o’clock, of my pet sin, on which
I told him he had come to the wrong man,
for I had no sins at all; try my neighbors, who
are full of them. “But the Devil was gone; and
the clock struck three.” —9886.
Brief Answers.
A.S.D.: The black, apple-blossom and fur
hood indicates a B.A. degree at Liverpool Uni.
. ...D.H.J.: The Roman numeral CCXXIV
represents 224; DCCCLXXVI is 876....
W.H.8.; Amsterdam is built on 96 islands
joined by some 300 bridges. The harbor can
hold 1000 ships. Pre-war population was
720,000 C.W.T.: The bassoon, mentioned in
“The Ancient Mariner,” is a musical wind
instrument of three octaves, being the bass of
the reed band. It was invented by an Italian
priest in 1539 D.L.P.: The term “Rem-
brandt effect” is used in portrait photography
to describe that type of portraiture in which
the outline of the features in profile is strongly
lighted, while the remainder of the face and
background are in deep shadow... .J.K.F.:
High Caste stands 16 hands 2in. and Ajax
16 hands lin. Phar Lap stood 17 hands lin.
F.L.P.: There is a Scottish municipal
officer known as a bailie... .G.D.M.: The
auto-da-fe, or act of faith, was the punish-
ment accorded to heretics by the Inquisition.
. !..W.G.L.; It’s a kind of woollen yarn. Cor-
rect spelling is “crewel” S.L.S.: Has been
tried, but seldom satisfactory... .G.1.C.: Mount
Kinchinjunga has a height of 28,146 ft., and
Khan Tengri 24,000 ft. They are respectively
the third and seventh highest in the world.
Everest and Godwin-Austen are higher than
Kinchinjunga and Makalu, Gosaithain and
Kamet are higher than Khan Tengri...
The signs which you describe are “P,” “W”
and “F” in the deaf and dumb alphabet
P.L.L.: Know of no short cuts; it is always
a long and tedious process... .D.F.G.: Yes.
The blood of the average healthy adult contains
about 5,000,000 red corpuscles in each cubic
millimetre and from 4000 to 12,000 white cor-
puscles, these varying in number throughout the
day D.H.T.: Both South-west Rocks and
Port Macquarie would suit you in that district.
. ...W.1.0.: Anaemia is often found in dogs
that are badly fed and housed or which suffer
from worms W.L.P.: Sounds like a ferro-
type plate, a thin iron plate with a highly-
enamelled surface, used in glazing prints
F.D.S.: Such swelling beneath the tongue is
due to the obstruction and consequent dilation
of a salivary gland... .R.G.M.: The Chinese
had found a stone with magnetic properties,
which they utilised for the direction-finding
purposes of the modern compass, 2000 or 3000
years b.c.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
J.S.;
Hitler is the arch Aggressor,
Dr. Goebbels false assessor,
Goring’s schemes are worse than dreadful,
German crimes, I’ve got a headful.
And “Bellerive” on “Warriors of the British
and Boer War, 1899”:
Where the bullets did whistle
And cannon’s did roar,
A grim leader was Cronje
In the great Boer War.
Though demons of combat
They’d fail to quell.
The Britains and Australians
Who’d charge through hell.
R.L.B.: Dreaming drover and faithful
hound are old acquaintances... .A.C.: Mow in
a wailful choir the small gnats mourn
S.R.R.: Its sincerity is its only merit A.W.:
Unable to accept offer to swap all Asia for
the Australian bush... .H.N.M.: Try “To ”
on “ ” H.S.: Birds that remark “Ho
ha he!” are not to be encouraged... .M.D.:
Pallid Y. 8.: Try elsewhere... .A.N.H.: Not
a chance... .J.L.: Them were the days all
right, but that isn’t the poem... .M. 8.: Man-
aged to fight off “Invasion”... .C.McE.: Too
many tears J.P.: Mo, but it has atmosphere.
E.W.K.: Prosy C.J.M.: Returning soul,
though someone else might give it a home
J.N.: “I don’t suppose it’s any use my rant-
ing in this fashion.” Afraid not... .D.T.: Too
much like a jeweller’s window... .H. 0.: Cheer
up... .A.S.M.: We’ve met him before
G. : Grieved about the clock M.E.W.;
Fervently support your prayers for rain if the
drought’s going to breed any more poems like
that... .H. 8.: It doesn’t say much... .G.N.G.:
They sound young... .P.M.: What exactly does
it mean to “drape the bloodied garb of war
about our shoulders” and so “deflect the blast
into the mouths of our long ready foe”?
A.1.A.; Might do for a toast at a smoke-oh.
. ...E.R.K.: The puns are fouler than the
verse, if possible... .8.A.J.F.; You’ve an eye
for character. Why not try short stories?
C.D.S., A.A.P. and P.K.: Misfires... .L.T.8.:
Gave that daring young WAN a rejection slip.
. ...F.G.: Reminds us too much of a yarn
by O. Henry... .8.W.P.: Clothed “Naked and
Unashamed” in an envelope and addressed it
to you H.R.A.: The office-boy wept copi-
ously over “Little Teddie” D.D.L.: Your
drovers and boundary-riders appear to have
been trained in Hollywood... .C.A.; If you
can’t land it elsewhere, cut it by about half and
come again... .G.S.W.: Might be all right if
it were funny... .P.R.A.: Forget about writing
a masterpiece and try to write an honest-
to-goodness yarn... .D.R.G.: “Fishin’ ” only
caught its return mail... .8.C.8.: Not here.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.M.8.; The piece of string—or was it a
small snake? —held by the swaggie was bril-
liantly sketched F.S.: Your drawing not-
withstanding, we still maintain that rain will
run off an iron roof better if the corrugations
go down instead of across Bert C.; “I have
endeavored to give a faithful reproduction of
an assembly line”; good old “endeavored”!
P.T.: “He, she, he, she, he, she” —that form
of gag is one with Nineveh and Tyre
M.L.P.: Tighten up your grouping and watch
heights of figures, particularly in middle dis-
tance R.L.; Can’t say whether the parson
has a bad goitre or a clerical collar on
W.M.: Flapper refusing cocktail offered by
gent, with spotted face will cause great re-
joicings at W.C.T.U F.Y.: You win the
week’s tripe plaque for giving strong shadow
to horse when heavy rain and black clouds
are also present... .N.T.; Your angels have all
had their wings clipped... .G.H.: A hopeless
hotchpotch F.C.: Scratchier, if anything.
S.L.H.: The lobster on the tram seat has
earned an honorable superannuation J.M.B. ;
Admiral piped off... .S.J.T.; Even the radio
comedians have given up that gag J.H.:
Scriptural pun and vile drawing buried deep m
w .p.b R.T.K.: Learn to graduate your
linework more... .E.M.: Just dreadful....
H. : Is it an outsized pom. or an under-
sized lion?


MTS
LYS
PHOOf
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
warn.
Zsii
« ■ <
-<>V
mum
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants. Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd,
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSASHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Stock Licks.
“J.R.D.”: “R.N.’s” article on licks
(B. 26/ 2 / ’4l) is timely, but actually
cattle, particularly milking cows, are
liable to suffer from calcium deficiency
more than sheep. Many dairymen cor-
rect the deficiency in their feed. Lucerne
to either ewes or cows in milk is one
of the best means of keeping up calcium.
Cereal hay, on the other hand, is notably
deficient in calcium, and stock being
handfed on hay or even grazing on dry
grass should receive a lick containing
calcium and phosphorus.
In N.S.W. phosphorus is the more im-
portant deficiency. Botulism in sheep is
practically unknown except perhaps in
abnormal circumstances. The advice to
add molasses to make a lick attractive
is dangerous. If sheep need the lick they
will take it; molasses makes them eat
more than they require.
“R.N.’s” prescription of one part of
bonemeal or dicalcic phosphate to four
parts of salt needs revision. The phos-
phorus content of dicalcic concentrate is
100 p.c. assimilable, whereas that of bone-
meal is not more than 30 p.c. Accord-
ingly, when making up a mixed lick, if
bonemeal were used instead of dicalcic
phosphate three times the quantity would
be required to give the same results.
Bone flour has approximately 60 p.c.
assimilable phosphorus, so the respective
values are approximately one part dicalcic
phosphate or two parts bone flour or
three parts bonemeal.
Bonemeal varies according to the per-
centage of animal matter left on the
bones before grinding. Some grades
contain 12 p.c. to 15 p.c. protein, actually
higher than the protein content of maize.
As a result, when this is mixed with salt,
sheep suffering from a protein deficiency
are liable to eat far too much of it to
satisfy their craving.
“R.N.” states that salt for licks costs
about £3 per ton. Many graziers would
like to know where they could get it
for that. By buying in 10- or 15-ton
truck lots it might be landed on rail near
Albury or Broken Hill at that price. Less
than truck lots cost about £4 ss. per ton
f.o.r. Sydney.
Sheep Losses from Worms.
“Hsemonchus”: It is possible that
heavier sheep losses are occurring now
than during the worst of the drought—
losses due to a number of causes, all
resulting from the heavy body of feed.
Main causes are stomach worms, grass
seed and blowflies.
In some districts grass is now so tall,
rank and heavy with seed that sheep
are dying in the midst of plenty. Lambs
are so full of seed that unless they can
be mustered and shorn they are dying m
hundreds. Unwigged sheep are afraid to
leave the camps. In places it has been
necessary to mow lanes from the camps
to water. Dogs have trouble in getting
about. It will be difficult to know the
extent of losses until a complete muster
is possible.
During the dry spell all worm eggs
passed on to the ground may have been
killed. But worms live inside sheep, and
though only a few remained they were
sufficient to reinfest very rapidly.
The large stomach worm lays about
5000 eggs a day, and in the prevailing
weather practically all of them will have
hatched. A high rate of stocking is
the surest way to infect sheep with
worms and to keep them wormy. In a
flush season the idea that one sheep to
the acre is more than safe is wrong.
Where grass seed limits the movement
of sheep to small patches, or where they
concentrate on small areas, the rate of
“Take no notice of ’em, Straw b— it's a public ’ ighway !”
stocking is actually more like 10 sheep to
the acre ; hence sheep are picking up an
incredible number of larvae.
You can ride through a paddock and
see fat sheep everywhere, but if they
were mustered or handled to any extent
it would be found that odd ones would
drop out, get down on the ground and
possibly die. Don’t rely on appear-
ances ; have a look at their skins and at
the membranes of eyes and mouths. Fat
sheep may be bled white by stomach
worms and only a close examination dis-
close the trouble.
At present, so long as showery weather
continues, regular drenching should be
done. Double-strength carbon tetra-
chloride is easily administered, is com-
paratively cheap, and can be relied on for
100 p.c. kill of all mature stomach worms.
Bluestone and nicotine will not give
such a high percentage of results on
stomach worms, but will clean out in-
testinal worms and is useful as a variant.
Another alternative to carb. tet. is
plain bluestone, but a high concentration
is necessary for grown sheep. For sheep
two years and over dissolve lib. blue-
stone in Hgal. of water and give a dose
of 1 fl. oz. For younger sheep stick to
bluestone and nicotine at the recom-
mended rates. Bluestone and arsenic is
cheap and gives good results on large
stomach worms. It can be made up as
follows: Dissolve 41b. bluestone and
2oz. sodium arsenite in 3gal. water. Add
14 fl. oz. hydrochloric acid. Dose: For
grown sheep, 1 fl. oz. ; weaners, 12 to 18
months, 4oz. ; eight to 12 months, \oz. ;
four to eight months, 10 c.c.; under four
months, 8 c.c.
Feeding Pigs.
“Tammy”: Correct feeding of pigs
depends on the man in charge, type and
quality, amount and range of feed. The
following is a guide from which a suit-
able feeding programme may be worked
out.
Milk isn’t absolutely necessary, but is
a decided advantage, and where it isn’t
possible to give each pig at least 4gak
of skim milk a day, then meatmeal
should be given. They must have either
an ounce of sterilised bonemeal per pig
per day in the ration or one part of
limewater to 20 parts of feed, and a
teaspoonful of salt to every four gallons
of swill.
After mating, sows in good condition
shouldn’t need much more than good
grazing for the first 10 weeks. If grazing
is poor they should get at least lib. of
grain each per day. At six weeks before
farrowing, they may need up to 61b. a
day, with a gallon of skim milk, accord-
ing to size and condition.
For sows with litters the food will vary
according to condition, number in litter
and so forth. Grain would probably
need to be increased by 11b. a week from
farrowing. For example, a sow with a
fortnight-old litter may need 101 b. of
grain in two daily feeds and her skim-
milk ration may go to 14gal. a day—
41b. to 41b. of meatmeal if milk isn’t
to be had.
From mating to weaning, a sow and
litter may need grain on the following
basis; 41b. a day for six weeks before
farrowing ; 81b. a day at farrowing, in-
creasing to 141 b. a day at weaning. Thus
each sow may need nearly 13 bushels of
grain for the period.
For the suckers, creep-feeding them from
three to four weeks old onward: 41b.
each a day to begin, increasing to 11b.
a day at weaning. Thus a litter of seven
would get through 1401 b. So a fair esti-
mate of the grain needed for each sow
and litter from mating to weaning would
be about 9501 b. This would allow for
litter averages either way and ensure a
sufficiency for the period.
' Grasses for Soil Erosion.
“Graz”: Grasses of the couch family
- can be effective soil-binders. Couch is
: found in most parts of Australia, in rich
and poor soils and in cold and hot
climates. Research is needed to deter-
mine the types most suited to each
district and to find quicker methods of
establishing the plants.
Kikuyu thrives on medium to good
soils with a rainfall of 20in. and up-
wards. Frosts often nip late-planted
stands, causing many failures. Planting
should be done in late summer or early
autumn. It should be watched in some
districts —it can bolt if conditions are
right.
Paspalum grows well on the east coast.
One variety, water couch, likes very
moist soils.
Carpet and para grasses are vigorous
perennials which like the sub-tropics and
a fair rainfall. They can be grown from
either seed or roots.
Hungarian awnless Brome grass is used
with success in America for binding
drifting soils. Its deep-rooting habits en-
able it to stand up to dry weather. This
grass provides good pasture and is well
worth a trial in places too dry for Kikuyu.
It should do well on the western slopes
of the eastern Dividing Range.
Giant Lyme grass, a native of Central
Asia, is giving good results in the South
Australian Mallee as a check to drifting
sand. Marram grass will hold sqnd
together but likes a higher rainfall.
Manchurian Chee grass should be tried
in salt-impregnated soils. It grows from
seed or by planting sections of its strong
rhizomes.
Canary Stain.
“Marsh”: A fair proportion of wools
from certain districts in Queensland and


"STILL AVAILABLE!"
\X%. ★
Business.’as Usual
BIRKMYRE”
WATERPROOF
TARPAULINS
Ml
There is no need to accept a substitute for the best for
''Birkmyre" Tarpaulins are still available.
The canvas from which they are made is manufactured from
highest grade raw materials and the proofing, by the world
famous BIRKMYRE process, has no equal. In various weights
and colours. If any difficulty is experienced in getting supplies,
write Wholesale Distributors :
GOUROCK ROPES AND CANVAS LTD.
(Incorporated in Scotland.)
BRISBANE MELBOURNE SYDNEY
'
m ■ ■
mt" 11
iii
■
»
S
IKON
rs cH eaPE t
1
to
THERE can be no substitute for galvanized iron, where
water conservation is a factor to be considered. In
addition. It offers the home-builder all the advantages of
economy, great strength, permanence, ease and speed of
erection and lower delivery charges. Compare it carefully
with any other type of building material you can Include
In your specifications and you 11 see that Galvanized iron
has no "strong" competition.
P.S —And while on the subject of roofing remember the
advantages of building EXTRA tanks with Lysaght s
Tank-making Sheets. Fully guaranteed.
L IW-gITC.
John Lysaght (Aust.)
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE
Pty. Ltd.
-FREMANTLE
Westralia carry canary stain which scour-
ing fails to remove.
After treatment at the scouring plants
a slight, evenly distributed yellow tinge is
evident. Although of pleasing appear-
ance and soft handle, canary wools are
faulty for manufacture in that they will
take only a dye darker than the dis-
coloration. If present experiments sue-
ceed and graziers in affected areas fall
in line as regards shearing dates, it is
hoped that canary stain will be reduced
to a minimum.
It has been proved that canary stain
resulted from sheep carrying three-
quarter to full grown fleeces during the
summer months, and that when the same
sheep were shorn just before the advent
of the hot weather canary stain through-
out the wool was practically non-existent,
In some districts it might not be prac-
ticable to carry out shearing operations
during September-October as a means of
counteracting canary stain, owing to
lambing, dependent as the latter is more
or less on seasonal conditions. But
graziers in areas where canary stain is
prevalent should be guided by the results
of experiments recently carried out and
endeavor to get their sheep shorn before
the summer has reached its peak,
Canary stain in wool is apt to reduce
values from Id. to 3d. per pound,
. ..
“Graz”: The S African Wool Council
has to pay £2500 to the inventor of a
new specific for overcoming the fly
menace, and promise £17,500 more if
further tests prove that it will eradicate
the fly. If, however, the remedy only
effectively controls the blowies the m-
yentor is to get £lO,OOO. Ihe specific
is a cheap liquid mixture which, it is
claimed, will lure flies to their death.
Unfortunately, pests have a habit o
becoming Ay to these lur .
“M.T.’ : The Queensland Agricultural
Department is carrying out tests to
discover how far a number of suspected
plants are poisonous to sheep. Heart-
leaf poison bush has been proved poison-
ous both as a small bush and when in
the flowering stage, and the narrow-leaved
boobyalla is also toxic. Native couch
(Brachyachne convergens) is suspected of
being highly dangerous to sheep, and
deadly nightshade, weir-vine, blunt-leafed
hemp, and sweet potato vine are among
doubtful plants being examined.
“Walkabout”: It looks as though there
will be a big shortage of shed employees in
the near future. Why can’t girls do wool-
rolling and piece-picking? Years ago,
before banned by the representations of
the A.W.U., I saw lubras wool-rolling
and piece-picking in a shed in South
Aus., and there was nothing wrong with
the way the wool was handled. The
environment of a shearing-shed might
not be a nice place for girls to work, but
even the crudest amongst shearers would
surely curb his tongue were girls within
hearing.
“Broncho”: The Act for the compul-
sory registration of stallions which has just
recently come into force in N.S.W. should
do a lot towards rehabilitating the horse-
breeding industry. In years to come we
might find stations possessed of horses
of the old Waler types instead of the
nondescripts so prevalent today. The
culling of mares will be necessary if the
breed is to be restored. With world con-
ditions so uncertain, the time may not
be far distant before the horse comes
back to its own.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXI.
Digging a Tank.
Having read somewhere that it isn't
hard to make an underground tank, and
being anxious to keep the boys out of
mischief during the slack period before
seeding, you decide to put one down.
Then the argument begins.
“I reckon twelve deep an’ six wide is
plenty,” says Jack.
“Bosh, boy!” you retort; that d
hardly hold a decent drink for one
horse.”
“Is it to water the horses? asks the
wife.
You ignore her. “Tom, you say,
“reckons he’s a bit of a scholar, so pei-
haps he can tell us how big a tank we 11
need for two thousand gallons.”
Tom looks at you, wrinkles his brows
and says “That’s too hard for mental.
Wait till I get some paper.”
Time passes. Jack peers over Toms
shoulder and says “Y’ve got that wrong.
That should be a nine, not a five.
Tom grunts, backs away and says
“Well, if you reckon you can do it, do it.
You order Jack away.
Presently Tom says, rather defiantly, ‘ It
would be easier t’ take the dimensions
of the tank an’ then find out how much
she’ll hold.”
“All right, say a tank twelve deep an
eight wide.”
Tom falls to. He uses that bit ot
paper and gets another. Presently he
looks up. “What’s a third of fourteen-
seventeenths?”
Nobody knows. M
“Them fractions is no good, anyway,”
says Jack. “Better do it in decimals.
Tom gets another bit of paper. Aftei
a while he says “That can’t be right.”
“Eh?”
“It comes out at 324 gallons, 27 quarts,
11 pints.”
Jack grabs the paper, studies it, then
throws it down and stamps outside, say-
ing “The silly young galoot’s gone an’
divided it by twelves and twenties for
pounds, shillings an’ pence.”
Tom’s bottom lip sticks out, and he
throws the pencil down and stamps after
“If you dug the tank, then filled it with
water and measured it with a kerosene
bucket you’d have it,” says the wife. You
look at her, but she keeps her eyes down,
though you suspect the quirk of her
mouth. .
You go outside, gather the boys, a pick,
long-handled shovels and a crowbar.
Then you draw a circle on the ground at
the corner of the house and begin to dig.
Three feet down you strike a blue clay,
very wet and very affectionate. It clings
to the shovel and the pick. When you
drive the crowbar in it takes a mighty
pull to get it out again. You and the
boys dig in relays. By dark you’ve got
down exactly three inches in the clay.
Next morning you tackle it again. But
the clay is wetter and more affectionate.
You discuss the possibility of blasting it
out. The boys agree. The wife objects.
She fears the effect of the blast on the
corner of the house.
You and the boys fill manure bags with
earth and build a rampart round the
corner of the house. You get out an
encyclopaedia and look up explosives.
Jack makes a dash for the town in the
car and returns with two sticks of gelig-
nite, fuses and caps. The missus insists
that they be taken away down the pad-
dock and left there until you’re ready.
She also insists that she be given an hour s
warning before the explosion in order to
have bandages and hot water ready and
to get away to a place of safety.
Having endured all this, you work a
hole down through the clay with the
bar. By using a sledge-hammer and
plenty of water you get the hole down
about four feet. Carefully following the
instructions you push the charge down
the hole, tamp it and fix up the fuse.
You warn the boys to get back, then take
a final look round. Everything is in order.
The fuse lights from the third match
and you make a leap from the tank, banc
your knees on the edge and hurry to join
the boys behind the old wagon, 50 yarus
away. All watch the spot. One of the
dogs, missing you, walks excitedly round
the edge of the tank, wondering where
the devil you’ve got to. Jack runs out,
yells and throws stones. The dog put s
its tail between its legs and scrambles
under the house behind the sandbag
rampart. . ,
You’re pursing your lips to whistle
when— floomp! A spout of mud shoots
into the air, followed by a cloud of blue
smoke. Big spots of mud drop all oyer
the place. The fowls rush about excitedly,
thinking they’re good to eat. You
make for the tank.
In the centre is a round hole about
2in. in diameter. The rest of the cay
is undisturbed. It shot that mud out like
a shell from a gun.
And the shell, as the missus remarks
acidly, has burst all over her washing,
the best sheets getting the worst of it.
“You and your tanks! ” she cries tun
ously, making for the clothesline.
A trifle nervously, Jack suggests tn
you and he take a look over the ewes.
“Me, too,” says Tom.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of per line; all others at
2|d. per line.
A Victorian’s unvarnished account of the fisherman’s lot, as he experienced it,
is placed first this week.
Fishing for a Living
Yes ; fishing for a living (B. 5/3/’4l) is
no sinecure ; it is a bare existence. Last
time we were out for the best part of
a week and got 19 cases of fish. Of
those 18 were taken illegally one night
by staking. The men who did the
staking risked a fine, confiscation of
their haul, and —worse still—death by
sharks, which were common in the
shallow waters where the stakes were
driven in.
Fish prices were up at the time. The
cases of fish would be worth an average
of £1 each, making £l9. Out of that
came shares for men, boat and gear.
There were five men on the boat; one
of them owned both boat and gear. That
made seven shares, of which one man
got three. Without allowing for costs
such as ice, storage, petrol, food, depre-
ciation, they earned at risk of life and
limb about £2 16s. each for the week.
Once I went overboard with them,
“ringing”—another illegal process. We
waded about the bay up to our waists
in ice-cold water, a wet, cold wind whip-
ping our faces. We dragged half a mile
or more of heavy net around for a
couple of hours. A stone fish or a cut-
shell might have maimed any one of us.
Our complete haul was one small sole
too little to keep.
We, however, were well off compared
with some. One boat we met had been
out a fortnight and had taken five cases.
There were three men on that one,
making five shares of roughly £1 each
for a fortnight’s work.
When, on the other hand, fish were
plentiful the men couldn’t sell their hauls.
Attempts made to process some of the
fish had been unsuccessful.
One practical suggestion for plentiful
times is for railways to equip freezing
vans, by means of which fish could be
conveyed outback, where it might com-
mand decent prices and find a certain
market. There it has the glamor of a
luxury item. In the city it is regarded as
something to be eaten on certain
occasions only.— Bosun (Vic.).
Future Apple Crops
The press is full of moans from the
apple-growers, and some of them look
dinkum. All hands seem to agree that
while the war lasts, anyhow, there is
going to be a large surplus. What is
wrong with dehydrating this and making
it into first-class stock food? The orange-
growers in Palestine are using their sur-
plus as cow feed with profit.
Apples for stock food would not need
coring, simply slicing and drying, and the
plant is not expensive to erect and
operate. There would be no necessity to
grade the fruit in any way, and, pro-
vided it is properly stored, thus treated
it will keep a considerable time. Many
a grazier has kept treated maize in air-
tight tanks for years, and blessed the day
he put it in. A few tanks of dried apples
would be a useful standby, and a much
better proposition than digging them into
the ground.— Sandpatch (N.S.W.).
Wheatgrowers
Every fortnight the Federal Treasurer
extracts eight bob from my pay envelope
in income tax. The wheatgrowers are
getting some of that eight bob with their
guaranteed price. On top of that, bread
is sevenpence a loaf because there is a
flour tax, so the wheatgrower gets a bit
more out of my screw ; consequently, I
reckon that entitles me to some say in
the matter.
Many, and a great many, of the wheat-
growers on what are now known as mar-
ginal areas threw up good country on
the coast because they thought they could
make a fortune out of wheat with a frac-
tion of the energy required by dairying.
I know a Gippsland family who sold a
beautiful farm to go to the Lachlan. I
urged them strongly to stick to their cows,
for none of them had ever even seen
wheat grown. The old man agreed with
me (I was his banker), but the boys were
obsessed with the idea that wheat would
always be 7s. 6d., and it was so much
easier than dairying.
All efforts to make them see that
Lachlan wheatland at £7 10s. an acre
was four times its actual value only an-
noyed them, so I let them persuade their
father. They gambled, and they lost.
The small businessman gambles and
loses. You never hear of him yelling to
high heaven for Governmental aid. Why,
then, should the unsuccessful wheat
gambler receive differential treatment at
the hands of the taxpayer? If there is
any spare cash about it should go to the
unfortunate storekeepers who financed
them year in and year out. —D. C. Q.
(N.S.W.).
Farming and Capital
So precautions should be taken against
the man with insufficient capital going on
the land (B. 26/2/’4l) 1 That means
chaps like myself who have managed to
scrape together a couple of hundred
pounds with a view towards making a
start on their own should give up the
idea, and either go off to a city job or
else remain a farm laborer, which no
man of spirit wants to do.
My father started with practically
nothing about 30 years ago. He bor-
rowed money, he obtained credit and he
very likely did his spot of grumbling, but
he won out in the end, paid his debts
and brought up six children. Now he’s
what the locals call “comfortable.” If
he could do it on insufficient capital,
then so can I.
'Australia wants men, as many as she
can get, to take up the land, and where
will she get them except from among the
farming class, whose younger members
generally have very little capital?—A
Trier (Tas.),
The Capitalist
During the past few years we’ve been
hearing too much about the “capitalist.”
A group of ordinary people, discussing
politics, invariably drag him out and
have their go at him. He’s the lad who
holds the purse strings, he’s a parasite
on society, and all the workers’ woes are
of his making.
I can’t see anything wrong with the
capitalist myself. The majority of men
haven’t the initiative to push themselves
up the ladder, and if the capitalist wasn’t
there to think for them and put them to
some useful work they’d be helpless. It
takes brains, foresight and leadership to
organise industry. The capitalist has all
those qualities, and is an asset, particu-
larly at the present time. He should
be appreciated ; but because he demands
his price—for a job well done —they call
it “exploitation.”
If the capitalist went on strike, like the
poor, ill-used workers, the bottom would
fall out of this country. Perhaps the poor
chap will have to go on strike soon to
demand his rights. Everybody else seems
to be demanding theirs.— Blue (Q.).
One of our “leaders” told the world
the other day that, while the “workers”
were indispensable, every employer
could be easily replaced by a Govern-
ment servant or a volunteer.
A more popular utterance it would be
hard to conceive, or one more absurd.
It is popular because there are more
workers than employers. Its absurdity
is proved by the very fact that there are
so many workers dependent on employers
for a means of livelihood. The necessity
for replacing the existing employers by
others, Governmental or voluntary, only
further proves the necessity for em-
ployers.
iwemy years ago a young
Australian mechanic put all
his energies info a small busi-
ness. Thousands of other
mechanics had the chance to
do the same thing, but didn’t.
Because he had initiative as
well as muscles his business
grew to huge proportions,
creating jobs for thousands of
workers who lacked initiative.
The business is now of tre-
mendous national importance.
In his office he occupies a
chair. That chair could be
occupied by a Government
servant or an office boy or a
politician, but none of them
could have built up the busi-
ness, and none of them could run it
successfully.
Australia is littered with the wrecks
of businesses “run” by public servants.
Bakers’ shops, fish shops, timber yards,
railways, shipping ventures, and, last but
not least, a weekly journal are among
them. Could the “leader” name one such
venture that ever paid a dividend or
failed to add to the burden of taxation?
—Guff (S.A.).
War Taxes
I’d go one better than “Elm” (B.
5/3/’4l). A special war-time tax might
be imposed on all buyers of luxury
articles. Any man who can afford to
pay 10 guineas for a suit of clothes can
pay 11 guineas. Any woman who allows
herself to be charged over, say, £lO for
a frock is easily able to pay 10 p.c. extra
in war-time. —S. S. (N.S.W.).
“Soldier Types”
What object has A.B.C. in view when
it consistently allows the rankers and
n.c.os. of the second A.I.F. to be repre-
sented as loutish semi-morons, unable to
speak or write two consecutive sentences
of decent grammatical English? The two
score or so of them whom 1 know person-
ally are all intelligent men with no more
than the average young-Australian in-
terest in gambling, drink or girls,
but keenly interested in their work.
Two are University graduates; ten
others have had High School edu-
cations, mostly on self-won scholar-
ships ; the remainder range from out-
back stockmen to city clerks. Scores
more with whom I have come in casual
contact during visits to camps or other-
wise have seemed to speak and behave
to the normal decent Australian standard
of today.
There must be exceptions,-of course;
but so far I have not come across a
living example of the ignorant clowns
who blatherskite in raucous slang and
fractured grammar from broadcasting
stations in their name. Nor, in a
wide acquaintance with the first A.1.F.,
did I meet more than an occasional
example of the Blueys, Rusties, Chillers
and other alleged “soldier types” of the
last war, now dished up in the A.B.C.
“Weakly,” garnished with “jokes” as old
as Mars. Both are offensive and libellous
misrepresentations of the men who de-
cided that it was their duty to defend
their country. Both give to listeners in
other countries a false and ignoble idea
of those men and of Australian civilisa-
tion.
The Commission claims to exercise a
wide influence upon Australian culture
and general knowledge. As a national
undertaking conducted at great expense
to the taxpayer, it is liable to be accepted
by listeners overseas at its own self-
claimed value as representing Australian
opinion and outlook. If it has any deli-
berate reason for belittling our best men
thousands of Australian parents, wives,
relatives and friends of those men would
be glad to learn what that reason is. If
not, the Federal Government should take
steps without delay to control the offen-
sive nuisance. Colonel Bungstarter
(Q-).
Women’s Uniforms
The wearing of uniform by women en-
gaged in war-service activities would not
be objectionable if they remembered the
purpose for which a uniform is really
worn. When a man enters the Navy,
Army or Air Force, he puts on with his
new uniform a new personality, or at
least indicates a willingness to serve the
common cause in a manner which would
not be possible in civilian life.
If women were prepared to do the
same the wearing of a uniform by them
would be all right. But how many
women entering these semi-military and
-naval services are prepared to sink their
own “charming” personalities? How
many of these society ladies are ready to
put off their social prestige and economic
tonnage with the clothes which marked
them as creatures apart? — Mystika
(N.S.W.).
To the Salvage Commissioner
I have before me a copy of the first
annual report of the Lord Mayor’s
Patriotic and War Fund of N. S. Wales,
an imposing work of some 52 pages of
a very pleasant smooth-finished paper.
While we taxpayers are reminded each
day in the newspapers to “Save this paper
for the Salvage Commissioner” this sort
of thing is pushed on to us. What a
day the S.C. would have if we all saved
these reports for him! The margins are
of average width, \\ inches. Two full
pages are devoted to the names of
executive committees, and there are four
pages of letters of appreciation and a
dozen blocks of interior and exterior
views of the Anzac buffet, etc. Pages
2, 50 and 52 are blank.
The gentleman from whom I re-
ceived this copy had a couple more sent
to him, each in a beautiful envelope of
alarming size, of fine Manila paper, with
a 3d. stamp attached. Is it for this sort
of waste that we are asked to dig a bit
deeper into pockets? Is it to make such
a publication possible that schoolchildren
hold penny concerts in their backyards?
—Fair Go (N.S;W.).
Waste ?
Well, why shouldn’t flappers smear
tomatoes over their dials and otherwise
put the fair fruits of this good earth to
infamous and frivolous uses (B.
19/2/’41)? This country isn’t troubled
by lack of anything—in fact, our main
trouble is underconsumption. Straw-
berries, tomatoes, lettuce, all these are
very perishable items, and if they aren’t
used up straightway they go to waste.
What does the producer care about the
uses they’re put to? He’s not worried if
they’re used externally instead of inter-
nally. The main thing he’s concerned
with is consumption, and if, in addition
to those who put his products to regular
uses, there are others who believe it’s
good for the complexion to mash
tomatoes on it, so much the better for
him —it’s all in the way of business. —
R. H. G. (W.A.).
Railways and Defence
It was stated recently in The Bulletin
that commanders like Wavell have little
use for railways when it comes to plan-
ning an offensive. Yet I seem to re-
member picked railwaymen being sent
from this country to operate the single
desert line that Wavell used as a con-
venient springboard to dive into Musso.’s
African Empire. Also, R.A.F. com-
muniques monotonously refer to the rail-
way junction at Hamm being plastered
for the umpteenth time. Evidently the
‘Is that the life-insurance company?”


service heads recognise railways as being
an important adjunct to the army in the
field.
In a country of immense distances like
Australia, it is doubtful whether road
transport could handle the long journeys
of large numbers of soldiers with their
vast quantity of supplies as speedily or
as surely as the railways.
Suppose that it was imperative to trans-
fer 20,000 men from Melbourne to Syd-
ney within 24 hours. With their experi-
ence of handling huge holiday crowds,
the traffic, heads of the railways would
not be dismayed. As a layman, I would
hazard that 16 troop trains could carry
the men, while another half-dozen goods
trains could transport ammunition and
other impedimenta. Even allowing for
the vexatious change of gauge at Albury
it would not be a physical impossibility
to land the reinforcements at their
destination on time.
Try to visualise for a moment the
gigantic road cavalcade that would be
necessary to do the same job. Allowing
40 men to a wagon and two tons of
freight to each truck, it would take over
1000 road vehicles to shift the 20,000
men and, say, 1000 tons of equipment,
as well as the precious fuel that is the
lifeblood of our bombers and fighters.
In the last few weeks, the standardi-
sation of railway gauges, which was long
the Cinderella of important defence jobs,
has moved up nearer the top of the list.
Commonsense demands that every un-
employed man in Australia should be
put , on this undertaking at once. —
Melton (Vic.).
Picture Shows
Sitting in the comfortable darkness and
upholstered ease of a talkie palace, I
wondered what substitute activity the
gawking film fans would create if
“Smilax’s” dictatorial edict (B. 26/2/’4l)
to close the picture shows took effect.
To what strange regions would fantasy
wander? What new situations would
evoke laughter and pathos? What new
outlet would the city girls seek, those
thousands of spinsters who gratify their
love fantasies per medium of Hollywood
sheiks and the rich-man-poor-girl themes
of the “love-interest” pictures?
There is too much facile criticism of
films and their compelling interest for
the “moronic multitude.” What most
critics overlook is that there must be a
deep psychological need for film values
else people would not crowd the movie
palaces. Isn’t the success of erotic films
and the erotomania of the flapper press
a reflex of the frustration and need for
psychological compensation of the city
girl in a job?
It is not enough to look down from
some lofty intellectual perch and scorn
the lowbrows who like to hitch their
pocket-money to a “star.” The film is a
characteristic of the machine age, an
escape, a thrill, an opiate. It satisfies
instinctive needs and emotions. Its func-
tion is to astonish and thrill, to ring the
changes on the age-old themes of sex,
conflict and suspense. Handcuffed to a
mechanical monotony and ever atiptoe
for a new thrill, the picturegoer finds in
film fantasy a vicarious escape from the
ugly commonplace.
An aspect of films which is often over-
looked is their therapeutic value. The
modern film with its finished technique
and infinite scope, its action and pictorial
values, drains off the fantasies of millions
of frustrates, who can project their
blocked and inhibited dreams on to the
screen. Hate and love and the whole
gamut of the Freudian wish-fulfilments
are harmlessly satisfied through the mock
drama and romance of the moving
shadow play. In other eras the mob
might have sought psychological purga-
tives by watching a public execution or
through the equivalent of a Roman circus.
Provided they could create effective
sluicegates for dammed-up emotions, it
might be a fine thing if the picture crowds
could indulge in more reflective pleasures.
But a nation of introverts is always prone
to explode sooner or later: the Germans,
for example. The mob who gawk at
Garbo are honest with themselves ; they
do enjoy a night at a talkie where they
can let fantasy run riot. The arty-crafty
minorities who affect to scorn the picture
fans are really following a fashion in
snob values, and in scoffing at the
“morons” are merely compensating for
unadmitted inability to enjoy life or
create the vaunted art they gawk at. Per-
sonally, I would rather hear the helpless
laughter of a Laurel and Hardy audience
than listen to the affected chatterings of
any neurotic bunch of art and music
gawkers.— Charles Halbert (S.A.).
Music Halls
I see that Dumpling or somebody,
part of whose official job is to pass
judgment on the morality of the
stage in N. S. Wales, proposes to in-
vestigate vaudeville to see if that art is
so plunged in obscenity as to need pre-
performance censorship. Having been a
regular attendant at vaudeville for
upwards of 15 years, I can save him the
trouble of investigation. On a rough
estimate, my experience shows that 20
p.c. of the humor of vaudeville has a
homosexual basis, 40 p.c. is concerned
with adultery, 10 p.c. has an excremental
ingredient, 10 p.c. partakes of all these
ingredients in varying degrees and the
remaining 20 p.c. may be ordinary fun.
Those proportions have varied with the
years. When I started going to vaude-
ville shows, jokes in the first category
were taboo. But if Dumpling thinks that
the vaudeville public wants to be pro-
tected from them now he is sadly mis-
taken. At political meetings there are
people who disagree with the speakers’
views. A vaudeville comedian has no
dissentients. He winks or makes some
gesture and the response he gets is imme-
diate, automatic, universal and just as
much a conditioned reflex as the con-
tracting of the pupil of a person’s eye
when a strong light is flung on it.
His audience doesn’t know why it
reacts in this way. It is no more con-
scious of what conditions its response
than a person is conscious of the con-
traction of his pupil. It would be horri-
fied if it did. A vaudeville audience is as
“Well, Wot d'yer expect for two pound ten ?”
respectable as a ballet audience. It
is in a different fashion and has different
associations, that is all.
Are these jokes pornographic and
obscene? Of course they are, but a lot de-
pends on what you mean by “obscene.”
A vaudeville comedian besmirches sex,
and that is all he can do. He can only
approach it from the point of view of the
taboo. Some people react for the taboo
and some react against it. He reacts
against it.
Censorship in Elizabethan and Stuart
days didn’t produce less bawdy plays;
it made the playwrights more cunning
and produced more bawdiness, just as
six-o’clock closing has produced more
drinking after hours, Curtain Raiser
(Vic.).
Art Galleries
These magnificent and sinfully ex-
pensive institutions are anachronisms,
edifying perhaps to a few high souls, but
merely boring to the majority of casual
sightseers.
The enormous auction-sale value of
the canvases depends, not on beauty or
truth, but —as with postage stamps—on
rarity and antiquarian interest. The
original “Mona Lisa” is worth a- king’s
ransom. A perfect reproduction in a
last month’s magazine is worth its weight
in waste paper.
In these days, when every newspaper
contains exquisite studies in the near
nude, when every talkie programme
brings Pygmalion statues to life, when
colored travelogues make Turnerian
landscapes obsolete, the galleries are as
ridiculous and redundant as a Punch
and Judy show in Hollywood.
To prove this statement let the
curators make a charge for admission to
their imposing premises and compare
their box office with that of a modern
picture palace. As likely as not the
curator and the members of the board
would be found in the lounge seats of
the enemy.
Easel art is in extremis. The surrealist
delirium is only a prelude to the death
rattle. Commercialised art is all alive
and kicking, selling soaps and silkies and
entertaining us in our hours of ease.
Comic strips are more appreciated than
masterpieces. Purists get a modicum of
praise but very little pudding from the
connoisseurs and less than the cost of
the materials from the dealers. It is a
fact that dozens of our most brilliant
idealists earn less by their brush than do
the floor sweepers in the temples of art.
—The Nude Truth (S.A.).
Archibald and the Young Artist
Touching Guy W. Warren’s suggestion
(B. 5/3/’4l) that younger artists, irre-
spective of the relative worth of their
pictures, should share in the Archibald
largesse, Whistler once put it in a nut-
shell.
Passing a bank in London he started
to talk to a friend about the things he
would be able to do if he only had
£lO,OOO. “Ah, Jimmy!” said his friend.
“If you had £lO,OOO you would never do
any more work.” “On the contrary,”
said Whistler. “The test is to give an
artist £lO,OOO. If he does no more work
he is not an artist. But give a real artist
£lO,OOO and he will work harder than
ever, because he knows how to use the
money.” It isn’t recorded whether his
friend, who happened to be wealthy,
handed him the money. — C- Q- (Vic.).
State Stagnation
Despite the pressure of defence
measures, the- Federal Government has
given a commendable lead in the social
sphere—witness its family endowment
and housing measures. Meanwhile, the
N.S.W. Government effectively sidesteps
comparatively simple reforms, such as
liquor hours, licensed s.p. betting, divorce
and legislative reform. Municipal bodies,
since the aldermanic elections were post-
poned indefinitely by edict of the State
Government, have likewise become im-
bued with this negative and unprogressive
mania. Always the cry is the same:
“Defer consideration of urgent works
and reforms until the war has ended.”
This policy of stagnation cannot but
have harmful effects. Apparently the
State and municipal representatives fail
to perceive that their duty is to maintain
the legislative machinery of their bodies
ready to function where and when
required. —R. G. (N.S.W.).
The Switzer’s Way
Switzerland (population 4,000,000),
even today when she is surrounded by
about 150 million people under German
rule, is still the nearest thing we have to
real democracy. Few are really rich, yet
the people are probably the richest on
earth, having over £lOO a head —more
than the average American. Income
taxation is small, inheritance taxes are
smaller than anywhere else in the civilised
world, and the Alpiner is content with
enough.
The Government is behind business
but not in it. It does not interfere about
the size of apples and the weight of eggs
and the quality of dried fruit, nor does
it put its spoke in about when mutton
shall be killed.
There are odd occasions (and only
odd) when the Government does take a
hand, and when it does the Swiss watch
very closely to see that it does not over-
step the mark. Executive Governmental
power is invested in a House of six con-
trolled by a President. Hear ye that, ye
Australian politicians! Ihe Swiss have
one public holiday a year, and that is
held on a Sunday.
The Swiss do not indulge in wars, but,
the story runs, the late Emperor Bill of
Germany once asked a Swiss ambas-
sador who saw millions of German
troops marching on parade, “What would
your country do if 1 sent 100,000 soldiers
against it?” The ambassador replied,
“We would issue 100,000 rounds of
ammunition.” — Arcadia (W.A.).
Tripe Still Cheap
The fight against the importation into
Australia of syndicated foreign press
matter, pictures and comic strips appears
to be losing ground. At least one Syd-
ney daily has increased its imported
comic-strip content recently, and there
is no diminution of the tripe published
day after day.
The Australian Journalists’ Association
is trying to have Canberra enact a bill
to make the stuff at least as costly to
Australian users as local material would
be. It is not so much interested in the
dollar-exchange aspect as in preserving
what should be a local market for Aus-
tralians, rightly contending that there is
plenty of local artistic and literary talent
to supply the local
demand. The A.J.A.
also contends, again
rightly, that most
of the imported stuff
is having a terrific
effect on both the
juvenile and adult-
juvenile minds which
absorb it. It sees
no hope for indi-
genous artists and
writers while this
flood of foreign
muck is allowed to
pour into the coun-
try unhampered.
But the A.J.A. is
alone. It deserves,
and should get, the
help of Parents and
Citizens’ Associa-
tions, teacher s’
organisations, col-
leges and schools
and all others inter-
ested in building a
national literature
and national art. It
is un against the in-
terests which control the importation of
the tripe, interests which are concerned
with nothing but the raking in of shekels,
no matter how they smell, and will spare
nothing to hold what they have gained.
And it deserves the sympathy of Can-
berra. Hundreds of thousands of electors
demonstrated with “informals” at the last
Federal election that they couldn’t record
an intelligent vote. Their numbers will
grow so long as the worst elements of
a foreign culture are allowed to continue
their work of dragging the Australian
intellect down to their own level. —O. T.
(N.S.W.).
G.P.S. Sports
One of the minor stupidities of the war
has been the abandoning of G.P.S. sport-
ing fixtures and competitions. Football,
cricket and athletics competitions have
already been cancelled, and indications
are that the G.P.S. regatta will not be
held.
The G.P.S. sports competitions are the
best training in the world for young
chaps nearing the end of their schooling.
It pulls them into tip-top physical condi-
tions and trains them mentally along the
lines of team spirit and co-operation in
securing the utmost in a mutual effort.
Surely this is the most and best that
young chaps can do towards the country’s
war effiort.—JoY Pet (N.S.W.).
Smoking
Scribes in these pages have assailed
booze, gambling and other extravagances,
but none has had the temerity to attack
smoking. Once confined to men, it is
now prevalent among women also, with
consequent harm to health, thrift and the
future of the race. We pride ourselves on
our education system, but more money
is squandered on cigarettes than the Gov-
ernments provide for the teaching of our
children, and a greater sum is blown
into the air in smoke than is contributed
to the maintenance of hospitals.
The war has boosted the fag business,
and thousands of pounds raised for sol-
diers’ comforts are used to purchase to-
bacco in some form, which absorbs valu-
able shipping space and does nothing to
improve the physique or the effectiveness
of our troops.
Personally, I should not like to be
deprived of my cigarettes, but I am bound
to admit that the practice of smokingjs
unnecessary, unwise and wasteful.
E. J. B. (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
*TERTJTe
WATERTITE
THE WATCH TOR
HARD WEAR
IRustproof—Waterproof
Shockproof
Free cleaning and
repairs for 10 years.
Guaranteed by Factory
Agents.
The Watch that war
dropped from ’Plane
if oooft. without darnai/e.
PRICES:
Round £7/15 -
Rectangular, £B/5/-
And no Repair Hills.
JIAMONO
*- WATCH
SPECIALISTS
d
112 MARKETS
I SYDNEY,
OPR DAVID JONES
fd
TRIX Model Elec-
tric Trains, “00"
gauge, operate <i
practically the
same lines as a
Modern Kailroat
System.
Amazingly realistic, 100',’
Remote Control —Auto-
matic Coupling and
De -Coupling-
Run two
trail® o n
one track'.
fd
i'rice,
from £5/13/-
“ONLY Sl ITAUKK FOR HOYS FROM 7 TO 70
Send 3d. in stamps for illustrated catalogue.
AMPLION (A sia) Pty. Ltd.
382 Kent
Sydney.
St..
FAT, FLAB
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOVEKNA BELT supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAL OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of
bulge and strain gone . . .
Oil NO COST! Write for-full
illustrated details of 7 OATS'
TRIAL OFFER.
GOVEKNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
f
df
y/iNcmsuß
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 15/-
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 17/6
Complete with Batteries. I’ostage Extra.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET. SYDNEY.
LATEST RADIO SETS
£2O Selow Retail Price.
You can buy direct front factory if
no Century Agent in your District,
and thus save up to £i() on retail
prices. Marvellous tone, sensitivity
and economy; world-wide reception
brings overseas news direct to your
home. Absolute satisfaction is
guaranteed by FREE TEN DAY
TRIAL TO INTENDING FUK-
CHASERS. Illustrated catalogue of
Battery and All-electric sets post
free on request.
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
d
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4Un. knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads. 4iin. to sin. dip in
seat. Ali hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
J. P. TALTY
Manufacturing Saddler,.
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
m
■ -
/ o
Tc
i > ■<(*
“Give us that shell. Bill, before he scuttles himself
SERVICE FOR
THE DEAF!!
Mr. R. A. Noedl,' L.1.8.5.T., wishes to announce
that he is able to render a most efficient service
to all afflicted with Deafness, no matter what
type or style of Hearing they may be using.
"ELECTRAVOX" SUPREME
The sensational Hearing and small, compact and
of a maxing clearness. Batteries used in the
Electravox are obtainable anywhere.
R. A. NOEDL L.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 118 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone: MA3774.
Get rid of
HornsBEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAL,
DEHOKNEH
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle'aiid keep the calf from
I its mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
method. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves,
0/6. Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-.
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
(COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane.
fd
f
Pelmanism
Scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
Pelmanism trains the observation to
speed and accuracy, increases the
power of concentration and streng-
thens the will. It is a complete
mental training and it develops
personality.
The Pelman Institute
.‘{a Gloucester House, 39G Hinders Lane,
Melbourne (Car. Market St.).
df
d
fd
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
in ad e absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 In use. -Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street. Sydney.
S.A. Ag°nts: Goldberg Bros., Nth Ter., Adelaide.
How to Live 120' Years
or longer. Read Dr. Ambramowski’s Famous
Book “EATING FOR HEALTH,” Third Edition,
revised and enlarged by Rev. J. T. Huston.
The theory of HEALTH WITHOUT MEDICINE
steadily gains converts among thinking people,
and the truth of the saying “a man is what
he eats” is daily more generally accepted. It
appeals to one’s commonsense, and experience in'
the treatment of typhoid, rheumatism, pleurisy,
asthma, lung, digestive and' other troubles by-
diet regulation .strengthens belief in Dr.
Ambraiuowski’s statement that “as long as a
man eats the food to which his body ts adapted
he does not know sickness and his life is
extended to the normal term, of 120 years or
more.” The method advocated and the reasons
for it are fully set forth in this most interesting
book of 187 pages, originally published at 5/6,
our price, while the small stock lasts, only 3/-
post free.
THE Li N lOX CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
TIMBER KILLER
NO BINCIBABKING, boring or frilling necessary.
Harmless to the soil. Prevents suckering. Also
highly effective for killing BIjACKJiJSBRIES!
5/6 per tin.
RESULTS ASSURED!
Mr. E. J. Eorrough, “Honeysuckle,” via Milhnerran,
QTand, writes: “Although we had heavy rain the
day after applying the Timber Killer all the younger
trees up to six iiu'hes in diameter are dead and
those about 18 inches and over are looking very
sick, with limbs already dead. 1 only put three
nicks in these. It is only about 10 days since I did
them and 1 used it on the hardest timber to kill.”
N.S.W- SEED CO.,
73 George St., Sydney.
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
f
FROM £5 UPWARDS.
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States —See ’Phone Book.
HALF PRICE FOR NEW
BATTERIES.
Buy your battery direct from the
manufacturer at half the usual retail
price. All Marshall Batteries are
fully guaranteed. All types of
batteries for cars, trucks, cycles,
radio, home and theatre lighting
direct to the public at factory
prices. Write at once for 16-page
catalogue on how to choose and look
after batteries.
The Marshall Battery Mfg. Co,,
38-42 Harbour Street, Sydney.
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
DEPT. 27, 84 PITT ST., SYDNEY?.
TILLEY LAMPS
df
300 Candle Power. British
Made.
Foo] proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on 1J pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYREX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EXIOO All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
be used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 inches.
PRICE, 67/6 Complete.
Write for Catalogue 6} Radiators
and Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
Obtainable from your localagent or
W. Kopsen & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
3- Q 0 Kent Street, Sydney.
DIAMOND RINGS ON APPROVAL
6
OT/aoS
£7/10/-
“Twin Heart’
)f'
£2O
'New Radiance’ 1
■& By arrangement with
\ the nearest Bank to you,
Angus & Coote will
send a selection of
Kings at whatever price
you wish to pay. This
means that you see the
rings in comfort and
privacy, and absolutely
at,your leisure. When
writing for Kings on
Approval, state whether
you would like white
or yellow gold.
Catalogue is free.
ANGUS & COOTE y
With the new scientific
FOOTHELP”
No More Suffering!
“FOOTHELP” gives you
greater ease and comfort than
you ever imagined possible.
It won’t cost you a penny
if we fail to fulfil these
promises,
j Write To-day for
FREE BOOKLET;
'“Your Feet and How to
Treat Them Properly,” and
FREE Trial OBe# to:
JOHN H. UNGER (Dept. 13N),
65 York Street, Sydney.
d
DEAFNESS
DEFEA TED
Allen and Hanbury’s famous Bonochord
midget valve amplified hearing aid can
overcome the most advanced cases of
senile, nerve and catarrhal deafness,
fitted with crystal microphone, this
model can be concealed in a gentleman’s
vest pocket or within ladies’ wearing
apparel.
Call for free Audiometric test of your
hearing and trial of this 1941 model
British hearing aid.
GEORGE J. TOSI,
Suite 6-10, 2nd floor, Prudential Bldg.,
39 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
•It
m
He,
LEARN VENTRILOQUISM
quickly my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds cf
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice
FRFF Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanston S't, Melb.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
19/3/’4l(See Page 34)
Mr.. Mrs. or Miss.....
Cut this out and send with your “Wants" to the Service Department. “Ihe Bulletin
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


OPERATORS
!; ilil
4
iy
*Mb
'r/n
os9
I
-V-lbii
■I
WHAT THE DIESEL ENGINEERING
COLLEGE HAS DONE FOR OTHERS
IT CAN DO FOR YOU
£3O PER MONTH AND KEEP
File No. 3 5a. This student obtained all his
knowledge of Diesel engines from the Diesel
Engineering College and is now earning £3O
per month and keep.
£7 PER WEEK
File No. 34a. Received his Diploma seven
months after commencing training, and obtained
a position as Diesel operator at £7 per week.
£6/16/- PER WEEK
File No. 37 a. Was earning £4/15/- per week
before commencing Diesel course. Since taking
Diesel Engineering College course is earning
£6 Jl6l- per week as Diesel operator.
* Scores of other cases like these.
WANTED
BIG SWING TO DIESEL
ENGINES SINCE THE WAR,
OPENS UP STILL MORE
WELL-PAID POSITIONS
For several years now, the number of Diesel 'engines being installed has been
growing bigger and bigger each month as thousands of truck, bus and tractor
owners, power plants, mines, ships, etc., change to Diesel, the more economical
and more efficient engines. Now the war is making still more power users
Diesel-minded, for Diesel fuel is not only more economical but safer and
easier to transpor when shipping space is restricted. The result is that there
are more pp mas for Diesel operators than there are trained men to fill them.
Why Audn’t YOU have one of these jobs that bring you six, seven or
; ight pounds a week? Don’t go on envying those who have a trade in which
there’s always plenty of well-paid work! Become a Diesel operator and you
will always be able to command higher pay yourself.
f
GAN QUALIFY AS A
DIESEL OPERATOR IN YOUR
SPARE THE AT HOME
You don’t need any previous knowledge of engineering and you don’t need any high
educational .standard. The Diesel Engineering College course teaches you the whole
subject in your own home, covering both transport Diesel (tractors, buses, etc.) and
stationary Diese) (mining and other power, plants). The course has beep prepared with
the co-operation of leading Diesel authorities, and the Diploma awarded you on
completion is recognised by employers all over Australia, Post the coupon below and
full details will be sent you by return.
d
This College does not sell you a pile of textbooks and leave- you
to wade through them, nor does it fill you up with a lot of compli-
cated mathematics. By a simple home-study course, the Diesel
Engineering College teaches you just what you need to know to
operate and service Diesel engines efficiently. As soon as you enrol.
NO PREVIOUS ENGINEERING
KNOWLEDGE, NO HIGH EDU-
CATIONAL STANDARD NEEDED
AND GET THIS FREE BOOKLET.
fd
f
Those who get in early reach the top first.
Tear off and post this coupon now for free
booklet describing the Diesel Engineering
College course. There is no obligation,
so don’t put it off! The best intentions in
the world are useless if you don’t ACT!
practical coaches take you in hand. You are guided step by step
with the aid of easily-followed instruction papers and diagrams.
Everything is made clear. You’ll be amazed to find how quickly
you become familiar with the workings of the Diesel. Many
students have qualified for positions in as short a period as four
months. The fees are low and payments easy.
RESULTS PROVE OUR TRAINING THE
SURE WAY TO SUCCESS IN DIESEL
A wonderful future lies ahead in Diesel engineering for ambitious
men who get in early with the proper training. But you must be
properly trained. The success of Diesel Engineering College students
at Government examinations tells its own story of the thoroughness
of training at this College.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
*
Pleasb send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the Diesel
Engineering College course.
iNAME -
ADDRESS '
• B. 19/3/’4l.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
