

The
Metropolitan Building,
Hunter and Bligh Streets,
Sydney.
lilsjii
■HI
m
mm
' ■
m
11
4>^W<»
Hi
jftS
■
3W
| - -*l' ■**. > > »
Payments to
Policyholders
Exceed
£1,798,400.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
Incorporated in Queensland in 1893, the Australian Metropolitan is one of the old-
established Life Offices. It has over 45 years of faithful service to the public
behind it, and has earned a reputation for its liberal and sympathetic treatment of
policyholders.
Income in 1940 was £405,875 6 1
At the end of I 940 the Assets were made up as follows:
Government and Municipal Securities . .
Loans on Mortgage
Freehold Properties
Loans on Policies
Cash and other Assets
ASSURANCE FUNDS at 31/12/’4O, £2,045,488.
DIRECTORS: DR. A. MURRAY WILL (Chairman), W. A. H. ALLWORTH, D. F. STEWART, COL. A. SPAIN, J. A. HENDERSON.
GENERAL MANAGER: J. A. HENDERSON. ACTUARY: W. J. COOKSEY, F.F.A.
BRANCH OFFlCES— Victoria: THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 89-91 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
Queensland: THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 367-9 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
South Australia: THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 22 WAYMOUTH STREET, ADELAIDE-
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3192.
Wednesday, April 16, 1941.
R.A. SHOW PICTORIAL SUPPLEMENT
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name .'
My Address
S.B. 341
The Red Page
GORGIOS AND ROMANIES.
It was alleged in a Sydney divorce case
the other day that a husband-father, on
being given a “raspberry” by his 18-
year-old daughter, slapped that young
lady, whereupon she and his wife threw
at him an electric iron, which he dodged ;
a big earthenware pot, which hit him ;
bricks “two at a time” ; an 81b. axe, a
garden fork and a bottle of hair oil. In
the course of further blandishments, he
was bashed over the head with an iron
bar and felled his helpmeet with a punch
in the eye, “not hard and not light—a
medium hit.” In the end, he “left in his
horse and dray with a few of his things
and the parrot in a cage,”
Moderately good ; but still no proper
cause for gorgio conceit, or for gorgios
taking on airs of condescension towards
their betters. Your true Romanies, camp-
ing in England’s green lanes as when
George Borrow knew them, can any
evening, especially after a day at the fair
do as good, or better, and commonly do
so, with variations and embellishments
some of these impromptu, others rootec
deep in Romany tradition.
True, there are reasonable limits: “ ’
don’t like a woman, brother, who’d se ;
a tent alight with her own child inside.’
But, to go by the accounts of them in
Patrick A. McEvoy’s The Gorse and the
Briar (Readers’ Union ; Robertson anc
Mullens), within the bounds of a fair
thing they are capable of enjoying domes
tic battle, the sheer thoroughness o'
which, from the hearty oathfulness o'
the preliminary skirmishing to the luxuri
ous climax, is most impressive.
“You dirty Loveridge, don’t you dare
say a word against my dead father and
mother what’s gone!”
Retort provocative:
“I didn’t speak of your father and
mother. I said the lot of you—every
Heame that ever breathed! ”
On that splendid scale, with the burn-
ing down of the tent for climax, the
battle of Mr. Arthur Loveridge and his
good wife {nee Hearne) raged through the
night, Georgina (Mrs. Loveridge) scream-
ing and shouting “with all her might,”
Arthur roaring back at her with almost
—but not quite—equal fury. The last
raging of Georgina was accompanied by
a great noise and clatter from within the
tent. “Stop throwing the things about!”
roared Arthur. “You’ll kill your own
child in a minute. Get back in bed and
lie down, or by God I’ll get up and
thrash you to death! Stop throwing the
things about, I tell you! ”
Interlude: tent on fire. Arthur, stark
naked, bursts through the flames and
turns to wrestle with the blaze, tearing
the canvas away with his hands, belting
the fire with a board.
Desultory hostilities continued up to
and through breakfast.
After breakfast Georgina took a knife
and cut up the harness. This is a common
occupation of gipsy women when they
have a row with their husbands The
man usually beats his wife, or repairs the
harness with rope and string, hitches the
pony in the trap, and leaves his juvel
[jewel?—anyway, his wife] for two or three
days. In this instance, Arthur, who
valued his harness, chose the first method
of retaliation.
Georgina finished up in the hedge,
“where she lay sobbing and with an occa-
sional volley of curses condemning her
husband’s soul to eternal hell.”
The gipsy man, like the gipsy woman,
has his traditional methods of revenge.
The woman cuts up the harness, rips the
tent and bedding, and breaks the crockery;
the man smashes up the trap with the
kettle iron, sells the pony for half its
worth, and does as much damage as he
can about the caraping-place in order to
annoy the neighboring farmers. The police
arrive and order him to move, the harness
is lying cut up on the grass, the tent is
ripped to pieces, the trap is smashed, and
the horse is sold. He then feels he has
sufficiently annoyed his wife.
In common fairness to the Romany
quality, it needs to be said that the oath-
fulness of the preliminary skirmishing is
just—though only just—a trifle rich for
proper justice to be done to it here. Also
in fairness, it should be said that more
often than not peace and goodwill,
though overlaid with much suspicion in
the presence of strangers, generally rule
at the firesides in the lanes. Mr. McEvoy
presents his Romanies as more friendly,
more “civilised,” fairer in dealing and
altogether in a much more favorable and
much more human light than did Bor-
row. The supernatural aspects on which
Borrow wildly enlarged make little im-
pression on Mr. McEvoy, whos
Romanies, all round, are more credible
though not commonplace.
As well as the general superficial kin
ship with Borrow that any book touchin
on Romanies in England must have, Mr
McEvoy’s account of his wanderings re
calls that writer in other small similarities
especially with Lavengro. Mr. McEvoy’
brother Christopher, who travels will
him—per astoundingly kit-loaded pony
and later more expansively per fancily
painted Romany wagon and fine Shir
mare decked out with show harness—is
like Lavengro’s own brother, an artist
he decorates The Gorse and the Bria
with drawings of Romany heads anc
roadside scenes of their travels about the
roads, lanes and villages of southern Eng
land.
Arthur Loveridge’s comprehensive con
demnation of the Hearnes seems to
stretch back to the violent old Herne hag
who very nearly did for Lavengro, who
to satisfy Romany conscience, had to
fight the friendly, if bloody, bare-knuckle
roadside bout with his Romany
“brother.” There is one bare-knuckle
fight beside a hedge in Mr. McEvoy’s
narrative, which, though hardly Borrow
must have been fairly good to witness
especially coming as climax to a race
through the night between the two Me
Evoys and a young husband on the one
hand, and, on the other, ahead of them
two lusty drink-maddened young men —
the whole lot of them had been at the
pub, for that matter —intent on getting
at the young wife. Providence sometimes
kindly helped Borrow along with storm
effects for scenes like this, and Borrow
acknowledged the aid by seeing to it that
his characters were worthy of it. The
woman in Mr. McEvoy’s fight is a meek
little mouse beside such a person as
Isopel Berners.
That is only to say that Borrow wrote in
the grand, not to say flamboyant, manner
Mr. McEvoy’s narrative is direct docu-
mentary reportage in the modem prose
manner, which forbids extravagance in
words and insists on economy. A char-
acteristic result is that Elias Ayres or
Arthur Loveridge, the most Mr. McEvoy
can put forward in the way of a Petu-
lengro, is a very ordinary mortal beside
that immortal, and with no hope at all
of rising above ordinary reported speech
to any such magnificent exaltation as;
“There’s night and day, brother, both
sweet things; sun, moon and stars,
brother, all sweet things; there’s like-
wise a wind on the heath.”
Alas for Petulengro, who, like how
much else, has come down from those
exalted heights! These days, a recent
book discloses, “Gipsy Petulengro” offers
to readers of London “Sunday Chronicle”
not only their future en masse, but also
to send them a free sample, on receipt
of threepence in stamps, of his Great
Skin Remedy for “Blood Troubles, Boils,
Varicose Veins, Ulcers, Psoriasis, Nettle-
rash, Dermatitis, and Eczema”! Perhaps
these are not really exalted times.
The old Romany woman of Mr. Mc-
Evoy’s account, treasuring in her wagon
a picture of Dr. Johnson, knowing no-
thing about the old thunderer, but just
because in his picture he has struck her
as “a sensible, good-natured old man,”
is a passable counterpart of Borrow’s
apple-woman, treasuring her copy of
Defoe. And then Mr. McEvoy him-
self recalls Lavengro’s publisher, resem-
bling, in this one respect, that preposter-
ous windbag in being a vegetarian, for
very much the same reason.
These are merely odd resemblances:
the differences, especially in the manner
of writing prose, are more striking. Their
different spelling of Romany Borrow
used two “m’s” may be held to be
symptomatic of the old extravagance and
the new economy. Even for his time
Borrow was flowery; but he was also
fruity. Quantity of words was at a
premium then ; but there was also con-
tent. The modern manner insists on
words sufficient for the purpose, and no
more. Virtue is in precision and effi-
ciency. The barely sufficient is the Muses’
order, and by that order Mr. McEvoy’s
direct, exact account of his romantic
road wanderings is a little masterpiece,
the adjective not confined to its brevity.
This functional prose is asked to be
so exact and circumspect that one stray
word dropped into it can have a startling
effect: —
The young man pointed to a young mare
colt tethered a little way from the camp.
Elias looked at it with surprise.
As well he might. But generally Mr.
McEvoy’s record is as exact as the most
earnest worshipper at the shrine of func-
tional prose could wish to read, with, for
its length, a remarkable number of small
adventures packed in as neat as sardines.
It is nice art —and that might be the
exactly right word for it. The flowers are
gone, and the bare branches look wintry,
but silvery and amazingly clean.
A reviewer carp at this? —when books,
as distinct from the words contained in
them, whether prose or verse, are pro-
duced in such an extravagant welter that
3,000,000 are destroyed in the bombing
of one London premises! A reviewer
salutes the economy of words, with honest
gratitude.
Critics, for their part, may perhaps
question whether writers must not some-
how escape from the straitjacket of this
modern economy of words before prose,
or verse, in what may pass as a grand
manner can be written—but as for critics,
it’s a poor author who doesn’t think
them humbugs, anyhow.
Two on the War.
Noel Monks’s Fighter Squadrons
(Angus and Robertson) and “Gun
Buster’s” Return via Dunkirk (Hodder
and Stoughton) offer a curious contrast
in war books. “Gun Buster,” with an
epic to tell, scorns heroics, confines him-
self to personal experiences, “writes
down” to such an extent that except
for a few passages towards the end —it
might be a football match instead of a
war he is describing. Monks, with the
smaller story of two R.A.F. fighter squad-
rons in France, “writes up” to the limit,
taking great pains to present his heroes
as heroes.
Both books are worth reading, but
neither is completely satisfactory.
Although “Gun Buster’s” insistence on
the good humor of his fellow-officers,
the picture of small irritations and
countless small jokes, rings true in every
paragraph, and is a useful corrective to
the melodrama of the journalists, it needs
a greater literary talent than his to make
it compelling reading. Three-quarters
of his book is waste space, redeemed
only momentarily by outbursts of indig-
nation when he tells of the Germans
machine-gunning refugees or of the
bodies of schoolgirls laid out in rows
on the lawn of a convent.
When he reaches the outskirts of Dun-
kirk, sees the pall of smoke over it by
day and the red glow at night, and de-
scribes his realisation that the only hope
of safety lay in walking into that in-
ferno, his book comes to life. The de-
struction of guns and equipment, so that
there was more British war material than
water in one of the canals ; the impatience
of the last few hours of waiting to march
to the ships; the merciless procession of
the German bombers; the horror of the
beach at night; the waiting waist-deep in
water for the rescuing lifeboat —all this
is vividly described. Here “Gun Buster’s”
tendency to write small is valuable: it
wouldn’t be a true picture of war if he
didn’t mention the chicken dinner just
before the cataclysm or his senior’s com-
plaint just after they had reached the
paddle steamer that rescued them—“ You
needn’t have put your foot in my eye
when I was helping you into the boat.”
Monks’s demerits are those of any
contemporary penny-a-liner, a style and
approach influenced by Hollywood, a ten-
dency to cheapen his heroes when he is
trying to boost them. That aside, he
tells a good story. He covers the exploits
of the two squadrons of the Advanced
Air Striking Force from the first careless
and almost warless weeks in France to
the last hectic days before France’s capi-
tulation when the British pilots fought
against odds of a hundred to one.
For Mountaineers.
Unless a mountaineer (1) climbs to the
top of Everest or (2) unfortunately breaks
his neck • or (3) has first-rate descriptive
and narrative powers, the record of his
climbs isn’t going to be of much general
interest.
Robert H. Bates can write well enough
to make night climbing sound nearly as
exciting as it should;
Nobody spoke, and the only sound was
the crunch, crunch of boot nails on the
crust. Then suddenly, as we pressed over
a little rise, the friendly moon appeared
over a ridge. We could appreciate the
steep walls now and the silver shoulders
of snow and ice gleaming so mysteriously
high above. As we climbed among ice
blocks that had fallen months before, weird
black shadows extending across the snow
seemed waiting to swallow our tiny figures
toiling along the corridor. And high
above us the great snow summits shone cold
and unearthly.
He is interesting on the natives who
play polo with roses in their hair and
on the coolies who, lacking a pipe, make
a hole in the ground, fill it with tobacco
and inhale the smoke through a tunnel.
One of his collaborators, William P.
House, conveys some impression of the
difficulty of climbing the second-highest
mountain in the world when he says that
it took two and a half hours to ascend
150 feet.
But, on the whole, Messrs. Bates,
House, Brudsall, Houston, Petzoldt and
Streatfeild, who have collaborated in Five
Miles High (Hale), the story of the first
American expedition to the mountain
known as K 2 in the north-western Hima-
layas, have written chiefly for moun-
taineers. Everybody came home safely,
and there were no hair-raising near-dis-
asters. Though they reached 26,000 feet
—the highest climb yet made except on
Everest —they didn’t get to the top. And
the writing generally—this, of course, is
the real fault—is too matter-of-fact even
to compete with their photographs in
conveying the splendor and terror of the
scene.
A readable account, all the same; and
they did get a long way up in the air.
Their base camp was at a height greater
than the highest mountain in Europe.
More "Bulletin" Jokes.
One of the first things noticeable about
Lusby’s Bulletin joke blocks, repub-
lished in book form by Frank Johnson
under the title Thumbs Up, is that they’re
emphatically jokes of this war. Young
and in the R.A.A.F. himself, Lusby
hasn’t fallen into the trap of repeating
the gags and situations of the last war.
His humor runs to the ludicrous—the
sort that calls for an explosion rather
than a grin: there’s the absent-minded
Major of his first full-page who’s
amicably returning the salute of the
traffic-arm of a double-decker bus; the
weedy recruit who’s calmly announcing
to the gigantic sergeant-major, “I wish
to tender my resignation” ; the castaway
who’s saying to his two companions in
the rubber-boat, miles from anywhere,
“Can I interest you gentlemen in a
sweep on the day’s run?” ; and, among
a group of non-Digger jokes, the work-
man by the concrete-mixer tasting a
shovelful to see if the mixture’s right.
Altogether 51 pages of humor, in the
same format as Unk White’s Laugh
Parade and Jolliffe’s Andy.
With the drawings go a couple of
short stories by Bulletin -writers and a
number of S. W. Keough’s “Around the
Army” sketches from The Bulletin’s
“Smoke-oh” pages. Keough writes of
“The Sniper,” “The Dispatch Rider”
and, above all, of “The Babbler” with
emotion and authority. Thumbs Up
should be just the thing for the troops.
Our Life in This Land: Roderick Fin-
layson (Griffin Press, Auckland, M.L.).
Plea for the salvation of New Zealand
by closer tilling of the soil and the for-
mation of a culture based in true agri-
culture as opposed to modern mass-
producing methods. Fair enough, but it
isn’t helped by the soapbox style.
The Playwright’s Craft: Harrison
Owen (Nelson). “Little Theatre” item,
telling the beginner most of the things
he wants to know, except how to be a
genius.
St. Mark in Current English: Mary L.
Matheson' (Council of Religious Educa-
tion, T. and G. Bldg., Melbourne). Use-
ful for youngsters because of its sim-
plicity. But it never does sound right in
modern speech: “I want John the Bap-
tist’s head, now, this minute, on a dish.”
The Constancy of the Intelligence
Quotient in Subnormal Children: Gil-
bert E. Phillips (Melbourne University
Press). Report on tests carried out on
365 pupils of a special school from 1929
to 1938. Recommended to Sydney “Daily
Telegraph.”
Not for Fools: Leon Batt (Pertinent
Publishing Co., Ltd., Sydney). Pug-
nacious verses on war, poverty, prostitu-
tion, love and similar regrettable pheno-
mena. If Mr. Batt’s favorite word isn’t
“guts” it’s “spew.” The idea behind most
of the verses is that man must master the
machine ; the verse, when the poet hasn’t
been too sick around the place, is swift
and muscular:
Mine are the hands that weave and build
towers of steel for the sun to gild.
Mine the muscles that bridge the stream
rivet by rivet and beam by beam.
Referring to the statement “A group of poets
gathered about Brian Vrepont has just pub-
lished the second of its Meanjin Papers” (“Re-
vival in Poetry?”, R.P. 19/3/’4l) Paul Grano
asks that it be made clear that C. B. Christesen
is solely responsible for the publication of the
series, that the contributors aren’t a “group”
and that “I do not gather now, have never
gathered and will never gather around Brian
Vrepont or any other poet.”
The Red Page had previously stated that
Meanjin Papers are published and edited by
Mr. Christesen. Some unintentional injustice
may have been done to Mr. Grano; but it’s
to be hoped that the 200 or so other poets in-
cluded in a general survey of four anthologies
and five other publications don’t feel impelled
to demand the precisions of individual con-
sideration.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
ip
m
§
0L
V
t
126/- Gab. Overcoats, 115 -
ABOVE. —AII wool best quality Navy Gabardine
Overcoats. Specially woven for Anthony Hor-
derns'. Proofed against wind and rain. Double
breasted Raglan style with all round belt, vent
back and accessible pockets. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price, 126/-. Sale Price 115/-
95/- Showerproof R'coats, 89 6
AT RIGHT. —-English made Showerproof Fawn
Cotton Gabardine Raincoats. Proofed against
wind and rain. Lined throughout with self material.
Swing back English Raglan style buttoned to
neck. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price .... 95/-
Sale Price 89/6
115/-‘Cameltex O'coats, 105'-
FAR RIGHT.— Rich, warm Camel Hair and Wool
Overcoats. Double breasted polo style with all
round belt and deep collar. Fashionable length.'
Fawns, Browns, and Greys. Smart overcheck
designs and rich art silk linings. Anthony Hor-
derns' Regular Price 115/-
Sale Price 105/-
• Men’s Clothing—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all
railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
\.o^
C&
tf
m
m
*W:
s, M JH' '
// € m ■
m
X
i
m
mm
mm
m
' At fl &*
mm
mmmm
X%
w
m*
m
21/- Cardigans, 136
Men's all wool cashmere Cardi-
gans with V neck. Soft, cosy
finish. Shades of Blue Marl, Grey
Marl and Fawn Marl. Size, 36 to
40 inch chest. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price 217-
Sale Price 13/6
jmm mw mm mm
m
m
■m
A
&
X
52/6 D. Gowns, 45 -
Men's soft all wool Dressing Gown
in the latest shadow overchecks.
Plain collar, cuffs and pockets. Silk
cord and girdle. Size, 36 to 44 inch
chest. Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price, 52/6. Sale Price 45/-
17/6 Pyjamas, 15 ii
Made in our own workrooms from
a reliable British material. Medium
weight "Horrockses',' flannelette
Pyjamas in nice medium weight.
Smart striped designs. S.M., M.
and O.S. Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price, 17/6. Sale Price 15/11
9/6 Underwear, 7 6
Natural wool and cotton Underwear
in light to medium weight. Under-
shirts have short sleeves and
Underpants are ankle length. Size,
34 to 42 inch chest. Anthony Hor-
derns' Regular Price 9/5
Sale Price 7/6
Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in
the Commonwealth.
'Phone: M 2401, Day and Night
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O


ENVIRONMENT
By DON EDWARDS
IF you had gone with
Irene you would have
been at the falls now,
trying to admire the
rush of water and
marvel at the dense tropical vegetation, and
listening to the chorus of praise, and thinking
how bored you were. You are better off here, lying
on the grass in the shade of the palms and trying to
come to a decision. It is too hot to go scurrying
round, looking at sights you have seen dozens of times.
You pull the collar of your shirt open and shift
your position so that you can see across the bay to
the jetty. Perhaps in this heat Irene can appreciate
• x ~ f ™ . . . , ,
your point of view. That note m her voice when
she said, after meeting you on the boat that morning,
“v™, ■ i u r- T,,
vm? FversWs 1 I "
you. Even shorts and a shirt were too much in this
’ , .
hot, very hot. It 11 rain soon.”
“Yes,” you say slowly, “very hot,” looking up
at the small half-caste who is going towards the
r i ver - • •
Of course it’s hot. It’s always hot here. And
of course it will rain. It rains every afternoon. Yet
every second person you meet says “It’s hot,” as
if to rub it in. You puli the shirt away from your
sweaty body and suddenly feel cranky. A slight puff
of warm wind like a quick caress comes in from the
blue bay and stirs the fronds of the palms. You
should go back to the hotel and change your clothes,
but you can’t be bothered. Besides, it’s too hot.
You are strangely unconcerned about what Irene
thinks. A year ago, back home, you would have
been very excited about meeting Irene. You would
have been worried at her slightest disapproval. Perhaps
now you would have been getting into a stiff shirt
and dinner suit before going to a show. The thought
makes you sweat more and tug at your collar as if
it is choking you. You think of the cool freshness
of the girls you knew back there, and the calm, cold
nights when you would be walking home under the
dripping pines. There would be a bracing nip in
the air and a comfortable atmosphere of respectable
stability about the town. How different this is!
t- rv.rwi,o r , , , ,
cornerts ? a Tv?° h £T, Sf S ™ W ‘" B “ d
p an? ../l o" 8 tf b Ut , h °, me J lkc the
otters, and now that the chance to return has come
you aren t sure that you want to seize ,t.
From where you are lying you can see over
the whole town, its white, high-built bungalows almost
hidden by the rioting trees. Beyond, in a crowding
semicircle about the town and the bay, are the
mountains, forest clad to the tops, rising from the
low, swampy fields and the layers of steamy mists that
hang above the mangrove swamps. The earthy,
aromatic smell of lantana is in the air, and the feeling
of fighting, surging life breaking through. At the jetty
is the big liner, with some small boats clustering
round it on the blue water. A party of tourists,
energetic and talkative, drives past, anxious to crowd
as much as possible into the day’s stay, staring at the
natives with an air of complacent superiority.
You remember how you rushed round when you
first arrived, enjoying the strangeness of the new
environment, and then, after a few days, hating it
all until the idea of leaving it obsessed you, and you
talked of going back home insistently, but more
and more vaguely as time passed.
Then Irene’s message had come and you had
been excited and pleased at her suggestion. It wasn’t
that you wanted to work for her father, but if he
could give you a good job you might as well go
back. There was Irene herself, too. You remembered
ber as she had been back home, where everyone
il for B ranted that , V Oll and she would marry.
J h,ngs ®“l f d conventionally back
r° r .T’
sense of life under all the lethargy and humidity of
the weat h er
c . , , A(r t t
Several people pass, and once a Malay from the
sugar mill speaks to yiu. Lots of those who pass
have dark blood then]; the men being lithe> P the
women either old and fat or young, slender and
shapely, with an easy sense of grace and a flashing
fire dormant in their movements. They make you
think of Malita, with her supple slenderness, her
languid movements like the easy swaying of the
coconut palms in the trades, and her downcast,
lustrous eyes.
It is several days since you have seen her. The
last ti me was when you and Hanton had gone for a
st yoll after tea. It had been stifling in the hotel,
witb har dly a breeze to stir the heavy, humid air, and
Y° u had been 80 bored tbat when Hanton had walked
i ll and started to talk you had actually been pleased,
\A/ HEN you first came to the place you were dis-
gusted with Hanton. His easygoing attitude,
b,s carelessness of dress, his talk of women, had
ann °y ed Y° u - He was one of those white-men-in-the-
tr<?pi?s 7° u bad heard about But he wasn,t such
a ad c ba P when you got to know him.
■ bb . ls l nl S b I be bad slumped into a chair beside
?°h U n universal greeting, ‘lt’s hot.” You
Ho t, f? he .f'L N s
e tty“agr '
0 , ~ * B , .
- H s V? e ’ tber f was a l an guid heaviness in the
air and tl ! e a «d gurgling sounds of small
waves in the shallow bay. Most of the townspepole
were parading along the waterfront, their brightly-
colored clothes contrasting with the dark bodies and
the heav le night Now and then there wou]d
be a gust o£ shril| , aughter> a chatter of sound . Across
the bay you could see the lights of the shipping-way
stretching like small floating stars towards the reef,
“That’s the way home,” Hanton had said, as if
he had read your thoughts. And when you didn’t
reply he had said, “It isn’t bad here though, when
you get used to it. Plenty of girls and an easy life,
I used to fight against it like you when I first came.”
Hanton had gone on to relate some of his experi-
ences with the women here and over in the next town,
Then Malita had passed. You didn’t know her name
but Y° u bad noticed her before. Hanton had nudged
Y ou and sa i d > “There’s a pretty girl now, and she
seems to like the look of you. Her name’s Malita.”
You had tried to appear uninterested, but your
e Y es bad followed her till she turned the corner,
“Her old man is white,” Hanton had said,
“Mother a local,”
You hadn’t seen her since, but you had thought
a good deal about her, especially since you had met
Irene that morning.
“You can 'ave it after I've ’ad a go."
And now you can
see Hanton approaching
from the river. At the
end of the street he sees
you and lounges across
to throw himself down beside you. “It’s hot,”
he says.
You don’t answer, but you wait for him to start
talking again. For a time he says nothing, but chews
a piece of grass idly and stares down at the liner.
“She’s a nice-looking boat, that,” he says; “nice
lines like a graceful girl.” You don’t say anything,
for Hanton is on his favorite topic now and doesn’t
need encouragement. “Lots of nice girls cruising
on her, too,” he continues with a laugh, “but too
repressed. Give me the local girls even if they have
got dark blood in them. Plenty of fire, and good
figures, too.”
“They go off quickly when they get older,” you
say.
Hanton laughs easily. “Why worry about that?
There are plenty of young ones. Look at Hamerton
out at the mill, and Jenson, and Clowes.”
“Yes, yes,” you say, thinking of these men and
dozens of others whose lives had shocked you when
first you had arrived from the south, but whom you
now accept as friends.
A warm breeze stirs the trees', bringing with it
the vague, indefinable, spicy scent of the tropics,
the cloying smell compounded of decaying plants,
wet, hot earth and luxuriant undergrowth. You try
to contrast it with your memories of the austere,
chilly, almost barren atmosphere of the country back
home, but it is too vigorous and real for your
memories.
Hanton’s voice breaks in on you abruptly with a
querying note in it. “I saw Malita this morning.
She’s a good-looking girl, that, and she’s taken a fancy
to you. I know these natives.” He laughs. “If
they take a fancy to you it’s all right.”
The appreciative note in his voice annoys you so
that you jump up and reply angrily, “I’m not interested,
Hanton. I’m going home in that boat to-night.”
As you walk away Hanton’s last words follow
you, “Well, you’re a fool.”
T"' HAT night you set out for the boat about an hour
* before it is to sail. Irene should be back from
her excursion by this. No doubt she is waiting for
you now and wondering why you are so late. The
impression of her cool, stately beauty is with you,
but with it is also the vivid memory of Malita, sensu-
ous, alive with a latent passion, like the hot, caress-
ing darkness of the tropical night that surrounds you.
From the bay comes a splash of oars, and from
the huts hidden by the vegetation sounds of gay
laughter and the musical notes of a pipe instrument.
The fronds of the palms are rustling and the air is
heavy with an aromatic smell. You turn down the
street towards the jetty, passing between the shops
of the town. From under an awning comes a low,
soft greeting, “It’s hot.”
You swing round and see Malita walking past.
She smiles back at you.
“Very hot,” you reply, and stand watching her
till she turns and smiles again. Slowly you walk on
towards the boat, thinking of Malita’s smile and
flashing eyes and her easy, lithe grace.
The boat is alive with preparations for departure
and the excited chatter of tourists comparing their
impressions. New groups keep arriving from the
town. You feel out of place in this new world that
seems so artificial.
“Hullo, Fred. There you are,” and Irene comes
towards you. She has changed into an evening frock
that shines with a steely, blue coldness, and seems
foreign to the hot sensuousness of the night. She
leans on the rail beside you and looks out over the
bay and the town lights flickering like fireflies in the
swaying foliage. You try to give her your attention,
but the memory of Malita, smiling and saying “It’s
hot,” comes between you. There doesn’t seem to
be anything for you to say, so you murmur “Yes,
yes,” to Irene’s remarks, and let your attention roam
back to the town and Malita.
Then Irene says something about your people that
catches your interest, and drags you back to the
old life, and makes you think, without any pleasure,
of the orderly, paved streets, the sharp, frosty nights,
the cold veneer of respectability over everything.
The boat is throbbing as if anxious to go and the
last few tourists are scrambling on board. The
decision you have been trying to make all day is
being forced on you. Suddenly an idea comes to
you. It will enable you to postpone making the
decision.
“I’m not going back yet,” you say to Irene.
“The man to take my place didn’t turn up, and I
can’t let them down at the mill.”
She looks at you in amazement.
“I’ll catch the boat next month,” you say.
Then out of your confusion comes the know-
ledge that you are walking down the gangway to the
jetty. You glance up at the boat, but Irene has gone.
The lights along the passage are twinkling, and soon
(Continued on next page.)


the boat will be gliding out between the reefs. A
warm gust of air puffs through the palms, carrying
the scent of lantana and the sounds of the town.
You walk towards the main street, not even bothering
to look back at the liner or wait to see it leave.
Near the market Hanton lounges out of the hot
darkness and greets you.
“It’s hot,” he says. “I thought you were leaving
to-night.”
“Next month,” you say. “I’m going next month.”
Hanton laughs easily. “Yes,” he says. “I saw
Malita just now. Up near the beach.”
BLUFF
By E. DITHMACK
MRS. PARSONS was storming in her usual
whole-hearted fashion as she drove the horses
out of the garden. Her short striped frock
was torn under the arms and was without the
belt. Her hair hung about her face in wisps, which
she pushed away angrily as she bent to pick up a
stick to throw at the tardy horses.
“Can’t anyone do anything on this place but
me?” she demanded. “What’s the good of trying to get
a bit of garden or make things look decent if no
one cares?” She turned to her husband as he came
sulkily through the gate. “I’ve asked you times out
of number to fix the garden fence and now see what’s
happened. Half the plants eaten to the ground.”
“D’ye think a man’s got nothing to do but look
after gardens?” Tom asked bitterly. “Why can’t the
kids see to things a bit?”
“They’re as bad as you are. Nobody ever worries
about things but me. I’ve been asking you for years
to have a decent fence put up.”
“I haven’t got money for fences.”
“Well, you could fix it. I’m tired of trying
to make the place look decent. I’ll let things rip”
She broke off her harangue to clutch suddenly at the
gatepost, an involuntary cry of pain breaking from
her while her face twisted in agony.
Tom looped the whip in his hand and turned to
look at her. “What’s the matter?” he asked in sudden
alarm.
“It’s just a pain—l’ve been getting it a lot lately.”
“A pain? What sort of pain?”
“It’s like fire inside me.”
He walked over and held her. “Can’t you do
anything?” he said. “Shall I get you a drink of
water?”
“That’s no good. I think I’d better see a doctor.”
“A doctor?” He looked dubious. “When do
you want to see a doctor?”
There was another spasm of pain so that she held
to him and sweat ran down her face. “Perhaps,”
she said at last, “we’d better go into town tomorrow.
If I don’t hurry up and get fixed up everything about
the place will go to rack and ruin.” She raised her
voice. “Kennie,” she called, “come and put some water
on these plants, and if they die”—she turned her
hostile eyes on Tom —“if they die you’ll hear about it.”
“I’ll hear about it in any case,” he thought, turn-
ing to go back to his work. “She’s always nagging
about something or other. Wonder she doesn’t let
up sometimes.” He took up the plough reins he d
dropped at sound of the commotion and turned to
plough a new furrow. Just like a woman wanting to
go into town when there was lucerne to cut and oats
waiting to be planted. Still, she wasn’t the sort to
make a fuss for nothing and if she thought it best
to see a doctor he’d better take her.
NEXT morning as she stood gripping the door
of the car Mrs. Parsons began to storm afresh.
She roused at Tom and at the children, trying to
keep at bay the new-born fear that clamored at her
_mind.
The children stood around her like a small army,
the older ones guarding the younger, their faces a
little frightened and awed.
“See you keep those plants watered Vvhile I’m
away,” she ordered, “or you’ll know all about it when
I come home.”
“Right-o,” they said.
“And see that those chicks are fed. Don’t forget
to water them every day.”
“Right-o.”
“Look after yourselves, and be sure and scald the
milk for baby.”
“Right-o. Good-bye, mum.”
Tom started up the car and she got in, still
admonishing. The world seemed all at once to be big
and empty and she wanted nothing so much as to be
“Tell me the truth , Harold . HAVE you been drinking ?”
going about her hated work again, secure in the know-
ledge that she was healthy. But when she got down
to open the gates her voice still came back to the
children, strident and commanding. “See that the
horses don’t get in again. If the rest of those dahlias
are eaten down”
All the way down the road she kept up her tirade.
“Black’s corn!” she snorted. “You’d think he d
have pulled it long ago. A lot of lazy, useless, good-
for-nothings they are.”
They passed Artie Ryan driving a sulky. “What’s
he doing driving at this time of the day?” she de-
manded. “Never looks after his place. No wonder
it’s going to ruin.”
“Lord! ” Tom thought. “I wish she’d keep quiet! ”
Yet when they got to the surgery and she’d been
taken away to the hospital next door and he entered
her room later on to find her ready for the immediate
operation and looking strangely young, her wispy hair
done tidily and hanging in two plaits, something
seemed to be missing. He pulled up a chair and sat
beside the bed, averting his eyes from her rough hands.
“How d’ye feel?” he asked. “Still got the pain?”
She nodded. “A bit. It’ll soon be gone though.”
He waited until the operation was over, walking
the verandah, the paths, the street. Then he was
sitting in the surgery before the doctor, twirling his
hat in his hands, which were hanging slackly between
his knees, and hearing the verdict.
“Fm afraid I can’t hold out any hope. The
trouble’s gone too far. It’s only a matter of time now.
A week —perhaps two—it’s hard to tell.”
“Can’t anything be done? If it means
money”
“My dear fellow, if you were a millionaire we
couldn’t save her. But we can ease her last hours.
It might be expensive”
“Let her have the very best. I’ll pay for it.”
The doctor walked with him to the door, patting
his shoulder. “Keep a stiff upper lip and don’t let
her know —it’s all you can do.”
HE was slipping in to see her on and off all day,
finding the town a desolation, wishing only to
hear her strident voice again. Each time he went in he
asked desperately, “Is there anything you want,
mother? Anything I can get you?”
“For goodness sake don’t keep asking me that,
she said. Her eyes wrinkled in a whimsical smile.
“If you do I’ll begin to think I’m really sick. There’s
nothing that I want.”
“I just meant a magazine or a bit of fruit—l
could get any little thing.”
“No, there’s nothing, Tom. Hadn’t you better
be going home? There’s the cows, and all the plough-
ing.”
“It can wait.”
“It can’t wait. And you never know what the
children might get up to. Youd better go.
“All right. I’ll go tomorrow.”
“Well, get away early,” she admonished, “and
bring the kiddies down next week. I might be able to
go back with you then.”
“Yes,” he agreed.
“Tell Vonnie to see that baby’s frock is washed.
I meant to do it before I came away, but”
“I know. I’ll tell her.”
“And tell her”—she was fighting hard to keep
up the assumed indifference —“tell her if I shouldn’t
be home for a week or two to look after the younger
ones.”
“I’ll tell her, Flo. Good-bye for now.”
He paused at the door and looked back, then
his steps went squeaking down the hall, leaving an
empty silence.
After the sound of his steps had died away she
lay staring at the ceiling. She wished now that she
hadn’t said all those things about the horses and the
garden. She’d never be able to tell him that she hadn’t
meant half of it. Funny all the things you said that,
you didn’t mean.
AFTER tea the night he got home Tom took a
hammer and nails and fixed a barrier along the top
of the fence to protect the dahlias. Kennie went with
him to hold the lantern and found his father^ quite
friendly, calling him “my son” and saying How
does she look now?” after each piece of wire was
nailed up, until Kennie said in a burst of confidence,
“It’s funny, dad, that you didn’t think to do this while
mum was home.”
Then his father snatched the lantern from him
and asked him angrily what he meant by staying up
till that hour of the night and to get to bed at once.
After that he put away the hammer and nails and
began to pick up the bits of rope and broken harness
littering the place.
S. M. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date, June 6, 1941.
£100
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL.
The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize is offered as
a practical encouragement of writers
and Australian literature —“Australian being
adopted as a convenient term to include Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and Pacific Islands. All
writers born in these parts are included, no
matter where now residing; so also are bona
fide resident's, no matter where born.
The prize is an annual award of £lOO, which
may be withheld if no entry is considered
worthy. If this should occur in any year, the
prize-money will still be available for the en-
couragement of writers whose work shows
promise, or shall be otherwise awarded as the
judges may recommend or the trustees decide.
Only novels will be eligible for this 1941
Competition. The Prize will be awarded to the
novel that is considered the most outstanding
contribution to Australian literature. Each MS.
must be submitted under a pen-name, with full
name and address in an accompanying sealed
envelope.
The winner will be free to have his or her
winning work published in book form by any
publisher preferred. First refusal of serial rights
to any entries is reserved to “The Bulletin,
payment for such rights being in addition to
the Prize. All other rights—book, stage, radio
and the like —will belong to the author.
Any further details required can be had on
application to the Secretary, S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, Bulletin Office, Box 232 188,
G.P.0., Sydney.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
,/f znfd Urns cfia’ie mellctmcMancllfotmuei
Seppelts
ARUNDEL CASTLE
1 y- ve miles by rail from Victoria Station, London, and considerably less, not as the crow flies but, as would now be expressed, “the aeroplane travels,”
for IST an .nn rV T ndd ’ m thC °° Unty ° f SUSSCX ’ and f ° Ur miICS fr ° m the mouth of the river Arun - This river provides a channel navigable
NorMk Th Z' IS thC W ° rld OVCr f ° r thC StatdieSt CaStk in England ’ after Windsor > and the ho ™ of the great ducal family of
VI SP “ SUrm ° UntS the town ’ uch as does Windsor Castle, and it keeps watch and ward over a burgh which dates from the time
° d J and COnferS ° n the “P° ssessor of the castle ” the title of Earl of Arundel. In 1834 the Rev. Mark Aloysius Tierney, M.A., who
died ml 862, published in London History of the Castle and Town of Arundel” (two vols.), and that work still remains the standard authority on the matters
anent the theme with which it deals. Father Tierney happily combined the enthusiasm of the antiquary, great learning and a literary style rendered all
the more charming by its absolute freedom from any suspicion of pedantry. However, to the Castle-at the time of the Conquest (1066) it was rebuilt
by Roger de Montgomerie, but taken from his son, who rebelled against Henry I (1100-113.5). In 1397 it was the scene of an unsuccessful conspiracy
organised by the Earl of Arundel, who was also Archbishop of Canterbury, and the Duke of Gloucester, to dethrone Richard 11. In the Parliamentary
wars of the seventeenth century, it was a stronghold used by contending parties and consequently greatly damaged. Charles, 11th Duke of Norfolk restored
the structure and made it what it now is, one of the most magnificent baronial mansions in the country. The noble family, its owners, have figured with great
prominence in England’s story right down the centuries. The Duke of Norfolk is the premier peer of Britain, and Hereditary Earl Marshal and Chief Butler
ot England, duties entailing all the arrangements for the coronation of the sovereign. In addition, the Duke is the lay head of the Roman Catholics.
The present Duke, Bernard Marmaduke Fitzalan-Howard, was born in 1908, succeeding to the title in 1917. Though not the oldest commoner family in
England that distinction belongs to an equally celebrated family, particularly in the history of the Catholic Church, the Vaughans, Courtfield Castle, in West
Gloucestershire, being its ancient family seat—the Howards go back to high antiquity. Arundel Castle in 1940 happily escaped the “devilish destructive
lust of Nazi bombers. All must hope similar good fortune will still attend it. It is not devoid of interest to recall that the first coach ever publicly seen in
England was the equipage of Henry Fitzalan, Earl of Arundel, Steward of the Household to Queens Mary and Elizabeth. The vehicle was a French invention.


OUT OF THE PAST.
“Where did you come from, cobber?”
“Gallipoli Landing.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Whstralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings iopp. G.P.0. ),
W ellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Counlr,
and interstate cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreignj:
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, I Is.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
"SOMEONE HAS BLUNDERED."
In the fifth week of the Italian crime against Greece,
while Hitler was still an inert, and probably cynical,
spectator, getting all the information he could possibly
want from the consulate and legation staffs and Fifth
Columnists he maintained in the little kingdom, it
was here suggested (B. 4/12/’4O) that he might be
setting a trap for us:
On the face of it, Mussolini’s luckless adventure is
in conflict with Hitler’s present policy or pose. Did
Hitler sanction it, hoping that Britain, led by the enthusi-
astic Mr. Churchill, would rush large forces to Greece,
and thus give him the opportunity of bringing about
another and worse Narvik at a much more unfavorable
time for his enemy? This must have been suspected in
London; anyway, the temptation to send another British
army to the Continent was resisted, the job of helping
Greece being assigned to the Royal Navy and the Royal
Air Force.
As the campaign proceeded the Italians were placed
on the defensive in Albania, At the same time they
were chased from pillar to post in Libya, and had to
contend with a well-planned attack on their East
African colonies. They also suffered repeated defeats
in the Mediterranean, and were obliged to go in for
rationing on a desperate scale. It became “necessary
for Hitler to rush to Mussolini’s rescue so as to keep
Italy in the war” (B. 26/2/’4l). He sent Stukas to
Sicily, but they “failed to relieve the position in the
Central Mediterranean or in North Africa.” There
remained “the coercion of Greece, by threats of actual
invasion ; and all the signs indicate that coercion is
about to be attempted.”
It will mean that great decisions will have to be
taken by the British Government. According to the
Ambassador to Rumania, the Germans had 350,000
men in that country before he left Bucharest, and they
must have been strongly reinforced since. It will
be terribly difficult and dangerous to throw a British
army into Salonika sufficient to cope with such forces,
though it might be possible to defend the Morea ; and,
in any case, Crete can be held.
Mr. Eden has been sent to Egypt again, together
with the Chief of the Imperial General Staff. It is
to be hoped that the Government in London will act
on the advice of Wavell, Cunningham and Longmore,
and not let political considerations determine its course
of action if its able commanders take the stand that
military considerations are paramount.
The Chief of the Imperial General Staff is Sir
John Dill. Before he left London he warned the
British public that Hitler “might be forced to attempt
an invasion” of the United Kingdom. Mr. Churchill
repeated the warning and referred to the threatened
invasion as “the greatest issue of the war.”
Everything is ready, but we must all be prepared
to meet gas attacks, parachute attacks and glider
attacks.
Last week he said that “everything depends on
the Battle of the Atlantic. The only way we can
get through 1942 without a great contraction of our
war effort is by gigantic building of merchantmen in
the United States.”
The “great decisions” were left to Generals Dill
and Wavell and Mr. Eden. That gentleman, who has
set a strange precedent for a war-time Foreign Secre-
tary by resuming the pilgrimages he began when
Minister to the League—the first was to Moscow —
went from Cairo to Ankara, and from Ankara to
Athens, always accompanied by the C.1.G.5.; and the
pair would have gone on to Belgrade if Prince Paul,
the since-deposed Regent, had been willing to receive
them. Their great object was the formation of “a
united defensive front,” backed by “60 or 70 divi-
sions” of Greeks, Turks and Yugoslavs.
This project had the blessing of Mr. Churchill, if
he was not its actual author. Unfortunately only the
Greek Government was ready to come in. The
Turkish Government refused to commit itself. Prince
Paul and the Tsvetkovitch Government were arrang-
ing to carry Yugoslavia into the Axis camp. No
doubt the difficulties and perils inseparable from send-
ing a British army over the water to a country in-
fested with German officials and spies were placed
fully before the Greeks. Their reply was in the
heroic style ; “they would fight to the death against
Italy and Germany, even if they were left unsupported”
by their British guarantor. This appeal to British
honor and gratitude was so effective that the two
generals and Mr. Eden agreed not only to transfer a
great part of the Army of the Nile to Greece but to
place the British commander, General Maitland
Wilson, under the direction of the Greek c.-in-c. The
War Cabinet, for its part, “unanimously approved
their decision, after consultation with the Dominion
Governments concerned.”
Neither in 8.8.C.’s account of the origins of the
expedition nor in Mr. Churchill’s statement on it was
there any mention of Admiral Cunningham or Air
Chief Marshal Longmore. It is inconceivable that
they were kept in ignorance of what was pending, but
—considering the great part they have played in the
campaigns against the Italians, their unrivalled know-
ledge of the situation affecting their commands, and
the enormously increased responsibilities and dangers
which they, their officers and men would have to
accept —surely they should have been invited to take
part in the discussions and to vote. If this was not
done, it was an appalling blunder, and worse.
It was known in February that what was left of
the Italian army and air force in Tripolitana was being
reinforced by Germans from Sicily and Italy. The
establishing of a British front in Greece would mean
that Longmore would have to meet this growing
menace with seriously weakened forces. Cunningham,
for his part, would be obliged to concentrate on pro-
tecting the troopships going to Greece. This the
Royal Navy and the associated airmen did with
consummate skill and courage, and the grand old
merchant navy rose to the occasion, as always. It
transpires that the Battle of Cape Matapan was
fought to prevent the Italian navy getting among
troopships carrying Australians. But while our war-
ships were thus occupied many more Germans must
have crossed over to Tripolitana, and while the land-
ing of the army in Greece was being acclaimed it
was admitted that the enemy was thrusting rapidly
and dangerously towards Egypt.
For this startling intelligence the public was quite
unprepared. It had been fed with fatuously confident
messages from Cairo and London. There was nothing
at ail to be alarmed about; the Germans were wel-
come to the desert over which they had sped ; true,
they had taken Benghazi, but Benghazi was unimpor-
tant ; strong British forces were being sent by sea
to Tobruk, and at Tobruk the advance would be
stopped. So it went on till Mr. Churchill, speaking
on April 9, described the loss of Benghazi as “injurious,
because of the valuable airfields about it,” and ac-
knowledged that “we must expect hard and severe
fighting, not only for the defence of Cyrenaica, but
for the defence of Egypt.”
The Prime Minister explained that the Germans
had “made a rapid attack in greater strength than our
commanders expected so early.” Of some of those
commanders the Empire heard next day—from the
other side. Three, Generals Neame, O’Connor and
Gambier-Parry—six, the enemy said —had been cap-
tured, along with 2000 other prisoners. “Impossible,”
Cairo G.H.Q. exclaimed, referring to the number of
prisoners, but it was all too true. There followed the
fall of Bardia and the enveloping of Tobruk, and
at the beginning of the week fighting was in progress
on the Egyptian border.
Meanwhile the news from the Balkans was
gloomy in the extreme. It must be allowed that the
arrival of so many British imperial divisions encour-
aged the patriot Serbs to fight rather than yield to the
Axis yoke; but Yugoslavia was a house divided
against itself, and, in any case, its military position
was bad. Crucified by Goring’s bombers, deserted by
the Croats and attacked at several points by the
German and Italian armies, with the faithless Hun-
garians coming in for their cut, the Serbs were soon
in desperate straits. And the Germans fell as savagely
on Greece. Coming down from Bulgaria, they drove
through to Salonika, and, farther east, they thrust a
wedge between the Greeks and the Turks—who
promptly proclaimed themselves devastatingly neutral.
On Monday English-speaking people were breath-
lessly awaiting news of the inevitable German on-
slaught on Wilson’s army, which had taken up strong
positions in mountainous country. They had learned
that morning of the signing of a Russo-Japanese pact
pledging each party to respect the territorial integrity
of the other, and to “observe neutrality in the event
of military action being taken against one of the
parties by a third Power or other Powers.”
Two months ago, when nobody could have had
any forewarning of the change that has come over
the situation in one crowded, terrible week, the War
Advisory Council told “the people of Australia” that
“the war” had “moved to a new stage, involving the
utmost gravity.” This has come true, and before an-
other week has passed desperate measures may be
necessary. If matters go from bad to worse the Gov-
ernment should not hesitate to proclaim that a national
emergency has arisen, and that it is taking over and
will exercise all necessary powers.
Justice to the Dead.
Having mortally offended Sydney’s “Daily Telegraph”
in his lifetime because, among other sins of omission,
“he did not fly once, nor send his Foreign Minister, to
see Stalin,” Neville Chamberlain, though dead these
five months, is not to be left in peace. By arrangement
with “Time,” the “Daily Telegraph” printed
that American magazine’s report of an auction
sale at the Chamberlain home, the headline being
“Munich Epilogue.” One paragraph is enough.
With little enthusiasm, women souvenir-hunters and
second-hand dealers bid for the rest, a motley collec-
tion of juvenile books, pottery, bedraggled furniture.
How like “Time” and how like the “Telegraph”!
Stalin, according to the “Telegraph,” fashioned
“the greatest fighting machine history has ever
known, the Russian Red Army,” and held it at the
service of the democracies. How much truth there
was in these assurances has been borne in on the
minds of Poles, Finns, Letts, Estonians, Lithuanians,
Rumanians and Serbs, and of democrats throughout
the English-speaking world. Chamberlain strove for
peace in his own way and failed. History will judge
him on that score, and it may be a lot kinder to
him than contemporary flapper papers and American
periodicals. It will certainly acquit him of the charge
that he left his country unprepared for the war that
he tried to avert —and not only because he gained a
precious year.
Chamberlain was Chancellor of the Exchequer
for six years (1931-37) and Prime Minister and First
Lord of the Treasury for three years (1937-40). During
the greater part of his nine years pacifism was in
fashion, and the League of Nations Union was a
power. A Labor Government had economised at the
expense of the fighting services, even the Royal Navy.
Laborites and Liberals, while demanding “action”
here, there and everywhere —especially in Spain—
denounced and regularly voted against preparedness.
Not till the middle of 1939 did they abandon this
“policy” ; then they fell in behind the Chamberlain
Government when it introduced conscription. In the
sense in which Chamberlain found the necessary
money and sanctioned radical changes in equipment,
organisation and leadership, the Navy, Army and Air
Force, as the world now knows them, are fruits
of Chamberlain’s work.
Under commanders appointed in Chamberlain’s
time, and using methods, warships, machines (notably
Hurricanes and Spitfires) and weapons which date
from the same period, all three services have done
wonders. When all our allies had been struck down
they saved the Empire from invasion and, swiftly
passing to the offensive, administered dreadful defeats to
Italy. They have all had their bad days —in some cases
because grave risks had to be taken, in others because
military strategy was subordinated to political necessi-
ties, real or imagined—but in training, organisation
and equipment they have never been found wanting.
There has been no instance in this war of three
armored cruisers and 1500 officers and men being use-
lessly sacrificed in the North Sea, as was the case with
the Cressy, Aboukir and Hogue. There has been no
counterpart to Coronel, where two armored cruisers,
manned by reservists and weak in guns and gunnery,
were abandoned to a dreadful fate. It has not had to
be written, as was written after Jutland, that three
battle-cruisers were lost with nearly all their officers
and men (a fourth was saved only by the miracle
of an order given by an officer as he lay dying) because
their armor protection was insufficient and their
turret construction defective. And there has been
no “serious dislocation of the war plans,” as there
was in 1914, because “the British mines were defec-
tive and no suitable booms had been designed”
{Encyclopedia Britannicd) —“squibs” was Fisher’s
term for the “mines.”
When the last war broke out Mr. Churchill had
been First Lord of the Admiralty for upwards of
three years. He it was who appointed Jellicoe Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Grand Fleet. On Jellicoe and
Jutland, the soberest and most authoritative of British
encyclopaedias pronounced this severe judgment:
It must be admitted that the Commander-in-Chief’s
tactics were characterised by excessive caution. His con-
ception of tactics is to be found in a letter to the
Admiralty of October 30, 1914, which really consti-
tutes a negation of the battleship and of battle-fleet
tactics. The principles formulated in that letter were
followed at Jutland, though defence of these principles
or of the tactics of the British Fleet at Jutland must lead
with stern and irrefutable logic to the proposition that
the battleship is an instrument of the past.
It was reserved for Admiral Cunningham,
appointed Commander-in-Chief in the Mediterranean
by the Chamberlain Government and flying his flag
in a reconditioned Jutland battleship, to shatter the
Jellicoe conception of the battleship and of battle-fleet
tactics in one of the grandest demonstrations of British
sea-power ever given.
This is not written with any intention to disparage
Mr. Churchill’s services as Prime Minister. He took
control in desperate days and fired the nation with his
eloquence just when it needed such a tonic. By his
energy and indomitable spirit he became an example
to the whole Empire. And because of his American
associations, his understanding of the American tem-
perament, his gift of language and —yes—his opposi-
tion to Munich, he did far more than Chamberlain or
any other Englishman could have done to bring about
the momentous and perhaps decisive change in Ameri-
can policy. Unlike his predecessor, he has thus far
had unanimous press support, and certain of the news-
papers which extol him have lavished indiscriminate
praise on his Ministers. Some of these gentlemen are
far from being miracle-workers —disquieting facts have;
come to light about the situation in the Labor, Trans-
port and Shipping departments—but most of them,
following their leader and working on ready-made
plans, seemed to have made excellent use of the un-
surpassed mechanical skill and resourcefulness of their
race, and of its capacity for extreme exertion, to the
point of self-sacrifice, in time of peril. Mr. Churchill
has his own responsibilities to answer for. Dakar
was one, and he, more than any other man —and, next
to him, his Foreign Secretary—will have to account
for the expedition to Greece and the weakening of the
forces in Egypt. But when things go wrong he never
looks for a scapegoat, being generous to a fault. And
when he has occasion to mention his predecessor it is
always in felicitous terms.
And, though he may have been a poor judge of
furniture, Chamberlain gave his country excellent
value for the money he found for the forces, and his
service Ministers were very good pickers of men.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Income Tax in Two Countries.
When the war broke out the standard rate of British
income tax was 7s. in the £. Surtax was Is. 3d. in
the £ on £2OOl, rising to 9s. 6d. in the £ on £30,001
and upwards. The standard rate is now to be 10s.
in the £. Surtax rates, as increased last year, begin at
2s. in the £ on £2OOl, rising to 9s. 6d. on £21,001.
Prodigious!
Yet for people in modest circumstances the posi-
tion is not so bad as it may seem. In Britain, though
not in Australia, the taxpayer is granted deductions
for any aged or incapacitated relative he maintains
(even a widowed mother-in-law), and for any unem-
ployed relative he keeps off the dole. At 65 a tax-
payer with £5OO of property income is allowed a de-
duction of one-sixth, and he can claim it if his wife
has reached that age ; if the income in such cases
exceeds £5OO there is a smaller allowance. These par-
ticular concessions are examples to Australian Govern-
ments, particularly the one in Victoria, where it has
been the custom for many years to impose double the
personal-exertion rates on investment income of old
people past working. Moreover, the British allow-
ance for children, £6O per child before the war, is still
£5O per child.
Last year single persons on £l2O, childless married
persons on £l6O, persons with one child on £220, and
others with two children on £3OO, were exempt from
tax. They are all to be taxed small amounts this year,
but their taxes are to be “offset after the war by
Savings Bank credits.” The same provision, though
not to the extent of the additional taxation, is to be
made for other groups. None of our seven Treasurers
has ever hinted at doing the like in this country.
In other respects British income-tax methods are
models to the people who levy the multitude of income
taxes in Australia. The financial year ends on March
31, and the income-tax year begins on April 6. The
Budget is always introduced about that time. So,
unless an unforeseen emergency arises, the taxpayer
knows almost from the beginning what he will have
to find during the ensuing twelvemonth and can pre-
pare his budget accordingly. This is out of the ques-
tion in Australia, where the seven Parliaments never
meet until months after the beginning of the financial
year (July 1), and Treasurers never bring in their
Budget until three, four, five or even six months have
gone. Then, as a rule, each gentleman proceeds to
tax incomes regardless of what the other fellows are
doing, and in the result the taxes on persons in the
same income groups differ in every State.
Mr. Fadden, introducing on Nov. 21 the income-
tax proposals which he obligingly altered when the
Opposition objected, pleaded that “the great variation
in State rates considerably hampers Commonwealth
taxation at all points of the scale.” But instead of
ordering the State Governments to conform to the
Commonwealth scale he hastily altered the Common-
wealth scale to conform to theirs, in the process grab-
bing too much from middle incomes and too little
from those in the higher group. Then he decided
to collect the tax imposed for the year to June 30,
1940, by weekly instalments, a thing which some of
the State Governments were already doing ; hence, in
many cases, the exaction of far more than the amount
actually due. Red trade-union leaders capitalised the
discontent thus caused, and the overtime strikes in
munition factories broke out. In many other in-
stances there has had to be drastic tightening of belts,
and there will be pyramids of appeals for refunds to
departments whose refund machinery, if it exists at
all, is in bad working order, and which are all
centred in the Big Cities. In Britain a person entitled
to a refund has merely to submit the evidence “to
the Inspector of Taxes in the locality where the tax-
payer resides.”
At the latest reckoning Australia had 12 income
taxes. And because they are enacted and altered at
any old time, there is a shocking waste of time, paper
and money, together with continual worry for busi-
nessmen and office accountants, rank injustice to indi-
viduals and sections, large-scale dodging (a lot of it
quite legal) and endless confusion. Using the national-
emergency powers the Commonwealth Government
could scrap all the State imposts and give the country
one simple, equitable and comprehensible tax; but
such a task is too much for such a Government.
Did Wavell Weaken?
“Ek Dum”: “After weighing all the hazards of a
British expedition to Greece, General Wavell, Sir John
Dill and Mr. Anthony Eden decided on this course.”
So we were told by 8.8. C. A communique announc-
ing the arrival of the expeditionary force in Greece,
the preliminary hazards having been overcome —
thanks to the Royal Navy, the Fleet Air Arm and the
merchant navy —declared that the British War Cabinet,
after “full consultation with the Dominions con-
cerned,” had “unanimously approved” of the Wavell-
Dill-Eden (or Eden-Dill-Wavell) decision.
Presently Lord Moyne, speaking for the Govern-
ment in the House of Lords, found it necessary to
explain that “the abandonment of Benghazi was a
direct result of the necessity to reinforce the Greek
army.” His Lordship added that the enemy had
launched his blow on Cyrenaica when a large portion
of our armored force had been withdrawn for “re-
juvenation,” but he was positive that “the loss of
Cyrenaica would be a small price to pay for the de-
cision to stand by Britain’s gallant ally.” Millions
will fail to see it.
Wavell’s views on the 1915-18 Middle East war
may be recalled. In his book on the Palestine cam-
paign he pointed out that “the original object of our
maintaining a force in Egypt was simple and definite.”
The role of that force “was that of a detachment
guarding a vital main line of communication.” The
reasons for the adoption of an offensive policy he
regarded as largely political:
The conduct of our war against the Turks shows
how objectives originally clear and simple become
clouded, and even lost to sight, in the turbid atmo-
sphere of war councils. Our only real interest in the
direction of Palestine was the safety of the Suez Canal,
and in Iraq in protecting the Persian oilfields. Yet in
1918 two great armies, based on Egypt and Basra, almost
the furthest points from the heart of Turkey, were
invading Turkey in unco-ordinated fashion. It is easy
to criticise, but not easy to find the correct alterna-
tive.
The same may be said of the present situation.
The Canal and the oil supply are still primary ob-
jectives. To these must be added the need to keep a
Mediterranean naval base at Alexandria ; the need
to safeguard the Imperial air routes, of which Egypt is
the needle’s eye ; the new necessity to guard African
land routes to the south, routes which have been
opened since last war by the improvement of roads
and of mechanised transport.
Yet the bulk of the army nearest to the facilities
which our operations in the Middle East have been
aimed at protecting was moved 400 miles across
perilous waters to face a German army greater in
numbers and mechanised strength and with immeasur-
ably better communications. This, too, when the
Germans were known to be gathering strength in
North Africa.
Did politicians decide the matter? Generals (and
admirals) are notoriously tongue-tied in the pres-
ence of politicians who have set their hearts on par-
ticular military plans. This was the case before
the Gallipoli campaign was launched, though the
general in question was Kitchener, and the admiral
was Fisher,
Utterly Disgraceful.
The day on which Australians learned that thousands
of their soldiers had arrived in Greece was celebrated
in Australia by two large-scale work-stoppages. Both
had, of course, been arranged beforehand, but neither
was called off when the momentous news circulated
among the parties. On the contrary, it was decided in
one case that the stoppage should continue indefinitely,
and in the other that there would be an encore three
days later if the boss failed to “concede our demands”
—and an encore there was.
In the first case, upwards of 1000 Sydney gas-
workers went on strike for “improved working con-
ditions.” Their conditions were already better than
those under which the average unionist not employed
by a public utility does his toil, as is indicated by the
“demands”: (1) three months’ leave on full pay after
10 years, and six months on full pay after 20 years ;
(2) an extra week’s annual leave on full pay ; (3) an
extra week’s sick leave on full pay. Other demands
were for increased wages, it being alleged that the
employees have received none since 1934. But they
have received cost-of-living increases from time to
time.
The union leaders allowed that the companies
concerned make weekly contributions to super-
annuation schemes, but object that they are trifling
in the case of wages men —Is. 3d. a week. Still, heaps
of workers not employed by gas companies would
like to change places with them. It is also alleged that
the companies can afford to pay increased wages and
grant the extra leave demanded. This is denied. As
a matter of fact, gas cos.’ dividends are limited by
N.S.W. law to 6 p.c., and, because expenses have
soared and the Sydney Government has refused to
permit an increase of charges, dividends are down to
5 p.c. They will go lower still unless the Government
conforms to the spirit of its own legislation. One
result is that people who bought gas shares in
the last year or two and have had to sell them to pay
income tax or meet other obligations have suffered
a loss of capital, the market value of shares in one
of the companies concerned having fallen from 245. 3d.
to 19s. 3d.
Nearly all the men concerned are employed at
the Mortlake works, and they staged a stay-in strike.
This sorry imitation of the crazy outbreaks that con-
tributed to the fall of France ended on the second
day, when the police induced the stay-in gentry to
quit the premises and return to their homes, though
the strike went on.
The other stoppage was in S.A., the men respon-
sible being Government railwaymen. Declaring that
they were tired of waiting for a Federal award (they
had a State award but decided to go to the other shop)
they held up the railways for a day (though trains
carrying munition workers were run with the assist-
ance of officers whose association didn’t join the
strike), and then returned to work, talking of another
stoppage three days later. The department which em-
ploys these men has been bankrupt for many years. It
is reckoned to have done rather well when it loses only
£700,000 in a twelvemonth. In other words, it has
thousands of men employed unprofitably, and, but
for the forbearance of the taxpayers and severe restric-
tions on commercial road transport, they wouldn’t
be employed at all. From July 1 such as are family
men with two or more children under the age of 16
are to get ss. per week per child. So, of course, are the
dissatisfied Sydney gas-workers. This consideration,
though very important to the people who have to
find the money, has been ignored in both instances.
Australia owes a great deal to unions which are
pulling their weight in the war effort, as so many are.
But it can have nothing but contempt for the kind of
unionism which impels men possessed of good and
sheltered jobs, and enjoying the protection of indus-
trial arbitration, to choose the very crisis of the war
which has become a desperate struggle for existence
to down tools in a selfish and disgraceful effort to
extort concessions. That sort of unionism would be
better dead.
The Sydney Show.
The wanderer in the multitude at Sydney’s Royal
Show last week, searching for something significant
in such a display at such a time, must have been pri-
marily impressed by the Australian characteristic of
strict attention to the business in hand.
This must have been particularly obvious to the
vociferous newsboys, especially the one who struggled
through a crowd round a dairy judging ring crying
“Victoria Park Acceptances!” Not a head turned,
not an eye lost its concentration on the beautiful lines
of the bovine queens under the judge’s hand. When
the Acting-P.M. and a cohort of “heads” bustled
through to get photographed in front of the military
display, few took any notice except to grunt “Mind
where y’re going.”
It is doubtful if the R.A.S. ever had a more
impressive display of pure-bred livestock. Beef and
dairy cattle from three States showed that Australian
breeders, comparative newcomers to the game, had
reached a standard as good as any. But it was the
horses that stood out. From Clydesdales down to
Shetlands they literally crowded the ring. It could
truly have been called a horse show, a matter of some
significance in a country without its own petrol
supplies.
It was also a woman’s show. An entire pavilion
was given over to them. A pasty-faced flapper
covered with pimples could have entered one door,
absorbed the lessons and come out at the other fit
to contest a beauty competition. The country rolled
in and gazed at a team of fillies “modelling” bathing-
gowns. One fair exquisite described them. Said the
audience “She can talk, Bill.” “Oh, my word,” was
the endorsement.
As a whole, the Show is a picture of Australia.
Nobody exploring it could fail to be impressed with
the way a hard, unruly, capricious land has been
tamed and made to produce an excess of primary
riches. It is not so much a testimony of the produc-
tivity of the soil as of the toil and skill of the people
who have made it produce. And it is so splendidly
Australian. Vice-royalty moves through the crowd
in plain clothes and fears nothing ; a stud hand nods
cheerfully to vice-royalty and fears nothing. A
country capable of producing the men who produce all
these things should fear nothing. It seems it doesn’t,
though things get pretty tough at times.
It was a good idea to hold the Sydney Show—
at first it was decided to abandon it —for without it
Easter wouldn’t seem the same to eastern Australia.
It marks another season gone, a hard and troublesome
season, but a sight of the country’s wealth and poten-
tial power, grouped impressively under the eye for a
short space, should resolve many doubts, cheer many
hearts and brighten the future.
Alpha.
“Nutto”: There periodically falls into my hands a
publication known 'as “Economic News,” issued
monthly by the Queensland Bureau of Industry. The
science, art, hobby or obsession of economics has
always been too deep for me, a person limited to a
study of how to pay the rent, feed the family and
have two bob each way Hatrack each week without
losing the milkman’s confidence. Still, nobody could
fail to be interested in a peculiar animal discovered
by the bureau and given the name Alpha, though
whether it earned this title for being first or for
purity must remain one of those mysteries ever asso-
ciated with Government bureaux.
To describe Alpha one must go back to the nine-
teenth century and a certain Pareto, who thought he
had discovered a natural law when he stated that
great inequality of wealth and income was inevitable
in all communities and self-perpetuating. What he
did discover, according to the Queensland bureau,
was “a most interesting and useful mathematical law,
expressed as follows”:
That if there are n incomes at or above the level x,
Then log n log A Alpha log x,
Where A depends on population and average income,
but Alpha is independent of both of these and repre-
sents solely the comparative inequality of distribution.
I am not questioning the bureau’s claim that this is
“useful,” but I would like to know if the use of the n
is a deliberate dig at blokes like me who have “n
[for no] incomes at or above the level x” and conse-
quently are liable to wonder how much it costs us
for these Government experts to work out these
dazzling puzzles.
As for Alpha, the beast appears to be a sort of
co-efficient of the income distribution in any com-
munity, hence the lower the value of Alpha the more
unequal the distribution of incomes. This leads the
bureau to the astounding flash of insight that if one
person owned all the income Alpha would equal nil,
if all incomes were evenly distributed Alpha would
be infinite. “But,” remarks the bureau sagely, “these
limits do not succeed in conveying what Alpha means
in ordinary experience.”
It takes 2\ closely-printed quarto pages to’prove
all this. What it means to captains of industry and
the wage-plugs must wait on the day when all things
shall become one and the tale of judgment is told. I,
for one, can now await that day with resignation, for
I realise that our Austral democracy is firm in the
grip of the bureaucrat, and that though this sovereign
State of Queensland become the happy home of
10,000,000 people it will never, never succeed in break-
ing Alpha in either to bails or harness.


Sociey
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“T.”: As they tell the story in Ail
Force camps, a lady war worker was
bespeaking support from both sexes for
a “function” she was arranging. In
shrill accents she said “I want you all
to help in some way ; yes, all of you.
And when I say ‘all’ I mean the offisahs’
ladies, the non-commissioned offisahs’
wives and the men’s women.” Then
another war began.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Prof. Burstall, of Mel-
bourne’s University School of Engineer-
ing, has been stimulated by recent
tragedies of death from thirst in the desert
and on the ocean to investigate the possi-
bilities of a gadget for distilling the mois-
ture from the human breath,
and he is so sure he has got
it that he recently de-
monstrated his apparatus
and made the University a
present of the patent rights.
He seems to have proved
beyond question that by
breathing into the mouth-
piece of his device an in-
dividual can distil 10 centi-
metres of pure water an hour
—enough to fill an eggcup—
and the machinery weighs
only 61b. Col. Lindbergh de-
vised a similar apparatus,
but his required water to put
it in operation. Prof. Bur-
stall’s can be used in the desert,
where the only moisture available is the
80 p.c. included by the Creator in the
owner’s body. The first person to be
equipped with the apparatus will be one
of the nor’-west flying doctors.
* * * *
“Zake”; My evening paper displayed
an apt and well-drawn cartoon, issued
by the Department of Information, show-
ing a girl munition worker handing a
belt of cartridges to a determined-looking
Digger behind a machine-gun, with other
machine-gunners and a Blitz background.
I looked for a real Australian caption
to top it off. Instead, “Thanks, pal,”
ruined the thing. I have heard the ex-
pression recently it’s a favorite with
gangsters in the fillums, and is invariably
produced through a microscopic slit in the
sides of the mouth, though, miraculously
enough, with a nasal twang. And I heard
it once in Sydney from a pimply-faced
youth, obviously under the spell of the
celluloid, as he acknowledged a fag from
a frowsy street-corner cobber. 1 have
never heard a dinkum Aussie use it.
• * * «
“Bo”: It has long been an axiom that
the easie’st way to amass a big fortune
quickly is to start a new religion in
America. Aimee MacPherson did pretty-
well out of her impressively-staged per-
formances until rifts in the domestic lute
and barneys with Ma pushed her into
affluent retirement. But Aimee’s racket
was a bucket-shop affair compared with
that of the dusky Father Divine. His
latest stunt was to charter a 16-car train
to carry 1000 followers to Philadelphia.
He arrived 15 minutes late, clad in
“pearl grey fedora, blue suit and Oxford
grey topcoat,” to the hysterical hosannas
of his “hierarchy” and “angels,” a trick
he probably picked up from Musso. And,
surrounded by 20 members of his sec-
retariat in his luxurious chair car, he was
whisked away to the distant orgy of
parades, hymn-yelling and fried chicken.
* * * *
“K.”: Sydney’s luxury-minded Water
. Board, which soaks its customers for
stiff rates, socks them extra for excess
water, allows no rebate for water under-
consumed, and slings away on a luxurious
palace money which ought to have been
spent on an adequate pumping system,
has again run true to form. Nepean
dam has, on the admission of one of its
members, been “practically empty for
two years.” Judging by the lugubrious
outlook of its president and the im-
position of further garden-hose restric-
tions, the board’s lack of faith in J.
Pluvius is such that it expects soon to
see nothing in the dam but dry boulders
and dead fish. So what did it decide to
spend £439 on? You’re allowed one guess.
Yes, you’ve got it—a motor-launch for
use on the baked mud waiting for the
rains to come.
* * :{:
“Atrax”: Palestine must be about the
world’s most exasperating country in
which to carry on any kind of business.
The first snag is provided by what
“A pinch of this fertiliser s enough , lady. Jist put it on the seedlings , lady,
an then op out of the Way else they'll choke yer!”
amounts to three Sundays in succession
each week. On Friday the Moslems shut
up shop. On Saturday the Jews close
their doors, and on Sunday the Christians
follow suit. Each, of course, remains
open on the other fellows’ days of wor-
ship and strives to grab their customers.
On top of that come five separate calen-
dars. Western Europeans use the ordi-
nary Gregorian article, but Eastern
churches and their adherents stick to the
Julian calendar, 13 days behind the
Gregorian. The Moslem calendar dates
from the flight of Mahomet, and is about
12 days short of the Gregorian one. The
Jewish calendar sometimes has 13 months
instead of 12, and the Coptic calendar is
different from all the rest.
* * * «
“Hamfat”: The sight of an actor
sitting at a table in Pitt-street selling “art-
union” tickets—he came to Australia on
a £4O-p.-w. contract —awoke memories.
Poverty Point was a precarious locality
even before the cinema dished the Aus-
tralian stage. George Rignold, comment-
ing upon the extravagance of a young
actor who had slipped into a salary big for
the times and was busy spending it, was
asked, “Well, what is a successful actor,
Mr. Rignold?” “A successful actor,”
said Handsome George, “is one whose
wife owns a boarding-house.” And it’s
instructive to remember that one of Aus-
tralia’s greatest mummers, George Tith-
eradge, had a nursery garden which kept
him going during the long spells when
the stage did not want him.
* * * «
“Nakhoda”: Reported that Sir Charles
Vyner Brooke, the “White Rajah” of
Sarawak, has relinquished absolute power
and nominated his brother Bertram as his
heir. Like most dynasties, the Brookes
have had trouble in maintaining the suc-
cession amongst their nearest and dearest.
The first Brooke lost all his children in
the Red Sea, and was willy-nilly obliged
to hand the sceptre on to his nephew,
probably a fortunate matter for Sarawak
His nephew had accompanied the pioneer
Brooke in the uphill fight he had with
headhunters, Chinese rebels and pirates
in the beginning of his amazing career
as the first white man to found an Asiatic
kingdom. The nephew was as good a
man as his uncle. I remember him when,
past 70, he used suddenly to pop out
of the jungle on a district officer in a
remote district and, chatting with him,
find out just how much he knew about
the language, the customs and domestic
problems of his charges. The third rajah
was confronted with the fact that none
of his own children looked like measur-
ing up to their responsibilities. One mar-
ried a London dance-band conductor,
another chose a wrestler, and another
espoused Mohammedanism in sensational
circumstances. Bertram has taken the
trouble to learn something about the vast
country he will be called upon to govern.
* * * *
“Eureka”: In a radio talk an octo-
genarian told how he had got breakfast,
dinner, haircut, shave, bath and shower,
bus ride and a pint of beer for threepence.
Forty years ago ; them was the days!
Breakfast was picked up in a crowded
hotel bar where there was early-morning
counter “lunch”; a haircut and shave
could be had free at a hairdressing college
where young men learnt the trade ; a
bath and shower was on tap gratis at the
Domain baths, and a free bus ride was
provided by a drapery firm which had a
sale in full swing. Later resort could
be had to a tavern which provided an
excellent counter lunch provided you
bought a pint of beer for threepence.
* * * *
“Atrax”; The lonian Sea, where Mus-
solini’s navy has had such a disastrous
experience, contains one of the world’s
unsolved puzzles. In a bay on the coast
of Cephalonia, a largish island- off the
entrance to the Gulf of Corinth, is a
shelf of rock over which the tideless sea
runs steadily and eternally down into the
earth. There is no whirlpool or disturb-
ance, merely a quiet, unending current,
never varying in direction and with no
surface outlet. All attempts to sound
the depths beyond the rim have failed,
and no satisfactory scientific explanation
has been advanced. The calculated volume
of water amounts to many millions of
tons daily, more than sufficient to drain
the Black Sea dry in a year if that body
of water had no sources of reinforce-
ment. The flow has gone on unchanged
throughout recorded history and far
back into prehistoric legend, a period of
at least 6000 years. There is no evidence
in the adjacent coasts to show that their
relation to the present sea level has been
altered during that period except by
occasional slight earthquake action. The
local idea is that the salt water is turned
into steam in the earth’s interior fires
and thence rises to condense and form
fresh-water springs all over the world.
* ♦ * «
“Ike Hollar”; Henry Lawson (B.
2/4/’4l) had a horror of sub-editors.
There was hardly a verse manuscript of
his in which he did not offer a choice of
some words, usually adjectives. He
would set the alternatives one over the
other in the line as “dearest/heartfelt/
urgent/dreamful,” Henry boiled for a
week once when a word not in his
offering was used. There was no man
kinder to Lawson than J. B. Dailey, but
in this case Dailey was the sub, and
Lawson never forgave him. “What right
has he to alter my stories?” he used to
demand. “1 write for posterity, not for
Jaclc Dailey.”
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”; The milkos who went on
strike in Melbourne for a six-day week
have my sympathy. Delivering the stuff
which Melburnians put in their tea
(although the Chinese, who originated
the beverage, say that it spoils tea) is a
cold, dreary, lonely and monotonous
operation which yet requires a high de-
gree of mental concentration. The bottles
freeze in the milko’s hands as they race
in the dark across 10,000 suburban allot-
ments beset with all sorts of gins and
pitfalls. That they think they have a
grievance is shown by the fact that,
having been offered a rise of eight bob
a week and 14 days off every six
months, they prefer one day’s respite a
week. For the last 30 years my milko
has been going his rounds through rain,
sleet and fog, and recently he was given
a fortnight’s holiday. I met him riding
around on his bike at three in the morn-
ing. “What on earth are you doing?”
I asked him. “Well, you see,” he re-
torted, “now I’ve got my holiday I find
I can’t sleep at night and there’s no films
to go to or radio to listen to and I hate
reading books. If I didn’t do this I’d
go off my rocker.”
* * * *
“Sing 9”: Most noticeable feature of
this year’s Sydney R.A, Show was the
absence of motor-cars on exhibition.
Where in previous years you could spend
a day among sleek and gleaming models,
dreaming of what you could do if your
next lottery ticket landed the money or
discussing technical points with a sales-
man who mistook you for a rich agricul-
turist, only four firms displayed cars. I
had to do my dreaming in the pavilion
where they showed live models in bathing
costumes. They were pretty sleek, too.
•*••••
“Clooter”: A frequent watcher of ring
events at Sydney’s R.A. Show I have
watched press cameramen grouped aboiu
the jumps day after day. As each con-
testant comes over the cameras go up
and follow the leap. I always expect
to buy newspapers full of jumping pic-
tures, but see very few, and was greatly
puzzled thereat until I discovered that all
the cameramen were waiting for some-
body to fall. I made the discovery one
day when, near a jump in the shadow of
the stand, avoided by the cameras be-
cause of bad light, a girl rider came
down. Every cameraman on the ground
at once galloped to the scene, but the lady
was unhurt. As two of them tore past
me I overheard: “It would blanky well
happen at that jump!”
* * *
“J.H.M.A.”; The heroic behavior of
the common people of London under
Hermann Goring’s Blitzkrieg reminds me
of a remark Rudyard Kipling made to
me many years ago concerning the Eng-
lish villager. “You fellows from the
outer parts—Australians, Canadians,
New Zealanders, South Africans —think
you’re pretty smart, but for cunning,
savoir-faire and native gameness I’ll
back these Sussex chawbacons against
any of you any day. Giles is about as
sharp and plucky as they make ’em.”
The villager of London Town seems to
bear this out. He is wise enough to
know that if he caves in to the appalling
distresses that afflict him day and night
from overhead he’s a gone coon. So
whilst he defies the lightning he carries
himself with the amazing collective jaun-
tiness that astonishes friends and enemies,
and instead of regarding total war from
the air as a terror seems only to look
upon it as a passing inconvenience, the
infliction of which will have to be paid
for in due course by its perpetrators.
Though he may regard the latter as
“bleedin’ borstids,” he utterly refuses to
be frightened of them. The guts and
cunning of his country counterpart are
his also. The spirit of Dick Swiveller is
as much alive in him in 1941 as it was
when Dickens set it on record.
THE VEXED PROBLEM.
(Vide “S. M. Herald’s” correspondence
columns.)
You folks whose voices used to soar
Aloft in world-famed German song,
You mustn’t do it any more,
It’s wrong.
The tongue in which the Fiihrer rants,
And Goebbels frames his poisonous
Lies, should be looked upon askance
By us.
Of all the foes who’ve earned our hate
These are the deadliest and the worst.
Their very language we should rate
Accurst.
And if the tunes, like those of birds,
Have naught to show their genesis,
At least we’ll give the telltale words
A miss!
Any achievement musical,
One hears the other side declare,
Ceases to be a national
Affair.
All racial barriers go hang,
Or should, when artist souls aspire
To sweep the mellow harp or twang
The lyre.
Art takes the best of all that’s in
The store of any age or land,
Regardless of its origin
Or brand.
Why should we burke harmonious glees
Or cease to relish ringing verse
Because the stuff is in Chinese
Or Erse?
Well, I must leave them arguing.
One has no claim to cast a vote
Who cannot hum a stave or sing
A note.
But if the Hun is hunted out
From concert-hall and music-shop,
What’s to be done, I ask, about
The Wop?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“C.Q.”; A man charged at Melbourne
with a number of offences had had, it
transpired, a number of convictions. He
was asked his address. “Hell,” he
retorted curtly. The Court received
this description with shocked disapproval
and gave him his old gaol address for the
next year and a quarter.
* * * *
“Wodgil”; This war has produced no
worth-while songs. “The Siegfried Line”
was a dreadful production—and dread-
ful was its fate. “Swinging Along the
Road to Victoree” is poor stuff, and the
only thing that appeals in “The A.I.F. Is
Marching” is the sentiment. The 1914-18
song-writers did better with their “Keep
the Home Fires Burning,” “I Don’t Want
to Lose You,” “He Will Bring You Back
to Me” and “Australia Will Be There.”
Better still were “Soldiers of the Queen,”
“Dolly Grey” and “When the Boys Come
Marching Home” of an older day, and
the Crimean War gave rise to some rous-
ing ditties, such as those about “Cardigan
the Fearless” and “The Seventh Royal
Fusiliers,” which long survived that sloppy
campaign. We junior footballers of the
’nineties, careering through Melbourne in
furniture vans amply supplied with road
metal before the match, never failed to
troll lustily, often through bruised lips,
that we were “fighting with the Seventh
Roy’l Fuseyoulahs, gallant Fuseyoulahs,
noble Fuseyoulahs ; through deadly Rus-
sian shots an’ Cossick spears we carved
our way to glaw-ree.” But the American
Civil War songs are in a class of their
own “Dixie,” “Marching Through
Georgia” and “Maryland, My Mary-
land,” stir the blood still. And some of
the campaign verses of Whitman, Whit-
tier, Bret Harte and the man who wrote
“The Blue and the Grey” were on an
equally high plane.
* * He »
“K.P.”: Great-grandfather’s idea of a
scholar’s library was expressed in heavy
“Make up your mind, Charlie —y cant Wear both!"
mahogany bookcases filled with big solid
folios, quartos and large octavos, all
printed in large, clear type on thick paper.
His descendants today prefer small, light-
weight, handy volumes in smaller type
on thinner paper. It is not a matter
of altered standards of taste in such
matters, but we have better sight and
better lighting than grandpa had. Effec-
tive correction of astig-
matism is a matter of
only a couple of genera-
tions. It stopped Sam
Pepys at 37 from con-
tinning his diary
through a most interest-
ing period of English
history. It made a mis-
anthrope of Carlyle, a
neurasthenic of Darwin
and a melancholic of
D ante. Uncorrected
myopia (short sight)
was the unrecognised
reason for Johnson’s
preference for “manly
editions,” also for the
narrow escape of the
Thrale house from
being burned down by
one of his amateur
chemical experiments.
* *
“V. Cl use”: Our
local drunk climbed
erratically up to the
top deck of the bus,
slumped into a seat and
fell asleep. Halfway to
its destination the bus
broke down and the
passengers were changed into another.
Nobody noticed the sleeper. Along
came a mechanic, who got the engine
going and then ran the bus back to
the depot, where it was parked for the
night. Later, when all was quiet, the
sleeper awoke, muttered “Mush be there”
and wavered down the steps. There he
paused, surveyed the serried ranks of red
buses all round him, shook his head,
looked again, then turned and climbed
back to his seat. “Bloomin’ nightmare,”
he muttered, settling down again ; “thash
what comesh o’ mixin’ rum an* beer.”
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland seems to be taking
its war risks a lot more seriously than
Australia is doing. Recruiting for
emergency fire services is going on apace
in all cities and towns, helped by fiery
speeches from the Minister of National
Service, Bob Semple. He was in his best
form in Wellington on a recent evening,
when he indicated his dislike of a certain
European dictator by referring to him as
“that monster of iniquity, the embodiment
of crime, with a soul like a fiend from
hell.”
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: “Cauboy’s” tale (B.
9/4/’4l) of the sozzled actor who was
so well prompted at the old Palace in
Melbourne that he got a pat on the back
from the critics for being the only
member of the cast who seemed to know
his lines reminds me of another hap-
pening at the same theatre. Just be-
fore the rising of the curtain on the open-
ing performance the leading man arrived
with the contents of half the pubs in
Melbourne inside him. Observing his
condition, the management rushed his
understudy into the breach and put the
great actor to bed on the couch in his
dressing-room. All went well until the
second act. The leading lady was stand-
ing alone on the stage in extremis. Rais-
ing her hands to heaven she cried : “Oh,
if only my beloved were here to help
me!” Simultaneously not one, but two
heroes rushed from the wings and threw
themselves before her. The fumes of
drink having evaporated from his brain,
the leading man had caught the sound of
a familiar cue and, leaping up, uncon-
scious that he was minus his make-up,
had sped to her assistance.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: A feature of Can-
berra’s effort to win the war for the
“I wonder what the lever's for?”
democracies has been to keep depart-
ments back at duty on Wednesday even-
ings. Then the clerk-roosts blaze with
electric glory, office chairs are manned
and files laid out ready for action should
any daring raider attempt the passage
of the Molonglo. The day’s work has
left nothing more to do, and everybody
knows everybody else within his due
clerkly range of acquaintance to the
limit of boredom. Cards and games
within the sacred precincts are frowned
on by Superior Authority. But there’s
one consolation — The Bulletin reaches
Molongloside on Wednesdays.
« * * *
“Ex-C.S.”: After reading through the
latest list of restricted and partially-
restricted imports, I will never again
doubt that civil servants go thoroughly
into things, or that their guiding principle
is always to bear in mind what is best
for the country. How else could they
think of placing a 50 per cent, restriction
on the import of “pigeon flying time-
recording clocks”?
* * * *
From a Young Digger whose father
is a veteran sporting writer:
Things ancient and modern are to be seen
at Jaffa, including—yes—the three-card trick.
Fancy leaving Australia to see that! An Arab and
his buttoners picked me as a good mug. Same
old performance, same old rigmarole. While
the spieler conveniently turned his head, a
buttoner bent down, displayed the queen
and turned up a corner of the card. Then he
proceeded to win in great style, impressing on
me with dumb show that I couldn’t possibly
lose. I was walking away laughing when an-
other Arab, a dignified old boy, came up.
He whispered that I would be a fool to play
that game; the man was a cheat!
* * *
“Colbun”: Amongst the victims of
Nazi bombs has been No. 10 Hyde Park-
place, London’s smallest residence. More
than 300 years old, its under-sft. front-
age was sandwiched between two tali
houses. A 4ft. passageway led to an
iron staircase going up to a room 30ft.
long and as narrow as the passage. By
squeezing past the stair two smaller
rooms could be reached at passage level,
leading to a tiny yard. The only natural
lighting was from a fanlight over the
front door and a window over the yard
from above. The water
supply came from an out-
side tap in the yard. The
only tenant in living memory
had been a pressman who
paid a pound a week rent,
and for years the house had
been used as a storehouse
by its owner, a doctor who
lived next door. The tradi-
tion was that it had been
built to fulfil the conditions
of a seventeenth - century
will which provided that the
legatee should build himself
a town house. Preferring
country life, he bought an
alley between the two neighboring houses
and roofed it in.
* * * =r
“Hui-hui”: Six cobbers of mine had
dropped in for a game of cribbage. They
brought their own liquid reinforcements
and the missus rushed down to the shops
to get some tucker. She came in with
an embarrassed grin, announcing “Some
women ought to be smacked. There’s
one down the road getting undressed and
she hasn’t pulled down the blind.” Ever
since, she and I have been arguing about
the exodus that followed, my contention
being that she should have kept the news
to herself, hers that married men are
worse than single.
“Pawang” winds up a controversy:
“K.P.” says (B. 2/4/ ’4l) the genius doesn’t
necessarily violate society’s conception. Oh,
yes, he does. If he didn’t, he wouldn’t be a
genius. A genius necessarily sees further than
his contemporaries, and what he sees must
violate their conception.
Socrates got the hemlock, not because his
fellow-citizens found him an insufferable bore,
but because what he said shattered their most
cherished prejudices. Even if Rembrandt’s
poverty was the result of his alleged idiotic
extravagance, his extravagance didn’t make his
pictures bad pictures; but society preferred the
pictures of bad painters. If Shelley was a
poseur—he wasn’t, but let us suppose he was—
he was sent down from Oxford for printing a
pamphlet which violated the theological
prejudices of his professors, and I don’t expect
even “K.P.” would say that Shelley was wrong
and the professors were right. If Rodin’s cus-
tomers pleased themselves by rejecting his—to
them —unsatisfactory portrait busts, they pleased
themselves very badly, inasmuch as the said
busts were superlative works of art. “K.P.”
doesn’t know whether Praxiteles had any
trouble or whether he hadn’t, but Phidias had
plenty—he was poisoned by his fellow-citizens.
“K.P.” is extraordinarily unfortunate in his
selection of geniuses who “were extremely
respectable persons.” “K.P.” mentions Pasteur.
Even Australian film fans know what hap-
pened to Pasteur.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A “Herald” reporter toured
Melbourne’s wharves recently in order
to discover just how much an enemy
alien could learn about shipping move-
ments without going inside the gateways
guarded by soldiers with fixed bayonets.
He found that any passer-by could learn
a lot about the names of ships and the
characters of cargoes merely by strolling
along the roadways. But one of his
complaints argues a strange criticism of
the authorities. He observed a ship
berthed so that its nose towered above
the dock fence. To turn the merchant
navy into submarines would be asking
a bit too much of the Australian war
effort.
« * * »
“Renong,” from Western Thailand:
“Feng-Shui” (B. 19/2/’4l) is a bit out when
he says there is a main road between Alor Star
and Bangkok. The only surface connection
between the two places is by rail, a distance of
about 650 miles. There is a road connecting
Alor Star and Thailand, but it goes only as
far as Songkhla or Singora, which is on the
south-east coast, and the distance is roughly
100 miles. Songkhla got its name on the map
when Amy Johnson, Kingsford Smith and other
fliers used the landing-ground there on flights
to Australia.
* * * *
“Sacristan’s” Good Friday par. on
Sydney’s ecclesiastical beginnings:
With infinite difficulty and primarily at his
own expense, the Rev. Richard Johnson, Aus-
tralia’s first parson, built a thatched church in
Sydney. He never succeeded in making his ser-
vices popular, and eventually the place was
burned down, presumably by some of his
reluctant compulsory congregation. Lieut.-
Governor Grose, ruling N.S.W. after Governor
Phillip’s departure in 1792, was particularly
hostile, and the following was one of his methods
of discouraging the chaplain, which Johnson
himself related to Governor Hunter. Grose
had ordained that Sunday service should be
held at 6 a.m., and that it shouldn’t last longer
than three-quarters of an hour. One Sunday
morning the drums beat for church parade.
“I met the soldiers,” said Johnson, “at the
place appointed in the open air. Before I
began I heard the drum-major give directions to
the drummers to beat off at 10 minutes or a
quarter before seven as usual. Suspecting
what was going on, I looked at my watch, read
part of the morning service, then (without any
singing) gave out my text, and had given about
half of my discourse when the drums beat, and
the soldiers instantly got up, took their arms,
fell into their ranks and marched away. Judge
you, sir, what must have been my astonish-
ment and concern. I looked around and saw
about half a dozen convicts standing behind me,
but, such were my feelings upon this occasion,
I could not go on with my discourse and
therefore returned home greatly disturbed in
my mind at such barefaced profanity and in-
fidelity.”
NOT THE THING.
“Any woman who advertises for a husband cannot
expect respect from her friends.” — Woman’s paper.
Her thoughts may lightly turn to matrimony,
Just as a young man’s fancy in the spring;
She’d like to be some lover’s very-owny
To whom, as ivy to the oak, she’d cling,
Some Adam’s Eve, some Paris’s CEnone,
But it’s emphatically not the thing
To pay some newspaper a couple o’ bob
For putting in a tender for the job.
It postulates a glaring opposition
To true romance. It’s definitely crude.
It violates the chivalrous tradition
That, to be won, a woman must be wooed,
The bald acknowledgment, the frank admission
That no aspiring male will be tabooed
Provided that he meets a certain gauge
In height, religion, worldly goods and age.
It’s natural, involving no infractions
Of maiden modesty, to need a mate;
But it invites invidious reactions
Among her friends if she should say so,
straight,
And schedule all the personal attractions
That she’ll contribute to the married state.
It breaks the rules whereby such games are
won;
So someone says; in short, “it isn’t done.”
So, damsels, quit your artless wants declaring
In hackneyed terms that “Personals” reveal.
More subtle means exist for husband-snaring
Than the unblushingly direct appeal.
You widows, too, ripe for a second pairing,
Will find the age-old methods more genteel.
And stay! You’ll note it’s penning that’s for-
bade,
Not merely answering a view mat. ad.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


m
n •!
WmmK'' LJ , ' i
Sf. ' X ■
|1||||§ V .;'£;
Saw?::: : : : <«-.
* SS
✓ j /
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
9981 H
8/1 JO * ®S *POI JOJ 01
MADE SPECIALLY
TO PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
Hopes that the Holt child bonus would
“allay industrial unrest” have crashed
already. Almost as soon as Holt’s bill
had been whirled into law, there were a
railway stoppage in S.A. and a stay-in
strike of gas workers in Sydney. And
threats of another stoppage at Port
Kembla prompted Federal Arbitration
Judge O’Mara to say that his Court
would “not be influenced by the display
of militancy” on the part of men who
had “tried to throw overboard all griev-
ances and misunderstandings and pick
the award they think best.”
The mob that calls itself the N.S.W.
State Labor party is backing the gas
strike. It has also “amended” its “war
and defence policy” to “provide for a
mutual-assistance pact with China and
Russia,” This was done while the cables
and the ether were humming with the
news that Russia and Japan had signed
a neutrality agreement good for five
years. And now perhaps the “party”
and those Port Kembla heroes will de-
mand the re-export of scrap iron to
Japan on the ground that it is a Friend
of Russia.
Britain’s Chancellor of the Exchequer
introduced his stupendous Budget on a
Monday. Anyone ever hear of any of
our seven Treasurers introducing a
Budget on a Monday or of any of our
seven Parliaments sitting on that day?
One virtue of the one-Parliament system
is that the one Parliament knows it is ex-
pected to work; and it generally does.
During the last war the High Court
ruled that there was virtually no limit
to the Commonwealth Government’s
powers in time of war. By virtue of
these powers the present Government is
doing or attempting things which might
be successfully challenged as unconsti-
tutional if introduced in time of peace-
child endowment is one. At the same
time it could free industry from the
plague of conflicting taxes and the in-
terminable worries and unnecessary
labors associated with them by reducing
the income taxes to one and making it in-
telligible. But that it won’t do unless
public opinion forces its hand.
When it was suggested to Fadden that
his Government should unify the con-
fused crowd of taxes so that Australians
with identical incomes and in identical
circumstances, save for being separated
by out-of-date State boundaries, should
pay the same amount of tax, he said it
couldn’t be thought of till the Queensland
and S.A. elections were over. When
they were over he said it was “a matter
entirely for the States.” No ; it is a
matter entirely for Fadden’s Government.
Its own income-tax schedule is a thing
of shreds and patches, because, as he
himself has said, the State imposts vary
so much, and in war-time it has all the
power required to put things right.
Already many Victorians on a nomi-
nal £lOOO a year or so, from which three
or more income taxes are taken, have
been told that the endowment they were
promised will come to less than the
additional income tax they will have to
pay, quite apart from the payroll tax.
Now their Government is talking of
bleeding them further. It has so many
employees that its own payroll tax is ex-
pected to reach £350,000 in the first year,
and it protests that it can’t possibly eco-
nomise to that extent, or to any extent;
so it threatens to bump up its income-tax
rates. By way of compensation it may
take a trifle off its unemployed-relief tax,
there being few unemployed now, and
give it some fancy name.
Two Commonwealth and eight State
members are in the A.I.F. The Com-
monwealth men are Senator Wilson and
Blam, M.H.R. ; the State men are Turner,
Robinson, Arthur, Bate (N.S.W.), Kent-
Hughes, Haworth, Lamb (Vic.) and Mc-
Donald (Tas.). To the end of last month
only Haworth—he is M.L.A. for Albert
Park had received the call to go abroad.
Cooper, the Queensland Labor Treas-
urer, to Forgan Smith at a Victory
Rally;
You have moulded, shaped and stabilised
the party. You have reason, calm judg-
ment, a strong mind, a great heart, true
faith and a ready wit.
“Foggy” was so overcome that he
couldn’t say much more than “the Labor
party has done great work for the coun-
try, the actual significance of which
"Here you are, comrade. Now all we have to do is to trust one another.”
passes people by.” That is what its taxes
never do.
A New York “Times” man has dis-
covered that Menzies is “astonishingly
like Wendell Willkie,” in one respect
especially—“both have the same semi-
rural background.” Possibly this de-
scription of him inspired Bob to bespeak
“a semi-secret session” when he returned.
Cockies have always been of the opinion
that his “rural background,” if any, was
demi-semi.
With one seat (Gregory) in doubt be-
cause floods whirled away many polling
booths (weather permitting, 800-odd elec-
tors are to vote on April 19), Queensland
Labor lost four seats and gained one.
S.A. Labor wound up with 11 seats in
a House of 39. Contemplating these
results, the N.S.W. Ministerial parties,
which are preparing for a May election,
have regained courage. They are now
telling themselves that, though Queens-
land never changes, the people in Our
State will never put Labor in while
there’s a war on.
Voting is not compulsory at S.A. State
elections, and at the recent Assembly poll
only about half the people marked
ballot-papers. They had to choose be-
tween a Ministerial party that denounces
unification and a Labor party that occa-
sionally gives it lip service but would
be terrified if it were made a vital issue,
so their absence is understandable. In
Adelaide, where the superfluous Parlia-
ment hangs out, the number of electors
was 14,319, the number of voters only
5081. Adelaide for Apathy.
A new technique in stunt journalism
is to. find out what the Government is
going to do and insist on its being done
immediately. Then you publish the
official announcement that the thing has
been decided upon and follow with con-
gratulations—(l) to the Minister for
adopting the Policy of the Paper, (2) to
the Government for having such a Min-
ister, and (3) to the country for possess-
ing a paper which is all eyes, ears and
energy in the people’s cause. So far it
has worked.
Craigie, the one lone Single Tax mem-
ber, the last of his clan, has been defeated
in Flinders (S.A.). Labor preferences
put a Ministerialist in. It shows how
times and Labor voters have changed.
A lot of the early Labor members were
Single-Taxers, and it would have been
thought impossible in those days for
Laborites to prefer a Tory to a follower
of Henry George.
Appropriately enough, the last scene
in the 32nd N.S.W. Parliament, now
closed for repairs to the personnel, was
full of recrimination and disorder. The
Rural Bank was mentioned, and Bruxner,
who was in charge of the House,
barked: “If our friends opposite get into
power again and close the Rural Bank,
as they closed the” Then there was
“a chorus of angry interjections from
the Labor benches,” and Bruxner’s
friends joined in, the shouts almost start-
ling the traffic in Macquarie-street. In
the end the rumpus died down, and after
the final adjournment for the election
the combatants told one another what a
wonderful Parliament theirs was.
Last week Fadden found time to
canter out to Sydney’s R.A.S. grounds.
He stood well in front of the military
display and said “Now the people can
see what they pay taxes for.” The people
took a quick look at Artie and moved
off hurriedly to more interesting exhibits.
In Canberra’s gloomy Chamber, Ded-
man, the Geelong man, asked the Acting
Prime Minister whether a gazetted requi-
sition for two lots of “Champagne for
India, £1931 Is. 8d.,” represented “a
perquisite in addition to the already very
high remuneration” received by Sahib
Stevens. Naturally a Commonwealth
Treasurer couldn’t be expected to know
anything about a trifle like a £2OOO wine
bill, and Fadden replied that he didn’t,
anyhow. It would be in keeping with the
other extravagances of the menage if the
Sahib has ordered the stuff for his staff
to bathe in.
When Calwell, M.H.R., became in-
quisitive about “the designations and
salaries of the private secretaries, assis-
tant private secretaries, typists, messen-
gers and suchlike officers attached to
each Federal Minister,” Fadden answered
ingratiatingly that the information was
“being obtained and would be furnished
as soon as possible.” That presumably
means next session. In the last war
Hughes got along with one private sec-
retary. Now the arrival in Sydney or
Melbourne of any senior Minister with
his full personal retinue looks like the
opening of the grasshopper season.
State Premiers are gathering at Can-
berra for the advent of the Good Fairy,
sometimes called the Loan Council.
Forgan Smith and staff have arrived
from Queensland. Treasurer Cooper and
staff, also from Queensland, are hard on
their heels. Nothing like getting in early
at a bun fight.
Forgan Smith is expected to oppose
“the Loan Council allocation of £1,000,000
to N.5.W.,” and to argue that N.S.W.
could finance its deficits out of trust
funds. Thus do the minds of State
Premiers work while the country grimly
watches the Balkans and Egypt.
“It is imperative that Australia should
curtail luxury imports, particularly petrol
and newsprint.” Thus Lord Stamp, the
British Government’s Economic Adviser ;
and its High Commissioner in Maoriland
has spoken to much the same effect. In
respect of petrol, he said that “everyone
who wastes a gallon or encourages such
waste is acting in a manner inimical to
the Empire’s war effort.” If the gentle-
men said such things in Sydney the
Bargain Sale press would fall on them
like two tons of chain.
Young Mr. Holt has had a vision of
his payroll tax giving “a tremendous fillip
to industry.” “It will ‘yield’ about nine
millions,” says young Mr. Holt, “and
this huge sum of money will pass from
the family to the baker, the butcher, the
milkman and other tradesmen—a great
stimulus.’’’ Wasn’t it Lang who used to
talk like that about his payroll tax and
all his other taxes? Yes, it was Lang.
The “West Australian” recently pub-
lished a remarkable and very refreshing
letter written by E. H. Hal], presumably
the Geraldton M.L.C. “As one who was
against Federation and in favor of
separation,” Hall pointed out that “the
burden of taxation is increasing at an
alarming rate, quite apart from war
expenditure,” and that “our primary pro-
ducers are entirely dependent on the
Federal Government for both financial
and marketing assistance.” And, high
as State taxation has become, “it is
claimed we should receive Federal
financial assistance for education,
aborigines and development of the
North.” Hall is “reluctantly forced to
realise that the State Government and
Parliament are becoming luxuries that
the people cannot afford and that the
times demand action to cut out the costly
duplication of Governments and depart-
ments.” And he has five years to go at
£6OO p.a., plus a gold pass.


THE GRAND CHAMPION.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1.000 000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE. W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE; 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
. . -
sdf
THE SKY-WAYS ARE TODAY’S HIGHWAYS
Pre-war standards of efficiency and comfort are being
maintained by Empire flying boats on the air route
between Sydney and Durban, via Singapore, Palestine
and Egypt. A new regular service between New Zealand
and Sydney is operated by Tasman Empire Airways.
Travel Interstate . . . Inter-Dominion . . . throughout
the Empire ... in shipboard comfort at Airways
speed ... by Qantas Empire Airways.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
(Incorporated in Queensland)
SHELL HOUSE, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. ’PHONE: 8W4481.
Also at BRISBANE and MELBOURNE.
Bookings at any recognised Travel Agency throughout Australia.
BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
(Incorporated in New Zealand),
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
PERSONAL ITEMS
E. G. Bonney steps into the job of
Chief Publicity Censor in succession to
Percy Jenkin, appointed to the director-
ship of the Department of Information
and now seriously ill. Bonney was born
in Sydney and educated at Hill-street,
Newcastle. He started on the Inky Way
as a reporter on the Grafton (N.S.W.)
“Examiner,” went to the “5.M.H.,” and
was then, in turn, leader-writer for the
“Argus” in Melbourne, news editor of
the “Sun Pictorial,” chief of staff of
the “Herald” and editor-in-chief of the
“News,” Adelaide. After Errol Knox
resuscitated the “Argus” he became editor
of that paper. He was general president
of the A.J.A. at one time.
The man immediately concerned with
the calling-up for military service of
Yugoslavs in Victoria is a soldier—
Lieut.-Col. Walter Hubert Downing,
M.M. He took over the job of Consul
for their country from his legal partner,
John Oldham, now in the Foreign Office.
Downing, born at Portland (Vic.), was
educated at Scotch College and Mel-
bourne University. In 1921 he was
Assistant Lands Commissioner in the
Solomon Islands. A book of his, To the
Last Ridge, was published in 1920.
This cheerful visage belongs to R. P.
Messenger, chairman of directors of In-
ternational Harvesters, Melbourne. Born
R. P. MESSENGER.
near Oxford, England, he left it at 19
for U.S.A. to see what there was to be
learnt there about mechanical engineer-
ing. Then he went to Argentina, and has
lived since in five European countries.
He left Brussels to come to Australia in
1938; he had previously toured the
various industrial centres and settled on
Geelong for the site of one of the most
modern factories in Australia in one of
the most pleasant and accessible ports in
the Commonwealth. Engineering is not
Messenger’s only interest. In his collec-
tion of paintings he can point to a Con-
stable and a Van Dyck.
Narrabri thought it fitting to give
J. N. McDonald a celebration on his
85th birthday ; he is the oldest practising
solicitor in N.S.W. The veteran recalled
that the day the local courthouse (the
scene of the recognition) was first opened
he appeared for the defence in six sheep-
stealing cases. There was sufficient gal-
loping around on horses in his younger
law days to make a Wild-West movie, for
“Mac” had a wide repute as a legal
defender and sometimes rode a hundred
miles to back up a “not guilty.”
Nearly 50 years of legal practice came
to a close with the death, at 72, of Carl
Spehr. As a youth he won a Stow
Scholarship to Adelaide University, read
law and went back to his home town,
Mt. Gambier. He hung out his shingle
in ’95. For the last 30 years he had been
a figure in local municipal politics. Until
last year his partner was ex-Judge
Roberts, of the N.T. Supreme Court.
Edgar Hoskins, Shakspearean and
classical scholar, who died in a North
Sydney private hospital recently, aged
80, was a nephew of the William
Hoskins, known in Australia, who gave
Irving his first instruction in dramatic
art. Edgar, a graduate of an English
university and by profession a coach,
lived at Northbridge, Sydney, for the last
quarter of a century.
Arnold Matters, one of the soloists in
Melbourne Philharmonic’s Easter per-
formance of Verdi’s “Requiem,” is one
of the successful proteges of Melba. A
young accountant who sang for pleasure
with a domestic quartet in his family,
he happened to be spending his annual
leave in Ballarat and was stimulated to
have a go at the South-street competi-
tions. He made an immediate hit, went
from one success to another and finally
got the endorsement of the diva, who ad-
vised him to chuck his ledgers and study
in London. He was a chorister at West-
minster Abbey, and for 11 years has been
a consistent performer at Sadlers Wells
and Covent Garden.
Arthur Newington Lloyd, who died in
Sydney recently, was an Englishman who
came to Australia as a child of four and
remained to become Chief Surveyor of
N. S. Wales. It was a report by him that
led to the selection of Canberra. He
had lived in retirement at Ashfield for
many years, and dropped out at the 84th
milestone.
S.A. has news of the death of a for-
gotten Australian, James Boon, of
Oregon, U.S.A. His career ran thus:
(1) Farrier in an Australian contingent
in the S’African war. (2) Blacksmith
in peace-time in S’Africa. (3) A period
in England. (4) Motor-car manufac-
turer in U.S.A. (5) Senator for Oregon.
Illawarra (N.S.W.) almost lost a tradi-
tion when Alick Horsley Weston passed
out at 77. There have been Westons
around Albion Park almost since Illa-
warra began ; on the maternal side they
reach back to that Colonel Johnston who
took the reins of government when
Bligh was removed. A lover of horses
and soldiering, Alick was one of the first
officers of the old Illawarra Cavalry
Troop and had a pile of trophies won in
military competitions. He could use a
cricket bat, too, and once played against
an England XI that included W. G.
Grace.
“Fi. fa.”: A brave, unselfish life ended
when Dr. John Gordon died. Melbourne-
born and -educated, with a fine university
record in academics and athletics, he left
a distinguished surgical career in his
middle age to join up with the A.I.F.
in 1914. Six months later he was clear-
ing casualties on Gallipoli beach. Four
years of active service in Egypt, Gallipoli
and France brought him a decoration and
distinguished mention in dispatches, but
crippled his health permanently. With
characteristic courage, he added to his
duties as consulting surgeon to the Vic-
torian Railways onerous voluntary ser-
vices to the Limbless Soldiers’ Associa-
tion and the Commonwealth factory for
artificial limbs. Even the last years of
total disablement and constant pain could
not break that gallant spirit.
John V. Lusby’s clever black-and-
white work, for some years a Bulletin
feature, will be missed in the months
to come, for the artist has joined the
R.A.A.F. He’s a Sydneysider, born at
Drummoyne 28 years ago, and had most
of his early art training at Julian Ash-
ton’s school. Since his early teens he has
had a strong interest in flying. He helped
to build a glider, and this led to a course
of instruction at the Macquarie Flying
School, conducted by Edward Macarthur-
JACK LUSBY.
Onslow. A book of Jack Lusby’s draw-
ings, Thumbs Up, has just been pub-
lished and is selling well.
Something unusual in Consuls is Pro-
fessor K. A. Wodzicki, now Polish
Consul-General in M.L. Until Hitler
erupted he was Professor of Agriculture
at the University of Warsaw. He was
taken prisoner by the Russians in Soviet-
occupied Poland and escaped into the
German section. There he prevailed on
his captors to give him permission to
go on a lecture tour in Hungary. When
he got to that country he changed his
mind and found his way through Italy
and France to London. He is a dis-
tinguished naturalist and animal physi-
ologist, and will intersperse his official
duties with research work at the Massey
Agricultural College, Palmerston North.
A Fellowship of the Royal Society has
come to Dr. William Noel Benson, of
Otago Uni., M.L., in recognition of his
services to geology. The new Fellow,
though born in England, spent most of
his early years in Australia, his father
being a shipping manager in Sydney. He
studied at Sydney University and Cam-
bridge, and after graduation was a
lecturer, first at Adelaide, then at Sydney
University. He went to Otago Uni. as
Prof, of Geology and Mineralogy in
1917. His doctorate derives from Sydney
University.
A D.F.C. has come the way of an
Australian serving with the R.A.F. in
England, Flying-Officer James Robert
Hyde, who has been busy over the
Heligoland Bight and a dozen other
places. He was born in Perth and edu-
cated at Melbourne Grammar and then
became a patrol officer in New Guinea.
After studying anthropology at Sydney
University, he returned to N.G., but the
outbreak of war called him to England.
He is 27.
In the earlier years of this century
The Bulletin had occasion to make
frequent references to a rising young
actor named Gregan McMahon. He
started his stage career with Robert
Brough and founded the first repertory
theatre in Melbourne as far back as 1911.
The 1914 war put it out of action, but
the indomitable McMahon bided his time,
went back to the professional stage, and
in 1928 resumed his assault on the intel-
lectual drama. Since then he has pro-
duced over 100 plays outside the run of
the commercial theatre, acted in a good
half of them himself, and turned out
dozens of capable actors, including Coral
Brown, who has landed into the films ;
Ken Tuckfield, who played with Marie
Tempest in London ; and Jos. Ambler and
Janet Johnson, who have made their mark
in the same metropolis.
Australian music owes a lot to J. Alfred
Johnstone, dead in London at the ripe
age of 80. Born in Cork and edu-
cated at Dublin University, he came to
Australia in 1882, settled in Melbourne
as a pianoforte teacher and until the
middle of the last war, when he returned
to England, he injected into local music
a remarkable succession of successful
pupils, as well as pouring out works on
musical subjects, many of which were
published by the Melbourne firm of
Allan’s. His Royal Method for Piano
has given thousands of young Australians
their introduction to musical study.
Alexander Leckie, of Perth, Lottie
Edwards, of Sydney, and Walter Seidel,
principal pianoforte teacher at the Mel-
bourne University Con., are a few of
the products of his melodious workshop.
John Mellis Napier, for 16 years a
Justice of the Supreme Court of S.A.,
was born at Dunbar, Scotland, 59 years
ago, and educated in London and Adel-
aide, graduating LL.B. at Adelaide Uni-
versity in 1902 and commencing practice
as a barrister the following year. He
took silk in 1922. When the Common-
JUSTICE NA TIER.
wealth Government appointed a commis-
sion on banking it sent for Napier, and
the report he signed as chairman still
finds readers. For 11 years he was
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of
Freemasons of S.A.
A feature of the Richmond River
(N.S.W.) landscape is F. W. Wilkinson,
senior dairy instructor, known to every-
one as “Wilky.” One of the first stu-
dents in the dairy course at Flawkesbury,
he spent several years in butter factories,
and then joined the Agriculture Depart-
ment. He is not afraid to pull off his
coat and crawl into a churn, or to take
a hand in the dairy in order to track
down the cause of inferior-quality milk
or cream.


From Battleships to Submarines . . .
EVERY TYPE OF CRAFT IN THE BRITISH NAVY DEPENDS ON BATTERIES
m I
m
iH
9
•- ' . >, >;
9
S 3
H
‘"tS*
»•*
mm* 1
HU
f , *
■
I
v;.
n
*
4
: m
■s
.
■ ;
m
lb
•jAr The British Navy ... Britain’s first line of defence ...
places implicit faith in Exide Batteries for essential
equipment. . . . Battleships, cruisers, and destroyers
depend on Exide for wireless, gun-fire control and in
many other ways . . . Aircraft carriers, and their brood
of planes, use Exide .. . and the underwater propulsion
of submarines is provided by huge Exide Batteries. . ..
In like manner in industry, in science, in the arts, in
radio and in motor-cars you will find Exide Batteries
giving unfailing service. . . . Where performance is
paramount, Exide Batteries are used.
% BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
OBTAINABLE FROM DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
s


ABORIGINALITIES
“Agricola”: Who said that our agri-
culturists take no thought for their
animals? A Westralian wheat cocky and
his missus went into the township on a
day that combined terrific heat with
oppressive humidity. At the store the
storekeeper started off with the usual.
“A terrible day today,” he said with
penetrating observation. “Yes, it’s
awful,” agreed Mrs, Cocky. “Why, be-
fore we left home this morning father
said to the man, ‘Don’t put the horses
in the team today ; you just go on cutting
scrub.’ ”
* ■* * *
“Dickie Beech”: Some interesting fish
developments are taking place in the
Brisbane River. After the Mt. Crosby
weir was built sea-mullet migrating to
the upper reaches to spawn became
steadily fewer, and by three years ago had
disappeared entirely. This season a fish-
ladder was provided at the weir, and
however the news reached the newcomers
far out in Moreton Bay the fact remains
that shoals have reappeared as far up as
Toogoolawah, and are already making
active use of the ladder. Murray cod,
acclimatised in the Brisbane and Stanley
rivers many years ago, were fairly com-
mon up to 1930, but none has been
taken for several seasons now. On the
other hand, lungfish ( Ceratodus ), which
were introduced 45 years ago to a lagoon
at Cressbrook by the late J. H. McCon-
nell, have increased in the Upper Bris-
bane to an extent which makes them a
worse nuisance to anglers than eels. They
have been caught up to 401 b., but are
very poor food fish—also there is a heavy
penalty for taking them.
* * * *
“Langshan”; Is shortsightedness the
cause of a horse shying, or is it just
equine cussedness? Only punishment
will make my hack, a persistent shier,
cross a certain bridge, though he has
been made to do sb scores of times. To
lead him over calls for as big a tussle
as riding him. Recently while I was
putting up the sliprails he cleared out
for home. Followed him leisurely, think-
ing he’d never cross the hated bridge ;
but he did,
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Memory of the old
ride-and-tie method of travelling by
knights of the swag was revived the
other day when I struck a couple of
P.M.G. linemen inspecting telegraph
poles. In their case a smart utility
speeded things up even more. Old-time
bagmen had only one horse between
them ; one would leave camp early in
the morning on foot, while his mate,
aboard the prad with the “drums,” would
carry on until an agreed-upon distance
had been reached. The prad would then
be tied up and the rider would set out
on foot. His cobber on reaching the
horse would carry out the same pro-
cedure. By this method of travel I’ve
known a couple of bagmen to cover 40
miles a day, and at nights there’d be no
complaints of sore backs and shoulders
from having to hump heavy swags. The
same was worked with an old bike.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Me and the big fellow
were given a job to paint the woolshed
roof. We’re slap-dashing away steadily
one day when the boss comes up the
ladder and climbs along the ridge-cap-
ping. He’s in a bad mood. “You fellers
seem t’ be takin’ y’r time on this,” he
snaps, and then loses his grip, slides down
“You can't pick that there apple without a license ."
the iron, upsets Mat’s pot of paint so
that it spreads out like a flood, and goes
shooting through the mess to the gutter-
ing, where he hangs for a moment and
then drops to the ground. He’s sitting
there, paint from fetlocks to breakfast-
time and feeling himself for bruises, when
Mat peers over at him and says: “If
that’s the way y’ want it done, mister,
you’ll hafta let us take it on be contract.”
We finished the job in peace,
* * * *
“Joypet” ; There has been a sad after-
math to all the fuss about Australia’s
alleged Methuselah of all living things,
the macrozamia tree which Dr. A. O.
Herbert found some years ago on
Tamborine Mountain (Q.). He estimated
its age at from 500 to 1000 years. An
eager reporter sent the story to a Bris-
bane paper, naturally mentioning only
the higher figure, and a typographical
error jumped this to 10,000. Another
rag, not to be outdone, made the
veteran’s age 15,000 years. The
phenomenon was reported round the
world and in due course was accepted
as fact by, amongst others, Ripley.
Actually, the botanical antique of all is
the Adonsonia digitata, which has been
growing at the mouth of the Senegal
River in Africa for the past 5000 years
or so. There are also American sequoia
which have taken 4000 to 5000 years
to sprout, and many fine Cypress religiosa
took root round 3000 years ago. Along-
side these our oldest umbrageous in-
habitant is still in the kindergarten class.
m * * *
“Naturala”: One of the oddest things
about the crab is its faculty of re-
growing any limb that it may lose in
fighting or by accident. South-west W.A.
estuaries in season swarm with these
crustaceans, which clutter up the fisher-
man’s nets so that it is difficult to dis-
entangle their hundreds without tearing
the meshes. The simplest way is to take
a pair of pliers and nip off the slightly
hooked claw-tips which cling with des-
peration to the net. Thus, towards the
end of the season, every second crab
will be minus its claw tips. But these
will grow again, the merest tip extend-
ing itself slowly from the mass of the
claw. Whole claws grow again rapidly,
even when the creature may for a second
time be deprived of such limbs, though
this growth is difficult, such claws being
always more or less deformed. But,
though a crab may re-grow any or all
of its claws and legs, I have never known
one to re-grow a swimming paddle.
Possibly the loss of one of these essential
limbs is fatal, for, being attached to the
main muscle of the crab’s anatomy, a
deep wound is left. And a crab bleeds,
not the haemoglobin of the higher
animals, but a thin jelly which un-
doubtedly is its life fluid.
» * * *
“Clooter”: The proximity of the 171st
anniversary of Cook’s landing in Botany
Bay reminds me of my own landing in
Wagonga Inlet, Narooma (N.S.W.). Was
hardly off the boat when a local pointed
to a high hill west of the town and de-
clared “That’s Mt. Dromedary. It wus
named be Cook when he sailed by here
on his way to Sydney. Y’ can see the
two humps which got it the name.”
Gazing at the mass, I spotted the humps,
one at each end, and went on to the
town full of respect for Cook’s ability
at nomenclature and the local’s memory.
Then it suddenly dawned on me that a
dromedary has only one hump, and that
in the middle. To this day I don’t know
whether my leg was being pulled,
whether Cook made a bloomer or
whether that local got history mixed.
Anybody put me wise?
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Years ago we were
camped on Tapalin bend, River Murray,
rabbit-trapping. After we’d been there
about a week I went down to the night-
lines one morning and found three of
them pulled out and lying on the bank,
while the fourth was hopelessly snagged.
“Some cow,” I reported to the camp, “is
swipin’ our lines.” Next night we tied
“bells” (empty tins with a couple of
stones in ’em) to the springers, and about
midnight Tom shot out of his bunk and
headed for the river, Ted stumbled after
him. Presently they came back. They
had seen nothing, but the tinkling had
stopped when they appeared. This per-
formance was repeated on later nights,
reducing Tom to profane bafflement,
Ted to superstition and me to wonder.
In the end we mounted guard over the
lines, turn about, and on the second night
Tom came and got me to go down
quietly with him. On the bank, wrapping
itself enthusiastically round a 31b. cod,
was our camp cat, a large tabby. It had
frequently watched us pull a line in and
thus learned how to get a free feed. It
spent the rest of its nights under a box.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: “Dirty Dan,” wanting
to get to the Eight Mile, approached
“Slow Tom,” who was about to start off
in his two-horse coach from Mugga-
bubula. “Give us a lift on the nod?” he
said. “I’m as stiff as a wire nail.” Tom
looked Dan up and down and nodded
assent. Dan hoisted his knot and himself
among the packages, fifties of sugar and
flour, candle boxes, etc. So gratified
was Dan that every time Tom got off to
deliver a parcel he assisted him. It was
the hardest work Dan had done for years,
and by the time the coach arrived at the
Mile he was carrying a first-class thirst.
As Tom drove the coach round to the
back of the hotel to stable, Dan, who
always had some silver in his kick,
hopped in for a pint. He couldn’t even
wait for a “bite.” Going to the bar,
he deposited a florin in front of Mrs.
Brown. Even Mrs. Brown gasped with
amazement at the rapidity with which
the beer vanished. “I’m half-owner of
Tom’s coach,” she said. “One and six
for your fare and sixpence for your beer
makes us square.” “Gripes, Missus,” said
Dan. “Tom gave me the ride on the
nod!” “Not on your life,” said Mrs.
B. “Tom never” Dan didn’t wait
to hear any more. He tore round to the
stable and pulled Tom along with him
into the bar. Mrs. Brown put her mouth
up to Tom’s ear and yelled “He says
you gave him a ride on the nod.” “He’s
a liar,” said Tom. “I just told him to
get in the coach.” “Tom’s as deaf as a
post,” snapped Mrs. Brown. Dan glared
savagely, and the awful double-barrelled
thought that he’d had to work for a
ride and then pay two bob for a
beer was to sour his memory for many
a day.
* * * *
“Horsetailer”: I’ve encountered
wrigglers ranging from the tree-climbers
of the Cape York Peninsula to copper-
heads on Bass Strait islets, but for utter
casualness I hand the belt to the long-
tails at Lower Crawford, near Heywood
(Vic.). Around the Smoky River flats
here for months past tigers, browns and
blacks bask like bluetongues, with the
difference that they are too lazy even to
open their mouth when inspected by a
dog. They move, I’ve found, only when
you walk on them! Season or climate
isn’t responsible. Perhaps their dopiness
is due to some soporific quality in the
soil.
“Ophir”: You can have all your tigers,
but for sheer pugnacity I’ll put the blue
ribbon on the mulga snake of the Lower
Thompson (W.Q.) as champ, of the
ophidian world. Up to 7ft. long that
fellow is red as the soil in which the
mulga grows. Only because he is rather
uncommon is his list of victims small.
But he goes looking for stoush, and the
double-quick death of a dog I saw one
tackle demonstrated the potency of its
poison. Someone has been claiming
lately that a snake reacts to a fire as
does a politician holding a “swinging ’
seat to an election. Rot! A mulga snake
that cleared out our camp one night on
Sawyer Creek, Warbreccan station, ap-
peared to use the fire to direct his aim.
He would have been in charge yet but
for a lucky shot by the cook with a
bucket of boiling water. Nothing closes
Joe’s account quicker than that.
* * *
“Dungeness”; Many an Australian
visitor to New Caledonia has enjoyed the
famous entree described on menus as
ruisette saute, and perhaps wondered at
the reticence of French hosts concerning
its ultimate origin. Flying-foxes shot in
mangrove swamps do not sound at all
attractive, but, in plain kitchen fact, of
such, carefully skinned and dressed,
artistically cooked, seasoned and served,
is that delicious dish composed. And
why not? Whatever its individual
appearance, its disregard of communal
sanitation, its carelessness about insect
parasites, the flying-fox is a very epicure
amongst animals, feeding only upon the
pick of fruits and the sweetest of honeyed
flowers. Leichhardt extolled them as the
best of all native Australian foods, and
advocated their cultivation for the table.
Brother Binghi in Torres Strait has eaten
them for centuries, and he’s pretty par-
ticular about such matters —or was be-
fore bullamakau, tinpfis and pflour
spoiled alike his teeth and his ancestral
tucker.
WONGA.
Old Wonga’s skin is black as sin, his bridle
hand is light.
And through and through he’s staunch and true,
for Wonga’s heart is white..
He bears the brand of cattleland —straight hip
and horseman’s knee;
And Wonga’s seat is firm and neat and sure as
sure can be.
Old Wonga knew when stormwinds blew the
roar of the stampede,
And, first away, the drovers say, would race
toward the lead;
And when the morns on tossing horns their
golden rays would fling,
His greenhide lash would curl and flash to make
the leaders ring.
To unknown runs beyond the suns old Wonga
went away,
And “May the rains make green the plains
where Wonga’s gone” they pray;
But when hard-pressed before the best the
brumbies leave the plain
For mountain trails with sweeping tails old
Wonga rides again.
His wraith will bide where stockmen ride
through drifts of dark belar
On moonlit trips with roaring whips where
longtailed scrubbers are,
When dew adorns the gleaming horns of feeding
steer and cow
That in the night take instant flight at crashing
of a bough.
In Burnett hills while sunlight spills and
dappled is the shade,
Remembrance stirs to jingling spurs, for daring
will not fade.
Though Wonga’s gone his fame lives on, and
stockmen hold it just
For white to men is courage when both black
and white are dust.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX MCLENNAN.


“ Don't forget this is a War of movement!”
TO A PUMPKIN.
“One pumpkin at the Sydney Empire Show, weigh-
ing over 1001 b., was grown on land that had not
long been under cultivation.” —Agricultural report.
0 Brobdingnagian product of a soil
That not so long ago grew virgin scrub!
To cultivate you meant no little toil;
You’d scarcely fit into a full-sized tub;
From lifting you the strongest might recoil;
You’ll be the talk of many a bushland pub,
Ye vegetable pachyderm! Your bulk is
Fit subject for the blokes who ride in sulkies.
Pampered and petted since you were a seed
(What keen selection marked your origin!),
Daily you scoffed your fertiliser feed.
Putting it, too, inside a decent skin.
An “only,” you; there was no room, indeed,
Upon the vine for others of your kin.
The speed of growth which tricked pestiferous
creatures
Was one of your most admirable features.
The withered stalk, the hollow sound you made
When he who raised you slapped your
armored hide,
Was proof that you were ready to invade
The halls where champions are identified.
And then, when in the balance you were
weighed
(And found not wanting), what bucolic pride!
Few simple things, on Mother Earth dependent,
Have had careers so thrilling, so resplendent.
And after all the glitter and the glare.
The joy of having jostled with the great—
The Perfect Cauliflower, the Champion Pear —
What is to be your end, your ultimate fate?
We’ll take one guess: You’ll be returning there,
Back to the farm, there to exasperate
The “hands” who’ll get you (with corned beef)
for dinner
Week after week. Sad finish for a winner!
n.s.w. S. W. K.
* * * *
“Wang”: “One day in a bush pub’,”
related Dan, “I meets an old china plate
1 hadn’t seen fer years. He looks as
mis’rable as a dog on a wet sack, an’
after a few pots he opens out. His
missus, it appeared, was a tartar. She’d
had a small farm left to her, an’ she
made him work like hell, and he even
had to pinch her cash to get the on’y
pleasure he ever had—a beer or two. ‘l’d
clear out,’ he ses, ‘on’y I don’t wanter
go empty-handed; I’ve threatened t’
commit suicide half a dozen times; but
she on’y laughs at me, an’ ses I ain’t
game t’. Which I ain’t,’ He looks at
me pathetic, an’ continyers: ‘You useter
be pretty good at nuttin’ things, Dan ;
can’t yer serjest any way t’ help a bloke?’
Well, that sets me thinkin’, and I decides
on a fake suicide. He tells me there’s a
good dam on the place, so we arrange
for him t’ jump in an’ me t’ pull him out.
‘That’ll throw a real scare inter her an’
quieten her fer a while,’ I ses. Well, y’
never see anything so reelistic. As I
see him rush outa the house, tear down
to the dam an’ jump in, clobber an’ all,
I leap the fence an’ take a beautiful
header in. I’m lucky I didn’t break me
neck—there’s on’y about two feet of
muddy water in the blasted dam! I'm
still standin’ there feelin’ the lump on
me napper when his missus appears. She
orders him inside after tellin’ him she’ll
deal with him later, then yelps at me:
‘So you’re one of his boozy friends, are
y’? Well, clear out before I sool the
dogs onter yer an’ have yer arrested fer
trepassin’!’ I hop it, quick, t’ get away
from the heart-rendin’ groans I heard
cornin’ from inside the house.”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Looking over a seedbox to
see whether the ants had left any, I was
attracted by the shimmering beauty of
a small fly which settled on the surface.
A few inches away a small piece of the
crumbled Soil began tO mOVC Steadily
, . . . ° ~ ... , , J
towards the Visitor ] then With a Sudden
spring clasped it in powerful legs and
sank a murderous beak into its body.
The captor was an assassin-bug, one of
„ i , .. „ A
a large clan with relatives all over Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, as far, too, as Juan
Fernandez, where Defoe marooned
Robinson Crusoe. Its kind specialise in
camouflaging themselves with dirt in
order to approach unobserved. So does
another more deserving relative which
lives mainly on bed bugs—perhaps the
original bugbear for which one has
wished in back-country pub beds. A big
cousin ranges from Papua to northern
N.S.W., and gets in a lot of dirty work
amon § st honeybees waiting at some
attractive flower and feloniously assault-
ing the innocent visitor from the rear
while it is gathering a load for home.
c t ;ii anr .th Pr lures ants to stick out their
aa Otner ures ants to stick OUt tneir
necks to smell a scent organ on its body,
then deals a rabbit-killer on the nape
which outs the ant for keeps. But, de-
plorabler as may seem the manners and
morals of some of its members, the clan
does man a vast service in the destruction
of his insect enemies.
. .... i
“N”v Near the slackly-guarded bee-
hive lurks a slate-grey moth. She creeps
in, finds a corner and deposits her eggs.
Tiny grubs hatch out and at once
bore deeply into the honeycomb,
growing fat and wonderfully large.
f 0 ba | the hunti b indignant at
h violatjon Q f their pearly-clean
treasure-house, they even weave a silken
b across £ac > ot , he deffled comb .
So the defilement goes on ; combs riddled
£ d to end b | come empty and b , ack .
By this time the bees, disgusted at a foul-
ness alien to their whole process of life,
usua ]]y en g o rge such honey as may be
le£t an y d ab g and g on the hive xhen the ants
pQur £n They exac£ a certain measure o£
vengeance but a sufficiency of grubs sur-
viv * to W e ave cocoons, pass through the
chrysalis stage, and emerge as moths,
J &
„ „ XT . nr*-*
, Plym ™! h s,'ri-1“/ Y tT
f sted ” a The °?' s l heory f ,h „ e mo °'
ka “ bl . rds ?P read ”8 seeds of coco-
nut P al ™ s (B- 12/2/ 41), but, coming to
a bit nearer home how much
° f the , spr ead T °.f ln
Queensland was directly due to the drop-
P m ,g „ of * e . u ? dl f sted see ? s ln blrd , ex ;
cre ( a? . birds not only carry plant
seeds but als ?, do a tldy h " e ,n , fls . h - s P a ™
™Bcatron. Now and then lakes and
da ™ s ' Previously flshless, wil be found
“> be carry t"g imported varieties of fish,
such as perch and carp.
* . * .„ * , *
, °; W - Waireki : The boss sent Dan
e drover to share a whare bedroom
Wlt h Henare During the night Dan went
a ? d knocked Woolbales up and wanted
kim to comeand unlock the tool chest so
th a t he could get one of em hardwood
blocks I saw there today. What the
hell do y° u hardwood blocks for
at this hour, the boss asked. Ive
§ ot to have something to crack the fleas
on, haven’t I?” Dan answered peevishly.
* * * *
“Liebig”; Recently returned home
after a spell away to find the place over-
run with rats. A couple
of traps baited with
bacon—raw first, later
fried decimated the
rodent ranks. But the
survivors soon became
trap-shy. Poison was
then tried, with further
success. So their popu-
lation was worn down
until possibly only a
couple of old wise ones
remained. But it proved
impossible either to
trap or poison these,
the creatures being
apparently content to
go without food
rather than take any
of the tempting baits
freely displayed. So
hungry did they be-
come that hen eggs
were found with the
shell of the pointed end
gnawed through and
the thin contents eaten.
Then an old bushy sug-
gested a new kind of
trap. Taking a six-
pound treacle tin lie
chopped a cross with
a cold chisel through
the bottom end. The
four segments thus
made were then bent
inwards, forming a sort of cone,
giving easy entry, but with four
jagged points denying any exit. A couple
of nail holes punched in the lid served
to hold the bait, a hard-boiled egg, in
place. That trap caught the last two
rats in the one night—after which all
that was necessary was to fill the tin
with water.
* * * *
“Colonel B’stT”: An allegedly tame
trout which comes to be fed when called
has been achieving publicity in the Vic-
torian press, but compared with some
other water-dwelling performers it puts
up a poor show. The gurnards in the
London Zoo take their tucker out of the
keeper’s fingers and suck them clean
afterwards, then nestle into his hand to
be lifted into the air. A Greek boatman
at Crete trained an octopus to salvage
odds and ends from sunken ships and
bring them up to his craft, A London
“Spectator” contributor mentioned an
old lady at Oxford who kept a shrimp
alive in a basin for 17 years, and trained
it to feed out of her hand. And Tom Petrie
and other historians of early Queens-
land have described the curious partner-
ship between the Stradbroke Island
abos. and the porpoises which rounded
up shoals of sea-mullet and drove them
into the beach to be speared.
* * * *
“Yagan”: Binghi had some strange
wisdom regarding the food potentialities
of his nearly vegetableless continent.
Take the Westralian zamia palm. Much
like a monster pineapple in form, the
trunk sprouts from the soil, throwing
out a picturesque umbrella of fronds. As
the bulb ripens it forms within hundreds
of nuts, of about the size of a pullet
egg. Inside the nut is a kernel, not
unlike the meat of an acorn. Enclosing
the kernel is a thin shell, covered in turn
by a fleshy rind. The kernel is definitely
poisonous, and no treatment will render
it otherwise. The rind, too, is poisonous,
but is amenable to treatment by pro-
longed soaking in muddy water. Ren-
dered eatable, the nuts were then sun-
dried, to be stored later in small pits
dug in dry, elevated situations. Such
storage, incidentally, gives the denial to
the oft-repeated libel that the aboriginal
was incapable of giving thought to the
morrow. But how odd that the un-
tutored savage should have discovered
so simple a way of transforming a pois-
onous substance into a nutritious food!
For ages the white man has taken only
the mushroom from a multitude of fungi
which may not only be non-poisonous but
also delicious. But he passes them by,
for not yet has he discovered any re-
liable way of rendering a possibly poison-
ous fungus innocuous.
* * * *
“Zake”: “The coves y’ strike kickin’
around the mulga these days,” said
“Stepper” Thompson, “are pansies com-
pared with the blokes I knew in the
’eighties. Real tough they was, an’ they
didn’t need to be outsize jokers, either.
Me an’ ‘Porkpie’ Higgins takes on a
scrub-clearin’ job once on the Barwon
out from Pockataroo. Ten bob an acre (
it was in them days, though it wa»' a
skate fer us, bein’ mostly box that burned
easy. They had a cow of a weed grass
on the property we was clearin’ ; it was
a sort o’ cross between a Noogoora burr
and swordgrass, with bindi-eye seeds, if
y’ know what I mean. Tall-growin’ stuff
it was, and the seeds’d git down yer shirt
an’ irritate y’ like blazes. Well, ‘Poik-
pie’s’ a little sawn-orf wart of a cove,
but he works from five o’clock in the
mornin’ till dark, practically without a
stop, burnin’ orf while it’s 114 in the
shade, an’ this nuisance of a grass to
put up with. We’re over gettin’ rations
from the boss one night when ‘Porkpie’
starts scratchin’ himself. ‘What’s wrong
—chats?’ asks the boss. ‘Porkpie’ tells
him he must have a few o’ them grass
seeds still left down his back. ‘See if y’
can get ’em out f’r a man,’ he says. The
boss dives his mitt down the back o’
‘Porkpie’s’ shirt an’ then gives a holler
as he drags it out again quick with a
couple of outsize bulldog-ants dingin’ to
his finger!”
* * * *
“Naturala”: When mankind is hand-
ing out the unflattering adjectives it in-
variably confines its invective to the beasts
of prey the “ferocious” tiger, the
“savage” wolf, the “bloodthirsty”
leopard, etc,, with an occasional thought
towards the spider. But can any living
creature excel the ant in cold, unfailing
ferocity? At all hours of the day and
nignt these small armor-encased demons
are on the rove and the watch. Nothing
misses them. Under the landing board
of the beehive battalions will be waiting:
let a tired and loaded bee mull her land-
ing and fall momentarily to the ground,
and the mandibled demons will be upon
her, seizing legs, wings, any hold that
will bear down the victim. And, once
seized, the victim has no chance to
escape. Take a light and examine the
same ground at midnight, and the bat-
talions will still be there. Most animals
and insects sleep, but not the ant.
Watched quite a large spider running
frantically round the cement path.
Examination showed one tiny ant hang-
ing like grim death to a rear leg. Over
what, comparatively, was miles of country
the panic-stricken spider raced, but still
its tiny black tormentor hung on.
Fifteen minutes of this and the spider
collapsed, other ants came hurrying—
and the banquet board was laid. What
other creature could have held on with
such cold, ferocious tenacity? And,
curiously, no other insect seems to possess
adequate defence against the ant.
“I still say you should salute first!”


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
ESTABLISHED 1834. .
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,013 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office; 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout;
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should be expected to become your
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence.
v h_v r_-_3 v(i»
m
Cl* stc«j^
The Symbol of
Security !
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY 0F
( Incorporated in Victoria )
3 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman);
M.L.A. (Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.0.; James Kidd;
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J.
AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
Colin A. Sinclair,
A. E. Heath, C.M.G.;
G. H. Shipway.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Australasian Catholic Assurance ■
Ex-
June, Income. Claims, penses. Surplus. Funds.*
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 140,411 6179 60,200 74,032 225,371
Added establishment account, £522.. 224,849
1931.. 152,956 9867 60,373 82,716 307,565
Accumulated pref. divs. (7 p.c.) and
5 p.c. on ords. paid, £4695 .. 302,870
1932.. 152,153 21,357 56,424 73,384 f 376,254
1933.. 163,842 29,637 59,005 74,212 t 376,254
1934.. 184,821 32,530 61,222 90,081 t 540,547
i )35. . 210,943 36,939 66,819 106,197 t 646,006
Net unexplained additions, £65 . . 647,059
036.. 252,031 44,862 84,667 121,514 f 768,573
Property reserve taken in, £24,101.. 792,674
1937.. 290,101 44,565 90,783 153,765 f 946,439
Loss property, £1574 .. .. .. 944,866
'938.. 334,349 41,147 101,026 191,188+ 1,136,053
Unexplained addition, £llB4 . . 1,137,237
1939.. 369,776 51.115 107,750 209,923+ 1,347,160
Unexplained addition, £1852.. .. 1,349,012
1940.. 399,134 116,314 117,299 104,533+ 1,513,545
*Net funds apart from capital.
+After paying 7 p.c. on prefs. and ords.
Chief effect of war conditions upon the
business thus far has been a reduction
in the rate of bonuses to policy-holders
(in some cases of more than 50 p.c.)
and stoppage of dividends to share-
holders. It is obvious, therefore, that
policy-holders’ interests continue to be
placed in the foreground, and that is as
it should be. The cut in bonus rates was
made on the recommendation of the
actuary ; and it is the common experi-
ence among life offices, both mutual and
proprietary, these days. So there is no
need for policy-holders to worry on that
score. A couple of years ago the co.
increased O.D. bonus rates by from 5 p.c.
to 11 p.c., making them £2 15s. p.c. on
whole-life and 375. p.c. on endowment
assurances —a very creditable perform-
ance for an office as young as this one.
Still, for reasons of its own, the manage-
ment has never broadcast details of the
actuary’s valuations.
The co. was set on its feet by E. J.
Mooney, its managing director, in 1921,
amid fierce competition from youthful
competitors. However, there was no
attempt at forced growth, with a conse-
quent moderate-for-age expense rate and
low lapse rate. Another pillar of strength
has been the very satisfactory return
from investments, chief of which are a
wad of first mortgages, followed by free-
holds, which comprise two new and well-
let buildings, one in .Sydney and the
other in Melbourne.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1930. 1935. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital .. £14,610 £14,610 £14,610 £14,610
Liabilities* . . 4,935 14,999 20,887 32,773
Mortgages.. .. 207,775 309,891 684,465 808,717
Freeholds . . . . 206,488 534,511 537,183
Govt, securities .. 26,716 131,408 65,061 75,084
Cash, etc. . . 1,327 13,506 4,051 4.809
Debtors . . . . 1,788 2,008 9,164 5,853
Loans on policies 3,261 31,042 76,332 101,401
Equipment . . 4,696 4,668 11,636 16,234
Shares in other cos. 1,682 3,388 3,437 11,647
* Other than under policies.
The year’s growth in net tangibles
(£1,528,155) amounted to £166,384, and
the money went mostly into mortgages
(up £124,252), loans on policies (up
£25,069) and Government securities (up
£10,023). The life assurance fund
amounted to £1,486,866 (up £164,556).
It includes a reserve for bonuses to
policy-holders, and can be taken as well
in excess of actuarial requirements. To
represent the £14,610 of share capital
(15,135 7 p.c. prefs. and 19,895 ords.,
all of 10s. each paid to Bs. except 5000
ords., which are fully paid) there were
net tangibles with a book value of
£41,289 (up £1828).
New business figures aren’t broadcast,
but, including £2785 from the small fire
and accident connection, the lift in last
year’s net premium income (£330,575)
was £22,630. Interest and rents brought
in an extra £6728, making the growth
in total income (£399,134) £29,358. The
sharp increase of £65,199 in claims was
mainly in respect of maturities (£62,461,
up £48,239) and surrenders (£38,670, up
£14,736). Death claims amounted to only
£15,183 (up £2225). Including an un-
specified allowance for depreciation,
exes, increased by £9549, leaving the
excess of incomings over outgoings
£45,390 lighter at £164,533. That ex-
cludes an unexplained addition of £1852
to the property reserves (£25,563).
After deducting the tax bill (£5533,
up £385), exes, took 33.8 p.c. of the
year’s net premiums as against 33.3, 34.7,
35.4 and 37.5 p.c. for the four preceding
terms —most of the business on the books
consists of Industrial contracts.
The co. assumes that the life fund
alone will turn in 31 p.c. net. Last year’s
net return from investments was 4.5 p.c.
on the mean life fund, compared with
4.7 p.c. and 4.8 p.c. for the two preced-
ing years.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 8,981 Nil Nil 8,981 47,576
Added intangibles, £9O .. •• 47,486
1931. .10.429 10 p.c. Nil 8,005 2,424 49,910
Added intangibles, £8 .. •• 49,902
1932. .14,830 14.4 p.c. Nil 12,030 2,800 52,702
Added intangibles, £64 . . • • 52,638
1933. .24,578 15.6 p.c. 5 p.c. 21,250 3,328 55,966
1934. 7J „ 7j „ 19,375 12,956 68,922
1935.. 29.824 7| ~ 75 „ 19,375 10,449 79,371
Intangibles disappear, £196 .. .. 79,567
Insurance policies surrendered,
£2OOB 77,559
Written off, £2900 74,659
1936.. 20.931 7f p.c. 7J p.c. 22,822 72,768
Added intangibles, £3O .. •• 72,738
1937.. 31,857 7f p.c. 7-5 p.c. 24,412 7,445 80,183
Added intangibles, £39 . . . . 80,144
1938.-29,476 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,800 4,676 84,820
Added intangibles. £69 . . . • 84,751
1939.. 32.407 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,800 7,607 92,358
Added intangibles, £35 . . • • 92,323
1940.-32,765 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 4,805 97,188
Pref. div. subject to 221 p.c. cut from 1/10/’3l.
*Six months.
Trade was a lot brisker than the increase
of £358 in last year’s declared net earn-
ings would suggest. The co. turns out a
variety of hosiery, underwear and other
silk and cotton goods from modern and
efficient plant at Boundary-street, Sydney.
Branches at Melbourne and Brisbane
handle inter-State distribution, and there
is a manufacturing subsidiary at Wel-
lington (M.L.), which also now contri-
butes to the pool. Last year normal trade
demand was stimulated by increased em-
ployment at better rates of pay, as well
as being supplemented by substantial
defence contracts for wool and cotton
underwear. These defence orders were
not profitable, the chairman says, but
the board felt that “the co. should do
everything possible to assist the Govern-
ment in the war effort.”
However, there was a spring of £28,498
in the year’s gross earnings (£173,769),
despite steadily expanding costs. Exes.
(£141,034) took all but £520 of the in-
crease. That was after making what
looks like liberal allowance for deprecia-
tion (£25,438, up £764) and larger but
unspecified provision for taxation —the
tax reserve (now £37,731) increased by
£22,035. After allowing for minor
reserve adjustments, the net result
(£32,765, up £358) was enough to pay
the prefs. their full contract rate (10 p.c.)
and show 10.7 p.c. on ord. capital.
Actually an all-round 9 p.c. was distri-
buted as against 8 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding terms. Under the N. S. Wales
Interest Reduction Act the prefs. are
subject to a 22\ p.c. cut, but are entitled
to advance with the ords. from a
minimum p.c. to their full contract
rate.
One thing that helped to induce the
board to lift last year’s div. was the co.’s
strong position in connection with stocks
of raw materials, most of which are
imported. Consider these figures:
1936. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Old. capital. . £226.667 £226,667 £226,667 £226,667
Pref. capital. . 83,333 83,333 83,333 83,333
Mortgages . . 31,928 31,928 31,928 31.928
Overdraft . . 45,718 72.740 84,803 163,243
Creditors . . 26,324 37,016 43,643 68,855
Freeholds . . 120,148 122.381 122,391 122,847
Plant.. .. 158,990 164,725 149,969 133,485
Stocks . . 133,572 159,158 197,485 332,250
Debtors . . 85,463 108,275 108,150 115,820
Cash, etc. . . 481 509 532 3,287
Investments . . 10,777 10,452 12,303 15,206
To finance the increase of £134,765 in
stocks the board went to its bankers for
an extra £78,440 and added £25,212 to
the amount coming to sundry creditors.
The extra raw materials were bought at
satisfactory prices compared with present
quotes, and will ensure maintenance of
manufacturing activity for a considerable
period, the board says. Under existing
conditions the “Wild Cat” has no quarrel
with a policy of insurance against rising
costs and possible interruption of supplies
from abroad. Including stocks, the year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£187,331) was £41,538. Plant,
the chief earning asset, is reported in
first-class order.
Subject to unforeseen developments,
the co.’s prospects for the current term
are encouraging.
At 245. 6d. (225. Id. a year ago) the
prefs. return 7.3 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div.
basis. On the same div. basis the ords.
return 7.9 p.c. at 225. 9d. (21s. a year
back). The net tangible cover is
£4 17s. 9d. prefs. and 28s. 6d. ords.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
f Dividends ——,
Pref. Ord. To Re— Re-
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. 12J p.c. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 46.663 9,000 25,000 12,663 103,876
1931.. 2,675 9,000 Nil 97,551
5 p.c.
1932.. 10,485 9,000 10,000 89,036
1933.. 19,064- 9,000 10,000 64 89,100
3J p.c.
1934.. 16,542 9,000 7,500 42 89,142
5 p.c.
1935. . 19,792 9,000 10,000 792 89,934
74 p.c.
1936.. 28,925 9,000 15,000 4,925 94,859
, 10 p.c.
1937.. 30,044 9,000 20,000 1,044 95,903
1938.. 32,961 9,000 20,000 3,961 99,864
1939.. 29,111 9,000 20,000 111 99,975
1940.. 29,414 9,000 20,000 414 100,389
124 p.c.
1941.. 34,003 9,000 25,000 3 100,392
Satisfied with the state of finances and
the level of undistributed earnings—the
£100,392 shown is after deducting good-
will of £16,659 —this softgoods retailer is
distributing profits as they are earned.
So, after four years at 10 p.c., ord. div,
is back to the 1929 level of 12j p.c.,
2\ p.c. labelled bonus. That rate, how-
ever, promises to be very susceptible to
any fluctuation in trading conditions.
The co. caters especially for men, its
handy 11-storeyed store being situated
right opposite the Post Office where
Bourke and Elizabeth streets meet —one
of Melbourne’s busiest intersections. And,
with the concentration of defence ex-
penditure in the lightest-taxed State,
Melbourne is busy these days. With
more money in their pockets, more cus-
tomers came to London Stores to spend
it, and stocks didn’t get much chance to
linger on the shelves. The “satisfactory
increase” recorded by turnover enabled
the co. to meet its own higher outgoings
and taxation and then show a lift of
£4589 in profits—£34,oo3, of which all
but the odd £3 was distributed.
The management trades for cash, both
when buying and selling. By taking full
advantage of trade discounts and reduc-
ing funds tied up in book debts to a
minimum, it is helped to offer keen
values: —
1937. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. 105,052 105,222 106,282 114,105
Property, etc. 412,253 412,253 414,888 415,838
Plant, etc. .. 7,036 7,077 6,360 6,600
Shares in other
cos . . 5,804 5,804 5,804 5.804
Stocks .. 79,278 85,493 88,146 97,379
Book debts .. 5,492 5,724 0,127 4,576
Cash, etc. .. 16,091 13,847 10,348 14,240
Of liabilities, £99,000 (mortgage on the
freehold) is fixed, so the floating debt is
well covered. Shareholdings represent
scrip in the cafeteria subsidiary (paid
capital, £13,860), which helps bring people
to the store. After paying rent to its
parent, the pup cleared £2O last year, and,
apparently through London Stores for-
going some advances, reduced its accu-
mulated debit (now £1410) by £2360.
So far the merchandise problem doesn’t
appear to have presented serious diffi-
culties, but stock worries may become
more pressing from now on with textile
manufacturers increasingly occupied with
contracts for the Services, both at borne
and abroad. Though there are difficul-
ties ahead of primary producers, defence
spending has a long way to go to attain
budgeted-for proportions, and the free
flow of money in the cities should con-
tinue, although surplus cash will be
absorbed by taxation —the payroll im-
post will be a slug—and Government
borrowing on a larger scale than hitherto.
Not counting on maintenance of the
bonus, the market offers 28s. for the ords.
(half are bonus shares handed out in
1923), buying a yield of 9 p.c. from
12i p.c. distributions. The 9 p.c. prefs.
return 5.8 p.c. at 31s. Value of the cover
is 30s. ords., £4 prefs.
Hotel Sydney, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 4,671 4 p.c. = 5,200 14,199
Loss.
1931.. 2,150 Nil 12,049
Written off, £3OOO .. .. .. 9,049
Profit.
1932.. 533 Nil 533 9,582
1933.. 187 Nil 187 9,709
Renovations charged to reserves, £2191.. 7,578
1934.. 940 Nil 940 8,518
1935.. 2.854 24 p.c. = 3,250 8,122
1936.. 5,856 4“ „ „ 5,200 656 8,778
1937.. 7,033 5 „ ~ 6,50') 533 9,311
1938.. 8.898 6 „ ~ 7,800 1098 10,409
1939.. 5,858 44 ~ „ 5,850 8 10,417
1940.. 6,934 5~ „ „ 6,500 434 10,851
The board’s action in taking out sink-
ing-fund insurance policies to cover “the
full book value of the building within
the term of the lease” has substantially
enhanced the value of the scrip as an
investment. Although annual contribu-
tions (£4688 in 1939) had been made to
a sinking fund reserve against the build-
ing, the board had not been able to
invest the money (£39,360) outside the
business. That is to say, no effective
provision was being made for redemp-
tion of the £130,000 of capital, which
includes a one-for-one bonus scrip issue
in 1923. The lease, which at the end of
1940 figured in the books at £130,122 net
(cost £178,100, less sinking fund £47,978),
runs out in 1960, and the annual premium
on the sinking-fund policies is £4309.
From the investor’s point of view
everything depends upon whether
future earnings will enable the co. to pay
dividends to shareholders after meeting
exes., including taxation (which is likely
to become heavier) and the cost of main-
tenance and repairs (a hungry and im-
portant item in the hotel business), plus
the insurance premium already referred
to. The co.’s recent experience suggests
that it should be able to maintain mod-
erate divs., though to what extent recent
experience can be taken as a guide to the
future remains to be seen. A four years’
drought for shareholders was broken in
1935 with a 2\ p.c. div., and the average
for the half-dozen years to the close of
last accounts was 4.5 p.c. The ’3B figures
received a fillip from Sydney’s sesqui-
centenary and special Anzac and Easter
celebrations.
Last year there was plenty of money
about, and the absence of wet canteens


THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
AH _ classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is
A. C. DAAVSON,
Gen. Manager,
an Australian institution.
X. U. UEYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen. Manager,
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith. Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. VV. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayera and Metallurgists,
—Advt.
v * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
MORE MILES FROM PETROL RATION
NEW INVENTION 1.000 GIVEN FREE
New invention utilizes petrol fumes now wasted. Car owners report amazing savings . . . together
with faster pick-up more power smoother running. This invention turns fumes now being
wasted into valuable fuel, and puts them back to work. Mr. A. McW., of Mitchell Rd.. Alexandria,
writes:—"l have installed on my Ford A one of your Aero Oil Attachments . . I had an increase
of 14 miles per gallon."
The Aero Oil Vaporator fits all cars, trucks, 'buses, and tractors. No
drilling, tapping, or cutting required. Anyone can fit it with_ a spanner
in a few minutes. It operates automatically, lasts a lifetime.
1,000 ATTACHMENTS GIVEN FREE
During the next 30 days, under a new
advertising plan, 1,000 Aero Oil Vapora-
tors will be given away FREE with the
object of further popularising this in-
genious invention. To share in this offer
you must act immediately. Post
Coupon NOW.
FREE COUPON BELOW
pc
**
THIS WASTE
** V
POST THIS COUPON
TO-DAY
To NATIONAL DISTRIBUTING CO..
Brickfield House,
463 George Street, SYDNEY.
NAME ADDRESS
CAR ... M.P.G.
(Enclose 2d stamp for Postage)
THE PURITY AND BEAUTY OF OUR
Come in when passing our way and see a
special display of both ornamental and every-
day-use China and Glassware. Our prices
are surprisingly low, and though you may
think there is nothing you require you may
be wrong —We may have something you
need extremely —ln any case, we always
have new and interesting goods to show and
inspection costs you nothing.
JPmrAsJL FINE CHINA
\\
m
IPa
■mm
A complete Trinket Set of the highest grade English "Tuscan" china,
hand-painted floral decorations in very bright colours on an ivory ground.
Price, including candles to tone. 80/->
mm
mmmlm
v' S
S&&SS
l£
: X
m$
sS*«*
i,**
tSSSm»
Charming gift Set of 4 Serviette
Rings with Crinoline Girl Table
Bell in satin-lined case. Genuine
"Coalport" china decorated with
raised hand-painted forget-me-not,
violets, and pansies on a rich ivory
ground. 25/-- Separately, Ser-
viette Rings, 5/3 each.
The most practical Bedside or
Early Morning Teaset, in "Royal
Winton" china, six pieces on
grooved non-sliding tray. Colours,
mottled pink or green. 23/6-
China and Glassware
Galleries, lower ground
floor. Take the lift or
stairway please.
For a nice Easter Gift,
this symbol of contentment
and happiness. A finely-
modelled pottery figure,
highly glazed wine or
rouge colour to suit mod-
ern furnishings measures
I3in x lOin. 35/-- Post-
age 2/6 extra.
■am
m
maAe'is v
*■ TUNC AND PMTT STREETS. SYDNEY.
in A.I.F. camps did the co. no haim
either. The spring in gross earnings
(£41,585) was £4532. Including ground
rent, rates and taxes (£9392, up £2856)
and the sinking fund and depreciation
allowance (£5316, down £404), exes.
(£34,651) took £3456 of the increase.
That left the net result £1076 better at
5.3 p.c. on capital as against 4.5, 6.8,
5.4, 4.5 and 2.2 p.c. back to 1935. The
div. was lifted half a point, making it
5 p.c.
The market, unimpressed by the
board’s action in respect of the sinking-
fund policy, prices the f.-p. pound shares
at 10s. 9d., at which figure the return is
9.3 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis, or 7.4 p.c.
on a 4 p.c. distribution.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1930. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £130,000 £130,000 £130,000 £130,000
Overdraft .. 45.334 15,969 7,500 16,220
Creditors .. 4,858 5,120 5,659 5,058
Leasehold .. 164,349 143,670 136.748 136,964
Furniture, etc. 26,288 14,305 13,496 12,489
Stocks .. 3,674 4,286 6,403 10,896
Book debts, etc. 3,329 5,907 2,911 2,986
Sinking fund
insurance .. —•— 8,618
To meet last year’s payments on the
sinking-fund policies and carry an extra
£4493 of stocks, the board went to its
bankers for an additional £8720. Exclud-
ing sinking-fund insurance, outside liabili-
ties exceeded more or less liquids by
£7396 when the books closed, or £3551
more than at the previous balance.
Cuthbert’s Misima
Though the mine position appears little
changed from a year ago, the lOs.-paids
have fallen from 17s. to 14s. over the
past twelve months. Assuming a profit of
£1 a ton, roughly last term’s experience,
known ore in sight is worth £304,000
net —£80,000 more than present market
value of the scrip. Debits against that
margin will be rising costs, the apparent
downtrend in ore values (not indicated)
and the fact that the Papuan 3 p.c. gold
tax —levied on the Commonwealth Bank
price, less Australian gold tax, it now
amounts to ss. Bd. an ounce —was effec-
tive for only 5i months of the year. As
against this, further ore should be opened
up—development to date has kept pace
with extraction—and there are possibili-
ties in the northern area, where an early
estimate of oxidised reserves was 300,000
tons.
All told the co.’s holdings aggregate
3280 acres —250 mining leases, the
balance timber areas —near the ill-fated
Gold Mines of Papua venture on Misima
Island. There is some 6000 ft. of payable
lode, ranging from 12ft. to 30ft. wide
and cut into two by Cooktown
Creek. Last term the 20-head of stamps
worked almost to capacity—4o,ooo tons
p.a. The decline of £4505 in profit-earn-
ings was due to the lower gold content
of the ore —s.2dwt. gold and 51.5dwt.
silver, as against s.sdwt. and 36.4dwt.
respectively—in association with the
higher costs resulting from freight and
other price-lifts:
Profit , —Dividend—^
Dec., Revenue. Exes. Net. Share. Share. Amt.
1936*. £57,889 £26,794 £31,095 2/0 1/6 £22,500
1937.. 68,075 34,391 33,684 2/2 2/- 30,000
1938.. 86,518 42,816 43.702 2/10 2/- 30,000
1939.. 91,774 48.999 42.775 2/10 2/- 30,000
1940.. 91,735 53,465 38,270 2/4 2/- 81,214
* 144 months.
Div. remained at 2s. per share ; owing
to the issue of 20,000 fully-paids, under
the terms of an early agreement, to
promoter-chairman Frank Hambridge,
to whom much of the credit for the
present solid position is due, it took £1214
more than in the previous year.
Analysis of operating results points to
efficient extraction ; yields exclude small
slag recoveries:—•
1937. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Treated, tons .. 26,119 33,521 36,828 37,859
Gold, oz 7,417 9,537 9,297 9,097
Dwts., ton .. 5.68 5.69 5.04 4.80
Recovery, p.c. .. 90.8 92.0 92.4 92.4
Silver, oz. .. 21.355 20,707 25,158 29,273
Recovery, p.c. .. 34.9 35.1 37.8 30.1
Recovery, ton .. 51/11 51/6 49/8* 48/2.1
Costs, ton .. 22/1* 22/6 23/111 25/9*
The costs figure leaves out of the reckon-
ing management, etc., exes, of £2591,
£492 written off plant and a bonus of
£1561 to the white staff. The 255.
shown is made up of mining, including
2s. 7d. a ton for development, 17s. 4.6 d.,
milling 7s. lOd. and mine charges 6.8 d.,
rises of Is. 7.2 d., 1.6 d. and 1.3 d. respec-
tively.
New ore developed fell only 3902 tons
short of crushings. Excluding the
northern section, supplies in sight are
now estimated at 304,241 t0n5—200,473
positive, the rest probable—or 1\ years’
rrjillfeed. Owing to insufficient work
being done, the figure includes only a
section of ore in No. 9 south level and
none below that horizon. How the sul-
phides will open up remains to be seen.
Recoveries very slightly below the aver-
age of last year have shown up in the
first quarter of the current term, but the
div. shouldn’t be interfered with. At
December 31 surplus liquids, including
stores, amounted to £27,751, or Is. 9d.
per share.
It is anticipated that the next Mt.
Morgan four-weekly report will be down
again. There has hardly been a dry
day at the Mount since April began. As
the Easter holidays came on it looked
like clearing. May may have compensa-
tions, being the driest month in the year,
as a rule.
* * * *
The Mother Lode on Ravenswood
(N.Q.) is a good old standby to the field.
The last shoot had pinched to nothing
almost when it took a right-hand bend
and made into a 20ft. width of ore. A
crushing of 400 tons gave concentrates
worth 7dwt. per ton, but two tons of
blanketings returned 68oz. of smelted
gold. Anyway, the latter made the lot
just payable, and it goes to show that
crushing can’t be too fine for mineral-
ised Ravenswood ore. And the Mother
Lode is nothing to some of the reefs —-
the Sunset, for example, with both zinc
and arsenic in it, as well as the usual
run of sulphides.
* * * *
“Pat”: Blue sapphires are still pro-
duced in Queensland on a limited scale.
The Anakie field (C.Q.) records a sale
of £lOOO worth of gems during February.
The price is a cracker for first-water
blues, as they brought up to £BO an
ounce. Second-class blues are dirt-cheap
around 15s. an ounce. Gems, however,
are not in great demand, and the main
market is for corundum, for which there
is an inquiry from America. The gravel
from which the sapphires are found may
be quite shallow, extending from the sur-
face to 10ft. or more. There is plenty
of water for washing now, but usually
the fields are droimht-str’ckpn and cover
a wide area of gibber country.
• » * •
Street-corner reports that the main
lode, previously billed as permanently
impoverished in depth, had been found
to have reversed its underlay and to be
of good value where struck in a new
place caused the recent rise in Wilunas
(W.A.). The official story of mine de-
velopment, however, doesn’t confirm this.
Here it is:—•
Development at the 2000 ft. level of the
Happy Jack section (a long way north of
the main workings) has been satisfactory
recently, but though wider ore occurrences
have been exposed the grade has remained
only payable. These developments cannot
be regarded as particularly important to
the life' of the mine, which is estimated at
two years.
* * * *
Western Mining Corporation has added
a new find at Widgiemooltha, between
Coolgardie and Norseman, to its list of
Westralian goldmining options. Ounce
values are said to have been exposed on
a laterite hill alongside the railway line.
A number of shallow-seated patches has
been struck in this district in the past, but
nothing permanent has been discovered.
* * * •
Burbridge, near Southern Cross (W.A.),
is being broadcast as a good thing.
Before gold had its rise this laterite show
was successfully worked for a time by
a local co., but a fall in grade put the
shutters up. Now another local co., con-
trolled by Kalgoorlie mining men, has
it, and yarns about unlimited 3dwt. ore,
10s. costs and £l-a-ton profits are being
spread.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
B.B.: Hold New Broken Hills. Post-war re-
construction will bring heavy demand for lead-
zinc.


CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. . . A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne,
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M/Q.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Dank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Blitzkrieg and Markets
The sharemarkets closed for Easter at
an uncertain stage of the war in the
Balkans and elsewhere. Hitler’s spring
campaign has begun in Europe, and, after
a period of wearing-down tactics by both
sides during the long winter, armies are
again at grips. Such periods are always
nerve-racking to the peoples involved,
and their feelings are reflected to some
extent in their behavior, especially their
financial behavior. In Australia the
Occasion has been marked by a slight
'< .'cession in the sharemarkets. No actual
break had occurred up to the closing
of ’Change last Thursday.
Though the occasion is one to sober-up
F speculative element —shares in Bond’s
industries, for instance, have fallen from
325. 6d. to 28s. 9d. —there are no reasons
for a big decline in market values
generally. Whatever may happen over-
seas, there aren’t likely to be any de-
velopments that will affect the value of
shares more than the value of anything
else. In particular, money isn’t likely to
enhance in value in comparison with
shares as a result of changes for the
better or worse in the Empire’s military
fortunes around the Mediterranean.
There are exceptional cases—investments
depending on imports, for instance —that
may be directly affected by developments,
but they are in a special class.
During testing periods like the present
it is a good idea to sit tight on sound
stocks. After Dunkirk, when a wide-
spread collapse occurred in Australian
’Change prices, there was full recovery.
In May, 1940, too, bear operations were
permitted. They are banned at present.
The sharemarkets lost their briskness
when the Battle of the Balkans started
and other disconcerting issues arose
in Cyrenaica and Iraq. From the peak
of 131.63 reached on April 5 there
was a subsidence in the Sydney
index of industrial shares to 129.16 on
April 10. Among the issues principally
affected B.H.P. was notable. The fully-
paids dropped to 395. 6d., after having
been up to 425., and the 55.-paids slipped
back to 235., after seeing 255, 9d. The
weakness in B.H.P. shares had a good
deal to do with the slip in the share-
price index. Though a number of other
issues were slightly weaker, there was
strong support for one or two stocks ;
Australian Consolidated Industries shares,
for example, were bought for a time
at 425. 3d. in anticipation of accounts
shortly to be presented. Australasian
Paper ords. have been firm after recent
weakness, and a similar state of
affairs exists with regard to Asso-
ciated Pulp. Support for Electro-
lytic Zinc issues' remained strong as
Easter approached. At 525. 6d. the ords.
show little change since March 31. British
Tobacco was another stable stock, in
spite of the difficulties of importing leaf
and the rationing that has taken place
in the trade.
In addition to the notable slackening
of 8.H.P., which may perhaps be partly
attributed to profit-taking following the
sharpish rise that occurred after the rights
were fully taken. Tooth shares were
weaker down over 2s. in a week.
Bond’s Industries speculative ords. fell
from 325. 6d. to 28s. 9d. Woolworths ss.
ords. came down from 17s. 3d. to
16s. 6d., though David Jones (Sydney)
shares were inclined to strengthen. Felt
and Textiles ords. showed little move-
ment, and Yarra Falls scrip remained
firm. The cotton textile cos. were, on
the whole, slightly weaker, but H. B.
Dickie ords. were particularly firm ; the
importation of certain types of towels
from non-sterling countries has been
totally prohibited.
Mort’s Dock shares have strengthened.
On March 29 they stood at 18s. 6d. Last
week they sold at 19s. 6d., after having
been up to 19s. 9d. The 19s. 9d. was
the highest quote for this stock for 20
years, though 19s. 6d. was reached at
one stage in 1940. Following the unani-
mous approval of Barnet Glass pref.
shareholders with regard to the offer of
30s, by Dunlop-Perdriau for their scrip,
B.G. prefs. sold at 295. 3d. Provided the
deal is quickly completed, the 9d. a share
profit will represent good interest,
especially if bought by a broker at little
cost to himself in commission.
* * * *
Since the outbreak of war the Aus-
tralian national debt has increased by
about £100,000,000. At Dec. 31 last it
stood at £1,393,776,091, equal to £197 6s.
per head of the population, compared
with £lB6 2s. Bd. per head on June 30,
1939, The figures are a mixture of Aus-
tralian currency, sterling and dollars;
our debt to Britain figures at £558,333,705
sterling (£79 os. 9d. a head), and we owe
New York £43,744,580 (£6 3s. lOd. a
head) on the basis of $4.86 to the £ Aus-
tralian (the figure is more like $3.20 now).
Colossal as our national debt of nearly
£1,400,000,000 may seem just as a sum
of money, and heavy as it is per head of
our population, it fades into a pygmy
when set alongside some of Britain’s im-
mediate war-time figures. During the first
18 months of the war Government expen-
diture in Britain totalled £4,650,000,000
sterling. Taxation met £2,000,000,000 of
this, overseas resources £1,000,000,000
and borrowings, etc., £1,650,000,000. Thus
in 18 months of this war Britain increased
its national debt by a sum greater than
the whole of the Commonwealth’s accu-
mulated debt. In 1941-42 Britain’s
Budget expenditure will be
£4,207,000,000, of which revenue will
provide £1,636,000,000. These estimates,
says Sir Kingsley Wood, exclude the
value of supplies to be received from the
U.S.A. under the Lease-Lend Act, which
“will far exceed the £5,000,000,000 I have
seen mentioned in various quarters.”
Colossal is hardly the word for these
figures ; they are stupendous. The entire
value of Australia’s railways, Govern-
ment buildings, harbor works, indebted-
ness from the last war, etc., probably
wouldn’t measure up to half the war
wastage (in fighting alone) that will occur
during 1941. And that is setting aside
more than half the projected war expen-
diture by Britain and the U.S.A. as being
of a capital nature. Still, the parallel
isn’t drawn for the purpose of pooh-pooh-
ing the size of Australia’s debt or for
suggesting that we should tax less and
borrow more in order to get our war job
done. War expenditure is a tax, whether
met by borrowings or not, and it is best
for all that it be treated as a tax.
* * * *
The J. M. Keynes plan of compulsory
saving by all classes as an assistance to
the war effort is being adopted, or
partially adopted, at any rate, by the
Chancellor of the Exchequer. It is so
long ago since Keynes put forward his
plan that exact details may have been
forgotten. But in principle it provided
for the paying into the British Post Office
Savings Bank each week a percentage
of workers’ salaries and wages, to stand
there until released after the war. Pro-
vided borrowing by wage-earners on their
credits is forcibly checked, the effect will
be that they will be able to spend even
less of their heavily-taxed incomes than
hitherto, but will have a sort of “slump
assurance” to their credit when the war
is over. The main attraction of the
scheme, indeed, is the sugar-coating of
what is for the time being a tax by
giving it a deferred asset value. As a
war measure it would be better if turned
into a straightout tax ; but Britain, even
more so than Australia, has had political
fears about treating as taxation what is
taxation. That is partly why there has
been more price-inflation in Britain
(though increased importing costs have
been the main bugbear) than in Australia.
Nervousness about increasing taxation in
peace-time to rearm Britain was put for-
ward by the Government at the time of
the crisis as one of the reasons for the
retreat from Dunkirk.
British taxation is so heavy now that
it is a political problem of the first mag-
nitude. But the war is an even greater
problem, and, though Britain’s living
standard is being assailed, employment is
widely spread, so that almost everyone
has a job and an income. The position
is very different from that prevailing
during the depression, when those in jobs
were well paid and the millions out of
jobs were on the dole. 0
Britain’s standard rate of tax is now
10s. in the £, To those unacquainted
with Britain’s taxation system that
sounds, in one direction, misleadingly
high. So far as middle and lower in-
comes are concerned, the “standard rate”
has always been an arithmetical fiction.
A bachelor on £lOOO a year with the
standard rate at 10s. in the £ will actually
pay 7s. Bd. in the £. It would probably be
better, from a political viewpoint, if the
“standard rate” were never mentioned,
since, in its application to the majority
of British voters and taxpayers, nothing
like that rate has to be paid. On the
other hand, among the biggest incomes
the standard rate is little more than half
the rate exacted.
The tax proposals will bring 2,000,000
new taxpayers into Kingsley Wood’s net.
In introducing the principle behind J. M.
Keynes’s scheme, they provide that the
additional tax levied as a result of reduc-
tions in reliefs and allowances will be
credited (up to a maximum of £65 p.a.)
to the taxpayer at the end of the war.
Excess-profits tax will remain at 100 p.c.,
but when the war is over 20 p.c. will
be refunded to industry for reconstruc-
tion. The 100 p.c. tax, though seemingly
right in principle, operates as a hindrance
to expansion of production. The Labor
party, when the tax was introduced in
the earlier part of 1940, stubbornly
opposed any compromise, even if it
meant that in extreme cases no divs.
at all could be paid.
* SJC * *
The arrival of Lieut.-General Charles
from Britain the other day indicates that
the development of the Australian alumi-
nium industry is being taken seriously.
Charles is a director of the British
Aluminium Co., which was a partner
with Electrolytic Zinc, Metal Manufac-
tures, Ltd., and Aluminium, Ltd.
(Canada), in the formation of Australian
Aluminium Co. early in 1939. The fac-
tory has been established in a Sydney
suburb, and initial plans contemplated
the importation of aluminium ingots and
their processing in this country ; treat-
ment of Australian bauxite was to be a
matter for later consideration. But
apparently the war has hastened things
along, and Lieut.-General Charles is to
study the question of whether Australian
bauxite deposits are economic in grade
and quantity. “Prodigious efforts” are
being made to make the Empire self-
supporting in the matter of aluminium
supplies. Modern aeroplanes are largely
constructed of aluminium alloys.
Broken Hill Prop, recently acquired
bauxite leases at Tingha (N.S.W.), and
in 1939 Australian Paper Manufacturers
took up some areas at Boolarra, in
Gippsland (Vic.). Other deposits have
been located on Tamborine Mountain
(Q.), Wingello (N.S.W.), and more
recently in the central' west of N.S.W.
Generally speaking, Australian bauxite
deposits haven’t measured up to those in
other parts of the world, but the working-
out of the richer overseas mines may
bring known Australian ore into better
economic perspective, and once a start is
made in this country discoveries of other
deposits may follow.
* * * «
Mt. Lyell shares rose to nearly 295. for
a short time last week. Then they
dropped back to around 28s. It is hard
to say how the co. is doing in the absence
of production figures from the mine. But
profit-earning this term may be easier
than last, provided the grade of ore has
not fallen much. The 1940-41 term
should be a full period of increased
prices, and, though portion of the money
now being received from copper is to
be applied towards financing develop-
ment of further copper production, it is
all of assistance to earnings in the long
run. A 10 p.c. div. was paid for last
term. On that basis the yield to the
investor at 28s. would be 7.1 p.c.
« * * «
The National Bank of Australasia
expresses the opinion that up to the
present the war has provided a beneficial
stimulus to most industries in Australia,
while the burden of sacrifice has fallen
heavily on a small proportion of the
people. The bank believes that, since the
beginning of the war, Australia has been
in a most fortunate position. It has been
able to expand its munition industries
and train its fighting forces almost as if
no violent conflict were raging around
the coasts of Britain. Organisation of
industry under war conditions still leaves
room for improvement, for avoidance of
waste and overlapping, for making best
use of the labor force available, and for
spreading the element of sacrifice equit-
ably through the community. Correction
of these shortcomings is, however, an
intricate and difficult task. Our war
effort, the National says, hasn’t been hin-
dered as much by the political situation
in Canberra as might have been expected.
♦ * * *
For the nine months to March 31 Aus-
tralia’s favorable commodity balance was
£124,000 sterling, compared with
£4,264,000 sterling for the same period
of last year. Apparently, however, a
heavy falling-off in imports is expected
for the last quarter of 1940-41, since the
Commonwealth Bank has forecast a
favorable trade balance of ... about
£31,000,000 Australian for the whole
financial year. As gold production,
added to the present almost invisible
commodity balance, would not equal that
figure, March, April and May will have
to show a good balance our way in
order to justify the central bank’s fore-
cast.
* * * *
The depression, like the war of 1914-
18, helped to develop Australia’s indus-
trial resources. In the halcyon days
before 1914 we sold our produce to
Britain and bought nearly all our manu-
factured goods in return. Germany was
possibly Britain’s greatest rival for trade
in those days. The U.S.A. and Japan
were hardly in the picture. The Great
War partially isolated Australia from
Europe ; it developed our trade relations
with Japan and the U.S.A. to some ex-
tent, but we also began to manufacture
on a greater scale for ourselves. Nothing
very ambitious at this stage worsteds
were added to woollens, woollen yarn
was spun as well as woven, and simpler
types of commercial products were pro-
cessed here on a larger scale, if not ex-
clusively. Linseed oil, cement, tiles, etc.,
became largely Australian-made, and the
making of agricultural machinery ex-
panded. But at the same time the germ
of a really great industry began to grow.
The B.H.P. steelworks established them-
selves. After the war coalfields, on which
a great part of Britain’s manufacturing
strength was based, began to take second
place to petroleum and cheap electric
power, and the U.S.A. took the lead as
the world’s greatest industrial centre.
The States gave the world cheap motor-
cars, mass-production, and oils and spirits
to run the cars. Australia developed a
larger trading connection with the U.S.A.,
and built up a reciprocal trade with
Japan. Then came the depression. Be-
cause of a shortage of foreign funds
Australia erected barriers against the
trade of the entire world. It turned to
more ambitious manufactures. Electrical
goods on a large scale were produced ;
also radio equipment. Great expansion
took place in the steel and allied in-
dustries. Motor-bodies became almost
exclusively an Australian product. Aus-
tralian worsteds largely replaced the im-
ported kind. Such complicated things as
high-speed printing presses were turned
out in Melbourne. Japan built up a
substantial trade with this country in
cotton-goods and silk. This relationship
was upset by the “trade-diversion policy.”
Since the present war started further
great strides in manufacture have been
made. They principally relate to cotton-
spinning and -weaving, paper-making and
steel. Optical goods also enter into the
story, and a thousand other such items.
It is probable that carpenters’ tools will
also figure more importantly than before.
And aeroplane-manufacture and ship-
building will be important for the
duration of the war at least.
Australia’s factories have thus de-
veloped in a series of odd but impressive
steps. They are invaluable to us now,
and, under the discipline of price control,
have helped keep the cost of living down,
apart from doing wonderful work in the
way of defence. At the present time
they are, for the most part, worth every
penny they have cost us during the earlier
stages of their establishment, when tariff
policy was a widely debated item of
interest.
* * * *
Austin Howard-Smith at the meeting of
Caledonian Collieries, said that the mine
was being mechanised as fast as the co.’s
finances would allow. He complained
that every effort to raise output was
nullified by strikes for the most trivial
reasons.


m
rm
m
m
■mm
mm
Mi
m
' - jf"' i
■
::
mrnmmlmiWmWWWM&M
: ' ' . ■:
■. ■ ■ ■' ■ :;■:■■
• . .V '
mmm
li ' *
n
• • ■
WSmm:
■i
? - ■ : ■
mmm
'WnSm
vm
mmmm
mmmmm-
IS5p« :
■■■
■H—t
ranHHnHHra
mm
■' ; ...
'-/■.■■■
mm
n
M
mmmmm
::v H
S»®i4J5
k* *;■ -i
fSSS
L<* -
S J
iiiiii
_s
iliiii
:WAWx
■I
m
■ ill
fc:’-* „ :
“....And the everlasting hills
Changeless watch the changeless heaven.”
—Charles Kingsley.
You can have Confidence
in the changeless quality of . . .
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED SYDNEY.
m
m
id
88888
This is the old T udor Inn which
is featured on the distinctive
label of Tuchers Old Tudor
Whishp.
Rememher! When pu call for
whishp—insist upon
Old Tud or. You 7 ]] lihe it!
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED SYDNEY.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
ITALY’S SHATTERED DREAMS.
(From an article by a New York “Herald Tribune”
correspondent.)
Five years ago Mussolini began to live the great-
est moments of his life. On Feb. 16, 1936, Marshal
Pietro Badoglio, then commander-in-chief of the East
African forces, reported his first victory over the
Ethiopians on the road from Makale to Dessye. I
remember the jubilance in Rome, the triumphant faces
of Fascist students who marched through the streets
singing “Giovinezza” and “Facetta Nera.” Italy was
embarked on her way to becoming a Great Power.
The weeks that followed brought many more vic-
tories to 11 Duce. When Badoglio entered Addis
Ababa on May 5 the Roman sirens wailed for the
victory. Half a million men and women poured out
on the Piazza Venezia. Mussolini stood on his bal-
cony, framed by the gigantic swords of searchlights
sweeping the sky.
“Italy finally has her empire!” he shouted, and
the crowd yelled in frenzy. “It is a Fascist empire
because it bears indestructible signs of will and power
and because this is the end toward which, during
14 years, were directed the vibrant and disciplined
energies of the youth of Italy. The Italian people
have created an empire with their blood. They will
fertilise it with their work and will defend it against
anyone with their men.”
It was a glorious hour for the Italians, and even
we foreigners were carried away by their happiness.
II Duce’s announcement not only meant the return
of peace. It told the Italian people of the conquest
of an Eldorado which would put an end to their woes.
Italian laborers were convinced that the empire would
provide them with land and riches, such as the British
alone possessed heretofore. Italian leaders and the
Fascist youth believed sincerely that Italy had risen
at last to the rank of a Great Power.
I remember the summer of 1936 when black-
shirted warriors returned to the homeland from Abys-
sinia. Women strewed their path with oleander
flowers. It was a summer of rejoicing, of song and
of mad hopes. Yet behind the walls of the Venezia
palace and of the Berchtesgaden villa Mussolini and
Hitler were already forging the rod of the Axis.
As this Axis grew stronger the dreams of the
Italian people were being scattered to the winds.
They were too intelligent, these people, not to know
that friendship with Germany would necessarily mean
There was no money to develop the Abyssinian
empire. The settlers who went there wrote about
work in a hard climate, about the fear of the hostile
native, about “sweat and tears” rather than about
easily found gold.
But a colony of farmers was set up, nevertheless,
in the vicinity of Addis Ababa and another one near
Harar. Italian women were sent there along with
men. Young men in khaki shirts, with shovels and
picks and a rifle on the shoulder, worked at building
roads, of which each mile cost a fortune. Gardens
began to bloom on the Ethiopian plateaus under the
protection of the Fascio.
It was only natural that the enthusiasm could not
be maintained at its highest level. Each time that I
visited Italy in the last four years I noticed the grow-
ing disillusionment and the weariness of the Italian
people.
There was obviously little to be proud of for the
Italians when they turned against France at her last
hour and managed to occupy a few square feet of
ground. But there was hope for them still that war
would end soon ; that it would cost them little, and
that the prize for their partnership in the Axis would
be astonishingly high. How could any Italian dis-
approye of a war that might bring a complete redis-
tribution of land in the Mediterranean basin and the
real mastery for Italy of that sea long claimed by
Mussolini?
The blow that the British troops have dealt to
the Italian Empire must have struck them in their
pride more even than in their material possessions.
Worse than the earthly losses of the empire, of
the hard-earned money sunk in the building of roads
and of homes for settlers, is the loss of self-confidence
of the Italian people, who had always suffered from
a national inferiority complex.
Mussolini had tried to eliminate it. A great part
of his success had been achieved by his constant re-
minding that the Italian people were great and heroic.
The Italians loved it. It made their faces bright with
childish pride. How stunned and dismayed they must
feel today at the news of the military reverses piled up
on all their fronts. I can imagine their grief. It
would be difficult, indeed, for II Duce to stir them up
to heroism now. This is the reason, perhaps, why
the dictator remains silent, while during the Abys-
sinian campagin he spoke to his people at least once
a month.
Yet how natural are Italy’s reverses when one
remembers the poverty of the land, the absence of all
reserves, its dependence on foreign imports. The
Italian State is only 70 years old and economically
not strong enough to take the place of a first-rank
Power. The present adventure, instead of raising
Italy to a higher place on the shambles of pre-war
Europe, is bound to send it back down the scale. It
has drained Italy’s thin resources, shattered the morale
of its people.
Why Nazis Fail as Rulers.
(Condensed from a Manchester “Guardian” article.)
It was said in the days when Poland was divided
between Russia, Austria and Germany that the rule
of Germany was the harshest burden of the three
because of its systematic and thorough methods.
German history is largely a history of fierce and ruth-
less energy on one hand and an indifference to politics
that took the form of extreme docility on the other.
It is therefore not surprising that the Nazis under-
estimate the difficulties that confront them in Europe.
They represent a tradition of rule without resistance.
The British people had a shock in the eighteenth
century when they had to admit defeat at the hands
of their colonists in America. It was a salutary experi-
ence which goes far to explain the success of their
later colonial experiments. Ireland again taught them
a grim and long-drawn-out lesson, and, though they
learnt it slowly, they learnt it much faster than any
German ruler could have learnt it. The ex-Kaiser
thought Gladstone’s Home Rule policy the fantasy of
a madman.
The French also knew from their own history
that men and peoples are not mere puppets. But the
Prussian domination of Germany was a history of
almost unbroken success, and the Nazis were seduced
into thinking that men of resolution and daring can do
what they please with the liberties and lives of ordinary
men and women. When to this illusion was added
another, the illusion that the Germans have qualities
that distinguish them from all other peoples as leaders
and dictators, the Nazis arrived at a state of mind that
to the Greeks would have seemed the infatuation of
fatal pride. Nothing else could explain the scale and
character of their ambition.
Their self-confidence is shown in the candor with
which they describe their plans. Dr. Ley, opening a
Brown House in the old market square in Cracow,
said: “The higher the race the greater its require-
ments. The Germans must have better dwellings
than the Poles and the Jews. We Germans want to
lead the world because we deserve to be its leaders.”
A Nazi high command leader said at Lodz to a party
—New York “Daily Mirror.”
JUST AN ANGEL OF PEACE.
of Nazi instructors: “The Czechs and Poles, like the
Jews, are subtenants, who, as they have invaded the
German racial centres, are subject to the law of
eviction. The Germans are teaching the Czechs sense,
and are throwing out the Poles, dogs who, on the
chain of Western Powers, installed themselves in the
German racial centres in order to keep watch on the
Germans.” As Hitler has proclaimed the old Empire
to be Germany’s living-space, the argument applied
here to Poles and Czechs can be applied to almost any
people in Europe.
The “New Order” represents not a forward move-
ment of mind or impulse but a most deadly reaction.
The French Revolution which gave Napoleon his
power was inspired by great emancipating ideas. Those
ideas influenced a great part of Europe, and the benefits
had to be set off against his violence. Hitler, who
aims at subduing the world, represents inhuman effi-
ciency, the mastery of a world by the forces least
friendly to the spirit of man. The ideas behind his
violence are brutal and decivilising.
’Planes v. Warships.
(From a New York “Times” comment by George
F. Dale.)
At the end of the last war, a number of naval
men doubted the ability of bombing ’planes to sink
even an old battleship under any conditions whatever.
Accordingly, the experiment was tried on two old
German ships, the dreadnought Ostfriesland and the
light cruiser Frankfurt, and it was conclusively demon-
strated that some armored vessels could be sunk by
bombers.
The Alabama, Virginia and New Jersey experi-
ments were therefore carried out to ascertain just
how quickly old hulks could be sunk under the most
favorable conditions possible by air attack. The
results were rather disturbing to the more thoughtful
air enthusiasts, and correspondingly heartening to the
diehard salts. As a further test, the incomplete
superdreadnought Washington was bombed in 1924, to
give some idea of what sort of resistance might be
expected from a modern capital ship, and the results
were still further discouraging to the airmen.
While watching the rapid development of aircraft
during the past 15 years, however, the extreme par-
tisans of both sides have had plenty of evidence to
cause a modification of their views. No sane naval
man would argue today that he could dispense with
a strong air force, provided his opponent had one.
No seasoned military or naval aviator will maintain
that air power alone, unsupported by other arms on
sea or land, can accomplish a decision. The sinking
of the modern light cruiser Southampton by over-
whelming Axis air atack in the Mediterranean a
month or two back was no surprise to experts ; the
surprise was that something of the sort had not
happened sooner.
The Southampton was not an armored ship. Her
thin protective deck, small patch of side-armor, and
eggshell gunhouses did not entitle her to be ranked
with ships carrying heavy armor, designed to take
pounding from large calibre guns.
The battleship has never been built which was
claimed, even by her designer, to be unsinkable. The
most that has ever been claimed is that she would
be difficult to sink. When a capital ship is caught at
anchor in an enclosed harbor, she can be torpedoed
and sunk, and it matters little whether the torpedo be
fired from a submarine or launched from a ’plane.
But, and it is a very large “but,” such incidents
are the exception, not the rule. In all probability,
some day a capital ship will be caught, isolated and
in adverse circumstances and will be sunk by air
bombing. The sinking will have more or less effect
upon the war in progress, depending upon circum-
stances, but it will not prove a thing to either airmen
or seamen except that, under those special conditions,
’planes can sink a ship—something that both knew
beforehand.
Wars are seldom decided by special, isolated
instances. Victory will not go to the side which can
occasionally sink an enemy battleship caught in
especially unfavorable circumstances, but to the side
which can keep the sea and consistently disable or
sink considerable numbers of hostile battleships. The
airplane is an excellent scout and a fair gunnery
spotter. The bombing ’plane is a powerful weapon
of great range and striking power, admirably suited
for daring raids followed by quick retreat.
But the hit-and-run fighter seldom wins in the end.
The final decision almost always goes to the fighter
who can stand his ground, take terrible punishment,
but deal out even more terrible blows, and remain
in control of the field of battle afterward. Only a
well-balanced fleet, composed of all naval arms, in-
cluding the air force, with a strong backbone of
heavily armored capital ships carrying guns of the
largest calibre, can do this.
The question is not can ’planes sink ships. We
know they can. It is can ’planes sink ships con-
sistently enough to make the sea too dangerous for
ships to venture forth. They have not yet even begun
to demonstrate the ability to do so. Even should they
prove able to do so in narrow enclosed waters it
does not necessarily follow that they would be able
to repeat the performance far at sea.
Singapore and Japan.
[These condensed extracts are from a New York
“Times” article by Hallett Abend.]
The great British naval base at Singapore could,
literally, shelter all the navies of the world, for it
has more than 50 square miles of anchorage.
In mid-December, when this writer was last at
Singapore, the great establishment ashore was ready
to refuel, supply or repair any number of naval vessels
at an hour’s notice. The shore personnel was com-
plete, great machine shops were ready for intensive
work, the surface and underground fuel tanks were full,
the arsenals were crammed with everything from
belts of machine-gun cartridges to huge torpedoes,
16in. shells and 20001 b. aerial bombs.
Singapore is more than a naval base. It has been
made into a formidable land fortress. All approaches
to the island, its harbors and to the Straits of Johore
have been mined for miles out to sea. The coast
bristles with guns of all sizes.
Singapore, the land fortress, neutral military ob-
servers believe, could withstand from three to four
months of aerial bombing and pounding from naval
guns before any landing in force could be attempted
with impunity. But the vulnerable approach would
be to land at any one or two of several ports of the
Malay peninsula, north of Singapore Island, and then
march south.
Many good highways and two railways run north-
ward from Singapore through the Malay States, and
there are eastward branches to the several harbors
where landings might be attempted. These harbors
are only lightly defended, but the British have made
elaborate preparations for a delaying retirement to
the southward.
In the Far East there has been a widespread feel-
ing that caution would be a deterrent to Japan until
such time as the situation in Europe might indicate
a probable early German victory. Naval and military
commanders who would be involved against the
Japanese thought that Tokyo would not give the order
to strike until England showed unmistakable signs of
such weakness that caution would keep the United
States quiet in the Far East because of the possi-
bility of being forced to shift our main fleet from
Hawaii to the Atlantic Ocean.
The Japanese dread, above all things, the possi-
bility of having Tokyo, Osaka, Kobe and other great
cities bombed. These cities, with narrow streets, in-
flammable houses and enormous population, could be
turned into a holocaust which, by comparison, would
make the conflagration which incendiary bombs have
caused in London seem like mere bonfires.
The British would be unable to bomb Japan’s
cities except from aircraft-carriers, and the United


ROYAL EMPIRE SHOW—SYDNEY, 1941
BRANDY
Winner in All Classes and
BRANDY Championship
States likewise has no land bases within flying reach
of the Japanese shores. But if Japan’s proposed
assault upon Singapore were to fail, or to be unduly
prolonged, Russia might settle old scores by sending
bombing ’planes down from Vladivostok, only about
600 miles from Japan’s capital.
If Japan decides to drive against Singapore, it
seems reasonable to assume that Germany has been
able to assure her of continued Soviet neutrality. Also
it indicates that Tokyo believes Germany will win in
the Balkans and invade England successfully, and
that, moreover, Tokyo is convinced the United States
is still too unprepared to risk a bold gesture in Eng-
land’s aid or in the defence of her own position in
the Orient.
Case for U.S. Convoys.
(Condensed from comment by John T. Rowland, a
former U.S. naval officer, in New York “Herald Tribune.”)
When the American destroyers took over con-
voying in 1917 the situation of Great Britain was
strikingly similar to what it is today. Merchant ships
were being sunk faster than they could be replaced,
and the narrow seas were literally strewn with wreck-
age. Although England was threatened with starva-
tion, a sufficient force could not safely be detached
from the Grand Fleet to meet adequately this new
menace.
England’s crying need is for naval reinforcement
to safeguard food and supplies in transit across the
Atlantic. I question if even the need for aircraft is
more pressing or will have a greater bearing upon the
outcome of the war.
An impression prevails that the convoy system
which American naval forces so successfully instituted
in 1917-18 had for its sole purpose the ferrying of
troops to France., For one troopship which we es-
corted to France we took, I suppose, 20 or 30 mer-
chantmen into British ports. One great food convoy
of 40 ships arrived in the nick of time to save Eng-
land from starvation.
From a cold-blooded professional standpoint of
naval strategy the argument is all in favor of our
taking over this job as we did in 1917. It would
be perhaps the greatest service we could render
Britain, and we have the means available and on
hand. The true obstacle is not one of strategy, but
is due to the fact that in the opinion of many persons
such a move would be an act of war.
We may as well admit that in the
event of the United States supplying
naval escorts to Britain-bound ships,
even on the high seas in complete ac-
cord with international law, those es-
corts will soon have to fight. Let us
say that they do. They will be resisting
attack, and there is no reason for assum-
ing that they will not do this success-
fully.
But, say the objectors, once a gun
has been fired we are in the war and
must send our boys to be slaughtered on
the soil of the Old World. There is no
logic whatever in any such conclusion.
The initiative in this matter rests wholly
in our own hands. Germany will be in
no better position to attack us as a result
of our escorting ships across the
Atlantic ; in fact, she will be in a worse
position, since we will be reinforcing the
British fleet. And we will not be in any
way obligating ourselves to attack her.
Our action will be limited to protecting
our products in transit, and there it may
end if we so decree. If, on the other
hand, we do not eventually take some such
action we face the likelihood of seeing our stupendous
efforts wasted and Hitler victorious by a threat.
There is no sense in spending billions for war
materials merely to have them reposing at the bottom
of the sea.
Towards a “Christian Peace.”
(Condensed from the “Foreign Affairs" commentary in
London “Contemporary Review.”)
Whether the war end soon or late, there still must
be a peace settlement. The world has had so many
“peace settlements” after wars: all of them as fatuous,
as illusory, as those that preceded them. A vast
amount of thought is given to the destructive pro-
cesses, to the postulated means of defeating the enemy.
What evidence is there, on our side, of constructive
thought, even of incipient ideas about the world that
will have to be rebuilt? Have we a programme?
The totalitarians, no doubt from the tactical
realisation that good war propaganda must include
not only an appeal to defensive instincts, but a posi-
tive incentive towards promised rewards, talk glibly
of the “New Order” they intend to establish in Europe,
in Asia, in Northern Africa. Consider, for instance,
the outlook of the man in the street in Spain. Hitler
promises him Gibraltar and the former French
Morocco. The hard-headed Spaniard sees through
that promise, but has no idea what, if anything, in
the world will be changed by a British victory. He is
not enlightened by any British authority.
It is one of the remarkable things that purely
political thought in Great Britain has not yet openly
produced anything constructive about the future order
of the world, although it is obvious that two wars with
an abortive League of Nations sandwiched in between
them sound a clarion call for treatment drastic enough
to make impossible a third. On the other hand,
religious opinion of all shades has shown itself to
be well alive to a real emergency in human affairs.
Those who are looking ahead to the better world
that must, and will, follow this war will find much
to interest and to guide them in an admirable volume
that embodies many years of concentrated thought on
the part of a particularly good committee of promi-
nent members of the Church of England, working
under the name of “The Industrial Christian Fellow-
ship.” The book is called Christ, the Lord of All Life
(The Industrial Christian Fellowship, The Vicarage,
1 Broadway, Westminster, S.W.I, sth edition). The
chapter on “The World-as-it-should-be” ought to be
read by every politician. The Roman Catholic Church
for its part is engaged in a whole series of study
groups producing constructive thought on the settle-
ment that must follow the war.
The cumulative weight of two thousand years of
experience has taught us that all political settlements
have proved consistently unsound precisely because
they have lacked a Christian motive. Count Michael
de la Bedoyere, editor of the “Catholic Herald,” has
written under the title Christian Crisis (Burns, Oates)
an excellent and a cogent plea that also ought to be
read by politicians and others who, if they do not,
ought to, make it their business, in the author’s words,
to “recognise what Christianity as a spiritual and
social force means under the circumstances of today.”
The old traditional motive in diplomacy, fairly
described as the competitive bid for the world’s spoils.
—New York “Post."
THE FLAG GOES UP AGAIN.
has produced what it has produced. It has been
wholly divorced from God. The result has been one
long unbroken series of catastrophes. It is therefore
right that Christians should give political advice. Those
politicians who angrily bid the Church mind its own
business are forcing an open door, because this is
precisely the Church’s business. Politics are merely
one aspect of human life, and as such are subject to
[ he general of human life. It is because politics
have for so long been shut off from what Father
Lorenzo Scupoli has called “God’s assisting grace”
( w hich alone can make human enterprises succeed)
t fiat at p resent time the w hole world dances to
tunes called by such men as Adolf Hitler and Benito
jviussolini
'
United States Irish Opinion.
(Condensed from a Manchester Guardian article by
James Bone, lately correspondent of that newspaper in
the U.S.A.)
There are two pairs of stone lions with iron tails
decorating a bridge in Baltimore. Every time the
Irish there were displeased by something England did
they had smashed the tails when they were of stone,
so the city authorities at last put iron tails on the
lions. There was nothing English about the lions
except that they were lions. Recently the council
discussed the idea of having stone tails again on the
lions, as Irish opinion now is less actively anti-English,
Another instance of this tendency was the de-
cision of the Hibernian Society— not the Ancient
Order of Hibernians, but still a strong Irish body—
to raise a fund for British war charities, England’s
enemies, they said, being Ireland’s enemies now.
It would be easy to magnify the swing of Irish-
American opinion that is going on, but all over the
United States there are evidences of its growing
steadily as it becomes clearer that, as one very emi-
nent Irishman said (though not for publication under
his name), England is the breakwater that protects
Ireland from the storms of the Continent, and if Eng-
land falls Ireland and what it stands for could not
exist.
The disappearance from the radio of Father
Coghlan and his bitter attacks on England and the
complete snubbing of his paper’s offers of help by
both Roosevelt and Willkie in the Presidential cam-
paign, the absence nowadays of any tail-twisting reso-
lution against Britain in the Democratic Convention,
and the fact that the isolationists have not gathered
any force of Irish opinion behind them are significant
facts.
Though I was told that there would be strong
opposition in all Irish quarters in the United States
if England tried to seize the Irish ports, and that you
would find them rallying to the isolationists, Irish
opinion in America, slowly, reluctantly, but inevit-
ably, is following the body of American feeling in the
tremendous wave that has now gathered for all aid to
Britain. No man can deny the bravery and sacrifice
of the Irish race, and the feeling that —whatever the
justification—they are not now in a heroic role in
the great testing struggle of humanity is sinking into
Irish hearts over there as it is, more slowly perhaps,
in Ireland itself.
Dragnet Digest.
It would be idle to expect the war to come to an
end because the German people are tired, bearing
the burden of exhausting years and disappointed
hopes. But the state of mind of Germany would
become important once a movement of liberation
began in Europe. The Germans are hated in every
country. If once the bitter detestation and longing
for vengeance bred by the Nazi system found an
opportunity, Germany would have to withstand a
great popular force. An army crossing Europe would
collect behind it and in front of it all this great sub-
merged power created by brutal exploitation. To the
Germans at home the discovery of all this passionate
hatred would come as a shock, for no people has been
taught so successfully to believe what it is told. In
this way the Nazis are undermining their own power
of resistance. So long as victories seem to vindicate
the judgment of their rulers they will put up with
great disappointment and severe hardship. But if some
great demand is made on their courage and resolution,
the collapse of their faith in this Nazi doctrine that
Germany is giving Europe final peace, the discovery
of the immense unsuspected volume of anti-German
passion among the peoples of the world, would put a
great strain on their endurance. The sudden failure
of nerve which ended the last war is significant. It
is significant, too, that observers state that Germans
are already reminding themselves that in that war
Germany seemed to be winning until the last moment.
—Manchester “Guardian.”
$ sf: ❖ Hi
It will not be long now before everyone capable
of understanding anything will see that this is a great
maritime war. It is a war which will be won or lost in
great actions all over the world centring upon the
elements of sea power: upon the British Isles, upon
the main entrances and exits to the seas, upon the
merchant ships and warships, upon the bases and
strategic fortresses of the Atlantic, the Mediterranean
and the Pacific. — Walter Lippmann, in New York
“Herald Tribune.”
# * *
There is no hint of revolt in the ranks. There
is no proof of rebellion at home. The attitude of the
soldiers, like that of the people, is of passive resist-
ance rather than active opposition. Mussolini has
given key points to his original followers, the par-
ticipants in the March on Rome. In this emergency
he has to turn the clock back to recapture the ardor
and the loyalty of the early Fascists. But the spirit is
dead. There is no appeal to Italian patriotism in this
war. There is only a sense of defeat, a bleak recog-
nition that for Hitler’s aims and in Hitler’s war they
are losing all they gained in 1918 and all they have
slaved and sacrificed for ever since.— New York
“Times.”
* « * * *
The Administration, coolly watching the Japanese
navy and air force inching closer and closer to Singa-
pore and Manila, is tightening the Anglo-American
defence system—just in case. Washington is con-
vinced that the co-operation between Berlin and Tokyo
is more than bluff. And Washington is certain Hitler
is demanding that Tokyo time a drive toward Singa-
pore to coincide with his anticipated attacks on Eng-
land and the eastern Mediterranean. But officials
still find it hard to believe that Matsuoka would will-
ingly precipitate war with superior Anglo-American
forces. Though the Japanese secret societies and
Chauvinistic army clique would risk if not welcome
such a war, that is not believed to be the mood of
the more realistic naval officers and businessmen, or
of the war-weary people.— Ludwell Denny {Washing-
ton), in New York “World-Telegram.”


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
•f
11l
111
II li
B
III!
111
i! !P
fill
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
-—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“A writer will never be a success if he
thinks only of the money he is going to get out
of it.”— Literary course.
What money?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It’s more satisfying in the long run to have
your sweetheart close at hand.”— Dorothy Dix.
But not when you miss a 12-inch putt
for a win.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The burglars entered by forcing a catch on
the kitchen window. Jewellery to the value
“Just in case this new gun might kick a bit, sir.”
of £65 and a valuable solid gold match were
stolen.”— “D.T.”
Strike a light!
“Write and tell us what you think of our
programmes.”— Radio announcement.
Ah, no! They don’t get us into a libel
action as simply as that.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The first instinct of all babies is to ingrati-
ate themselves with their parents.”
— Woman’s paper.
The little crawlers!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The man at the top of the ladder often
incurs the hatred of those below him,” says
a businessman.
In short, they’ve got him rung out.
4* 4* 4* 4*
When politicians go woolgathering it’s
taxpayers who get fleeced.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In referring to the controversy whether songs
should be sunk in German or Italian ”
— “Sun.”
If they’re naval ditties, by all means in
Italian.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Brusque of manner and at times brutally
frank, this amazing woman was painter, writer,
sculptor, organiser, politician and thinker —
truly a woman of many pants.”— Short story.
But, mind you, with no frills.
4* 4* 4« 4*
Bird Habits.
Night Owls. —Are attracted by bright
lights. Rare specimens, half owl and
half cuckoo, have been seen round King’s
Cross. They don’t care two hoots what
anybody thinks or says about them.
Lyrebirds. Very fond of playing
about with bright and glittering propo-
sitions. Are great mimics, being especially
clever at imitating an honest man telling
the truth. Great birds for collecting
nest-eggs that don’t belong to them.
Gaolbirds. Very shy and hate to
be watched feathering their nests. Always
migrate when one place becomes too
hot for them. Noted for tough eggs.
Lovebirds. Mostly found in the
outer suburbs. They build their nests
with the aid of branches established by
t.-p. firms. Will cackle for hours over
a fence.
The Stork. —This bird has become
very timid in recent years. Noted for
its big bill.
D. McM.
4> 4* 4* 4*
The early bird may catch the worm
And crow about its scratch,
But proverbs never tell us what
The worm was out to catch.
E.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Man who hasn’t slept for 23 years.”
— “World’s News.”
It is understood that he occupies a
downstairs flat in King’s Cross.
“Strong wives and spirits go to men’s heads
quicker than beer.” — Temperance paper.
And the stronger the wives the deeper
will men’s spirits sink.
4 4 4* 4*
“As they entered the expensive restaurant
Marion nudged Gerald. ‘Harry often comes
here,’ she said coyly, ‘you’d better dook out! ’ ”
—Extract from short story.
The waiters would see that he did.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In England Mr. Menzies met the Lord
Mayor of Sheffield, a leading Wesleyan lay-
preacher and also a leading manufacturer of
hip flasks.” — ‘‘D.T.”
His Ludship’s favorite anthem is “Just
a wee deoch and doris.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Hollywood talent scouts are reported to
have prophesied a big future for a new juvenile
lead, a Slovak named Kahntaacht,”
And if he can’t, he certainly will be
assured of a big future.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wearing a tight hat can cause throbbing in
the ears and heat noises.” — ‘‘World’s News.”
The latter would doubtless be due to
the wearer boiling with anger at having
bought the hat.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“When the Court’s final verdict on the will
established that the block of flats did not be-
long to him, but to his brother, his rage was
terrible to behold.” — Biographical item.
After the worry and the cost,
The verdict was a painful shock;
So when he learnt the block was lost,
Small wonder that he lost his block !
T. W. N.
4* 4» 4* 4*
“According to a medical writer, large men
are more susceptible to certain diseases than
small men.”
The burly bird catches the germ.
Recipe.
“Many a wife holds her man more with
a knowledge of good cooking than the aid of
a beautician.” — Woman’s paper.
Let beauty experts work apace
To add allurements to your grace,
They’ll never bind him to your heart
With bonds so strong as apple tart.
Many a plain wife knows she can
Laugh at the vamps who stalk her man.
She’ll hold the lovelight in his eyes
With tasty steak-and-kidney pies!
D. McM.
Forewarned.
“A New York woman runs a free criticism
bureau.”— “World’s News.”
The serious-visaged man hurried in to
the bureau.
“I want you to criticise everything
about me,” he said “my clothes, my
speech, my walk, my appearance. And
here’s some photos, of my relations;
criticise them all; and the more trenchant
the criticism the better I’ll feel about it.”
“What’s the trouble?” said the lady
helpfully. “Inferiority complex?”
“Oh, no, nothing like that,” he re-
plied ; “it’s just that I’m being married
next week and I want to start getting
used to it.”
E.
Sponsored Seance.
“A movement is on foot in U.S.A. to bring
spirit voices to the radio, including those of
great men who have passed on.” — ‘‘Listener In.”
“This is Raddio WOBCX, folks, broad-
caasting from the two hunnerd thoiteenth
floor of the Ether City Skytower, Noo
Yahk. Your announcer is Gene T.
Drivvlespeeler. And now we aask you
to pin back your ears for the greatest
thrill broadcaast in Amurrica’s raddio
history—‘Big Shahts from the Big Be-
yond.’ Yes, sir, right here in this stoodio,
and brought to you on a 325-station
hook-up through the coitesy of Loeb’s
Luscious Luncheonettes —remember their
slogan, folks: ‘Aask your inner man’ —we
have none other than that celebrated
spiritoolist medium Professor B. Innis
Bonnit, who is gonna cahntact famous
people who have paassed ahn. If condi-
tions are favorable you’ll hear Abe Lin-
coln, General Jackson, Daniel Boone —
hiyar, Dan? —King Jahhn and many
more. Now, get ready, folks —we’re
crahssing the Great Divide! Okay, Prahf.
—go into your trance!
“Say, listeners, I wish you could be
here with me to see the Prahf. strutting
his stuff. He’s rolling all over the floor
and groaning to beat the—here, Prahf.,
groan for the folks. Now, while the Prahf.
is trying to raise Hannibal, I’ll just remind
you that Loeb’s Luscious Luncheonettes
come to you as fresh as the day they
were packed, thanks to ‘Hermi-seal,’ the
marvellous noo patent pack that—say,
whaht’s this! Did you hear that noise,
folks? There it is again ...
“I believe the Prahf.’s gaht something
there! Yes, sir! He says it’s Cleopatra
and no kiddin’! Attaboy! Nice work,
B. Innis. Come a little closer to the
mike, Cleo —er —closer to Noo Yahk
City, I mean —and say a few woids to
the 68,000,000 listener-inners on this
cahlahssal hook-up ...
“Whaht’s that you say, honey? Come
again. That’s funny. I caan’t under-
stand a woid this dame says. Toone her
out, Prahf., and try to pick up some gink
who can spill the King’s English. Hey,
Prahf.! Whahsser matter? Waal, can
ya Say, folks, the Prahf.’s taken a
wing-ding. Yes, sir, out like a light and
blue in the face. I guess the strain beat
him, going back so far into the paast.
Waal, that will have to conclude our
broadcaast for tonight. And don’t forget
—Loeb’s Luscious Luncheonettes will fill
that void, and then some.”
P. S. C.
Very Able Seamen.
“The gallant sailormen still know how to
drink.” — “D.T.”
Our hardy seamen still we cheer—
Great are the deeds they do;
When facing foemen’s ships or beer
They still can sink a few.
H. M.
The Martyr.
I found him stripped to the waist,
tickling himself under the armpits with
a feather, and laughing loudly in a forced
manner.
“What on earth” I began.
“I’m rehearsing to make a record for
broadcasting,” he interrupted.
“Never knew you could sing, play or
even recite,” I said.
“I can’t,” he replied. “I’ve simply been
engaged in a ‘crowd’ background to
laugh at a comedian’s jokes.”
O.W.W.
Announcing!
Another Great New Competition! !
The “Daily Dillyguff,” in pursuance of
its acknowledged policy of giving Aus-
tralia real leadership, takes great pleasure
in announcing that it is sponsoring an
entirely new competition, to be called the
“Girl Advises Boy Competition.”
It is conceded by all who have the
welfare of our country at heart that a
unified nation (see the full-page ad. on
page 3) is essential in this war-torn world.
The units of a nation are its men and
women, and the great post-war problems
will devolve on the young men and
women. To bring them together so as
to solve their own vital problems now is
of great importance, and will fit them for
the sterner tasks ahead; in doing this
the “Daily Dillyguff” is imbued with the
sense of its own deep responsibility to
the nation.
Briefly, the competition will be run on
these lines. Firstly, young men (16-22
years) will be invited to submit those per-
sonal problems which they find difficult
of solution. Preference will be given to
those problems which are deemed by the
judges of sufficient importance.
Johnny boy may be pondering whether
he should ask his girl friend for a kiss
when he is taking her home from their
first dance. Such a submitted problem
would naturally be given preference over,
say, such a frivolous problem as to
whether he should take his parents’ advice
and study at night to improve himself.
Again, a young man might indicate that
he is being influenced in his choice of
a favorite Hollywood star by the number
and publicity of her divorce cases; or
he might wonder how he, too, can get
thrilling adventures such as Hank
Hawkins has with the Iron Octopus, or
Sammy, the boy detective, in the comic
strips.
Problems such as these the girls will
endeavor to solve. Grammar, English,
punctuation, set-out, marshalling of facts,
etc., will not, of course, be counted. All
we want are the girls’ views, in their own
language. It is to be a competition of
beauty as well as brains, and the girl
contributor must submit with her
answer a photo, of herself in brassiere top
and trunks. This will be published along-
side her solution to the problem.
Points will be awarded to girls for
figure, make-up, coiffure, poise and per-
sonality, and, of course, the reply. As
a friendly gesture to the great democracy
which is the source of the syndicated
strips that have proved so popular with
our young men and girls, as well as to
educate them in the new trend of the
best snappy journalism, extra points will
be added to those competitors using terms
such as “scram,” “guy,” “sure,” “okay,”
“betcha,” “gonna,” etc. Also for the
spelling of words such as “center,”
“theater” in place of the archaic
“centre,” “theatre,” etc. To refer to a
thing as “bonzer” where “swell” can be
used will cost a competitor points.
It is hoped that the competition will
bring to light a real Australian “oomph”
girl. She will be crowned and feted at a
great civic ceremony when Sydney will
be given an opportunity to acclaim her
with bands, floats, cheer-leaders, con-
fetti and—if the Premier is willing—a
public holiday.
Watch for Further Announcement
Later!
BO.


Si® fW®
avs
«Min
GOOD
always
always
ALWAYS
i lO a- 7a.: *> ** V 2
PURE
FRESH
M*o flakes
««A ro«« d
:¥:S;
■
iliiii
aoi
mi 1 !
S 7 at e
VPRESS
THREE
1 SEVENS^
Virginia cigarettes
VISCACELLE -WRAPPED FOR FRESHER FLAVOUR


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Everything favored the A.J.C. for the
opening day of its autumn meeting at
Randwick, and, with the best horses com-
peting, an attendance of 60,000 —about
4000 more than last year—and a tote
turnover of £55,321, the club had reason
to be satisfied. The amount mentioned
was about £66 less than a year ago,
when there were seven races. On Satur-
day the Doncaster Handicap was respon-
sible for £21,851 ss. Punters, as a whole,
received two setbacks, but most went for
Rylstone in the last race to ease their
troubles, and he did what was wanted.
Mildura did not do well in the race
won by Tuhitarata the previous week,
but the run improved him, and, with a
couple of fast gallops subsequently, a
firm track and an additional quarter-
mile to assist further, he ran to his best
form in the Doncaster Handicap. It was
a great struggle between him and Rim-
veil over the last furlong, and though
half a furlong from home the latter’s
chance appeared a winning one he was
outstayed by the older horse.
Warbird was the early leader, and
after going nearly half the journey Read-
ing, Petruchio, Bona Fide, Rimveil, Sethia
and Evergreen were nearest him. Read-
ing then made a forward move, and
when he led into the straight his backers
were jubilant. However, he is not the
Reading of last season, though his dash
to the front demonstrated that he has
not lost his pace. Evergreen hung on to
get third, and, like Mildura, found the
going more to his liking than when he
missed a place in Rimveil’s race the pre-
vious week. Scarlet Toi was never dan-
gerous, and it was the same with Over-
bold.
**••••
Tuhitarata ran well, being fairly promi-
nent throughout, and finished fourth,
not far ahead of old Red Thespian and
Bona Fide, the latter doing well, not-
withstanding she was slightly out of her
class at a mile. High Caste, who moved
short in his preliminary, was always
among the backward division, and,
assuming he is left in, he will need to
do a lot better in order to win today’s
All-Aged Plate. There was strong sup-
port for Amiable, but, widely drawn at
the barrier, she could not get near the
rails at any stage, and did not do badly
to run seventh. Reading dropped right
out at the end, as did Petruchio, while
Remarc, after being in the rear early, did
not greatly improve his position. High
Caste, Scarlet Toi and Remarc shared the
dubious honor of being the greatest
disappointments of the well-backed
horses. The time was a record for the
race, beating Sarcherie’s 1.354- by a
quarter of a second, and was also a
record for Randwick, Peter Pan, Sar-
cherie, Ramdin and Ajax previously
being equal with 1.354. It made G.
Price’s fourth win as a trainer in the
Doncaster in the last six years, his other
successful representatives being Cuddle,
Gold Rod, and Mildura last year.
It was something decidedly unusual
for the whole of the field for an A.J.C.
St. Leger to be made up of Victorian
horses. Tranquil Star’s defeat of High
Caste and Beau Vite caused her to start
at 7 to 4 on, and when she finished last
it was as great a shock for punters as
her win of the previous week. Pandect
and Lucrative looked particularly well,
the latter having thickened a lot since
he raced here last spring. Velocity, a
lighter-framed colt than the other two,
was also in excellent trim. In the
opinion of some of the critics Tranquil
Star was a little lighter than a week
earlier.
Tranquil Star was first away, and, after
giving place to the hard-pulling Lucrative
opposite the stand, again took up the
running at the nine furlongs, and at the
five furlongs led by a length from Pan-
dect, with Lucrative a similar distance
further away, and Velocity at his heels.
Except that Velocity lost ground the
order was the same until turning into the
straight, where Pandect and Lucrative
closed on Tranquil Star. That filly raised
another effort, but it was shortlived. She
then hung out, and Lucrative in attempt-
ing to go between her and Pandect was
squeezed back.
Pandect then showed in the lead, but
Lucrative, finishing in the gamest pos-
sible fashion, ran up to him and won in
the last few strides in 2.574, which
knocked 2sec. off Lady Valais’s previous
record for the race. When Lucrative was
fighting for his head many of his backers
found fault with McCarten for not let-
ting him go, but as that rider’s tactics
worked out satisfactorily they had no
growls after the race. Although beaten
five lengths Velocity was nearer the
first two at the winning post than at the
top of the straight. Tranquil Star’s
complete collapse in the last furlong and
a half was opposed to her previous form,
and perhaps she may temporarily have
had enough. It certainly appears as if
she will have difficulty in adding to her
winning record in any other races in
which she may run at the meeting.
Nothwithstanding that Beau Vite was
a 4-to-l-on favorite the Autumn Plate
was not an uninteresting race by any
means. For the first mile Binnia Hero
did the pacemaking, with Beau Vite next
and then Gold Salute. At the turn
Beau Vite had gone up to Binnia Hero,
with Dashing Cavalier and Gold Salute
together next. Fairly on the road home
Beau Vite took command, and, stalling
off Dashing Cavalier’s finishing effort,
won by half a length. The latter, how-
ever, proved himself a better w.f.a. horse
than previously supposed.
Katanga came home strongly in third
place, while Binnia Hero’s fourth was
something better than was expected of
him. Gold Salute was going comfort-
ably in third place most of the way, but
in the straight his rider tried to get him
through where there was no room, and
eventually had to almost pull him up to
avoid trouble. He might have run
second or third but for the interference,
and that he finished so far back could
not be counted against him. Questioned
as to why he tried to get through on the
rails, Shean said Gold Salute was mainly
responsible through lugging in. The first
mile took 1.444, but the last half was
cut out in 47.
The A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes pro-
vided a most exciting finish. Yaralla was
favorite, but All Love commenced so
smartly that she led the colt by four
lengths after going a couple of furlongs,
with Prince several lengths further away.
Gradually reducing the gap Yaralla was
less than two lengths behind All Love
entering the straight. At the leger
Yaralla ran up to All Love, and looked
sure to beat her. The latter, however,
hung on to such purpose that she was
level with Yaralla a hundred yards from
home, and a few strides from the win-
ning-post the result was still in doubt. A
final effort on Yaralla’s part landed him a
half-head winner. Both horses were
very weary over the last 50 yards, roll-
ing on each other, and Prince, only a
length away, must have given them ten
lengths’ start from the top of the straight.
• •••••
Dick Whittington, who was third in
demand, did not do as well as expected,
finishing three lengths behind Prince.
After the race I heard the opinion ex-
pressed by more than one follower of
racing that neither of the first two would
stay. It struck me as being rather early
to arrive at that conclusion, as the pace
was exceptionally fast for the first three
furlongs, and the time for the full dis-
tance was only three-quarters of a second
outside the Randwick record. Good going
for two-year-olds carrying 8.10 and 8.8
respectively, and it was not surprising
they tired at the end.
Rossjoy’s best form did not say a great
deal for his chance of winning the First
Hurdle Race, but at the half-mile he ran
up second to Blackie Miller, joined him
turning for home and then outstayed
him. The Winger was a fair third and
then Gold Pan, who made up a lot of
ground over the final half-mile. As he
looked somewhat above himself he
should be all the better for his race.
Blackie Miller had a heavy fall in a flat
race at Victoria Park on Wednesday,
otherwise the result might have been
different, but in running the two miles
in 3.36 Rossjoy made a record for
brush jumps at Randwick. He has
done most of his schooling over the low
hurdles, F. McGrath being of opinion
that they tend to greater smartness in
jumping. Rossjoy was for sale for £lOO
a little while ago.
Berrima fell at the second jump in the
straight when leading, and though
Guardsman could not have looked better
and was second at the mile post he again
showed himself a poor stayer, finishing
a long way back.
Racing form, track form and figures,
combined with McMenamin being his
rider, assured Rylstone’s favoritism for
the Vaucluse Handicap, and, commenc-
ing smartly, he shook off Southerly after
turning into the straight, and then stalled
off Tel Asur, the only opponent that
looked like troubling him in the run
home. Rathlin, Rodborough and Hari-
delle were backed, but they were boxed
up in a big field at an early stage, and
none of the three ever really had much
chance of getting a place, let alone win-
ning. Still, under difficulties, the first-
mentioned two ran fairly, and, after being
badly placed at the five furlongs, Bestop
made up a lot of ground. For a horse
eligible for maiden races, Angus, a good
track galloper, made a promising show-
ing.
• • • • • •
When R. F. Moses bought Rylstone
at a four-figure price as a two-year-old
he had an idea he would make a stayer,
but the chestnut now looks like always
shining more at short than long distances.
By way of comparison of time it is
interesting that Rylstone, in beating a
fair field, took half a second longer than
Yaralla recorded.
* * * *
Defeat in a track gallop by Felt Yet
did not prevent Whisper Low going out
favorite for the Easter Plate at Rand-
wick on Monday. The Beau Pere filly
was surprisingly defeated by Triad, a
daughter of Double Remove and Chap-
trel, bred in N. S. Wales but trained in
Queensland, where last month she led
Mannerheim home in a race at Doom-
ben. With this pair and Felt Yet as
representatives, Queensland two-year-old
form is pretty good this year.
Having his first race since January,
Trimmer ran a very smart six furlongs in
the La Perouse Handicap, and gave Cook
a comfortable ride. Flying Knight, with
Bartle on top, made a game effort to
overhaul the big Pentheus gelding, but
the task was beyond him, though he
relegated Ensign to third place. It was
unusual to see horses with exactly the
same weight—9st.—coming in first,
second and third.
Lucrative must require a power of
racing to bring him to his best. Cer-
tainly his St. Leger race improved him,
and he put up a sterling performance in
the Sydney Cup. McCarten had him
second or third most of the way, Lady
Buzzard setting the pace. Seven furlongs
from home the Queensland mare was
eight lengths or so in the lead. But she
was settled at the home turn. There Hope
and Pandect—always handy—were going
. well. But it was all Lucrative along the
straight, and the Gay Lothario-Balkan
Star colt, finishing much the best, won
by three lengths from the ancient Hope,
who was a head in front of Pandect.
The time was a Randwick record, 3.20 J-.
Veiled Threat was never in the pic-
ture, and backers of Mosaic and Dash-
ing Cavalier gave up hope when they saw
them trailing the field. Neither did
Katanga ever look like justifying the con-
fidence reposed in him. Nevertheless
Mosaic came in fourth and Katanga fifth.
Weight never troubled El Golea. In
the Williamstown Seaside Handicap, run
at Flemington on Saturday, carrying 9.7
and the two bullets that a ruffian shot
into his leg last November, the Eastern
Monarch stallion had a great win and a
wonderful reception from the delighted
crowd, which had made him favorite at
9 to 4. Last for about half the race, he
came through in grand style and was
going away from Sun Valley (second
favorite) at the end of six furlongs,
traversed in 1.12%. But a rise to 10.5
proved too much for him in Monday’s
Federal Handicap, which went to Prince
Ronald, who was receiving 2st. from
Crofts’s horse. Sun Valley was second
and Con Nam third.
Historian, favorite (at 9 to 4) for the
Easter Stakes, had a very hard race.
He was in a good position most of the
way, but in the straight Bathing Beauty
looked like giving the Ring a feast, being
well in front and going strong. How-
ever, Box got everything out of Historian,
and Eccles’s horse, gaining ground with
every stride, beat the mare by half a
head. Billposter was third, a length and
a half away. He pulled up with a dicky
pin and had to be withdrawn from
the Easter Cup. He might have been
first instead of third if that near foreleg
hadn’t gone wrong.
Historian was another absentee from
the Easter Cup field, as also was True
Flight, who, though well backed, had
shaped poorly in the Easter Stakes. Prince
Sion made most of the running, but
faded to nothing in the straight. Throttle
was the winner. He had failed to see
out the distance (a mile and a half) at the
Valley, but he did not weaken on this
occasion ; on the contrary, he stayed too
well for the others, foremost among
whom were Koorenbeen and Exactly.
Throttle was ridden by the Westralian
lad, Unkovich, who is of Yugoslav
ancestry, and ridden uncommonly well.
Followers of favorites had a pretty
good time on Saturday. Dartbrook won
the Hurdle Race at 4 to 1, and Parilla
accounted for 14 opponents in the first
division of the Encourage Stakes at the
same price. But results in the Maiden
Two-Year-Old, won by Aldgate at 20
to 1, and the Werribee Highweight (Sir
Locket, 6 to 1), favored the men behind
the bag. Another parcel was dropped
on Astounding in the Werribee High-
weight. The horse from Sydney could
only finish third, old Somerset being
second. Dartbrook and Sir Locket won
again on Monday.
The Williamstown club had no
reason to regret .the enforced transfer to
Flemington. It had great crowds.
* * * *
Shortly after he started riding regu-
larly on the flat in Sydney, I heard Mc-
Menamin faulted on the score that he
was “a weak finisher.” He has long
since disposed of that idea, and vigorous
horsemanship had a great deal to do
with his success on Yaralla and Mildura.
Four wins from a similar number of
mounts in one day at Randwick is an
unusual record, and I heard someone
say: “Pity he didn’t ride in the Hurdle
Race and St. Leger; he might have got
the lot.” It is a long time since Mc-
Menamin took part in hurdling, but it
is safe to say it would still not come
amiss to him. As it was he accounted
for £6715 in prize-money during the
day, and in bare winning fees that
worked out at about £355. What he
actually received was probably enough
to make leading lights of the legal and
medical professions wish they were suc-
cessful jockeys.
* * * *
Ajax still holds the time record for
the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes, doing
1.234 when he won in 1937. As that was
also the day Sarcherie did her 1.354
in the Doncaster the course must have
been in great order. It was so on Satur-
day last, and, if time could always be
relied on, it put Yaralla and All Love
within measurable distance of Ajax at
the same age. Ajax won the Cham-
pagne Stakes with 9.1, inclusive of 101 b.
penalty, but Yaralla will have to do
even better in respect of weight to
score today. The scale of weights is
higher than in Ajax’s year, and 101 b.
extra sends Yaralla up to 9.6. Yaralla’s
four wins and a third have returned
£5540, against the 1200gns. he cost, and
if E. P. Walker does not buy another
yearling or two at the current sales, if
he has not already done so —I am writing
on Monday morning—I shall be sur-
prised.
* * * •
Small fields for today’s weight-for-age
races are certain, and it is probable
Mildura and Rimveil will fight their
Doncaster battle over again, with figures
slightly favoring the former. He drops
21b., while Rimveil goes up that much.
After the Doncaster Rimveil was minus
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
THIRD DAY—WEDNESDAY.
Champagne Stakes: Yaralla, 1;
All Love, 2; Whisper Low, 3.
All-Aged Plate: Mildura, 1 ;
Rimveil, 2 ; High Caste, 3.
Cumberland Plate: Beau Vite, 1;
Dashing Cavalier, 2.
FOURTH DAY—SATURDAY.
A.J.C. Plate: Beau Vite, 1 ;
Lucrative, 2; Pandect, 3.


two teeth, and, though the starter and
jockey said it was not due to coming
into collision with the barrier, veterinary
opinion favors the idea it must have
happened that way. Anyhow, Rimveil
did not suffer to any extent from the
loss of his teeth during the race, and
he may not be greatly affected today.
However, unless rain interferes, prob-
abilities favor Mildura again beating
Rimveil. It is often said that “A good
horse can gallop in any going,” but
Mildura is a pronounced exception.
High Caste made such a poor show-
ing in the Doncaster that it is doubtful
whether he will be greatly served by his
121 b. drop in weight. I do not think
much importance attaches to excuses
made for him on the score that he started
from an outside position. If as good as
on occasions in the past even that dis-
advantage would not have stopped him
from running well. Despite the injury
to his leg he galloped brilliantly over
a short distance last week, but there was
so little dash in his effort on Saturday
that it is hard to stand him today. After
he gave Mildura a pound and a beating
in the last Epsom the latter gave him
41b. and finished ahead of him in the
Craven Plate. There is a pound between
them in the All-Aged Plate, and, on
Doncaster running, Mildura is prefer-
able even at that slight difference. I
am writing before acceptances, and if
J. T. Jamieson is not quite satisfied with
High Caste perhaps he may drop out.
So far as the Cumberland Stakes is
concerned it looks like being an easy
race for Beau Vite. He will be fresh,
and Dashing Cavalier, Katanga, Binnia
Hero and Hope, who were behind him
in the Autumn Plate, will have had a
hard race in the Sydney Cup. It will
be the same with Feminist, Lucrative,
Pandect and Velocity, and, on top of
the St. Leger run, the respective trainers
of the last-mentioned three may reckon
a rest until Saturday desirable. They
will have the opportunity of tackling
Beau Vite in the A.J.C. Plate. The way
Tranquil Star stopped in the St. Leger
did not point to her being as good as
when she beat Beau Vite in the Chipping
Norton Plate, and, though one of the
charms of racing is, according to some
of its followers, its uncertainty, the
Cumberland Plate looks like giving Beau
Vite the most comfortable win he has
had in Australia.
* * * *
On the concluding day of last year’s
A.J.C. autumn meeting only one absolute
favorite was successful, and as that was
Ajax, at 9 to 4 on, he did not greatly
benefit small backers. Own Folk, at
5 to 2, shared favoritism with Yours
Truly, and the other winners were:
Scarlet Circle, 5 to 1; Baveon, 20 to 1 ;
Roxford, 8 to 1 ; Mosaic, 3 to 1 ; and
St. Constant, 8 to 1. High Rank was
favorite for St. Constant’s race at 5 to 2,
and missed a place. He has been racing
in Queensland, but, though a winner,
has not quite fulfilled expectations based
on his early efforts in Sydney.
* * * *
The distance of the A.J.C. Plate was re-
duced to two and a quarter miles in 1923,
and the time record for the race is the
put up by Phar Lap in 1930. Since
then Master Brierly’s 3.52 is the best.
He was ridden by M. McCarten, who
also won on Limerick in 1927, Of
present-day jockeys D. Munro has the
best record for the race, winning on
Allunga, Old Rowley and Mosaic. His
brother Jim also had three wins, being
successful on Windbag (twice) and
Strephon.
* * * *
M. McCarten certainly blooms in the
autumn at Randwick. His win in the
A.J.C. St. Leger on Lucrative was his
sixth in that race, and his autumn record
also takes in two Doncaster Handicaps,
six Sires’ Produce Stakes and three
Champagne Stakes. One thing about
McCarten appreciated by racing men is
that success has never caused him to
lose his head.
* * * *
It is stated that Beau Vite is likely to
be a runner for the Canterbury Park
Cup on May 10, and, with its first money
of £650 and a trophy of £5O, it is a
race worth winning. As the maximum
handicap is 9st., Beau Vite will have a
weight that will not trouble him, and
there is no reason why he should not
find the Canterbury track as much to
his liking as the others on which he has
raced in Sydney. However, it will be
far from a walkover for Beau Vite, as,
while the poorer-class horses cannot be
weighted to have much chance, some of
the middle division will have lighter
weights than they usually carry, and will
be able to run a smart 11 furlongs.
* * * *
Next month Randwick will again have
its full share of racing. City Tattersall’s
meeting, with its Denman Stakes of
£650 and its big race of £lOOO and a
£lOO gold cup, takes place on May 3 ;
Tattersall’s Club races on May 17, with
the James Barnes Plate of £750 its
principal handicap; and the Warwick
Farm meeting is down for May 24.
* * $ $
Happy Lass still has a long way to
go before she reaches the standard of
her dam Carefree, but there is no doubt
as to her gameness. She was awkwardly
placed at various stages of the Rosebery
Handicap, but, with her pull in weight,
she fairly worried Beau Frere out of it
in the last few strides. Excuses were
made for the latter, but over the last
furlong he appeared to go generously
enough, and led Happy Lass a hundred
yards from home. On breeding Happy
Lass should be able to gallop. She is
by Cheveley Lad from Carefree (the
latter’s second foal), by Magpie from
Valicare. Later Happy Lass is likely to
be useful at middle distances.
* * * *
Bulandshar’s progeny won three races
on the second day of the Hawke’s Bay
J.C. meeting at Hastings last month.
Those successful were the three-year-
olds Khurja and Lambourn, and the
two-year-old Burra Sahib. The latter
must be above the average, as, with
9.2, he won by four lengths in 1.8
for four and a half furlongs, time
that compared favorably with that re-
corded in any other race during the after-
noon. Burra Sahib is out of Provence
(by Aransio, son of Sunstar). Last year
only one Bulandshar colt was catalogued
at the Sydney sales—he was sold for
450gns.—and none this year.
* * * *
The yearling sales will be continued at
Randwick tomorrow and Friday, and
buyers will be afforded many opportuni-
ties of purchasing youngsters related to
well-known winners. Presumably some
will reach four figures, and it is to be
hoped their purchasers will be more for-
tunate than most of those who went to
high prices last year. Up to the present
Yaralla (1200gns.) is the only one who
has given a return commensurate with
his price, and he was bred in Queensland,
* * * *
There were five runners for last year’s
A.J.C. Plate, and, though Maikai was
favorite at 5 to 4 on, he was comfort-
ably beaten by Mosaic, a 3-to-l chance.
On the opening day of the meeting
Mosaic was a 6-to-4 favorite for the
Autumn Plate, but Maikai defeated him
by a head. They then met in the Sydney
Cup, Mosaic winning with 9.1, Royal
Chief (9.5) running second, and Maikai
(9.6) third. Maikai’s backers reckoned
him unlucky, and as he subsequently won
the Cumberland Plate from Royal Chief
and Reading they were confident he
would beat Mosaic in the Piatc with
only a pound difference in their weights.
However, Mosaic demonstrated the cor-
rectness of Sydney Cup form, getting
home two lengths ahead of Maikai.
# * * 9
It is unusual nowadays to see a two-
year-old running against older horses in
a seven-furlong handicap, but Wednes-
day’s field for the first division of the En-
courage Handicap at the Rosebery meet-
ing included one. This was Grand Pere,
who is jointly owned by G. Edwards
and C. O. Battye, and is trained by the
latter. He is by Beau Pere from Natiya,
by Brazen, and cost 550gns. at last
season’s yearling sales at Randwick. As
he beat only one in a field of 17 in last
Wednesday’s race, an early return of his
purchase money does not seem probable.
Beau Pere, however, had a winner on
Wednesday, that being the three-year-
old Beauregard, a half-brother to Grate-
ful, winner of many races in Maoriland.
As a yearling Beauregard cost 575gns.
* * * *
In a letter to the “Horse and Hound”
(London) Clarence Harley, jun., wrote as
follows in February of this year concern-
ing Athasi, dam of Harinero, who has
done well at the stud in N. S. Wales:
“I must say a few words about Athasi,
the foundation of W. Barnett’s stud, and
dam of such winners as Trigo, Harinero,
Athford, Centone and Harina. She is
now 24 years old, is still very fit and well,
and is in foal to the 1934 Derby and St.
Leger winner, Windsor Lad. She will
not be covered this year, as her owner
has decided to let her end her days in
peace in the paddocks.”
* V * *
Irish Sea ran the best race of his career
at Victoria Park last week, and will not
be long before he adds further to his
winning account. He cleared right out
from his opponents at the finish of the
Flying Handicap, and those he beat in-
cluded several that had recently shown
form. Irish Sea is described as by Dark
Fox or Harinero, but, whichever has the
honor, he sired a useful horse. There
was so little merit in Delmestor’s third
that her subsequent withdrawal from the
Doncaster Handicap did not cause sur-
prise. Emerge was a runner, but again
did not do well enough to suggest that,
despite his Armidale and Newcastle wins,
he is likely to make special mark in met-
ropolitan company.
* * * sC
Red Sails, after an absence from racing
of about 17 months, made a reappear-
ance at the Rosebery meeting last week,
and, as was only to be expected, did not
distinguish himself, finishing last in a
field of 18 in the Flying Handicap. Red
Sails won the 1938 Summer Cup with
6.11, and his last success was with 7.5
(minimum 6.7) in a Rosehill Spring Han-
dicap, 11 furlongs, in September, 1939.
He was not badly treated at Rosebery
when 161 b. from the minimum. At six
years he is not too old to add to his win-
ning account, though not at a distance as
short as six and a half furlongs. He is
now raced by F. W. Hughes and trained
by J. W. McCurley.
* * * *
Brisbane prizes for May and June are
very attractive, and Sydney should be
well represented. Entries for the Strad-
broke Cup, of £l5OO, Brisbane Cup, of
£2500 and £lOO cup, and Moreton Handi-
cap, of £1250, to be run at the Q.T.C.
meeting oo May 3, 5 and 10, have already
closed ; but nominations for the Doom-
ben Newmarket, of £3500, six furlongs,
and Doomben Cup, of £2OOO and £lOO
gold cup, one mile three furlongs, do not
close until May 26. The races are re-
spectively run on July 5 and 12, and in
each there is prize-money for the fourth
horse.
* * * *
Mexico is hoping to have the most
valuable steeplechase in the world. It
is commencing with a $lO,OOO Grand
National at Caliente this year, which
amount it is intended to double next year,
and the management is hopeful that
$lOO,OOO will eventually be reached.
Sounds too ambitious ever to be achieved.
* * H= *
Even in America valuable prize-money
does not always assure large fields.
When Dispose won the three-year-old
race, the Flamingo Stakes, at Hialeah
Park on Feb. 22, there were only nine
starters, notwithstanding first money was
$20,250 (approximately £A6085), second
$3OOO, third $2OOO and fourth $lOOO.
Dispose, who carried 8.8, ran the nine
furlongs in 1.48 f, The Australian best
is still Fujisan’s 1.49| in Brisbane in
1926.
♦ * ♦ ♦
The question of when are mares at
their best ages at the stud is productive
of a deal of discussion. A writer in
the “Horse and Hound” says that the
most widely-held theory in England
nowadays is that they are at their best
as winner-producers between the ages of
eight and 13, and in this connection it
will be informative to take a look at the
ages of the dams of the winners of the
English Oaks, Derby and St. Leger up
to the end of 1939. They are as follows:
Four years, 4 winners; five, 17 ; six, 27 ;
seven, 36 ; eight, 45 ; nine, 44 ; ten, 42 ;
eleven, 44; twelve, 35; thirteen, 27;
fourteen, 27 ; fifteen, 19 ; sixteen, 17 ;
seventeen, 12 ; eighteen, 17 ; nineteen, 8 ;
twenty, 6; twenty-one, 5; twenty-two,
4; twenty-three, 4 ; and twenty-four, 1.
* * » *
Although the three-year-old race, the
Preakness, is expected to be of the gross
value of $BO,OOO (about £A24,600), and
is to be run on May 10, entries did not
close until January. Instead of hundreds
that would not run if closed a year earlier
there were only 54 entrants, but they were
nearly all America’s best. Anything that
has been omitted will have a chance of
coming in up to April 15 on payment of
a fee of $l5OO. The Preakness is run at
Pimlico (Baltimore, Maryland),
* * * *
The “Horse and Hound” (London)
says that many bad horses have won the
English Derby, but none worse than
Daedalus, who, in 1794, beat three other
runners, the smallest number that ever
started for the race. Daedalus, who had
not previously appeared in anything, was
at 6 to 1. He ran twice at Newmarket
in the autumn of the same season, and
was then put out of training. Nothing
further was heard of him as a race-
horse or at the stud.
* * *
The highest advertised fee for any
stallion in America this year is $2500, at
which the services of Blenheim II and
Seabiscuit are available. Next come Bull
Dog, Discovery, Pharamond 11, Sir Gal-
lahad 111, Boojum and Sickle at $l5OO
each. A service for Man o’ War is a
matter of private arrangement. As $2500
represents about £A77O, only very
wealthy breeders can afford to patronise
either Blenheim II or Seabiscuit.
* * * *
Sir Gallahad 111, who headed the win-
ning sires’ list in America for 1940, was
imported to America by a syndicate in
1927. He is now 21 years old. In addi-
tion to being on top last year he led in
1930, 1933 and 1934. He was leading
sire of two-year-old winners in 1933,
leading sire of money-winning horses of
that age in 1935, tied for first in number
of winning two-year-olds in 1936, and
was second in 1937. In 1939 he was
second on the list of winning sires, and
was that year’s premier brood-mare sire,
progeny of his daughters earning the
large sum of £A148,000.
* * * ¥
An English breeder, in discussing the
bad foaling average of some stallions in
that country, says it is probably due to
overfeeding and lack of exercise. It is
probable the same can be said of stallions
in other parts of the world. He con-
cluded his remarks as follows: “Do not
let the mare owner always blame the
stallion if he does not get a foal. Let
him be sure his mare is in a fit state
to breed first; it is surprising how many
mares are put to the stud when their
chance of producing a foal is practically
nil—-at any rate without treatment. A
stallion running with mares seldom fails
to get them in foal if the mares are
themselves healthy. The same applies to
stallions which are in regular work and
fed accordingly.”
* * * *
Lady lames Douglas, who died in Eng-
land early this year at the age of 87, was
the first woman to win the Derby in that
country, though not at Epsom. - It was
the substitute Derby of 1918, and the
winner was Gainsborough, whom she
bred. The only lady to lead in a Derby
winner at Epsom was Mrs. G. B. Miller
in 1937. She owned Midday in partner-
ship with her mother, Mrs. Talbot, who
gave 2000gns. for him as a yearling. As
a yearling Gainsborough failed to reach
his reserve of 2000gns., and, though an
American breeder subsequently offered
250gns. more than that, Lady Douglas
decided to keep the colt. It was a fortu-
nate decision, as, in addition to his wins
on the turf, Gainsborough returned Lady
Douglas a fortune in stud fees. His
progeny included Hyperion, Singapore,
Solario and Orwell; and up to the end
of 1940 he was represented by winners
of 459 races of the approximate value of
£337,000.
* * * *
In Jamaica (8.W.1.) some owners have
a forceful way of impressing upon
stewards disagreement with their deci-
sions. At a recent meeting at Knutsford
Park a horse was disqualified for inter-
ference. “This,” says a local writer, “was
the cause of a most deplorable incident.
The sanctity of the stewards’ box was
forcibly invaded by two men, who, in
full view of the crowded stands, pro-
ceeded to beat up two of the stewards
and the clerk of the course. Both were
removed by the police, but the occur-
rence, which is without precedent in the
annals of racing in this country, cast a
gloom over the rest of the day’s pro-
ceedings.” It certainly did for the
stewards and the clerk of the course.
Miscellaneous.
“Mat”: Morris, of St. George (B.
8/4/’4l), though he has a better club
aggregate (890) than Bradman’s best
(785), is far below the champion’s
averages. Bradman’s 170.66 in 1932-33,
112.14 in 1931-32, and 109.80 in 1929-
30 dim Morris’s figures. But even Don’s
170.66 is a long way behind M. A.
Noble’s 273 in 1898-99 and Victor
Trumper’s 204.20 in 1897-98 ; qualifica-
tion, 500 runs.
* * * *
“Sturt”: Top place in Adelaide district
cricket goes, for the sixth time in nine
years, to West Torrens, the club of
Hamence and the Ridings, Military work
played up with results everywhere ; Brad-
man contributed one beautiful double
century and then was seen no more;
Moyle heads the batting average at 92,
but batted only six times. Hamence is
68. Catchlove led the bowling with 12.3.
Roberts had a fine double in being close
to the top of both lists, with 69 and 15.
Another find is young Dooland, a slow
bowler, who took most wickets, 39 at
16.8, his figures (in club company) being
almost identical with Grimmett’s. He is
a fair bat too.
* * * *
Jack Chamberlain, dead in Adelaide
at only 57, was of inter-State cricket form
in his day, along with his better-known
brothers Len (since resident in Sydney)
and Con ; and at football too. Eastern
Extension work took him to Asia and
Cocos for some years, and on his return
he rose to championship form at bowls.
* * * *
Joe Hall ought to get out of the game.
He seems to have lost interest in train-
ing and such capacity as he had for
taking it, and he is too nice a lad to
be self-condemned to become a chop-
ping-block. In his last match at Sydney
Vic Patrick, that unusually attractive
southpaw, gave him a drubbing. Joe
did fairly well for a couple of rounds,
but a succession of left rips to the ribs
settled him in the fifth. He was carried
out in a stretcher. Both lads came in
at 9. Hi.


l"0£
MASONITE “SHORTS”
FOR THE MAN WHO IS
"HANDY WITH TOOLS"
In nearly every Hardware Store or
Builders’ Supplier you’ll find a rack
of Masonite “Shorts”, i.e., handy
sized off-cuts from the standard
Masonite boards—just the thing for
making those odds and ends which
are needed in every home. Masonite
is grainless, splinterless and takes
any finish . . . wax, stains, paint,
lacquer or enamel; and can be worked
with ordinary tools. Masonite
“Shorts” are available in 1/8" or
3/16" thicknesses in either Presd-
wood or Tempered Presdwood. Ask
the nearest hardware store or timber
yard for a free copy of the booklet
“45 Things You Can Make With
Masonite ‘Shorts’ ”. You’ll find it
fascinating . . . and invaluable.
I :iii«iiii||
im
m
r r
A
Ci
Modetnile with Malonite
★ There are lour types ol Masonite
Presdwood, Tempered Presdwood, Temprtile
and Quartrboard De Luxe. PRESDWOOD is
designed lor wall panelling and similar
uses. TEMPERED PRESDWOOD is a steel-
strong board tor use where extreme tough-
ness is necessary. TEMPRTILE is Tempered
Presdwood pressed into 4" squares to give
the e fleet oi tiling. QUARTRBOARD DE
LUXE is a semi-hard board lor use on
ceilings, upper walls, etc.
13
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO LTD. (Building Materials Division) Sydney . . Brisbane Melbourne Adelaide . . Perth MAI 2-4!
Position Vacant.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the position
of ASSISTANT CURATOR of the Australian
section, Zoological Gardens, Melbourne. Quali-
fications —experience in the care of Australian
mammals, birds and reptiles in captivity, and
knowledge of their food and habits. Education
in zoology is desirable. Salary commencing
£3OO per annum. Apply in writing to the
Secretary, Zoological Gardens, Parkville, Mel-
bourne, N. 2. Closing date for applications May
16. 1941.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... SOO watts
6AM Northern. . 2000 watt*
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Use., St. George's Tee., Perth
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Norther”: Reported missing, Pilot-
Officer Pat Macrossan, a son of the late
Justice Macrossan. Pat was one of 22
Aussies who went to Britain just before
the war for training with the R.A.F.
Among his activities since were raids on
the Krupp works at Essen and the sink-
ing of an enemy E-boat. Describing his
raid on Krupps to the inevitable re-
porter, young Macrossan said the anti-
aircraft fire reminded him of “an all-
in football game.”
* * * *
“Tryer”: Add this to the files about
lost gadgets turning up in good order and
condition: A Glengallan man, working
in a paddock, lost gold-rimmed glasses in
a case. He and the family combed the
place for days in vain. A year later
somebody found the case, without the
spectacles. Comment soon died and the
episode slipped into the past. Meantime
the paddock was cultivated with a variety
of implements, grew a crop and had
tractor and header over it. Last week
the specs, were picked up, none the worse,
and their owner now has a yarn good
for all occasions.
* * * •
“Poi-poi”: If some bright person can
invent a means of keeping milk fresh
while it is transported over long dis-
tances it seems likely that a good market
for the lacteal juice will be in Australia’s
tropic parts, research having shown that
malnutrition plays a big part in the in-
cidence of tropical diseases. A writer in
the “Medical Journal” claims that
absence of milk and some veges from the
tropic diet must lower vitality. The
“Journal” seems to think, on another
tack, that sunstroke, frequently fatal in
Asia, Africa and America, but rare in
Australia’s tropics, is really an infection
which develops rapidly and has little to
do with temperature, humidity and ven-
tilation. Maybe it’s the quality of the
beer that counts.
* * « *
“Colonel Bungstarter”; Touching that
“Dutch blockhouse” (B. 26/3/’4l). When
I first knew it in the early 1890’s it was
the unromantic foundation of a store-
shed for railway material landed on the
beach. With the subsequent slump in
“Stop or I shool!”
Territory affairs the superstructure gradu-
ally disappeared, but the solidly-set stone-
work was not worth the trouble of
removing.
* * * *
“Balander”: Apart from a couple of
small outfits in the Biggenden district,
all Queensland’s cheese is made on the
Downs, where about 500 tons a month
is turned out. Local consumption gets
away with 150 tons of this, and the diffi-
culty of exporting the surplus has been
almost solved by army orders. If neces-
sary, the State output can be increased
25 per cent, without adding to existing
plants. The industry has never been
linked with butter-making, as in other
States, and has grown by its own efforts.
Since restriction of bacon exports is on
the cards it looks as though more dairy-
men will be sending their milk to cheese
factories, but nobody need worry—we
have a Cheese Board, too.
♦ * ♦ *
“Dungeness”; A perennial subject of
argument in Queensland’s north and west
is that of the L-marked trees, which of
them were the work of Leichhardt’s
. people and which of Landsborough.
There really is no reason for doubt about
either, for the markings are different and
distinctive. Landsborough has recorded
how he took pains to ensure that there
should be no future mistake should he
leave markings in country covered by
his lost predecessor. Leichhardt’s trees
bear a circle cut well into the wood,
inside of which is the letter L incised
an inch or so deeper. Landsborough
barked a section about two feet square
and cut a six- or eight-inch L into the
bared wood.
* * » *
“23-4”: Fanshawe Gostling, dead at
79, was a figure in the Burnett country
at the turn of the century, when he man-
aged Gin Gin. A Dorset man, he came
to Queensland at the age of 18. He
took a keen interest in local-government
matters, and in later years emerged from
retirement at Sherwood to play bowls.
His widow was the eldest daughter of
knight Tom Mcllwraith, of Auchen-
flower House, a one-time Premier.
* * * *
“Balander”: Dr. F. W. Whitehouse,
president of the Royal Society of
Queensland, isn’t enamored of schemes
for vast irrigation projects in western
Queensland. He says the idea that
the heavy rains and floods in those parts
could be held by building dams at places
like Hunter’s Gorge
on the Diamantina
won’t, to put it
literally, hold
water, because the
high places are
merely bumps in
the general flatness,
and the checked
water would
quickly flow round
them and resume
its course. Another
handicap is the lack
of a permanently-
flowing river. The
doctor thinks the best chance of suc-
cess lies in a number of small schemes
rather than in one or two huge and spec-
tacular ones. It’s to be hoped the poli-
ticians are listening. Dr. Whitehouse
doesn’t fear the invasion of pastures by
sandhills from the west, arguing that
climatic conditions and prevailing winds
have stabilised the sand’s location.
* * * *
“23-4”; Canberra announces that a
committee of experts is investigating a
proposal to grant a total of £210,000 for
coppermining development in Queens-
land. A refinery at Mt. Morgan,
£110,000; a pyrites production plant at
the same place, £70,000; a guarantee to
Mt, Chalmers for mine development,
£30,000, are the projects. Fprde, M.H.R.,
sees in this a compensation to Central
Queensland for not getting war orders,
a chance to establish works to produce
copper wire and sheets and sheet brass
at Mt. Morgan and relief of the credit
position abroad to the extent of
£1,000,000 by increased pyrites produc-
tion. Optimistic fellow, Forde.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: A Bymount grazier,
Gordon Taylor, went through an agonis-
ing experience as a result of a misunder-
standing about the location of a gun set
with a trip-cord across a track to shoot
prowling dingoes. Taylor evidently
forgot the exact spot and blundered into
the string, receiving the charge in his
right leg below the knee. He was two
miles from the nearest road, but man-
aged to crawl to it, tormented by flies,
sandflies and ants and losing strength
rapidly. There he was found just on dusk
and loaded on to a truck, which took
four hours to pass over the rough road
to Bymount, where he was picked up by
ambulance and lodged in Roma hospital
at 1 a.m. He had been shot well before
noon the previous day.


fs
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
df
s
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney
f*
dfs
I
Sole Agents: JOUBERT O- JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
f
Mi
ail
mspiisT
m
4r>*
♦
,c»
Cars .. Trucks .. Utilities.. ’Buses
Bicycles .. Motor Cycles
100% AUSTRALIAN
Olympic
TYRES
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“The Philadelphia Story”
Let it be shouted from the housetops
that here at last is the kind of film we’ve
been hoping to see for the last two years
or more of squatting in filmhouses and
patiently inspecting each opus in the hope
that it would be the one. In fact, if the
Liberty Theatre people will ask us along
again we’ll willingly inspect it a
second time and even a third, just for
the pleasure of watching how deftly the
filmsmiths treat the neat comedy-roman-
tic story ; how superbly the main char-
acters —Cary Grant, Katherine Hepburn
and James Stewart—act their part of it;
and how capably the supporting players
—Ruth Hussey, John Howard, Roland
Young and several others —manage their
roles. It would also be a pleasure to
hearken again to the excellent, polished
dialogue; to guffaw as heartily as we
ever did at some of the comedy scenes,
played as only Stewart, Hepburn and
Grant could play them ; and to gaze with
rapturous contemplation at some of the
beautiful close-ups of the Hepburn’s
striking features.
The Hepburn has a part that suits her
as well as anything she has played in
it should, too, if there is any truth in
the report that she bought the story and
sold it to M.-G.-M. at a good profit and
with the condition that she appeared in
the main role. She’s a young sassiety
wench full of and living up to pretty
lofty morals, and fiercely intolerant
towards the lapses of anyone else ; when
the film kicks off she is booting husband
Cary Grant out the front door, smashing
his favorite pipes on the cement path in
front of him and splintering his favorite
putter across her knee, for all of which
she is laid flat on her back by a clinking
shove fair in the centre of her lovely phiz.
After which excitement the scene jumps
by about two years to her preparations
for her second wedding—to a lion of in-
dustry (John Howard) as righteous, moral
and intolerant as herself.
At this stage re-enter Mr. Grant, bent
on vengeance for the fate of his pipes,
putter and other things. His line of
attack is to co-opt the manager of a cheap
picture magazine and smuggle a reporter
and photographer into sanctums of the
Hepburn home hitherto uncontami-
nated by publicity—as a couple of old
friends of a distant member of the family.
Since the reporter is James Stewart —also
admirably suited to the role of a news-
hound by profession and a writer by
inclination —and his photographer-fiancee
is the bewchus Ruth Hussey; since the
Hepburn tumbles to the stunt immedi-
ately but grudgingly tolerates the couple
because of some blackmail the editor of
the picture rag is holding over the family ;
and since these three, together with the
genial Grant, are barely out of one an-
other’s sight for the duration of the film
—well, is any further recommendation
needed?
Perhaps, however, in case any further
bait is necessary, it should be recorded
that there had been one lapse in the Hep-
burn’s spotless moral career —the time she
was pickled on champagne and stood,
stripped to the altogether, on a roof and
howled at the moon, and woke up next
morning in total ignorance of the inci-
dent. Her reformation, or her descent to
humanity, in the film is brought about
by a similar, if less spectacular, happen-
ing.
Film is an M.-G.-M. production, and,
like most of that firm’s work, finely
directed and excellently produced in
every item, from striking photography
and scenes to the final detail in the elabo-
rate paraphernalia of the lavish indoor
settings. The Hepburn’s fine, accurate
acting is a delight and an education to
watch; Grant and Stewart are right at
the top of their form ; and the whole
film is equal to, perhaps better than, any-
thing of its kind since and including
“You Can’t Take It With You.”
* ♦ * •
Boom Town
For sheer dynamic personality, Clark
Gable beats the next-best hollow, and
in this current item at Sydney St. James
he’s up against some pretty stiff oppo-
sition. It’s a “strong” film, and if the story
is not exceptional the cast is—Gable and
Spencer Tracy are both adepts in red-
blooded roles. Settings and individual
scenes add to the impression of strength.
Clark and Spencer are oil-men in
the oil boom period before big com-
panies got things under control, and
when private operators were striking it
lucky and making and losing millions
overnight. They make and lose their pile
half a dozen times in the course of the
film —not a matter of being in and out
of luck to the tune of a few hundred
shekels, but a matter of their being
multi-millionaires one minute and stony-
brokes the next. Still they put it over
well.
Claudette Colbert has a rather sub-
dued role a change for her. She’s
the girl that Spencer left behind when
he invaded the oil fields fortune hunt-
ing ; she sets out to pay him a surprise
visit, meets his pal and partner Clark
first, and marries him on the spot. The
rest of the film is devoted to Spencer
nobly trying to keep his friend’s marriage
off the rocks. Hedy Lamarr is the fly
in the ointment, and very quietly turns
in a jolly nice job of acting. She has
figured hitherto in smarmy, sympathetic
sentimental roles —the sort requiring and
generally filled by a good-looker with
scant acting ability. In this piece it is
a surprise to find oneself hating
Hedy like poison, and it takes genuine
acting to make any normal male feel
antagonistic towards good-lookers of
Hedy’s class.
The picture has a background of
oil-business settings vast refineries,
a lake of oil, drilling operations,
etc. There is also the best action
scene turned on for some time —an
oil well on fire and threatening storage
tanks, and the holocaust being literally
blown out with a charge of nitro-
glycerine. A good, virile action film and
first-rate entertainment.
STAGE AND CONCERT
Bach’s “Matthew Passion”
Sydney Con. orchestra gave Bach’s
“St. Matthew Passion” as its second sub-
scription concert. This is Bach the natural
man and the good Christian rather than
Bach the lawgiver of musical science and
the supreme master of musical art and
artifice. It has, in an even greater de-
gree than the Bach organ, klavier and
violin works, the merit of universality.
When Mendelssohn resurrected it and
showed it to Berlin in the Easter of 1829
it was a hundred years old. Europe
hailed it as a great re-discovery, and
when a quarter of a century later Stern-
dale Bennett gave it its first London
performance Britain accepted that judg-
ment. Through the intervening years
this “Passion” has maintained in all
Christian countries an honored place in
quasi-ecclesiastical musical literature.
Dr. Edgar Bainton’s conception of the
work proved to be well judged. There
was no over-accentuation of drama or
dynamics; tempo was always comfort-
able and ’ appropriate, and the general
treatment was unaffected and dignified,
The chorus and orchestra responded well
and singers Ila Turnbull, Heather Kin-
naird, Godfrey Stirling, Raymond Beatty
and Stanley Clarkson gave of their
best.
**„ * *
Verdis Requiem
The “House-full” notice had to be
hoisted at Melb. Town Hall on Good
Friday night for the Philharmonics
performance; a bigger crowd and
a more appreciative one has sel-
dom rolled up even for “Elijah
or Messiah. The extensive chorus
of ladies and gentlemen was in excel-
lent voice and gave with vigor the
emotional variety of an opus continually
reminiscent of each and all of the Ver-
dian operas and yet seemingly quite
appropriate to a mass memorialising the
death of Verdi’s compatriot Manzoni.
No less in form were Thea Phillips,
soprano, the tall, handsome Elizabeth
Coote, mezzo, Heddle Nash, the swinging
English tenor, and the returned Austra-
lian bass, Arnold Matters Bernard
Hemze steered his cohorts through the
mass of motives with considerable adroit-
ness, and he seemed to have caught the
Melbourne Symphony Orchestra in a
more sympathetic mood than usual,
There was a resemblance to grand opera
in some of the numbers, but it was only
superficial. The terrible agitation of the
“Day of Anger” chorus would have
triumphed over any reminiscence of that
* * * *
Melbourne Free Concert
Melbourne free Concert
Looking a gift horse in the mouth
isn t a characteristic either of Mel-
bourne’s music-lovers or musicians, and
if he latest Sidney Myer free concert
at the Town Hall drew a big applauding
house the music deserved it. The pro-
gramme, orthodox in matter, was admit-
able in execution. Beethoven’s Fifth was
the highlight, and Bernard Heinze led
his cohorts in a vigorous assault on its
dramatic peaks and showed a tender
regard for its gentler moments, especially
the second movement. Raymond Lam-
bert grows more and more confident at
the piano, and in the showy Liszt con-
certo in E flat made some of the giddiest
slides up and down the keys yet seen
in local circles. “There Is a Willow
Grows Aslant a Brook,” by Frank Bridge,
was a first performance in Australia, and
served as a fine memorial to the just-
dead English composer.
* * * *
“Funny Side Up”
If people go away from a stage revue
whistling its tunes and hunting a willing
ear for its jokes, the revue is a good
’un. The Sydney Royal effort is not.
Few of the songs are catchy, and
those which ever were have long since
worn out. Jokes fetched either moans
or groans according to their weakness or
antiquity.
Notwithstanding all this the show has
latent possibilities. The Aussie lad Dick
Bentley is a comedian of the first order,
and it was pitiful to see him struggling
with such material. The brightest spot
in the show was Bentley’s execution of
“La Conga,” the chorus in the back-
ground done out in a slashing orange and
green Spanish outfit.
Betty Bryant, the lass in the piece,
has the looks and a sweetish voice,
but there’s not enough of it to fill
the Royal. That sort of thing is
overcome with microphones, but Betty
doesn’t seem to have stage “mike”
technique. Her singing partner, Albert
Chappelle, has this technique and is used
to a larger theatre.
Three or four minutes off each num-
ber would have improved the show a
good deal —money’s worth is one thing ;
8 p.m. to after 11.30 of a slow revue is
another matter.
« * * *
“By Candlelight”
“By Candlelight,” Sydney Minerva’s
new comedy, is a play about two people:
a baron and a valet who change places
for the night in naughty Old Vienna.
Given two good comedians, it wouldn’t
matter that the piece is thin, faded and
(in the third act, especially) too snobbish
for modern audiences. The Minerva
has a good actor in Claude Flemming,
who plays the baron to the life. The
part of the valet, which calls for the
polished impertinence of an Edwin
Styles, is played with great goodwill but
without polish and without impertinence
by John McCallum. Helped by scattered
flashes from Frank Bradley as a jealous
husband and Charles Zoli as a waiter, the
show makes a fair entertainment. But
it’s a poor successor to the fine plays
the Minerva and the Royal have staged
in recent months.
ARTBURSTS.
d ». > r*
Thea Proctor 5 Drawm « s
Thea Proctor’s show at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, consists of five flower
pieces in water-color, in this painter s
usual bright, energetic, clean-cut style.
Xbe rest comprises mainly figure studies
in chalk of ballet dance rs and of a very
substantial model who poses in the nude.
The manner of the drawings is excellent;
the matter not to everyone’s taste. Wain-
wright, who poisoned a lady because she
bad thick ankles, would have detested
ballerinas. But the flower paintings and
a portrait or so in water-color are en-
tirely admirable.


MACMILLAN BOOKS
IN DEMAND
WHITEOAKS HERITAGE
By Mazo de la Roche
A new volume in the famous Whiteoaks Series.
Price 9/6; posted 10/-
ENGLAND’S HOUR
By Vera Brittain
This book sets out to give a picture of civilian
England under the critical impact of the present
war. Written in the author’s vivid and intimate
manner, it will be a valuable contribution to
contemporary records. Supplies should reach
Australia early in May, but orders should be
lodged at once, as the demand will be great.
Price 11/6; posted 12/-
EVERYBODY’S KIPLING
Six of Kipling’s most popular books, in attrac-
tive pocket-size volumes.
' Captains Courageous Kim
The Day’s Work Many Inventions
The Jungle Book Buck of Book’s Hill
Price 5/9 each; posted 6/- each
These books may be obtained from booksellers;
wholesale only from
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE AND LONDON, VV.C.3.
IN MIDDLE-AGE-
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going into middle age note a!
Blowing down of the healthy bladder action of
youth. While this is to be expected to a de-
gree, If passage is frequent and scanty, ac-
companied by burning and smarting, Nature
may be warning that there Is something
wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of
taking the excess acids and waste out of the
blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a day
or about 3 pounds of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your
blood, when due to functional kidney dis-
orders, may be the cause of nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swelling, puS-
ness under the eyes, headaches and dizziness.
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN'S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give hapny relief and will help the X»
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
waste from your blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day. They are a
special remedy for the kidneys and will give
nuick and lasting benefit. Old and young
alike can take DOAN'S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS with perfect safety.
A WOMAN'S
LETER
The floodgates of emotion were lifted
at the Showground when Sydney greeted
the first of her soldiers to return, sick and
wounded, from the wars. Fifty thousand
had filled the stands around the arena
waiting patiently for hours to greet the
men. Thousands more hurried from all
parts of the grounds, and when the cars
carrying the men swept into the arena
throats almost cracked with the roar of
their cheers. Women and even men wept
a little. When later the returned men
stood for a few moments in the white
glare of the arc lights they were visibly
affected by their welcome home. For it
had not started at the Showground but
at the barriers at Darling Harbor, behind
which thousands had waited the arrival
of the hospital ship. Thousands lined
the way to the Showground. But the
best home-coming of all was when the
soldiers met wives and children, mothers
and fathers at the Signal Drill Hall in
Moore Park.
Time cracked another Easter egg last
Saturday at Randwick, and race devotees
by the thousand rushed from city and
country to catch some of the sugar
content. Well, there wasn’t enough sugar
to go round. Sol, too (the gentleman
of the heavens, not one of the ring), had
evidently kept his Ist April trick up
his sleeve. He banked his fires high
and had everybody stewing. The women
who had their new autumn outfits on
soon got a touch of magenta in their
coloring. Even those who went forth
in summer garb had a slightly dampened
air. But the fate of one fair unknown
was ironical. Her dress was cool green
linen, her hat was shady. A friend
swathed to the neckline in angora met
her and exclaimed enviously, “How wise
of you to come out in thin clothes.”
“Thin clothes! ” said the unknown
bitterly. “At the last minute father said
it was going to blow up cold, and as I
didn’t have a suit unpacked I ran back
and put on a woolly shirt.”
The big lunch party of the day was
given by Mrs. George Main, wife of
the chairman of the A.J.C, The Currie
lady, of Victoria, was one of her guests.
Ella O’Shea, of Brisbane, Mrs. M. F.
Bruxner and Mrs. Muriel Rogers, a
former Brisbaneite, were others. Pat
O’Shea, who is chairman of the Queens-
land Jockey Club, is down in Sydney
for the race festivities. With him
is his sister. Her cool sheers were
in grey, the coin spots on it a deeper
tone. Her off-white satin toque had its
outer rim stitched to stiffness. Mrs. M.
Rogers’s wide and downward slanting
black hat had a water-lily bud on its
brim. An orchid gleamed greenly on
her powder blue angoras. Another
Queenslander, the wife of Dr. Gerald
Fitz Gerald (and a doctor herself), wore
with her slim black dress a little skyey
blue hat —a saucy piece of decor. Still
another visitor from the North was Mrs.
T. Osborne.
Mayoress Crick in a grey and white
suit, soldiers, sailors and lads of the
Air Force were part of the day’s
design.
Lady Charles’s frock of grey was cov-
ered with a long coat of grey striped with
white. Embroidered in red beads were
the pockets of Mrs. M. Dekyvere’s
black frock. Her high crowned hat
swung addenda of red and green. Blithely
yellow were Mrs, Hector Livingstone’s
aat and suit. Mrs. Ashley Buckingham
mixed black with her yellow with good
effect. Midge Nelson, from Dubbo,
wore a fuchsia stock with her air-force-
blue suit. Father and she were of two
minds over the Produce Stakes. Her
feminine intuition said All Love, but
dad’s horsesense said Yaralla, and
Yaralla won, to the delight of the Monte
Walkers.
“By Candlelight,” a comedy of the
days when “our betters” were our betters,
drew hordes of well-dressed women, a
sprinkling of men in uniform and a still
slighter sprinkling of men in civvies to
the Minerva last Thursday night. Claude
Flemming as the Baron was completely
surrounded by lovely ladies right through
the piece. True, there were only three
of them, but they were very pervasive.
Of the three, Diana Parnham, as the
fraulein who trod the primrose path in a
very becoming hibiscus red dress, had
the smallest part, but left a vivid impres-
sion. Claude Flemming as the philan-
dering Baron, who felt he owed a debt
of gratitude to a noble Englishman visit-
ing Vienna because he had once given
him two tickets for Sunday afternoon at
the London Zoo, acted with a light-
hearted gaiety that cheered the eye and
ear. The night’s takings went to the Red
Cross Queen, Sue Other Gee. Sue, all
in white, spoke a few breathless words
after curtain-fall.
It was a packed Theatre Royal that
greeted “Funny Side Up,” and admired
the pretty dancing girls, laughed at Clem
Dawe and the other funny men, and in
between were patriotic or sentimental
as the show demanded. Among the
visitors from the other States and from
the country who made the foyers ring
with chat were inveterate first-nighters
such as the Frank Alberts and the Ernest
Salengers, daughter Margaret like a white
Dresden figurine in her chalk laces and
the small white Canton crepe shawl that
just covered her shoulders. Near by
were a group of good-lookers including
Mrs. A. E. Grace and Mrs. Wunderlich.
Sandra Jaques, all youth and bright
hair, came along. Black moire and red
roses were worn by Mrs. John Collins,
of Beaudesert (Q.). Mrs. E. J. Tait was
with the Angus McPhersons. Jimmy
Bancks and his wife, her frock the blue
of the convolvulus, were among the
much-greeted.
This is Olga Krasnik, whose piano
playing in the Dvorak quintet recently
is still being talked about. She played
with the A.B.C. Quartet. Her brother
William, who plays the viola, and the
other three members of the quartet were
all students with Olga at the Conser-
vatorium. She is a member of the Syd-
ney Instrumental Trio, well-known to
radio listeners. Photograph by May
Moore.
There were bombs on the table when
the Cumberland branch of the C.W.A.
gathered last Wednesday. The party was
in David Jones’s Annexe, and had for
speakers knight Thomas Gordon and
chief officer Hopkins. The larger frag-
ment of bomb, an evil-looking thing,
had struck a merchant ship; the
smaller (it suggested the snout of
all evil) had been encountered by a ship
of Mr. Hopkins’s. Shipping man Tom
Gordon revealed himself one of Aus-
tralia’s lovers. He made this land of
ours shine out as something worth fight-
ing for, something worth making sacri-
fice for.
Mrs. H. K. Brady, president of the
branch, was pencil slim and very smart
in a white frock that wore cyclamen
bands with a dashing air. Her small
white hat and necklace of large white
beads added to the decorative effect.
State president Mrs. Beveridge, Mrs.
Hubert Fairfax and Mrs. E. J. Munro
passed and seconded resolutions of
thanks with the satin-smooth ease of the
expert. Carrie Moore and the Comtesse
de Vilme-Hautmont were two of the
day’s artists, and Carrie won the after-
noon’s guessing competition. Tom
Gordon’s lady went off with a lush basket
of flowers. A pretty girl in skyey blues
was Mrs. Fred Beveridge, daughter-in-
law of the C.W.A.’s State president.
This is Diana Massie, daughter of the
Jack Massies, of Bellevue Hill, who is the
baby of the Queens-elect in the Red Cross
Queen competition. Diana, a pretty girl
with nut-brown curling hair, is the Army
queen, and that’s in the picture, as father
was a lieut.-colonel in the last war, and
has a D. 5.0., Croix de Guerre and Mili-
tary Cross as souvenirs. Among cricket
fans he is famed as a great left-hand
bowler. Diana’s games are golf and
tennis. Photograph from Norton-Trevaire.
Syd Long threw his hat into the ring,
so to speak, last Wednesday, and con-
tested his right very successfully to share
the spotlight with the State’s prize Here-
fords and Clydesdales. Just as the
Governor, Lord Wakehurst, was pro-
claiming the R.A. Show open, president
of the National Gallery B. J. Water-
house was doing the same for artist Syd
Long’s one-man exhibition at the
National Gallery. This exhibition, which
has been selected and assembled by the
trustees of the Gallery, bathes the second
court on the right hand with beauty
delicate as the promise of spring, rich
as the fulfilment of autumn.
There were about 300 ardents to clap
the opening eulogy. Among them was
Julian Ashton, who told with pride that
his former assistant teacher at the Syd-
ney Art School had painted “The
Bathers” before he was 19. The picture
13 one from the Gallery collection. Mrs.
F. B. S. Falkiner, who among her other
Syd Longs has lent the much-admired
“Autumn Sunset,” was with Mrs. Inglis.
Mrs. Jean Moreing brought into the
shady deeps of the Gallery brightly
flowered crepes and a tiny green straw
hat, its crown a resting place for three
flat nasturtium leaves in velvet.
Members of the C.W.A. didn’t forget
when they were cracking their first Easter
egg that their yearly conference is just
around the corner. In fact, the executive
committee will smack the bundy at nine
o’clock next Monday morning. At three
o’clock Premier Mair’s wife will declare
the Handicrafts Exhibition open, and at
half-past four Lady Wakehurst will
serve tea to delegates and representatives
of the younger group at Government
House. And if that seems a full day,
it is nothing to the happenings of Tues-
day. Lady Wakehurst will officially open
the conference at nine o’clock, and after
that the decks will be cleared for the
discussion of the 43 resolutions on sub-
jects of interest to the Condobolin, the
Wollondilly, Mudgee, Riverina and all
the other groups.
Probably with picturesque intent, the
party given by Japan’s Consul-General
Akiyama in honor of his Emperor’s
Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Pleni-
potentiary, Tatsuo Kawai, was held in
the garden of his Point Piper home. It
was a late-afternoon party, and soon an
early moon was shedding its silver light
over the company. The lawns had a
wide and sweeping view of the harbor,
and the ships on its tranquil waters soon
sprang into high relief. A gardenia tree
in flower was another charm.
Acting Prime Minister Fadden and Mrs.
Fadden, very smart in black, and Arch-
bishop Mowll were there. The Fred
McMaster lady was seen in the gloaming
with Mrs. Jimmy Burns, green tartan the
latter’s suit. The Kelso Kings came, and
the Maurice Gulsons. The Thomas Gor-
dons, Chief Justice Jordan and his wife,
Peter Lubbock and Senator Foil were
others who sipped or could have sipped
sake. Mayor Stanley Crick and his
Mayoress and the A. M. Pooleys were
among the greeted.
The Royal Empire Show held its
yearly Harvest Home at the Show-
grounds ; and this year for the opening
day there was a record number of callers
—over 10,000 more than the 1939 high-
water mark. Wednesday was the perfect
autumn afternoon, and in its glittering
sunshine the Governor declared the Show
open. Before him spread the table of
trophies, each this year a prize for
dogged determination and courage. Each
represented the spirit of those left on the
land to keep business going as usual while
the lads are away at the war. The bands
played. The guard of honor, formed of
police ex-servicemen, looked all steel
sinews and medals. Lady Wakehurst
smiled. Sam Hordern and his lady saw
still another Show, groomed to a hair,
showing the mettle of the State’s pastures
and its factories in full swing.
The Hall of Agriculture where this
generous land overspills her horn of
plenty in the District Exhibits was a
continuous eruption of admiration.
Women yearned over the vegetables and
fruits, crooned over the preserves- (Mrs.
W. J. Adams has nearly 180 varieties in
the Central Coast exhibit) and jams and
pickles, cooed over the cheeses. “If only
we could ship it all to England!” mur-
mured one woman. G. W. Walker, of
Wheat Board fame, was discovered in the
middle of the hall near a glass case in
which bees were busy doing their home
work. “There’s a temple of beauty
across the way,” he said ; “well, here’s
the temple of courage.” Then he led the
way to the Farrer Court. Here there
seemed to be as many types of wheat
displayed as there are sands on the sea-
shore, but Noel Binns, of Darling Downs,
who is in charge, knows them all. Wheat
is literally the bread of life to the Binns
family. Noel’s father managed the
Queensland Wheat Board for 19 years.
The whole thing was the same
absorbing, spirited carnival of animal,
mineral and vegetable kingdoms. In
the evenings the ring became a
Pageant of Empire. Uniforms of the
Navy, the Army and the Air Force and
women’s war organisations threw into
relief the Union Jack formed by 2000
schoolchildren. Under the powerful
floodlights every detail sprang to life.
On four white horses sat four scarlet-
clad heralds. Here drove Britannia, in
her train the Army, the Navy, the Air
Force and Munitions. Lord Wakehurst
took the salute as the fighting services
and the women of the voluntary services
swung past. There was the rumble of
armored cars. There were the strains
of “Land of Hope and Glory” and
“Advance, Australia Fair.”
What are the questions that stir up
the grey matter of the C.W.A. in war-
time? The Northern Tablelands are
clearly worried over health matters.
Three subjects it brings to the bar con-
cern dental clinics, blood donors and
the provision of an aerial ambulance in
Sydney for the transport of urgent cases
to the country. Mudgee-Coolah will
bend the brow of concentration on
matters pertaining to education. The
Metropolitan Group Council, too, will
put forward its views on the question
of further facilities in technical and
domestic science training. Southern
Tablelands and Gwydir are interested
in the high price of knitting wool.
Southern Tablelands and Riverina will
each in its way urge the using of more
wool. There’s something very likeable
about a plea from the Wollondilly (Moss
Vale-Sutton-Forest-Exeter branch) that
the C.W.A. should show its sympathy to
war orphans in some practical way.


NOTHING BUT THE BEST.
s
HANDLES PLAITED
ON ZAIR STEEL CORES
F SdIHAV MDOISI
NOIiVIS
*f}HSIJ3NI>r„
s
hKANGAROO RIGHT THROO
AND
STEEL LINED HANDLES.
>'o. 8—10-plait handle, 7ft. x 10-
plait thong 21/G
No. 8a—10-plait handle, 8ft. x 10-
plait thong 33/-
Postage 1/3 each.
7
rr
Legal Notice,
CECILIA MARTHA GARNOCK, late of
Bombala, State of New South Wales, Aus-
tralia, Married Woman, deceased, intestate,
who was the daughter of William Maurice
Thomas and Miriam Thomas, nee Seears.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of New South Wales in Equity dated
9th August 1940 and made in a suit (Number
527 of 1940) intituled “In the Matter of the
Estate of Cecilia Martha Garnock late of
Bombala in the State of New South Wales
Married Woman deceased intestate between Per-
petual Trustee Company (Limited) Plaintiff and
Joseph Wentworth Thomas Defendant” whereby
an enquiry was directed to ascertain who were
the persons entitled according to the Statutes
for the distribution of the estates of intestates
to the estate of the said Cecilia Martha Gar-
nock living at her death and whether any of
them have since died and if so who are their
respective legal personal representatives—
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said enquiry
are to send by post prepaid to PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED), of 33
Hunter Street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia, so as to reach it on or before the
24th November, 1941, their full Christian and
surnames, addresses and descriptions, and full
particulars of their claims, or in default thereof
they will be excluded from the benefit of the
said Order, unless the Court or a Judge thereof
or the Master in Equity on application other-
wise orders. Claimants are to attend person-
ally or by their Solicitor before the Master in
Equity at the Supreme Court, Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, on Monday, the Bth December, 1941,
at 11 a.m., being the time appointed for adjudi-
cating upon the claims. A claimant not re-
siding in New South Wales must send with
particulars of his claim the name and address
of a person in New South Wales to whom
notices to the claimant can be sent.
DATED 2nd April, 1941.
F. C. BOYS, of Bombala, N.S.W., Solicitor
for Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited).
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 782 of 1940.
BETWEEN FRANCIS WILLIAM HAYDEN
GURNEY Petitioner and
EVELYN MAY GURNEY Respondent.
TO EVELYN MAY GURNEY.
TAKE NOTICE that the said FRANCIS
WILLIAM HAYDEN GURNEY has com-
menced a suit against you in this Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Second day
of May next and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit will be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of April, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
MAURICE J. McGRATH, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENS-
LAND—ROCKHAMPTON.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
TO EVELYN GODDARD formerly of Mt.
Isa in the State of Queensland (but whose
present whereabouts are unknown) wife of
COCKBURN CORBETT CLAPTON
GODDARD of 72 Evans Street Mackay in
the said State Laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that an action No. 12 of
1941 has been commenced against you in the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Rockhampton
by petition filed therein and writ of summons
issued thereout on the Seventeenth day of
February 1941 by COCKBURN CORBETT
CLAPTON GODDARD of 72 Evans Street
Mackay aforesaid Labourer claiming a dissolu-
tion of his marriage with you on the grounds
of your adultery and it has been ordered that
service of the said writ of summons and of the
said petition on you by filing and sticking up
on the notice board in the registry of the said
Court a copy of such writ and summons and
an office copy of such petition and the affidavit
verifying the same and by publishing this
notice once in the Sydney “Bulletin” a news-
paper published in Sydney in the State of
New South Wales shall be good and sufficient
service of the said writ of summons and of
the said petition upon you If you deire to
defend the said action you must within Thirty
days from the date of the last act done in
compliance with the said order enter an appear-
ance in the said Registry and in default thereof
the said Cockburn Corbett Clapton Goddard
may by leave of the Court or a Judge proceed
therein and judgment may be given against
you in your absence.
DATED this Twenty-fifth day of March, 1941.
(L.S.) F. J. RUSSELL,
Registrar.
WILLIAM F. LEE, Solicitor for Plaintiff,
Mackay; Town Agents: Rees R. & Sydney
Jones, Solicitors, 178 Quay Street, Rock-
hampton.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1644 of 1940.
BETWEEN ROBERT PERCY MOULDS Peti-
tioner and
MONA ELSIE HARIETTE MOULDS Re-
spondent and
JOE CUMMINGS Co-respondent.
TO MONA ELSIE HARIETTE MOULDS.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed
ROBERT PERCY MOULDS has commenced
a suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of your adultery with JOE CUM-
MINGS the abovenamed co-respondent at the
Pine Forest near Lithgow in the State of New
South Wales AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the Third day of
July 1941 and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
will be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Seventh day of April, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
P. SHERMAN, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
4 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and at 20 Main
Street, Lithgow, on 2nd and 4th Monday in
each calendar month.
Melbourne
Chatter
To hand are copies of “Parade,” the
Middle East weekly, an excellent little
picture paper published for me tmee
services in Cairo. Price is 15 mills per
copy (it works out at about 10s. for six
months). The paper was brought into
existence by three British Army officers,
all of them ex-journalists. The editor is
Captain H. L. Ruston, who published
“Egyptian Radio” before war broke out.
He’s an all-round man and an expert at
the art of make-up. Assistants, also com-
petent lads, are Lieut. Mason and Lieut.
Charles Bonnington.
Various war correspondents con-
tribute articles now and then, the
troops send in copy, drawings,
jokes, etc., and G.H.Q. provides an
assortment of excellent photographs. The
three editors do all the odd jobs (in fact
practically everything except printing—
a Greek firm does that). Nobody really
goes hard after ads.—they just “come
in.” The paper pays its way, but profits
never accumulate much, for every time
there’s a bit in the bank up goes the
price of newsprint.
Cable services have been inaugurated
from Britain and from Rhodesia (not yet
from Australia). Charlie Bonnington is
well known to Sydney journalists. He
went away as a private in the A.I.F. and
recently returned as a wounded soldier,
a British Army lieutenant —the transfer
was made for technical reasons. Charlie,
who went to the Embassy on his first
night in Melbourne, astonished the
waiters by asking for two boiled eggs. He
says he likes eggs, and that was that.
A public lecture of wide appeal will
take place in the Commerce School of
the University at 8 p.m. on April 24. The
lecturer is R. H. Cate and the subject
is “Totalitarian Oil Position.” For the
fundamentals of his lecture Mr. Cate has
drawn largely on the facts and figures
that have come over his desk in his long
association with Vacuum Oil. He has
also used reliable outside sources. The
total sum of data at his disposal presents
an absorbing picture. All technical men
are wary of having odd sentences and
statements plucked out of their reports
without reference to context, but one in-
teresting theory stands out Mr. Cate
believes that Hitler will at some time
during this war try to acquire the oil
field of Baku, and so Russia will there-
fore have to make up its shifty mind
whether to fight or cave in.
Mr. Cate gave his lecture some weeks
ago by invitation to returned soldiers at
Malvern, and more recently spoke a much
summarised version at a Legacy Club
luncheon. In both cases he seems to have
had his audiences with him from the
word go —though they were not by any
means scientifically-minded men. He’s a
fluent speaker, with an observant eye for
listeners’ reactions, and he has a sense of
humor. The lecture on Friday week is
in aid of the Women of the University
Patriotic Appeal. Tickets, 2s. (and Is.
for undergrads.), are obtainable at the
University (from the Union and from
Miss Polglaze, of the Commerce School)
and at Glen’s. Dr. L. H. Martin, of
the Nat. Phil. School, will occupy the
chair at the meeting. Mrs. P. L. Martyn
is hon. secretary and Mrs. H. E. Dads-
well hon. treasurer.
Lady Dugan came forth from G.-H.
seclusion to open Harold Latham’s ex-
hibition of pictures at the Sedon Galleries.
The v.-r. pair seldom go abroad these
days on social bent. Lady Dugan says
she’s submerged to the eyebrows in the
war, and when she does have an odd
hour to spare she rolls bandages and
makes swabs in the ballroom, where Red
Cross sewing-machines are humming
from 10 to 4 every day. But the Latham
water-colors pricked her British-born
interest. Those pictures which were not
painted in France and Italy were as the
very spirit of England, green fields and
mist-strewn downs. Another fact that
carried weight is a picture in the mind
of the artist doing his job of war work
in all weathers on a dispatch-rider’s
motor-bike.
Originally Latham was a singer, but
relinquished his career after the last war
as a result of injuries and the loss of a
leg. It was only then he discovered his
scope as a painter. Lady Dugan bought
a picture on the first afternoon, as did
Mrs. Carl Kumm the latter’s choice
being “Evening near Amberley.” Its
rich green tints should harmonise with
her drawing-room. Amopg others present
was the erudite Dr. A. L. Kenny, of the
little white goatee.
The latest requirement from the scrap
heap for the Free Kindergarten’s waste
products drive is the lowly toothbrush.
Donors of abandoned brushes, thrown
away by the million every month, are
not asked to pluck out the bristles, but
depot sorters would appreciate the
hygienic gesture of some sort of wrapping
attached around the mouthpiece. Along
with toothpaste tubes, silver paper and
oddments of base metal (including type-
writer ribbon spools), cigarette and
tobacco tins and toothbrushes may be
dropped into the boxes-with-yellow-labels
on any railway station, or left at the
Silver Door, 376 Flinders-lane. The mar-
ket for toothbrushes appeared out of thin
air—an industrial firm has found a use
for their handles.
Newly engaged is Julienne Cox (Athol
Shmith photograph), only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Wynand Cox, of Caulfield.
The lad who produced the solitaire
diamond is Geoffrey Wilson, younger son
of the Charles Wilsons, of Royal Park.
Julienne, who recently returned with her
parents from a summer spent alongside
the beach of Long Island, Frankston, is
a member of the Tyros, and so has a
finger in the successful organising of
numerous functions for worthy causes.
The winner of the Norma Bull etching
of John Masefield (being raffled for the
Women of the University Patriotic
Appeal) will probably gather an addi-
tional glow of satisfaction from the know-
ledge that a replica of this piece of work
is in the possession of royalty. Queen
Mary recently visited Miss Bull’s exhibi-
tion at Bath, bought a picture and sub-
sequently accepted the Masefield etching
as a gift from the artist. The Poet
Laureate sat for Miss Bull during his
visit to Australia. Just before her exhibi-
tion she called on him at his home near
Oxford—very sensibly bringing along her
ration of butter and sugar, much wel-
comed on the Masefield tea-table. Miss
Bull was lucky to have her pictures intact
for her exhibition. They were in a house
in London in a street that was badly
bombed the chatelaine of the house
made a noble effort and saved all but
one, which was damaged.
Artist Norma, personable young Aus-
tralian and a Melbourne University
graduate, is at present in Somerset doing
her bit among the rustic community,
teaching A.R.P. work, helping at a tem-
porary school of young evacuees, organ-
ising amusements, producing plays and
thinking up all sorts of odds and ends
that assist to keep morale at a high level.
Mother, Mrs. R. J. Bull, is busy over
the Market Fair, to be held in her garden
and fern gully of Medlow, Warrigal-road,
Surrey Hills, on Saturday, April 19. There
will be in- and outdoor attractions for
all ages, a buffet luncheon and a hamper
to be taken home by the holder of a lucky
admission ticket. Chancellor and Vice-
Chancellor will be present, complete with
spouses Mrs. Lowe and Mrs. Medley.
Proceeds are for the W.U.P.F.
Inset from Broothorn, Mrs. Sam
Aitchison, hon. secretary of the Air Force
Auxiliaries’ Ball, to be held on Friday
in St. Kilda Town Hall. Some hon. secs,
of ball committees get off fairly lightly,
but not this one. In addition to much
correspondence, Mrs. Aitchison has coped
with the dispatch of a large percentage
of the tickets. Being a doctor’s wife and
maidless at the moment (nothing unusual
in these days when maids who stay longer
than 24 hours are rare as rubies) is also
part of her background, but not to the
extent of bringing a line to a lily-white
forehead. The success of the Air Force
dance is assured, and all ranks will be
present from jolly AC2’s to a monocled
air chief marshal.
“Waste and Waists,” a home-brewed
article (for both book and music were
composed in this city), will be produced
for patriotic purposes at the Princess
during a two-nights’ season at the end
of May. The authors are Thomas Roth-
held, who, having written the scrip,
looked around for a collaborator on the
musical side, and Ruth Greenwald, a
composer and sculptor who comes from
America and who is now teaching in
Carlton. The Judean Association is
sponsoring the season.
Thomas Rothheld, who is 26, wrote
his first play when he was 20. In England
(he returned to Australia, where he spent
most of his boyhood, last September) he
had made a satisfactory start along the
tricky pathway that leads to first-night
calls of “author” and “producer.” But
abroad he first changed his name to
David Athens; he says the air of mys-
tery helped him get interviews. His Aus-
tralian three-acter “Jam Tomorrow” was
produced at the Torch Theatre, Knights-
bridge, and his “Music Has Power” was
made into a film.
Rothfield’s first job abroad was as a
play-reader attached to the Unity Theatre
group in London, which was always in
search of plays with contemporary in-
terest. G. B. Shaw, Sybil Thorndike,
Sean O’Casey and Luise Rainer were
among Unity patrons ; so was Paul Robe-
son ; but although scores of plays were
read in search of a Robeson part none
was ever found. It seems that at that
time the easy money of Hollywood was
not as attractive to the negro basso as
was the greener field around the corner —
legitimate drama of good quality.
Thomas Rothfield-Athens is interested
to hear that Gregan McMahon has listed
on his 1941 programme “Spacetime Inn,”
by Lionel Britten. Mr. McMahon has
not yet divulged his method of tackling
the cutting—even if black coffee were
served during every interval his sub-
scribers couldn’t be expected to keep
awake right through the uncondensed
edition. Mr. Rothfield heard Nancy
Price, the English actress, commence
reading this play in the early afternoon.
She came to the end of the first act at
6 p.m., and judging by the size of the
script there were several more acts to
follow.
Following the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s decision to make it compulsory
for all women in the paid defence ser-
vices to register, Adelaide reports the
appointment of Charlotte Grivell as
registrar in S.A. for the Women’s Volun-
tary Register for National Service.


the SE RVICE MAN
The Battle Opens.
“Ek Dum”: Hitler has a revengeful
historic sense. His first stroke at Yugo-
slavia was delivered from Szeged, in
Hungary, the furthest point to which the
11th and other German armies had been
driven by the Serbs when the 1918 armis-
tice arrived. He struck, too, from Arad,
on which the eastern wing of the 11th
Army rested when Germany surrendered.
Almost simultaneously he attacked by
several other routes.
What he was doing was soon clear.
His policy on Yugoslavia itself was the
same as in the North Sea and E. France
—to break through at weak points; then
to begin a scoring, corralling movement
round sections of his enemy.
Belgrade Radio went off the air on
that Sunday morning, April 6. It was
four days before the world learned
that while the people were going to
church Goring’s brutal Luftwaffe began
a series of raids which blotted out most
of the city in a worse blast than Rotter-
dam suffered, though the casualties were
not so great. German soldiers trample
in the ashes —they arrived on April 13.
Church bells are great features of Bel-
grade. They have a strange note, and
when they toll for funerals, as they do
several times of a winter afternoon, they
remind the hearer of the mournful howl-
ing of wolves. Their notes go echoing
round the ramparts of the ancient cita-
dels on the bluffs hanging over the broad
river, and whispering down the narrow
causeways which run to the wharves. As
a concentrated mark for comprehensive
slaughter of the innocents it would be
hard to pick anything better than Bel-
grade on a Sunday morning, for every-
body goes to church or gathers in some
public place.
Wrecked was the palace of Milan and
Draga ; wrecked the cafes where officers
used to clank swords, eat spaghetti and
drink red wine; wrecked the railway
station and the radio station. Thus
the Germans were able to ensure
that the world would hear only their
version of what was happening in
the northern part of the little country
which they had once before cruelly
mauled in the Great War, and which
they were now in process of submitting
to death by a thousand cuts, all because
most of its people wanted only to be
left alone and to “maintain good rela-
tions with all our neighbors.”
Scraps from the reports of neutral
correspondents showed that the Germans
had followed the plan described in B.
2/4/’4l. In their attack on Greece they
were striking down the Struma ; from the
Struma-Strumitza enclave to the Vardar
valley and the roads to Skoplje (Yugo-
slavia) ; and, further east, in the Xanthe
regions and about Dedeagatch. Dedea-
gatch is a port of Turkish as well as of
Grecian Thrace ; but not much of a port.
By Monday the whole pattern of
attacks was taking shape. The invaders
were literally blasting a way through the
gorges of the Juma and other passes,
widening the valleys with explosives.
Further east and up the Serbian rear they
pushed along the Strumitza to Doiran,
scene of a decisive battle of the last war.
British bombers had plastered the en-
virons of Sofia. The Bulgarian capital
is an easy city to bomb for an adversary
who is not bent on killing civilians. Hun-
gary, like Bulgaria and Rumania, having
become a “base for enemy acbon,”
Britain was virtually at war with Hun-
gary, Rumania and Bulgaria, as well as
Germany and Italy.
There was at first a dead silence about
what was happening in the Croat and
Slovene country, north and west. How-
ever, on Monday Dr. Ante Pavelich was
heard broadcasting over the Zeesen “Free-
dom Radio” that “Croatia” would “fight
cn the side of the Axis ; her hour of
liberation strikes!” Within a couple of
days Zagreb had fallen and Pavelich been
named head of an “independent Govern-
ment.”
It was not even known at that stage
where the Yugoslav Government was.
It turned up at Sarajevo. If the rest of
the Croat and Slovene country was over-
run or acquiescent in the invasion, how-
ever, the radio in the old, quiet city of
Ljubjana —Laibach in Austrian Imperial
days—was still functioning. It announced
that Yuvoslavs had fired their first shots
at the Italians on the Albanian border
with a view to attacking the armies of
yalona and cleaning up the western coast
of the Adriatic. Italians were reported
to have begun “naval and air operations
against Yugoslavia.”
Beyond that, only the reports of the
commands on both sides told the world
what was happening. A violent struggle
was going on in the region of Kavala-
Xanthe and the Struma. Only part of
the Greek Army was engaged, and it had
the support of only such Greek machines
as could be spared from the Valona front
and of the übiquitous R.A.F. The British
Expeditionary Force was not engaged.
The forts on Monday evening were still
holding except one. A number of Ger-
man tanks had been destroyed. All the
way through eastern Greece what popu-
lation was left was seeing again in opera-
tion the fifth-column tactics used in the
Low Countries. Parachute troops and
leaflets urging defeatism were dropped.
Enemy agents were at work, causing con-
fusion.
The Germans on their side had a long
list of achievements to relate. Over Sun-
day Berlin and Rome —the only Axis
centres of communication with the world
at any time —had been completely
isolated from the world for 24 hours
save through official channels, and un-
official channels were opened only at
7 a.m. on Monday. Each day from 8 p.m.
to 7 a.m. this isolating of the Reich and
Italy now takes place as a military
measure.
Meanwhile the Rumanian Government
had decreed general mobilisation; the
Hungarian Government had declared a
state of siege; the Bulgarian Govern-
ment, teeming with German divisions,
plaintively asserted its determination not
to become involved. The three countries
protested to Yugoslavia against the
bombing of “open towns” —all German
attack bases.
One thing was certain a very few hours
after the war began —that the main
Greek defence lines were not along the
Bulgarian and south-east Yugoslav
borders. All the north-east and Thrace
had been cleared of unwanted civilians
and turned into a closed zone. It seemed
only a question of time before the Greek
first-line defence must break down. The
Yugoslavs were supposed to pin much
faith on a plan for the defence of their
south and east lines, of which the heart
was supposed to beat in Skoplje. The
flapper press talked about the “Metaxas
Line” along the Graeco-Bulgarian fron-
tiers without apparently having much
idea what it was. Whatever it was, it
was no use. The Struma defence on the
Graeco-Bulgarian border, the Doiran and
Egri Palanka-Kumanovo-Skoplje and
Strumitza-Doiran defences in Yugoslavia
ultimately broke under enormous pres-
sure like eggshell.
While ■ A.B.C.’s oracular Professor
Roberts was dilating on the impossibility
of Skoplje falling the Germans were in
its new streets on the Vardar’s right bank
—Skoplje was burnt down a few years
ago. The thrust from Nevrokop across
the Struma, down the Strumitza valley
towards Doiran, was especially strong.
Within 48 hours of the beginning of
the attacks the whole of the western
Balkans, north of the Pindus, were
aflame. The German plan of encircle-
ments by long strokes was clear. A new
drive into Yugoslavia came from
Rumania via Orsova in the north —last
year the Iron Gates. The first signs of
a break-through to Greece came along the
border of Yugoslavia and Bulgaria in the
Doiran region, where the Yugoslavs had
given way among the dome-shaped hills
and basinlike valleys.
Troops were moving towards ruined
Belgrade and Zagreb, the capital of Croatia.
The Italians had increased their attacks
on the Albanian front. Greeks counter-
attacked and took 500 Italian prisoners
on the mountain front of the west. But
the Germans continued to make progress
down the Vardar Valley and beyond
Skoplje. The Greeks were still holding
the Rupel Pass, though two forts
had fallen. And their forts on the
Nevrokop line, already passed by some
German mechanised units, were caving
in under sheer destructive force, the
defence becoming suicidal.
The first admission of retirement came
from Greek headquarters in a statement
that western Thrace had been evacuated,
“in accordance with plan, to avoid use-
less sacrifices.” It was inevitable that
the whole of this narrow littoral from
Salonika to Turkey should go, but it
was bought with blood. This completed
the picture from east to west. The detail
was filled in with vignettes of Greek
detachments dying to the last man rather
than yield, of forts holding on till they were
squashed flat and of Germans en masse
caught in ravines and defiles and wiped
out.
The enemy began to make larger
claims than before. Italians declared that
they had prevented a junction between
Greeks and Yugoslavs in Albania. Ger-
mans reported that the whole of Yugo-
slavia’s transport and communication had
been disrupted.
Monday was the crucial day. It was
the unready Yugoslavs, not the Greeks,
who broke. The Bulgarian-Yugoslav
border defences once pierced by an
armored German division or so, the
Germans at dawn on Tuesday morning
swept down the Vardar Valley into
Greece. At 4 a.m. on Wednesday the
first German troops entered Salonika.
Threatened on the west flank with separa-
tion from the Voyusa armies, Greek
troops had been compelled to withdraw
to keep their front line intact and con-
tinuous and allow the flood of terror to
pour down the Rupel Pass. Among the
last to leave the city were Royal Engi-
neers and A.I.F. sappers.
The Germans then realised the sug-
gestion (B. 2/1/’4l) that they “might cut
Greece in halves near Salonika.” Pres-
ently they announced that all the Greek
troops east of the Vardar Valley had laid
down their arms. The Greeks admitted
that they were cut off in the east, but said
that their armies still were resisting. Their
forces there were unlikely to be heavy.
Though no British or Australian land
troops were involved in the first phase
except a handful on destructive work in
Macedonia, the R.A.F. had worked in-
cessantly. The Vardar and Struma val-
leys and adjacent ravines were strewn
with the ruins of German lorries and the
heaped bodies of the soldiers caught by
the heavy bombers and the withering
fire of the Hurricanes and other multi-
gunned machines.
The lightning success on the Vardar
opened two more ways to the Germans,
and by Wednesday morning they were
well on their way across the southern
Serbia by two routes —one to Tetovo
driving towards Scutari in northern
Albania, one from Istip to Prilep on the
way to Monastir Gap.
Tetovo is 105 miles, from Durazzo, on
the Albanian coast; Skoplje, about 150
miles. Prilep is 25 miles from Monastir,
near the Greek and Albanian borders,
and Monastir, a key town, is only about
20 miles from Fiorina, the Greek rail-
way and defence centre in the north-west,
and the lovely Koritza country. The
town is right on top of the rear of the
Greek armies attacking the Italians in
Valona, and is a traffic centre from most
of western Yugoslavia by main road and
rail to Salonika. On Wednesday night
the Germans claimed that their two drives
had reached the Greek and Albanian
borders.
The first phase had ended with the
destruction of Belgrade, the capture of
the Vardar and Struma valleys, the pene-
tration of the Drama-Xanthe area from
Plovdev and the capture of Dedeagatch,
which completed the overwhelming of
eastern Greece along the Thracian lit-
toral. Grecian Thrace was completely
surrounded except on the sea side.
Salonika was in German hands. A
triangle of southern Serbia had been cut
off in the drive from Istip through Prilep
and on to Monastir. Another island was
being formed by the Skoplje drive via
Tetovo to the Albanian border. Still an-
other bandsaw tore through Croatia to
Zagreb, which was captured. This obvi-
ously would afterwards rip through to
the Adriatic at Fiume.
Zagreb, centre of Croat nationalism, is
a great railway junction. It is the mid-
way feeder station between Budapest
and Fiume. The success of that advance
would isolate the whole of the Drava
banovina along the Italian-Austrian-
Hungarian border, along with Lubljana,
the third city in the kingdom, towards
which an advance also was being made.
Another drive was making for the Yugo-
slav port of Split on the Adriatic.
Apart from Monastir-Florina, Ger-
mans before Monday made contact with
the British and Empire forces in the
eastern sector of northern Greece, towards
the iEgean. The A.I.F. in the
subsequent skirmishings, and the Times
reports that Australian Bren-gun carriers
caught German infantry napping and in-
flicted losses on them.
But by Monday the bad weather which
the Germans had reported on the Drava
on Thursday had spread over the whole
of the Balkans, slowing down the Ger-
man drive. Albania was blanketed by
clouds, allowing many R.A.F. squadrons
to be released for operations in Mace-
donia On the Morava in Central
Serbia, south of Belgrade, the Yugoslavs
delivered two strong counter-attacks at
the week-end and stiffened their resist-
ance ; but there the Yugoslav forces are
in the middle of a German sandwich.
Elsewhere, there was no improvement in
the position but considerable optimism.
A “Times” correspondent who came
through from Monastir to Athens
summed up the Yugoslav position: “The
Yugoslav army is in magnificent fighting
fettle, but severance of communications
has paralysed its striking power, because
units are separated and completely
ignorant of what is happening elsewhere,
while German agents are busily spreading
rumors Bridges and other vital
strategic positions were left completely
unguarded, while the civil population was
compelled to watch German raids carried
out without opposition from their own
fighters. The Yugoslav command at
Monastir apparently left the town before
the Germans arrived, with an instruc-
tion to the police to hand it over with-
out resistance.”
The British Join Battle.
“Ek Dum”: British, Australian and
Maoriland forces had been in Greece for
some time when the attack on Yugo-
slavia began. They had been ferried
across the Mediterranean under the noses
of the Italian Navy and active dive-
bombers. The one naval attempt to inter-
fere with them ended in the battle of
Cape Matapan, and in Italy being re-
duced to the status of a fifth-rate sea
Power.
British troops were not engaged in the
first phase of the German Balkan attack,
though the R.A.F., which had been
operating with the Greek army for over
five months, had been in the thick of the
fighting from the beginning. It supported
the Greeks stoutly throughout the heavy
week of battle.
Surface British forces came into con-
tact with the enemy on Thursday. On that
day the Germans began the attempt to
junction with the Italians in Albania
above Lake Ochrida, thus extending the
German-Italian front from Valona to the
Turkish border, and at the same time to
break the clinch of the Allied armies
near where the lines of the Albanian war
reach the Yugoslav border. Also to pene-
trate the Monastir Gap and capture the
main railway and depot junction of the
Greeks at Fiorina and cut their northern
lines of communication with their army
in Albania,
Around the domed hills to the north-
east sides of Fiorina and further south
between Fiorina and Banitza heavy
tank battles were proceeding on April 13.
The Germans near Banitza were about
18 miles south-east of Monastir. The
objective they were here fighting for is
even more vital than the junction with
the Italians, which they seem to have suc-
ceeded in making above Ochrida. Here
they had approaches from two directions:
by the main road from the east from
Salonika via Edessa and Ostrovo to
Banitza ; from Monastir on the north to
the same village, where the main road
from Larissa and southern Greece and
the Salonika road come together on the
Salonika-Monastir railway. On the north
approach they were being held. Capture
of this area would mean cutting off the
main line of Greek communication to
Yugoslavia. It also would put the Ger-
mans in control of the roadheads leading
westward to the Greek lines opposite the
Italian Adriatic armies. It would mean
a Graeco-British withdrawal to the
Larissa-Yanina defence lines.
The road feeding the Greeks in north
Albania passes south of Lake Malik,
and divides into several tracks, the most
important of which goes to Koritza and
southwards to the Voyusa and Tepelena.
On the Ochrida side, the Germans and
Italians made contact. The Italians alone
claimed to have been engaged in mop-
ping up operations, to have captured
thousands of prisoners and “thousands”
of cannon.
Sir Henry Maitland Wilson commands
the British Army in Greece under the
general direction of General Papagos,
the Greek C.-in-C. He had on Monday
issued no communique, but the Greeks
announced on that day that they had
smashed a heavily-motorised German
column between Banitza and Fiorina,
forcing it to retreat with heavy casualties.
The R.A.F. operated on an increased
scale. On Saturday it made successful
attacks on German convoys in the Mon-
astir Gap, turned on the German
columns moving from Skoplje to Mon-
astir via Prilep and blasted and machine-
gunned them incessantly, burnt petrol
dumps which were laid down by the
roadside, bombed Valona harbor and
carried out various other week-end duties.
Meanwhile north of the deepest
points of the German advance —Banitza,
Salonika—conditions were much as they


were in a later stage of the Battle for
France last year. Claims on either side
were conflicting. The German Radio
claimed that at least 14 Yugoslav divisions
—over 200,000 men—had been wiped
out and that Zagreb had been taken with-
out resistance. A Yugoslav dispatch
admits this, though the Yugoslavs re-
ported having captured “numerous Ger-
mans.” The Germans placed their Zag-
reb captures at 20 generals, 300 officers,
12,000 men, 10 ’planes, munition and fuel
dumps and large quantities of materials.
But in that quarter they met with little
resistance, if any.
The German force pushed on south-
westward to Karlovac, 40 miles further
on along the Fiume railway, and beyond
there met Italian divisions coming from
the Adriatic coast. Further north, Berlin
said on Sunday, the Italians had occupied
Lubljana, Meanwhile the Luftwaffe
made raid after raid on the Piraeus, port
of Athens and southern Greece.
The southern cuts of the German band-
saw, with companion incursions by the
Italians through Yugoslavia from the
Adriatic coast, had gone a long way over
the week-end to tear Yugoslavia into
strips and islands. Hungarian troops
took the Mohacs triangle and Novi Sad.
Yugoslav resistance had not been broken,
but Yugoslavia’s position by Sunday re-
sembled that of France after the fall of
Paris. The Germans had entered Bel-
grade on Sunday morning. It was re-
ported that large Yugoslav armies were
still intact, but some were surrounded.
The chief cities of the kingdom
were in enemy hands. All important road
junctions, railway junctions, crucial
bridgeheads in the eastern and central
part of the country had fallen to Hitler’s
forces, who also commanded or held
every gap of ingress into or egress from
the country, except along part of the
Adriatic, where the main ports of Yugo-
slavia are.
Nevertheless, General Dusan-Simo-
vitch, the Premier, breaking a silence of
several days, remarked that Germany’s
early successes did not discourage the
Government:
The present situation is difficult, but
Yugoslavia will fight to victory. Our
troops are already concentrating on their
main battlelines to check the enemy’s
advance.
Difficult the situation certainly was, but,
if most of the Yugoslav army is intact
and concentrated and the sea can be kept
open to the Adriatic, it is not com-
pletely hopeless.
Greeks were still reported on April 13
to be holding out in eastern Thrace, and
even at Rupel, on the upper Struma,
which had been outflanked and cut off
from two directions.
For the moment, however, operations
in Yugoslavia had become a secondary
zone. The British and Greeks were
opening the second battle.
Back to Tobruk.
“Ek Dum”: The first explanatory
account of a dreadful disappointment-
was given in the House of Commons on
April 8 by the Prime Minister.
Mr. Churchill admitted that the capture
of Benghazi by the Germans was “in-
jurious because of the loss of valuable
airfields” —about the best one in Cyren-
aica is outside the town. He went on to
say that the movement of the Luftwaffe
and armored units from Italy and Sicily
to Tripoli began before Benghazi was
taken, though British submarines and
’planes “took heavy toll” of transports,
and that it must lead to hard and severe
fighting, not only in defence of Cyren-
aica, but in defence of Egypt, It was
fortunate, he added, that the finishing-
of the campaign in Italian East Africa—
Massawa was taken bloodlessly last
week—would allow the transfer of troops
from that area to the Libyan border.
It seems that the bulk of the Army
of the Nile, including A.I.F. and Maori-
land forces, was shifted to Greece, the
operation beginning early in March. The
Germans, who are well served by spies
everywhere, and, of course, maintained
their representatives in Greece till their
Blitzkrieg began, knew all about it, and
laid their plans accordingly. People were
stuffed with reassuring stories of the with-
drawal from Benghazi and Derna, and
were lulled into a sense of false security.
Great was their astonishment when, on
Good Friday, they learned that the ad-
vancing enemy had surrounded a British
force and actually captured a head-
quarters staff.
Among the prisoners were Lieutenant-
General Richard O’Connor, who com-
manded the Western Desert troops;
Lieut.-General Philip Neame, V.C., and
Major-General M. D. Gambier-Parry—
previously adviser to the Greeks.
The Germans claimed to have taken
2000 officers and men altogether,
Australians among them. Cairo H.Q.
was slow to confirm the report about the
generals, and it denied the statement
about the 2000 prisoners, averring that
“this figure” was “impossible under
present conditions of encounters.” After-
wards it confessed that “the impossible”
had happened.
On Tuesday the enemy had retaken not
only Derna but Mekili, the crossroads
50 miles to the south which command
all the desert routes. On Wednesday
he was opposite Tobruk. There, so Lord
Moyne, Secretary for the Colonies, told
the House of Lords, the A.O.T.N. had
established strong fortifications and
mechanised concentrations, and had
brought reinforcements by sea.
On April 13 the Germans claimed that
Bardia, 70 miles east of Tobruk, and
taken by the A.I.F. and British troops
on January 5, had been captured, after
German and Italian troops had encircled
Tobruk and British advanced posts be-
tween the latter town and Bardia. They
declared that they had sunk a British
auxiliary cruiser in Tobruk harbor. On
the same day Sir Miles Lampson, the
British Ambassador to Egypt, remarked
that the situation in Libya was “very
good.” The R.A.F. had destroyed or
partly wrecked 100 vehicles in one raid
on the German advance, destroyed 16
Messerschmitts on the ground at Derna
on Thursday and five other machines,
including troop-carriers and heavy
bombers. They also did heavy damage
to Derna hangars and blew up a dump.
Three other ’planes were brought down
in other areas.
The work of the weakened Air Force
has indeed been splendid. One fighter
squadron of the R.A.A.F. shot down
five Messerschmitts and 13 Stukas in two
days to April 14.
The loss of Bardia was not at
first acknowledged. It was stated that
skirmishing had occurred, and that there
had been engagements with mobile
enemy troops in the areas of El Gazala,
El Adem, Tobruk and Bardia. But it
was admitted that 2000 British troops
were taken prisoner south of Benghazi.
On April 13 Cairo G.H.Q. announced
that Bardia was evacuated before the
arrival of the enemy, and that fighting
was going on near Solium over the Egyp-
tian border. There was also fighting
round Tobruk.
It is still a long way to Alexandria —
more than 300 miles by air—and the
defensive zone laid down by General
Wavell last year on a basis of many years
of preliminary work does not begin till
the railhead is reached at Mersah Matruh,
250 miles from Alexandria. From here
eastward the country is covered to great
depth to protect Cairo and the Nile with
roads, bases and dumps. The worst
feature is that the Germans are now
within a couple of hours’ flying distance
of Suez. And Suez is a long line of
communication.
The War in the Atlantic.
“Nobby II”: The U-boats and bombers
are not having things all their own way
over the North Sea and Atlantic. Losses
keep up, but do not grow consistently.
They seem to be more widespread,
judging by the time taken to issue final
weekly lists.
The February weekly average of loss
grew from 85,000 tons per week to
98.000 tons per week in March.
In one week figures, corrected by the
addition of 11 fresh ships, were 146,000
tons. In the last week of March they
were 77,575 tons, including 13 British
ships of 58,870 tons. That week the
Germans claimed the destruction of
187.000 tons and the Italians of 12,000
tons.
An Admiralty statement makes it clear
that part of the increased March losses
was due to the work of the 27,000-
ton battle - cruisers Scharnhorst and
Gneisenau, which resulted in the use of
British battleships for convoy work. One
—said to be Malaya, Warspite’s sister —
is reported as having arrived at New
York for repairs after a U-boat attack.
The Admiralty declares, however, that
U-boats and bombers do most of the
damage and “the number of U-boats
operating has lately been large.” U-boat
destruction has been increasingly success-
ful in proportion to increased German
effort, and though it is naively remarked
that it is sometimes impossible to save
German lives —lives of men whose trade
is ruthless murder and wholesale drown-
ing of any men, women and children
who happen to be at their mercy —the
R.N. has in its hands more than 50
German officers and well over 400 petty
officers and men. These are apart from
captured Italians. The prisoners include
Commander Otto Kretschmer, one of the
most successful U-boat commanders.
The numbers don’t sound much, but they
represent the crews of 12 large or 22
small submarines.
The height of the Atlantic battle can
scarcely have been reached. As in 1917,
April, May and June will tell whether
or not the menace can be dealt with
effectively. This time there is the com-
plicating factor of the long-distance
bomber, which seems to be doing more
damage than the U-boat. It can be
brought down only by another long-
distance bomber, very difficult to spare
from coastal attack work, or by a super
long-distance fighter of unusually heavy
power.
Mr. Churchill told the House of
Commons that everything depended on
the Battle of the Atlantic:
The only way to get through 1942 with-
out a real contraction of our war efforts is
by another gigantic building of merchant-
men in the United States. We have the
assurance that several . million tons of
American newly-built shipping will be avail-
able for the common struggle during 1942.
President Roosevelt has proved that he
appreciates the gravity of the Atlantic
situation by declaring a protectorate
over Greenland, which might either be-
come a base for air and U-boat opera-
tions during summer or a jumping-off
place for raids on Canada. He has
also removed the ban on American ships
going to the Red Sea and the Canal, and
he has asked Congress to empower him to
requisition foreign vessels immobilised
in U.S. waters. U.S. army vessels are
already carrying vital defence cargoes—
rubber and hemp—from the Dutch East
Indies, and the days of U.S. shipping-
zone embargoes seem to be nearly over.
Berlin and Kiel Are Battered.
“Aileron”: In the excitement of
events in the Mediterranean, it has been
easy to lose sight of the air war over
Britain and North Germany. Last week
there was some of the heaviest bombing
since September. Casualties for March
in Britain were 4259 civilians killed and
5557 hospital cases; April figures will be
heavier on both sides.
London had 18 nights free of raids.
On April 7 there was a brilliant moon
and the spring air war began in earnest.
The Luftwaffe came over Britain in
waves. London suffered an attack and
one more hospital was among the wreck-
age. An attempt was made on Liverpool,
but most of the raiders left without drop-
ping their bombs ; this was the case in
other quarters. In an East Anglian
town five were killed. Scotland had
a seven-hour attack, but casualties were
not widespread. Germans claimed
attacks on the Clydeside, Liverpool,
Bristol, Ipswich and Harwich, and “a
daring assault” by single machines on a
great aircraft factory in Central England.
Seven German bombers were brought
down that night.
The R.A.F, was far from inactive.
Over Kiel, with its new heavy bombers
it made probably the greatest British raid
of the war to that date. It blasted town,
naval docks and shipping yards for five
hours, and covered the northern half of
the Jade harbor in smoke. Bremen-
haven and Emden were bombed and the
Coastal Command paid attention to Cher-
bourg Roads. The Bomber Command
lost one machine.
Coventry was savagely attacked again
on Tuesday evening ; so was Portsmouth.
In the former town, casualties were
heavy, the raid lasting for hours. The
Luftwaffe’s policy, since it cannot get
through the defences of factories, seems
to be to kill and demoralise those who
work in them by indiscriminate bombing
of residential areas.
Several other British centres were raided.
The Germans said 30, naming Chat-
ham, Hull, Great Yarmouth, Manchester,
Swansea, Plymouth, Portsmouth, Bourne-
mouth, Southampton docks and Crewe, a
big railway junction and workshop
centre, where they claimed to have set the
Rolls-Royce works on fire. “Thousands
of bombs,” they said, “were dropped on
Coventry.” Ten raiders were shot down.
Meanwhile, the R.A.F. had repaired
once more to Kiel, where the heaviest
cargo of high explosives yet dropped on
any town on the Continent was decanted
over the burning naval base and its ac-
cessories, leaving the port a mass of
flames.
All over England on Wednesday night
came relays of German bombers, particu-
larly in the southern Midlands round the
Birmingham-Coventry area and the
edges of the Black Country. London
had an alert for two hours, but Birming-
ham and Newcastle were the chief targets
—the Germans said that extensive fires
were started in Birmingham.
The R.A.F., for its part, carried out a
relay raid for three hours on Berlin,
where big fires were started in the
official heart of the city. For the first
time the Germans admitted damage
there. Their radio wailed that the “Ger-
man people were upset and outraged at
the raid, which was apparently staged to
sidetrack interest from the Balkans. The
raids were concentrated on historical and
public buildings.”
They were actually concentrated on
Hitler’s inner lair on the threshold of
his Chancellery, and in the backyard of
his War Office and air headquarters.
Emden also was blasted.
Next night—April 10—the R.A.F.
ranged far afield —to Borkum, where it
gave the island garrison a shattering sur-
prise ; to the' Ruhr and the Rhineland
and to Brest, where lurk the battle-
cruisers Scharnhorst and Gneisenau.
They were straddled with bombs.
Attacks on England mainly fell in the
western Midlands, but, though numerous
other centres were raided, London was
again only lightly touched. Unfortunate
Coventry and Birmingham were again
victims. Once more, Coventry lost large
numbers of its devoted citizens. Another
nine raiders were shattered in the sky.
Troubles in Iraq.
“Ente Marid”: They began with
the formation of Seyyid Rashid Ali’s
Government in March, 1940. Rashid’s
Foreign Minister was Nuri es Said—the
same Nuri Bey whose allegiance Law-
rence won away from the Turks in the
last war.
On Jan, 28 Nuri resigned and placed
himself under British protection in Trans-
Jordania. Rashid, the Premier, was
appointed Foreign Minister, but the
regent, Prince Abdul Ilah, an uncle of
the schoolboy King, refused to dissolve
Parliament, and moved hurriedly to
Diwaniyeh on the Euphrates. Three
days after Nuri quitted Rashid resigned
the Premiership. General Taha suc-
ceeded him.
The German legation has done its best
to make itself the Bagdad home of the
Arab nationalists. The Grand Mufti
from Jerusalem went to Bagdad in Sep-
tember and had some happy meetings
with Axis agents. In the next few weeks
the Germans and Italians issued a mani-
festo which had a sympathetic reception
from elements in the Government and
in which Britain was accused of breaking
Lawrence’s promises. Japanese appeared
and purchased all the 1940 cotton crop.
Some of the Axis propaganda has
been cunning. One furphy widely cir-
culated was that, if Turkey were drawn
into the war, Ankara would demand
suzerainty over Iraq once more as part
of its price.
An official dispatch from Beirut, the
Mediterranean terminus of the motor
route operated to Bagdad by the Nairn
brothers two Maorilanders declared
that the Iraqis, following a coup by
Rashid Ali, had seized the big British
centre base at Cind’bedane near Bag-
dad. The Regent, who had moved to
Busrah, spoke of the coup and called
on the people to reject the rebellious ele-
ments who had seized power. He said
he had been forced to flee because his
palace was surrounded by Rashid’s
followers, who were under “foreign
influence.”
Rashid professes that he intends to
adhere to the Anglo-Iranian Treaty, but
he seems to be driven forward by the
military and by the German-Italian
stimulated Arab movement. Anyway, the
British and Turkish Governments have
withheld recognition from Rashid.
As enemy control of Iraq would
menace Britain’s oil interests and cut
civil British air communication with
India, Singapore, Dutch East Indies and
the Commonwealth, something drastic is
likely to happen to Rashid unless he
behaves.
The first homecoming Australian
wounded and sick from Cyrenaica re-
ceived warm welcomes in Melbourne and
Sydney, There were 114 for Victoria,
of whom 17 went to Caulfield Hospital
by ambulance; 100 for N. S. Wales, 45
for Maoriland and 11 for Queensland.
Many were seriously wounded and a
number had lost limbs. In Sydney on
Saturday afternoon nearly 150,000 people
saw the passage of the N.S.W., Queens-
land and Maoriland contingents through
the streets to the Royal Show, All men
who did not need hospital treatment
were given rail warrants to their home
towns with days’ leave for every six
months of service. Queenslanders were
packed into a second-class compartment
without room to sleep, and at the end of
their tedious journey of 20 hours from
Sydney there was no demonstration.


-%
W> "'
V
N v
f
SINEWS OF WAR!. .. Marching men ... guns and the crews
that serve them ... war factories pouring out a stream of
modern weapons and equipment...these are the outward and
visible signs of Australia's mighty war effort. Less spectacular
but none the less real, is another sinew of war... bank credit...
and in providing this necessity
Wales is bearing its full weight
the Bank of New South
the drive to victory.
sasgssi
PM
imm
f
r
w
A
'*r
OF
BANK
: J?zzxr
SOUTH
NEW
WALES
* .
6 ank _■<
T
X'
o
- -V:
581 C.
ipc*
THE ARMY CALLS!
Eligible Recruits for the A.I.F. are Needed
IMMEDIATELY
JOIN THE A.I.F —SEE THE WORLD
AND KEEP WAR OUT OF AUSTRALIA
Soldiers of the A.I.F. are serving in England
Egypt — Palestine — Libya—Malaya and—?—?
JOIN THEM—THEY NEED YOU!
SINGLE MEN AND MARRIED MEN WITHOUT CHILDREN
ARE REQUIRED AGED BETWEEN 20 AND 40
Apply to your nearest Area Officer and Town Hall, Melbourne,
Recruiting Officer for information.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletti
readers.
The service is entirely free. Ah you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
By lady, position in library for experience
and small salary, or any position of trust, non-
resident. —9765.
Accountant, 19 years’ exp., seeks permanent
position good country town; preference large
general store. Accustomed country conditions.
Competent take full charge. Ineligible military
service.—9975.
Woolclasser, ineligible for military service,
seeks stations. —9812.
Exp. sheepman, plain and mulga country, s.s.
expert, accountant, horseman, wheat-farmer,
middle-aged, open for engagement.—9971.
Agricultural journalist would like to hear
from anyone who can tell him something about
Australian native grasses and their value as
stock feed. —9856.
To buy Paragon Shorthand Manual. Quote
price.—9855.
To buy Kipling’s Light That Failed, Soldiers
Three and Wee Willie Winkie. —9756.
To buy second-hand Mathematics for the
Million, Science for the Citizen and similar
explanatory volumes. —9804.
To buy Barton portable pump for mounting
on Fordson tractor or rotary hoe, or informa-
tion where obtainable. —9965.
To buy Out of the Hurly-Burly, by Max
Adder. —9955.
To buy Day’s Statistical Analysis.— 9943.
To buy ship in bottle and holey dollar and
dump.—9920.
To buy albums of scenic photographs, Aus-
tralian or overseas. —9906.
Information Sought.
(1) Has the R.A.A.F. any claim on an air-
crew applicant once he is rejected ? (2) Can a
person enlist as a pilot or does he enlist for
air crew? (3) Can officers compel air-crew
trainees to be batmen, mess stewards or
orderlies? (4) What happens when a pilot or
wireless operator fails to pass his final exams.;
does he leave the air force or is he transferred
to the ground staff? —9465.
(1) No. (2) As air crew. (3) No. (4) Has
option of transferring to the ground staff or
being discharged.
Pay and allowances of a flight-lieutenant in
the R.A.A.F. enlisted for overseas service.
9456. • u u
Flight-lieutenant’s pay, general duties brancn,
is £1 7s. 6d. per day; administrative and special
duties branch, £1 4s. 6d. per day, before em-
barkation. After embarkation; General duties
branch, £1 4s. per day, plus 3s. field allowance,
plus 4s. 6d. deferred pay; administrative and
special duties branch, 19s. per day, plus 3s.
field allowance, plus 4s. 6d. deferred pay. In
addition, 10 p.c. on pay and field allowance is
provided to offset exchange. Thus the grand
total of daily pay is approximately £1 14s. 6d.
for general duties branch, and £1 Bs. 9d. lor
adminstrative and special duties branch.
* * * *
(1) What was the cost of sending the A.B.C.
field unit abroad? (2) Have the recordings to
date justified the cost? (3) Was it sent abroad
for the purpose of setting up receiving stations
so that the troops could get home news, and is
this being done? —9718. _
(1) Information not available. (2) The
A.B.C. states that listeners have shown the
keenest interest in the recordings supplied by
the unit. (3) High-quality receiving equipment
was sent with the unit with a view to receiving
news sessions broadcast from Australia and
re-diffusing them by means of loud speaker sys-
tems. Owing to the comparatively low power
of the short-wave transmitters in Australia,
however, difficulty has been experienced in
regularly receiving these programmes at ade-
quate strength. Arrangements have been made,
therefore, to rebroadcast over the Palestine
Broadcasting System resumes of the news re-
ceived by the unit in the Middle East.
* * * *
Is Eire a part of the British Empire?— lo24.
Eire is still reckoned as part of the British
Commonwealth of Nations, although it de-
scribes itself as a sovereign, independent demo-
cratic State in terms of the Constitution of
1937. There has been no British legislative
endorsement of Eire’s abrogation of the Consti-
tution of 1922, which was in force before that
and under which, by treaty, Eire accepted
Dominion status for the time being. At the
same time, the British Government tacitly
accepted the new status of the country.
* * * *
(1) Possible market for radio plays? (2)
Payment ? (3) Chances of permanent employ-
merit at script-writing ? (4) How can one break
into the field of radio writing ?— 1037.
(1) The A.B.C. is always glad to consider
scripts of radio plays. (2) Varies with the length
of the play and its general quality. (3) Most
radio stations employ script-writers. The best
approach would be to write to the manager ot
some station with some specimens of work.
(4) Only method is to submit manuscripts to
the appropriate departments; in the case of the
A.8.C., to the Federal Controller of Produc-
tions, 264 Pitt-street, Sydney.
* * * *
What customs duty or taxes have to be met
to import dogs into Australia? —9977.
Dogs are admissible free of duty, as unspeci-
fied. If for stud purposes, they are exempt
from the payment of primage and are not sub-
ject to special war duty—otherwise they arc
subject to the payment of 10 p.c. primage and
special war duty of 10 p.c. of the primage paid.
Dogs for stud purposes are also exempt from
the payment of sales tax, otherwise 10 p.c.
sales tax is chargeable.
* * * *
What would be a good line for a first-class
carpenter and joiner to take up ? Something
in the way of an imported line no longer being
imported and the local manufacture of which
would create a local enterprise? —9531.
At the moment there is a great opportunity
for the extension of tool-handle production for
all sizes of tools of trade —axe, adze, hammer,
pick and shovel. Local timbers, particularly
spotted gum, have been successfully exploited
in these lines, particularly for the heavier picks
and axes. No difficulty in obtaining suitable
locally-made machinery for this purpose. There
is also a steady market for a variety of camp
furniture, deck chairs, collapsible tables of the
card-table variety, and similar equipment. Raw
materials are readily available and good sup-
plies of excellent quality canvas and duck are
being produced by local textile mills.
* * * *
(1) What trading banks in N.S.W. employ
girls ? (2) Qualifications for such employment ?
(3) How can such employment be obtained ?
9485. . J
(1) All of them, so far as can be ascertained.
(2) Tfhe Commonwealth Bank, as an example,
recruits its female staff from girls between the
ages of 16 and 18 years who have obtained, in
addition to a creditable pass in the intermediate
certificate examination, proficiency in the sub-
jects of shorthand and typewriting of 100 words
per minute and 45 words per minute respectively.
(3) A personal interview is usually necessary in
the case of all applicants.
Brief Answers.
F.H.: Men aged 30 can be accepted as pilots.
Intermediate certificate standard is desired, but
not necessary. Applicants all have to satisfy
education officers that they have sufficient capa-
city to absorb pre-enlistment and initial train-
ing school educational training. Until a man
is accepted on the R.A.A.F. Reserve, corres-
pondence courses are not available....
D.C.G.: “Manhattan Beach” and “Pride of
the Yankee Navy” are by Sousa M.S.;
Suggest you first submit it to Angus and
Robertson, Sydney E.W.O’D.: Only way to
find out is to apply for old age pension; form
obtainable at any post office D.8.P.:
Bronze, as used in minting in the British
Empire, is an alloy of copper 95 parts, tin
four parts and zinc one part.... W.D.N.: The
discoverer of the system of anti-typhoid inocu-
lation was Sir Almroth E. Wright, M.D., F.R.S.
M.J.L.: Hovite derives its name from
being found at Hove. Composition is some-
what uncertain but generally described as a
hydrous carbonate of aluminium and calcium.
W.M.L.: The importation of dogs from
the Philippine Islands into Australia is pro-
hibited under the Quarantine Act H. 8.;
Seed for the production of cigarette tobacco
leaf is obtainable from the manager of the
Government Experiment Farm, Bathurst, at
4s. an ounce F.H.P.; That is no exaggera-
tion. In its upper course the Ottawa River is
over 5000 ft. deep J.A.Y.: The firm wrote
to you, but its letter was returned unclaimed.
P M M.: The Chinese Eastern Railway was
built by Russia, 1896-1903, and is 1078 miles.
J.K.F.: Sounds like a dachshund. May
not be a thoroughbred... .L.D.K.: Chief cor-
rosive acids are acetic, nitric, hydrochloric and
sulphuric P.D.: Tranquil Star had previ-
ously defeated High Caste S.H.G.: The
frustrated Rye House plot was formed in 1683
with the object of assassinating Charles II and
the Duke of York in order to secure the suc-
cession of the Duke of Monmouth 8.0. M.:
Common name given to petroleum when found
in its semi-solid state is “rock butter”....
A.H.: Write to the Man-power Officer, Col.
Dowse, Victoria Barracks, Melbourne
A.M.S.; (1) If by “fat” you mean oleaginous
matter, which includes oils, there is no known
method of making soap without it. Burnt
earth and fine ashes are used by various primi-
tive races. (2) To pickle capers simply halt-
fill a bottle with capers, pour over them some
cold vinegar previously scalded, then cork
tightly P.T.; Hold a piece of good quality
white blotting-paper over the stain and apply
to the blotter a warm (almost hot) iron, passing
the iron gently over the surface. As the blotter
becomes greasy, renew it until the stain is
gone, then with a powder-puff dust the place
thickly with fuller’s earth.. . .W.E.G.: Distil-
ling of alcoholic beverages is prohibited save
under license.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
LA.: . . „ .
Each one has a job to do,
From highest to the low ;
Each one does it willingly
To retaliate the blow.
Where’er the battle rages,
On land, on sea, in air, _
From the humblest silver com
The Empire will be there.
D.C.H.; All lightweights D.E.: “Little
Things”... .G.L.: “A menu belched from
hell” does indeed “raise our outraged bile.
j.F.: The verse is as flat as the thought
is platitudinous... .X.M.D.: Correct final
rhyme and try elsewhere... .L. 0.; Can’t “score
out offending words” when the whole thing
needs rewriting J.T.: No G.H.K.:
“Claustrophobia” is trapped in the w.p.b.....
ASM.; What’s the point? M.S.; But why
parody Wordsworth’s “Daffodils” to write
about the ballot-box?... .C.McE.; “A wind
came dithering up the path.” A pome went
dithering out the d00r... .H.R.U.: Spends
she her days in dewy bowers?” Unless you
mean the bathroom —n 0.... J.McC.: Goat
nearly butted in....T.A.: Flimsy.. . .K.McL..
Not quite... .G.R.8.; “Come Back, My Love
is making all possible speed J.D.T.: “I think
this a great improvement on my previous
efforts.” Certainly, but it’s still a long way off
publication standard... .P.N.Y.; S-s-s-st-stut-
tering S-sm-smith” j-j-just m-m-missed....
E G ' Fair enough, but this isn’t the place tor
it R.G.A.; We managed to decipher the
first two lines but couldn’t get beyond that
F.S.L.; The office flapper thought Anne was
too sweet for words, but she wouldn’t have
a hero with the name of Robin Derek Dairall.
S.G.B.: Your covering letter said several
praiseworthy things about a yarn that wasn’t
with it J.H.L.; “Roses and Gardenias.
Lilies, and forget-such-rot P.R.V.: Much
too long T.C.8.; Trapped in the submarine,
they just cut a hole in the side and went up
with the bubble. Very good, very g00d....
B N.M.: Disconnected and poorly expressed.
... .L.C.D.:
I love your fair cheeks, and your sweet tender lips.
I love every inch of you, flesh, bone and blood!
Keep a firm rein on your cannibalistic tendencies.
W.W.G.: “Darn it all, don’t you people
like my stories?” Darn it all, no!
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.0.E.: Lorrydriver almost obscured under
avalanche of smudges and blots S.P.: It
you can’t see why the figures in the back-
ground should be shorter then those m the
foreground you’d best give the game up.
G.P.; Only for the bride’s veil wed have
mistaken that wedding group for a bargain-sale
fight 8.L.; The haw-haw-no-shave-he-he-no-
razor joke celebrated its 26th birthday this year.
M.N.: Frankly, we’d advise you to auction
your drawing pen... .E.A.D.: You’ll need
much more practice... .C.W.: Phil May heat
you to it long ag0.... MR.: Drawn larger
it might stand a chance W.V.L.; Conver-
sation between drunken Papuans and enraged
Chinese cook highly unintelligible C.G.;
That thing first appeared in the “Tyre and
Sidon Herald” J.8.W.; Your “lightning
sketches” proved very far from striking....
H P : Rag-doll damsels with toy balloon heads
going back N.W.C.; Paid to see much
better on the pavement.


LYSAQMTS
m
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Lucerne on the Wheat Farm.
“B. Cubbin”: Many of the failures to
establish lucerne stands are due to late
sowing on badly-prepared land.
Select a bit of long-fallow worked
down fairly fine, and sow at the same
time as the wheat is sown. Lucerne sown
in early autumn on a good fallow will
strike well even in a dry year. A general
seeding rate is 21b. an acre, though from
lib. to 61b. may be found necessary,
according to soil and location. On river
flats up to 81b. may be sown, especially
if the grower is after hay for market.
Superphosphate should be added at the
same rate or a little more than is gener-
ally used for wheat. Shallow sowing is
the thing in a compact mulch lin. to
Uin. in depth.
Lucerne can be sown with the com-
bine or drill by mixing the seed with the
super, in the fertiliser box or by using
a grass-seed attachment. Where super,
is not needed, the seed will go through
the fertiliser box mixed with sawdust.
Don’t use a covering harrow on soil
likely to run together after rain as the
sowing machine will do the job well
enough. Mid-March to end of May is
the best time in average wheat country,
though some get good results from a mid-
June sowing in late seasons.
“F.D.”: Tullibigeal (N.S.W.) lies just
outside the western limit of the lOin.
rainfall belt—lOin. between April and
October, the growing period for crops—
and just inside the experimental line of
profitable wheatgrowing. It is a popular
belief that in such areas the life of a
lucerne stand is too short to justify
sowing.
G. A. Wallace, whose Weja property
is in the district, sowed lucerne on 100
acres in 1932 and this year took a cut
of hay. In 1932 the land was fallow,
and 31b. of seed and 601 b. of super, an
acre were sown in April. Since then
the stand has had one topdressing, 601 b.
of super, in 1937. It has been stocked
judiciously, especially in dry periods.
The rainfall for the period averaged
only 14| inches per annum. It was only
9.78 in 1937, 10.78 in 1938 and 8.21
inches last year. Throughout the stand
continued to supply fodder.
In a fairly dry season in 1938 it kept
400 ewes going and allowed them to
lamb nearly 100 per cent, without hand-
feeding. Sheep losses all round Weja
were heavy. On Weja the sheep were
allowed on the stand two days a week,
reared healthy lambs and gave a good
wool cut.
Last year was a severe enough test.
From May to November only 1.88 inches
of rain fell. The lucerne stopped grow-
ing. There was four inches of rain dur-
ing December and January (1941), and
the change was astonishing. Six weeks
later hay was being cut from the stand
and put away as a reserve. Wallace kept
no stocking records, but reckons the
lucerne gave four times the natural
pasture feed over the nine years—feed
that could be mixed with stubble and
dry grass and was certainly more nutri-
tious than that on natural pastures. He
has 200 acres of lucerne now, and will
sow more this autumn.
Three-day Fever.
“Mookau”: The “three-day sickness,”
or ephemeral fever, a distant cousin of
human dengue, which mysteriously swept
northern Australia, has had a lot of
attention from the C.S.I.R.
The disease turned up in 1936 simul-
taneously in the Kimberleys, in the N.T.
and the Queensland Gulf country. Next
year it had crossed the Victorian border,
about 2500 miles as the crow flies from
where it was first reported. Nobody
knows how long it had been here or had
been hiding in the north.
The disease commences with a two-
to ten-day incubation period —it is
usually three days—marked by loss of
appetite, high fever, running nose and
“Have you received our A.R.P. booklet ‘How to Build an Air-raid
Shelter?”
sometimes lameness. It seldom results
in death, but it leaves the animals weak.
The C.S.I.R. investigators, who have
embodied their observations in a lengthy
pamphlet, believe that if “three-day
fever” got a grip among milkers the
production loss would be serious. The
means by which the disease is transferred
has investigators baffled. An insect got
the blame at first, but so far no insect
has proved a capable carrier for the
pest. Still, there’s some suspicion of the
mosquito and the sandfly—particularly
the latter. Contact between infected
animals does not seem to be dangerous.
Inoculation produces satisfactory immu-
nity. Sheepgrowers can be thankful that
the merino seems to be not affected.
Copra and Pigs.
“Pappamosca”: Maoriland experi-
ments with copra meal as pigfeed have
shown it highly successful.
Copra is made up of from 60 to 70
p.c. oil, 5 to 7 p.c. protein, 6 to 10 p.c.
moisture and the balance of fats, ash and
roughage. Its feed value is nearly twice
that of barley, pound for pound. Its
storage qualities are good, so that a
season’s needs may be bought in one lot.
As a pig feed it is not a novelty outside
Australia and the Dominion. Parts of
U.S.A. use large quantities. In right
balance, it is a healthy feed, but an
excess makes a bilious pig,, For the bulk
of pigs over 1001 b., 11b. daily is enough,
but a little cautious experiment should
show the animal’s reactions to the feed.
With pigs under 1001 b., start with *lb.
per day.
Young litters will eat coconut meat as
a matter of course; it is an acquired
taste with the elders. It goes well as
a supplement to milk, but where milk is
not to be had feed *lb. meatmeal per
day with it
a * i. , n a .
The M L. Agricultural Department is
advising breeders for the present not to
feed copra for a few weeks before
slaughter, but to reserve the grain ration
for that time. Experiments are being
made to discover whether bacon is
0
lasaSffc*
tiff#'''' .*"f '/jfr "*\ pffijSWra .t .’H
. *, .* , Tf m, 't.X *" *
■*'**' * M
fh)ans US'- rA "
flavored or affected by pre-slaughter
feeding.
Kiln-dried copra, which contains less
moisture, stores better than the sun-dried,
A Loading Chute.
“Awner Mcltch”; A useful chute for
loading baled hay can be built cheaply.
One near us is 20ft. long and puts the
bales up to 9ft. high. The sides are of
Sin. by 2in. and the bottom of 4in. by
lin. timber, spaced to make a 15-jfn.
width, the width of the bales. Six sup-
ports keep the floor, one at each end
and the others at 4ft. intervals. They
are of Sin. x 2in. timber, 20in. long.
Hoop-iron in 24in. strips—the stuff that
comes off bales of bags—helps to secure
the supports.
At the lower end the chute is on two
legs 2ft. long, of 4in. by 3in. hardwood.
A piece of yin. piping as a spreader
goes between them and strengthens
them. Through the pipe and legs is a
bolt 24in. by |in,, and they’re helped by
two stays running back from the legs
to the chute. The stays are by yin.
flat iron, each 3ft. long. The high end
°f the chute rests on the truck or bales
as the load grows.
The baler forces the bales up the
chute as each bale comes from the press,
ancl the man on the load does his stuff
as the bales reach him. The one here
doesn ’t affect the baler nor increase the
amount of fuel used ; it saves the labor
of one man - The loader on the truck
can § et the bales up another 4ft. from
the chute ’ and lf two trucks are used
continuous carting can go on from the
* .
ttc _ ana ‘ . , .
Sc ?V lc J : Lantana is a weed, but
“ e , o£ , the . ® n< r?' , eve . r rou B h ‘ ‘ h > s
country. Admitted stock won t eat it.
Admitted it takes possession of land,
making a tangle that even a flea cou ldn’t
enter. There are a dozen other curses to
be slung at the thing.
Against that, it is the best soil .reno-
vator ever used on played-out Queensland
coastal country. Let the lantana run
riot for five years
and the poorest of
poor land is back in
working order.
It is a heavy nitro-
gen supplier. It also
is a prolific dropper
of foliage and
humus.
Lantana is easy to
eradicate. The only
place I fear lantana
is where a wind
can’t get at it to fan
the flames. Even if
there is no grass
growing among the
stuff the mat of dead
leaves will carry a
fire through it.
The best time to
burn is early Novem-
ber. A dense smoke
will cause lantana to
shed all its leaves.
The sun gets to the
ground. Grass will
follow. The next
burn has dry grass
to carry it through.
Two burns will
settle any lantana.
After the first, there
might be occasional
shoots. By next November those shoots
won’t be more than three feet high,
sparse singletons in the thick, after-burn
grass. At next burn the whole lot goes,
including the dried roots which have died
after the first burn.
Cooking Herbs.
“Bull-ant Bill”: An appeal by the
A.I.F. canteen abroad for supplies of
cooking herbs recalls how seldom one
sees homegrown crops of these tasty and
wholesome flavoring plants. Parsley,
mint, sage and thyme flourish in most
parts of Australia with very little care,
are resistant to pests, and take up little
room relatively to yield. Raised beds are
best, not over 4ft. wide to permit access
from both sides for weeding and pick-
ing, and as long as required—loft. will
supply all needs for an average house-
hold. For bigger supplies separate beds
for each kind of herb are best. To pre-
pare, trench the underlying soil to 2ft.,
build up the sides with mill-waste, sap-
lings or logs to Ift. or 15in., and fill in
with well-worked soil enriched with
manure and compost.
The site should be sheltered from
wind, should get the early and late sun
in winter, and should have a frame for
shading in hot weather by hessian or
branches. Keep the surface lightly
worked and well watered.
The best time for gathering to secure
maximum flavor is just before the plants


i‘ \ S a \
/A K a A )
Product of Scotland
“BIRKMYRE”
WATERPROOF TARPAULINS
Made from Scottish Canvas by British Trade Union labour,
"BIRKMYRE" tarpaulins give maximum protection. The famous
"BIRKMYRE" proofing process is recognised as the World's
Best. It is IN the canvas not ON the canvas and —it stays
IN! In various weights and colours. If difficulty is experi-
enced in getting supplies, write Wholesale Distributors :
GOUROCK ROPES AND CANVAS LTD.
(Incorporated in Scotland.)
BRISBANE MELBOURNE SYDNEY
VkCveS UumU ielytiwl"
ONCE A YEAR
REVALVE WITH
RADIOTRON
AUSTRALIAN MADE .... ALWAYS AVAILABLE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
47 York Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
Atmospheric changes affect seal.
Coating burns off filament.
Vacuum declines with age.
Vibration upsets balance.
Heat injures insulation.
Gases upset stability.
Tiny grid wires warp.
Joints are strained.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
An automatic self-contained sanitary system
which can be Installed by any handyman.
No water supply required.
• NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Gives modern sani-
tation at small cost.
r
Efficiency, mechanism and long
life fully guaranteed.
Price, £lB/8/- f.o.r. Sydney.
Including sales tax and crating.
Write Dept. B for illustrated pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Ply., Ltd.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Approved by the
Board of Health.
Position Wanted.
CATTLEMAN, over 20 years’ experience man-
agement properties Queensland, seeks similar
position Queensland or New South Wales;
first-class references. —Address X A.M., Dal-
gety’s, Sydney.
JUST RELEASED—
The "EMPIRE POLEY 1
m
a
All
“Safer’-
Saddles
feature
4 A arrow
Grip.
£9/10/-
(MOUNTED)
A Brand-
new Saddle
featuring a
new seat
design.
While its
cantle looks
high, it’s
only a 4-Jin.
dip but
once you
have ridden
in the Empire Poley, you
will want no other. Try a
seat at the first opportunity.
When you buy a “Safer” Saddle
you arc assured of its riding com-
fort, grip, and lasting qualities.
Every favorite style available.
Write for new 1841 Catalogue.
NEWMARKET SADDLERY
W. H. Williams for “Safer” Saddles,
18-30 WIESON STREET, NEWTOWN.
BRITSTAND
GRADER DITCHERS
For every class ol Ditching
Does everything for which you previously
needed a Grader AND a Ditcher, and DOES
IT BETTER. Makes drains over 4' deep, and
banks over 4' high. Good for maintaining,
also station roads, shifting drift, etc. Over
10,000 Grader Ditchers in use in America.
Hundreds already sold in Australia. Your
money refunded if you agree to part with
it after 2-days' trial. Write to-day for free
illustrated leaflet.
BRITISH STANDARD
MACHINERY Co. Ltd.
56-58 GARDENERS RD.
(West of<-Botany Rd.j, ALEXANDRIA
Phones Mascot 370-5
flower. Syringe them with water to re-
move insects and dust two hours before
cutting. Shake well after cutting and lay
out to dry off. Thyme and sage are tied
in loose bunches by the stems and hung
in a cool, shaded, airy place. Mint is
spread out on wire trays to allow air to
circulate through. Parsley is tied m
small bunches dipped for half a minute
in boiling water containing a teaspoon
of baking soda to the quart shaken well,
and dried quickly in a cool oven, taking
care to avoid overheating. To preserve
the color, store in airtight tins, not
bottles.
After mint, thyme and sage complete
their first drying, dip the bunches in
boiling water for a few seconds, shake,
and hang out to dry. When quite dried
put into paper bags till stems come away
from leaves, rub or sieve the leaves, and
store in airtight tins or bottles.
, •“ ”
Hints for the Farm.
“Peapod”: For many years we—at
Whangarei (M.L.)—picked out sheep for
dagging at frequent intervals after
mustering. Now I have found it best
to give all ewes and rams a light crutch-
ing in March. This makes for easier
mating and keeps down the dags and
stained wool, whilst saving time. A full
crutching is given in June, and this keeps
the wool in a good state until shearing
in late October or early November.
“Bundalinga”: Two reasons for failure
of perennial rye are lack of soil fer-
tility and overstocking. Swards of p.r.
sown on fertile soils, and stimulated by
fertilisers, have given good service for
upwards of 50 years. Other stands, sown
on poor soil or overstocked, have been
far from “perennial.”
» Mullengah ». Before the new i y . b orn
ca]f ts its first meal wash the cow ’ s
udder with warm water and soap and
d with a clean cloth See that the ca i f
one Qr morg gQod feeds of the first
milk _ Nature de J d it to clear out
thg digestive s y stem and protect the new-
born calf infections,
“Bundalinga”: Cover seeds of pasture
plants and lucerne lightly. The job can
be done with brush harrows, wire-netting
harrows or ordinary harrows reversed
and drawn with the tines uppermost,
“Peapod”: For hand sowing or top-
dressing cut one side out of a kerosene
tin. At the open side fix narrow boards
to keep the top of tin in shape. At each
end make a wire loop, firmly fixed
through the boards and tin. From these
loops a leather strap will suspend the tin
from the shoulders. Its advantages over
the ordinary sack are the greater ease in
carrying, its durability and the fact that
it s wide opening makes it easy to get at
the contents when it is half full.
“Mt. Boppy”: V. P. Bragg, Karoopa,
Koorawatha (N.S.W.), has converted
country previously covered mainly with
wire and red grasses into heavy carrying
pasture, chiefly with sub. clover, of which
he has 2300 acres. He plans to extend the
area to 3000 acres this autumn. From
February to August, 1940, one 45-acre
paddock of sub. clover fattened 30 head
of cattle. From mid-July to the end of
September, 120 lambs were fattened, and
this year 600 lambs were on the same
paddock from January to the end of
March. In another five-acre paddock 20
pigs are grazed constantly, only needing
topping off just prior to sale. The pig
paddock is topdressed annually with
2001 b. of super, per acre. Rooting by
the pigs is inclined to thicken the sward.
Since pasture improvement began, carry-
ing capacity at Karoopa has been in-
creased from 6500 sheep to 11,000 on
9000 acres. Varying numbers of cattle
are fattened. Most of the sub. clover
was established by scratching it in with
a combine on wiregrass country, and
harrowing a few days later when the
soil was crumbly and covered the seed
evenly. Bragg uses 75 tons of super,
for annual topdressing.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXV.
Meeting the Parson.
“Mr. Somers is coming on Sunday
afternoon,” announces the wife.
Mr. Somers is the new parson, and
the wife encountered him down at the
church last Sunday.
“What sort of a bloke is he?” asks
Jack.
“What sort do y’ think he’d be?” you
answer.
“Aw, I dunno,” says Jack. “But some
of these parsons’d give a man the willies.”
You look at your elder son, and then
decide to leave it to his mother.
“That’s no way to speak of Mr.
Somers,” she says. “He is quite nice, and
his work is one of the best on earth.”
Jack subsides.
Sunday dawns. The wife has been
busy all the week-end, cleaning and
sweeping and cooking. You and the
boys have hardly ventured a word.
“Gee, dad,” young Tom says, sneaking
out after breakfast that morning ; “y’d
think Mr. Somers was a bloomin’ arch-
bishop or somethin’.”
“Hold y’r tongue,” you say, “an’ get
that flamin’ calf fed.” You go up the
paddock to the combine. You’ve been
having a bit of trouble with two of the
stars in the seedbox, and you want to
get it fixed ready for the morning. It’s
a bit complicated, and you find you have
to take the rod out and readjust the
whole row.
Presently Jack comes up and gives you
a hand. Time drifts by. The stars are
right at last, and you get Jack to help
you lift one end of the machine because
you think the floating tines on that side
have got a bit skewed.
Tom comes up with a billy of tea and
some cake. “Mum says are you goin’
t’ be here all day. She says she doesn’t
want you all over grease and dirt when
the minister comes,” he announces.
The spanner slips and takes a bit of
bark off one hand. “Blow the minister,”
you snort, sucking the hand.
“We’ll be ready,” Jack assures Tom,
who picks up the billy and is about to
depart when you think of something and
say “Hey, you fed that calf yet?”
“No ; I”
“Well, go an’ feed him at once, y’
young devil!”
Tom departs.
You and Jack tackle that set of tines
again.
More time drifts by.
Suddenly there is a crash from the
direction of the stables, and you and
Jack start up and look. Something shoots
out of the shed and goes galloping across
the paddock. It is the calf, with a kero-
sene bucket firmly jammed on its head.
“Blast that Tom!” you grunt as you
and Jack take after the calf. Tom is also
taking after it. The four dogs and the
half-grown pup also take after it. The
calf runs in a wide circle towards the
horses, which are grazing not far from
the combine. The horses snort and prop
and watch the calf. All except old Lion,
who wouldn’t shift if the German army
threatened him.
The calf, running blindly and bellow-
ing, flounders among Lion’s hindquarters
about the same time that the dogs get
there. Lion lashes out, misses the calf
and then bolts.
You and Jack and Tom close on the
calf, and you’ve almost got him when two
dogs run between your feet and over
you go. You rise up, cursing, and snatch
up lumps of your farm and heave them at
the dogs. The dogs, evidently convinced
they did wrong in chasing the calf, decide
it must be the horses you want chased.
You scream at them. There is a bellow
behind. You turn just as the tinned call
collides with your rear. Once more you
get a close view of the composition or
the farm soil.
You rise, cold with an awful fury, rake
the dust out of your eyes and ears, spit
it out of your mouth and open up. With
a bursting heart you describe the kind
of fool who takes on farming, the evils
of lazy offspring, the terrible results that
follow the rearing of bovine animals, the
crass idiocy of dogs and the utter
stupidity of horses. You then proceed to
call down curses on farming, its branches
and accompaniments, and wind up with
a colorful description of your own fool-
ishness in ever taking on such a blank,
crank, dank, flamin’ occupation.
You shut your eyes, draw breath, cool
down and open your eyes again to be-
hold a brown-faced young man regard-
ing you solemnly. Thankful for the fresh
opportunity, you deliver a vivid opinion
on the habits of strangers who bob up
when and where they are not wanted.
“I,” says the stranger, “am Somers.
You are Mr. Fordcubbin. I like walk-
ing, so I tramped out to your place. It
seems I’m a bit early. You must for-
give me.”
“Did you see what happened? Did
you hear what I said?” you whisper,
wishing the earth would open and swal-
low you.
“Yes,” he says gravely, “and I agree
with you. In fact, I think you could
have said a lot more.”
You conduct him to the house. “Here’s
Mr. Somers, missus,” you call. To him
you say “I’ll go an’ get some of this
muck off. You’ll do me, lad! ”


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2|d. per line. .
A Queenslander’s simple story of a correspondence school and some of its
pupils goes on top this week.
The Bush Scholar
The files in the Primary Correspon-
dence School at Brisbane tell many in-
spiriting stories.
Most people think the correspon-
dence school is concerned only with the
children of the West, but —in addition to
the hundreds of young Australians on
stations and selections, in mining camps
and on Pacific plantations whom it is
educating through the post —the school
has on its roll many young men and
women of the far outback who, denied
even the rudiments of education in their
infancy, have turned to it for instruc-
tion in their twenties and thirties.
A large number of the men are drovers
and shepherds, and many an “exercise”
is done for the school, when a hard
day’s work is over, by the light of a
hurricane lamp. Sometimes husband and
wife study together and progress through
alphabet and pothooks to the intricacies
of grammar and syntax. On the rare
occasions on which they come to the city
and visit the school their supervisors are
invariably struck by their quiet dignity
and eagerness to learn.
Radio comedians and film-makers
would not recognise these products of
the outback. These men and women are
facing the problems of the sheep and
cattle country with the same dogged per-
sistence with which they met the prob-
lem of educating themselves in adult
life. Literally and metaphorically they
represent the real heart of Australia.
—D. Lainy (Q.).
Education in Democracy
Hitler, Mussolini and Stalin all have
their youth movements for the purpose
of pumping the young people full of the
ideals, aims, objectives and benefits of
the respective regimes. Australia has
given comparatively little attention to
education in democracy, and youngsters
are in most instances ignorant of its
true meaning, and even of the inner
workings of the form of government
which they enjoy.
“Civics” is a subject taught in State
schools, but does' not go far enough.
Anyone who has the advantage of a
higher education learns something of
democracy and what it means, and of
the political structure of Australia, but
the great majority of youngsters, who
will one day have votes, get their ideas
from parents, companions, newspapers
and similar sources. No systematic
attempt is made to teach them what
democracy is all about, and to imbue in
them a sense of their responsibility as
voters.
There should be some post-school
scheme of education. A trained and
thinking electorate would mean a better
instructed lot of voters, who would take
more interest in what candidates had to
offer, and not so much in mere party
politics.
In some parts of the United States
they have adopted a scheme to institute
full instruction of future citizens in their
responsibilities and opportunities. There,
the participation of youth in government
is made personally important, and
democracy is being kept alert and
powerful.
Something like it is needed in Aus-
tralia. Such a scheme would, of course,
have to be free of party politics. It
would need to include the meaning of
democracy, instruction in our form of
government, our responsibility to the
Commonwealth and the Empire, and the
power each person can wield with a vote.
An education in democracy would be
the safeguard against such evils as
Fascism and Communism. —J. M.
(N.S.W.).
Tripe Still Cheap "
“0.T.” (B. 19 /3 / ’4l) is evidently a
“toad beneath the harrow” and “knows
exactly where each tooth point goes.”
Thousands of other freelance writers will
agree with his protest against the free
importation of literary tripe. Unfortu-
nately they are individualists to a toad,
and when they do kick against the pricks
they hurt themselves more than they
dint the harrow.
The only way to secure legislation for
the protection of local literary products
is to organise the writers. A solid block
of votes sufficiently large to upset a
harrow would move the driver more than
eloquence. One croak in the ballot-
box is worth a thousand in the lonely
furrow where the croaker is easily
squashed.
There is in being a Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers, but the members are
politically as united as quicksilver. When
£6OO out of £lOOO of the Commonwealth
Literary Fund was handed to the rich
universities instead of indigent authors
the Fellows meekly turned the other
cheek. The only croak heard was in
The Bulletin.
But this Fellowship, though at present
inert, could be energised for the good
of its members. What is required is a
“militant” secretary with power to add
to its numbers and lead them as depu-
tations to Parliamentarians on the eve
of an election. The stubby pencil in the
polling booth is mightier than the
sharpest pen.
Perhaps the time is not ripe for such
action, but it is ripe for preparation to
act so that the writers, professional or
free, will get at least a sporting chance
of justice in the promised “post-war
economic reconstruction.” — Frog (S.A.).
A few years ago a special footage tax
was imposed on imported films to pro-
vide substantial prize-money for local
efforts. A similar idea might be tried
with literature, a tax of, say, five shillings
a thousand words being charged on over-
seas copy. The money collected could
then be administered by a committee of
three, consisting of a member of Parlia-
ment, an eminent man of letters and a
successful businessman.
Total prohibition could be applied to
serials. Generally speaking, the im-
ported brand of literature offered in this
category is deplorably weak, and local
scribes wouldn’t have any trouble at all
in turning out far better stuff. Serials
can be a valuable help to writers, since
they assure him a continuity of income,
besides making him keep his nose to
the grindstone in order to turn out his
weekly quota.
There is one aspect of the case that is
also overlooked. In thickly-populated
countries overseas, any writer of note at
all invariably employs a literary agent
to market his stuff, but here in Australia
the sparseness of the population and
the limited market make the employment
of an energetic go-between an almost
unheard-of luxury. I do not know for
certain whether the volume is out of
print, but in the last couple of years I
have been unable to get hold of a cur-
rent copy of Authors and Artists' Hand-
book.
The regular publication of a book of
this kind, with a comprehensive survey
of the whole Australian market, is a vir-
tual necessity, and locai bodies as well
as the A.J.A. could bestir themselves in
seeing whether or not this is pos jle.—
Melton (Vic.).
Blatherstall Vests
When I took up my paper this morn-
ing my eye immediately became glued
to a piece of front-page advertising in
which clothes for men are spoken of as
if they were the latest thing in female
undies.
When the news came through that Bond-
street could do the Assquire Store no more
Blatherstall vests, “Assquire” had just an
inkling of how the local boys must have
felt.
My own reaction was “Let’s call the
the war off.” How am I to function
without my Blatherstall vest? Some
misguided folks may say these things are
luxuries (overcoats at 30 guineas and
gents’ dressing-gowns at 16 guineas are
amongst other “necessities” advertised
by this outfit), but I say that unless we
menfolk keep a stiff upper lip by dis-
playing our Blatherstalls well, Adolf
may get the idea that we’re all degenerate.
What does it matter if a bomb or two
put the Bond-street Blatherstall makers
out of action? I say “Blatherstalls as
usual.”
What is the Government going to do
about it? That’s what I want to know,
for if the production of Blatherstalls
falls off, does it really matter if we win
the war? I’m sure I don’t know. Maybe
I’ll have to start knitting a Blather-
stall vest for myself.— Assquire, Jnr.
(N.S.W.).
Petrol Rationing
If you stand on the side of any of the
main arterial roads out of Melbourne
during a week-end, you will see dozens
of cars, fitted to carry four to six per-
sons, speeding along with the front seat
occupied by two people.
Why not drastically curtail the use of
petrol by the week-end motorist? Thou-
sands of gallons of valuable spirit are
poured down the drain each week-end
for no other purpose than the gratifi-
cation of laziness and ease. This idea
of getting out into the country seated on
a rubber cushion and carefully screened
from the air in a closed car is simply
wasting petrol.
The Government could do the job
properly and provide all the petrol neces-
sary for industry. What is over could
then be given out to those using cars for
pleasure. — lago (Vic.).
Soldiers’ Postage
It’s no hardship to me to pay 9d. a
\ox. letter weekly to my son doing his
bit abroad, but lots of interested people
must be finding it a burden. They have
to bear it because letters by boat take a
deuce of a time, as was shown by one
of mine entrusted to the 2d.-stamp route
—six weeks. Inquiring of a number of
people with sons abroad, I find that in
every case the airmail is resorted to,
sometimes reluctantly because of the
cost, but in all cases because the absence
of news between boat letters is too pro-
tracted and disturbing.
Mail announcements indicate regular
departures, and, unless there is an actual
dearth of ’planes and the way is beset with
dangers and difficulties, why can’t a more
reasonable fee, if not the old one, be
instituted? These fellows are rendering the
country incalculable services, and their
“ When you re passin' the butcher 's, Joe , tell ’im to send up a pound
o’ sausages!”
families are contributing in no mean
manner; some easement of this charge
is overdue. — Bill Ding (W.A.).
Wounded Soldiers
In the 1914-18 war it was a common
thing to see men wearing three and four
stripes, denoting the separate occasions
of being wounded. Men who had been
wounded were returned again and again
to the firing line, while able-bodied men
never saw it. It was said that the organ-
isation and call for trained men would
not allow any wounded man who could
be passed as physically fit to be retained
behind the lines. Possibly that was cor-
rect. But there was no consideration
given as to their being mentally fit. It
would be an exceptional man who, once
badly wounded, would again face the
front line with the same spirit.
The Army has different classifications
for the wounded. The soldier classified
as dangerously or seriously wounded
should be given the opportunity, without
any loss of prestige, of being retained
behind the lines. In fact, he should be
sent there or honorably discharged if he
wished.
Australia’s vaster organisation for this
war, with its provision for garrison and
home defence forces, should allow for
once-wounded men to transfer to these
forces. —A. C. (N.S.W.).
International Peace
I have just seen a recent Italian immi-
grant being hugged and embraced by a
number of Australian girls in uniform.
The centre of attraction had passed no
language test and knew not a word of
their jargon, but smiled when they play-
fully nicknamed him “Musso.”
It sounds shameful, but the hero was
only a few weeks old and his admirers
were hospital nurses. His mother knew
almost as little of the Aussie tongue as
did her son, but she evidently interpreted
the sounds and signs as the universal
Esperanto of Peace and Goodwill.
Doubtless an Australian infant in an
Italian hospital would be similarly treated
and perhaps nicknamed “Churchillo.”
Such strange tricks should make the
angels smile, if indeed they take any in-
terest in a world where grown men,
dressed in a little brief authority, like
angry apes play stranger tricks to make
the angels weep.
That hospital was a little cosmos with-
out frontiers or political ideologies. An
optimist might see in it a gleam of hope
for the larger world, where, after all,
each succeeding generation makes its
debut in a state of innocence. If we
could catch all the kiddies young, treat
’em kindly and tell ’em nothing about the
quarrels of their male parents, the tiny
Mussos and Churchillos might grow up
to be playmates and fellow-workers. It
is just possible that the present pulling-
up of old landmarks and elimination of
frontiers will result in the making of
new friendships and the renewing of old
ones. Adversity still makes strange bed-
fellows. And while there are hospitals
and nurses there will be hope for the
healing of the nations. — Cot Case (S.A.).
Contrast
The day the American naval squadron
came to Brisbane 250,000 wildly-cheering
people (three-quarters of the city’s popu-
lation) thronged the decorated streets and
showered confetti and streamers on offi-
cers and men in the greatest demonstra-
tion of welcome Brisbane has ever staged
for any body of men. Not very long
before that a British freighter had berthed
at the same port. She had run the gauni-
let of Pacific mines, Atlantic surface
raiders and North Sea subs, and bombers
to bring food to beleaguered England, and
when the time was opportune she slipped
out unobstrqsively to run the gauntlet
again.
Probably most of her crew had
personal experience of bombings and
machine-gunnings, and maybe a night or
two in a lifeboat or raft in the freezing
North Sea ; but there were no confetti
and streamers for them and no girls want-
ing their autographs, not to mention no
free beer.
Nobody would deny the Americans
their welcome —at a time when it looked
that we had not a friend in the world
Uncle Sam turned up trumps —but the
contrast was illuminating. — Smilax (Q.).
The Over 40’s
Come again, “Adam” (B. 26/3/’41);
where were you and your brothers be-
tween 1918 and 1939 that you failed to
make this weary world a better place
for the next generation to live in? How
did the gangsters, smart alecks and cock-
tail-swillers ever get a leg in with you
to watch and ward?
Certainly Earl Beatty, Captain Oates,
Florence Nightingale and Nurse Cavell
set us a shining example of heroism and
martyrdom ; but to what end? They left
your generation a legacy of service which


was left undone. Beatty’s fleet had
slipped badly up till 1939, and the world
is once again calling for its nurses and
martyrs.
Now look at the depression youths and
dead-end kids who, without inspiration
and unaided, came out of that mad
scramble of the ’thirties with trades, jobs,
wives, homes and families. Shazyg
(Vic.).
Opportunity Missed
Melbourne’s “carnival” in aid of the
Red Cross and the Soldiers’ Comforts
Fund gave an opening for the temperance
and church people of Melbourne to prove
the truth of some of their opinions.
But they missed the chance.
They could have nominated spmebody
to represent them and then worked like
anything to show that more money
could be raised by other aids than little
gambles, raffles, spinning wheels, etc.
They, in season and out of season, con-
demn these devices, and say that more
money could be obtained for a given
object by direct giving and what they call
harmless amusements.
During the last few days of the Queen
Carnival it looked as if the Liquor Queen
would be certain to win, and the teetotal
people and their allies were shocked to
their marrows. What a chance they had
to show that Cold Tea could beat Liquor,
and that without the aid of raffles and
the like! What a contest it would have
been! And the two worthy war efforts
would have benefited largely. —J. G.
(Vic.).
The V.A.Ds.
While on the subject of women in
uniform, what about dealing with those
who merit the right to parade if they
wish —our V.A.D. girls?
Those with whom I’m fairly familiar
are girls who work for a living. As they
had no money to burn they organised
dances to pay for their uniforms. As
those in high places altered the uniforms
a couple of times it was an added ex-
pense. When the call came for volun-
teers for hospitals they didn’t shirk the
issue. They had to qualify first. That
was another expense they had to
travel to the nearest recognised hospital
and put in 50 hours’ actual nursing under
critical staffs of professionals. They got
no concessions from the authorities in
the way of free passes or reduced fares.
Then they were adjudged fit to nurse
in military hospitals. Not one of the
50-odd girls I know could afford to give
a whole-time job to the military hospital.
They gave what they could afford —a
week at the most. That they did their
work efficiently is proven by the fact
that the authorities invited them to re-
turn. Also, and tardily, they have
wakened to the fact that the girls are
doing work which should entitle them
to payment, if not to compensation.
And, in passing, it isn’t a man-catching
trap that those girls are weaving. Almost
without exception they are engaged to
men in uniform. — Gidya George (Q.).
Women Justices
Women sit on magistrates’ Benches in
Queensland, Victoria and S.A. 1 am not
aware that any of them are outstanding,
and I haven’t noticed them influencing
the Court at all. Generally there are a
couple of other Justices on the Bench,
and they participate as Justices, not as
women.
The only woman I ever knew of to pre-
side over a Bench was Jean Salisbury, of
Dalby (Q.). She was Shire Clerk of
Wambo Shire, with offices in Dalby, and
one holiday-time was the only Justice of
.the Peace available. Court had to be
held to deal with a toper who’d come in
and would have spent several days wait-
ing formal conviction or discharge if no
Court had been held. Miss Salisbury
dealt with the case, convicted the man
and released him without punishment.
Apart from this, however, I think the
question of Children’s Court magistrates
being recruited from women is still pure
theory. Against the supposed wealth o£
understanding must be set the instinctive
desire of the young offender to try to
hoodwink a woman. The very fact that
he will pull a trick makes him a bigger
problem than ever, and no womanly
handling can subsequently offset that.
Another thing, it must be remembered
that a large number of Children’s Court
defendants aren’t youngsters of tender
years, misunderstood darlings of eight or
so. No, some of them are on the thres-
hold of adulthood, and would make the
“Dead End Kids” seem like sissies in
comparison.—B. J. (S. A.).
Capitalists
There are capitalists and capitalists. I
drive a pen for a company which em-
ploys thousands in Australia. When I
returned from the last war my then
bosses (another large concern), who
hadn’t much sentiment for returned
soldiers, certainly gave me a job, but at
the screw 1 was getting before enlisting.
I stuck it for two months, and then began
to look around. Present employers
offered an additional quid a week, so I
snapped it up. After a year they appre-
ciated my services to the extent of an-
other 10s. weekly, and this went on for
years until the maximum screw for an
ordinary fellow was attained. During
the years they handed out shares in the
company every year until some nafks
put the acid on it by selling their shares
and buying motor-cars, which wasn’t the
heads’ idea.
I forgot to mention that they also
provided free life assurance for all em-
ployees until they reached a certain
screw, when the workers paid half
premiums. All this and more these capi-
talists did for thousands of employees
in Australia. When they cut out the
share issues they brought in a pension
scheme instead. Example: A man
of 65 came in last week and collected his
insurance, which had just matured —•
something between £4OO and £5OO. He
had been a factory-hand and storeman
until about six years ago, when they told
him that if he felt inclined he could
retire on three quid a week for life,
whereas if he stayed on until 65 he would
only come out of it with a little over
two. He swallowed his pride and took it.
Of course, it isn’t every concern which
can afford to do things on that scale, but
I believe that that is the solution of the
problem of capital and labor. What if
the heads do get their four-figure
"Now then , Mrs. Jones, shoulders back and chest out!"
salaries? Every penny of it which
escapes the taxgatherer goes back into
some form of industry ; therefore the
more of this kind of capitalist the better.
—Pozzy (S.A.).
“Home Thoughts from Canada”
“Aussie Airman” (B. 26 / 3/’4l) has the
vision splendid of every Digger abroad
being a travelling information bureau.
What are the average “tourist’s” quali-
fications for the job? He is born in a
vast continent where conditions of living
vary from those of the Stone Age to
those of the Radio and Screen Age. At
school he learns more about Runny-
mede than about Canberra.
After school his real education as a
citizen begins. In the press he is well
catered for regarding sports and pas-
times generally. He is also kept well
informed about the celestial stars in their
courses and the Hollywood stars in their
divorces. Syndicated stories and articles
from overseas broaden his mind but leave
him ignorant of his own island’s eco-
nomic, topographical and historical
features.
The books he reads supply him with a
wealth of detail about gangsterdom and
the ways of sleuths in lands afar, but
tell him little of the beauty, the romance,
the marvellous achievements of Aus-
tralia. He spends much time studying
imported films that shadow forth a world
that never was on land or sea and teach
him to forget the facts and figures of
his own world of realities.
For the balance of his education he
has advertisements, cabled news and
political propaganda.
If any reader should doubt this sum-
ming up let him listen in to the con-
versation wherever two or three average
Aussies are gathered together, let him
try to sell an article of Australian in-
terest, or let him “quiz” a few of his
friends about their own country. The
result will convince him that “Aussie
Airman’s” propaganda of publicity will
have to begin at home. — O. Yeah (S.A.).
Fences and Walls
_ ,
Could anyone tell me why houses in
every Sydney suburb are surrounded
(back, front and sides) with these insane
fences, walls and- screens? Surely this is
a relic of feudal times? Is there stiff
danger of attack by bandits? Would it
not be equally sensible to mount a small
cannon on the roof ?
London has set an admirable lead by
getting rid of its park railings and beat-
ing them into munitions. Could not
our suburban dwellers set a like example
and beat their absurd fences into —the
compost heap? Supposing every suburban
home abolished its fence, wouldn’t
Suburbia be transformed into a garden
city? Would it not also be a practical
step expressing loyalty to the demo-
cratic ideal? Why fence oneself oft
from one’s neighbor?
If every garden opened straight on to
the street each householder would then
feel responsible for the bit in front of
his (former) gate also. This would save
the councils a lot of unnecessary bother.
—Auntie Blah (N.S.W.).
A State Parliament
A few weeks ago I visited the N. S.
Wales Parliament House to listen to the
debate on the Abbco Bread case. What
struck me most forcibly was the lack of
interest displayed by members until the
division bells rang and the vote was
taken. As numbers had been out of
the Chamber, how could they, by any
stretch of imagination, be in a position
to cast their votes in a reasonably capable
manner?
A few days later I saw the cost of
maintaining the various State Parlia-
ments ; that of N. S. Wales was in the
vicinity of £260,000. Some other figures
I saw indicated that, over a period of
years, members -of Parliament had
actually been paid at the rate of £35
a day for the number of days they
attended that Parliament. And that
didn’t include railway passes and other
little perquisites. Well Wisher
(N.S.W.).
Woollen Stockings
The Australian Wool Board has been
trying to persuade women to wear ’em.
Many articles have appeared in the
papers, and pictures have been published
of English mannequins wearing stockings
of wool. So far, the idea has not caught
on here. It seems impossible that the
Wool Board or any other board will be
able to convince women that woollen
stockings, by hiding imperfections, would
improve the appearance of their legs.
As long as it is the fashion to wear flimsy
stockings they will wear them or bust.
The only feasible way out of this diffi-
culty is to make woollen stockings the
fashion.
This will never be accomplished by
articles setting forth the benefits of
woollen stockings to the country and to
the wearers. The only way is to per-
suade leaders of fashion to case their legs
in wool. Then watch the rush for wool
stockings! Women would be falling
over each other in the attempt to follow
the dictates of fashion. Les Pieds
(S.A.).
Six O’clock Closing
Recently I drove through Sydney's
Northern Suburbs at 6.30 p.m. on a
Saturday, and was cured of any predilec-
tion towards retention of six o’clock
closing. The purlieus of every pub
were thickly populated with fellow-
humans who had rushed from cricket
pitch, tennis court and s.p. joint to drink
deeply and precipitately before the hands
of the clock made lawbreakers of the lot
of them.
Some lent unreliable support to less
seasoned companions in their unsteady
homeward progress, clutching meanwhile
brown-paper parcels of familiar shape
and dimensions; some sat huddied up
on the kerbside ; some hastened to reach
the seclusion of side streets before their
overloaded stomachs took the initiative ;
others decided that the main thorough-
fare was as good a place as any in which
to pay nauseous tribute to the wisdom
of our rulers.
A proportion of these could be dis-
missed as alcoholics who would continue
to overindulge in any circumstances. The
majority consisted of decent people
forced by archaic laws to stand four-
deep in a smoke-filled bar hoggishly gulp-
ing their quota in order to conform to a
law which none respect and which few
drinkers fail to break at some time or
other. — Barwon (N.S.W.).
Erosion
Much of the lamentation over tree
destruction is urban, and a good deal
of it is justified. Much can be said for
the farmer ridding his land of trees that
more grain shall be grown, but he should
have a care for the banks of the brooks
and creeks on his property. The Gov-
ernment is called upon all too often to
remedy his thoughtlessness.
The urban complaints are good because
it is mostly the departmental officers who,
in their aim to get cheap and
direct lines for telephone and
current, will destroy or maim
beautiful trees which often are the
only bright spots on poor land-
scapes and aggregations of sorry
dwellings.
Take Westralia. There are not
so many tuarts left that they can
be shifted indiscriminately, yet
along one of its most attractive
roads, from Fremantle to Pin-
jarra, these distinctly handsome
trees were slaughtered very
recently in numbers so large that
the roadway and the countryside
were bereft of essential beauty.
The wind and the sand have since
done some devastating work. —
Adsum (W.A.).
“But frankly I don’t give a
damn about posterity,” said
“G.A.M.” (B. 26/3/’4l), but pos-
terity will certainly damn him and
his kind who are in the process
of murdering Australia’s rural
industries. “In 1,00 years these
farms will still be here,” he says
in conclusion. But will they?
California’s “Dust Bowl” is an all too
recent memory and a horrible example
of what can happen here.
It is not the fact that a tree is beauti-
ful: —it may be only an ugly, misshapen
gum—but it is there to carry out a given
job, and its haphazard removal even on
the plea of gaining more space is not
warranted.
Our land is too important a heritage
to be recklessly thrown away, and only
those who recognise the import of
erosion should be allowed to take their
living from the land. — Paddy M.
(N.S.W.).
Apprenticeships
“Danbo’s” statement (B. 12/3/’4l)
that “every boy should be apprenticed
until 21” seems far-reaching, but there
is a good deal of commonsense about it.
Back in the days of the merchant-princes,
when daring mariners sailed their stout
little craft across the Atlantic Ocean, the
vast profits to be derived* from such ven-
tures meant a tremendous increase in
trade and a corresponding increase in
the demand for sailors. When seamen
could be obtained in no other way, the
pressgang came into operation to such an
extent that it was unsafe for youths to
wander about the streets of shipping
towns after nightfall.
So many fine lads disappeared from
one town in particular, Bristol, that an
Act was passed providing for the com-
pulsory apprenticeship of all boys, the
idea being that the masters should be
made responsible for the welfare of their
apprentices. This wise regulation had a
twofold effect—it effectually prevented
further kidnapping and it produced an
army of skilled craftsmen. The repu-
tation that Bristol earned at that time
has lasted to the present day, and gives
an explanation why the city is the centre
of so many important industries.
In Australia there is unbounded scope
for skilled artisans, but unfortunately
large-scale apprenticeships have been
frowned on by hidebound trade-unionism.
—Enoch (W.A.).


Mainly Mail-Order
02
WATERTITE
THE WATCH FOB
HARD WEAR
Dust-proof—Waterproof
Shockproof
Free cleaning and
repairs for 10 years.
Guaranteed by Factory
Agents.
The Watch that was
dropped from ’Plane
3000 ft. without damage.
PRICES:
Round £7/15/-
Rectangular, £B/3/-
And no Repair Bills.
Diamond
S- WATCH
SPECIALISTS
dfs
112 MARKET Sll
I SYDNEY. I
OPP. DAVID JONES |
fat, Flab
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOYEIINA BELT supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
OR NO COST! Write for fuli
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
you make.
7 DAYS' TRIAD OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of
bulge and strain gone . . .
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
nrarnim
ANYWHE RE
ANYTIME
HPLI
PORTABLE UNITS
By
Briggs & Stratton.
A small, compact
Petrol Electric
Generator, with
everything a car
engine has.
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
Running cost 1/- per
week.
Details gladly posted.
maiMaaina
• For Home Lighting.
• Battery Charging.
• Will operate twelve
25-watt lamps.
• Runs 12 hours on
Igal. of petrol.
383 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
df
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
DEPT. 37, 84 PITT ST.. SYDNEY.
Speed & Accuracy
in all mental
movements
follow the Pelman
training.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, posted free on request. Write to
The Pelman Institute,
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane,
>lelhoiu - ne. Telephone: MU3335.
Winchester
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 15/-
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 17/6
Complete with Batteries. Postage Extra.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
BATTERIES DIRECT AT
WHOLESALE PRICES.
Cut your costs in half. Every
type of wet battery for car, truck,
cycle, radio, home or theatre lighting
approximately fifty per cent, cheaper
than retail. Marshall Batteries are
entirely new throughout and guaran-
teed in writing. Our 16-page cata-
logue on how to choose and look after
batteries is yours for the asking. The
Marshall Battery Mfg. Co., 38-42
Harbour Street, Sydney.
DEAFNESS
DEFEA TED !
Allen and Banbury’s famous Bonochord
midget valve amplified hearing aid can
overcome the most advanced cases of
senile, nerve and catarrhal deafness.
Fitted with crystal microphone, this
model can be concealed in a gentleman’s
vest pocket or within ladies’ wearing
apparel.
Call for free Audiometric test of your
hearing and trial of this 1941 model
British hearing aid.
GEORGE J. TOSI,
Suite 6-10, 2nd Floor, Prudential Bldg.,
39 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
FROM £5 UPWARDS.
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States—See ’Phone Book.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
J. P. TALTY
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts,
knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads. 4'Jin. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
(5 Cunningham St., Sydney.
SHEEP FLY
G.T.S. Fly Dressings are used
by many of Australia’s largest
Pastoral Interests.
No-810 Concentrate is the wisest purchase
in dressings. 17/6 makes up to 4 gallons, each
containing 5% Eucalyptus and other valuable
ingredients. IMPORTANT: No—Bio has a
miscible oil base, and thus each gallon when
broken down represents an emulsion. Emulsions
are superior to solid oil in penetration, sur-
facing and holding properties. No—Bio is abso-
lutely healing and non-injurious to wool.
From Country Agents.
G. TEESDALE SMITH
SCIENTIFIC UTILITIES PTY., LTD.,
77 York Street, Sydney.
GENUINE BARGAINS
Very Useful for Station, Farm, Saddlers, etc.
200' Pair Military Riding Reins, 3/- pair.
Stirrup Leathers, 4/6 and 5/6 pair. Surcingles,
5/- each. Leather Rifle Buckets, handy for
saddle, 7/6 each (slightly damaged). Nickel-
plated Spurs, 7/6, 9/6 pair. Mexican Spurs, large
rollers, worth 25/-, now only 13/6 pair. Emu
Plumes, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6 set. Fireman’s Welling-
ton Boots, part worn, 10/6 pair (handy for
dairy, farm work, etc.). Army White Pith
Helmets, 4/6. Dungaree Work Jackets, 5/11,
new size 3 x 4. Strong Cane Walking
Sticks, 12/- dozen. SPECIAL! 100 Pair Army
Riding Reins, no buckles, Six Pairs, 12/-.
100 Pairs Army Stirrup Leathers, no buckles,
Six Pairs, 18/-.
HARRY MITCHELL.
346 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Bst. Over 25 Years.
SERVICE FOR
THE DEAF!!
Mr. R. A. Noedl, L.1.8.5.T., wishes to announce
that he is able to render a most efficient sendee
to all afflicted with Deafness, no matter what
type or style of Hearing they may be using.
"ELECTRAYOX" SUPREME
The sensational Hearing and small, compact and
of amazing clearness. Batteries used in the
Electravox are obtainable anywhere.
R. A. NOEDL
The Block, 428 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone: MA3774.
jps«fwi
mm
Wt
mm
■
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 In use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
307 North George St., Sydney.
S.A. Agents: Goldberg Bros., Nth Ter., Adelaide.
s
TIMBER KILLER!
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN
DAYS from roots to top. New
lethocl. NO BING-BARKING!
suckering! Eradicates BLACK-
BERRIES! 5/6 tin, posted.
Mr. E. F. Dor rough, “Honeysuckle,” Milmerran,
Queensland, writes“ Please send six tins of
Timber Killer. Although we had heavy rain the
day after applying the Timber Killer, all trees
up to six inches in diameter and those 18 inches
and over are already dead. It is only ten days
since I did them, and I only put three nicks in
each, and I used the Timber Killer on the hardest
timber to kill.”
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO! (15ft.).
BEARS HEAVILY FOB A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 3001bs. Sow NOW. 2/6 Packet.
N.S.W. SEED CO., 75 George St., Sydney.
TILLEY LAMPS
For the Farm, Camping
or Fishing.
British-made Kerosene Lamps
providing a steady 300 c.p. light
without flickering and without
smoke or smell.
Model EXIOO (illustrated)
can be used as a Storm
Lantern, Table Lamp or Hanging
Lamp. Reflector slips off when
not required. Burns for 10
hours on 11 pint.
Price, 67/6 complete.
Write for catalogue of Radiators
and all types of lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
W. Kopson & Co. Pty., Dtd.,
370-382 Kent Street, Sydney.
MA0336.
5>
Ventriloquism
!W
A
LEARN VENTRILOQUISM
quickly —my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds cf
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
FRFF Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
IIV Is Is Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 62 Swanston St., Melb.
LATEST RADIO SETS
£2O Below Retail Price.
You can buy direct from factory if
no Century Agent in your District,
and thus save up to £2O on retail
prices. Marvellous tone, sensitivity
and economy; world-wide reception
brings overseas news direct to your
home. Absolute satisfaction is
guaranteed by FREE TEN DAY
TRIAD TO INTENDING PUR-
CHASERS. Illustrated catalogue of
Battery and Ail-electric sets post
free on request.
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
Most doctors from goodness of heart treat some
cases without expectation of payment, but did you
ever know of a doctor who returned fees when he
failed to cure ? The Union Manufactuting Com-
pany guarantee to return tjhe''Xd>b'amount paid if
Wright’s Rheumatic /ißemedy, fjthef Canadian
cure, does .hot/ cure vput
lunvßaJJb, {>r ißdpey JOr course,' - this
these wtere many failures,
and, matter / fj£«!pfnere have been only
thrdeinstances in Jfete'years in which the refund
was claimed. It you send to 299 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne, the company will give you full par-
ticulars and a copy of the legally binding guarantee
ithey issue with the remedy. The price is only
[5/6 for a full month’s treatment, that is often
sufficient to cure a severe and long-standing case.
Pain*
With the new scientific
“FOOTHELP”
No More Suffering!
“FOOTHELP” gives you
greater ease and comfort than
you ever imagined possible.
It won’t cost you a penny
if we fail to fulfil these
promises.
Write To-day for
FREE BOOKLET:
“Your Feet and How to
Treat Them Properly,” and
FREE Trial Offer to;
JOHN H. UNGER (Dept. 13P),
65 York Street, Sydney.
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
Bay
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
RNING
Get rid of
Horns BEFORE
W' they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAL
HEHOKNEB
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months,
apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
method. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves.
6/6. Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-.
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane.
E
RINGS OF ★ ★ ★
REMEMBRANCE
38/6 Air Force
' Badge in
Enamel on a Signet
Ring of 9’ct. Gold.
State whether Ring is
required for Lady or
Gentleman. S&fe
delivery guaranteed.
38/6
9ct. Solid
Gold Signet
Ring with any A.I.P.
Colour Patch in British
Enamel. In Sterling
Silver, 18/6. State
whether for Lady
Gentleman.
Angus & Coote have a great Catalogue in which Free
Gifts are offered. Write for your copy today.
ANGUS & COOTE
500 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
&
s
Z-
OILSKINS
for long:, hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are our
best advertisement.'
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for Tree Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Sstablished 1893),
1218 REGENT STREET, SYDNEY.
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- ( plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(■Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
16141*41 (See Page 34)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants" to the Service Department, “The Bulletin "
Office. Sydney or Melbourne.


SEL
fajjg BBm Bi
ISiliPl
■ V -
ISs
IBlsSilsSlffMi
’nmm
m
V
:C-
%
H 'S
:.
■
l
111
:»
mm
SIBK
WHAT THE DIESEL ENGINEERING
COLLEGE HAS DONE FOR OTHERS
IT CAN DO FOR YOU
£3O PER MONTH AND KEEP
File No. 35a. This student obtained all his
knowledge of Diesel engines from the Diesel
Engineering College and is now earning £3O
per month and keep.
£7 PER WEEK
File No. 34 a. Received his Diploma seven
months after commencing training , and obtained
a position as Diesel operator at £7 per week.
£6/16/- PER WEEK )
File No. 31a. Was earning £4/15/- per week
before commencing Diesel course. Since taking
Diesel Engineering College course is earning
£6/16/“ per week as Diesel operator.
Scores of other cases like these .
WANTED
BIG SWING TO DIESEL
ENGINES SINCE THE WAR,
OPENS UP STILL MORE
WELL-PAID POSITIONS
For several years now, the number of Diesel engines being installed has been
growing bigger and bigger each month as thousands of truck, bus and tractor
owners, power plants, mines, ships, etc., change to Diesel, the more economical
and more efficient engines. Now the war is making still more power users
Diesel-minded, for Diesel fuel is not only more economical but safer and
easier to transport when shipping space is restricted. The result is that there
are more positions for Diesel operators than there are trained men to fill them.
Why shouldn’t YOU have one of these jobs that bring you six, seven or
eight pounds a week? Don’t go on envying those who have a trade in which
there’s always plenty of well-paid work! Become a Diesel operator and you
will always be able to command higher pay yourself.
YOU
GAN QUALIFY AS A
DIESEL OPERATOR IN YOUR
SPARE TIME AT HOME
You don’t need any previous knowledge of engineering and you don’t need any high
educational standard. The Diesel Engineering College course teaches you the whole
subject in your own home, covering both transport Diesel (tractors, buses, etc.) and
stationary Diesel (mining and other power plants). The course has been prepared with
the co-operation of leading Diesel authorities, and the Diploma awarded you on
completion is recognised by employers all over Australia. Post the coupon below and
full details will be sent you by return.
NEW SIMPLIFIED SYSTEM MAKES LEARNING DIESEL EASY
This College does not sell you a pile of textbooks and leave you
to wade through them, nor does it fill you up with a lot of compli-
cated mathematics. By a simple home-study course, the Diesel
Engineering College teaches you just what you need to know to
operate and service Diesel engines efficiently. As soon as you enrol,
NO PREVIOUS ENGINEERING
KNOWLEDGE, NO HIGH EDU-
CATIONAL STANDARD NEEDED
AND GET THJS FREE BOOKLET.
?
Those who get in early reach the top first.
Tear off and post this coupon now for free
booklet describing the Diesel Engineering
College course. There is no obligation,
so don’t put it off! The best intentions in
the world are useless if you don t ACT!
practical coaches take you in hand. You are guided step by step
with the aid of easily-followed instruction papers and diagrams.
Everything is made clear. You’ll be amazed to find how quickly
you become familiar with the workings of the Diesel. Many
students have qualified for positions in as short a period as four
months. The fees are low and payments easy.
RESULTS PROVE OUR TRAINING THE
SURE WAY TO SUCCESS IN DIESEL
A wonderful future lies ahead in Diesel engineering for ambitious
men who get in early with the proper training. But you must be
properly trained. The success of Diesel Engineering College students
at Government examinations tells its own story of the thoroughness
of training at this College.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the Diesel
Engineering College course.
NAME
ADDRESS ;
B,
DIE S E L EN G I NEE RING COLLEGE
