

m
\K
&
WM
ii
Sail
.
M
SK
m
m
r &
WM
WM
mi
m
m
m
u
ss
C3B-£
NATIONAI
SERVICE
BEAM WIRELESS SERVICES
BEAM WIRELESS PICTUREGRAM SERVICE
OVERSEAS RADIO TELEPHONE SERVICES
COASTAL RADIO SERVICE
MARINE WIRELESS SERVICE
PACIFIC ISLANDS WIRELESS SERVICE
BROADCASTING
RADIO-ELECTRIC WORKS
'R Id ID L A RECEIVERS
VALVE MANUFACTURE
AERONAUTICAL RADIO
ƒ
A.W.A. is the largest manu-
facturer of wireless apparatus in
Australia and is wholly self-
contained in the manufacture of
every type of wireless equipment
i
for use at sea, on land and in
the air.
Manufacturer of wireless
apparatus to—
THE BfAVY
THE ARMY
THE AIR FORCE
GOVERNMENT DEPTSL
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CIVIL AVIATION
SHIP OWNERS
AIRLINES
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(A’SIA) LTD.
——
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin.” Vol. 62.—N0. 3185.
Wednesday, February 26, 1941.
Pacific and Mediterranean
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


lull
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, us
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 141
The Red Page
"BANJO" THE MINSTREL.
He is brasse within, and steele without,
And beams he bears in his topcastle stronge;
His ship hath ordinance clean rdund about;
Besides, my Lord, he is very well manned.
—“Sir Andrew Barton”:
Oxford Book of Ballads.
“Banjo” Paterson is a national insti-
tution ; and national institutions, be-
cause they are symbols of a kind of
religion, are sacrosanct.
Yet criticism can find many minor
points and two possibly major counts
against hirq. And at the risk of bringing
Edward Harrington, E. J. Brady and
the rest of them round with shotguns,
the objections ought to be stated.
Let’s have his lapses into sentimentality.
“Banjo” laughed at Henry Lawson, and
rightly, for < his imitation of Dickens at
his worst in the Little ’Arvie stories —
Now, for instance, Mr. Lawson —well, of
course, we almost cried
At the sorrowful description how his Little
’Arvie died —
yet he plunged headlong into the same
morass in “Only a Jockey,” and was
guilty, too, of a bad imitation of Hood:
Only a jockey-boy, fold-mouthed and bad, you
see,
Ignorant, heathenish, gone to his rest.
Parson or Presbyter, Pharisee, Sadducee,
What did you do for him? —bad was the
best.
And his banality. The sheer hope-
lessness of the line “With the wonderful
scent of the big red roses.”
There are his imitations of Kipling—
surprisingly infrequent, when Kipling’s
ballads must have appealed to him so
much, but cropping up here and there.
“Banjo” almost spoils the first rhyme
of “Saltbush Bill” by starting with a
tag of Kipling’s:
Now this is the law of the. Overland that all
in the West obey.
It was “Banjo” the “Australian Kipling”
who wrote
Kanzo Makame, the diver, sturdy and small
Japanee,
and
But a Ught-o’-love, if she sins with one,
She sinneth with ninety-nine;
and
My son, if you go to the races to battle with
Ikey and Mo,
and (a pity Kipling had to step in here)
the “Song of the Federation”:
As the nations sat together, grimly waiting—
The fierce and ancient nations battle-scarred.
Then there are “Banjo’s” technical
faults. He surely should have known
that it was bad, weak writing to
put “quick, impatient,” “bright and
fiery” and “proud and lofty” one after
the other: —
There was courage in his quick, impatient
tread;
And he bore the badge of gameness in his
bright and fiery eye.
And the proud and lofty carriage of his head.
There was weakness again in his use of
stale epithets, his repeated use of
“glorious,” “wondrous,” “wonderful.”
He could stoop unblushingly to forced
rhymes that sometimes ruin a whole
stanza:
Beyond all denials
The stars in their glories,
The breeze in the myalls,
Are part of these stories.
The exigencies of rhyme even made
him portray Clancy as a small, fairy
gentleman:
By rolling plain and rocky shelf,
With stockwhip in his hand,
He reached at last (oh, lucky elf!)
The town of Come-and-Help-Yourself
In Rough-and-Ready Land.
These flaws, though minor, are not
unimportant. They are not the un-
witting lapses of a bush balladist (after
all, “Banjo” was a lawyer); nor are they,
like Wordsworth’s pedestrianisms, the
errors of a great poet who believed that
everything he wrote was great poetry.
In their glaring obviousness they prove
that “Banjo” didn’t take himself seri-
ously as a poet (or, more likely, evaded
taking himself seriously because of the
effort involved in being a serious poet).
It is a major count against Paterson
(though it was his time, not the poet
personally, which must be “blamed”)
that, having the equipment and—buried
deep in a sardonic temperament—the
sensibility of a lyric poet, he threw away
the lyre for the banjo. Take the line
from “Pardon, the Son of Reprieve,”
describing the horses and jockeys flash-
ing in the distance;
A shimmer of silk in the cedars.
Swinburne would have been proud of
it. Take the speed and the clamorous
alliteration of a couplet from “The
Flying Gang”:
As the pilot swayed with the pace we made
As she rocked on the ringing rail.
There are splendid flashes of poetry in
“Banjo’s” rhymes, and not only in these
galloping rhythms one would expect a
balladist to have mastered.
In “The Travelling Post
Office” it is the reverse that
one admires, the leisure of
the “l’s,” the dreamy flow
of the verse along the musical shingle
of “m’s”:
The roving breezes come and go, the reed-beds
sweep and sway,
The sleepy river murmurs low, and loiters on its
_ way.
It is the land of lots o’ time along the Castle-
reagh.
In “The Mylora Elopement” he does it
again:
By the winding Wollondilly where the weeping
willows weep,
And the shepherd, with his billy, half-awake
and half-asleep
“Song of the Wheat” is full of poetry:
When the burning harvest sun sinks low
And the shadows stretch on the plain,
The roaring strippers come and go
Like ships on a sea of grain.
And everywhere there are glimpses of true
landscape poetry: ins “Brumby’s Run”;
The traveller by the mountain track
May hear their hoof-beats pass,
And catch a glimpse of brown and black
Dim shadows on the grass.
in the lofty apostrophe of “The Wind’s
Message”;
Oh, rocky range and rugged spur and river
running clear
That swings around the sudden bends with
swirl of snow-white foam.
in the glimpse of the platypus in The
Animals Noah Forgot: —
Far from the trouble and toil of town
Where the reed beds sweep and shiver,
Look at a fragment of velvet brown —
Old Man Platypus drifting down,
Drifting along the river,
in “White Cockatoos”:
Over mountain peaks outlying
Clear against the blue
Comes .a scout in silence flying,
One white cockatoo.
There is a line of Roy Campbell’s,
“The boulder-rolling Rhone of time,”
which in its music of sonorous and
threatening vowels is one of the most
impressive in the language: though the
theme is slighter, there is not less mastery
of words and sounds in “Banjo’s” “Black
Harry’s Team”:
Up mountains, straining to the full,
Each polcr plays his part—
The sullen, Stubborn bullock-pull
That breaks a horse’s heart.
True poetry of yet another kind lies in
the charm of “Frying Pan’s Theology”:
Him drive ’im bullock dray,
Then thunder go;
Him shake ’im flour bag—
Tumble down snow!
Here and there, too, when “Banjo” was
writing “national” verses, he caught the
landscape or the spirit of the people in
lines that are something more than
politics:
And some had said that Nature’s face
To us is always sad; but these
Have never felt the smiling grace
Of waving grass and forest trees
On sunlit plains as wide as seas,
and
But all our roads are new and strange,
And through our blood there runs
The vagabonding love of change
That drove us westward of the range
And westward of the suns.
Only a man who was truly a poet at
heart could soar into the second stanza
of “Black Swans”:
O ye wild black swans, ’twere a world of
wonder
For a while to join in your westward flight,
With the stars above and the dim earth under,
Through the cooling air of the glorious night.
As we swept along on our pinions winging,
We should catch the chime of a church bell
ringing,
Or the distant note of a torrent ‘ singing,
Or the far-off flash of a station light.
So there is certainly real poetry in
“Banjo’s” verses ; and just as certainly
there is not enough of it for him to
rank high as a serious poet. It is scat-
tered, fragmentary, marred too often by
technical laziness. Even in “Black'
Swans” the high music is not main-
tained ; one could not compare it as a
lyric with “The Wild Swans at Coole”
of Yeats.
In “Banjo” certain attributes of the
Australian character, opposed to the
highest forms of art, crystallised so un-
mistakably that one is inclined to dis-
miss the theory of the free will of the
artist and accept the proposition that he
is the channel into which the currents
of his time are canalised, “the focal point
of awareness in his time.” His conversa-
tion was marked by dour, hard-bitten
humor, by deprecating understatement.
He had the man-of-action’s profoundly
virile irresponsibility, that happy-go-lucky
state of mind which, as has been pointed
out before on the Red Page, is reflected
in the great Australian phrases “Give it
a fly” and “Near enough.”
The negative aspect of this philosophy
—the outlook of the soldier, the pioneer,
the explorer, the horseman, the adven-
turer ; all those with whom “Banjo” was
in sympathy—damaged him as a lyrist.
But the positive aspect—the humor, the
admiration of courage and the love of
adventure —made him as a balladist.
It is an extraordinary thing in the
history of literature that Australian
writing should have had to go through
the ballad period. Why, when there
were men of culture here from the be-
ginning, should not the European
tradition have continued without a
break?
Once again one is forced to the con-
clusion that the artist is without real
free will, that he is conditioned almost
completely by the society in which he
functions. The real Australia of
“Banjo’s” time was the vigorous, adven-
turous Australia of the outback. And
that time (when a certain necessary
sophistication has been allowed for) was
contemporaneous not with nineteenth-
century England but with medieval Eng-
land, an age of heroic adventure, a
man’s age. Good as “Banjo” is to read
now, he will be ten times better in a
hundred years’ time. The passage of a
century will allow his ballads to be seen
as a minstrelsy of action and heroism
exactly comparable with the medieval
ballads, and, at their best, equal to the
greatest ballads in the language.
In his introduction to the Oxford
Book of Ballads, Quiller-Couch says that
the way to define a ballad is to quote
lines that have the ring of balladry. A
ballad, he says, is:
About the dead hour o’ the night
She heard the bridles ring,
and *
In somer, when the shawes be sheyne,
And leves be large and long.
and
O there was horsing,' horsing in haste,
And cracking of whips out owre the lea.
and
Half-owre, half-owre to Aberdour,
’Tis fifty fathoms deep;
And there lies gude Sir Patrick Spens,
Wi’ the Scots lords at his feet.
This is where “Banjo” can stand up
to the hardest of all tests, that of line-
by-line comparison. “The Man from
Snowy River,” king of them all, rings
true in nearly every line:
He hails from Snowy River, up by Kosciusko’s
side,
Where the hills are twice as steep and twice
as rough;
Where a horse’s hoofs strike firelight from the
flint stones every stride.
and
Then fast the horsciian followed, where the
gorges deep anu blacK
Resounded to the thunder of their tread,
And the stockwhips woke the echoes, and they
fiercely answered back
From cliffs and crags that beetled overhead.
and
And upward, ever upward, the wild horses held
their way,
Where mountain ash and kurrajong grew
wide.
and
On a dim and distant hillside the wild horses
racing yet
With the man from Snowy River at their
heels.
In “Conroy’s Gap” and in “How
Gilbert Died,” two other superb ballads,
the true note still sounds repeatedly.
From “Conroy’s Gap”;
He left the camp by the sundown light,
And the settlers out on the Marthaguy
Awoke and heard in the dead of night
A single horseman hurrying by.
From “How Gilbert Died”:
But Gilbert wakes while the night is dark —
A restless sleeper aye.
He has heard the sound of a sheep-dog’s bark,
And his horse’s warning neigh.
“Rio Grande,” partly because it is too
much influenced by “The Ancient
Mariner,” partly because it lacks the magic
of those “thaumaturgic place-names” of
the wholly Australian minstrelsy, is not
so effective as the others, yet there is
some of “Banjo’s” finest writing in it.
As silently as flies a bird,
They rode on either hand;
At every fence I plainly heard
The phantom leader give the word,
“Make room for Rio Grande! ”
How naturally and beautifully the
rhymes fall! Somehow its eeriness
fails to convince as does that of
“The Ancient Mariner” maybe the
balefire won’t burn for anything so actual
as a horse-race —but if Rio Grande is
a failure, it is a most impressive one.
“Banjo” wrote three easily recognis-
able types of ballad: one, the true ballad,
clearly in the medieval tradition; one,
the Kipling ballad ; and the other, a new
variety that can be described as the Aus-
tralian Comic. There are not many of
the true ballads: “The Man from Snowy
River,” “How Gilbert Died,” “Conroy’s
Gap,” “The Travelling Post Office,” “The
Two Devines,” the mawkish “Lost,”
“With the Cattle,” “In the Stable,” “Salt-
bush Bill on the Patriarchs,” “Mongrel
Grey.”
His ballads in the Kipling manner
—his Boer War verses, “The Boss of
the Admiral Lynch,” “Ballad of the
Calliope”—are all good. But they are
not the real “Banjo.” His reputation
stands or falls on the true ballads and
on the Australian comics. The true
ballads are so good, and in the future
will be so cherished, that it is here that
the second major criticism of “Banjo”
must be made. He should have written
more of them, for undoubtedly he could
have. The whole field of bushranging,
mining, exploration and outback adven-
ture was crying for a chronicler,
“Banjo” had the response to it of
a true minstrel, yet he handled few
of the great themes and there is
no sense of direction in his work.
It did not occur to him to write a series
of ballads on linked themes as Lawson
wrote his series of stories. A warmer
poet, a truer poet than Lawson, he failed
by a long way to achieve in verse what
the other achieved in prose.
Maybe in the future it will be found
that Paterson had done more than is now
apparent. Criticism must take notice of
the fact that “Banjo” is loved where
Lawson’s genius is respected. Shut in
the tower of his deafness, turning away
in horror from drought and the loneliness
of the bush, from the drink that was his
own enemy and from the violences neces-
sary in the conquest of this stonily violent
country, Lawson was often as blind to
the beauty of the landscape as to the
essential courage and humor of its
settlers. Paterson felt himself a big
enough man to laugh at Lawson:
If it ain’t all “golden sunshine” where the
“wattle branches wave,”
Well, it ain’t all damp and dismal, and it
ain’t all “lonely grave.”
And Paterson was right. And because
he was right, he is loved. It is some-
thing to have spoken for a continent.
Criticism is not necessarily concerned
with that, for a man could speak for a
nation (and often has) in very bad verse.
But criticism is interested when the verse
with which a nation identifies itself is
as good as Paterson’s. “Banjo’s” popu-
larity is founded in the comic ballads
equally as in the true, and that suggests
that there is merit in the lighter verses
beyond their superficial pleasantries. Will
the future find that “Banjo” has been a
Chaucer as well as a minstrel; that in
these larks of the pen the life and man-
ners of an era have been set down, the
spirit of a nation embodied in the form
which best reflects it?
It seems likely. Chaucer, too, was a
humorist. This, the historian will be
able to say, was Australia in “Banjo”
Paterson’s time;
On Western plains, where shade is not,
’Neath summer skies of cloudless blue,
Where all is dry and all is hot,
There stands the town of Dandaloo—
A township where life’s total sum
Is sleep, diversified with rum.
and this:
There were some gilded youths that sat along
the barber’s wall,
Their eyes were dull, their heads were flat, they
had no brains at all.
and this:
It was shift, boys, shift, for there wasn’t the
slightest doubt
That their little landlord god and I would soon
have fallen out ;
Was I to touch my hat to him? —was I his
bloomin’ dog?
So I makes for up the country at the old jig-
jog.
and
So they buried Andy Regan, and they buried
him to rights,
In the graveyard at the back of Riley’s Hill;
There were five and twenty mourners who had
five and twenty fights
Till the very boldest fighters had their fill.
Australia, he will decide, was “Salt-
bush Bill,” and “Been There Before,”
and “The Road to Hogan’s Gap,” and
“The Mylora Elopement,” and “An Even-
ing in Dandaloo,” and “The Man from
Ironbark” —Australia was one and all of
the comic ballads of which Paterson has
—if not of pure poetry and not of true
ballads—a full, rich, satisfying output.
Australians, he will discover, worked like
the devil, fought, drank, were sometimes
heroes, took a tremendous and peculiar
delight in the take-down, had an eye for
tree and mountain, loved a horse, and
laughed at everything under the sun and
laughed themselves sick every time they
saw a newchum or an emu. He won’t
be far out, and it’s all in “Banjo’s” verses.
Paterson and his fellow-balladists
filled “the great Australian loneliness”
with an Australian literature, and that
was an adventure and an act of faith
matching in vigor and courage the
struggle of the pioneers they admired. It
is just as certain that they smoothed the
track for contemporary poets as it is
that the first settlers cleared the bush
for their descendants.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —in every act
“THE SENIOR STORE"
3 HIGH GRADE SENSIBLY PRICED SUITES
c
0
•S**SS
>3
n ' fi'iV' jj ’
m ;••,
mmX ■ <■
•-■•-.
;
ms.
■■%:■
"Tudor" Breakfast
Suite
£25 / - / -
Your kitchen is one of the most occupied
rooms in your home. So have a Happy
Kitchen, full of light, air and colour. Quick
breakfasts in the Happy Kitchen are Happy
Meals; so are the dainty suppers after a
show or when friends pop in unexpectedly,
the refreshing cup of morning or afternoon
tea. The modern kitchen requires modern
furniture; a suite in the new honey colour,
fully polished, is delightful. It consists of a
4ft. Bin. cabinet which has ample cupboard
space, bread receptacle and sliding doors,
a 4ft. Bin. x 2ft. Sin. table with rounded
edges, shaped legs, and 4 comfy shaped
chairs. The suite is strongly constructed.
Made in Anthony Horderns' own factory.
Anthony Horderns' Price £25/-/-
Dep.£2/10/-. 18 monthly payments of £l/^ll
.
Figured Walnut
Dining Suite
£26 / 10 / -
A new style! Features bow shaped ends,
sft. sideboard, glass doors, shelves for
china In figured walnut. Strongly construct-
ed. sft. x 2ft. 9in. table, and 4 comfortable
shaped chairs with fabricoid seats. Anthony
Horderns' Price - £26/10/-
Dep. £2/13/-. 18 monthly payments of £l/8/6
"Queen Anne”
Reproduction Walnut
Bedroom Suite
£46 , 10 / -
In selected straight grained walnut,
semi-gloss, finished in medium brown.
Very attractive suite for the modern
home. Comprises a large 4ft. 9in.
WARDROBE with two-thirds full length
hanging space and silky oak drawers,
and 2 shelves; 3ft. 9in. DRESSING
TABLE with 5 silky oak drawers and
shaped, adjustable mirror; 3ft. fitted
LOWBOY, and 4ft. Bin. BEDSTEAD.
Anthony Horderns' Price £46/ 107-
Deposit £4/13/-.
18 monthly payments of £2/10/-.
ill
4
1
a
Vifj
Mi
, 8
9
m
m
■m< • .-• .......
mm
y-^-:r
mm
•mmmmmmm
■ :
f:l
w
Wr
am
■
• • ' '- ""
’Miaiiiiiiiili
....
•V : i':
• Furniture Department—Third Floor. Delivered free within our delivery area.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
'Phone: M 2401, Day or Night FAMOUS LOW PRICES Post your orders to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney,


MY MUNCLE TOM
“Henry, come here!”
By J. A. CHRISTOMAR.
I MET my uncle only twice, and they were about
the very best and about the worst two days I ever
had when I was a child. It’s funny, but if he
thought about them much —and he must have, for
the first meeting came as a surprise and the second
he’d planned for—he’d likely have rated them good
and bad also, but in the opposite order.
He was captain of a schooner the first time, a
five-masted dream-ship whose towering masts and glit-
tering sails seemed to me to fill the page and override
the columns of print in the newspaper. The name
Valetta Jane painted on the bow and the printed an-
nouncement “T. J. Ferguson, captain,” underneath the
photograph were things to point out to the boys at
school, and Uncle Tom was a figure for half-wakeful
dreams just after I went to bed—a huge, black-bearded,
twinkling-eyed sailor, standing firm with legs set wide
apart in great seaboots and with sometimes a cutlass
clamped to his side.
I’d heard about him from my mother (about her
only brother who ran away to sea when he was six-
teen, and whom nobody had seen since), but more
often from my grandmother, who’d been living with
us since my father died and who, while mother was
at work, used to talk to me queerly about the big house
she used to live in and about horse-trams and paddle-
boats, though she didn’t seem to mind if I went on
reading instead of listening. From her I’d learnt
about a big, strong, laughing boy who always wanted
to be doing something outside the house, and who
always said he was going to run away, and who
became a sailor and whom she heard from only once
after that, from London when he became a first mate.
Of course a full-rigged ship wasn’t nearly so
eventful a sight in the harbor then as it is these days,
but the Valetta Jane with her huge spread of canvas
made a sufficiently fine picture as she stood into the
Heads to be worthy of a place in the paper. Mother
said that perhaps it wasn’t Uncle Tom, but only some-
one of the same name, but my grandmother was cer-
tain that “T. J. Ferguson, captain,” was her Tom, and
I had not the slightest doubt that Uncle Tom had come
sailing into the harbor, bellowing orders to the men
aloft and ready to keelhaul anybody but my mother
and grandmother and me for a scurvy set of land-
lubbers.
ON Sunday we went to see him. The Valetta Jane
had brought a cargo of lumber from Canada and
was lying out in the stream off Longnose Point. We
passed her fairly close in the ferry on the way up the
river, and from the time the long, bare poles of her
masts came into sight against the sky over the roofs
of the houses on Goat Island I didn’t once take my
eyes off her. That was the beginning of the most
exciting day I had ever known.
At Longnose Point mother got a man with a
rowing-boat to take us out to the ship, and that was
good, too, though I realised it only with the back
of my mind. I sat in the nose with my back to the
others, looking at the Valetta Jane. As we came
closer and she seemed to become bigger, rising up out
of the water, so she loomed larger iff my imagination.
I clothed the wide spars on her foremast with canvas ;
I saw the round, black muzzle of a cannon peeping
out from the opening where the anchor chain went
down. On the quiet waters of the harbor the Valetta
Jane rolled and pitched to the stress of a storm. Wind
screamed in her rigging ; her bowsprit flung the spray
high into the air where it scudded viciously along her
decks. Dark, tired-looking, bearded men, clad in
gleaming oilskins and dripping sou’-westers peopled
her decks, hauling on stiff, wet ropes. Uncle Tom
strained at the great wheel on the poop.
When we reached the ship’s side the rope ladder
hung down steadily enough. There was no one to
be seen on her decks. The planks in her side looked
rough and worn, and there were long scars where the
green paint had been scraped off showing the reddish-
brown underneath. We called out and spoke to each
other more loudly so that we might be overheard, but
no one came. After a while the man who had rowed
us out said he would climb up the ladder to see if he
could find somebody. While we had been talking and
calling out I had thought that perhaps Uncle Tom
wasn’t on board after all, and that I would not be
able to see over the Valetta Jane. I had sat there not
saying much, and almost ready to cry with disappoint-
ment, so now I said that I would go up the ladder.
The man held it steady, and I climbed up slowly.
As I clambered over the rail I thought of our finding
a proud ship mysteriously abandoned on the wide
ocean, and I took a crew over in the boat and was
first aboard her, and her holds were filled with a rich
cargo and everything in order, but no sign at all of
what could have happened to her crew.
As I jumped down to the deck a little, oldish man
with a white cap and a dirty, greasy apron came pat-
tering out from the doorway of a little shedlike build-
ing and asked me in a squeak what I wanted. I told
him that mother and grandmother and I were looking
for my Uncle Tom. He leaned over the rail, and
when mother said we wanted to see Captain Ferguson
he squeaked again. “Come on board. I’ll get him,”
and without waiting to see them safely on the ship
went scuttling off towards the afterdeck.
Grandmother came up the ladder first, very gin-
gerly, and then mother. She gave the boatman a
shilling and he pulled away from the side, leaving us
standing on the deck of the Valetta Jane.
A tall, broad-shouldered man came up some stairs
and through a doorway towards us. Grandmother
called “Tom,” began to cry softly, and hurried for-
ward a few steps to meet him. The man cams to her
and put his arms around her and looked at us over
the top of her head. Mother and I stood close to-
gether watching them. He wasn’t bearded and he was
wearing an old pair of felt slippers in place of the
seaboots I had imagined, but in every other respect he
was the Uncle Tom of my dreams. His voice was
large and hard, his chin square, his eyes clear and
blue and firm, the brows overhanging as if to shade
them; his hair was curly black; the pockets of his
reefer jacket hung out as if he was used to
standing with his hands dug in them.
After a while he disentangled himself from
my grandmother, answering her mutterings, her
simple questionings—he was well; he was glad
to see her ; he didn’t know why he hadn’t written
—and came over to put his hand on my mother’s
shoulder. He said “Ah!” to me, and “So I’m
an uncle, am I?” but he didn’t seem to be
curious or very interested in us. He showed us
down the stairs where the poop rose from the
main deck, and along a short, narrow, stuffy
passageway, the woodwork on each side a dirty,
hand-marked white, to his cabin. Mother and
my grandmother sat on the chairs in the semi-
darkness and Uncle Tom on a big box. He lifted
me on to the end of his bunk.
While they talked I half-listened, half-
looked-around at everything I could see. The
blanket on the bunk was pushed back as though
he had been lying down. This was his third ship.
There was an empty cup grimed with dirt on the
little table, a chart rolled up and pushed back
and a litter of papers and printed forms. He
hadn’t been out to Australia before. He’d served
most of his time in the Atlantic. On a little shelf
above the bunk were four or five books. One,
with “Seamanship Manual” written in ink on
the torn brown-paper cover, I longed to take
down. The Valetta Jane was sailing next day
for Melbourne to pick up a return cargo. I
pushed at the little swinging lamp on the wall.
Uncle Tom realised then that I was fidgeting
and asked me would I like to go out and see over the
ship. The cook could keep an eye on me ; everybody
else was ashore.
deck the Valetta Jane was my own. I stood
by the wheel and rested my hands on the spokes.
I planted my feet wide-apart and, shading my eyes
with my hand, gazed across at Ball’s Head searching
for coral reefs and palm-trees. I lifted the metal
cover off the compass and looked at the needle for a
long time. I touched coils of rope and picked up the
ends, being careful to put them back in place just as
1 found them. I leant on the rail and pulled myself
up, hanging by my chest, so that I could look at the
water. I threw back my head and looked up at the
masts, gauging the strength of the wind and wonder-
ing whether I was carrying too much canvas. I lifted
the edge of the covers and looked down into the dark,
empty hold. I went and looked out along the bow-
sprit, came back along the deck, running quickly from
place to place wherever I could get a handhold to
save myself being washed into the scuppers by huge
green seas. I looked into the fo’c’sle at the tumble of
clothes on the bunks, and crept out again guiltily when
I saw the cook lying there asleep with his cap still
on and his mouth open, and with every now and then
his breath coming in a sharp whistle through his nose.
I wandered around and did the same things all
over again—except going in where the cook was asleep
—and I had a look at the galley and even began to
peel a potato, though I tired of that pretty quickly.
I got up on the rail by one of the ladders leading up
to the masthead, and hung on there with one hand,
looking out over the water. Then I began to climb
the ladder, finding it difficult at first because of the
wide gaps between the rungs where I had to pull myself
Do We Believe?
We say, let guns re-thunder, trumpets call,
Bombs break upon us, and we shall remain,
Rise, and give blow for blow, set courage plain
In the face of the world, a staying and a wall.
And yet the subtlest weapon of them all
Has taken our strength again and yet again,
As in the days of peace. We have been slain
Within ourselves, though bodies did not fall.
This is the subtlest weapon, gossamer
Of unconstructive doubt, the whispering
Uncertainty upon the uncertain crammed,
The shifting sidelong glances that defer
The effort and the faith . . . And shall this thing
Find us disparaged and disheartened, damned?
W.A.
Ethel Davies.
Nocturne at Lane Cove.
There was no measured ending to those hours
That swung the bright day to the gulf of
sleep—
Only time took them all like gathered flowers
Backward and far, only my senses keep
The unshuttered lantern of my love for you.
Strings of wet birds beaded electric wires:
The town’s dark rosary, we said, and stood
Watching the great bridge thrust its hundred
fires
Into the pregnant gloom, the hardihood
Of starlight’s distant lances breaking over
A town afraid of darkness, beauty’s black
By brittle gauds of light betrayed. Nightfall
For us beside" the cove came solemn back
When, as a r?eb queen tired for burial,
Gold timber took 'the water on a barge.
victoria.
MARY FINNIN.


up. A little way up the gaps were smaller and 1
could climb more easily. I looked over at the houses
on Longnose Point and at the masts of another ship
over on the other side of the Point. I climbed up
higher so that I would be able to look down on her
to see if she was as big as the Valetta Jane.
The ladder narrowed as I got higher and the rungs
became thinner ; though the water was smooth and
there was scarcely a breeze, up here the ship seemed
somehow to roll on the tide and the mast to sway so
that I could look clear down to the water over the
rail of the Valetta Jane until next minute it swung
back again. The people on a ferry going down the
river towards the Quay came to the side to watch me,
and I held on with one hand and flourished my
cutlass in the other, shouting defiance at the skull-
and-crossbones flag which they broke from the mast-
head. When it had passed out of sight .behind
Goat Island I climbed up a little higher: 1 had
one leg wedged over a rung and was half-sitting, half-
standing, quite comfortable and forgetful of every-
thing else but the view I had of the ship on the other
side of the Point, when I heard a squeal from my
mother. She and grandmother and Uncle Tom were
standing just outside the doorway leading to the cabins
looking up at me. Mother had her hand across her
mouth, and Uncle Tom was calling out to me “Stay
there; I’m coming up.” They looked small, like
dwarfs.
I sat there watching them, and Uncle Tom came
and climbed slowly up the ladder. He called to me to
hold tight if it shook, and when he was just below
me he held me with one arm and helped me on to his
back, where I clung around his neck while he carried
me down. Mother had been frightened, and she
began to scold me and hold me to her in turn till
Uncle Tom told her it was all right now. “You’ll
grow up to be a sailor like your uncle, won’t you?”
For the rest of the afternoon mother saw to it
that I stayed close to her, and I saw very little else
of the ship. The cook brought us some tea and scones
and cold meat, scurrying in and out as though he were
afraid some preying animal might seize on him before
he could get back to his hole on the deck, and later on
Uncle Tom showed me through his telescope the flags
which were flown as weather signals over on a faraway
headland. Mostly they talked and talked, the three
of them, and I wasn’t very interested, but every now
and then mother or grandmother would say some-
thing about my climbing up to the mast, till I began
to feel I’d done something remarkably brave.
Just as it was beginning to get dark a boat came
over from the shore with some of the sailors, and
Uncle Tom had two of them row us back. He stood
at the side of the Valetta Jane waving to us, and I
waved back for so long as I could see him, calling
“Good-bye, Uncle Tom. Good-bye, Uncle Tom,” and
grimly determined that so soon as I was fourteen 1
would run away and become a sea captain. The dull
talk of the afternoon had all been forgotten: sitting
leaning against my mother on the ferry and with my
eyes closed I lived over again that hour during the
morning when I had been captain of a five-masted
schooner. That had been my greatest day.
GRANDMOTHER wrote twice to Uncle Tom in
Melbourne, and I added a few lines on the bottom
of her letters, but we never had any reply. The
memory of that day on the Valetta Jane faded, of
course, though I never forgot it entirely, and the story
of my climb became heroic legend to be repeated over
and over again by my mother whenever we had
visitors. Nor did I forget my Uncle Tom. He had
become enshrined in my thoughts as the family’s own
especial hero, my own boast whenever other boys
should speak of soldier brothers or policemen friends.
He wore great seaboots once more, and his black
beard grew again. I imagined a host of anecdotes
in which he figured bravely, bringing his ship home
safe through raging typhoons and keeping alive the
spirit of his men through endless days when they lay
becalmed in tropic seas. I read again even more
avidly all the sea stories on which I could lay my
hands. But if I attributed the exploits of numerous
fictional sailors to Uncle Tom, the real memory of
him was still imposing enough.
I suppose the others also thought often of Uncle
Tom, though we never had news of him. Grand-
mother spoke of him as before, and still as “my boy
who ran away to sea, and whom I haven’t seen since”
until we’d remind her of that day. Mother was harsh,
saying he might easily have written to us, and that he
owed a duty to grandmother, but she found excuses
always.
As I grew older the determination to run away to
sea weakened a little, though I never altogether aban-
doned it. There were things to be done. School
became interesting of itself. I sold papers at the tram-
stop in the afternoons, and during the holidays there
were jobs on bakers’ carts and at the carnival on the
esplanade.
Grandmother spoke more often and more vaguely
of the big house, the horse-trams and the paddle-boats,
but during the day when mother was at work I was
seldom at home even to feign an interest. I think she
talked to herself of those same things when she was
alone. Only on pension days did I seek her company,
for then, in the afternoon, we’d go to an auction or
to the markets —seldom to buy anything, save occa-
sionally an old vase or a small table, but to listen.
I was nearly fourteen when grandmother went to
hospital, and though I saw her there two or three times
I felt no great loss when a fortnight later she died.
Mother must have missed her company in the evenings,
but I had new companions of my own.
| DID not go to the funeral, for it was the end of
1 the term, and I had my exams.; but mother told
me that Uncle Tom was there. He had left the sea
and had been living in Sydney for two years nqw in
a little grocery business. He had married and had
a baby son. He’d seen the funeral announcement in
the newspaper.
Somehow in those days it seemed that mother
talked to me more about important things now that
grandmother was dead. I seemed to have suddenly
grown up to an understanding of her, and I under*
stood now how she felt that Uncle Tom had deliber-
ately cut himself off from us and deserted us when
we needed him. Yet he was still to me the Uncle Tom
I had dreamt of and boasted of so often, and, perhaps
more than I realised, the Uncle Tom of whom my
grandmother had taught me —a big, strong, laughing,
happy sailorman Uncle Tom.
Mother had talked with him awhile on the day of
the funeral, and he had asked if we would like to go
one Sunday with his family on a picnic. He had a new
car and seemed anxious to take us. I don’t quite
know why exactly—perhaps she thought it would be
an outing for me, perhaps it was just that she wanted
to see the woman her brother had married —but
mother, too, seemed keen on going. I looked forward
to it myself. It wasn’t the same exciting anticipation
with which I’d prepared for that other day on the
Valetta Jane, but in some way my feelings were bound
up with that day. I was pleased at the prospect of
seeing my captain uncle again.
I NEVER remembered all the details of the picnic
* as I remembered the day on the Valetta Jane and
all I did then. I doubt if mother and I ever spoke
about it afterwards, but that second meeting with my
Uncle Tom had a more lasting and more important
impression on me than had anything else to that
time. I was a man that day, not a boy, and the slow
building up of my resentment against Uncle Tom was
the deep-felt anger of a man rather than the violent,
passing temper of a child.
We had to come into the city to meet them in the
car, and mother took our lunch in a basket. I have
no remembrance of where we went or how we filled
in the day exactly. Mother and I sat in the back seat
and Uncle Tom drove with his wife, my aunt (I can’t
remember her name) in the front with him, and the
baby between them. There was scarcely any talk —
just about the weather, or how the fields looked
green, or a house nice, or the road was good—but
gradually I came to the realisation that they were
patronising my mother and me, that this picnic was all
something put on for our benefit, something done out
of charity, something they felt we could not have
without their help.
I started to tell them then of the good things
mother and grandmother and I had done together ; of
the Sundays we’d taken lunch to the beach, and we’d
walked round the rocks and looked for crabs in the
pools, and played with a ball on the sand, and of the
rides on the ferry, the times we’d been to the pictures,
the books I’d read aloud to the two of them while
mother was sewing at night. I told them how grand-
mother and 1 used to go to the auctions and eat peas
at the markets ; of the money 1 made selling pro-
grammes for the sports. But all the time I had the
feeling that they didn’t think much of all those things,
and I pressed close to mother on the seat when I
realised how they regarded the day, and told them of
all the things we’d planned to do, and of some we
hadn’t but that I’d decided on as we rode along.
If the day I’d first met my Uncle Tom on the
deck of the Valetta Jane I’d envied him his life as a
sailor and determined I’d have just such a ship of my
own some day, this day we went out into the country
in his car I made up my mind just as strongly that
some day I’d own a car myself, and that mother and
1 would go for picnics on our own and be beholden
to nobody. I thought over and planned a lot of
things that day, and 1 thought, too, that it didn’t matter
even if they did sound like the grand and foolish
fancies of a child ; they’d do for mother and me all
right, and I’d see that they all came true.
But somehow nothing at all went right that day.
We stopped for lunch somewhere where a little creek
came in close to the road and a few scraggy paper-
barks could give us some shade. I watched Uncle
Tom lift out a big hamper from the back of the car
and my aunt take out a bright, new tablecloth and
spread it on the grass, and I saw the salt- and pepper-
shakers and the plates and cups and cover for the
teapot, and I thought about the lettuce and corned-
beef sandwiches in mother’s basket, and the little
blackened tin billy I’d brought along that I used to
take with me when sometimes I borrowed a bike and
went out with some boys for the day.
I went down to the creek to fill Uncle Tom’s big,
shining, new billy, and I was leaning over swishing a
few bits of stick and some dust off the top of the
water when a lump of earth slipped off the edge of the
bank where I was standing, and my legs went shoot-
ing down into the water. I scrambled out and went
back to them with the billy. Mother gave me a towel
to pqt round my waist and sent me behind a tree to
take off my trousers so that they could dry by the
fire, and then Uncle Tom laughed and called out
“You should have climbed up the mast, Jack!” and
started to tell my aunt about the day on the Valetta
Jane.
I hated my Uncle Tom then as I took my
trousers off behind the tree, and I almost cried with
rage and bitterness, but I suddenly realised I
didn’t envy him any more. He wasn’t a sea-captain in
a black beard, but a big man whom I didn’t know,
who was getting flabby and fat and hadn’t anything
to say when my aunt was talking, and who rubbed the
handmarks off the door of the car and fussed a lot
about where he’d light the fire to make the tea. I
watched him and smiled to myself at the awkwardness
of him when he got caught in the wire of the fence as
we were going back to the car, and I grinned at his
timid care when driving in the long line of cars on
the way back to the city.
I thought more about my Uncle Tom that day
than I’d ever thought about anybody before. And I
thought that I wouldn’t grow up to be like him, but
that I’d work and look after mother and things would
be pretty different between us from what they’d been
between him and grandmother. That day I looked
right ahead to the time when I’d be a man more
seriously than I’d ever done before, and, even if life has
altered all those plans, still that second day with Uncle
Tom helped a lot to put an end to the time when I
was a boy.
“’ Onest , girls—l got it from an inspired statement by an unofficial Cuv' ment spokesman."


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
ta/ie ineU<mrie4£midJm
Seppelt's
CHeLSEA ROYAL HOSPITAL QUADRANDLE.
Overlooking the Chelsea Embankment
and proceeding “down stream,” immedi-
ately the Botanic Garden of the Apothe-
caries’ Company, famed for its officinal
plants and its cedars, is passed, is the
Royal Hospital, one of the buildings
which confers renown on the Thames,
and, as an institution, honour on the
country. It was erected by Charles II on
the site of “Controversy College,” and
Sir Christopher Wren was the architect
who transformed it. It is popularly be-
lieved it owes its foundation to Nell
Gwynn, though many historians declare
no better ground exists for the tradition
than the improbability of the Merry
Monarch being induced to do so noble
a deed except by the solicitation of this
Court favorite, though on the whole the
English lady was the most likely one of
his seraglio to make the suggestion. The
more probable statement is said to be
that the true originator of the plan was
Sir Stephen Fox, who contributed
£15,000, a huge sum in those days, to
the cost. The building itself is not too
ornamental for its purpose, and is suf-
ficiently stately and imposing. Here
military pensioners from all branches of
the services, “disabled by wounds or
age,” to the number of 540 —the extent
of the accommodation—pass a peaceful
dolce far niente evening of life amid
surroundings freed from vexatious re-
strictions, and retiring to bed each in
his own little cubicle, which carries with
it the privilege of a Parliamentary vote.
These veterans in three-cornered hats, or
caps marked R.H. (Royal Hospital) and
red coats, “fight the Empire’s battles o’er
again,” and will continue so to do, Nazi
bombing frightfulness permitting, until
the time arrives when “they shall go to
sleep in a winding-sheet of good grass,
among the turtle doves.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 62—No. 3185.
Wednesday, February 26, 1941.
NEW SETTING.
“All together, boys—‘Who’ll come a-waltzing Matilda with me?’”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man."
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
Dari d Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
M elhourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westkalia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inler-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (.Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months. 11s.
PACIFIC AND MEDITERRANEAN.
One of the puzzling features of the position which
drew such portentous language from the Acting Prime
Minister and the two Labor leaders was the silence
of the trans-Tasman Government, equally concerned.
During the week in which Mr. Beasley said “We
have to face the fact that you and I may be fighting
Fascism in our own country in the very near future,”
and “as a member of the War Council I have no
illusions about the shocking tragedy that may over-
whelm us overnight,” not a single disquieting word
came from Wellington—or, for that matter, from
Ottawa. Only at the end of the second week of
alarums and excursions—during which the three
leaders declared that the war had “moved to a new
stage involving the utmost gravity,” the service chiefs
and Sir Robert Brooke-Popham were summoned to
Sydney and two dailies broke out into a rash of
hysterical articles—did Mr. Fraser say anything, and
then it was by way of comment on “the Australian
statement.” He said; “Information received by the
Government indicates that the position overseas is
becoming increasingly serious, and the War Cabinet
and the Government are giving continuous attention
to these matters.” And by that time Mr. Fadden had
come to the conclusion that “the position, though
serious, is not extremely critical.”
That same day Mr. Akiyama, the Japanese
Consul-General at Sydney, described the Fadden-
Curtin-Beasley warning as “nonsense.” “Why,” he
asked, “should there be such a hysterical outcry?”
He did not know the cause, and did not think there
was any justification for it; “I am continually receiv-
ing cables from Japan, and none has contained any-
thing to justify the alarm.” Mr. Akiyama issued a
statement to the same effect at the beginning of last
week, saying that “to sound an alarm when there is
no danger, particularly without doing one’s best to
try to improve the situation, is pure folly.”
I cannot but feel that cabled news of such a nature
is sent maliciously and insincerely to stir up alarm.
For his own part, he saw “no symptoms of any such
trouble brewing in the Pacific.”
There followed a message from Washington, pub-
lished in “S. M. Herald,” to the effect that “American
circles most familiar with the Far Eastern situation
privately expressed surprise at the degree of alarm
apparently aroused in Australian official quarters
regarding Japanese moves.”
Official dispatches, while making clear the reason for
Australian concern, left the impression that the alarm
was hardly justified by the facts.
Mr. Fadden nevertheless declared in Melbourne
that the Fadden-Curtin-Beasley statement was “far
from alarmist” and that “two facts” were “unmis-
takable”: (1) The war might “suddenly spread”; (2)
the “spread” might “overnight bring a clash of arms
near or even to Australia’s own shores.”
The Washington message was contemporaneous
with a statement made at Tokyo by a Cabinet Infor-
mation Bureau spokesman, who was “surprised to
learn that some foreign countries have felt undue
anxiety regarding the alleged, tension in East Asia.”
He insisted that “the purpose of the Three-Power
Pact is peaceful.” Therefore “we cannot help feeling
a certain amount of anxiety, if not misgiving, regard-
ing the warlike preparations of the British and
American Governments to meet supposed contingen-
cies in the Pacific South Seas,” especially in view of
press reports regarding these movements “originating
from Anglo-American sources.” As a result, it was
contended “in some quarters in Japan that Japan
should lose no time in taking the necessary steps to
meet the worst eventuality in this region,” though if
the United States Government could “only be per-
suaded to restrict its activities to the Western Hemi-
sphere the situation would be greatly mitigated.” The
spokesman concluded on a surprising note;
We are utterly unable to see any good purpose being
served by prolonging the war, whatever the motive
may be.
We want to make it clear that Japan is fully prepared
to act as mediator or to take whatever action is calcu-
lated to restore normal conditions, not only in Greater
East Asia but anywhere in the world.
The arrival at Singapore of a great body of
Australian troops and “powerful reinforcements of
bombing and fighting ’planes” broke in upon this
dream of peace. Japanese press reactions were un-
favorable. The movements were characterised as
“warlike.” Major Akiyama, the Japanese Army
spokesman at Shanghai, likened the Britons and
Americans to “snakes placing eggs in a dove’s nest,”
the “eggs” being the fortification of Singapore and
Guam and the arrival of Australian troops in
Malaya. However, the offer of mediation or what-
ever it was (the spokesman’s Ministerial chief pres-
ently denied that he had made any such “offer”) was
conveyed by the Japanese Ambassador in London to
the Under-Secretary of Foreign Affairs in the form of
a “courteously worded communication” from Mr. Mat-
suoka, of whom the “Evening Standard” has truly
said that “in his most bloodcurdling utterances he
always manages to introduce a few sentences which
might come straight from the Sermon on the Mount.”
Consideration and an early reply were promised in the
House of Commons by Mr. Butler. Meantime
Admiral Nomura was telling the pressmen at Wash-
ington that “Singapore” was “British,” and it was
“not Japan’s place to say what Britain should do
with it” ; that he did not believe Britain and Japan
would be involved in war; that Japan and the U.S.A.
could avoid war provided the U.S.A. did not “take
the initiative in fighting,” and that Japan merely
sought peaceful economic expansion and had no in-
tention of seizing territory—though he could not say
that his country would not use force if peaceful expan-
sion were impossible.
These strange shifts of Japanese policy are obviously
connected with what is going on at Washington—where
Mr. Sumner Welles has dryly said that “the United
States is far more interested in deeds of other nations
than in any statements their spokesman might make,”
and where the Senate, previously hostile, has approved
of the fortifying of Guam —and in the Philippines—
where astonishingly strong American naval forces
have lately been seen—and it cannot be dissociated
from developments in the Balkans. There Turkey
and Bulgaria have signed an agreement reaffirming
their “friendship” and pledging each other to “abstain
from aggression and develop good-neighborliness and
mutual trade.” The Yugoslavian Government, for its
part, has announced that the future of its country has
been “secured by the visit of the Premier to Ger-
many,” and that Yugoslavia, while it has “done every-
thing to maintain peace and will continue its efforts,”
must “bear sacrifices made on the altar of peace.” In
other words, Yugoslavia, like Bulgaria, accepts any
arrangement that Hitler chooses to make for it
and for the Balkan countries in general. And although
faith in Turkey is still held in Britain—the Foreign
Office, it is pointed out, was let into the secret of the
negotiations with Bulgaria—it is far from certain that
the Turks will oppose a German drive into Greece if
their own territories are not attacked.
The German attitude to Greece these last four
months remains one of the mysteries of the war.
While the Greeks, with powerful British assistance in
the air and on the sea, have been knocking Hitler’s
partner from pillar to post, Hitler has kept his repre-
sentatives in Greece, as he has kept them in Switzer-
land and Sweden. It is deeply suspected that he caused
the Greek Government to be informed that he would
not interfere, and he may even have given it informa-
tion of value concerning the division of opinion in
Italy on the subject of a Greek war, the poor quality
of the generalship available, since the best marshals
were in opposition, and the rough-and-ready prepara-
tions for a winter campaign in the mountains. As it
seemed then, an unsuccessful invasion would suit his
book. For his difficulties with the French were in-
creasing, and, worsted by the Greeks, Mussolini
would be obliged to moderate his demands for Savoy,
Corsica, Tunisia and what not —one of the great
obstacles to a peace treaty with the Vichy Govern-
ment.
But the chastising of Mussolini has gone much
farther than Hitler could possibly have foreseen.
When the Greek war began the Italians were in pos-
session of all their African territories and of British
Somaliland and part of Western Egypt. Now, in
consequence of the great British victories of Taranto,
Sidi Barrani, Bardia, Tobruk and Benghazi, of the
methodical invasion of Italian East Africa and the
dashing naval operations in the Mediterranean, cul-
minating in the bombardment of Genoa, the Italians
are in such straits that there is a real prospect of the
formation of a peace party headed by the King and
supported by Marshals Badoglio and Caviglia. Musso-
lini himself has been reduced to imploring Petain to
let the doomed army in Tripoli pass through Tunisia
into Spanish Morocco and to receive Italian fugitives
from Abyssinia in French Somaliland. The old
marshal, his own position strengthened by the British
triumphs, in a message passed by the Vichy censors
is reported to have refused. So it has become neces-
sary for Hitler to rush to Mussolini’s rescue, so as to
keep Italy in the war. The intervention of the Stukas
has failed to relieve the position in the Central Medi-
terranean or North Africa. There remains the
coercion of Greece, by threats or actual invasion ;
and, whatever promises may have been made to the
Greek Government, all the signs indicate that coercion
is about to be attempted.
It will mean that great decisions will have to be
taken by the British Government. According to the
Ambassador to Rumania, the Germans had 350,000
men in that country before he left Bucharest, and they
must have been strongly reinforced since. It would
be terribly difficult and dangerous to throw a British
army into Salonika sufficient to cope with such forces,
though it might be possible to defend the Morea,
and, in any case, Crete can be held. Mr. Eden has
been sent to Egypt again, together with the Chief of
the Imperial General Staff. It is to be hoped that
the Government in London will act on the advice of
Wavell, Cunningham and Longmore, and not let
political considerations determine its course of action
if its able commanders take the stand that military
considerations are paramount.
Should Uncle Sam Be In It?
As far as words go towards winning this war —they
are not altogether negligible weapons—probably the
most notable blow so far struck was that of President
Roosevelt in his stirring message to Congress last
month. A comparably notable blow was struck when
the House of Representatives accepted the President’s
lead and passed his Lend-or-Lease Bill to provide
further aid to Britain, Greece and China by 263
votes to 160.
An amendment was carried requiring the President
to report to Congress on British aid transactions
every 90 days ; but the enormous powers vested in
the President are indicated by the rejected amend-
ments. These rejected amendments included pro-
posals to prevent the President from “sending Ameri-
can soldiers outside the Western Hemisphere” and
“selling or transferring any naval vessel to bel-
ligerents” without the consent of Congress.
In essence the effect of the bill is to give the
President a free hand to carry on his policy of “all
a id to the democracies, short of war,” without having
to insist on cash on the barrel head if any or all of
the aided countries should be broke. When it is re-
membered that the House was discussing only that,
the general nature of the opposition shown in the
discussion and in the size of the vote against the
bill, and shown in the Senate since, should put a
heavy boot into a still much indulged and bemusing
line of wishful thinking.
In the United States last month the Gallup poll
put the straight question: “If you were asked to vote
on the question of the United States entering the war
against Germany and Italy how would you vote —to
go into the war or to stay out of the war?” Hun-
dreds of thousands of replies were received. “In no
State or section or region or locality did the people
vote to go into the war, but everywhere voted over-
whelmingly to stay out.” Summarised tabulation:
Go In. Stay Out.
P.c. P.c.
New England and Middle Atlantic.. ..13 97
East Central ]0 90
West Central .. .. .. .. ~ 9 91
South 17 83
Far West 12 88
Total U.S 12 88
On a realistic consideration of the logical alterna-
tives to Mr. Roosevelt’s statement of the present and
possible future position, Uncle Sam, it would seem,
should certainly be in it. Nobody is going to pretend
that the vital aid which is being given is really equiva-
lent to the enormous moral and material strength that
actual American entry would at once add to the side
of the democracies. Winter has had the war in Europe
at a standstill, productive of the recent false atmosphere
of lull; but this is not going to last, and what
happened when a less severe winter lifted its nullify-
ing grip last year should be readily enough recalled.
It is said against the suggestion that American
entry would be of advantage that this would (1) stop
the flow of aid to Britain ; (2) automatically bring in
Japan. As to (1), the counter argument might be
that then, instead of a liberal but limited aid, the
whole American strength, with the incalculable im-
petus that would be given to it by the nation’s in-
volvement, would be what would flow. As to (2), a
quotation from the Roosevelt message may be
apropos: —
And when the dictators—if the dictators —are ready
to make war upon us, they will not wait for an act of
war on our part.
It can feasibly be argued that Japan is most
unlikely to go to war with America merely for the
sake of honoring a Berlin “spokesman’s” interpreta-
tion of a clause in the Berlin-Rome-Tokyo pact,
which interpretation was to the effect that any posi-
tive act of war on Uncle Sam’s part would bring
Nippon in. If Japan is to come in, it will do so,
not because somebody has interpreted a clause as
committing it to fight for Germany, but because it
will be convinced that its national interests will thereby
best be served. That, too, would seem to depend on
whether Germany at the time looked positively like
winning. This is not to predict that Japan will or
will not come into this war, but only to suggest that
the fact of an American declaration of war alone
would not inevitably bring Nippon in, too. Big issues
like these are decided by large considerations, not by
whims and fancies.
As an American writer puts it, if America were
technically at war. Uncle Sam would then be free to
Deliver to Britain the hundreds of thousands of
tons of ships of the Axis and conquered countries.
Relieve the British Navy in large part of convoy duty
in the Atlantic.
The writer lists other advantages. He points out
that it does little good to deliver materials to American
ports if subsequently they are to be destroyed before
arrival. He points out also that the Royal Navy has
matters well in hand with the single exception of the
matter of convoys ; “so there would be no call for
moving the main body of the United States fleet from
its station at Pearl Harbor.” The writer sums up on
what he holds to be America’s false position;
America’s technical status of peace is delusive be-
cause any one or more of the Axis Powers can and will
change it to a status of war if and when it is to their
interest to do so.
That status has only the effect of imposing artificial
restrictions upon America’s own freedom of action.
What we should do and when we should do it, whether
in delivering Axis ships to England or convoying ships,
should be determined upon sound considerations of
our own national interest, undisturbed by false issues as
to this delusive technical status.
There is small likelihood that Germany will take any
step to alter that technical status so long as it appears
to encumber us at all.
There the question can be left. The more vital
question, whether Uncle Sam will be in it, though
clearly not one on which to sustain wishful thinking,
will be decided, like all other important questions now
that not men but Mars has control of the earth, by
the unpredictable course of events.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Maoriland's Way with Red Defeatists.
Britain, dallying too long with the idea of coming
to some sort of arrangement with the double-crossers
of Moscow and finding that Communists are mutter-
ing treason in air-raid shelters and trying to spread
disaffection among the houseless, has been compelled
to retrace its steps and suppress Communist publica-
tions, beginning with the “Daily Worker.” But much
more than that will be required to eradicate the
plague of Red defeatism, as our experience shows.
On the waterfront and in factories, workshops and
mines, Communists are incessantly at work, though
they have been checked of late by the appeals of
Labor leaders, particularly Mr. Curtin, to the pat-
riotism of the vast majority of the workers. Lawless
prints and leaflets bearing bogus names have made
their appearance in droves. With typical Communist
cunning, young men of the professional classes and
returned soldiers with a grievance against society
have been employed in the distribution of this sub-
versive offal. There have been surprisingly few
prosecutions, and offenders when convicted have been
let off with light penalties by softhearted magistrates.
In this matter, as in so many others, Labor-
ruled Maoriland is different. The authorities in that
country have been much more successful in tracking
down disseminators of subversive propaganda than
those charged with the duty in this overgoverned
Commonwealth, and their work is not rendered in-
effective by sentiment, on the Bench or in Law de-
partments. When a prima-facie case is made out
the accused has to face a jury trial. There have been
several recent cases. One may be selected as typical.
Accused was a janitor at Weir House, Wellington,
a haunt of students. The charges—there were two —
were that he had been found with three copies of
a booklet, “Peace and Socialism,” and six copies of
the “Tribune” in circumstances “facilitating the dis-
tribution of subversive statements.” The “Tribune,”
the prosecution stated, was the successor to the
“People’s Voice,” which had been suppressed because
of its subversive character; copies were cyclostyled
and distributed surreptitiously.
The man did not go into the box, nor was evi-
dence called on his behalf. Counsel contended that it
had not been proved that he had contemplated dis-
tributing the stuff. He was a returned soldier and
had been secretary of the Friends of the Soviet —the
Australian counterpart of which is conducting busi-
ness as usual. The jury, after a retirement of 44
minutes, found him guilty, and Justice Johnston im-
posed sentence of 12 months with hard labor.
His Honor’s remarks are worth preserving:
In my view, the offence is one of very grave
importance. I think the jury took that view, and the
jury has taken that view in previous offences of this
nature. They know that, when a conviction is recorded
for an offence against the safety of the State, unless
steps are taken promptly to curb it it is likely to recur
again and again.
It is an offence against the safety of the State,
and it is accentuated when it is committed by men,
like yourself, of good character who, by virtue of
that character, can obtain and hold positions which
form an excellent starting-place for the distribution of
propaganda of this kind. You yourself must realise
the gravity of the offence in the eyes of all those
entrusted with the safety of the State in time of war. I
think you yourself, in a sense, would not respect a sen-
tence which was not sufficiently severe if an action
detrimental to the safety of the State has been found
by a jury.
The offence is one meriting punishment, and will
receive it. The articles to which you gave facilities
for distribution amount not merely to the dissemination
of subversive ideas; they amount in all to a call for
subversive action. That was the tone of them, and
subversive ideas, when translated into action, would
imperil, as you must have known, the safety of seamen,
airmen and men of the land forces.
The maximum penalty 1 am entitled to impose is 12
months’ imprisonment, and I think myself that is a light
sentence for such an action.
A light sentence it is, and in view of his Honor’s
remarks it seems likely that the maximum will be
increased. Be that as it may, sentence and procedure
are far more salutary than any proceeding which
has been taken in Australia, where the notion still
lingers that Red defeatists are just misguided re-
formers who must be treated tenderly.
Under Government Patronage.
In England, home of horseracing and headquarters
of the bloodstock-breeding industry, racing has been
suspended indefinitely, and even racing people have
accepted the deprivation as a necessity incident to
war. In Australia we have racing as usual and bet-
ting as usual; indeed in some States betting is more
rampant than ever, especially the s.p. variety. And in
Australia we have a Government which, while be-
seeching the people to support war loans and buy
war-savings certificates, and toying with plans for
forced loans to the amount of the difference between
income-tax payments in, say, Victoria and Queensland
(having permitted the provincial Governments to levy
income taxes regardless of its own requirements and
of the necessity for equality of sacrifice), allows one
of its own departments to minister to the craze for
s.p. betting.
There have been two recent examples, both rank.
In one case, a Darlinghurst (Sydney) flat, raided by
the police, was found to be a distributing centre for
Randwick odds, which were sent over five telephones
to s.p. bookmakers —all, of course, lawbreakers and
tax-dodgers. Inquiring at the telephone branch of the
P.M.G.’s department how the proprietor of the joint
had contrived to get five ’phones, a reporter was told
that the rule in these cases, unless the applicant for
’phones was known to be a convicted person, was
“no questions asked.”
The other case occurred at Pakenham (Vic.).
Pakenham has a racing club, and discovering that the
s.p. plague was threatening its existence, as well as
that of other country clubs, the club has tried to beat
it by restricting betting to the racecourse. Taking an
old Bulletin tip, it vetoed telegrams, telephone calls
and broadcasting, and sold racebooks only inside the
racecourse gates.
These measures worked well until Thursday last,
when a commercial-station reporter took up a posi-
tion in a neighboring paddock, having, it seemed, got
the owner’s sanction to broadcast the races. A tenant
arrived with objections, and the reporter was
ejected, his gear being thrown after him. But the
P.M.G.’s department, or persons professing to repre-
sent it, rose to the occasion. “A van arrived, a post
op a public highway was wired, and, with the micro-
phone suspended round his neck, the reporter described
the races without further trouble.” Meanwhile “repre-
sentatives of various agencies sending ‘information’
to Melbourne, and to country and inter-State ‘clients,’ ”
had “minimised their difficulties to a great extent
by the use of a roster system.”
The Government carrying on the war has full
control of wireless, the telephone and the telegraph.
It is a disgraceful thing to place these utilities at the
service of s.p. parasites (all lawbreakers and tax-
dodgers), their assistants and their victims. It is doubly
disgraceful in war-time.
The A.R.P. Comedy.
An appalling uproar has been welling out of Sydney,
and to a lesser degree out of Melbourne, over the
business of providing each with air-raid precautions
in the event of the long chance coming off.
The Sydney Government asked the Common-
wealth Government for £500,000 to finance the
building of air-raid shelters and for more to pay for
telephones and lighting systems. Mr. Primrose, its
new Minister for N.E.S., held a conference with
Lud Mayor Crick, after which he announced that his
Cabinet would have to make laws if the National
Security Regulations wouldn’t allow it to do what it
wanted to do.
Next day Mr. Fadden said the Sydney request
for money would be dealt with at a conference. The
Sydney Premier announced he had asked for the con-
ference three times in a fortnight. Presently his
Railway Department was heard complaining that
nothing had been done to provide deep shelters
for railwaymen. Sydney City Council began the con-
struction of six pillbox and seven trench shelters.
A.R.P. became a topic at meetings of all sorts of
public bodies. The Acting P.M. was heard “vigor-
ously” denying suggestions of Federal apathy and
produced a “voluminous report which dealt with all
conceivable air-raid contingencies.” But it was con-
fidential and none of its secrets could be revealed.
Then arose a demand for a Minister for Home
Defence. Mr. Fadden didn’t bite. Mr. Primrose certi-
fied that the blackout problem had been solved in an
area from Port Stephens to Mt. Victoria, to Camden,
to Port Kembla, and that arrangements had been
made for air-raid shelters in Newcastle, to cost £50,000.
A city blackout would be tried “shortly,” but “picture-
shows and other places that operate at night have to
be considered.” Metropolitan councils would be
assisted to build shelters “if a state of emergency were
proclaimed.” About 200 council workmen began on
city shelters and another 30 set out to distribute
A.R.P. handbooks.
About this time Melbourne was awakened by
the noise up north. Opposition-leader Hollway came
out with a plan for a State Minister for Home
Security, to have the support of a vast committee
representing a multitude of interests, and called for a
conference of the States to discuss A.R.P. work.
Acting-Premier Lind said there was no need for such
a Minister; the existing State Emergency Com-
mittee was sufficient. But somebody appointed a
special committee of experts to survey air-raid shelters,
and there is to be a supervisor of evacuation. It was
estimated that it would cost £10,000,000 to provide
shelters for all Victoria and £50,000,000 for the
Commonwealth.
Meantime another Premier, the Queensland one,
was telling a Labor Convention that the best A.R.P.
shelter was a trench in the backyard.
The scene shifted back to Sydney, where an
alderman took a swipe at Mr. Bruxner:
The Deputy-Premier, while he was in charge, toyed
with N.E.S. all the time. He was like an unsophisticated
father picking up his first-born child, looking at it,
then putting it aside.
Lud Mayor Crick wanted the King’s Cross tunnel
carried right through to Double Bay.
The harried Mr. Fadden was reported as still
“showing flashes of irritability” when questioned on
A.R.P. matters, Sydney Ministers expressed “sur-
prise at his cavalier treatment” of their requests for
money and conferences. Federal “circles” hinted that
the Sydney Government’s activities were merely an
election stunt. The Sydney Mayor got another
“statement” off his chest. Then came the dash of
cold water;
Military experts have advised the Commonwealth to
place A.R.P. low in the priority list of defence require-
ments on the ground that Australia’s need for such an
organisation is not urgent. Ships, ’planes, guns and
equipment must come before A.R.P. precautions.
That ought to be sufficient to enable Mr. Fadden
to clamp down on the whole sorry business.
Tinkering Tonking.
For the first time for many years the theatre is alive
in Sydney as it has always been alive in Melbourne.
Vaudeville, because it’s light, bright and never too
grimly Puritan, has never faded. But more often than
not over the past few years there hasn’t been a straight
play worth seeing. The war brought a striking
change. The Minerva, after struggling for two years,
has found that it can pack the house night after night
with light comedies. With the English comedian
Edwin Styles, supported by a cast of Australians, it
has been going from success to success. The Royal
has Marie Ney, also supported by Australians, doing
a series of light comedies and Shakspeare matinees.
Enter Mr. Tonking. Mr. Tonking is the Chief
Secretary, and Mr. Tonking has decided that the
stage should be kept clean and swear words should
never be used.”
How many more times in the history of the
theatre is this eternal Mr. Tonking going to crop up?
They knew him in Athens ; Shakspeare fought him
and beat him ; under Cromwell he closed the play-
houses ; under Charles the Second he gnashed his
teeth in the blackest recesses of his stovepipe hat. He
crept out to rail at Sheridan, and people who like to
laugh have been fighting him ever since.
Mr. Tonking proposed that “officials of his depart-
ment” (officials of his department!) should attend
rehearsals and censor what offended their delicate
susceptibilities before the public or the critics ever
saw it. Under Mr. Tonking’s vague definition of their
duties these officials were to have the power to
mutilate a play beyond repair. Mr. Tonking was to
decide what is or is not fit for Sydney audiences —
to hack and cut at plays that have been popular suc-
cesses in London and New York.
When newspapers and theatrical people broke
into sound and fury—signifying outrage —Mr.
Tonking conked. He announced that, “while his policy
remained unaltered,” it would be altered. Pre-
censorship was abandoned, and Mr, Tonking and his
hopefuls are merely going to attend first nights on
the lookout for what he considers dirty.
It will still be necessary to keep an eye on Mr.
Tonking. If a play, once staged, is objectionable, the
police have always had power to deal with it. If it
is not legally objectionable but offensive to some
people they can (a) not go to the thing, or ( b ) walk
out. The theatre in Sydney can manage and is man-
aging its own affairs very well, and there is not the
slightest need for any tinkering by Mr. Tonking or
any tonkering by Mr. Tinking.
Krivitsky and Some Questions.
The suicide or murder of Krivitsky, coming so soon
after the killing of Trotsky, should make Australians
who are fond of dabbling in foreign political creeds
ask themselves a few questions.
Australia has known periods of industrial excite-
ment in which there were clashes between strikers and
police. In one case a Nationalist Premier and in
another a Nationalist Minister was present authori-
tatively when strikers lost their lives. Though there
was much wild talk at the time, neither was ever
molested in the streets. Both indeed went from one
high position to another, and each must all along
have received a great deal of unionist support.
In Europe it is different. Though a marked man
may remove himself to a foreign land thousands of
miles away, hatred follows him, as Krivitsky and
Trotsky found. Whether Krivitsky was actually killed
by a Soviet agent seems to be a matter of some doubt,
but he had expressed the conviction that his former
chief, Stalin, would get him in the end, and there is
evidence that if he destroyed himself it was because
of the ceaseless terror under which he walked.
This sort of hatred is incomprehensible to the
Australian. Capable as he is of strong feeling, he is
generally an easygoing sort. He has none of the
moody intensity of the Russian, the burning memory
of wrongs of which the Latin is capable, nor the blind
obedience to orders which characterises the Nazi
German. It is not in his nature to be a “good” Com-
munist, a “good” Nazi or a “good” Fascist. The
earnest industrial “reformer,” faced with the question
whether he is prepared to kill or be killed for his poli-
tical beliefs, should ask himself about Krivitsky or
Trotsky and supply his own answer.
Sydney versus Melbourne.
“Pawang” ; Recriminations have been raging between
Sydney and Melbourne, at any rate in their dailies,
anent the fact that the southern city has steadily been
getting more and more of the lion’s share of the
munitions business. This fact is variously explained
as being due to the machinations of party politicians,
the plots and conspiracies of vested interests and so
forth and so on. There may be another reason.
An American professor has discovered that varia-
tions of human development and achievement are
greatly dependent on the ease or difficulty human
beings experience in losing heat from the body. So he
has latitudinally subdivided the world into areas of
greater and lesser climatic stimulation. According to
his hypothesis, there is a northern and southern belt
wherein the greatest degree of industrial and other
development can be expected purely and simply, other
things being equal, because the temperature range is
greater there than elsewhere.
Southern Victoria and Tasmania enjoy the privi-
lege of being in one of the professor’s belts where
maximum effort is easiest, and Melbourne is in one
of the best situations of all.
The professor pushes his conclusions even
further. Business booms, he asserts, synchronise with
long periods of normal and subnormal temperatures
and business depressions with long periods of elevated
temperature. Melbourne, whose weather is con-
stantly swinging from hot to cold —there was snow
at Healesville the other night in the middle of summer
—is in one of the most favorable positions. It can’t
help it. It didn’t make the weather its citizens are
always cursing. So if it is the safest place in which
to put up a factory or weather a depression, Sydney
can hardly blame Melbourne for it.
Cities like Sydney will have to be content with
artificially reproducing the optimum conditions which
Melbourne gets for nothing by means of air condition-
ing and other methods of controlling interior environ-
ment. Sydney will then be luckier than Melbourne.
Melbourne has to put up with its weather all the
time. Sydney will be able to turn it on and off at
the meter.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Col bun”: Whether it is war distrac-
tion or sheer absentmindedness amongst
comps, readers and sub-editors, I do not
presume to say, but some unusually
thought-provoking expressions have been
illuminating sundry Great Dailies of late.
A dissertation on “the purchasing power
of one dollar in the Untied States,” for
example, stimulates earnest consideration
of what might happen if the Land of
Hope and Glory really came undone in
these troublous days. New countries
and alliances are revealed by “Asutrialan
and Brfish troops in Laybi.” Amongst
the more startling adventures of a certain
cruiser was that of being “almost grazed
by a tomb.” Possibly it had some con-
nection with the previous revelation that
one of her funnels had been “hit by a
large piece of hell.” A boom in wrest-
ling, boxing and football would seem
to be ahead of us if the statement is cor-
rect about the “large number of referees”
arriving from an overseas port. But I
simply hate to have missed that well-
attended meeting of the Cursing Club in
a N.Q. town. Why aren’t such interest-
ing gatherings v ~tter advertised?
* * *
“Wodgil”: During the late “situation”
the Melbourne dailies scored over their
Sydney contemporaries, two of which
went completely off their rockers, by
preserving a stately calm. They are
scoring in another particular by publish-
ing excellent portraits of Young Diggers
killed or wounded in Egypt and Libya.
These portraits have not only a news
value, but convey a vivid impression of
A.I.F. manhood, the subjects being
all fine, well-set-up and, for the most
part, strikingly intelligent-looking young
fellows. Sydney people, I am sure, would
welcome such illustrations, and could dis-
pense with sickening photographs of
“socialites” (so many of whom look as
though they were in training for a grin-
ning-through-a-horse-collar competition),
and with overdone “studies” of beach
brats in which the maximum of im-
pudence is combined with the minimum
of clothing. But Sydney papers stick to
their silly standbys.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”; Paddington, the
more urban than suburban Sydney dis-
trict, has pitched out the tattered ghost
of its old-established municipal library.
The ragged books are being portioned
out to institutions that may be of
them. The municipality put on that frill
in a day, now forgotten, when it regarded
itself as a high-class residential area and
a centre of culture. The library was a
pretty good place for the booklover to
browse in if somebody with a key to give
admission to the books could be found.
The expense of maintaining a library staff
in a district that showed no desire to use
the books was one of the causes of the
closure.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: There were Hollywood
touches in the welcome-home of the offi-
cers and men of H.M.A.S. Sydney,
though they were in no wise to blame.
The Lud Mayor made his brass in the
moving-picture business, and seems rather
overwhelmed with the importance of
moving-picture men; anyway, without
calling for applications, he named a
moving-picture man Chief .Air Warden
on the recommendation of other moving-
picture men. His protege has been photo-
graphed striking an attitude remotely
suggestive of Clark Gable. Though there
is no connection, this reminds me that the
Department of Information was repaid
for its excessive generosity in letting “the
industry” have copies of Frank Hurlev’s
great Western Desert battle - pictqres
cheap by seeing an American concern
release” a Tobruk film days before its
own film was timed to be shown, just as
if the official photographers had been
scooped, which was not the case. And
that recalls that the running commentary
in two foreign sets of Libyan pictures has
been ferociously contemptuous of the
enemy, though this has become politically
inexpedient, and in any case is cheekily
unjust to our fighting men, whose vic-
tories were fruits of superior leadership,
dash and resourcefulness, and who have
been tried to the limit of human valor
and endurance. This is not a Hollywood
"Me take your Imperial Excellency and Meesier Prendergast to see pretty ladies, yes?"
war, and there will be no kicks in Aus-
tralia if Hollywood’s nose is shoved out
of it.
* * * *
“Red Bend”; Jimmy’s train runs through
the “land-of-lots-of-time” and nobody
ever hurries, consequently James executes
many commissions and performs volun-
tary duties that would not be possible on
a main line. Travellers on the line for
the first time find Jimmy a great help,
and his breezy quips and occasional chir-
rups of song do much to relieve what
could easily be a tedious journey. Once
he struck a dead nark who complained
about the speed and comfort of the train
at every chance, until Jimmy finally burst
out, “How’d y’ like t’ be me? I’ve been
on this train for years! ” The nark eyed
him. “Yair,” he said coldly; “what
station did y’ get on at?” As Jimmy him-
self says, it shut him up for the best part
of 20 miles, and that’s a long time on
the Forbes-Stockinbingal branch.
*** * *
Odd Pint”: I’ve struck some queer
blokes in my time, but none of ’em could
beat an architect from Shanghai who has
come to Sydney to study the designs of
Australian prisons. He prides himself
on having supervised the building of a
Shanghai prison, and not only reckons it's
the biggest in the world, but says nobody
ever escaped from it. “It is wonderful,”
said he to the inevitable interviewer, “what
you can do if you love the work.” True ;
few have been able to develop a love for
building jugs.
* * * *
“T. McN.”: The papers have dug up
another Amazon, a black one this time.
She is named as Banichyzgu Kidani,
Abyssinian, aged 23, and is alleged to
have clipped her hair and to be marching
with Silassie’s army. The “clipping the
hair” touch is rather good, seeing that
anyone barbered among a herd of Haile’s
dark soldiery would stand out like a sore
thumb. She was discovered by an Ameri-
can reporter, possibly the same who gave
publicity to the “Black Eagle” of Harlem,
recently heard challenging Goring to
mortal combat over the English Channel.
American papers serve up this rubbish
to please the millions of negro readers in
the U.S.A., a point Australian editors
seem to overlook.
* * * *
Zake”: A Sydney divorce petitioner
told the Court that her husband, a coun-
cil employee, used to stop out all night
drinking, and would come home drunk
just in time to go to work. “I don’t
know how he got on at work,” she added.
He probably found it easy. Our subur-
ban council has had a dipso, on its out-
door staff for years. Everyone in the
district, bar the bumbles, has seen him
staggering to “work” at all hours. He
still bears a charmed life. Once only has
he been in any danger, and that was
when one day the engineer happened to
land unexpectedly on a job, the bibulous
one having lobbed there five minutes
before. Fortunately for him his mates
recognised the approaching car, bundled
Blotto into a truck and unconcernedly
were shovelling sand over him when his
nibs came up. Still, it isn’t only the Gov-
ernment or civic toiler who can manage
such wizardry. An employee of one of
Sydney’s biggest engineering works, com-
ing back from lunch well sozzled, crawled
into a boiler to snooze it off. When
his shift knocked off and the new one
came on at five o’clock, he was still snor-
ing, and just on midnight he sobered up.
Calmly he took his tally out for that
time, and next pay drew the overtime he
had “worked.”
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”; Reported that a Ran-
goon University student whose name,
translated, is “Sacrificial Hawk” threw
up law study three years ago in favor of
aeronautical engineering and has now
got a commission in the R.A.F., being
the first of his race and religion to do so.
It may sound a strange profession for
a follower of Gautama Buddha, who
preached a more complete doctrine of
non-resistance even than Gandhi, but
actually the Buddhists have been just as
aggressive as the Western races. It was
the sword in the hands of a fighting
priesthood or a rapacious leader which
spread the gentle gospel of Sakyamuni
to Ceylon, Java, Tibet, Burma, Indo-
China and China. Osaka, who created
by conquest a great Buddhist empire in
India, became a pacifist only after he
had consolidated his conquests. His
empire went down in the usual blood-
shed.
* * * *
“X.X.”; A teacher in a Victorian coun-
try school was conducting a poetry
lesson. “Now,” he said to his class,
t there is a very lovely poem beginning
Oh, to be in England! ’ Can anybody
tell me who wrote it?” “Yes,” piped up
one of the children, “Hitler!”
* * * *
“Gar Song”: Cabled news that “over-
worked and underpaid English hotel
waiters often go hungry owing to the
management forcing them to give up
their food ration cards for guests” may
be right so far as the underpaid and over-
worked part is concerned, but it is open
to doubt whether the waiters will go
short. I stopped at a pub in London’s
Russell-square while on leave in 1917,
when rationing was getting a bit severe,
and got to know one or two of the
waiters. The manager tried to put a
curb on the fodder-scoffing propensities
of the staff, but he was never in the race.
Despite his addiction to snooping in rub-
berised footwear, the manager didn’t
wake up to the waiters’ simple expedient
of shooting some of the choicest viands
down the soiled-clothing chute in a table-
cloth-wrapped canister to their cobbers
below. Girls shared in this addition to
the regimen. When I returned a year
or so later and asked how staff-rationing
was going, a wink indicated that the
waiters were still well in the lead.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The quantity of Mel-
bourne’s fish supply has been the subject
of much debate in the dailies lately ; the
quality, or, at least, the label, is also open
to discussion. The other week-end an
amateur fisherman from the city hired
a boat, went out on his own and hooked
an enormous shark. More by luck than
good management, he succeeded in land-
ing it, repaired to the jetty and hung it
up on a derrick. Then he hurried off
to his hotel to get a camera to take a
snap for the “Herald.” When he got
back the shark was gone. Now he won-
ders how many names it was given on
menus.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Distinguished artists and
writers have had far worse things said
about them than were said about
the Sitwells (B. 19/2/’4l) and found
juries and Judges unsympathetic. Rus-
kin called Whistler an impudent Cock-
ney who threw a pot of paint in
the face of the public, and Whistler
got only a farthing as compensation.
Most people would consider Whistler a
better painter than the Sitwells are
writers. The best thing I know that the
family has said was the remark of Osbert
that after he had been taught sex in
school from the analogy with flowers he
was unable to look a daffodil in the face
without blushing.
* * * *
“X.S.”; In the South Melbourne court
the other day Baragwanath, J.P., wriggled
in his seat for a while and then remarked
“I don’t want to mention names, but I
wish to warn the lady who is engaged
in chewing that this Court regards the
practice with great disfavor as not being
consistent with good manners.” Four
women got up and left almost simul-
taneously.
* * * *
“Morimoto”: There is something
touching in the suggestion that the
Japanese should give active and moral
support to Mahatma Gandhi. Gandhi
is the apostle of non-resistance, and the
advice he gave to the British people last
year was that if they made no resistance
to the Nazis and allowed them to invade
their country and bully and kill without
giving them their allegiance they would
be the greatest spiritual force in Europe
for centuries to come. Up to date Gandhi
has never deviated from his belief one iota.
He would advise Mr. Matsuoka to get
out of China, Manchuria, Korea, For-
mosa and French Indo-China and let the
Chinaman come over and occupy Japan,
if he is so misguided as to want to do it.
How can anybody give “active” support
to that attitude?
ANOTHER CENSOR.
Chief Secretary Tonking announced that
all stage plays to be presented in Sydney must first be
viewed and certified as ‘clean’ by departmental
officers and a representative of the police. Swear-
words should never be used.”
Producers, it were well your ways to mend
And watch your steps. Here comes a censor
morum
Proclaiming his resolve to put an end
To all stage scenes and sayings that offend
His notions of decorum.
A certain adjective must ears pollute
No more (though Shaw would hold such
prudery cranky).
That it’s effective is beyond dispute,
But one can always find a substitute
In “bally” or in “blanky.”
s ! abs Saxon speech we know so well
Must be replaced by less explosive phrases.
And one may hazard an aceptable
And quite innocuous synonym for hell
Exists in “blithering blazes.”
No i risque plot will pass, no naughty jaunt,
No play dissecting sex or stressing gender.
He aims to bid that form of words avaunt
Which Frenchmen designate a double entente
And we a double-intender.
Another Collier comes to earth again
To ghe the stage a washing and a brushing,
To ply the mop and pail till naught remain
Of humors that might give a curate pain
Or set a flapper blushing.
You Thespian purveyors, have a care!
Whenever you essay some new varieties
Of vaudeville or more substantial fare,
Remember Tonking’s watchdogs will be there.
Alert for improprieties!
n.s.w.
IFORD.


“Old J.”: Country newspapermen
whose cheeks have paled at the hoarse
cry of “Take out me ad.!” have noted
with unholy joy a Big-City sequel to
“the situation.” It is a time of fierce
competition in the retail trade, and bar-
gain-sale advertising boomed. Came “the
situation,” as exploited by the sen-
sational sheets, one of which gets the
bulk of the bargain-sale advertising, and
business straightway went as flat as the
Nullarbor Plain. Hell has no fury like
a seller of luxury lines who spends £5O
to £lOO on a Thursday advertisement,
expecting to cash-in on the week-end
shopping, only to see on the front page
“I Was wondering if I could have the second Week of my holidays some
other time!”
that which scares the week-end shopper
out of her five wits; and his savage
remonstrances must have fused the tele-
phone wires. The next bargain-sale issue
slumped.
* * * «
“C.Q.”: While the few interested in
A.R.P. in Melbourne are pointing out
that, with unlimited supplies of labor and
material, it would take six months to
prepare shelters to accommodate the
quarter of a million daytime population
Q £ Melbourne, nothing appears to have
been heard from the Nat Gallery author!-
ties as to whether they have provided for
the preservation of the art treasures of
the city. At a conservative estimate the
value of the pictures and other objects
housed under the huge dome of the in-
stitution in Swanston-street is two mil-
lions. London and Paris took elaborate
precautions long before real trouble
started, and as far as is known not a
“Damn you, come out and fight!"
single publicly-owned portable work oi
art suffered as a result of the Blitzkrieg
or the investment of Paris. If the Mel-
bourne trustees have taken measures no
harm would be done by informing the
public. The authorities in London did so.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: To resist change is one
of the most fundamental instincts ot
human nature, wherefore the Govern-
ment’s appeals to the public to conserve
pap=r mostly fallen on deaf ears.
Consequently it came as a shock to re-
ceive a letter typed on both sides ot the
paper—the first example I had seen of
any > Across
js
contmued long after Us causes dear
P a P er and hl 8 h P osta S e rates - had ceased
t 0 °P erate-
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: A man who was count-
ing the takings of a “silver com admis-
sion” was just beginning to voice his
contempt for a cow who would cheat a
war-aid effort by “bunging in a brum coin”
when a colleague jestingly said “It might
be one of those old half-sovereigns.’
And so it was, though the person re-
sponsible for its presence probably
thought he was getting sixpenn’orth of
entertainment for a worthless token.
In the days when sovs. and half-sovs.
were in circulation, there was much com-
plaint about the Australian half, which
was very pale, and, mixed with silver.
might easily be taken for sixpence. A
few months ago a Manly schoolgirl
found a “bad ha’penny” amongst the
change she held after spending a two-
shilling present. The girl’s father re-
trieved it to show to a curious friend,
Subsequently the Commonwealth Bank
paid him its gold value for it. Disguised
by the mark of years, it was a sovereign
of 1863 mintage.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The question
of whether or not women engaged in
British war work may adorn themselves
with lipstick and other artificial aids to
beauty will soon be settled. At least,
so thinks officialdom. The President of
the Board of Trade has issued an order
which limits individual expenditure on
cosmetics to threepence a week. The
cold-hearted brute means it too. Cos-
metic manufacturers may sell to stores
only a quarter of the average monthly
quantity since last May, and if they ex-
ceed this they will be liable to a £5OO
fine. Retailers are held responsible
under heavy penalty for holding cus-
tomers to the thrummer-a-weeklimit. And
cosmetics are defined as including lip-
stick, face powders, creams, rouges, nail
lacquer and perfumery, and all articles of
similar nature and purpose. But I’ll be
willing to lay reasonable odds that every
lass who really wants her warpaint will
find some way of getting round the dif-
Acuity. No sumptuary law affecting
women only has ever yet succeeded in
Britain.
“Atrax”: A beneficial outcome of war
has been a substantial increase in the
supply of Australia’s best immigrants,
with hopeful prospects of continuance.
Births registered during the quarter end-
ing with September, 1940,
totalled 32,627, an increase
of 1353 over the same
period for 1939, and 1754
more than for 1938. Wed-
dings during the last
quarter of 1939 were over
800 more than the corre-
sponding figures for 1938,
and, as their numbers con-
tinued to increase in the
early months of 1940,
births in the December
quarter are expected to
exceed substantially those
for the September one
when the State returns are
all in.
* * *
“Ike Hollar”; One
author —English, too —has
found a way out of that
worry of all writers, the
monotony of “he said,”
“cried,” “exclaimed” or
“answered.” “ T makea
you talka pretty quicka,’
he spaghettied,” is a
sample of his method. The
lady to whom he was talk-
in g “Billingsgated in
reply.” The Italian “maca-
ronised” another speech ;
and when he essayed the
part of a lover he “carusoed” his
endearments. A colonel “sergeant-
majored” what he had to say to his
family. As an experiment the thing is
entertaining; unfortunately, the book
wasn’t.
* * * *
“C.Q.”; The news that Hitler is
arranging for the sale in U.S.A. of three
Rembrandts, three Van Eycks and works
by Velasquez, Botticelli, Raphael, Ver-
meer and others—part of his recent loot
apparently—reminds that the Iron Duke
didn’t appreciate artistic values so keenly,
Told that there were six drayloads of
pictures in a convoy that had got into
difficulties in the Peninsular War, Wel-
lington is alleged to have said: “Leave
the rubbish.” The “rubbish,” which con-
tained many paintings by Velasquez, fell
into the hands of the French, and for a
century or more these were among the
most-prized treasures of the Paris Louvre.
* * * *
“Bo”: The craze for altering place-
names which has swept certain parts ot
the world during the last decade may
have succeeded in economising in letters,
but it has added little to euphony. The
mellifluous Persia has given way to the
milk-and-waterish Iran. Constantinople
was a joy which the philological epicure
rolled delightedly around his tongue. It
was also the title of a once-popular song.
Could anybody break into melody oyer
Istanbul, a jerky word and one in which
nobody seems to be sure what syllable
is to be emphasised? Siam, too, was
pleasantly sibilant. I have yet to meet
two people together who agree as to its
successor’s pronunciation, li, Tay, Thi,
Thay—it could be any of these. And
what Irish exile would ever express a wish
to return to “dear ould Eire” —even if he
could make up his mind whether he were
to say Eyra, Aira or Air?
« * * *
“C.Q.”: Queer epitaphs? A stationery
shop. in Melbourne put up a notice:
“Proprietor dead. Prices now reduced.”
* * * *
“Sickle” remembers the first spade put
into Australia: —■
The beginnings of agriculture in Australia
were just behind the s.-e. corner of Sydney’s
so-called “Circular” Quay, somewhere in a
position between the Customs House and Mac-
quarie-place. On the voyage of the First Fleet
Phillip had obtained at Rio and the Cape a
quantity of seeds and plants—coffee, cotton,
bananas, oranges and lemons, fig-trees, bam-
boos, different sorts of vines, quinces, pears,
apples and strawberries. Many of the plants
died before the end of the voyage, but some
survived, and were placed in a garden near
Phillip’s tent on the east side of the Cove.
A vegetable plot was there, too, and Collins
records in 1791 that it had produced some
fine cauliflowers and melons. Wheat and other
crops were sown beside a creek running into
the next bay to the eastward, which was accord-
ingly named Farm Cove. In September, 1788,
Phillip writes: “We have about six acres of
wheat, eight of barley and six acres of other
grain.” But it wasn’t long before rust attacked
the cereal crops at Farm Cove, and presently
all agriculture was relegated to Parramatta and,
later, to the Hawkesbury.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”; Those strenu-
ous souls who practise daily dozens insist
upon the vital importance of knowing
how to relax properly. They are right
enough in principle, but far too narrow
in practice. True relaxation must be
adapted to actual individual needs. What
broadcasting-station instructor has yet
pointed out how and why right-handed
drinkers should learn to change over to
the left at intervals with a corresponding
alteration of poise of right elbow and foot
on the counter and rail, or how brain-
workers should relax by standing on their
heads to replenish the blood supply to
the old bean from that which otherwise
will remain stagnant in the feet? Thinkers
from our Great Dailies might well follow
the example of Ruskin, who used to
assuage the disgust and fury aroused in
him by a spot of meditation by going
to the British Museum and looking at
the penguins. Australian museums are
full of penguins.
TROOPSHIP.
On Britain’s farthest ocean, in the full noon
of the day,
A lordly liner, packed with troops, sped on
her stately way:
And like a mighty comet, trailing glory down
the wind.
The ghosts of sails and sailormen came travelling
behind.
There was an ancient Briton, he was hollowing
a log:
And then a Roman galley pushing through the
Channel fog:
I saw black Norse and Danish ships up English
rivers fly—
-1 heard and saw the ghosts of these when the
troopship passed us by.
I heard King Alfred hammering his Wessex
navy’s oak
(The Saxons who forgot their ships soon had
a Norman yoke).
I saw King Henry’s White Ship—heard a
drowning prince’s cry,
For the troopship brought these things with her
the day she passed us by.
There blazed the full meridian of Harry Tudor’s
pride,
“Great Harry,” known from London Bridge to
round the Severn side.
I saw the Great Armada in the blast, and saw
it die;
It fell behind the troopship on that day she
passed us by.
There seemed to be a glimpse of Drake, a
smell of singeing beard,
With Frobisher and Raleigh sailing seas they
never feared;
While close behind their spacious day came
Blake, his whip held high,
A challenge out to all the world, while the
troopship passed us by.
I saw a humble student lift a kettle from a
hob—
A thousand Clydeside riveters just spierin’
for a job.
I thought I saw a one-armed man, a glass to
one blind eye,
The other eye on Europe—when the troop-
ship passed us by.
I saw a crowd of gentlemen adventurers (or
thieves)
Whose ships came flying down the wind like
broken autumn leaves;
Successful, England loved them —if they failed,
she let them die —
They crowded out the noonday sun when the
troopship passed us by.
I saw the Great Recorder lift a scroll of name-
less dead;
“A goodly company, in faith, Old England’s
sons,” he said.
“They gave their little all for her” —he placed
the roll on high.
The Past came back in all its pride when the
troopship passed us by.
A.I.F. ABROAD.
R. S. Byrnes.


ƒ
f
Mi\
ƒ
‘a’
A
i*
m
smoother
in
»0
e
m
I
loty
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE IHR OATS 4005
f
POLITICAL POINTS
The Commonwealth and Maoriland
Parliaments are to reassemble on the
same day—March 12. In each case the
date was fixed while Fadden and other
gentlemen, politicians, editors and leader-
writers, were all of a twitter about “the
situation.” Their opposite numbers in
Maoriland seem to have remained per-
fectly calm.
The Government at Canberra seems to
have given very little thought to child
endowment before deciding to introduce
it as a means of allaying “industrial
unrest.” People are in a mood to accept
it as one of the things that must come,
but opposition will arise and unpleasant
consequences will ensue if it is financed,
as proposed, by a payroll tax.
A tax on wage-totals for family endow-
ment would mean that industry would
bear nearly the whole burden ; and the
good employer would be handicapped
as compared with the boss who, as far
as opportunities permit, exacts the maxi-
mum of work for the legal minimum of
pay. If industry were thus smitten, rich
investors and property-owners in the non-
employing class would escape, and so
would the great majority of public ser-
vants, from Judges and Commissioners
down, as well as many doctors, barristers
and so forth, except as to the trifle of
domestic labor they employ. Canberra
will have to think up something else,
though thinking is not its strong point.
Menzies carried away from Bardia
and parts adjacent an “outstanding im-
pression of the supreme value of
armored fighting vehicles and abundance
of motor transport.” He should have
been impressed also, being a reflective
person, with the supreme folly of the
efforts made in his own State and others
to strangle motor transport in the in-
terests of Government railways. Com-
manders like Wavell have no use for
railways, and their military value in
Australia is at least questionable. Yet
the Menzies Government, while still coun-
tenancing State transport-strangulation
measures, is finding whips of money for
rolling stock for State Railway Depart-
ments operating three different gauges,
the war having caught these bankrupt
concerns short.
Menzies seems to have been in his best
form when he spoke to a few-score press-
men in London. Anyway, he expressed
Australian policy in the Pacific in admir-
able sentences: —
Australia has one clear ambition relat-
ing to the Pacific Ocean —that it should
remain at peace. We are indebted to
Japan for many neighborly acts in the last
war, which are remembered with gratitude
and pleasure. But in this war Japan is allied
with the Axis, and has assumed some obli-
gations to our enemy. It would be idle
to pretend that that gives us a Pacific
identical with the last war.
We have undertaken a specific share of
the defence of Singapore. I want to make
it clear we are not pursuing a policy of
aggression. I do not want anyone to think
we are unwilling to defend ourselves or
incapable of doing so.
After trying to make sense of the yards
of bewildering stuff published in Aus-
tralia and Japan, what a relief it was to
read that.
“It has been made clear” to General
Blarney’s wife by Artie Fadden that
she “must” return from the Middle East
“at once”—“she will have to catch the
first boat or the first aeroplane avail-
able.” And suppose she says she won’t,
what’s Artie going to do about it? Send
a force of W.A.Ns. to Egypt to make
her?
Senator McLeay, in Perth: “Cabinet
thinks strikes at this time are abominable,
almost criminal!” And Cabinet’s punish-
ment for the “almost criminal” is just
words, words, words.
Food for deep thought was uninten-
tionally provided in the Workers’ Com-
pensation Court at Sydney by a “laborer”
who claimed for injuries alleged to have
been received while employed by the
Main Roads Board. Having received
compensation for three months, March-
June, 1940, he put in for another month
at £4 10s. 9d. a week. He admitted
having been fined for dole frauds and
gaoled for theft, but denied that he made
a living by lodging accident claims. It
came out, however, that since 1938 he
had been insured with “about” 14 dif-
ferent companies, and had in eight months
“Mr. Tonking, the N.S.W. Chief Secretary, has instituted a censorship of
stage plays. Swear words, he said, must never be used.”
“What bloody man is that?”
—“Macbeth,” Act 1, Scene 1.
collected four amounts, totalling £43 14s.
4d., from one concern, the first claim
being made the day he took out the
policy. He was being cross-examined
about “numerous other payments” when
he said “This is no good to me,” or words
to that effect, and suggested leaving the
court. And, very surprisingly, he was
allowed to go.
Perhaps as part of its war effort, the
Sydney Government is briskly manufac-
turing jobs for which there is no evident
necessity. With a falling-off in litigation
—divorce excepted—the appointment of
another Supreme Court Judge could have
been postponed till after the war; but
that isn’t the Sydney Government’s way.
And the death of the Crown Solicitor was
followed by the appointment of not only
a successor but two assistant Crown
Solicitors. And a censorship of plays
has been set up by the Chief Secretary,
a Mr. Tonking or Conking. So far
Tonking or Conking hasn’t appointed a
staff of play censors, but no doubt that
will come.
A firm believer in the offensive-
defensive, Forgan Smith met a challenge
to his leadership, moved and seconded
at the Queensland Labor Convention,
with an amendment expressing satisfac-
tion with “the manner in which the
A.L.P. is responding to the necessity for
leadership in this critical period.” When
it was put to the vote there was only
one man against it—whether the mover
or seconder of the original motion the
record doesn’t mention. Improving the
shining hour, Foghorn got a big majority
for his unemployed-relief tax, though
what Queensland wants with an un-
employed-relief tax, if its unemployment-
insurance scheme is all that it was
cracked up to be at the A.W.U. Con-
vention, southern observers can’t under-
stand.
For some reason or other, munitions
works, factories for making military
equipment and explosives factories are
all being clustered together in one part
of Melbourne. A concern wanted a site
for an extension to its munitions business
and the place selected was alongside an
ammunition factory. Is this done for
sound economic reasons or is it another
pianifestation of the old centralisation
policy?
“A high officer of the Premier’s De-
partment will be appointed to provide
liaison between the Commonwealth Divi-
sion of Post-war Reconstruction and New
South Wales.” But will there be any
Premiers’ Departments in post-war Aus-
tralia?
The latest congestion proposal in Mel-
bourne is for a circular tube railway.
This, it is alleged, would be useful for
air-raid shelters. An alternative proposal
is a tunnel under Bass Strait to enable
the population to escape to the Apple
Island from its superfluous State Parlia-
ment.
Everybody was most polite to every-
body when Lang’s Non-Com. party at-
tended the Caucus of McKell’s Official
Labor party in Sydney, and all—or nearly
all was forgiven. A “cordial atmo-
sphere” prevailed. Matthews (Non-Com.)
supported Baddeley (Off.) in expressing
gratification at McKell’s good health, and
McGirr (Non-Com.) thanked the Officials
effusively for their hearty reception.
Only the Big Fellow didn’t speak—
he was “in the country, and they had
been unable to communicate with him
and get his pledge of loyalty.” The
U.A.P. hopes fervently that nothing will
happen to him while he is away. How-
ever, right in the middle of “Solidarity
for Ever” the Non-Coms, were informed
they couldn’t have 10 reps, on the central
governing executive and black looks were
the order at the week-end.
“Amazing” was the word used by
Premier Mair when he discovered that a
lot of unused railway tunnels existed
under Sydney, suitable for air-raid
shelters. Most of Sydney finds it amaz-
ing to realise where some of its money
has gone in recent years digging tunnels
that nobody uses.
“The Milk Board is a law unto itself
and can act without consulting the Min-
ister,” said Tom Mutch, M.L.A. for
Coogee (N.S.W.); and he added that the
board should be brought under Parlia-
mentary control. A far, far better thing
would be for “Parliament” to do its own
work and dispense with the board.
The Sydney Premier, knocked back in
an attempt to obtain £500,000 from
Canberra for air-raid shelters, is talking
of taking the money from the “loan
allocation” and “spending it on N.E.S.”
instead of other things which are “not
so urgent.” If the other things are “not
so urgent,” why was the money bor-
rowed in the first place?
Comrade Thornton, of the Iron-
workers’ Union, told Justice O’Mara in
the Arbitration Court that his union
would not tolerate certain National
Security Regulations. The question is,
how long is this country going to tolerate
Comrade Thornton?
Though rising 81, Dean Inge hasn’t
lost his form. He must now be the
only remaining representative of the
“Saturday Review” school of writers,
who detested modern trends and de-
velopments and assailed them with wit
and irony. From his latest book:
No nation can stand being rationally
and pacifically governed for more than a
few years.
The rise of authoritarian systems is a
result of the supreme perplexity of the
modern man and of a natural dislike for
the travail of thinking for oneself.
This country has been divided into two
nations, the taxpayers and the tax-eaters.
Every general election is an auction of the
worldly goods of the taxpayer.
Socialism must inevitably produce a
horde of little bureaucrats who will be
ignorant, indolent and insolent, after the
manner of their kind.
The will of the people, so far from being
an infallible source of wisdom, would have
prevented the reform of the calendar,
forbade the power loom and the spinning-
jenny, and restored the Stuarts.
The venerable gentleman concludes by
saying that he wishes his call had come
before the outbreak of “this hideous and
suicidal war,” and that he is thankful
he won’t have to live in the England
of the near future.
Comrade Malenkov, at the opening of
the Soviet All-Union party conference,
admitted “serious defects in the indus-
trial and transport organisation,” and
blamed “bureaucratism in the commis-
sariats.” In other words, red-tape is be-
coming too much for red-tape, or per-
haps the commissars are getting swelled
heads.
According to a Melbourne paper:
Arrangements for the quick and effective
use of all road transport in case of national
emergency have been completed. Commer-
cial vehicles throughout Victoria have been
listed in a register which sets them out in
order of municipalities and groups them
according to type, so that they may be
taken over anywhere at any time.
This is pretty rich, coming from a State
whose settled policy in recent years has
been to drive the motor truck off the
roads. And what would happen if the
Defence Department wanted to com-
mandeer all transport in the same emer-
gency?


STRAWBERRY IN WONDERLAND.


YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer
is "No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since!
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC Assurance
CO., IiTD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director,
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria; A.C.A. Building, 118—126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street Bkisb\ne
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Bindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace. Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States,
Around 5 p.c. Annual Yield
with Safety
Your investment—even as little as £2o—in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
gives you an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies yielding, at
present prices, around 5 % per annum. Moreover, your investment is
definitely safeguarded by Custodian Trustees: Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd.
Now is your opportunity to share in the increasing activity of Industrial
undertakings. Write for Booklet No, 1, post free, on request to the
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Amongst the spectators of the A.I.F.
march through Melbourne was the vener-
able Anthony John Jereos Lucas, Consul
for Greece. Born at Ithaca in 1862,
of Greek and British parentage, he
was educated at the big industrial
centre of Patras. In the Balkan conflict
of 1886 he served against the Turks and
Bulgars. He started a cafe business when
he came to Melbourne. Nowadays Con-
sular duties are combined with company
directorates ; Lucas is a director of Pres-
tige, Ltd., the Maison de Luxe and various
picture theatres. Landscape gardening
figures among his recreations.
Roared down the speaking-tube for the
last time, Captain Arthur Davey, who
has retired from the sea after 47 years
of service. He was known for his deter-
mination to keep to schedule despite fog
and howling gales. He commanded some
of the Union Company’s fastest liners,
including the Awatea. When he took
delivery of that ship at Panama he wired
to its new owners that he would berth
at Wellington (M.L.) at eight in the
morning of a certain day, and on the
due date the first rope from the ship
was being slipped over a bollard at the
Wellington wharf at 8 a.m. to the second.
Taken his last curtain, at 78, Julius
Knight, the actor, who made many femi-
nine hearts beat faster in these parts.
He was born at Dumfries, of Scot-
tish parentage (his real name was
Kirkpatrick), and made his first stage
appearance in 1884. He came to Aus-
tralia in 1902 as leading man in a Beer-
bohm Tree co. (leading lady, Maud Jef-
fries), and was here again later with
Beatrice Day, playing in “The Sign of
the Cross,” “The Royal Divorce,” “The
Scarlet Pimpernel” and “Monsieur Beau-
caire.” A handsome fellow with a
dious voice, he made plenty of money in
Australia and invested it shrewdly, hav-
ing a keen financial sense. He never
married. He retired from the stage in
1922.
David James Barclay, Tasmania’s
Rhodes scholar for 1935, has been lost
at sea. He took an engineering degree,
and then devoted himself to aeronautics,
getting a job when the war started with
an English aircraft manufacturing con-
cern as a tester of stress and strain. He
was on the way back to his homeland
to a position with the C.S.I.R. when his
ship met with disaster.
Artist Alexander Colquhoun, who
passed over at 75 in Melbourne last week,
was born and educated in Glasgow, and
came out to Australia as a young man
when the Eaglemont school was flourish-
ing and Conder, McCubbin, Streeton and
Tom Roberts were starting. In the early
days of that movement he painted and
exhibited a lot. Later he became art
critic of the “Age,” a Gallery trustee
and a foundation member of the Aus-
tralian Academy. Colquhoun lost a son
in the last war; another is a well-known
Melbourne painter.
When General Pau visited Australia in
1918 he left behind him with the Repat-
riation Commission the wherewithal to
establish a scholarship for children of
soldiers killed or incapacitated in the war.
This year’s winner is George M. Bed-
brook. He started studying for his medi-
cal degree at Melbourne University in
1939, and gets the £4O prize for his show
of promise.
Donald Yates, general superintendent
of the Broken Hill Associated Smelters
at Port Pirie, who has been watching his
new £250,000 desulphurisation plant
taking shape, is South Australian-born,
like so many other captains of industry
in th£ B.H.A.S. and B.H.P. His cradle
was rocked at Mount Barker. Around
1914-18 he was a captain in the Ist Tun-
nelling Company, A.1.F., and won the
Military Cross. Like g.m. Essington
Lewis, who began his career with
8.H.A.5., Yates was noted for football
prowess in his younger days.
Robert Mitchell grew up in the Vic-
torian Assembly, being a messenger
there at 16. He heard Alfred Deakin
make his maiden speech as a poli-
tician. When the Victorian Parliament
moved out of the institution in Spring-
street and the Federal Parliament moved
in, “Bob” stayed with the building as
housekeeper, and when the transfer to
Canberra occurred he accompanied it, and
continued to housekeep for a succession
of Governments until 1929, when he went
into retirement. Bob could tell stories
of every notable politician back to the
salad days of Barton, George Reid and
Dr. Maloney. He had reached 76 the
other day when he passed out in Mel-
bourne.
In the construction of the great pipeline
from the River Murray to feed B.H.P.
industries at Whyalla one of the chief
men is Christopher George Frederick
Johnson, S.A.’s Engineer for Water
Supply. Eight years ago he was first
resident engineer for another big scheme,
the Mount Bold reservoir. Johnson was
in the Ist Field Company Engineers,
A.I.F,
Brigadier John M. Locke, recently
appointed brigadier in charge of admin-
istration, Eastern Command, graduated
from Duntroon in 1914, just in time to
join the 13th Battalion A.I.F. In two
BRIGADIER J. M. LOCKE.
years he was a brigade major in Monash’s
3rd Brigade. After the war came a course
at Camberley, some general staff appoint-
ments and an instructorship in tactics at
Duntroon. On the outbreak of the
present war Brigadier Locke was called
to Army Headquarters on the operational
side,
Passed on in Melbourne, Captain
Lubert, a picturesque figure as a skipper
aboard the snagging boats on the Murray
in the days when E. J. Brady travelled
it in his boat the Lone Hand and wrote
the story for the magazine of the same
name. Brady described Lubert as “a
Breton with an explosive laugh. Jollity
oozed from him. The oil of good humor
exuded from his crew.” Lubert in his later
years was a member and chanty-singer of
the Shiplovers’ Society. He was dictating
his reminiscences for the society’s jour-
nal, “The Dog Watch,” when the long
trick ended.
Chairman of the State Wool Com-
mittee in S.A. is Elder, Smith’s g.m.,
Thomas Ernest Field, who reaches his
jubilee with the firm this year. More
than half his service has been in
Westralia, where he opened the firm’s
business in 1903, remaining in charge
in Perth until appointed g.m. 12 years
ago. Field was president of the West-
ralian State Wool Committee and a
member of the Wheat Marketing Board.
Dead in Brisbane at 68, M. J. Kirwan,
a picturesque figure in Queensland Labor
politics from 1912 to 1932—he was a
Minister on two or three occasions.
“Mick’s” introduction of himself to
public life was as foreman porter at the
Brisbane Central station, where his son-
orous tones, reflected from the arched
roof, completely dominated all traffic
noises. He lost the job in the 1912 strike,
but a few months later the majestic voice
gained for Labor the Brisbane seat. Kir-
wan’s hobby was lifesaving. The Royal
Life Saving Society made him a life
governor and gave him its highest award,
and he was president of the Surf Life
Saving Association from its inception in
1929.
Killed in action at Benghazi, Dr. A. J.
Cunningham, who left a Macquarie-street
(Sydney) practice as a gynaecological
specialist to take command of the First
Field Ambulance, A.1.F., with rank as
lieut.-col. He was a son of W. J. Cunning-
ham, headmaster of many large N.S.W.
schools, and interrupted his medical
studies to enlist in the A.I.F. in the 1914-
18 war. He was senior resident medical
officer of Sydney Hospital in 1921 and
then superintendent of the Paddington
Royal Hospital for Women (Sydney),
where he gained his exceptional obstetric
experience. Later he had an extensive
private practice at Bondi Junction.
Ron Merriman, son of W. T. Merri-
man, is a bombardier in the A.I.F. Young
Merriman, representing the third genera-
tion of a southern pastoral family,
owns Walwa station, near Breadalbane
(N.S.W.). He received his early instruc-
tion in sheepbreeding from his father,
who makes a habit of getting top prices
for wool and winning championships
with his merinos.
Herbert William Gartrell, who suc-
ceeds Oliver Woodward as president of
the Australasian Institute of Mining and
Metallurgy, is Professor of Mining at
Adelaide Uni. He also directs the Bony-
thon Metallurgy Laboratory at the Adel-
aide School of Mines. A graduate in
arts and science of Adelaide Uni., Gart-
rell was appointed lecturer in mining in
1910. On the retirement of knight Robert
Chapman as Engineering Prof, in 1939
a chair of mining was created and Gart-
rell became its first occupant. He’s the
author of An Introduction to Mining
Finance, published in 1923.
Jimmy Nangle, who died at Sydney
Observatory on Saturday, aged 72, was
born at Newtown (Sydney) and started
work at 11 in a brickyard. He studied and
became an architect, and in 1907 became
head of the department of architecture
at Sydney Technical College. From 1914
to 1934 he was N. S. Wales Super-
intendent of Technical Education. After
the 1914-18 war he organised vocational
training for returned soldiers. A life-
long interest in astronomy (he had a
small private observatory at his home
at Stanmore) led him to offer his ser-
vices as honorary astronomer when the
N. S. Wales Government proposed to
close Sydney Observatory in 1925. He
was the author of Australian Building
Practice and Stars of the Southern
Heavens.
Gerald Albert William Pope, just
retired as g.m. of the S.A. Government
Export Department, was born at Gawler
(S.A.) 65 years ago. Joining the Customs
Department in 1894, Pope was transferred
to the Export Department when it was
established a year later. During his 36
years’ managership, seven million lamb
carcasses, one million pigs and 10,000
tons of beef have been handled, apart
from huge quantities of apples and pears.
Successor to Col. Urquhart as A.A. and
Q.M.G., 4th Military District (S.A.), is
Major Joseph Reginald Kearnan. He's
South Australian-born, 37, and is an
Adelaide barrister of 15 years’ standing.
MAJOR J. R. KEARNAN.
Took up soldiering at 17 and held various
ranks in the 10th Battalion (militia). In
1932 he became staff captain, H.Q., 3rd
Infantry Brigade. He was deputy-
assistant adjutant-general to the 4th Dis-
trict prior to his latest promotion.
Monsignor Thomas Phelan, who died
on Sunday, was born in Ireland 73 years
ago, and came to Sydney in 1892, the year
of his ordination. After six years at St.
Mary’s Cathedral he became parish priest
of St. Thomas’s, Lewisham, and remained
there for 42 years; during his term
nearly £lOO,OOO was raised for new build-
ings. In 1937 he became Vicar-General
of the Archdiocese of Sydney. He had
been Chancellor of the Archdiocese since
1920. Two months ago Pope Pius XII
conferred on him the title of Protho-
notary Apostolic.
Second to none in S.A. as an advocate
of the black man’s rights, and recently
prominent in the establishment of the
big new Ernabella mission station out
from Oodnadatta, Charles Duguid gradu-
ated in medicine at Glasgow University,
and still has the burr-r-r of his native
town of Saltcoats, Ayrshire. Dr. Duguid
served in the A.I.F. He has been
Moderator of the Presbyterian Church
in S.A. ; is president of the Aborigines’
Protection League and a member of the
new Government control board for abos.
Recently died at North Sydney, Tom
Kidston the second. He was a surveyor,
and his help and advice will be missed
by many N.S.W. land men. He was one
of three generations of that name who
have served rural industry during the last
50 years. Tom Kidston I was forest
guard in the central west for many years.
Tom Kidston 111 was his father’s assistant
for several years before graduating in
medicine at Sydney University and serv-
ing with the Australian Navy. Tom Kid-
ston IV is a lad of 19 who has just taken
his diploma of agriculture, and will, mili-
tary service permitting, later be heard of
as an agricultural chemist. Rod Kidston,
brother of Tom the third, is Crown
Prosecutor in Sydney.


SMOKE-OH!
“Air hostess and pilot to marry.”
—Social column.
Apparently she had no trouble land-
ing him.
*i* *i* HE•4*
“Nat Pendleton’s valet turns the pages for
him when he reads his newspaper.”
—Film chatter.
They must have a Thursday afternoon
ragshop edition over there too!
HE* *i*
“In Crime in Two Flats, the murder takes
place during a rehearsal of a symphony
orchestra.” —Book review.
The victim, of course, being the
musical score.
4< 4* H< 4*
“All you need to write for the radio is a
gag book.”
Sheer waste. We know several funny
men who get a living on the air retailing
the jokes they learnt at their parents’
knees.
4< 4* 4*
“He was privileged to take the beautiful
girl and her mother to the theatre.”
— Woman’s paper.
The other fellows wished they had half
his luck.
“The whole room was full of this man, full
of his presence.”
It’s a tight squeeze in our kitchenette,
too.
•Jt 4* 4*
“Are man’s inventions always as fast as we
think they ar el”—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Well, man invented peroxide blondes,
and the missus says they’re fast enough!
Fair Game.
“Oh, would I were a bird!"
She sang with trill and run ;
“And would I had a gun!”
Thought everyone who heard.
C. L.
* * v *
“The conversation came to a dead end.
Buck knew he had come against a wall, and
he knew now what the wall was. He knew
what had put sand in the bearings. He couldn’t
go any further.” —Short story.
Metaphorically speaking, of course.
•h 'h
“Alexander the Great always had a notebook
near him so that lie could write down his
dreams.” — “Woman.”
Lesser men keep a notebook to write
down the names and addresses of their
dreams.
4* 4* 4*
“Men have an abhorrence for twisted stocking
seams and careless feet in women.”
—Film mag.
Dear girl, if you would nab a mate
And make a matrimonial hit.
Be sure your stocking seams are straight
A nd never put your foot in it!
4* & 4* v
“Bullet-proof glass domes have saved the
lives of several airmen.” —“Digest of Digests.”
But we still prefer the old-fashioned
skull of good solid bone.
•I* 4* 4* 4*
A barmaid is a girl who keeps the
mugs full.
The sugar-daddy said to the gold-
digger what the eggshell said to the
egg: “You’ll run away when I’m broke.”
4< + 4*
The Italian Navy seems to get that
sinking feeling quite often.
4* 4* *i* 4*
“Actress as Billiardist.” —“Daily Telegraph
But she couldn’t start until she got her
cue.
Will (and Won’t) Power.
His field of view was bounded once
By rabbits bright and green,
By purple scorpions and snakes
Of all the hues between.
When wine was red and beer was brown
He looked on them with ease,
And got the whole prismatic range
By simply mixing these.
But sudden reformation came;
His downward course was stayed,
And people, marvelling, remarked
“What strength is here displayed;
What firmness was required to break
A habit held so long. 1”
The new wife heard and, smiling, said
“My will is very strong.”
Nellie A. Evans.
Golden Girl.
“Men prefer the girl with shining golden
hair.” — Advertisement.
We sat there on the golden sand. The
golden sunset looked so grand. I held
her sun-tanned, golden hand. A golden
future then we drew. My girl seemed
precious, good and true. Her shining
hair was golden too.
But now she’s bold as brass to me,
metallic-voiced, yet full of glee because
I am, it’s plain to see, her old gilt-edged
security. She rakes in pay-dirt with that
thing of gold she got—the wedding-ring!
ELM.
All Washed Up.
“Take it easily. Plan your washday.”
— Woman’s paper.
Your wife’s on holidays. You’re on
a bender and the copper’s on the boil.
Right-oh! All set for trouble. Planning
this washday in advance was a bit
awkward, but you managed it, and the
ice-chest is full.
All goes well with the washing until
you lose the opener and have to snap
the tops off the bottles by belting them
on the edge of the copper. Some glass
gets mixed up with the suds, but no
beer is wasted, so you aren’t worried.
In the copper you’ve got six shirts,
two tablecloths, some socks and your navy
overcoat that you’d wrapped the fish
and chips in so as to keep them dry that
rainy night. It boils over, but that saves
you washing the laundry floor and, any-
way, you’re out on the verandah having
a glass with the butcher, so you don’t
notice.
When the clothes are boiled dry that’s
the office to take them out. Putting
on your heavy gardening gloves so that
the red-hot clothes won’t burn your
hands, you sling them over the line. And
who are you to worry about the dark
streaks running crosswise through your
shirts and all through the tablecloths.
After all, it won’t spoil your navy over-
coat to have it a bit lighter in color.
E.
Blind Bargain.
“Bette Davis takes a gamble on her new
marriage.” —Movie magazine.
Well, that’s nothing to skite about;
everybody likes a flutter now and then.
I remember when accepting a shade of
odds about one of my prospective mar-
riages I met my intended ma-in-law by
accident, lost confidence and scratched
from the engagement. The girl entered
a protest, of course, but the Judge cited
Rule 111 a, which reads: “At the time
of making the wager the bettor must
stand a reasonable chance of winning,”
and awarded me damages. It’s all a
matter of luck.
Anyway, new or old, marriages are
always risky. Take two sportsmen of
“Cot a Wrong number, surge, an' I'm jist tryin' ter get me tuppence back."
my acquaintance. One's been married
six weeks and the other tempted Provi-
dence six years ago. Both get severely
reprimanded on race-days if the rent
runs fourth. On the other the
gas money romps home at “33’5,” they
are each presented with neckties or
socks.
In short, if you must take a wife, take
care!
PERCIVAL.
War-time Spirit.
“The urgent need for reducing the consump-
tion of petrol is known to everyone, but an
enormous quantity of it is still being used for
purely pleasure purposes.”— “S. M. Herald.
“I think its a crying shame,” writes
Mrs, Sarah Stubbings, of Woolloomoo-
loo, “the way some of these flash
soshelites can’t think of nobody only
theirselves, fancy useing petrol for
pleasure at a time like this when even
my old man is doing his bit and saveing
all his crown seals, I cant see no reason
why these petrol adicks couldnt make
do by drinking metho, which always has
been good enuff for me and .always will
be too.”
P. S. C.
Audition.
When we were much in love and young,
And arm-in-arm went walking.
My shy young Millie held her tongue
While I did all the talking.
Then after love had lost its guile.
And billing turned to snapping.
I listened (saying nothing ) while
The missus did the yapping.
But nowadays when tempers fray
And eyes with anger glisten.
We both have quite a lot to say
What time our neighbors listen!
P. O. M. C
He Couldn’t Finish It.
“I’ve been reading,” began the boarder
near the foot of the table, helplessly
laying down his knife and fork and
gloomily eyeing the fragment of meat
on his plate, “of a man who took his
own life, and under an ancient law they
drove a stake through his heart.”
“That was tough,” murmured the
boarder with the hollow cough.
Then they noticed the glitter in the
landlady’s eye, and the meal proceeded
in silence.
C. L.
My Ring Reminiscences.
(By “Colly” Flowerlugg, Australia’s Wonder
Pug.)
First of all I want to thank the “Daily
Yellowrag” for letting me say my stuff
one sentence to each paragraph.
It may read a bit like the first primer.
You know.
Tack threw a stone at a rat.
The rat ran away.
It was a big rat.
Great style, that.
American.
Terse.
I’m told my readers will lap these
reminiscences up this way.
They’ll grasp it better.
Also I’d like to thank the referee for
taking that kick in the guts I gave him
for giving a foul against me that last
fight for using the kidney punch.
It was a beaut.
It was because of that I was outed
for life.
If I hadn’t been outed for life I’d have
never been asked to write these remi-
niscences.
Yesterday the editor told me not to
use too many commas, whatever he
means.
I was born at on the morning of
the 29th July, 1909.
My mother was real pleased it was
a boy.
I went a stone and a half.
My extraordinary weight at birth has
caused hundreds of thousands of pounds
to change hands in wagers by my count-
less admirers.
Once it caused a fight between two
of them.
One fellow said I weighed only a stone
and a quarter.
Tire other bloke bashed him.
I was christened Joseph.
Joe for short.
My mother’s cousin’s husband’s name
is Claude, and she thought the similarity
might cause some confusion, so they
called me Colquhoun after her bull-
terrier, who, they said, looked a lot like
me.
I always got “Colly” for short.
It stuck.
I was a born pug.
Though I say it myself.
I scored my first k.o. at the tender age
of six.
My Aunt Belinda had come one day
and brought me a blue balloon.
I wanted a red one.
So I socked her.
Fair on the point as, she bent down to
kiss me.
She squawked once and curled up.
My father was so pleased he bought
me a pair of knuckle-dusters and taught
me the rabbit-killer.
At school I could belt any kid up to
a stone lighter than myself.
I was tough.
I didn’t cotton to the idea of work,
so I got hanging around gyms and doing
some sparring and work-outs with some
of the near big-shots.
One day a manager told me I had a
face that was simply made to be a punch-
ing bag.
This encouragement spurred me on and
I was determined that the squared ring
would one day echo to the plaudits of
those who would acclaim me champ.
I got my first chance in a novice com-
petition at an outer suburban stadium.
I got my cobber to get behind my
opponent and sing out “Hey, Snow!’
just as the opening bell went.
He was a raw mug.
As he turned round I king-hit him.
After that I never looked back.
He probably didn’t either.
I’ll never forget my first fight in the
prelims.
It was against “Ocker” Bonebuster.
He broke my nose.
A few weeks after that I met my old
Sunday-school teacher in the street.
Can you imagine yours truly sitting
up in his best bib and tucker and tossing
catechism answers around?
I did once.
He thought I had busted my snout
chopping wood, and said if he were me
he wouldn’t have it straightened, as he
thought it improved my appearance.
I’ve taken his advice.
Fancy little me taking a Sunday-school
teacher’s advice!
But really I think I do look better
with it broken.
I’ve heard some of these birds in the
bleachers say that all these fights are
readied-up and that if a pug won’t lay
down when they want him to he’ll soon
be on the outer and won’t get a contest.
That’s ridiculous.
Sure!
All the fights readied up!
Why, I distinctly remember the time
“Spots” Bullivant wouldn’t come at it.
It was his turn to “lay down,” too.
Gosh I was wild, so 1 decided to take
it out on him.
We stood toe and toe and slugged.
I’d have easily knocked him cold if
I hadn’t stopped a fast right cross in
the third.
I think.
Or was it in the second?
Anyway, I remember hitting the can-
vas for keeps.
Or rather I don’t remember.
They told me about it afterwards.
But it was good experience.
(Watch tomorrow’s “Daily Yellow-
rag” for another thrilling instalment of
“Colly” Flowerluggs brilliant ring career.
In it he will tell how he pulled a fast
one on “Biffer” Hawkins when that
southpaw from the States thought he had
“Colly” on toast!)
Bo.


ABORGINALITIES
“Bull-ant Bill”: Notwithstanding State
schools, radio and talkies, we bush blokes
retain our own methods of literary and
verbal expression. When Old Joe’s
nephew was turned down for the A.I.F.
by the flat bush feet on which he had
walked 90 miles in three days to the
railhead to enlist, 1 put in a word for
him with the city-bred shire engineer for
a council job. He did so well that they
tried him out as a ganger, but his work
sheets looked like sinking him for the
steady job. “Look at that!” snorted the
engineer, handing one over. “Can you
make anything of it?” It related to a
new post-line for the council’s electric
supply, and bore the word Digenolz re-
peated several times in the Work Done
column. Young Joe’s auditory short-cut
formula for digging holes was obvious
enough in its context. Still, I admit that
I’d had a start in its interpretation by
recalling his reference to “them big wire-
less dogs—all stations, ain’t they called?”
Also his word-etching of the new fore-
man at the sawmill, a tall, thin man with
a stilt-like, stalking gait and bony chin
outthrust above a long, lean neck. “Y’
mean the bloke like a swamp crane?” he
asked.
* * * *
“Murlonga”: Were I not so thick in
the skull I would have thought of the
reason for green grass and bare country
on opposite sides of the fence as given
by “Julia Creek” (B. 5/2/’4l). After
working sheep for over 30 years, though,
I find that theory of working up-wind
is played out, except when the flies and
sandflies are bad. There’s green grass
on both sides then. Perhaps “J.C.” will
explain this: At the end of ’O6, on War-
breccan station (s.-w. Q.), between the
Wuringles and the Prairie country, for
about ten miles there was green grass
on one side of the fence, dry stuff on the
other. The division was a six-wire fence,
and both blocks of country were un-
stocked.
* * * *
“Bungham”: There are times when it
is diplomatic to ape your betters,
especially if they happen to be in superior
force. Saw a flock of fresh-water cor-
morants, apparently having a few hours
off from minnow-swallowing, standing on
a mudbank with their heads cocked in
that absurd way of theirs. A lone wild
duck, flying blind, descended among
them. The hostile looks bent on the
intruder apparently unnerved him, as he
stood there the picture of indecision.
Then he stretched his neck after the
manner of a cormorant and the tension
was eased. It wasn’t a bad effort either ;
but I’ll bet there was a crick in that
duck’s neck afterwards.
* * * *
“S.V.”: Victoria’s strangest summer
promises to glide into autumn without a
bushfire. Melbourne’s citizens are hurry-
ing about their avocations in overcoats,
the grass is lush and green in meadows
which ought to be singed and grey, and
the growth in gardens is stupendous. But
the most curious phenomenon is reported
from Bacchus Marsh. January was the
wettest month on record, but even the
hardiest gum-trees are withering—on the
sides facing the ocean. There are various
theories to explain it, from frostbite,
due to an icy gale from southern lati-
tudes, to the salt spray it also brought on
its 30 miles’ journey. My charlady attri-
buted the influenza epidemic in 1938 to
the bushfires filling the air with smoke,
and she says the present abnormal Vic-
torian summer is due to the recent burn-
ing of London by Nazi raiders. Still, her
belief is just as well founded as a radio
professor’s notion that he can predict
what Hitler is going to do tomorrow.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow got into
an argument with a couple of rough-
house crutchers in a street of Collarenebri
(N.S.W.). Fists and boots were flying, so
was profanity, when a pale youth ap-
peared and stood to watch the proceed-
ings. “Hey, you! ” Mat yelped. “Gimme a
hand!” The youth looked horrified. “I?”
he answered. “What can I do? I can’t
fight. But I could go for the police.” Mat
stopped a left hook and sent a right jab
“Must be gain now, dearie —’ere comes me Prince Charming .”
home, got his breath back and snapped,
“Huh, one of them all-aid-short-of-war
snoozers, are y’? Well, clear out; we
don’t want any nootrals round here.”
Then he settled down to the business in
hand, but the crutchers were so struck
by his attitude that they applied for an
armistice, and peace terms were arranged
in the nearest bar.
* * * *
“Chick”: “O’M.” (B. 5/2/’4l) says:
“This generation is mercifully delivered
from the beer-bottle that had a large cone
rising through the bottom.” He is only
thinking in terms of capacity. But what
about the poor fowl-cocky who no longer
has the excuse that the bottles will come
in handy for bottom hinges for gates?
* * * *
“Old-timer”; Among the reports of
the capture of the three German inter-
nees who escaped from a Victorian camp
is the statement that a Murray man, boat-
ing on the river, was hailed by a stranger
with the question “Is this the Murray?”
The spot was near Echuca, where both
the Campaspe and Goulburn rivers join
the big stream and a lot of creeks may
be encountered. Thus the stranger may
be excused for doubting which is which,
a fact which probably made the boatman
suspicious, for no Murray man could
possibly mistake the old river itself. “Y’
could bring me back to the Murray blind-
fold an’ I’d know where I was,” is a com-
mon remark of those who’ve spent years
on it; and they’re right, for the Murray
smells are like no other, and so are the
Murray sounds. The stream itself moves
along with a suggestion of power and dig-
nity much superior to the hurrying and
babbling of mountain streams or the
lazy, idle, ne’er-do-well attitude of the
Darling, Lachlan and other meanderers.
Old Man Murray has humor, too ; he
might give you a good fish from a hole
today and drown you in the same hole
tomorrow ; but he seldom tricks his own
children, who know him too well. Gov-
ernments have locked his path and tried
to check him, but he goes on, mostly with
a grin, always unruffled. Had the three
Germans been allowed to stay on the
river for a year or two they would have
been better men, and probably would
never have left it, despite the blandish-
ments of their Fiihrer.
* * * *
“Flight”: “Bogaduck” and “Plymouth
R.” are both crowing on the wrong stump
when they speak about galahs with their
crops full of any seed at all. I don’t
know one member of the parrot family
which eats seeds. Every one of them
cracks the husk and eats the kernel—and
I’d like to know the seed which will stay
fertile when its husk has gone and only
its exposed bare kernel is laid open to
the gastric juices of the galah.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Judging from fossil
remains found at Cuddie Springs, near
Brewarrina (N.S.W.), things must have
been a lot livelier around there once
upon a time. Amongst those present
when the claypan was some 15ft. lower
was a marsupial bigger than a rhinoceros
and more massively built, with front
teeth over a foot long. Had it survived
today it would have been terribly hard
on fencing. There were also flightless
birds twice as big as emus, and wombats
of dimensions which would have been
useful for putting in drives had mines
been invented. Goannas of 17ft.
abounded, and giant crocodiles appear
to have have been frequent visitors, seem-
ingly with dietary intentions on the more
peaceable animals who happened to get
stuck in the mud. Altogether it seems
just as well that Homo sapiens stayed up
his genealogical tree until such uncom-
fortable neighbors had gone, or at least
been scaled down to manageable sizes.
„. * „. #
“Empty”: Returning to my N.Q. dis-
tnct after a long absence, I missed one
of the inhabitants. “Where’s Stumpy? ’
with hS Itf h y p
with bem ridiculed because he was so
thefe"places 6
dons evSv S ’one d s he t f °"RT d
■oo/ ™’a This
time it was with gettin’ backache from
havin’ to bend down to pick his oranges,
, u; , / *, 7. f. 5 ’
m,, n lf„l ha t dandboU^ a t"-
nut plantation to save so much bendm .
.** * *
“Mick the Miler”: The new tractor-
driver was the pride of old Mac’s heart,
He had changed the tractor from a
rattling, smoking, boiling lump of trouble
into a purring embodiment of power and
dependability. So it was with perfect
trust that Mac left him to proceed with
the ploughing while he went for a two-
days’ visit to the city. His instructions
were brief: “When you finish this pad-
dock just go through the gate into the next
one, and,” he added, “don’t stop talking
to Riley if you see him.” For Riley was
Mac’s sworn enemy. It was dark when
Mac returned from his visit, and the new
driver assured him that everything had
gone splendidly, and that he would finish
the second paddock, a 40-acre block, next
day. As he was greasing up next morn-
ing the new driver looked up to see Mac
clawing at his whiskers as he came
through the gate. Then the storm broke,
Mac cursed him with every curse he
knew and others invented on the spur
of the moment. “Has something gone
wrong?” inquired the surprised driver,
“Wrong!” bellowed the ropable agricul-
turist. “Nothin’ except that you’ve
gone through the wrong gate and
ploughed Riley’s paddock for him.” The
new driver was last seen passing the “ten-
mile” with a hunted look in his eye and
a very light swag on his back,
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: In W.A. we have a kan-
garoo tick which has no compunction
about seeking a human host. Bushwhackers
of my acquaintance favor the removal-by-
fire method—a glowing point of banksia
or karri applied to the posterior of the
dug-in pest. In the subsequent back-
pedallings, the beak usually extracts itself.
Apt to be mildly painful should the
operator’s hand tremble or slip, but a
mere trifle compared with the abscess
that will result should a broken-off pro-
boscis be left in.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Australians generally are
under the impression that they have been
specially selected by Providence to suffer
the rabbit curse. But the British Minister
of Agriculture has just announced that
the creature is robbing Britain of 30 to
40 million pounds’ worth of food a year,
and farmers are now out to slaughter
them by tens of thousands. I was stay-
ing on a farm in Cornwall near Land's
End just after the last war, and I saw
more rabbits playing round the place
than I ever saw in a similar position in
Australia. The hillsides were riddled by
their burrows, and man didn’t seem to
worry them in the slightest. Love of
wild life has always been a cult in Eng-
land, but the Englishman seems to have
carried it a bit too far.
.*.. * * *
“Fitzwilliam”: I notice that the bunyip
has reared its head in The Bulletin
again, this time under the guise of a
crocodile. Well, it may be one, though
b . acl S te i lows have given me - [heir bun
r °™ d e h “ d “d The
“el 0 much moreEfthe bb*
and beasts of their native land than white
. t hppn ahlp t ri;
c “ d r
a boy I teheed on
*o ds to that effect at 31
wor , to T , al m was • a
mopoke. Later on I learned I was mis-
'aken, and that it is the boobook owl
, hat s ’ ays „ mopoke „ Now 1 have £ound
out that Binghi was right. Only a few
months ago a bird started mopoking in
my garden. Like a good grandfather I
proceeded to enlighten my grandson’s
ornithological darkness by explaining that
the creature responsible was really a
boobook owl. Then our cat took a hand,
When he made a grab from the tree-
fork the bird blundered into the house
through the open window and perched
on a picture-rail for about half an hour,
He was a genuine mopoke, and we had
ample time to compare him, feather for
feather, with the picture of Podargus in
the Australian Encyclopaedia, for which
he might have served as the model. When
we had finished admiring him he flew out
again into the night, uttering a derisive
“mopoke” as he went through the win-
dow. I sent the boy to bed before he
could start asking questions.
A HUNDRED YEARS AGO.
A hundred years have passed and gone--
Oh, boys, ho!
Tom loved a lass, a lively one;
He bought the bonnet she had on
The morn they sailed for Avalon,
Ho, boys, ho!
Wide the seas when wind-ships went
With their spreading sailcloths bent.
Netting from fair skies the strong
Fins of heaven that along
Ruffled seascapes rolling bore
Freights of commerce shore to shore;
Wide the seas were, rich with chance,
Deeds of daring and romance.
Then the greasy whaler lay
In some quiet Maori bay;
Then the sealers sought their freight
Round the islands of the Strait.
From Nantucket to the Horn,
Plymouth Sound to Capricorn,
Block and cordage, cloth and pine
Came and went across the Line.
Roaring days, when bucko mates
Hazed their deckhands till the gates
Of perdition oft set free
Mad, red-handed mutiny.
Chanty days, when shouting lips
On the dipping, reeling ships
Chorused loud, aloft, below,
Wild refrains of long ago:
Sing, my bullies! Wake once more
“Rio Grande” and “Shanandore”!
Raise the ditties that ye know
With the harpooned whale in tow!
Shake it up and break it down
To the lilt of “Sally Brown”!
Man the windlass! Loose, and haul!
Blow, my brave sea bullies all!
Outward bound, their courses are
Set by Cross and pale Pole star:
Through the long night, wan and sere.
Shadow ships the helmsmen steer.
Reuben’s gone; old Stormy’s laid
In a grave the steamers made;
Down in Hilo Tom’s at rest.
Strike eight bells —the wind’s gone west.
A hundred years have passed and gone —
Oh, boys, ho !
Tom loved a lass, his chosen one;
He bought the bonnet she had on
A hundred years ago.
victoria.
E. J. Brady.


“Pitt St.”: The credulity of people who
believe in astrology pales before the
credulity of the average flapper-press
reporter, especially when the latter stands
agape before the slow tongue and hidden
grin of the simple “primary producer.”
One of the latter, who knows his news-
papers, sprang a wild tale on Sydney
“D.T,” of a funnel-web spider caught in
the act of “attacking his chickens.” Forth
went the “D.T.” men, camera and all.
Next morning there appeared a picture
of a black spider above the caption:
“Deadly poisonous funnel-web spider
caught threatening two - months - old
chickens.” The accompanying report
told of how the poultryman “found his
chickens huddled in a corner of the pen
with a big funnel-web spider advancing
towards them. I ran in with a shovel.”
The two-months-old chicks are now re-
ported to have got over the shock, and
presumably the “D.T.” men have gone
back to reading about Joe Palooka, en-
tirely unaware that one leg is now longer
than the other.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Foxes may like quinces
(B. 19/ 2/ ’4l), but the fruit Reynard will
go a mile on his hands and knees to get
is sultanas. Grapegrowers on the outskirts
of irrigation districts know how true
this is.
♦ * * *
“Tar Mack”: “Talking of what eagles
can lift,” remarked Scotty the pilot,
“reminds me of the flock of wedgetails
that I made pets of when I was flying
the Melbourne-Sydney run a few years
ago in those old-style crates. Regular
as clockwork a squadron of them would
greet me just near Kosciusko and fly
alongside the bus till we were safely over
the ranges. Their leader was a grand
old bird we christened Baldy. At a signal
from him the whole gang would perch
on the leading edge of the wing for a
spell while the co-pilot and myself fed
them with crusts from the passengers’
lunch. One day, just beyond Canberra,
the clouds were right down on deck, and
the air was as bumpy as a switchback.
1 was just thinking of turning back when
the wedgetails picked us up. As soon
as Baldy saw us he came diving at our
windshield and then zoomed upwards for
a couple of hundred feet. I soon twigged
that he was trying to let us know we
were too low. I pulled the wheel back
till it was giving me a pain in the chest,
but the old bus wouldn’t respond. I wus
just starting to get desperate when Baldy,
who had woke up to our plight, screamed
something in bird lingo to his cobbers,
and, splitting up into two flights, they
landed on my wing. Then at a call from
their leader the whole mob started flap-
ping like blazes. I watched the alti-
meter, and we gained a couple of hun-
dred feet. But it was darned close. The
top of Kossie passed below our port
wing, only fifty feet down!”
* * * *
“Atrax”: “Knoo” (B. 5/2/’4l) has got
the reason why ambergris is practically
valueless nowadays wrong side up. It
is not that the repulsive but once-valuable
disease product of a sperm whale’s pan-
creas is being produced synthetically, but
that improved methods of perfume
manufacture have abolished the need
for its peculiar property of intensifying
certain odors. Had a synthetic substitute
for it been required it would present no
insoluble problem to research workers
"He says someone's pinched his bike."
in commercial chemistry. Ambergris is
not composed of living cells, as “K.”
assumes, judging from his comparison of
it with flesh, but is a mixture of waxes
and other waste products of defective
digestion, one or more of which form
the scent-intensifying ingredient. With
improved methods of manufacture and
blending modern perfumes do not require
the intensifying which it provided for
cruder products.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Tell “Ex-Moonbian” (B.
12/2/’4l) that if he travels from Forbes
down the south side of the river to Con-
dobolin (N.S.W.) he’ll strike the Moonbi
pub about halfway. That’s all there is,
just the pub ; but what more will he
want?
* * * *
“Billy See”: “Mat’s Mate” put over
a good joke (B. 29 /1 / ’4l), but my ex-
perience of toil has been that a boss
who used the Oxfordian language quoted
would be so easy to work for that it
would be almost a shame to take the
money. To the man who has never done
any hard manual labor, that exercise,
even to look upon, partakes of the pain-
ful, and though he may be obliged to
inflict it upon a fellow creature he always
feels tender about it. Likewise he simply
doesn’t know what constitutes a day’s
work. The real grinder is the boss with
memories of corns on his own hands ;
he has no compunction about inflicting
pain. Also, he knows to the last drop
of sweat what constitutes a day.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Can “Bogaduck” be sure
that the maggots he found in his mush-
rooms and his kerosene-poisoned zamia
palms (B. 29/1/’4l) were really the pro-
duct of the buzz-fly? I’ve found similar
life forms under similar conditions. And
I have also, sorrowfully, bred many mil-
lions of blowfly and other fly lame. But
I have never yet seen such larvae make
a success of a vegetable diet, even under
the most favorable conditions, which is
when anjmal refuse and vegetable will
be mixed, as in the cleanings from poul-
try pens during the winter cabbage and
cauliflower season. Real fly lame, in my
experience, will eat out all the animal
matter, then perish on the vegetable,
though the latter, as with cabbage leaves,
may smell to the high heavens. Nature
is a great copyist; she makes many larvae
forms almost alike, though such creatures
when they reach the adult stage may be
markedly different. For instance, our Aus-
tralian case moth, that fellow who weaves
himself a cocoon, then protects and
camouflages it with bits of stick, has an
almost exact counterpart in the larvae of
the British caddis fly, except that the
latter lives under water and covers its
cocoon with twigs of water plants. This
larval similarity is seen again in wood-
boring insects. All of them on casual
observation pass as bardies, yet the adult
beetle may be one of half a hundred
different forms.
* * * *
“Pudlick”: Anyway, who told “B. A.
Ker” (B. 29 /1 / ’4l) that the old-style rope-
and-pole scaffolding was obsolete? On
the contrary, in W.A., where they occa-
sionally lay a few bricks, any other
kind of wooden structure is prohibited
should it go above the single storey. That
racket of using sawn timber, fastened
temporarily with bolts, is done for cheap-
ness, and is second cousin to “jerry.”
Good for a few feet up in cottage-build-
ing, and the 4 x 2’s can later be used
for floor joists or rafters. But when
scaffolding climbs skyhigh there’s nothing
so dependable as the green-cut sapling
or pole and the ropes. But it takes a
professional to rig such a scaffold. Note
the way in which each rope is tied ; wrap-
pings and knots never work loose, no
matter the weather or the work or weight
the poles and stagings carry. Sawn timber
can never be trusted, since every foot of
“ Personally, Clara, I have far too much regard for the dignity of our sex/”
it would need to be examined to make
sure that none was sawn across the grain
—and even that wouldn’t guarantee the
lives of the men who, with tons of bricks
and mortar, would probably spend eight
hours a day on it. But with the pole
cut green, barked and seasoned by use,
the scaffoldman knows that cross grain
can be safely ruled out.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: In the cool of the even-
ing I was digging my meagre plot when
a sharp, piercing double screech rang out
above the mumbling noises of suburbia.
No other call is quite like it, and I swung
round just in time to catch the flash of
pink as a lone, escaped galah, tossed on
a puff of wind, turned its breast to the
sunset. In an instant it was gone, and
I went with it. There they were again,
a couple of hundred of them, silent on
the ground ; but on our approach they
ose in one shrill cloud, silver-grey against
the wandering line of gums that marked
the Murrumbidgee. Right-wheel, and
the sunlight across their backs turned
them pure silver; left wheel, and
they were all sombre grey. A dive, and
the flock was skimming towards us, dimly
visible; then with a frenzied flash they
lifted and, banking steeply, flung into
the sunset a splash of rose-pink as rare
as it is beautiful. I have cursed them
when at dawn young ones tried madly to
walk up the steep iron roof of my hut
to reach their parents’ screeching encour-
agement from the ridging. I have derided
the same youngsters when, trying to
balance on telegraph wires, they have
spun round and, hanging head down, have
screamed blue murder until it eventually
occurred to them to let go. They are
trapped, shot and eaten, and cultivators
curse them consistently ; but nowhere in
the bird world is there a finer sight than
galahs at their evening or morning aero-
batics, and no call rings freer than the
wild cry they fling out across the plains.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: There was great ex-
citement behind the feed shed. A huge
Alsatian had limped in with a rabbit-
trap hanging on its foot. The hound,
misconstruing our attempts to spring the
trap with a stick, snarled and snapped
with a viciousness that deterred the
gamest. Then Bert arrived. As bold as
brass he marched forward with the back
of his hand extended towards the dog.
Growling savagely the animal crouched
until the hand was within a few feet,
then sprang up —and snapped. Bert saved
his hand by a fraction, but the treachery
roused his ire. “Y’ ungrateful mong!”
he roared. “A man ought to kick yer
ribs in. Lay down!” To our
astonishment the dog cowered and,
cringing against the shed, made no fur-
ther hostile move while the benefactor
calmly released the trap with his foot.
“You’re a game ’un,” I said to Bert
later, “doing that with a strange dog.”
The hero grinned. “I’ll let you into a
secret. That wasn’t a strange dog; that
was old Jackson’s Tiger, and I used
to work for Jackson.” “Tiger,” I
mused. “That’s a queer name for a
bitch.” Bert’s jaw dropped. “What!
Was that a bitch?” he gasped.
* * * *
“Jaseno”: “On me way to a daggin’
job on Milroy station I’d camped at
the Barwon Bridge at Brewarrina fer a
few days,” said Sam. “One afternoon I’m
peerin’ through the boxthorn hedge
round the Chow’s garden when I sees a
black kelpie cornin’ flat-out along the
irrigation ditch with a reddish blur in the
air follerin’ him. 1 moves back to get
a better look, when the kelpie races past
me, doin’ fifty an hour, and buries him-
self in the river. I find I’m startin’ orf,
too, an’ before I know what’s up I’m
sprintin’ a record with the red terror at
me ears, an’ just reaches the top uv the
river bank when— Biff ! —off goes me hat
an’ I’m makin’ a beautiful dive inter deep
water, but before hittin’ the water zipp
goes the back outa me coat. 1 keeps
well under and takes orf me boots fer the
long swim ahead. I’m well in the middle
of the Barwon before I
come up fer air, an’ down
1 goes at once and swims
underwater till I gets under
a log on the fur side. Then
I takes a squint roun’, and,
strike me fat! the river's
piled up ten feet high from
bank to bank and a red,
seethin’ mass two miles long.
I’m just near the river guage
at the bridge, and I sees
she’d risen fifteen feet in
five minutes.” “Yair, I’ll
bite,” ses Billy the Wrench.
“What was the ruddy
thing that chased you an’
the dorg?” “Punkin beetles,”
murmured Sam as he drew
at his pipe. “An’ I ain’t
never seen anythin’ like it
before or since.”
“COOTA.”
In the town of Cootamundra, in a wide and
shady street,
There’s a timeworn clock within a time-
worn tower;
It sees the seasons come and go with umm-
passioned beat.
And faithfully it calls each passing hour.
But the folk of Cootamundra are no hostages
of Time,
For them each day’s a day, no cause for
speed.
Perhaps at times they listen to the old clock’s
honest chime,
Still they reck not, for they haven’t any need.
For the town of Cootamundra was never built
for haste,
With its warm streets and their green, in-
viting trees.
Its verandahs and its pubberies, strategically
placed
For dwellers in a blessed haunt of ease.
And the days in Cootamundra mooch along
to meet the weeks,
Little caring where they’re going to, or why ;
And folk who fret and worry there are looked
upon as freaks—
It’s even thought not quite the thing to die.
In “Coota,” good old “Coota,” it’s a sin to
use a ’phone.
They have no use for Bundy clocks out
there.
No boss would give an order in a peremptory
tone,
Even speeding in a flivver’s rather rare.
So it’s me for Cootamundra and its vain old
clock on high,
And the shadows deep along the broad white
road.
There I’ll sit with other quiet blokes and watch
the world go by
And never break the Cootamundra code.
n.s.w.
OLD-TIMER.


n
w/.
LUDOWICI CHROMOL
SUPER HEAT RESISTANT
rrupowici
CHROMOL
§6
EO
FIRE BEATERS
Two types are supplied from this leather
the standard flat sheet and the new strip
type. Both have been built to fulfil the
main requirements of a good firebeater
resistance against heat and toughness to
withstand hard wear and tear. The new
strip type was very successful last season
and was found to possess many advantages
over the older flat type.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST AND ALL PARTICULARS.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL STOCKIST.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
Makers ot Quality Leather Products since 1858.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ƒ
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W
THE WILD CAT
COLUMN
Westralian Farmers, Ltd.
Bonus Nominal
to To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 10,341 Nil NO 10,341 63,752
Bad debts written off, £15,458 .. 48,294
Loss.
1930.. 4,872 Nil Nil ' 43,422
1931.. 25,995 Nil Nil 17,427
Deficit.
1932.. 67,760* Nil Nil 50,333
Profit.
1933.. 829 Nil Nil 829 49,504
Loss.
1934.. 567 Nil Nil 50,071
1935.. 126 Nil Nil 50,197
Profit.
1936.. 1,164 Nil Nil 1,164 49,033
1937.. 3.969 Nil Nil 3,969 45,064
1938.. 36,536 Nil Nil 36,536 8,528
Reserves.
1939.. 12,728 Nil Nil 12,728 4,200
1940. .103,477 5 p.c. = 10,739 Nil 92,738 96,938
*lncludes bad debts written off.
An extraordinary performance, though
the improvement in the year’s trading
result was not so pronounced as the
profit figure in the table suggests. The
gross return from commissions was
£164,719 (up £33,109) and from other
sources £228,794 (up £70,290), making
total gross earnings £393,513 (up
£103,399). Exes. (£295,593) took only
£28,515 of the increase, leaving the de-
clared net result at £97,920 as against
£23,036 in 1939. That leaves out of
the reckoning unexplained movements
in reserves an increase of £5557
last term and a reduction of £10,308 in
1939. Taking these into account, last
year’s net earnings were £103,477 (up
£90,794), or 48.3 p.c. on capital as
against 5.9 p.c. for the previous term.
Shareholders, who had gone without for
11 years to the close of accounts in
1939, got back into the picture with 5
p.c., and so far as can be seen at the
moment, which certainly isn’t far, they
look like remaining there.
No bonus was paid to clients, who
are mostly shareholders, because money
is still wanted in the business. The policy
now is to provide working capital, as
far as possible, from shareholders’ funds,
and so restrict borrowing to seasonal or
other temporary requirements. It is a
sound policy from which shareholders
can hope to reap the benefit of regular
dividends plus bonuses in the future.
The co. is one of a network of co-
operative organisations, here and over-
seas, which have done much for the
farmer by endeavoring to market his
produce at low cost and top price. Its
activities cover all the most important
branches of primary production in its
home State, and include merchandising,
insurance, chartering and agency business
as well.
The trouble from which the co. has
just emerged occurred with the big break
in the markets over a decade ago. Since
July, 1929, no less than £423,678 was
written off as bad debts, incurred mainly
prior to that date. Losses from bad
debts since are reported to be negligible,
despite some difficult periods.
The following comparison of balance-
sheet figures suggests that advances are
mostly against seasonal requirements;
1933. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £213,790 £213,967 £213,978 £214,029
Debentures . . 107,730 125,124 124,371 123,866
Sundry creditors.
etc. . . 693,434 488,190 672,991 255,779
Freeholds, etc, 148,058 99,997 118,188 115,507
Plant, etc. . . 37,190 38,501 43,612 . 46,664
Shares in other
cos. . . 48,705 91,549 87,037 87,706
Stocks . . 119,311 106,040 122,432 97,760
Debtors . . 599,279 461,208 630,564 325,720
Cash, etc. . . 12,907 21,458 13,807 27,994
Outstanding movements last term were
a contraction of £304,844 in debtors’
balances and a reduction of £417,212 in
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc. Stocks were lower by £24,672, and
cash, etc., was strengthened by £14,187.
When the books closed more or less
liquids, excluding shareholdings, ex-
ceeded outside liabilities, including de-
bentures, by £71,829, an improvement
of £102,388 over the twelvemonth.
Chief factor contributing to the im-
provement in last year’s figures was an
excellent season. Though trading in
wheat ceased on Sept. 23, 1939, when
the Wheat Board took over all unsold
grain, the co. was appointed sole re-
ceiving agent for bagged wheat, as well
as paying and shipping agent for the
board. In the shipping section the Gov-
ernment sub-chartered all vessels under
the co.’s control, and took over the co.’s
London shipping office. Turnover in
livestock increased by £52,000 ; sales of
sheepskins were 43,000 skins higher ; an
extra 12,000 bales of wool were handled ;
more eggs were shipped than ever be-
fore, thanks to British purchases; an
additional 160 tons of honey was ex-
ported for the Honey Pool; sales of
machinery increased, especially of wind-
mills and shearing and milking machines ;
more phosphate was sold, despite a
lighter demand for the State as a whole ;
and better returns were obtained from
the insurance and co-op. wholesale sec-
tions of the business. In the fruit de-
partment lack of refrigerating space
affected shipments, and therefore the
demand for packing materials.
As for the current term, an indifferent
season will affect earnings, and the co.’s
undertaking to handle some classes of
goods and render various services prac-
tically on a costs basis can be expected
to curtail profits. Still, “the sound credit
policy maintained will, by keeping the
bad debts position within reasonable
limits, minimise the difficulties arising
from reduced earnings,” the board says.
Also, the co. is putting up a new factory
for the production of scientifically pre-
pared stock foods. How this will turn
out remains to be seen. In this respect
the market is already well catered for
by old-established concerns like Meggitts.
The D.I.C.
Maoriland best knows the Drapery and
General Importing Co. of New Zealand,
Ltd., by those initials.
t Dividends — N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. 6 p.c.* Ord. serves, serves.
£/ £/ £i £> £
1929.. 45.027 15.000 10 p.c. = 17,878 12,149 125,649
1930.. 37.447 15,000 10 „ ~ 17,918 4,529 130,178
1931.. 19.371 15,000 5 „ „ 8,976 125,573
1932.. 2,974 15,000 Nil 113,547
5 p.c.
1933. .17,207 12,500 2J p.c. = 4,532 175 113,722
Inner reserves disclosed, £21,969 .. 135,691
1934.. 26.684 12,500 5 p.c. = 9,077 5,107 140,798
1935. .27,777 12,500 5 „ „ 9,092 6,185 146,983
1936.. 33.005 12,500 6 „ „ 10,927 9,578 156,561
Reserves capitalised, £58,899 .. .. 97,662
1937.. 37.568 12,500 6 p.c. = 14,589 10,479 108,141
1938.. 39.790 12,500 6 „ „ 14,589 12,701 120,842
1939.. 41.853 12,500 6 „ „ 14,589 14,764 135,606
1940.. 41.793 12,500 7 „ „ 17,021 12,272 147,878
* Reduced to 5 p.c. under the National Expenditure
Adjustment Act in April, 1932.
From the retailer’s point of view, the
12 months covered by the latest accounts
was a sellers’ market in the Dominion.
A bounteous season and good prices ob-
tained under British contracts bumped
up export income, and the use of central
bank credit to help finance war and other
expenditure increased the supply of
money from local sources, while employ-
ment has been virtually at the full since
before the outbreak of war. Under these
conditions, not only was spending power
high, but, as the year advanced, defi-
nite signs of inflation began to appear in
the shape of sharply-rising prices and
costs. With a view to preventing a run-
away movement in both prices and costs,
the Government set up an Economic
Stabilisation Conference, representative
of commercial interests, farmers, manu-
facturers and employees, in September
last.
Despite its varied complexion, the con-
ference unanimously accepted as inevit-
able some decline in real wages during
the war, and condemned inflation as
“the most cruel and least scientific method
of making a levy on the people.” It
advocated more stringent and wider con-
trol of prices, continuance of import-
selection and exchange-control, stricter
regulation of rents and more uniform
transport charges, which are now regu-
lated on a regional basis. It all suggests
curtailment of spending power and still
further increases in the already stagger-
ing load of direct and indirect taxation.
Traders, therefore, may find difficulty in
maintaining their turnover and at the
same time restraining outgoings. Still,
old-established and well-handled con-
cerns like the D.1.C., which has an exten-
sive goodwill, of which no account is
taken in the books, and which is com-
fortably financed, with something tucked
away in the family stocking as well, can
be expected to give a satisfactory account
of themselves.
The spring in last year’s gross earnings
(£347,202) was £26,155. Owing to the
louder demands of the taxgatherer, exes.
(£305,528) ran away with £22,580 of the
increase—provision for taxes of one kind
and another amounted to over £BO,OOO,
or nearly twice the net amount the busi-
ness earned for shareholders. Allowing
for reserve adjustments, the profit
(£41,835) was sufficient to pay the pref.
div. and show 12 p.c. on ord. capital,
compared with 12, 11.2 and 10.3 p.c. for
the three preceding terms. The ord. div.
was lifted a point, making it 7 p.c., and
the co. paid the social and national secu-
rity charges on the pref, div. These
charges amounted to Id. in every lOd.
of div., and were equal to an extra divi-
dend of half of one per cent. Their pay-
ment by the co. is not to be taken as a
precedent, the board says.
The market, with one eye on the co.’s
history and the other on the nice margin
between earnings and distributions and
the satisfactory state of the finances,
prices the lOs.-paid ords. at 13s. 3d. as
against 14s. 6d. a year ago. The drop
is due to the effects of taxation on share
prices. At the lower figure the return is
5.2 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. The pound
prefs. at 235. (21s. a year back) yield
4.3 p.c. so long as the co. continues to
pay the taxation already referred to. The
net tangible backing is £2 11s. 3d. prefs.
and 16s. Id. ords.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it: —•
1934. 1938. 1939'. 1940.
Pref. capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. capital . . 181,829 243,149 243,149 243,149
Liabilities . . 184,195 204,553 176,956 191,354
Premises, plant,
etc. . . 525,917 458,884 443,174 429,931
Stocks . . 181,829 221,770 231,010 255,248
Book debts .. 70,297 102,779 106,747 92,412
Investments and
cash .. 4,931 55,951 46,121 69,061
The feature which catches the eye there
is the growth of £24,238 in stocks last
term. These are claimed to be “honestly
worth more than 20s. in the £,” which
augurs well for the current year’s earn-
ings. Investments and cash were strength-
ened by £22,940, and outside liabilities,
which include an unspecified provision
for taxation, increased by only £14,398.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£225,377) was £18,455.
Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.)
Added to
Dec., Loss Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1929 .. 101,680 Nil 77,122
1930 .. 36.570 Nil 112,692
Profit.
1931 .. 3,063 Nil 3,063 109,629
1932 .. 3,902 Nil 3,902 105,727
1933 .. 236 Nil 236 105,491
1934 .. 23,843 Nil 23,843 81,648
3935 .. 24,224 3.3 p.c. = 8,111 16,113 65,635
1936 .. 44,680 10 „ „ 24,333 20,347 45,188
1937 .. 45,512 11.6,, ~ 28,389 17,123 28,065
1938 .. 3,089 Nil 3,089 24,976
3939 .. 29,698 10 p.c. = 24,334 5,364 19,612
1940 .. 23,854 8J ~ „ 20,278 3,576 16,037
A very satisfactory showing, all things
considered. Squatting out west in N. S.
Wales and over the border in Queens-
land, where this co. has been a run-
owner for the last 59 years, is largely a
gamble with nature and prices, and
seldom is there a favorable combination
of the two. Last year started favorably,
with the runs well stocked —there had
been a satisfactory lambing in 1939 —
and a good body of dry feed on the prop-
erties. Because of this 15,908 more sheep
were shorn. But they yielded 98 fewer
bales of wool, and there were 23,198
fewer sheep on the books at the end of
1940 than there were a year earlier. This
because the season became increasingly
drier as the year advanced:
, Sheep ,
On Books Wool, Pro- Average
Shorn. Dec. 31. Bales, ceeds. per Bale.
1930.. 100,011 139,644 2298 25.300 11/0/2
1932.. 166,757 192,281 4626 55,719 12/0/11
1934.. 155,935 184,469 4205 54,395 12/18/8
1935.. 150,220 148,691 4086 69,075 16/18/-
1936.. 131,167 160,344 3912 76,769 19/12/5
1937.. 110,696 104.589 3520 67,198 19/1/9
1938.. 74,505 98,618 1842 25,455 13/16/5
1939.. 95,212 125,§08 2958 48,381 10/7/1
1940.. 111,120 102,310 2860 56,951 19/18/3
The improvement of £8570 in gross pro-
ceeds from wool was due to the higher
average price received (up £3 11s. 2d.
per bale), thanks to the British purchase
contract, which is for the duration of the
war and one wool-selling season there-
after. Sales of livestock (£17,524) were
£6602 lighter, leaving the gross return
from all sources (£74,475) only £1968
better. The growth of £7812 in exes.
(£50,621) was on account of drought ex-
penditure (£2383) and heavier taxation
(£12,360, up £3791). The net result was
thus £5844 lighter at 9.8 p.c. on capital
as against 12.2, 1.2, 18.7, 18.3, 9.9 and
9.8 p.c. back to 1934. The div. was
lowered li points, making it 81 p.c., the
average over the last half-dozen years
being 7.2 p.c. The six years before that
were dry ones, but for the five years to
the end of 1928 divs. averaged 20.7 p.c.
During the year two freeholds —
Tondeburine and Bedford Park, near
Gulargambone (N.S.W.) —totalling 30,230
acres, were bought, and are to be
stocked with sheep from the co.’s other
stations. The price paid for these prop-
erties is not stated, but the book value
of the co.’s stations, etc., increased by
£120,727:
1935. 1937. l£-39. 1940.
Capital .. £243,338 £243,338 £243,338 £243,338
Liabilities .. 7,332 1,179 333 40,414
Stations, plant,
etc. . . 125,141 107,718 97,517 218,244
S'heep, cattle,
horses . . 75,599 62,132 00,134 52,261
Wool unsold.. 1,317 10,267 223 41
Cash, etc. . . 3,189 81,612 102,518 31,447
To finance the deal, the co. raised a
mortgage of £40,011 and drew upon
cash, etc., for £71,071. That reduced the
more or less liquid surplus, including live-
stock, to £43,335 as against £162,542 at
the previous balance. So there is nothing
to worry about there at the moment.
As for the current year, “splendid rain-
falls, exceeding six inches, have been re-
corded on all the co.’s properties, and an
excellent season is now assured,” the
chairman says. Among other things, this
means a flying start for the new proper-
ties, and, given another good season,
some fat returns.
On ’Change there is little business in
the f.-p. 30s. shares, covered by 28s. in
net tangibles. Buyers recently offered
175., without attracting sellers, of course.


Mining Notice.
FOR SALE OR OPTION, a Gold Mine situated
on Cape River Gold Field, 8 miles from
PENTLAND, Nth. Queensland. Telluride has
been found at two points 65ft. apart carrying
good specimen gold.
Would be willing to supply particulars to
persons or companies interested in the search
for TELLURIDE ORE in the sulphide country.
Owner unable to continue sinking No. 3
shaft, which is 132 ft. vertical.
The winze started 65ft. from No. 3 shaft
south had specimens of gold carrying
TELLURIDE and shows gold in some of the
stone and is only down 4ft.
The owner is unable to further finance
the sinking of the shaft.
For further particulars and persons inter-
ested, apply—
C. F. FISHER,
Day St., Charters Towers.
ENGINEERS !
SAWMILLERS
Worn Files and Rasps Re-
sharpened at a Fraction of
Replacement Cost.
All Work Guaranteed.
FILE
RECONDITIONING CO.
Government Contractors,
Central House,
Little Regent Street, Sydney.
’Phone: MA8409.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
v * • ♦
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does be possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Compatny offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors-.
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKIAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND F. W. HIXSON
E V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW. Assistant Manager.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1834. j
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman):
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN PRODUCING COMPANIES
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
LONDON TIN CORPORATION, LTD.
FOR THE QUARTER ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER. 1940.
* The Estimated Mine Profit is from permitted quota sales before providing depreciation and overhead charges.
London-controlled Ora Banda United
(W.A.) has got six months’ exemption
from mining labor conditions to enable
it to concentrate attention on the in-
stallation of a treatment plant, portions
of which are now coming to hand. Co.
claims to have spent £102,652 on its gold-
mine, to have done 12,800 ft. of develop-
ment, and to have proved 514,000 tons
of 4.35dwt. ore between the surface and
the 200 ft. level. When gold was priced
around £7 sterling an ounce, 18s. a ton
profit was spoken of on a 10,000-tons-
month throughput.
* * * *
Local Inspector of Mines’ 1940 sum-
ming-up of Wiluna (W.A.): “Ore reserves,
including probable, at March 31, 1940,
were 1,186,000 tons, averaging 3.Bdwt.,
compared with values averaging 3.9dwt.
a year earlier. No new major ore-bodies
were developed, but in the Happy Jack
area, a long way north of the main work-
ings, 120,000 tons of new ore was ex-
posed. Elsewhere results didn’t warrant
expenditure on further exploration.
Mill output remained constant at about
48,500 tons a month. Market for anti-
monial concentrate is limited, and no
attempt was made to increase the output
of this material. About 100,000 tons of
high-grade antimony ore remains to be
mined on the west lode between the
290 ft. and 450 ft. levels. Ore extracted
between these levels averaged about Bdwt.
gold per ton, and that remaining should
be at least as good. It is estimated that
normal operations will continue at this
mine until about the end of 1941, but
factors beyond the control of the man-
agement may cause them to modify
present plans.”
* * * *
Latest annual report of Gt. Boulder
No. 1 (W.A.) shows that £l5B in divi-
dends and a £l2 income tax refund com-
prised receipts, and general charges £136,
and directors’ fees (less amount waived —
£450) £3OO, figure as outgo. Loss was
£265. During the year the co, sold its
holding of £l3OO in p.c. British war
loan and bought 4000 Gt. Boulders.
These are given a book value of £1736.
Other assets are 500 Wilunas valued at
£2Ol, and cash £152. All figures quoted
are in sterling.
* * * Ht
“O.B.”: Both United States (including
Philippines and Alaska) and Transvaal
gold production set a record in 1940.
United States output was 5,914,109
ounces valued at $206,993,800 at $35
an ounce. Previous high mark was in
1939 5,611,171 ounces valued at
$196,392,000. California led with
1,450,120 ounces valued at $50,977,440,
followed by the Philippines with
1,111,697 ounces valued at $38,909,400,
and Alaska with 741,503 ounces valued
at $25,952,000. Transvaal reached a new
peak of 14,037,741 ounces, an increase of
1,218,397 ounces over the 1939 output.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan has had one of the wettest
seasons on record — i.e., considering the
number of days on which rain fell. This
is the sole reason for short deliveries and
the low returns over the last few months.
Extensions to sulphide and oxide mills
were completed during January, but to
date neither has been supercharged be-
cause of low ore delivery. The weather
has now fined up and a dry period, plus
normal gold values and an increased
copper content from the upper benches,
is going to make a great difference in
returns and possibly hardening of shares
on the market. Strange that Mt. Morgan,
Ltd., with the bit in its teeth to get more
copper to meet the Commonwealth short-
age, should have struck a nice make of
copper ore in its mass of overburden,
which, after all, was somewhat of a mill-
stone without a bit of sweetening now
and then.
* * * *
“Peta”: The Talisman is surely one
of the most remarkable small lodes in
N.Q. I can remember it 12 years ago
producing up to 2oz. gold a ton from
what looked like muck. Now it has
been driven on and proved a real lode
and the best on Mt. Peter, which, after
all, is almost the only goldfield that Cairns
(N.Q.) has within eyesight. I see the old
Talisman after ups and downs produced
a shipment to Chillagoe worth 6oz. a
ton, so that she seems to be getting better
in depth. I think it was Dr. H. I. Jensen
who gave that field a good write-up, and
said it would produce well. On the
strength of the latest find the owners
are putting in plant, and it might be
that it should have been done in 1930,
for it has been a steady rich producer
ever since.
* * * *
On the Golden Ladder Mine, owned
by Blue Mountains Gold, N.L., since
work was resumed after the holidays,
the shaft has been sunk 16ft., making
the present depth 64ft. The mine is 35
miles n.-e. of Coen, on Cape York.
Heavy tropical rain has not so far inter-
fered with the workings. The reef in
the bottom of the shaft carries good
values and continues to go down as sunk
upon ; “prospects are very encouraging,”
the manager says. Driving both ways
on the reef at 64ft. has started, and as
the country is fairly hard hammer-and-
drill work is necessary; progress will
now be slower. At the mill the boiler
has been cleaned out and overhauled and
other repairs made, so that it will be in
good order when the weather takes up
to enable carting and crushing.
* * * *
Papuan Apinaipi reports that, owing
to the exigencies of defence, there has
been delay in the transport and receipt
of part of the additional drill-
ing equipment (some from U.S.A.) re-
quired to start drilling at the two new
locations. Both plants will be ready for
drilling as soon as these supplies are re-
ceived, The Sullivan rig should be
operating about March 3, it is stated.
The co.’s geologist, Geoffrey Barrow,
reports: “The first deep test well has
yielded much information, previously un-
known, of sub-surface geological con-
ditions. This has proved of great value
in making a choice of locations for drill-
ing of a second deep well and the addi-
tional shallower well. The prospects of
obtaining commercial production on the
field are good—far too good to be seri-
ously impaired by initial setbacks ; the
results which the two new exploratory
wells will disclose are looked forward to
with confidence.” Meanwhile the prob-
lem of finding payable oil in Australia or
its territories remains one of the most
controversial and vital of subjects,
Papuan Apinaipi is at least making a
genuine search for oil—by drilling, not
merely by talking.
* * * *
“Unprecedented geological conditions”
and “greatest possible difficulties” slowed
down drilling at Freney’s oil bore (W.A.)
during the half-year ended December 31
and forced all hands except the cook to
cease work. Provided the previously
mentioned special equipment from
America comes to hand, boring is ex-
pected to be resumed about the end of
March. Operating account for the half-
year totalled £9277. On Dec. 31 co. had
£4460 cash and £4907 worth of stores
and casing. Its principal liability was
State Government progressive subsidy,
£16,384, and main contingent liability
Federal Government subsidy £16,260.
The borehole is stated to be “now in a
very interesting stage.”
LIFE ASSURANCE .
The T. and G.
The Temperance and General (known
throughout Australia and Maoriland as
the T. and G.) was founded in 1876, and
after 64 years shows a record of great
progress. It is a mutual society and is
consequently conducted solely in the in-
terests of the policy-holders —there are
no shareholders.
On the outbreak of war one of the
first actions of the T. and G. was to an-
nounce that any restrictions in policies
relating to war were cancelled, with the
result that the assured under all policies
effected prior to September, 1939, have
no limitations so far as war service is
concerned.
Payments to policy-holders during the
last financial year amounted to £2,851,642,
which is approximately £375,000 in excess
of the amount paid during the previous
year. More than £1,800,000 represented
sums paid under policies that had
matured.
On September 30 last the society had
1,135,452 policies in force in the Ordi-
nary and Industrial departments assuring
£94,796,778. This is more than five
times the amount that was in force in
1920. All these policies are held by
Australians or Maorilanders.
The funds are invested chiefly in Gov-
ernment and municipal loans and first
mortgages. Practically all the society’s
funds, as they come in, are now being
invested in Government loans, which are
chiefly for the conduct of the war,
and in the society’s home-purchase
scheme for its policy-holders and pros-
pective policy-holders. Under the
society’s plan mortgages are protected by
life assurance, a low rate of interest is
charged and the loans are repaid by
monthly instalments spread over a term
of 10 to 25 years. These instalments
often amount to less than rent.
The society has a wide range of tables,
covering the needs of all sections of the
community. It has specialised in endow-
ment assurance policies, which, owing to
the satisfactory bonuses allotted, have
turned out to be a sound investment to
policy-holders. These policies now have
an added attraction, as, owing to high
income-tax rates, it will pay many
people to carry assurance for a premium
of up to at least £lOO a year.
The T. and G.’s group assurance is in
wide operation among employees in
many branches of industry. Its freehold
properties are easily picked out in all the
capital cities of Australia and Maoriland
and in a number of the provincial towns.
They are well let and have proved a good
investment as well as advertisement,
•b
The M.L.C.
In last week’s Life Assurance Supple-
ment it was inferred that the Mutual
Life and Citizens’ looked for a return of
3 p.c. on its Ordinary Department funds
in order to meet its policy liabilities.
Actually it counts on only a 2| p.c.
return, and in fact nets over 4j p.c. on
its funds.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
PEACE AIMS DISCUSSED.
[During the lull occasioned by winter’s grip on
Europe there has been an outbreak of peace-aims dis-
cussion in Britain, with echoes in the U.S.A., similar
to that which took place at the same time last year.
The aims, however, remain of a general nature, and can-
not be said to have yet crystallised. The main object
here is to put a representative coverage of the recent
discussion on record. The “Times” report of the House
of Commons debate, the gist of which appeared at the
time in cables, is given at length, with extracts of
comment from United States and other sources.]
The Commons Debate
Mr. McGovern (1.L.P.) moved the following
amendment (in the Address in Reply to the Speech
from the Throne): —■
But humbly regret that his Majesty’s Government
has failed to set forth the terms upon which peace
could be made and an end could be brought to this
war, which threatens chaos and annihilation of all
that is good in modern civilisation, and which offers
only years of pain and poverty, sacrifices and misery
for the workers in all lands, and has failed to propose
that a conference should be called to bring this con-
flict to an early conclusion on the basis of the restoration
of freedom in each country, and the pledge of all the
contending Governments to put at the disposal of the
conference all their resources, at present being massed
for producing the instruments of destruction and death,
for the production of all instruments of well-being for
rebuilding the homes in Europe and the establishment
of a new social order which would mean the end of
German, British and other imperialism and provide a
decent home and standard of life for each family in
every country of the world.
He said that although he and his friends were
opposed to the war they wished to pay tribute to all
who felt it their duty to serve in some capacity in the
national emergency, and admired their courage and
sincerity. At the same time he believed there were
many who believed that no opportunity should be
allowed to pass to bring this tragic and devastating
conflict to an end, if necessary in a spirit of com-
promise.
This war he regarded as the war which was
adjourned in 1918 and resumed in 1939. He went on
to quote from the Prime Minister’s book on the
world crisis in which Mr. Churchill discussed the
question of the last war having been capable of being
ended in 1915, and said that mankind was not to
escape so easily from the catastrophe in which it had
involved itself. Victory was to be bought so dear as
to be almost indistinguishable from defeat. It was
not to give security to the victors. Complete victory
had failed to solve the European problem. That
statement of the Prime Minister showed the danger
of carrying on a struggle at too great a length until
the nations of the world were prostrate both with grief
and poverty.
People talked of the Germans revolting. While
there were in Germany a large number of people who
were opposed to the rule of Hitler, people should
realise the difficulties of that opposition finding ex-
pression. There was respect for Hitler in Germany,
but contempt for Mussolini in Italy. There was in
Italy a loathing of the Germans. Italy’s place in the
war could be made of short duration if properly
handled by the Government and authorities in Britain.
If we raised an army of 4,000,000 to fight against
an undefeated German Army of 10,000,000 there
would be a Dunkirk a thousand times over with its
slaughter and devastation. He could envisage a world
terror-stricken, with people bombed out of their
homes and their nerves and their health gone, while
we went on mouthing about national honor. If we
wished to end the war we must make not only demands
but suggestions. Both sides were aggressors—Britain
in holding stocks which did not really belong to her,
and Germany in demanding a share of them.
Mr. Stephen (1.L.P.), in seconding, said that if
Germany made no response to an offer of a confer-
ence the British Government, by making such a great
moral gesture, would appeal to the working people
and to all decent people in all countries.
Mr. J. Griffiths (Lab.) said there was no man,
woman or child who would not welcome an end of
this conflict, if the end would bring real peace to a
stricken world. But the amendment was based on a
false assumption, which was that the choice before
Britain today was between peace and war. The real
choice before this country —and we were the only
country left in Europe which could make a choice —
was not peace or war, but capitulation or survival.
If this amendment meant anything, it meant suing
for peace to Hitler. To sue Hitler for peace was to
capitulate. What kind of peace did Marshal Petain
get? It would be accepted by Hitler and the Fascists
not as an opportunity to build a new order but as
handing over Europe to their ambitions. The mem-
bers of the Labor party were as much peace-lovers and
haters of war as members of the 1.L.P., and they
represented more closely the workers of the country.
They wanted to build a Socialist Britain. They knew
they could not do that if Britain became a vassal
State under the domination of the Nazis.
He urged the Government to take the first appro-
priate opportunity—not because we were defeated, but
because we were strong —to put forward as positively
as it could the kind of Europe we wanted, a new
Europe. The fortitude and courage of the common
people had won for Britain a new place in the respect
of the world, and she could once again become a great
leader. We had already won the Battle of Britain.
We had now to win the Battle of Europe, which meant
rescuing Europe from the domination of the Nazis.
Britain had to become a rallying centre for all the cap-
tive peoples of Europe. There was need for a state-
ment of the things we were aiming at.
Mr. Brooke (U.) said Hitler would welcome a
conference as soon as Britain admitted that he had
won the war. Was that the kind of conference the
I.L.P. wanted? He supposed the I.L.P. would answer
that we must trust Hitler’s moderation —as the men
of Vichy did —that we must put our hope in com-
promise. The Nazis did not know compromise. We
could not end this by words or invitations. There
was work to be done first —long, hard work. The
war would end when the German people had sickened
of National-Socialist deceit. We had not yet properly
begun to give the right sort of encouragement abroad
to that vast body of persons who cherished inward
doubts about the leadership of the two dictators. Ger-
many was very like cast-iron, hard but brittle. We
needed more than declarations or military victories.
We had to convince the world that ours was the most
truly popular and genuinely beneficent form of
government.
He refused to surrender a religious truth, the
sanctity of human personality, which the world had
learned to respect for 2000 years and which for 700
years this Parliament had stood firm to maintain. Mr.
McGovern thought he could arrange a marriage
between pacifism and paganism and call it peace. It
would be more accurate to say that the amendment
advocated for the whole Western world surrender to
slavery and devils.
Sir P. Harris (L.) said that we were fighting for
our very existence and could expect no mercy if the
Nazis were victorious. At the same time thoughtful
people would welcome at an opportune moment some
clearer definition of our war aims, and he suggested
that the spirit of President Wilson’s Fourteen Points
still remained good. He drew the attention of the
House to a very remarkable article which had appeared
in the “Times” that morning. It might well inspire
any attempt more closely to define our war aims.
[The article is given under the heading “ ‘Times’ on
Peace Planning.”]
Sir M. Robertson (U.) said that there was no
human being in this country who would not welcome
the end of the war tomorrow, or even that afternoon.
{Cheers) The question on which they differed was the
method by which to bring that about. It would
not only be futile, but highly dangerous, at this stage
of the war to enter into any details as to peace terms.
We must at all costs avoid enunciating 14 or any less
or greater number of points, which might very con-
siderably embarrass us later on ; and we must not
allow anybody else to enunciate such points for us.
We knew what we were fighting for.
If the Government were to be induced to adopt
certain suggestions which he had seen advocated, then
we were running a'very grave danger of creating dis-
sension and controversy among a hitherto united
people and complete consternation among some of
our Allies. Among the suggestions was that we recon-
stitute Poland and restore her freedom, but deprive
her of the Polish Corridor and of Danzig. Were we
going to say to the Poles who were fighting for us
that we would deprive them of the Corridor and of
Danzig? The answer would be complete consterna-
tion and absolute despair among the Poles. It would
be so with the Czechs if we were to suggest that we
would restore their independence without returning
their defensive frontier of Sudetenland.
The mover and seconder of the amendment were
under a complete misapprehension about the men-
tality and upbringing and the outlook upon life of
the German people. Hitler and Mussolini were dif-
ferent. Hitler was an unnatural excrescence ; the
Italians were a gentle and friendly people. Musso-
lini had used some kind of pump to blow them up
and they were nearly about to burst, but they did not
mean any harm in their hearts to anybody. But Ger-
mans had been brought up for fully two centuries
with the doctrine of hatred or rather contempt for
peace. They looked upon peace as a tiresome but
necessary interlude between wars ; liberty was not a
thing to be desired by them, but was practically im-
moral. The German hated freedom.
A pledge given by Hitler was not of the slight-
est value. He was a perjurous scoundrel of the worst
description. We had a great leader in whom we had
placed our confidence. Let us not try to tie his hands.
Mr. Silverman (Lab.) said that without a military
victory none of the things which we wished to preserve
in the world would be preserved. But the achieve-
ment of military victory would not necessarily bring
all those things in its train. If we waited until the
war was won before stating peace aims we would wait
too long.
Mr. Walker (Lab.) said that the amendment did
not lay down that a preliminary to conference should
be evacuation by the bandits of all the countries they
had invaded. As chairman of the national executive
of the Labor party of Great Britain he wanted to say
that if this resolution was put before a national con-
ference of the Labor party it would be overwhelm-
ingly defeated.
Mr. Maxton (1.L.P.) said that if the whole world
acted in the same spirit and attitude towards one’s
fellowmen as he did there would be no war. It was
the duty of statesmanship to see how they could make
the universal desire for peace effective. But they were
told that they must not even suggest a peace confer-
ence, but they must go on with the slaughter.
Mr. Woodburn. —Hitler deliberately plunged
Europe into war and we have taken up arms to stop
him. Will the hon. member tell me he would be suc-
cessful in stopping him?
Mr. Maxton said that Hitler had been stopped
by the Royal Air Force. {Cheers.) But they were told
that they must not mention peace or the possibilities
of peace or they were doing something wrong. We
ought not to be so satisfied in our own minds that
Great Britain had only to stand and look dignified,
and the peoples of the world would understand that
we were fighting for the best and highest ideals. We
should say now what kind of world we visualised after
the war. , . .
At what point did hon. members agree that it
was possible to make peace? (An hon. member.
“When Hitler is defeated.”) The majority of the
House at this stage were overwhelmingly of the
opinion that there was nothing to do but kill, kill, kill.
If this Empire and its Allies made up their minds
they could bring devastation to Germany, but in doing
so they would bleed themselves very white and would
spread devastation among the people they were
anxious to help. In the long run commonsense and
reason were more potent forces in human affairs
than war.
Mr. Attlee, Lord Privy Seal (Lab.), said that the
alternative was not war and peace, but war and what
kind of a peace. Did Mr. Maxton hold that peace
was right at any price or did he believe in the prin-
ciple of social justice of which he spoke? Would he
give his life for the principle of social justice? (Loud
cheers.)
Mr. Maxton. —I would answer that these things
are not achieved by war.
Mr. Attlee. —That is no answer. The hon. mem-
ber is suggesting that this Government should put for-
ward certain terms of peace. If he agreed with them,
would he support them? (Mr. Maxton. —Certainly.)
And if it came to a conference, and Herr Hitler re-
fused to listen to what was called the voice of reason,
and rejected Mr. Maxton’s ideas of liberty and social
justice, what would Mr. Maxton do then? Would he
fight, or would he give way? ( Cheers, and cries of
“Answer”)
Mr. Maxton. —The right hon. gentleman puts a
hypothetical question. {Laughter.) If the right hon.
gentleman and the Government accept my suggestions,
1 and my friends will not be found wanting.
Mr. Attlee said he had a great respect for people
who held the absolute pacifist conviction, though he
did not agree with them. He had not much respect
for people who were strongly in favor of peace and
eloquent on suffering everywhere, but would never
take any action to end it. They always left it to
others. Mr. Maxton went round and saw the damsel
in danger from the dragon, but was always doubtful
whether she was respectable and he ought to rescue
her. He always took an attitude of complete irre-
sponsibility. He had never taken the line of facing
the bitter and hard things. In his amendment he had
faced none of the difficulties.
Why did he not go to Hitler, and ask him to come
into a conference? Other people had appealed to
Hitler. A better pacifist than any in the House, the
late George Lansbury, a great apostle of peace, went
to see Hitler and Mussolini, but he got nothing from
them. It was no good being blind to the type of
people with whom we had to deal. There was no one
in the House who was not impressed with the horror
of war. They all hated to see mangled bodies and
ruined homes. But there was something worse than
the killing of the body, and that was the killing of the
soul. {Cheers.)
The greatest obstacle to peace today was that
in the heart of Europe was a race of young men who
had been trained to go back to barbarism. It was no
good suggesting that all the German people were
simple, kindly folk. A great many of them had been
corrupted, and were being used as his instrument by
the abominable Hitler. That was the greatest crime
of all.
The amendment suggested that there were some
absolute terms which would be accepted by our Gov-
ernment, by Hitler and everybody else. What were
those terms? He would guarantee on many matters
to come to easy agreement with Mr. Maxton, but he
defied anyone to get Mr. Maxton and Herr Hitler
to agree. Mr, Maxton was a highly civilised human
being, but Herr Hitler was not. The ideals for which
Mr. Maxton stood were not the ideals for which
Hitler or Mussolini stood.
Who was to represent the Governments of the
occupied countries at the suggested conference? Herr
Hitler? Or were the Norwegians, Danes, Poles and
Belgians all to be present as free men? Would they
be able to get a mandate from their peoples—those
men who were refugees in this country?
We were up against people who did not accept
the decencies of civilisation. They had destroyed
every vestige of freedom in Europe. There was a defi-
nite conflict between two conceptions of how our
affairs should be carried on. That House of
Commons was the only place in Europe where Mr.
McGovern could make the speech he did. Men in
the countries subjugated by Hitler were envious of us.
We were proud of that freedom and of the toleration
which allowed speeches of that kind to be made in
war-time. Toleration was a virtue not very often ob-
served ; its non-observance was one of the great diffi-
culties in settling European problems. That debate
was one which no other country at war would prob-
ably tolerate at all. It would no doubt be used by
our enemies, but the fact of it taking place would
show our strength.
This was not the occasion on which, to an irre-
sponsible amendment, the Government should be ex-
pected to give a detailed exposition of war aims.
Those who supported the Government had the right
to ask ; those who did not support the war effort
had no right to ask. There was no ordered liberty
or social justice on the Continent of Europe today,
and the supporters of the amendment refused to
recognise this.
He was not in a position to give a date when a
further statement of the war aims would be made. But
do not let them think that because there had not been
set out a categorical statement of the 14 or 19 or other


points that there was no general understanding of
what our war aims were. Our aim was to try and
establish a world of peace, and of free peoples. That
did not mean a kind of peace in which everybody was
subdued to the will of one man or one nation. What
we were asking for ourselves we were asking for other
nations —an ordered peace. We could not get peace
by just washing our hands and letting others go to
the devil, because we had got to take responsibility
if we wanted ordered peace. We had got to replace
anarchy in the world by ordered peace. We wanted to
build this world on a basis of liberty and of giving
the individual in every nation the opportunity of
realising to the full his or her personality. (Cheers.)
The amendment was negatived by 341 votes to
four —Government majority 337.
*****
“Times” on Peace Planning
[London “Times” anticipated the foregoing debate
with the leading article here condensed; points from it
were briefly cabled.]
The great twin scourges which have most deeply
touched the imagination and seared the conscience
of the present generation are the scourge of war
and the scourge of unemployment. For those who
feel the need to look beyond the end of the present
struggle, the abolition of war and the abolition of
unemployment are the most urgent and imperative
tasks of our civilisation.
To abolish war means to create an international
order in which good faith will be observed, and in
which the unchecked pursuit of national interest will
be tempered by consciousness of loyalty to some
wider community.
To abolish unemployment means to create a
social order in which the ideals of the nineteenth-
century democracy are extended from the political
to the social and economic sphere-—in which liberty
will imply not so much freedom from interference as
a chance for all; equality, not only equal access to
the polling-booth and the court of law, but equal
access to the more restricted field of social and eco-
nomic opportunity ; fraternity, not mere formal recog-
nition of common citizenship, but a lively sense of
common responsibility for the well-being of the least
fortunate.
Much has been said of the need to sacrifice a
mystical attribute called sovereignty. The sacrifices
required are of something more tangible than
sovereignty. No British statesman has hitherto had the
courage to oppose a policy advocated by British in-
dustrialists or British workers on the ground of the
injury which it will inflict on the industries of France
or Belgium or Germany, or to reject a measure de-
signed to favor British agriculture because it would
spell ruin to the Danish farmer. Yet there is little
doubt that we shall fail to achieve any effective inter-
national order, or any alternative to the horror of
recurrent war, until we witness some such funda-
mental change, generally and reciprocally among the
nations, in the scale of values. The problem of col-
lective security is not so much whether men are pre-
pared to sacrifice their lives for other countries, but
whether they are prepared to sacrifice some of their
profits and some of their wages to promote a common
welfare in which they will eventually share.
Perhaps the fundamental cause of our failure
after 1919 was that, in attempting to create a new
international order, we ignored the needs of a new
social order. Social and economic stresses were the
revolutionary force which swept away the work of
the peace-makers—the good and the bad together.
The connection between unemployment and war is
not fortuitous. Seven million unemployed brought
Hitler to power. He rewarded them by finding them
employment in preparations for war. Today millions
of workers in more than one country are learning
the dangerous lesson that nothing creates regular and
well-paid employment, and makes labor a scarce and
valued commodity, so certainly as war. So long as
it remains true that war or preparation for war is
the only effective remedy for unemployment, wars
will continue, however cunning the machinery devised
to prevent them. Any new international order will be
still-born so long as this cancer is not eradicated from
the social system.
The problem of unemployment can be solved (or
transformed, as at the present moment, into a tech-
nical problem of fitting supply to demand) when we
recognise in time of peace a social purpose as com-
pulsive and as worthy of sacrifice as the purposes of
war. In 1940 the manufacturer forgoes profits, the
worker forgoes trade-union restrictions on conditions
of employment, the consumer forgoes luxuries and
lends to the Government to finance expenditure from
which no material return is asked or expected. In
1930 a small fraction of these sacrifices would have suf-
ficed to avert the unemployment crisis of the ensuing
years, and, at the same time, to bring to the countries
now involved in war better housing, more ample nutri-
tion, better education and more amenities for the
leisure of the masses.
To create the new social order does not, like
war, call for sacrifice of life and limb. But it does
call for many of those other sacrifices of profits and
luxuries, of rights and privileges, which we make un-
questioningly in time of war. To formulate a social
end, other than war, which will inspire such sacri-
fices is the cardinal problem of our time.
Prosperity can be regained only by new policies
adapted to new and sterner conditions ; we must plan
for peace as consciously and as deliberately, and with
the same common readiness for sacrifice, as we now
plan for war. It must not be said that we are more
ready to risk our lives than our vested interests, or
that peace—unlike war —holds no purpose worthy of
the sacrifice of things we prize for a greater common
good. The British people will shrink from no sacri-
fice for a purpose in which it believes. In war it has
gladly accepted—indeed demanded —leadership which
calls for sacrifice from all. The planning of peace
calls for a leader who will have the courage and the
vision to make the same appeal.
*****
Other Aspects of Peace Aims
(From comment in New York “Post.”)
The recurrent demand for a statement of the
peace aims of Great Britain and her allies is seldom
accompanied by a similar demand for a statement by
Hitler of his peace objectives.
How would the map of Europe look under a vic-
torious Hitler? Is it conceivable that a man who has
uprooted hundreds of thousands of German-speaking
persons from Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Finland,
Poland, Rumania and elsewhere would permit non-
Germans to live in “war-important” places? It is
not fantastic to believe that the self-styled “fanatical”
leader of the Germans would uproot Norwegians,
Danes, Hollanders, Belgians and French from the sea-
coasts so as to freeze for ever the German grip on the
Continent. Indeed, there is no reason to believe
otherwise. The peace aims of the Nazis, which are
recorded in hundreds of speeches and books and
written in horror upon the minds of persons in many
countries, read like a nightmare.
“The world order which we seek,” said President
Roosevelt in his address to the Seventy-seventh Con-
gress, “is the co-operation of free countries working
together in a friendly, civilised society.” Under the
Nazi belief in the inherent superiority of the “new
order” they have established, only a “Deutschland
fiber Alles” could be regarded as an acceptable
peace aim of the Third Reich.
*****
(From a report by C. Brooks Peters, New York “Times”
Berlin correspondent: this interpretation of German aims
is therefore passed by the German censor.)
The only peace terms that the Germans, as “Real-
politiker,” would accept, it would appear, would be
—New York "Post."
“You don’t suppose he means us?”
the unconditional capitulation of the British. Duality
of control in Europe, they assert, can no longer be
tolerated. Germany, declares one editor, “for a long
time has no longer been acting only for a national
purpose but in representation of a new Europe.” The
“new order in Europe” about which National Social-
ists speak so much is based on the premise of Ger-
man leadership.
But the crux of the matter was stated by Herr
Hitler himself when he declared: “There are two
worlds which stand opposed to each other. Others
are correct when they say; ‘With this world we can-
not ever reconcile ourselves.’ ”
Moreover, since the Germans have more than a
slight edge in the engagements so far fought in this
war, it is difficult to imagine that they would now
consider any settlement that would not guarantee them
that undisputed leadership of Europe, according to
their interpretation of the term, which has not yet
been fully defined, in addition to the return of their
colonies, which, as the largest and strongest nation
on the Continent, they claim as their right, and main-
tenance of the present European territorial status quo.
Germany, it is constantly reiterated in the Reich,
is allied with Italy in this war until the end. If, then,
Italian claims are added to the German, even assum-
ing the Italians are willing to make compromises, of
which there is not the slightest evidence here, there
just does not appear to be much about which the con-
tending parties could bargain for the present.
*****
(Along with Mr. Peters’s report from Berlin, New York
“Times” printed a report from its London corre-
spondent, Raymond Daniel, from which the following
item is condensed.)
The British went to war because Nazi Germany
had reached a point where she threatened to destroy
the kind of world in which the British believe. They
will call it off when that menace no longer exists.
There may be some oversimplification in this
flat statement, but there is not much. The world has
been slow to realise it, but this “phony” war is in more
deadly earnest than any other fought in modern times,
and there is no possibility of and no room for com-
promise. Nazism and freedom cannot live in the same
world, let alone in the same hemisphere, as the British
people and their present leaders see it.
Any peace that could be arranged now without
further bloodshed, it is felt here, would leave Germany
the master of Europe. Even though it left the British
Empire temporarily intact and the Western Hemi-
sphere untouched, it would leave Berlin, Rome and
Tokyo in a position to claim world mastery. Such a
state of affairs would stamp out freedom from the
world, they believe, even though military force was
never used, because the threat would always be there.
Still, there is much talk of peace and of the post-
war world. Most of it rules out a Germany which
will ever be in a position to threaten the world again,
but it rules out also the narrow nationalism that made
Hitler’s rise possible. The British are thinking less
of post-war Europe than of a post-war world in which
a free France will again assume her place in Europe,
but in which the United States will succeed her as
the keystone of British policy.
*****
(From New York “Post.”)
Pope Pius has made his contribution to this dis-
cussion. It is a memorable one. The Pope seeks five
moral victories, which are stated in the clearest pos-
sible form. We repeat them here. Victories must be
sought:
1. Over “hatred.”
2. Over “mistrust.” The Pope called, in this connec-
tion, for “return to that fidelity in observance of pacts
without which pure neighborliness of peoples and, par-
ticularly, the co-existence of powerful and weak peoples
could not possibly succeed.”
3. Over the idea that “might makes right.”
4. Over economic maladjustment.
5. Over “the spirit of cold egoism, which, fearless
in its might, easily leads to violation not only of honor
and sovereignty of a State, but of the righteous, whole-
some, disciplined liberty of citizens as well.”
These five evils which must be conquered (in
the view of the Pontiff) constitute almost a running
description of Fascism. These five moral victories
can be won only in an atmosphere which permits men
the unrestricted use of their talents, their gifts, their
minds ; a free discussion of their problems ; a close
check upon the acts of their statesmen, including the
right to oust statesmen who misuse authority. None
of these victories can be won in the atmosphere of
Fascism.
In this connection it is important to recall the
five “proposals’ put forward by leaders of both the
Protestant and Roman Catholic churches in England,
in an unprecedented joint action. The Archbishops
of Canterbury and York, for the Church of England ;
Arthur Cardinal Hinsley, for the Catholic Church, and
Walter H. Armstong, for the Free Church Federal
Council, proposed in an open letter:
1. That extreme inequality of wealth be abolished;
2. Full education for all children, regardless of class
or race;
3. Protection for the family;
4. Restoration of a sense of a divine vocation to
daily work;
5. Use of all the resources of earth for the benefit
of the whole human race.
Thus, out of a democracy (even in time of war)
come proposals that are very close in spirit to those
uttered by Pope Pius.
It is difficult, unfortunately, to know what the
consensus of church thought is in Germany as to the
world’s future; many clergymen best qualified to
speak are in concentration camps ; all are more or
less under the thumb of Nazi party authority. How-
ever, we have often been reminded that the voice of
Hitler is the only official voice of the German people.
That voice was heard on December 10, in the speech
to the munitions workers:
Our capacity for work is our gold....and with it I
can beat any other Power in the world.
Two worlds are in conflict.... two philosophies of
life.... One of these two worlds must break asunder.
We determine the hour for this conflict. I decide
in such matters. The entire German people stands
behind me. I am today the guardian of its future life.
Might makes right, and pacts do not matter, says
this voice ; and of the spirit of cold egotism, little
more need be said. This speech was undoubtedly
studied by the Pope,
* * * * *
[ln New York “World-Telegram” Raymond Clapper
declared that “the British Socialist Labor movement
aims at the overthrow of Nazism and Fascism in Europe.
It would seek to replace Fascism with Socialism and to
establish Socialism in England as part of the whole
movement. This policy looks toward giving support of
every kind to anti-Fascist forces in the conquered
countries, to fomenting revolution in the areas under
Hitler. This would seem to involve also an attempt to
carry the war back to the Continent, although that
phase is not so eagerly discussed because it would
mean a very long and bloody war and probably would
be impossible without the assurance of an A.E.F.
from the United States, which is far from forthcoming.”
He also declared that the trip of Mr. Roosevelt’s envoy,
Mr. Harry Hopkins, to London is to size up “the con-
fused situation with regard to British war aims.” In
New York “Wall Street Journal” Thomas F. Wood-
lock made the following comments on Mr. Clapper’s
article.]
If the present writer thought that it was this for
which Britain is fighting (and all that Mr. Clapper’s
theory implies) he would not have to ask himself many
questions before he decided his course. The one prac-
tical question would be whether a Socialist Europe
was less of a danger to the United States than a Nazi-
fied Europe and, therefore, worth aiding at all. So
far as the two forms of social organisation are con-
cerned, both are completely foreign to our ideas of
free government, and he would not donate a single
’plane of the 1908 model to help cither’s establishment.
But he has not the smallest idea that any such “aim”
is in the British mind or even present in the British
emotion ; the Washington gentlemen who hold that
view completely misunderstand the British mind. Con-
sequently, they misunderstand what the fighting is
really about.
To an American reader the British Labor party’s
programme looks like straight Socialism. It proposes
to “nationalise” everything that is anything. But the
programme is not backed by a philosophy, least of all


The correct Annual Subscription Rates for these
leading organs of current American opinion are:
"TIME" $7.00 .. £2/3/9
"FORTUNE" $12.00 .. £3/15/-
"LIFE" $lO.OO ~ £3/2/6
• A Subscription arranged to ANY PERIODICAL
at the rate quoted in the Journal or fixed by the
Publishers. Posted direct to you by the Publishers.
Quotations gladly supplied.
Place your subscriptions and renewals with
GRAHAME BOOK SERVICE
LONDON. NEW YORK.
PRUDENTIAL BUILDING, 39 MARTIN PLACE,
Tel. 84241. SYDNEY.
by theoretic Marxism. The Trades Union Congress is
the backbone of the Opposition in Britain, and it will
have no truck with Communism in any form. Marxian
Socialism never had any real foothold in England,
The Britisher is interested in substance rather than
forms ; he is empirically adventurous but theoretically
conservative, and he has no missionary spirit what-
ever, so far as theory is concerned. To suppose that
Great Britain after stopping Hitler would enter upon
a long and bloody war upon the Continent of Europe
to establish “Socialism” in, say, Holland, Belgium,
France, Poland, etc., not to speak of Germany and
Italy, is to abandon contact with all realities. Britain
is not at war now to make Europe Socialist.
This writer’s belief is that this is “a war of cul-
tures.” A culture is the total of those things which
are most important to a people. It is the sum of a
people’s freedoms to do the things they are used to
doing and like to do because they are used to doing
them. Great Britain is at war to defend her culture
against something which is completely antagonistic to
her way of life and in fact threatens her life itself.
That is about as far as the British national conscious-
ness has yet gone, but it is far enough to call forth
all the energies, physical and moral, of her people
at home and overseas. The thing she is fighting is as
antithetic to our [American] culture as it is to hers,
and we —or many of us —feel that it threatens our
peace, too, and that it is about as far as most of us
have gone in our consciousness, but it is far enough
to drive us to our present defence job. But neither
the British consciousness nor our own is fully “ration-
alised.” If any reader doubts this statement all he has
to do is to gather a dozen of his friends and ask each
of them to give his notion of what the war is really all
about. If he gets three of the dozen to really agree,
his experience will be different from that of this writer,
who has tried this experiment more than once.
That is why it still seems that to demand a state-
ment of British “aims” beyond those which her leader
has stated—namely, to smash Nazism and liberate
the peoples whom Nazism holds in bondage—does
not make sense, if our present actions are to be gov-
erned by the answer, for this writer does not believe
that she has any other answer now to give. Have we
[Americans] any present “aims” other than making
ourselves and our ways safe?
German and British Morale.
(From an article in New York “PM.”)
A common thread runs through the reports of
American observers who were long in Berlin and who
have returned from Germany in recent months and
are hence able to speak freely. Among them are
“PM’s” Richard O. Boyer and the Chicago “Daily
News’s” Wallace R. Deuell. Neither has allowed his
personal attitudes to destroy his objectivity in any
important respect. That at least is the impression
they have given in articles over a long period.
Last June, after Germany had executed the great-
est military triumph in modern times, it might have
been expected that the German people would have
celebrated deliriously. Yet both report (and so do
others) that there was little spontaneous joy in the
Reich outside party and army circles. All through
the war it has been the same way. Strong popular
reaction to various war developments has been almost
completely absent.
If morale were to be measured in spontaneous joy
at victories or wild outbursts of anger at, for example,
R.A.F. bombings, it might be said therefore that
German morale is extremely poor. Some have even
jumped to the conclusion that the Reich was on the
verge of internal collapse.
Yet this does not seem possible. There has been
none of the usual signs that morale is cracking. The
German Army is intact, the party unquestionably
loyal and powerful. There are no indications of a
breakdown.
It is something else: it is as if the German
people, with the exception of the party and the armed
forces, were numb. This is important, for it leads to
a conclusion far different from the one that an internal
upset is likely in Germany soon. It means plainly
that no upset is imminent. The present state of affairs
can continue for some time. A numb, indifferent
civilian population has never provided the leadership
for any sort of revolutionary movement. But neither
the armed forces nor the party will provide that
leadership, either, so long as Germany does not suffer
a military disaster. No leadership, no effective in-
ternal opposition to Hitler.
The British case is different. Unless all reports
are misleading, morale in Britain is high. Hitler’s
bombings have roused the overwhelming majority of
the United Kingdom’s subjects to a cold but fierce
anger.
It is thus obvious that both the British and
German people are at least willing to carry on with
the war despite their hardships. The differences
between the German and British attitudes is not, how-
ever, without significance. It is probably to be ac-
counted for by the histories of the two countries
during the last generation.
The German people have been through a great
many devastatingly shocking experiences in the last
25 years—the first World War, the starvation blockade,
the inflation that wiped out the German middle class
and ruined German workers, the humiliation of the
Versailles period, the great depression that began in
1929 and hit Germany harder than anyone else, the
series of crises and near-wars that have rocked
Europe since 1933 and the strain of living on a war
basis for nearly eight years under Hitler. The human
animal can stand so much and no more. After a
time he builds up a defensive indifference, a numbness
to enable him to get on with the ordinary business of
living. The German people have long since passed
this point, where indifference becomes essential to
survival. Hence their attitude toward the war.
The German Army, Navy, Air Force and party
are made up primarily of the youth who have not
lived through all of Germany’s ordeal, but just enough
of it to make them mad. The British, isolated on
their island and better protected economically because
of the Empire, have not so shocking a background as
the German civilians either. They also have not
reached the point of spiritual exhaustion that leads
to indifference.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
London housewives, those, too, in other parts
of the country, had difficulty in getting Sunday joints
for today [5/1/’4l], The Ministry knew that meat
would be in short supply by now ; that is why the
ration was reduced and is to be reduced again. But
this week many people have not been able to get even
a shillingsworth of meat. The Ministry says that
supplies will be more plentiful in a week or so.
Although it expected a shortage, it had not expected
quite the difficulties that have arisen. Imports have
been cut down —that was allowed for—but home-
killed meat is less plentiful than was expected and
there have been difficulties in transporting what has
been available. Some butchers in Sussex received
belated deliveries on Saturday night and opened their
shops on Sunday. One of the measures that will help
—New York “World Telegram.”
CYESAR’S GHOST!
to meet the shortage is the Ministry’s decision to
pay 10 per cent, more for fat cattle from Eire, —
Manchester “Guardian” London correspondent.
* * ♦ 4c 4*
Although the Ministry wants the public to eat
less bread and more potatoes it does not take very
seriously, I understand, the suggestion that the sale
of fresh bread should be forbidden. It takes the view
apparently that the saving of bread effected by making
the public use only day-old loaves would not be
enough to justify the administrative work involved
in issuing the new order. We are used to a narrow
choice of cheeses by now, but it is noteworthy that
London’s most famous food store had not a crumb
of cheese of any kind yesterday [5/1/’4l]. The
Ministry will have to find more supplies of Empire
cheese and English sour milk if it wants the public to
make up in cheese for what it loses of its meat ration.
—Manchester “Guardian” London correspondent.
* * * H=
The British Purchasing Commission has been
unable to obtain satisfactory incendiary tracer bullets,
urgently needed in modern air war, from any of the
factories that yield America’s vast industrial output.
A reliable source says that the first satisfactory
American smoke-and-fire trailers will not be in pro-
duction before the middle of next summer, or, more
likely, early next autumn. R.A.F. pilots like their
tracers to explode at as near 600 yards as possible so
as to give them the range. British tracers burst into
flame within a few yards of that distance. Experi-
mental American tracers so far manufactured are liable
to burst at any distance within a few hundred yards
of this. They are thus too unreliable for regular use.
The first samples have had to be rejected by the
R.A.F. —New York “PM.”
* * * *
Whenever a captain is lost with his ship a number
or people are moved to write letters to the press
protesting against the sway of the alleged tradition
that “the captain must go down with his ship.” It
seems desirable, in order to save much unnecessary
pain to those who may have lost a father, husband,
or son in this way, to point out with all the emphasis
at command that among seamen there is no such
tradition. It seems to have been the invention of the
sentimental novelist, borrowed and adapted for his
own purposes by the sensational reporter. Traditions
of the sea, indeed, there are. There is much that is
noble but nothing that is theatrical or sentimental
about them, and never could they be quoted as re-
sponsible for a useless sacrifice. That which governs
the conduct of the captain of a ship at all times, in
triumph or disaster, is that his duty makes him
responsible for the safety of his ship and her com-
pany—put in that order not because things are more
valuable than men but because to ensure the safety
of the ship is the best way to ensure that of all on
board. That duty dictates that he shall not leave
her while a possibility remains that human effort
can save her. Unless he is disabled, his qualifications
no less than his duty dictate that he shall direct that
effort. But, if and when the moment comes for him
to give the order “Abandon ship,” the ship’s com-
pany take the place of the ship herself as his first
care, and there is no tradition that can relieve him
of that responsibility. —London “Times.”
* * * sfc *
There are no American pursuit ’planes that will
be able to fight in the same air with the best German
or British ’planes this spring. Two months after my
visit to England this fact stands undisputed. It is
skilfully evaded but unchallenged. No responsible
member of either the British or American Govern-
ment has answered the charge directly. One Ameri-
can designer. Major Seversky, has had the courage
to -second it. Other American designers and manu-
facturers have been as silent as their Government.
Yet no one will deny the importance of the fact
itself. To fight the German Luftwaffe this spring
a pilot must be equipped with a ’plane that can serve
as gun platform for 12 machine-guns or its equivalent,
flying at least 400 miles an hour, at around 30,000
feet, or six miles, high. I was shocked in England—
and more shocked when I got back to America—to
find that there was no existing American ’plane that
could bat in this league. —Ralph Ingersoll; New York
“PM.”
4* * * $ *
One recommendation made by eminent bankers,
including chairman Winthrop W. Aldrich of the Chase
and chairman Percy H. Johnston of the Chemical,
both in New York, is that the Government should
resume utilising gold as currency. Although our
volume of currency has soared, as never before, to
$8,732,886,000, our stock of gold has soared so fast
that we actually have more than two and a half
dollars in gold for every dollar in circulation, namely,
more than $22,000,000,000. No other nation can
approach such a showing. In the days when the
official (central) banks in leading nations published
statements of their condition, they were quite satis-
fied if they had anywhere from one-quarter as much
gold as the country’s total money in circulation. The
percentage has dwindled drastically since secrecy was
instituted. The fact is that the United States today
owns four of every five dollars of gold reported in the
world. No convincing reasons have been attempted
by Washington as to why the urgings of our foremost
banking authorities should not be endorsed and
adopted.— B. C. Forbes, columnist, New York “Jour-
nal and American.”
♦ * * *
London still shows the most obstinately bad.
shelter conditions, for it is only there that many people
have had to make these places their homes. The
building of new shelters, to reduce overcrowding, the
main danger in the old, is an urgent need but is
bound to take time. Lord Herder’s report spoke of
“adequate” sanitary arrangements. Can anyone think
that the 12 sanitary buckets noted in one shelter are
enough for two thousand people? Lord Border
emphasised the need for good ventilation, and yet
how many places can be found in which the atmo-
sphere is foul, in which the wooden bunks (some-
times a home for vermin) are put close together with
no thought of proper breathing-space. Medical ser-
vices are often still wanting, and canteens are needed
for people who go straight from shelter to work.
These reforms must be quickly made, for the people’s
health, the foundation of our will to endure, depends
upon them. —Manchester “Guardian.”
* * * * *
We have waited patiently to see some reaction,
either private or official, to the “Post’s” revelation
that United States cotton is going to Nazi Germany,
by way of the Soviet Union, at the rate of 50,000 bales
a month. Nothing has happened. The State Depart-
ment has not even offered an explanation of the statis-
tics which, on their face, make a mockery of the
U.S.A.’s foreign policy. The “Japan Times,” a propa-
ganda weekly published in English in Tokyo, carries
an illuminating article which bears on the subject.
Russia, says the “Japan Times,” need not declare war
on the British Empire in order to help the Axis. All
the Soviet Union needs to do, in addition to immo-
bilising Turkey, is remain “neutral” and serve Ger-
many in the same way the United States serves Britain:
as a source of vital supplies. The editor of the “Japan
Times” may very well have had American cotton in
mind when he wrote. He might have added that
Russia can help the Axis by merely transhipping
American goods to her Nazi friend. —New York
“Post.”


Business, Rollery, Etc.
Working More—for Less
The cost of the war to Australia is
increasing rather than diminishing. Some-
thing less than 20 p.c. of the national
income has been earmarked for defence
expenditure during 1940-41 ; the pro-
posed outlay amounts to £26 10s. a head,
of which £2O is to be raised and spent
within the Commonwealth. Mr. Fadden
speaks of a “much bigger” war Budget
for 1941-42 ; he is non-committal as to
whether loans or taxes will be availed of,
or to what extent. However the money
is provided, the physical burden of war’s
waste will bear down on the people as
a whole. If accepted in the right spirit
it need not be depressing or very dis-
turbing. It represents a tax on the
nation, and it is only humbugging to try
to disguise the issue by excessive borrow-
ing or “credit expansion.” In short,
borrowing and inflating in present
circumstances merely represent taxation
in a political disguise.
The borrowing of money to finance a
war doesn’t alter the fact that war is an
immediate expense, not an investment in
the ordinary sense. Therefore it should
be treated as an expense in the national
accounts. There are, unfortunately, very
few sound grounds,in the argument that
by borrowing amongst ourselves we can
defer war’s cost. Even if we fake
the accounts we can’t defer the cost.
In times like the present the wealthy can
help the less well-off very little. People
on incomes of over £lOOO a year are
severely taxed already, and it may be that
a £lOOO-a-year family, if further deprived
of spending power, would have less in-
come available for buying current pro-
duction than the family on £5 or £6 a
week—the higher-income man frequently
has entered into commitments for past
services the payment of which now in
no sense competes with the Defence
Department for the purchase of currently
produced goods and services.
What the country essentially wants is
extra work now for slightly less pay. Not
that the employer should pay less, but
that the State should take more in taxes.
That is the inescapable position. The
monetary side is full of delusions and
sidetracks for the unwary ; it is simply
the bookkeeping system. Fighting the
war calls for up-to-date equipment, for
things being produced now and in the
future. We all have to do our best in
co-operating to produce this equipment,
and to work a bit harder for a bit less
money (after taxation) —to make a gift
of some of our labor or production to
the State, in other words.
It might be possible to readjust the
burden of the cost of defence slightly by
borrowing, as well as taxing, but the
readjustment would be very slight, and
just as likely to operate unfairly as fairly.
As it is, we are borrowing to some ex-
tent ; that is purely political expediency.
It doesn’t really relieve the burden.
There is no one section of the Com-
monwealth entitled to such a surplus of
production that it could afford to finance
the war now and accept repayment later
on. All of us have to join our efforts
immediately. Our defence necessities are
largely of a manufactured kind, and it is
only in recent history that Australia has
developed its factories. We still don’t
produce motor-cars or machinery (except
agricultural) to any great extent. In the
present crisis we are short of many
manufactured things. Few in this country
possess a surplus of them.
Other countries may have a surplus.
But as we have to pay cash for our
foreign purchases that doesn’t help us
much. We have little foreign ex-
change, and, so far, the U.S.A. isn’t
lending us any money. If we could
borrow abroad we would be able to
spread the burden over a period of years
—by partly paying for the war after it
had finished, in effect. Actually, the
amount of foreign cash we have avail-
able from our exports each year is shrink-
ing, and, more and more, we have to
rely on our own resources. We will
have to divert Australian-made goods to
war purposes until we feel the pinch in
our living requirements— not necessarily
in foodstuffs or woollen clothing, but
in steel and other metal products, cotton
goods, explosives, matches, paper pro-
ducts, etc. And in order to put our
scanty foreign funds to their best use
we will have to be particularly careful
about luxury imports, such as petrol for
pleasure-motoring, tobacco, tea, canned
foods (such as salmon), cocoa, silk and
foreign clothing materials.
How are we shaping under the burden
of the thing so far? The National Bank
of Australasia has reported on the posi-
tion as follows;
Up to the present this country has experi-
enced little of the strain and burden of war.
The diversion of industry to the manufacture
of munitions, the training of fighting forces,
and the transfer of the military units now
abroad have caused relatively little damage
to our economy. In fact, surface indications
are that the war has proved stimulating and
helpful. Industrial production must surely be
at an all-time maximum: unemployment is at
the lowest level yet recorded, and payrolls,
including payment for overtime, are thought
to exceed those of the most prosperous of
previous periods. Wheat- and fruitgrowing are,
as yet, the only large industries which have
really suffered through the war, and their
difficulties have been ameliorated by generous
Government assistance.
These conditions, however, cannot be expected
to continue for any length of time. The con-
tinued losses of shipping are making it in-
creasingly difficult to procure space for our
main export products. We have not Canada’s
wheat-storage problem, but only because last
season’s harvest here was exceptionally small.
Wool is accumulating in our stores, notwith-
standing the arrangement to place a reserve of
250,000,0001 b. in the United States of America.
So far, our frozen meat and butter have been
regularly shipped, but shortage of refrigerated
cargo space has made it necessary to refuse
some grades of meat and to commence build-
ing additional cool stores.
Although, under the purchase agreements with
the British Government, delays in shipping will
not affect payments for the export surplus of
wool, which is dur main primary product, press
reports indicate serious difficulty in securing
space for transporting butter and meat. These
two products loom large in the Australian
economy, and if stocks accumulate difficulty
will be found in providing sufficient refrigerated
space to preserve them until the shipping posi-
tion improves. The volume of imports will
be affected much the same as that of exports.
In addition, the restrictions and prohibitions
imposed in order to conserve dollar exchange
will futher lessen imports and extend the range
of goods and materials supplies of which are
becoming short in this country.
Deduction of the new taxes in respect of
the 1940-41 Budget didn’t start until the
beginning of January—only two months
ago. In many industries, especially those
interested in food, clothing, amusement,
etc., the war taxes have meant increased
business—there has been a spread of
lower-wage employment that has meant
a greater consumption of the things of
which we possess plenty. But in the upper
income ranges there is less to spend, and
luxury and construction trades have been
affected in consequence. An exception is
the motor-tyre business. Owing to the
isolation of Europe, Australia is supply-
ing Malaya and parts adjacent with
quantities of tyres and similar products.
An export trade is being built up in
woollen textiles, too ; Australian woollen
cos. are exceptionally busy with orders
for the home market as well.
Mr. Fadden has said again recently
that inflation is going to be fought against
in this country. He means by that that
we will have to face the problem without
illusions. The issue, then, should be
clear enough. We must encourage
exports of the things of which we have
a surplus and discourage non-essential
imports. This will increase our spending
money overseas. And we must be pre-
pared to work harder for less money,
to do without things wanted for defence,
provided the benefit is going to the State
for the purpose of an efficient war effort.
After their fright of the preceding
week, there was a tendency for the share-
markets to steady last week ; then sup-
port faded away again. Only signs of
strength were in Woolworths, Bonds In-
dustries ords. (up to 245. 6d.), Qantas,
A.C.1., textile cos. and Kandos Cement
(up to 335. for the 165.-paids, against
38 s. for Australian Cement £1 shares in
Melbourne). B.H.P. rights were par-
ticularly weak. The market was slow
and hesitant at the week-end, seeming
to settle near the lower level of values
recently established.
* * * ♦
B.H.P. rights were going cheaply at
17s. 6d. last week. The eventual yield
offering was 4 p.c. The fully-paids were
available at 395. 6d. The price of the
rights represents about 41s. for the old
scrip before the present issue of 22 for
100 was announced. Going back to
before the 64-for-100 bonus issue of
1940, the rights at 17s. 6d. were
the equivalent of 685., cum bonus
and other issues since. In other words, if
anyone had bought the scrip at 68s.
before the bonus issue, had held his
bonus shares, and was now selling his
rights at 17s. 6d., he would be making
a couple of shillings a share, since the
old scrip at present is 2s, dearer than
the rights. But B.H.P. went to 84s. 6d.,
cum bonus, in 1940, so the present basis
of 68s. represents a substantial fall. The
bonus issue and the latest par issue have,
in fact, been followed quickly by falls
in the price—not rises, as has been in
the case of many issues, Felt and Tex-
tiles being a particular instance.
The lowest price touched by B.H.P.
shares during the May-June Blitzkrieg
was 38s. 9d., and that only for a short
period. Though the rights at 17s. 6d.
now, making 375. 6d. for the f.-p. shares,
is not exactly comparable—42s. is nearer
the mark there has been only mild
recovery in B.H.P. shares since the
crash. All the market glow that fol-
lowed announcement of the new issue,
and more, has disappeared. Apparently
a situation somewhat similar to that in
the case of Australasian Paper rights last
June has occurred. Then A.P. shareholders
found it difficult to take up their quota
of the new issue, which was too big
for the market to digest. The new A.P.
scrip came on at 21s. 6d. and recently
sold at 375. —after it had been
properly digested. It has relaxed
to 345. B.H.P. rights, too, may
weaken as the date for putting up the
application money (March 31) draws
nearer, though if the situation in Malaya
clears up the market might turn in the
favor of sellers. In any case, the rights
were cheap in comparison with the old
scrip last week. Last call is payable in
March, 1942, and if the p.c, dis-
tribution is continued there will be only
Is. l|d. difference in divs. on the new
and old shares. Eventually much better
than 1\ p.c. should come out of the co.
* * * *
The ss. shares in Woolworths, Ltd.,
have been pointed out on this page a
number of times over the past few
months. Because, apparently, of doubts
about the effect of excess-profits tax on
the co.’s earnings the market was reluc-
tant to buy the scrip on a 17i p.c. div.
basis for more than six months past.
Over an extemsive period the shares
could be bought on the same basis as
G. J. Coles £1 ords. But last week
doubts about Woolworths’ div. were set
at rest; a final of 1 H p.c. has made 17|
p.c. for the year. Books close on March
17 and the div. is payable on April 15.
Cum the final div. of 7d. a share, the
ords. jumped from 16s. to 17s. 9d.
following the div. announcement, bring-
ing them up to the highest price of this
year. Though expansion through estab-
lishment of new chains may be restricted
by operation of the National Emergency
regulations, turnover of chain stores
should be larger, if anything, in the
immediate future, in spite of difficulties
in buying imported stocks. The spread
of buying power among the lower-wage
groups should be all to the good of the
chain stores.
At 17s. 9d. Woolworths ss. shares were
equal to 71s. per £1 of capital. G. J.
Coles £1 ords. stood at 655. last week.
Both cos. pay similar divs., but except
over the past six or eight months Wool-
worths scrip has usually commanded a
premium.
* * * *
“Australia’s sterling balance is not
particularly good at present,” said Mr.
Harrison, Minister for Customs, in Syd-
ney last week. “Australia has obligations
to her troops which can be fulfilled only
by the use of sterling balances estab-
lished overseas.” To preserve the ster-
ling balance in England, which even
now was small, imports from sterling
sources would have to be limited. This
would not be done until the maximum
restriction had been imposed on imports
from non-sterling countries. The Minis-
ter added that it would be necessary to
restrict imports of all goods not abso-
lutely essential to the war effort “almost
to the point of danger.” Our trade bal-
ance has been slipping this year even
compared with the previous period’s
unsatisfactory figures. Presumably essen-
tial defence material and machinery have
been coming in, also reserve stocks for
domestic consumption, and cost of these
things has risen in most cases. While
quantities may or may not be higher than
pre-war, costs certainly are ; on the other
hand, export prices were up 18 p.c. in
1940 compared with but that
applies only to such stuff as we can ex-
port. And we are having great difficulty
in selling some things, especially fruit
(both fresh and tinned), wine and cur-
rants, raisins, etc. Wool presents ship-
ping difficulties, but is sold as appraised.
We have had a poor wheat harvest this
year, and though this means less to send
away it also means less revenue. Dairy
produce and metals are readily saleable
where they can be shipped to Britain.
Our gold production has shown little
response to the crisis. Possibly it has
done all the responding it can without
further radical investigation on national
lines.
In ordinary circumstances the Aus-
tralian trade balance, which was
£3,574,000 sterling to the bad (ex-
cluding gold production) for the seven
months to Jan. 31, would stand as a
mark of great discredit to the Canberra
Government. As it is, it raises queries
as to whether all the deficit is really
necessary—£9,soo,ooo worse than for the
same period of 1939-40. Apparently
Mr. Harrison thinks it isn’t. He says,
“I hope it doesn’t take the collapse of
Singapore, the invasion of the Dutch
East Indies and bombs on Sydney to
make us realise our obligations. We all
want peace, so subconsciously we are
restricting the war effort. Every day
representations are made to me about
things that are unimportant in a time
like this. Petrol is the lifeblood of the
Empire. Yet there was a violent re-
action when the Government took con-
trol and rationed it.” All very true.
“Business” frequently blames the Gov-
ernment for things that have to be done
out of stark necessity. But that shouldn’t
deter any Government from doing its
clear duty. And in Mr. Harrison’s own
department —the Customs —“things that
are unimportant in a time like this” are
deterring the national effort. Hidebound
regulations and absence of initiative mean
importation of non-essential goods where
the importer would prefer to bring in
essential goods. This happens because it
isn’t possible to transfer quotas from
unnecessary goods to wanted goods.
Often the Australian Customs operate in
a ponderous and annihilating fashion.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Government has
decided to empower the Central Wool
Committee to increase the price of Aus-
tralian wool to manufacturers producing
goods for export. It is rather hard to
see the point in this discrimination. The
Central Wool Committee explains as
follows:
The regulations provide means for ensuring
that a proper price shall be obtained by the
committee for wool used in the manufacture
of goods for export. The price to Australian
manufacturers for the season 1940-41 was fixed
last July at appraised price, plus 1\ p.c., together
with ordinary delivery charges. Before the com-
mencement of the present Wool Purchase
Arrangement, Australia was not a large exporter
of woollen goods, but recently Australian manu-
facturers have met an increased demand for
worsted, woollen and knitted goods, and large
orders have beefn received from India for mili-
tary needs.
Consequently, it became necessary for the
committee, in the interests of the Australian
woolgrower and the Imperial Government Pur-
chase Arrangement, to fix a basis of price for
wool for manufacture for export as dis-
tinguished from that for manufacture for
domestic consumption. The increase fixed by
the committee is 25 per cent, of the present
basic price. In fixing the increase, the com-
mittee took into consideration the United King-
dom’s export prices for Australian wool and
export prices of Australian wool tops as deter-
mined by the committee.
The milk in the coconut seems to be the
last few lines. Our exports may have
become an embarrassment to British
exporters. The new 25 p.c. surcharge
won’t apply to goods exported for Empire
military needs.
* * * *
P. and G. Finance, Sydney, has con-
solidated its position since Woolcott-
Forbes’s day sufficiently to propose re-
turning 4s. per share to the holders of
125,000 pref. shares, which will call for
£25,000. The return has been decided on
by the majority of the board.
* * * ♦
Wallaroo-Mount Lyell Fertilisers an-
nounces that extensions to the sulphuric
acid plant at Port Adelaide are nearing
completion, and it is hoped that acid
manufacture will commence within the
next month or two. The attack upon
Nauru by a German raider and the loss
of several steamers was a severe blow to
the British Phosphate Commissioners, but
large reserves of phosphate rock had been
built up in Australia, upon which fertil-
iser manufacturers were able to draw for
supplies. The authorities are endeavor-
ing to secure supplies from other sources
to supplement those available from
Ocean Island and the reduced quantities
from Nauru whilst repairs are made.
Enough phosphate rock is available for
the present season.
* * * *
The Victorian Grain Elevators Board’s
latest loan, £150,000 at p.c. for 15
years, closed undersubscribed. It is ex-
pected that the underwriters will have
to take up about 18 p.c. of the issue.
The board has had bad luck in its
flotations. One, for £500,000, came out
in September, 1939, when most people
couldn’t think of loans, and was 87 p.c.
subscribed; the next hit the public in
May, 1940, almost simultaneously with
the news of the German invasion of
Holland and Belgium, and left the under-
writers with 34 p.c. The latest was still
afloat when Mr. Fadden came out with
his statement about a position of the
utmost gravity.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES.
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
High Caste and Zonda, equal favorites
for the Newmarket during the preceding
week, consolidated their positions when
they finished first and second respectively
in the Caulfield Futurity Stakes, run at
Flemington on Saturday. High Caste
recorded one of the best performances
of his career, but, even so, supporters
of Zonda considered her a trifle unlucky.
Both horses were late Futurity entrants
at a fee of £5O, and the prize-money odds
were excellent in each instance—43 to 1
High Caste for a win, and 9 to 1 Zonda
for second. High Caste firmed from 7
to 4 to 5 to 4 on the course, but longer
odds were laid on the eve of the race,
and winning bets substantially increased
the stake of £2200. Beginning slowly,
and forced to cover a lot of extra ground
during the race, he was under the whip
for almost three furlongs, but looked
like going on to an easy win when he
hit the front about a furlong from home.
Fortunately for High Caste’s backers,
Bartle did not let up, as his mount was
flat-out at the finish to withstand Zonda’s
challenge by half a length. Only a great
horse, however, could have done what
High Caste did under 10.6, and his suc-
cess proved how unlucky he was to have
been beaten by Tranquil Star in the St.
George Stakes, and by Mildura in the
C. F. Orr Stakes.
From a Newmarket viewpoint. High
Caste was no more impressive than
Zonda, whose rider, A. Breasley, ex-
pressed the opinion that she was unlucky
in not getting a clear run in the straight
until High Caste had the race won. It is
debatable whether Zonda was doing
much, if any, better than High Caste
right on the post, but there was little in
it, and Zonda met her rival worse than
Newmarket terms, V.R.C. handicapper
C. H. Davis doubtless was influenced
by Zonda’s Futurity form in penalising
her 101 b. for her Oakleigh Plate success,
but, even with 8.8, she will still meet High
Caste 61b. better next Saturday. Further,
Zonda is not a big mare, and the drop
from her Futurity impost of 9.4 to 8.8 in
the Newmarket may mean more to her
than High Caste’s drop to 10.2.
Remarkable feature of Newmarket bet-
ting is the fact that, until Saturday, there
had been no stable money for High Caste
or Zonda. High Caste has been one of
the favorites since the declaration of
weights, but trainer J. T. Jamieson
has informed the public more than
once that he has not been asso-
ciated with the big bets taken about
his horse in doubles ending with
every fancied Australian Cup candidate.
The stable double, High Caste and Tidal
Wave, has figured at a special quote for
some time, and has been backed for thou-
sands of pounds, but speculators, know-
ing nothing of stable intentions, obvi-
ously have been at work. Jamieson
stated on Saturday that High Caste is a
definite runner for the Newmarket, but
that he could not say as much for Tidal
Wave in the Cup. There is a growing
idea that Tidal Wave will be reserved
for the Sydney Cup.
Comparatively little money has been
staked on Zonda, who jumped from
obscurity to favoritism immediately fol-
lowing her Oakleigh Plate win, and
trainer Lou Robertson declares that he
has absolutely no betting interest in her.
Robertson, in fact, told The Bulletin
representative on Saturday that Zonda
was not a certain starter. His mare has
had two hard races on successive Satur-
days following a long spell, and before
making a decision he intends to see
how she shapes in her work this week.
If he thinks she needs a little more time
to recover from her Futurity race under
9.4 he might consider withdrawing her
from the Newmarket and reserving her
for the C. M. Lloyd Stakes a week later.
Zonda, however, looks to have a wonder-
ful chance in the Newmarket, and it will
be surprising if Robertson lets the oppor-
tunity pass. At her best, it would be
difficult to go past her for the probable
winner.
No excuse was possible for Lucrative’s
failure to finish closer than third after
attempting to win the Futurity all the
way. His form was to determine a start
in the Newmarket, and owner R. W.
McLean, though pleased with his colt’s
performance, lost no time in scratching
him for the V.R.C. sprint. Lucrative’s
withdrawal meant a considerable amount
of “dead” money for doubles book-
makers, but the public had been warned
beforehand that a Newmarket start was
not certain. Lucrative fought back again
after seeming likely to miss a place on
Saturday, and that fact decided his owner
to have him trained for distance races
for the remainder of his autumn cam-
paign. His next race will be in the
V.R.C. St, Leger, and all going well he
will then go to Sydney for the A.J.C.
St. Leger and Sydney Cup.
Futurity disappointments included
Mildura and Tranquil Star. Mildura
weakened badly after looking to have
a good winning chance at the top of the
straight, and Tranquil Star also tired
at the business end. It transpired that
Tranquil Star was galloped on and had
her near hind leg cut, but at the time of
writing it was not known definitely
whether the injury would affect her St.
Leger chance. Gold Salute came from
last to finish fourth, and, considering that
he had had a few easy days after
his severe bleeding attack in the Oak-
leigh Plate, his performance contained a
lot of merit. He might be an even better
proposition in the Newmarket next Satur-
day, though figures do not exactly favor
him against Zonda and High Caste. Sun
Valley, a St. Leger candidate, shaped well
in fifth position, and is fast returning to
his best.
Adelaide-owned and -trained Queen
Baccha drew further attention to her
Newmarket chance by a decisive win
from Scarlet Toi and El Golea in the
Hawksburn Handicap. Many backers
considered that she would drop too far
back in the early stages, but, after over-
coming two or three checks, she hit the
front about a furlong and a half from
home and was not in danger of defeat
subsequently. Queen Baccha is one of
the most improved mares in training. She
could not win in restricted company at
provincial meetings when last in Mel-
bourne, but, with seven wins and four
seconds from 11 starts, has thrived since
being taken over by trainer B, C. Raven.
Latter’s son, M. Raven, one of Adelaide’s
most successful jockeys, understands
Queen Baccha perfectly, and will be the
rider again next Saturday. Queen
Baccha’s Hawksburn win with 7.6 repre-
sented 41b. more than her original New-
market weight, but the V.R.C. handi-
capper has taken due notice of her two
wins and a second from three starts since
her recent arrival in Melbourne. He has
rehandicapped her 51b. to carry 7.7
Scarlet Toi, though he ran well, will
have to improve to win the Newmarket,
and that goes for all the Newmarket can-
didates among the unplaced runners. El
Golea, however, demonstrated by his
third with his exact Newmarket weight
that there is hope for him. Having his
first race since he was shot in mistake
for Beau Vite before the last Melbourne
Cup, and with two bullets still embedded
in his hind legs, he was backed from 20
to 1 down to tens, and rattled home
strongly. He won the Newmarket with
8.12 two years ago, and, even if unable to
repeat the performance this autumn,
might be right at the top of his form
around Doncaster time.
All Love confounded rumor-mongers
when, carrying 9.6, she outclassed Kelos
and High Road in the Alma Stakes.
Rumor had been busy with her ever since
her failure in the Oakleigh Plate, and
adverse reports snowballed to such an
extent that most backers thought they
knew she had no chance of winning a
race of any description this autumn. That
accounted for her price easing from 2
to 1 to fours on Saturday, but better-
informed backers then stepped in and
backed her for substantial amounts. She
started at 9 to 4 after touching 7 to 4.
All Love quickly established a big lead,
and kicked away again to win by three
lengths after she had momentarily
appeared to be tiring about a furlong
from home.
All Love recorded the particularly fast
time of 1.10, which, although not to be
compared with Aurie’s Star’s I.B|, must
be a record six furlongs for a two-year-
old in Australia. It is only fair to add,
however, that All Love was timed by
hand watches. Mechanism of the elec-
tric clock failed for the first two races,
but, when operating later in the day,
showed Queen Baccha as having taken
1.131 to win the Hawsburn Handicap.
Both races were run up the straight six,
and it is quite out of the question to
think that All Love would have beaten
Queen Baccha by over 60 yards, repre-
senting the difference of 31 seconds, had
they met in the same race.
Meeting of All Love and Victoria’s
champion colt, High Title, in the Sires’
Produce Stakes next Saturday will be a
big attraction. High Title is really bril-
liant, but All Love, who is quite as good
as she was in the spring, should beat him.
Unbeaten in four races among horses
of her own age, there is no reason to
believe that she will not get seven fur-
longs. Ted Bartle, who is to ride her
again, considers that a mile will be within
All Love’s scope, and it is certain that
she will start favorite. On Saturday she
conceded weight to all her opponents,
several of whom will be meeting her on
worse terms in the Sires’ Produce. Kelos,
another filly, with a record of two runs
for a first and a second, is a bit above the
average, but she was in receipt of 201 b.
from All Love, while High Road, who
finished third, is not eligible for next
Saturday’s race.
Carpentier, not even entered for the
Australian Cup, the distance of which
was considered much too far for him,
made several Cup candidates look rather
cheap in the Woodcliff Handicap. Dif-
erent riding tactics, combined with a
slow early pace, contributed to his suc-
cess. He was ridden from behind on
this occasion, and, although only sixth
rounding the turn, hit the front about a
furlong from home and cleared away to
win as he liked from Exactly and Pant-
ler. Held on lease for the duration of
his racing career by trainer Elwood
Fisher, Carpentier’s autumn engagements
include the A.J.C. Doncaster. Runner-
up, Exactly, like Carpentier, is not en-
gaged in the Australian Cup, but, at time
of writing, was among the horses remain-
ing in the V.R.C. St. Leger. His per-
formance on Saturday had added merit,
inasmuch as the tree of his saddle broke
comparatively early in the race, and his
rider was at a big disadvantage for the
rest of the trip.
Dashing Cavalier did not enhance his
Cup chance by weakening into fifth posi-
tion after looking the winner coming to
the furlong post, but he had been forced
to cover a lot of extra ground on the out-
side, and the race was not run to suit him.
Similarly, the race was hardly run to
suit Pantler, who was left in front by
himself five furlongs from home, and
then battled on for third money. It was
Pander’s best recent form, however, and,
as a place-getter in two Metropolitans and
a Melbourne Cup, he must now be con-
sidered an Australian Cup possibility.
Trebleworth, who was reared in a
backyard at Springvale, showed the best
form of his career when he lasted long
enough to defeat Tourist a head, with
Miss Marchalong third, in the St. Clair
Trial. Big disappointment was Prince
Ronald, who was backed as if unbeat-
able. Failing to begin with his customary
speed, he was unsighted until well in the
straight, and, although fourth at the
finish, did not flatter his backers at any
stage.
* * * *
The crowd was not a record for the
course, but Moorefield was well pat-
ronised on Saturday, and the totalisator
turnover ran into five figures. Two
favorites were successful, but results
favored the layers, winners including 10
to 1, 8 to 1 and 6 to 1 chances.
Backers anticipated John Dory’s return
to his Melbourne form, and from 5 to 1
he quickly shortened to 9 to 4. He won,
but, after disposing of Many Ways in the
straight, he had to be ridden out to beat
Cooranga, who was having her first run
since October. Amiable, though backed,
could only get fourth, but, as she is sure
to improve, her turn for a win will not
be long in corning. Climax did no better
than at Kensington the previous week,
and Glorious was disappointing. She
was prominent for a little over five fur-
longs, and then dropped right out. John
Dory, who is l*y Marconigram from
Trevally (Moabite-Finnon Haddie), is
sure to win at middle distances.
Yours Truly, favorite for the Moore-
field Handicap, never ran a poorer race.
He did not get closer to the front than
fourth at any stage, and eventually beat
only four. Prominent from the start,
Teddy Rion led at the half-mile but,
though he was still in charge at the leger,
was outstayed by Calruin, who found
Moorefield more to his liking than Ken-
sington a week earlier. The fact of not
being so freely used in the early part
as at Kensington may have also contri-
buted to his success.
Tickle ran on well to get third, and
Masterpiece was not far behind her. Gill-
town, the early leader, had dropped back
third at the half-mile, and after that was
not troublesome. It was thought his
recent racing would benefit him, but,
going on Saturday’s effort, it is not hav-
ing that effect. He was within 181 b. of
bottom weight in a poor field, so if he
should return to his spring form a win
or two for him should be certain. Plutus
cut up badly, as did Prince Cacique and
The Kite, both dying away at the end.
It was a race for apprentice riders, and
in some cases that possibly made a dif-
ference.
Overjoyed opened favorite for the
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap, but
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(Before acceptances.)
FIRST DAY—SATURDAY.
Pines Hurdle Race; Bureaucrat,
1 ; Conandale, 2 ; Ronalla, 3.
Sires’ Produce Stakes ; All Love,
1 ; High Title, 2 ; Beau Port, 3.
Newmarket Handicap: Zonda,
1 ; High Caste, 2 ; Gold Salute, 3.
Victoria Steeplechase: Strathian,
1 ; Dornford, 2 ; Turf Boy, 3.
Flemington Handicap: Tidal
Wave, 1 ; Wilson, 2 ; Saul, 3.
Brunswick Stakes: Sun Valley,
1 ; Carpentier, 2 ; Bankshaw, 3.
SECOND DAY—TUESDAY.
V.R.C. St. Leger: Lucrative, 1 ;
Tranquil Star, 2 ; Tidal Wave, 3.
{By “PILOT:’)
FIRST DAY—SATURDAY.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: All Love,
1 ; High Title, 2; Dapper, 3,
Newmarket Handicap: Zonda,
1; High Caste, 2; Queen Baccha
or All Veil, 3.
SECOND DAY—TUESDAY.
St. Leger; Tidal Wave, 1 ;
Lucrative, 2; Tranquil Star, 3.
FOR HAWKESBURY.
(At Rosehill.)
By “PILOT.”
Maiden Handicap—First Division:
Air Link, 1 ; Mabonga, 2; Can-
vasser, 3. Second Division: Corolla,
1 ; Caprice, 2 ; Petasus, 3.
Maiden Two-year-old Handicap
(colts and geldings)—First Division:
Marcovelian, 1 ; Sponsor, 2;
Pungnah, 3. Second Division:
Sparklet, 1 ; Lord Pentheus, 2;
Brox, 3.
Maiden Two-year-old Handicap
(fillies): The Hussy, 1 ; Miss
Leonard, 2 ; Pallas, 3.
Flying Handicap: Tobasco, 1 ;
Might Not, 2 ; Overjoyed, 3.
Hawkesbury Handicap: Peri-
mond, 1 ; Buzzal, 2 ; Speardale, 3.
Encourage Mile —First Division:
My Dear, 1 ; Dyne, 2 ; Roller Glide,
3. Second division: Connette, 1 ;
Lucky Omen, 2; Kenil Gem, 3.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “ PILOT ”
Brush Hurdle Race: Forestage,
1 ; Mab’s Boy, 2 ; Heracles, 3.
Trial Stakes Handicap: Disci-
pline, 1 ; Electra, 2 ; Lucky Omen,
3.
Flying Handicap: Miss Pentheus,
1 ; Merry Warrah, 2 ; Samurai, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Henchman,
1 ; Dick Whittington, 2 ; St. Pan-
eras, 3.
Canterbury Handicap: Scientist,
1 ; Buzzal, 2 ; John Dory, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Dublin
Lad, 1 ; El Valor, 2 ; Trade Mark
or Table Talk, 3.


A
ip
m
WONDERFUL
SELEETIDI
you can be sure that any
pattern you choose will be
obtainable. No Crusader Cloth is
ever sold out. No disappointment—
"what you choose you get".
CLOTH will give you everything you
ask. Good-looking material, smart patterns and
not only long wear but Extra Wear! Whatever you
pay for a suit of Crusader Cloth is money laid out to
the very best advantage.
Crusader Cloth justifies all the
skill and care your tailor employs!
(Truss 6 cr
CLOTH
REGISTERED TRADE MAR (£
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR
SHRINK!
YOUR TAILOR .
has all the Crusader Pattern
Books, , , , Ask to see them.
a slight doubt as to whether he would
be quite suited by the mile, in conjunc-
tion with strong support for Old Sport,
caused him to ease a couple of points.
War Trophy also being in greater de-
mand at the close of business. First
impressions were best, as, though Waireka
led from* Old Sport and Metallic for the
first half-mile, Overjoyed had the race
won as soon as the straight was entered,
easily beating Novice. Miss Heroic, who
appears to strike more than her share
of trouble in races, had to be pulled out
from the rails, but still managed to beat
Old Sport for third. The latter surprised
by tiring in the straight. War Trophy
again ran badly, while Chatoona did just
well enough to suggest he is coming on
again.
It is unusual for anything ridden by J.
Thompson to start at an outside price,
but his mount, St. Pancras, was at 10 to 1
for the colts and geldings’ division of
the Juvenile Handicap. However, that
did not prevent St. Pancras from bring-
ing profit to Thompson’s followers. He
headed Gramada, King of the Mist and
Pallama at the top of the straight, and
won from the Spearfelt colt Wellesley,
who, from an outside position, ran an
excellent race. Bruegalong, as usual,
showed pace, but his weight stopped him
at an early stage. King of the Mist and
Sponsor were nearest the place-getters,
but were never winning possibilities. St.
Pancras is by Piccadilly from Farfadet
(Hurry On-Woodsprite), and conse-
quently half-brother to that good stayer
Carry On.
In the fillies’ division of the Juvenile
Handicap Jesterine disposed of Con-
gratulations and The Hussy before reach-
ing the straight, and scored comfortably
from Congratulations in 1.4 —a second
faster time than St. Pancras put up in his
division. Double Rise was third, and
that was the best she looked like doing
at any part of the race. She continues
running well enough to send her weight
up sufficiently to put a win beyond her.
Pallas and Prepare ran fairly, but All
Cerise again failed to show herself as
good as she looks. Jesterine is by Pen-
theus from Little Mutt (Cooltrim-Bud-
ding), and was a 150gns. yearling.
Tarn did not run well at Kensington
recently, but it is not unusual for a horse
beaten at that track to show to greater
advantage elsewhere. It was so with
Tarn, who, leading past the half-mile in
the first division of the Flying Welter,
did not after appear like being beaten.
Table Talk was her nearest follower to
the turn, but could not make any impres-
sion in the run home. Third place went
to Tyrannus, who was one of the leading
division throughout, while El Valor’s
fourth suggested that his return to the
winning list is not far off. Merton did not
act up to his recent form, and that of
Camsion was about the same as in his
last couple of races. There was a little
money for Happy Bay, Panturn and Tel
Asur. They never raised their backers’
hopes. Though they look healthy, it will
need more racing to bring Aladdin,
Hope, Rodborough and Tel Asur back
to their best. Cheery Jack was one of
the field, but when he again wins on the
flat it will be at a longer distance than
six furlongs. The same applies to Dis-
cipline, who is coming on nicely.
Old Sport’s run in the first race of the
day had a good effect upon him. Backers
and books decided that the six furlongs
of the second division of the Flying
Welter would be more to his liking than
a mile, and he was never at a longer
price than 5 to 2. Cumberland was the
early leader, though never far ahead of
Old Sport, and the latter had matters all
his own way from the top of the straight.
Elson and Koomeluck filled the minor
places, but were never a danger to Old
Sport. Dungala’s form gives him a
chance at mid-week meetings. Old Sport
is by Pentheus (that sire’s second winner
of the afternoon) from Volsyce, who was
speedy in her day. Vallesano, a good-
looking colt by Amalfi, was in the
market, but made an indifferent showing.
He is in the same ownership as Table
Talk, and is also trained by J. Abbs,
* * * *
High Caste’s Futurity Stakes win
further proved him a great weight-carrier,
but failure would have considerably dis-
counted his Newmarket chance with only
41b. less than he carried on Saturday.
The time recorded —I.2sy—was two
seconds slower than that put up by
Amiable and Quasimodo over the same
course, but they did not carry anything
approaching 10.6, and conditions may
have been more favorable. After the
Futurity Bartle stated High Caste is not
commencing as fast as earlier in his career,
and notwithstanding he was a winner
some distance from home it is probable
the seven furlongs favored him. It might
have been different if, after being slow
off the mark, it had been necessary to
bustle him from the first furlong.
In the Newmarket it will tell against
him if he does not begin smartly, even
allowing the straight six is in his favor,
but though it is contended the field will
not be nearly so strong as on many other
occasions some of his lightly-weighted
opponents will make it hard for High
Caste if he is conceding much start a
couple of furlongs from home. High
Caste was probably unlucky to have
failed in the two races in which he ran
prior to the Futurity, but if the New-
market does him no harm the C. M.
Lloyd Stakes should prove easy for
him. Before then, however, he may
tackle the King’s Plate, which is run at
a mile and three-quarters this year. His
Derby and St. Leger defeats of last
season did not say a great deal for him
as a stayer, but the King’s Plate field
does not promise to be strong. His most
formidable opponents at the time of
writing appear to be Lucrative and Dash-
ing Cavalier. Tidal Wave is in the race,
but I doubt whether he will be a runner
if it is decided to start High Caste. Gold
Salute might run, though he has not done
a distance preparation, but Beau Vite,
though nominated, will not take part.
He is not going south.
* * * *
There is no gainsaying that, even with
his penalty, Apostrophe has bright pros-
pects in the Australian Cup. He was un-
placed in the last Melbourne Cup with
7.11, but he has made marked improve-
ment since then, and is one of the few
acceptors with genuine staying preten-
sions, If Tidal Wave is a runner, and
if he is well there is really no reason
why he should not be for £2250 first
money and a £lOO trophy—he must, as
a Melbourne Cup place-getter, be given
a good chance with 21b. over weight-for-
age In the Melbourne Cup he was in
receipt of 101 b. from Apostrophe, and
he is now getting 111 b. According to
the w.f.a scale he should have improved
81b since November, while Apostrophe
is 'allowed to have deteriorated 11b.
Therefore, if the w.f.a. scale always
worked out correctly, Tidal Wave would
have a big advantage over Apostrophe,
It is doubtful whether it will do so on
this occasion.
Turning to the other probable runners,
Wilson ran fairly in the Bond Cup, and
has the same wlight as in the last Mel-
bourne Cup. He is in a couple of dis-
tance races before the Australian Cup,
as is Mac Rob, and their doings in those
should give a fair idea of whether they
are likely to be dangerous in the more
important race. Telergy’s showing in the
Bond Cup said little for his chance, but
his mile and a half win at Moonee Valley
last week with 7.4, beating Saki (7.7), put
him in a different light. With his light
weight he should be able to go a long
way. I read that Keelie was not doing
well, which indicated he would not be
a starter. Apostrophe and Tidal Wave
are entitled to their positions at the top
of the quotations, and it looks as if they
have most to fear from, Telergy, Wilson
and Mac Rob. As a place bet at a fair
price Telergy appeals to me.
* * * *
All Love had no chance in the Oak-
leigh Plate, but against horses of her
own age in the Alma Stakes she stood
right out. Her six furlongs in 1.10 with
9.10 was a remarkable run, and it was
not surprising there were queries of
“What’s gone wrong with the clock?
It transpired that something had tem-
poranly gone amiss with it, and it was
not used for the Federal Stakes. The
race was timed by ordinary means and,
unless a strong wind was behind the
horses when the race was run, it would
seem excusable to suggest that the time-
keeper was slow in starting his watch.
This idea is borne out by the fact that
later in the day, with the mechanism in
order, the electric clock gave Queen
Baccha s time for the Hawksburn
Handicap as 1.131, and that of High
Caste, m beating a field of brilliant
sprinters over seven furlongs in the
Futurity Stakes, as 1.251. The three-and-
a-half seconds difference in time between
that of All Love and Queen Baccha m
their respective races represented over
60 yards in the former’s favor, and would
have put Queen Baccha, with 7.6, well
“up the straight” in All Love’s race,
Though it may be somewhat difficult to
accept All Love’s time as correct she was
responsible for a splendid effort under a
big weight, and it is hard to visualise her
defeat in the V.R.C. Sires Produce
Stakes. The fact of having 101 b. penalty
will naturally make things harder for her
in the Ascot Vale Stakes,
* * * *
Zonda’s second m the Futurity Stakes
definitely proved she had returned to
the two-year-old form that enabled her
to run second to High Caste in the
V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes and Ascot
Vale Stakes at a difference of only 31b.
in the former and 51b. in the latter. In the
Newmarket she will meet High Caste
61b. better (han in the Futurity, in which
her rider said she did not have the best
of luck. A photograph of the race shows
her eighth or ninth at the straight


V /> TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring GREATEST
ENGINE EFFICIENCY
Throughout your car’s life.
Champions will keep the engine
up to its best power, speed
and economy ready to serve
you dependably —because
Champions provide the strong
hot sparks that ensure fuller
combustion of the fuel.
Champions save you money!
An Empire product—made in Windsor • Can•
entrance, and about half a length behind
High Caste. The latter was much more
than that ahead of her a furlong from
home, but at the winning post only half
a length again separated them. In the
Oakleigh Plate Zonda commenced well,
and as she showed her appreciation of
the long straight there is no reason for
supposing it will be otherwise in the
Newmarket. Her Oakleigh Plate and
Futurity Stakes runs struck most backers
as strongly pointing to her as the winner
of next Saturday’s race. She will carry
a pound less than Waltzing Lily, the last
of her sex to win the Newmarket. Waltz-
ing Lily was a three-year-old at the time.
* * * *
Dashing Cavalier’s run in the Wood-
cliff Handicap with 9.7 did not flatter
those backers who have ended New-
market and Australian Cup doubles with
him. The difference in distance may do
something for Dashing Cavalier, though
I have never regarded him as a great
stayer, and despite the general summing-
up of the Cup field as bad he has his
full share of weight in 9.4. In the last
34 years the only winners with over
9.0 were Pilliewinkie (9.6) and Spear-
felt (9.13) and they were of different
class from Dashing Cavalier. Dashing
Cavalier was not the only Cup horse that
shaped indifferently in the Woodcliff
Handicap, as Pantler, Companion and
Velocity did not show form suggestive of
success in next week’s long race.
* * * *
In Sydney on Monday the order of
the most fancied horses for the New-
market Handicap and Australian Cup
was as follows:
Newmarket Handicap.
High Caste, Zonda.
Gold Salute, Mildura, Queen Baccha.
All Veil, Dhoti, El Golea, Phoines,
Scarlet Toi.
Operatic, Reading.
Australian Cup.
Apostrophe.
Tidal Wave.
Dashing Cavalier.
Wilson.
Saul, Telergy.
Mac Rob, Tetianui.
sjc sfc ♦
Gold Salute made a quick recovery
from the bleeding that affected him in
the Oakleigh Plate, and his good fourth
in the Futurity Stakes was a general
surprise. He commenced slowly, and
as he had no luck subsequently his
performance was good enough to prevent
knock-out prices being offered against
him for the Newmarket, in which, how-
ever, he is again receiving only 81b. from
High Caste. Mildura, Reading, Chats-
bury, Orcadian, Cumulus, Pure Gold and
Celeris did not impress on Saturday, and
Queen Baccha reads like again beating
Scarlet Toi.
* * * »
El Golea, who has 81b. more in the
Newmarket than when he won two years
ago, is now well in the betting, while
many backers looking for a fairly long-
priced winner are pinning their faith to
Queen Baccha, All Veil, Industry or
Operatic.
* * * *
Sol Green has set a high standard for
any breeder who would like to follow
his lead at the yearling sales. Twenty
yearlings bred by him are to go to auction
in Melbourne, and the net proceeds will
be donated to the Blanket Fund for dis-
tressed people in England. The blankets
are to be made in Australia, and are to
reach England before next winter. One
of the yearlings to be offered is the colt
by Actor from Bon Cretien, and as very
few finer yearlings will go into the sale-
ring he is sure to bring a high price.
It is difficult to write sufficient in praise
of Sol’s generosity.
* * * *
Apostrophe, with 51b. penalty, now has
8.13 in the Australian Cup, and is any-
thing but harshly treated, considering he
made light of 8.12 in the Bond Cup.
Even before she ran in the Futurity
Stakes it was generally reckoned that
Zonda would be penalised at least 71b.
for the Newmarket, and her good second
to High Caste assured her the maximum
of 101 b.
* * * *
The Royal Calcutta Turf Club is
devoting all its profits towards helping
India’s war effort, and up to the end of
January had contributed £290,442 to-
wards the funds. That amount included
£BB,OOO donated for a flight of Spitfires.
In place of the club’s usual sweep on the
English Derby it is proposed to run one
on the next Melbourne Cup, a large per-
centage of the profits to go to war funds.
In the past tickets on the Derby sweep
could be obtained only through members
of the C.T.C., and if similar procedure
is observed in connection with the Mel-
bourne Cup, sweep tickets for which will
be on sale in Australia, it will be neces-
sary to elect to membership of the C.T.C.
several prominent officials of racing clubs
in our various capitals.
There was an exceptionally close finish
for last year’s America’s jockey premier-
ship. Commencing the last day, Earl
Dew and W. L. Taylor were level with
286 wins each. Dew, riding at Santa
Anita, was successful on his first mount,
but did not score any further wins.
Taylor, riding at Tropical Park (Miami),
had two losing mounts, was unable to do
any more riding that afternoon owing to
being injured, and the season closed with
Dew’s score 287 to Taylor’s 286.
Both riders are 19 years of age, and
an American paper recently stated that,
while Dew was a shy, baby-faced coun-
try product, Taylor was “a skinny, swag-
gering hustler from Houston.” Towards
the close of the season, with so much
uncertainty as to the result, their feel-
ings towards each other were somewhat
bitter, and in a race in which they rode
at Tropical Park on Christmas Day Dew
squeezed Taylor, and the latter retaliated
with his whip. They walked back to the
jockeys’ room together, but had scarcely
got inside the door when they were hard
at work with their fists. Each was fined
$5O, whereas lesser lights might have
been suspended. “Just a flare-up of com-
petitive spirit,” was the reason given by
the chief steward for letting them off
lightly.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Westbury Beats McLaughlin
Last Thursday night at Leichhardt
was a pleasant occasion for the invasion
troops from Newcastle. They won two
out of three encounters and got away
with the heaviest load of loot amassed
at that address for a year or so. They
deserved the haul for the solid willing-
ness of the stoush they provided; so
did the Leichhardt Stadium people, who
have kept the game going in Sydney,
despite often meagre houses, over a
period when it looked as if imported
grapplers were being allowed to blockade
the local fighting lads clean out of exist-
ence. Pretty well every week the Leich-
hardt people have provided their Thurs-
day night’s scrapping, and there has
rarely been a time when at least one
of the scraps hasn’t returned good value
for the money.
The main line that has thus kept the
game going has been an attempt to
settle the supposedly obscure question
of the Australian welter title. The holder,
in the present scribe’s view, is Hockey
Bennell, who has fought some wretched
fights since he took over the title, but
has not yet been beaten when the title
was at stake. Hockey has been licked
by all sorts and sizes, but that shouldn’t
mislead anybody into rash punting: he’s
always an extraordinarily different youth
when the title’s strung up. As far as can
be gathered, the nearest he’s been to
losing the title was in a meeting with
Alan Westbury over the title distance in
Brisbane. Westbury outed him in the
fifteenth round, but the records seem to
show that there was definite agreement
beforehand that the fight was not for
the title.
Anyway, there should be no trouble
now about settling the point. Last Thurs-
day night’s meeting of Westbury and
Ron McLaughlin was the concluder to
the long and searching series of elimina-
tion engagements, with Westbury clearly
on top. Alan got into the ring in much
better condition than in sundry repent
scraps, and he needed every bit of it.
He won comfortably, but Ron is an
exceptionally strong scrapper, whose
muscle and dark phiz always give the
impression that he’s just come straight
from swinging the big hammer in a
smithy. He is, however, though a heavy
puncher, with a splendid left, a bit slow
on the hoof, and it was speed that beat
him.
Up to the end of the seventh it was
a hard, even scrap, Ron picking up a
round or two, but Alan scrapping with
more evident confidence, and hitting
faster, straighter and more effectively,
especially in short bursts of body punch-
ing close in. It was uncommonly clean
fighting; they shared pretty evenly in
moving in; fought hard while they were
together; then broke of their own
accord. The big house was noticeably
quiet, clear enough evidence that New-
castle was shading the local lad.
From the seventh on Alan was clearly
on top. In the eighth he winded Ron
with a clinking left rip, and if he could
have then broken free of Ron’s grip Ron
would certainly have dropped. As it
was, Ron recovered, and fought back
fiercely, but he was getting erratic now,
swinging ’em, and meanwhile taking a
boxing lesson, Alan blocking the wild
stuff and countering with a continuous
fast, short, wearing battering. Ron
roused his supporters with a fierce on-
slaught, but it wasn’t anything as effec-
tive as it looked, Alan blocking it all or
evading it with fast head and shoulder
twists, and meanwhile getting in short
uppercuts and rips that were decidedly
effective.
From here on Alan not only had Ron’s
measure, but was able to take with com-
plete immunity the hardest punches Ron
could throw at him. In the tenth a right
to the solar, perfectly timed and placed
as Alan moved in fast, had Ron again
outed, but again Alan couldn’t shake
clear to let him drop. The rest of the
fight, though Ron saw it out, was a walk-
over for Newcastle.
The other Newcastle win saw a new
recruit added to the recent brigade of
successful southpaws. This was a smart
little bantam, scrapping under the moni-
ker of Spud Arnold. His opponent,
Rollo Hinton, is generally fast enough
to evade any serious trouble, but he was
nowhere near fast enough for Spud, who
brought the capital brief engagement to
an end with a k.o. in the third round,
Newcastle had somewhat hard luck not
to make it a hat trick. Its other rep.,
Bluey Burns, got into the ring looking
like an advertisement for Hunter River
watermelons, despite which he fought
Bobby Lee good and hard for eight
rounds, and was even going better at the
finish than he had earlier. The ref. gave
it to Bobby, but Bluey seemed to just
about win it; anyway, it was close,
* * * *
Jack Brander, of Sydney, now in the
middleweight division, lasted two (2)
rounds against Al Basten at Melbourne
on Saturday night. Basten belongs to
Footscray, and is a powerful puncher.
* * * *
Jim Barron, one of the best of Larry
Foley’s pupils, though not the most for-
tunate, died in Sydney last week, aged
78. In the late ’eighties and early
’nineties, boxing as a lightweight, he
beat such good men as “Dummy” Mace
(three rounds), Billy Murphy (three
rounds), Bill Jennings (five rounds) and
Artie Tully (14 rounds), though defeated
by Tom Williams (two rounds, and
“Shadow” Maber (11 rounds). His most
memorable performance was a 22-round
draw with “Griffo.” Going to the U.S.A.,
he whipped representative bruisers in
Bobby Dobbs, “Spike” Sullivan, Jack
Sullivan, Charlie Turner and “Black
Pearl,” and —conceding lumps of weight
—took the great “Kid” McCoy to a
draw. But he hurt one of his “dukes”
in America, and did little boxing after
his return to Sydney. Jim was a native
of Parramatta, and for years taught
boxing at The King’s School. Long after
he had retired from that post, a Bulletin
man had occasion to make an inquiry
about him at “King’s.” “Haven’t seen
him for years,” was the reply ; “and we
should like to see him again. We found
Jim one of Nature’s gentlemen.”
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
So fussy are some American profes-
sionals about their clubs that they still
use favorites as old as 20 years. Jimmy
Thomson, the world’s longest hitter, still
has the same shaft in his driver that he
used in 1934 when he won the £lOOO first
prize in the Melbourne Centenary open,
Jimmy has tried many other shafts, but
the feel of this particular one is so sweet
to him that he has had five heads put
on it in seven years.
Putters, of course, are the oldest and
most treasured clubs in many of the
stars’ bags. Some date back to 1920
and may have been handed down to the
present younger professionals by older
men. Gene Sarazen, always changing his
putter, tied Lawson Little for the open
championship with a putter that could be
bought on its appearance in any second-
hand store for a few pence, yet in
Sarazen’s hands it gave him confidence.
Talking about old putters reminds me
that 1 used my first steel-shafted putter
(of 1930) in the 5000-dollar Chicago
open for the first time in the U.S.; it
helped to produce the 66 that led the
field and gave me a score of 280, third
in the event, and a start in my return
to form which culminated in my win-
ning the Chicago amateur title. Con-
fidence is everything in putting.
Watching two well-known professionals
during a tournament play a par-
three hole over a miniature lake, I
was amazed to see a splash in the middle
of the water a few yards from the tee ;
my surprise was increased when a couple
of seconds later a ball landed a few
feet from the flag. The player had con-
nected perfectly with the ball, but a frac-
tion of a second after the impact his
clubhead parted from the shaft and fol-
lowed the ball but failed to carry the
water.
Golf certainly runs in the Dettweiler
family. Bill Dettweiler is a scratch player,
possessing a sound style and prospects of
being prominent in amateur circles. Jack
scores in the low 80 s. And Helen is one
of the best women players I have seen.
She spends her time touring the country
giving exhibitions and lectures to the
women golfers.
Washington (the capital) is one of the
few cities that boast of a course open
exclusively to men. Like the famous
Bob-o-Link course in Chicago, this club
has had no female players on its fair-
ways. At Bob-o-Link even the club-
house is closed to women, for members’
wives calling for them have to stay in
their cars.
Ins and Outs
Though McCabe couldn’t bat in the
second innings at Melbourne and was
unable to go to Adelaide, the N.S.W.
team has had a triumphal tour of the
south. Faced with the job of making
395, the Victorians were dismissed for
159 (Harvey 38, Sievers 37 ; McCool four
wickets for 29, O’Reilly three for 17).
In Adelaide Barnes took his season’s
tally to 1050, but O’Reilly deprived the
youth of his last remaining chance to
equal Bradman’s record of seven cen-
turies in an Australian summer. The
bowlers’ figures tell the story of the match
—O’Reilly five for 28 (South Aus. 132 ;
Badcock 40, Hamence 31, Leak 21);
Grimmett one for 128, Cotton four for
85 (N.S.W., 512 ; Chegwyn 103, McCool
100, Jackson 70, Saggers 63, Barnes 51),
and, again, O’Reilly two for six (Bad-
cock 40, Hamence 3, Leak 1). It was
three for 103 then, and O’Reilly on Mon-
day didn’t have the same devil. Waite
(94) and Grimmett hit up 100 in 62min.,
and at eight for 313 the old fellow was
57. It only postponed the inevitable.


CHEQUE ACCOUNTS
ALMOST every person of
standing in the community
has a cheque account, because
to pay by cheque is safer . . .
easier .. . more modern—and
your cheque-butt provides a
record of income and expendi-
ture. A cheque account may
be opened at any branch of
the Rural Bank.
Fixed Deposits are also accepted.
BANK
M
RURA
B iW
sew?
WALKS
OF
NE
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
C ommissioners :i
t R. McKERIHAN (PRESIDENT) H. ROGERS P. KEARNS
m
r|, (*lO
RIDS
NON
%
alcoholic
*■»-« u..**
*ylon
*Oo
—everyone agrees that Clayton’s Kola
Tonic is the most refreshing, nerve-
soothing beverage obtainable.
As a long drink (with minerals or
water), an appetising liqueur, or as the
base of your favorite cocktail, Clayton’s
Kola Tonic is enjoyable and health-
giving. Always ask for —-
Product of Clayton Bros., London.
Agents;
GOLLIN & CO. PTY., LTD., Sydney.
».Sfe-
p«
S i>? V'Y.S «
5 t i » |
i %!' *
SSS&Ssi
■»
UnVmcd
lined •
Hats ate tnanu-
ood Tby
ts. i»
40/6
' ’ ' 43/-
df«F
°° \\at*
AT ALL FIRST-CLASS HATTERS
AND STORES.
the
■vmrid
OAU oVer Hats have
VJooAro* decked
earned of^e\h^ essed
outstanding
men. / h an d smart
qUaUU d colours mahc
shapes an value
v f; n
money can
ƒ
DAY OR NIGHT CLASSES
Ground Engineer-
ing Students at
work on a Twin
Row Wasp
Radial Engine.
m
Trained men are urgently needed now in the
aircraft industry. Pay is good right from the
start, and, for those who have the thorough
training in aviation engineering provided by
the College of Civil Aviation, promotion is
rapid. Ambitious men who enrol at the College
of Civil Aviation now have a wonderful future
ahead of them. They will always find work
plentiful in this field, for it is now generally
recognised by authorities that the aircraft
industry in Australia has come to stay, not just
for the duration of the war, but as a permanent
feature of Australia’s industrial effort.
281 MEN PLACED IN POSITIONS
The College of Civil Aviation has now placed 281 young men in profitable employment in
aviation. The figures below show how quickly our students are being absorbed.
STUDENTS PLACED TO END OCTOBER . . . . 161
„ „ „ „ NOVEMBER. . . . 193
„ „ „ „ DECEMBER. . . . 217
STUDENTS PLACED TO DATE 281
Proof of the above can be seen at our office. We honestly believe that every student who
enrols here will be able to obtain, with our assistance, immediate employment upon completion
of the course. This College has never guaranteed or promised positions for the students, but
practically every graduate has obtained immediate employment and is advancing steadily.
We Will Train You for
GROUND ENGINEERS' LICENCES
The College of Civil Aviation trains by lectures and practical tuition at their workshops at
Kingsford Smith Aerodrome, Mascot, for the Commonwealth Department of Civil Aviation
Ground Engineers’ Licences. No former engineering knowledge is needed
before joining the College. Training covers all phases of the subject. For
the “C” (Aircraft Maintenance) Licence it covers the overhaul of wings,
fuselage and undercarriages, and in fact, the whole aircraft, excepting t)’
engine. The “D” (Aero Engine) Licence covers a general course in fitting
servicing of aero engines, metal working and use of precision instruments.
There is no medical examination required nor is there any age limit for
applicants for Ground Engineers’ Licences. The College in Sydney is
Officially Approved of by the Commonwealth Department of Civil Aviation
as a Training Establishment and Authorised Aircraft Repair Station.
CALL AT THE OFFICE
You are invited to call in any day
or any Wednesday evening and
discuss the prospects in aviation
engineering at the city office, or
write to the College of Civil
Aviation, 255 a George St., Sydney.
I" THE COLLEGE OF CIVIL AVIATION,
Dept. 14, 253 a George Street, Sydney.
■ Please send me details of your eourse
GROUND ENGINEERS’ LICENCES.
|NAME
[address
I
1
I
I
I
20/2/’.
4 I
m
mm.


(arci
VVritims
A Money-Making Hobby
Ticket and Showcard Writing is a
profitable hobby. Learn modem
methods this new, easy way.
H. & R. train you ... at home.
Send for Free Brochure.
Department of Distribution,
Hemingway & Robertson,
88A Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne.
38A Barrack House. 1C Barrack St., Sydney.
Offices in all capital cities, Newcastle ana
Launceston. 38AA/TS5.
ECZEMA
Sensitive people fed eczema
acutely. The continued irritation,
the unsightly eruptions and the
uncertainty where the trouble will
next spread makes them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema is not due to dirt, but to the fact
that certain skins react badly to various
forms of irritation (internal_ or external)
and poor general health increases the
liability.
Since there is a great tendency for eczema
to spread and to become chronic, early
local treatment is imperative, and the best
salve for this purpose is DOAN’S Oint-
ment. It penetrates to the true skin where
the inflammation lies, is antiseptic and
healing and quickly allays the irritation.
DOAN’S Ointment is also good for other
itching skin complaints and for the relief
of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but, be sure
you get DOAN’S.
n
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
On Sunday night the Independents’
Theatre at North Sydney was probably
the most packed place in and around
the city. All the members, plus innumer-
able friends, had turned up to welcome
Marie Ney. The reception started at
seven with coffee and sandwiches. Marie,
very attractive in white, was seated on
the no-man’s-larjd between stage and
the first row of stalls, and the assemblage
was brought up to her in sections. Then
the actress told one or two little stories
concerning Emlyn Williams, whose play
“The Light of Heart” was the evening s
special dish. Emlyn and Marie had acted
in Shakspeare together. “The Light of
Heart” is really as much an indictment
of strong drink as a temperance sermon.
Its theme is the sacrifice of a daughter
to an alcoholic, charming father, an
actor with a touch of genius.
How wise the nightingale is to limit
his season of song! Love scenes, even
when, as in the Noel Coward comedy
“Private Lives,” served with the lemon
of acrimony, the olive of jealous re-
proach, pall on the beholder. The first
scene of the second act of “Private Lives”
proved it last Saturday night. The
feather-brained bits were those that most
riveted the attention, and everybody
loved the touch of the old countess who
was so gay that at supper she blew the
shrimps through her ear-trumpet. In
Amanda, Marie Ney has a part that suits
her looks to perfection. The slim lines
of her body, her lithe movements and the
light cadence of her voice melt into the
part. For the opening act she wore a
ground-length frock of white and green,
the back all green, the front panel while.
Jane Conolly made her first appearance
in a shimmer of blue satin and brocade,
and as Sibyl who quibbled was a pleasant
sight.
There’s something reassuring these
changing times in a first night at the
Royal. The big bowls of flowers are in
their accustomed place on the landing ;
the first-nighters, who know one another
and whom everybody knows by sight, are
in their usual seats; the girl ushers and
the programme sellers, too, are old
friends. Lady Mostyn was in the audi-
ence on Saturday night. Mrs. Sep Levy
made entry in black lace and silver fox.
Mrs. E. J. Tail seemed to enjoy the
Coward fun and games. Dr. Norman
Haire, who is to appear next Sunday in
“Thunder Rock” at Doris Fitton’s theatre
at North Sydney, Mrs. David Knox and
producer AlSc Coppel exchanged views
in the interlude. Marjorie Hambridge’s
graceful head arose above palest primrose
marquisette. With her was mother Mrs.
Frank Hambridge. The sleeves of her
short black jacket were crusted with
sequin and bead embroideries.
The L. C. Robinsons and Captain
Sandy Robertson and Mrs. Robertson,
Mrs. Westbrook, artist Margaret Coen,
Mrs. Stuart Doyle and daughter Marie
Louise helped make up the audience ;
so did the E. H, Salengers, grandparents
of one day’s standing. Daughter Patricia
(Mrs. K. Anderson) has just presented
them with a granddaughter. Mrs. Salen-
ger and daughter Margaret are newly back
from a holiday in Tasmania. From their
report it is an emerald set about with
luxury hotels and hospitality.
Members of the Free French Forces
were given a party in the rooms of the
Friends of France last week. Mrs. Ivy
Moore, who founded the little club, was
the hostess at the happy lunch-hour
gathering. From the French-Australian
League and from individual admirers of
De Gaulle and what he stands for, came
parcels of socks, shirts, cigarettes and
other comforts for the lads, many of
whom wore on their tunics the Cross of
Lorraine, in addition to C.U.S.A. and
other soldier-hut badges. Father Brocart,
from Villa Maria, was a guest. The big
moment was when the ten sailor lads
stepped out into the corridor (the club-
room was too crowded for the ceremony)
and had their photographs taken under
the club’s big banner of the Cross of
Lorraine. Vice-president Wilcox took
part in the welcome.
A picturesque evening party held at
the Polynesian Club of Sydney last week
was a Tongan “faikava” conducted in
honor of the visit of Mrs. W. G. Bagnall,
of Nukualofa, Tonga, wife of the retired
Finance Minister to the Tongan king-
dom. Mrs. Bagnall was the principal
guest at the kava-making, and was pre-
sented with a floral lei. In response to
a speech of welcome by president
Leonard Moran, Mrs. Bagnall responded
in English and in Tongan, speaking in
eulogy of Salote Tubou, Queen of Tonga,
of whom Mrs. Bagnall is a close friend.
The kava was made by Dora Buffett,
of Norfolk Island, who possesses all the
essentials for her office, being young,
handsome and, most important of all in
a kava ceremony, unmarried. Dora is a
descendant of the Bounty men. One of
her ancestors arrived in Pitcairn in 1823
to be the first schoolmaster.
The costumes of the club ladies were
picturesque. Dora Buffett and her cousin
Cora Young, another Bounty girl, de-
scendant of the midshipman of the ill-
fated warship, wore dresses of black and
white Fijian tapa cloth with blouses of
tapa in contrasting colors. They wore
garlands of real flowers with intricately-
worked Tahitian shell garlands in their
dark hair. The cup-bearer was club
secretary Frances Tye, whose Tahitian
pareu was blue and white. Her Samoan
fine mat was fringed with scarlet parrot
feathers.
Among the recipients of the kava were
Dick Hahn, of Nukualofa, Tonga, R. W.
Robson, editor of the “Pacific Islands
Monthly,” and members of the Free
French naval forces, who were present
as the guests of the president. Mrs. Maiy
Croudace, a handsome visitor from Apia,
Samoa, also drank the ceremonial kava.
Among late arrivals were Max Meldrum
and his Sydney protege Howard Veale.
For the fifth time Stephanie Edye,
in the name of the bull pup Algy who
honors the Edye home at 69 Victoria-
road, Bellevue Hill, with his presence,
is organising a sports meeting in aid of
the Far West Children’s Health scheme.
Algy, very hospitable-looking, with a
bone in his mouth, is pictured on the
invitation. He asks all his pals, human
and canine, to the meeting on March 1
at his home address.
Events will begin on the tick of 2 p.m.
Prizes and ribbons are promised to the
dog with the longest tail, the longest ears,
the sweetest smile. If a pup is glamorous
or supercilious he has a chance of being
a winner. It will cost 6d. to enter him
for any one event, and one shilling for
his owner to enter through the gate.
There are many more reasons listed why
a pet may win a prize. For further news
ring FM4544. This photograph of
Stephanie shows her in one of the cos-
tumes for the Spanish dances in which
she delights. Photograph from Rogers,
London.
If you want to keep in step with 1941
events you must add a “France Libre”
badge to your collection. You will wear
it, too, on occasions such as the five-to-
seven at Prince’s last week, when Andre
Brenac, leader of the Free French move-
ment in Australia, and his wife welcomed
friends of the cause. The only speech
was made by M. Brenac, and in French
he called in vigorous words for the sup-
port by his fellow-countrymen of the
cause of General de Gaulle. Two good-
looking young French naval officers
from Tahiti were in the company. Among
the much-greeted were Mr. and Mrs.
L. M. Duplatre. They are recently
arrived from Bangkok, where he was a
Judge of the Supreme Court. They have
been on furlough, and his term of office
ended on the evening of the party, Mrs.
Duplatre is a great friend of Mrs. Segaert,
who with her Belgian Ambassador hus-
band is still in Thailand.
The Jacques Playoust couple were early
arrivals. Mrs. Alice Brenac, of the
French-Australian League, the Remond
Thevenets and the Frank Wrights were
noted among the groups streaming in
about half-past five. Nanette Humphrey
Bishop, a daughter of the actor and now
secretary to Mr, Brenac, gave smiling
help to the afternoon. The Free French
movement has within the past few weeks
acquired a publicity officer, Mrs. E.
Beresford, who gives her services to help
the cause.
Newly back in Sydney from New York,
which has been her home for some time,
is Dorothy D’Orn, who was last in her
native Australia with the “White Horse
Inn” co. Theatregoers still recall her high
lyric soprano in the yodelling song.
Dorothy, who is a sister of Mrs. Winter-
Irving, of Toorak, Melbourne, has sung
at La Scala, and has a thorough know-
ledge of music and opera. Her musical
education started at Melbourne Con. and
was polished by study in Europe with
Pettinelli and Toscanini.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly, president of the
women’s committee of St. Vincent’s, is
proud of the valentine handed to the
Reverend Mother of that hospital on the
fourteenth of this month. In place of a
ball each committeewoman gave, or
raised by individual effort, £5, and a
cheque for £250 was the result. Since
the handing over of the cheque Douglas
Dowdell, of the Orient Line, has sent as
a contribution 120 tickets in his wedding-
present art union. Tickets can be had
from the nuns of St. Vincent’s or from
Mrs. Kelly. They are one shilling each
and should be bought speedily, for the
butts must be in by March 12.
A Manly bride whose wedding cere-
mony and reception were within sound
of the surf on the lovely Pacific strand
was Joan Thorold-Smith, who married
her Flight-Lieutenant Francis Parle at
the Mary Immaculate Church last Satur-
day morning at nine o’clock. The two
pretty girls in lilac organdie who stepped
up the aisle after the bride’s rose-white
frock and tulle veil were sister Noelle
and Nancye Glasheen. Ray Thorold-
Smith, popular in University sports
circles, is a brother of the bride. He
is now a pilot officer with the R.A.A.F.
Flight-Lieutenant Harvey Dakin attended
the ’groom. Raymond Sawyer photo-
graph.
Barbara Knox is the organiser of an
exhibition which will be called “An
Englishman’s Home,” and which will fur-
nish the David Jones gallery in George-
street with loan collections of pictures,
furniture and ornaments of artistic merit.
Mrs. Penfold Hyland is the president of
the committee, which has among its star
exhibits the Sydney Cooper collection of
Chinese treasures, which represents
mostly the Tang and Sung periods
(seventh to thirteenth century). It in-
cludes pieces from the Imperial Palace,
some of which bear the inscription of
great Manchu princes. Chinese lacquer,
porcelain and silks will enrich the display,
and show the Chinese influence on Eng-
lish taste over four centuries. Step by
step, period by period, will be demon-
strated the changes that have been
wrought since 1700 to this year of
bomb and bullet in the furnishings of
an Englishman’s home,
Andre Brenac and his wife, whose
father, Henri Segaert, helped to found it,
were two of the principal guests of the
International Society last week. Another
guest was Elsley Zietlyn, an English bar-
rister who had worked on various com-
mittees dealing with the refugee problem
in countries surrounding Poland directly
after the fall of that brave country. He
told of a Polish professor now reduced
to earning his living by glazing windows,
but who consoles himself with the
thought that there is after all a simi-
larity in his former and his present mode
of life. Then he let light into the mind,
now he lets light into the home. He
told of the courage of savagely-oppressed
Poland, and the iron core of her pas-
sive resistance.
Andre Brenac made a spirited speech
on the Free French cause and then had
to hurry away to Central to meet a group
of French sailors. Aubrey Halloran in-
troduced the guests; Mrs. Florence
Taylor thanked them. Good-lookers
present included Ruby Adams, Dolly
Hollander Moore, Miss Tennyson Miller,
Mrs. Jean Moreing and Miss Elizabeth
Plummer, her jewellery a pair of earrings
given to her by Icelandic soprano Maria
Markan. They are drops of green chryso-
prase in an antique silver setting, and
had been given to Maria by her first
singing teacher. Another of Miss
Plummer’s treasures is a ring from
Dolores.
When Greek meets Greek on Feb-
ruary 28 there’ll be no tug-of-war but a
ready handing out of silver fuel for the
chocolate-wheel and a great buying and
selling of the Greek Day badge. Not
only Greeks will give, but their friends
must add their bit, too. The Town Hall
concert on that date will be a spectacular
as well as a musical event. Before the
opening number a group of 30 Greeks
dressed in the Evzone uniform will
march on to the stage led by Miss
Britain and Miss Greece. Pretty young
girls Bluebell Searby and Katherine
Zikos will represent the two firm allies.
The group will then sing “God Save the
King” and the Greek national anthem.
“When we help the Greeks, we help
every nation which loves freedom and
peace,” declared Mrs. Vrisakis, wife of
the Greek Consul-General, at a meeting
of the concert committee. Who does not
agree with her?
Probably the most fashionable do of
a week so humid that effort seemed
ridiculous was the performance of
Priestley’s “Roundabout” in aid of the
Red Cross headquarters branch. This
was given at the Con., and both the Gov-
ernor and Lady Wakehurst were among
those who laughed over the play’s clever
irony. Pansy-blues and violets patterned
Lady Wakehurst’s chiffon frock and cape.
In the Government House party were
Lieut.-General Miles and his wife and
Admiral Colvin’s lady. From an acting
as from a monetary point of view, the
evening was a triumph, and the Alex-
ander Gordon lady found she had organ-
ised another success. Pale blue and silver
brocades suited Mrs. Ellis Fielding
Jones’s fairness. Susan Spencer ruffled
in white marquisette. The Comtesse de
Vilme-Hautmont was sleek in black
moire. Programme-sellers were both
active and attractive. They added con-
siderably to the night’s haul.
Forty years ago Mrs. Daisy Bates,
arriving in Australia on a mission from
the London “Times,” became interested
in the aborigines. Now she is famed as
their champion, and as having a deeper
knowledge of their laws, legends, customs
and dialects than probably any other
white man or woman. Recently, on her
way to Canberra to present to the Com-
monwealth Government the fruits of her
years of study, she looked in on Sydney
for the first time for several decades. The
prideful progress of cities holds no charm
for this tiny featherweight of a woman
with the dauntless spirit who has
absented herself from fashion and ordi-
nary social intercourse to give her life
to the betterment of native brother and
sister.
Lieutenant Walter Burke, R.A.N., of
Neutral Bay, packed his bride and his
golf sticks into a car last week and went
off to Melbourne for a three months’
busman’s holiday. Flinders Base will see
him quite a lot during his stay. In the
meantime Frankston (the home of the
Andrew Watts) is the Burkes’ address.


Personal and Missing Friends.
WOULD JAMES RAYMOND GIBSON,
last heard of in Mildura, Victoria, or anyone
knowing whether he is alive or dead, please
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Christchurch, New Zealand?
THOMAS JAMES and ALICE MINNIE LOW,
children of ARTHUR MARTIN and ALICE
KATE LOW (nee SMITH), wish to contact
those who advertised for them some years ago.
Will any relative or person having knowledge
of same please communicate with advertiser
No. 3261, CENTRAL NEWS AGENCY, LTD.,
Smith Street, Durban, South Africa?
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
No. 60 of 1941.
Mr. Justice Macrossan, S.P.J.
Mr. Justice E. A. Douglas.
BETWEEN IVY AGNES RAINNIE Plaintiff
and
WILLIAM ALEXANDER RAINNIE Defen-
dant.
TO WILLIAM ALEXANDER RAINNIE
formerly of No. 12 Gladstone Road South
Brisbane in the State of Queensland but
whose present whereabouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane by Writ of Summons
numbered 60 of 1941 by IVY AGNES
RAINNIE your wife in which she claims a
dissolution of her marriage with you and by her
petition filed herein she alleges that on or about
the Fourth day of December 1934 you deserted
her without cause and have continuously so
deserted her for five years and upwards to the
present time AND IT HAS BEEN ORDERED
that service on you of the said petition and
writ be effected by filing and sticking up on
the notice board in the Registry of the said
Court at Brisbane a copy of this notice and
by the publication of this notice once in the
“Courier-Mail” a newspaper published in Bris-
bane aforesaid and once in the “Bulletin” a
newspaper published in Sydney in the State
of New South Wales and by sending by pre-
paid registered post an office copy of the said
writ and petition and a copy of the said order
addressed to the Defendant care of ALEX-
ANDER RHIND RAINNIE of Meadow Vale
near Liverpool in the State of New South
Wales. If you desire to defend this action you
must within forty-four days from the date of
the performance of the last act done in pur-
suance of the said order enter an appearance
at the said Registry and in default of your so
doing the Plaintiff may proceed therein and
judgment may be given in your absence.
DATED at Brisbane this Eighteenth day of
February, 1941.
(L.S.) J. J. HERLIHY,
Acting Second Deputy Registrar.
McSWEENY & LEEPER, Solicitors for
Plaintiff, National Mutual Building, 293 Queen
Street, Brisbane.
Melbourne
Chatter
The new season’s clothes are upon us
straight on the heels of the sales and
are creating the usual interest. For
clothes are clothes, even if there’s no
great thrill about the approaching autumn
buttoned up to the chin in war work and
wearing anti-seductive stockings in white,
black or grey (for such unbeautiful shades
have been chosen to go with most femi-
nine uniforms). Lucky are those women
who are permitted some variant of sun-
tan stockings with their uniforms or
overalls, for in the beigy colors, even of
utility texture, a leg can keep its self-
respect.
In the model showrooms credit is still
being given to Schiaparelli, Mainbocher,
Paquin, Molyneux, etc., but the rever-
ence that clung to names of this ilk isn’t
so noticeable. Maybe it’s the growing
feeling that gods and goddesses of fashion
have, after all, but feet of clay. The
super-designers have grabbed their jewels,
scissors and Turkish tobacco and scuttled
off to some place of safety, America being
strongly favored. There, no doubt, they
are once more creating “atmosphere”—
hushed voices, the smell of wealth and
the sort of looks towards the lesser fry
that a duchess might give to a bug.
But Australians aren’t a venerating
nation, and have more respect for good
beer than they have for duchesses. To-
day they’re keen about home industries,
and, although “Made in Britain” goes
over big, foreign imports, with certain
exceptions, mean less than nothing. Some
women who are interested in the new
season’s fashion shows are suggesting that
the time is ripe for home compliments,
and that home-brewed dress-designers,
Miss Smith or Miss Polly Peachum, could
stand having their names blurbed through
a microphone at a dress parade. The
diehards and the old conservatives aren’t
so sure, and along with them are some
males in the rag trade. The men’s argu-
ment is that women are like sheep ; they’ll
swallow foreign names, hook, bait, and
sinker, because they’re used to doing just
that, but names from a suburban street
would stick in their tonsils.
Regarding individual fashion shows }
Myer’s was the first —a four days’ run,
with the first two sessions in aid of the
Red Cross and the Comforts respectively.
It was intended as a utility show, but for
variety there was a fair sprinkling of
luxury evening gowns (“If it’s black it
must be shiny” is one dictum) and of
sugar-daddy furs in broadtail, ermine,
etc. One cape was called paradise fox,
and showed the white pelt mixed with
much longer wisps of black. With a bit
of kidding the wife of a war profiteer
might believe she was getting a newly-
evolved form of life, a weird cross be-
tween bird and mammal. One white fur
coat in the parade was classified albino-
opossum. Maybe there’s something in
the idea and a new industry is imminent
in the Dandenongs.
Giddy indeed were the sports things in
this show. There were skating dresses
worn with red knee-high stockings and
ski-ing outfits of colors that would make
Frank Wraith’s respectable old pack-
horses throw a fit on the way up the Bon
Accord. Bardia-brown and Egyptian-
brown are colors of the moment, and an-
other contemporary allusion was a Yash-
mak hat. Incidentally an “0.5.” is now
a “Youthful 0.5.” The highlight of the
first day’s show, though unfortunately
only a few people were near enough to
appreciate it, was the incident of a scarlet
swagger coat walking the platform. “Very
useful maternity garment,” said one spec-
tator, and just at that moment there came
the feminine voice of the commentator
through the microphone, “We’ll all be
wearing them.” And a good thing, too,
for the statisticians say that, although the
birthrate is improving, it’s not yet half
good enough.
Amongst those present on the first
afternoon was Mrs. Geoff Cohen, who
in such a hat could have stepped forth as
a mannequin at a given moment. The
hat was black, shaped like a bonnet exag-
gerated to the nth degree, and suited its
wearer beautifully. Mrs. H. McL. Duigan
was there. Soon she goes to Sydney to
say “good-bye and good luck” to son
Denis, being much congratulated on his
promotion to the rank of lieutenant. To-
gether were Mrs. F. B. Tompkins and
daughter Betty, a brunette in a white
frock with dashes of scarlet. Betty
recently became engaged to Lieut. Keith
Bowles, A.I.F. They’re both very young,
and have agreed to postpone their mar-
riage till after the war.
A young movement which last, week
cut its first tooth is the R.A.A.F.
Women’s Welfare Centre. A couple of
weeks back its home was serving a very
different purpose, that of a hairdressing
saloon on the seventh floor of Howie
Court. Gradually the cubicles in the
place underwent a transformation; the
shampoo basins are now covered up by
shelves or office tables. One cubicle is
Sybil Burnett’s office —she’s doing the
interviewing. Another is a fitting-room
wherein Mrs. E. A. Daley is wardrobe
mistress.
The A.I.F. Women’s Association,
which has been most helpful in giving
advice to a younger sister movement,
stresses the necessity of providing cloth-
ing for women and children in need, so
that gifts of clothes will be appreciated
by Mrs. Daley. If every garment is clean
and mended so much the better ; though
in emergencies useful alterations, etc.,
will be accomplished with the aid of the
hand machine lent by Mrs. Isabel Green.
Other necessities “acquired” gratis
through Mrs. Eric Harrison’s persuasion
included a desk, a filing cabinet, an elec-
tric iron and several pieces of furniture
in the waiting-room. The idea behind
the newly-formed centre is to help
R.A.A F. dependants on similar lines to
the excellent job being done by the
A.I.F. Women’s Association for soldiers’
families.
Inset by Andre Evinson, Gwen Izzard,
who, as one of the girls who whisk hither
and thither with trays at the United Ser-
vices Cafe, is interested in the success
of the cabaret party to be held in the
cafe on Saturday evening (March 1) in
aid of British war orphans and child
evacuees. Sec. of the bridge-and-dancing
do is Mrs. H. Gillespie. Tickets, priced at
half a crown, must be procured in ad-
vance from a member of the committee
or of the roster of helpers. Bridge-players
will be served with supper at their tables,
placed as far as possible from the cata-
combs (where it is expected there will be
a fair amount of noise) and the dining-
room, where the University Swing Club
band will play from eight till midnight.
Miss Izzard has recently been visiting
the Public Library brushing up her my-
thology and has discovered that reference
books leave the student rather in thin
air about the relationship of Leda and the
Swan, Jupiter and Castor and Pollux.
Gwen is Leda in “Amphytrion 38,”
Gregan McMahon’s next production, be-
ginning on March 15.
The drought in the art area broke on
an afternoon of last week. R. H. Croll
opened William Ricketts’s exhibition of
clay modelling at the Velasquez, and
Gladys Moncrieff performed a similar
office for Valerie and Yvonne Cohen,
who are displaying Dunk Island in oils
at Riddell’s. There are two schools of
thought regarding William Ricketts, clay
modeller and friend of Black Brother.
One regards him as a genius ; the other,
which isn’t sure and doesn’t want to
commit itself, watches with deep sus-
picion. For Ricketts is a home-grown
product, has never had a lesson in his
life, has no influence and hasn’t been
abroad, and he lives unconventionally at
Five Ways earning a living by selling his
pottery to tourists. In the past Americans
have been his best customers.
Ricketts was a professional musician
until five years ago, when he came upon
Baldwin Spencer’s books. Ever since
he’s been working heart and soul to do
something for the Australian abo., giving
up music and choosing clay as his
medium. With clay of Kalorama, his own
kiln and his skilful and sympathetic
fingers he tells legends and folklore;
weaves spells of spirits and totems, of
evolution and primitive man’s longing for
spiritual strength ; communes with birds
and beasts and wizards who blow upon
their beards to form euros (little kan-
garoos). The beards float away to
become clouds.
Ricketts’s show is. causing interest, and
some of the town’s leading professional
and business men have been seen visiting
it, but up till last week-end the one man
whom young Ricketts particularly wants
to see hadn’t turned up. He’s David
Uniapon, mission-trained South Austra-
lian aborigine, educated and an artist in
prose. He’s thought to be peddling
pamphlets around Melbourne. He and
Ricketts have a lot in common—they re
both sincere in their sympathy for the
first inhabitants of this country. When
the show closes on March 3 it is hoped
that many of the smaller pieces will have
found’homes upon men's office desks, in
smoke-rooms, in clubs and lounges and
that some of the larger fountain pieces
and bird baths are bringing the spirit of
Australia to shrubby gardens.
Gladys Moncneff opened Val and
Yvonne Cohen s show for Patriotic pu
poses with the sort of speech that s a re
minder that good things come in small
bundles. It was brief as could be, bu
no essential point was missed The girls
arranged then- pictures so that each of
them had the use of one alcove in the
double-decker gallery. It was a show of
glowing color, of tropical seas and trees
and overflowing luxuriance of jungle
growth. Amongst those present on the
first day were Mrs. Max Pirani, of Mar-
randera, who wore black with an air ;
Mrs. Hugh Crawford, in white linen
jacket and black tailored frock, Mrs.
Ken Leicester, in tomato linen; and
Mary Lundqvist and Guelda Pyke, look-
ing after catalogues and coins m fancy
boxes covered in hand-printed paper.
Artists Noel Wood and Jock Prater came
along. Mrs. Fred Rae was there, and
Mrs. R. H. Croll made a point of calling
in after the Ricketts show.
From Athol Shmith comes this photo-
graph of Joy Parsons, who has made
musical comedy her career. Originally
she intended to devote all. her energies
towards dancing—she studied in England
and had some experience with the Vic.-
Wells Ballet. Back in Australia, young
Joy secured parts in several of the
Firm’s productions, including “The
Student Prince” and “The Arcadians,”
and recently she had the role of Lady
Mary in “The Vagabond King On
Saturday she faced the boards tor the
first night of “Rio Rita” as Katra Bean.
Joy comes from S.A. and is the elder
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. N. Parsons,
of Adelaide.
Two people who ought to know
stressed their faith in the arts when
speaking at different functions. One
was Max Pirani, who gave an address
when he and his wife (she is Leila
Doubleday, the violinist) were entertained
at the University Conservatorium. The
other was writer Janet Mitchell, who
informally addressed some members of
the Victoria League Company who meet
regularly to knit. Mr. Pirani read ex-
tracts from professorial letters from the
Royal Academy of Music in London,
where, in spite of great difficulties,
students and staff are just as keen as
ever on their work —which all goes to
show what a necessity is music to
mankind.
Miss Mitchell, who returned to Aus-
tralia recently, has been for some years
principal of a women’s college at Man-
chester University. She’s been an air
warden and has lots of respect for the
pluck and cool heads of her young ex-
students and for their pertinacity in stick-
ing to their chosen careers, which meant
studying under unnatural conditions. She
said that since the war there’s a general
urge for music—concerts, chamber music,
music among a few amateurs in a small
room or cellar during a blackout. Re-
garding reading, she sought the opinions
of several publishers, and all agree that
books are much in request, particularly
those of high literary standard. Miss
Mitchell, who is the author of Tempest
in Paradise and several other works,
didn’t mention her own literary plans,
but no doubt she already has another
novel in mind or on the way, with its
plot against a war-time background.
A big success was the party at Mrs.
Tom Smith’s, Grong Grong, in aid of the
Free French. It was in the evening,
a very hot one, so the big garden was
popular, and it cost a round sum to go
in and pocket linings to come out. The
committee of French people and their
friends seemed to have no difficulty in
selling the tickets and getting the people
to come, all without any apppeal to the
general public, which was probably tact-
ful, as the g.p’s. pet movements are nearer
home. The party at Grong Grong was
sponsored by P. J. Mann, delegate of
the Free French movement in Melbourne.
Highlight of the evening was a broadcast
speech from Andre Brenac, De Gaulle’s
representative in this country, but recep-
tion was bad and a crackle of statics was
all the assembly received while stand-
ing at attention.
While the audience fanned itself with
its many programmes and groaned at the
sudden affliction of heat that bore down
upon the city an umptieth “Rio Rita”
revival commenced its season with Gladys
Moncrieff in one of the boxes. Glad s
public clapped her arrival, they clapped
in the interval and they shouted with joy
when she made a small-size speech at the
end of the show. She saw “Rio Rita”
five times in New York but liked the
Melbourne performance every bit as
well (she crossed her heart about this
when the boys and girls on the stage
looked coy). Saturday marked the first
time in Australia that Gladys saw the
musicomedy from the front of the house.
In the interval there was a race for
the cold-drink counter, where lemons in
liquid form were more precious than
rubies. In white crepe with slim shoulder
straps was Mrs. Vic Cornego, who looked
cool as anyone, even tall brunette Miss
Forster, who mannequins with ease and
who on this occasion was in lilac satin
with bare diaphragm. Another brunette
was Mrs. Charles Norman. Charles, on
the other side of the footlights, was in ex-
cellent form. He’s wearing his hair so
long it’s soon going to trip him up.
Back in S.A. and much feted at Salis-
bury, her birthplace, is Ruby Davy, “Aus-
tralia’s only Doctor of Music,” after two
years of English piano-recording for
radio, composing, lectures with music
and, incidentally, a Lady Macbeth scene
with Gerald Lawrence. She has in hand
a symphony for full orchestra, and plans
a lecture-p/ws-piano tour all about Aus-
tralia.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £30,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,500,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
%
H
*c>
N
<-b
LTD
Agents: JOUBERT Cr JOUBERT
PIT
Sole
THE SERVICE MAN
At the Fortress Gate.
“Australia understood when the Washington
Treaty was signed that Singapore would be
built. Australia would never have agreed to
the treaty if Singapore had been included in
the area where the building of bases and docks
was prohibited.”— S. M. Bruce, defending the
building of the Singapore base against American
critics, who declared it an infringement of the
treaty.
"Ek Dum”: Wednesday, February 19,
brought the news —historically as well as
militarily important—that a big detach-
ment of the A.I.F. had landed at Singa-
pore. The number has naturally not
been made public, but it is large enough
to justify divisional organisation—•
Major-General Gordon Bennett arrived
in advance of the troops. There are
already in Malaya large forces from
India and from Britain, as well as the
local soldiers, who have been hammered
by years of training into a capable fight-
ing force.
At the same time, the armies are not
so large as to suggest aggression to any
nervous neighbor, near or distant. They
are merely adequate to the vastness of
the interests to be guarded.
Singapore—the City of the Lion, to
translate its name —was one of the best
bargains ever made by the British Crown.
Its acquirement became possible after the
crushing of the Dutch attempt to estab-
lish an Empire of the East in wars which
were chiefly brought to a successful con-
clusion by General Nightingall, who only
a few years before had abandoned the
Governorship of N.S.W. into the hands
of his Lieutenant-Governor, Lachlan
Macquarie. Then, through the enterprise
of Stamford Raffles, whose name is
everywhere in Singapore like that of
Macquarie in N. S. Wales, it was bought
for Britain for £13,500 and a pension of
£5OOO a year in perpetuity from the
Sultans of Johore, who no doubt thought
they had had the better of the deal.
Singapore’s nut-shaped island was sepa-
rated from Johore on the mainland by the
narrow Tambroh Strait, in places only
half a mile wide. It is about 27 miles
long, 14 or so wide. It rises in gentle
eminences from the south-eastern side,
where the city and new port lie, to the
Bukit Timah, which is a little over 500
feet high. It was a haunt of pirates,
tigers and mosquitoes, but of little else.
Like Hong Kong, once a barren rock
and the home of cormorants and fisher-
men, and like Shanghai, once a mud flat
beside the sluggish Whangpoo, Singapore
owes its opulence entirely to British
enterprise.
It was not built without trouble, diffi-
culty and death ; for it is only a degree
and a bit from the Equator. Its climate
is relatively cool and it knows prevailing
wind.s—-one monsoon blows in one season,
the other in another —and its 90-inch rain-
fall is fairly evenly distributed over the
months. It suffers, however, the moist
dankness of nether New Guinea Man-
date mangrove country. Fever once
racked it. Pirates and enemies menaced it.
Not for the first time have soldiers
gone to it and to Penang from Australia.
Sections of more than one British regi-
ment which had served its time in Aus-
tralia were sent to them. There are
many men in the A.I.F. today whose
pioneer ancestors in the Commonwealth
served in the Malay Peninsula and in the
East Indies when military jackets were
still scarlet and the roar of 50 18-
pounders was considered “a tremendous
peal of fire.”
Today, Singapore is “the Clapham
Junction of the Orient.” It is a “free”
port, the valve through which all inter-
continental traffic between West and
Orient must pass; the inevitable clearing-
house for all long-distance air traffic, the
very core of the air defence of the British
possessions and Dominions in the Pacific
and East Indian Oceans. Its vast aero-
dromes are unparalleled in equipment
outside Europe and U.S.A. Without its
naval base, British capital fleets on this
side of the world would be like a rail-
way train without sheds and workshops.
Darwin would be only half a pincer.
On the protection of Singapore entirely
depends our supply of most of the oil
fuel which enables the works and defence
of Australia to run and the peaceful
roads of the Commonwealth to remain
filled with cars and motor-cycles of a
Sunday. Borneo, the source of oil, is only
250 miles away at its nearest point, 900 at
its furthest. As years go on, Singapore
will become even more important as the
guardian centre of British and Dutch
oil. Indeed, it is surrounded on every side
with the world’s staple sources of supply
of those products without which the great
metal and transport industries of the
present cannot exist —oil, rubber, tin,
iron, fibres and indispensable timbers.
Australia’s interest is not merely in
the fact that Malaya is on its lifeline by
air with Britain. Australian money has
developed the tinmines, helped to plant
the rubber and find the oil. For many
years, the Malayan and Straits Settle-
ments civil service has been full of Aus-
tralians. Australian-owned steamer lines
—B.P.’s in particular—have linked us to
Malaya. During all the last generation
of great development, the survey service
has been mainly recruited from the Com-
monwealth ; vast areas of Malaya have
been mapped and plotted by Australians.
The air-mail route to Singapore is the
concern of an Australian company. Few
Australians realise how vital to continued
safety of the Commonwealth is the main-
tenance of the strength of this great
centre, which is, in effect, our outer
fortress gate.
There is, of course, much more to be
guarded in the Malay Peninsula, in
which the A.I.F. has landed, than Singa-
pore itself, though that alone is an im-
pressive city of 300,000 people with its
quaint, carefree conglomeration of
Moorish jalousies, and its old fort on the
little so-called hill which perpetuates the
memory of George Canning, who called
the New World into existence to redress
the balance of the Old. It owns a
palatial Government House and vast
wharves and naval docks. Its gardens
and its palms and its infinite variety of
races are colorful, including übiquitous
Chinese who have been so long there
that they consider themselves English,
and name their children with Christian
names —the last secretary to an Imperial
Chinese consulate in Australia was
named Thomas Jones Chia and came of
the old Singapore shipping family.
The Australians, having thrown
pennies to the Governor on the wharf
and rolled out the barrel, which will
become a discarded instrument of war
when some of them are introduced to
the gin pa hit and the stengah, will find
much that is homely in Singapore—their
own R.A.A.F. and Qantas uniforms ; a
cathedral called St. Andrew, the same
as Sydney’s; a strait against the dim
outline of Sumatra named Phillip Pas-
sage, after Australia’s founder. They
may also remember that it was off
Straits Settlement territory, in sight of
Cocos, a dependency, that H.M.A.S.
Sydney battered the Emden, and that
there the Australian cable lands on its
way to Asia.
The Straits Settlements as a whole —
Singapore, Penang, Wellesley Province,
Malacca, Labuan and Cocos and
Christmas Islands have a total area
of only 1356 square miles (less than
Sydney’s old County of Cumberland)
and a population of 1,372,000, of whom
877.000 are Chinese, 306,000 Malays and
149.000 Indians. There are only 14,000
Europeans in normal times, but the
Straits trade in 1938 was; Imports,
£63,770,000 sterling; exports, including
re-exports, £66,420,000; and the year’s
business in and out has been as high as
£184,000,000, though much is only in
transit.
Behind lie the Federated Malay States
—Perak, Selangor, Negri Sembilan and
Pahang—which form most of the rest
of the British-controlled section of the
peninsula, a trifle larger than Tasmania,
supporting over 2,200,000-odd inhabitants
—900,000 Chinese, 700,000 Malays and
460,000 Indians. There are also the
small Unfederated States of Johore,
Kedah, Perlis, Kelantan and Tregganu,
all under British supervision and defence.
All these native-ruled sultanates are rich
in tin, rubber, tobacco, sugar, sago, rice,
fibres and other products. They back
on to Thailand, whose territory pours
down like slowly-spreading floodwater
out of the bottleneck of the Kra Penin-
sula into the blade of the paddle of rich
earth which is Malaya.
Kra has always been a point for
attention where it lies above the 10th
parallel beside the pearl beds of the
Loughborough reefs, and just where
Burma peters out in the tinfields of
Pak Shan. In 1933 Japan negotiated with
Siam for a concession to dig a canal
through this narrow belt of land about
22 miles wide to the Bay of Bengal.
Such a canal would short-circuit Singa-
pore, cut at least three days off the
journey to the Indian Ocean, and make
the gate between Orient and Occident
Japanese instead of British and Japan
the dominating force in the Peninsula.
France, too, thought of the same pro-
ject, which would have been of immense
advantage to Indo-China. The fear of
change of control has to be guarded
against. Thailand can be trusted to
play fair, but is not strong. And apart
from the facilities of Singapore itself,
the rubber supplies which spread over
the whole peninsula, as well as the other
universal products of war-time value,
must be protected, and not least Kuala
Lumpur, capital of F.M.S. in Selangor,
which is the brain of the radio-
telephony services of the East Indian
area and which links with Bandoeng
station in Java for European radio com-
munication.
The Australian contingent has arrived
at a stirring moment, when all the Orient
and the northern Pacific seems to be
arranging itself in a series of martial
gatherings. Manila and the Philippines
are being put in a state of defence, and
there are strong American naval forces
there. All the small islands owned or
held by U.S.A. under lease from Britain,
and acquired for commercial air purposes,
teem with marines and sappers, and are
being closed to civil access —it will mean
interruption of the Clipper service. Guam,
the one lone perch of Uncle Sam’s
Eagle amid the 1500 islands of Japan’s
South Sea mandate, is to be effectively
fortified. Bombers fly the Pacific from
California and Hawaii to the Philippines
and Singapore itself.
But it all does not mean that there is
a war in prospect any more than that
there is a burglary in sight when the
Commonwealth Bank moves its money
in an armored car under armed guard.
The armor and the guard are to ensure
against war by overwhelming strength if
possible.
It is a good thing that an Australian
force has been sent to Singapore. It
will give the Australian soldiers, plus the
R.A.A.F. already there, and the R.A.N.,
which has been ranging thither for
years, co-operative insight into the job
of holding what is not only one of the
most vital larders in the world for
materials indispensable to our industries,
but our actual first line of defence. If
an enemy were to capture Malaya we
should begin to be within the range of
bombers and troop carriers from Asia,
and our isolation would be gone for
ever.
A Complete Force.
“Ek Dum”: The A.I.F. force at Singa-
pore, “several thousands” strong, is com-
manded by Major-General H. Gordon
Bennett, O.C. Bth Division. He is one
of the red-headed kind and another ad-
vertisement for the striking proclivity of
a country which has always neglected
military matters in peace-time for pro-
ducing men who are instinctively fight-
ing commanders.
In the last war Bennett did not wait
long before getting his name into his-
tory—it appears for the first time in the
tale of his gallant scramble on 400
Plateau on April 25, 1915, with two
companies of the 6th Battalion. His
deeds stud the pages of the story of
that glorious day, until, standing up with
a map as he coolly directed the fire
from Pine Ridge, he was wounded in
a wrist and shoulder. He was sent to
a hospital shop, but next day “deserted”
and rejoined his battalion in the front
line. In the fight he lost his brother,
a boy of 20. He soon attained the com-
mand of his battalion and led the attack
on German Officers’ Trench in August,
By 1917 he was a brigadier—at 30. He
commanded the 3rd Brigade during the
last two years of the war.
Their leader met the A.I.F. men
at Singapore in company with the Gov-
ernor of the Straits Settlements, Sir Shen-
ton Thomas, who is a great authority
on African affairs, having served the
British colonies there during most of his
life from the Gold Coast to Uganda.
The Naval C. in C. of the China
station, who was there to see them
arrive, is Vice-Admiral Geoffrey Lay-
ton, who in 1939 went to the Mediter-
ranean commanding the Ist Battle
Squadron and as second in command of
the Mediterranean Fleet. He had be-
fore that commanded the Battle-Cruiser
Squadron and earlier had been captain
of H.M.S. Renown. Lieutenant-General
Bond, military G.O.C. in Malaya, com-
pleted the official welcoming committee.
Awe at the presence of these person-
alities did not stem the high spirits of
the Diggers, who had just passed through
the never-to-be-forgotten experience of a
voyage through the myriad and exotic
islands of the East Indies. They rolled
out the barrel in a volume which did not
give the coolie chatter a chance and
which must have sent the tigers slinking
to the thickets all the way to Tavoy.
They were fully equipped—gas masks,
mosquito masks, sun protection, leech
protection, jigger protection—and they
were the most completely armed and
accoutred outfit which has left these
shores—in “full battle order for going
into action.” They are self-contained
both offensively and medically.
An old Indian system of guide nuclei
has been applied to put newcomers on
their feet in Malaya, where forces are no
doubt well dispersed at strategic points
all through the Peninsula. Each type of
arriving unit attaches itself to an estab-
lished unit of the same type which knows
the local ropes and plan of action,
puts the newcomers through their paces
and shows them the special tricks and
customs of the country.
The visitors were not long in Singa-
pore. They went straight into trains
which took them to their war stations.
Next day there was not a single Aussie
uniform to be seen in Raffles’s city.
In most of the places where they are
likely to be sent, life in camp can be
good. There is plenty of sport, the
drinks are cool. Beside western Egypt
or Anzac Malaya is a king’s paradise.
Wavell's Men Roll On.
“Ek Dum”: The week in the Middle
East was one of strain mixed with
effort. Signs and portents of great events
were to be seen in the land of Egypt
and around it.
They began with a sort of tentative
testing of British defences by the Luft-
waffe, whose announcer shouted on Feb.
17 that Stukas had “closed the Suez
Canal.” The Canal functioned notwith-
standing, and, though there were raids on
Benghazi by a squadron or so of the
same fearsome weapons, the town when
last heard from was still there and un-
perturbed. Attempts also were made on
Malta, which suffered 63 raids in 11
days. They proved abortive.
The R.A.F. was not idle. As usual it
operated wherever there was an objec-
tive, and Brindisi received a special visit.
The Albanian front had some exhibitions
which proved that British bombers are
not mere Stukas. These air forces were
busy on every front from the Indian
Ocean, where the S. African A.F. scoured
up the coast and the Juba from Kismayu,
to Libya, where the R.A.A.F. helped to
ward off raiders.
In Eritrea and Abyssinia attacks were
particularly heavy, and damage was done
to military objectives and concentrations
over wide districts difficult to approach
on terra firma.
The Fleet Air Arm did its best to
make Italian shipping off Tunisia and
Tripoli believe that the Barbary corsairs
had returned out of a burning cloud. It
sank a 7000-ton ship.
With all the wide lands covered by the
R.A.F. there were only odd losses of
machines.
The land fighting continues with
Allied progress on all fronts.
Italian rule in Abyssinia is fast dis-
integrating ; Italians are being evacuated


>*
?*/
lo'y
%
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
do not experiment with imitations.
CL B&AXUI.OKR * CO, Ltd, BIKMIMOHAM. ENO
PENS
Every point
guaranteed-
from civilian posts. For the Italian army
life must be something like standing
among half a dozen packets of exploding
crackers. All round the map new sur-
prises explode with fierce suddenness.
There seems to be little of the Regia
Aeronautica left in Africa; therefore
British movements have a freshness and
an unexpectedness about them which the
enemy must find exhilarating.
The first surprise was the capture of
Karora, at the northern apex of Eritrea,
and the British deftly turned this in-
cursion into a vice movement against
Keren, the key railway town of the
escarpment, where the Italians are mak-
ing their main stand in front of Asmara,
the capital, whose fall would mean the
final end of Mussolini’s Red Sea adven-
tures.
Hard on top of this came a burst
in the Gojjam country, where the
Abyssinians were behaving like Catherine
wheels on a fleet night. After that French
Djibuti, at the end of the Abyssinian rail-
way, was reported to be “crowded with
refugees,” though it was hundreds of
miles from any fighting.
Next, a S. African force from Kenya
turned up miles inside the southern
border of Abyssinia and captured Mega,
mopping up a force of "600 Italian
nucleus troops. Mega lies to the north-
west of Moyale. It is only a few weeks
since Italians were miles inside the Kenya
at Buna, 100 miles from the captured
post. The S.A.A.F. had first of all done
Mega up in a nice parcel for the land
forces to carry away.
In Italian Somaliland the Italians put
up some resistance at the Juba bridge-
heads beyond Kismayu. Just as the bridge-
heads changed hands, rebel Amharas
were noticed among the hippos of Lake
Tsana, and the flurry in the Gojjam high-
lands resolved itself into a promising re-
bellion of between 10,000 and 15,000
tribesmen, armed and presided over by
the British mission.
The last shock for Italy was the taking
of Enjabara. This page has stressed
regularly the importance of the Eritrean-
Abyssinian road system in the campaign
and prophesied (B. 5/2/’4l) that the
British invaders might short-circuit their
attack on Asmara to cut the main roads
to Addis Ababa. This they have done,
and, as with everything General Wavell
does, there have been no half-measures.
First, the Abyssinians south of Lake
Tsana captured Dangila, which is in
country which the Blue Mountains would
be like if they were twice as high and
full of peaks. Then the R.A.F. flung
in on Enjabara, which is 10,000 feet up
on the crest of the range and paved
the way for Haile Silassie’s men. A
miserable column of 3000 Fascist refugees
making for Burye, a few miles south-
ward, has been caught in the flurry.
Enjabara is only 160 miles from Addis
Ababa, to which the Italians have
obligingly joined it with a fine motor
road, and it is only 100 miles or so
from the nearest point on the Asmara-
Addis Ababa road near Magdala ; also
from the junction of that road to the
highway to Assab on the coast. All key
communications in Ethiopia and Eritrea
are now within British grasp.
Meanwhile moves on the other side
of the Mediterranean are restricted to
air force hammering and the steady
pressure of the Greek armies on the
angled fronts of the Italians in Albania.
The R.A.F. co-operated vigorously, but
rain held up operations. There are
rumors of a vast final effort by Italy,
with a special army to overwhelm the
Greeks by sheer force of numbers.
The Balkan position has changed little
in a military sense. The Danube has
been running a record banker. Spring
is coming ; snow is melting all the way
to the Alps.
The rest, particularly what is happen-
ing in Bulgaria, is mostly guesswork,
though German motorised troops have
been “seen moving across Rumania.”
Bulgaria is about as hard a country
to find anything out in as any that exists.
The Bulgars, to a man, are stolid folk
who never seem to understand a ques-
tion till asked to have a slivovitza. And
even then they answer with actions
rather than words.
It has been reported that British
troops have landed at Lemnos, which is
directly opposite the entrance of the
Dardanelles, less than 40 miles from Cape
Helles and within sight of the entrances
in clear weather.
Most i mpor t a nt of all facts, however,
h the presence there of Anthony Eden
and General Sir John Dill, Chief of the
Imperial General Staff in Egypt. The
C.I.G.S. and War Minister would not
leave England at such a moment if it
were expected either that a decisive move
was imminent in the North Sea and
Channel area or that one was not
imminent in the Middle East, which the
German High Command has always re-
garded as a theatre of war as important
as Britain and France. It was a German
who christened the Suez Canal the
“throat of the British Empire.”
In Libya, though the advance has
paused for consolidation, Mussolini’s re-
quest to Marshal Petain—which has been
refused—to allow Italian troops to pass
through Tunis and French Morocco to
Spanish Morocco shows which way the
wind is blowing.
North Sea Air Raids.
“Aileron”: With the weather blowing
itself gustily into spring, the Luftwaffe
began last week’s attacks with desultory
raids on London and East Anglia, where
the raiding continued all through the
night of Feb. 17. The attackers, how-
ever, found more Hurricanes than usual
about, and went home minus six
machines. A happy feature was the fact
that some of the destruction of visitors
was achieved at night.
The Germans claimed to have de-
stroyed oil supplies at Moray Firth and
various other objectives in the Shetlands.
They reported that no R.A.F. attacks
were made on Germany, but that five
drifting balloons were lost over the
French coast in exchange for a British
Blenheim, shot down by A.A. fire, and
another machine which fell a victim to
the Reichsmarine.
Feb. 18 was a quiet night over Britain
—no raiders; but during the day fighters
shot down a bomber and the trawler
Stella Rigel bagged a victim. Trawlers
have become deadly stuff. Bombing a
358-ton ship is like firing on a monkey
nut; it calls for low-flying, nose on
attack —right inside the pom-pom arcs.
The German claim as usual was expan-
sive-barracks and aerodromes dam-
aged, Portsmouth Camp attacked, a
tanker seriously damaged west of Ire-
land, a Blenheim forced down in Bel-
gium. But on the enemy’s own admis-
sions, it was only mosquito war by iso-
lated machines.
Weather improvement livened matters
up on Feb. 19-20. London was blasted.
London County Hospital had three
men’s wards razed, with horrible results,
and a children’s hospital was hit. Fire
bombs were a familiar sight again.
At the same time, attrition began
against Swansea, a South Wales city
crowded with an industrial population of
164,000. Two raids interrupted by night-
fighters were made, while lone ’planes
ranged England and Scotland like hunt-
ing wolves. The Germans appear to be
paying more than usual attention to the
closed areas of northern Scotland, which
have been given over entirely to military
and naval activity—apparently on recon-
naissance for objectives.
In spite of snowstorms and heavy gales
both R.A.F. and Luftwaffe increased
their activity at mid-week. The Ger-
mans continued to attack Swansea, using
at first piecemeal technique, but expand-
ing it into a heavy raid. It looked as if
they were experimenting with defence
against the new British night-fighter
tactics.
The Swansea attack was intermittent
and long-drawn-out. Many business
houses were wrecked, with the usual
senseless casualty list of innocents. Scat-
tered attacks, lighted by parachute flares,
took place in various parts of London
area.
The weather was so bad over France
that the Coastal Command was com-
pelled to limit its effort to an offensive
patrol over enemy aerodromes, with an
onslaught by a single bomber, which
started a large fire on the quay at
Ijmuiden (Holland). The German claim
to have sunk three merchantmen and
damaged four others was not confirmed ;
neither was the alleged loss of two
British fighters over Dover. Another of
H.M.’s trawlers, Bramble, cut a notch
in the mast —she sent a Messerschmitt
110 diving into the sea, there to explode.
At the week-end, Swansea was the
German target for the third time. With
burst mains, burning and battered build-
ings the city was described after its third
mauling as “stunned and sad.”
The assaults came in waves soon after
dark, heralded by the dropping of flares
in all parts of the city as a prelude to the
incendiaries, the h.es., the parachute
land mines.
The R.A.F. got some of its own back
in a more practical way over Wilhelms-
haven, which must be accustomed to
heavy fires, over Emden and over Brest
on Friday night.
A few odd German aerodromes in
France and Holland and industrial plants
in the Ruhr also were treated to a pasting,
All R.A.F. machines came home safe.
Germany declares that British ’plane
losses between Feb. 15-22 were 32 against
Germany’s 15. It was not clear whether
this was supposed to include Libyan
losses. On British piecemeal figures, the
estimate was pure fantasy—British ad-
mitted losses over Northern Europe, nine.
Stukas and the R.A.A.F.
A , . _ .
“Aileron”; A squadron of Stukas
tried to raid Benghazi at the beginning
of last week. “It was no joyride,” wrote
a reporter who was in one of the ’planes,
“Australian A.A. guns opened fire on us
and did not shoot badly. The Austra-
Hans, despite fires breaking out all round
them, fired salvos cold-bloodedly. I
saw one of our machines destroyed.”
It was more than one next time, for
the R.A.A.F. fighter squadron got among
the Germans, realising one of its
ambitions.
The Stuka is a machine not unlike the
Fairey Battle in size, power and general
type. It is a monoplane, and has a
normal 1939 bomber’s speed. There has
been no word that the R.A.A.F. has
changed from its biplane Gladiators,
which are somewhat slower but highly
suitable for Libyan conditions.
A u m T-Ka
There were two raids on Feb.l9 The
first came just after dawn. The R.A.A.F.
squadron bagged a Hemkel 111. which
was with the Stukas, put the rest to fligi
and noticed that two were in a bad way.
It was afterwards established that bot
had come down.
In the afternoon another gaggle of Ger-
mans turned up with a covering force of
the two-engined Messerschmitt 110’s,
Fighter-escorted attacks, even from
250 miles away on the mainland, leave
no time margin, but the enemy was there
long enough for R.A.F. Hurricanes to
damage a Stuka. Other Hurricanes
covering advanced positions were not so
lucky when they ran into a heavy Messer-
schmitt formation two R.A.F. ’planes
were shot down.
The most interesting R.A.A.F. news of
the week comes from the Eritrean front:
“Three R.A.A.F. bombers heavily
attacked army barracks at lavello.” It
is the first that has been heard of Aus-
tralian airmen operating a bombing
squadron or of their being on the Abys-
sinian front, which hitherto has been the
preserve of the R.A.F., the S.A.A.F., and
—according to American press reports —
some Indian squadrons.
Five Months of Blitzkrieg .
In five months of air raids, 23,171
British people —nearly all English—were
killed and 30,207 others were hospital
cases. January figures totalled 3488 —
720 men, 567 women and 189 children
killed and 1172 men, 682 women and
158 children injured; the ferocious
cruelty of the bombings is emphasised in
a statement that 26 of the killed “could
not be classified.” No estimate of the
material damage done has been given.
Great though it undoubtedly has been,
the barbarians have failed in their main
purpose, which was to make nervous
wrecks of the people attacked and scare
them into starting a peace agitation.
“A distinguished nerve specialist” is
quoted as having reported to the Ministry
of Health that admissions to a London
hospital set apart for the treatment of
bombing neurosis numbered a mere 25
in December, and in other parts of the
country only three were reported that
month. And there hasn’t been a single
case since Coventry suffered.
In the last war 1413 Britons were
killed and 3407 injured in air raids,
mostly by Zeppelins, Gothas and Giants.
In view of the increasing damage done
lately by anti-aircraft fire on land and
sea, some comfort can be drawn from
the facts of the enemy’s most ambitious
raid, which took place on May 19, 1918.
About 40 Gothas and two Giants took
part, and 13 bombed London. They
killed 49 people and wrought damage
reckoned at £130,000. But seven
machines were brought down —three in
combat, three by gunfire and one by
engine failure —and the experience was
so chastening that London suffered no
more air raids, the bombers turning their
attention to Paris.
During the week to Feb. 10, 13 mer-
chant ships totalling 29,806 tons were
sunk by enemy action ; nine were British
tons) and four Allied. The total
was less than half the weekly average
for the war. Greater losses will have
to be announced for the week to Feb.
17, which will include the ships sunk by
a raider in the East Atlantic. Survivors
of six ships landed at Funchal report
that the raider joined the convoy flying
the British flag and accompanied it for
four hours before opening fire. Though
taken by surprise, armed merchantmen
returned the fire and the pirate made off
at top speed.
At the beginning of the present week
the Germans claimed the sinking of the
armed auxiliary Canadian Cruiser in the
Indian Ocean and alleged that she was
flying the U.S. flag. The Admiralty
announced that British submarines had
accounted for five Italian supply ships
and a tanker in the Mediterranean.
* * * *
The War Cabinet has decided that
military training will now be extended to
keep all universal trainees half their time
in camp to meet emergencies. Those at
present training will complete 90 days’
service, at the end of which they will
be replaced by another batch due for
90 days’ service. The effect of the new
scheme will be that 125,000 men will
always be under arms, apart from the
A.I.F. and garrison and special battalions
and the R.A.A.F.
* * * *
“Nobby II”: The Commonwealth
Government is to provide “£6,000,000 for
a substantial programme of merchant
shipbuilding,” under the control of a
commission inside the Munitions De-
partment. The commission will work
in close co-operation with the Navy
Board, and presumably with existing
constructors. It would be a good thing
to build ships in neglected ports like
Albany (W.A.) and Port Stephens
(N.S.W.), but success at the present time
seems to depend on the use of existing
heavy plant and skilled labor, applying it
at the points where it is most needed and
at the times when others with urgent naval
jobs can best spare it. At present, some
skilled shipbuilding trades are almost
fully employed—Sydney yards have had
to scratch recently to get a dozen extra
boilermakers needed for special jobs.'
There will also have to be close co-opera-
tion in metal supply.
* * * *
Another R.A.A.F. ’plane crashed into
the sea off Fremantle on Feb. 19. The
accident happened at night during A.A.
searchlight exercises. The bodies of
Flying-Officer Sykes, 19, of Moonie
Ponds (Vic.), and Pilot-Officer Anderson,
24. of Narrogin (W.A.), were recovered.
The search for the bomber lost with a
crew of five in Malaya has been aban-
doned.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: I read in sundry flapper
rags that when Wavell attended Russian
manoeuvres a couple of years before the
present war broke out he was the one
man in the effete old British Army who
recognised the genius of the Russians in
“inventing” parachute technique. They
would have done better in giving the
general credit for being able to speak
the Russian language, which he does
fluently. Whoever says the Russians in-
vented parachute technique is talking
through his ear. More than a decade be-
fore the Russians gave their much-
publicised display, both the British and
the Germans knew most of what there
was to know about it. If anybody doesn't
believe it, he’ll find a complete technical
account of methods in the pages of
“Blackwood’s” more than a decade
ago even plans for dropping mules
and screw guns and feeding advanc-
ing troops. This, though it sounded
like a symposium of what might
have been, was a detailed exposition by
an expert of decisive Indian experimental
work carried to its natural conclusion. I
wrote about it in The Bulletin in 1933.
Nothing more advanced has been done
in this war, and it was miles ahead of
the Russian methods.


Queensland
insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
m
wlti
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
A FULL RECORD OF AN
INTERESTING MONTH
March Issue on Sale Next Saturday.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
FOR SALE...
TWO MARK 1
GYPSY MOTHS
In absolutely Faultless Condition.
Fitted with Blind Flying In-
struments. Aerobatic Harness
in Both Seats. Safety Slots.
Chromium-plated Rigging Wires.
One Machine 50 Hours since
complete rebuild ; other machine
1500 Hours since new and 70
Hours since certificate of air-
worthiness.
Both machines painted . . . Two
Shades of Blue in Dulux.
For Full Particulars Write
Queensland Air University
Box 1936 W, G.P.0., Brisbane
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
As Clings the Limpet
“Ayrman”; The Forgan Smiths
knocked back a motion for repeal of
the State development tax at their
Southport Labor Convention, though
they accepted an amendment that
“family concessions” would be granted
when “financial circumstances per-
mitted.” The Premier,asserted that there
is a vast difference between the present
tax and the relief tax of the Moore Gov-
ernment, though to most people the only
difference is in name.
Mr. Smith said that the £6,000,000
raised last year “for purposes of Gov-
ernment” was made up from S.D.T., re-
payments from local authorities and
other bodies, and new loan funds* The
greater part of it was spent in employ-
ment and the purchase of materials.
His view was that if Queensland stopped
collecting £2,000,000 a year from the
“development” tax unemployment would
increase.
Anticipating the obvious retort that
Queensland unemployment ratio had
fallen from 22 to 4 per cent, and that
there had been a big increase in primary
production as well as a good deal of
industrial development in the past year,
the Premier made the rather astounding
observation that if £2,000,000 were with-
drawn from circulation the State would
revert to the conditions of the Moore
regime. His suggestion that people who
were allowed to keep what they now
paid in “development” tax would stick
it away in a sock or somewhere is
childish, as is the one that abolition of
the tax would reduce the community’s
spending power.
It would be too much to expect a State
Government to deprive itself in one act
of £2,000,000 a year, but Mr. Smith
forgot to mention that expanding em-
ployment bumped the total from the tax
last year up to £2,255,197, well above the
Budget estimate. His cry that the Gov-
ernment will lose through petrol restric-
tions and falling motor registrations can
be answered by the fact that railway
revenue must increase.
He forgot, too, the State Auditor-
General’s analysis of the way last year’s
tax was spent. According to that gentle-
man, £848,915 went to provide full-time
employment and £602,952 for ration
relief. This latter is nearly £300,000 more
than in 1937-38, and Queenslanders
would like to hear some explanation as
to how it came about when employment
and production were very much higher.
The A.-G. also noted that £BO,OOO of the
lax went to meet interest on Story Bridge
loans and a further £270,748 to meet
charges on loan moneys for the relief of
unemployment.
Plainly, the Government has no sound
argument for keeping the tax at its
present level, and the fact that a good
many of those who pay it have to meet
high Federal taxation for war purposes
is making a lot of people wonder how
long they can take the strain. It is small
comfort to them that Mr. Forgan Smith’s
determination to cling to the tax is no
stronger than that of other State Premiers,
and his “arguments” reveal all the more
clearly that Australia could well do with-
out them, their Governments and their
taxes.
“23-4”: “Gripes,” said the man from
Cairns, eyeing the prisoners herded at
Bardia, “my ol’ man use t’ growl about
the mobs of Eyetalians in the sugar coun-
try. He ought t’ see ’em here!”
* * * *
“Balander”: Just-dead Patrick Short
was Queensland Commissioner of Police
“Follers George round just like a dawg!”
from 1921 to 1925. He was the first
native-born to hold the job, leaving his
father’s farm near Ipswich to join the
force as a mounted trooper in 1879. By
1904 he was a sub-inspector, and a chief
in T 7. He never lost his early love for
horses, and at one stage made a big im-
provement in the quality of the State’s
police mounts.
* * * *
“8.L.0.”: The young of Barcaldine
would dearly love to have a few minutes
alone with some rumor-monger who
spread the news that the council would
pay a penny a head for bush rats. Gangs
of small boys, aided by the inevitable
mong, performed among the pest with
great zest, and casualties mounted so
rapidly that it began to look as though
the plague would be wiped out. Then
the first bonus-hunters arrived at the
council chambers with their kill. Their
reception of the dreadful truth was fear-
ful to behold.
* * * *
“Polip”: Blackall thinks it has found
a clue to the Leichhardt expedition in a
tree on Malvern Hills marked with an
“L,” though one school believes it may
have been marked by Landsborough.
Queensland’s Historical Society, invited
to give its version, looked up old records
and came to the conclusion that Lands-
borough never followed any route that
could have passed the tree, though it is
pretty close to the tracks of Leichhardt,
Mitchell and Kennedy. The only differ-
ence seems to lie in the tree itself. A. C.
Gregory’s report of his search for Leich-
hardt in 1858 mentions a Moreton Bay
ash marked “L” somewhere about the
present position of Malvern Hills. The
finder of the new tree says it is a coola-
bah. Ernest Favenc once drew attention
to the weakness of clues based on trees
marked “L,” remarking that they seemed
to turn up in all parts of Australia.
♦ * * *
“Poi-Poi”; Hugh Henry, chairman of
the Tully Co-op. Sugar Milling Associa-
tion, is dead at 59. Son of northern
pioneers, he went to Brisbane Grammar
School, then graduated B.A. and LL.B.
from Sydney University. But the land
called him, and he went back to the
family farm at Bellenden. He was first
chairman of Tully mill, established on
the initiative of his brother, the late
Brice Henry, well known for his pasture-
improvement and cattle-fattening work,
who died about a year ago. Both were
of the type that can ill be spared.
* * * *
“23-4”: J. J. Pratt, Queensland’s Edu-
cational Guidance Officer, planned his
work two years ago when he was at-
tached to the Australian Council for
Educational Research in Melbourne. It
was at that city’s university that he got
his B.Ed., with honors in all subjects,
thus winning the Dwight Prize. Since
then he has special-
ised in educational-
research technique
and psychology and
the theory and
technique of mental
testing. His job will
be to advise teachers
on the application
of mental tests, cor-
relate general re-
sults, survey posi-
tions open to boys
and girls and advise
them accordingly. It
won’t be his fault if
the next generation
doesn’t get a job it
likes.
♦ *
“Norther”: The
recent Killarney (Q.)
show was notable
for the success of a
24-year-old trotter,
Rex Chief, and for
a new high-jump
record of 7ft. 6in.
put up by Plain Bill,
ridden by Billy
Barton. This beats
Lookout’s record of
two years ago by
2in. Both jumpers
belong to C. H.
Perry.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused: —
R.L.8.;
Hitler! The name on everyone’s tongue,
With his swastika, Iron Cross and moustache;
He placed the world in a turmoil
Because his actions were drastic and rash.
E.M.W. and J.C.: Others beat you to it
J.R.: “Fishing” the nearest... .J.J.S.: How
does one crush a yoke? ... .W.R.E.8.: Breathes
there the man with soul so dead who never
to himself hath said “I must not imitate
Scott”? M.C.: Worth trying elsewhere
C.MacG.; Chopped-up prose... .A.S.: Not for
us the picture of Hitler in heaven... .W.M.F.:
Verse attractive; theme hackneyed... .A.A.1.;
Leave it to E. J. Brady... .R.E.R.: Just a
statement 0.W.: Flimsy... .Y. 8.: Pleasant,
without being compelling... .8.C.8.; What
makes you think it’s a poem?... .J.M.R.:
Its chief merit is the couplet from Shakspeare.
. ...J.R.A.: “Please find enclosed one rather
weak sonnet.” Rather inclined to agree with
you M. the M.: Call again.. . .H.N.M.:
“Time” doesn’t rhyme with “divine”
M.A.H.: Turgid J.P.L.G.; You’ve a long
way to g 0... .D.J.: Good news for the blessed:
I’d like to send to Kingdom Come
All pots and pubs and beer and rum.
W.D.N: Welcomed the variation, but it
still doesn’t assay high enough... .G.T.W.:
Little interest in Walter... .F.N.: Thin....
R.F.: An old one... .P.K.D.: Send it to the
Tiny Tots’ Page P.D.L.: Your knowledge
of boxing wouldn’t get you past the prelims
C.C.O’N.: Next time you hear an abo. say
“Yassar, Ah was born out neah Alice Springs”
catch him and take him to a museum....
J.H J.: Fearfully anticipating “further con-
tributions in a similar vein”... .8.C.F.; Sus-
pect you took it down verbatim from a soap-
box orator... .N.G.M.: Not even the “original
style” could get it across... .W.F.T.: The
office flapper thought George was too wonderful
for words, but even she found “Peggy’s ever-
lasting smile” monotonous... .D.M.S.; That’s
another prospector who hasn’t struck gold in
this office T.H.J.: At half that length it
might stand a slim chance... .S.M.T.; Not
attracted by the orphan cheild who braved fire
and flood to save her benefactor’s poodle.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
K.M.T.: You’re still the dux of the slapdash
school... .8.N.: Your treatment of the kan-
garoo has been reported to the R.S.P.C.A
Bert C.: When you see ads. for pinkie in the
“War Cry” you can start sending us American
college humor stuff G.H.F.: Lugubrious
jests... .R.N.H.; Using a bottle of Indian ink
per drawing will make your scratching an expen-
sive hobby... .C.C.: A maze of splintery lines.
.... J.M.; No room for threadbare puns....
A.T.: You’re up another rung; keep trying
C.A.8.: If it’s you versus the brush, one to win,
we’ll back the brush 8.H.: Large woman
floating a few feet off the ground is being
wafted back home.


Positions Vacant.
WANTED early in March fully trained
BUTLER
for Government House, Brisbane.
No married quarters available. Must, of course,
be unfit for Military Service. Apply as soon as
possible, stating qualifications and salary re-
quired, to the PRIVATE SECRETARY, Gov-
ernment House, Brisbane, Queensland.
f/cottHq
is Uditvinq
if
• Produced by the
sound engineers who
pioneered the tele-
phone and talking
picture, you will find
the Western F.lectric
Audi phone a master-
piece of compactness,
efficiency and
economy, enabling
the user to take part
in group conversa-
tion, to hear easily
and NATURALLY.
• Bone and air con-
duction types avail-
able.
Western Electric
AUDIPHONE
HEARING AID
O You will never know how much pleasure
and happiness the Western Electric Audi-
phone brings to those who are hard of
hearing, until you have heard it demon-
strated. That is why we suggest you call
on any of the following agents before you
decide on ANY hearing aid.
THE AUDIPHONE CO.,
M.L.C. Building, .).' f Martin Place, Sydney.
CODES & GARRARD PTY., DTD.,
370-31Ji Bourke Street, Melbourne.
TREVOR HENDERSON,
T. d: G. Buildings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
DEN G. STONE,
67 Gaw I e r Place, Adelaide,
SAINKEN & SAINKEN.
6 3 3 Hay Street, Perth.
ITNDDAYS PTY., DTD.,
Apollo House, Brisbane St., Launceston.
SUNDRY SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Private Lives”
Marie Ney, Hal Thompson, Jane
Conolly and Richard Parry made an
excellent show of Coward’s “Private
Lives” at Sydney Royal. They kept it,
as it should be, light and amusing, a
continuous ripple of comedy with an
occasional splash of wit.
That they did so well with it means
a good deal as far as their sense of
comedy is concerned, for “Private Lives”
is not an easy play. Essentially it’s a
one-act play. The first act contains the
whole of the drama. Coward introduces
Amanda Prynne and Victor Prynne on
the first night of their honeymoon at a
hotel in France and shows that Victor
is jealous of Amanda’s first husband
because he suspects she is still in love
with him. Then the playwright intro-
duces Elyot Chase and Sybil Chase, also
on the first night of their honeymoon
at the same hotel, and shows that Sybil
is jealous of Elyot’s first wife because
she is afraid he is still in love with her.
Amanda and Elyot meet on the balcony,
decide that they should never have
divorced each other, and bolt together.
Curtain ; and, in reality, the end of the
play.
Coward strings it out for two more
acts on the assumption that there is
sufficient suspense in the situation be-
tween the runaways: will they, tempera-
mental and quarrelsome as they are, stick
together? But there is no real suspense.
No matter how much they fall out, it’s
obvious that they won’t part. The last
act merely repeats the first; the final
curtain, like the first, shows Amanda and
Elyot running away together from the
tearful Sybil and the pompous Victor.
Coward’s bright dialogue alone wouldn’t
be sufficient to sustain interest over the
second and third acts. Yet interest is
sustained: firstly, because of the skilful
acting of all concerned ; secondly —as
Marie Ney pointed out in her speech
at the conclusion —because of the clever
“business” introduced by the producer,
Alec Coppel.
$
“Rio Rita”
This revival was let loose at Mel-
bourne His Majesty’s by a mainly
Australian company, and a wise man-
agement decided to throttle the babyish
story—of the Texas ranger who pursues
a Mexican bandit across the border and
falls in love with his sister—with patter
and then drown it in sixty feet of danc-
ing. The patter was provided by Charles
Norman and Don Nicol with praise-
worthy industry, considering the weather,
and the dancing was supplied by the Wil-
liamson ballet as Spanish and Indian
damsels and anon as Aztec goddesses, the
latter a striking advertisement for the
resources of the Firm’s wardrobe.
Whenever the story threatened to in-
trude its unshapely head, specialty
dancers Earl and Fontaine burst in with
some extraordinarily abandoned move-
ments and saved the audience from strain-
ing its intellect unduly. Miss Elsa
Stenning sang nicely, and in one
instance superbly. John Howard was a
romantic, two-fisted official gunman with
an unconvincing speaking voice but a
vocal organ which responded admirably
when the score would let him. Dot Ran-
kin, as Dolly the cabaret girl with a mul-
titude of husbands, was slick and nimble.
The big moment of the play was when
the indomitable Texas rangers slip the
cable of the barge on which General
Enrique Joselito Esteban (Reginald New-
son) is giving a party and it floats over
the border, enabling the American con-
stabulary to arrest the bandit without in-
fringing anything more serious than the
laws of probability, which have no juris-
diction in musical comedy. This feat was
performed by scenic-artist George Up-
ward and assistants by the simple device
of a revolving backcloth, and was so
convincing that present commentator
momentarily thought His Majesty’s
Theatre was on a voyage of discovery
into the outer suburbs.
* * * *
Sir Hamilton Harty, dead at 60, was
the first of several noted orchestral con-
ductors imported to Australia by the
A.B.C. In a series of concerts in 1934
he demonstrated his wide musical sym-
pathies by fine performances of both
classical and modern music, especially
impressing audiences with his interpre-
tations of Delius and Sibelius. His pro-
fessional beginnings were made as a piano-
forte accompanist. Orchestral composi-
“Private Lives,” at Sydney Royal. Hal Thompson attending to Marie
Ney, Richard Parry making for cover.
tions paved the way to baton-wielding,
and in 1920 he became conductor of
Manchester’s Halle Orchestra, an asso-
ciation lasting till 1933. Outside a few
songs his compositions are not well
known in Australia. He married the
operatic singer Agnes Nicholls. There
are no children.
ARTBURSTS.
Arnold Shore’s Paintings
Arnold Shore’s vigorous and very
broadly impressionist style is exemplified
in 32 canvases at the Macquarie Gal-
leries, Sydney. In landscape his audacity
is reminiscent of Sargent; in flower, fruit
and vegetable pieces there is a suggestion
of the strenuousness of Cezanne. But
the matter is seldom appropriate to the
manner. The technique, in its way, may
be excellent (this consideration seems to
have prompted the N. S. Wales Gallery’s
purchase of a still-life study), but Mr.
Shore’s flowers give small impression of
freshness and fragility, his fruit and vege-
tables are unappetising, and his pictorial
sense in landscape is often lacking—the
tragically ugly buildings in “Winter Rain-
bow” and “Magic Lake” make the titles
sound ironic. Much happier are much
less ambitious essays, such as “Grey
Day,” which has dignity and poise, and
“Summer Gold” and “Over the Hills,”
which deftly capture very pleasant
impressions.
* * * *
William Ricketts’s Plastics
A show unusual for its subject matter
was opened by R. H. Croll at the Velas-
quez Galleries, Melbourne, last week. It
is an exhibition of clay sculptures based
on aboriginal folklore by William
Ricketts, who went for his legends to the
late Baldwin Spencer’s works and the
spoken word of that remarkable member
of the race David Uniapon. The
aesthetic-looking Melbourne sculptor has
certainly opened up a strange, unique
world for illustration, and if he hasn’t in-
fallible skill in the plastic medium he has
intense enthusiasm for the literary con-
tent of his subjects. Lumps of clay four
feet in width are covered with small
figures of abo. patriarchs whose beards,
blown on by wizards, turn into euros. In
one piece men of the kangaroo totem
are performing their dance around the
churinga stone, and so completely iden-
tify themselves with their animal guide
of primal days that they have adopted
his body. In another group the old men
of the Arunta tribe are crouched around
their churinga and telling Baldwin
Spencer of its miraculous powers in awed
whispers ; but the presence of the white
anthropologist with a head two sizes
too large for his body comes as an anti-
climax. Some of the tiny heads of picca-
ninnies are ably modelled.
* * * *
Pictures of Dunk Island
Two Melbourne sisters, Yvonne and
Valerie Cohen, have been painting Dunk
the islet on the Queensland coast
which Banfield made world-famous.
With its bananas, mangoes and palm-
trees bathed in brilliant sunshine it looks
a delectable place, but obviously difficult
to paint. Valerie Cohen’s efforts appear
to give more of the vividness of the color
and the violence of the light than her
sister’s. The show is at Riddell’s Gal-
leries, Melbourne.
AT THE TALKIES.
“Third Finger, Left Hand”
An M.-G.-M. comedy at Sydney St.
James and lightly amusing most of the
way, even if it isn’t all that might be
hoped for from the smoky Myrna Loy
and the irrepressible Melvyn Douglas.
She’s the editress of a fashion magazine
or something and, as a safeguard against
all would-be amorous gentlemen, is
posing, even to her own family, as mar-
ried to a wandering husband somewhere
in South America. Enter Mr. Douglas
as a globe-trotting artist, and the pair of
them are shortly developing a keen
mutual interest, the Loy not being at all
backward in her share of the business.
At which stage it comes to Mr. Douglas’s
ears that she is married, whereupon,
after a fiery dust-up with her, he dis-
covers the real strength of the business
and turns up at her palatial home posing
as her wandering husband. After that it
develops to that stage where the Loy
would be glad to be rid of him, but
can’t publicly divorce him without legally
marrying him first, and so forth.
All quite entertaining and mildly
amusing, with one or two dull patches
caused by lapses in the story, and with
several highly humorous spots when the
Loy and Mr. Douglas touch their top
form. There’s a massive negro train-
porter-cwm-lawyer in the piece who pro-
vides a good percentage of guffaw, and
a light, catching ditty warbled throughout
by Mr. Douglas and other members of
the cast.
• ♦ * *
“The Leather Pushers”
Up to a point they were going great
guns with this show at Sydney Capitol—
a good sort of a cast for the job: Richard
Arlen as the born fighter with a dyna-
mite punch and complete ignorance of
his own possibilities, Andy Devine as his
mate and second, Astrid Allwyn as the
wench, and a bunch of four battered
veteran punch-drunks (“slap-nutties,” as
the Ammurricans have it), who turn in
some bright original clowning.
The tale begins brightly enough, and
bowls along more in the manner of
comedy than a straight pug yarn, then
the filmsmiths suddenly discover that they
have frittered away most of their run-
ning-time in this manner, and that with
15 minutes to go they have still to unload
their tale of resin, rights and raw ribs in
the roped ring. They try to stop the
clowning and be serious, Andy and
Richard barge in on a couple of crooks
in their hideout; follows a comic stoush
scene similar to half a dozen others in
the show, but this one is supposed to be
in deadly earnest.
It serves its purpose, however, in regard
to the story, which is then rattled off at
six scenes to the minute. The whole
thing, including the big championship
fight scene, is much closer to burlesque
clowning than a serious fight film, but it’s
good clowning.
* * * *
' From Ken G. Hall, of Cinesound:
When I read the remarks of your commen-
tator (B. 19/2/’4l) 1 found statements which
are far from the truth and, in fact, quite unfair
to this company. While Cinesound Review
was not mentioned it was obviously the reel
referred to because it was the only one carry-
ing the official A.I.F. film in which General
Mackay spoke.
Your correspondent stated that after hear-
ing General Mackay implore Australians to drop
the idea that there is no resistance from the
Italians, the newsreel showed “scenes at the fall
of Tobruk complete with a commentary along
the very lines that the general deplored!”
For your information I am enclosing a copy
of the exact commentary spoken by Peter
Bathurst on that particular item. If your critic
can find any sections deprecating the fighting
qualities of the Italians we will be, to say the
least of it, surprised. The only line —and the
one on which he will pick—“out came the
Fascist warriors under the handy white handker-
chief” —was a statement of fact.
Admittedly there is plenty in the for-
warded transcription of the commentary
to support Mr. Hall’s opinion—such
comments as “The Fascist legions fought
bravely and gave our troops the hottest
engagement of the campaign Beneath
the white flag lies an Italian officer. He’s
been hit —the war’s over for him. But
he fought like a soldier—and earned a
soldier’s regard [The San Giorgi]
fought gamely to the last, using her big
guns to good effect against the oncoming
British.” Mr. Hall is right in predict-
ing that the “white handkerchief” would
be mentioned by the critic in justifica-
tion ; it was the very thing he found so
contrary to General Mackay’s remarks.
Here is the passage:
The final assault. The troops sweep
towards the modern city mopping up dug-
outs and strongposts for stragglers as they
go. Out come the Fascist warriors—under
the handy white handkerchief. It’s becom-
ing Mussolini’s national emblem! Italian
officers —they insisted their batmen accom-
pany them to carry their luggage. What a
war.
That can be given: what cannot be
given is the tone in which that is uttered.
What the words themselves convey, how-
ever, is clear enough, and they, and the
tone in which they were given, seemed
to this critic directly contrary to General
Mackay’s sensible advice. The whole of
the passage given might be statement of
fact; but suggesting that the white hand-
kerchief is becoming Mussolini’s national
emblem seems a poor way of emphasising
the fighting quality of the attacking
troops.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD,, Melbourne. •
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Rj«Ui, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 147 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Hank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
E> E A
"Chico” Invisible Earphones 21/- pr.
• Worn inside your ears. No cords or
batteries. Amazingly effective. Guaran-
teed lifetime. Write for free booklet.
MEAKS EARPHONE CO.—No. 3 State
Shopping Block, Market Street, Sydney^
jH
Wants.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletr
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Qualified accountant-secretary wants work;
taxation or graziers-pastoralists’ accounts. —9293.
Male accountancy student, nearly 18, seeks
clerical position in merchant’s office or as radio
announcer. Q’land commercial junior pass.
8788.
Dentist, skilled operator, mechanic, accus-
tomed sole charge large practice, desires posi-
tion Brisbane. Refs. —9276.
To buy The Moon in Scorpio, by William J.
Woltman. —9249.
To buy numbers of French magazine
“L’lllustration” before 1914. —9210.
To buy or borrow They Lived with Me, by
Helen Zenna Smith. —9323.
To buy light canoe suitable one or two
persons. State price.—9413.
To buy T. C. Roughley’s Book of Australian
Fish.— 9667.
To buy optician’s equipment, trial case, frame,
lest types, opthalmoscope, etc. —9668.
To buy books on metal machining and lathe
practice.—9670.
To buy “Ladies’ Home Journal” from May,
1938, to March, 1940. —9615.
Words of poem “Dan Drew,” by C. J.
Dennis. —9075.
Whereabouts of Walter Gordon Graham
Smith, supposed to have left for Fiji in Novem-
ber, 1938.—9211.
Information Sought.
(1) Procedure necessary to change name
legally? (2) Do criminal convictions debar an
individual from such a change? —9426.
(1) Any person may change his or her name
whenever and as often as he or she likes. No
procedure is necessary, but for purposes of
record it is customary to do it by deed-poll,
which may be registered in the Registrar-
General’s Department. (2) No.
* * * *
(1) Is the gas that is formed when petrol is
exploded carbon monoxide ? (2) If so, could
the gas be collected and passed through a
cleaner and used to run the engine ? —8706.
(1) If plenty of air is present carbon dioxide
is formed. If insufficient air to burn the whole
of the petrol is present some carbon monoxide
is formed. (2) It would be impracticable to
separate the carbon monoxide from the other
gases in order that it might be put through
the engine again. The difficulty is that large
volumes of nitrogen are also present, and the
separation of carbon monoxide from this nitro-
gen and from the other products of combus-
tion needs extensive equipment.
* * * *
The one and only advantage of pure wool
is warmth. How do wool substitutes compare
in this respect ? —9436.
Two well-known wool substitutes have been
developed in Europe in recent years, viz.,
lanital, produced from milk, and zellwolle,
made from softwoods. The former process was
exploited in Italy to a large extent, and elabo-
rate claims were made for its warmth-giving
properties when made up into woven fabrics.
Zellwolle, wollstra and other ersatz wool
products made from softwoods have been
greatly exploited in Germany, where up to the
outbreak of the present war textile engineers
and experts had successfully blended ersatz yarns
with genuine wool into woven fabrics employ-
ing 30 p.c. ersatz with 70 p.c. wool. This 30
p.c. substitute mixture was considered the safe
maximum two or three years ago, but experi-
ments were being conducted to increase it
if possible. Mixed beyond that percentage,
the effect of using ersatz materials was to mar
the general wearing properties of the cloth.
The wollstra and zellwolle fabrics and processes
were generally considered to be an improve-
ment on lanital. In Germany four years ago
a law enforced the mixing of substitute or
ersatz fibres up to 50 p.c. in the case of uni-
forms for certain Government services. In the
best cloths the percentage used was a maximum
of 30 p.c. Similarly in Italy the Supreme
Autarchy Commission decided in October
1938, to oblige Italian textile manufacturers to
employ certain percentages, fixed by a technical
committee, of lanital fibres in textiles for use
for the home market. A new wool substitute
was announced in, December, 1939, by Yoshio
Ishida, Director of the Chemical Research
Bureau of the Riken Laboratories, Japan. This
fibre was made from a residue resulting after ex-
pressing oil from the blubber of whales. Claims
were made that it equalled the warmth of
genuine wool, and was cheaper, though the
quantity available was not estimated. No
comparative data are available concerning the
warmth-retaining quality of the various wool-
substitutes.
He * * *
(1) How should the wife of a K.C.M.G. be
announced (a) in company with her husband;
(b) alone ? (2) How should she be addressed
(a) when speaking to her; (b) by letter? (3)
As applied to her, is “Lady” a courtesy title
only, or is the title conferred automatically
when her husband is knighted? —9432.
(1) (a) Sir James and Lady Smith; ( b ) Lady
Smith (not Lady James Smith). (2) If you are
a friend of hers you use “Lady Smith” both
when speaking to and writing to her. (3) When
James Smith was knighted and became “Sir,”
his wife took the courtesy title of “Lady”
by virtue of her rank as spouse of a knight.
* * * *
(1) When does the sun set due west of the
observer at, say, the latitude of Sydney? (2)
How far south of west does it set on Dec. 22
and how far north of west on June 22 ? (3)
What is the formula for ascertaining these bear-
ings for any latitude? —9433.
(1) The sun sets due west of the observer
in all latitudes at the time of the equinoxes,
about March 21 and September 21. (2) In
the latitude of Sydney the sun sets 28deg. south
of west on December 22, and 28deg. north of
west on June 22. (3) The formula for finding
these bearings, together with all necessary ex-
planations, is available in any textbook on
spherical astronomy.
* * * *
Information concerning the origin of the
Oath of Hippocrates ? Is it accepted universally
by the medical profession? —9443.
It is generally accepted that “The Oath” was
written by the Greek physician Hippocrates
(about 460 n.c.). To this Oath his pupils
were required to subscribe, and to it also many
succeeding generations of physicians have since
subscribed. Although there may not be general
agreement with the wording of the Oath in its
entirety, there can be no doubt that the general
principles which it contains are the secret of
its universal validity for all time. As long as
the profession of medicine is an honorable one
and as long as there is any reverence left in
human nature for the old and beautiful, this
venerable “counsel of perfection” will hold a
place in the esteem of medical men.
* * * *
Some facts about dugongs, their size, haunts,
appearance and value as a food, and to what
extent dugong fishing is carried on in Australia ?
Are they found exclusively in Australian
waters ? —9669.
The dugong is a marine mammal inhabiting
certain areas in the Indian and Pacific oceans
and waters connected with them. On the Aus-
tralian coast they are today almost confined to
the tropics, though ranging from Moreton Bay
on the east to Broome on the west. Remains
found at Broken Bay, Macleay River and Botany
Bay suggest that they once had an extensive
southward range. A mature specimen scales from
10001 b. to 12001 b., and one caught in More-
ton Bay measured list. Sin. from snout to tail,
although eight to ten fept is more usual. As far
as is known the dugong bears one baby a year
—about 3ft. long when born. The food of the
dugong consists not, as is sometimes stated,
of algas, but of the roots of certain marine
plants with blade-like leaves that give rise to
marine “meadows” on sheltered flats covered
with a mixture of sand and mud and extending
from low water to a depth of several fathoms.
They are a gregarious animal, herds of six to
40 being common; in 1893 a herd seen in
Moreton Bay extended over a length of nearly
three miles and a width of 300 yards. Abos.
hunt them for food; Europeans, for their oil,
contained in the internal fat and of medicinal
value, especially for lung complaints, for the
hide, which makes excellent leather, and for the
bones, which make the best charcoal for sugar
refining. A well-grown dugong yields from
four to five gallons of oil; its hide when green
weighs nearly 2001 b., and the flesh, if treated
like pork or . bacon, is extremely savory and
digestible.
* * * *
What fungus diseases are likely to be encoun-
tered in growing cabbage? Methods for com-
bating them? —9671.
The most prevalent are clubroot, mildew and
blackleg. For clubroot, lime the ground at
the rate of lib. to the sq. yd. at least from
10 to 12 months before planting. For mildew,
pickle the seeds before sowing and use new
soil for making the seedbeds. Spray the young
plants with hajf-strength Bordeaux mixture
when just above the ground and again when
about two inches high. For blackleg, pickle
the seeds before sowing and sow in seedbeds
that have been made with fresh, new soil
that has not been contaminated by disease
stalks or soil. When just above the ground,
spray the seedlings with half-strength Bor-
deaux mixture, and then with arsenate of lead
at the rate of one part of the latter to 25
gallons of water. This spray destroys the cab-
bage maggot which causes wounds in the
plants, enabling the blackleg fungus to gain
an entrance.
* * * *
Fare from Sydney to Rabaul ? Conditions for
leaving Australia and entering New Guinea ?
—9666.
First-class single fare from Sydney to Rabaul
ranges from £24 and from Brisbane to Rabaul
from £2l 125., the journey being covered by a
vessel of the Burns, Philp Island Services. Before
passengers can be issued with a ticket it is neces-
sary that they procure from the Customs author-
ities in Sydney or Brisbane a permit to enter
New Guinea, and they have also to secure from
the Taxation Department a taxation clearance. It
is also necessary for passengers proceeding to
New Guinea to pay to the shipping co. prior
to being issued with a ticket the sum of £3O
for landing bond, which is required by the
New Guinea Immigration authorities. The
amount of this bond is handed on by the
shipping co. to the authorities in New Guinea,
and refund may be made by them at their
discretion, or refund may be made to the
passenger concerned on departure from the
Territory.
Some years ago when the Sydney under-
ground railway was being constructed I saw
the workmen coating the sides of the tunnels
with some black substance that looked like tar
or pitch, presumably to prevent the damp coming
through before the tiles were affixed. Could
you tell me what material it was, whether
it was to prevent the damp coming through,
whether ordinary plaster as used for the
walls of houses could be used over it without
any deleterious effects to the plaster, and
whether the plaster would adhere to it as well
as to the ordinary brick wall? Is there any
book on the subject? —B994.
The substance was bituminous asphaltum,
applied to the walls of certain sections of the
Sydney City Railway tunnels to prevent the
ingress of water. The asphaltum, which con-
sisted of bitumen and other substances
specially proportioned and prepared for water-
proofing, was applied hot in two layers to a
total thickness of |in. Bituminous asphaltum
will adhere to dry brickwork and concrete.
As the waterproofing is plastic, it is usually
necessary to cover it with a comparatively hard
material, such as brick or concrete, which also
preserves the waterproofing from external
damage. Ordinary lime plaster would adhere
satisfactorily to the bituminous asphaltum, but
it would not have sufficient strength to pre-
vent its flow, and therefore its use on this
class of waterproofing is not recommended.
Technical publications on the subject are avail-
able at the public and municipal libraries, and
are obtainable from leading booksellers. There
are several contractors in Sydney who specialise
in this class of work.
* * * *
There are two shrubs known as "St. John’s
Bread” and “Judas-tree.” What are their
botanical names and habits of growth ? —9614.
“St. John’s Bread” ( Ceralonia siliqua), also
known as the carob-tree, is a hardy evergreen
tree which grows to 16ft. and bears pods about
4in. long, which are edible for stock. Does well
in hot, dry climates. The “Judas-tree” ( Cercis
siliquastrum ) has rose-purple flowers in winter
and is suitable only for cold areas. Grows to
20ft.
* * * *
Is there any place in Australia with a really
good all-the-vear-round mild climate ? Give
figures ? —8934.
The five following localities are suggested;
-—Mean—■
Max., Min., --Record—'
Jan. July. Max. Min.
Jervis Bay, N.S.W. .. 75 49 107 38
Port Macquarie, N.S.W. 79 45 106 25
Kingscote, Kangaroo Is.,
S.A 72 48 110 37
Bunbury, W.A 82 47 106 28
Gabo Is. (or Eden),
N.S.W 70 47 103 31
* * * *
(1) Method of waterproofing and preserving a
light duck fly? (2) Method of preserving a
15oz. heavy duck fly that does not require
waterproofing ? —9427.
(1) (a) Dissolve soz. alum in one gallon of
water. ( b ) Dissolve 4oz. acetate of lead in one
gallon of boiling water. Mix’ (a) and (b) and
stand overnight; next day pour off clear liquor
and discard sediment. Place canvas in solution
and move about till thoroughly soaked, squeeze
(not wring) out and partly dry, then return
to liquid and soak again. Squeeze out again,
and dry. (2) Best way to preserve is to “paint”
the fly with boiled linseed oil, allowing a week
between coats and a week after the third coat.
Any preservative will also make the canvas
waterproof.
* * * *
Recipe for pickling onions so that they will
remain crisp and keep? —9397.
Peel onions (small preferred), steep two
hours in brine made of three quarts of water
and two cups of salt, then drain well. Pack
onions into jars, put into each jarful 10 to 12
white peppercorns and a small piece of bruised
ginger, fill with best white or brown vinegar,
tie down and leave 48 hours. Strain off
vinegar (leaving onions in jars), bring it to the
boil, pour it back on the onions and leave
till cold. Make airtight and store in cool, dry
place.
* * * *
(1) Emulsifier for mayonnaise to prevent oil
rising to surface, and how to mix mayonnaise ?
(2) Recipe for Parisian essence? —9478.
(1) Two egg-yolks, two tablespoons sugar,
half-tablespoon flour, one scant teaspoon mus-
tard, one teaspoon salt, one cup milk, half-
cup vinegar, three tablespoons Australian olive
oil. Mix all dry ingredients, then beat in
egg-yolks, the oil (hot, but not nearly boiling),
milk, and lastly vinegar. This will keep and
the oil will not separate. (2) Caramel enters
largely into this essence, but its keeping quali-
ties and special flavor are trade secrets.
* * * *
(1) How to repair damage done by cock-
roaches on backs of books and protect bind-
ings not yet affected? (2) Is there a reliable
repellent ? —9388.
(1) Get a tube of liquid wood. This wj|l
fill holes in leather, cardboard, etc., and if
applied according to directions will make good
the damage. When hard (about 48 hours)
apply a lacquer to color. (2) Best plan is to
destroy, not repel, the pest. Mix one table-
spoon borax with three tablespoons fine oat-
meal and place the dry mixture in heaps on
floor below bookshelves (or at back of books).
Near each heap put a small tin lid (say lid of
pepper tin) full of water. Or bait a milk
bottle with stale fat and put a slat against
the bottle for roaches to climb.
* * * *
(1) Did Jackie Green ever win an Australian
boxing championship ? (2) What age was Green
when he had his first fight, and in what year
and where did he have his last? —9665.
(1) He won two —the flyweight in 1916, and
featherweight in 1920. (2) Green had just
turned 13 when he had his first fight in 1916.
His last fight took place at Wellington (M.L.)
on April 14, 1928, when Billy Melton knocked
him out in the secojjd round.
* * * *
What are the characteristics of the lighthouse
at Cape Leeuwin? —9367.
Characteristics of the light are: One white
light flashing every 7.5 seconds, period of flash
0.3 seconds. Visible from 261dcg. through west
to 141 deg. Visibility 20 miles, elevation above
high water 185 ft. The lighthouse structure is
grey circular stone tower 128 ft. above the
ground.
* * * *
What is the best fertiliser to use on the hedge
shrubs variegated privet, Cupressuslambertiana
horizontalis and beach ti-tree? 9613.
All too deep-rooting for manure to be got to
their roots Manure should be laid in a
trench before planting but without touching
roots. With plenty of moisture during the
summer months they should do without fer-
tiliser.
« * • •
I wish to build a small week-end bungalow.
Suitable material and freight Sydney to Fitt-
water ( N.S.W.)? What lining do you sug-
gest ? —8639.
Suggest fibrolite asbestos cement sheets for
outside and lining. Freight to Pittwater by
steamer would be about 17s. 6d. per ton.
Brief Answers.
E.K.: On scanty information furnished it
seems that A would be liable to contribute, but
it also appears to be a question to be deter-
mined by the local land board (see Sec. 123
Pastures Protection Act)....J.K.F.: Sounds
like a Shetland sheep-dog. They are a com-
paratively new breed of pet-dog, virtually a
collie in miniature, weighing round 71b. to 101 b.
They have a special reputation for amicability
and alertness P.V.R.: T. W. Robertson was a
successful English dramatist (1829-71). Fie pro-
duced a series of society plays G.R.McG.:
The dentist is entitled to make the charge
and you must pay....P.H.; No record of
native plants which repel mosquitoes when
burnt PJ.L.: That edition is not of any
particular value... .J.M.: Can recommend
Wadia’s 1000 Miles Up the Amazon, Fife’s
Among Wild Tribes of Amazons, March’s Up
the Amazon and Over the Andes and Bates’s
A Naturalist on the Amazon.... V.W.G.: Not
worth sending to Sydney for sale. Sets often
turn up and are of no particular value... .C.G.:
(1) Muskett’s Illustrated Australian Medical
Guide, 21s. (2) Jellett’s Midwifery for Nurses,
16s. Obtainable from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney T.E.V.: Write to Angus ;and
Robertson, Sydney, who will give full informa-
tion on the subjects of your inquiry... .N.D.:
Apply to the Brisbane office of the A.B.C. for
an announcing audition... .X.Y.Z.; The Sal-
vation Army has no financial or controlling
interest of any kind in the concerns men-
tioned N.McP.; Suitable textbooks are
Karlgren’s Philology and Ancient China, 10s.
6d.; Malone and Rund’s English Studies in
Philology, 425. 6d.; and Skeat’s Classical and
English Philology, 4s. 9d. These are not in
stock in Sydney, but could be procured
A.M.S.: (1) Soap for washing clothes or
toilet soap cannot be made without oil
or fat. (2) Pick capers when ripe and
drop into vinegar; ready in a week’s time.
....W.H.S.: Cannot give recipes for alcoholic
beverages M. 8.: Using mineral turpentine
in an endeavor to remove tan polish from white
suede has fixed the tan. Best thing is to
turn them tan for good C.C.: Federal and
State members of Parliament pay the same
taxes as any other person. Special deductions
are allowed on a reasonable basis for travelling
expenses and expenses of conducting an elec-
tion campaign. Public servants are similarly
liable to pay taxes. Businessmen appointed by
the Government in connection with the war
effort will derive no taxation benefit S.K.:
E. Wills, 7 Lugar Brae-avenue, Waverley,
Sydney. If the coins are a mixed lot of various
countries, try I. Tyrrell, 248 George-street,
Sydney L.G.: Silvering is a highly technical
process, and can be carried out only in
premises specially prepared for the purpose.
Heat, by means of steam pipes, which causes
the silver nitrate to precipitate, plays an im-
portant part E.C.F.: Impossible in space
available to give directions for making cheese.
Write your Agriculture Department in capital
city and ask for leaflet. Every such department
supplies information gratis L.P.D;: Most
textbooks on photography deal with the optical
problems associated with enlargement. Consult
one at nearest public library S.L.H.: Con-
sult in the Perth Public Library or the Library
of the W.A. University the editions of Juvenal
by Mayor and Duff and Housman, and the
translation by Leeper Ellabee: The Queens-
land Apiaries Act of 1938 came into force on
July 1, 1939. The Act specifies that in District
No. 2, comprising the Pastoral District of
Darling Downs, the radius from an approved
existing commercial apiary, i.e., one of 20 or
more hives of bees, shall be not less than
three miles


Young Stock is an Investment for Future Production.
Feed Tri-cal-os sterilised Bone Flour to
growing stock to balance the mineral
ration. Tri-cal-os gives strong bones and
teeth, suppleness and vitality and good all-
round condition. Resistance to disease is
strengthened, bone chewing and bone
troubles avoided. Tri-cal-os contains a
guaranteed minimum of 33% phosphoric
acid, and 40% lime, and is undoubtedly
the best source of the essential minerals,
calcium and phosphorus, for young stock.
Obtain particulars about Tri-cal-os from: —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney;
G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O. Box 758 K,
Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 713 P, Adelaide; or G.P.O.
Box 588, Perth.
'•a.
ft
m
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
Mm
o
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES; 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for tree descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
37 Bowen St- BRISBANE. Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St.. CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH. WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT OT
GRAZCOS."
Lick for Stock.
“R.N.”; Only on heavy basalt and
black-soil country can sheep do without
a mineral lick in normal seasons ; even
there a lick is necessary in dry times.
All stock must have a properly-balanced
mineral element in their diet if they are
to produce meat, milk, wool or progeny
efficiently. Most sheepmen realise this.
Cattlemen don’t seem to bother.
In N.S.W. pastures the two minerals
most commonly lacking are calcium and
phosphorus, essential for the building of
good frames. Scientific research on the
soils shows no shortage of iodine.
Calcium has a job to do in controlling
the clotting of the blood, regulating heart
action, determining muscle firmness, aid-
ing digestion of fat and controlling the
action of other minerals on the body.
Phosphorus is a tissue-builder. Without
it there would be no wool, milk or flesh.
Shortage of either is seen in stunted
animals and low production.
Minerals can best be replaced by top-
dressing the pastures, native or intro-
duced, with artificial fertilisers. Next in
importance is an adequate lick. Steril-
ised bonemeal and dicalcic phosphate
make the safest and most economical
basis for such a lick. Before buying a
ready-made lick, compare its price and
phosphoric acid content with bonemeal,
which contains from 24 p.c. to 28 p.c.
phosphoric acid and costs about £l3 a
ton f.o.b. Sydney.
No hard-and-fast rule can be set for
giving a lick to stock ; conditions vary
greatly in different districts. Still, a lick
likely to give satisfaction under average
conditions can be made up of one part
of bonemeal or dicalcic phosphate to four
parts of salt. This should be put out in
solid troughs that can’t be knocked over,
with a roof or some cover to keep off
wind and rain. Make the trough big
enough to obviate constant refilling.
Don’t pay high prices for salt. Com-
mon stock salt at about £3 a ton is good
enough for any lick. It is better than
rock salt—more economical when used
properly, and is produced in Australia.
Don’t use Epsom salts as a laxative
in dry times. The magnesium hinders
the work of the calcium in the lick or
feed. Glauber salts (sodium sulphate) is
better.
A good dry-time lick can be made of
one part bonemeal or dicalcic phosphate,
four parts stock salt and 10 p.c. to 20
p.c. glauber salts. If there is need to
make it attractive, mix in a small portion
of molasses. Given this, there should
be a reduction of bone-chewing, botu-
lism and unthriftiness, with a general
improvement all round.
Fodder Conservation.
“Graz”: Dr. Page has suggested co-
operative ownership of fodder conser-
vation plant. A better scheme might be
co-operative farming, with each man buy-
ing his share of the implements.
Fifty acres of crop would provide
fodder for most 2000-sheep properties.
One lot of plant could serve four or
five farms. Jones could own the plough
and do the ploughing, Brown the com-
bine and do the combining, and so on.
Heavy machinery used for excavating
roads and military trenches should be
admirably suited for digging ensilage
trenches at low cost. Once the trenches
were made farmers would be keen to fill
them.
Vast quantities of hay will be needed
for thousands of cow farms too small
for grazing and cultivation as well, and
for thousands of sheep properties which
have practically no arable land.
I have had cattle eat their value of
home-grown oaten hay in six months.
After big droughts owners often calcu-
late that they would have been more
in pocket had they skinned their sheep
and sold their fodder reserves. Fodder
has always paid handsomely in tiding
stock over dry spells. If ample quantities
were stored the price of stock and stock
foods would not be subject to the
vagaries of the weather.
Seeding Plans.
“8.C.”: Seeding time for the wheat-
grower is eight to ten weeks off.
The business of registering the farm
and getting a license under the Com-
monwealth scheme is, perhaps, the
“Y' mean only t' give it to the sheep, boss?"
smallest worry. A lot of wheatmen will
be forced to realise what many have
realised long since—that the successful
farmer is the one who used wheat as a
sort of pioneer crop to open up his
land, give him a quick financial return
from cleared acres and thus start him
off as a farmer rather than as a wheat-
grower. Those who started as wheat-
growers and remained wheatgrowers are
getting plenty of lessons about their mis-
take these days.
Apart from the effects of over-
production plus war oji their economy
is the far more serious combination of
depletion of soil fertility, erosion and
noxious-weeds-spread brought about by
single cropping. Among them these
three have already pulled down the pro-
duction capacity in grain or stock on
many farms, and the time isn’t far off
when, unless there is a check and an
attempt at restoration, more farms than
the nation can afford to lose will have
to be abandoned.
Oats and lucerne will grow wherever
wheat will grow. There is a great need
for both to build up depleted fodder
reserves alone. Judiciously used for
grazing and for fodder stores, oats and
lucerne can not only increase carrying
capacity but improve the quality of the
stock product, be it wool, mutton, pig-
meat or eggs. Not enough of either
crop is grown. This season may force
farmers to grow more, because it be-
comes necessary for them to find some
other source of revenue in stock.
Wheat is a doubtful proposition. Be-
fore seeding plans are made it may be
a good idea to see what the farm can
do in the way of oats, lucerne and more
stock.
New Victorian Wheats.
“Kukri”: The Victorian Wheat Ad-
visory Committee has approved of Pindar
and Quadrat, produced by the Agricul-
tural Department, Pindar for the Mallee
and Quadrat for the Wimmera.
Pindar is a Ghurka product, selected
from a plot at Werribee farm in 1927.
It looks like Ghurka but is slightly taller
and in various Mallee tests has outyielded
its parent. At Walpeup it gave an average
increase of 3.8 bushels over the past
four seasons and at Swan Hill 1.2 for
three years. It is resistant to flag smut and
partially rust-resistant, and gives a grain
of better flour quality than Ghurka. It
is not recommended for other than
Mallee districts.
Quadrat was formerly called Ghurka
x C.M.G., was selected at Werribee and
developed at Longerenong College. It is
a complex cross, between Ghurka and
an unnamed crossbred Currawa x (Major
x Gallipoli). The chaff is brown and
the clubby head packed and tip-awned.
Straw is short and the plant more resist-
ant to flag smut and leaf rust than
Ghurka. It gave a 3.6 bushel higher
yield over six years on Longerenong
black soil and somewhat similar results
at Donald, Salisbury and Charlton. Last
year it was tried on red soil at War-
racknabeal and Salisbury and, in spite of
the drought, beat Ghurka again, though
by less than half a bushel at Salisbury.
Its flour is equal to that of Ghurka and
better than Free Gallipoli.
The Government farms have very little
Pindar seed left and none of Quadrat.
Pick Your Seed.
“Sterewth”: Time was when a man
could get a premium of 9d. a bushel on
Baringa wheat, but now it’s outlawed
by the N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture, along with Goeralying, Yandilla
King, Fedweb 3, Marshall’s No. 3, Free
Gallipoli, Aussie, Bena, Turvey, Currawa,
Penny, Duri, Sepoy, Rajah, Gluclub,
Nizam, Caliph, Sultan and Major. All
because they produce a flour of low-
baking quality when the ripening season
is wet or cool or both, or lose their
plumpness, color and brightness of grain
in crook seasons. These factors pull the
export price down.
Where there’s a danger of stem-rust
there’s reason to try the new wheats,
Eureka and Fedweb 1. As a yielder in
the “good” districts Ford has been out-
done by Bordan in recent seasons. Of
the 40 or so varieties grown in N. S.
Wales the experts stand pat for only 14
for grain purposes:
Apollo: Early sowing on New England,
Bathurst and Orange, southern tableland.
Ford: Mid sowing on New England, central
tableland, southern tableland; early on n.-w.
slopes and plains, c.-w. slopes, s.-w. slopes,
Riverina and Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area.
Fedweb 1: Mid sowing on n.-w. slopes
eastern portion, early on western portion and
on n.-w. plains.
Bencubbin: Mid sowing on n.-w. and c.-w.
slopes and early on c.-w. plains, mid sowing in
Riverina and s.-w.
Eureka: Mid sowing on n.-w. slopes and
plains.
Gular, Pusa 4, Pusa III: Late sowing n.-w.
slopes and early on c.-w. plains, mid sowing in
c.-w. slopes and plains, but earlier in south,
late in central-north Riverina.
Bordan: Mid sowing Bathurst and Orange,
early for parts of c.-w. and s.-w. slopes and
New England and s.-e. Riverina and Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area.
Waratah: Mid and late Bathurst and Orange,
mid in eastern part of c.-w. slopes, southern
tableland and east s.-w. slopes and Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area.
Dundee: Mid sowing on c.-w. slopes, s.-w.
slopes and Riverina.
Ghurka: Early sowing in south-central and
western Riverina.
Ranee: Mid sowing in south and western
Riverina, early in Moulamein-Balranald area.
Bobin: Mid in Mallee portion of c.-w. plains
and s.-w.
For early hay or green fodder on the coast,
Waratah and Florence.
For inland hay, Baroota Wonder.
Hints for the Farm.
“K. K. Berks”: If there’s no sepa-
rated milk for Dennis, make up the fol-
lowing; 501 b. meat meal, 201 b. linseed,
peanut or rape meal, 201 b. lucerne chaff,
81b. ground limestone and 21b. common


ABBEY QUALITY AND VALUE
IN THIS STOUT MILITARY COSSACK
A3O
@ A genuine officer’s boot that is find-
ing favour with civilians throughout
the Commonwealth. In best grade
Brown Calf, leather lined through-
out and with stout soles. Leg
is high and specially cut to fit
any type of legging. Full range of
able ; when ordering state size.
50
Postage Paid.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 234 Pitt Street,
53 Castlereagh Street.
Ctanw
t
a
PI
'M
m
&
§
w
iw
"M
K
TO
w
#
®
&
©
It may
cost a
little
more but
it's WE
worth it/
\
Gordon’s
Gin
in London, aujland
THE HEART OF A GOOD COCKTAIL
aD QU L ONDOH RC ENGi.N 0 D : dktlukgeSt in the WVild
Ttr
y ..
.
sssscsas
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
_ 151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY. & BR£AKFAST
ROOM ONLY w Single Rooms from 7/6
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Double Rooms from 15/-
Double Rooms from 11/- _ . ,
n . Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room —All Meals a la Carte. G C C McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. '
salt. Feed it at 41b. per pig daily from
weaning to baconer weight. Give brood
sows the same amount, but double it for
sows rearing litters. This will balance all
the grain the pigs can eat. If there is
good pasture and ample green feed, cut
the quantity fed by half. If you have
to buy grain, use everything else you
have on the farm to reduce costs, but
keep some grain in the ration, especially
for youngsters.
“Poli”: In southern districts any sheep
that haven’t been dipped should be done
without further delay, and ewes should
be mated for lambing to begin early in
July. British-breed ewes should be
mated as soon as possible.
“The Piute”: Lucerne hay contains
nearly as much available protein as bran
and 24 times as much as oaten hay,
though its starch equivalent is about
one-sixth lower. Green lucerne hay is
a corrector for unthrifty pigs or poultry,
and they should get it when fresh lucerne
isn’t available.
“Canbelego”: Best stage to cut grass
for hay is when seed heads are past
flowering and the grass is dry enough for
the mower to comb it. After cutting,
rake the grass into windrows, preferably
within 24 hours, and put into cocks
while it still contains a little moisture.
Bale it as soon as possible. Immature
grass makes bad hay.
“Peapod”: To make a cheap haystack
cover, slit super, sacks down the sides,
taking care to undo thread only. Sew
sufficient sacks side to side to cover
stack required. Take care to have
all joins the same side so as to avoid
“gutters” in which water can col-
lect. With 16 sacks in two rows of
eight, the cover is large enough for
a medium-sized stack. When completed,
soak thoroughly for several hours in a
weak bluestone solution —in a footrot
bath is best. This preserves the thread
and makes the cover last for more than
one season. When covering stack tack
boards along edge of sacks. From these
suspend the necessary weights. Wind
should not shift the cover.
“Waser”: Best way to stitch a wound
in an animal is to make each stitch
separate, drawing it together and tying
before making the next. One or more
can, if necessary, be taken out without
disturbing the others. Make sure the
stitch isn’t drawn too tight before tying
or it may tear through the good skin.
Use non-absorptive material, such as
silk, and sterilise both stitches and
needles.
“0.G.”: When preparing for a gas
attack on the rabbits, tack the tray of
a tobacco tin on the end of a stick about
three feet long. With this gadget the
“Cyno” —damped a little if the day is
dry—can be emptied well up in the
burrow. There is practically no leakage
of gas if the burrow is well stopped, and
the kill is nearly always a hundred per
cent.
“Goulburn”: Make a scoop by cutting
a kerosene tin in half diagonally. Attach
a handle and cut small holes in the
bottom and sides of the tin. After
dipping a mob of cattle, skim the surface
of the fluid with the scoop to remove
floating hair and dirt. Clean the sump
after each dipping, and it will save
trouble later.
“0.H.R.”: Why go to all that trouble
to annihilate meat-ants (B. 5/2/’4l) when
a thick covering of green bushes placed
completely over the nest, or, in fact, any
covering to exclude the light, will drive
out the ants?
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
Is there a paint or chemical brand that can
be used on a dairy herd to keep check of bull-
ini’s, injections and periodical treatments for
diseases ? —9321.
Earmarking or eartagging has proved fairly
satisfactory. Chemical branding is also satis-
factory provided due care is taken when mak-
ing the applications. If not done carefully
there is the same risk of blotching as is the case
with firebranding. Details of chemicals re-
quired may be obtained from the N.S.W. Dept,
of Agriculture.
* * * *
Recipe for a lure for fruit-fly, and any hints
on control ? —9486.
One of the best lures is made of 2oz. of
sodium fluosilicate, of white sugar and
4gal. water, vigorously mixed together to make
a solution and sprayed on the trees. You may
use 2oz. of tartar emetic instead of the sodium
fluosilicate; it is claimed to be twice as deadly
and less likely to injure foliage, but is hard
to obtain at present. Don’t use molasses or
brown sugar. Some stores dealing in sprays,
etc., have on sale a good ready-mixed sugar-
sodium fluosilicate bait. One and a quarter
ounces well mixed in a pint of water will make
sufficient spray for one to three trees. A popu-
lar line for glass fly-traps is ith fluid oz. (tea-
spoonful) vanilla essence, £ fl. oz. (tablespoon-
ful) of ammonia, 26 fl. oz. water (three break-
fast cups), mixed cold.
Outback Occupations.
No. LVIII.
Helping the War Effort (3).
It is the second day of the invasion
of your property by a gang of young
women in khaki riding outfits led by the
wife of your local bank manager. They
are camped in four tents down by the
creek. Your elder son Jack seems to
have lost all interest in the farm since
their arrival. You’ve seen him only at
meals, and sometimes not even then. You
are on the way from the house to the
machinery shed, wondering what sort of
drill the women will be at, when a pretty
lass in khaki walks smartly up, salutes
and hands you a note.
O.C. District Echelon, Women’s Land
Army, to occupier of training farm:
It is proposed to give the members of the
W.L.A. practical training in the use and
management of working horses. You are
requested to act as lecturer and demon-
strator. Parade will be at 10 o’clock sharp.
Agatha Fromecourt, Commandant.
“Cripes,” you mutter. It is 9.55. You
go on to the shed. When you get there
you can’t remember what you came for.
While you are still trying to remember
a whistle shrills. You go to the door.
Marching up from the tents, with the
large Commandant in the lead, comes the
District Echelon. As you watch they
draw up in front of you ; there is some
saluting and the Commandant turns to
“Good morning, Mr. Fordcubbin. You
got my note? I know it was dreadfully
short notice, but the girls and I couldn t
make up our minds what to do until just
a while ago. I’m sure we must have
talked about it for hours. We nearly
had an awful squabble. But now, you 11
be glad to know, everything is all ngnt.
Will you begin, please?”
“Begin! I —er —well, let me think.
You think. The girls watch you. The
Commandant watches you. Your old red
dog sits on his rump, drops out his
tongue and watches you. A sparrow
arrives and watches you. You can t see
her, but you’re dead certain the missus
from some point in the house is watch-
ing you. . ,
“Horses, Mr. Fordcubbin, prompts
the Commandant.
“Huh —huh —horses,” you say, and
then your brain moves.
“We’d better get the horses in,” you
tell her. “I reckon four will be enough.
They’re in the horse paddock.” You
turn towards the paddock, the girls break
their rank and gather round you asking
questions, talking to one another. You
say to the Commandant “Have y’ seen
that boy o’ mine?”
“Jack,” she answers. “Oh, he prom-
ised to clean up the camp for us. A nice
young man, Mr. Fordcubbin. So willing.
Nothing’s a trouble to him.”
“Yair, that’s right,” you say, mentally
storing this for future use against Jack.
Prince, Lion, Doll and Pompey raise
their heads as your cavalcade approaches.
Doll snorts and lumbers off ; the other
three amble after her. “Head em in t
the wing fence,” you call. Quick on the
uptake, those girls. They scatter after
the horses, waving their hands. Two of
them cut Doll off and cry “Shoo!”
Doll stops in her tracks, gives them
a wild look and turns a bitter eye on you.
Then, with an elaborate air of patience,
she turns up the wing and leads the others
to the yard. You shut the gate.
“Y’ see,” you tell the Commandant,
“be buildin’ a wing fence it saves a lot
of trouble.”
Every girl promptly fishes out a note-
book and pencil and makes a note.
“Most farm horses,” you say, “are used
t’ being harnessed in the yard. I’ll get
their winkers; some of you can get
collars an’ hames.”
“Winkers?” they ask. “What are
collars and hames?”
You explain. The pencils travel over
the notebooks.
You demonstrate the putting on of
winkers on Prince, Doll and Pompey.
You hand the remaining winkers to the
Commandant and invite her to put them
on Lion. .
Lion is the staidest gelding in tie dis-
trict. He wouldn’t cock an ear if four-
teen elephants charged out of the bush.
The Commandant’s face falls, but she
takes the winkers and walks forward.
Lion turns his kind old face and looks
at her. His bottom lip flops at a fly on
his whiskers. The Commandant tries to
jump back and falls over. “He bites!”
she squeals.
Doll snorts and lumbers round the
yard. The Commandant gives a horrified
upward leap and runs behind the gate.
Prince and Pompey collide with each
other and Prince lashes out. The girls
squeal and run to the fence. “Whoa!”
you yell, just biting off the appropriate
words.
The nags lumber about and plunge
from side to side. Old Lion hasn t
moved. In a flurry of dust you get them
steadied down and walk over to Lion.
He is standing there with his eyes closed,
one hind hoof cocked on the ground, his
tail lazily switching. His troubles about
squealing women and frightened horses!
You give him a playful thump on the
chest and turn to the District Echelon.
It is gathered round its Commandant.
She has fainted. You watch them work-
ing on her and can see it’s no place for
you. You shut the yard gate and go into
the machinery shed just as the missus
arrives. You take her by an arm and
tiptoe gently up to the house.
“Missus,” you say, trying to stifle your
laughter, “gimme a cup o’ tea. This
war’s too flamin’ much for me.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4j|d. per line; all others at
2*d. per line.
This week’s award goes to a Melburnian who went to Gippsland and returned
saddened by what he saw.
Tree- and Land-killers
“Monument to a Pioneer” (B. 1/1 / ’4l)
should be printed in pamphlet form and
distributed far and wide.
On a trip into Gippsland I went
over a mountain road into the lovely
valley of the Upper Mitchell. Rain had
fallen a few days before, and the river,
always crystal clear until in the past
year or three, was now a dirty, mud-
laden waterway.
“What have you done to the stream?”
I asked one of the local settlers. “Aw,
there’s been a big thunderstorm up the
mountains somewhere,” he replied.
“She’ll be clear in a few days.” Others
I spoke to also blamed the thunder-
storm. It didn’t occur to them to get
down to the real cause of the trouble —
the denudation of the forests, mainly
the result of continuous application of
firesticks by cattle graziers.
Along this valley are rich maize flats.
Nowadays floods come down the river
and ruin the crops. They were unheard
of a few years back. Today landslides are
reported every time it rains—these are
also a new curse to the country. The
settlers know that these things are doing
nothing but harm to their land, but they
don’t seem to know, even yet, that they
themselves are to blame.
On a steep slope just above one of
the richest flats in this particular dis-
trict every gum-tree in sight had been
freshly ringbarked! Surely the farmers
should realise that in a few years’ time
this will result in all the topsoil being
washed into the river, to cause further
siltation and worse floods than ever, not
to speak of the hillside being ruined by
sheet erosion and landslides. One beau-
tiful tree stood on the edge of the road
and served as a solid binder to keep the
road from sliding into the gully below,
but even this one had not escaped the
axe.
Not only in mountain country, but all
over Australia, these fellows can see to-
day what damage their fathers’ axes
and firesticks have done, but it hasn’t
stopped them from carrying on with the
bad work themselves. — Trevdee (Vic.).
Land Men
One of the most troublesome problems
of land settlement is the settler who
started with too little money. You will
find him in every district —though most
frequently in the marginal areas, because
it takes less money to start there than
in a good district. He has an inefficient
and -out-of-date farming plant; insuffi-
cient sheep or other livestock to practise
a diversified type of farming; his land
is exhausted from desperate one-track
farming; his horses are often cruelly
overworked, being too old and he un-
able to replace them.
He has borrowed all the money he
can on his land, plant and stock. He
gets credit from the storekeeper to put
in his crop. When seasons and prices
are good he is all right, but any adverse
aeason finds him in trouble; a succession
of bad seasons (and they are sure to
come sooner or later) puts him in a
desperate position. But he is not the
only sufferer. His creditors get into
trouble too, and if they push him for
payment he thinks he is being persecuted.
With many of these settlers the trouble
is chronic. They are so hopelessly in-
solvent that they have given up hope.
They know that any money they may
make will go to their creditors without
materially improving their position. Many
become soured and some dishonest. They
complain loudly and unendingly, though
without much justification, since they
gambled and lost, and most of the time
they were gambling with someone else’s
money. They are beyond the help of
the Farmer’s Relief Act; the R. 1.8.
assistance is just a substitute for the dole.
To banks and storekeepers they represent
just so many frozen assets and bad
debts; to sell them up would be futile,
because the dividend would be so small.
Their harrowing stories of hardship
keep the right men, who have money,
off the land. They are a burden on the
solvent section of the community, who
directly and indirectly have to carry
them. Something drastic should be done
to put them out of their misery, and
precautions should be taken against men
going on the land with insufficient capi-
tal in the future. —E. O. S. (N.S.W.).
My two sons enlisted for overseas.
They were farmers, and after a time I
found the job of trying to hold their
farms for them was a bit beyond me in
mine old age. I did the next-best thing
for the boys; I tried to lease the farms
for the duration or longer. One agent,
who had been a farmer himself in days
gone by, was quite candid: “I don’t hold
out much hope. You see, more than five
per cent, of the men in the A.I.F. are
from the land ; more than half of the
potential farmers have enlisted; a huge
number have leased or sold their farms
to get away; the war has hit no indus-
try so hard as that which is trying to
place farmers on the land.”
Yet that is the class of man which smart
city papers pretend to deride, which so-
called radio comedians hold up to ridi-
cule and which, generally, is supposed to
be so witless that it doesn’t even know
there is a war on. — Splodger (Q.),
Land Girls
How many farmers and farmers’
wives have tried land girls and
found them wanting? When our two
boys went off to camp we saw no like-
lihood of replacing them with their own
kind, so we got two girls—slight, pretty
“I’m not lettin' an old car like that pass me!”
creatures, one a complete townie. They
have been a complete success. Just as
boys have to learn their job, so have
girls, and they are absolutely depend-
able. One is a dairy hand, keeps the
sheds spotless and attends to pigs and
calves; the other musters, droves and
doses sheep. They both helped with
harvest, one of them taking on the extra
cooking.
I have three children under nine years,
and the land girls have certainly saved
me a lot of work. They are interested
in keeping their room in order, they are
easier to cook for than boys, and on
wet days they are glad to do an odd
job in the house. Nor are they above
a spot of mending.
At the end of their three months’
training the boys enlisted and the girls
have stayed on. Not being limpets, I
suppose they will move on some day.
When they do we will not be afraid to
try the experiment again. —A.R. T.
(Tas.).
I recently visited a mixed farm where
two land army girls gave very able
assistance in sheep-drafting operations.
Later in the day they were doing a man-
size job pitching sheaves and feeding the
farm chaffcutter prior to putting Dobbin
in the dray and filling the self-feeders.
Milking time revealed that the girls
could handle the teat cups as well as
the boss.
Questioned as to whether they
wouldn’t prefer to be on a near-by
“luxury” farm, the elder of the pair,
with a cheerful grin, replied, “We’re
in this game to work.”
But then we breed ’em that way in
the Speck.— Speck (Tas.).
Wool Prices
“Marthaguy” (B. 22/1/’4l) still does
not get my point. Although present
world conditions could not have been
taken into consideration when the price
of wool was fixed, the price received is
much higher than it would have been
if determined by the usual interaction
of supply and demand. This is illus-
trated by the great difficulty experienced
by Argentina and Uruguay in disposing
of their wool, by the lower prices re-
ceived for it and by their large carry-
overs. If Britain had not agreed to buy
our whole clip at the fixed price, whether
shipped or not, she could have bought
wool more cheaply in South America
and would have had a simpler shipping
problem.
The statement that wool —especially
merino —is not in great demand still
holds. America is taking a large quan-
tity of our wool, but is storing it only.
The wool has not been bought by
America and is not passing to con-
sumers. Also, all the people who wore
merino wool before the war do not wear
it now. A very large number are in
uniform and are wearing crossbred
wools. About half our pre-war exports
of wool went to the Continent, and this
demand has disappeared. More than
half of Britain’s exports of woollen
goods also went to the Continent before
the war, .and these goods were largely
made from Australian wool.
Averaging this year’s and last year’s
prices. South Africa is getting a better
return than we are, but for the greater
part of 1939-40 most of the European
markets were still open, so no com-
parison can be made. Therefore,
taking account of all these conditions,
Australia is receiving a very satisfactory
price for her wool from Britain. If
internal costs are rising it is a matter
for internal adjustment, not a cause
for complaint about the British Gov-
ernment’s purchase price. R. H. S.
(N.S.W.).
An Apple a Day
The new season’s apples are* on sale,
but in spite of all that has been said and
printed the consumer is faced still with
a high price and the same old methods
of distribution. When are we to see in
practice a method of distribution such
as the zone system suggested some time
ago at a meeting of the Gippsland Fruit
Marketing Association? Under this a
distributor with sole rights would visit
regularly every house in his district and
sell at prices fixed by the board which
controls the apple and pear crops.
But there is one thing being done
against which I raise my voice: It is
becoming both easy and fashionable to
buy apple juice in tins and bottles. I
don’t blame the housekeeper when I con-
sider the price and quality of the general
lines of apples on sale; nor do I dis-
pute that the body-building value of the
apple is in that juice. It is the value to
the teeth of the growing child, indeed, to
persons of all ages, that is lacking. We
know that the poor teeth of the Aus-
tralian is a matter of prime urgency.
Only last week the Victorian Teachers’
Conference discussed the urgent need for
extension of dental treatment of pupils.
That’s why good juicy apples should be
available to everyone at low prices. Cut
down the administrative costs such as
unnecessary wrapping for the home
market; bring in the zone system of dis-
tribution and so cut out uneconomic dup-
lication of services, and “an apple a day”
will become an established habit and not
just a saying.—E. E. C. (Vic.).
Fruit to Bury
Yesterday we buried 30 sacks of apples.
Some of it was bad fruit, but the greater
part was not. Some was windfall fruit.
Some had a codling sting, the codling
killed by spray and therefore harmless,
which affected not one-thousandth part
of the apple. And some was really good
fruit but of types that we are not allowed
to sell under the Acquisition Act because
only the very best types are to be
marketed as there is going to be a surplus
of a few million bushels of apples.
Naturally, then, everyone is going to
have plenty of apples to eat —or is every-
one?
Seeing so much good fruit going to
waste, I applied for permission to give
some of it to certain children’s homes.
The answer? Certainly I could give fruit
to the poor children, but it must be of
marketable variety and quality, and I
must pay a levy to the board. To send
inferior fruit would harm the market for
good fruit, I was told.
As the principals of the children’s
homes certainly wouldn’t be buying cases
of apples for the children, I fail to see
how giving them unmarketable but good
fruit would harm the market. But there
are plenty more old tin holes down the
road where I can bury the apples with-
out much bother. —T. (Q.).
More Airmen
Britain has introduced a scheme under
which youths between the ages of 16 and
18 years can receive preliminary train-
ing to fit them for enlistment in the
R.A.F. when they reach 18. Australia
could adopt a similar scheme, without
adding much more work to the R.A.A.F.
staff, by using the Australian Air League.
That organisation includes air-minded
lads, officered, in many instances, by
men who know a good deal about
aviation and the subjects needed by
potential members of air crews.
The league could be given official
recognition for the training of lads 16
years old and over, and Air Force experts
could be used for specialised instruction.
Chief advantage is that a smoothly run-
ning organisation is already in existence,
with a membership intensely eager to
begin serious work in aviation. All that
is needed is official recognition, plus co-
ordination of training to suit R.A.A.F.
requirements.— Paul Pilgrim (N.S.W.).
Crowds
Chas. Halbert’s clever par. is scienti-
fically correct (B. 5/2/’4l). His teaching
was proved by the “Mafeking Night”
celebrations jn Britain. The crowd I
watched numbered 400,000. Its vast
voice was like the roar of one primeval
monster. The “repressions” of civilisa-
tion, education and religion were non-
existent. The sole “expression” was of
herd hatred and herd pride. There was
no bloodshed because there were no
enemies within reach.
In every city and every village there
were similar spontaneous demonstrations,
differing in size, but differing not at all
in sentiment or behavior. It was not
magnificent, but it was war-mindedness,
naked and unashamed.
A nation is simply a separate herd. In
times of peace the individuals look each
after their own selfish interests. In war-
time they cease to be thinking units and
behave like one hydra-headed animal,
red in tooth and claw, with many mouths
but only one mind.
Germany is a nation at war. If Lon-
don fell the Germanic herd would hold a
“Mafeking” orgy in which every man
and woman would join without one
thought of regret or sympathy for the
conquered or the slain.
The greater includes the lesser. The
Blitz is the final expression of millions of
jungle minds thinking as one herd mind
and concentrating on one herd objective.
Hitler merely leads the herd. Even he
would not dare to talk of peace without
victory or retract the devil’s doctrine of
Mein Kampf. That gospel of Nazism
was accepted by the nation because it in-
terpreted the lusts and longings of the
herd. There are now no Germans, good
or bad: there is only Germany.—O.
Beralle (S.A.).
Stop Press
I study my evening paper from cover
to cover and then try to read between
the lines. Imagine my surprise to find
the nine-inch “Stop Press” space as
blank as Canberra in the off season.
When the present hostilities started the
area was roped off for news of strategies
and spoils. Then it gradually reverted
to “results” and “scores” with their more
immediate appeal. Tonight it retains its
virgin purity.
Trying to read between the lines, I
wondered if we had grown so used to
living in a lion’s den that the roaring of
file beast now means no more to us than
the cooing of a sucking dove. Or are
there no excursions and alarms worth
stopping the press for!
The first bomb that fell on London
shook the crockery on our shelves. Now
a few hundred more or less don’t matter.
The most tragic reverses and even the
most brilliant victories overseas have be-
come as boring as a twice-told tale.
In the same paper is a speech by one
of our Great Men. He says that the
time has come to talk of other things


“Balloon s Wound down, sergeant!”
than cabbages and kings. But it will
take more than such a dignified appeal
to stir a people that reads nothing
smaller than headlines, that never studies
the maps, and that has been encouraged
to think of “our marvellous industrial
expansion” as a sign of prosperity,
whereas it is a slippery-dip to bankruptcy.
Perhaps an “egg” dropped on the roof
of each of our Houses of Parliament
(there would be no casualties at present)
would provide an “incident” worth put-
ting in the Stop Press. —S. W. (S.A.).
The Truth, Please
During the past few weeks ominous
but vague warnings have been thrust at
us, through newspaper and radio, by
our political leaders. Are we such a
poor lot that we can’t stand the plain
truth?
Before this war began the people of
England were told in definite terms that
an attack might be made upon them,
and they cheerfully went through the
training and preparation necessary to
meet an emergency. When it did come
everyone went straight to his or her
appointed task without panic, and the
enemy encountered stiff resistance and
unbreakable morale. Now, in the second
year of a struggle which threatens to
shift from one hemisphere to another, the
Australian public is being fed with plati-
tudes and obscure hints.
Until we are treated as men and
women instead of children, we will re-
main unimpressed by the clouds hovering
about us. We should be prepared
physically and mentally for what may
come. To be told all that can be reason-
ably disclosed and to be drilled
thoroughly in precautionary measures
are the people’s rights.— Arthur F.
(Vic.).
Basic Wage
There is much moaning in these pages
over the fact that the basic wage is the
same for a single or married man. Child
allowances, reduction of the single man’s
wages, etc., are scouted. But let me
point out that there is one place where
two different basic wages obtain—the
Australian Military Forces. For instance,
a single man serving at home receives
355. a week, a married man without chil-
dren 555. Both men carry out the same
duties, yet the services of one are re-
warded by only two-thirds of the
remuneration which the other receives.
This is, of course, a very just solution of
a ticklish problem. And in private life
it would be called sweated labor. —
A.A.S.C. (W.A.).
Case for the Worker
From every angle the worker is being
abused for “hindering the war effort”
and faced with thinly-veiled accusations
of disloyalty or even Communism for
being unwilling to
work overtime and
accept present
working conditions.
Apart altogether
from the fact that
a crass system of
grouping makes the
latest income taxa-
tion stupidly bur-
densome, the
worker has a
definite defence to
the innuendoes. A
working man’s only
capital is his labor,
and it has a definite
time limit. Grey
hairs are a tremen-
dous handicap to a
job-seeker. When
he is asked to work
overtime he is
really invited to
squander his capi-
tal, to hurry him-
self to the shelf.
He sees his
boss’s plant work-
ing three shifts and
reasons that, if the
firm made adequate
profit in peace-time
with an eight-hour
day, the 24-hour
day must be piling
up treble profits.
Is he a traitor or a
Bolshie for wanting
to share the crumbs
from the rich man’s
table?
When he gets
home after his shift
he is daily greeted
with news of an-
other increase in
the price of the
commodities essen-
tial for his dinner-
table. Not being
a statistician, his wife can give him half
a hundred instances of increases in the
cost of living or, rather, of existing.
On top of all that comes the pro-
nouncement that there is no reason to
increase the basic wage. Is it surprising
that he thinks that he has been made the
mug again? To his way of thinking, not
only are his own earnings taxed, but
every tax levied nominally on the Big
Fellow is faithfully passed on to him.
There is an obvious remedy. A sys-
tem of profit-sharing which will remove
the worker’s suspicion that he is being
exploited.— Arjay (Vic.).
Why?
The time is undoubtedly overripe for
a new world order when a Sydney paper
reports that women are still paying 60
guineas and more for exclusive cocktail
frocks. A hat to match may be had for
the modest sum of eight and a half
guineas upwards. This while old-age and
invalid pensioners struggle to live on the
cost of one of its ribbons, and our boys
are fighting for the right to live at all!
Must we still have pages of valuable
news print squandered on such vulgari-
ties?—M. K. (N.S.W.).
Blaming Our Conditions
Our conditions (B. 12/2/’4l) are never
the cause of our not rising. If they were
how would we explain the creation of a
white nation in Australia? If Captain
Cook had blamed his conditions —the
absence of charts, a conservative Admir-
alty, the prevalence of scurvy and the
fact that he had a slow old sailing ship
instead of a P. and O. liner equipped
with radio and the latest automatic
sounding apparatus —how would he ever
have discovered Australia? If the early
settlers had blamed their conditions, how
on earth would the country ever had
roads, railways, irrigation works and fac-
tories?
When a writer says that the reason he
can’t write is because of unfair competi-
tion, I think he is doing precisely the
same thing as Cook if he had said that
the reason he couldn’t be a great explorer
was because there was so much uncharted
ocean. —L. L. (Vic.).
Child Endowment
A firm believer in child endowment, I
disagree with “Ricardo” (B. 5/2/’4l),
who suggests that no cash payment
should be made because of the proba-
bility of the money being misspent. A
workingman is entitled to a drink and a
flutter on the neddies, just as the big bugs
have their refreshments and sport; and
there is no reason to believe that the
average housewife would, after obtaining
her dues at a post office, hand it over to
her husband to fritter away on s.ps. and
publicans.
Suggestions such as free holiday travel
for children and entirely free education,
etc., are State obligations; and the
sooner the various State Governments
make these facilities available to those
eligible then sooner will come relief for
that unfortunate class.
Child endowment should cover a scope
wide enough to embrace the housing of
large families. In the middle-class, small
families live in spacious homes with
lounge, drawing-, dining- and breakfast-
rooms. The poorer class pool all these
conveniences into one, which is called
the living room. Hence in such a
crowded house the overflow is either
sent to bed or forced to play in the street.
Certainly make a cash payment to the
housewife, who knows best how to spend
it, and make it liberal enough for her to
obtain a house where there’s elbow-room.
—Jeff (Vic.).
The Family in Fiction
As a bookseller and lending librarian
I have proved that the family-interest
novel (B. 29 /1 / ’4l) is very hard to sell
or lend. Of every 20 of my customers
19 demand “escape”, reading matter. The
exceptions are seldom in a position to
buy books, being usually ladies or gentle-
men with more culture than cash.
All the world loves the lover of fiction
who gets into terrible scrapes and out of
them. After the wedding the course of
true love is either monotonously smooth
or sordidly rough without being
romantic. No news may be good news
in real life, but good news is no news
at all in a novel until the last chapter.
Eggs must be broken to make a literary
omelet, and they must be fresh without
too obvious signs of fertility; chicken
broth is special diet for the invalid and
the aged.
The author who lives by his pen must
study his public because the publisher
does. After he has made name and for-
tune by light stuff —as did Wells and
others—he can write heavier stuff with-
out risking starvation. Compare The
Invisible Man with Mr. Britling Sees It
Through. Even in the latter there is
plenty of sex to titillate the appetite of
the “frustrates.”
Dickens himself could not sell his
“family” novels today, though he might
have, a chance with Pickwick Papers or
A Tale of Two Cities —both “escape”
stuff.
The trouble is that most readers have
too many other means of exciting enter-
tainment to be content with domestic
memoirs. It is difficult to find a wilder-
ness wide enough to make a “book of
verse” beneath the bough welcome. Old
Omar was not within the reach of the
voice of the radio or the talkies, or on a
lending-library list, or he doubtless would
have listened to jazz, occupied lounge
seats, and read a few “escape” novels
between cocktail parties. Thou and I
(S.A.).
Overseas Cheques
One or two O.F.M. correspondents
would appear to have been singularly
unfortunate in their relationships with
overseas editors and cheques for con-
tributions. Over a period of 30 years’
associations with certain overseas trade
journals 1 have found payment most
prompt. One big American paper pays
on publication and sends copy of paper
and cheque together; another pays
within 21 days after publication ; another
on acceptance ; an English journal also
sends copy of paper and cheque together.
Few Australian publications do that. —
Bill Ding (W.A.).
For the Defence
Even “L.L.” (B. 29/1 /’4l) enrolled
himself as an O.F.M. grizzler when he
sent his grizzle on grizzlers to The
Bulletin !
All ideas are to some extent a grouch,
a challenge, a gesture of self-assertion.
Naturally, they vary in content and
method of presentation. They can be
merely infantile and incoherent, or adult
and articulate.
Looking over The Bulletin files for
the last couple of years I find a unique
reference medium in the O.F.M. page. In
no other paper, periodical or daily, can
one find similar treatment of topics or
quite the same angle on the other
fellow’s mind. Women, too, have
added much to the interest of the O.F.M.
Certainly their comment is more intelli-
gent than any of the drivel and adolescent
yearnings appearing weekly in some of
the flapper magazines.
The O.F.M. contributor may have his
grizzle, but he grizzles interestingly, in-
telligently, and in almost every par. chal-
lenges our interest by giving us new
slants on old problems. — Chas. Halbert
(S.A.).
Criticism happens to be the object of
the 0.F.M., and I’ve yet to meet the man
or woman who is convinced that all s
right with the world. O.F.M. criticisms
are not always constructive or fair, but
at least one gets an idea what people in
other spheres are thinking.— Pat (W.A.),
“L.L.” would be even more shocked if
he could see our leering grins of delight
when we actually think up something
new about which to grouch —at space
rates.
Apart from this nasty £ s. d. angle,
the O.F.M. writers often start stimulat-
ing arguments which last until, finally,
the original grouch is downed, explained
away or otherwise kayoed. If no one in
the world grouched, nobody would
answer back, and there’d be no pro-
gress.—Hungry Horace (N.S.W.).
Might I add to the grouchers’ justifica-
tion of themselves (B. 12/2/’4l) my own
feeling of gratefulness to Victorian
weather, the new taxes, radio pro-
grammes, rising prices and marketing
boards? A sustained grumble at these
keeps me from running berserk among
those Australians who go about yelping
“The British Empire can’t be beaten,” as
if the mere shouting of the phrase assured
victory without need for further effort. —
O’Flaherty (Vic.).
It was bad luck for “L.L.” that his
grizzle appeared on the same page as
“In Praise of Mulga,” “Charity” and
“For the A.8.C.”
It’s one thing not to complain of hard-
ship, but it’s quite another to sink into
cowlike complacency. In such a com-
plicated machine as human society it’s
only natural that small parts constantly
need adjustment. And, since most of us
haven’t the time, means or energy to
take an active part in politics, the next
best thing is to put our grouches where
intelligent people will see them. —How
(W.A.).
The Picture Shows
If I were dictator of Australia one of
my first acts would be to close the pic-
ture shows, which are putting false ideas
of life into the minds of thousands of
young Australians. They teach that
every tragedy has its comic relief, that
virtue is always beautiful and beauty
always virtuous, that every story has a
happy ending and that wealth and hap-
piness are the inevitable reward of young
love.
It is because of the pictures that read-
ing has become a lost art and thousands
of people prefer to see the sentimentalised
and sugary screen version of a great
book rather than read the masterpiece
itself. Thousands of girls have their
heads turned by some real or fancied re-
semblance to some screen baggage or
become discontented with the meanness
of their lot when compared with the
glamorous existence of their favorite
screen star. <*
Young men are just as bad in the way
they ape the speech, manners and clothes
of the screen heroes. Australia spends
thousands of pounds each year on edu-
cation, but its effects are being negatived
by the pictures, imported comic strips
and poor-class radio sessions. Smilax
(Q.).
Price of Envelopes
This par. goes to The Bulletin in a
manilla envelope bought at a chain store.
Before the war, the chain store charged
threepence for a packet of 25, but soon
after five were taken out of each packet.
A month or so ago another five were
taken out, so that now you get only 15
for threepence. Certainly paper has in-
creased in price, but I doubt if it has in-
creased 60 p.c. The price-fixing authori-
ties would do well to look at a few lines
such as these which cannot be classed as
essential.— Thorn (N.S.W.).
Beer in the Art Gallery
I think that’s a splendid idea about
having beer in the Art Gallery, as sug-
gested by Professor Somebody-or-other.
These pantheons of culture want a bit
of jazzing up. I should like to see some
tableaux-vivants staged there also. The
Queen of Sheba visiting King Solomon
would be sure to bring down the house.
And if they had a few artists’ models
wandering about the entresol or the beer-
garden, then the locals could get a good
idea of all that artists have to put up
with in producing this art.
But I hope the improvements wont
end with beer. I should like to see a
picture show installed on the roof, and
a dog track in the basement (where the
moderns are stored).
On second thoughts perhaps it would
be a good idea to fit frames to the old
masterpieces, with slots attached; then
the folk would have to look at them to
find out where to fit in their sixpence tor
a beer coupon— Algernon (N.S.W.).


■mm
Sir Herbert Barker.
“Benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured by all who will
follow the directions
given in the Pelman
Course. It is impos-
sible to speak too
highly of it.”
Pelmanism is a scientific training.
It substitutes good and faithful
habits of mind and memory for
slovenly and fearful ones. Thus it
promotes steadfastness, definiteness
and continuity of effort.
m.
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanism, is valu-
able to all men and
women . . . the re-
sults endure. Habits
of mind are formed
which are of the very
highest value in life.”
Pelmanism is endorsed publicly by
more than 100 Prominent People.
Pelmanists are found in practically
every calling.
Pelmanism is permanent in its effect
on the Mind, Memory and Person-
ality.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so that we
are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us. We see
more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In consequence, there
is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire exact knowledge,
remember it and recall it as required. We learn to trust our sense
perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is then open
and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and woman. The
more important of these qualities are
Observation Self-Confidence Concentration
Will-Power Judgment Initiative
Decision Organisation Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and
useful data of every kind.
t
The Exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose. The Pelman
Course is a real training, its primary object being to create good habits
of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly ones, to train the
conscious and the subconscious so that every faculty will, when called
upon, contribute its share in making a good performance of anything
that has to be done.
Ffom several thousands of letters received from men and women doing all
kinds of work in Australia and New Zealand we give the following of recent date:—
Aug. 14th, ’4O.
Since starting Pelmanism I have improved
immensely in various ways. This Lesson
(Concentration) was very informative. I was
always under the impression that concentration
was fixation of thought. —Printer {Vic.).
April 22nd, ’4O.
As an example of what Pelmanism has done
the following might be of interest. For the
past week I have been working on a subject
which for the past twelve months almost drove
me to despair. Today I succeeded in obtaining
the maximum percentage in an oral examination
which lasted over two hours. I had no fears,
felt perfectly confident and felt a tinge of regret
when it was over. I was thoroughly enjoying
myself. —-Officer (merchant ship).
' March sth, ’4O.
Enclosed you will find my work sheet for
Lesson 12.
I must enclose a few lines to express my
gratitude for the information and advice con-
tained in. this Lesson 12. From it I have
obtained the solution to a problem which I’ve
tried to solve in various ways, but without pre-
vious success. Had this been the only benefit
derived, this Course would have been worth
while. —Clerk {Vic.).
„ March Bth, ’4O.
I forward’ my last work sheet with a feeling
of regret. This Course has been a great pleasure
for me, and I have enjoyed the reading and study
immensely. I complete it with a feeling of satis-
faction and enlightenment, and know that I have
received far more benefit than I had imagined
possible. —Lady Bookkeeper ( Q’bmd ).
Feb. 15th, ’4O.
My casual memory is almost infallible. I note
important details to be done at specified times,
but rarely need to rely on these written notes.
I seem now to have an automatic mental “remem-
bering” device. —Bank Officer (Vic.').
Feb. Ist, ’4O.
With the help and’encouragement of Pelmanism
I realised that I possessed artistic-cwm-business
talent. Soon after completing the Pelman Course
I found a place in Radio as cadet announcer.
Today, about six years later, I am the manager
(station named). Pelmanism is largely respon-
sible for all this.
You have my permission to show this letter to
anyone really interested in your splendid Course
of—The Way to Live! —Manager ( Q’land ).
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential
communication; we have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
Dr. T. W. Norwood, D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind-training. A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility. It teaches
that man has the key
to his own career.”
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
Dame Sybil
Thorndike.
. “Pelmanism gives a
mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportunities
and uses them rightly.”
There are over half a million
Pelmanisfs, of whom more than
44,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
The Headquarters of the I’elman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established
in Melbourne for over 33 years.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne^
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy ot
“The Efficient Mind.”
t
Jiame
Address
. 134
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ƒ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do noumiss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
• •••••••••••»••• Sr ••••••••*.«• •
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
SEND “THE BULLETIN”
THE LADS OVERSEAS—
TO
Special Concession Rates;
12 months . . 15/- . .
6 months .8/-
3 months, 4/-
0
cpy
°v
6 e l\
postfree -
A\e
■*
/
,',s
*
k el
X s '
S* .-. .uV
otf v 0 V


’mm
■
o
D
v\VV*
C
>
M
■
z
\\\
H
v#
*AV-A>
V\v
V*.vv,v
z
•-> ♦
o
rs
H
O
O
3
m
<
M
■i
V'S
rn
>1
9^
7-ZZ
-8
W
l\l!
m
m
m
m.
&
M
n
:s> v*
teSSESSk
ss®
MV
v-';.
ml
x;
vV\
«S?
■
V'S
V
ac
■
is
E? 5
VV\
sg>
%
<)m
'"s.
W»v
■
t
m
M
■OV
|
&
CD
Sigs
f f *
m\
»v/«.
73
S.'S
a
V,
m
>
'Mi
Z
rA
m
&
a
si
*sj
-<oS
515
W
